10 FRIDAY 09 MAY
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
H
aving written about the
Ukraine when the events
there were all just kicking
off, I feel it is about time to
return to the topic. Then I wrote full
of youthful enthusiasm but now I shall
have to take a more sober perspective.
I could look at this (and to some extent
I do) as a further sad confirmation
that a Luxemburgist spontaneous
revolution simply cannot deal with the
Thermidorean reaction. But Ukraine
was always a little more complicated:
there is a distinct lack of any sense of
‘national’ unity in the country, and
without this most efficient of banners
to mobilise behind, the student
protests in Kiev never really had any
scope to advance beyond the modest
middle-class movements which they
were.
Of course, the reaction of the
‘international community’ – by
which I mean the US and Western
Europe – to the secession of Crimea
has been typically hypocritical. All
of a sudden, governments which
had been falling over themselves to
insist that the Orwellian ‘Right to
Protect’ transcends so petty a thing
as national state sovereignty, have
rediscovered the importance of, umm,
well, national state sovereignty... The
‘international community’ is aghast
at this annexation which cost the
life of one soldier. Yet the Americans
supported the Indonesian ‘annexation’
of East Timor, with a human cost of
perhaps 200 thousand lives, mainly
civilian. Meanwhile, Brussels has
remained obstinately mute about
the continued military presence of
Turkey on Cyprus. It was the 1967
land-grab which made Israel life-long
friends with the US, while settlements
continue to be built illegally on
Palestinian soil. Yet when Russia
conducted a murderous campaign
in Chechnya, Clinton congratulated
Putin on the ‘liberation of Grozny’.
This hostility towards Putin is
new and very interesting. Russia’s
actions, after all, are clumsy but quite
understandable (in the admittedly
narrow terms of geopolitics and
IR). Russia is reacting to a quite real
eastward thrust amongst NATO
member states, and perhaps also sees
recent American impotence as a sign
that the US will not be capable of
intervening, at least within Russia’s
own ‘sphere of influence’. Syria and
Edward Snowden were perhaps test
cases. The hostile reaction seems to
be a sign that US impotence is real.
This might just be another example
of American paranoia, there has been
plenty in the past, but it is undeniable
that after enjoying 25 years of global
hegemony, the US can no longer boast
the same share of world economic and
military power it once had. It seems
reasonable enough to assume that this
will eventually be reflected onto the
political influence the US can wield,
and I believe we have seen the seeds
of this here.
Ukraine has had the misfortune to be
the stage on which these international
tensions were played out. Ukraine is
still recovering from the disastrous
shock therapy imposed upon it after
independence, and hardest hit was the
industrialised East, always closer to
Moscow, economically and culturally,
than Kiev anyway. Politically,
Yanukovych never enjoyed the
legitimacy to make his Premiership
safe in a notoriously divided country,
but then the Orange revolutionaries
only distinguished themselves
through their self-obsession and
incompetence. This power vacuum
has sucked in Washington, Yatseniuk
is clearly their ‘man’ – see the sinister
conversation between Victoria
Nuland of the State Department and
Ambassador Geoffrey Pyatt, available
on the BBC website, if you don’t
believe me – at the cost of Germany’s
interests (ex-boxer Klitschko will not
be running for President), while Russia
has responded by pushing West.
Defensive though Russia’s actions
have been, the crudity with which they
have been carried out has had horrific
consequences for the people of
Ukraine. Ignoring for now the growth
of the far right after the secession of
Crimea, Yatseniuk’s legitimacy has
certainly been improved by what is,
from Kiev, a blatant act of aggression
on the part of Russia. Certainly
the secession of Crimea would not
have been possible without the 100
thousand Russian troops stationed on
the border. Neither can Russia plead
completely innocent for the ongoing
violence in Ukraine, though we should
note that the violence is both two-
sided and in part a genuine expression
of anti-Kiev sentiment, not purely a
result of Russian agitation as the Kyiv
Post likes to make out.
Finally, the IMF has now got its
claws into Ukraine with Yatseniuk’s
government instituting the very same
economic policies which shrank
Ukraine’s GDP to 50% of its Soviet
level, increased corruption, created
a space for the Mafia and decreased
life expectancy. Events in the Ukraine
have been dramatic, and the deaths in
Odessa are too sinister to be tragic,
but bad though the violence is, it will
soon end. Yet when the smoke clears
we may be left facing the rubble of
another neoliberal shock.
Ukraine Revisited
Christy Kelly
Columnist
18.00 l 16 May l Hyde Park
JOin One Big Thing
for a 5km sporting
challenge of your choice
www.imperial.ac.uk/sports/onebigthing
5k any way challenge - walking l jogging l running

