13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 09 MAY
ARTS
male genitalia in Michaelangelo’s
Last Judgement in the Sistene chapel
following the artist’s death.
Although Renaissance art saw a
rise in popularity of the female nude,
it was not until the 19th century that
she really began to eclipse the male.
Mastering the male form remained a
key part of an artist’s formal training,
and prestigious art prizes continued
to honour male nudes. However,
the salons became inundated with
female nudes, reflecting an emerging
preference for the “softer” feminine
aesthetic ideal. Male nudes came to
be associated with obsolete and stuffy
academic teaching. The art historian
Solomon-Godeau suggests that post-
Renaissance, masculine identity was in
crisis, with artists torn between virility
and vulnerability. Through transferring
the latter characteristic to female nudes,
the issue could be avoided.
Despite its decline in popularity,
the 19th and 20th century saw greater
freedominourattitudetowardsthemale
nude. Whilst the Impressionists’ female
nudes are well known today, artists
such as Cezanne painted men frolicking
nude (Baigneurs, 1890) and Caillebotte’s
paintings of men undressing have the
same voyeuristic qualities as Degas’
female nudes. The arrival of the realist
aesthetic also led to the representation
of different body types in art, further
challenging traditional concepts of
masculinity. Egon Schiele’s gaunt
self-portraits are a far cry from the
classical nudes of old. Meanwhile,
female and homosexual artists have
provided important perspectives that
deviate from the typical “male gaze”-
artists such as Alice Neel paint men in
reclining poses typically associated with
female nudes, focussing on her subjects’
vulnerability. Andy Warhol’s and Jean
Cocteau’s sketches of male lovers are
both unashamedly erotic and lovingly
tender.
So with today’s freedom of expression
in art, why are we still so uncomfortable
with the male nude? An obvious
answer is that the art industry is
still predominantly controlled by
heterosexual men, who may prefer to
ogle females than self-scrutinize. It has
also been argued that viewing a male
nude places us in the uncomfortable
role of the “male gazer”
. In a study
where psychologist Beth A. Eck’s
assessed people’s responses to male
and female nudity, male nudes sparked
feelings of “lust mixed with guilt or
shame” in women, whilst many men
admitted to feeling uncomfortable. Why
does the female nude not incite similar
feelings? Many have suggested that as
the male sexual organs are external,
they are more of an affront to the
senses; symbols of sexual aggression. By
contrast the female nude is “neater”
. Yet
art demonstrates that this is not so - the
male nude can be beautifully tender.
The art world is at last beginning to
re-acknowledge the beauty of the male
nude- recently the Leopold museum
in Germany and the Musee d’Orsay
in France held exhibitions dedicated
to artistic portrayals of the male form
(Naked Man and Masculin/Masculin).
However, somewhat ironically for a
museum seeking to open our minds
to male nudity, the Leopold museum
was asked to censor many of its’
advertisement posters. In a society
obsessed with female nudity, it is high
time that the male reclaimed equal
status in art.
What’s that in the background?
W
hat are paintings
all about anyway?
In the Renaissance,
paintings mainly
represent stories
from Saints’ lives, mythology and
history. Mary and Jesus are big players
on the Renaissance canvas, mostly as
a mother and baby duo but also found
as adults, with Jesus shown performing
miracles or wondering around doing
biblical stuff.
You might be familiar with Gerome
and his lion, the former resembling a
hybrid between Father Christmas and
your nicest tutor, the latter invariably
looking adorable. Other minor saints
often feature, as do stories from the Old
Testament and mythological characters.
So now you know- that’s what
Renaissance paintings mostly are about.
But is it? Building the Picture, a free
exhibition at the National Gallery,
challenges the centrality of the figures,
reminding the viewers that the
architecture in a painting is far more
than just a backdrop. By assembling
paintings from its permanent collection
with a few loans (Sebastiano del
Piombo’s Judgement of Solomon
from the Kingston Lacy collection
and Verrocchio’s Virgin Adoring the
Christ Child from the National Gallery
of Scotland), the exhibition walks the
viewer through the role of buildings,
streets and squares in Renaissance
painting.
Buildings help tell the story, by
creating different backdrops for the
different characters. They tell you
about the relationships between the
characters, by providing hierarchical
geometries or isolating certain figures in
the painting. Sometimes, buildings do
most of the story telling, by providing
the time dimension in the painting. By
showing ancient architecture, mixed
with modern buildings, mythological
stories can be shown as happening in
the past while maintaining their real-
world element.
The architecture of a painting can also
be used to draw in the viewer, including
the observer into the scene by creating
side-line perspectives, in which you
turn into a bystander, or by welcoming
you into a large open space like a guest.
Finally, buildings give a fantastical
or realistic feel to the scene, by
reflecting true cityscapes (with which
contemporary observers were familiar)
or by deliberately mixing architectural
styles anachronistically, creating made-
up buildings for imaginary settings. In
a world in which moving images were
inconceivable, the setting of a scene had
to convey the temporal dimension, the
reality of a situation and the relationship
between characters and viewer. That’s
a lot of work for a pile of bricks in the
background!
The exhibition also helps explain the
role of painting in a city, by recreating
the position of a tabernacle in a street.
By showing an etching of the painting
in its original location, this helps us
understand the role that paintings had
in a Renaissance city, in which small
painting of saints were often to be found
on street corners and buildings.
But more than just learning about the
role of architecture in Renaissance art,
visiting this exhibition will give you an
excellent key to visiting early modern
art galleries in general. It’s easy for your
eyes to glaze over as you wonder around
an art gallery, staring at painting after
painting of Mary clutching baby Jesus
or the three kings lined up neatly in
front of a crib. The characters maintain
their characteristic posture and dress
in most painting because that’s how
contemporary viewers recognise them.
Ryan Gosling just wouldn’t be the same
without his slicked back blond hair-
do right? Same thing for Mary and
blue dresses. So what really changes in
paintings are the objects and buildings
around the figures: the setting and
the props are telling the real story. So
next time you walk into a room full of
chubby looking babies, stiff looking
saints and far too many gold halos, don’t
back out looking panicked. Have a good
look at the real players, look at what
the buildings are telling you about the
picture.
What: Building the Picture:
Architecture in Italian Renaissance
Painting
Where: National Gallery, WC2
When: Until 21st September
Price: FREE
Clara Clark Nevola
Writer
Domenico Beccafumi, The Story of Papirius, mid 1520s
No Such Sweetness
I
n January of this year, the UK
Government pledged to accept
500 refugees from the Civil War in
Syria. Oh My Sweet Land tackles
the other 2.3 million refugees
who don’t have that “privilege”. A
collaboration between Amir Nizar
Zuabi and Corinne Jaber resulted in
this play, inspired by their trip to the
Syrian refugee camps in Jordan and
hearing the stories of people in the
harshest moments of their lives.
A one woman show, Jaber plays a
young Parisian with Syrian roots who
falls in love with Ashraf, a refugee
from the Civil War. Guilty about
leaving his family and haunted by
memories of the Syrian atrocities,
Ashraf disappears from Paris without
a word. In love with Ashraf and
desperate to form a connection to her
Syrian roots, the young woman travels
to the Middle East to find the answers
she needs. Meeting countless Syrians
on her way, Jaber recounts the stories
they tell her and builds a picture of
a civil war which has “nothing civil
about it”.
When I went to see Oh My Sweet
Land, I knew almost nothing about
it, except that it was based on the
Syrian civil war. I expected to hear
a woman pleading for people to
acknowledge what is going on in Syria,
to do something about the crimes
of the regime and their opponents.
But instead, I found a woman simply
talking about the embarrassment and
pain of its people. With almost no
effort, the play conveys a very simple
message;thewestmighthaveforgotten
about the Syrians, but they’re just like
you and me.
While it is hard for us to understand
what these people go through, what
really struck me was that while
watching this play, I felt embarrassed,
and I almost felt responsible in part for
their hardship. This may seem a little
overdoing it, I know, I’m not in any way
involved, but the play did masterfully
force the audience to consider the role
each individual plays in such conflicts.
While the plot seemed somewhat
fabricated in an attempt to frame
the stories of the refugees, the play
maintains a strong and damning tone
throughout which conveys the mood
of the civil war better than any of
the plot in itself. Jaber’s performance
throughout was certainly not flawless,
but it didn’t have to be. What comes
across as somewhat rusty at times
seems justified when considering quite
how damaged her character really is.
I would have liked to see more of the
damaged side of Jaber’s character and
at times I felt there was a certain lack
of conviction in her description of the
stories people told her. However, what
the play lacked in detail is more than
made up for by the powerful stories
told throughout and the chilling tone
felt by the audience, from the first
to the last minute of the play. A real
calling card by the Young Vic, this great
small theatre has once again shown its
ability to give the stage a whole new
face. While this won’t go down as one
of my favourite trips to the theatre,
this play is certainly a must-see for all
those who feel, like me, a strange need
to understand the little details of the
lives of people struck by such a terrible
war.
Max Falkenberg McGillivray reviews a new one-
woman play about Syrian refugees at the Young Vic
© Simon Annand

