14 FRIDAY 09 MAY
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson
music.felix@gmail.com
It’s like it’s 2009 all over again
Stuart Masson reviews the recent albums by three of his old favourites
I
tmayhavebeenjustfiveyearsago,
but 2009 seems like the distant
past. I was still in sixth form,
and, more importantly for the
context of this review, I had fully
immersed myself in the wide world of
music. The landfill indie of my teenage
years had been put to one side, and I
was making the most of my discovery
that alternative music meant a hell
of a lot more than The Libertines.
It was a great time to be getting
into alternative music as well with
Animal Collective’s Merriweather
Post Pavilion, The Flaming Lips’
brilliant double album Embryonic
and Grizzly Bear‘s Veckatemist all
released in 2009. There were also
superb debuts from Japandroids,
tUnE-yArDs and, admittedly in 2008,
Titus Andronicus.
There were three albums that were
everpresentonmyiPodclassicthough:
Hospice by The Antlers, The Pains of
Being Pure at Heart’s eponymous
debut album and Primary Colours
by The Horrors. Hospice is a dream
pop / slowcore concept album about
a hospice worker falling in love with a
patient. It is absolutely heartbreaking,
and one of my all time favourite
records to this day. The Pains record
was very heavily indebted to shoegaze
behemoth My Bloody Valentine but
with a pop sensibility nowhere to be
seen on Loveless. The Horrors were
perhaps the oddity, in that their debut
Strange House, a horror punk meets
The Strokes type affair, had been one
of my favourites during the landfill
indie stage. Primary Colours was
something else entirely though. Gone
was any trace of garage rock, and in
its place was a psychedelic shoegaze
record ending with the utterly genius
Sea Within a Sea.
All three bands released albums in
2011, with The Antlers’ Burst Apart
being the pick of the bunch. Instead of
trying to match the emotional depth of
Hospice, they went down the textured
dream pop route, with reasonable
success. The Pains’ Belong was very
much a slightly worse version of their
debut whilst The Horrors’ Skying felt
like a no risk Primary Colours by
numbers and I really didn’t see the
point. Coincidentally, all three have
new albums out this year as well. The
Antlers’ Familiars is due out in June,
whilst The Horrors’ Luminous came
out this week and the Pains new album
Days of Abandon was released back in
April. It’s been five years, so what has
become of these old favourites?
All three records start with a pretty
dull track. The Antlers open with a
long boring dream pop track that
sounds somewhere between Hospice
and Burst Apart with none of the
charm of either. The Horrors also
go for some benign dream pop, with
none of the creativity of Primary
Colours and lots of the banality that
made Skying so forgettable. The Pains
track is just bland as shit. There is very
little feedback though, which implies
that, against all odds, The Pains of
Being Pure at Heart have changed
direction. In reality, all three of them
have to different extents. All three of
them are definitely better than the first
track would imply though.
The Antlers record manges to get
through another couple of really dull
elongated dream pop numbers before
the good stuff, with Doppelganger and
Hotel both being very forgettable.
Intruders is much better though.
It’s still a long dream pop song, but
with it’s occasional staccato guitar
jabs and lilting vocal melody it’s a
much better crafted track. The piano
laden Revisited and the chamber pop
inspired Parade are also really pretty
tracks. The final track, Refuge, has an
almost sexy guitar part, and I never
thought I’d write that in an Antlers
review, but then it also kind of works.
Instrumentally, this is probably as
good as the Antlers have ever released.
The arrangements have the same lush
textures as Burst Apart, but with
a variety and coherence that was
missing on that record. There’s still
something not quite right though.
Peter Silberman has one of the
best voices in indie. Whether it’s
his hauntingly delicate falsetto
or his anguished wailing, it was
Silberman’s voice that made Hospice
so spectacular, but it’s also the weak
point here. His voice was the perfect
vehicle for the subject matter of
Hospice. Vulnerability and anguish
are exactly what you want for songs
about the love of your life dying of
cancer, the kids you never had with
her and the dreams you still have
about her now she’s gone. Compared
to that, tracks about growing up and
feeling a bit disjointed about it just
sounds a bit disingenuous. They may
have withdrawn the heavy subject
matter with Burst Apart, but they
also reined in Silberman’s anguish,
and that worked. They tried to create
something sepearate, that could
be judged on its own merits, and it
worked. This seems like a regression
back towards the hallowed turf of
Hospice, and it ends up taking the
worst parts of the two albums. It’s
not bad, and if I’m being honest, I’d
be really excited if a new band came
out with this. The Antlers set the bar
too high with Hospice, and I’m slightly
annoyed that they are even trying to
jump over it again.
The Pains have a lot less pressure on
them. Belong was a fairly forgettable
rehash of the debut, and I was fully
expecting another lazy effort from
them with this one. As such, they
come out of it looking a lot better
than the Antlers. Days of Abandon
is a far from perfect album, in fact
it’s probably a lot more flawed than
Familiars, but it feels a lot fresher.
After the uninspiring opener comes
Simple and Sure, a song that sounds
more like The New Pornographers
than it does My Bloody Valentine.
It’s straight up North American indie
pop and it’s not half bad. The next
track, Kelly, isn’t even a little bit bad.
A bouncy little indie pop number with
a super catchy riff and a shimmering
jangly background, it really does
sparkle. It’s distinctly something
they would write, but the production
elevates it to something different. This
is the legacy of acts like The Smiths
and Felt, and it’s really quite superb.
Up next is another curveball.
TPOBPAH have always done shoegaze
with a pop sensibility, and after three
tracks of pop sensibility with minimal
shoegaze I really hadn’t prepared
myself for shoegaze with minimal
pop sensibility. This is perhaps where
the album lets itself down. There is
virtually no coherence. Along with
blatant MBV worship in Beautiful
You and Until the Sun Explodes, the
rest of the album contains a few more
New Pornographers inspired tracks
in Eurydice and Life After Life and a
dreamy closer that has no place on
this album.
The good tracks here are really
good, and there’s quite a few great
ones. Eurydice, Kelly and Until the Sun
Explodes are all some of the best work
the band has done, and the only weak
points are the opener, closer and Coral
and Gold. This isn’t a stone cold classic
like the debut, but then it was never
going to be, and at least it’s better than
Belong. This shows that the Pains
weren’t a one album wonder, and
that there’s still something potentially
really good in the tank, even if this
isn’t quite it.
The Horrors were the band for
whom I had the least expectations.
Of the three albums mentioned at
the beginning, Primary Colours is the
one I play least frequently nowadays,
and after the extremely dry Skying I
had pretty much given up on them. I
decided to give Luminous a listen, and
I’m glad I did. They aren’t playing it
safe this time around. This is at least as
varied as Primary Colours, and whilst
it’s a bit more hit and miss, it’s still one
of the more exciting albums I’ve heard
this year.
So Now You Know is a pulsating,
swirling track with a catchy hook and
so much else going on besides. It’s
the best thing they’ve done since Sea
Within a Sea, but there’s plenty more
to interest the listener. Jealous Sun
admittedly basically is a My Bloody
Valentine, but it’s good enough to
forgive, whilst Falling Star channels
some of the sound that Tame Impala
have perfected, but with a twinkly
synth creating an almost playful
atmosphere.
There are few less successful tracks.
In and Out of Sight has a dancey sort
of thing going on that doesn’t really
work in the context of the song, let
alone the album and the dream pop
leviathan bookends aren’t ideal. That
being said, unless the Horrors are
failing in trying something new this
time around. The mistake on Skying
was in a lack of ambition, but there’s
plenty of that here, even if it leads to
a few mistakes. The Horrors clearly
aren’t done yet, and I don’t think it’s
that absurd to think they might be
able to top Primary Colours next time
around.
My nostalgic revisiting of these
three bands has produced a fairly
predictable response. I had the biggest
emotional connection with the
Antlers and they have disappointed
me by releasing something I just
can’t care about as much. The Pains
have already disappointed me and I
expected them to continue to do so,
and they receive a partonising pat
on the head for at least trying a bit
harder this time around. The Horrors
on the other hand, who I had no real
expectations of at all, have actually
released a really good record this time
around.
Darby Cicci seems to be in his own wind filled microclimate in this picture of the Antlers
The Pains of Being Pure At Heart looking, well, pure at heart, if not particularly pained
Horrors frontman Faris Badwan doing,
something, with his fringe

