20 FRIDAY 09 MAY
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
John Park
Film Editor
Transcendence
Director: Wally Pfister
Writer: Jack Paglen
Starring: Johnny Depp, Rebecca
Hall, Morgan Freeman, Paul Bettany,
Kate Mara, Cillian Murphy
Runtime: 119 minutes
Certification: 12A
No one likes a know-it-all. But for Eve-
lyn Castor (Rebecca Hall), her signifi-
cant other, her partner in science and
in life, Will Castor (Johnny Depp) real-
ly does know it all. This is after a dead-
ly assassination attempt with a bullet
laced in radiation slowly starts to shut
down his body. Evelyn has the brilliant
idea of uploading every single aspect
of Will’s brain onto a smart computer,
thereby creating the world’s first arti-
ficial intelligence of this scale. Once
the transfer is complete, Will becomes
the most intelligent, crafty being on
the planet. As soon as this “Will” taps
into the internet, something that ena-
bles him to accessing every known bit
of information around the world, he
becomes quite the useful company to
have around.
Think of it as ARIA from the film
Eagle Eye acting as a loving guardian
angel, watching over your safety, in-
stead of trying to (spoilers for the film
Rise of the machine
for anyone who hasn’t seen it) use you
to kill every important member of the
United States government. Because
the love Will had for Evelyn has also
been directly lifted from his brain to
this AI, he does everything to look out
for her. It’s touching, love knowing no
bounds, not even physical death, but
this being a science-fiction drama,
it turns into something more creepy,
which makes us question just what
it is about another human being that
makes us fall utterly in love.
But with a creation this powerful,
comes obvious dangers associated
with this. The question of this new
Will’s true identity of course comes
into question here, the fear of “has
he turned too evil” and “will he use
his potentially limitless powers for
good or bad” are the burning issues
that need addressing before suppos-
edly the world’s safety is compro-
mised. Or at least this is what the anti-
technology domestic terrorist group
Revolutionary Independence From
Technology (RIFT) is most concerned
about. Curiously enough, despite their
strong, violent objections (they are
the ones responsible for Will’s radia-
tion bullet wound), they themselves
are not so opposed to benefiting from
slick technology. Poor writing or in-
tentional hypocrisy? You be the judge
of that one. Led by Bree (Kate Mara),
who looks dark and mysterious, she
reveals herself to be not just in this
for the dumb fun of blood and body
counts, but actually has a legitimate
reason of her own to be taking part in
such a dangerous operation.
If you can look past the obvious
major flaw without which the rest of
the film cannot continue, the idea that
sticking some electrodes into a per-
son’s brain can somehow extract ab-
solutely everything about that person
to an inanimate storage unit, a process
that takes quite a period of time that
ultimately does absolutely no damage
whatsoever to the uploader, Tran-
scendence is an admirable, intelligent
film pampered by wonderfully slick
designs. First-time director Wally
Pfister comes to grips with the many
genre aspects of the film, quickly mov-
ing through the events with snappy
sequences.
Taking refuge quite literally in the
middle of nowhere, Evelyn sets up a
brand new underground research lab-
oratory to continue her work with her
husband. Incidentally, this is thanks
to Will’s large contribution to her fi-
nancial well-being. Being a super AI
allows him to play the stock market
incredibly well, one of the many ben-
efits of having this sort of guy around.
Even the remote, rundown location
was found by him. There he develops
a remarkable set of scientific advance-
ments, a lot of them that seem quite
simply out of this world. Does the film
require a stretch of the imagination?
Yes. But once fully immersed into the
narrative, so much fun can be had toy-
ing with the endless possibilities Will
the hologram presents.
But at the heart of it all is the fas-
cinating exploration of the romance
between Evelyn and Will. It’s certainly
one that is no doubt doomed for fail-
ure. Will is technically there, but then
it can be argued that he is not, he
watches and analyses her every move
and emotion, although the same can-
not be said for what she can do with
him. Caught in this struggle is the
magnificent Rebecca Hall, intelligent
and devoted to her scientific cause,
not quite seeing what all the big fuss
is about when her colleagues Joseph
Tagger (Morgan Freeman) and Max
Waters (Paul Bettany) remain scepti-
cal. The strain that is placed between
the couple becomes more evident as
Will grows more powerful and “aware”
so to speak, and as can be expected of
someone in this highly unusual pre-
dicament, the unravelling of her once-
perfect life is quite the dramatic one.
It’s the fact that Will starts playing
God that seems to be causing the big-
gest friction. Illnesses are being cured,
and there appears to be no limit as to
what this new Will is capable of. The
plot brings up moral dilemmas, ones
that cannot be fully shaped perhaps in
the medium of film. It’s really up to the
audience to have a think afterwards.
And where the film really hooks its
viewers is with its intriguing initial
concept, that is slowly expanded, with
a touch of Wally Pfister’s neat visual
flourishes.
The film’s poor box-office show-
ing, something that will cost Alcon
Entertainment a lot of money, is a
great shame. Its hefty budget of $100
million looks to have been spent in
creating just the right futuristic at-
mosphere, and with its strong perfor-
mances rom a star-studded cast plus
exciting premise, this sci-fi thriller
should have done better. The “action”
finale is underwhelming, but when it
all quietens down, there is an air of
touching poignancy, something the
film works hard towards achieving.

