22 FRIDAY 09 MAY
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Carly’s angels
John Park
Film Editor
The Other Woman
Director: Nick Cassavetes
Writer: Melissa Stack
Starring: Cameron Diaz, Leslie
Mann, Kate Upton, Nikolaj Coster-
Waldau, Taylor Kinney, Nicki Minaj
Runtime: 109 minutes
Certification: 12A
Serial-dating lawyer Carly (Cameron
Diaz) finally finds someone who could
potentially be “the one”. This is un-
til she figures out that he’s a married
man. Game of Thrones’ Jaime Lan-
nister, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, has
been a busy man no doubt. His wife
Kate (Leslie Mann) is devastated and
heart-broken. But with a little help
from wine, tequila and vodka, the wife
manages to befriend “the other wom-
an”. Mark’s (Coster-Waldau) affairs
don’t end there however, as another
mistress is added to the mix, this time
someone who fits the cliched cat-
egories of blonde hair and big boobs.
Amber (Kate Upton) is just as shocked
and saddened by all this, and it takes
the three of them to realise that they
do not need a man in their lives to de-
fine who they are.
It’s not long before the three team
up to work together. Their united
goal? To take down Mark King and
utterly humiliate him in the process.
The film works best when the three
women are together on the screen,
and less so when it clearly tries to
push the biggest name star of the film,
Diaz, to the front with her own little
ill-advised subplot. Kate’s brother Phil
(Taylor Kinney) is an eligible contrac-
tor who doesn’t appear to give a damn
his sister was cheated on multiple
times, but instead is more interested
in hooking up with one of his brother-
in-law’s mistresses. Of course on film
the love line plays out in a more sug-
ar-coated fashion than that - this is a
romantic comedy after all, but for the
sake of the actor playing Phil’s part, as
well as giving Diaz a more substantial
love interest to play around with, it’s a
strand that should have been thought
through more carefully.
Most interesting, hilarious and ef-
fective is Mann’s character, the wife.
Being the hugely talented comedic
actress that she is, Mann is almost
single-handedly responsible for a large
number of the film’s laugh-out-loud
moments. Mann has slowly trans-
formed herself from being a mere
supporting player to a lead actress
receiving the second highest billing
of the cast. But it’s not just her comic
abilities that make her performance a
standout one. Through her there is an
interesting area explored, albeit brief-
ly, concerning how it may not be the
easiest thing to leave your husband,
no matter who he has been sticking it
to for all these years. A vow is a vow,
and there was certainly a time when
the original couple must have loved
one another. In order to squeeze in
more humour to its running time, this
is something that is only fleetingly
glanced at, although Mann makes the
most of what little material she has to
work with. She even shows knack for
something more serious and ground-
ed, and it would certainly be interest-
ing in the future to see her taken on
more diverse roles.
Coster-Waldau, most famous for
his contribution to HBO’s hit fantasy
show, shows off an entirely different
side to his acting range, proving he is
perfectly suitable for some over-the-
top, slapstick comedy. A significant
portion of very loud, physical comedy
is dependent on his role, one he car-
ries through effortlessly. A real sneaky,
slimey, cheating bastard, Coster-Wal-
dau becomes the perfect target for all
those involved, and a part of the film’s
final satisfaction is down to how little
sympathy we actually have for him.
Also showing promise in front of
the camera is rapper Nicki Minaj, who
makes her debut film performance
here, as Carly’s assistant Lydia, a char-
acter reminiscent of Karen Walker of
Will & Grace, in that they are both
useless assistants who don’t really do
anything except insult their bosses.
Minaj may not have what it takes to
carve out the most versatile career,
but in roles similar to this one, a wise-
cracking, sassy young woman who
won’t take any insults from anyone,
she would be the perfect character ac-
tress for such parts.
Faring less well is Kate Upton, a
model having a crack at Hollywood.
It’s impossible to figure out whether
she is a good actress or not, because
she has so little to do throughout the
film. She is always around, dancing,
walking, showing off her exceptional
body, but in such a thankless role,
she is heavily side-lined by those with
more experience. The film wants to
sell the idea that it’s the three women
who are teaming up to exact their re-
venge on Mark. But she may as well
have been written out completely.
The film is very keen to push the
idea that these women share a beauti-
ful, lasting friendship. Aside from an
utter rubbish sequence that involves
the three women slowly gathering on a
beach, shooting their own little cheesy
music video completely out of the blue
in the middle of the film, the idea is
mostly sold, thanks to its solid prem-
ise and a couple of the leads.

