23
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 09 MAY
FILM
Double O dear...
John Park
Film Editor
The Love Punch
Director: Joel Hopkins
Writer: Joel Hopkins
Starring: Pierce Brosnan, Emma
Thompson, Timothy Spall, Celia
Imrie
Runtime: 94 minutes
Certification: 12A
There is a line of dialogue that is rath-
er unwisely repeated on a regular basis
in The Love Punch. The film is quite
insistent on telling the audience that
a certain plan the characters come up
with is “crazy, daft, stupid, but bril-
liant”. Aside from “brilliant”, The Love
Punch quite comfortably ticks the rest
of the boxes: crazy, daft and stupid.
A potentially effective screwball
setup quickly goes down the drain
with the film trying too hard, having
far too much utter nonsense, and not
quite being funny enough despite con-
tributions from plenty of English tal-
ent. We open with an obvious nod to
the “shaken not stirred” motif of James
Bond, clearly an homage to its leading
man; Brosnan, Pierce Brosnan. Rich-
ard (Brosnan) and his ex-wife Kate
(Emma Thompson) are on civil(ish)
terms in that they share a daughter
and don’t necessarily try to kill each
other every time they run into one
another. A bad investment deal cheats
them out of their secure retirement
savings, and the only way to rightfully
take back what is theirs, is to travel to
Paris, France, crash a posh wedding,
and steal an extremely rare diamond
then sell it for millions. The details,
as you might expect, are never too
important, given just how many holes
there are here in the first place.
Perhaps something like this could
have worked on a goofy, over-the-top
French adaptation. Here the Brit ac-
tors give it their all. And the chemistry
between the suave, relaxed Brosnan
goes hand-in-hand with the more
neurotic, louder Thompson. Not par-
ticularly imaginative ways of devel-
oping its characters, but between the
two there are very few moments of hu-
mour that mostly amount to chuckles
at most.
Of course the big gag factor here is
that they’re old and their bodies aren’t
quite what they used to be. They are
faced with a daunting challenge of
having to do a lot of physical work.
“Old people doing exciting things”
seems to be a popular concept that
gives room for veteran actors and
actresses to let looseand have fun.
Would we have seen Dame Helen
Mirren waving around a machine gun
if “Red” had not happened? Instead we
are treated to a very dull car chase, a
near-death experience that is nullified
through something so anti-climatic,
and the four thespians involved doing
a slow-motion walk in their sunglass-
es, strutting their stuff, in a sequence
that painfully goes on for too long.
Yes, there are four of them in this
gang. Richard and Kate’s married
best friends Jerry (Timothy Spall) and
Penelope (Celia Imrie) get on board
with this “crazy, daft, stupid, but bril-
liant” plan. Various mishaps happen
along the way, none of them exciting
or funny, a lot of it tedious and mind-
numbingly boring.
When the film is failing utterly at
trying to crack a few jokes, it sets out
to become quite the relationship coun-
sellor, trying to place into the script
various monologues about what love
is all about and how long-lasting rela-
tionships work. The fact that Richard
and Kate are divorced, and are thrown
into this premise, should already give
you lots of hints as to what the writ-
ers are desperately getting at, some-
what of a better-late-than-never type
of reunion; and such predictability is
fine, although the way the film goes
about bringing the two back together
is nothing short of cringe-worthy at
best.
It is such a waste of a talented cast:
even with Spall’s and Imrie’s contri-
butions, the gags turn flat. That goes
to show how much of a problem the
script has in landing a single plausi-
ble joke. The heist itself is hugely un-
remarkable, and when things briefly
take a turn for the more serious, even
that shift in tone is not enough to save
the film from having one disastrous
thing happen one right after the other.
There are some nice sweeping shots
of France. The ocean, the country-
side, the nature; everything looks like
something out of a fancy postcard,
and the aerial shots do have a way of
trying to tempt a wave of potential
summer holiday-goers. But a 94-min-
ute film is far too long to work purely
as an expensive travel destination
advert, and even though the runtime
is clearly no way near close to being
something that is considered long,
with The Love Punch that feels like an
eternity for sure.
A farcial comedy can work. Plenty of
examples in the past have shown that.
But the pure idiocy with which the
film approaches its storytelling is in-
sulting to those having to sit through
it. There is a penis joke that works.
Yes, one of very few good moments
that bumps this up from a one-star
rating to two.

