“Keep the
Cat Free”
SPORT
Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
With the sun and the schedule finally
coalescing in a fashion allowing for
a match, the Imperial 2’s kickstarted
our 2014 season in the best possible
fashion, delivering a win for new
skipper Sam Mead. Having lost the
toss on a “dry” wicket, we were put
in to field and pressure was on the
frontline seamers to make best use of
the new ball. The skipper himself led
from the front, prising out 2 top order
wickets with some good accurate
bowling. He was ably supported
by Nick Dunn from the other end,
who was making the best use of the
“mysterious” Harlington bounce and
was unfortunate not to take wickets
in his first spell. He was, however, able
to completely tie up one end, finishing
with a scarcely believable economy
rate of 1.50. Johan Rekers was in as
first change and chipped in with a
wicket as well, along with a rather
comical bouncer attempt which he
insists was off a “good length”.
The middle overs belonged to the
spin-twins, Mak Gill and Arvind
Rajagopalan, uniting the arts of
finger and wrist spin to good effect
to counter a Birbeck middle-order
riddled with front-foot defence
experts. 4 wickets were taken during
this period, including a poor man’s
“Ball of the Century” from Arvind
and a run-out by Mak. Both were
unlucky not to get more with plenty
of dropped catches and tough LBW
appeals turned down. With a stubborn
tail left to get through, Nick Dunn
returned and finally got the important
breakthrough to send Birbeck’s
captain (also named Arvind) back
for 58. Debutant Sarus Jain provided
a clinic in death bowling, repeatedly
getting the ball full outside offstump
and going at only 4/over in his 5 overs,
finishing with a wicket. After a spirited
bowling performance, Birbeck were
held to 139-8, giving Imperial a target
of 140 to chase in 40 overs.
Imperial got off to a rollicking
start with Karan Dhall and Hemant
Morjaria milking the Birbeck opening
pair for easy singles and twos.
Highlights included a TransferWise
Maximum by Karan, sending the ball
flying over midwicket boundary, and
Hemant experiencing the first cramp
of his life. Unfortunately both lost
their wickets cheaply after getting
starts. Padman Bhatt, in at 3, was not
able to stay for very long either, while
Luke Gardner at 4 was able to club
a few past the fielders before losing
his wicket as well. Nick stabilised the
innings with skipper Sam, who despite
being agonisingly out of touch, was
able to fight to 19.
At this point, Birbeck’s skipper
Arvind, who had been keeping for
them, decided to come on to bowl.
Proving to be an Allrounder in the
truest sense, he troubled Sam and Nick
on multiple occasions, leading to some
downright comical running between
the wickets due to the sheer pressure
of the situation. Finally, he was able
to prise out both their wickets. Our
keeper Matt Wetton tried his level
best but could not get the ball past
the infield. He did, however, register
the TransferWise shot of the day,
playing a two-handed forehand tennis
smash to a beamer. Mak Gill came
and left without troubling the scorers,
and Imperial was left in a precarious
situation, with 3/4 of the batting line-
up back in the pavilion with half the
game left to play and around 30 runs
left to get.
Displaying unbelievable composure
in his debut game, Sarus, in at 9,
steered the chase, finishing unbeaten
on 19. He was supported by no. 10
Johan, who managed to scratch 6
off the target before playing onto his
stumps. In walked nightwatchman
Arvind, calmly driving a four down the
ground to tie the scores before a wide
delivery gave Imperial a hard-fought
victory by 1 wicket (140-9). In one
of life’s cruel ironies, one Arvind did
everything in his power to try and win
the game for his team, but the winning
runs came from the other Arvind,
proving that teams, not individuals,
win matches. Bowling figures: Sam
2-21 (6 overs) Arvind 2-24 (8 overs)
Batting figures: Karan 22(25) Sarus
19(13) MOTM: A tie between Sarus
for his late-game heroics and Sam
Mead’s Bat, for scoring half our runs
Transferwise Quote of the Day: PB
- “Let’s get him boys he’s driving
without a license!”
Disciplined bowling helps Imperial to closest of wins
Arvind Rajagopalan
Cricket Treasurer
09/05/14
Issue 1575
felixonline.co.uk
Kunal... Stop expecting a last minute substitution from
the Editor, à la Giggs...
Last weekend, Imperial’s Ultimate
Frisbee team – known more
commonly as the discDoctors –
donned their trademark yellow
shirts to compete in the first division
of Outdoor University Nationals,
having secured their place against
local rivals during the south-east
regional qualifiers in March. Discs
flew, mud spattered, bones crunched,
and the discDoctors recovered from
a sluggish start to seal their position
among the top 10 university clubs in
the country.
Things didn’t start well. Having lost
co-captain Stephan Rossbauer (an
experienced club and national player)
to a shoulder injury before the start
of the tournament, the team’s other
co-captain James Threadgill followed
suit barely minutes into the first game
of the tournament, dislocating his
shoulder while diving for a defensive
block. Now down to 9 players with a
long weekend of Ultimate ahead, the
team began to fear that the reaper of
injuries was moving cruelly through
their ranks, Final Destination-style.
Saturday’s group stages saw
Imperial lose out to Heriot-Watt,
Warwick and York in hard-fought
games. Although they had played
some high-quality Ultimate, the
discDoctors lacked cutting edge at
key moments, and were left holding
16th seed (out of 16) at the halfway
stage of the weekend. This left the
players with plenty to contemplate as
they refuelled in Manchester’s Curry
Mile on Saturday evening.
One benefit of having two captains
on the sideline, however, was the
tacticaladvantagesitofferedtheteam.
Lining up against an experienced Bath
side on Sunday morning, Imperial
made the bold decision to shift David
Pryce – one of the side’s strongest
throwers, typically employed in the
‘handler’ role at the base of the attack
– further upfield. With Phil Sandwell
stepping comfortably into the central
handler role, the attack started
flowing as Pryce combined slickly
with Ash Hemingway, club president
James Ward (spurred on by a growing
fan club on the sideline) and Sam
Brown – whose explosive pace had
caused teams trouble all weekend.
Imperial had found their mojo, and
earned their first win of the weekend.
The team carried this momentum
into the next game, a rematch with
Heriot-Watt. Again, Brown’s pace
was instrumental to the attack, and
the team sealed an impressive 12–7
win as Ward swooped in for a sliding
grab in the end zone.
Now in the plate final, the scent of
silverware was in the air. But as the
afternoon drew on, Imperial’s lack of
numbers began to take its toll, and the
yellows lost out to a speedy Durham
side in their final game. Nevertheless,
their earlier efforts were enough
for Imperial to equal their best ever
performance at Outdoor Nationals,
finishing the tournament in a more-
than-respectable 10th – a fitting
send-off for several of the team’s
departing veterans.
The weekend also saw Imperial’s
female contingent in action, as they
combined with players from UCL
and King’s to enter as a London
über-team. Strong performances
throughout the weekend, including
a gutsy win against a highly-rated
Leeds side, saw them rise from 20th
seed to finish 6th. Not too shabby for
a first appearance at Nationals.
discDoctors reach top 10
Ed Parker reports from Manchester
Premier League
Final Day Predictions
Cardiff vs. Chelsea
Vincent Tan’s bizarre decision to
sack Malky Mackay left the Bluebirds
odds-on relegation favourites for most
of the season and they went out with a
whimper at St James’ Park. They rarely
deliver even when the pressure is off
so I doubt they will raise their game
for this dead rubber. 0-3
Fulham vs. Crystal Palace
The managerial merry-go-round
at Craven Cottage has played no
small part in Fulham’s downfall
either, although marginally improved
performances under Felix Magath,
especially at home, suggest they could
give their fans something to cheer
about with Palace’s travails catching
up on them. 1-0
Hull vs. Everton
Both Steve Bruce and Roberto
Martinez have enjoyed memorable
seasons and neither will want to end
on a low. It was finally confirmed last
weekend neither side has nothing to
play for so the shackles will be off and
with the Toffees’ flair players on song,
that could mean a Desmond. 2-2
Liverpool vs. Newcastle
The Magpies’ 3-0 victory over lowly
Cardiff last weekend scarcely papered
over the cracks at St James’ Park. The
fans want Alan Pardew out after a
horrendous run of form that means
they should be easy pickings for a
Reds side desperate to put pressure on
Man City. 4-0
Man City vs. West Ham
The Skyblues could be without both
Sergio Aguero and Yaya Toure but the
experience of winning the Premier
League title in stoppage time 2 years
ago will stand them in good stead to
get a result to secure the title. The fans
have turned on Big Sam, who may
already have agreed to leave Upton
Park this summer. 4-0
Norwich vs. Arsenal
Realistically the Canaries’ hopes
of survival were utterly extinguished
when Sunderland beat West Brom.
Their big problem is they cannot score
for toffee. By contrast, the Gunners
will be in buoyant mood after securing
yet another season of Champions
League football. 0-2
Southampton vs. Man United
Ryan Giggs looks unlikely to be
handed the reins on a permanent basis
at Old Trafford after the disappointing
defeat last weekend, while the Saints
will want to end their brilliant season
on a high. They have all the confidence
and can inflict a record 13th defeat on
United at St Mary’s. 2-0
Sunderland vs. Swansea
The Swans squad was suffering
from a bit of end-of-season syndrome
last weekend having already secured
Premier League football and I expect
a decision on Garry Monk’s future has
already been made. Gus Poyet’s side
have hit form at just the right time and
will lap up the love of the fans. 2-0
Tottenham vs. Aston Villa
Tim Sherwood knows he won’t be
at White Hart Lane come August but
will want to show the defeat to West
Ham last week was just a blip. Paul
Lambert’s side are finally safe and will
look to hurt Spurs on the counter, but
with little to play for may struggle to
penetrate their backline. 2-1
West Brom vs. Stoke City
Mark Hughes has enjoyed a
sensational maiden season at the
Britannia and needs just a point to
beat Tony Pulis’ record points tally.
They are exceptionally well organised
and the Baggies will duly oblige,
having flattered to deceive for much
of the season. 1-2
James White calls Sunday’s games as the title race comes to its conclusion.

