5
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 09 MAY
FEATURES
I
t’s often said that in the Internet
Age there is no more anonymity
but this is only half true. Yes,
thanks to Facebook I’ll know that
the girl from my old English class
in Year 12 has just broken up with
her boyfriend and is playing Taylor
Swift on a tear-filled triumphant
loop on Spotify but the internet
has also opened up so many ways
to be completely expressive and yet
completely anonymous. Take Twitter.
While my own handle is @roryfenton
(Hint: follow me. I’m lonely), many of
the people I follow use anonymous
accounts. @LetterOfNote shares
interesting letters written by famous
and not-so-famous hands. @IAM_
SHAKESPEARE (“Willy Shakes”) fills
my timeline with accidental innuendos
from Shakespeare’s plays (today’s
include “His youthful hose, well sav’d,
a world too wide” from As You Like
It). These don’t, however, represent
the bulk of anonymous tweeters.
Less interesting or humorous are
the countless accounts set up to
anonymously abuse other Twitter
users. When you see someone like
Lenny Henry told to “EFF OFF BACK
TO *insert misspelt African country*”,
there’s a good chance that was sent
from an anonymous account, possibly
set up just to send that tweet. To
exaggerate a little, it seems we’re stuck
with either arseholery on anonymous
Twitter or Too Much Information on
nonymous Facebook. Yes I made the
word “nonymous” up.
Into the fray steps new app Secret,
aiming to provide an anonymous
platform for users to share their
biggest secrets with friends. Launched
just weeks ago, I decided to try it out. I
first heard about the app when it shot
to fame after a Nike employee posted
that the company was about to fire its
Fuel Band staff. I say “Nike employee”,
it could have been absolutely anyone
because Secret is anonymous in
extremis. Loading up the app for the
first time you enter your email address
but create no username or handle.
When you post a “secret”, it is not
linked to any particular user, not even
to a pseudonym. You can publish “I
like Steve” and immediately after “I
have mixed feelings about Steve” with
no way to tell it was the same person
saying both.
Unlike Twitter, you can’t choose
whom to follow. Your Secret friends
will be automatically added using your
iPhone contacts (an Android version
is en route) so, short of actually asking
them, you’ll never know which of your
friends are populating your timeline.
If you like a post (a “secret”), you
can swipe right on it to “love” it just
like a “like” on Facebook and you
can comment too. Commenters are
identified by little symbols beside
their comments (such as a blue ship
or a yellow flower) so you can have
conversations on a secret and keep
track of who says what but when you
comment on another secret, your
symbol will change, keeping your
identity hidden.
When you love a secret, that secret
will appear on your friends’ timelines,
enabling secrets to go “viral” like a
tweet being retweeted and until you
reach ten friends using the app (I
currently have an embarrassing 5) you
can’t tell if a secret was posted by a
friend or simply loved by them.
The app itself is one of the nicest
apps I’ve ever used. Secrets come with
the text itself (limited to about the
length of a tweet) and a background,
which can be a photo or just a colour.
The result is a timeline that looks
much neater than the clutter on
either Facebook or Twitter, with text
appearing in larger font. When I first
got Secret my Secret-using-friend
count stood at 1 so I had a timeline
with a total of 5 secrets in it, none
too exciting, mostly slagging off
engineers. I decided to dive in and
share my first secret: “I spent at least
one hour of everyday for the past
two weeks watching Graham Norton
YouTube clips and now there are none
left”. I gave it an orange background
because that’s Graham’s colour. The
fact that I’m sharing this “secret”
in Felix gives away that I’m not all
that ashamed of it; it wasn’t, really,
a proper secret. Nonetheless within
an hour my 21st Century need for
sanitised human contact was satisfied
by a pity love from that one friend
and a simultaneous pity comment-
“approved”. Thanks one friend. Happy
with my first attempt at secretting, I
invited a load of my phone contacts
(they receive anonymous emails
from Secret itself) and tucked myself
into bed to dream-up new scenes for
Graham Norton.
Upon waking, I opened up Secret
to find my friend count had swollen
to 3 friends. This three-fold increase
actually had a huge impact on the
number of secrets I could see, as not
only did my friends’ secrets enter my
feed, so did those they had loved. I
could now get an idea of just what kind
of thing people were posting. A typical
“secret” is wildly removed from TV
chat show addictions. Gentle reader
be warned: Secret contains a *lot*
about sex. Nothing especially explicit
and seldom sweary, just people being
really honest about their likes and
dislikes. Of course, this could really
just be representative of the kind of
people I’m friends with- your timeline
will be unique to your friendship
group.
I decided to follow suit and send
out a slightly saucier second secret,
one I certainly won’t put in Felix. This
one was a proper secret, enough to
make me Google “secret app security”
before posting it with all the caution
of a mother duck setting her little
baby duck on the pond for the first
time. It was at this point, kind reader,
I became a bit of a Secret Super Star.
Extending well beyond my three
friends, within an hour my secret
had been loved by 20 different people
and attracted approving and shocked
comments respectively from a red cat
and green bottle. I set my phone aside
to do some revision (and, let’s face it,
scrape the barrel of Graham Norton
clips) to find my 20 loves now stood
at 50 as I tucked myself again into bed,
feeling smug. Bedtime for Rory is just
early evening in the States, where the
app is most popular. While I dreamily
planned the interactions in a fantasy
interview between Graham and Elvis,
my secret sped down the zipline of
friend-to-friend connections across
the Atlantic and as I groggily opened
the app that next morning, it had been
loved by over 250 people. That’s 250
people who were sufficiently moved
by my tale of smut that they moved
a finger the full width of a phone
screen in loving admiration. Red
Cat and Green Bottle had now been
joined by ten other friends, including
a disapproving blue bicycle helmet.
Helmets, eh?
Being, as I am, a Massive Big Deal,
this wasn’t my first experience of
Going Viral as last month I managed
500 retweets on what turned out to be
the first photo of the UK’s first married
same sex couple outside Islington
Town Hall (seriously, @roryfenton,
do it). Being Secret-viral, however, is
a very different thing. I couldn’t help
but be pleased that so many people
were loving something I’d done and
yet it was something I was far too
embarrassed to actually tell anyone
about. I took a screen shot of the wild
number of notifications I’d racked up
and tweeted it boastfully but without
thecontentoftheactualsecret,nobody
cared. In boasting about my Secret
success, I was getting Secret all wrong;
the whole point is the anonymity.
In providing pure anonymity while
among friends, the app works like the
perfect masquerade ball where the fun
isn’t in working out who everyone is or
who has the most exciting disguise but
in being completely and utterly open,
throwing caution to the wind and just
standing there in your brilliant, ugly,
faceless, truthful nudity. In boasting
about attracting so much “love” I was
desperately grasping at identity, at a
way of standing out. To fully do Secret
is to fully let go of the self. It’s fucking
deep.
As I got more and more immersed
I started to notice two different
categories of non-sex secrets. First,
there are the secrets that aren’t really
“secrets” at all but jokes of the “I’m
secretly Batman” type. Funny, yes,
but nothing that couldn’t be posted
to Twitter. The second non-sexy
category is something I really wasn’t
expecting: there are some incredibly
honest, highly private posts that you
simply would never see on Twitter or
Facebook. “I’m going to hurt someone
on Thursday and I can’t help it but I
feel so terrible”, for example, posted
by someone about to break up with
their boyfriend/ girlfriend elicited
dozens of comments with advice
and personal experience from other
people who been through the same
thing. “I’m worried my taste in porn
conflicts with my gender politics”
started a very frank, erudite debate on
feminism and pornography between
friends that could only have happened
anonymously.
I am just over a week on Secret and
I’m utterly hooked. When someone
posts something highly personal
to Facebook, it can feel fake, as if
they are seeking attention or passive
aggressively getting at someone else.
On Secret these possibilities are
stripped away as people fully, honestly
expose a part of themselves in search
of advice or maybe just the knowledge
that someone knows their truth, albeit
not whose truth it is. On Twitter I
can follow anyone in the world and
in turn be followed by anyone. With
Secret, I know that I am hearing from
friends and their friends which adds
a weight and proximity to what they
say. When I post a secret I could be
receiving sincere advice from my best
friend or a stranger on the other side
of the world connected to me by a
complex web of mutual acquaintance-
I can judge advice on content alone.
“I have chronic depression that once
became so severe that I took several
weeks of absence from work while I
sought treatment. I told my boss and
coworkers that I had mono. I didn’t
want to deal with the stigma”. When
was the last time someone opened up
to you like that? Someone did to me,
5 minutes ago, on Secret. A friend of
a friend. The secret has no comments
(what could you possibly say?) but
loves. Hundreds of them. Letting
that person know that even if they
don’t want to be named, people care.
And as that person uses Secret they
will see from others that they are not
alone. Anonymity among friends is a
powerful thing.
With fewer Batman jokes and more
openness, Secret has enormous
potential. It is wonderfully therapeutic
to be so open and with fewer friends
than fingers, each secret can be
properly appreciated. The fact that
only one secret fits on the screen at
a time adds to this. If I were the app’s
developer, I would keep “love” but
stop telling people how much love
they’ve received. That would stop the
occasional jokey attention seeking and
bring the level up to just letting stuff
go. I look forward to seeing where
Secret goes over the next months and
years. It has found something very
special that no other social network
has quite managed. Give it a go.
And if you’re wondering, my viral
Secret currently has over 450 loves
#BigDeal
#HashtagsOnlyWorkOnTwitter
#ThisIsANewspaper
#GodINeedToGetOutMore
Rory Fenton
@roryfenton
Rory Fenton reveals (almost) all with a look at the hot new “Secret” app.
Tell me friends, what is your Secret?

