6 FRIDAY 09 MAY
FEATURES
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk
L
ugging the recommended
200 copies of Felix, I skilfully
avoided Friday rush hour
and made my way to King’s
Cross to attend the Student
Publication Association National
Conference (#SPANC) being hosted
at Nottingham Trent University.
Due to an administrative oversight
(idiocy) tickets were exclusively via
Grantham (lovely station) and highly
reasonably priced (expensive). After
relieving myself of about 30kgs worth
of newspaper at the hostel, I headed
on down to Nottingham Trent Union
(NTU) to meet with my hosts and the
other Felix rep (our estimable Editor-
elect).
NTU is plush. Opened mere months
ago, this billion-dollar facility boasts
everything you could ever need from
a union (in-house Costa anyone?).
Indeed, if you like thinking 568 and
Metric are ‘ok’ then I recommend you
never visit NTU.
Our hosts were warm and
welcoming and we were soon chatting
and sharing publication stories over
£2.75 Guinness’. SPANC proper didn’t
start until the Saturday morning so we
let ourselves be taken on the ‘Average-
Bars’ tour of Nottingham. Despite the
distinctly mediocre environs, we had
a roaringly good time getting to know
some of our fellow student editors.
The 9am Saturday morning start
wasn’t the best way to recover, but
Felix are nothing if not hardy. There
were speeches from an eclectic bunch
of journalists giving us an excellent
insight into both how a career in the
field can evolve as well as how to
improve our own publications. We
finally managed to rid ourselves of all
the Felixes at the swap-shop only to
quickly regain the weight by picking
up a diverse range of excellent student
publications.
Felix then decided to split so as to
give an official presence at both the
next sessions – a talk with the local
representativeoftheNationalUnionof
Journalists (Diana Peasey) and a Q&A
with Nick Petrie of The Times. Petrie
is one of those infuriatingly successful
young people who, at 26, is already
Deputy-Head of News Development
at The Times. This success is made all
the less bearable by the fact that he
was lovely guy who’s impossible not to
like and who also does a huge amount
to help out budding hacks (check out
wannabehacks.co.uk). I managed
to pose a Q relevant only to myself
(journos with science backgrounds)
which prompted a palpable collective
eye-roll from the others.
We then headed for an afternoon
group-therapy session about our
respective unis and unions with James
Thornhill of The National Student.
Some of the stories were truly horrific
involving power-hungry sabs and
dictatorial universities with the papers
involved showing the kind of courage
and fight that puts our protests against
Imperial West to shame.
Due to another admin oversight,
I had been unable to book two
consecutive nights at an establishment
and thus needed to move to the
Clarence Hotel. Now, this is the point
where I bestow upon you an important
life lesson – there is no official criteria
for calling yourself a hotel.
Arrival at the ‘hotel’ did not
bode well. A sticker on the window
informed us that the place had once
been “rated on Trip Advisor”. It took
the ‘manager’ 20 mins to find my
keys in a Fawlty Towers-esque mix
up that culminated in us disturbing
an amorous couple. After navigating
my way through corridors containing
[presumably] broken bed frames, the
room did not disappoint. A quantity
of plugs that suggested that the hotel
was scared I would run out of energy
was accompanied by lashings of stains.
To cap this, my bathroom was a 1m2
crime scene capped with a convenient
murder weapon/drug hole.
Highlights from neighbouring
rooms (Editor-elect and Cardiff
Uni) included plastic spoons for
door handles (logical), wardrobes
that couldn’t store clothes but could
provide multiple entrances to magical
lands (exciting) and sinks that were
not connected to plumbing/mains
(aesthetic). But hey, the beds were
clean and doors were lock-ready.
The evening entertainment was
an awards dinner followed by the
NTU event Climax. Both were
highly enjoyable though I may have
outstayed my welcome with the bar
staff by constantly asking them if they
took Euros.
Suddenly, it was 9.45 in the morning
and we were late for the Sunday
morning death session back at NTU.
Thankfully NTU is wonderful and
has a plethora of highly comfortable
chairs. By not moving any of my core
and ingesting a constant rate of fluids,
I was just about able to concentrate.
Our final guest speaker was tabloid
journalist and writer William Coles –
a fascinating and entertaining talker
who covered everything from finding
a story to increasing your charm.
Finally, there were the elections to
the committee of the SPA where our
Editor-elect continued her election-
winning habits and duly bagged
herself the role of Events Officer.
My soothing stop at Grantham (still
lovely) allowed time for reflection on
what was a brilliant weekend. It’s well
worth getting involved with Felix to
attend these sorts of things. At the
very worst, your Twitter following
will increase by about 350% (as mine
did) or even better, you’ll meet some
genuinely interesting and intelligent
people doing some really exciting
stuff. Keep an eye out for SPANC 2015
as Felix has high hopes for hosting
next year!
Felix goes to #SPANC for the weekend
Laurence de Lussy Kubisa reminisces about the Student Publication Association National Conference
PHILIPPA SKETT
T
he Student Publication
Association (SPA) is
very much in its infancy,
especially when compared
to other media associations,
such as the Student Radio Association.
This is particularly surprising
considering nearly every university
has a newspaper, either independently
ran or overseen by their union, like
Felix.
With this in mind, is there even
a need for the SPA, if it is apparent
that publications have been running
successfully without this overarching
representation? Not only that, but
what can the SPA actually do?
After talking to other editors of the
various newspapers and magazines
across the country, it seems that the
interactions some publications have
with their respective institutions are
in fact often strained, and sometimes
pushed to breaking point.
There seems to be a spectrum of
censorship across student media, and
it seems that few publications are true
avenues for free student press. I spoke
to editors that were effectively usurped
by censoring sabbaticals, others that
had their publications hidden during
open days, and yet others that were
censored by media or communication
sabbaticals hell-bent on protecting the
reputation of institutions at the cost of
free speech.
One of my manifesto points was
to reduce the union influence over
the publication, and after attending
SPANC, it has come to light just how
important this will be to uphold. The
position of Felix within this censorship
spectrum has wavered over the years,
and at the moment the relationship
between the paper and the union is a
pleasant one, but we need to ensure
that this continues.
Joining the SPA executive committee
was a decision I made because I believe
that student newspapers, regardless of
their financial background, should not
be limited in what they print as long as
it is factually accurate and within the
interest of the student body.
Our motto is to “keep the cat free,”
and is something I will always uphold,
despite being forever grateful that
the union keeps us financially in the
black. However, there will always be
times where simply repeating such
an aphorism will not be enough,
so hopefully one day, through the
framework of the SPA, we will be
able to turn to other publications for
advice, support and aid, and vice versa.
The successes of Felix can be used
as inspiration for some publications,
whilst we can draw off the strengths
of others.
Through this unification of student
publications, the SPA will be able to
reach out to unions and universities
alike to promote the benefits and
indeedtherightsofstudentmedia,and
also keep them in check should things
go awry. Not only that, the SPA has
the potential to introduce workshops
to train student journalists, run future
conferences to facilitate personal and
professional networking between both
student and full-time journalists and
their publications, develop a media
ethics code, and enhance their awards
system to introduce a standardised
seal of approval for all the work
student publications produce.
The SPA is not promising to deliver
all of this all at once, but it definitely
has the capacity to do so, and is
something I am willing to support as
much as I possibly can. The student
voice is a powerful one, and hopefully
by unifying all of the avenues that
propagate this voice, it can reach its
full potential.
Student Media and Union Censorship
Editor-Elect Philippa Skett ponders the relationship between student publications and free speech

