4 F E L I X 21 F E B R U A R Y 1968
CEDITOR'S
o m m e n t
Each year the Union gets larger and each year the amount of
money handled gets correspondingly greater. As a consequence of
this the amount of responsibility vested in the members of the Union
elected to the various posts, whether it be the President or a com-
mittee member of a club, becomes more and the more people who are
being represented and the more activities going on the less time there
is to see those people. " Who is Ray Phillips anyway?" says Joe
Btoggs. " Who is Joe Bloggs, anyway?" says Ray Phillips.
This is but one facet of a problem for too long neglected in our
rapidly growing Union—that of communication between the various
parts. I make no apology for the fact that one or two other writers
in this issue have dealt to some extent with this subject, in fact the
word " communication," or rather the lack thereof, seems to be
heading for the same sort of status once accorded to " apathy " as the
universal scapegoat for all IC Union ills. I claim no such thing, but
I do think that this is one of a number of causes of the present lack
of intercut shown by most students towards Union affairs. The lack
of contact between the people supposedly running the Union and the
main body of the Union is a manifestation of the inadequacy of what
I shall term vertical communication. Lateral communication, at least
at the level of the clubs, is, if anything, worse. Here we have a case
of the left hand not knowing what the right is doing if ever there was
one. A society will arrange a meeting with no idea of what it may
clash with (unless it is a Monday and we all know what Monday
night is), nor of whether other clubs are holding meetings on similar
topics, this has happened between Maths & Phys Soc and Wells Soc
several times last session, both IRC and Pol Soc Council arranged
meetings entitled " Vietnam—the abuse of science " (Pol Soc have
now abandoned the " abuse of science " bit from both the title and
content of the programme to avoid too much overlapping), while Ents
missed the opportunity of booking a top group cheaply because they
could not find out the date of RCS Carnival.
And so to the eternal editorial question : What is to be done? In a
vertical direction two starts have already been made. One is Ray
Phillips' system of using year reps to publicise Union meetings to their
years, a system carried further in RCS where informal year reps
meetings are held tofilterideas upwards—" Communication is a two-
way process "—Phillips—as well as to inform the masses. Some mem-
bers of Counc'l would like to see this adopted on an IC basis. The
other is Andy Jordan's idea of holding " surgeries " on Tuesday and
Thursday lunchtimes when Union members could see floor reps
on Council about any problems or ideas they may have which Council
could deal widi. Excellent as the idea is I am not sure whether most
Union members wiil overcome their natural reticence to go and see
them.
In a lateral direction there seems at present to be no other means of
communication than informal contact between members of the respec-
tive commi'tees. And with eighty clubs and societies, not counting
constituent College clubs . . .Once upon a time there was a diary for
putting details of meetings in. True, not many people used it, but
surely it was better than nothing. Perhaps it should be resurrected,
with the clubs committees kicking those clubs who did not use it.
CAREERS ADVICE
Whilst vaguely on the subject of communication or, mo.e accurately,
the dissemination of information, it is good to hear of the Rector's
action on careers advice. At the moment there is little or no well-
informed comprehensive advice available in this College on career
opportunities, particularly outside of one's immediate studies or on
postgraduate courses. This is not to say that the staff of the various
departments do not do their best, in fact I am sure they do, but their
knowledge of possible opportunities is necessarily extremely limited.
It is to be hoped that more advice, not just on careers, will be
available to young people soon. One that springs to mind is the
choice of Universities and courses whilst at school. If more such
advice were available then many of the frustrations and failures, which
I am sure are caused by following the wrong course at the wrong
University, would be avoided.
STUDENT FINANCE
Last week 'Student Life' appeared around the College for the
second tr
me. It is published by Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.,
who are advertising agents for a large number of student newspa-
pers, including FELIX. Many universities and Colleges have ban-
ned 'Studen Life' out of hand, on the grounds that it will take ad-
vertising away from their own newspapers. Educational Publicity
claim that its aim is to attract advertising to student newspapers.
The FELIX board and Council have agreed that it should be given
a chance to see if it will do this. All proceeds from the sale of
'Student Life' are going to the Union.
X Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
Editor : DAVID COOPER
Asst. Editor: John Mullaly
News Editor : Paul Heath
Features: John Sonuaer, Dick
Middleton
Sports Editor: Phil Hopwood
Business Manager : Mary Ford
Late News Editor : Dick Reeves
Advertising Manager:
John Probst
Sales Manager: Chris Slee
Production Manager :
Pete Chapman
Advertising Agency :
Educational Publicity (Partners)
Ltd. CHA 6081
Photographic Editor :
Colin Broad
What's On Editor: Pat Shanahan
Cartoonist : Stuart Senior
Duplicating Service : Paul Miller
With: Rory Redmayne, John
Rodger, Patrick Rotherham, Ken
Simpson, Anne Wheatley, Andy
Jordan, Caroline and Patsy.
Apathy and
Indifference
Letters t
the Editoi
Sir,
With regard to Mr. Kent's
letter which appeared last week
in Felix and dwelt at length on
the subject of apathy I would like
to say this :
First a quote: "Apathy is what
one associates with morons, not
with intelligent young people."
Perhaps it is precisely because
they are intelligent young people
that they have considered and
decided that there is nothing in the
Union for them to get wildly ex-
cited about like a bunch of de-
mented homosexuals on their way
to a Scout camp. However, I
think the reason goes deeper than
this.
Mr. Kent implies that apathy
is an abnormal state for intelligent
people but far from being un-
usual, apathy is the norm for most
people. University is a complete
microcosm of the society we live
in; there are just as many reac-
tionary, conservative people as
anywhere else, just as few radical
thinkers, just as many social
climbers as anywhere else, and
what Mr. Kent does not realise
Grants
Meeting
Dear Sir.
The recent meeting on " Stu-
dent Finance " in the Union could
only be described as pathetic.
The gentleman from NUS re-
lated a long tale of negotiations
with Gordon Walker on the sub-
ject of student hardship arising
from inadequate grants. He ended
by asking that if anyone was hard
up would they please tell NUS be-
cause NUS couldn't find anyone
who was !
The lady from Radical Student
Alliance displayed a great deal of
thigh whilst seated and little co-
herence when standing and was
about as radical as a reactionary
hen.
Those who turned up to the
meeting represented only about
3 per cent of the student body,
indicating that about 97 per cent
were satisfied with their present
financial arrangements.
Everybody who spoke from the
floor either made irrelevant
speeches, paraded reactionary
sentiment or spoke plain non-
sense. With two exceptions : a
gentleman who made a strong
point relevant to working class
students and another who called
attention to the plight of the post-
graduate student.
BILL THORNLEY
Now Colcutt
hits back!
Dear Mr. Shields,
I am sorry I bore you. I had
hoped that my cliquish introspec-
tion would in fact help you to get
to know members of the clique
better. They are after all your
representatives. If you are look-
ing for constructive criticism, go
back four orfiveissues of FELIX
where you will find mv master-
plan for the reform of I.C. Union.
If this is not constructive, T do not
know what is. I would like you
to know that if any views expres-
sed in my column bear anv simi-
laritv to those exnressed by any
member of I.C. Union, living or
dead, real or imaginary, it is of
course accidental.
I am distributing copies of this
letter to my clique. This is the
first of two copies.
Yours sincerely,
COLCUTT
This is a copy of a letter sent
by Colcutt to Mr. Shields.
is that the reason that indifference
is the norm lies, curiously enough,
in the history and tradition of this
country. George Orwell pointed
out over thirty years ago in his
essay " England, Your England "
that it would be impossible for a
Hitler or a Mussolini to rise to
power here because of the indif-
ference of the common man and
also his suspicion of enthusiasm
and disrespect of authority. The
allegation, therefore, that all apa-
thetic people are lazy is complete
and utter rubbish.
It is this sort of vogue a
n
<
i un-
specific criticism of something he
clearly has not tried to understand
which makes his letter vacuous
and superficial. The phrase "amor-
phous apathy " sounds good but
when analysed means someting
like "ill-arranged indifference "
which makes no sense at all.
His last paragraph consists of
a long warning and ends on a
hackneyed sentimental note which
seems to sum up his sermon, bor-
ing, naive and depthless.
S. P. CHAMBERS
Maths 1
Sir,
With reference to C. J. Kent's
epistle last week, I would like to
sympathise with 'this idea con-
cerning " inter-college rivalries."
Let us all pretend that we are
at school again, where no-one can
believe that such a word as apathy
exists, let alone amorphous
apathy.
Let us construct a system where
each of us is able to obtain points
for his or her respective college,
all for the sake of a silver cup
(kindly donated by a Mr. C. J.
Kent) to be presented to the col-
lege with the most points at the
end of each year.
He savs, and I auote, "the
prime objective should be the uni
fication ot the student body." Do
I take it that he wants us to attend
a morning assembly? (We might
even sing a hymn or better still
pray for unity).
Again, I must quote; " for an
active body is a healthy body, and
active minds will become stagnant
if we choose to ignore the facts."
What facts? How can he have the
right to generalise so much by
directly implying that people who
do not take an active part in
Union affairs develop stagnant
minds? What does he define as
a stagnant mind? Does one qua-
lify if one does not go to Maths
sherry parties; (come-see the staff
in person) or participate in
Morphy Day?
The potential dangers of people
with power at the back of their
minds in such a renowned seat
of learning as IC are frightening;
and unless the myth of political
ascendancy (direct from Cassell's
Concise English Dictionary) is
exploded I can only imagine that
this my generation will become as
void, or as sterile as the one
which runs this, our, country at
the present.
C. TUXFORD
Just
fancy
that-
The editor reserves the right to
withhold all or part of any letters
from publication. The views ex-
pressed in these letters are not
necessarily those of the editor.
Sir,
On Wednesday 7th February in
South Side^ Lower Refectory I ate
a chip which was 14.1 cm. long,
3.0 cm. wide and about 0.5 cm.
thick. Is this the largest recorded
Mooney chip?
GEORGE FARIS E.E.I
Abuse of
Science in
Vietnam ?
Dear Sir,
Apropos Mr. Lavin's pro-
American outburst (Late News—
last issue) accusing Dr. Stephen
Rose—a much respected member
of the scientific community of this
country—of attempting to dis-
seminate anti-American propa-
ganda we feel the following points
must be brought to his attention
and of the many Felix readers :
(i) Dr. Rose did not ADMIT
in discussion that there was no
evidence to suggest that the
Americans were busily occupied
in spreading plague organisms in
South Vietnam, he actually
STATED it in his talk. (Could
we ask Mr. Lavin why the Ameri-
cans would like to infest with
plague the land they are " defend-
ing "?)
(ii) would Mr. Lavin look un-
der the entry " fact " in his dic-
tionary? Having done that could
he explain to us how basic facts
can be queried.
(iii) Whether Mr. Lavin likes
it or not it does so happen that
the Americans are the principal
offenders in the abuse of science
in the unfortunate Vietnam war
and as such it was difficult for Dr.
Rose to accuse the Vietcong of in-
dulging in these exercises. How-
ever, if Mr. Lavin believes that
the use of suicide squads is an
abuse of science (and not an af-
front to the dignity of the human
being) he could certainly accuse
the Vietcong of abusing science
in Vietnam.
(iv) Mr. Lavin suggests that Dr.
Rose's time would be better spent
in discussing moral aspects of
science-based warfare. Could he
suggest how this can be done
properly without presenting in-
trinsically related facts as was
done here.
(v) With the welfare of "Felix"
readers in mind could we request
Mr. Lavin to listen to lectures
more carefully before burdening
you with libellous remarks on
distinguished speakers.
Yours faithfully,
P. R. CORBYN
R. MOHAN
(Undergraduates)
Students
are pests
Dear Sir,
A dangerous rumour has been
circulating in Britain for some
time now. It goes this way—"stu-
dents are not actually parasites on
Society."
For a moment, I thought that
the world had run amuck. Then,
much to my solace, your last
issue arrived to restore sanity.
Among other things, it reminded
me that students are not even in-
telligent enough to know the ir-
rationality of electing their own
President!
Every other Wednesday, I pay
four pence to appreciate how cor-
rect Felix is in its appraisement of
students. By what they write,
you shall know them.
God save us from the pests
called students. With Felix on our
side we shall always manage to
keep them at bay.
Thank you very much.
Yours sincerely.
FRANK OKOH

