Each of the seminars listed below will take place in the Great Hall and will run for 30 to 40
minutes, including questions.
12.00 Volunteering in India: a viable way into the International Development sector?
Development In Action
12.30 Fuel Cell Technology
Prof. John Kilner - Imperial College and Ceres Power
13.00 Finding an Ethical Career in Science, Design and Technology
Dr Stuart Parkinson - Scientists for Global Responsibility
13.30 A Career in Policy Making.
Carsten Rohr - Defra
14.00 Engineering Ethics and Sustainability.
Mark Whitby – Whitby Bird
14.40 Working for Aid Agencies, Development Charities and in Disasters.
Andrew Lamb - RedR IHE
15.20 Going Carbon Neutral - Corporate responsibility to the community.
Garry Charnock - RSK
Exhibitors
RSK
RSK is a multidisciplinary consulting and technical services com-
pany providing specialist support services in the areas of environ-
mental planning and compliance, land assessment, remediation, and
health and safety management.
Whitby Bird
Whitby Bird are an engineering consultancy who work with the
issues of sustainability and renewable energy, as well as conducting
environmental assessments.
PowerPerfector
PowerPerfector produce efficient voltage systems and optimize
existing systems for large customers from universities to corporate
offices.
RedR IHE
RedR-IHE (Register of Engineers for Disaster Relief – International
Health Exchange) provide competent and committed aid workers
in engineering and healthcare to humanitarian projects and crisis’s
worldwide.
TFL
TFL is responsible for London’s public transport, as well as the
signalling and congestion charging zones.
Development in Action
The Development in Action NGO strives to develop understand-
ing of development issues, and offers volunteering opportunities in
India.
Teach First
Teach First trains and places high level students in some of the
countries toughest schools.
Energy for SustainableDevelopment
ESD is a consultancy that provides experience and expertise on
design and planning of sustainable energy solutions for a range of
clients ranging from small communities to support for government
energy policy.
Scientists for Global Responsibility
Scientists for Global Responsibility carry out research, education
and lobbying centred around the military, environmental and politi-
cal aspects of science, design and technology.
Bureau Veritas
Bureau Veritas provides project, product and system inspection/
certification for health, safety, quality, environmental and social
responsibility.
Frontier
Frontier run projects to protect endangered tropical wildlife and
their habitats.
Institute of Development Studies
The Institute of Development Studies is a leading global organiza-
tion for the research, teaching and communication of international
development.
Coral Cay Conservation
Not-for-profit organisation at the cutting edge of ecotourism that
sends teams of volunteers to survey some of the world’s most en-
dangered coral reefs and tropical forests
Buro Happold
Buro Happold is an international multi-disciplinary engineering
consultancy with a world-class reputation for delivering challenging
projects.
Energy Futures Lab
The Energy Futures Lab conducts research into the future of energy
production, providing information on the environmental concerns
for companies and government.
Imperial has an excellent
reputation for equipping
students for top careers in
science, engineering and
business, and alumni go
on to work for some of the
world’s biggest companies.
Now the range of career
paths available that com-
bine challenging work and
a competitive salary with
making a positive diﬀerence
to the world has never been
greater, and more graduates
than ever are looking to ﬁnd
ethical work.
At the exhibition, we’ll
be showcasing careers that
protect or promote social
justice, environmental sus-
tainability, corporate re-
sponsibility and other ethical
issues. Our exhibitors come
from a huge range of sectors
and backgrounds. hey oﬀer
everything from graduate
recruitment programmes
and internships, to advice
about work in their sector
and volunteering opportuni-
ties.
he event is open to all
students, so whether you’re
wondering what to do after
your studies or during the
holidays, or you just want to
support the idea of ethical
business, come along and
explore what’s on oﬀer. We
have exhibitors from the
public, private, not-for-
proﬁt and academic sectors,
as well as a packed ‘drop
in’ seminar programme. It
will cover everything from
sustainable engineering
to charity work, careers in
policy-making to bridging
the energy gap. Be inspired
– perhaps over a cup of
coﬀee from our free Fair
Trade Cafe – by browsing
the poster display, featuring
stories of graduates whose
careers have taken an ethical
direction.
he event is organised by
students, in partnership with
the Careers Service and Im-
perial College Union. It will
take place on Wednesday
21st February from 11.30
to 16.00 in Imperial’s Great
Hall, on the South Ken-
sington campus. For more
information, including a list
of exhibitors and a seminar
programme, see the web-
site at www.union.imperial.
ac.uk/ethicalcareersexhibi-
tion.
We hope to see you there!
- The Ethical Careers Exhibi-
tion Team, Imperial College
Why should I come?
Seminar Programme
Fairtrade
Medsin
Student Pugwash
esoc
EWB
Imperial Volunteer Centre
Imperial Careers Advisory Service
Internal Exhibitors
Ethical Careers Exhibition 2007 www.union.ic.ac.uk/ethicalcareersexhibition
ADVERTISEMENT

