The Environmental Societyʼs annual Green Week is back and this year
weʼre tackling our carbon footprints.
Embracing the power of off
Bike Auction
Thursday 12-2pm,
Queen’s Lawn
Cycling is an ideal way to reduce your
carbon foot print; come along for the
chance to bag an green bargain. In the last
auction bikes were snapped up for under £50.
All proceeds will go to cycling-related charities.
To see a catalogue of the available bikes visit ht-
www.sbg.bio.ic.ac.uk/~brj03/icbug/auction/
In association with IC BUG
Research Exhibition
Monday 9.30-5pm, Ante Room (dining room)
Find out what research is going on within Imperial’s own depart-
ments and talk to the people heading them.
Green Fair
Monday 11am-3pm, Sherfield
Foyer
Our opening event: come along to sign our petition
to write a fully comprehensive new environmen-
tal policy for the union and sign an energy-saving
pledge or two. It’s time to switch off lights that aren’t
being used, unplug appliances that aren’t in use and
switch to energy efficient light bulbs. And that’s just
the start....
Global Heath Forum Debate
Tuesday 6.30pm, Biology LT in SAF
“This house believes that with limited resources,
prevention and mitigation of the effects of climate
change is a higher priority for improving global health
than biomedical interventions.”
DFID has called climate change the most serious long
term threat to development and the MDGs. Is climate
change really the greatest threat to human health?
With this threat looming, are doctors wasting their time
with biomedical interventions? Join the debate!
In association with Medsin UK
Corporate Energy Strategy Lecture
Monday 6.30pm, LT1 in SAF
A panel of speakers dicussing how institutions in urban
areas, such as Imperial, might create a climate friendly
energy strategy. The discuss hopes to shed light on the
problems of the College’s Energy Policy and hopefully
raise good ideas of how it may be revised.
Planet Earth Screening
Tuesday 12.30pm, Room 119
in SAF
Another chance to to see the plight
of polar bears and penguins
as their natural habitat
disappears. Be enchanted
by vast ice sheets and
watch a battle to the
death between a polar
bear and a flock of
walruses.
Ethical Careers Exhibition
Wednesday 11am-4pm, Great Hall
A welcome change from the usual bankers
and investment companies; a chance to meet
representatives from a wide range of sectors with
sound ethical and environmental backgrounds.
There is also a range of talks. For more details see
the Felix supplement this week or visit www.union.
ic.ac.uk/ethicalcareersexhibition
In association with Pugwash
Future of Transportation Lecture
Thursday 6.30pm, LT1 in SAF
The Future of Transport. Experts from different technology fields
(biofuels, hybrids, and fuel cells) will discuss their perspectives on
how the transportation sector will change in the coming years.
Cost of Climate Change Lecture
Friday 1pm, LT1 in SAF
The Cost of Climate Change. An enlightening talk on the options of solving the
problem of climate change. Prof Dennis Anderson (Stern Review) will introduce
the issue of the economics of climate change and a range of academic and industry
experts will discuss a variety of solutions to reducing the costs of climate change.
Speakers include experts in carbon markets, carbon capture and storage and more.
Taking responsibility for the environment
When you’re living on a meagre
student budget, environmental
impact is probably not at the
forefront of your mind when
making a purchase. Every product
we buy sends out a message to
retailers and companies alike.
Three years ago you had to
ask why supermarkets weren’t
stocking Ecover products. These
1st prize
Solio proves that green living can be fun! The solio
unit is ideal for recharging any portable device using
the power of sunlight. Place it out in direct sunlight
or, failing that, a sunny windowsill and then use it
to charge iPods, phones plus a host of other devices
while on the go. Designed to last you for years, itʼs a
product of convenience with a eco-benefits to boot.
A solio in closed mode, and open to reveal its solar panels.
days they’re flying off the shelves
with the same regularity as your
regular brands. Energy efficient
light bulbs may not be the
obvious choice when our bulb
blows, but over their lifetime
they’ll save you a small fortune
(plus carbon credits too!)
This year we’re offering everyone
a chance to win one of the
following eco-goodies. All you
have to do is add your name to
our petition or make a pledge
which will reduce your energy
consumption (and bills!) at
home. All the following products
will help you on your way to
minimising your carbon foot
print, making you feel all warm
and fuzzy inside.
The full range of Ecover products- one for every room of the house.
Runners-up prizes
Everyoneʼs a winner when they make a pledge but hereʼs
a few more goodies to help you on your way to green
nirvana. Switching off light bulbs in rooms you arenʼt
using could save you £55 a year, and a hefty 370kg
carbon. And, if every UK household installed three
energy saving light bulbs the energy saved would
supply all street lighting in the UK. Buying A** rated
appliances when your one packs in is important too.
Feeling confused? This Rough
Guide should sort you out.
Events are open to all (students, staff and guests to the College). All talks will be followed by Q&A sessions and a reception with refreshments and nibbles provided.
ADVERTISEMENT

