Imperial College Union Centenary Events
Throughout 2007 the students of Imperial College London will play a leading
role in the College’s Centenary celebrations. Imperial College Union, along
with its Constituent Faculty Unions, Clubs and Societies, plans to run a
diverse range of events for students, staff and alumni to enjoy. Some events
may be familiar to alumni, others brand new, but the one thing that they all
have in common is that alumni are welcome to attend.
Any profits made by our larger events will go towards the Student
Opportunities Fund and the Union redevelopment projects, both part of the
College’s Centenary Campaign. The Union is proud to support these worthy
initiatives.
You can visit our website to find out more information about the Union’s
Centenary events, as well as the Centenary appeals that we are involved
in throughout 2007. In the meantime, here are a few events to whet your
appetite!
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/centenary
Arts
ArtsFest 2007
Imperial College; Monday 12-Friday 16 February 2007
This week-long celebration involved 25 Union Clubs last year and the line up for 2007
promises to be even bigger. Events will include concerts, workshops and busking across
College, as well as a Centenary Exhibition of the Arts at the Union. This will include
displays from Arts and Entertainment Clubs, some of which date back to the beginning of
the formation of Imperial College. Most events will be free of charge.
For a full schedule visit www.imperialcollegeunion.org/arts/artsfest or contact
eugene.chang@imperial.ac.uk.
East Meets West
Shaftesbury Theatre, London; Sunday 18 February 2007
East Meets West is one of the biggest shows regularly performed at Imperial College.
With its 15-year history, it is also one of the longest running student variety shows in the
UK. The show is a fusion of traditional and modern eastern and western cultures, blending
the four in the forms of dance, comedy, singing, and fashion. The event raises money for
a variety of charitable causes and is simply not to be missed!
To reserve your ticket, contact prashant.nair@imperial.ac.uk.
Imperial College School of Medicine Choir Spring Concert
St John’s Church, Hyde Park Crescent London; 20.00 Friday 2 March 2007
Performed by the Medic’s Choir, Hadyn’s The Creation is an ambitious work that lends
itself well to both the Centenary and the Faculty of Medicine’s 10 year anniversary
celebrations. It promises to be a spectacular concert.
For more information and to reserve your ticket, contact Society Chair Greg Froome
at gregory.froome@imperial.ac.uk.
Sinfonietta, Choir and Big Band Centenary Tour
Dubrovnik, Croatia; 28 June – 5 July 2007
In 2007 Sinfonietta, Choir and Big Band will tour together for the first time, travelling to
Dubrovnik in Croatia to celebrate the College’s long tradition of promoting the arts. Whilst
there the societies will be performing as part of the Dubrovnik International Summer
Festival, replicating concerts performed at Imperial throughout the year as well as some
joint concerts between Choir and Sinfonietta.
Contact Maggie Holme at arts@imperial.ac.uk for further information.
Musical Theatre Centenary Show
Union Concert Hall, 7.30pm, Tuesday 6th to Saturday 10th March
MTSoc are beginning rehearsals at the end of this term for their Centenary Show, a
production of the show “Batboy” which played at the West End till last year. The
show will be advertised to all current IC students and MTSoc members as well as past
members of the society and an audience of at least 100 is anticipated for each night.
Goto www.imperialcollegeunion.org/arts/mtsoc for more information.
ICSO Centenary Concert
Cadogan Hall, 7.30pm, Saturday 17th March
Bernstein Overture Candide
Sibelius Violin Concerto (Michal Cwizewicz)
Wagner Forest Murmurs
Strauss Tod und Verklarung
The Jazz Big Band, Windband, Jazz and Rock Society and Sinfonietta orchestra will also
be performing centenary concerts throughout the coming months.
For more information please contact Maggie Holme at arts@ic.ac.uk.
Beit Masterplan Project
Beit Masterplan Project
One of the College’s flagship Centenary projects is the major redevelopment
of the Imperial College Union building in Beit Quad, which you may
remember well from your time here. The Union building is far more than just
a social venue and improvements are necessary to reflect the requirements
of an increasingly diverse student body.
Far reaching redevelopment plans are in place and a gift to the Beit Quad
Building Fund will help make sure we deliver the improved facilities needed
to enrich student life and provide a broader educational experience through
music and cinema, sporting and social activities.
If you would like to donate to the Beit Quad Building Fund you can do so
now visit www.imperialcollegeunion.org/centenary.
PHOTO: Colin Whyman
Tom Stoppard’s “Arcadia” - DramSoc Spring Play
Union Concert Hall, 7.30pm, 12th to 17th March
Interweaving between a stately home in Derbyshire in the 1800s and the same room
180 years later - this play explores the nature of truth and time, the effect of science
and progress and the disruptive influence of sex and love on our lives. Described as
a ‘masterpiece’ when it premiered in 1993, this is a play that has great emotional and
scientific resonance - a fitting event for Imperial’s Centenary year!
Contact Maggie Holme at arts@imperial.ac.uk for further information.
Imperial College Choir Centenary Opera Gala
Great Hall, 8pm, Friday 16th March
Join the Imperial College Choir for a fun-filled evening of popular Opera Choruses in our
Centenary Opera Gala! Whatever tickles your fancy, whether it’s March of the Toreadors,
Polotsvian Dances or Dido’s Lament to name but a few, there really will be something for
everyone!
Contact Maggie Holme at arts@imperial.ac.uk for further information.
unionpage

