Varsity Day (inc J.P.R. Williams Rugby Varsity Match)
Imperial College Sports Grounds; Wednesday 7 March 2007
This exciting day of sporting competition between the School of Medicine and
the rest of Imperial takes place across many of Imperial’s sports grounds, in a
wide variety of sports ranging from badminton to water polo. Its culmination sees
the annual J.P.R. Williams Rugby Varsity Match, an extremely competitive match
between Imperial College Union RFC and Imperial Medicals RFC, which promises an
excellent standard of rugby, plenty of rivalry and a highly charged and vocal crowd!
Day Varsity events
• Tickets: free
• Venues: Ethos, Harlington
For more information please contact Nicholas Gore at n.gore@imperial.ac.uk.
Alumni Gliding Day
Saturday 31 March-Sunday 1 April 2007
This is a flying day for alumni of the College, catering for all ranges of ability and
experience, even if you have never taken to the skies before. Come along and see how
gliding has progressed since your student days.
For further information, contact Shaun Murdoch at shaun.murdoch@imperial.ac.uk.
Hyde Park Relays
London, Saturday 10th February
The Hyde Park Relays draw students from many countries, as well as a large number of
Imperial College London teams, to take part in the biggest student cross country event
in Europe. This is all followed up with the legendary party at the Union. The deadline for
entries is Saturday 3rd February.
For more information, contact Rakesh Nandha at hpr@imperial.ac.uk or go to
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/acc/hpr.
Centenary Sports Festival
Harlington Sports Ground; Wednesday 2 May 2007
This is a pan-London sporting event where Imperial’s Sports Clubs set out to prove to the
rest of London that they are the superior! Our football, rugby, lacrosse and hockey teams
will be competing. This promises to be a great day, so if you have a free afternoon come
and support us.
For more information, contact Lauren Davies at lauren.davies@imperial.ac.uk.
IDEA League Sports Event
South Kensington Campus; Wednesday 13-Friday 15 June 2007
Over two days, the five university teams from Imperial College London, TU Delft, ETH
Zürich, RWTH Aachen and ParisTech will battle for first place in badminton, fencing, tae-
kwon-do and fitness triathlon competitions. On the final day of the event, participants will
see their wits and resourcefulness tested as they take part in the Centenary Challenge
across the capital.
No tickets required for willing spectators! For more information, contact Nicholas
Gore at n.gore@imperial.ac.uk.
Dinners & Balls
Imperial College London Centenary Ball
South Kensington Campus; Saturday 16 June 2007
Promising to be the largest and most spectacular Union Centenary event in 2007, this
will be a great chance to revisit Imperial, meet up with friends and relive those special
College moments. A champagne reception will be followed by a three-course meal
with after-dinner speeches by famous faces. Magicians, comedians and high profile
DJ’s will perform throughout the event, fairground rides, street entertainers and chillout
venues and an exclusive alumni and VIP lounge.
For more information and to reserve your place at this year’s event, contact Jon
Matthews at dpfs@imperial.ac.uk or visit at
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/ball.
Faculty of Medicine 10-Year Summer Ball
View Rooms , Leicester Square, London; Tuesday 19 June 2007
The most anticipated and prestigious social event in the School of Medicine’s calendar,
held on the date of final year results, this annual event provides a chance for all final years
to get together with their fellow colleagues and academic staff one final time before
embarking upon their new careers. In 2007 we will also celebrate the 10-year anniversary
of the formation of the Faculty of Medicine at Imperial. The evening will commence with a
champagne reception, followed by a wonderful three-course dinner and live entertainment
from professional bands, DJs and some of the medical school’s most talented musicians.
For more information and to reserve your place at the dinner, contact Olivia Kenyon
at olivia.kenyon@imperial.ac.uk.
Fiftieth Anniversary of the Underwater Club
South Kensington; Saturday 17 March 2007
The 2006-07 academic year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the Underwater Club and a
celebratory dinner on 17 March will mark this occasion. If you were a member of the club
at any time it would be great to hear from you, even if you cannot make the dinner. In
particular any photos of club activities would be gratefully received.
For more information, contact Nick Jones at scuba@imperial.ac.uk.
JPR Williams Rugby Varsity match
• Tickets: £6 in advance, £8 on the gate
• Venue: Richmond Athletic Ground, Surrey
Athletics Varsity Competition
St. Mary’s College Track, Saturday 17 March 2007
This event will be the very first of many athletics competitions between the School of
Medicine and the rest of Imperial’s Athletics Clubs. Competition events include:
• 100m, 200m, 400m, 800m, 1500m, 5k, 4x100m and 4x400m
• Shot, discus, javelin, long jump, high jump and triple jump
For more information, contact Jig Patel at jigneshbhai.patel@imperial.ac.uk.
PHOTO: Robin Pitt
PHOTO: Colin Whyman
Sport
Royal School of Mines Bottle Match
Harlington Sports Ground, London; Saturday 24 February 2007
This year’s annual varsity match between the Royal School of Mines and Camborne
School of Mines will take place on home turf. Fiercely fought football, squash, hockey and
golf matches will be played throughout the day, and the whole event climaxes with the
all important rugby match. Will the RSM bring the famous Bottle back to London for an
impressive eleventh year in a row?
Please come and give us your support! For more information please visit the RSM
website at www.rsmonline.co.uk.
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org/centenary

