Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 8 June
Student Support Strategy Consultation
Name our House Cider
One of the many upsides to changing our bar supplier on 1 August? We get
to name our house cider. From about 100 suggestions, we have created a
shortlist of four.
Mr. BrightCider: Regulars to Metric or Reynolds on Wednesday and Friday
nights will recognise it as a fave tune, so why not name our house cider after
it?!
Psi.dr: Psi is the Greek letter , used in physics to represent wave functions
in quantum mechanics. dr is the differential with respect to r, usually distance
in the radial direction in polar coordinates. Duh.
Malus Principia: Malus is the scientific genus under which apple trees are
classified. Principia translates to principles and is also the name of Sir Isaac
Newton’s theory on gravity. Potential translations: ‘principles of evil’, ‘a bad
beginning’ or ‘fundamental truth of apples’...
The Chipper Piglet: Because, why not?
What‘s your fave?Tell us at imperialcollegeunion.org/cider-poll.
An Imperial wide consultation has begun on a student support strategy
that the Union has been working on with College.The aim is establish a
clear plan for supporting students year round, particularly in the year of
wellbeing, as there has been a gap in this area.
Now that there’s a framework, we would like widespread feedback to
help College shape a final strategy that works for everyone. Tell us your
experience of wellbeing and support at Imperial.
We’re running a survey, as well as stalls between 18 and 26 June at
differentpointsoncampus.OrcontactFintanO’Connor,DeputyPresident
(Welfare), who along with Union president Chippy Compton, has been
working on this with College.
If you’d like to read more: imperialcollegeunion.org/support-strategy
Ψ
Summer Ball is near
Travel back to the 1920s and immerse yourself in the underground
world of lawless bootleggers and glamorous flappers, as extravagant
entertainment from Blonde, James Hype, Gemma Cairney, Goldierocks
and more student acts than you can shake a feather boa at, will keep your
feet shimmying and your hips swinging until the early hours.
With only 5% of tickets remaining - the FOMO is real as it can get at this
point. Grab your ticket or risk missing out on:
• Chart-topping DJs • Fairground rides • Interactive photobooths
• Fireworks • Pimm’s and ProseccoTent • Silent disco • Fire dancers
• Vintage car rides • Morrocan street food • VK Bar • Woodfire pizza
So dust off your vintage hats, ‘cause ain’t no such thing as being
overdressed in the Roaring 20s!
Get a ticket at imperialcollegeunion.org/summerball
Union Brand Survey
The Union would like feedback on your perception and experience of
the brand. We’ll be doing consultations on the logo, and other aspects
of our visual identity, as well as seek to better understand members’
experiences of the Union.
The research will form part of a larger effort to refine our brand so
members can feel clear on what we offer, and improve their connection
to the Union and each other.
To start, we’ll be running a survey. Look out for it in the latest newsletter.

