Elect Stephen Brown
Stephen Brown as
President for a better
better
Union.
Voting online from 00:01 on Fri 23rd until 23:59 Tue 27th February 2007
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
For a full manifesto see
http://stephenbrown4president.blogspot.com/
seek out my facebook group or email me at
stephen.brown@imperial.ac.uk
Elect me as President and I will:-
-Sell NUS Extra discount cards for £7 instead of £10. I don’t believe
that ICU should profit from ordinary students.
-Work to keep bar prices as low as possible.
-Safeguard our independence from College. I won’t let College use the
Charities Bill as an excuse to take us over.
-Continue with the “greening” of the Union building. We’ve started it so
we should finish it.
-Only send college-wide emails when I have something important to
say, not regular spam that clogs up your inbox.
Having worked as a Felix sub-editor and held the position of RAG
Chair I am the only candidate who has the experience AND the
personality to take our Union forward but first I need your vote.
VOTE
JON MATTHEWS
FOR
PRESIDENT
AND AN ACCOUNTABLE UNION THAT LISTENS
TO YOU AND WORKS FOR YOU
The Union is YOU, all of you, it’s your Union and you make it what
it is. The only reason the Union is there is for you, its members.
The Union needs to be accessible and represent all of its members
but it can only do this if it listens to you. I have listened this year
and will continue to do, let’s make this a Union to be proud of, a
Union that works for its members, a Union that listens, learns and
changes how you want it to.
We need a President that fully understands the issues at hand, for
example, how many other candidates have a year’s experience
working with things such as the Charities Bill, and have read the bill
to understand its implications?
I have served the Union for eight years in both welfare and finance
roles. I have genuine experience where it counts and know how
and when to compromise to get results.
Vote for genuine experience, real leadership and
proven ability:
Vote JON MATTHEWS for President.
Elect me and I promise to:
x Ensure the NUS deliver on their promise of reform and
serve you to the level you deserve.
x Ensure that we co-operate with College to improve your
service and representation but not sacrifice on our
independence.
x Ensure that the redevelopment meets with your
expectations and requirements on all levels.
x Keep the gym truly free, not charged for by the back door.
x Continue the work to keep bar prices down and cut them
whenever possible.
x Provide real leadership to the Sabbatical team, one man
can make a difference but the Union is about teamwork.
We need a President that works with his team to achieve
results, not one that dictates the agenda.
x Listen to what you want, involvement comes from the
grass-roots, we can’t forget this. It is your Union.
Vote online at imperialcollegeunion.org/vote from 00:00 Friday 23rd
to 23:59 Tuesday 27th
February.

