Chill on the Hill
23rd February - Notting Hill Arts Club
Dress: Funky as you like- Atmosphere and music: Carribean themed early in the
evening (with surprise guests), with DJs and live bands later in the funk, soul, boogie
groove - Guaranteed entry (without queing) till 10pm with ticket - Limited Advance
tickets only till Wednesday 21st till 5pm Tickets sold physically by : Tanaka reps (call
Shivana on 07812502326 or in selected locations) GSA Chair (Shama 07949763383)
And The SCR every lunch time from 12-2pm at the entrance. Tickets also sold online
at imperialcollegeunion.org
£5 entry - tickets available from imperialcollegeunion.org
£2 per drink all night! (with ticket)
Varsity 2007
Imperial College Imperial Medicals
VS
Football, hockey, rugby and lacrosse at Harlington Sports Ground
first match kicks off at 12.00
JPR Williams Rugby Varsity Match
Richmond Athletic Association Ground
Kick off 19.30
Tickets from £6.50 or from £8.00 with return travel from
South Kensington/Charing Cross included
Tickets available to buy online at
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/varsity
or from Ethos reception
Wednesday
7 March
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
There are three major topics that are being discussed in the Union at
the moment and we would love to hear your views on these issues.
Should the Union change the long-term Beit building
redevelopment plan?
Three years ago the Union prepared a strategic document called
the “Beit Building Masterpan” that set out in considerable detail how
each room of the Beit Building should be redeveloped over a ﬁve year
period. Up until now we have followed this plan almost to the letter.
However, a debate has recently reopened over one element of a future
phase we hope to implement in 2008. Our existing plans to convert
the current Union oﬃces on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of the Beit Building in to
a café is being widely discussed and an alternative plan to turn this
area of the building into ﬂexible clubs and society space is being
developed. We are keen to ﬁnd out whether students think the east
side of the ﬁrst ﬂoor of the Union building should be used either as a
commercial venue or as a dedicated facility for clubs and societies.
A petition in favour of the club space option is currently being
prepared for consideration by the Union Council and if you wish to
ﬁnd out more about these proposals or even sign the petition then
please contact the RCC Chair, Mark Flower by emailing
rcc.chair@imperial.ac.uk.
Should the Union reform the DPGS sabbatical position?
The Deputy President for Graduate Students (DPGS) position has rarely
been out of the spotlight in its short life. The holder of this position is
tasked with two very diﬀerent roles; the ﬁrst is to act as an ICU Deputy
President and the second is to run the Graduate Studentsʼ Association
(GSA). The consensus seems to be that the second role is working well
but the ﬁrst is not and this is why three proposals to change this role
have been developed and discussed in recent weeks. These models
are:
• Retain the sabbatical role but remove the Deputy President element
from it to create a new post called GSA President.
• Abolish the full time sabbatical role and replace it with unpaid
volunteer oﬃcers who would be led by a part-time GSA President and
supported by a part time professional staﬀ member.
• Abolish the full time sabbatical role and replace it with unpaid
volunteer oﬃcers who would be led by a volunteer GSA President and
supported by a full time professional staﬀ member.
If you want to know more about these proposals and want to tell us
which one you prefer then please contact our present DPGS, Shama
Rahman, by emailing to
dpgs@imperial.ac.uk.
Should the Union introduce a
viable environmental policy?
Last but certainly not least, and
aptly following a highly successful
Green Week, the Union is seriously
considering introducing a powerful
new Environmental Policy that will
call for:
• A reduction in Union waste through
reducing use of disposable skiﬀs,
crockery and cutlery.
• Better provision of recycling
facilities in the Union building.
• A greener Beit Building Masterplan that includes secondary glazing,
insulation and low energy lighting in the Beit building.
• The creation of a new transport policy that encourages clubs and
societies to use greener forms of travel.
• A campaign to encourage the College to buy electricity from
renewable sources.
Again, a petition is being prepared in support of this policy and if you
are interested in signing it then please email Hannah Theodorou at
hannah.theodorou@imperial.ac.uk.
Time for change? You tell us.
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Get your voice heard!
And win amazon.co.uk vouchers
for doing it…
As a student it can be massively frustrating;
however hard you shout kick or scream
you just canʼt get anybody to listen. Simply
getting your lecturer to write slightly slower
can take months of delicate negotiations,
while changing your personal details
resembles a crusade against bureaucracy
rather than a simple administrative task.
However, right now there is a once in a
lifetime opportunity to get your views
across in not one, but two surveys.
The ﬁrst is the National Student Survey (NSS) which can be found
at www.thestudentsurvey.com. This is a nationwide survey which
is open to all ﬁnal year undergraduates across the UK, and covers
all aspects of the university experience. This is a public survey and
as such is the best opportunity you have of letting people outside
college – be it the press or prospective students – know exactly what
you think. In previous years the College has performed well in most
areas, but is that still true? Of course in some areas, like feedback
from assessments, the College has been slated by students, and
thatʼs helped spur them into taking action on the way coursework
marks are delivered – proof that what you say makes a diﬀerence.
In a big change this year College, at the request of the Union, hasnʼt
given out your phone numbers. This means you wonʼt be pestered
constantly while trying to revise, but it also means itʼs up to you to
take part. We need 50% of all ﬁnal year students to respond, and if
you donʼtʼ then College will have to look again at whether or not it
provides numbers. So for the sake of those in lower years please,
please ﬁll it in.
Looking closer to home the College and the Union are working
together to look at how we deliver online services and how they can
be improved. As part of this weʼve been consulting departments
and groups of students across College, but we want everyone to
have their say. And this is where you get to win amazon.co.uk
vouchers.
Weʼve launched an online survey which you can ﬁnd at
union.ic.ac.uk/survey, to ﬁnd out what you think of the services
oﬀered,andwhatadditionalservicesyouthinkshouldbeintroduced.
Everyone who takes part can enter the prize daw to win either a ﬁrst
prize of a £50 voucher, or two runners up prizes of £25.
This survey forms part of a wider ICT project, so you may well see
your suggestions implemented in the not too distant future.
So, what are you waiting for? Please take part, and if you have any
questions get in touch with me.
Ben Harris
Deputy President
(Education & Welfare)
dpew@imperial.ac.uk
As of the 14th February 2007, Imperial
College Union became oﬃcially aﬃliated
with the National Union of Students (NUS).
One of the many beneﬁts of being a
member of NUS is the new NUS Extra Card,
which you can now buy online.
The NUS Extra card has been put together
to oﬀer a range of exclusive discounts,
oﬀers and competitions designed to
make student life more exciting, more
memorable and more rewarding.
You can use it to make your money go
further on books, clothes, sports stuﬀ,
CDs, travel, computer gear, gigs, eating
out…
And not just in the UK either; the Extra
card doubles as an International Student
Identity Card, so you can use it to get
special oﬀers and discounts when youʼre
travelling abroad as well.
goto imperialcollegeunion.org
for more information

