Cool/Lame; your weekly opinion
Who needs London Fashion Week for inspiration? Read this special edition full page fashion barometer
25
felix
Friday 23 February 2007
FASHION fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This photography exhibition focuses on
the work of Mert Alas & Marcus Piggott,
Corinne Day, Steven Klein, Paolo Roversi
and Mario Sorrenti. The exhibition illus-
trates the symbiotic relationship between
fashion and not just models, but actors
and musicians. The photographs also cap-
ture the interesting, and often unhealthy
relationships between photographer and
celebrity subject.
The lead singer of Cansei De Ser Sexy, a
former illustrator and fashion design as-
sistant. She carves out her own unique
style, a totally modern icon. Off The
Hook.
This collection doesn't feature a watered
down version of Kane's aesthetics. A good
thing you might think, but apart from the
stupid £125 price tag for his dresses, the
designs just don't work in real life. They
look like they were designed by 4-year-old
with synesthesia.
The french Converse. You can find some
models at Urban Outfitters for about
twice the price you'll pay in France. So add
these shoes to the list of things to buy the
next time you go over the channel. Stop
the Converse hegemony now!
Hate his 70's sound, love his style. So does
Paul Smith, whoring him out for his lat-
est print campaign. This is capitalism
working.
Formally Tsubi, this Australian brand has
the hottest fluoro jeans. I maintain that
Australians have the third most annoying
accent after Midwestern Americans and
New Zealanders, but luckily this is totally
irrelevant with respect to jeans.
Anna Sui's catwalk show was original and
somewhat different to other labels. Anna
Sui, by avoiding the lemming like behav-
iour of many designers trying to get in the
fashion round-up pages, delivered an in-
teresting collection.
I hate their youthful enthusiasm for the
fictional "nu-rave", what happened to
teenage misanthropy? The world is a ter-
rible, terrible place and wearing head to
toe neon doesn't inject sunshine and hap-
piness into your existence. All you are do-
ing is, a) looking a fool b) damaging my
retinas.
Mostly irrelevant, derivative designs. Not
much to inspire a girl on the street. And
can Topshop please climb out of its own
ass? What is the need for a catwalk for
their awful Unique range? I hope Primark
steps up again and takes a large chunk out
of Topshop's sales.
Oh, wow. Wow. Wow. Wow. Oh, wow.
Aaaaah! Is it wrong that I fancy Nicholas
Hoult? Who knew from watching About A
Boy he would grow up to be good-looking.

