26 felix Friday 23 February 2007
entenary
100 years of Imperial, well almost
In a new section of Felix, Shiv Chopra will be keeping you updated on Imperial’s Centenary celebrations
January 30th almost seems like a
distant memory for us all. I say al-
most as I can still picture all that
Centenary cake on that day… It still
haunts my dreams! However, the
day itself was brilliant and I have
only received positive feedback
so far. To clarify a few things for
some of the students though, that
event was not our Centenary but to
launch the fact that we were going
to be 100 in the summer. So in a way
it was a 99 and half birthday party
– you know the half birthday parties
that odd couples and rich kids at
school used to hold all the time. A
selfish excuse for a party you may
say but that is not true.
So why the glitz, culinary glam-
our, balloons as well as Paddy Jack-
man and his team dressed up in
Edwardian attire? Well, it seems
that’s the only way we can entice
the students to break away from
lectures and labs and get involved.
Imperial College has been ridiculed
by other universities in the past for
not being able to hold its own in the
entertainment side of student life,
but the launch event proved a point
to our critics.
Our students were out in force
that day, promoting their Centenary
events to every member of the Col-
lege and some displayed their tal-
ents. For me, that was the true rea-
son for the launch. Our clubs and
societies have worked so hard over
the past couple of months to create
a plethora of events throughout the
year, which I hope the launch has
inspired you to attend.
To keep you all on your toes – apol-
ogies to people who do not have toes
– I am going to remind you of all the
wonderful events planned this year
for you in many ways. Firstly, you
will be able to read about them in
my regular article in Felix, which
will also include a rant from me
about the chaos that is my life and
a brief mention of my blonde lady
friend (A.A. Gill fans will know what
I’m talking about).
Secondly, the last issue contained
a double-page pull-out, special edi-
tion, limited batch, once in a life-
time centenary events calendar.
Thus, you have no excuse to miss
all the events scheduled for the rest
of the year. So, place the calendar
somewhere special, clear for you
to read and check daily. I suggest
on a wall, stuck to your Blackberry
or glued to your cat. If you cannot
find last week’s edition then head
over to the Medics’ bar (Reynolds)
in Hammersmith as we always re-
ceive our Felix late and will have
tons left over. Finally, I will also up-
date you on our running man, Ben
Ryall, who is taking part in the Lon-
don Marathon for the student hard-
ship fund.
Now, I must carry out task one
of three by mentioning this week’s
guest event: “The Creation”. This
takes place in a few weeks time.
But before I do, just a quick men-
tion of the many events that have
been and gone on so far such as the
Hyde Park Relays, ArtsFest and
East Meets West. I hope that you
attended at least one of the above
Centenary events and have been
wowed by the many different acts
displayed by our students. One final
reminder: this week is Green Week
so make sure that you take part to-
day as it’s the final day!
This year, the publicity writes it-
self as ICSM Choir perform “The
Creation” by Haydn – a stunningly
powerful, massive masterpiece – in
celebration both of IC’s centenary
and ICSM’s 10 year anniversary. A
majestic whistle-stop tour of the 7
days of creation, all in one evening,
(Friday 2nd March 2007, 8pm)!
Chamber Choir will also be per-
forming some of their trademark a
capella and close harmony works.
The venue is St John’s church
on Hyde Park Crescent, about five
minutes walk from St Mary’s & two
from Sussex Gardens, so there real-
ly is no excuse for not coming! Look
up W2 2QD on streetmap.co.uk.
Tickets are £3 for students (or £2
if you’re a member of Music Soc),
so see you there!
Finally, on my to do list this week
is an update from our runner. When
reading the update, read it out loud
in a deep American accent with a
sultry tone (similar to people who
read out movie synopses in the cin-
ema). It will make the article have a
punchier feel and it will read like a
plot to a Hollywood blockbuster.
When PhD student Ben Ryall
took part in a competition to win the
chance to become the College’s 2007
London Marathon runner, he did so
to win! With an impressive perform-
ance in a fitness challenge event at
Ethos and a compelling statement
about why he wanted to run on be-
half of the College, Ben was an ideal
candidate for the place.
(I told you the voice would work!)
Ben has a long association with
Imperial College; arriving in 2000 to
begin his BSc in Biology and gradu-
ating three years later with first
class honours. Since then he has
been working towards his BBSRC
funded PhD in Dr Huw Williams’
group where he has been research-
ing pseudomonas aeruginosa, a
type of bacteria that affects individ-
uals with cystic fibrosis. In March
2007, when he has finished writing
up, he will take up a post-doctoral
position within the same group.
When he’s not working with pseu-
domonas aeruginosa, a lot of Ben’s
spare time is spent pursuing sport-
ing interests. His main passion is
triathlon, in which he represented
Great Britain in the European
Championships in 2006 and quali-
fied for the World Championships.
It is perhaps surprising then that
London 2007 will be his first mara-
thon. Despite this, Ben is not taking
the challenge lightly, setting him-
self the impressive goal of complet-
ing the course in 2 hours 50 minutes
or under.
Ben is using the Marathon place
to raise money for the Student Op-
portunities Fund, which provides
entry scholarships for undergradu-
ate and postgraduate students
coming to Imperial. Sixty scholar-
ships have been awarded through
the Fund since 2003, enabling gifted
students to study at Imperial who
may otherwise have been unable
to do so. The majority of funds to
date have been raised from alumni
through activities such as the tel-
ethon and direct mail appeals.
On the cause that he is raising
money for, Ben says: “I came to
Imperial as a mature student and
was fortunate that my girlfriend’s
Celebrations
parents were able to provide me
with accommodation. Without this
help, I would almost certainly have
not been able to afford my studies
here. I am therefore only too aware
of the outstanding chances the Stu-
dent Opportunities Fund can offer
to talented students who wouldn’t
otherwise be able to attend this
world-class university.”
He continues: “I feel privileged to
berunningmyfirstMarathonforIm-
perial and hope that people around
the College will consider support-
ing me through sponsorship.”
Ben’s progress, including a week-
ly training diary, is being tracked
closely on the College website,
where you can also pledge your
sponsorship online: www.impe-
rial.ac.uk/alumni/marathon2007
Paddy Jackman, left, and company dressed in Edwardian attire to celebrate 100 years of Imperial
Some of the stars of the magnificant East Meets West strut their stuff IC Marathon runner Ben Ryall
C

