29
felix
Friday 23 February 2007
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
shgOpen 2007: Winners and losers
As the dust settles in Denmark, Sebastian Nordgren reports on this year’s opening cyber tournament
Kickstarting this season in e-sports
was the shgOpen tournament at the
Bella Center in Copenhagen, Den-
mark. A prize pool of 60,000 euros
drew teams from all of Europe to
compete in the large field of tourna-
ments. Competition stalwart Coun-
ter-Strike 1.6 was ever-present,
as well as Counter-Strike: Source,
Enemy Territory, Call of Duty 2,
and the small Battlefield 2 infantry
tournament. With such a large field
of competitors, the weekend was
guaranteed to be exciting for fans
of team-based shooters.
A massive 128 teams competed
for the over 35,000 euros in the CS
tournament; this was where most of
the action would be, and it definitely
turned out to be an interesting ride.
With Polish World Cyber Games
winners Pentagram and Electronic
Sports World Cup winners Made in
Brazil (mibr) in the tournament,
it could easily have been nought
but a fight between the two. But
since Swedish heavyhitters fnatic,
SK Gaming, and Begrip were all
present, a Swedish winner was def-
initely a possibility. German clans
aTTaX, mousesports, and a-Losers
were also in the running, with aT-
TaX freshly coming off a victory in
the World Series of Video Games fi-
nals. Completing the predicted top
10 were relative underdogs Danish
NoA, Norwegian Meet Your Mak-
ers, and Finnish 69N-28E.
The group stages went without
hitches, but on Saturday, the sec-
ond day of the tournament, upsets
became fast and frequent. mous-
esports quickly took a massive loss
to mibr and seeds 3 and 10 SK Gam-
ing and mibr were both dropped
down by NoA. In the lower bracket,
SK took another devastating loss
to Team Logitech to finish a disap-
pointing joint 9th.
Early fallers Meet Your Makers
made their way through 5 rounds
in the lower bracket, only to be
stopped by mibr to finish 5th, while
Begrip made their way into the
lower bracket final through a string
of tiny victories, only to be utterly
destroyed by an in-form mibr side,
who proceeded to take their re-
venge on NoA and make it into the
grand final.
The final, then, was between the
winners of the two largest events of
last summer, mibr and Pentagram,
with mibr needing to take two maps
to win. On mibr’s best map, Infer-
no, it looked as if the final would be
anything but interesting, with mibr
taking a convincing 16-7 win. How-
ever, going into Nuke, the situation
looked a bit more uncertain. Pen-
tagram took an 8-7 victory in the
first half and only needed to take 8
more rounds to win it. Starting off
well, they went 3 up straight away,
only to get completely shut down
for 6 rounds by a dominating mibr
side. With only 3 out of 6 rounds
needed for mibr, things started get-
ting close, but Pentagram strug-
gled to the last – conceding victory
only in the very last round of the
match. mibr walk off 16,000 Euro
richer, with Pentagram raking in a
respectable 10,000.
The other tournaments went
largely according to plan. In Coun-
ter-Strike’s prettier (yet not quite
as popular) twin, Source, winners of
the recent EuroCup, Swedish Volt
Gaming were leading opinion polls,
with Finnish rivals Team Logitech
and Insignia Cadre in contention.
The group stage went peacefully,
and coming into the playoffs were
all the usual suspects. Volt Gam-
ing proceeded to rout all opposi-
tion, leaving both Team Logitech
and aTTaX in their wake. Insignia
Cadre was dropped to the lower
bracket early, but fought their way
up to face fellow Finns Team Log-
itech, in a close game that left In-
signia Cadre at 5th place.
Team Logitech faced aTTaX in
the lower bracket final in a contro-
versial game that saw aTTaX make
use of a bug exploit in the penulti-
mate round of the match, leading
to the German side forfeiting the
game and being disqualified from
the tournament. Team Logitech
went on to face Volt Gaming for the
second time in an anti-climactic
final. Volt Gaming displayed their
prowess at Source by demolishing
the Finns to the tune of 16-5, taking
home a well-earned 2600 Euro.
In Call of Duty 2, favorites digital-
Mind took a group stage victory
over their main rivals, British side
Dignitas, and slipped into a routine
of total domination. Dignitas took
a disappointing 5th place, getting
beaten after overtime by under-
dogs suXus, who ended up placing
3rd overall after defeating Finnish
Team Logitech. Dutch team digital-
Mind took a convincing victory over
Tek-9 in the Grand Final, having
gone through the entire tourna-
ment without losing a match.
The Enemy Territory tournament
was a one-horse race throughout,
Hundreds of players and computers turned out, but it was clear before the tournament started which teams would go the farthest. You don’t get anywhere with green scarves
You heard the man
with former idle.ee representing
Dignitas being the clear favour-
ites by a ridiculous margin. Having
lost under 10 maps in their last 100
games, the only team that had any
chance at taking home first place
was zeroPoint, sporting a lineup of
players from the old Dignitas team.
Both teams went through the tour-
nament uncontested, meeting up
in the upper final for the first time.
Dignitas took a clear victory over
zeroPoint, who respectively took
a clear victory over third-place fa-
vourites Black Magic, coming back
for a rematch in the grand final.
Again, the Dignitas side did not dis-
appoint, and under Night’s leader-
ship took another clear victory.
Finally, the Battlefield 2 tour-
nament showed a disappointing
number of contestants, with Digni-
tas’ Battlefield team being tipped to
win. After some initial hiccups, the
team got their act together, getting
to the grand final through the upper
bracket. In the lower bracket, Swed-
ish team Mortifer upset Copenha-
gen Esports, earning the right to
face Dignitas in the final. When the
dust had settled, Dignitas had un-
surprisingly walked off with victory.
shgOpen was an excellent event
that had good coverage and was
on schedule throughout – a feat
that any modern gaming event is
hard-pressed to accomplish. The
tournament was a great start to the
gaming season, with qualifiers for
all the summer events starting in
the coming weeks. Here’s to next
month.

