Change today, choose Fairtrade!
This year is the first year that the
Imperial College Fairtrade Society
has been officially recognised by
Imperial College Union after receiv-
ing the Student Campaign Group of
the Year Award last year from the
University of London Union.
As a result the drive for Fair-
trade has really stepped up on
campus with College Catering
leading the way to a remarkable
change-around.
Back in 2004, when the Fairtrade
University policy was passed at
Union Council, we were still in a
position which lacked the College’s
backing and needed lobbying of col-
lege catering to support the Stu-
dent Union in their commitment to
Fairtrade.
Now the opposite is true, with
College publicly stating its com-
mitment to becoming a Fairtrade
Institution and actively sourcing
more and more Fairtrade Alterna-
tives whilst the Union falls by the
wayside.
This policy is currently under re-
view and will be presented to Union
Council on 1st March, to coincide
with Fairtrade Fortnight. Anybody
with an interest in Fairtrade is wel-
come to come along to support the
paper.
Fairtrade Fortnight is an annual
event endorsed by the Fairtrade
Foundation. The events, held in
thousands of universities, towns,
schools and places of worship in
the UK and Ireland, aim to raise
the awareness of Fairtrade Prod-
ucts and the benefits they bring to
their producers throughout the en-
tire world.
It is an opportunity for people
who are unaware of the movement,
or sceptical of its achievements, to
find out more about how Fairtrade
works and operates.
This year’s theme is ‘Change to-
day, Choose Fairtrade’ and with the
wide variety of products on offer,
it really never has been easier to
choose Fairtrade.
As a forerunner in scientific re-
search I believe that Imperial Col-
lege has a responsibility to promote
matters of social and environmen-
tal responsibility to its students.
Presenting our students with a
clear message on ethical and envi-
ronmental standards will influence
Imperial Graduates to expect these
standards in the work place and on
the wider global market.
Becoming a Fairtrade University
will increase the reputation of Im-
perial College and make the institu-
tion more appealing to prospective
students and staff alike.
The objectives that we must meet
to be awarded this status will also
result in increased choice across
campus with a wider range of prod-
ucts on offer alongside those which
are Fairtrade Certified.
Too often people’s knowledge of
Fairtrade extends no further than
the mundane cup of coffee and the
stereotypical banana.
This Fairtrade Fortnight I have
tried to put an emphasis on the
wide range of products available
which step beyond your standard
consumables.
There will be an opportunity to
hear first hand how Fairtrade has
helped two coffee growers from
Nigeria; a chance to kick around
a Fairtrade Football and even
fair trade knickers on sale at our
bazaar!
I hope that this serves as an in-
sight into the scope of this rapidly
expanding business initiative and
brings Fairtrade right into the
spotlight.
There really is something for eve-
ryone. Enjoy!
Date: Monday 26th February
Event: Coffee that helps you sleep at night!
Time: 12:00pm – 2:00pm
Location: Sherfield Walkway
Find us on the Sherfield Walkway serving free samples of Fairtrade tea and coffee
throughout lunchtime. There will also be copies of the book 50 reasons to choose Fair-
trade on sale alongside tickets for the Wine Evening and a chance to win a Fairtrade
hamper!
Date: Tuesday 27th February
Event: Fairtrade Coffee Morning
Time: 10:00 am - 12:00pm
Location: Ante Room
A chance to taste Fairtrade tea, coffee and various cakes and snacks kindly donated by
PEROS whilst chatting to Fairtrade coffee growers and tasters Robert Ejiku and Fatima
Lopez. Film footage will be shown courtesy of Alex Georgiou from Cafedirect.
Date: Tuesday 27th February
Event: “How Fair is Fair?”
Time: 12:00 - 13:30
Location: Ante Room
Guest speakers will be answering all of your questions, with Fatima Lopez, Head Cof-
fee Taster at Prodecoop, Nicaragua; Robert Ekiku, Group Manager – Igara Growers Tea
Factory, Bushenyi, Uganda; Martin Hill, Head of Commercial Relations at The Fairtrade
Foundation; Jane Neary, Head of Catering, Imperial College; Kirsty Patterson, Fairtrade
Society Chair, Imperial College Union; Adrian O’Hare, Peros Ltd and Louise Whittaker,
Trade Marketing Manager.
Date: Wednesday 28th February
Event: Fairtrade Beat the Goalie Competition
Time: 12:00pm-2:00pm
Location: Beit Quad
With ‘celebrity’ goal keepers including Jon Matthews and Stephen Brown, students will
be invited to pay 50p to shoot three penalties. The football and goalie gloves are made
from Fairtrade materials. Prizes will be up for grabs including Fairtrade chocolate foot-
balls, Fairtrade mugs and tickets for the Fairtrade Cheese and Wine Evening.
Date: Thursday 1st March
Event: Fair Trade Bazaar
Time: 12:00pm-4:00pm
Location: UDH
Various stalls selling Fairtrade products from knickers to gemstones, from books to
recycled games, from jewellery to coffee and from tshirts to home furnishings. Free
coffee and nibbles will be available from the Fairtrade Society stall, kindly donated by
ecocoffee.
Date: Saturday 3rd March
Event: Beit Hall Bakeoff
Time: 11:00am – 3:00pm
Location: Beit Hall
Teams of Beit Hall Residents are invited to use Fairtrade ingredients to make a baked item.
Fairtrade Ingredients will be provided (chocolate, coffee, bananas, sugar, honey etc) and
the winning entry will receive four free tickets to the Fairtrade Wine evening in addition to
having their winning creation recreated for a week in the MDH. All entries will be submit-
ted to the Fairtrade Foundations first cookbook, to be published next year as part of ‘Cook
for Change’. Contact rosie.smithells@ic.ac.uk for more information.
Date:Tuesday 6th March
Event: Coffee that helps you sleep at night!
Time: 12:00pm – 2:00pm
Location: SAF Foyer
Find us in the Sir Alexander Fleming Building serving free samples of Fairtrade tea and
coffee throughout lunchtime. There will also be copies of the book 50 reasons to choose
Fairtrade on sale alongside tickets for the Wine Evening and a chance to win a Fairtrade
hamper!
Date: Tuesday 6th March
Event: Fairtrade Debate
Time: Evening
Biology Lecture Theatre, SAF
Description: Debate hosted by MedSin with speakers from Traidcraft.
Date: Wednesday 7th March
Event: Fairtrade Beat the Goalie Competition
Time: 12:00pm-2:00pm
Location: Beit Quad
With ‘celebrity’ goal keepers including Jon Matthews and Stephen Brown, students will
be invited to pay 50p to shoot three penalties. The football and goalie gloves are made
from Fairtrade materials. Prizes will be up for grabs including Fairtrade chocolate footballs,
Fairtrade mugs and tickets for the Fairtrade Cheese and Wine Evening.
Date: Friday 9th March
Event: Fairtrade Cheese and Wine Evening
Time: 8:00pm - 11:00pm
Location: Physics Level 8 Common Room
Tickets: £4 non members/£2 members
Final Party! 100 free bottles of Fairtrade Wine from Traidcraft and cheese provided by the
Cheese Society. Smart-casual evening with live music and free One Water donated by
PEROS.
Email clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk if you have any questions.
36 felix Friday 23 February 2007
CLUBS & SOCIETIES clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
With the upcoming Fairtrade Fortnight, Felix asks why should Imperial College be getting involved?
The Fairtrade Fortnight calendar
Kirsty Patterson
Clubs and Societies Editor

