ICLUBS & SOCIETIESI
Science Fiction
N o w that you've all seen Blade Runner I can
reveal that ten seconds—and what is more
outrageous—the most vital ten seconds of the
whole film were missing.
Perhaps one of the gravest flaws in the film
(apart from the voice over) was the. ending.
Originally, before the sponsors shreaded the
celluloid, threw it in the air and stuck it back
together again in the name of commerciality,
the film ended with Deckard and the girl
replicant getting into the lift, after Deckard had
found the little paper unicorn on the floor
outside his flat. The significance of the unicorn
is lost until one discovers that the missing ten
seconds showed D e c k a r d dreaming of a
unicorn in the landscape seen at the end, just
after his encounter with Leon. The doubts (if
you had them) about Deckard's identity are
confirmed and the ending, to my mind, is much
more satisfying.
Miranda F Smith the Anti-clone
Gliding Club
G l a d to see a good turn out at the two
meetings we've had so far this term. Even
more pleasing is that a large proportion of
those present made the journey to the airfield
(Lasham nr Basingstoke) for that first taste of
this exhilarating sport: the air experience
flight. If you are not included in the above
category and you want to learn to fly, then
come and find out about the Gliding Club. We
meet every Thursday at 5:30pm in Aero 254.
PS: Congratulations to Sue, our first solo
pilot of the term.
Film Society
Are you interested in film? Why not join Film
Society then; membership (includes all films
this term) is only £2.00. If you don't fancy
joining, why not come along just to see a
programme or two, membership for the night
will vary from 70p to 25p.
This week we are showing a film called The
Flicker, made in 1966; here are some reviews:
"The ultimate to date in the non-objective
film..Jt has only black and white frames...the
resulting strobe effect can...cause the illusion
of colour, of a spreading of light. Seeing the
Flicker will cause one in every fifteen thousand
to have an epileptic seizure."
—Sheldon Renan, An Introduction to the
American Underground Film
"...a sort of visual LSD, including
hallucinations...Some of these cats were
sitting stewing...as if watching Beethoven
himself play the 5th Piano Concerto."
-The Evening Star, Washington
PS: If anyone is interested in making film
come along and tell me—we may be able to get
a grant from the Union if enough people are
interested.
Jewish Society
IC Jewish Society plans to host a series of
'very informal' Friday night meals; grace before
and after meals will be recited and whenever
possible there will be a guest speaker to
encourage discussion during the meal. The
first of these meals will be held Today, October
22 (see What's O n for details). If interested
please bring, if at all possible, about £1 worth
of dairy or vegetarian kosher food to Beit Arch
at 6:00pm, from there we shall go to a nearby,
room for the meal. All the food will be put
together on the table so that, with luck there
will be a large variety of foods to eat. The lively,
v i v a c i o u s a n d a t t r a c t i v e D a n n i e l l a , who-
happens to be a student Reform Rabbi as well,
will be joining us tonight.
Audio Society
How many records did you buy last year?
If the answer is one or more, then reading this
article could save you money! The fact is that
r e c o r d s are o v e r p r i c e d — p a r t i c u l a r l y in
London where although the big names offer
attractive prices on Top 60 albums they make
all their profits on non-chart albums.
N O M O R E , the Audio Society is proud to
offer through its new r e c o r d c l u b , A L L
currently available albums at the cheapest
prices possible. See below and calculate how
much you can save. Membership is only £1.60,
so come along to the Upper Union Lounge
(next to the U n i o n Office) on T u e s d a y
October 26 at 1:00pm.
Join us, order records and save money.
Typical Prices (Single Albums)
Arista, Charisma, Chrysalis
Decca, Phonogram, Polydor "£3.60
A & M , C B S , M C A , Pye,
Virgin, W E A £3.80
EMI, United Artist, Island £3.85
R C A . £3.95
Independents £2.35 to £3.60
Audio Society Record Club-too good to miss!
&opal i§>tf)ool
of fflmt$
present
Paint Your Face
Discotheque
Saturday 23 October 830 till late at
Imperia I College JCR
Tickets iTOO for painted faces
all others X.1 40
Tickets available from ICU & C C U offices
and at the door

