All it takes is a twist: Michael Caine explains to Christopher
Reeve how to escape from Houdini's handcuffs.
for his revenge and finally his grisly end.
The story (a cheeky rework of Phantom at
the Opera) stands up well as a period piece
and is hugely enjoyable as such. Price's tones
are suitably Shakespearian and Phyllis Kirk
scurries away from the mysterious figure in
black with commendable haste, but melodrama
occasionally degenerates into farce. O n the
whole the film is a remarkable achievement—
even more so considering that the director was
blind in one eye and could never appreciate
the 3-D process itself.
This process is used well (especially when a
streetcaller advertising the waxworks bats
elasticated balls into the audience) and is more
effective than later efforts such as Parasite or
Dynasty. As it is filmed in 'color' (sorry!) it also
beats other 3-D favourites like It Came From
Outer Space.
If you've never seen a 3-D film, then this is
the one to try. But a word of advice. The
exclusive presentation at A B C Fulham Road
means that seats tend to sell quickly, so book
in advance (especially at weekends).
Mark Smith
Deathtrap, featuring Michael Caine and
Christopher Reeve.
When Ira Levin's stage play Deathtrap was
first produced in the West End it was widely
criticised as a blatant attempt to write another
Sleuth: an ingenious thriller with two acts, one
set, and five characters. The accusation could
never be denied, but this was no reason to
r e j e c t the p l a y as w o r t h l e s s , a n d its
subsequent record-breaking run proved this.
The film version demonstrates another facet of
Levin's play which it shares with Sleuth: it
doesn't work too well on the big screen.
There are several reasons for this. Primarily,
one of the main features of the plot is that
Sidney Bruhl (Michael Caine) is a playwright
working on a play called Deathtrap, which is in
two acts, one set, five characters, etc, and as
the story unfolds it becomes clear that the play
he is writing (within the play) is not only based
on a murder which has taken place in his own
house (ie the play Bruhl is writing is based on
Bruhl's experiences) but at a different 'meta-
level' he is writing the Ira Levin play Deathtrap
in which he is only one of the fictitious
characters. Confused? Y o u won't be in the
film, because this element is partly missing.
Couldn't it have been rewritten to make Bruhl
a film director?
A s I mentioned, Deathtrap is a one set play,
and so when it is staged, every part of Sidney
Bruhl's living room is continuously on view,
and so the audience becomes obsessed with
Bruhl's impressively displayed collection of
weaponry, and when characters in turn reach
for gun or knife or whatever, there is a definite
thrill as you realise 'My G o d , he's actually
going to use that thing.' In the film we are only
given occasional glimpses of the weapons
(since the camera is naturally focussed on the
acto'rs for most of the time) and so the effect is
considerably weakened.
My final criticism is that the big surprises
don't w o r k , n o t a b l y one v e r y d r a m a t i c
entrance which is one of the most effective
shocks I have experienced in the theatre; in
the cinema it just isn't possible to startle an
audience in the same way merely by the
entrance of one character; cinema audiences
are used to so much more.
O n the credit side, special effects make
murder rather more effective than on stage
the director has taken the opportunity to wri (
in a chase around the home, and rhi ra
weak original ending has been completely
rewritten to allow one final twist Wnn c >uld
never be effectively portrayed on siuge. More
than this cannot '•„. - • d without revealing
FELIX • • • • • • • • B H H H I B B 9 I
details of the plot!
Conclusion? Despite the film's weaknesses,
the strength of the plot holds up, and it is
worth a visit if you missed the play. If, like me,
you saw the play, you'll know just what's
coming and will find the film something of a
letdown.
Martin S Taylor
Plague of
Graffitti
Plague Dogs; Fast Times
Ever since Lassie and Rin-Tin-Tin, man's best
friend has often been made the heroic subject
of a film, but rarely so poignantly as in Plague
Dogs, which has just opened at the Odeon
Haymarket. Richard Adams has recently fallen
out with the powers that be at the R S P C A , and
resigned as President because the hierarchy
weren't prepared to put a few noses out of
joint o v e r a n i m a l r e s e a r c h . T h i s latest
adaptation of one of his books firmly puts his
case.
A n y o n e who saw Watership Down will
recognise the animation style; Richard Adams
has brought together the same team once
again, and the result is a very polished style of
animation, with the bonus of an all-star cast
i n c l u d i n g J o h n H u r t a n d J a m e s B o l a m
providing the voices and the perennial Percy
Edwards for the sound effects; and we are
s p a r e d A r t G a r f u n k e l w a r b l i n g on the
soundtrack.
Our canine heroes escape from trie mental
a n d p h y s i c a l t o r t u r e of the r e s e a r c h
establishment and quickly have to come to
terms with life in the wild, living off livestock,
attracting the unfriendly attention of the local
farmers, until a rumour circulates that the
dogs may be infected with bubonic plague,
which was the subject of a top secret M o D
project at the lab.
A likeable, affectionate, if rather downbeat
film, which I'm sure' will be enjoyed by those
who liked Watership Down, so when your
unspeakable ten-year-old cousins are dumped
on you this Christmas, there are many worse
ways to keep them quiet for an afternoon. I'd
like to think that it would stimulate public
debate into animal research and vivisection,
but !': is almost too nice for this crusading tag.
My other films theme isn't cruelty, unless
it's cruelty to the reviewer. If it wasn't for the
jolly nice seats in the review cinema and a
misplaced sense of duty to you, dear reader,
H H H B H October 22, 1982 WKBBBBM
I'd have joined the rush for the door during
Amy Heckerling's Fast1
Times which has just
opened at the Plaza, Leicester Square.
There have been innumerable attempts by
the cinema industry to reproduce the success
of American Graffitti but all have failed for
various reasons. This latest offering is an
adaptation of a book by Cameron Crowe who
claims to have attempted a piece of serious
sociological research into the modern teenage
culture by going back to high school 'under
cover' to observe his subject in its natural
habitat (I wonder if anyone spotted him).
What emerges is the usual self-indulgent
'boy did you ever miss out' view of adolescence.
'The Kids' are precocious, promiscuous, and
provocative while at the same time vulnerable
and misunderstood. Are all American kids like
that? If so I'm glad I spent my formative years
this side of the Atlantic.
Where the film fails in comparison with •
American Graffitti is that the characters are
too thin; it fails to concentrate on a small group
of people, trying instead to explain the many
motivations and fantasies of its stereotypes as
it ridicules and dissects them. The warmth and
sympathy which worked so well in Graffitti is
somehow missing here and the soundtrack is a
rather mixed bunch of instantly forgettable
A m e r i c a n rock tunes rather than driving
rhythms.
The X certificate this film has attracted
because of the amount of time devoted to the
examination of Jennifer Jason Leigh's rather
non-descript figure, must somewhat lessen its
appeal, since it excludes those most likely to
identify with the central characters. But, those
of you who enjoyed Porkys will probcibly lap it
up.
Lee Paddon

