TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
10
Competition Corner
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 october 2011
Bought a shiny new smartphone but forgot to bud-
get for any credit? Never fear, as Vizz Africa have
promised to give some lucky people pre-paid SIM
cards, so you can make good use of your new gad-
get. While the new network may have a focus on
very reasonable rates to call Africa (1p per minute
to a landline in South Africa!), the costs for calling
within the UK are pretty good too, costing only 4p
per minute for a landline call, or 9p per minute
to another mobile. So that credit is going to last
you a while.
But enough figures, here’s how you can win:
Over the last two decades, we have more or
less come to accept the presence of robots in
our lives. They make our cars and process our
foods - our manufacturing industry would not
be anywhere near the same without them.
The robots of today, however, are a far cry
from the imagined robots of science fiction
— the problem is how to integrate an artificial
intellience into a robust humanoid shape that
can process and interact with the world around
them. Scientists from Munich and Tokyo have
been working together to solve this problem,
and recently released a video of their test pro-
totype, PR2, fetching them a sandwich.
What is remarkable about this is that PR2
did not know very much about sandwiches
when he went on his quest — he started off by
looking in the kitchen fridge, and not finding
anything matching the description there, he de-
cided that Subway would be the best place to
find one. Ordering the sandwich, picking it up
and heading back home, he proves more than
a little versatile at navigating the treacherous
Snacks now, world domination later
Feroz Salam
A Tech Show comes to town
Last weekend, the first annual London Inter-
national Technology Show came to ExCeL
London. With some big names in the line-up
and bargain-price tickets, we decided to take
a look at what the latest technology exhibitors
had to offer.
The spread of companies represented was
quite wide, ranging from online systems
builders and sellers such as Scan Computers
and Overclockers UK to software companies
including Parallels, and even some maga-
zines came along, for example Micro Mart
welcoming visitors into a shed built for the
occasion… All-in-all, it was set to be an in-
teresting day.
First impressions however, were not quite
what was expected. To one side was a Rock
Band 3 playing area, and the other side host-
ed a driving simulator running on three 3D
monitors which you had to sit in a hydraulic
chair to see. In front there were a few ma-
chines playing the Battlefield 3 campaign. As
it turns out, this was not just bad planning,
and was quite representative of the exhibition
as a whole. Gaming featured fairly heavily,
as did 3D displays, and it was rare to come
across demonstration computers set up with
only a single monitor.
Slightly further in though, things started to
align more with our expectations, with the
Asus stand showing off some powerful ma-
chines in interesting builds. The centrepiece
here was an Intel hex-core i7 based setup
in a custom transparent case, with two side
compartments for water-cooling. This was
definitely the most interesting cooling setup
I have ever seen, with each compartment hav-
ing its own waterfall of cooled water cascad-
ing into a pool at the bottom. If cooling is
your thing though, the liquid-nitrogen over-
clocking session later in the day would have
been right up your street.
At the other end of the spectrum, if high-
end PCs don’t float your boat, there were old
arcade games available to play for free in au-
thentic cases, and even demonstrations of a
tiny remote control helicopter that seemed to
be indestructible. At least, it suffered no dam-
age from its several impacts with the ground
from near the high ceilings of the room.
Other things to see and try included full
3D home cinema setups from Samsung, high
quality headphones and a Top Gear simula-
tor, in which you would be taken in a lap
round the Top Gear Test Track with The Stig
driving.
Overall, as an “International Technology
Show”, I have to say it was quite disappoint-
ing, and did not meet with expectations. On
the other hand, as an event at which to play
some new games – including some on PCs
you probably cannot afford – and see smatter-
ings of new-ish technologies, it was not a bad
day out. There could have been more exhibi-
tors, and it could have been more focused on
new technologies, but it was their first year,
and I reckon it will definitely be worth a look
when it returns next October. And hey, with
free pens and a free copy of a magazine that
would normally cost more than the ticket,
where can you go wrong?
Chris Bowers
of calls, texts and internet
access for your phone
For your chance to win a SIM card with £100 worth
of credit, simply email competition@vizzafrica.
co.uk with the answer to the following question:
What was the title of Dappy’s recent Number One
hit?
A. No Return
B. No Regrets
C. No Reply
The first 25 runners up will also receive a SIM
card with £20 worth of credit.
The winner drawn out of the hat will be announced
in the next issue of Felix and online at www.viz-
zafrica.co.uk/result.
Competition closes Wednesday 2nd November
2011
For full terms and conditions see http://vizzafrica.
co.uk/about_termandCondition.php
corridors of a university campus.
There is unfortunately little detail on how
much PR2 was figuring out for himself and
how much was preprogrammed. The core
of his abilities is built around a ‘semantic
search’ engine, which allows him to build
relations between the things he sees in the
world. For example, seeing cups in the kitch-
en would cause him to look in the kitchen if
asked for one. To watch PR2’s jaunt into the
great unknown, take a look at http://bit.ly/
niBDyY.
Finally, the perfect place to hide my cans of Strongbow
Behold – WALL·E’s demented and less animated cousin, PR2

