BUSINESS
FELIX
12
Business Editors: Nina Kearsey
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 October 2011
Just before the BlackBerry service collapse on
October 10, the analyst firm Enterprise Man-
agement Associates conducted extensive re-
search regarding the trend in enterprise mobile
device management. This research concluded
that more than 30% of BlackBerry users from
within large enterprises are expected to move
to different platforms within a year as a result
of poor user satisfaction. Despite the growing
popularity of the device in UK teenage market
(largely due to the success of the BlackBerry
Messenger application, BBM, which allows
users to avoid instant messaging costs), the re-
cent BlackBerry “black out” will likely acceler-
ate the decline of Research in Motion’s (RIM,
the maker of the BlackBerry device) market
share at enterprise level. The question is, can
Apple’s iPhone and iOS platform can now take
over BlackBerry’s piece of the marketplace
following the death of its founder Steve Jobs,
or will it instead follow Blackberry’s footsteps
towards decline?
Recent statistics from Kantar Worldpanel
ComTech news on smartphone operating
systems’ market share has shown that while
Nokia’s Symbian platform and RIM’s market
share in major countries are declining, Apple’s
iOS has failed to grasp the opportunity to ex-
pand. In fact, iOS have only made significant
gains in US market share, while their market
share in UK, Japan, Germany and France has
dropped drastically. Conversely, the competing
Android operating system has outperformed
Apple iOS in every market, with Samsung,
HTC, Nokia and Motorola as key players com-
peting with iPhone for the smartphone market.
Still, Apple maintains its dominance in the
mobile application store market. Figures from
2010 show the Apple App Store generated
$1.8bn in revenue that year - 82.7% of the
total market. Though the competing Android
operating system is more popular than iOS,
application developers are more satisfied with
the Apple market’s ecosystem. A recent survey
from US Yankee group and Skyhook shows
that developers were dissatisfied with the lack
of regulation in Android application market,
bemoaning the piracy that eats away from their
profit. Another survey from research firm IDC
and mobile software company Appcelertor
showed that developers are shying away from
Android, viewing the platform as still too frag-
mented, and seeking more reliable profits in
the Apple market place. Statistics from Furry
confirmed the view, in which out of 10,200 ap-
plication projects developed in the 2nd quarter
(Q2) of 2011, 72% were for Apple iOS while
only 28% were for Android, indicating more
development will take place on the iOS plat-
form.
Apple dominates, too, in user satisfaction.
A recent survey by J.D. Power and Associates
ranked Apple above every other smartphone
manufacturer in customer satisfaction, scoring
highly in key areas of performance, ease of op-
eration, features and physical design. A loyal
fanbase is critical to Apple’s continuing suc-
cess – as suggested by the Worldpanel report,
both Apple and Android’s users are loyal when
choosing upgrades, due partly to their invest-
ments in mobile applications.
With an increasing number of companies
coming out with competitive smartphone de-
vices, what differentiates iPhone from the rest
of the pack will be its operating system. Here,
Apple’s weakness in terms of flexibility is ac-
tually what contributes to their strength. While
new customers might be moving away for lack
of product variability, little integration with the
Windows OS, and expensive application costs
compared to Android, Apple still manages to
rake in a high profit margin from their prod-
How Apple’s iPhone stands in
the current market,
or: ‘How we Apples swim’
Shiang-Jin Chin
ucts. Their rigid combination of the iPhone
hardware and iOS software ensures those qual-
ities of performance, ease of use, and physical
design, that result in such high approval ratings
with their users. These features, complemented
by a dominating and domineering App Store,
which necessitates that all applications gain
Apple approval before they are listed to buy,
are the reasons behind why, according to Hor-
ace Dediu from Asymco, though Apple shipped
only 5.6% of mobile phone units in the Q2 of
2011 that their share of Global Mobile market
profit was about 66%.
Apple’s lost ground is therefore likely to be a
result of their failure to attract new customers.
Their much anticipated iPhone 5 release earlier
this month is a prime example of the kind of
failure that could see Apple fall lower in this
area of the market: the presentation of a merely
upgraded iPhone 4S did nothing to excite the
non-initiate. The ultimate fate of iPhone and
iOS depends on Apple’s ability to entice new
customers, as well as retain its present ones.
The increasing power of applications to sell
devices, shown for one by BlackBerry Messen-
ger’s securing of the teenage market for its host
device, suggests a continuing need for the kind
of innovation shown by Jobs. In the tug of war
between the developer and consumer, whereby
developer innovation to lead consumers fights
consumer interest to prompt developers, the
winner will be determined by its applications.
Letter from the Editors
Sized apples move through an apple packing plant at one of the California Apple
Commision’s factories during the annual Gala and Fuji apple harvest
The death of Steve Jobs on October 5th prompted
a tide of eulogies and dyslogies from journalists,
commentators and techies alike, not least from
the pages of Felix. Rather than continue in this
vein, and pass comment on the debates around
ethics and personal drive that took Jobs from or-
phaned boy to CEO of one of the largest compa-
nies in the world, in this edition we look objectively
at Jobs’ managerial style, and prompt questions
about the future of his company, focussing spe-
cifically on the iPhone and its place in the smart-
phone market following the recent BlackBerry out-
age and dip in RIM shares.
As companies such as Apple take to outsourc-
ing their manufacturing, a jobs and industry void
is being created in the US. While Apple practises
outsourcing – even endorses it with the slogan:
“Designed by Apple in California – Assembled in
China” – its strength as an American innovator, as
exemplified by Jobs, may well prove to be a saving
industry in its own right.
Though the US has seen off its recession it still
suffers from a lack of growth. Still, the power of
innovation and technology has been recognised
historically as a large contributor to productiv-
ity growth in the US. It was American economist
and Nobel Laureate Robert Solow who first drew
the distinction between economic growth by in-
creased labour and capital from that built on tech-
nical progress. However, despite demonstrating
the importance of innovation, a common critisism
of Solow’s work is its failure to account for the rea-
sons behind technological growth, i.e. the role of
entrepreneurs. Making such an acknowledgement
forms a link between investment and innovation
and offers routes towards promoting such growth.
So perhaps a better gift to his country than Apple
and the ‘iDevices’ was Jobs’ own embodiment of
this link, as the entrepreneurial, innovating, “hard-
ware-software Elvis”.
– The Business Editors
flickr/Anthony Dunn Photography
“Apple still manages
to rake in a high profit
margin from their
products”

