lous and demanding. Each Council was
thus required to forward to the King,
in written format, all the decisions that
had to be made along with their recom-
mendation, for them to be personally
reviewed by Phillip. These decisions
ranged from the most important poli-
cies, such as peace treaties or military
decisions, to the pettiest issues, includ-
ing any grant, patent, request, building
licence … even to the awarding of a
university degree! In short, he central-
ised in his person all the bureaucracy
of his kingdom; his desk was the final
destination of all the paperwork of the
Spanish monarchy: no wonder he was
sometimes called the Paper King!
The amount of paperwork was so over-
whelming he would devote to it most of
his time. He woke up very early in the
morning (around 5-6am), and almost in-
mediately start to review the first set of
documents of the day, carefully reading
them and replying by hand. Sometimes
his answers would be brief: “Indeed”,
“That is fine”, “This pleases me a lot”;
but sometimes he would unburden him-
self in long and pointless paragraphs in
which he would correct, and even tell
off and complaint about whatever he
thought was not right.
For example, upon receiving a request
from the University of Alcala to grant
a degree to some “Maximilian of Aus-
tria, natural son of bishop Leopold of
Austria, in turn natural son of emperor
Maximilian I and one of his sisters-in-
law, a daughter of the King of Portu-
gal”, he promptly corrected the Univer-
sity by pointing out, in a long letter, that
“that cannot be, for the wife of emperor
Maximilian was not Portuguese but
the only daughter of the Duke Charles
of Burgundy, who was left in charge of
some king of France who tried to take
over her state. And look how good a tu-
tor he was, that being the cause of so
many of the wars that have happened
since!”
“If I had to wait
for death, I wish it
came from Spain, for
then it would never
arrive!” – viceroy of
Naples, c. 1570
Sometimes he would even complain
about his own administrative system in
those replies: “it is necessary for some
things to wait, for I cannot take care
BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 28 october 2011 13
Business in History
Be it for ignorance, insecurity or psy-
chological compulsion, micromanage-
ment is an ancient curse no business or
institution is safe from, and whose risks
and consequences can only increase the
higher the micromanager’s influence
reaches. Though a well-known manage-
rial style – at least known well enough
to have its own (and pejorative) name
– no reliable statistical study on its oc-
currence appears to exist; nor does there
seem to be any thorough study, psycho-
logical or sociological, of the phenom-
enon beyond, namely the economic
consequences when it affects business
managers.
This is indeed a surprising fact, espe-
cially since micromanagement has af-
flicted so many historical figures that
this article could be filled by a list of
their names. But, instead of boring the
reader with such a dull curiosity, it is
our intention to expose the dire conse-
quences micromanagement can have by
considering the best known example of
such: King Phillip II of Spain.
Phillip II (1527-1598) is perhaps best
known in the United Kingdom for be-
ing the husband of Queen Mary I, and
for trying to conquer England with the
ill-fated Spanish Armada. Perhaps less
known are his working habits, constitut-
ing the most extreme case of microman-
agement in history.
Phillip II inherited from his father,
Emperor Charles V, the Crowns of Cas-
tile andAragon, which included, respec-
tively, the Americas and the Kingdom
of Naples, as well as the Netherlands,
Flanders and other former territories of
the Duchy of Burgundy. Later on, he
would become King of Portugal (1582).
Each of these territories were subject to
their own legal systems, inherited from
the Middle Ages, and had little in com-
mon except their monarch.
Hence, to no surprise the Spanish
monarchy had promptly divided its af-
fairs into different councils, each of
which was in charge of part of them –
e.g. the Council of the Indies would take
care of America; the infamous Council
of the Holy Inquisition, of religious af-
fairs, etc. Any affair had to be referred
to one of 14 such councils. For instance,
if the viceroy of Naples had something
to report, he would have to send his let-
ter to the Council of Italy, rather than to
the King himself, and wait instruction
from that Council.
Albeit somewhat an archaic mana-
gerial system, in theory it allowed the
King to oversee the general policies of
his empire, and leave all the minor de-
tails to the Councils.
However, Phillip was terribly meticu-
of all of them at the same time. Today
there came two men, whose affairs held
me for two hours, and the amount of
documents they left behind will take me
more time than I have. I am exhausted.”
His attention to detail was such
that, on the comissioning and building
of a palace, he wrote to his architects
ordering them to place the kitchen as-
sistant’s quarters far away from the
service latrines, as the smell could be
unbearable.
The consequences of this obsessive
attention to detail were ample. As Phil-
lip himself complained, the amount of
affairs he had to take care of usually
meant huge delays in his decisions.
For instance, in the 1570s, fearing a
Turkish invasion of southern Italy, the
viceroy of Naples asked the Council
of Italy for permission to levy troops.
Ten disquieting months passed before
a decision was made – to call troops
from northern Italy. In the meantime,
the viceroy is said to have bitterly com-
plained: “if I had to wait for death, I
wish it came from Spain, for then it
would never arrive!”
Having so many affairs to take care of
made most of his decisions incredibly
short sighted; his lack of time to ponder
an adequate economic and military pol-
icy (he would simply order more levies
if his possessions were to be attacked)
made him spend far more money than
he had in such a way that, even though
Spain was by far the richest country
in Europe, it faced three sovereign de-
faults during his reign. A French am-
bassador would summarise this all by
pointing out that Phillip’s decision of
being “king, minister and secretary at
the same time is virtuous, but it leads to
so many delays and confusion that all
those who have to deal with the Crown
despair.”
The story of king Phillip II has many
lessons to be learnt about the dangers
Phillip II of Spain (1527-1598), the ‘Paper King’ of Spain: an extreme example of a micromanager, and another
with a penchant for black polonecks
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
The Cautionary Tale of King Phillip II, the ‘Paper King’ of Spain
of micromanagement. For indeed, as it
happened to Phillip, all micromanagers
end up enslaved by their own obses-
sions; the bigger the responsibility, the
less free time they will have; and taken
to the extreme, the micromanager will
lack the time to clearly and carefully
think about his decisions – many of
them will have to be delayed, and many
more taken in a rush.
Furthermore, all micromanagers can
end up being victims of their own sys-
tems. Phillip, for instance, managed
to isolate himself from his own advi-
sors: any request had to be forwarded
in written format, and since the ones in
charge of filtering them were his sec-
retaries, they could safely dismiss af-
fairs against their own interests, or bury
them among the ample paperwork. In
short, they became the most influen-
tial men in Spain and Phillip often ap-
peared to be no more than an additional
element of his own bureaucracy.

