BUSINESS
The Imperial Entrepeneurs report on the service failure that failed BlackBerry users, and
its impact on both companies and the markets
During the evening of Monday October
10 you were possibly one of the frus-
trated Imperial students that couldn’t
get their BBM working. That was the
day on which all BlackBerry devices
lost their email and BlackBerry Mes-
senger services. Some devices lost in-
ternet access as well, leaving many be-
wildered students unable to update their
Facebook statuses or tweet any random
thoughts. The situation stretched on,
and became much more irritating when
on early Tuesday morning these student
BlackBerry users had no means to en-
tertain themselves during lectures. Lat-
er that day there was an announcement
by RIM stating that the issue had been
resolved. This probably brought hope
to those who had been yearning to have
their fully functional smartphones back,
however, right after that announcement
the delays and outages spread world-
wide. These outages would end one day
later with all services being restored,
but leaving many displeased users all
across the world.
While the outage may have been an-
noying for students, it has had a large
and relevant impact in many busi-
nesses, considering the large number
of companies that rely on these phones
to enable communication and email
management amongst their employees.
As much as this outage has negatively
affected many people, right now there
is probably no one as worried than Jim
Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis, co-CEOs
of RIM.
These two probably lost a lot of sleep
BlackBerry’s Outage and its Aftermath
during the past few weeks, worried with
thoughts that their company is going
continuously downhill, making it easier
for their primary competitors (i.e. Apple
and Android smartphones) to take over
their niche. The year 2011 has certain-
ly not been a good one for RIM, but
BlackBerry’s decline had started much
earlier. At one time, BlackBerry devic-
es were the clear industry leaders, but
ever since Apple launched the iPhone
in 2007 the company has struggled to
retain its market share, something that
became even more evident with the re-
lease of the iPhone 4 last year. Everyone
at RIM headquarters was probably hop-
ing for 2011 to be the year they bounced
back, with some new ideas in mind that
could help turn the situation around.
However they now find themselves in
an even worse situation, caused by a
combination of bad decisions and even
worse luck.
Their first and biggest hope, the
launch of their new tablet device, turned
out to be a great failure. The PlayBook
lacked the software and the functional-
ity that most people expected, and was
certainly not enough to compete against
the iPad. RIM has already admitted
that prices for the tablet will have to be
slashed as an attempt to save the situa-
tion, since right now the device is barely
selling at all.
This was the first piece of bad news
that RIM got in 2011. The company was
surrounded by bad publicity after the
London riots that took place during the
summer, in which the BBM service was
used by the rioters as one of the main
means to communicate. On top of this,
a sharp reduction in profit and sales was
announced about a month ago, which
had a significant impact on the value
By
Máximo Sanz Hernández
There have already been direct rev-
enue consequences due to compensa-
tions. RIM charges wireless carriers
a monthly fee based on the number of
BlackBerry users. Many analysts agree
that some of those fees will have to be
given back, and losses in the value of
RIM shares are predicted. These short-
term problems should not be the main
concern around the company head-
quarters however; the outage has irri-
tated many users, who are particularly
displeased with how RIM has handled
the situation. There was a continuous
lack of information throughout the out-
age, and when RIM finally released an
announcement saying that the prob-
lem had been fixed the situation only
became worse. This has undermined
BlackBerry’s reliability and the com-
pany’s credibility, and will make users
are more and more tempted to switch to
competing devices.
One of the main niche markets that
BlackBerry could lose is large compa-
nies using BlackBerry Enterprise Ser-
vice (BES), a feature that allows easy
management of large fleets of smart-
phones. Some companies are no lon-
ger satisfied with BlackBerry and are
starting to consider the advantages that
other companies provide. An example
of this is DLA Piper, a law firm that is
accelerating discussions about switch-
ing to iPhones and Android devices. As
for the rest of the users, BlackBerry no
longer presents the unique features that
once made them so popular. The new
iOS now includes iMessage, a service
that allows all Apple devices to commu-
nicate. In other words, a clear and direct
competitor for BBM.
There is only one hope left for RIM.
They now rely on the shift to a new
operating system (QNX), first used in
their PlayBook. Right now, a success-
ful transition is the only thing that can
help them close the gap on Android and
Apple OS. Let us hope that the compa-
ny starts experiencing better luck in the
future, otherwise we could be witness-
ing the fall of what once was an empire.
Remember! If you are interested
in entrepreneurship, starting your
own company, the technology sec-
tor, or just want to listen to some
very inspiring speakers, come to the
talks organized by Imperial Entrepre-
neurs! Sign up for the mailing list at:
www.imperialentrepreneurs.com
Timeline BlackBerry Outage
• 11:00, Monday 10 Oct. RIM admit service outage in Eu-
rope, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) following a switch
failure at their datacenter in Slough
• 9:00, Tuesday 11 Oct. RIM apologise for downtime and
announce their servers are functioning again
• Eve., Tuesday 11 Oct. RIM confirm disruption to the BIS
service spreads from EMEA region to India and South
America
• Wednesday 12 Oct. RIM tell customers they are working
on the problem, as outage spreads to North America
• 15:00, Thursday 13 Oct. RIM resume BlackBerry services,
but warn of continuing disruption. Co-CEO Mike Lazaridis
apologises for were longest outages in history
Mike Lazaridis, founder and co-CEO of RIM, the creators and manufacturers of the BlackBerry, at a developers’
conference in San Francisco
of RIM shares. And now comes the
outage, questioning the reliability of
BlackBerry devices, something that had
helped them build their reputation in the
past few years.
Even though this hasn’t been the first
BlackBerry outage, it will probably
have greater consequences than any of
the previous ones, and this is because
of its timing. Regarding the interests of
the company, there could have not been
a worse moment for BlackBerry ser-
vices to go down. The recently released
iPhone 4S and the new Apple operative
system iOS 5 present themselves as an
alternative for all BlackBerry users af-
fected by the outage.
“Since Apple
launched the iPhone
in 2007 [BlackBerry]
has struggled to
retain its market
share”
FELIX Friday 28 october 2011 15
Business Editors: Nina Kearsey
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk

