FELIX
16
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 october 2011
L
ast week, the decade of le-
gal battles over half of the
traveller site at Dale Farm
culminated into a physi-
cal one. Tony Balls, the
Tory leader of Basildon council, has
defended this eviction on the grounds
of “fairness” – that the law must apply
to everyone – which has been backed
by his party’s leaders. However, this
neglects the different starting posi-
tions: travellers are not treated like
everyone to begin with. It’s like mak-
ing someone start a game of monopoly
with half the money of everyone else
and then complaining that it’s not fair
when they start nicking money from
the bank when people aren’t paying
attention.
Travellers are persecuted in this
country; no one wants them as neigh-
bours. This has lead to the UK be-
ing short of thirty thousand traveller
pitches. Councils have a set quota of
traveller sites that they must provide;
one which they tend to ignore. The
government, instead of strengthening
this quota, to make sure enough sites
are available, are looking at abolish-
ing it. This will stop the creation of
new sites. Travellers repeatedly try to
establish their own sites, but where-
as the settler community (us) have
around 20% of our planning proposals
rejected, travellers have 90% of theirs
rejected. The lack of planning permis-
sion granted forces travellers to build
their site and ask for permission later.
Retrospective planning permission
is not unusual. It is regularly given,
and it is only through our institutional
racism that travellers rely solely on it.
Furthermore, the details of this case
highlight the hypocrisy of Basildon
council. The reason planning permis-
sion is not being granted is because
it is apparently greenbelt. However,
before the traveller’s arrival, this site
was a scrap yard – not exactly green
pasture. In fact, the council laid the
hard ground, so the travellers did not
carry out the original development.
Also, currently, Basildon council are
granting planning permission for de-
velopment on agricultural land near-
by, highlighting the double standards
of their greenbelt argument. Adding
insult to injury, the Tories are cur-
rently undermining the preservation of
greenbelt land through changes in the
planning laws, whilst so violently pro-
tecting the “greenbelt” of Dale Farm.
Even with the obvious double stan-
dards of this eviction the travellers
were prepared to move if the council
found them a local site. Even though
local MEP Richard Howitt found a
paid for site from the Homes and Com-
munities Agency, the council have re-
fused permission. They will not allow
the travellers to stay in Basildon. This
goes far beyond planning laws; it is
pure racism. Currently, neighbouring
councils are digging up roadsides to
prevent the travellers stopping there.
All the council has done is offer them
housing, an insult to their culture and
way of life. This has caused both the
UN and Amnesty International to
condemn this eviction with compari-
sons to Zimbabwe, as no culturally
appropriate alternative is given. They
cannot legally stay and they cannot le-
gally travel.
Although this is the largest traveller
site in Europe, I have been there and
it’s tiny. The illegal part is two or three
football pitches in size. The fact that
it’s the largest shows only how little
Europe accommodates its traveller
community. Also, at a time of austerity
the cost of eviction is thought to be ap-
proximately £20million, making this a
very expensive scrap yard.
This may be shocking in its persecu-
tion of a minority, but it is also inspir-
ing. For the first time large contingents
of the settler community have sup-
ported the travellers. Ordinary people
were locked to the caravans, including
Ann and Myra, both in their late 70s,
who are completely repulsed by this
racist act.
The day of action resulted in physi-
cal violence between the supporters
and police (though I think Ann and
ATraveller’s Tale
Luke Sheldon
Is nobody going to comment on the great tiling of the street? Puts Coronation Street’s
cobbling to shame
As reported extensively by the media this
week, university applications have seen an
approximate drop of 9% from last year. In
the wake of such a startling figure (espe-
cially in comparison to the year-on-year rise
that the sector has recently enjoyed), ques-
tions must be asked regarding the potential
implications that this may have on Imperial
College.
The answer to such questions is relatively
simple however. The decrease in applica-
tions that we have seen will have primar-
ily little effect on the College – as long as
Imperial continues to publicise how exactly
it can help (primarily UK-based) students
from deterring.
Schemes are already being implemented
to ensure that students will continue to ap-
ply to Imperial, such as the new and more
extensive bursary scheme.
However, an overwhelmingly negative
perception still exists for many across the
country with regards to tuition fees in gen-
eral. Despite widespread advice from gov-
ernmental bodies urging prospective stu-
dents not to be dissuaded from applying to
university by the rise in tuition fees, there
still exists a distinct thought in the minds
of those considering higher education as a
real option.
This thought, whether held by friends or
family, is that students will be loaded with a
staggeringly large student loan to pay back
following graduation. This negativity follows
from a generation that received higher edu-
cation for next to no cost.
It is this perception that Imperial must
tackle if it is to retain its impressive appli-
cation rates. The bursary scheme must be
publicised in the coming weeks as prospec-
tive students continue to consider their path
for the future. Focus need not be primarily
focused on bursaries, however. The fact
that contributions from alumni continue to
enable students to embark on their studies
here is a fact that should be promoted as
widely as possible.
Nevertheless, it is also worth remember-
ing the rise in applications from overseas.
Imperial is sure to continue encouraging in-
ternational students to apply, ensuring no
real danger from reduced demand. We must
also consider the fact that applications for
science based courses has seen a lower
percentage drop in comparison with other
subjects.
Including international students, Imperial
is probably one of the safest universities
in light of the announcements. We should
not expect campus to become a ghost town
overnight. We should only start getting wor-
ried once the Union is empty on a Wednes-
day night.
FELIX
Imperial versus
university applications
Want to write
an anonymous
comment about
how much Felix
sucks?
Then go to:
felixonline.co.uk
Myra had little involvement in that side
of resistance!), but if you condemn this
response then try and imagine whether
you would not want physical support
when being removed from your home.
All action was done with the knowl-
edge and support of the travellers and
the support was commendable. Two
people ended up spending Wednesday
night with their arms in concrete bar-
rels as the temperature nearly reached
freezing, with imminent arrest once
removed from the concrete. However,
it didn’t have to be this way. Even if
it was felt vital to remove them from
Dale Farm, a traveller site could eas-
ily have been built in the vicinity.
With this the travellers would have left
peacefully and quickly. The violence
seen on the TV could have been pre-
vented. Instead, our hatred of travellers
causes councillors to chase them out of
town at high human and financial ex-
pense to preserve the votes they would
have lost if travellers stayed.
When I discuss Dale Farm with peo-
ple, upholding planning law is always
given as the first reason for evicting
them. However, quickly the discus-
sions degenerate into false assump-
tions on the welfare dependency of
travellers (not an issue I’ve ever heard
outside of ill-informed debate), how
they live and how they would not want
travellers in their own back yard. When
discussing this issue, please replace the
word traveller with African, Polish or
Chinese and see whether you think
these arguments are appropriate and
not utterly racist. Whatever arguments
you hear on planning permission,
please remember that when it comes to
travellers, it is never truly about plan-
ning permission. It is because they do
not live like us and we do not like that.
If we cannot accept them as part of our
society then they will be forced to live
outside of it, breaking the law as a ne-
cessity.

