COMMENT
FELIX Friday 28 october 2011 19
Yes – James Clough No – Ed Middleton
IC Debating Society asks ...
P
ublic sector workers do the jobs that
we deem to be so important that tax-
payers cannot exempt themselves
from paying for them. We rely upon
the NHS, police force and public
transport every day; they are essential parts of
our lives and without them society would be
completely different.
Public sector jobs are fundamentally different
to private sector jobs because the customer – the
taxpayer – cannot decide to stop paying if they
get service they do not like. If all the firemen go
on strike, you cannot stop paying the part of your
taxes that pay for the fire department just be-
cause you are no longer receiving their service.
There are benefits to working in the public sec-
tor in the UK. Your employer is very unlikely
to go bankrupt and stop paying you. Many be-
lieve that public sector workers will, on balance,
receive a better pay and pension package than
they would get in a similar private sector job.
For example, Tube drivers will soon earn over
£50,000 per year. Performing work that does a
social good is another reason many people desire
public sector jobs – they feel like they are mak-
ing a difference. But is it reasonable to expect a
secure, well-paid and fulfilling job while still re-
taining all of the benefits workers in the private
sector receive?
Because the customer cannot stop paying, and
instead use a competitor like they can in the pri-
vate sector, the public sector workers are capa-
ble of holding the general public to ransom. If
they strike, there is nothing that the public can
do about it. Large public sector unions mean
that the public sector workers wield an immense
amount of power. They can bring down the gov-
ernment; the government that everyone else has
freely and fairly elected.
More worryingly, the leverage that the public
sector holds is that the people who are hurt when
they withdraw from their duties are not the rich
and powerful, but children, hospital patients, and
the poorest in society. When they strike, they
are telling the government, and by extension the
entire electorate, that unless they get what they
want, they will let the most vulnerable people in
society get hurt. It is unacceptable for the people
who are entrusted with, and rewarded for, pro-
tecting those in need to neglect their duties and
just walk away.
It also hurts the workers themselves: the public
grow resentful of them, and lose their faith in the
idea that the public sector exists to help them. In-
creasingly, people support cracking down on the
unions and in the long run this can hurt everyone
involved. Without the trust of the population the
public sector cannot function. Policemen who
are respected and trusted are far more effective
than policemen who are seen as interested purely
in their own pay.
You might say that the right to strike is an im-
portant way of keeping the government in check,
of protecting workers’ rights or of maintaining
high standards – but this is wrong. The public
sector already has a mechanism to do all of these
things: they are decided by the electorate. It is
the voters who ought to decide how much teach-
ers get paid, what police pensions should be, or
how long nurses should work. The voters are the
ones who pay for it and the entire legitimacy of
the public sector stems from the fact that they
are working for a democratically elected gov-
ernment; the public sector workers do not have
the right to overrule the rest of the people in the
country.
When they strike they hurt the public sector as
a whole. They hurt the taxpayer. They hurt the
people in society who most need their help. It is
unfair and unethical for the public sector to hold
the country to ransom; if you want to work for
the state then you must accept that the voters are
in charge and to try and go against their wishes
is just unacceptable.
I
t is important to make the distinction be-
tween whether public sector workers are
making the right decision to strike at a
certain time and whether they should be
able to strike. Clearly no right-minded
individual would advocate unnecessary or unrea-
sonable striking, but I will aim to show you why
it is important that striking is an option for those
in the public sector.
Public sector workers are in the unique position
of having the same body paying their wages as
ensuring they are paid fairly. The government,
employing public sector workers, has an incen-
tive to keep costs down: if costs were driven too
high, anger from the general public (comprising
predominantly private sector workers) would be
expressed at the ballot box and lead to the elec-
tion of parties with more thrifty attitudes towards
pay. Unfortunately, due to the nature of public
sector work, the options left for workers to ex-
press their discontentment are very limited.
The public sector tends to consist of large, na-
tional organisations with extensive power struc-
tures. Because of this, individuals working on the
lower rungs of the employment ladder become
one of many voiceless worker bees with little or
no access to the Queen Bee. It is very difficult for
the majority of public sector workers to engage
in a meaningful discussion with those responsible
for determining their salaries and working envi-
ronment. In the private sector, though workers
may be in a large industry, there is a much higher
exposure to the managers that determine their
pay. Private sector industries are also held ac-
countable to government bodies that are entirely
independent, and can act as third party arbiters in
any employment negotiations. For this reason, it
is much more important for public sector workers
to have clear and visible forms of mass protest
against unacceptable working conditions.
Another feature of public sector work that
makes striking so important is its vocational na-
ture. A lot of the workers have picked careers that
involve varying degrees of specialist training,
and have dedicated their lives to using these skills
to earn a living. However, unlike private sector
workers in similar lines of work, there are no al-
ternative providers. This means that skilled work-
ers with specialised talents are forced to work for
a single provider; one that is not accountable to
an independent body and is incentivised towards
lower pay. Also, because of this, public sector
workers tend to work long careers with the same
employer. As such, any changes to their contract
will have lasting effects for the worker’s entire
career.
Finally, the concern that the vital nature of pub-
lic sector work would give them unjustified power
in striking is an assertion that does not hold up to
scrutiny. Public sector jobs are important, but so-
ciety can survive without them. Most public sec-
tor jobs exist in industries where national co-or-
dination makes for a better service: a nationalised
health service, for instance, is many times more
efficient than a private one; or in sectors where
it is advantageous to have organizations working
for quality not profit. They do not solely consist
of “vital” industries. True, public sector striking
is inconvenient to many; but it is not unmanage-
able, and this is not a reason to disallow workers
from striking. Furthermore, as discussed above,
many public sector employees have chosen their
job as a vocation; it is something they care about.
This non-financial incentive for work means that
many public sector workers already accept longer
working hours and less pay for the work they do,
and would be inclined to strike only when their
situation became very severe.
As stated above, while there may be situations
where it is inappropriate for public sector workers
to strike, it is essential that they have the option
to do so. It should be used as a last resort, but one
that can be deployed to ensure the fair treatment
and employment status of everyone in Britain.
“Should public sector strikes and
mass action be stopped?”
“ ”
It is unfair and
unethical for the
public sector to
hold the country to
ransom “ ”
True, public
sector striking is
inconvenient to
many; but it is not
unmanageable

