HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2 Friday 28 OcTOBER 2011
What’s on
Lolcat of teh week
Special Evening Concert
The Coull Quartet will perform Shostakovitch’s
Quartet No. 13 and Dvorak’s Quartet in F Op 96
“The American”. Admission is free – a free glass of
wine will be available before the concert from 17:20
onwards.
In recognition of Wednesday’s Athletics
Club Committee Bar Night, why not check
out this week’s Sports section? Four pages
of reports, interviews and league tables.
It’s a hard, impoverished life down here
in the office, and our Sports Editors and
contributors have to keep pushing right
up to the deadline to bring you the latest
results and listings. Anyway, if Sports
isn’t your thing, there’s always the Cryptic
Crossword. And if that isn’t your thing,
well, I’m beat.
BEHIND THE SCENES
Felix Sports, trawling through the
latest Wednesday results so you
don’t have to
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Maciej Matuszewski Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy
Leclercq David Wilson Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Business Editors Beñat Gurrutxaga Lerma
Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto Stephen
Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy
Editors Afonso Campos Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Deepka Rana Eva Rosenthal Annina Sartor
CLASSIFIEDS
This prized office trinket is pretty representative of the Sports Editors
on a Wednesday evening – keep on trucking!
Looking for Stroud Advanced Engineering Math-
ematics, Good Condition, Fourth Edition. Will offer
£20. Reply to book@brkt.me
Garage in South Kensington requires painting,
call 02078351710 for further information
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
Competition
Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort
Road
Tuesday 1 November 17:45–18:30
Well lookie here, we’ve only gone and gotten our-
selves two copies of Bad Teacher to give away on
DVD. To be in with a chance of bagging yourself a
copy, simply email felix@imperial.ac.uk, with the
subject ‘DVD PLS’. The winners will be randomly se-
lected from all valid entries after 23:59 on Novem-
ber 1. The Editor’s decision is final. Bad Teacher is
out on Blu-ray and DVD October 31 courtesy of Sony
Pictures Home Entertainment. While you’re at it,
head over to www.facebook./BadTeacher.UK.IRE
for your chance to win a massive TV, just sayin’.
Gorgeous fixed gear bike. Shiny black with metal-
lic blue fittings. Offers in excess of £350. Email
ac1507@ic.ac.uk
Jakobs Café (20 Gloucester Road) are currently
looking for enthusiastic students with good Eng-
lish and presentation skills to serve their custom-
ers on a part time basis. Shifts: 12pm to 3pm or
6pm to 9pm (Monday to Sunday) Salary: £7/hour
+ food. To apply, send your CV to vidhulvinodh@
gmail.com, or phone 07466632915

