ARTS
FELIX
20
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 October 2011
L
ast week saw Julian Barnes claim
the Man Booker for his short
novel ‘The Sense of an Ending’
in what has been derided as the
worst shortlist in the prize’s 43
year history. No doubt this was caused in part
by the judges’ reward for readability; a strange
requirement for the pre-eminent award for lit-
erary fiction in the UK.
‘Sense’ treads familiar territory – middle-
aged, middle-class pondering on memory and
death – such is the scope of modern British
literature. Tony Webster is a retired divorcé
contemplating the passivity of his life when a
letter from the past resurfaces, causing him to
re-evaluate his actions, or rather his memories
of them. What comes next is a psychologically
acute but oddly unbelievable retrospective of
his rememberings; of what he has forgotten,
and what he has chosen to forget.
Barnes’ story touches thematically on Ka-
zuo Ishiguro’s ‘The Remains of the Day’
and ‘On Chesil Beach’ by Ian McEwan (both
Booker winning writers – though McEwan
Poem for the Week
Good Morning Autumn
by Osas Omoigiade
Trees crane over like almost naked men-
Whose shame is barely covered by the red and
gold flannels
Although these too fall
And these men will soon stand stripped
The fruits of the trees are confused
While some die, conkers ripen
The Sun is not sure how high to rise
Little humans shiver in their t-shirts; given into the
lies of a bright heatless sun
Good Morning Autumn
In his thirty-ninth “Discworld” novel, ‘Snuff’,
Terry Pratchett takes his beleaguered officer of
the law Sam Vimes on a well-deserved holiday
(the relaxation bit does not last long, of course)
to the countryside. Pratchett has built, over the
course of the novels, an entire self-contained uni-
verse set on the disc of a world on the back of
four elephants standing on the back of the a giant
turtle, with a cast numbering in the hundreds.
As the series has progressed, it has grown fun-
nier and smarter. The writing has developed into
sharp prose; the books have matured from being
broader satires of the fantasy genre into wonder-
ful pieces in their own right. It is their consistent
humour that has ensured Pratchett’s success.
Every page is imbued with comedy, but Pratch-
ett revels as much in plot and description as in
one-liners and satire. For a fantasy crime novel,
‘Snuff’ contains enough asides on slavery, class,
the countryside and literature to stagger the new-
comer expecting some light fluff. The marvellous
thing about this book is that these little moments
never feel forced and are deftly woven into the
narrative.
By ‘Discworld’, Sam Vimes has gone from
being the drunken shambles of a man seen in
‘Guards! Guards!’ to a renowned figure of jus-
tice; head of the city watch and Duke of Ankh.
Along with his fantastic savage-yet-suave butler
Willikins, Vimes must decipher a countryside full
of chickens, goblins, villagers, and rich lords; all
whilst attempting to bring justice to those who de-
serve it, avoiding the disapproval of his wife, and
still finding the time to show his son the wonders
of the countryside.
‘Snuff’ contains all the usual Pratchett magic
but in many ways the humour seems more natu-
ral and frequent than in earlier works, relying
more on observation and action rather than on
jokes. This evolution in style allows the plot to
move forward at full speed, and certainly there is
enough going on to keep the reader turning pages.
By removing protagonist Vimes to the country-
side, Pratchett has taken him out of his element.
This is certainly not a new formula, but it is pulled
off with such élan it is impossible to begrudge.
Readers new to Pratchett can find the book en-
joyable and accessible, but certainly the many ref-
erences to his past work make it a treat for his long
term fans. Within a week of its release ‘Snuff’had
sold more copies than the entire combined sales
of every book on the Man Booker Prize long list.
Whilst some literary snobs may doubt the contri-
bution of his genre, Pratchett’s legions of fans and
phenomenal sales record leave no doubt that he is
still on an upward trajectory.
Snuff is out now
“ ‘Sense of an Ending’
treads familiar territory...
such is the scope of
modern British literature”
David Carr on the shortcomings of this year’s Man Booker prize winner
Not exactly a Booker novel
Let’s do the Vime warp again
Ian Green
won for a different book). However, ‘Sense’
lacks the pathos of Ishiguro’s unreliable narra-
tor and the subtlety of McEwan’s interweaved
narrative.
Andrew Motion, the former Poet Laureate
and last year’s Booker head judge, said that
amongst the dire shortlist, Barnes’ novel was
the clear winner, though his panel did select
Howard Jacobson’s similarly middle-of-the-
road ‘The Finkler Question’. It makes you
wonder if perhaps the list was compiled only
to give Barnes his just desserts; after all, this
was his fourth nomination for the prize and his
first win.
‘The Sense of an Ending’ is not a bad book.
It is faultlessly written, and at times beauti-
fully so, but in its constant exposition it often
feels more like an extended essay than a full-
blooded work of fiction. Surely to win a prize
this big a novel must have a good chance of
making it into the English Canon, and this one
just does not fit the bill.
What do you mean you asked for Jeff Bridges?
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new poets. If
you want to see your work appearing here, do get
in touch. Additionally, those interested in joining
Poetry Society, contact Osas at osamudiamen.
omoigiade09@imperial.ac.uk
Why pay for tickets, when you
can get them for free?
A Walk on Part at the Soho Theatre
A dramatisation of MP Chris Mullin’s diaries, giv-
ing new insight into the Blair/Brown years. With
the incresing political awareness of students all
over the country, this play should be rife with ma-
terial for discussion. Press night Friday 18 Novem-
ber.
Next Time I’ll Sing To You
The play that launched Michael Caine’s career
in 1963 is revived for the 40th birthday season.
Press night Friday 11 November.
We have many more FREE plays, exhibitions
and concerts (drinks included sometimes) all in
exchange for a short review. Get in touch!
Michael missed out on last week’s offers
Snuff – Google Images was not our friend

