F
or those of you who don’t
know who Yelle is, I am not
going to bother explaining;
maybe because I don’t know
who she is either, or maybe
because if you like the sound of what
she does from reading this review you
are perfectly capable of finding it out for
yourself.
After vaguely remembering some
kind of remix of her song ‘A cause des
garcons’ on an early Kitsune compila-
tion, I thought it would be worth check-
ing her out. I’m glad I did. Ouais, she is
just another electro-pop act that we all
are capable of living without, but if you
actually are incapable of living without
French, female electro-pop then you’re
probably dead right now if you have not
heard of Yelle.
Opening her set with two identically
dressed male drummers complete with
green sports visors, the flamboyant
Frenchie ran on stage engulfed from
head to foot in a coat which seemed to
Yelle
Ninkasi Salle du Kao, Lyon
October 22, 2011
Lily Le
We all yell for Yelle!
be made of shredded newspaper. Well,
kudos to her for the recycling ethic and
the ability to sing (very well, in fact) un-
der that thing.
Despite an absence of live instruments
except for the drums and her voice, the
use of just a backing track was not at
all detrimental to the performance. The
beats were heavy enough to keep every-
one dancing and Yelle was boisterous
enough to keep everyone’s eyes glued
on her. Plus, she was pumpin’ those
moves to no end, you couldn’t not join
in.
With two costume changes; first into
a tiny leopard print dress and then into
a skin-tight, full-bodied red playsuit; her
set was gimmicky enough to fit in with
the air of Perry-Gaga-Rihanna-esque
plastic whilst maintaining a sharp edge
of Major Lazer cool.
It is a shame that all of the songs were
in French (or that the English culture in-
cludes a complacency of being ignorant
of foreign languages) otherwise she’d
surely take the English charts by storm.
However if Yelle’s style sounds like
your kind of thing, don’t let it put you
off having a listen as the music is defi-
nitely strong enough to hold itself up. Think she’s colourful? Wait until you see the lemon!
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Blue Sky Black
Death
Noir
2011
Of all the shit stage-names artists have given them-
selves in the history of music, ‘Bono’ has got to
be the worst. But ‘Young God’, one-half of Seattle-
based Blue Sky Black Death (BSBD), is definitely a
close second. In fact, if BSBD weren’t so damn fan-
tastic, I’d say he was an arrogant so-and-so (thank-
fully U2’s songs afford them no such protection).
BSBD’s latest album, Noir, is an education in how
to make epic electronic/instrumental music prop-
erly. What I mean by this is that instead of brazenly
shouting, “THIS MUSIC IS FOR STADIUMS” (*ahem,
M83…) their music takes you on an expressive
emotional journey that just so happens to include
the feeling of staring deep into an eternal sky.
Flowery language aside, it’s the logical conclu-
sion of moving instrumental hip-hop away from the
dancefloor. Songs like “Sleeping Children Are Still
Flying” may have a wicked country-infused drop,
but it doesn’t rest on its laurels; the remaining five
and a half minutes are varied and diverse, with nary
a hint of a repetitive chorus.
So my advice, no, my plea to you this week, is sit
yourself on your bed, hook up the speakers, and
enjoy the sensation of falling through the abyss.
Blue Sky Black Death sample Brobama’s inaugura-
tion speech on their track “And Stars, Ringed”. Tweet
me your favourite sample @kadhimshubber. Better
still, tweet Brobama @PresidentObama and lobby
him to start a career as a DJ…
The third edition of LIFEM brings a Babelian vari-
ety of musical discoveries to some of London’s
most underrated venues. The inimitable repertoire
brings together some of the finest creative minds
from all across the globe, including the mesmeris-
ing Vietnamese voicings of Huong Thanh; Soname
Yangchen’s contemporary Tibetan mountain songs;
shamanic Siberian outfit Namgar (Tibetan for “white
cloud“); the beautiful bossa-nova stylings of Ango-
lan Aline Frazão; a special evening dedicated to
new Estonian music mixing the contemporary cello
of Taavo Remmel and the avant garde excursions of
the Free Tallinn Trio; and of course an ambassador
to the fervent scene of Japanese experimental mu-
sic, tape artist Aki Onda.
Take the opportunity to explore new music and
new corners of London, visiting Cafe Oto (Dalston),
Lost Theatre (Stockwell), Rich Mix (Shoreditch),
Kings Place, and St. Pancras Old Church (both near
King’s Cross). Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
October 29th - November 7th
Felix Music Night
I
mperial’s music scene is certainly
underground. The bright morning
sunshine rarely reaches its dark
recesses and its artists receive
little attention. The Felix Music
Nights are our way of celebrating this
under-appreciated scene and also foster-
ing it; bringing more students into the
tent and saying, “Hey, there’s a good
thing going on here.” The formula hasn’t
changed since last year’s successes:
scout the finest DJs from Music Tech,
sniff out some red-hot bands from Jazz
& Rock, and grab London’s most hyped
up-and-coming artists to headline.
Our headliner this time is rapper Mikill
Pane. With some of the wittiest and
weirdest lyrics around, he’s similar to
Das Racist. He shot to attention with his
heart-wrenching rhymes on Ed Sheer-
an’s track “Little Lady” and has been
overloading music blogs since, receiving
praise from none-other than Dj Semtex.
Below, Iñigo gives you a sneak-peek at
the DJ lineup and how Felix and Music
Tech started collaborating:
Felix approached Music Tech Society
in January of last year, about doing a
WiiJ performance for their new student
music night. WiiJing is, essentially, hack-
ing a Nintendo Wii remote to use for live
music manipulation or, as the name sug-
gests, DJing. Unfortunately, no hacking
was in the works at the time. The sug-
gestion did, however, inspire a new live
element to the society. A live electronic
improvisation group was banded, though
it remained untitled by the time the night
came along. Sadly, No More Reality, as
it came to be dubbed, is no more, on the
count of the academic dissidence of the
local synth wizard. Such is life.
This time around, KABLAAM will see
Music Tech behind the turntables for a
tetrapak of electronic stimulation. Open-
ing the evening, Not Indigo will warm
up the sound system with an unorthodox
amalgam of groovy head hop, chilled
psychotropics and dubby rhythms. Keep-
ing it slow and low, SMB will provide
some fine deep cuts from the frontiers
of house and techno. Before the head-
liner hits the stage, Monsk will warm
the floor with his sensual blend of soulful
polyrhythmia and throbbing low end. To
close the evening, Niceberg, a veteran of
the Nintendisco retrogaming club night,
will rip the speakers apart with an out-
burst of frantic bass music, cracking the
cones into submission and eventual pa-
ralysis.
A
B
L
A
A
M
K
Kadhim Shubber and Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto on
KABLAAM, Felix’s bad-ass Autumn party
Search “KABLAAM – Felix Music
Night” on Facebook for tickets and
more information.
KABLAAM is on Saturday 12th of
November in Metric. Entry is only
£3 and it starts at 7pm.
Make sure not to miss
LIFEM: LOndon International
Festival of Exploratory Music
MUSIC
FELIX
24 Friday 28 October 2011
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith

