I
don’t know how many of you are into
Dubstep, Drum & Bass, House or any
other genre with a bassline. But let me
ask the people who are: what happens to
you when you hear a fat tune?
I know that, whatever the genre, a good song
always elicits some kind of emotional response.
For some reason a huge bassline just does some-
thing different, something more physical.
I think it’s most obvious in Fabric or Cable
at around 4am on a Friday night. Legions of
club-goers all have that classic I’ve-just-heard-
about-my-mum-having-sex-with-my-brother
look scrawled across their face.
The last time I went there, I noticed a man
whose jaw was actually on the wrong side of his
face. I wasn’t really sure what to do, or what to
say. Was it a medical emergency? Was he even
aware of it? God only knows.
I always thought it was one of those things,
a weird kind of mass response. But then, while
trying to waste some time during revision pe-
riod (you’re gonna love it freshers!) I stumbled
across the Fred the Raver videos on YouTube.
The kid in the videos is about 3 years old: his
parents play him Drum & Bass tracks and,
strangely, he does exactly the same thing i.e.
W
ith universal song
lyrics, occasional
falsetto vocals and
a collection of sing-
along anthemic
choruses, to an extent Noel Gallagher’s
High Flying Birds contains all the ingre-
dients that have characterised his later
Oasis contributions.
Coming in at ten songs it gives a nod
to all the familiar influences, from the
Kinks-style staccato pulse employed in
‘Dream On’ to the psychedelic reverb
swirl at the end of ‘Stop The Clocks’
reminiscent of The La’s ‘Looking
Glass’.
The inclusion of dance-inspired ‘What
A Life’, which although some might see
as a forced attempt to distinguish from
his old band, does add an increased vari-
ety to the record; showcasing a different,
he pulls a bassface (it’s hilarious, give them a
watch).
The child certainly hasn’t been to Fabric (un-
less he’s got a great fake ID) and he probably
has never seen anyone pull a bassface before.
So why did he do it? He clearly loves it, why
not just smile?
Thinking about it, it didn’t really make any
sense, so the Imperial reflex kicked in and I
started researching. The number of papers on
Science Direct under “bassface” being zero, I
ventured into the slightly less reputable corners
“I noticed a man whose
jaw was actually on the
wrong side of his face.”
There’s more to French rock than Serge Gains-
bourg. For a time there was Sloy (1991–2000)
who looked like they were going places after play-
ing shows with Shellac and being invited on tour
by P J Harvey. John Peel took a shine to them too,
back in the day. But despite sexing up their sleazy
punk sound with a bugle solo on their third album
Electrelite (1998) it still ended up being their last.
Carrying the Tricolore today are Chevreuil.
Chevreuil are so French they don’t even bother
translating their band profile. But no matter, the
gist is clear:
“Tony C. (guitare) et Julien F. (batterie) commen-
cent le groupe CHEVREUIL en 1998 ... 3 albums
(“SPORT” – 2000, “GHETTO BLASTER” – 2001,
“CHATEAUVALLON” – 2003) ... mentor STEVE
ALBINI ... batterie mécanique/métronome ... le
groupe inaugure la guitare magnétique, instru-
ment hybride qui a un pied dans l’univers du rock
et l’autre dans l’atmosphère de la musique élec-
tronique”.
Roughly speaking, Chevreuil tread the same terri-
tory as Battles, but they’re scuzzier and do with-
out the squeaky vocals. There are also only two of
them, augmented by multiple amps and, in case
you missed it back there, a “magnetic guitar”.
All punk has roots in its fanbase, with many
bands doing as much as possible to blur the line
between band and audience. Lightning Bolt fa-
mously set up on the floor in front of the stage
when they play, with the crowd usually bouncing
into the drumkit. Chevreuil take a more academic
stance towards inclusiveness.
Last year they collaborated with Professor Ro-
dolphe Durand, chair of the Strategy department
at the HEC Paris business school, on his latest
book The Pirate Organization: an essay on the evo-
lution of capitalism, which seeks answers to the
questions “what connects sea pirates of the 17th
century to the pirate radios, cyber hackers, and bi-
opirates of our times” and “how does piracy relate
to the evolution of capitalism”. True to the spirit of
the project, Chevreuil wrote a song to accompany
the book and released it under a Creative Com-
mons license. For their part in the enterprise the
band were profiled in the Financial Times, an out-
let not well known for its coverage of punk rock.
Since we’re in France this week anyway, it’s also
worth checking out Sincabeza and Pneu, espe-
cially if Chevreuil are your cup of chocolat chaud.
All three have song samples streamed from their
last.fm pages and Chevreuil’s song about pirating
can be downloaded from www.organisationpirate.
com/p/la-musique.html
Punk Planet by
Douglas Heaven
This week: Chevreuil
Do you have a bassface?
Chandra Chadalawada investigates the phenomenon
of the Internet.
There I found a “scientist” who wrote about
how, in nature, the only sounds with a major
bass component are things like the roar of a
lion, a volcano erupting or a tree falling i.e.
scary shit.
His hypothesis was, therefore, that basslines
“remind” humans of things our caveman
friends got scared by. It is genuinely ridicu-
lous (and is probably a crock of shit) but it just
might be crazy enough to be true.
Just think about that next time you’re out...
Man is pained at sight of giant lemon
Noel Gallagher: a real high-flyer
Alex Roocroft is impressed by the Oasis guitarist’s solo debut
but still catchy, aspect of his writing.
Some of the strongest moments on the
album are on tracks ‘If I had a Gun’ and
‘(Stranded On) The Wrong Beach’. ‘If
I Had A Gun’, which is a personal fa-
vourite was like ‘Stop The Clocks’ and
‘Record Machine’, originally intended
for Oasis.
The casually-overdriven rhythm gui-
tar slowly burning below a ghostly vocal
blends some of the darker moments of
The Beatles’ later studio albums with
‘After The Gold Rush’ era Neil Young
to impressive effect.
All in all, the album is full of great
songs which would easily appeal to any
fan of Oasis. Whether it is better than
Beady Eye is a tough one to call, in
many ways it could be seen as the sec-
ond disc of the eighth Oasis album with
‘Different Gear’ as the first. Sunglasses are necessary when near giant lemons
FELIX Friday 28 october 2011 25
MUSIC

