FELIX
26
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
James Simpson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 October 2011
I
have been a huge fan of The Appren-
tice since the UK version debuted back
in 2004. I’m certainly not the only one,
with the finale of the last season having
more than ten million viewers. I suspect
that for most people the main draw has been the
consistent incompetence of the candidates and
the resulting boardroom meetings with a furious
Lord Sugar. While the tasks in last year’s Junior
Apprentice were generally of the smaller scale
and Sugar was far more restrained than usual,
there was no shortage of what made the origi-
nal great. The second series of the show, which
began this Monday and has now been wisely re-
named Young Apprentice, looks set to continue
in the first’s fine tradition.
As always the show opens with a montage of
generic shots of the candidates walking away
from home, luggage in hand, culminating in a
group shot of everyone marching down a desert-
ed Millennium Footbridge. I wonder how many
commuters and tourists were inconvenienced by
closing the bridge to film a scene that lasts no
longer than five seconds? This is all intercut with
the candidates’ over-confident and pretentious
quotes about themselves. Highlights include:
“I’m not focused on making friends. I’m focused
on getting to my goals”, “I’m a risky person.You
like it or you don’t. I’m like marmite.” and “I
got eight A stars, two A’s. No one intimidates
me because I know I’m better than them.”. This
is becomes doubly hilarious when we move to
the boardroom and see Sugar telling them not
to “pretend [they] know it all because it will be
embarrassing”.
Here we first get to the return of another Ap-
prentice staple, Lord Sugar’s atrocious jokes,
as he continues on to say that it would be “as
embarrassing as if Nick and I put on a cap and
started to rap”. Of course, all of the terrified
sixteen and seventeen year olds laugh. Eventu-
ally Sugar reveals the challenge, which is, as the
episodes title suggests, to make and sell “frozen
treats”. We soon learn that bad comedy isn’t the
sole preserve of Lord Sugar as the voiceover in-
forms us that “ice cream [is] a market worth a
cool one billion [and] to scoop some of that up
they’ll have to think up something special”.
With the teams chosen, as always in the first
challenge it is girls against boys, they then go
Pick of the week
They’re definitely not the
same as last week. OK?
Friday | 2100 - 2210 | Channel 4
The Experiments
Derren Brown plays mind games and tests on the
‘capacity for evil’.
Saturday | 2045 - 2145 | Channel 4
Jamie’s Great Britain
Jamie Oliver travels the length and breadth of
Great Britain in search of food.
Sunday | 2100 - 2200 | ITV1
Downton Abbey
The residents of Downton try to return to normal
life following the armistice.
Monday | 2100 - 2200 | Channel 4
Young Apprentice
The 11 remaining candidates are challenged to
design a product for the parent and baby market.
After a quick lesson in bringing up children, the
teams have two days to produce their prototype,
before pitching their idea to three of the country’s
leading retailers.
Tuesday | 2000 - 2100 | BBC2
James May’s Man Lab
Top Gear’s James May goes on a ghost hunt in one
of Britain’s most haunted castles.
Wednesday | 2030 - 2100 | BBC1
Paul Merton’s Adventures
John Culshaw and Debra Stephenson impersonate
celebrities including Fabio Capello and Gok Wan.
Prince Charles decides that it’s time to get a job.
Thursday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Crimewatch
Not as good as it used to be.
to their new house to plan their strategies. Here
we get to feel the feel the editor’s hand when the
only things the boys ask each other on their car
journey is where they live, what business experi-
ence they have and what skills they possess —
unless they really are that boring.
The teams’ first decision is what to call them-
selves. The boys quickly settle on the name
‘Atomic’, an interesting choice for a company
that is going to be selling food. Apparently one
of reasons for the choice was because it sounds
“mysterious” and “dangerous”. The girls consid-
er ‘Sixth Sense’and ‘Core’, one of them suggest-
ing that the latter is a good idea since “the Earth
and the Sun have a core and for you to have the
Sun you need a core”. Eventually though, they
settle on the more generic name ‘Kinetic’. The
girls then manage to convince Hayley to project
manage since she “really enjoys cooking”. The
boys have less luck with Lewis who, despite
impressive sales experience, decides that he
doesn’t want to lead the team. The job is taken
by Harry instead.
When it comes down to making ice cream the
girls came up with the interesting idea of mix-
ing something “healthy with chocolate”. This
resulted in, amongst others, a chocolate-banana
flavour and an eye catching, if not entirely ac-
curate, slogan of “treat the lips – trim the hips”.
They decide to make as much ice-cream as
they can manage in the time that they’ve got
but a miscalculation means that they don’t buy
enough fruit and have to bin thirty litres of their
mix. They make up for this however with ex-
orbitant prices, including charging extra for a
cone, and other rather unethical business prac-
tice such. These include adding expensive top-
pings to ice cream even if the customer doesn’t
ask for them and letting small children pick out
the most expensive options while their parents
aren’t looking.
Despite some early problems with the cream
machines and a rather unusual apple-watermel-
on frozen yogurt flavour, the boys do manage
to come up with a quite effective pirate theme,
complete with a mobile kiosk painted to look
like a treasure chest – all quite appropriate for
their seaside selling location. I do, however,
have to admit that their “Shiverrr me timbers”
(misspelling apparently intentional) slogan was
quite cringeworthy. They go for the opposite
strategy to the girls, undercutting competition on
the beachfront with £1.50 for one scoop and £2
for two.
Back in the boardroom it is revealed that,
despite the boys selling out of stock, the girls’
profits exceeded theirs by almost £150. Perhaps
they should have tried exploiting their customers
too. Harry decides to bring James and Mahamed
back into the boardroom with him to face be-
ing fired by Sugar. Of the two, James managed
to prove that being joint first in Ireland in Eco-
nomics doesn’t make you a good businessman
by having suggested at the start of the day that
prices should be slashed to £1 while Mahamed
was the worst salesperson despite claiming to
have been the best. It’s a shame that somebody
had to be fired as I’m sure that both would have
been very entertaining in future episodes but,
unfortunately, we did have to see Mahamed go.
All in all, this was a typically brilliant episode.
You won’t normally learn how to run a success-
ful business by watching the Apprentice or its
spin off but you’ll certainly learn what not to do
and have a good laugh.
“I got eight A stars, two
A’s. No one intimidates
me because I know I’m
better than them.”
Maciej Matuszewski is drawn back into the boardroom
Childrens’ Sugar intake boosts ego
TELEVISION
The Young Apprentices and Lord Sugardaddy
Making up for something?
One of the many stars of Crimewatch

