FILM
FELIX
28
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 OCTOBER 2011
It’s rare for a disaster scenario to make for a
decent film let alone a great one, so it is with a
sense of relief that I report that Contagion rises
above the majority of its siblings to provide an
unusually subtle 106 minutes of entertainment.
Director Stephen Soderbergh adopts an al-
most documentary-style structure to his story
of a new global pandemic of flu-like virus. The
viewer follows the parallel stories of the hus-
band (Matt Damon) of Patient Zero (Gwyneth
Paltrow), an epidemiologist searching for the
source of the outbreak in China (Marion Cotil-
lard), a walking Julian Assange reference (Jude
Law), and the team of scientists at the Ameri-
can Centre for Disease Control (Laurence
Fishburne, Kate Winslet) trying to develop
a vaccine. As these characters go about their
struggles, society starts to buckle under the
strain of the high death toll.
Paranoia is the theme and motif here – with a
lot of lingering shots of door handles and drink-
ing glasses that have been smeared with traces
of infected bodily fluids. This is mildly unset-
tling, if a little obvious. More impressive is the
handling of scenes of public disorder, which are
given a lighter touch than in many a compa-
rable apocalypse. The direction maintains pace
well and the script, while not crackling with
wit, is far from abysmal and creates a sense that
In brief
The BFI London Film Festival
Leicester Square, a sunny Saturday afternoon,
the usual mayhem caused by tourists and the fact
that most of the square is actually shut for con-
struction works, but something else is different.
Names are being whispered in the chaos; some
say Keira Knightley is about to appear, others Ma-
donna or Jack Black (actually none of them did
that day). Someone (I assume) famous strolls
down the red carpet in a flurry of camera flashes.
All the cinemas advertise the intriguing “BFI Lon-
don Film Festival”. The red carpets are out, pho-
tographers and passers-by crowd around them.
The film festival is on! Sat in a dark room, the
curtains open and Jack Black begins demonstrat-
ing how to groom a corpse.
Opening on October 12 with Fernando Meirelles’
360, the BFI London Film Festival brings to Lon-
don a fabulous selection of 204 features and 110
shorts from 55 countries. 360, written by Peter
Morgan (The Queen), set the trend for this year’s
festival. It is a story of relationships and connec-
tions in the globalised 21st Century taking place
in Vienna, London, Paris, Rio, Denver, Phoenix and
Bratislava and showcasing some of Britain’s fin-
est talent with a sizzling Jude Law, sexy Rachel
Weisz and seasoned Anthony Hopkins as the lead
actors.
This event is more than just glitz and glamour in
central London. Some of the most awaited films
of the season were screened in Leicester Square
with the critically acclaimed We Need to Talk about
Kevin (out now in cinemas), The Ides of March
(or when George Clooney multi-tasks), A Danger-
ous Method and The Descendants. In addition,
a number of restored classics were screened at
the BFI Southbank centre as well as foreign films
that would probably never hit a screen in Britain.
A samurai film, a documentary following Sarah
Palin, or dark cancer-related humour, there was
something for every taste and mood.
Last night the festival closed, on a British note
with The Deep Blue Sea directed by Terence Da-
vies, at least until next year for more intriguing
features and discoveries. Also, we now have the
certainty that Clooney won’t do a Schwarzie and
run for election, or so the Evening Standard says.
Marie-Laure Hicks
Jerzy Hoffman might not be the most fa-
mous of Polish film directors but he has
certainly shown himself to be competent in
the past, most notably in his adaptations of
Henryk Sienkiewicz’s epic Trilogy (With
Fire and Sword, The Deluge and Colonel
Wołodyjowski). Therefore, despite its rela-
tively poor critical reception, I was quite
hopeful for his latest work Battle of Warsaw
1920 3D, which has received a surprisingly
wide UK release. Unfortunately, I was to be
disappointed.
The Battle of Warsaw is considered by many
to have been the decisive battle in the Polish-
Soviet war of 1919-1921, in which the Polish
army managed to rout the Bolshevik forces,
who previously been considered unstoppable.
This could have made an interesting film and,
while Hoffman’s effort is not entirely with-
out merit, a combination of heavy handedness
and overacting make what was supposed to be
a serious war movie feel like a cross between
a propaganda film and a comedy.
Take, for example, one of the first scenes
in the film, when we see Lenin discussing
the War with the Politburo. He makes the cli-
chéd “first Poland, then Europe, then World”
speech, after which there is literally the sound
of thunder and a flash of red before we move
on to the title screen. Hoffman did the same
trick when introducing the main antagonist,
Chmielnicki, in With Fire and Sword but at
least Chmielnicki had some depth, rather than
being nothing more than a cheap comic book
villain, like Lenin is here.
Some would argue that we should not have
expected objectivity from a Polish made film
about this topic but that’s not really the prob-
lem here. The Trilogy films weren’t at all ob-
jective but, unlike this movie, they were at
least competently made. The Deluge even re-
ceived an Oscar nomination for Best Foreign
Language Film.
Battle of Warsaw doesn’t even seem to have
a proper antagonist. Lenin is far too distant a
figure for him to directly affect the protago-
nists — a cavalry officer and his new wife —
and while Cheka agent Bykowski looks set to
take the role he is killed off about half way
through. Arguably a war movie doesn’t need
a direct antagonist but the absence of one is
only a sign of deeper structural and pacing
flaws. A lot of the film just doesn’t flow well
and, most damningly of all, the battle itself is
pushed right to the very end. We get to witness
both sides planning but when the time comes
we only see some soldiers defending a trench
and a cavalry charge — and then it’s over. We
really get no feel for the battle, no real idea
of how it progressed and what happened. The
titular battle is almost an afterthought.
On the technical side the film certainly
looks good. The 3D is mostly competently
done, though it does get very distracting dur-
ing the faster paced sequences. Hoffman also
included far too many slow motion shots,
which, together with soundtrack, really add
to the ridiculously over-dramatic feel of the
scenes in which they are used.
In short, the film has very little to say about
the overarching war plot and while several
scenes almost make you feel for the smaller
scale story of our protagonists, these mo-
ments are ruined by the director’s inability to
show restraint. This is one of the most hilari-
ously awful films that I’ve seen this year.
these are real people.
These slick touches aside, the film has a
number of flaws. This is not an actors’ movie
in spite of its star-studded cast. Fishburne, Da-
mon, Cotillard et al all sacrifice depth of char-
acter to the overall structure and tone of the
film. In particular, Soderbergh has no problem
killing off big names. Paltrow dies within the
first few minutes and the repeated video-tape
flashbacks of the events leading up to her death
seem to do nothing more than justify her wage
for such a small role.
While all the major players are disciplined
enough not to be bombastic or over-emphasise
their presence, the lack of examination of their
motivations and emotional response to the cri-
sis is frustrating, particularly towards the end.
We are not invited to sympathise with anyone
to a significant degree, and are not expected to
care overly when some of the plot-strands are
left hanging because they no longer provided a
platform for commentary on the wider scope of
events. Soderbergh has not quite achieved his
aim of making us forget that these characters
are vehicles for the story, as opposed to the fo-
cus of it. But he does a significantly better job
than the directors of similar films like The Day
After Tomorrow or 2012.
Of course, there are only two possible out-
comes: the world ends, or everything goes back
to normal. In either case it can be tempting to
ask the question “Well what was the point of
that?” and Contagion is no exception. Ironically
for what was intended to be a sort-of cautionary
tale about disease and, to an extent, globalisa-
tion, I came away feeling distinctly reassured.
The CDC react to the outbreak in a professional
and efficient manner, without being so perfect
as to make it appear a propaganda piece. It
looks like this is about the worst such a situa-
tion could get, and I could imagine a lot worse.
In summary, Contagion is not going to move
you to tears, nor yelps of laughter or fear. But
for an afternoon of sharp and smart entertain-
ment with a healthy respect for realism, you
could do a lot worse.
Only 3 mins of Gwyneth... the rest’s OK
A disgraceful portrayal of the Battle of Warsaw
Henry Turner-Chambers
Director Steven Soderbergh
Screenwriter Scott Z. Burns
Cast Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow,
Marion Cotillard, Kate Winslet, Jude Law,
Laurence Fisburne
Contagion
Maciej Matuszewski
Director Jerzy Hoffman
Screenwriters Jerzy Hoffman, Jaroslaw
Sokol
Cast Viktor Balabanov, Adam Ferency
Battle of Warsaw 1920
Gwynnie wasn’t too pleased with her hubby’s new album: myloawef xylotosoiwlek

