Imperial College Union has become the
only student union in the UK to publish an
official response to the National Student
Survey (NSS). A poor performance in this
this year’s NSS has been widely blamed
for the College slipping 11 places in the
Sunday Times League Table for 2012 en-
try. This was the first year of a new meth-
odology, which places greater weight on
the survey, being used to compile the table.
The report – written by Union President
Scott Heath, Deputy President (Educa-
tion) Jason Parmar and Representation
CoordinatorAndrew Keenan – summaris-
es the NSS data in an easy to understand
format and, in the words of Parmar, “pro-
vides 35 Union Recommendations to help
improve the Student Experience at Imperi-
al”. Parmar has written in his official blog
that “the low results in the NSS reveal a
genuine problem with the quality of teach-
ing at Imperial” and added that he believes
that “if college takes on board and effec-
tively implements what this response from
the Union and student body recommends,
then we should see a dramatic increase in
the quality of teaching and student satis-
faction at Imperial College.”
The NSS Response reveals that while
student satisfaction with teaching is 83%,
comparable with previous years, a large
number of students believe that staff have
not “made the subject interesting”. This is
attributed to “lack of variety in teaching
methods, as well as our institutional stub-
bornness to embrace new technologies”.
To combat this, the Union recommends
“transparent and formal training for lectur-
ers with biennial review” and “solidifying
the claimed link between teaching ability
and promotion”. Parmar has told Felix that
it is widely accepted that “the route to pro-
fessorship is that you have to teach”.
Further improvements could be
achieved through “visible, prominent and
prestigious” student-led teaching awards
being extended to every department to
incentivise high quality teaching. Addi-
tionally, implementing a “’You Say, We
Did’ campaign within each department to
promote changes in teaching as a direct
result of Student On-Line Evaluation”
would create “a powerful tool for spotting
individual problems and successes” and
would make students “feel that they can
influence their course design”.
3
FELIX Friday 28 october 2011
NEWS
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
Union first to provide response to NSS
The Response also emphasises the need
for blended learning and technological
innovations. Heath has pointed out that
while “part of the University’s [full] name
is technology” it has “too often followed”
others in this area. He gives Imperial be-
ing one of “the last to have a mobile app”
as an example of this. He believes that
“you can’t be number one if you follow”
and that it is therefore “time to lead”.
As such the Union has recommended
that the “College actively encourage and
reward innovations in teaching methods”,
pointing to MSc in Strategic Marketing as
a prime example. An appendix to the re-
port, which is available on Parmar’s blog,
outlines how handing out iPads to students
on the course has improved communica-
tions between them and staff. It explains
that “apps such as Goodreader allow stu-
dents to make notes on the lecture slides
during teaching [and) let them send an-
notations directly to lecturer so they can
expand or explain points and send them
after a lecture as a point for discussion in
tutorials”. Coursework elements which
incorporate “creating Wordpress blogs,
making applications, building websites
and filming videos” were also praised.
The report’s authors also believe that
technological innovations may help the
College in the area of Assessment and
Feedback, in which it is currently ranked
163rdoutof168bytheNSS,withsatisfac-
tion at 54%. The Union recommends that
“College and the Union work [together]
on a major project: the creation of a feed-
back and assessment programme that sim-
plifies and automates the process for staff
and students”. The software would allow
“a marker to instantly type or transcribe
feedback for each student as they mark”.
The report points out that this “would
prevent administrative delay”, solve “is-
sues of legibility of marker’s handwrit-
ing” and provide a “method of gathering
reliable cohort-wide information”. Further
suggested improvements in Assessment
and Feedback include making “marker’s
deadlines as compulsory as students’ sub-
mission deadlines” and regularly review-
ing coursework to “ensure relevance …
and to seek improvement”.
The report also supports students
building up soft and transferrable skills
to aid with their Personal Development,
with Heath saying he would like to see
the implementation of a “transferable
skills course” and “more group work
and presentations” as part of students’
degrees. Academic Support could be
improved by departments allocating
Report unveils move towards better teaching and automated feedback
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maciej Matsuzewski
Imperial College Union aim to combat Imperial’s low ranking for assessment and feedback in the NSS
“time and funding in Welcome Week to
bring [academic] buddies together” and
reforming the Personal Tutor system so
that Tutors have regular meetings with
their tutees and are “given access to in-
formation about their … academic pro-
gression”. The report points out that the
suggested feedback software might again
be of use here.
To allow the Union to oversee the
implementation of these suggestions
it has been recommended that “the
Deputy President (Education) and the
Union President … sit as full members
of the Strategic Education Committee”.
Queen’s University Belfast is currently
the only other Russell Group University
without student representatives on all
academic committees. Heath has said
that he believes that this change would
be “very beneficial” and that student rep-
resentatives are required “at every level”
of the College educational structure.
Heath has said that the Response has,
in general, “received the approval of
senior College management”, though
Parmar added that the issue of getting
representation on the Strategic Education
Committee was not looking “as promis-
ing as had been initially thought”. The
Union is now in the process of meeting
with senior staff in each department to
discuss the proposals.
“... [there is] a
genuine problem
with the quality of
teaching at Imperial”
“... transparent
training for lecturers”
Matthew Colvin

