GAMES
The Golden Joystick
Award Winners Free-to-Play? Watch
your language
@FelixGames on
Twitter
It’s actually being used prop-
erly now I swear.
Free-to-Play is often anything but. Laurence Pope debunks
the idea that F2P games are a poor gamer’s wet dream
F
ree-to-play games are exactly what
they say on the tin – video games that
don’t cost money to play. If this is what
they truly were then I could wrap this
article up right now, but unfortunately
the rule ‘there’s no such thing as a free lunch’ still
remains unbroken. Here’s why.
I picked up on this issue whilst desperately scour-
ing the internet at 11.45pm on Wednesday evening,
on the lookout for some mildly interesting gaming
news. Mojang, creators of Minecraft, are currently
developing a new game, Scrolls, and like many
games now-a-days will offer the player the ability
to use real-world cash to purchase in-game items.
In this case it’s new scrolls, i.e. spells. However, it
will not even be a F2P, as it will have an as-of-yet
unannounced initial cost.
By paying for the game players will get access
to a large amount of starting scroll/spells, as well
as an earnable in-game currency and an ‘auction
house’, enabling players to bid for the scrolls of
others. Of course, if you have a few pounds jin-
gling about in the bank you can cut through all of
this and simply pick out what you want.
This decision was mostly down to Notch (real
name Markus Persson), Mojang’s founder, who
has claimed that ‘Free-to-Play’ games really ought
to be called ‘As expensive as you want [them] to
be’ games. Granted, AEAYWT2B isn’t quite as
snappy as F2P, but it’s certainly far more accurate.
Any red-blooded gamer
should have already
memorized this list. For
the unenlightened...
Best Action/Adventure Game:
Assassin’s Creed: Brotherhood
Best Mobile Game:
Angry Birds Rio
Best RPG:
Fallout New Vegas
Best MMO (subscription):
World of Warcraft (obviously)
Best Fighting Game:
Mortal Kombat
Best Racing Game:
Gran Turismo 5
Best Sports Game:
FIFA 11
Best Strategy Game:
Starcraft II: Wings of Liberty
Best Music Game:
Guitar Hero: Warriors of Rock
Best Free-to-Play Game:
League of Legends
Best Downloadable Game:
Minecraft (also Most Addictive)
Best Shooter:
Call of Duty: Black Ops
One to Watch Winner:
The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim
Innovation of the Year:
Nintendo 3DS
Outstanding Contribution:
Sonic The Hedgehog (seriously?)
Ultimate Game of the Year:
Portal 2 (my personal favourite)
Harry Enfield demonstrating how to be a
well-prepared F2P gamer
Enraptured and enthralled by this
article? Didn’t think so, so show us
what you can do instead! Contact
us at: games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Of course, there’s always the argument that if a
person spends a colossal amount of money on a
free game then its their fault, not the game’s de-
velopers. After all, the designers didn’t press a
gun against my head and demand that I spend X
amount of cash on a new spell or cosmetic item.
Or did they? They didn’t of course - at least, not
literally. Game developers can be very sneaky in
this regard, and as Notch said, “The reason any-
one switches to ‘free-to-play’ is to make more
money.” This seems counter-intuitive but it does
make sence; a game that costs nothing at all can be
downloaded by anyone, this produces three types
of player – people who play it but only for a short
while, people who play it for longer but don’t spend
anything on it, and another group who continue to
play and spend money on it. It’s the final group
(obviously) who earn the company their profit.
It’s also the same group who suffer from the
game developer’s psychological tricks to monetize
the player. Little things that end up nickeling and
diming you – the illusion that you can earn in-game
credits when they’re nowhere near enough to sup-
port your scroll/weapon/cosmetics buying; low
costs lull you into buying again and again, reason-
ing that ‘it’s only a few pence’, when in fact your
coffers are being drained little by little; TF2 pulls
a dirty little trick by effectively charging £2 a pop
for a 1 in a 100 chance to get an elusive ‘sparkly’
cosmetic addition. I’ve experienced this latter trick
first hand, getting shamefully sucked into it for a
few months before I came out feeling very poor,
very foolish, but a hell of a lot wiser. By not put-
ting a cap on spending F2P games can rake in much
more cash than traditional games that charge just
for the inital purchase. In effect, you end up play-
“In effect, you end
up playing with a slot
machine. A slot machine
that always pays out, but a
slot machine all the same.”
I could make a crude joke here about showing her my magical staff, but I won’t
ing a slot machine. It’s a slot machine that always
pays out, but it’s a slot machine all the same.
Scrolls is attempting to buck this trend by be-
ing a paid game with the ability to buy stuff, but
I’m still going to be wary. To the inexperienced,
the F2P model does appear at first glance to be an
ideal prospect, but always jump into them with due
diligence. As I said last week, keep in mind that
game companies are businesses, and need to make
money one way or other. If a game appears to be
free, watch out for hidden motives – those sneaky
chaps in game R&D will grab you by the short and
curlies and never let go.
FELIX
32 Friday 28 OcTOBER 2011
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

