unionpage
Bike Auction
31 October 2011/12:00pm
Dr Bike there from 12:00-17:00 Monday 12:00-15:00 Tuesday
Cycle safety talks 12:15, 14:15 Monday 13:00 Tuesday
Police Marking 12:00-16:00
Do you cycle? Join the ic-bug mailing list
mailman.ic.ac.uk/mailman/listinfo/bike-users
Proceeds go to charity and to support cycling at Imperial
imperialcollegeunion.org
Nicolas Massie
Deputy President (Welfare)
dpwelfare@imperial.ac.uk
your
sabbaticals
imperialcollegeunion.org/sabbs
Keep up-to-date with your Sabbaticals at:
Better Gas Safe Than Sorry
Gas safety may not be your top priority
when you move into your student house,
but knowing your rights when you rent
could save your life.
Gas appliances that are badly fitted or
poorly serviced can put you at risk from
gas leaks, fires, explosions and carbon
monoxide poisoning. Carbon monoxide
is a poisonous gas. You can’t see, taste
it or smell it but it can kill quickly with no
warning.
Gas Safe Register is the UK’s official list
of legal and qualified gas engineers. Only
a Gas Safe registered engineer should fit,
fix or service gas appliances.
Before You Move In
Your landlord has a legal responsibility
for your safety. All gas appliances your
landlord provides e.g. boilers, cookers,
hobs and fires must be correctly
maintained and a gas safety check carried
out every 12 months by a Gas Safe
registered engineer. By law your landlord
must give you a copy of the Landlord’s
Gas Safety Record (also referred to as the
Landlord’s Gas Safety Certificate).
During Your Stay
• Cooperate with your landlord and
let a Gas Safe registered engineer
in whenever a gas safety check or
maintenance is required.
• Check the Gas Safe ID card of any
gas engineer that comes to do work
in your student accommodation. You
can also check they are registered and
view a photo of them on our website.
Alternatively call us to check.
• Look out for warning signs that your
gas appliances are not working correctly
e.g. lazy yellow flames instead of crisp
blue ones or black marks or stains on or
around the appliance.
• Fit an audible carbon monoxide alarm.
Get one marked with British Standard
EN 50291.
• Remember the six main signs and
symptoms of carbon monoxide
poisoning: headaches, dizziness,
nausea, breathlessness, collapse and
loss of consciousness. These can easily
be confused with the flu or a hangover!
Seek medical help immediately.
• In an emergency call the gas
emergency helpline on 0800 111 999.
• If your landlord refuses to properly
service and safety check the appliances
they have provided, ring the Health and
Safety Executive on 0845 345 0055.
Stay Safe InYour Student House

