FOOD
FELIX
34
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 october 2011
Imperial Food Awards
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Congratulations to Olivia Tillbert, Imperial’s Golden Master Chef!
Enjoy your £30 Amazon voucher, sponsored by The Cypriot Society
We would like to thank everyone who contributed
to the first Imperial Food Awards and proved how
important food is in our lives.
Surely, nothing could have happened without the
support of our generous sponsors. Let us thank
once again the Cypriot Society, Dishoom Bombay
Café, Riverford Organic Farm, Lakeland, Ebury
Publications and Relish.
A big thank you to all contestants, who did their
best to prepare delicious and creative dishes.
Your positive energy and enthusiasm makes us
believe that even more students will take part in
the next Imperial Food Awards.
“I would like to thank you for creating a food com-
petition because I believe it is very important for
people to appreciate good food!”
Yiango Mavrocostanti
IFA 2011: The Results
Braised Lamb Shanks, served with baby potatoes and cherry tomatoes
Ingredients
2 tsp Plain Flour
4 lamb shanks
Olive oil
2 onions
2 cloves of garlic
750 ml chicken/lamb stock*
3 large carrots
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
500g spinach (trimmed if you aren’t lazy
like me)
Handful of fresh basil
A few pinches sea salt
A few turns of fresh pepper
* You can buy ready stock however I usu-
ally add 1 chicken and 1 beef cube into
750 ml of boiling water and mix to dissolve
the cubes.
Recipe
Slice the onions into medium sized chunks.
(Try your best not to cry – mission impossible!)
Take of the carrots skin and chop them into
medium chunks.
Measure out the flour in a bowl.
Season the flour with some sea salt and pepper.
Take the lamb shanks and turn them in the
seasoned flour. The shanks should become
dusted but not have excess flour on them.
Take the flour coated shanks and fry in a fry-
ing pan on medium to high heat in a dollop of
olive oil. Turn them so they have a golden co-
lour on all sides.
Put the golden shanks into a casserole dish/
big pot.
Start to fry the onion pieces on medium heat.
Add extra oil if necessary.
Add as soon as possible the crushed garlic to
the frying pan.
Once the onion and garlic mixture is soft and
translucent, add them to the casserole dish/pot
where the shanks are sitting.
Put the stock into the used (‘dirty’) frying
pan and scrape off the residues from the sides
to dissolve the left over tastes into the stock. Do
this at medium heat.
Add the “seasoned” stock into the casserole
dish/pot with the shanks.
Add the chopped carrots into the casserole
dish/pot with the shanks.
Add the mustard into the casserole dish/pot.
Bring the casserole dish/pot to a boil on the
hob and then reduce it to a simmer.
Leave the casserole dish/pot on gentle enough
heat to keep it at a simmer for 2 hours with a
lid. Stir occasionally. Add some water (e.g. 100
ml at a time) if it looks a little dry.
Serve one shank per person on plates.
When the shanks are removed from the cas-
serole dish/pot, add the spinach and basil leaves
and stir until they have wilted. (Don’t worry:
the spinach will fit!) Do this at the same gentle
heat.
Serve beautifully with the potatoes and toma-
toes! Salt and pepper to taste.
“We hope you enjoy our rather tongue-in-cheek take
on cookery!”– Sam Gonshaw and Navid Nabijou,
forever loyal to the Sainsbury’s basics range
“Am I the Master? Hell yeah!” – George Trigeorgis
is known for his modesty...
Runners-up
Jens Wilting wins a copy of Riverford Farm Cook Book and the “Good Food: 101 Easy Student Dinners” book
Yiango Mavrocostanti wins a Hawkshead Relish Caramel Sauce and a copy of “Good Food: 101 Easy Student Dinners”
George Trigeorgis, Stephen Gallagher and Yap Chinhua each win a copy of “Good Food: 101 Easy Student Dinners”
Their recipes will be published in one of the following issues
Yap Chinhua Stephen Gallagher Jens Wilting Yiango Mavrocostanti George Trigeorgis

