FELIX
36
TRAVEL
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 OCTOBER 2011
Nepal provided me with one of the most sur-
real experiences of my life; from the touchy
landing on the pothole-ridden runway, to the
‘seductive’ dancing policeman in one of the
local bars. Looking for an experience of a
lifetime, I wasn’t disappointed.
After stepping out into the oppressive hu-
midity, the first thing that struck me about
the capital, Kathmandu, was the chaos that
consumed everything; the traffic, the pe-
destrians, and even the electricity cabling.
As a pedestrian, it would be quite possible
to make a sport of traffic dodging. The only
practical way of getting across a main road
was to tuck in behind a local and hope that
luck was with you. Once I had grasped the
concept of crossing a road, Kathmandu, and
particularly the small district of Themal, re-
ally opened up. It is littered with hundreds of
shops and market stalls, all trying to sell the
same things. I could easily have spent days
meandering through the streets bartering
for the best prices on jewellery, trinkets and
clothing. The locals are delightful and always
keen to chat, whether they’re telling you sto-
ries of their own lives or just quizzing you on
England and the mystical nature that seems to
surround it over there.
Get there: A tube that takes you to E1
See: Galleries, museums, ‘dickheads’
Eat: The Albion, Shoreditch
Cost: £5 for some top-notch grub
Next Thursday marks the first Thursday of Novem-
ber. On the first Thursday of each month, count-
less East London museums and galleries are open
late, and also give out free booze! Check out the
art on show and stick around for some evening
entertainment. Visit FirstThursdays.co.uk to find
out more!
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from
experienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to
share with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
Here, hidden in the mountains, a relaxing lodge
can be found. It just so happens that the world’s
second largest bungee jump is also there. Stand-
ing 165m high over raging torrents, I found
myself being strapped to a piece of ‘string’ by
complete strangers, approaching a platform and
asking myself why I was about to throw my-
self off a bridge. Then I jumped and I realised
why – an adrenaline rush that can’t be matched.
You accelerate towards the ground, the air fly-
ing past you, the blood rushing to your head,
caught in a daze of excitement and horror as
you expect the worst. Then the bungee tightens
and you’re sprung back towards the sky, twist-
ing and turning as the world flies past, the sky
indistinguishable from the mountains and the
river. Before you know it, you’re being pulled
from just above the river to the safety of land
with some very high tech equipment – a piece
of bamboo. After being unstrapped I laughed
out loud, amazed that I was still alive.
It wasn’t the need to jump off a bridge that
attracted me to Nepal. The main reason for my
trip was to volunteer in a Buddhist monastery.
Each weekday I would walk about forty min-
utes to the monastery on the outskirts of Kath-
mandu, where I would be greeted by a cup of
Nepali tea and a ‘good morning sir’ from prac-
tically every monk that I taught. There were
three classes of mixed ages ranging between
three and sixteen. The monks were really quite
cheeky and much preferred playing games over
learning English and maths, so it is fair to say
that they can confidently play Thumb Wars,
Simon Says and Bingo. They were brilliant at
being blunt, pointing out the fattest one of the
group when asked what fat meant, or nicknam-
ing one of the younger ones ‘monkey’ because
he had ragged teeth and ate paper. Apart from
the occasional Gameboy or knife that had to
be confiscated, they were fantastically well be-
haved and I believe that they truly appreciated
my time there as much as I did. It was on my
last day at the monastery that the monks were
treated to the use of a digital camera, and they
absolutely loved it. They managed to take over
250 photos where they posed in unbelievably
‘G’ fashion, rounding off a brilliant experience
for me.
Volunteering was without doubt the most
rewarding thing that I have ever done and I
would highly recommend it, especially in Ne-
pal. The country is so different from England; it
felt like such a breath of fresh air and gave me
memories that I will never forget. I only hope
that other people would be willing to immerse
themselves into the chaotic country that sits on
top of the world.
“...twisting and turning
as the world flies past...”
Luke Sanders
Canoeing with crocodiles, bamboo bungee-jumping and mad
motorists – an exhilarating Nepalese adventure
Volunteering on top of the world
Getting to know a Himalayan local...
One of the friendliest Nepali locals, Suresh,
organised a trip to the Chitwan, a national park
that resides southwest of Kathmandu. Tourists
endure six hours on a bus through the moun-
tains to travel to Chitwan, where it’s possible
to experience an elephant jungle safari. The
option of washing the elephants was also on
offer, as well as a ride in a canoe that skims
the surface of the river by mere inches, beneath
which crocodiles swim. Perhaps more exhila-
rating than this was the actual journey from
Kathmandu to Chitwan. The road that took
me there balanced precariously on the edge of
the mountains that occupy Nepal. Motorists
seem to have an unnatural desire to end their
own lives and those of people around them by
consistently attempting overtaking manoeuvres
on blind corners whilst going uphill in a lorry.
The only compensation for the sheer terror that
was inflicted on me was the majesty of the sur-
rounding scenery. The river that ran adjacent to
the road carved a path through the mountains
with ease, offering an insight into the power of
nature. A veil of mist fell upon it in the early
hours and appeared to shroud everything in
mystery and serenity; a complete contrast to
Kathmandu.
Sanctuary from the fast pace of the capital
could also be found towards the Tibetan border.
Wish you were here
‘Athens Diving World Series’ by Aris Messinis
Wish You Were Here
Travel on your doorstep
First Thursdays in East London

