FELIX
38
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 october 2011
HANGMAN
The front row - you’re one of those
freaks who actually enjoys the
subject, so sitting at the very front
means you get first shot at asking
the lecturer pedantic questions
before he gets tired and tells all the
students to fuck off and take the
course book out of the library. It
also means you don’t have to shout
too loudly when you inevitably have
to correct the lecturer when he
forgets to close a bracket because
your OCD will simply not let that
shit fly. You’re also as far away as
you can get from the rest of the stu-
dents, which is a good thing when
they inevitably get annoyed by your
pedantry and paper planes start
coming your way.
‘Excuse me, I would just like to ask
on behalf of the class’, and ‘What
would happen if...’ are your catch-
phrases. Just so you know, your
inputs are about as helpful and
wanted as the barrage of careers
advice emails from that guy.
The back row – refuge for those still worried about being considered a nerd despite going to Impe-
rial. To be fair, there are many reasons for wanting to stay at the back – and none of them are
honourable. It’s a great launch pad for various paper-based onslaughts, because you have every-
one in your sight. Plus, let’s face it, all that ‘alone time’ in the bathroom has caused your arm to
be quite powerful. You can even hit Captain Questions in the front. You can even see just enough
down the well-endowed girl’s top in front for you to make a potentially overused, slightly guilty
feeling (when you pluck up the courage to talk to her) wank bank deposit. You might be there
because you can’t keep your gob shut for more than five minutes and sitting any closer brings
you within earshot of the lecturer. Perhaps, you’re just incredibly paranoid about people seeing
that bald spot on your crown, which might also explain why you walk backwards when leaving the
lecture. Here’s a tip: you’re not going bald, Asians just have really thin hair. Women don’t even get
male pattern baldness, you cretin. Although, your moonwalking out of lectures is sublime.
Anywhere – with no such things as
friends to anchor you to any partic-
ular zone, the lecture theatre is your
oyster! Shame you also smell like
one, which not only explains your
loneliness, but also your refusal to
stay put – only so many lectures
can pass before people begin to
anticipate your location and hence
avoid it all costs. Perhaps lay off
the garlic cheese for breakfast and
invest in a bar of soap? Don’t worry,
in a way, it’s a good thing. You
see, University is just like school...
nobody wanted to sit next to you
then, either.
On the stairs – it’s the beginning of term so the
theatre is packed but you were too fucking lazy to get
out of bed on time, so it’s neither the front nor the
back seat for you. You prefer the cold, hard steps,
anyway: sitting on comfy seats is so 2010. Plus, you
look so cool and hipster rolling up a cigarette on the
step while you’re hungover. I bet you’re the edgy guy
from the Mingle. I bet you’re so popular that you just
sit there texting all your friends for the entire lecture.
Hopefully, there’s a fire that you die slowly in, strug-
gling to move in your spray-on jeans. While you’re at
it, shave off the ironic moustache.
The Hangman Seating Guide
What your seating choice says about you. If you’re colour blind, this article isn’t for you. See, even the byline is going
to mess with your head
In bed – similar to the stairs but
you were smart enough to antici-
pate the lack of derrière room. Be-
sides, the notes are online and the
lecturer’s voice is the audiological
equivalent of watching paint dry
on an overcast Sunday afternoon.
Who cares if you fail your degree?
Studying is for nerds. Hey, there’s
always the dole, mooching off
parents, or heroin. Applicants need
pick only one option.
The Nigerian branch of the BNP didn’t have a very well attended meeting. When asked about the failure Nick Griffin said something a bit
racist. Always the same schtick from him, really needs some fresh ideas
Wait, you guys are my young apprentices?
The Evil Empire is truly fucked
Staying in watching the Young Apprentice
oniPlayer,decidingjusthowinappropriate
it is to be attracted to the girls (depend-
ing on what year you’re in). Thanking Alan
Sugar for firing the most irritating ‘sales-
man’ ever to walk this Earth. If these are
the best future business minds in Britain,
I predict a financial crisis in 2030.

