Alex Nowbar
NEWS
4 FELIX
Friday 28 OCTOBER 2011
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In Brief
University applications fall
After years of steady increases, uni-
versity applications are currently 9%
lower than last year’s level at this time
with 7000 fewer applications so far. Al-
though the deadline for most courses
is January, these figures from UCAS
(University and College Admissions
Service) are the first official application
figures for students who will be paying
higher tuition fees of up to £9000 per
year.
However, since these figures only
show applications up to October 19,
Universities UK has warned that they
remain “unreliable indicators” and do
not yet tell the full story. A better indi-
cator of the change in application num-
bers may be the fact that, despite the
large decline in total applications so far,
applications with an October 15 dead-
line (Oxbridge, and all medicine and
veterinary applications) are only down
0.8%. On the other hand, the majority
of these applications will be from high
UK students, and a 9.3% reduction from
other-EU students, applications from
students outside the EU have risen sig-
nificantly by 8.8%. Although the near
trebling of tuition fees in 2012 does not
apply to international students, their
fees are already exceptionally high, of-
ten over £20,000. These latest figures
reflect the consistently high reputation
of UK universities worldwide and their
strong appeal to international students.
Interestingly, whilst applications from
male students saw a decline of only 7%,
applications from females have dropped
by 10.7%. This can also be linked to a
higher decline in applications for arts
subjects and public services, such as
education and nursing, which typically
have more female applicants.
Applications for science subjects,
on the other hand, have generally not
changed hugely with applications for
both physical sciences and mathemati-
cal and computer sciences only down
1.6%, for example. On the surface, it
certainly seems that students are now
addressing the suitability, value-for-
money and career prospects of univer-
sity courses to a greater extent that will
hopefully lead to wiser choices being
made. These changes could mark the
end of an era whereby simply obtain-
ing a degree was regarded by many stu-
dents as the important aspect of univer-
sity, regardless of the institution’s status
and the course they are studying.
The UCAS figures also show that
applications from people over the age
of 25 have fallen by a staggering 20%
and over the age of 40, by 28%. Mean-
while, there has been only a 2.4% re-
duction in the number of 18 year olds
applying, suggesting that the rising tu-
ition fees are not deterring young peo-
ple from further study as significantly
as was expected.
Pro-Rector Professor Julia Bucking-
ham told Felix that, “it is still early days
in the admissions cycle for 2012 and we
will want to hold off drawing any con-
clusions at this stage. Data from UCAS
suggests the number of applications for
Imperial received by October 15 were
down by around 0.3% for 2012 entry
compared to the same point the previ-
ous year. However the rate appears
broadly in line with the level of applica-
tions received for 2010 entry, indicating
that more information is needed for us
to properly understand any trends in ap-
plication rates.”
Sophia David
Demand for science study steady in comparison
“There is still
uncertainty as to
whether there will
be a late soar in
applications”
academic achievers who are most likely
to attend university anyway despite the
rising fees. Therefore, there is still un-
certainty as to whether there will be a
late soar in applications to match this
small decline of early applications, or
whether the rise in tuition fees has tak-
en a greater toll on those students that
would apply to courses with the later
January deadline.
Toni Pearce, vice-president of the Na-
tional Union of Students, has suggested
that the current figures are a reflection
of “the confusion caused by the gov-
ernment’s botched reforms” which are
“causing young people to at the very
least hesitate before applying to univer-
sity.”
A survey commissioned by the BBC
has also suggested that the higher fees
will put off 10% of potential students in
England. However, Universities Minis-
ter, David Willetts insists that, “it is im-
portant that no one is put off applying
to university because they do not have
information about how the new student
finance system works.”
However, whilst the figures show an
11.9% reduction in applications from
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
An experiment in the Mechanical Engineering depart-
ment whereby PhD students have been allowed to
share the academic common room (701) with staff
members has ended after six months – with the evic-
tion of students. In an email sent to the students
involved, Mike Lowe, Chair of the Space Committee,
listed a combination of contributing reasons why “the
facility is no longer working out to be convenient.”
Lowe accuses students of “taking coffee sachets
and milk away from the room – presumably to make
coffee elsewhere”, and abusing the facility “simply to
get free take-away cups of coffee.” He adds that “this
misses the intention of it being an informal place for
people to meet colleagues.” Lowe also argues that
there are now too many people using the common
room and that it has become too popular for formal
small meetings, which limits access for others. One
PhD student, who wished to remain anonymous, told
Felix that “the reasons for the space being closed off
to PhD students are ridiculous. The room is always
mostly empty. The perception is that the decision was
made by a couple of grumpy lecturers with no respect
for PhD satisfaction.”
Sophia David
PhD coffee row in Mech Eng
Pembridge Annexe to be demolished
Plans to demolish a disused annexe from behind Pem-
bridge Gardens hall of residence in favour of a residen-
tial development have been clarified by the College
Fund.
Pembridge Gardens, located in Notting Hall, has
been operating at approximately 105 bedspaces
since 2009, when it handed over its annexe to the
College Fund. The annexe, deemed ‘non-core and not
required for undergraduate accommodation’, has the
capability of housing 32 bed spaces out of 24 bed-
rooms. Following its handover, the annexe remains
empty and sealed off.
The College Fund aims to stabilise College finances
by managing investments assets, such as the annexe
and maximising their return.
John Anderson, CEO of the College Fund, says that,
“it was handed over to the College Fund in 2009. This
is a 1970s block which has had no refurbishment and
is not fit for appropriate habitations so if it were to be
continued then it would have been refurbished for that
purpose.”
“We have been working with the Royal Borough of
Kensington and Chelsea on a planning scheme. The
idea is that we knock [the annexe] down and replace
it with a townhouse and 13 residential apartments.
Anderson envisages that the development, which
has been going through the planning process for two
and a half years, will be completed in 2014 due to a
24 month construction period.
Dr Marko Krznaric, warden of Pembridge Gardens
and Parsons House has stated that his main aim in
terms of the development “is to ensure that the new
development, whenever it happens, has no major im-
pact of the living conditions to the students in Pem-
bridge.” “I have to say that the College and the Fund
responded pretty well and it seems that all, or most of
my concerns were addressed.”
Matthew Colvin
“Applications for
science subjects ...
have generally not
changed hugely”

