FELIX 41
SPORT
Friday 28 October 2011
Imperial Wolverines hunt down Bronze Fencing: girls go top
top-5 in the UK, the match isn’t too
easy and Imperial wins with the not
massive margin 45-43, which still
brings them to an overall victory of
135-81. Next opponent is Oxford,
the match that matters. The girls are
aware of what’s ahead and gear up for
a tough fight. About an hour later, the
Imperial team is standing there look-
ing at each other, wondering what just
happened. Oxford didn’t seem like
they cared, they had barely tried to
win. Instead it had been very easy for
Alice, Emily and Charlotte and they
had won 45-25, leading to the overall
result 123-96.
By this time, it was only two match-
es left before the minibus could return
to London. Cambridge scored many
hits but never really threatened, epee
ended 45-42 and the match 135-74
overall. Queen Mary saw themselves
defeated by 45-31, the overall score
landing at 135-63, and it was finally
time to go home. With the weekend
finished, the team was very pleased
with another clean swipe and has now
set the focus to the Championship
knock-out match coming up.
...Continued from back page
Fencing against a backdrop of cinderblocks. That’s Cambridge for you
On Sunday 23th October, the Imperial
Wolverines enjoyed an unexpected 3rd
place finish in the 16 team South Coast
Open, butchering some of the countries
best dodgeball teams on the way.
The wolverine-pack started the day
slowly with lone wolf Quang ‘throw
with a bang’ Hui missing the train and
team Captain Alan ‘sensei’ Soltani re-
covering from his nocturnal lifestyle.
The team had a harsh awakening
against fierce rivals and universally
unpopular Minotaur Dodgeball. Impe-
rial lost 3-1 (matches are out of 5); a
disappointing scoreline but a deserved
win for the Minotaurs after taking us by
surprise with some high quality play.
The Wolverines soon bounced back
recording two comfortable 5-0 victories
against Southampton Buckaneers and
Portsmouth Purple Cobras C. Dodge-
ball pin up Steve ‘Chabal’ Ndumbe
stood about for most of each game
and then pulled off some expert pres-
sure catching and funky court moves,
playing majestically in the last thirty
seconds of each game. The Imperial
Wolverines eventuallly made it into the
quarter-finals where they would face
the Jammy Dodgers - Britain’s second
best team.
In this match Scott ‘beef generator’
Esnouf and Wolverine of the tourna-
ment Thomas ‘The Doctor’ Peake
excelled. These two pulled off some
clinical counter-attacking moves com-
plimented by a great catching display
by ‘Big Al’ Soltani and the ever in-
fallible, inscrutable and irrepressible
Adam ‘Ash’ Cutmore. The wolverine-
pack posted a 3-1 win against JD and
progressed into the semi-final where
they would meet a strong, well-rounded
Southampton Pirates side.
Here, Alan made the ingenious deci-
sion of bringing back on the big guns
of Luke ‘Andy Murray’ Barron - a ball
magnet, and Quang ‘lucky charm’ Hui
who dodged like a champion, allow-
ing the rest of the team and especially
Doctor Peake to execute a good hitting
game. Imperial raced to a 3-1 scoreline
needing just one more game to make
it into the final. Unfortunately, the
Southampton Pirates, one of the nicest
teams around, just didn’t know when to
lie down and get ball battered. Out of
nothing, they fought back to a 4-3 win.
Imperial dropped to their knees as the
team narrowly missed out on their first
ever final...heart-breaking stuff.
The Wolverines picked themselves
back up and had a few minutes to
prepare before the best-of-7 3rd / 4th
playoff – the battle for bronze. As if it
was written in the stars, the team star-
ing at us 50 feet away was none other
than the always angry Minotaurs. In
the first game, the Minotaurs cheekily
left out their two best players and were
duly punished. With the court volume
rising, Imperial ground out a 2-1 lead,
needing 2 more games for bronze. The
next game defined controversial. Alan
‘Woody’ Soltani clearly hit a really
angry ginger dude on the foot and he
proceeded to give the finger and refuse
to go out. The Minotaurs got a taste of
their own medicine with the 30+ crowd
cheering every time one of them was
eliminated. As the whistle sounded,
the referees had decided the game was
drawn but after much Minotaur moan-
ing the decision was overturned. 2-2.
Imperial remained unfazed. The team
had caught the scent of a lesser beast
in their nostrils. In the next two games,
the well organised, gargantuan Impe-
rial side flourished, obliterating the
Minotaurs. Doctor Peake making some
magical, uncharacteristic catches. 4-2.
A bronze medal finish. The celebra-
tions were wild. This was dodgeballing
heaven - a true underdog story.
Alan Soltani
Dodgeball
About two seconds after this photo was taken, they got out the retractable claws - way better than wrenches
Interested in sport?
We need contributors!
Drop by the office or email us:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk

