5
FELIX Friday 28 october 2011
NEWS
CGCU Dinner brings in the engineers
Students turn out in force to celebrate start of term at Café de Paris
The City & Guilds College Union (CGCU)
held their Welcome Dinner event along
with an afterparty, on Tuesday 25 October
at Café De Paris, marking their flagship
event. The party attracted over 600 stu-
dents, testing the 700 capacity of Café De
Paris, with a three course dinner starting
from 7:30pm.
Dinnerticketssoldoutbeforetermbegan
but afterparty tickets continued to be sold
on the door. The CGCU President, Jacky
Kwan, gave a traditional “Boomalaka”
rally along with a short speech. The event
lasted until 3am, seeing attendees from var-
ious disciplines within the Engineering fac-
ulty and beyond. Felix covered the event’s
photography, which can be seen on the
CGCU’s recently created Facebook page.
Attendees included former CGCU presi-
dent He-in Cheong, various engineering
Alexander Karapetian
alumni and head of the Faculty of Engi-
neering Jeff Magee, who gave a speech
which included comments on Imperial’s
decline in the National Student Survey due
to student satisfaction levels. The event’s
substantial success was largely set in mo-
tion by Jacky Kwan and his committee,
being important for the CGCU as it begins
to report a long-anticipated upward trend in
activity, interest and organisation following
the various instabilities seen over the last
two years.
The event carried an overall sense of ela-
tion for freshers giving an opportunity to
mingle in the context of a formal dinner
with traditions such as the “Queen’s Rules”
being applied. One first yearAeronautics stu-
dent commented to Felix on the event noting,
“it was great fun and I met some amazing
people”. Others noted that the drinks prices
were rather steep.
CGCU Chair James Fan was pleased
with the turnout, mentioning “the faculty
grant was well spent” and that a “substan-
CGCU President Jacky Kwan (centre) takes to the stage to engineer the night’s proceedings
DISCOVER
OUR WORLD
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consulting ﬁrm that combines deep industry
knowledge with specialised expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, organisational
transformation, and leadership development. With offices in 50+ cities across 25 countries,
Oliver Wyman works with the CEOs and executive teams of Global 1000 companies.
Anequalopportunity employer.
Gettherefaster.
Some people know precisely where they want to go. Others seek the adventure of discovering
uncharted territory. Whatever you want your professional journey to be, you’ll ﬁnd what you’re
looking for at Oliver Wyman.
Application Deadlines
2nd November for November 2011 offers
18th December for January 2012 offers
22nd January 2012 for summer internships
Discover the world of Oliver Wyman at oliverwyman.com/careers
tial amount of students benefitted from it”.
Jacky Kwan said on behalf of his commit-
tee that they are “extremely pleased with
the tremendous turnout”, thanking them
for putting in “so much hard work in or-
ganising this spectacular event”, adding
that he is “proud to lead the CGCU in this
success”.
Alexander Karapetian

