I
’mstandingonawindsweptairfield
somewhere in Cambridgeshire. In
the distance there’s the scream of
a V8. A black silhouette of a car
is racing at great speed down the
runway. Behind me a radio crackles and
the car turns off the runway, heading to
where I’m standing, engine warbling at
each downshift.
Now the noise is even louder, people
around me have fingers in their ears. Ear-
plugs are a must here. The driver pulls up
and kills the engine. Immediately a half
dozen men rush over with modified leaf
blowers to stop the brakes catching fire.
They push the car back into a large gazebo
they’ve erected for the test as a temporary
garage.
Inside there are more men with laptops,
a myriad of cables, a heap of tyres and an
array of bodywork. There’s even a spare
engine tucked away in the corner. Geoff,
the race team coordinator who is showing
me around, explains that on test days like
today they only bring the bare minimum
required. Just behind me are two motor
homes, filled with more equipment, and a
small fleet of cars. Welcome to the world
of Formula 1.
Today Lotus Renault GP are testing
their 2011 car. The driver climbs out of
the cockpit: it’s Roman Grosjean. I smile
politely at him. He doesn’t notice me.
Never mind, because today I’m here to
get to know another part of the team that
receives much less media coverage: the
engineers. These are the people that make
a team as fast as they are. Engineers for
any team are expected to work evenings,
weekends and are away from home most
of the year, and yet the jobs are amongst
some of the most competitive in the busi-
ness. So how do you become a Formula 1
engineer, and what’s it like?
To find out the answers I’ve got an inter-
view with an engineer. The test today is an
aerodynamic one so it only makes sense to
chat to someone from aerodynamics, pref-
erably with an Imperial connection. Dirk
DeBeer is head of aerodynamics at Lo-
tus Renault GP and Imperial Aeronautics
alumni. That should suffice. Here’s what
he had to say...
How did you get into engineering and
Formula 1?
I was always interested in motor racing
– my father was keen on it and took me
to Grand Prix. That’s how I got a love for
Formula 1. I’ve always been interested in
aerodynamics, so the two go together. I
was always very keen - I did my home-
work and found out what the possibilities
were and results said Imperial College. At
that stage IC was very involved in Formu-
la 1 aerodynamics, so I decided to go to
Imperial and got involved with the motor
racing society there, which was with Prof.
John Harvey and Peter Beerman.
What advice would you give to an Im-
perial student intereseted in getting into
F1 engineering?
When I joined, the motor racing was a lot
smaller, it was more basic, it was only in-
dividualsthatwereverykeen.Atthatstage
we even had F1 teams testing at Imperial
College. You could get involved with that
sort of thing. That has now changed ob-
viously. To get into Formula 1 you have
to excel in your degree; in fact, nowadays
most people have PhDs for aerodynamics
in Formula 1. Other areas don’t require
PhDs as much.
What was your career path?
Mine was rather tortuous and probably
not a typical one. While I was at Imperial
I was the research assistant for the Honda
team’s tunnel and got a lot of contacts in
Formula 1 and motor racing. I’m origi-
nally South African, I left South Africa
because of the Apartheid. At the end of
Apartheid I went back to South Africa,
spent a while there and eventually decided
I’d had enough there and wanted to get
back into motor racing. I joined a team in
America where I had some contacts. Swift
Engineering - they did Indy racing.
Then there was a fall out between the
car manufacturer and the team running
the car. The manufacturer (who was head
of aero while I was there) left and I ended
up being the Head of Aerodynamics. So I
was thrown in at the deep end really, and it
was an unusual situation to be in.
I stayed there until Swift decided to pull
out of Indy racing and make Formula At-
lantic cars, which I wasn’t really into. I
was approached by Sauber in Switzerland
who were busy building a new wind tun-
nel. They asked if I was prepared to come
over and oversee the wind tunnel project,
so I became the principal aerodynamicist
at Sauber. I did that, but then BMW took
over and I didn’t really like that so I de-
cided to see what other possibilities there
were. I moved to Renault in 2008, but not
as Head as Aero, I become Head after the
then Head got very ill.
What is your role within Lotus Renault
GP as Head of Aerodynamics? As the
Head of Department is the work more
managerial?
I generally don’t go to race weekends;
there is an aerodynamic presence at the
track of course, but I have to make deci-
sions on which direction to take the team.
There is obviously the reality as you get
to certain levels there are more and more
managerial aspects which you can’t es-
cape. The reality of being in charge of a
group of people is that there’s quite a lot
of management to be done.
Is there a normal day in the office as
Head of Aerodynamics?
Not really, there are certain meetings and
discussions, for example, the strategic di-
rection and stuff like that. These are things
that are ongoing. There are discussions
that are important: like the results from
the previous day’s test. There’s certain
standard events. We have tunnels running
24/7, gathering an enormous amount of
data so quite a lot of time is spent actu-
ally trying to get the best conclusions out
of the data.
Lotus Renault GP had a superb start
to the season, but it’s not been going so
well of late. How does the team’s per-
formance affect you? Is that part of the
job?
That is the reality of it. You’re compet-
ing with a lot of other teams that have
extremely smart people as well. Things
don’t always go into place quite as you
“It’s essentially a war
between us and the
other teams.”
Driven enough for F1?
James Cronshaw talks to Formula 1 engineer Dirk DeBeer about all things motorsport
It’s just like that film where Sylvester Stallone is a racing driver, except it’s really, really not
Six men. One car. No mercy. Or something.
James Cronshaw
James Cronshaw
FEATURE
6 FELIX
Friday 28 OCTOBER 2011
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

