hoped they would.
We made a decision to go for an unusual
configuration exhaust. You can’t copy
what other people are doing and there-
fore development is a bit more difficult,
but when it works it is very rewarding.
What’s it like working for Lotus Re-
nault GP?
It’s obviously not the biggest team, and
therefore there is a slight frustration in
that you feel you can’t compete on a lev-
el playing field. It is a very friendly com-
pany – that’s definitely a positive. It is a
team where there’s not a lot of politics
– it’s actually very friendly and people
don’t have chips on their shoulders.
So you would say it’s not an overly
competitive atmosphere?
No, not really – all Formula 1 teams are
competitive but that’s just the nature of
it.
Is there any internal competitiveness
to get positions?
There is a bit of that. I think that any-
where you go in motor racing there is
competition. Ultimately the people you
are working with are driven; if they
weren’t driven they wouldn’t be there.
The reality is people are competitive.
What’s the best and worst part of the
job?
I think the best part of the job is that it’s
incredibly creative and you have the op-
portunity very quickly to see your cre-
ativity on the race track.
In contrast working in aerospace, I’ve
spent some time in aerospace, you spend
years working on a project, you spend
months and months looking at the data
and years waiting for it to make it into
production. In F1 if we find something
which is relatively easy to make on
Monday, it can be on the car for the race
weekend.
You see very quickly if it works. It’s
essentially a war between us and the
other teams trying to come up with the
cleverest idea. You have to be innova-
tive. To get ahead you have to have a
good idea like the forward exhausts. The
down side of the job is that you see every
weekend if it doesn’t work. So the pres-
sure’s enormous.
I thank Dirk for his time and we head
out of the motorhome and back to the
car. During the interview a couple more
runs had been done and the mechanics
were scurrying around the car changing
bodywork. Engineers are poring over
the latest set of data. I stick around with
Geoff’s consent and watch the rest of the
day unfold.
Nothing seems too rushed or panicked.
This is a stark contrast to race weekends,
maybe it’s because they’ve spent weeks
planning this day in every detail. I have
remind myself that unlike the driver,
the engineers and mechanics I’m see-
ing working on the car here are the very
same that are seen on the television ev-
ery other Sunday. It’s getting late so I
start to head home, in the distance I can
hear that V8 scream again. The sound of
three hundred brake horsepower per litre
of displacement. The sound of Formula
1.
With thanks to Geoff Simmonds, Dirk
DeBeer and Lotus Renault GP.
“The reality is, peo-
ple are competitive.”
Roman Grosjean shows off his exceptional helmet hair
Dirk DeBeer surveys the action
James Cronshaw
7
FELIX Friday 28 october 2011
FEATURE

