SCIENCE
FELIX
8
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 october 2011
D
espite the millions it spends on
cultivating an image of arch so-
phistication, Stella isn’t likely
to shrug off its “wife-beater”
epithet anytime soon — and
especially not now it’s become the tipple of
choice for tosspot terriers. But the story of a
Staffordshire Bull Terrier attacking a child af-
ter someone poured Stella down its throat isn’t
the only piece about alcohol abuse that stood
out recently.
A couple of weeks ago, the online BBC
News Magazine ran an opinion piece: “Is the
alcohol message all wrong?” written by Kate
Fox, co-director of the Social Issues Research
Centre (SIRC), a not-for-profit organisation
based in Oxford that researches and monitors
social and cultural trends. SIRC conducts most
of its research by reviewing social-anthropo-
logical studies. In the BBC article, Fox seeks
to put paid to “bizarre beliefs and weird cus-
toms” such as the notion that “heavy drinking
causes promiscuity, violence and anti-social
behaviour”. A key claim is that “[t]he effects
of alcohol on behaviour are determined by cul-
tural rules and norms, not by the chemical ac-
tions of ethanol”.
Now, I’m no expert on alcohol — not sci-
entifically speaking — but that sounds a bit
odd to me. Having only just escaped the death
penalty with a plea of diminished responsibil-
ity, I’m not sure that the dog would be not too
pleased with the suggestion either. Looking
for a second opinion, I contacted Dr. Robert
Patton of King’s College London, who is the
Health Services Research Coordinator for the
South London and Maudsley NHS Trust Ad-
dictions Division, and who worked for the
Home Office Drugs Prevention Initiative as a
consultant in the 1990s.
“I had seen that article and did raise an eye-
brow at those comments”, Patton said. I asked
him about the idea that changes in behaviour
were caused by cultural norms rather than
chemicals. “While it is true to say that there is
an expectation of the effect of alcohol that does
to an extent modify behaviour”, he said, “the
fact is that alcohol is a drug that does influence
behavior in many ways, particularly those con-
cerned with impulsivity (and restraint), aggres-
sion and coordination”.
Even judging by the comments Fox’s article
received – over 1000 in half a day, many of
them removed by moderators – SIRC’s posi-
tion seems to be somewhat controversial. Help-
fully, one of the commenters linked to a Brit-
ish Medical Journal editorial from way back
in 1999 that expressed concern about SIRC’s
close connections with MCM Research, a
“commercial market research company” with
several drinks companies as clients, includ-
ing The Amsterdam Group, which numbers
Bacardi-Martini, Bass Brewers, Carlsberg,
Guinness, and Heineken among its members.
The BMJ also discussed SIRC’s criticism at
the time of the media’s role in health scares
(SIRC also apparently coined the word “risk-
factorphobia” back then, but we’ll let that
slide) and presciently asked, “how seriously
should journalists take an attack from an or-
ganisation that is so closely linked to the drinks
industry? If, for example, the centre attacked
newspapers for exaggerating the effects of
alcohol and thereby causing an unnecessary
scare, could the centre put its hand on its heart
and claim that it was totally neutral on the is-
sue?”
Keen to get a clearer idea of where the or-
ganisation was coming from, and whether the
BMJ’s concerns were still appropriate today, I
spoke to Peter Marsh, SIRC’s other co-direc-
tor. Marsh told me that MCM Research was
“not actually trading in its own right very much
these days” but that the work now goes through
SIRC. SIRC’s website states that it is now the
host for reports and materials of both groups.
Doggone drunks
Douglas Heaven investigates claims that alcohol does not affect behaviour
Secondary forests not as good as
the original
When it comes to biodiversity, there is no substitute
for ancient tropical forests, scientists have found.
Forests that are regenerated following a severe
devastation such as fire or harvesting, known as
secondary forests, are no match for their ancient
counterparts. As a consequence of their great age,
ancient/primary tropical forests have unique eco-
logical features that secondary forests simply can-
not replicate in a shorter space of time.
A meta-analysis of biodiversity in forests where
changes in land use had taken place showed biodi-
versity dropped in all situations except for selective
logging. The results were published in Nature last
week. DOI:10.1038/nature10425
Bio-logic gates
Scientists at Imperial have made bacteria and DNA
into logic gates. They are the most advanced biologi-
cal logic gates every made. Logic gates are used for
processing information in digital devices and are a
fundamental part of silicon circuitry. Without them,
the digital devices we rely on today would not exist.
The scientists made an “AND” gate out of the gut
bacteria E.Coli and were able to combine it with a
“NOT” gate to make a more complex “NAND” gate.
They published their results in Nature Communica-
tions last week. DOI:10.1038/ncomms1516
Ancient forests preserve biodiversity
Correction
Last week Farhan Abdullah should have been cred-
ited as the author of the article “Sleep deprived
doctors find potential cure”. I unreservedly apolo-
gise for this error – The Editor
E.Coli — not just for food poisoning
“While an expectation
of the effect of alcohol
does to an extent modify
behavior, the fact is that
alcohol is a drug that
does influence behaviour
in many ways”
But on the question of how SIRC maintained
independence in its research, Marsh was very
keen to establish that the centre hasn’t done
work for the drinks industry for several years,
and that the last commission in this area “in a
5 year timeframe” was for Greene King on the
role of the pub in the local community. That
said, he also told me that Fox’s recent opinion
piece is based on work begun 15 years ago.
But what of Fox’s assertion about the
chemical effects of ethanol – or lack of them?
Isn’t it dangerously misleading to suggest that
drunken behaviour is simply a cultural norm
that people conform to? “Except it happens to
be true”, Marsh said, reiterating Fox’s obser-
vations, “in this country we expect [alcohol]
to make us aggressive ... You don’t get that in
many other countries”. According to Marsh,
“The only common chemical action is to
make people go to sleep ... the idea somehow
that just consuming alcohol compels people
to go and beat people up is not supported,
certainly by our reading of the cross-cultural
evidence”.
Whether or not SIRC have conflicts of inter-
est, it seems irresponsibly unscientific to draw
such stark conclusions about the chemical ef-
fects of alcohol solely from anthropological
evidence. SIRC’s overall position – that cul-
tural aspects of alcohol abuse need address-
ing – is uncontroversial. The UK certainly
has a problem with alcohol and fresh ideas
are needed, but a debate that begins with an
equivocation over what it is to be drunk in the
first place is not the way to go.
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
It might be “bizarre beliefs” that make you act like an idiot, not all that alcohol...

