SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 28 october 2011
‘The Life Scientific’ is a new radio se-
ries currently being broadcast on BBC
Radio 4. Each week Jim Al-Khalili,
physicist and science communicator,
interviews a different leading scientist,
asking about their work, their life, and
what motivates and inspires them.
The first scientist in the hot-seat was
Paul Nurse, a Nobel Prize-winning ge-
neticist and current President of the
Royal Society. Nurse has had a rather
extraordinary life for a scientist, from
his initial failure to gain a place at uni-
versity, to his revelation only a few
years ago that his sister was in fact his
mother, and Al-Khalili adeptly makes
use of these events in the interview.
However, it’s the detail with which
Nurse describes his own research, in-
cluding a rather poignant story of him
completely botching his third year de-
gree project because of the thermostat in
the water bath, where I think the show
comes into its own. For Nurse, and Al-
Khalili too in fact, for once don’t seem
frightened at the prospect of the show
becoming, too scientific, too technical,
too niche, and instead talk in real terms
about things that are actually interest-
ing. To some of us, anyway.
Next up was Steven Pinker, a science
writer and Professor of Psychology at
Harvard University. Here, Al-Khalili
takes the listener similarly deeply into
his interviewee’s area of research, and
this time the show benefits from it even
more. Together they discuss matters as
important and controversial as human
capacity for violence, and the meaning
of life without a ‘soul’, and Pinker is
characteristically unafraid to say what
he thinks. Yet despite even being played
audio footage of a rival openly criticis-
ing him, as well as Al-Khalili’s own
gently probing questions, Pinker re-
mains unprovoked, and this lack of ten-
sion makes for a much better interview.
Pinker also comes across as genu-
inely passionate about the fundamental
concepts of science. He’s keen to em-
phasize the importance of a good ex-
periment, and of removing the bias that
society inevitably stamps on any results,
and he’s obviously inherently a scientif-
ic thinker. Often he discusses aspects of
his work, or science in general, unpro-
voked by Al-Khalili, and it’s refreshing
to hear someone talk so eloquently and
warmly about ideas that few people out-
side the scientific community recognise
as important.
There are more great names on the
way for the series, including astronomer
Jocelyn Bell-Burnell, who discovered
pulsars yet famously didn’t win the No-
bel Prize, and Michael Marmot, a doctor
who conducted some ground-breaking
research on the relationship between
life expectancy and social status. So
why not have a listen? BBC Radio 4,
9am on Tuesdays, and you can iPlayer
the previous ones too. Great stuff to knit
to, if you’re so inclined...
Arianna Sorba
Could the language you speak affect
how you think? The idea has long been
shunned by academics as a relic of an
imperialist, racist past when non- Euro-
peans were deemed damned to low level
thought by their “unsophisticated” lan-
guages. But not all who have held this
view have been racist — haven’t we all
at times thought something along these
lines? Perhaps the strict order of Ger-
man has something to do the country’s
many famous philosophers and scien-
tists? And surely the lack of a future
tense, as in some languages, must affect
their view of the time?
In his 2011 book ‘Through the Lan-
guage Glass’, linguist Guy Deutscher
addresses these issues head on. And
while he dismisses dinner table gener-
alisations about German (really quite an
erratic language) and future tenses (“I
am going to leave next week” makes
perfect sense and yet has no future
tense), he points to convincing evi-
dence that yes, the language you speak
does change how you view the world,
although perhaps more subtly than we
might think. The influence has been
shown in three areas- our perception of
colour, space and gender.
Russian eyes and British eyes can see
just as well as each other — so how on
earth could they perceive colour differ-
ently? The question of colour and lan-
guage was started by the 19th Century
British Prime Minister William Glad-
stone who noticed something peculiar
about ancient Greek poems — they al-
ways called the sea “black”. That this
happened without fail made it much
more than poetic imagery — there sim-
ply wasn’t a word in ancient Greek for
the colour blue. It was later discovered
that many tribal language still don’t
have words for certain colours, the rea-
son being that, as with the Greeks, with-
out artificial dyes there simply wasn’t
any need for these words.
While it may seem strange to us that
someone might see blue as just an-
other shade of green, say, the English
word “blue” seems equally strange to
a Russian, who uses separate words to
describe light, sky blue and dark navy
blue. But surely we still see the same
colours? Incredibly, no.
It turns out that when your language
provides a separate word for a colour, it
seems further away from other colours
than if the two were linguistically on the
same spectrum. So Russians don’t just
see the different shades of blue, they re-
ally do seem like fundamentally differ-
ent colours, unlike to a native English
speaker, and they exaggerate the differ-
ence between them when shown a col-
our chart. This is entirely psychological,
of course, but entirely measurable too.
Language also effects how you orien-
tate yourself. While most languages use
ego centric coordinates (in front of, be-
hind, left, right), some use the cardinal
coordinates of North, South East and
West in everyday language. In English
your right shoe will always be on your
right foot, but to some Australian Abo-
rigines you could wear a shoe on your
North foot and turn around to find it
on your South foot. The fact that their
language sees these as different setups
means that their concept of which two
situations are the same is quite different
to those of us with ego- centric languag-
es. A mirror image may not feel like a
mirror image.
The effect of language on how we per-
ceive gender is especially interesting to
us Anglophones who aren’t used to in-
animate objects having a gender, as they
do in French and Spanish. It turns out
that although the allocation of gender to
a particular noun is random and varies
between languages (“bed” is feminine
in Spanish — la cama – and masculine
in French — le lit); speakers actually as-
sociate human gender stereotypes with
those words. So when French speakers
are asked to choose from a list of words
to describe a bed, they choose mascu-
line stereotypes like “strong” whereas
Spaniards will chose feminine stereo-
types such as “delicate”. Incredibly,
they make these associations even when
speaking in English — their mother
tongue has “tainted” them.
In this short, entertaining and highly
readable book, Deutscher delves into all
of these areas, concluding that people
who speak different languages really
do have a different perspective on the
world, albeit subtly different. But most
exciting is that so many of these revela-
tions have been made in recent decades-
with advances in brain scanning tech-
niques – the real treasures of linguistics
may be just on the horizon.
Rory Fenton
The Life Scientific
Through the language glass
Study links Facebook friends with brain regions
A study by UCL researchers suggests
that the size of certain brain regions in an
individual may be linked to their num-
ber of Facebook friends. The research-
ers found a strong correlation between
the number of friends and the amount
of grey matter in regions including the
amygdala, the right superior temporal
sulcus, left middle temporal gyrus and
the right entorhinal cortex. The three lat-
ter regions were not, however, correlated
to real-world friend networks.
These regions of the brain are associ-
ated with memory processing, emotion-
al responses and perception, notably in
identifying objects as biological. A pre-
vious study suggested that the volume
of grey matter in the amygdala is larger
in people with greater real-world friend
networks. This study suggests the same
is true when referring to online friends.
Professor Geraint Rees, a Wellcome
Trust Senior Clinical Research Fellow
at UCL looked at MRI scans of the
brains of 125 university students who
actively used Facebook and performed
the study taking into account the size of
their real-world and online friend net-
works. A strong link was found between
the number of Facebook friends an indi-
vidual had and the amount of grey mat-
ter in the aforementioned parts of their
brain. The findings were replicated in a
group of another 40 students and were
later published in the journal Proceed-
ings of the Royal Society B.
The researchers emphasise that this
does not represent a causal link and it
is not possible to determine from the
study whether maintaining more Face-
book friends results in greater volumes
of grey matter or individuals that have
larger brain regions are hard-wired to
have more friends. Professor Rees said
that “online social networks are mas-
sively influential, yet we understand
very little about the impact they have
on our brains”. Dr Ryota Kanai, the first
author of the study added “the exciting
question now is whether these structures
change over time. This will help us an-
swer the question of whether the inter-
net is changing our brains”.
Facebook is the world’s most popular
social networking site with over 800
million global active users. The study
also looked at how many real-world
friends an individual had compared to
their Facebook friends, and showed
a positive correlation in that respect.
It involved asking participants ques-
tions such as “how many friends are
in your phonebook?”, “how many
people would you invite to a party?”,
“how many friends have you kept from
school and university?” and “how
many friends do you have on Face-
book?”, allowing for an estimation of
social network sizes.
The findings support the idea that
“most Facebook users use the site to
support their existing social relation-
ships, maintaining or reinforcing these
friendships, rather than just creating net-
works of entirely new, virtual friends”,
Professor Rees added. Students on aver-
age had around 300 Facebook friends,
ranging from 150 to 1,000.
Dr Heidi Johansen-Berg from the
University of Oxford noted the find-
ings were intriguing but emphasised
that adding a large amount of Facebook
friends would not constitute a short cut
to making people brainier. She added
the critique that “the number of Face-
book friends you have [may be] more
strongly related to how much time you
spend on the internet, how old you are,
or what mobile phone you have”, con-
cluding that “the study cannot tell us
whether using the internet is good or
bad for our brains”.
The Wellcome Trust Centre for Neu-
roimaging seeks to understand the brain
in greater detail, with scientists study-
ing higher cognitive function in order
to identify how thought and perception
arise from brain activity. Dr John Wil-
liams, head of Neuroscience and Men-
tal Health at the Wellcome Trust said
“we cannot escape the ubiquity of the
internet and its impact on our lives, yet
we understand little of its impact on the
brain, which we know is plastic and can
change over time”.
DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2011.1959
Alex Karapetian
xxx
Ancient Greeks called the sea “black” because they had no word for blue

