Working with our elders and betters
ed to
' hart
w the
I ways
t the
ellinj
). a!
jsing
n our
to be
at we
I that
livers
>e 8
love
bar-|
onlyi
send-1
s but
lot i
d ea:
rray;
v, we
3 and |
were
•oned
3 d tc
r die
i quid
ir fo'
pack.
=ven
r the
seen
, l|fe
pul |
oney
umid
S 85
nc I
crap'
)t'-K;
e , l t ;
r *
'Roderick Floud" is not a name many of you will
[,e familiar with. He has managed, in an elec-
tion more fraught and tightly contested than
e ven your average student union sabbatical
election, being elected by 52 to 51 votes to the
presidency of t h e ' C o m m i t t e e of V i c e
Chancellors and Principals', the lobbying and
support organisation for U K universities. The
CVCP (sort of the College equivalent to the
fv|US, except they're affiliated and we're not) is
planning to turn itself from a genteel commit-
tee, as it was founded at the turn of the centu-
ry, into a more forceful lobbying organisation.
So how does this affect us? There shouldn't be
a great problem for us in higher education
institutions improving their lobbying force with
government - I have previously commented on
the dire lack of government funding and this is
something students and university adminstra-
tions appear to agree on. There are some peo-
ple who would like co-operation between stu-
dent, administrative, staff and institutional rep-
resentative organisations, on matters of com-
mon concern to them. This is something I have
been advocating to the A l d w y c h G r o u p (the
student unions of the top 19 research institu-
tions that make up the Russell Group), and is
an approach we will have taken to our Vice-
Chancellor e q u i v a l e n t s l a s t w e e k in an
Aldwych-Russell meeting.
We hope to set up meetings throughout the
year, and to find common ground for joint gov-
ernment lobbying. This isn't as silly or unrealis-
by Hamish Common
President, Imperial College Union
tic as it may sound - there is a serious possibil-
ity of a general election before the end of this
academic year, and previous joint stances have
had an effect on government policy and party
manifestoes.
I don't know what the chances are of this plan
working in practise. I have noticed that the
attitudes of student leaders and institutional
heads vary widely on policy and co-operation,
and if student politics is anything to go by,
occasions where they agree around a common
theme are few and far between. Naturally, we
wish to push for commitments not to increase
tuition fees and to ensure that the sort of stu-
dents that attend Imperial are not disadvan-
taged by the Government's plan to increase
student numbers in the way it plans.
The C V C P themselves are producing a report
on higher education funding - presently in its
provisional stages - which will form the basis of
their submission to government, just as all the
parties form their manifestoes for the election.
W e are hoping to influence this in favour of
students - the N U S will undoubtedly be push-
ing an agenda as well: though there is more
hope that this year they may care as their
President wasn't a Labour appointee and does-
n't appear to be seeking a parliamentary seat
in the next by-election. The political parties
may be more impressed by the varying repre-
sentative organsations in higher education
pulling together to press student-friendly poli-
cy out of government, rather than let them
watch a spectacle of infighting that ensures we
get pushed to the bottom of the pile.
Much of this depends on the leading charac-
ters among the C V C P and Russell Group. The
new C V C P P r e s i d e n t , R o d e r i c k Floud in a
recent article in the Guardian Education as
part of his bid for the presidency, talked of the
student body in ten years' time. His comments
are mixed blessings for students. He recognis-
es that if we want to expand education, much
more money has to be spent on access, but
doesn't say where it's coming from. The thing
that is particularly annoying about differential
fees (increased fees at higly-ranked institu-
tions such as IC) is that it's us that has to pay
them in order to fund a completely different
set of people to study at unviersity. Professor
Floud's other ideas of obsolescent terms and
timetables and no-one going to lectures and all
learning over the net may be f a r - f e t c h e d ,
though he is also one of an increasing number
of people who a d v o c a t e s t u d e n t s living at
home and commuting to university.
The n a t i o n a l p r e s s a r e i n t e r e s t e d in an
Aldwych-Russell meeting, so this is a chance
to get our views across to wider population. If
you have any views or any particular example
about where student life may, or ought to be
going in the next few years then tell me. There
is a better opportunity this year than for a long
time, so use it.
Firstly an update on what Rag has been doing since the last column; An
open meeting saw us roughly map out Rag week, giving ourselves plenty
of hard work to do. Details cannot be revealed here but you will all find out
soon enough. Suffice to say that we hope to give you a packed week of
events which aim to include as many members of the college as possible,
whilst raising lots of money for two very deserving charities.
We also held a gathering to present the cheques from last years Rag.
Cheques were given to representatives of Alone in
London and the Dyslexia Institute. The event gave
us all an opportunity to reflect on the past year,
and look forward to the rest of this years efforts.
Looking back over all that has been achieved gave us all an idea of the work
involved, and the work we still have to do to achieve our target of raising
'30,000 for charity this year. S o a big well done to Martin, Farhad and all
involved last year for a fantastic year.
Friday November 17th saw the annual B B C Children in Need appeal.
Whilst this was not something we were involved with, Emma Watson from
'he Ch
emistry department coordinated some serious fundraising which
see a cheque for over ?1100 being sent to the appeal.
should
And here are a few words about our other nominated charity, Great
O r
mond St.
I l
's Britain's biggest specialist hospital for children and is dedicated to
treating and caring for youngsters with the most unusual, complex and rare
conditions.
Every year over 100,000 children from across the country, and sometimes
overseas, come here for treatment. Specialist doctors from Great Ormond
Street also go to local hospitals where they offer expert advice on a wide
range of children's medical problems - from heart disease to asthma. Over
100 different clinics are now run regularly across the country - and the num-
ber is growing. Great Ormond Street Hospital is world renowned for its pio-
neering work. Alongside the hospital's doctors and nurses are over 200 sci-
entists at the Institute of Child Health, the hospital's research partner. They
are investigating the causes of and finding cures for a
i J U l . i wide range of children's illnesses. The Hospital's motto
"V- * is 'The Child First and Always' - and it's designed
especially with children in mind. For more info visit
their website at www.gosh.org
For details of forthcoming Rag events, reviews, a new competition and
news of our raffle, plus Pete's highly entertaining editorial, visit the Rag web-
site at www.icu-rag.org.uk
Coming up this term, we have carol singing at Euston and Liverpool St
Station for Alone in London, our big raffle, a few cloakrooms and more.
With the end of term fast approaching it is time to look back on how far we
target. Friends have been made and we have a working committee who I am
confident in saying will ensure that we more than meet our target. However,
there is still room for new ideas, help and volunteers, so if you are interested
in joining us then email us at rag@ic.ac.uk
Finally a big thank you to everyone who has helped us get this far.
Enough of my ramblings, have a good week
Vick
9 • Felix • 4th December 2000 •

