A L : 8 0 J Y DM;
Phoenix 2001: an arts odyssey...
S
C I E N C E IS N O T E N O U G H A N D PHOENIX IS THE S O L U T I O N .
Phoenix is the annual arts magazine of Imperial College. It's a collec-
tion of original artwork, verse and fiction by students. In short, Phoenix
offers an outlet for your repressed creative talents! Besides, it provides enter-
tainment and welcome relief from science, technology and medicine.
Phoenix is special because it represents over a century of college
tradition. The arts annual is the oldest publication at IC, founded once
upon a time by the celebrated alumnus H . G . Wells. S o this is your
opportunity to be a part that distinguished history.
Over the years, Phoenix has been produced in a variety of formats by
successive elected editors. The incredible range of styles is a definite
bonus - as the saying goes, variety is the spice of life. There is purpose-
fully no specific theme to Phoenix 2001, so your piece can be on what-
ever subject inspires you the most. Just let your imagination run wild.
Submitting entries couldn't be simpler, either via e-mail (for poertij
and stories) or in person (for drawings and pictures to be scanned;
Phoenix is based in the Felix office, those unmistakable portacabirp
behind the liquid nitrogen tank at the back of the Physics depart
ment.
The preliminary deadline for submissions is set for the beginning $
next term (Wednesday 10th January), so there's still plenty of time t
o
be creative during the holidays. If all goes according to schedule, tha
Phoenix should hopefully be printed around Easter. The magazine wi|
be distributed across campus and available for free.
Phoenix 2001 needs: P O E T R Y , P R O S E , D R A W I N G S , S H O R T SToj
RIES, A R T Y P H O T O G R A P H S and of course a F R O N T C O V E R ! If you're
interested in contributing to the 2001 issue of Phoenix, then contaa
the editor Helena as soon as possible at phoenix@ic.ac.uk
Mountaineering Club - left dangling?
O
n reflection, it was probably a bit optimistic. A late November
weekend in the Peak District (not exactly known for its arid
desert climate) after the wettest Autumn in centuries was
unlikely to offer much in the way of perfect gritstone conditions. If dry
grit is the nicest thing in the world, then wet grit is definitely up for the
worst.
Still, that didn't deter us. After a reasonably pleasant minibus journey
we arrived in Hathersage Village Hall before midnight, and crashed out in
its relative luxury (relative to a tent on a windswept hillside, anyway).
Saturday looked worryingly grey, but since it wasn't actually raining
we made it out of bed reasonably early and headed down to Hathersage
Bakery, the focal point of any Peaks trip due to its impressive fried
breakfast 'monsters'. It was closed. Bugger. This was definitely a bad
omen. W e were forced to slum it and cook our own breakfast (which,
incidentally, was really rather nice).
W e drove up to Stannage Edge, and considered the state of the
rock. It was certainly damp, and the low cloud suggested that it wasn't
going to get any drier, but it was just about climbable. The cold wind
failed to deter one of our number from attempting to look like a proper
climber by stripping down to shorts and a vest (Fellwanderers brave?
Yeah, right) and soloing up a descent route. A couple of people started
to lead some easy routes, without a great deal of enthusiasm, but when
it started to rain we decided to give up and go back.
Since most of the afternoon was available to us, we went shopping
for gear (the aforementioned fashion freak spent £50 on a pair of
trousers), debated the possibilities of finding a dry crag (slim) and decid-
ed to go to a wall in Sheffield. The Foundry turned out to be a great
place, and at £2 to boulder it made the London walls look decidedly
pricey. Three hours later, pumped, we retired to our hall for a bite to eat
before sampling the wares at the local hostelry. Then came back to the
hut and started drinking seriously. Some fool discovered the wide range
of costumes stored in the Hall, and our glorious leader was wearing a
dress within minutes (once he'd figured out how to get it on). W e have
photos, Simon: do you want your mum to see them? On the vague idea
that it might be nice tomorrow and we would want to get up early and
climb, we crashed out at around three.
Sunday seemed even less promising than Saturday had. W e drovetj
the world-renowned Grindleford Cafe (that's pronounced "caff", withoul
the acute accent, which is for poncey southerners) for a big, greas)
breakfast. It had just about stopped raining by the time we reached
Froggat, our crag of choice for the day. Although the classic slabs lookel
decidedly wet and unpleasant (which ruled them out, since decent fricj
tion is the only thing between you and Sheffield casualty on these,
routes), there were a couple of dry routes to lead and top-rope. We man-
aged to get a reasonable amount done in the end: couple of nice leads
easy soloing and bouldering, and toproping for our less experienced!
members. Not an ideal day, but better than sitting in London in the rain.
Want to get involved in the frightening but fun world of extreme
rock? Contact simon.coulson@ic.ac.uk
"Ropes? Ropes are for wimps."
• j Clubs & Societies • Felix • 4th December 2000 •

