IjlUtiU,)l/Ur by Guru Gingagal
Capricorn
22nd December-20th January
C - Leo
22nd July-23rd August
jde discovery of your secret inheritance Rumours and intrigue surround you this
0 fthe tropical island is slightly tarnished week, perhaps it is a lesson to be more
| t ) i s week, when you discover that it is to discrete about the duvet with hairy feet
h
e co-owned by your nemesis. ..tarquin.... seen escaping from your room....
21st April-21 st M a y
Scorpio
24th October-22nd November
After a miserable time lately comes good Noticing that you appear a little swollen
fortune this week...so take heart...yours this week, prompts a visit to the doctors,
not anyone else's.... and a good thing too....
Aries
21st March-20th April
:: •
• Libra
24th September-23rd October
It is important to say what is on your Plotting to capture 101 dalmations this
mind this week...brain fluid...it'll confuse week will not bring you the warm feeling *
your enemies... of comfort that you e x p e c t e d , it w a s !
never going to work... I
Pisces
20th February-20th March
V.rgo
24th August-23rd September
A friend will persuade you to carry their I know and you know, and we both know
dark secret this week, but it will prove to it wasn't very nice, it'll be a dissappoint-
be a too h e a v y b u r d e n for y o u to ed flatmate opening those IN' doors of the
carry..stupid big hefty s o l i d metal advent calender from the 21st to the
secret.... 15th...
Gemini J V " 7
Sagittarius
22nd May-21 st June 23rd November-21 st December
This week you fear one of your flatmates Building your own t o m b / r a t h e r flashy
's slowly trying to poison you...but it pyramid maybe is wise...however it is a
would be a bit insulting to accuse if you bit morbid...
w
ere wrong....
Aquarius
: Cancer
22nd June-21st July 21 st January-19th February
is a week for special Christmas shop- This week brings crushing dissappomt-
9- special specific shopping for you IN' ment when you get the first two lottery
numbers, divide all your worldly goods
between your friends, and then fail to get
anymore....
R T 5
Yachting
Anyone passing Scuthside in the early rrornings of the 25th
and 26th of November would have been surprised to find an
intrepid bunch of IC yacht club merbers waiting in the oold.
Two day-trips to the Solait - or at least Portsmouth Harbour
had been organised. Undeterred by minor factors such as
wind and rain, we piled into the ninibus that would transport
us to cur destination - Gosport on Ebrtsrrcuth harbour. After
arriving at 9:00am, there followed a quick meeting aboard
one of the two Sigma 33s, called Zennor V and Scorcher,
which would be our boats for the duration.. The skippers
wisely decided, based an the gale warnings on the radio and
the deafening whistling of the rigging of the surrounding
beats, that we would not venture outside Bortsmouth
tferbour.
We divided into two groups of six and proceeded to dan our
waterproofs. Each skipper then explained the safety risks
and cperaticn of the bewildering array of ropes and cleats to
the uninitiated and we cast off. Satcurday' s trip had vaitured
to Bort Solent - in the rain, but Sunday saw the appearance
of the sun. We used a mixture of sail and motor to reach
Fareham and after some anxious moments with high-tension
electricity cables, i t was lunchtiire. We rroored and ate an
the beats. Gourmet sandwiches (!) , acccrrpanied by fine
wine (I) were readily consumed. Then, with a slight break in
the weather after lunch, we cast off and hoisted the prcver -
trial mainsail. Coasting along at a speed of seven knots, the
wind in cur faces and the sun at cur backs, i t was easy to
understand why we had a l l left our cosy beds at 6am that
itDming! We returned to the rrarina, moored the boats and,
after having to undo i t a l l again to go in search of diesel we
cleaned up and returned to the murLbus. We returned to
London a contented bunch after an exhilarating dose of sea
air and sailing, with the novices among us vo«ing to be back
far mare.
This is the first time the Yacht Club had experimaited with
cne-day taster sails, which have worked cut being a very
cheap way of trying the sport; similar days will prrbably be
run next term. If ycu would like to join the mailing list and be
informed of forthecming trips or have any queries about the
Yacht Club email yacht@ic.ac.uk.
Rifle and Pistol
IC 1454 - 1458 Kings
On Wednesday 22nd November, IC Rifle and Pistol Club
hosted King's College for a friendly rifle match in the
Projectile Hall. Each College fielded a team of 8 shooters,
with half of Imperial's team being composed of new shooters
competing in their first match. All the new shooters from both
teams performed creditably, with IC's Daniel Schneider
shooting very well, acheiving 188 (out of 200). Imperial's four
experienced shooters all did well, including Ben Chowdhary,
Guy Dewhirst and Philip Golds. The overall result was a win
to Imperial, the scores being; Imperial ; 1464 - King's : 1458.
Afterwards much fun was had by all, as everyone went over
to Southside Bar for some post-match eating and drinking.
^ ) Sport • 4th December 2000 • Felix •

