Football - game on
F i r s t B u s a P o i n t for the F i r s t s
IC 1 - 1 L S E
It was a gigantic day. A day when wars are
won and lost, life cannot compare to days like
these. Everyone knew what they had to do. IC
firsts needed some B U S A points. The team rose
to the challenge. When the ref decided that the
game was for nonces only, by giving freekicks
for thinking of touching your marker, IC battled
for the game. The first half was slack, but a cou-
ple of extra gears were found in the second half.
Psycho got his first goal for 3 years - a penalty
very nearly saved by the keeper. J P made a
kwality debut, but couldn't stop the penalty that
they had. Eniola was superb playing on the right,
Ali G got booked as did James. We all then had
a few social ales to celebrate the first B U S A
point.
Brunei 3 - 1 IC I
This was a game we expected to lose. Not
the first line that you would expect in a match
report? No! But after last times' 9 - 0 defeat, we
needed to show some strength. We had to prove
ourselves to B U S A .
Unfortunately we conceded a goal early on
but we showed no signs of weakness. Coming
back strong, Eniola, Comfort and Tony were
superb and soon after a cross from Alan found
George and he scored his first goal for IC. HE
WENT MENTAL, that's how much it means. IC
were superb for the rest of the half and Alan
came close on a free kick.
The second half proved eventful. They
scored two goals, somehow, but an ambulance
90t stuck in the mud and Joule's contact lens
9ot semi-lost. Amidst it all, Oily made a come-
back on the right wing and we had about three
goalmouth scrambles. Comfort put the ball in
'he back of the net but it was deemed offside.
Unfortunately, the score remained at 3 - 1
and it was not our day. But bearing in mind that
t h
ey rely on Vauxhall Conference players to
boost their side- we did okay.
T h i r d s l i g h t t h e b l u e t o u c h
Paper
l
-Sf: IV 1 . 2 IC III
On a day when most matches were called
off, the thirds braved the elements and the pub-
lic transport system to reach the blasted wastes
of Berrylands and claim the three points we
deserved.
More used to the semi-marsh that is
Harlington, the bowling green surface that L S E
play on came as a bit of a shock, but a shock we
used to our advantage. Early doors, we were
stroking the ball around the park with panache
and fluidity. The L S E defense was overweight
and apparently unskilled and so the pace of Phil
up front and James down the right wing had
them in all sorts of trouble. As an attacking force
the economists weren't much to write home
about, whatever made it past Paul and sturdy
new guy Ian in midfield was not trouble at all for
our defense.
They had barely ventured into our half when
the first goal came, lain hit the ball long down
the left for Phil to chase. One sprint and a minor
scuffle later and Phil was on his own on the edge
of the box and he generously decided to sguare
the ball to an unmarked lain who sidefooted it in
for his first goal for IC. It was an open goal but
it's a start...
You may have thought that going behind
would have kick started our opposition, but no,
they were as lethargic as ever. Phil hit the bar as
Pesh began to get into the game going down the
left and was on hand to finish off a controversial
move for our second goal. James unleashed Phil
down the left again but this time he was cynical-
ly hacked down by the now desperate, wide-boy
defense. Incredibly the ref waved play on but
this was to advantage as
James squared the loose
ball which Pesh turned in at
full stretch.
With the ref clearly on
their side, L S E galvanized
their shower of a team and
at least we were given some
worthy opposition. Before
the break there were
chances at either end but no
more goals.
Henry, "Dad" Eyers and
Alex came on for Pesh,
James and lain and the sec-
ond half started as the first had. Mike and John,
with little defensive duties to do, went on some
blinding runs up the wing while Henry showed us
some more of his cheeky play. It looked like cur-
tains for L S E but the ref came to their aid. In a
rare attack the ball was crossed into our area
and the referee blew up for a penalty for no
apparent reason. Dhruve had obstructed a play-
er he explained, this was news to Dhurve and
anyway, obstruction is usually an indirect free-
kick! Their striker, to be fair took it well, but we
didn't and the referee's life may have been in
danger.
This inspired L S E and they looked danger-
ous for the first time in the match but our
defense did its job well and they were shut out.
At the death, "Dad" Eyers was put through one-
on-one with the keeper and got hacked to the
ground from behind for his trouble. No surprises
- the ref waved play on but sooner or later he
had to blow the final whistle and hand us the vic-
tory.
! S c h r o d e r s
S c h r o d e r s is a leading international a s s e t
m a n a g e m e n t G r o u p
HAIR SAI.ON
7gm
* it "7
a 2, H "J h
• Felix • 4th December 2000 • Sport a .

