tl"i
I I
Morcfccan
Blues
mmm.
..The holiday didn't start well; members of the team turned
up late, the minibus broke down half way down the M i l
and, when, we finally arrived at Morocco's Agadir airport, we
had to wait whilst several taxi drivers came to blows over
who was going to drive us to the bus station. When they
resorted to stealing our rucksacks from each others roofs we
decided we'cii have enough, screamed a couple of choice
insults in French (I knew that exchange* prbgi'am would come
in useful one day) and trekked off to find another rank.
The drive to the bus station was hair-raising: the drivers
seemed fo have no regard for signs, speed limits, priorities
or even which side of the road was appropriate. The bus
"A horse, a horse.
My Klingon for a
station was a wall'with 'Bus Station' written on it. The cock-
roaches were about the friendliest things around and we
passed the 5 hours until the bus for Marrakech left merrily
inventing new ways to crush them.
We also became acquainted with something that would
later summarise everything quintessential about Morocco for
me, the all-pervading srriell of fish. As dawn dpprdbched we
got chatting to a man who.claimed to know England, and
Stamford in particular, well. He also offered us Kif, the local
delicacy in ridiculously large amounts. Tempting does not
even come close to it;
The bus journey was long, hot and smelly. It was made
worse by the fact we'd been forced to leave before Iwo of
A summer holiday to Morocco
takes a sour turn for Simon
Wistow when an overnight
storm washes away a local vil-
lage...
the group had returned from wandering around the town
and when they eventually did catch up with us they were in
an air-conditioned Mercedes grand taxi.
There was no rest in Marrakech. Wehired a roof of the
hotel CTMoverlooking Djemmael Fnaa, the main market
place! A place to sleep secured, we set off to buy supplies
for the expedition, find some way to get up into the High
Atlas mountains and find some fuel to cook with. Aparffrdttr
the fact that that there isno Moroccan word for methylated
spirits and nobody knew the Frenctf for it things'weht fine*
Luckily, Fate was on ouPsidfe |S^d we.:butji|a|d irfetbe head
mountain guide for the Jbel Tbubkal region. Who oifered to
organise mules, guides, meths anci a convoy- Laridrovers tos
get us up to the High Atlas.
The first few days of the expedition were fun. True we hadn't
been able to dump our non-essential gear at the bottom of
the mountain in the village hotel and it had rained for pre-.
cisely 2 hours and 26 minutes every night for the past five
days but the scenery had been spectacular, the climbing
exciting and the food plentiful (even if the bread had started
to go a bit solid). We had been peak bagging; the practice of
trying to climb as many mountains as possible in a short
amount of time. So far we had done Ouanoukrim and Afella
both at fairly large at 3,750m and 3,875m respectively but
our ultimate goal had always been Jbel Toubkal, the highest
mountain in North Africa standing at a whopping 4,015m.
Surprisingly, it turned out to be the easiest climb; the path
had been worn by hordes of people doing exactly what we
ere'doing. We got down earlier than we had expected and
were also pleasantly surprised when the customary rain
clouds didn't dump their load on us at their usual time.
Taking this as an omen we tidied up, washed the rather ripe
clothes we had been wearing and just lazed around.
However, at about 8 o'clock it started to drizzle lightly... We
climbed into our bivvy bags and resigned our selves to
another night of boredom, isolated in what was effectively a
bin bag made of Gore-Tex. But this night was going to be
different.
Lightening is spectacular in any situation, but when you're on
top of a mountain it is the sort of thing that can turn men
deeply religious. Thunder also gains an extra dimension
when the valley you're in turns out to be the ultimate acoustic
travelogue

