sounding-board. It rained like I've never seen anything rain
before. The rain stopped and the hailing started. The hail
stones hurt. Badly. They were about the size of a walnut and
we were protected by a sheet of breathable material and a 3
seasons sleeping bag.
The other problem with sleeping on a mountain is that
water tends to flow downf hill. Towards you. Now you do all
you can; face down hill.have a rock up hill of you, try and find
slightly higher ground and all that but all these precautions
failed to help us in any way whatsoever. The physicists and
engineers have been looking in the wrong place by the way.
The substance with the lowest coefficient of friction is Gore-
Tex and Karrimor roll-mats lubricated with about a gallon of
water. I only realised something was wrong when I felt myself
sliding down past my friends who, from my point of view,
appeared to be doing a gravity defying shuffle summit-
wards. I levered myself upwards and set off towards the
equipment store as, unwilling to leave the comfort of their
bivvy bags but more unwilling still to be washed several miles
down stream, the team participated in a surreal sack race in
search of shelter.
As 16 people struggled to cram under the piece of blue
plastic that also served to keep out food dry it was decided
that we would make the short walk up to the Neltner Refuge
and try and stay in one-of their huts. Stuff was duly packed
and we headed towards dryness and "warmth. This was not
to be. The irritatingly well-equipped French Expedition who „
were camping near us had abandoned their space age tents'
and had commandeered the dormitories. More choice insults
flowed and, after questioning their parentage, describing
exactly what diseases we ^thought their mothers had contract-
ed and where, in some detail, they could place various bits of
kit that were lying around, we regrouped and after much
haggling mdnaged to hire a tepee off some of the Berbers
"(the local tribesmen) which slept 8 and accommodated the
others by stealing the French tents. The night passed slowly
and cold. i 1"'
The next morning (to use an overused but remarkably accu-
rate cliche), dawned bright and clear. We breakfasted on
rolled oats and nuclear strength coffee and settled back to
wait for more supplies to arrive from the village below. We
waited. And waited. And decided that if the mules weren't
here by 1pm then it was too late to start the next stage of out
trek; a, walk round the base of Jbel Toubkal via Lac D'lfni. \fi
At about 2 in the afternoon a runner came up from Imlil.
The paths up here had been washed away and all the mules
were being used to cart corpses around. Hmm, not really a
lot you can say to that. Our guide's farm had been washed
away and all his animals were dead but he remained
remarkably stoical. He explained in a broken'mixture of
Berber, Arabic and French that the roads we had travelled up
on were, to put it lightly, no longer there and that were going
to have to walk out of the valley. We made our way down to
Aroumd (pronounced Arempt) to stay the night there. I apolo-
gise in advance for using another cliche but the only word to
describe the scene was total devastation. The lush green field
we had walked through a week earlier were gone and whole
rows of houses were gone. Further down the mountain in the
larger Imlil cars were lying on their backhand in trees or had
been crushed by 8ft boulders. The hotel we had been going
to store our stuff in was gone leaving only the cellar. Even
CNN were there. At that point we thought that if the media
were involved it might be a good idea to get a message back
to England so two of the more energetic members of the
team set off to find a young doctor who was reputed to have
a mobile phone and the rest of us started to help rebuild the
town.
The walk out was uneventful. After a while you got used to
seeing fields of rocks and dead animals. After three days we
got to a stretch of main road that was undamaged and met
up with the Landrovers again and went back to the CTM
Understandably we let our hair down. We celebrated the
Prince of Morocco's birthday in style (difficult since Morocco is'
an Arab nation and supposedly dry), wandered round the
souks, bought carpets, haggled and forgot everything;that we
were told about which foods not to eat. By the time that we
caught the bus to Essouira, a fishing town on the coast two
days later, all but two members of the group had was affec-
tionately known as The Marrakech Shits made particularly
unpleasant by the fact that the iodine that we were using to
purify our water (camping trip Iodine is so much better than
chlorine based puri-tabs: use it if you can) tended to stain all
food a luminous yellow
Two days later we caught the flight back from Agadir (the
flights, incidentally being the only pre-booked things on the
expedition, the other stuff being organised on the fly). Another
uneventful journey The food was the same unremarkable
^airline food you get anywhere but with a Middle Eastern twist,
the intercom was unintelligible, the hostesses pretty and the
toilets had a queue stretching all the way down the aisle
We arrived back in Stamford at 3am slept soundly for 8
hours, showered, shaved, thanked the Industrial Revolution
fervently for flushing toilets and the settled down to wait for
our parents. Predictably mine were the last to arrive. They
had heard about the floods but had decided that it had noth-
ing to do with me so had not been unduly worried!
Despite the rather dramatic situation that occurred, I loved the
whole holiday. I suppose it could be because it was my first
time out of Europe and the that it was such a culture shock
but if still remains one of my favourite countries. Ifs easy to
get to (catch a ferry from Spain), friendly (as long as you
watch out for the pick pockets and rip off merchants) and very
cheap (providing you're not afraid to bargain) and I want to
go back there this summer. I thoroughly recommend that if
you have some time off and are looking for a exotic holiday
that you should go there too. But do take plenty of Diarheze.
"A little bit futher
back Simon. I can't
quite fit you in"
mm
-mom
m
travelogue

