FELIX FRIDAY 6TH JUNE COLUMNS 17
Politics is, as one of the great
philosophers once remarked, a funny
old game. In the European arena,
however, it is positively crazy. Last
Monday, 1 found myself toasting the
French Socialist victory with cham-
pagne. Not perhaps the sort of behav-
iour that you, dear reader, expect of
me. Reason? The Socialists in con-
junction with the Communists (it's a
mad, mad world) have just ham-
mered I the last nail in the coffin of
European Monetary Union, and for
that we should be eternally grateful.
Though never by any means a rac-
ing certainty, the French electorate
have ensured that we shall be spared
from possibly one of most damaging
policies ever in Europe. It would
appear that the only remaining expo-
nents of E M U are Jacques Chirac
and Helmut Kohl, whose enthusiasm
for the project remains completely
undented by the bleedin' obvious.
For at least 18 months, it has been
painfully apparent to almost every-
one in Europe, save for these imperi-
alistic zealots, that the imposed
timescale for a single currency was
fanciful, and, more fundamentally,
an idea with very questionable
premises.
No country in Europe has moved
towards economic convergence by
legitimate means, with the possible
exception of Britain, which has
moved towards the targets by coinci-
dence. First we had the French pen-
sion fiddle with France Telecom,
then the various gold sales by the
Dutch and the ,
Simon Baker
What we have here is a classic exam-
ple of the dangers of mixing politics
with economics. Kohl has effectively
made European federalism his life
ambition, to be pursued with vigour
at all costs. The principal enabling
step for this is
monetary union;
I political union,
1 and make no mis-
I take about this, is
the logical conse-
quence. As E M U
is the beginning
and not the end,
he feels that it is
vital that it starts
on time.
Obsession in
monetary policy is
less than wise,
M r a n c
' t
' l e
P u r s u a n c c
jEgLpJ of this policy
••- • -—_ .— mSmm oblivious to the
voice of r e a s o n b r o a d e r E u r
° p e a n
economic picture
is highly irresponsible. It has had two
consequences. Firstly, France and
Germany have had to apply the fiscal
brakes at precisely the time that a
loosening of policy was called for at
the end of the recession, with the
subsequent high level of continental
unemployment. Secondly, and as a
B e l g i a n s .
Space does
not permit to
list the
accountancy
shenanigans
of the Italians.
The latest and
most serious
fudge is, of
course, the
planned reval-
uation of
German gold
reserves, suc-
c e s s f u 11 y
vetoed by the
Bundesbank
P r e s i d e n t .
Quite how Germany can legitimately
meet the economic convergence
terms that it insisted were included in
the Maastricht treaty is anybody's
guess, for by ensuring stricter mone-
tary union, it has all but guaranteed
its absence from the process. No
Germany, no EMU.
result of the pain of real efforts to
move to convergence, governments
cross Europe have little choice but to
cook the books to flatter the figures.
This has little immediate conse-
quence, but a Euro built on such
shaky foundations will be savaged
by the markets, inevitably driving
inflation up. Anyone who thinks that
the historical strength of the
Deutschmark will be preserved in the
new currency either attended the
Dennis Healey School of Economics
or answers to the name of Helmut.
The Times Higher Education League
Table has caused much interest in
here placing us third, principally on
account of First, books and beds. Our
pre-eminence over the LSE is secure,
but in other aspects, they are giving
us a real run for our money. A recent
1st year Computing exam was con-
veniently supplied with the examin-
er's marking guide, rendering the
exam simple even for LSE students.
A resit has now been rescheduled on
a day after most of the overseas can-
didates have flown home. If the late
resit is due to a lack of facilities, I
think Imperial should do its duty and
offer our own first-class exam centre j
to our University of London col-!
leagues.
Westminster Eye - Hamish Common
When President Clinton
visited the new Prime
Minister and toured
round London last week,
he was very envious of
the speed with which the
new Government came in, and the power it enjoys.
In the States, laws are passed by Congress, and a
two-thirds majority overrides a presidential veto.
An American President is always negotiating with
Congress on policy and law. We have no such
problems here. Britain is essentially an 'elective
dictatorship', where the Government has in effect
absolute power to direct policy and law for five
years, after which the public make their choice for
another five years. Such power has come under
criticism, with commentators saying that we suffer
from a democratic deficit. Our only other voting
powers lie in electing local councillors and
Members of the European Parliament, whose
power pales into insignificance compared with the
British Parliament.
The Conservatives did nothing to improve the
situation: Mrs Thatcher embarked on a centralisa-
tion of power that many socialists could only have
dreamed of, turning many local councils into talk-
ing shops and administrators of services rather than
directly elected bodies who could affect their terri-
tory. Mr Blair is making some welcome changes
to this policy, including devolving power to run
local affairs to Wales and Scotland, although the
vacillating and woolly implementation of the poli-
cy has plenty left to be desired. The long-promised
introduction of a Freedom of Information Act was
not - as promised - in the Queen's Speech but the
outcry this provoked as accelerated the timetable
for its arrival on the statute books. Let us hope that
the Government does not get too used to the cul-
ture of secrecy for this to be delayed any longer.
The final part of the new policy of opening the
workings of the Government to scrutiny comes
with the Bill of Rights, which involves the incor-
poration of the charter of the European Court of
Human Rights into British Law, so citizens will be
able to get redress within British courts rather than
have to appeal to Strasbourg. The Bill of Rights
will not go as far as the American model where
entire Acts can be struck down by a judge. This is
expected to be the best compromise available, as
the Government does not want to go too far down
this road: in the States the death penalty was abol-
ished and later reinstated purely by decisions from
the US Supreme Court - Congress was not con-
sulted.
Set against this happy picture of our
Government handing some of its awesome power
out some worrying signs have emerged. Firstly the
alterations to the workings of Parliament made by
the Government - decisions that should be the pre-
serve of Parliament itself. Secondly the use of the
'guillotine' on. the devolution debates which
wrecked the Opposition's attempts to bring the
Government's flabby devolution policy to account.
This broke with previous convention that matters
of the Constitution would be discussed at length on
the floor of the House. This guillotine motion
brought the debate to an end and precipitated a
vote - which the Government cruised through
(something that will be very familiar during the
next five years). Donald Dewar -accused the
Opposition of "an organised attempt to obstruct"
the legislation, a particularly arrogant comment
given that it is the duty of the Opposition to do
exactly that if they are unhappy with it.
The last, and most worrying aspect of the
Government's new regime is the plethora of polit-
ical appointees holding powerful positions in
Government. There are now 35 such people
employed in Government departments, with more
promised, compared with 30 during the 18 years of|
Conservative Government. Although some, espe
cially in the DTI and Treasury, have considerable
relevant experience, the majority have experience
only of campaigns and party politics. This goes
against the Civil Service principle of positions
being available by 'free and fair competition', and
the appointments required a rare Order in Council
for them to wield power over civil servants. The
final straw was the predicted appointment of Mr
Blair's 'Chief of Staff, Jonathan Powell, to be his
Parliamentary Private Secretary, to which the
Cabinet Secretary voiced his concerned opposi
tion, given that the PPS deals with documents of|
national security. The appointment was finally
given to civil servant.
The incumbent Government is keeping faithful
ly to its manifesto of openness and honesty, but the
politicisation of the Civil Service is a foreboding
sign. Although most of the signs are optimistic
they must ensure they don't go down the well-
worn path of keeping the levers of power too close
to the chest.

