FELIX FRIDAY 6TH ]UNE LETTERS & EDITORIAL 19
LETTERS TO FELIX
ICU excellent?
Dear Felix,
As a student who left my IC
degree at the end of the first year, but
managed to leave the the Union, I
have been amazed by the lack of
interest in the Union demonstrated
by those candidates standing for the
President in the elections so far.
IC Union is quite simply excellent.
A few brief comparisons with
King's, one of the reputedly "hip"
places to study in the capital should
make this clear. At King's a film
society occasionally shows films; the
drama group have to hire the theatre
from the college in order to use it;
their monthly newspaper features
about as much blank space as it does
interesting writing; and those trying
to organise societys are given a min-
imum of assistance. Here we (oops,
sorry you) have a newspaper the stu-
dents actually want to read, a radio-
station, a cinema, a very nicely
equipped resources room for clubs
and societies, and if Dramsoc's cur-
rent production of Romeo and Juliet
has been rehearsed on stairwells, out-
side the Royal Albert Hall, and in the
Sherfield Ante-Room - at a cost of
£25 a go, at least we have a venue to
perform it in.
Hopefully the candidates this time
round really want to run this union.
They need to, because the most
important issue which they'll have to
deal with - apart from the Mary's
merger - is getting the college to
realise the union is not an extra, but a
vital part of their service to students
at I.C. and one they should be proud
of. Incidentally - why such a fuss
about Mary's moving over here - its
like any small company or nation
being amalgamated with a larger
one. The most important traditions,
the cultural identity of the small unit
will be maintained as far as the mem-
bers of that unit wish, whilst the indi-
viduals will benefit from the greater
range of choice offered by the larger
organisation. Financial battles will be
fought with some bloodshed on both
sides - but it is an inevitable process.
Back to the point - the President's
chief responsibility is to persuade
college to take the funding of the
union seriously - instead of support-
ing only the high-culture activities,
such as Orchestra and Choir, and the
high-achieving sports teams such as
fencing. Apparently there are people
employed within college to support
staff-student relations. Will any of
them be attending Romeo and Juliet
being performed in the Union
Concert Hall - do they ever go to the
cinema - or out to cheer on a hockey
team. Do they take our social activi-
ties seriously at all? If they do not we
ought to be outraged.
Except, of course, its our own
fault. How can anyone expect to be
taken seriously when Hustings for
sabbatical elections consist of forc-
ing candidates to down pints to prove
their "manhood?". Drinking capacity
is seen as superior to policy - why
should anyone take that seriously.
In case anybody is wondering
whether this is mostly an excuse for a
Dramsoc plug - I've just submitted
an application to become a Life
member of the Union. And if I'd
wanted to write a plug, I'd have put:
Dear Felix, Look out for people
fighting with staves in the Quad next
week, they're demonstrating
sequences from Romeo and Juliet,
which runs from 11th-14th June in
the Concert Hall. It costs £3.50 for
students £5 for non-students and
tickets are available from the Union
Office.
Yours
Kat Fishwick, Chem I 94-95
wanted: inspiration
Dear Felix,
In this week's issue of New
Scientist (No. 2084) the new Pro
Rector for External Affairs, Igor
Aleksander, writes a very interesting
article contrastinf American and
British research. The article is enti-
tled "Dustbin of the World" and con-
cludes with a sentance that equates
British universities with dustbins.
How readily I agree with his com-
ments on the eysores of tatty posters
and crushed coke cans but must point
out that the entrance foyer of
Electrical and Electronic
Engineering where Professor
Aleksander was head for 8 years, is
one of the least attractive locations
on campus, rating not much above
the JCR. If we wish to creat "enthu-
siastic and curious students and fac-
ulty members" then an entrance
foyer which inspires those who enter
it may well be as important as finding
the funding for more research.
Yours,
Paolo Cuomo EE2.
It's not a particularly good ad for
IC either...
Dear Felix,
Just to put the record straight,
regarding last Friday, and the
Union's position with licences. As
you are aware, the Union currently
obtains its bar extensions by means
of Special Order Exemptions - which
means that we must apply for each
extension individually. Last Friday,
the local licencing authority decided
not to grant an extension, a decision
which is entirely at their discretion.
However, before we are all thrown
into panic, the licences for the
remaining events have now been
granted.
At present, the Union is in the
process of applying for a "Section
77" licence which will allow us to
permamently maintain our current
midnight licence on Wednesday and
lam on Fridays, without making
individual applications. We hope to
have this in place for Freshers'
Week.
However, we require the co-opera-
tion of everyone that attends Union
events before we can expect this
application to be granted. One of the
major objections against our licence
is the noise after Friday nights, and
we have promised local residents that
the noise will be reduced. We need
your help - it will only take a few
objections for our licence to be
removed, and we will not be able to
open past 11pm.
The Union has invested a great
deal of time and money in gaining a
licence - we do not want to lose it
because of the poor behavior of a
small handful. Please respect the
needs of our neighbours.
Yours,
Mark Home, Events Manager.
Feeling artistic?...Up For a challenge?
Due to insurmountable problems Leosoc (your college
society for drawing and painting) has been unable to run
this year but intends to be fully functional for next year.
To do this we need your help
Those of us still involved with Leosoc are either leaving
next year or are too busy to run the society. Therefore we
need enthusiastic people to help setup and run the society
for next year. If you feel you have the time and the moti-
vation to do this then contact Steve Barrington at:
sj.barrington@ic.ac.uk
or phone on 0171 706 0018
(preferably contact by email)
Letters may edited for content or length.
The deadline for letters for the last issue is Friday 13th June (oo-er).
Letters may be e-mailed to: felix@ic.ac.uk
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
©Felixl997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: ROBIN; PHOTOS: ROBIN; MUSIC: JASON AND A L O K ; FILM: CHRIS;
FEATURES: A F U A ; SPORT: SIMON AND M o ; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: DAVID;
COLLATING LAST ISSUE: JIT AND D A V E

