20 SPORT FELIX FRIDAY 6TH IUNE
F E L I X SPORT
Seconds discover good looks alone aren't enough
1996-7 was a season of highs and
lows for the ICAFC second eleven.
It all started back in October with a
team talk from the veteran Phil "the
pill" Siverns, who explained that in
the seconds the football was good but
the partying was better. This was
borne out as we didn't achieve the
promotion expected at the start of the
year by "Captain courageous" Steve,
but managed some notable perfor-
Unfortunately it was never possible
for Steve to name an unchanged side
and towards the middle of the season
Alex was lost to the first team and
never really replaced, Dave managed
to destroy his ankle and goalkeeper
Steve had to stop playing due to
arthritis of the knee.
It was not all bad news as we did
have joining the team about this time
the Mighty Robo who added steel to
ories, not all of which can be men-
tioned due to space, but here's a few:
the best performance was coming
back from 1-4 down at half time,
after two thirty-yard lobbed own
goals, to beat Goldsmiths 5-4.
Undoubtedly the worst performance
was in the BUSA cup when we lost
eleven-nil, but the evening in the bar
and the journey home nearly made
up for it. The 5-1 loss away to
goal-a-game scoring, "Hardcore"
Hajo's goalkeeping, Will's sliding
tackles, Dave's offside decisions,
Steve's ridiculously cool lob against
St Mary's, the amazing 3-3 draw
against the league champions, going
out of the cup 4-3 due to a last minute
penalty, piggy-backing Dave to the
station after the ball had hurt his
ankle, Loz's scrape with the law,
German's scrapes with the referee,
Loz Reed, Robo Ubogu, Andy Ferguson, Rob Finn, German Shanidze
Dave Wharton, Steve Fleming, Martin Archbald, Phil Siverns, Si Dunsby
"The Slags" on their visit to Leicester, this time Felix Schroeder (far left)
and Hajo Dekker (centre of group) turned up. Will and Steve K didn't.
mances off the field.
The season started badly, but the
team had the potential to do well - in
goal there was Steve K who's perfor-
mances saved us time after time, an
experienced centre-back pairing of
Will and Rob, a skillful midfield and
a deadly partnership up front of Alex
and Martin "Shearer" Archbald.
the midfield, German "killer"
Shanidze who was our player of the
year due to his silky skills and bone-
crunching tackles from centre-back
and also Andy Ferguson who, despite
being one of the shortest players on
the team, switched from midfield and
filled in admirably for Steve in goal.
The season was full of great mem-
Goldies was brightened up by the ref-
eree pummelling one of his team-
mates and the game being aban-
doned. The state of Phil's eyeballs on
Saturdays as he continued his four-
way love thang with Margaret,
Dawn, Mary and Amy; Felix's amaz-
ing speed on the wing, Loz's con-
stant hairstyle changes, Martin's
that absolute **** who played for
Kings and was sent off, Hajo paying
his subs and my ridiculous methods
of keeping my hair under control.
It was a season that we all enjoyed
and although we didn't win much,
we were always the best-looking
team . All together now, "In the town
where I was born, lived a man who...
Second XI cricketers robbed in the cup
The day started badly with the
minibus that we had booked having a
flat battery. This delayed our depar-
ture, plus long tail-backs leaving
London to the M4 meant that we
arrived at the secluded Royal
Holloway sports ground just in time
for the start of the match.
Our captain went out immediately
to look at the perfect pitch. He also
won the toss in an Athertonesque
manner for the third time in a row.
After losing our valiant captain in
the early overs, Mike and ImranKahn
set about getting a decent score,
while the rest of us sat in the sunshine
attempting to get away from the
breeze which came direct from
Siberia. Mike proves again that he is
hard on bats as his third in five
innings bit the dust, but that didn't
stop him clocking up a fluent 36.
Imran was joined at the crease by
several other fine batsmen, but being
the senior partner he kept most of the
strike for a well-deserved 74. God
knows what he would have got if he
didn't find the fielders with such reg-
ularity.
Graham successfully forecast his
golden duck right down to the catch
at mid-on. Mikal made another
extremely quick 12 in a way (and
with a bat) that only he can. The tail
put on a few valued runs, with
Mandar hitting new highs in form
since starting to wear glasses, and
ended with 17 not out. All this
superlative batting meant that we
ended with a record total of 208 for 9.
But was it going to be enough?
Tea was delivered by some fine
young ladies and was taken outside
in the sun. Tom, who had an emer-
gency call-up for the match, man-
aged to pout away a whole packet of
Jaffa cakes. The tea was marred by it
coming to light that three light-fin-
gered kids had been through the
changing rooms and had relieved us
and our opposition of nearly £100
and some watches.
We took the field and gained an
early breakthrough, but there was a
lot of room for improvement in the
fielding. Mandar was successful, in
part at least, when attempting to
catch the ball that had been well and
truly leathered at him in his mouth.
The story, again I'm afraid to say,
was all about dropped catches. Dave
was distraught in getting figures of 1
for 41, with his left arm spin totally
bamboozling the opposition and giv-
ing five catches that were dropped.
Mandar was economical in his seven
overs for 30 odd runs. Mike was
extremely pacy off his short run-up
and was unlucky not to get more
wickets, as were Pete and Moz. To
tell the truth, I think almost everyone
had a chance dropped.This saw
Royal Holloway past our score with
four overs to spare.
After the match, they were
extremely hospitable and we went
back to their Stubble Inn where we
spent the evening. Half the team
stayed on to sample their union and
more hospitality trying to score a few
runs or bowling a maiden over. But
from what I hear none were able to
even hold a catch there.
Report by Tweaker.

