6 PRESIDENTIAL MANIFESTOES FELIX FRIDAY 6TH IDNE
Seconds away... Round three
Roll up folks, it's here! The all new improved sabbatical elections.
This is your chance to decide who should be at the helm of next year's
Imperial College Union. After two rounds of elections with only one
candidate, we now have six fighting-fit, raring to go candidates for the
thrid and hopefully final round of elections.
They have submitted manifestoes, presented below, for you to read.
Study them carefully. Look at their mugshots. Come along to the hus-
tings next week and grill them about their policies. Find out what they
are going to do for your Union. Remember that the Union is not just a
place to drink - it has an importance for everyone that goes far beyond
the beer prices...
Paul Brown
Imperial College Union is run by its members, for its members, but this
often seems to be forgotten. I intend to change this.
Students come to Imperial College for two reasons - to get a good degree
and to have a good time. My priority as ICU President will be to help every-
one achieve this.
The clubs and societies are one of ICUs great strengths, and this is where
my involvement with the Union originated. But ICU should also be there to
safeguard the welfare of its students. This extends from providing £1 curries
and a Women's Minibus on Wednesday and Friday nights, to representing
students on issues such as funding and accommodation.
Academic representation is the single most important service that ICU
provides, but recent events have shown that it needs improving. Some prob-
lems can be solved by the Departmental Representative system, but bigger
issues need a concerted effort from ICU and the CCUs. Many students have
suffered from the recent fiasco with The Tent, and already it is obvious that
more problems are on the horizon.
.. . '
ICU needs a president who will take academic representation seriously. I
am competent. I am committed. Vote for me. Please.
Mo Dulloo
I've said it before and I'll say it again... Life moves pretty fast. If you don't
stop once in a while you could miss it. I've stopped and taken a look at the
state of the Union and certain problems need to be addressed. Major issues
include the Beit Quad renovation, Student Union expansion and facilities to
cope with the increased number of students in 1998; Funding; Integration of
the Medics and Top-up Fees.
I want to see all the Union Officers make better use of their roles. The
representation network already present has to be better implemented.
I want clubs to realise where 'their' money is coming from and to place a
greater emphasis on 'Our Students Union' rather than 'the Union'.
I want to see the best solutions available and implemented for and on
behalf of the student. This will be done through consultation with all the
Sabbs and Union Officers.
I want better harmony between IC students and the Medics to smooth our
transition. This will come through a mutual understanding and greater
awareness of each other's differences.
Our future is important to us. Let's get on with it. Vote for the no bull-
shit option. Me!
Hustings in dBs, ICU: 5:00pm 9th June; in Gladys', St Mary's: 6:00pm 11th June

