FELIX FRIDAY 6TH IUNE PRESIDENTIAL MANIFESTOES 7
I daresay by this point you have a
fair idea about what New Election
entails, but for those of you who
spent the last few months flying
behind Halley-Bopp here's a
quick summary.
If you think none of the candi-
dates standing in the election are
capable of doing the job at all (!)
then vote New Election to force
another ballot. Nominations for
the posts will be re-opened and a
fresh round of elections will take
place, though this will have to be
next year due to the timescale of
things (so think, before you vote).
You can also use New Election
tactically (say as your third
choice) to differentiate between)
which candidates you do think are
worth the post, and which aren't.
Remember that due to the wonder-
ful nature of the Single
Transferable Vote System your
preferences count, as well as just
your first choices.
I consider the issue of private accommodation to be a high priority. At pre-
sent the Union is 'pressuring' College into a more effective system of vet-
ting landlords. Knowing the legendary speed with which Sherfield moves
in such situations, I propose to create an 'unofficial' landlord blacklist that
would be available from the Union.
The St. Mary's merger is a contentious issue. I believe that duplicated
clubs or societies should be encouraged to merge, but I feel the actual deci-
sion over merger should be at the discretion of the members and organisers
of any such clubs.
I would take a firm stand against any 'inconsiderate' behaviour towards
students by the College, e.g. The Marquee in Princes Gardens. I would not
stand by doing nothing, stating that the College was already embarrassed
enough.
I believe that no matter how much work is done by the President and the
Union, this work would be infinitely more valuable if he/she is seen to be
doing it. I believe in a more accessible administration, where the movements
and actions of said administration are more widely available.
I would also like to see a more streamlined and efficient administration of
the Union.
!
Laurie Tweedale
After three years here, my involvement in all aspects of the Operatic Society
and experience as a dedicated Hall Re-App have lead me to believe that fair-
ness and equality are essential.
Representation
Awareness - Only through continuous and consistent communication will
students take a more active role in the Union and feel welcome to contribute.
Academic Affairs - The reason for us all being here. The current system
needs to be improved; students don't know their representatives or whom to
complain to.
Participation - Every registered student is eligible to vote, but the present
union card system doesn't allow this. I will develop a system to allow A L L
students to participate.
Facilities
Beit Quad struggles to provide for the current South Kensington popula-
tion - Friday nights regularly sell out and clubs&societies are reduced to
meeting in the Quad. DaVinci's and the JCR are packed out in the daily fight
for lunch. We need to gain as much space as possible.
Medical Merger
We must endeavour to involve all students on the St. Mary's and Charing
Cross sites. Similar clubs should be encouraged to meet and discuss how
they could benefit by pooling resources or supporting activities spread across
all sites.
Voting: 16th-17th June, in all departments. You will need your union card to vote.

