“
“ ”
10
COMMENT
felix
FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
Y
ou’re on the brink of
it. You’re reading this
Freshers’ copy, most
likely picked up off the
floor of your room in
halls, and you’re very nearly there.
You’ve spent the last few months being
told that your exams were too easy, your
future is jobless, your university fees
higher than ever, your hair too long and
your generation’s romantic comedies
too full of Gerard Butler. Most of these
things are not true. Gerard Butler does
appear to be able to star in several mov-
ies simultaneously, however.
The good news is this - you can forget
that now. Those people are behind you -
confined to your old secondary school,
bitter tabloid newsrooms and your
hometown. You’re now a free agent, a
university student with the power to be
who you want, say what you want, and
claim to have done things in your gap
year that are physically impossible or
otherwise massively unfeasible. Don’t
be the guy who claims to have taught
modern dance to underprivileged kids in
Brazil. Don’t be him.
The bad news is that, as Spiderman
taught us, with great power comes a pro-
portionally higher number of dickheads.
If there’s one thing Imperial excels at,
it’s dickheads per student, and as Fresh-
ers here you’ll find that your year bears
the brunt of most of them. You’ll see the
rich fashionistas who flinch every time
they come into contact with someone
poor enough to need a student loan;
you’ll be treated to the business plans
of a dozen Financial Times-reading ar-
seholes, whilst struggling to breathe un-
der the torrent of disdain being poured
all over you; you will encounter the
endless borderline-insane student politi-
cians and activists who want to change
the world by shouting loudly at it; and
you will of course have to put up with
the weekly opinions of the sort of self-
aggrandising lunatics who hide behind
pseudonyms and write for student news-
papers. Cocks.
If I’ve accidentally labelled you in that
list and you’re feeling uncomfortable
now, well, so am I. Don’t worry about
it. If you’re not on that list but are get-
ting apprehensive about the prospects of
spending the next three years with the
people on it, then that’s good.You should
be. There’s a lot of talk about how great
a new beginning this is for you, and how
you can be who you want to be, cast off
the insulting nicknames that insinuate
various sex acts with domestic animals,
and reinvent yourself as a new person.
Unfortunately, if you were the kind of
person who naturally attracted that sort
of nickname, then don’t expect to stay
Mister Definitely-Doesn’t-Shag-Goats
very long. Here’s a sad truth - university
doesn’t change most people. Particular-
ly the nickname-inventors.
But it can change you. Now there’s
an idea. You can realise that you’re sur-
rounded by one of the most fantastic
cities in the world, full of real people.
People who aren’t interested in your
Change is overrated
private life, or your childhood spent on
farms. You can realise that, whilst the
percentage of arseholes has remained
about constant, the number of people
you’re studying with has increased ten-
fold. Look in the right places, and you’ll
find the people you want to be around.
So here’s your Freshers’ Week advice
from Uncle Angry - and this is a thing I
try as hard as I can to stay away from in
normal weeks, so enjoy it while it’s not
full of vitriol and hatred - is this: don’t
change.
The thing with change is, it feels
good at first, especially once your par-
ents have sodded off home in the car
and you realise you can put your towels
anywhere you bloody like now thanks
Mum. But the allure will wear off even-
tually, and you’ll realise you’ve spent
the intervening time pandering to people
who are to oxygen what that fleshy bit
in the middle of you is to your trousers.
That’s ‘a waist’, for those of you who
have started drinking already (which I
always recommend before reading Fe-
lix). I’d leave you to do the boom-tss on
the nearest desk. Enjoy Freshers’ Week
- I’ll see you in term time.
You haven’t come to uni to be ‘re-born’; just have fun
This newspaper has a long and distin-
guished history of informing, supporting and
entertaining students and in the coming
years, during your time at this great univer-
sity, this vital role that Felix plays at Imperial
will be ever more important.
Coming to university is an exciting experi-
ence but also a little frightening, even in the
good times. Saying goodbye to family and
old school friends is difficult and finding
your feet at university isn’t always straight-
forward. At the same time however, the free-
dom of being an independent person and
the fantastic new experiences that you will
have are guaranteed to put a beaming smile
on your face.
Unfortunately, as you will well know, we no
longer live in ‘good times’. The fact that
you are reading this newspaper means that
you were not one of 220,000 students who
didn’t receive a place at university this year.
No doubt this is due to your intelligence,
ability and grades but you must be under no
illusions about the changes that will occur
while you are at university.
The coalition will likely implement cuts to
university funding of between 25% to 40%.
This will affect the quality of your teaching,
of the facilities that you use and your uni-
versity experience in general. In addition the
Browne Review into how students pay for
university will, at the end of October, prob-
ably recommend increasing tuition fees to
£7,000. The government may not accept
the review’s recommendations but don’t fool
yourself into thinking that the system is go-
ing to stay the same. There will be a change.
There is a debate raging in this country
about this impending change in higher edu-
cation and it is your responsibility and your
duty to future students at Imperial to be in-
volved in it. It has become a truism that Im-
perial students are apathetic and apolitical,
but now the politics is about you, about your
education and about your money. It is simply
not good enough to say “I don’t care.”
So make yourself heard. Engage in the de-
bate online, in comment threads and on
blogs. Inform yourself by reading up on the
issue, newspapers would be a good place to
start. This is your moment, your opportunity
to shape your university experience and to
protect it; don’t let it pass you by.
FELIX
Angry Geek
“The thing with
change is, it feels
good at first but the
allure wears off and
you’ll realise you’ve
been pandering to
other people”
The bad news is that, as
Spiderman taught us, with great
power comes a proportionally
higher number of dickheads
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
This is a time of great
change for students and
universities.So make sure
your opinions are heard
Barack Obama... Proof that ‘Change’ is overrated. Zing!
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

