11
felix FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
COMMENT
Enough damn advice already!
B
efore you get any further, I
feel you should know that
writing these things isn’t
as easy as it looks. That’s
partly because you don’t
actually see us writing them, but mainly
because, unlike columnists at the Guard-
ian who write for everybody who counts,
and those at the Sun who write for eve-
rybody who can’t, we have no idea what
sort of crowd we’re writing for.
Where are you from? What is your
name? What are you here to study? Are
you still reading this seemingly endless
list of questions? These are all questions
I’d love to be able to answer but at the
moment I’m as much in the dark as it’s
possible to be with the light actually on.
By far the more serious problem fac-
ing me is that I’m supposed to address
your concerns without knowing any of
the above (which are clearly, as I’m sure
you’ll agree, prerequisites for the for-
mulation of any coherent, practical sug-
gestions). What is one supposed to do? I
could always go to the college’s statis-
tics database and attempt to write a piece
tailor-made for the average student, but
seeing as they would end up being 1/4
female and 3/4 other, I have a feeling I’d
be just as much at a loss.
Gilead Amit
The best I can hope to do is try to an-
swer some of the more obvious ques-
tions that might be spinning around the
partially-loaded revolver of your mind
in our mutual game of Russian roulette.
These might include: Is this the sort
of dreck that passes for a student news-
paper these days? Does Freshers’ Flu
really exist or is it a myth, like David
Cameron’s Big Society and Jeremy
Clarkson’s penis? Do I really need to
work for a hedge fund in order to get
a well-paid job? What’s a hedge fund?
What’s a well-paid job? And who is this
prick with the questions anyway?
Most of those questions have fairly
self-evident answers. But one that may
surprise you is that yes, Freshers’ Flu
does exist. Though you will probably es-
cape unscathed, the true victims will be
the seniors in your hall of residence who,
in a desperate attempt to prove that they
are still young, will get violently drunk,
be violently sick, and violently dance
about in the November chills without the
fleece sweater you so assiduously prom-
ised your mother that you would wear.
What I have found really makes Fresh-
ers sick, however, is advice. And if you
have a sensitivity to it, then my advice
is to pile on the medication before you
reach the end of this sentence and realise
that you’ve already been infected.
It just can’t be helped. Your parents
will by now have offered you so much
advice it’ll seem like they’ve been buy-
ing up global fortune cookie stocks in
the event that budget cuts cause a drastic
shortage in Chinese restaurants.
Even friends who, by an accident of
parental arousal, made it to university a
year or two before you, will like noth-
ing better than to feed you horror stories,
interspersed, of course, with legends of
their quasi-Arthurian chivalry and val-
our. All the while, student newspaper
columnists who don’t know you will
feel perfectly comfortable pontificating
at you from within these very pages.
There’s simply no escape. A pow-
dery snowstorm of advice is blowing
all around you, and you have no choice
but to pull on your fleece sweater and
charge through it.
And what to do about it? Listen to
it? Ignore it? Make little snowballs and
throw it back in our faces?
Do whatever you want. Enjoy your-
selves, be considerate towards each oth-
er, and take every opportunity that comes
your way. If you’re not sure how best to
do that - well, you know who to turn to.
A
big hello to those of you
picking up Felix for the
very first time. And a very
good day to you! You are
at the beginning of one of
the most exciting, terrifying... and cer-
tainly unique periods of your life. Uni-
versity. London. People. It gives me a
buzz just thinking about it. To prepare
you for what lies in store, I will relate a
brief Freshers’ Guide to Imperial. First
piece of advice: if you ever need a com-
puter in the library, learn how to say,
“Stop playing World of Warcraft and get
out!” in five different languages.
But you will have received advice in
abundance by now and I’m sure you’ve
grown tired of this rehashed sagacity and
don’t need it repeated once again. So, I
decided to write a different guide, one
that scratches the surface to reveal the
gooey inner workings of Imperial. The
wisdom contained has, taken years of
study (and avoidance thereof) to attain.
Other guides will teach you about the
dreaded Freshers’ Flu and how it can be
avoided. While this is a very real dan-
ger, the threat tends to pass within a
fortnight. What they fail to mention are
leopards, a year-long hazard. Leopards
are the only natural predator to pedestri-
Rhys Davies
ans in London. They arrived in the city,
as most exotic creatures do, as part of a
private collection but they escaped into
the wild, where their numbers have been
growing steadily ever since. Leopards
hunt mainly at night so seek shelter at
the Union during this time. While stay-
ing in a group provides some safety, be
aware that leopards are not afraid to
attack prey in herds, so make sure you
have some slow friends.
My guide-writing colleagues would
then move on to talk about the imposing
edifice on the Queen’s Lawn, the Central
Library, and so shall I. I’ll say it plainly;
it is hot in there, uncomfortably hot. I’ve
seen students in shorts and sandals in the
middle of winter (though, this might be
more a reflection on the student body.)
But the real danger in the library furnace
is madness. The stress that comes with
exams and coursework, combined with
the heat, has driven many a poor student
insane. If you experience any nausea,
vertigo, delusions of grandeur, wall-
melting, time-travel, hearing colours or
conversations with the furniture, get out
immediately and seek medical help.
You will also be told that you will go
to bed at four after a night of stupid and
fun things and that you will get up at six
to more stupid and fun things. Wait, no,
reverse that. Time, as you will discover,
is a most fluid construct at Imperial, as
rigid and unyielding as a piece of over-
cooked spaghetti – another facet of life
with which you will become intimately
acquainted. The day/night cycle will still
exist but will be purely academic to you.
You will wake up in a strange place at a
strange time (quite possibly with strange
people) and wonder how you got there
– you will only recall the entire night’s
proceedings as a few fleeting seconds.
At other times, especially during lec-
tures on a Friday afternoon, mere min-
utes will drag on with the ancient weight
of untold centuries. With a helpful copy
of Felix, you might skim that down to a
scant few decades.
This is by no means the end of my in-
sights; this is just a taster to start you off.
Remember that all the advice you read
has been gained and harvested the hard
way, through living it. That itself is a
guarantee of its worth. But hey, you can
ignore all this if you want – just so long
as you remember this; The best way to
survive in London, and to learn what’s
what in Imperial is to get out there and
live it for yourself... avoiding leopards
where possible.
Freshers’Tip #29:Avoid leopards
“During lectures on
a Friday afternoon,
mere minutes will
drag on with the
ancient weight of
untold centuries”
“Freshers’ Flu is a
real phenomenon.
What I have found
really makes Freshers
sick, however, is
advice.”
Letters to the Editor
These comment pages are
filled each week with horren-
dous diatribes, outrageous
arguments and confused cir-
cular logic; and that’s just the
Editorials. But they wouldn’t
be anywhere near as fun with-
out the letters and responses
of the students. The Felix let-
ters section is your message-
board. It’s a place where you
can complain about your lectur-
ers, about the food on campus
and most importantly about
the content and execution of
our beloved cat Felix. If you
don’t like what we’ve written,
how we’ve written it or even the
person who has written it, then
send the Editor a letter at
felix@imperial.ac.uk
You don’t have to be polite or
even reasonable. It might be a
good idea to spell check your
letter before sending it (it is al-
ways embarrassing to criticize
someone else’s efforts when
your own is frankly lacking…)
but aside from that, allow your
personality to come across in
your writing.
One more thing, try to be brief.
An 800 word letter is just a
rant, and nobody likes a rant.
(Well we do, but we just won’t
print it in full...)
Do you want to be a
columnist?
Are you hilarious, topical, witty
and well written? No? Well nei-
ther are any of our columnists.
If there is something that you
feel strongly about, a burning
issue that cannot be left un-
tackled, a point that you feel
needs to be made urgently,
then feel free to submit a 600-
800 word piece to comment.
felix@imperial.ac.uk. We will
allow people to write anony-
mously but we will not accept
anonymous submissions (we
at least have to know who you
are.)
We’ll give extra brownie points
to students who let us know
what they’re writing about be-
fore they write it.
Alternatively, see “Letters to
The Editor” above

