19
felix FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
MUSIC
Don’t let the party die
The essential playlist for all those happy (or horrific) Fresher memories
Music is an essential part of life, like water or Doritos Extreme Chilli HeatwaveTM.
Your first week at Imperial will be set to the sound of a playlist of songs chosen by
destiny, and these songs will be forever intrinsically linked to certain feelings, peo-
ple and places you will encounter during Welcome’ Week. To make damn sure you
don’t end up with “California Gurls” or some Gaga shit engraved on your frontal
lobe for eternity, we have compiled a set of brilliant tunes that you yourself must
trigger at key moments during the week, effectively ensuring that the party never
dies… IN YOUR MIND!
God knows you’re gonna be tired of this
club quickly, but what He also knows is
we’ve all been there. So if your plans are
to stumble into this cesspool of musical
faeces, you might as well stock up on
good pop music beforehand (cuz there
ain’t gonna be none later…). This is
where Swedish dance-pop queen Robyn
comes into play, backed by an impec-
cable dancehall beat courtesy of Major
Lazer mastermind Diplo.
Oh the horror. Trust me, 80p vodka-coke
can only mean one thing: black puke on
your way out. But you might as well ex-
perience this hellhole firsthand, if any-
thing just to pin a definition to the word
“sleazy”. Ageing hipster James Murphy
knows a thing or two about being sleazy,
as he rants about drunk girls waiting an
hour to pee and drunk boys keeping in
pace with pedophiles. A filthy little tune
to prepare for one messy night.
Greg Power Odds are you’re going to want to kick
off your stay here at Imperial College
by getting plastered at the Union. If not
then somebody will drag you there any-
way and if they don’t, well something is
plainly amiss. So kick back and indulge
in a fine pint in Beit Quad with Wavves’
anthem of the summer in the background
as you make the most of the last rays of
sunshine.
First drinking
session in
the Quad
“Post-Acid” by Wavves
Pre-Tiger Tiger
(lashup)
“Dancehall Queen”
by Robyn
Pre-Cheapskates
“Drunk Girls”
by LCD Soundsystem
In case you have a
break-up
“Fuck you”
by Cee-Lo Green
Uh-oh. Did your boyfriend/girlfriend/
transgender partner from back home
break up with you just before uni? Not
feeling up to non-stop partying? AW
HELL NO. Don’t let that dick/bitch/
reptile spoil your fun! Cee-Lo Green,
the voice behind Gnarls Barkley, will
get you through your break-up in 3 min-
utes 46 seconds flat with this classic soul
number. Give it one spin and your game
will be instantaneously refreshed.
When all is said and done (and your liv-
er is threatening to sue), you will have
had one of the craziest, far-out and de-
bauched weeks of your entire life. You
might not remember much of it, but
believe me, it was awesome. It just so
happens that Canuck hip-hop star Drake
also gets a little too tipsy from time to
time, blacks out and doesn’t remem-
ber jack shit in the morning. “Who the
fuck are y’all?” you might ask too as
you look around at all these new faces.
Especially when they all seem to know
your name but you seriously have no
clue who the hell these kids are. Simply
act all nonchalant and head to the Union
with your new acquaintances to buy ‘em
a round. Or inversely get them to buy
you a drink. It’s all good. The party is
NEVER over.
The first of many hangovers to come. If
it feels like a pig shat in your head after
last night’s misdemeanors, don’t fret.
Everybody else in Halls (and possibly
lying next to you on the floor) is feeling
equally terrible. It is Welcome’Week af-
ter all, and the hangover is an indispen-
sable – albeit painful - part of the Grand
Cycle of Fun.
So break out the Berocca, fall right
back into bed and put on this incredible
remix (arguably the best remix in the
history of music... EVER) by mashup
madmen The Hood Internet. The oppos-
ing worlds of Mercury Prize-winners
The XX and rabid gangsta-cum-actor
DMX collide on this aptly titled master-
piece of modern music.
As your head throbs and your alcohol-
induced death wish grows, just remem-
ber DMX went through tougher shit
than you ever will. You wanna fight
him? “FIGHT THESE TEARS”. More
importantly he’ll give you some key
advice here: “Don’t give up, you’re too
strong”.
The last night of
Freshers’ Week
“Over”
by Drake
First Imperial
hangover
“XX Gonna Give to Ya”
by The Hood Internet
Had a fucking awesome week? Made
a gazillion smashing lifetime mates?
That’s all fine and dandy, but you seem
to have forgotten the whole part about
Imperial being one of the leading hard-
core intellectual institutions in the entire
freakin’ world. Maybe you should have
thought about that before downing that
last Snakebite. No regrets though, get
your iPod out and get psyched up with
this rocking number from Felix Music’s
album of the week.
Your first lecture
“Ready to Start”
by Arcade Fire
Have your say on this article at
felixonline.co.uk

