Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Chief Copy Editor Elizabeth Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editor Alex Karapetian Sports Editor David Wilson Science Editors
Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Arts Editor Rox
Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon
Worthington Online Editors Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Tom Greany Puzzles Captain Sean Farres Photography Jonathan Silver Alex Karapetian
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe Hangman Editor Arjun Hassard
2 felix
FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest Road, Derriford, Plymouth.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
FELIX
HIGHLIGHTS
EDITOR’S PICK
The Best of Felix This Week
Your guide to gigs in
Freshers’ Week
London is constantly pumping with
live music exploding and swooning out
of every nook, cranny and converted
basement almost 24 hours a day. It
is therefore no small achievement
that Music Editor Greg Power has
prepared a guide to some of the
best gigs on during Freshers’ Week.
Ranging from ear-splitting metal in
some of the capital’s dingiest venues
to the most exciting upcoming bands
at the Royal Albert Hall this guide has
something for music enthusiasts and
the uninitiated alike.
Page 18
At the beginning of the Autumn term, Imperial runs
a student blogging competition which is open to all
students at the College. The winners will have their
own blog on the Imperial website. The blog will be a
snapshot of your life as a student at Imperial, from
life on campus, to events around London and what
happened on your summer holidays.
Union Meetings
Lolcat of teh week
Students that are selected to be part of the blog
team will receive:
• A free digital camera with filming capabilities
• Monthly “Best Blogger Awards”, which recog-
nise the best blogger(s) of the month with tick-
ets, vouchers and merchandise. The awards will
celebrate those who blog regularly, get the most
comments and stimulate the most interest from
potential students and the Imperial community.
• A package of support to help promote your blog,
including a blog template, professional photo
shoot, and help with photo and video editing
• An opportunity to be part of future College
promotional materials, including films and
publications
• An opportunity to win international blog and
web awards
How to enter
Council
To apply, write 600 words about your first week of
term, or capture Welcome Week in photos and send
it to studentblogs@imperial.ac.uk
Entries are shortlisted by members of the College
Communications team and the Student Union. Ten
bloggers are finally selected from a range of subjects
and years.
Ents Committee
Union Executive
The next meeting of the Union Executive is on Thursday
the 7th of October. This is the place where the day-to-day
issues that affect the Union are managed. Again all stu-
dents are welcome.
Your chance to be a
student blogger
Read current student blogs:
www.imperial.ac.uk/campus_life/blogs
Special Thanks Tom Roberts, Pete Davies, Alex Kendall, Amelia Shivani Faldo.
The first meeting of Union Council is on Monday the
11th of October. This will be where the Union’s policy
on Higher Education will be debated in the coming year,
amongst other things. All students are welcome so head
along, even if you just want to argue with someone.
Sadly not that kind of Ents, this is the
place where proposals for club nights are
heard. All students can attend but if you
want to be a voting member, there will be
an election in the first few weeks of term
Front Cover Photo Slobodan Radosavljevic

