20 felix
FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
ARTS
Globe Theatre vs Royal
Shakespeare Company
The Bluffer’s Guide
to being cultured
Impress, intimidate, then lose your friends (and get
some better ones), by being a total git about The Arts
(capitalised, don’t you know?) By Rox Middleton
Confidence
First things first, believe in yourself! I
am at heart a populist. Discussions about
obscure 18th century Abyssinian art
movements can be left to know-it-all art
students. but whether the art itself is in-
teresting/beautiful/cool is free territory.
You have the right to an opinion and the
good news is, since you can’t be wrong,
you don’t have to be intimidated by peo-
ple who know more than you.
Get some opinions
This is absolutely key; you can torment
yourself for hours and hours weighing
up the pros and cons of a play; stand mo-
tionless in front of a painting scouring
your soul for reaction, or simply adopt
a judgement at random. I recommend
the latter. You can find cheap opinions
in newspapers or online, steal them from
friends or choose bizarre reactionary
ones with absolutely no justification. Be
prepared to defend them unashamedly
until it gets completely out of hand and
you end up explaining to someone why
Big Brother is an example of high-con-
cept installation artwork parodying the
petty-bourgeois nihilism Of Our Time.
If all else fails, quote Nietzsche, who
said: It is hard enough to remember my
opinions, without also remembering my
reasons for them!
It’s “negative
space”... duh
Stay up-to-date
Go see one thing a week. When people
ask you about the London ‘scene’ you
want to be able to talk off-hand about
“Just the other day…” This is also handy
for getting some opinions – see above.
You can reach a whole new level of ar-
tistic bluff when you assess the entirety
of a playwright’s work based on the one
show you saw; don’t have any qualms
about doing so.
Staying up-to-date isn’t at all expensive
either. You can go to the Royal Opera
House in Covent Garden for £5 and
the Entry Pass at the National Theatre
gives under-25s tickets for £5 each and
some freebies. A Night Less Ordinary
is a scheme which offers tickets for
16-26 year olds absolutely free; it’s
excellent, although you will need
to book in advance. In terms of Art
galleries, there are so many free ones,
you need never pay an entrance fee if
you don’t want to.
Wheeling out some Nietzsche is
a sure way to appear cultured.
You get extra points if you can
remember how to spell his name
Gareth Southwell www.philosophyonline.co.uk
You say... I say...
Antagonise people by trumping
their suggestions
Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre anybody? Well, yes, but
the season is over on the 9th October and doesn’t
open again ‘til the spring… the Royal Shakespeare
Company, on the other hand, is renowned for high
quality Shakespeare productions, student tickets
from £5.
National Gallery vs
National Portrait Gallery
National Gallery, Trafalgar Square? Try the excellent
National Portrait Gallery, just behind it, also free and
no “boring old scenery”.
Royal Academy vs Royal
College of Art
The Royal Academy, excellent exhibitions just along
the road from South Kensington near Green Park?
What about the Royal College of Art? World famous
art school snuck in between the Union building and
Hyde Park, you don’t get much closer than that.
Become an Artist
Imperial is more than its academia, there
are at least four societies who produce
several plays and musicals each a year,
there are societies for fine arts, photog-
raphy, radio, television, film and getting
cheap tickets let alone books, philoso-
phy and all the rest. If you have ever
felt artistically inclined before, now is
the time to let rip or rejoin these soci-
eties. Even if you have no interest in
creating the stuff, you can make friends
with these people; nothing says aficio-
nado like “The exhibition of a friend of
mine…” Remember that Imperial also
has its own art gallery in the Sherfield
building, created by Mindy Lee.
Alternatively, write for Felix
Arts.You’ll get free entry into
exhibitions and you don’t need
any prior experience.
Email arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dressing like this might make you appear cultured.
But it depends on how good your accent is...
Arty maxims
Break out some quotes if our tips
(see right) fail you
“De gustibus non est disputandum”
“You can’t argue with taste”, this is for when you are
holding an unpopular view, see “Get some opinions”
“Ars longa, vita brevis” - Hippocrates
“Art is long; life is short”, arguably not actually refer-
ring to fine art but definitely nothing to do with arses.
“Art disturbs, Science reassures” - Georges Braque
This guy was a cubist painter…
“The moment you think you understand a great
work of art, it’s dead for you ” - Oscar Wilde
If you’re completely screwed, go nuclear with the
ultimate “this conversation about art is over” quote
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

