tions, the film gets given a substantially
higher rating than it deserves. If we all
lived like Phoebe in Friends, and turn
off films before the distressing parts, the
film wouldn’t have nearly as a high a rep
as it does now.
21
felix FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
FILM
Critically acclaimed films
that are actually terrible
At some point, the
idea that these films
are ‘compelling’took
hold. In truth, they’re
deafeningly boring and
achingly pretentious
By Matt Allinson
We all know the importance of conversation while making
friends in your first week, especially the pit-falls of trying to
not to sound lame. However, in spite of your best efforts to be
cool, some pretentious knobber will always have something
smart to say in response to your movie opinions, usually by
knocking whatever you say. Let’s call him Mr Knock, for ex-
ample. Well, fear not Freshers, I have produced a cut-out-and-
keep guide to four really powerful movie opinions that will
leave you the winner in any conversation with Mr Knock.
Requiem for a Dream
is just plain awful
First off most people will venture in a
popular “dark” indie film that they have
seen in a little attempt to be cool, most
common of these are Donnie Darko and
Requiem for a Dream. Donnie Darko I
love, (Tears for Fears and Echo and the
Bunnymen soundtrack? Om nom nom)
but Requiem for a Dream is a poorly
written and incredibly poorly acted
teenage navel-gaze-fest. The only rea-
son that anyone thinks it’s any good is
a master stroke of directing, by which
Aaronofsky bludgeons the audience
with a such a distressing penultimate
scene that combined with the daze we
find ourselves in after constantly get-
ting trapped in Jared Leto’s so-hollow-
it’s-captivating stare we forget that the
film itself was total dross. Upon forget-
ting what the preceding 90 minutes of
cinema were actually like, the audience
forms its opinion on what it just saw,
which ostensibly boils down to the fol-
lowing questions: “Do I like watching 2
women go at it ass to ass with a double
ended dildo?” or “Do I desperately want
to ravage the lead singer of 30 seconds
to mars?” as the entire world will an-
swer yes to at least one of those ques-
Pulp Fiction is by far
and away Tarantino’s
worst film
Amélie is the worst
thing to come out of
France since syphilis
Much I’m sure has been made to the
freshers about the ratio of boys to girls at
Imperial, but gents, can I just stress that
if you’re using the “invite her round for
a DVD and then lock the door” method
of seduction (or the Ollie Calderbank, as
it’s known) make sure that for the love
of God she doesn’t bring Amiéle. I can-
not stand that film, it’s dross and boring
and just because it’s set in Paris and the
sun is shining and everyone is swanning
around talking French does not make it
Bonus points: say that you preferred π,
citing that Aaronofsky used all the same
stylistic features of RfaD but with actual
actors, and shot it in black and white so
it is therefore better.
As we all know, the entire point of
Pulp Fiction was as an elabourate vehi-
cle to allow Tarantino to use the word
“N****r” to Samuel L. Jackson’s face.
Whilst a ballsy move (after all, this ar-
ticle is just an elaborate vehicle to get
the word “n****r” in to Felix... (nice
try - Ed.)) it doesn’t really constitute a
good film. And that whole dicing around
with the chronology of the timeline just
resulted in confusion and a million cop-
ycat films/episodes of ER/dramsoc pro-
ductions, each one worse than the pre-
ceding. But in all seriousness, maybe
it’s because at every DVD night in first
year we wound up watching this bloody
film that I’m sick of it. And anyway,
Jackie Brown with its severely limited
level of violence and incredible sound-
track makes for much better viewing.
Bonus points: use the above argument
ad-verbatim with a bouncer at Brixton
Academy.
a good film. Luckily at Imperial there is
a very high likelyhood you will find a
woman who loves Star Wars, Lord of the
Rings and Big Trouble in Little china,
but unfortunately she’ll probably have a
beard. If you manage to lock your room
mate out and a girly girl in, who insists
on watching a film where people speak
French and run around Paris all day,
make her watch La Haine instead.
Bonus points: If she’ll still have sex
with you after watching La Haine then
that’s a bonus, right? Also, good effort...
The dialogue in the
final scene of Brick
really moved you...
right...
This is the big one, if someone has failed
to be out-cooled by everything you’ve
said; and we’re including talking at great
length about the advantages of black and
white over colour cinema, how M. Night
Shyamalayn was never any good in the
first place and settled the argument of
greatest soundtrack (Blade Runner vs.
Apocalypse Now, in case you needed
reminding), throw in, as an off the cuff
remark, how your favourite dialogue in
cinema is the final scene in Brick, that
you found it inspired, insightful and
most of all, moving.
Lots of cool people watch Brick. It’s
because it’s made by attractive teenag-
ers, about attractive teenagers, for at-
tractive teenagers. Also fuck all happens
from beginning to end, and as we’ve seen
time and again, for example Napoleon
Dynamite and the Big Lebowski: films
with very little happening are COOL.
However, no one understands what ei-
ther character says at the end of Brick.
Nothing. Nadda. It’s some whingy Cali-
fornian cunts mumbling to each other on
a noisy hillside about the fuck-all that
happened in the overly trendy preceding
dull-as-horseshit hour and half. Worst of
all, the DVD hasn’t even got subtitles,
so we’re all stuck having to turn it to full
blast and get our Californian-English
dictionaries out. However by pretending
to have understood, and what’s more be
moved by it, you will truly become a
film God (douche)...
Bonus points: This takes effort, but
look the scene up online, commit it to
memory and if someone calls your bluff
(which they are likely too, having been
infuriated by it themselves) you can rat-
tle the whole thing back.
This film is just an
elaborate excuse to
use the word n****r
isn’t it?
What did you just say?
Film Editors: Matt Allinson
Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

