felix
to be a priority. You might choose to take the
situation into your own hands to speed up the
process. One way to do this is to temporarily
change your computer’s MAC address to that
of your console and then register the MAC in
the normal way using your web browser. Please
note that is probably against College ICT pol-
icy and therefore I am too much of a pussy to
actually recommend you do this.
First, you’d need to work out the MAC ad-
dress of your console. Connect your console to
any networking port on your computer or lap-
top and wait for it to aquire an address. Then,
on Windows, open Network Connections and
then the Status window for the port to which
you connected the console, and click Details.
The ‘Physical Address’ is the code you are
looking for, and once you have it download
the free MacMakeup tool from http://tinyurl.
com/6b7b6. Follow the instructions on that site
to change the MAC address of your Internet
connection to the one of your console, and then
proceed with registration in the normal way.
Boom, you’re done! Don’t forget to change the
MAC back after, though! Again, this might be
against College policy and so you do it at your
own risk.
One even more illegal method would be just
to use a router or share your computer’s inter-
net connection, but this is even more explicitly
against College policy so I shouldn’t even men-
tion it. Oops, did I say that out loud?
So now you’re online, all that remains is to
load up your favourite game and blast away to
your heart’s content. Enjoy!
22
GAMES
FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless specifically mentioned
to the contary you’re going to need the Adobe Flash
Player plug-in which can be installed from http://get.
adobe.com/flashplayer/.
Dino Run
pixeljam.com/dinorun
Chat Noir
In this 8-bit sidescroller, you control a tiny dinosaur
trying to outrun and survive the oncoming apoca-
lypse. Doomed stegosauruses, tar pits and smoul-
dering craters block the path to freedom while eggs
and even smaller critters provide tempting diversions
for extra points. The adrenaline really kicks in, howev-
er, when you get too far behind and the screen starts
to flash red and black as a torrent of rocks and fire
threatens to consume your unlucky dino.
Even if you’ve played the game before, it’s worth re-
visiting it again for the new multiplayer mode that
allows racing up to four other players online. This
mode adds a strong competitive element that height-
ens the intensity of this already exciting game.
The concept is deceptively simple: click the big dots
to block the cat and stop it escaping off the screen.
In reality though you will rarely taste success as the
titular character dodges your attempts to surround it
and disappears off the screen with a smug pattering
of paws. To say this game is addictive is be an under-
statement, as after the first few frustrating failures
your one and only goal in life becomes to beat that
damn cat no matter what it takes. Victory is sweet
though despite the anti-climax the game gives you,
so don’t let me put you off!
Just arrived and already
bored? Time to get online!
Our easy guide to getting your console on College internet
Simon Worthington
You’ve arrived at your new university and
you’re already stressed out. You’ve got to
cope with Welcome Week events, meeting
new people and the challenge of moving into
your new halls, and what you really need is a
quick game of Modern Halo Call Of Warfare 2
Strike Deluxe to take the edge off! But, disas-
ter! You can’t even connect to the lobby! How
are you ever going to survive the year? Never
fear Imperial noobs, for with our step-by-tiny-
step guide you will have your console of choice
online and ready to rock in no time.
The first step is to understand the hoops you
need to jump through in order to get yourself
connected. Imperial internet is some of the fast-
est around, but in order to use it your device
must be registered in the College systems. Reg-
istration is based on the MAC address of your
device, which is a unique code that identifies
your console or computer from all the others.
The registration process ties this number to
your College username, so College can provide
and log access. So, all you need to do to get
online is to register your MAC address. Easy!
Well, nearly. Registration happens when you
first try and browse to a web page, and is done
through your browser. So for consoles with a
web browser function the easiest way to per-
form registration is with the console itself.
However, this is a problem for consoles and
other devices lacking a web browser function
as the registration page will never be reached.
One solution is to get Imperial’s ICT service
to register your console for you. You can find
all the information online at imperial.ac.uk/ict,
and if you use the generic request form there is
an option for “registering a device or computer
for network access”. If you do take this route
you’ll need to provide information about which
network port your console is plugged into, your
college username and CID and possibly any-
thing else the technicians would like to know.
While this is by far the recommended solu-
tion, it can take some time especially during
the start of term when lots of new things need
setting up and configuring, and for some rea-
son registering games consoles doesn’t seem
This is actually how the Internet works.
Have your say on this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Four new games to get hot for
Batman: Arkham City
Release Date: 2011
For: PS3, Xbox 360, PC
Portal 2
Release Date: Feb 9, 2011
For: PS3, Xbox 360, PC, Mac
Professor Layton and the
Unwound Future
Release Date: Oct 22,
2010. For: DS
LittleBigPlanet 2
Release Date: Nov 12, 2010.
For: PS3
tinyurl.com/chatnoir
“Imperial internet is
some of the fastest
around, but in order to
use it your device must
be registered in the
College systems”

