23
felix FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
NIGHTLIFE
An Ode to the City
This is a tough job. Combine the thou-
sands of clubs there are in London with
the overbearing feeling that I’m ap-
proaching a very premature mid-life
crisis and you’ll understand why intro-
ducing London’s nightlife to a Fresher is
incredibly difficult.
Not only do different people dance on
different ends of the social spectrum,
this said spectrum is multi-dimensional.
From the kid that parties every single
night to the occasional pub drinker;
from the ladies’ night in Central to the
hipsters’ night in East London; from
Daddy’s girls on penthouse clubs to ‘yer
mates’ on the £1 for shots deals. Spec-
trums within spectrums, and now you
can see why I’m not simply listing off
a number of clubs I think you should be
heading to.
I’m afraid that I’m leaving the re-
search and dog work up to you. This is
not because I wish to remain blameless
for a disaster of a night out, but no mat-
ter how honest and impressionable a
reader you may be, it is likely most of
my recommendations will be ignored.
And by rights you should be ignoring
me if I was just giving you an endless
list of venues to frequent in this gargan-
tuan city. Time Out magazine this is not.
Some cities sleep when the sun heads
beyond the horizon, but some cities
awaken. Fuck the small suburban town
you call home, because while Watford,
Thurrock and Wrington (wherever you
might come from) doze off into a quiet
evening, a bright-eyed London is most
definitely awake.
You can discover London twice. Once
during the day and once again come
10pm. Furthermore, discovery requires
trial and error, and that’s another reason
why I’m happy to keep tight-lipped on
the recommendation front. Follow the
crowds during Welcome Week and you
may just find yourself in a shitty club
that everyone except you seems to en-
joy. Follow another crowd and you may
end up snorting ketamine off the floor of
a squat party in Hackney.
Whatever you consider a shit night
out, you will inevitably have one. You’ll
slowly build a black list of clubs and ar-
eas of London youvow to never return
to. At the same time your taste in venues
to get trashed in will start to refine and
before you know it you’ll be the world
authority on London nightlife. Maybe.
There are alcoholic wonders closer to
home too; they are on your doorsteps
in South Kensington. There’s a certain
je ne sais quoi about home turf which
turns even the most refined of your peers
into bona fide waste gashes. You’ll wit-
ness the pissed of the very pissed in the
Union and Eastside Bar. Hangovers the
next morning should be as memorable
as the actual night before, but that’s the
charm of student life: lectures are effec-
tively optional.
The measure of a hangover posi-
tively correlates with the probability
that you’re not Peter Pan. The worse
your hangover, the older you’re getting.
Soon, each Facebook status that implies
‘worst hangover everrrrr’(or to the same
effect) will simply be a public depiction
of your youth degrading before eve-
ryone’s eyes. No more will you be the
sprightly litre-of-cider-an-hour 17 year
old who could wake up the next morning
feeling perfectly fine. (It is the social,
and less illegal, equivalent of Michael
Jackson getting away with fiddling with
kiddies.)
We’re harping on about ‘London’
like it’s some sort of magical adventure
world for forgivable drunken antics. It
is, but there is such a massive variety
of other things to do than shifting your
liver function into top gear each night.
There’s comedy clubs, after hours mu-
seum sand gallery openings, gigs, open-
air cinemas, proms, and 24-hour cafes
to name a just a few. There’s nothing a
simple Internet search won’t find, and
trust me on this, I’ve googled some sor-
did things indeed.
Welcome to student life in London.
Believe me when I say it’s unforgettable.
Dan Wan
London’s nightlife is constantly evolving.
A prescriptive list of clubs would be futile
“I’m afraid that I’m
leaving the research
and dog work up
to you. Time Out
magazine this is not.
Nor should it be”

