26 felix
FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
HANGMAN
Geographical
convenience
stronger than love
say scientists
Decade long study proves that Freshers
are “more likely” to make friends with
people they are living with in halls
In a groundbreaking new study from the Sheffield
Higher Institute of Technology (SHIT), it was
found that Freshers who made friends exclusively
with the two people in rooms either side of theirs
were more likely to ‘be admired by the masses,
enjoy a stirring and enviable sex life, and finally
gain their parents’ affection’. In a reversal of the
principles of conventional Fresher psychology, or
‘Freshcology’ as it is now known in academic cir-
cles, SHIT’s findings show that ‘herd mentality’,
where a tight-knit group of friends is formed with
no basis aside from the random allocation of each
person to a certain corridor, creates far stronger
friendships than common interests or mutual
respect.
‘Liking one another is a weakness’ says distin-
guished psychologist Jose Videira, ‘The very act of
choosing a friend because you have something in
common with them is an dangerous mistake – it’s
far better to simply pack together with those near-
est to you and viciously shun any individual who
attempts to join once the group has been formed’.
In fact, it seems these cliques become robust so
quickly that, in today’s universities, attempting to
hang out with someone not from your corridor/
subject/ethnicity is a risky business.
‘I felt like R Kelly at a parent-teacher evening’
says traumatized ex-Fresher Stephen Jeffrey, who
was savagely beaten by a gang from Beit E3 after
coming to return a borrowed calculator. ‘It was my
fault really, he admits, ‘I should have realised that
they weren’t just living side by side, they all did
the same subject as well – the only time they didn’t
see each other was when dogging – it was an ac-
cident waiting to happen’.
This evidence is excellent news for sufferers of
the disease CTTNTY (Cling To Those Nearest To
You), a bacterial infection that up to 97% of Fresh-
ers experience, as they can now embrace their ill-
ness by walking around with a smug sense of ac-
complishment, knowing that they will go on to live
more enriched lives.
Poor little Stephen Jeffrey just wanted to return his calculator
Drunken
Mate of
The Week
Twatter
Cheeky_Chaz
am totes all over gaga’s meat dress.
wud totally spaff all over dat
Louis_da_BOMB22
duuuude... dat is well rough
Cheeky_Chaz
Piss off you baguette! you’re da one
in love wiv da fat girl from the xx
IzzieBrunel_XD
Nah bruv, it ain’t cool. it’s offensive
to animals innit?
Louis_da_BOMB22
....AHAHAHAHAHAHAHA
IzzieBrunel_XD
Why you always hatin?
damn_diggidy_stein49
ne1 wana see a photo of louis’ mom
in the shower? http://bit.ly/4mtMyr
Cheeky_Chaz
i think i’m gona throw up...
Freshers’ Week renamed
to Welcome Week
Each week we publish a photo of a fine
Imperial student, caught on camera by
their mates in a state of... well in a state
that they wouldn’t want their parents to
see. Get permission and send your pic-
tures to felix@imperial.ac.uk. If we
print your photo we’ll buy you a beer or
maybe something better if we’re feeling
generous.
Below are some of last year’s best
entries.
Get snapping!
Comments from the
Felix Facebook Page
“So bad...”
“facepalm.jpg”
“It’s to encourage post grads, Most other unis call
it Welcome Week”
“i think it should be called ‘Try really hard to make
friends with people you know inside you definitely
don’t want to be friends with beyond this week’
Week.”
Well I’m glad we got that cleared up...
Hangman Editor: Arjun Hassard
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk

