3
felix FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
The student voice of
Imperial since 1949
“The need has been felt for some time
for a frequently published journal to
comment upon the affairs of the College
whilst they are still topical…”
These were the first words ever print-
ed in Felix. They modestly declared the
intentions of the newspaper’s founder
and first Editor, E.M. Hughes and have
guided subsequent Editors ever since.
Though he could have hardly expected
the successes that this newspaper has
achieved in its long history, it was aus-
picious that when it was first published
on the morning of the 9th of December
1949, all 600 copies sold out within
hours.
Many things that were true for Felix
on that misty morning are still true to-
day. Primarily the paper still “depends
principally upon you, our readers” to
produce articles, to air your opinions by
writing in our letters section and to care
enough about the on-goings of your uni-
versity to pick up your free issue every
Friday. And admittedly yes much has
changed. We are no longer printed on
campus, we no longer charge students
sixpence for the paper and we like to
think that there’s a little bit more colour
on these pages than there was 60 years
ago. We sadly don’t donate our profits
to Sports Day any more and we now em-
ploy a student full-time to produce the
paper (E.M. Hughes, like many students
involved in societies today, gave up his
valuable free time in the pursuit of his
passions.)
But though the design and production
is different, our values and aims remain
the same. Our purpose is to inform, elu-
cidate and entertain you. We are here to
stand up for student issues, for the truth
and also, to take the piss (just a little bit.)
For 60 years Imperial students have
collaborated together to produce this
wonderful publication so you can trust
that this paper will never be written or
edited with arrogance; knowing the tal-
ent of Imperial students it is certain that
someone will have written with more
clarity or edited with more thoroughness
at some point in the paper’s history.
And so I end by humbly asking you to
contribute to the paper this year. Wheth-
er it be by writing an article, an angry
letter or editing the work of other stu-
dents, know that Felix can never survive
without you. And in return, I promise
to uphold the intentions of the paper’s
original founders with grace, humility
and hopefully a bit of humour.
Oh and the name? As far as I can tell
it was the nickname of a particularly
popular student called F.C. Ewels. I’m
guessing he must be quite pleased about
how it all turned out.
HOW CAN
YOU GET
INVOLVED?
Short answer: It’s really easy
and we’d love for you to
join. Long answer: Read on
This newspaper is written by entirely by
students and we will never reject your
contributions. We are all volunteers and
had absolutely no prior experience when
we started working for Felix. You don’t
think you can write? Well we definitely
couldn’t when we first turned up in the
Felix Office, down in the West Base-
ment of Beit Hall.
There are many ways for you to get
involved. Email the Editor, Kadhim,
at felix@imperial.ac.uk and just say “I
want to get involved.” Or you can come
see us at the Freshers’ Fair. Or you can
come to our public meeting on Tuesday
the 12th of October. Or go have a chat
with the Editor every Monday lunchtime
in the JCR at 12 o’clock. Or come down
to the Felix Office at any time. It’s al-
ways open and we’re always glad to see
Kadhim Shubber
new faces.
Felix doesn’t exist to simply give one
lucky student a break from their studies
for a year, it exists to entertain you, it
exists to inform you and it exists to give
you the opportunity to see your efforts in
print. So don’t be shy. You’ll get nothing
but smiles and support from us.
“We are all
volunteers and we
had absolutely no
prior experience
when we started”
Felix is looking for
students to fill the
following positions:
Puzzles Editor
Web Editor
News Reporter
Sports Reporter
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk expressing your interest.
If you are keen to get involved in another way or for a
different section then please also get in touch
Everything you need to know about getting connected at Imperial: Page 8
The Union President: Naked: Page 12
Mind-blowing puzzles: Page 24

