4 felix
FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
What kind of Fresher are you?
The Rudeboy
Usually a strong believer in expensive sportswear, gel and ear-
rings, this guy seems to have gone out of his way to look like an
chav who won the Euro Millions. Clad in a potent combination
of brands ranging from Le Coq Sportif trackies to Tiffany&Co
jewelry, he is a true Imperial gentleman.
The Athletic Guy
Usually curly haired and large chinned with oversized calfs from
all the rock-climbing, mountain-biking and/or trekking he does.
Overzealous about sport to the point that even his bulging veins
have started sprouting their own bulging veins.
The Hot Girl
Hard to see, as she is usually surrounded by a sizeable group of
assholes. You can bet her sweet ass and half a titty that some idiot
will appoint himself as her bodyguard, by which I mean follow
her around like a sheep with Alzheimer’s. Almost guaranteed not
to be English.
The Promoter
This person seems to have decided that milking newly forming
friendships for a couple quid is a good idea - avoid being invited to
whatever terrible student club night he’s promising you free drinks
at by feigning deafness or lamping him in the scrotum: the latter
is usually preferable.
The Girl Making a Fresh Start
This girl doesn’t have any old photos of herself on Facebook. You
will never see any of her old friends around halls and has almost
nothing to talk about pre-freshers week. She’s left all that behind.
Unfortunately, Imperial is a breeding ground for girls like this -
surprised that they actually have the ability to make friends, they
usually become obnoxious self important bitches (or just plain
lovely, it’s kind of hit or miss.)
Too Cool for School
This guy is slightly too suave and looks a
bit confused at the lack of females – like
he expects someone to say ‘JUST KID-
DING!’ and point to a room where all the
girls are kept. Wears a scarf while cooking.
The Recluse
You won’t meet this guy/
girl until you’re moving
out of halls and you’ll only
know of their existence
through chance glimpses of
their bedroom door closing.

