6
SCIENCE
felix
FRIDAY 01 OCTOBER 2010
Items required:
• Glasses or goggles with removable lenses.
• “Congo blue” filter gel.
• “Primary red” filter gel.
• Incandescent lamp.
The Steam Powered Can Crusher
No longer will you have to crush cans with your bare
hands. Now, you can have science do it for you.
Items required:
• Cans.
• Cooker hob.
• Flat container.
Firstly, a word of warning: this experiment involves
boiling water and hot metal. Take appropriate
precautions.
1.Take an empty beer can (or find one of the rarer
empty soft-drinks cans in your bin), one without a
plastic widget.
2. Pour in a small amount of water, a centimetre
or so deep.
3. Place the can on a cooker hob and heat until
the water is boiling and lots of steam is coming out
of the top.
4. Fill a shallow container with cold water.
5. Pick up the can, preferably with tongs or similar
equipment and quickly but carefully invert into the
cold water so the can opening is at the bottom, un-
der the water surface.
How does it work?
As the can is heated, the air inside is displaced by
the expanding steam. As the can is then cooled, the
steam condenses. This happens much too rapidly
for the water to enter the can and as the pressure
inside decreases, the external air pressure should
crush the can. For those of you who do not deserve
to be at Imperial, this is of course the basis for the
first ever steam engine.
Bedroom Science
and Experiments
Infrared Glasses
Contrary to popular belief, the human eye can see
in the infrared (IR), albeit only in high intensity light.
In order to see in IR, all other wavelengths must
be blocked. Because the human eye is very poor
at detecting IR light, a powerful source is required.
Luckily, the sun will do.
1.Remove lenses from the glasses or goggles.
2.Cut out filters to fit.
3.Replace with three sheets of Congo blue and
one of Primary red and bingo.
How does it work?
Three sheets of “Congo blue” and one of “Primary
red” create a low-pass filter. The human eye is a
high-pass filter and together these create a band-
pass filter; the band passed in this case is in the
IR range.
15 essential things that all
Scientists should know
5 Science Chat-up Lines
Would there be any resistance if I tried to take you ohm?
Katya-yani Vyas
You’ve all heard about the famous Imperial ra-
tio, so yes, we are a male-dominated university.
However, if you are male, you are quite likely
to run into a female that catches your attention
at some point. In this event the following chat-
up lines are not, under any circumstances, to
be used. You will not only have cemented your
self as a person with the social aptitude of a tea-
spoon, but will have also ruined your chances
with said female. If you are a female, feel free
to use them, I don’t think it will substantially
hinder your chances.
Would there be any resistance if I asked to
take you ohm?
“How can I know hundreds of pi digits…
but not the digits of your phone number?”
You are an acid and I am like litmus; every
time I meet you I turn bright red.
You’re so sweet, I am developing insulin
resistance.
I’m studying quantum physics so I know
we’re going back to either your place or
mine.
4 Hangover Tips
Being a university student, let’s face it, you
will probably spend a disproportionate amount
of your time consuming alcohol and a lot of
the time this will be during the week when you
should really be sleeping in preparation for a
day of lectures or labs etc. So, how do we solve
the problem of the hangover that will make us
rue our existence the next day? Well, we’re sci-
entists aren’t we! Logic will prevail!
Before you drink eat a meal that is full of
carbohydrates. This will prepare your stom-
ach for the alcohol and increase the time
taken for the body to absorb the alcohol.
Also take a vitamin tablet, this will help top
up the vitamins that you will lose through
frequent urination.
To lessen your morning suffering take a vi-
tamin supplement in the morning and then,
if it is really severe, some scientists have
suggested that diarrhoea medicine will help
because it replaces minerals and rehydrates
your body.
New research has suggested that the famous
bacon sandwich does indeed have soothing
effects on a hangover. The food increases
your metabolism and the protein in bacon
breaks down to amino acids which replace
neurotransmitters. Couple with a glass of
orange juice (vitamin C helps get rid of tox-
ins) and a banana (potassium helps regulate
the your body’s pH balance, and hopefully
you should feel a little better.
Finally you could just delay the hangover
with the ‘hair of the dog’ method which just
requires that you carry on drinking when
you wake up. But unless you plan to spend
your life in a state of perpetual drunkenness
you’ll have to face the pain eventually.
Obviously, the best cure for a hangover is to
drink in moderation but I can almost hear your
derisive laughter…
3 ways to bluff your way
though that tutorial
In the event that your attempts at preventing a
hangover fail miserably, you are going to need
to use some damn good bluffing. Luckily I
have just the thing for you.
If your tutorial is in the morning you can
claim that you have delayed sleep-phase
syndrome. This generally causes the sufferer
to have great difficulty in waking up early.
Just make it seem like you are about to die
and the tutor may feel sorry for you.
If you haven’t done any work, the safest
bet is to pretend to ask a question. Start by
pointing to a question and saying, ‘I just
wanted to ask you about this, so I integrated
(or plotted a histogram if you’re a biolo-
gist) and…hmm…’Now stare intently at the
paper for a few seconds and then exclaim,
‘Ah! that’s it, thank you so much professor’.
Then strut off looking extremely excited
about your breakthrough.
The absolute ultimate excuse requires a little
bit of work. first discover what your tutor’s
area of interest is, then look up a few facts
about it. Email your tutor a few hours after
the tutorial apologising profusely for not at-
tending and then explain that you were at a
lecture on their particular interest and say
how fascinating it was. A risky strategy but
ultimately the most effective if you can pull
it off.
2 lines that you should
prepare your mind for
People who say these lines to you can basically
be disregarded as lesser social beings...
“YAH, but A-levels were, like, sooo easy, I
literally did no work.”
“Yeah, I applied to Oxford/Cambridge, but
I didn’t want to go there anyway”
1 book you should
pretend you’ve read
‘The Trouble With Physics’ by Lee Smolin
‘In search of Schrodinger’s Cat’ was so three
years ago, this is the new book to wax lyrical
about. If you’re a physicist, you should actu-
ally read it, otherwise just tell people you have,
mutter something about string theory and wave
your hands around (gesticulating wildy throws
people off and makes you seem clever yet
loveable).
Science Editors: Katya-yani Vyas
James Goldsack
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

