4 FELLX
CEDITOR'S
omment
A FOURTH CONSTITUENT COLLEGE
We are a limited College at present. Academically and within
our range we can compare our standards favourably with those of
any other similar academic institution in the world. Financially we
must be one of the most affluent in Europe. And yet outside the
laboratory our graduates exercise little power in Britain. As Prof.
Salam has pointed out, consult Anthony Sampson's " Anatomy of
Britain " and you will find Imperial College mentioned once whereas
Oxbridge has half a chapter. This is because in the past IC has pro-
duced, technologists and scientists and in general, fewer men of note
outside the laboratory. Now, it is the role of IC to aspire to the finest
academic level. This is achieved through our academic staff and
our research students. The majority of undergraduates however never
go on to higher degrees. They leave to fill the gaping stomach of
industry, and industry and the nation require organisers, managers,
people with ideas but people with the thrust to push those ideas
through. How many highly qualified graduates after ten years are
actually using their disciplines directly. Very few.
This rote—to fit graduates for management—IC has also to fill.
To achieve the maximum in this sphere requires a broad " university
environment." IC must not merely be a " super-tech," it must be a
university too.
The amalgamation with the Architectural Association is a first
and major step in this broadening. In the words of the late Rector,
Sir Patrick Linstead :
" Architects and engineers have much to learn from each other
and proper collaboration between them can be of great value to the
nation. Moreover, it can broaden the intellectual horizons of the
individuals concerned. . . . To share expert teaching is valuable, to
be thrown into social contact at the undergraduate stage is eQually if
less obviously so."
If the amalgamation fails at this stage; either through a lack of
finance from the University Grants Committee, or through the dissatis-
faction of the students at the Architectural Association, it will be a
crucial blow not only to the Architectural Association but above all
to Imperial College. It could well be a mortal blow to the aspirations
of the College to become more than a "super-tech," as envisaged in the
philosophy of our late and inspiring Rector Sir Patrick Linstead.
We sincerely hope that no effort is spared by the College authori-
ties in forcing this plan to fruition.
BANNING THE RAG MAG
Our Rag Mag is banned for " obscenity in the extreme " and is
then sold with tacit approval under the counter. The whole idea
of obscenity is a subjective concept and unique to our Western
Christian philosophy. It depends on we the readers, rather than they
the writers, whether we see an article, photograph or film as obscene.
And if we in Imperial College were an isolated community and had
a more enlightened attitude, there would be no need to ban the maga-
zine as obscene.
However, we exist in The British and supposedly Christian com-
munity and an obscene Rag Mag would lower the-name of our Col-
lege. The Executive have therefore acted in the right manner in
banning the Mag.
If they had not banned the Rag Mag for obscenity, they would
have done as well to ban it for the sheer incompetent production it
is. It is an absymal, humourless and puerile effort at a comic maga-
zine* and we could not afford to have such a pathetic and unsophisti-
cated ragjbearing the name of our College, in circulation.
It is as well too, that Carnival has recouped some of its losses on
the magazine by selling it under the counter to internal students only.
If they wish to waste 5/- or 7/6 in the purchase of such drivel, they
are welcome to.
But how did the whole situation of the banned Rag Mag arise
in the first place ? Why was its production not organised and
watched continually by the Executive ? This is incompetent. It
will probably cost Carnival approximately £300, when loss of revenue
from the magazine is considered. The Executive complain that addi-
tional and more obscene material was added after they had read and
censored the proofs. According to the printers this is not true, and
in any case it is no excuse. Carnival would have a greater financial
success with a less casual approach by people who have contracted
to do the job.
SYNDICALISM
A world student
movement
by FRED GAULT
In some parts of the world
Student Activism is a rule of life
rather than a shocking exception,
In the Canadian Province of
Quebec, for example, the Student
Syndicalist Movement has long
been a popular one on French
campuses and fashionable, during
periods of national entnte, among
periods of national entente,
among the English.
The Syndicalist see himself as the
member of a trade union movement
rather than the carefree youth revel-
ling in the college " experience." A
student, he feels, is a " young intel-
lectual worker," whose task it is to
learn, and thereby make himself a
more productive member of society.
If you acknowledge that increas-
ingt your productivity potential is
itself a productive occupation, then
the student may be considered a
worker little different from a farmer
or a plumber. And, is it not dis-
criminatory to deny a person engaged
in a socially useful occupation the
rights of other workers ; the right to
organise and to engage in collective
bargaining for grants, or, if you pre-
fer, salaries ?
The concept of salary rather than a
grant carries with it the advantage
that the students is no longer kept or
tolerated by the society he lives in but
is actually serving it. As an integral
part of society, and as an intellectual
worker, it is his duty to examine his
society and its government and to
speak out loudly when he see social
injustice. As a member of a trade
union movement he is naturally
aligned with the people. His produc-
tion will ultimately benefit.
Over the past year in Quebec the
syndicalist Union des Etudiants
Generate de Quebec has held at least
one major show of solidarity with
the Quebec labour movement when
hundreds of intellectual workers
poured out of the universities to swell
FRED GAULT
is a Canadian now working
towards the D.I.C exam in theo-
retical physics. He is a graduate
of Carlton University, Ottawa,
where he was a militant President
of the Union. He later went on
to McGill University where he
took an M.Sc. and became presi-
dent of the graduate students'
union.
picket lines around a factory. Repre-
sentatives of UEGQ advise the pro-
vincial cabinet on student grants,
which are a far cry from salaries, but
a beginning. The recently defeated
Liberal government of Quebec cam-
paigned some years ago on a plat-
form of free education and it is
hoped that a united Student-Labour
front can lobby that dream to reality.
Not every student in the province
is by any means a Syndicalist. There
is opposition and apathy. To be a.
Syndicalist requires commitment and
commitment clashes with the modern
cynicism ; it also implies a dignity in
being a worker, which some people
find hard to swallow.
FELIX London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Telephones : KEN 2963
EDITOR : D. E. POTTER
Asst. Editor : Nigel Shindler With : Colcutt, Adam Gawronski,
Sports Editor : Alan Robins Frank Morris, Colin Harrison, Steve
News Editor : Stewart Barnes Mallinson, John Mullaly, Paul Smith,
Photographic Editor : Dave Ormiston Dave Sullivan, Mike Yu, Ian Wil-
Business Manager : Richard Davies liams, Paul Heath, Caroline, Lynda,
Sales Manager: Chris Palmer Gillie and Beryl.
Advertising Manager : Robin Hall
Production Manager : Peter Mundy
Cartoonist : Dick Gentle
Whats On Editor : Ken Simpson.
Advertising Agency: Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6081

