1
FELIX
UtUw to FELIX
The meaning of a
U niversity Education
Sir,
In the present issue of " Phoenix,''
Mr. Mike Edwards, in an article on
the responsibilities of a Student
Union, suggests that the prime func-
tion of such a body should be to
partner the staff of the University in
the planning and execution of acade-
mic teaching. This view if imple-
mented would, it seems to me, soon
destroy a large part of what is to be
gained from a University education
and reduce a university to a machine
for mass producing academic know-
ledge implanted in human brains (a
•description often applied to technical
colleges and colleges of advanced
technology in this country).
A university has always had a cor-
porate identity and character in
which teaching function plays only a
part; even with to-day's emphasis on
the importance of teaching the under-
graduate session occupies little more
than half the year. A university
character stems from the personalities
and experiences of generations of its
academic and administrative staff and
from their original work. Experi-
ence of a university atmosphere is a
valuaole pari ot education and stu-
dents should not expect to be able to
change it to suit them during their
brief undergraduate stay. The recent
furore at the L.S.E. over the appoint-
ment of a new Principal was quite
unjustified.
Though the Students' Union has a
valuable part to play in academic
liaison with the staff (i.e. in the acade-
mic suh-committees existing in several
departments at I.C.), its main function
should be to create " potential leaders
in society," as suggested by Mr.
Edwards, provided the opportunity
for experience outside academic work,
and interaction with other students.
Owing to its limited range of acade-
mic studies, I.C. is particularly vul-
nerable to those who would make it
a mere teaching machine. Let us
hope that our Union will continue to
pay sufficient attention to the other
half of our education.
Yours faithfully,
Paul V. Briscoe
School of the Architectural Association
A PLACE IN I.C?
The Architectural Association shares, with Oxford and Cam-
bridge, a unique beginning. All three were initiated by discontented
young men striving to teach themselves a discipline. They themselves
founded the A.A. in 1847 to hire and hear lecturers^ to discuss papers
and to hold design classes. From this small but spirited beginning, the
A.A. has grown into an institution embracing over three thousand
practising architects and containing a school of international repu-
tation.
Tne School has strong links,
through its membership and through
teaching, with tropical centres. Led
by its students between the wars it
helped to pioneer modern architecture
and the new approach to design that
that entailed.
The School has 380 students, the
" undergraduates" pursuing a five
year course. Their education is divided
between studio design projects and
lecture courses involving the fabric
of buildings, communications and ser-
vices (history of architecture, sciento-
fic and economic ideas, etc.), and pro-
fessional studies. Although they are
students in the sense that they are
learni'1
'- and have examinations to
pass ./ have an extraordinary
amount of power. Theirs is the role,
not of the glorified schoolboy with
book in front and university rod be-
hind, but of partner in the educa-
tional system. Student and lecturer
share responsibility. The students can
rid themselves of incompetent lec-
turers and tutors : they have an effec-
tive vote and are probationary mem-
bers of the Architectural Association.
It is this close link with the practising
professional body of architects which
is unique and which they value
highly. The intimate link between
student and practising architect is
mutually stimulating, especially so
since their lecturers are practising
architects themselves.
What then is the plan for the in-
corporation of the school in IC ? The
School would become the fourth Con-
stituent College of IC and have equal
status with RSM, RCS and C&G.
Graduates of the School would then
gain University of London degrees,
and the School would be represented
on all the relevant governing bodies
of IC. It would have an academic
staff of 39 including four professors.
Having University status its operating
costs would be paid by the University
Grants Committee.
The present premises of the Asso-
ciation and School are in Bedford
Square, W.C1. A site in the imme-
diate vicinity of IC, for the construc-
tion of a new building to house the
School and its parent body is being
negotiated at present. For the School,
the advantages of the amalgation are
immense. It will gain University
status so that the main burden of
financing the School will pass from
the student pocket to the U.G.C. The
teaching will benefit by contact with
other university teachers in allied
disciplines. Finally the students
themselves will benefit by living in a
University environment and meeting
a wider range of students.
In fact, however, it was IC who
made the initial approach to the A.A.,
proposing the amalgamation, and for
IC, the broadening in scope of its
character, disciplines, and under-
graduate body is vital. In one step
IC will gain 400 students, different
and refreshing in their approach, to
their work and lives. IC can only
gain by their admission.
The present premises of the Architectural Association in Bedford
Square
Phoenix
reviewed
by
* Edward Pank
Imperial College has need of a
magazine like this. The idea of the
Phoenix is right, but the present man-
agement is not developing it. There
is a real danger of the magazine dying
out through lack of good advertising,
but above all lack of the organisation
to tap whatever writing talent that we
have at I.C. The high quality of the
actual production is unfortunately be-
lied by its contents.
The editorial is on an interesting
subject, namely our relations as stu-
dents with the state and the brain-
drain. This is a large and complex
matter, but one is left with a series
of only half-drawn ideas and unde-
veloped comparisons which are rather
unsatisfying.
The best article in the magazine is
that on the psychology of " Wes-
terns." But even here one is disap-
pointed by seeing the earlier psychol-
ogists swallowed whole in a welter of
Jungian and Freudian anlysis. It is
interesting that the author saw fit to
enrich our language by the addition
of the word " irreality."
The subject of " Welfare and Taxa-
tion " is given most cursory treatment
by David Reich. This article at-
tempts to demolish the political ideas
of centuries with a few awkward
strokes. Even outrageous statements
are little supported by argument or
facts.
The only poem of any note is " The
Chess Match," but unfortunately the
religious theme is brought in too late
to be effective. Would-be poets
should be reminded that blank verse
is probably the most difficult form
to use effectively.
The article on the history of science
is definitely on the right lines, but is
rather too like the prospectus for a
course at I.C., and the author's good
ideas die of neglect.
The stories might best be described
as unfortunate. The " gjmmick " is
always the weakest way to end a short
story. " An Ordinary Mortal " lacks
action and is rather mundane.
" Harold be Thy Name " is just the
thing for nostalgic Dan Dare fans.
One would trrnk that someone at the
best Tech in Lritain could do better.
The photograph of the old man
opposite " Lai" on page 29 is the
most striking feature of the magazine.
The composition and technical
achievement add richly to the theme.
It is unfortunate that those put off by
the over hairstyled woman on the
cover will not see it.
The magazine ends with a semi-
hysterical outburst about students'
rights and responsibilities. This article
belongs at a stretch in FELIX—not in
a literary magazine. One cannot es-
cape the impression that " Phoenix "
was too hastily assembled. " Phoe-
nix " should play an important role
in the life of a College of Tech-
nology ; let the literate among us step
forward.

