! Rector's Question Time:
'I don't think that starving is the next option'
Caught between the Devil and the deep blue sea
Sir Eric Ash, Rector of Imperial College,
took part in a question and answer
session on Monday evening. Over a
hundred students listened as Sir Eric
fielded questions on a'wide range of
student and non student issues. Union
President , Mr Paul Shanley, chaired the
discussion and took both prepared and
spontaneous questions from the floor.
Despite the controversial nature of
many of the topics raised the atmosphere
remained relaxed and somewhat informal.
Although many questions centered on
student concerns, money and
accommodation - the lack of it, the
presence of college staff ensured a
broader base to the discussion.
The most notable aspect of the
discussion was the circular nature of
many problems facing both student and
staff alike; at the centre of that circle was
money. In Sir Eric's own words 'people
might find it hard to believe but before I
came to Imperial I was not obsessed with
money.'
In answer to the question 'Now that the
binary divide has gone, and that some
polytechnics in London may achieve
University status, is it time that Imperial
should reconsider the benefits of London
University and investigate opting out?' Sir
Eric stated 'we haven't stopped thinking
about it (opting out)'. He continued that
althrinoh I m r w i i i l ' ^ a " 6 " iO run
our own (university)', with Imperial
gaining little benefit in terms of cut price
deals organised through the University of
London, the academic 'riches are
fantastic' Sir Eric went on to advocate a
course unit system where students could
mix and match their degree choosing
from not just one but all the collegiate
members of the University of London.
Sir Eric proved unflappable in the face
of searching questions about the future of
Montpelier Hall and postgraduate
accommodation in general. Commenting
on the handling of the Montpelier sale to
date Sir Eric admitted ' I think we've
made a terrible mess of it ', a comment
on the allegedly shoddy way the residents
of the hall have been treated and the
uncertainty over exactly how long they
had left in Montpelier. Sir Eric did seem a
little confused saying on the one hand
'there is no definite plan to sell the hall'
and added 'but we're broke.' However
the Rector did admit 'I hope we won't but
we probably will.' The Rector raised the
controversial topic of the Clayponds
purchase independently of any question.
He connected the issue as an illustration
of how much cheaper accommodation
becomes the further it is from college and
defended the buy as not simply the
creation of further debt but the sound
investment of a loan.
The Rector did admit that financing of
loans for accommodation was partly
funded by student rents and it was this
factor that influenced the steep rent rises
proposed for next year. In answer to the
widely held belief that Imperial in
common with other London colleges
could be pricing itself out.of the market
SirEric replied 'the grants are greater in
London than they are elsewhere'. This
comment was received with polite
derision from the assembled students.
Realising his mistake the Rector sobered
up and said 'rent is the key issue'. One
student said that he had such little money
he couldn't afford to live but the Rector
said 'I don't think that starving is the next
option.' The Rector's dual solution to
student's financial problems involved
borrowing money and earning money. He
said that his American wife Clare held up
to seven jobs to work her way through
her university .
These comments provoked further
controversy when the sensitive subject of
the lengthening of the college day was
raised. The Rector is determined to see
his proposals for a longer college day put
into practice as soon as possible and is
frustrated at the delay caused by a
characteristically lengthy consultative
process that included a student union,
college wide referendum. The Rector
stated that this issue was 'not a good
example for the application of
democracy.' The Rector also said that 'the
conservatism of the staff is exceeded by
the conservatism of the students.'
According to Sir Eric a lengthened
college day would not result in increased
lectures but the more effective use of
college facilities. Sceptical students
wondered how a longer day tied in with
the Rector's proposal that students should
be prepared to take on part-time work.
Looking to the future and for a few
brief moments away from the bank
balance the Rector did not see student
numbers increasing in the coming years.
He did foresee a turn 'toward the
postgraduate side' but remained
committed to Imperial's undergraduate
courses. Sir Eric linked his proposal for a
unified course system with the inclusion
of a more varied humanities programme.
Sir Eric told the sorry tale of Imperial's
one and only philosopher; he left because
he didn't have ahy other philosophers to
talk to.
2

