ULU's aid to Romania
Members of the Royal College of Science
Union (RCSU) are taking part in a relief
operation to Romania this summer.
Martin Heighway, a postgraduate student,
of the RCSU is co-ordinating the
mobilisation of twelve helpers to Zvoristia
Moldavia. These volunteers will work in
an orphanage for mentally handicapped
children which is over crowded and
contains mant children with the AIDS
virus.
The aid organisation 'Romania Aid UK'
contacted the RCSU through a St Johns
ambulance group from University of
London Union which requested fifteen
volunteers, but to date almost thirty
people have come forward. Mr Heighway
intends to take up to twelve volunteers to
Romania using union mini-buses. The
group will set out late on the evening of
Friday 12th July and the itself will take
up to three days covering two thousand
miles each way. The group plans to take
one rest day before starting work in the
orphanage and the drivers will return to
London within a week, leaving the
remaining volunteers in Romania for up
to several weeks.
Mr Heighway stressed that the purpose
of the operation was not to take in
supplies but to actually work in the
orphanage. The minibuses will be
carrying paint and cuddly toys in addition
to people and their belongings. The paint
is to improve the internal environment of
the buildings and the toys will help in the
care of the children as the main aim of
the operation is to improve the
environment of the orphanage and add a
little humanity to lives of the children in
them.
Relief in the guise of supplies is of no
use to Romania's orphans said Mr
Heighway, and he told of a recent
convoy from the German section of St
Johns ambulance which was packed with
provisions that was refused entry at the
Romanian border. He said that there
were incidences of relief supplies ending
up on the Romanian black market, as had
been widely reported in the national
press.
Apart from helping in the orphanage,
which is the main objective of the trip,
the group also plans to make contact with
the local universities. They hope to
encourage university members to play a
more active role in the care of children
in the orphanage.
Part of Mr Heighway's responsibilities
as transport officer is to search for
sponsorship to contribute to the trip's
considerable travel costs. The operation
has already received £1000 sponsorship
from IC Rag. On behalf of the RCSU, Mr
Heighway said 'we're very grateful'.
Potential sponsors should contact Mr
Heighway through the RCSU, office on
071 225 8675.
The driving force behind the relief operation
In Brief
• B e i t T h e f t
A student living on the second floor of
the New Hostel, Beit Hall, was burgled
last Friday afternoon. The student left his
room unlocked while he cooked in the
kitchen at the end of second floor
corridor. His wallet was removed from
his room and its contents emptied out on
the floor of the men's toilets nearby, the
money being taken. College security said
that they knew nothing of the incident.
• P r o m o t i o n
Dr Anne Dell, a reader in the
biochemistry department, has been made
a professor. Dr Dell studied for her first
degree in chemistry at the University of
Western Australia and continued with a
Phd. at Cambridge. Speaking yesterday,
Dr Dell said she was 'very happy' with
her appointment, which will take effect
from October.
Dr Dell's research is funded by the
Medical Research Council and recent
work on tissue plasminogen activator has
resulted in its successful use in the
treatment of heart attacks.
• B O C N e w D e a l ?
Mr Ian Greaves, the purchasing manager
at IC, is examining new proposals for the
payment of IC's annual gas bill. Until
recently Imperial was part of a blanket
agreement made between BOC and
British universities. According to Mr
Greaves this contract meant that 'big guys
propped up little guys', so that major
users such as Imperial and University
College paid slightly more for their gas
and thereby subsidised smaller scale
customers.
BOC has presented restructuring
proposals that still keep the universities
under one umbrella, although the larger
subscribers have their costs reduced at
the expense of the smaller ones. Mr
Greaves said that he would have to make
a 'more comprehensive evaluation' of the
plan before he decided whether to accept
it or not.
• M B A F e e s U p
The Management School's MSc course in
Management has been retitled the MBA
in Management. Mr Roger Betts, the
course director, said that the change in
title was not related to the increase in
course fees from £3,500 to £4,500. He
said that the decision to raise the fees
was made last October while the
retitlement was only confirmed within the
last six weeks.
Mr Betts said that the current fee level
was on a par with other MBA courses. He
added that the term 'MBA' was a 'better
title' for the course, reflecting its broad-
based nature as opposed to the more
specialised nature of MSc courses.

