One tired, deranged pomegranate opens the floodgates.
Beneath Tremendous
I - M a r t y n Crucefix will be reading from his book of poetry,
|'Beneath Tremendous Rain', on Thursday 13th June at 4:45 pm, in
the Haldane Library. C o m e and celebrate words.
MARTYN CRUCEFIX: BENEATH
TREMENDOUS RAIN
I love my brother. Regardless of what He
is, what He may become, He exists
forever in my favourite memories.
"Blackcurrant wine" opens this collection
of poems; so beautifully evocative a
collage of sensations and memories, I
recall the parallel development, I drink of
the wine. My mother said I would never
have a better friend, even when I could
not contemplate wanting to hurt anyone
more.
I want to meet this man. "Drowned
Shelley" leaps from the page with the
sort of malice that reminds me of one of
my poems, "In Calmer Waters". In
respect of theme and imagery, it was
quite disconcerting to alight to. The most
annoying thing is that this man used the
same idea as myself, that of representing
the death of an aesthete aesthetically.
Okay, so I, ahem, borrowed the idea
from "Adonais" and "Dorian Gray", but
that's poetic licence. And only two poems
discussed.
Bugger. I wanted to laud and rant
about "A Cat", "A Woman of
Kokoschka's", "Drunk" and so on.
Poignant honesty vitriolic wit... a
sometimes exquisite sense of the
clumsiness of humanity (both concept and
species), blah blah blah. I could go on
and on. Bastard Editor. This volume is
crammed with gems, "Jeremy Round"
When did the hieroglyphic die?
At what last click of which chisel,
what scratch of stylus or dousing
and "Heloise" two such, appropriately
enough, crammed with rich, gorgeous
images. Yes. I will eat the whole peach.
"Barkbrod" is deathly, cancerous, a
malignant fear; it does not waste time
with threats, there is no "when". It
attacks, and it's attack is terminal.
The true god ode herein, though, is
"Rosetta". There are few things I loathe
more than bullshit masquerading as
poetry, and I delighted in a poem of
some fairly awesome significance
emerging from the contemporary world.
It's metaphor is Woman, mistreated by
man through his lack of sensitivity and
understanding. Language appears as
patient victim in a state so realistic as to
be truly apalling. Well, I have a peach
and a pomegranate. The romance of
Shelley and the bluntness of D.H.
Lawrence. Thank You. This reader will
continue to hope.
Euph.
Book
Editorial:
Are we so hide-bound by language that
to substitute one scrawled stone for
another is the height of our ingenuity?
That's one quote. It is more from
carelessness of questioning than
inytentionally misleading that there is so
much evil in the world. And another.
Maybe you'd like to consider these.
1 :
&MYi Y Yv; Y Y Y -Y Y: \:
„ • . • . • • : . • : . , . • • • . . . • . . • ' . . . : . •
• . . • • •• • ' , '
of which inky brush did old Egypt
begin her dumb millennium?
In the echoing of that small moment
imagine Pharaoh's voice mouthing
ever more obscurely another remedy
for preventing coming out a snake
its hole, another remedy preventing
and being buried under a dull,
pyramid. Where is the quail chick?
Where the folded cloth? Where the owl,
the wick of twisted flax, where the hill?
Gone under, sealed up, quite still.
II
Photograph of Rosetta Stone courtesy of
the British Museum. Photograph of Martin
Crucifix, and extract of 'Rosetta', courtesy
of Enitharmon Press.

