FEATURES
Parrot Fashion
Rare endangered parrots were the subject
of study for an Imperial College
expedtion, "Parrots in Peril". The team of
four British based students and three
Ecuadorian counterparts were led by Paul
Toyne of the Biology Department.
Information on the status of and current
threats to parrots is urgently needed as
one in thirteen of all threatened bird
species are parrots. The work was in
conjunction with the International Council
for Bird Preservation (ICBP) as part of
their plan for South American parrots.
Searching for parrots in the forests of
Ecuador proved to be a difficult task,
despite the loss of valuable equipment,
encountering tear gas attacks and
contracting scabies, the expedition was a
success.
The expedition succeeded in achieving
its aims and collected information for the
protection of natural areas and thier
associated wildlife. Sadly, only one of the
study species, the White-necked Conure
was found, which is thought to number
less than a thousand individuals. The
expedition was able to record its calls
and vocalizations, observed immatures,
indicating breeding within the Podocarpus
National Park and collected information
on their feeding ecolgy. Four foods
sources have been identified. All of this
information is new.
Most of the work took place in the
Podocarpus National Park in Southern
Ecuador and involved the participation
and training of three Ecuador University
students. The park is sadly threatened by
mining, illegal settlement leading to
deforestation and cattle ranching. The
expedition's results are important as they
add both to the limited knowledge of the
park's wildlife and the growing concern
of the park's destruction.
The team plans to return to continue
the work in 1992 and are currently fund
raising. Attractive 'Parrots in Peril' T-
shirts are available. Choose from three
colours; dark or light green or blue, all
on white cotton shirts (in all sizes).
Prices: Short-Sleeved @ £8 waged, £7
student. Long-Sleeved - add £2 extra
Anyone interested should contact either
Paul on extention 7461 or Sachin on
081-570-7934(eves).
6

