The Sarah Jamboree Night Out
-Camden Underworld 27/5/91
MLSIC Dr Phibes
-Camden Underworld
31/5/91
This is weird shit, weird shit for weird
people. The kind of people that think
buggering a Rhino with a ten foot pole is
fun. Not the kind of people that go to
concerts and stand rocklike in a swirling
mass of people.
State of Grace were good, though not
that good, she sounded like the singer
from Throwing Muses. Kingmaker were
better, three men, two guitars and a
drummer from Hull. A good drummer
from Hull.
Dr. Phibes came on stage and began.
Well, they didn't really begin, more like
they happened. He looked out, out past
the crowd to somewhere I can only
guess. What he saw I cannot say, what I
saw I can and will.
They played for an hour, each song (if
such a conventional word can be used)
bleeding into the next. The hiss and
scream of the previous numbers death
growing into the giant cacophony of the
next momentous creation.
Each number was more like a feeling,
the melody changing subtly throughout
its glorious life, moving from the height
of exultation to the mellow depths of
contemplation.
Sugerblast, the only recognisable 'song',
captured the entire set in five minutes.
The slow intro hiding the more vagarious
middle and the positively manic ending.
This is brilliant weird shit, and anybody
that knows me knows I'm weird too.
Pebbles
Pixies
-Planet of Sound 12"
Where Pixies go ape-shit heavy metal in
the old garage indowntown New Yawk
where the old Sonic Youth used to jam.
Powerchords a-go-go throb and even
though they've become mad metal
muthas y'know it's still Pixies due to the
discordant noises which keep popping up.
Kerrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrunch!! Melodies
remain, subleties do not. Rat-a-tat-tat.
Pixies rock you like you're gonna die
tomorrow and I wish it could be 1965
again! Summer! Sea! 1966 it's Eight Miles
High. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah, Pixies are cool. I wanna be in
AC/DO. No I don't, blah, blah, blah, yeah,
yeah, yeah. The other three songs on the
record are very nice too. One is sung in
Spanish. Pixies, where it ain't heavy to be
hard.
Dominic
Spitting fire and venom the band take the
stage dressed to the nines in red and
black drapes, brushing good to the winds
and throwing freshly decapitated babies
into the audience for them to abuse in
post-gig satanic rituals. Coming on stage
to the tune of Wagner they deliver post-
apoclaypse brimstone rock .sounding like
a mixture of Slayer and the MC5, into a
crowd of baying zombies eager to suck
the life-force from anything living. Except
none of the bands tonight do anything
remotely like this. It's so easy to slag off
bands on Sarah records, especially when
you've never heard any of them (like
me), and accuse them of being anally
retentive C86 indie kids. Tohight Sarah
opened my eyes.
First up were the Sweetest Ache who
didn't bode too well at first, appearance
wise, staring at their feet, no movement
etc.. but soon their music took over.
Though they had the little boy lost lyrics
(I'm so sad, I have no girlfriend, I'm going
to sit in the rain and have a cigarette) the
music came head on like across between
Spacemen 3 at the height of their drone-
rock phase meeting A.R.Kane's '69' in
blissful oceanic splendour. Most definitely
head music for bright, sun-blenched
dopers.
Unfortunately The Wake, who followed,
were not good. They produced a murky
blend of indie-pop meets the farfasa
organ-for a change- and ended up
sounding like a bad House Of Love
(believe me its possible). This is the sort
Black -Black LP
Close your eyes.at the end of the
sentence natch.pick a number between 1
and 3,open your eyes and see which
review you have.
(1) I don't normally judge a record by its
sleeve,but this sleeve is so bad I never
actually bothered to play the record.
(2) They really are complete bollocks
aren't they?Not that I actually listened to
the record.
(3) My pet iguana shat all over the record
before I could play it.
Dominic
of music The Pastels did a million times
better five years ago. The singer, who
can't sing, lets out occasional primal
screams to no effect. The whole set-up
lacks urgency or insistency. Only on their
last song, where they rock-out,are the
urgency and desperation inherent in the
screams made to seem real. Throughout
only the sexy maiden in shiny black PVC
on the keyboards is the only one to
shimmer.
Finally The Orchids take the stage.
With three guitarists they certainly have
the means to create a wider, richer
texture of sounds. The singer has a much
poppier voice, though he has little stage
presence, and the songs are much more
jaunty and uplifting than those of The
Wake. More so the band themselves are
into what they're playing and
correspondingly the audience respond.
One song sounds like where 90's guitar
pop meets The Byrds (surprise! surprise!)
playing Dylan's 'It's All Over Now.Baby
Blue'. The energy is vibrant in all the
songs and there is a cool piano sound
popping up on several tracks. The band is
unafraid to rock-out and are convincing
every time they do, either in short
staccato-sharp bursts or for more
sustained periods coming over all
MudTjoney-like on us (though a bit
cleaner;we're on Sarah we are!). As
someone semi-famous once said:"Two out
of three ain't bad". Tonight I entered a
heretic and left a convert.
Dominic
Jefferson
Airhead
-Scrap Happy 7"
Why?
Why what?
Why do the record companies send us
stuff like this piece of sixties quiche, er,
kitchen, er, kitsch from a band with its
head so far up some hippy's arse it's
beyond hope?
Why don't they send us something good
like New Kids On The Block's new single
or something?
Why do they sign bands like this, given
the fact that they are paid not to have a
large piece of edam in their ears?
Why did our esteemed ents chairman
decide that this excuse for a band should
be deemed fit to play on the ONLY band
night this term?
Why don't Jefferson Airhead just leave
us alone?
Answers on a cuttlefish to the Felix
office. The first correct answer out of the
budgie cage will win this single, if you
want it.
Scrap Happy? Crap Crappy more like.
Go away you annoying band.
Lise Yates

