Drinking tequilla, and quaffing highly
illegal and dangerous narcotics like the
world is going to end tomorrow we took
the Marakesh Express from Croydon to
Sarf Ken, weaving through the streets the
driver flat-out fucked going a billion miles
an hour we took our lives in our sweaty
palms and hoped Ulysees would forgive
us for we were offending the great god
himself but at this point we were too far
gone to care about some poxy Greek
idiot and were looking forward to a
multitude of stars playing in the Union
Lounge, unfortunately as the driver took
the corner of Freke Road and Clapham
High Street we entered a multi-faceted
crystal which sent us spinning hopelessly
lost in the realms of time and space,
when we arrived we found ourselves
outside the Detroit Grande Ballroom on
the night of October 30th 1968 and who
should be playing but the MC5, forcing
our way in brandishing our T.Rex
autographed nuclear powered super-duper
cosmic jiving bazookas we strode down
to the front of the hall and witnessed a
rock'n'roll extravaganza unsurpassed in
terms of sheer in yer face intensity, we
shot lots of people there who did not
look like fellow space travellers, had a
beer with Iggy Pop and the members of
SRC and pressed the buttons on our
special wristwatches and flew back down
the space-time continuum to the fair
country of Albania in the year 509, and
as luck would have it King Zog's ancient
ancestor King Zaggazzaxsjk was on the
throne and was attending a special
concert in his honour by Spinal Tap,
fellow time travellers, joining them
onstage we ran through a couple of new
numbers withilhem killed the King, ate
his chidren and pressed the button on our
watches again, we materialized
somewhere in the Andromeda galaxy,
where exactly we were unsure since
some bastard had nicked all the signposts,
lost and dying for some rock'n'roll, the
gods really were smiling as on the
nearest asteroid (WE had special space-
suit things so we could travel in space
and breath etc..) were The Beatles and
Jason Donovan, Jason is our hero so we
killed The Beatles and appointed Jason
our leader, however Jason is thick as pig-
shit and we ended up in the future-
techno-death-metal-prison of
Tghftguhjfdtyrut (pronounced 'too fucked
to write'), which was unfortunate as they
do not like time travellers, unfortunate
for them, not us, so we killed them and
left Mr.Donovan to be their president, no
fear of them attacking Earth in their
state, their economy will crumble etc
We pressed the magic button again and
found ourselves in the Union Lounge
having missed all the bands, fuck'em we
thought we're true rock'n'roll kids though
no-one believed us, these adventures will
be documented in future episodes of the
Time Tunnel (Thursdays at 6pm on
Channel 4).
The inevitable exploding orange
Ongar wah-wah express machine
Catherine
Wheel -Something EP
The essential word here is 'cascading'.
Sums it up really. Catherine Wheel
cascade. Their guitars cascade. The stage
cascades. Its hard to escape the ever
growing post-Va/enfine tag, and granted it
applies here, but Catherine Wheel stride
confidently ahead of their over-exposed
neighbours Moose and Ride, to whom
they draw the closest comparison. The EP
is a fiery gem that wanders through as
many dimensions as it wishes, leaving
(here's the poetic bit) naught but trace of
sweetness on my lips. When Catherine
Wheel play, Ride wet themselves.
Brian the Orange.
Wolfgang
MLSIC
Press -Mama 12'
Earth has it's fair quota of wankers;
Manuel Noriega, Simon Bates,
Maxwell/Murdoch, Bush, Swaggart etc.
These are at the top of God's great chain.
Then there's the sad people. The people,
poor, deluded fools all, who miss the
point. These are at the bottom. So it is
with something approaching alarm that I
write to tell you that I think I fall into the
latter category.
I have surmised this from the following
evidence;
1. 1 spent fifteen minutes listening to this
record.
2. I fully intended to write about said
record.
With this now at the forefront of My
mind, I pray to that vindictive god, don't
give Me an E.M.F. record next time. Oh,
and add the Wolfgang Press to the above
list. Total, total shit.
Sonic Euph.
Glasshammers
-Yellowbrain 12"
I felt my palms sweat when considering
the prospect of a Jethro Tull revival. No!
it couldn't be! NO FLUTE. But there is
violin, mandolin, guitar and bass. Oh, and
a drum machine. Sounds familiar? A
grooved-up All About Eve? Nah. It's
better than that. In fact, if you ignore the
atrocious vocal, it's actually quite sweet.
Oh yeah, sure, the voice IS distinctive.
Like Fish, Supertramp, The Moody Blues.
Every whining, fragile note driven anew
with anaemic frailty. By comparison, Kurt
Ralske sounds like Lemmy. The music is
also a picnic to pigeonhole. Slightly
groovy, lightly Gothic, not a million miles
away from MDMA, but not half as cool.
The promotional release that came with
this record tells me it is theif re-released
debut, and that it was "made to be
played". Wouldn't it be simply awful if it
failed to achieve this objective?.
Sonic Euph.
-Perpetual Dawn 12"
When not creating wispy ambient music
for the E generation, Dr. Alex Patterson -
for in essence he is The Orb - is the
creator of dance music that is time itself.
For Dr. Alex Patterson produces that rare
type of music that is as much at home on
your hi-fi as it is blasting out your ears at
a top nitespot.
'Perpetual Dawn', with its skanking ska
underbelly and particually laid-back rasta
rapping, floats over you with Dr. Alex
Patterson's intuitive knack for soothing
oceanic, nay womb-like sounds floating in
and out of the mix. This record flows
through you, relaxing yet uplifting,
soothing the spirit yet freeing the soul.
When the skanking stops the female
vocalist oozes in, like honey falling off a
spoon, praying for a perpetual dawn. This
record is the aural equivalent of being
frozen in time on a South Pacific island at
5am with a bowl of mangoes. Alas it ends
and you realise it will never be, but it
remains a truely gorgeous record which
would be No. 1 all summer in a perfect
world.
Dominic
Poppy Factory
-Stars 12"
This review was based on the premise:
invent the last line and then construct the
rest of the review around it. I hope you
like it. "Slick- all you need for that glossy
finish" it says in large letters. Large acid
letters have been burned into the pink
metal undercoat of the tins inside a
transcontinental supermarket situated on
the side of a dusty road, downtown New
York. There are rows of tins, all open, all
sticky with the prints of grubby hands.
The glutinous mucus glides around the
edge of this metal curtain, to reveal a
clean white corridor. A huge long passage
with a hazy end. Walking down this giant
causeway, banked by high white-washed
walls, it is apparent that the corridor is
not endless. In fact the whole purpose of
the passage is its end. One enormous,
clinical, evenly lit toilet. It must be 30
feet high. Yes, the Poppy Fields are the
Armitage Shanks of the transcontinental
supermarket.
Brian the Orange

