CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
12
Fairtrade Fortnight
Aditya Narayanan is definitely more than
t began with an old favour-
ite. A cold hursday in late
February with the promise of
ice cream; Ben & Jerry’s ice
cream to be exact. he aca-
demic year had been welcomed with
a raucous ﬁrst session in October see-
ing Activity Space 1 crammed with
attendees of a two hour frozen des-
sert buﬀet. his time, with the second
term waning, a more relaxed aﬀair
was anticipated and with this in mind,
we had divided it into two sessions.
he previous three days leading to this
moment saw our stands in the JCR
and SAF intermittently approached
for ticket purchases. But we were ex-
perienced heads in the game, knowing
that this was nothing more than the
calm before the storm.
Sure enough, with 20 minutes to
go, the atrium to the Physics Com-
mon Room was starting to resemble
the mosh pit at your average Pantera
concert. After much jostling through
the eager crowd we were ﬁnally able
to transfer our precious goods into
the room to set up the spread of what
must have been 15 diﬀerent ﬂavours.
All the old favourites were there –
Phish Food, Chocolate Fudge Brown-
ie, Cookie Dough – as well as some
newer ones in ‘Core’ range. Unable to
contain the giddy masses any further,
the door was allowed open and the
swarm of sweet-toothed Imperialites
surged into the room.
he queue stretched the length of
the room, as our committee battled
to maintain a steady stream of people
collecting their ice cream. In fact, as
many as 20 people were turned away
at the door due to us being already
stretched for resources and close to
exceeding the capacity of the room.
Having advised them to book tickets
for the second session (which many
did), we breathed a sigh of relief.
First crisis over. As ex-
pected, despite a surfeit of
bravado from the gelato aﬁ-
cionados, the initial (sugar)
rush abated at the halfway
mark, with attendees strug-
gling to maintain the elec-
tric pace with which they
had begun. Contented, they
settled down to listen to
four of Imperial College De-
bating’s ﬁnest pit their wits
against each other in a 2 v
2 verbal tussle of doom on
whether or not the Fairtrade
movement is a long term solution or
not.
Session one ended with us realising
that we had been eaten out of our ex-
isting Ben & Jerry’s supplies precipi-
tating a mad dash to the supermarket
to stock up on more supplies. With
Waitrose not providing value for mon-
ey, the two of us who went were faced
with having to sprint to Sainsbury’s in
order to make our purchase. Having
made it back by the skin of our teeth,
we prepared for the second half.
his time the numbers were slightly
reduced from the ﬁrst session put-
ting paid to the idea that students are
mostly nocturnal creatures. he less
hectic conditions presented the ﬁrst
opportunity to stage the notorious ice
cream race – something that had been
inadvertently forgotten due to the in-
tensity of the session. hat presented
a signiﬁcant physical and mental chal-
lenge to all competitors in the form of
brainfreeze. Whosoever could ﬁnish
heaped bowl of ice cream in the short-
est time would earn the most prestig-
ious prize of all: respect. And a couple
of tubs of ice cream for good measure.
At the sound of ‘go’, they were oﬀ.
Like salmon swimming upstream,
pieces of Ben & Jerry’s freed them-
selves of their inanimate nature, leap-
ing gleefully into the open mouths of
the competitors. Within seconds it
was clear that there was a ferocious
battle emerging between Nick ‘the
fridge-freezer’ Politis and a mysteri-
ous, unnamed stranger. With the com-
mittee wondering whether a photo
ﬁnish would be required the enigmatic
man in black slammed his bowl down
on the table, and strolled oﬀ noncha-
lantly to the gasps of the crowd. With
that done, everyone settled down for a
second set of dazzling debaters to tus-
sle with the important Fairtrade ques-
tion of the night.
After such a manic night, the per-
fect antidote materialised in a sedate
knitting session with Knitsock in SAF
using Fairtrade yarn. Under our un-
mistakeable Fairtrade banner and the
expert tutelage of the Knitsock com-
mittee, a crowd gradually perambu-
Cooperating with Fairtrade Society was a fantastic experience which culmi-
nated in a Fairtrade Tea and Chocolate Event. Being the President of Tea So-
ciety for this academic year, I can say we had already tried to promote links
with other societies, for example through a joint event with Cook-
ing Society. We believe many societies share common inter-
ests and that drawing different people from different
clubs together when possible will make the Union
more vibrant. Fairtrade relates to lots of things
in our everyday life and this event has made my
committee realise it would be very easy to incor-
porate Fairtrade in our weekly events. Hearing
first-hand accounts from enthusiastic cocoa
farmers from Ghana converted to Fairtrade was
a brilliant way of making everyone who came
aware of how beneficial Fairtrade can be. Never-
theless, this was primarily a FREE tea and chocolate
tasting event so no matter how you may feel towards the
Fairtrade movement, it would have been worth coming! I am
looking forward to seeing more cooperation between societies
within the Union as well as more Fairtrade over the campus. Finally, I would
like to give big thanks to all the Fairtrade committee members who have spent
hours organising this Fairtrade fortnight. Come along to our Teasoc meetings
to enjoy some Fairtrade tea alongside our usual selection!
Teasingly Fairtrade
Pauline Vaskou
I
TeaSoc President
That present-
ed a significant
physical and
mental chal-
lenge to all...
brainfreeze

