CLUBS & SOCIETIES
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 MARCH 13
comes to an end
just Fairly pleased at how the week went
lated over, camping out on the SAF
couches and getting stuck into some
needle action! Before long, the entire
area was teeming with happy knit-
ters, learning how to diﬀerentiate weft
from warp like pros. It was the perfect
preparation for the weekend, and as
a committee we left brimming with
enthusiasm for what awaited us in the
second week.
On Monday night two wonderful
teachers from the Kings Road branch
of Lush, the cosmetics company, who
were giving a class on making face
masks. Only 20 places were available,
most of which were taken up by fe-
male students. However, contrary to
the Imperial stereotype there were
several gallant, metrosexual men in
attendance, unafraid to take care of
themselves. Indeed, the male Fair-
trade committee members even got in
on the act, with a certain webmaster
seeming especially keen on the hand
massage.
hree events down. Two were left,
after the unfortunate postponement
of the Future Trade conference with
the PPS. Originally billed as ‘he
Brawl in the Lecture Hall’, this was
slated to pit Fairtrade heavyweight
Barbara Crowther (Director of Public
Communications) against a cohort of
brainiacs from thinktank the Institute
for Economic Aﬀairs. Sadly, the latter
group were ultimately unable to ﬁnd
complementary dates in their sched-
Last Friday, KnitSock and Fairtrade Society joined forces to take over the SAF
foyer, in the most recent stage of our bid to unleash Fairtrade, yarny fun to
the world. Yes, our steps towards our ultimate aim are modest, (we would ar-
gue realistic) but what a resounding success this bid was! We had beautiful
Fairtrade yarn to give to participants, we had Fairtrade hot drinks to keep the
caffeine levels up, we had knitting and crochet masters to share their skills, all
amongst a relaxed atmosphere of chitchat whilst lounging on sofas! I for one
used it as an opportune excuse to start the weekend early, with chilled-out,
happy vibes.
KnitSock meets at least once a week in the same manner, only enriched with
more yarn, more patterns, more masters, more cake, and more music. Experts
and beginners are very welcome; we teach and chat and laugh for freeeeee!
Email knit.sock@imperial.ac.uk to join our mailing list!
Finally, a huge thank you to Fairtrade Society, and especially Fang He, for all
the help in making the event such a success! See you soon, knitsters!
Not yarning afterwards
It’s an age old tradition to marry cheese and wine that the Cheese
Society are excited to present along with the Fairtrade Society!
We’ve been in talks for a few years now about this event, so it feels
good to finally join forces in this wonderful culmination of a fort-
night of activities, dedicated to promoting a fairer vision of world
trade. Our Cheese and Wine night will be all about just that, Fair-
trade wines and complimentary cheese, picked to bring out the
complex aromas and flavours to tickle your palette, along
with some complimentary condi-
ments such as olives, grapes,
nuts and strawberries.
Come on down to Bar
RCM to join us in ending
this Fairtrade Fortnight
with a cheesy bang. Carpe
Caesum.
A cheesy night...
Justine Dattani
Ying Gu
ule, prompting bemused mutterings
from the more cynical among us.
On to Wednesday, and a free tea
and chocolate event organised with
the delightful Tea Society. his event
would see the arrival of special guests
all the way from Ghana – cocoa farm-
ers brought over by Divine Chocolate,
who had provided a wide selection of
their ﬂavours for those present. Along
with the mouth-watering variety of
tastes on oﬀer (white chocolate and
strawberry, dark chocolate and ginger
and hazelnut milk among others) we
had soothing teas courtesy of Qi; in a
word, heaven.
Coincidentally, it happened to be
Ghana’s Independence Day, which
seemed appropriate as the farmers
proceeded to educate us as to how the
Fairtrade movement had given their
farming cooperative a certain amount
of liberation from the market power of
national product distribution associa-
tions and MNC’s alike, especially for
them as women (doubly relevant given
today is International Women’s Day).
In a generation where we as consum-
ers are becoming increasingly insulat-
ed from the realities of food produc-
tion, it was enlightening to see these
highly empowered people cut through
many of the myths that detractors of
Fairtrade propagate prodigiously. Di-
vine themselves are 45% owned by the
Ghanaian Kuapa Kokoo cooperative,
and have been pioneering this busi-
ness model with great success, putting
paid to the fallacy that Fairtrade does
nothing more than allow companies
to whack on an extra markup on prod-
ucts. Although no one pretends that
the movement is perfect as it is and
requires little improvement, few crit-
ics actually oﬀer a constructive, intel-
lectual critique of the Fairtrade move-
ment – and even less dare to mention
the fact that protectionist strategies
by governments in developed coun-
tries undermine any other eﬀorts to
improve farmers’ conditions by ham-
pering their ability to trade freely with
more privileged nations.
Our stomachs were ﬁlled by our
rather unorthodox ‘lunch’ of sorts,
and our eyes were opened by the stun-
ningly short talk. If only College lec-
turers were this skilled at delivering
critical information in a concise and
comprehensible manner in under 20
minutes. With that done, it was time
to start preparing for the piece de re-
sistance. Bringing together the sister
institutions of Imperial and the Royal
College of Music, and in association
with our muy buenos amigos/excel-
lents amis/ from Cheese Society,
we are hosting a Cheese and Wine
Tasting night in baRCM tonight from
19:30 onwards. With Fairtrade wines
and delicious cheeses to tempt the
most hardnosed of connosieurs, it is
sure to be the perfect way to end Fair-
trade Fortnight.

