The Union President is ultimately responsible for the direction of the Union, all Union activity and its finances. They are the big
boss (pretty much the Rick Ross of the Union, but probably without all of the expensive jewellery). If aliens were to invade the
UK, they would be held responsible. Well, not quite, but you get the point: they are ultimately in charge of the Union. Tasks
vary from simple things such as chairing a meeting to managing a multimillion pound project such as refurbishing the Union’s
bars. The President sits on numerous committees within College including the College Council, making them a Trustee of the
College. They also sit on a number of committees at the Union, and meet regularly with the President & Rector and other senior
College staff to provide student input in decision-making processes and to raise any immediate concerns that the student body
might have. They are therefore responsible for ensuring students are represented and heard when decisions are made. It’s not
all work and no play though, there are plenty of fun things that they will get to do. A great example is the opportunity to give a
speech in a packed Royal Albert Hall (can anyone say epic streaking opportunity?) and having your very own President’s dinner.
his year as Deputy President (Wel-
fare) I have lobbied College on issues
that aﬀect you. Next year there will be
another evening surgery at the Health
Centre, increased counselling and dis-
abilities appointments after 6pm. I
have put the personal tutor problem
on the agenda of College. A system
that will inform your tutors of your
marks is soon to be created. If elected
I will:
• Stand up to College - too many de-
cisions that have negatively impacted
students have been unchallenged for
too long. Paragon, Clayponds, Hol-
land Club and North Acton. It’s time
for someone to take charge that isn’t
afraid to be unpopular with College
management while representing the
view of students.
• Provide a comprehensive private
accommodation guide to students.
Finding private accommodation can
be stressful. he Union has the data
and the knowhow to give all students
the support they need with housing.
• Build links with other Unions -
there is the potential to do more with
London student unions. his is a great
opportunity to diversify some Union
events.
• Student-lead entertainments in the
Union – you are the people that know
what events you want! I promise to
have more drink oﬀers in the bar.
• More inclusivity – greater variety
and increased support for internation-
al events and trips around the UK to
help international students adjust to
London.
• Host an Alternative Careers Fair,
putting students in contact with
smaller employers and charities.
I am the candidate that has the expe-
rience to hit the ground running. Full
manifesto at www.votebeckylane.com.
Becky Lane
A greater voice to the student body.
A more democratic union.
Greater participation of staﬀ and
students in college events.
Greater transparency of the Union.
Forhad Matin
No manifesto submitted.
Ernest Tan
No photo submitted
No photo submitted
RON for all of the positions
Hi everyone, I’m RON! I’m stand-
ing for every single position!!!
LOLZORZ. AMAZEBALLS RIGHT!
Well, if you hate all the other losers,
then just vote for me. I stand for
Re-Open Nominations, and if I win
then the election is re-run. What do
I promise? Well, here it goes...
1. Pay rise for RON!
I’ve been doing this for free for far
too long. It’s lame as hell. I can’t be
bothered to stand for everything.
Do you know how many sweets I
have to buy every single year just to
stand in these damn things? Loads,
that’s how many. I need more mon-
ey.
2. To sleep with your mum!
Awwwwwwwww yeah. Ron’s been
practicing his luuurve magic, and
apparently I’m ‘cute’ – her words,
not mine.
3. Everything to be better or some-
thing!
Not sure how to achieve this, but it
probably has something to do with
giving you all £100000 free printer
credit at the Library.
4. I will learn how to do a backflip
and perform it in the JCR, daily!
Why? Why not should be your ques-
tion. Everyone loves backflips.
See more online!

