DEPUTY PRESIDENT
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
The DPCS is here to look after the 300+ Clubs, Societies & Projects at
Imperial College Union. That’s a pretty wide reaching job: there is every-
thing from Archery to Pottersoc (and apparently some kick-ass student
newspaper called Felix too)! The role involves duties such as helping indi-
vidual clubs with issues they face to working with national organisations
to represent Imperial students. They will have to problem-solve at every
level and have the opportunity to effect real change in the direction of
Student Activities at Imperial. The decisions that they make have the po-
tential to directly improve the experience of thousands of students who
take part in Clubs, Societies & Projects at Imperial.
Hi! My name is Yasmin Edwards and
I am a ﬁnal year biologist running for
Deputy President Clubs & Societies.
his year I am Vice President of Bi-
osoc and Captain of Women’s rugby
and was on the events committee and
social secretary for them last year. I
have gained experience in how diﬀer-
ent clubs and societies work and the
range of problems they face. here is
a lot of room for improvement and I
plan to make it easier for chairs and
treasurers to run their clubs, societies
and projects so everyone can enjoy
the many activities available outside of
their studies. Here’s how:
• Build on the developments to the
eActivities WEBSITE to make it more
user friendly and improve the online
training system.
• Ensure clubs, societies and man-
agement groups get enough SUP-
PORT by responding to enquiries
within 24 hours and having regular
drop in sessions, especially for treas-
urers, to back up the online training.
• Improve training for DEPSOCS to
strengthen department wide events
and activities.
• Increase student INVOLVEMENT
by continuing the promotion of clubs,
societies and projects with a refresh-
ers’ fair and more engaging advertise-
ment of clubs and society events.
• Secure more FUNDING for ac-
tivities from the IC trust and estab-
lish links between societies and com-
panies by running SPONSORSHIP
speed-dating.
I am friendly, approachable and
would love the opportunity to work
with you to help solve any problems
you may face from involvement in
clubs and societies. hank you for
reading and please vote Yasmin Ed-
wards for DPCS!
Yasmin Edwards
Hi I’m Rowena Harrison. I’m a fourth
year physicist, returned from my year
abroad and I would love to be your
DPCS next year. I have been a mem-
ber of several clubs since my ﬁrst year,
helped out at Fresher’s’ Fair, and even
been a founding member of a club! I
have experience of diﬀerent club ac-
tivities in sports as well as the arts
during my roles as Librarian and Hon-
orary Secretary on both Wind Band
and Cheerleading respectively.
With taking a year abroad I know
I can take the initiative to get things
done. Being involved in the organiza-
tion of concerts and competitions has
highlighted my attention to detail and
creativity. I believe my experiences
on these club committees have chal-
lenged me and brought out some of
my qualities I think would be an asset
to DPCS. As a founding member of a
club, it has given me some insight into
how the Union works and some of the
things that need improvement.
I want to:
- make club handover a standardized
process; implement a questionnaire to
gather club’s feedback on timetabling,
diﬀerent challenges and feedback on
their experience with the Union.
- improve DepSocs interaction with
their departments, with the possibility
of staﬀ liaisons.
- improve the ﬁnance system for
clubs, make a new, less-confusing sys-
tem.
- have more Union events (aside
from We Are Metric nights) for sport-
ing events e.g. Super Bowl, Wimble-
don Finals and Snow sports compe-
titions, where clubs can fundraise as
well.
- improve e-Activities, make it fast-
er!!
Rowena Harrison
No manifesto submitted.
Forhad Matin
Hi, I’m Lucy, and I’m in my fourth (and
ﬁnal) year studying Civil and Environ-
mental Engineering. I’m running for
DPCS because over my years here at
Imperial I have had so many extraor-
dinary experiences and met so many
amazing friends through the Union
Clubs and Societies, and now I want
to give something back. I have never
met a more dedicated, inspiring and
hardworking collection of people than
Imperial’s Club and Society Oﬃcers,
and I want to be able to give them all
the support and encouragement they
need and deserve to continue to oﬀer
fantastic opportunities and brilliant
fun to younger students.
I have been heavily involved in a
whole variety of Club and Society
activities over my years at Imperial,
including spending two years as a
Club Oﬃcer, a year as a Management
Group Treasurer with the Community
Action Group, and this year as Man-
agement Group Chair of the Social
Clubs Committee, one of the largest
groups of clubs. I also in connection
with that role sat on the Clubs and So-
cieties Board and the Union Council,
so I have a good wide level overview
of the Union workings with regard to
Clubs and Societies.
here have been a lot of changes in
Union recently, like the new Constitu-
tion, with its updates on a variety of
issues like club election protocols, and
the move just a couple of years ago
now to the online eActivities tool for
Club ﬁnances and training. hat sys-
tem is still receiving updates and
Lucy McGregor
No photo submitted
ELECTIONS
BIG
2013
the
CAST YOUR
VOTE NOW
VOTING OPENS
8 MARCH
12:00
VOTING CLOSES
15 MARCH
12:00
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections

