Clubs & Socs Elections VARSITY
Fairtrade fortnight Manifestos! Massive pullout
A whole two weeks of tiring
events for Fairtrade. Tea, choc-
olate, debating, and ice cream
eating contests, all happened
over the last two weeks.
That’s right, it is election time!
There will be about 5 million
packs of sweets sold, and you
have the chance to sample them
all. Good luck everyone running.
It’s that time of year again.
Elections. There’s also Varsity
though. This has all the infor-
mation that you could possibly
want. And probably more...
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>12 >>15 >>29
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Battyman Matt Colvin Travel
Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Abby Goldblatt, Claire Wilkinson Web Uploaders Thomas Lim Simon Worthington, Joseph Letts, Matt Colvin Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Sam Lav
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Poor Gardening
nother week another is-
sue. This week has been
absolutely shattering. In
fact, I am so tired that
when I came into work
today (Thursday) I put on my scarf,
went to the door, then turned around
and looked for my scarf as I thought I
had lost it. It’s just been one of those
weeks. Work, sleep, eat: barely time
for relaxing at all. This is actually being
written on a bus into College, just to
prove that point.
Garden Hall
Think it’s clear what the viewpoint
is from me. Just keep Garden open.
Renovate it and keep it here. It’s very
close and very cheap. Everything else
is going towards the expensive side
in terms of accommodation and, let’s
face it, London is hardly going to be-
come a cheaper city to live in. It’s once
more incredible to see Imperial stu-
dents stand up and denounce a terrible
idea. I was very pleased to see the en-
thusiasm and boldness of the students
organising the protests and getting
their arts skills out with some pro level
bubble letter making.
One thing that we absolutely don’t
want is for people from less well-off
backgrounds being put off coming to
Imperial. If this is because of the ac-
commodation offers that are available,
then that is such a shame. Garden Hall
(and Weeks of course, as well as the
halls in Evelyn Gardens) is an amazing
asset. It is cheap and just by campus.
This means people that can’t afford
expensive halls still get to live near
campus. Having halls such as Garden
means that you don’t price out stu-
dents from being in a great location.
Would that space really be used well
if it were to be office space? Wouldn’t
it cost money to redevelop the space
into office space? Surely just reno-
vating the halls is a much better use
of the money that it would cost? The
campaign to save Garden Hall should
be fully supported by all students. For
those from College, all you need to
do is to look at the comments from
students on page 9. Just to show you
how passionate students that have
lived/known someone who has lived
in the halls are about Garden Hall be-
ing saved: many of them have put their
names to their comments. Also, these
are not all of the comments that could
have been put in. Many were excluded
due to space restrictions.
Elections
Elections are well and truly here. Let’s
hope that it is all done fairly with no
funny business. It was a rather bold
move to have a Results Party planned
and advertised. The complaints sys-
tem this year is a bit odd and defi-
nitely made to discourage people
from complaining. To be fair the idea
is to stop people constantly getting
in touch with trivial matters. How-
ever, it’s a barrier to those who are
currently Union outsiders: they have
to wade through the dull informa-
tion to find a code for their complaint.
Why not just let them email in and
just reply to them all? You would get
a lot, but loads of people get a lot of
emails, you just suck it up. It’s need-
less bureaucracy. I guess you can say
you don’t want someone in a position
if they aren’t willing to do that, but it
just seems like a bad system. Plus it’s
lame as hell coming from a students’
union to have alphanumeric coding
systems rather than a less formal
emailing system.
Anyway, over the next seven days
you’ll be accosted time after time by
people wanting you to vote for them.
Try to resist the temptation to just
impulse vote for whoever you think
looks nicest or gives you the best
sweets etc. Think really hard about
it and pick whichever candidate you
think is the best for the role.
CLASSIFIEDS
Volunteers wanted for experiments in-
vestigating balance and perception
If you are interested in taking part you must be aged
18-65 and not suffering from vertigo, dizziness, bal-
ance or hearing problems. The research is at Charing
Cross
Hospital, takes about one hour. You will be reim-
bursed for your time.
The research project has been approved by London-
Fulham Ethics Committee
To find out more, please contact Dr Ed Roberts:
neuro.otologylab@gmail.com
A

