DEPUTY PRESIDENT
EDUCATION
The Deputy President (Education) is the go-to person for all academic needs.
Theysitontopoftherepresentationstructure(YearRep-DepRep-Academic
Affairs Oicer - DPE) so they’re usually directly involved when things that
can’t be resolved at lower levels need urgent attention or are of signiﬁcant
importance. For example, BioChemistry preliminary grades being unavailable
for students. In addition to working directly with students on their represen-
tation issues, the DPE is also the main contact for College when they are plan-
ning to run projects or do anything academia related. The DPE role is simply
summarised as “making sure the academic experience at Imperial is one of the
best in the world”.
• To improve electronic learning re-
sources, such as but not limited to col-
lege computing facilities and software.
Also, to look for a cheaper, better al-
ternative to Blackboard.
• To Look towards building new
links and strengthening existing rela-
tionships with institutions in North
America, Australasia, Europe, and
Asia, so students will have more op-
portunities to study and do research
placements abroad.
• For more than two thirds of lecture
courses across college to be regularly
recorded and made available to stu-
dents by the end of my term.
• For personalised exam feedback to
be given across college, and access to
exam scripts to be granted to students
(how can we get better without know-
ing where we went wrong?), such as at
Kings College London.
• A commitment to having two of-
ﬁce hours in my schedule free every
week, to meet with any student that
wishes to talk to me about academic
issues.
• hat a system is put in place
whereby international students start-
ing at imperial can know what the
total cost of their course will be, with
all fee increases ahead of inﬂation ac-
counted for by College.
• hat free language courses are
made available to post graduate stu-
dents through the school of Profes-
sional Development.
• To campaign against the relocation
of student accommodation to North
Acton and the closure of Evelyn gar-
dens.
I want to leave imperial a better
university that it was when I arrived,
help me to achieve that goal, by Voting
London for DPE.
Jonathan London
No manifesto submitted.
No photo submitted
Forhad Matin

