DEPUTY PRESIDENT
WELFARE
The DPW coordinates campaigns and information concerning student
welfare, working closely with the Union’s Student Advisor, student vol-
unteers and the College’s Welfare services. Their main aim should be mak-
ing you turn that frown upside down. They represent students’ welfare
needs to College and external organisations, and sit on a number of Col-
lege committees relating to welfare, accommodation, equal opportuni-
ties and the student experience. They are also responsible for the activi-
ties of the Union’s Community Action Group and IC RAG.
Four years into my degree, I’ve seen
a lot of what Imperial can throw at
you and my year abroad has given me
another perspective on the workings
of a students’ union. I’m looking to
use past experience and build on this
year’s achievements in welfare to help
tackle some of the problems that per-
sist, as well as to introduce some new
strands to the Union’s welfare system.
Here are my principal points of action:
• he buddy scheme has worked
well this year but there’s scope for us
to take it much further, rolling it out
across all years.
• Personal tutors need more training
and should know more about your ac-
ademic progress so that they’re better
informed on how to help you.
• he health centre needs to be open
more regularly outside of College
hours – one late night a week just isn’t
enough!
• Don’t forget our PGs! No one
needs the stress of an unsupportive
supervisor. Existing support mecha-
nisms need to be made clearer and
more easily accessible.
• Did you know that your Union is
there to support you when you wish
to lobby for a good cause? We should
make so much more of this great re-
source, I’m here to help!
Oh and in case you were wondering,
of course I’m absolutely #AgainstAc-
ton.
If elected as your DPW I’ll work
hard towards achieving the above
whilst keeping a personal contact with
the student body - my door will always
be open if you need me.
Vote James for DPW!
James Hulse
hroughout my four years at Imperial I
have been passionate about student wel-
fare, both through my job as a Senior
Steward at the Union, where I’ve worked
for three years, and through my role this
year as an elected Welfare Oﬃcer. his
has involved sitting on both Council and
the Representation and Welfare Board, as
well as liaising with the current DPW, to
advocate on behalf of students. Running
a society as well means I have experience
in many aspects of Imperial life and, with
this experience, I’ve found three key areas
I’d improve if elected:
Support:
• Reform personal tutor system in Col-
lege so student welfare doesn’t depend on
the personal tutor lottery
• Resurrect SHAG week, making it rel-
evant to all sexualities, and push for on-
campus STI screening
•Setupstudent-runsupportgroupsfor
thosestrugglingwithmentalhealthissues
• Innovate exam stress-relief schemes
to make them more fun
Community and Inclusion:
•Beforstudentexperienceand#Again-
stActon
• Expand and improve the Mums and
Dads scheme
• Encourage diverse Union events -
more Post-Grad functions (the PG Min-
gle isn’t enough), LGBT nights, etc.
• Provide a wider range of Freshers’
events to include those who don’t drink
• Review our current energy-saving
policies
Representation:
• Host a welfare forum each term so
students can raise any issues bothering
them
• Be available in the JCR once a week so
students are more empowered to ques-
tion their Sabbaticals
• Reform the welfare oﬃcer system to
connect them to the groups they repre-
sent
Vote Marissa for DPW.
Marissa Lewis
No manifesto submitted.
No photo submitted
Forhad Matin
From the experience I have gained
from working with ICU previously
as BioSoc President and RCSU Vice
President this year, I can see what
happens when exciting, enthusiastic
people take charge and get stuck in. I
want to make the Union a more social,
happier inﬂuence on students and in
turn keep their satisfaction high and
their welfare in check. How I plan to
do this:
Halls - Lobby College to keep Gar-
den halls and to renew the lease for
Evelyn Gardens.
Students- Open Oﬃce Policy where
students can drop by without having
to make an appointment, but still have
priority, even if I am otherwise en-
gaged.
Services- put a lot more information
online for housing, money advice and
postgraduate and international stu-
dent speciﬁc guidance.
Social- more inter-departmental
events to be subsidised and have fa-
cilities provided for by the Union.
Increase in departmental tutoring-
students teaching students to give
older years a chance to pad out their
CV and brush up on their basics, and
younger years an informal learning
environment that oﬀers a sense of ca-
maraderie. Great for supplementing
the buddy system!
Environment- bringing back Green
Week! Scientists like us are the best
advocates for striving for a greener fu-
ture, and we should embrace this.
Health- to run a BIG campaign week
to really de-stigmatise mental illness-
es. Working alongside the services al-
ready provided to increase participa-
tion for workshops on exam stress and
the availability of counselling during
exam periods.
RAG- more union support, more
events, more fun!
Philippa Skett
More manifestos for Deputy President (Welfare) on the next page

