DEPUTY PRESIDENT (WELFARE) Continued from the previous page
No manifesto submitted.
No photo submitted
William Stocker
FELIX EDITOR
Felix is the weekly student publication of Imperial College London,
and was founded in 1949. The Editor oversees the production of
the paper throughout the year and ensures that it goes to print eve-
ry week; tasks include design, writing, editing (duh), investigating
news and photography. The Editor must seek out contributors and
editors for other sections, not to mention encouraging students to
write! They also are in charge of the finances of the paper, and,
ultimately, are responsible for everything in the paper.
I’m running for the position of Fe-
lix Editor because Felix is a fantastic
source of information and creativity
for Imperial students and I believe I
can make it better and more engaging.
I’ve seen Felix as a reader, as a writer
and as a section editor (Politics 2011-
12) and I have the experience to run
the paper as an editor and as a man-
ager. As well as contributing to Felix
during my time at Imperial I have
also been involved other media socie-
ties and as Media Chair I have gained
leadership skills and Union knowl-
edge. These talents will give me an
edge in the Felix oﬃce.
A vote for Letts is a vote for a persis-
tent, dedicated Felix Editor.
Plans to improve Felix for students:
New Sections
A “Careers” section with detailed in-
terviews during the Autumn term and
a weekly “What’s On” page providing
information about local events in and
around college.
Know Your Union
In depth coverage of Union politics
and structure so you know who your
representatives are, what they’re up to
and how it impacts you.
Open Oﬃce
I will make Felix more inviting and
transparent so if you want to write
an article or more you’ll know who to
contact, and what to expect.
Student Focused
More news about Imperial students,
more news relevant for postgraduate
students and listening to feedback.
Vote Letts for Passion, Vote Letts for
Dedication, Vote Letts for Felix
Not convinced? Go to www.
voteletts.co.uk for more.
Every vote counts!
Joseph Letts
No manifesto submitted.
No photo submitted
Forhad Matin
Felix, for me, is the best of Imperial.
The humour, the critical eye it casts
over the goings-on of College and the
Union, the voice that champions the
causes dearest to Imperial students. In
its unique way, Felix makes an indel-
ible mark on each of our experiences
at Imperial.
It would be a pleasure and a privilege
to hold the position of Felix Editor for
next year, and if elected, I promise to:
• maintain Felix’s rich vein of hu-
mour, whilst remaining aware of
where to draw the line.
• produce more engaging content
that showcases the best of life within
college…
• ... as well as bringing you the best
of the world outside.
• build a more interactive online
presence, to give Felix a personality.
• actively involve students from
across the college, to produce a more
relevant and representative Felix.
• constantly be evolving and improv-
ing Felix, by asking what we are doing
well, what we are not doing well, and
what we can do to make Felix better.
I want Felix to be something we
can all be proud of. I will give my all
to make sure that Felix, in print, is
something that you will look forward
to reading each Friday, and, online, is
something you enjoy interacting with
every day.
For more info head to http://gg.gg/
will4felix and feel free to tweet me at
@willyprince
William Prince

