STUDENT TRUSTEES
Being a Student Trustee is a serious responsibility which requires those on the
Board to take an active role in the governance and direction of the Union. The
Trustee Board is there to ensure that the Union is meeting its aims and objec-
tives, sets the long term strategy, ensures that the Union is using its financial
resources correctly and is financially viable and ultimately is acting within the
law. They meet about 4-5 a year, have an away day, and have various sub com-
mittees. Two student trustees are elected, and two are appointed. So you are
looking for two top candidates.
Hello Imperial!
I’m Bukki, a chemical engineering
dude running to be one of your trus-
tees.
It’s common knowledge that the
primary people at this uni are the
students. I mean without you, what
would Imperial be?
Not only that, but as top, aspir-
ing students we are the future of this
country and the countries we come
from. We’re the future of this whole
world and as such I feel we deserve at
least a little comfort for the next few
years here before the pressure of lead-
ing really tests us when we leave this
memorable South Kensington cam-
pus.
I’ve had the pleasure of coming into
contact with a ridiculous amount of
you and I know that this alone gives
me the knowledge to really show the
big decision makers at Imperial what
we, the students, want and need. In-
creased funding for clubs and socie-
ties, halls nowhere near Acton...in-
creased student satisfaction via the big
pockets we know Imperial have.
As co-chair of events for the chemi-
cal engineering department I’ve had a
really, really successful year organising
and hosting events for the students
that have been said by lecturers and
older students alike to be the some of
the best events of past years. Next year
I hope to continue this success by pro-
viding another service but on a much
wider scale.
So what am I going to do as your
trustee?
Essentially, anything you want...
My name is Bukki.
Trust me to be your trustee.
Bukki Adedapo
The union has recently undergone
some major changes, managerial,
structural and ﬁnancial. Following
these changes it is important that the
Union continues to remain focused
on supporting its members (that’s us
students) with our studies, improv-
ing our experience of university, and
providing support for extra-curricular
development. he #AgainstActon
campaign is a good example of the
Union getting this right – it is great to
see so many people expressing their
opinions and getting involved with the
Union.
As a member of the trustee board
I would work to keep the Union and
your representatives accountable and
accessible; working with the College,
and supporting the numerous clubs,
societies and projects that make Im-
perial more than just a place to study.
I am a second year physicist and in
my spare time I help look after Jeze-
bel (the RCS’s Mascot) and help with
the technical side of Dramsoc plays
(as well as lots of other things). I have
sat on the advisory board of a national
youth organisation; been a regional
representative at national confer-
ences; and was a member of the, now
defunct, Union Court.
As a result of my involvement in a
number of societies (and having been
on various club committees), I have a
good working knowledge of the Un-
ion, its documentation and goals. I
feel that I would make a good Student
Trustee and that I will be able to help
with the on-going work to shape the
Union into something that we all can
feel an important part of.
Stephen Ball
1. I am currently a third year reading
Biochemistry with Management. he
Joint Honours nature of my course
will allow me to represent both the
Life Science and Business School on
the Trustee Board.
2. I have been actively involved in
many clubs and societies during my
time at Imperial including Finance,
Hockey, Squash and Biochemistry.
Being involved in a diverse range of
activities has given me the opportu-
nity to meet a broad range of individu-
als which has given me a good under-
standing of what Imperial students
want.
3. Being a Student Trustee also in-
volves examining the Unions accounts,
yearly budget and annual report. Hav-
ing undertaken several internships at
ﬁnancial institutions as well as un-
dertaking a management course next
year, I believe I have the relevant skill
set to undertake these duties.
4. I strongly advocate lecture record-
ings being made freely available to all
students. In addition, I will also strive
to improve student’s understanding of
Union undertakings.
5. VOTE BOWERS!
Alexander Bowers
he Trustee Board is the highest body
in the Union, forming its strategic di-
rection. It supervises the actions of
the sabbatical and senior management
team, and makes high-level decision
with signiﬁcant legal or ﬁnancial im-
plications. For instance, the Board has
recently updated the Code of Practice
(the document that governs our re-
lationship with College) and agreed
changes to the Union Constitution af-
ter approval by Union Council. hese
documents will be integral to the Un-
ion’s operations in the coming years.
As Council Chair this year, I have
been a member of the Trustee Board,
as well as being an observer as Deputy
President (Finance & Services) last
year. hrough this time on the Board,
I have come to know the challenges
and opportunities the Union faces.
his is especially key as the Union ﬁ-
nally moves towards charity registra-
tion, where Trustees will acquire ad-
ditional responsibility for the Union’s
success. he Union will need to keep
abreast and ahead of developments in
Charing Cross, North Acton and Im-
perial West, so that we can continue to
provide a service to all our members
as courses and students are moved
around.
If elected as a Student Trustee, I
will use the experience gained from
ﬁve years’ involvement in the Union
to ensure it continues to provide an
excellent service for its members. We
have recently overcome a diﬃcult few
years, and with the right supervision,
we can continue to make ever-bigger
strides to make this a better Union.
Vote Michael for Student Trustee!
Michael Foster
More manifestos for Student Trustees on the next page

