A greater RCSU with a greater level of
student participation.
A more transparent and democratic
RCSU.
An RCSU that propels students to
distinguish themselves nationally and
internationally.
No photo submitted
Forhad Matin
Hello! I am Plabon, a second year
mathematician and I’m running for
RCSU President this year. If elected, I
would:
• Bring back more of the traditions
of RCSU through mascotry, chanting
the Kangela at bar nights and provide
more opportunities to take a ride on
Jezebel.
• Will run at least six Bar Nights in
the next academic year with various
discounts towards members.
• Subsidise RCSU events a lot more
by securing more sponsorship.
• Shake up the Buddy system by
working alongside the DPW and the
DPE. I will further promote the Bud-
dy system by oﬀering various incen-
tives such as “family tickets” to RCSU
events.
• Look to oﬀer more events during
freshers fortnight that are popular
with other faculty unions such as the
medics’ orienteering.
• Build the RCSU brand by oﬀer-
ing more Regalia in our online shop
alongside hoodies and ties.
• Arrange careers talks that focus on
an academic career.
• Run a weekly lunchtime drop-in in
the RCSU oﬃce so students can come
speak to me about any issues they
want or even let me know other events
they want.
Furthermore, I am the current
RCSU Treasurer which has given me a
thorough understanding of the union
and the various academic and welfare
issues that arise in the life of an Impe-
rial student. So, I urge you to vote for
someone with the experience and the
know-how to get the job done and get
the job done well. Vote Plabon.
Plabon Saha
Being responsible for the lives of 30 was
what I was entrusted to do. As a for-
mer armoured-infantry platoon com-
mander, I oﬀer you something more
reliable and concrete than just prom-
ised improvements - my track record
in prudent leadership and management
as well as valuable experiences in large-
scale event organization and bringing
out the best in forged relationships.
Yet undergirding all this is a heart that
listens, cares and desires to impact and
empower the people around with all
available resources.
As Student Trustee, I sit on the high-
est body of the Union, upholding the
integrity of key operatives and chart-
ing directions to spur positive develop-
ments for the entire student body. his
stint has provided me valuable insight
to capitalize on the upcoming major
changes, to take the CGCU to greater
heights.
Right now, it needs a leader with the
wisdom and verve to make bold yet
practical improvements that would en-
hance every engineering student’s uni-
versity experience and not just address
partisan interests.
If elected, I will endeavor to fulﬁll the
following:
1) Implement a portal to:
• Receive and respond readily to your
concerns.
• Display all low reception/attendance
events and opportunities to avoid exces-
sive/unnecessary publicity on them.
2) Strike a strategic balance between
face-to-face/ﬁeld and email publicity
to gain and maintain student interest,
rather than just being informative.
3) Increase the number of CGCU
sub-committee positions; an impetus
for greater engagement between com-
mittee and students.
Count on the proven track record,
count on tangible improvements, vote
Lejon.
Lejon Chua
he role of the CGCU President is
to provide students in the faculty of
engineering with the best possible ac-
ademic and social experience, whilst
upholding the strong traditions of the
Guilds. A natural leader, conﬁdent
and comfortable in almost any envi-
ronment, I will look to put my skills to
use for the beneﬁts of engineering stu-
dents at Imperial. In my 2 years here,
l I have experienced numerous situa-
tions, both positive and negative, in-
cluding summer retakes and language
courses, and have tried my utmost to
involve myself in the activities of the
union and the college.
If elected I will endeavour to:
• Improve student/staﬀ rela-
tions so that your degree works for
you as well as for your lecturers.
• Organize events which al-
low for greater interdepartmental
cohesion; particularly for groups of
students who are most of risk of al-
ienation, such as MSc/PhD students,
international students and freshers.
• Aim to maintain current
partnerships and forge new relation-
ships with industry, to give all stu-
dents the opportunity to network with
alumnus and prospective employers.
• Improve student representa-
tion, and ensure that students are kept
informed by staﬀ on any major devel-
opments that concern their courses,
their departments or the state of the
CGCU.
• Work with staﬀ to provide
students with degree schedules that
allow them to study their degree to the
best of their ability, whilst also giving
them the opportunity to participate in
the many clubs and societies oﬀered
by the union and by the CGCU.
I believe in working together with
students, staﬀ
Johan Rekers
RCSU PRESIDENT
The RCSU President controls a budget of over £20,000, organising a range of
academic,social,careersandpastoraleventsrepresentingtheinterestsofover
4,000 students. They liaise with senior members of staff and sit on various
College and Union committees. These include the Faculty of Natural Sciences
Teaching Committee, Representation and Welfare Board, Union Council and
Union Executive. They manage their committee and the departmental socie-
ties that sit within the Natural Sciences. The President is also responsible for
managing and developing strong bonds with sponsors, maintaining ties with
theRCSAandultimatelyresponsiblefortheworkoftheexecutivecommittee.
CGCU PRESIDENT
CGCU is by far the biggest faculty and the President is ultimately responsi-
ble for about 6000 students. The President must ensure the large Executive
Committee is run smoothly. They oversee all of the different subsections of
thecommitteeincludingevents,industrialrelations,alumnirelations,finance,
engineering representation and sport. This means that the President will be
heavily involved with all aspects of the Constituent Union from securing and
managing relationships with sponsors and companies, arranging contractual
agreements for events, budgeting and maintaining a strong relationship with
theCollege,Unionandalumni.Basically,theyshouldn’tbeamassivespanner.

