COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
40
Saskia Verhagen
In Search of Inspiration
Most people work so that they can live, but a lucky few live so that
they can work. All you need is inspiration, says Saskia Verhagen
omplacency is a cruel
mistress. She lures you in
with a sense of comfort:
that failing an exam, or
not getting the degree you
wanted, or that mediocrity itself might
just be… ﬁne. hat you’ll survive, and
see tomorrow, and the next day – and
nothing will really change. And if noth-
ing changes, there’s nothing to be afraid
of. hose ensnared in her trap will drift
with the tide, not having to think, or im-
agining what on earth it might be that
could bring life to the days they spend
breathing the air, walking the streets,
eating their dinner, sleeping dreamlessly
through the night.
he transition from university to a
career is a terrifying prospect – one
which might drive some into a PhD they
never really wanted to do, or a job at a
company inspiring as much excitement
as that dubious lump of cheese which
gathers mould at the back of your fridge.
Who are you, what do you want, where
are you going: perhaps the most diﬃcult
part of this is extracting yourself from
the relative comfort and familiarity of
someone else’s idea of who you should
be. he goal isn’t money, family or fame:
these are surely but by-products of a
fulﬁlling life, not aims in themselves.
For those in whom the aims and the by-
products have been confused lies ahead
a mid-life crisis of epic proportions.
Wouldn’t it be nice to get it right the ﬁrst
time around, or at least try to?
From a personal point of view, the
missing elements are ﬁrstly the time and
scenario to actually think on these ques-
tions, and secondly: inspiration. he
type of inspiration I’m talking about isn’t
laying in wait at a careers fair – an event
where people tell you how much you
will love working at their corporation,
trying to rouse in you that potent desire
to mindlessly commit and follow. What
do these people know about you? About
your aspirations? About love? Whilst
they bleat endlessly about how fast your
career will advance and how steep the
income curve is (wearing some descrip-
tion of power-suit – gross), for some it
all just seems unconvincing, and wrong.
You know you’re displaced when you’re
skulking around tables, side-eyeing stale
sweets and plastic pens, thinking, there
must be more to life than this. Surely
one shouldn’t need a career to be ‘sold’
to you – it should be glaringly obvious, a
calling, a pleasure.
he time and scenario remain elusive
to me. However, a few weeks ago I re-
ceived an invitation to a party themed
‘Paris is Burning’ – I had no idea what
this was in reference to and being some-
onewhoisbutrarelyseenunderdressed,
C
it was imperative that I ﬁnd out. Paris
Is Burning is a documentary about the
gay and transgender community in New
York City during the 1980s. It is an un-
bridled celebration of ‘realness’
. his was
a community of originals, people who
understood that fear is merely an obsta-
cle to living, people with equal measures
of pure charisma and crippling vulner-
ability. his wasn’t a documentary about
tragedy – though certainly tragedy
played its part – this was about a group
of people who would suﬀer willingly for
their right to be themselves and do what
it was they loved, whilst dreaming of a
brighter tomorrow.
Documentaries should document
growth and some kind of signiﬁcant
and meaningful contribution: whether
in a single life, or a generation. Bill Cun-
ningham, the legendarily understated
street style and society fashion pho-
tographer for the New York Times was
ﬁlmed for Bill Cunningham New York,
akin to a poem composed in his honour.
Devoted utterly to his art, with no room
for traditional romance, or furniture, a
kitchen or a bathroom, he inhabits an
artistic niche unique to himself – now
aged 83, there is no one to ﬁll his shoes,
and there never will be. He dedicated his
life to observing and documenting the
cultural evolution of generations: from
the flower children in the Sheep Mead-
ows of Central Park in the 1960s to the
sartorial butterflies of fashion week and
Anna Wintour, who says, ‘We all get
dressed for Bill.’
Diana Vreeland (pictured), one of
fashion’s most formidable and notori-
ous mavericks, was the fashion editor
of Harper’s Bazaar from 1936-62, pow-
erhouse editor-in-chief at Vogue from
‘63-71 and consultant to New York’s
Costume Institute at the Metropolitan
Museum of Art. She is immortalised in
he Eye Has To Travel, a glorious patch-
work of twentieth-century history and
culture sewn together with the silken
thread of one remarkable woman’s life.
What she, and the others mentioned,
have in common is an uncompromis-
ing, unwavering belief that their vision
is one worth portraying, and continue to
drive it forward for as long as they can
breathe and dream. his, in my eyes, is
the hallmark of not only an artist, but a
life well lived.
Inspiration is a glimpse of a connec-
tion that comes from within you, and
bridges to the world outside of your
imagination. Finding it, and more than
that, hearing it and acting upon it prom-
ises both a most frightening prospect
and a most bountiful reward. he peo-
ple in these three short ﬁlms are infused
with inspiration; their careers and their
lives’ work were fulﬁlling to an extent
that right now is a distant dream to me. I
don’t have a destination yet, but aimless
goal-seeking is not an option either. I’m
convinced there’s something that can
ignite even this most weary, disaﬀected
soul. Laurels were meant to be worn as a
crown, not to be rested upon.
The type of
inspiration I’m
talking about
isn’t laying in
wait at a
careers fair.
Needs more red

