FOOD
43
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
are I say it, but this is
the penultimate issue of
Felix this term – which
means only one thing:
exam season is looming.
Don’t worry, I’m not saying you need
to start revising just yet, the “holi-
days” (AKA ﬁve weeks of cramming)
are still a couple of weeks away. Just
keep in mind that however hard you
revise, it doesn’t need to be all doom
and gloom, because there’s always a
great meal to look forward to. hank-
fully, lunch and dinner create some of
those rare sought-after revision breaks
from work we students are so grateful
for – so it’s really important to make
the most of them.
You’re less likely to be as active as
you normally are during revision (I’d
still advise you to leave the house on a
daily basis), so eating well is really im-
portant. As you’ll be going out late less,
you’ll be spending a lot less, but don’t
save it – money’s there to be spent,
right? During revision I splash out on
really good quality food. It’s feel-good
and it may even improve my concen-
tration. Uh huh, I’m talking about buy-
ing grapes, blueberries and mangos.
Yeah, mangos. I’m happy to buy into
the superfood placebo malarkey if it
keeps me concentrated.
Breakfast is the most important meal
of the day so stick to something that
will keep you going, and even better
if it’s really quick to microwave. Por-
ridge always gets me through to lunch
without any distracting mid-morning
grumbles. I love fruits like bananas
and berries in my porridge. To sweet-
en add honey or muscovado sugar. For
breakfast, buy some freshly squeezed
orange juice, or make it yourself – the
vitamin C is good for your immune
system and helps ward oﬀ those un-
friendly, unwanted revision colds. Al-
ternatively, try one of Josie’s or Alex’s
smoothies. Why not treat yourself, and
go out for breakfast? It’s a great way to
start the day.
Okay, so snacking can have an ad-
verse eﬀect on your revision, and I’m
not advocating procrastination, but
everyone needs a little revision break
to keep themselves focused. My top
ﬁve healthy (*coughs* procrastination)
snacks are: soft dried apricots, pump-
kin seeds, pralines, blueberries and red
grapes. I’m told that sugar snap peas
are also great to nibble on. If you want
a bigger snack, carrots and hummus
or olives can do the trick. hey’re a fa-
vourite of mine, but they can be pretty
messy. For something sweet or sa-
voury, get some popcorn. We’re going
through a popcorn era at the moment:
you can get anything from sweet chilli
to sticky toﬀee pudding ﬂavour – I like
the Tyrrells ones best. For a longer re-
vision break, why not make your own?
If you feel like splashing out, you
could get some Graze boxes delivered
to your house. hey’re the perfect
snack size to take out if you’re popping
out to the Library or having a revision
break. hey’re not the most economi-
cal of buys, but they regularly do deals
so that your ﬁrst box is free and your
second is half price.
For a treat get some chocolate/ yo-
ghurt covered nuts/dried fruit. hey’re
great for a cheeky snack and you can
Healthy Procrastination
Sophia Goldberg on why snacking isn’t so bad for you
D
Ode to Smoothies
JosieBowler&AlexGray Writers
Deciding to spend your own personal
money on kitchen appliances rather
than clothes/drinks is a pretty signiﬁ-
cant sign that you have grown up – al-
though it may be scary, in the case of
a smoothie maker it is a worthwhile
investment.
he ﬁrst and only rule of smoothie
making is: do not be afraid of your
smoothie! he absolute worst case
scenario (assuming no unknown al-
lergic reactions) is that it tastes bad,
in which case you can just down it
(think of the money wasted if you left
it and to be fair you’ve probably drunk
worse tasting things on a night out)
or be a total pansy and throw it away.
Smoothies are also the most eﬃcient
way of getting from 0 to 5 of your 5 a
day in the time it takes to drink a pint.
Do not be afraid of vegetables in
smoothies: have no fear combining
the fruit with the vegetable. My per-
sonal favourite smoothie is spinach,
banana and milk (it looks radioactive
which is cool). Bananas are the abso-
lute staple of all smoothies and give
the correct texture. You can either use
water, milk or natural yoghurt to reach
the desired consistency depending on
how you feel about calories. Other
potentially uncommon ingredients in-
clude celery, courgette or kiwi.
Frozen berries are also amazing
in smoothies and you can put them
straight in the blender which sort of
makes it a bit icy. If you combine it
with water it’s sort of like a slush pup-
py (delish). hey are also a good deal
cheaper than buying the room tem-
perature alternative.
Pictured is the smoothie my gor-
geous housemate Alex makes every
morning. It consists of frozen berries,
banana, oats and milk (yes he has la-
belled his bananas…). Adding golden
syrup or honey can be used to sweeten
a smoothie – a technique Alex seri-
ously advocates – or lemon/lime juice
can be used for the reverse eﬀect.
Cocoa powder also works well; I’ve
heard the combination of nuts, cocoa
powder and bananas is very ﬁlling and
tastes amazing (I can’t provide ﬁrst
hand evidence as I’m allergic to nuts).
Nuts in smoothies are an excellent
way of adding extra protein: having
a nut based smoothie to accompany
your meal will rack up quite a few ex-
tra grams of protein.
Potential things to avoid include
cottage cheese (I put this in once to try
and add more calories to my smoothie
and it was horrendous) and word on
the street is grapes are not great either.
It’s very hard to go wrong, and if it’s
not good then don’t make it again. It’s
so simple! Why not try it yourself? Get
experimenting and get healthy!
almost believe that they’re good for
you. Try and resist constantly eat-
ing Mini Eggs, although they’ll give
you a sugar high the sugar low won’t
help you focus. Instead of devouring a
whole bag of freshly baked raisin and
oat Sainsbury’s biscuits, share them
with your housemates. It gives you
an excuse to take a break and it tastes
good too.
Mauritian Night
Celebrate Mauritius’ 45th independence anniversary with the Impe-
rial College London Mauritian Society! Join them for a three course
meal and entertainment!
6:30pm, Thursday 14th March
@Union Dining Hall, Beit Quad
£9 for members and £12 for non-members (formal dress code)

