ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SprintFestival@CamdenPeople’sTheatre-Afestivalofnew,unusualorgroundbreaking
theatrebysomeoftheyoungestcompaniestoday.Therewillbeexperimentalpoetryand
pop-uptheatrespacesamongstotherthingsandnoticketwillcostmorethan£10.
Nymphae Nymphalidar @ Rove Gallery - Nicholas Alvis Vega was thrown out of
the London School of Art for making body casts of his underage girlfriend on the
premises. His exploration of the male gaze and its legacy in art continues with a
series of twisted pinups irreverently collecting the classical and contemporary in
painting. March 9 – April 6
Affordable Art Fair @ Battersea Park – It is big, brash and it is back. The affordable
art fair probably stretches the word affordable to breaking point where students
are concerned. However the annual jamboree offers a great opportunity to wan-
der around the in sun and bitch about the incomprehensible and overpriced. 7 – 10
March
Ring @ Battersea Art Centre – This soundscape, produced by theatre group Fuel,
places the audience into a familiar environment The audience wear headphones
that amplify the intimate details of the room, transporting you to somewhere
slightly different where they have been recognised. 11-28 March
Waterboarding
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
toarts.felix@ic.ac.uk.ThisdoodlewasdonebyDharaniKishoreinaMate-
rialslectureforAeroYr1.
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
44
rika Craig is one of many
upcoming artists in our
generation. She began her
career in California where
she received her BA. Dur-
ing this time she also studied in an in-
spirational and architecturally rich city,
Paris.
Erika has a style that you cannot help
but admire. Both her technical skill
and her creative ability to take diﬀerent
perspectives on reality have the power
to take ones breath away. Her under-
water paintings capture the essence
of the unpredictable and the surreal
nature with which water can play with
and distort the body.
It was a great privilege to interview
her and I jumped at the chance to
ask her more about her life as an art-
ist and about the journey that led her
to where she is now. Although this is
a brief insight into the life of the artist
Erika Craig, I hope that after reading,
you are inspired to go and do some art
yourself.
Personally, learning about Erika’s
working method and her struggle has
driven me to do more of the painting
which I love and which I sometimes
ﬁnd diﬃcult to practice alongside my
degree.
Lauren: What was it like to study in
Paris?
Erika: It was wonderful, being sur-
rounding by old architecture, I’m not
used to that in America; we went to
museums, studied statues. Often we
would do sketching in the gardens and
then go back to the studio to continue
painting.
L: Was there anything in particular
that helped develop your artistic
style during your studies?
E: I took a ﬁgure painting class. Hav-
ing a time limit made me freer with my
drawing, I usually spend a lot of time
on portraits but the 30 second pose
restriction drew on my impulses and
gave me conﬁdence.
L: Who is your favourite artist(s)?
E: I’m inspired by the romanticism
movement and renaissance styles and I
love surrealism and dream-like scenes.
L: What were the major turning
points in your career as an artist?
E: In high school I started getting a
pain in my hands and found it increas-
ingly more diﬃcult to use them. I had
surgery and it was diﬃcult not being
able to do things that I wanted to do,
especially art, writing and drawing
which are such a major part of my life.
After I recovered it gave me a renewed
sense of appreciation for art.
L: Were there particular people who
influenced you and your art?
E: he painting teacher I had was also
my surﬁng instructor. he school was
only 10 minutes from the beach so we
had surﬁng classes. I found it interest-
ing how painting underwater scenes
made me pay more attention to the
falling and ﬂowing water, it gave me a
kind of hyper-sense watching reﬂec-
tions. I feel that nature and art natu-
rally go together.
L: Can you describe to me the pro-
cess of how you begin a painting?
E: First I build a canvas, stretch the
canvas over it and then coat it with a
primer. I use a projector as my pieces
are large and it is diﬃcult on that scale
to get the proportions right using free
hand. I trace the outlines and then I like
to paint a base coat of acrylic. I use se-
pia tones and neutral colours. It’s nicer
to paint with a base coat than on the
bare canvas. hen I move around the
painting focusing on diﬀerent parts,
usually starting with the darker areas.
I paint the basic shapes and from then
on it’s really just intuitive. I enjoy paint-
ing the face the most so I usually start
with that. I found, from experience,
that it is better to work on the canvas as
a whole rather than doing the portrait
and then the reﬂections afterwards as
you can maintain a constant colour
palate and keep the same colour theme
throughout the piece. Otherwise you
have to mix up the colours again and
you can never get the same tone twice.
L: Where do you go from there?
E: Every painting I do is a struggle, at
a certain stage it just looks like an ugly
mess. But eventually I ﬁgure it out.
Each painting is like a journey rather
than a method. If you think about it
too much it doesn’t work. My biggest
fear is starting on a blank white canvas
and not knowing what to do, focussing
on tiny details and getting caught up in
the speciﬁcs rather than the painting as
a whole. My advice when painting is to
just go for it, and come back to the de-
tails later, only then does it really come
to life.
L: Does art express you as a person?
E: Yeah, I think so; even if I don’t try
it expresses parts of me. I look back at
things and see the same themes. he
positions of the ﬁgures and the type of
mood conveyed reﬂects how I was feel-
ing at the time.
Lauren Radcliffe interrogates an artist
E
Enhanced interro-
gation techniques
are not funny

