Julian Assange in Sweden
Christopher Reynolds reviews a biased and inaccurate account
of the WikiLeaks founder’s troubles with the law
ne eﬀect of digital dis-
tribution is that books
become that would pre-
viously be unreleasable
become available. his is
not necessarily a bad thing, as books
with potential audiences too low to
justify a print run can now reach their
target market. Julian Assange in Swe-
den however, is less a book, and more
of an assemblage of internet message
board rantings. Literally so, as much
of the book is given over to conspir-
acy theories which are noted as being
proposed on a Swedish internet forum
(the logo of which features a cat smok-
ing a spliﬀ, which tells you all you need
to know).
he book is ostensibly an attempt to
ascertain the facts behind Julian As-
sange’s visit to Sweden, during which
two women accused him of sexual as-
sault. Still facing extradition, Assange
remains in the Ecuadorean embassy
next to Harrods. Although William
Hague, who has not yet come across
a situation he couldn’t make worse,
initially threatened to breach the em-
bassy, the threat was quickly with-
drawn, presumably after someone had
informed Hague of international law,
and the situation has since remained
at a stalemate.
he book initially makes pretence
of being an unbiased look at the facts,
with the ﬁrst third of the text being
devoted to reconstructing the events
of Assange’s visit to Sweden. hese re-
constructions are based on the police
interviews with the accusers and wit-
nesses, all of which have been leaked
to the internet.
he accusers’ interviews are often
quite damning and humiliating for As-
sange, so these are conﬁned to the back
of the book as appendices, heavily an-
notated within the text with disputing
statements, and the reconstructions
mostly use the interview statements of
two members of WikiLeaks: Johannes
Wahlström and Donald Boström. Af-
ter the reconstruction, the book then
gets down to smearing the accusers
and coming up with theories as to why
they would make false accusations.
he most bizarre smears are di-
rected at the ﬁrst accuser (the second
accuser is painted as an easily-manip-
ulated stooge, due to her dyslexia), a
high proﬁle member of the party host-
ing Assange, and fall into four catego-
ries:
1. Jealousy. After experiencing As-
sange’s lovemaking, his accuser be-
comes obsessed with him. When As-
sange moves on to another woman,
she becomes furious and decides to
exact revenge.
2. She’s a radical feminist who hates
men on principle, and inventing rape
accusations is standard practice for
feminists. he allegations may all have
been arranged via a conspiracy of les-
bian feminists, as she helped to set up
a gay club. Much is made of the fact
that the oﬃcer who the crime was
reported to was a friend of hers and
visited the club.
3. To save her career. She had been
on the wrong side of a schism in her
party over Afghanistan, and a newspa-
per for progressive Muslims she was
launching ﬂopped. Faced with the fall-
ing of her star within the party, she de-
cided to boost her proﬁle by the logi-
cal step of destroying a much-admired
ﬁgure within her circle.
4. She’s an actual CIA mole, possibly
also responsible for helping the Israe-
lis to attack the Gaza ﬂotilla in 2010,
as she had been a member of the ﬂo-
tilla support team.
he book proceeds to comb through
huge amounts of personal informa-
tion in a way that becomes creepy. No
information is too trivial or irrelevant
to be included. he oﬃcer who took
note of the crime makes costume jew-
ellery as a hobby. Pages are devoted
to listing the photos in one of the ac-
cuser’s Flickr collection.
On the other hand, no eﬀort is made
to even scratch the surface of the
background of anybody sympathetic
to Assange, though a simple search of
the internet reveals that Wahlström
and Boström have both been involved
in promoting anti-Semitic conspiracy
theories.
he transcripts of the police inter-
views of the accusers and witnesses
are all available on the web, and read-
ing those probably represents the best
opportunity for anyone trying to as-
certain whether Julian Assange has a
case to answer. his book fails to add
anything meaningful to them, and
ends up being more a demonstration
of some rather worrying elements of
Julian Assange’s support.
O
he Booksellers Association will be
hosting its annual Academic, Pro-
fessional and Specialist Bookselling
(APS) Group Conference at the Old
Ship Hotel, Brighton on March 13-14.
he Association represents the inter-
ests of some 95% of British bookshops
and its conference is aimed at helping
academic booksellers open a dialogue
with students and academics.
Alan Staton, he Booksellers As-
sociation Head of Marketing, said
in a statement: “he APS conference
oﬀers an increasingly important fo-
rum for publishers and booksellers
to hear ﬁrst-hand from students and
lecturers about the rapidly changing
academic market including changes
in behaviour and expectation. his
will be facilitated by a great line up of
key note speakers, the hugely success-
ful student panel which is back for a
third year running and a new lecturer
panel debate introduced by popular
demand this year.”
A spokesman told Felix that the As-
sociation was keen to promote the
event to students as “it oﬀers them
the unique opportunity to voice their
opinions about book-buying and bor-
rowing in the modern day.” Attendees
“will be able to meet publishers and
academic booksellers ﬁrst hand to
discuss how the increase in tuition
fees last year and the introduction
of digital textbooks has impacted on
the way in which they consume their
textbooks”.
he keynote speech will be given
by Professor Christopher F. Higgins,
Vice-Chancellor of Durham Univer-
sity. he programme will also include
talks and panels by students and oth-
er academics from Durham, Brighton
and Plymouth Universities.
Prospective delegates should email
Naomi.gane@booksellers.org.uk to
register.
Your chance to meet the publishers
Maciej Matuszewski Books Editor
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
46
The book is highly dismissive of
the serious claims against Assange
The Conference will be held in
the Old Ship Hotel in Brighton

