MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
49
FRIDAY 08 FEBRUARY
AMS album of the week
Youth Lagoon consists of a single 23 year old
man: Trevor Powers. His debut, The Year of Hi-
bernation, was released back in 2011 and still
stands as by far my favourite album to emerge
from the stampede of lo-fi singer songwriters
of recent years. Rarely going beyond a mini-
malist combination of reverb drenched key-
boards, processed beats and dreamy vocals
it was a haunting, beautiful, perfectly formed
slice of dream pop. Wondrous Bughouse is a
far more complicated beast. Here you’ll find
layers, textures and a wide variety of influ-
ences. It’s an exciting development and makes for a fascinating listen.
‘Through Mind and Back’ is a great little intro that showcases the variety of
techniques and sounds that is the rest of the album. Next up is ‘Mute’. ‘Mute’ is
unbelievable. Layers and layers of synths create an incredible dreamy textured
soundscape of pure wonderment. It’s definitely my track of the year so far. The
rest obviously can’t quite live up to the greatness of ‘Mute’ (I could probably
talk about how good this track is for the remainder of this review...) but there
are some other fantastic tracks. ‘Pelican Man’ draws heavily on 60s psychedelic
rock but feels more like an update than homage. Shoegaze indebted ‘The Bath‘
is a swirling vortex of sound set to sparse drums and it’s great. ‘Dropla’ is much
cheerier than I’m used to hearing from Youth Lagoon, and is an exciting diver-
sion halfway through the record. In fact, pretty much all of the tracks here are
of a really high standard. I often find that heavily textured psychedelic stuff gets
a bit dreary, but here only ‘Sleep Paralysis’ has me considering the skip button.
Powers has obviously tried to steer his sound away from the minimalist dream
pop that he made his own on his debut, which is understandable, even admira-
ble. Sadly, as a result, Wondrous Bughouse feels a lot less like his. There are sev-
eral tracks here that sound a little bit too much like popular alternative bands.
You’llhearAnimal Collective,Tame Impala,Grizzly Bearetc.Itfeelsalittlelike
he’s trying his hand at various band’s sounds to see which one he likes the best.
That said, his fantastic songwriting still draws this through as a great album, so
whilst I might recommend The Year of Hibernation a little more enthusiastically,
I’d still say this is one you should definitely have on your shopping list. Also,
listen to ‘Mute’, it’s incredible.
Youth Lagoon: WondrousBughouse
Keir Little
head of the Hacker Farm
exclusive on IC Radio
next week, I spoke to
them about their inﬂu-
ences, motivations and
what’s coming up next. Kek W ably
walked me through the HF ethos.
Punk Bucket
We’ve all known one another since the
Punk Era – we grew up during that pe-
riod, so Punk as well as Glam, Space
Rock and Psych etc. have informed
our sensibilities in a big way, as well
as early UK Industrial and, much later
on, early Acid House and Techno....
I think we both like that point –
probably around the Late 70s – where
the energy of Punk segued into elec-
tronic music, so you get tracks where
guitar-based Punk and Garage bands
started using homemade electron-
ics or cheap/kit synths... and you end
up with these odd, cool little hybrid
tracks that still sound pretty amaz-
ing today, probably because the bands
didn’t actually know what they were
doing or they didn’t have the budget
or studio-time to over-think it or –
equally important – because, at that
point, there were no rules... the mu-
sic hadn’t solidiﬁed into rigid, formu-
larised genres yet. But you also have
the ﬁrst singles by more electronics-
orientated groups / artists like he
Normal, Robert Rental, Cabaret
Voltaire, Vice Versa etc... it was an
exciting and very inspirational time
to have lived through. But, having
said that – and as much as we love the
open-ended energy of those artists –
we’ve no real interest in re-enacting
that era; we try as hard as we can to
sound like us (laughs)...
Konrad
Yes, the title Konrad is a reference
RootsofHackerFarm
Riaz Agahi harvestsinfoaheadofanICRadioexclusive
to Cluster / Kluster. It was a nod to
the late, great Conrad Schnitzler,
who set up the Zodiak Arts Lab and
was a founding member of Tangerine
Dream in their crazed, early freak-out
days when they were as much inﬂu-
enced by Hendrix as the possibilities
aﬀorded by electronic experimenta-
tion. And some of the early Cluster
sides are pretty harsh too... Cluster ‘71
(recorded after he left) is really noisy
and aggressive; you could play it next
to something by hrobbing Gristle,
but it predates it by about 6 years....
it’s a misconception that Hippy elec-
tronic music is all passive, docile and
gutless... some of it is very much in yer
face (laughs); Germany was a hot bed
of radical politics, music and art in the
late 60s and early 70s, and Conrad was
at the heart of that scene. He never
stopped experimenting, was way
ahead of the curve. He made tracks in
the 70s that Richard James would kill
to have made. Timeless stuﬀ.
Engine Room
Kek: …here has never, hand on heart,
ever been any sort of plan whatsoever
with any of this (laughs) - nothing be-
yond an initial chat over a couple pints
where we decided that “maybe we
should do something at some point”.
“Something noisy.” (laughs) Because
we’ve all known each other so long,
things just, sort of, fell into place of
their own accord.
Because, it really has been that loose
and unchoreographed, and it was pri-
marily always about doing something
fun and ‘social’ - I’d have to say that
the real driver of it all was just the
act of, you know... doing something.
hat’s going to sound pretty glib and
ﬂimsy, I know (laughs)... but I think
that sits at the core of it all: that we
wanted to do something - something
vague and noisy and mischievous and
A
indeterminate - and if we just said we
were forming a band that would cover
it broadly enough that no one - espe-
cially our wives - would ask too many
questions (laughs).
…he actual physical ‘in-the-zone’
playing together as a two- or three-
piece is at the core of it all. It’s joyous.
It’s a selﬁsh thing, I know, but - let’s be
honest: we’re a niche act - there’s no
money in this game - so you have to
enjoy it for all the right personal rea-
sons. It has to be fun or give you some
sense of personal growth - which this
deﬁnitely is / does. Any ‘politics’ prob-
ably grow logically out of all that - and
also, naturally, from the sense of moral
outrage we feel when we see the way
this country is being sold oﬀ - and
out - from within. Our musical and
philosophical stance is oppositional,
of course; we’re angry and annoyed...
but we’re also very positive and ﬁred-
up about what we do.
…, I hope that people do ﬁnd a sub-
versive element in what we do, or that
it gives them ideas of their own - ways
that they themselves can either ‘ﬁght
back’ or enrich their own lives. Peo-
ple are content to be passive consum-
ers these days; they consume objects
and information without particularly
questioning it. We like to disrupt that
cycle, we introduce questions or ob-
servations into the mix, plant little
seeds in people’s minds... that’s part of
what we do, but there has to be some
personal fun and satisfaction at the
core of it all.
Q.U.B.E
We’ve just released a Rubik’s Cube
made of QR-Codes that lead you to
pages of audio, video and text content.
hat’s a really cool little project that
we started almost a year ago – a way of
making digital downloads ‘interesting’
by creating a physical object that you
have to engage with and which unlocks
content, rather than just pressing a but-
ton and getting a kneejerk download
‘freebie’ – we wanted to make people
think about the process and engage
with it, form a bridge between the
analogue and digital worlds. Next up
is a split Betamax / DVD release with
Libbe Matz Gang, and an HF cassette
album on Feral Recordings, which’ll be
a slightly ‘softer’
, more textural release
than UHF, I think. his one may sur-
prise a few people.
An exclusive live recording from Hacker
Farm along with a playlist they’ve kindly
curated featuring their biggest inﬂu-
ences will be played on IC Radio’s own
Songs About Nothing – 6pm, hursday
14th March

