FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
52 FRIDAY 08 MARCH
Rising Star: Jessica Chastain
Fred Fyles Film Writer
Mama
Director: Andrés Muschietti
Screenwriters: Neil Cross, Andrés
Muschietti, Barbara Muschietti
Starring: Jessica Chastain, Nikolaj
Coster-Waldau
Around 5 years ago, Spanish director
Andrés Muschietti released a short
ﬁlm entitled Mamá, in which two
young girls are pursued through a
dark house by a demonic mother ﬁg-
ure. At less than three minutes long,
the short is snappy, horrifying, and
crackles with an energy rarely found
in horror ﬁlms; Muschietti took a
scalpel to the genre, leaving it with
only the bare bones of a psychologi-
cal horror ﬂick. his restraint gave
the ﬁlm its tense atmosphere, and
unfortunately drew it to the atten-
tion of Guillermo del Toro, who has
now added it to his growing rostra
of ﬁlms labelled ‘Guillermo del Toro
Presents…’. Del Toro has taken the
premise of the short, and stretched it
out over 100 minutes, transforming
the elegant skeleton of Muschietti’s
original into a bloated, sagging ca-
daver, buckling under the weight of
clichés contained within.
In the original we have no context
– we don’t know who, or indeed what
Mama is – whereas this edition props
itself up with a backstory: in 2008, at
the height of the ﬁnancial crisis, an
unstable banker kills his business
partner and wife, before taking his
daughters to a cabin in the woods
where he plans to shoot them. Be-
fore this can happen, he is killed by
a shadowy ﬁgure. Skipping forward
to the present day, the two girls are
found by their uncle (Carter-Waldau),
and move in with him and his ‘alter-
native’ girlfriend (Chastain), who is
unready for the responsibilities of
child-raising. Shortly after this, they
begin to be visited by ‘Mama’, a de-
monic guardian who terrorises the
surrogate parents. I won’t reveal the
rest of the story, suﬃce to say that
there is very little that is extraordi-
nary in terms of plot.
he ﬁlm is supposedly set in an
unnamed North American town –
ﬁlmed in Toronto and Quebec – but I
refuse to believe this. I think instead
that the ﬁlm takes place in some kind
of alternative universe; a universe
in which every conceivable trope in
the horror genre goes to die – lights
ﬂicker on and oﬀ, dimly lit hospital
corridors grow mould on their walls,
and everyone seems to travel at night,
alone, and without any means of con-
tact. Instead of oﬀering us a new
take on the supernatural horror ﬁlm,
Muschietti and del Toro have deliv-
ered an unimaginative, dull ﬁlm, in
which cheap shocks are delivered as
regularly as the chimes of Big Ben.
I do pity Jessica Chastain. Fresh
from her disappointment at the 2013
Oscars, in which she missed out on
Best Actress for her incredible por-
trayal of a CIA operative on the hunt
for Bin Laden, she now has to appear
in a ﬁlm whose clunky, inorganic dia-
logue would make even Jack Nichol-
son seem robotic. Her role in the ﬁlm,
that of an archetypal ‘rebel-chick’
(think black, cropped hair, bass gui-
tars, tattoos, and frequent use of the
phrase ‘whatever’) who develops a
bond with the orphans, does no jus-
tice to her talent. If her recent perfor-
mances in other ﬁlms are anything to
go by, Chastain is clearly a sublime
actress, and although she tries to
shine in the role she is ultimately let
down by the incredibly poor script-
writing; seriously, any writer who
includes the line ‘do you believe in
ghosts?’ in their screenplay deserves
to be exiled from Hollywood for dis-
services to cinema.
One of the only great parts of the
ﬁlm comes in the pint-sized forms
of Megan Charpentier and Isabelle
Nélisse, who play the orphans Vic-
toria and Lilly respectively. From
he Omen’s Damien horn, to the
creepy twins in Kubrick’s he Shin-
ing, it is a well-established fact that
children are completely terrifying;
Charpentier and Nélisse ramp up the
chill factor to eleven, giving perfor-
mances that are both physically and
mentally unnerving, showing talent
far beyond their years. Had the ﬁlm-
makers kept this innate creepiness in
the girls the focus of the ﬁlm, rather
than fragmenting it with unneces-
sary side-stories and ﬂimsy character
development, it could have become
something truly special.
Mama is a perfect example of a
good idea poorly executed. It had
all the right ingredients to become a
chilling, psychological horror – voic-
es coming from the walls, mentally
disturbed children, ghostly presenc-
es – but chose instead to trade this in
for cheap thrills. Go and see the ﬁlm
if you enjoy ‘jump-in-your-seat’ mo-
ments and gruesome CGI, just don’t
expect to be kept up at night.
The Three Performances to watch
he Debt (2010) he Help (2011) Zero Dark hirty (2012)

