FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
53
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
Rising Star: Andrea Riseborough
John Park Film Editor
Welcome to the Punch
Director: Eran Creevy
Screenwriter: Eran Creevy
Starring: James McAvoy, Mark
Strong, Andrea Riseborough
It’s not at all an uncommon occur-
rence to see both the good guy and
bad guy work together in a cops and
robbers thriller. And in order for this
unlikely alliance to become a believ-
able one, there needs to be careful
planning, both in terms of charac-
terisation, as well as the plot that will
eventually connect the two.
Director Eran Creevy, in his second
outing behind the cameras after his
BAFTA-nominated Shifty (very high-
ly recommended), is in some ways
successful in paying tribute to some
of the best ﬁlms of this particular
genre. In an almost Heat-esque style
and dynamic between his hero and
villain, he attempts to create strong
and stable core central players, as
well as surrounding in a murky con-
spiracy-driven plot set in the parts of
London you don’t get to see in many
ﬁlms set in the capital.
hree years after his leg is shot by
Jacob Sternwood (Strong), a notori-
ous criminal, Max Lewinsky (McA-
voy) has since become a wounded
man, both physically and mentally.
He no longer shows the passion or
enthusiasm he once had, and goes
about his everyday job without ex-
actly having his head in the game, to
much disappointment from his eager
partner, Sarah Hawks (Riseborough).
But he is faced with one last chance
to face oﬀ with the man who has per-
manently scarred him for life. Jacob’s
son, Ruan (Elyes Gabel) ends up in
a hospital in critical condition after
taking a bullet. Convinced that Ja-
cob will return from hiding to see his
own son, Max works closely with the
case, always trying to outsmart his
nemesis, determined now more than
ever to put him behind bars.
Max is a flawed individual who
would never admit his shortcoming.
His leg injury always seems to be
getting in the way, but what makes
him stand out is his undying sense
of duty, in part driven by revenge to
take down the bad guy. Even in the
ﬁlm’s opening where four motorbikes
are chased by Max’s car in the dead
of night in Canary Wharf, his relent-
less pursuit is what explosively kicks
everything oﬀ. And McAvoy has that
beaming intensity to create a hero
worth rooting for.
Strong has never had a problem
playing the villain but here he has a
slightly more layered role to play, as
behind that tough, hardened exterior
lies a genuinely worried father show-
ing his softer sides, even for the brief-
est of moments.
But despite the actors’ best ef-
forts, however, the ﬁlm never spends
enough time into looking at their re-
lationships in adequate detail. here
is very little background story to ex-
plain their drive and motivation. he
only other clichéd element missing
from McAvoy’s character is that he’s
lacking a bottle of alcohol, and with
Strong, the lazy reference to the vil-
lain’s wife poses questions and in-
trigue whilst never going back to ad-
dress it later. Riseborough’s character
is entirely wasted here – she has great
chemistry with McAvoy, and the
wordplay between the two is great
fun to watch, which is why it’s such a
shame to see her amount to very little
when it comes to the overall plot.
A lot was left on the cutting room
floor it seems, as Creevy wanted the
“present-day” action to speak for it-
self with its tight running time to
pack in the tension but when it comes
to actually understanding the char-
acters, the script quickly glosses over
them, wanting to get on with its main
forte, the action scenes.
Budgeted at a modest production
value of 8.5 million dollars, don’t go
in expecting to see lots of explosions
and big-scale gun ﬁghts. Instead what
you get are skilfully mounted, in-
tensely shot and patiently ﬁlmed se-
quences, often a whole lot more eﬀec-
tive than having far too much money
to spend. With its “less is more” ap-
proach, the ﬁlm does ﬁnd assured
footing with handling the kinetic
action, always managing to keep the
slick style intact despite the relatively
modest scale.
he overall achievement is a sat-
isfying one, but you get the feeling
that it could easily have been better,
with a little more attention paid to its
characters. Perhaps a director’s cut
edition would be worth a look.
The Three Performances to watch
Brighton Rock (2010) W.E. (2011) Shadow Dancer (2012)

