FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
55
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
All Night at the Oscars (almost)
It’s your favourite time of year again. No, not the month long Easter holiday, it’s Imperial
Cinema’s Spring All-Nighter. And do we have a treat for you. Four films nominated for the
Best Picture Oscar, and to top it all off, vampires
1) To start it all, we have Lincoln. Daniel Day-Lewis does his very best ‘pick me
sir, pick me’ for the Best Actor Oscar, and boy does it pay oﬀ. he war scene
at the beginning alone makes it worth the watch, and though the story is well
known, slaves and war and things, this ﬁlm is woven together so beautifully
you cannot help but get swept away.
2) To continue the theme, we go from
the abolition of slavery to, well, slav-
ery. hat’s right, it’s Quentin Taranti-
no’s latest baby – Django Unchained.
And don’t you worry, it’s as crazy as
always. Not only is this an excellent
ﬁlm, but it’s also one of the few times
that you can tell someone you are
watching a ﬁlm that includes whips
and chains and not have them look at
you judgingly.
3) Next up, it’s time to grab your tis-
sues, hankies or perhaps the sleeves
of the unsuspecting stranger sat next
to you. Get ready to sing along, or
cry along, to Les Miserables. If you
watched the Oscars you would have
seen an emotional Anne Hathaway
receive her best supporting actress
award whilst crying, for a ﬁlm in
which most of her acting was crying.
Have I mentioned that this ﬁlm is a
bit sad?
4) Every Oscars needs a controversy,
and this year that role was taken by
Zero Dark hirty. Featuring a, well,
controversial, torture scene this ﬁlm,
directed by Kathryn Bigelow – win-
ner of the 2010 best picture for the
Hurt Locker – does it again, this time
with a gritty adaptation of the search
for Bin-Laden. Which, according to
the tagline at least, is the greatest
manhunt in history.
5) Finally, we couldn’t resist taking
you back to where it all began. It’s
the totally historically accurate and
100% true Abraham Lincoln: Vam-
pire Hunter. Okay, maybe I lied about
the previous two points, but here is a
ﬁlm that takes itself so seriously that
it cannot help but be hilarious.
So there it is. Five ﬁlms. Fourteen
hours. hirteen miles of ﬁlm. Are you
man (or woman) enough to make it?
he Cinema Spring-All Nighter is
on the 19th March.
Tickets are £10 online, or £12 on
the night, with individual ﬁlms
available on the door for £3.
Tickets available from tickets.im-
perialcinema.co.uk

