All good things of this Earth...
Andrew Ryan fearsthestrengthofthemajorityvote.Shouldyou?
taﬀ and students of Impe-
rial College London, my
name is Andrew Ryan. No
doubt many of you have
heard of the city built upon
free enterprise and thought - my city
of Rapture.
I’m writing here, in order to oﬀer
my services to you - the innovators
and entrepreneurs of the future. For
too long has the withering grip of gov-
ernmental greed been wrapped tightly
around the throat of progress, stunting
the growth of our youth. With my help,
your minds can envisage a world with
out boundaries, or petty morality. Is it
not your right to live an unstiﬂed life,
free to work and dream as you please?
For the next few weeks, I will be
available to answer any of your ques-
tions - philosophical, economic and
philanthropic. But today, I would like
to talk to you about the contagion that
has been spreading amongst the stu-
dent populace over the last few weeks.
Incurable democracy.
So many of you are quick to despise
those who place themselves supreme,
those who name themselves kings, dic-
tators, despots. Now I ask of you - are
those men your true enemies? A man
or woman who places themself on a
pedestal is easy to topple, but what
about the mob that surrounds them?
Democracy puts the power in the
hands of the many. he hands of those
who are weak. hose who are easily
swayed. Your colleagues can be part of
this majority - your so-called friends
plotting your downfall.
It is not those who are elected, who
gain most from their time in power - it
is their allies. he spiders on the web
that supports them. he nameless ﬁg-
ures who proﬁt from the work of oth-
ers. he unaccountable shadows who
pull the strings.
he voice of the individual is lost
within the unrestricted power of the
majority, breeding paranoia like a fes-
tering wound. It may at ﬁrst encourage
development and growth but it soon
devolves into carnage, with each man
left with a choice - to murder and rob,
or to be robbed and murdered ﬁrst.
he parasite ﬁnds a welcome host
within the democratic mob.
Why should you have these so-called
elected oﬃcials running your union?
hose whose manifestos may seem
clear to clouded minds, but was writ-
ten by hands in the chaos of anonym-
ity. You are in the position to out these
puppets, and reconstruct the way your
student union is built. A new system
where innovation is rewarded, rather
than a measure of who has the most
‘friends’.
My experience within Rapture has
proven one thing - cold hard cash turns
more heads than notions of greed.
Build your way to the top of the tower,
and protect yourself from your allies.
You will never know when the bitches
of the government will be working to
undermine your name. Or rather, you
will never know if they may stop.
Rapture may not be perfect. Of
course, no society that allows parasites
to thrive within its walls can ever be.
he path to a utopian world is not an
easy one, nor can the yoke rest on one
man’s shoulders. Only through the
combined eﬀorts of every man, can
our society reach the greatness it de-
serves.
Yet, I am no self-proclaimed saviour
of society. I built Rapture as a home for
intellect and innovation, safe from the
eyes of any God, or progress-fearing
mind. I have laid out the plans to let
you become the greatest you could
ever dream to be. To allow the man
with the lesser mind, the weaker con-
viction, and yet the greatest number of
allies, have power over you, is not just
admitting defeat. It is spreading the
disease.
And so, I cordially invite you all, to
visit my stall at the forthcoming In-
dustrialist Fair. here will be places for
minds like yours, in my city.
I look forward to your questions over
the forthcoming weeks. With warmest
regards, Andrew Ryan.
hanks Mr Ryan! If you have any ques-
tions for Mr Ryan, please do not hesi-
tate to email felix.games@imperial.
ac.uk with the title “Ask Andrew”, and
we’ll pass them along to his people.
S
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
From the pile of simulator games in the
Felix oﬃce, this week’s random selec-
tion is Police Force. From the maker of
the hit title Emergency, Police Force sees
you patrolling the streets of Germany,
towing illegally parked cars, setting up
speed traps and arresting vandals. Plus,
there’s a gun on the back cover. hat’s
worth at least 2/10 on it’s own.
You play as a pair of cops, with each
one having diﬀering equipment, for
diﬀerent missions. he controls are a
little odd, but it’s easy to get used to.
You’ll be hitting pedestrians and cut-
ting your wages short after a tempo-
rary suspension, in no time at all. Now,
that’s the thing – you have a main mis-
sion (i.e. do a license registration check
on 35 vehicles), but it’s not over when
you’re done. You play each mission for
a set length of time (30 minute real-
time shifts) – once your main mission
is over, you still have time to answer
emergency calls and drive to the other
side of town, to pick up more experi-
ence, and rank up. It might seem like a
cheesy way to force people to continue
playing your game, but I like it – at least
on a ﬂavourful note – as a cop doesn’t
go home as soon as he’s arrested the
man responsible for putting up 5 post-
ers around town.
here is a range of hi-tech equipment
available for you, such as pepper spray,
handcuﬀs, walkie-talkies and a PDA.
Simply right click on someone, when
your handcuﬀs are out, and they’re ar-
rested. If someone’s car was totalled in
a collision, get the tow company out
there in seconds at the press of a but-
ton. Nothing too fancy or complicated
– yet it still gives you a nice warm feel-
ing for helping out the society of this
virtual German city.
As you progress through your mis-
sions, more of the city is unlocked, so
you have more ground to traverse to
catch your troublemakers, bank rob-
bers and ice cream trucks. here seems
to be nothing in the way of unlockables
(apart from achievements), so there’s
little to get you experience farming, nor
much in the way of replayability. he
audio’s simple but entertaining (mainly
the sirens on the police car), and the
graphics keep it basic too – low, me-
dium and high, so it’ll work on nearly
any computer built in this millenium.
I quite like the game, and might ac-
tually keep it installed for a bit, to play
it on a rainy day. For those of you who
want the cutting edge in games, good
news! he sequel – Police Force 2, is out
in 8 days.
And no, you can’t shoot the civilians.
I tried. Lots.
Playing cops and robbers – a Police Force review
56
Ross Webster The Hamburgler
Also from Rapture, we will have
the world renowned psychiatrist
Dr. Sophia Lamb joining us, to
help you with any issues you have,
regarding flatmates, friends, part-
ners, and so on. The kind doctor is
also a specialist in child psychology
and can help you with any father
issues you may be feeling, whilst at
Imperial.
Any questions for Dr. Lamb can
also be sent to felix.games@im-
perial.ac.uk, and the replies will
be posted here, unless you wish to
keep everything confidential.
Agony Lamb
Hmm. It says ‘Police’ rather
than ‘Polizei’. Maybe the real
patrol car’s in the shop...

