SPORT
63
FRIDAY 08 MARCH
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tim Runcorn Ice Hockey President
IC Devils Champion at Ice Varsity
he Imperial Devils ice hockey team
clinched the inaugural London Ice
Varsity title with a 7-3 smashing of the
UCL Yetis in a feisty contest that saw
the Devils live up to their name, rack-
ing up more than a period’s worth of
penalty minutes. After a rousing ren-
dition of the national anthem by our
resident Canadian operatic Trent Al-
len, the game started in earnest when
barely a minute into play the Devils
found themselves on the penalty kill
(PK) after Rich Barlow threw a robust
hit that sent the UCL player into the
boards but was deemed interference.
he Yetis failed to capitalise on their
man advantage, a constant theme
throughout the game, and the Dev-
ils quickly went a goal up when Paul
Halford pounced on a loose puck
coughed up by their goalie follow-
ing a stinging shot from Dan Belair.
Once both teams got settled, the Dev-
ils scored two more in quick succes-
sion with some silky stick handling by
heo Sion and a laser beam of a shot
from Gus Zimmerman. he momen-
tum of the three goal advantage was
somewhat dampened when the Yetis
went on a 4v3 power play after Ryan
Ritchie took exception to the Yetis
giving it the handbags with our cap-
tain Dan and ended up in the penalty
box for his eﬀorts. Following another
dubious interference call against the
Devils, the Yetis reduced the deﬁcit
to two but it was short lived as Dan
converted on a beautiful pass from
deep in our zone by Kurt Kolb. he
Devils were made to pay for their
complacency, however, when the Yetis
national league player found himself
on a 1 on 0 and ﬁred a slap-shot into
the top-shelf to leave the game ﬁnely
poised at 4-2 after the ﬁrst period.
he ﬁrst half of the second period
was a cagey aﬀair with lots of hits but
few clear chances until a defensive
lapse let the Yetis close the lead to a
single goal. he Devils were unable to
respond immediately, ﬁnding them-
selves on a series of PKs after DPFS
Stefan Nubert earned a double shift
in the penalty box settling a disagree-
ment over a neck-high check from
the opposition. But respond they did,
when Captain Dan substantiated his
title not once but twice, decking the
Yetis defence out of their jockstraps
and eﬀortlessly sliding the puck past
the hapless Yetis keeper. he comple-
tion of Dan’s hat-trick restored the
three goal advantage leaving it 6-3 go-
ing into the third and ﬁnal period.
Any hopes the Yetis had of getting
back into the game were quickly put
to bed at the start of the third when
Paul one-timed a beautiful snap-shot
oﬀ a perfectly weighted pass from
Ryan. he increasingly desperate Yetis
were kept at bay by a ridiculous num-
ber of unbelievable saves from our
goalie Marco Hafner and some physi-
cal play that lead to our penalty box
looking like a second team bench. he
game ended in a convincing 7-3 victo-
ry and a thoroughly deserved man of
the match went to Marco, who robbed
the Yetis forwards so many times that
only a bricked-up goalmouth could
have kept more out. he crushing vic-
tory was rapturously received by the
Imperial section of the 250 strong
capacity crowd that transformed the
on-ice battle into a full-scale grudge
match, providing the most memora-
ble of hockey games for all those in-
volved.
If you missed out on the London Ice
Varsity you can see the mighty Impe-
rial Devils take on their other derby ri-
vals the London Dragons in their ﬁnal
game of the season on Saturday 10th
March. Face oﬀ is at 9pm at Brixton
Ice Arena (a couple mins walk from
Brixton Underground station on the
Victoria line) and it’s completely free
to watch and will be ﬁnished before
the last tube. Expect a lot of goals and
huge hits, following the Devils’ Varsity
success they are looking to put more
past the Dragons than the 16-2 drub-
bing on the previous outing of the two
teams. Email ice-hockey@imperial.
ac.uk for more information about the
game or learning to play ice hockey.
Passionate about her sport, Nan-
cy has led the netball club from
strength to strength this year; with
increased membership, more so-
cials and coming so close to pro-
motion. Despite the difficulties of a
plague of injuries and sponsorship
woes, ICUNC has had a good year
even with potential wins at Varsity
to look forward to.
“Membership has gone up again
this year; which is a good thing
considering the difficulties of in-
juries we’ve had. We lost key play-
ers across four teams which really
stretched us and undoubtedly af-
fected out promotion chances”
Indeed the story of their current
league standings (3rd, 4th and 5th
for their 1st 2nd and 3rd teams
respectively) looked completely
different before Christmas, with
the 2’s having only lost one league
game, and all three teams push-
ing on to gain the coveted top spot
which guarantees promotion, but
unfortunately it was not to be. Now
that promotion has all but slipped
through their fingers ICUNC’s at-
tention turns to Varsity.
“I think we’ve got a very good
chance against the Medics. The 2s
won last year and the 3s, while they
came so close last year have already
beaten the Medics 3s this season.
We’re also looking to enter a fourth
team into BUCS this year. We al-
ready run two LUSL teams, so it
should be a pretty smooth step up.”
The reception to LUSL, the new
sports league to replace the ULU
leagues, has been completely mixed.
Football, hockey and netball have
slipped into the new system seam-
lessly, while hardly a game has been
played in the rugby leagues. Cer-
tainly netball, with five competing
teams have switched without dra-
ma.
“LUSL has been really good for
all our teams. While some of the
leagues aren’t quite right yet as they
are new and some teams are too high
or low, UCL 3rds have won 9/9 with
a goal difference of 267 for example,
over the next couple of seasons of
promotion and relegation will level
them out. It’s great because it gives
us a chance to experience differ-
ent styles of play and play different
teams to the BUCS leagues.”
Not only has Nancy’s reign been a
success on the court (she personally
has moved up two teams this year),
it has been a huge success off it,
with the socials going from strength
to strength.
“Netball Funday is bigger and bet-
ter than last years, we’re expecting
over 100 people and as it’s on St.
Patricks day there’ll probably be a
few drinks involved too”
For those not in the know, Funday
is a fun informal netball tournament
being held at South Parks in Fulham.
Played in fancy dress with teams of
7-10 people, BYOB and open to all
abilities, tickets are £20 per team
and available from the netball web-
site (www.icunc.co.uk) or from the
JCR on Monday lunchtime.
“Another big social we have is a
club night at Piccadilly institute on
Thursday the 21st of March. It’ll be
£5 in, £9 for a jug of cocktail and full
of Netballers ‘fresh’ from Annual
dinner.”
With a couple of huge social nights
coming up, potential wins at Varsity
and an increase in numbers ICUNC
is finishing the season strong.
See you at Funday!
Oli Benton Sports Editor
Netball’s season: highs lows and Funday!
ICUNC President Nancy Edge reflects on her season

