Issue 1543
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
08/03/13
@SportFelix
ICSM Girls Promoted with game in hand!
Rosie Belcher Ladies 1s Captain
Having checked the league table a mil-
lion times (no exaggeration!), we all
knew this was the big one, the one to
win. ICSM Ladies 1st XI was undoubt-
edly two points clear with a game in
hand. A win on this surprisingly sunny
March morning would lead us into the
ﬁnal match of the season, against sec-
ond place Barts 1’s, inevitable champi-
ons! No pressure…
Despite missing two key players, there
was a quiet conﬁdence amongst the
team. his may have been due the ad-
dition of a strong second team player
boosting our squad, Fiona Field, or the
birthday luck Elke Wynberg brings each
year. Maybe even the fact that we were
entering the match with a string of wins,
cumulating in a thrashing of our self-
proclaimed league rivals, Vet’s 1’s, the
team who had previously hospitalised
our star defender, Harriet Davidson! he
ﬁrst whistle went and action stations
were go, we started with the same pace
and excellence we have demonstrated
throughout the season; beautiful, accu-
rate passing, dynamic movement oﬀ the
ball and teamwork second to none.
However the conﬁdence we main-
tained throughout the warm-up and
ﬁrst ten minutes, was quickly dashed
when we realised this was something we
were going to have to ﬁght for. GKT 2’s,
our competent opposition, were not go-
ing to make this easy for us.
We sustained our ﬁnesse despite con-
tinuous pressure from the opposition
and our ﬁrst goal came from a break
from top forward Charlotte Lees. Faced
with a one on one against the already
proved, excellent keeper, Lees kept her
cool and the ball sailed over the keep-
ers dive into the top of the net. Our sec-
ond goal came from a well-earned short
corner; a set piece led captain, Rosie
Belcher, to drive another past the Kings
Medics defence.
Two goals up, the half was coming
to an end, but the action wasn’t over
yet. GKT had kept the pressure high
throughout the half and ﬁnally made
a successful break leaving the ICSM
defence in tatters as they knocked one
past our goalie in a two-on-one, gutted!
Going into half time with the score of
2-1 our goalmouth half time chat was
agitated. We had had a good half with
plenty of opportunities but had only put
two away; even the umpire agreed we
should have been at least 4-1 up! With
thirty-ﬁve minutes left of the game to
clinch the league we vowed to go out
and put an end to them, we wanted this.
he second half saw an unsatisfying
twenty minutes for both teams with
fruitless attacks at both ends, deﬁnitely
more at ours, but I would say that! With
frustrations running high we really
needed another goal to secure the game.
Play picked up and the pizazz we had
demonstrated all season ﬁnally resur-
faced, proving we were deserved league
winners. Some excellent insight from
centre mid-ﬁelder Charlotte Read gave
captain Rosie another chance to slot a
goal away from the top of the D. With
the score now comfortably 3-1, this gave
us the “shot in the arm” we needed to
ﬁnish the game with the majestic play
we knew we were capable of.
On the ﬁnal whistle, we all attempted,
and I most deﬁnitely failed, to control
our excitement for a polite ‘three cheers’
and hand-shake, before the whooping,
cheering and ecstatic skipping began!
he umpires were only paid on the
agreement they would take a celebra-
tory photo, “hanks Roger”
. See inset,
“It’s not two chins, it’s a neck!” C. Read.
It may not have been the prettiest
hockey we have played all season but
the ﬁnal score, deﬁnitely reﬂected all the
hard work each and every member of
the team has put in this season. hanks
guys!!
A special mention needed for our
wonderful and dynamic forwards, Lees,
Nat, Claudia and ﬁnal year Alison who
have given us the boost we needed to
reach our potential this season! And
thank you to the twos captain, Becky,
who has never turned me down when
I have been stuck! What a conﬁdence
boost for Varsity! Bring it on… Lucky
for who? Us I hope.
Imperial College’s ﬁrst riding team’s
penultimate competition was hosted
by the University of Kent. Although a
bit cloudy on the long, early morning
drive to Canterbury, by the time we
arrived the sun was shining.
he dressage phase was ﬁrst as
normal in the morning, and the four
horses were an interesting mix! Liane
Marshallsay rode Willy, an enthusiastic
dark bay cob, ﬁrst and she rode a really
accurate test to win on Willy, putting
5 penalties on our nearest rivals Kent.
he second rider was captain, Rachel
Gregory, who rode a Kodjak: a dark
brown, surprisingly fast cob. Rachel
rode an accurate test to put 11 penal-
ties on the rider from Kent’s team. An-
dre Wilmes was third and rode a really
lazy cob called Vinnie, and despite his
unwillingness to move, Andre won on
his horse as well, which was helped by
the Royal Holloway rider who couldn’t
get Vinnie going. Claudia Saksida was
our ﬁnal rider on her horse Cashew,
a chestnut sports horse. Claudia also
rode a fantastic test to leave the Impe-
rial team in ﬁrst after the dressage on 0
penalties, ahead of Kent on 26 penalties
in second, Royal Holloway in third on
80 penalties and LSE on 127 penalties.
We all had lunch in the sunshine be-
fore walking the showjumping course.
We were slightly disappointed by the
height, but not surprised because
at our home competition two riders
from LSE had fallen oﬀ! he horses are
shown before we have to ride them, and
the last horse to go, Warrior, was a bit
diﬃcult, which was slightly disconcert-
ing! Claudia was the ﬁrst to go on Holly,
a piebald mare who loved jumping and
was surprisingly fast, producing a clear
round. Rachel was second to go on her
horse, Cody, a steadfast and reliable
black cob who did the minimum eﬀort
to go clear. Andre was the third rider
on Lady, a pretty grey mare, and he also
went clear. Our ﬁnal rider was Liane,
riding Warrior, who had already elimi-
nated a rider from LSE, and Liane rode
a careful, calm and most importantly
clear round.
We had a tense wait for the results
as we knew they would be close as all
the jumping rounds were fairly simi-
lar, with no major disasters to sepa-
rate the riders. When the results were
announced the team had come ﬁrst,
Andre was 1st, Rachel 2nd, Liane 5th
and Claudia 8th. As a result the team
are well-placed to qualify for regionals,
with the ﬁnal competition next week.
Providing the team doesn’t come last
we will have qualiﬁed! Individually,
Rachel is currently lying in ﬁrst place
individually and is guaranteed a place
at regionals and Andre is second, with
Liane in 4th and Claudia in =9th.
Rachel Gregory Captain
Riders rev up for Regionals
Tomorrow’s burger

