Kramer
vs.
Kramer
Ted lovingly holds Billy
Joanna with her son Billy
Dustin Hoffman described "Kramer vs. Kramer" as a film about a man who considers
himself to be a good father. After his wife leaves him the man learns to become a mother
and then becomes a father via that route.
The film is a story about relationships. It stars Dustin Hoffman as Ted Kramer, an
advertising agency executive obsessed with his career and the need to succeed. When
his wife suddenly leaves him, he is forced to divert his attention and his energies from
climbing the corporate ladder .... to care for his six-year-old son, Billy (Justin Henry).
Meryl Streep portrays Joanna Kramer, whose decision to leave her husband, home
and child is a desperate bid to find and establish a persona after a lifetime as "just
somebody's daughter, somebody's wife, somebody's mother." In its own way an act of
love because she honestly believes her family will be better off without her.
It takes a year and a half for her confidence and her guilt to reach the point at which she
makes a crucial decision. She wants her son back. She wants custody.
Nominated for five oscars "Kramer vs. Kramer" will be a giagantic success in the U K
as it was in America. However, there are many good films on the circuit at the moment.
they have to be good to survive. I cannot write that this film shines high above
the rest but after much persuasion from fellow critics at Imperial I will say that it is a good
film which has already been seen by many at IC. I was pleased to have the chance of
watching a film that is a story about relationships.... values.... and choices in the world of
t o
d a y Colin Palmer
Articles are now invited from all Union Clubs and Societies for inclusion in
k the next edition of the Union Handbook. All material should be written
double spaced (preferably typed) and submitted to the FELIX Office before
W E D N E S D A Y , 14 M A Y , 1980
Photographs of Club activities are also encouraged.
If you like sniffing rubber solution and
fondling sheets of acetate in the dark, and
want to work on the Handbook, please
contact the Editor,DAVID CRABBE, via
FELIX Office or Chem. III.
19
*1

