The Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Felix's patented double
entry crossword gives
you pondering material.
Page 22
Everything you ever
wanted to know about
the Virgins... ever...
Page 27
6 A 2-/2.
REFERENCE
COLLECTION
Imperial College and
Science Museum Libraries
Top Up Fees Abandoned?
In a dramatic about face the government
appears to have backed down over the issue of
top up fees.
Somewhere between ten and twenty thou-
sand students from all over the country gath-
ered in London on Wednesday to protest the
fact that the government seemed to be on the
verge of forcing top up fees upon students, and
that evening Tony Blair, the Prime Minister,
seemingly signalled a drastic policy reversal.
This was due, he said, to such a policy possibly
leading to a divisive and elitist system. It may
be closer to the truth, however, that he backed
down over growing fears that the issue could do
to his government what the poll tax did to that
of Margaret Thatcher.
The education secretary, Charles Clarke,
echoed the words of Tony Blair by stating that
students would only have to pay 'hundreds
rather that thousands of pounds' upfront. This
would certainly put many restrictions on the
direction that our Rector, Sir Richard Sykes,
Westminster U-Turn
may now take, and strongly implies that the
plans outlined in the paper that was presented
to College council a matter of weeks ago will
have to be rethought.
A final decision on the subject is not expect-
ed until after the publication of the
Government's much discussed white paper on
higher education funding in January, but this is
the first clear sign that the government is lis-
tening to the concerns of students. It is expect-
ed that this paper will - rather than giving the
green light for top up fees as had been feared -
suggest the introduction of a graduate tax com-
bined with an extended loans system. This will
hopefully deal with the financial crisis currently
facing our entire higher education system.
Very few Imperial College students attended
the march, with the exception of a large group
of medical students, reported to number three
hundred and fifty. The poor attendance has
been blamed on a lack of publicity from the
Union, which is believed to be due to the fact
that they did not feel that funds should be
directed towards an NUS event, after the
resounding 'No' vote in last year's referendum.
This has caused a certain amount of anger
within the student body, as it is felt that the
issue of fees and student financing should be
greater than that of student politics. Alex
Summer Job Centre
Over 1000 students passed
through the first ever Internships
Fair held at Imperial College on
Wednesday, organised by the City
& Guilds College Union Internship
Centre. Unlike the Careers Fair,
the Internships Fair was organised
entirely by student volunteers and
was specifically aimed at non final
year students and designed to
help students obtain summer
placements rather than jobs after
graduation.
Students could visit around fif-
teen stands in the Great Hall with
the companies ranging from giants
such as UBS and JP Morgan
through to small engineering firms
such as Energy Scitech as well as
the Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Programme (UROP)
from within college. "This event
has been a phenomenal success
and I'm very pleased with the
turnout both from students and
companies," said C&G Internship
Centre Co-ordinator Shrenik Patel.
The fair also hosted the launch
of the Internship Centre (on-line at
http://www.cgcu. net/i nternsh i ps/)
though the presentations by City &
Guilds College Union President
Sumeet Bhalla and Engineering
Faculty Principal Professor John
Perkins were a mixed success
with the microphone volume a lit-
tle low to be heard over the
crowd,
Nevertheless, well over 500
students had logged onto the
Internship Centre site by
Wednesday evening. The site is
currently listing over 150 place-
ments at different companies
open to Imperial College students
with more expected to be added
as the year goes on.
Oliver Pell
Alex gets festive. And if you
believe that... P
&
j
Further surreal (and mildly abu-
sive) ramblings from our Wye
correspondent and several
Santas.
Further evidence of moor
hoaxary explained away by our |
resident anti-sceptic.
If you finish the Felix cross-
word, then look no further for
more Christmas diversion...
6th December 2002
"We're going to get you, you freaknuts..." http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/ • felix@ic.ac.uk

