F E L I X N I G H T L I F E 1 9 ^ ' fefr
NightLife
Progression Sessions
Monthly @ The End
Friday, midnight. I've been standing outside
The End for about forty five minutes now
with two free guest list places (cheers eds!)
to the Progression Sessions - the night which
introduced me to London drum 'n' bass and
which features the man himself - LTJ Bukem.
Described by his label as "the living
embodiment of the post-acid house entrepre-
neurial creative spirit" he is accompanied
tonight by his "Good Looking" colleagues -
the more than able Nookie, Makoto and MC
Conrad. This leaves me in no doubt that I will
be witnessing some general magnificence.
I am not disappointed - Bukem plays a fan-
tastic set and keeps me on my feet and mov-
ing for a good couple of hours (a feat which
many people have failed at in the past).
Unfortunately, I didn't wait around to see
Goldie, who cut his set from two hours to one
hour at 4 a.m. for some undisclosed reason.
I left with this message in my head for you:
if you like jazz, soul or drum 'n' bass, then
get your ears, your heart, your hands and
your feet down to the Progression Sessions as
soon as possible.
Dan Bush
Friday 13th December
LTJ Bukem, Nookie, Five Alive
The End
16A West Central St, WC1A
£10 members, £12 guests/NUS
www.the-end.co.uk
Kinkymalinki
Monthly @ Various
Before you even get through into the main
room you're struck by the beauty of the
place. An immaculately decorated entrance
is staffed by possibly the most attractive
bouncers ever. Once inside it gets even bet-
ter. Everybody is beautiful, even the least
attractive people could be models.
In such a beautiful venue it could be easy
to feel out of place but nobody does, every-
body looks at home here. The main room is
full of leather seating, oak panels and plants
and is filled by an impressive sound system
with a gorgeous mix of deep, soulful and
vocal house (and a man on bongos !!). Its a
very easy going, friendly atmosphere.
Upstairs in the smaller Room 2, equipped
with a big leather bed, things are pretty
much the same but with a few more breaks,
a bit more funk and a bit more attitude.
It's a little on the expensive side but com-
pletely worth it because you are not likely to
be surrounded by as many beautiful people
again in such a plush environment without
joining some ridiculous members club. Its
certainly an experience.
Dad
Saturday 7th December
Jay Friction, Sharp Boys, Space Brothers
Aquarium
256-260 Old Street, EC1
£12 members, £15 guests
www.clubaquarium.co.uk
Editorial
Here we are again then kids, the end of the
first term. Doesn't time fly when you're hav-
ing fun?
It seems like only yesterday that all the
freshers were arriving, looking lost and won-
dering if there was anything better to do
around here than the Union or Hombres.
Then they picked up their first copy of Felix
and as they were carelessly flicking through
it they came across these hallowed pages.
Suddenly, life seemed to take on some mean-
ing, there came the realisation that there was
in fact a lot to do in London and that most of
it was amazing, something for all tastes. Full
of youthful exuberance and joy at their new
found knowledge they went out and they par-
tied hard. Then, after flooding our inbox with
reviews of where they had been they went
out and they partied some more.
OK, maybe that last bit was made up, and
some of the middle bits were possibly fabri-
cated as well, and we may have overestimat-
ed our influence slightly, but they were defi-
nitely looking lost. We do hope though, that
we have at least provided you with an idea
and a taste of what London has to offer, that
is what we're here for after all.
This term has been pretty amazing for
clubbing and the new year promises to be no
exception. So go forth, "have it large", report
back to us with all your New Year stories and
we'll see you in January with more reviews,
more competitions, more fun and many more
random ramblings.
Remember kids,
"it's about the music"
Tim and Dom
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk "...it's like getting a personal visit, from God ! "

