C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
v F Q Q M K II by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
THE GREAT FELIX QUOTES QUIZ
THE QUOTES
1. "Listen you snot-nose little shit, I was takin' shrapnel in Khe Sanh
when you were crappin' in your hands and rubbin' it on your face."
2. "What a wonderful day to become a knight!"
3. "I want to go through life jumping into fountains naked."
4. "Today I threatened to shoot a naked woman with my erection."
5. "Gimme a milk...chocolate!"
6. "Are they made from real Girl Scouts?"
7. "I loved that bitch...and he betrayed me!"
8. "Fine and dandy, dandy and fine."
9. "Was that civilized? No, clearly not! Fun, but in no sense civilized.
Now, bear in mind, none of us has been in New York before. There
are the Broadway shows - we'll have to find out how to get tickets.
There's also a lot of street crime, but I believe we can watch that
for free. We want the essentials. Dinettes. Complete bedroom
groups. Convenient credit, even though we've been turned down in
the past."
10. "When what's left of you gets around to what's left to be gotten,
what's left to be gotten won't be worth getting, whatever it is you've
got left."
11. "Quite frankly, you can see her nipples."
~"l want to see her nipples!"
A N S W E R S T O ( 2 1 0 0 1 2 5 0
1. Guy of Gisborne/Michael Wincott - Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves
2. Sherrif of Rottingham/Roger Rees - Robin Hood: Men in Tights
3. Rev. Brown/Arsenio Hall - Coming to America
4. Art Weingartner/Rick Duconnun - The Burbs
5. Dr Kaufman/Vincent Schiavelli - Tomorrow Never Dies
6. Jack Crow/James Woods - Vampires
7. Phil Conners/Bill Murray - Groundhog Day
8. Smokey/Chris Tucker - Friday
9. Adrian Cronauer/Robin Williams - Good Morning Vietnam
10. Wak/Robert Picardo - Explorers
RAMBLIINGS
Well my young scroats, the end of term is nigh and I'm sure you're all
far too busy to read this, so I may as well just say a few rude
words...plop, willy, snot, goat...hee-hee-hee. Erm, there's a few tricky
ones in the lyrics this week, enough to keep you puzzling away over
Xmas. I don't know about you lot but I'm absolutely shagged out after
this term (and not in the crotchal friction burns sense unfortunately!). Oh
well, it's time for me and Bobby to retire back to the ranch for a bit of
RnR (rimming 'n' retching) over the break, so until then. Adios. Dr H.F.
As my associate has said, Xmas is upon us, and this is the last
Coffeebreak before the Spring Term. In light of this, we are awarding a
prize for the top players of each quiz (QQ, LQ and Ultra) in the new term.
We will tally the points up in the new year to make sure everyone gets
their entries in...so no bitchin'. We will not reveal the prizes until next
year, but I can promise you this: you'll treasure them forever! In the
event of a tie-break we will call those involved into the Beit Dungeon and
test their knowledge to the limit. When a clear winner is established, we
will award the prize in a special ceremony. If in the unlikely event that
JIZ beats you, there will be a mud-wrestling contest in Beit Quad. B.C.
Merry Christmas One and All, love from Bobby Cyclops and Doctor
Hot Fudge!
CUT k BLOW DRY
BY OUR TOP STYLISTS
£20 LADIES
£17 MEN
Normal Price £J5
ACCESS VISA MASTERCARD CASH CHEQUES
'Still the best student offer?
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW73ES
Sm&KmmpmMt)
p Telephone 020 7823 8968
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Quotes Quiz

