2 6 S P O R T F E L I X
Thirds Storm On Cross Country
Football
IC III 3 - 1 Kent III
Wednesday saw the arrival of
Kent to fortress Harlington to take
on the might of IC III. Our previ-
ous meeting saw us snatch three
points at their ground against the
run of play, so this time they were
suitably pissed off and ready for
some bloodshed.
The match started under a
storm of controversy, with their
captain claiming his team was
playing "under duress" as the ref-
eree was not official. Still, the
game got underway, and right
from the start we signalled our
intentions to dominate with Alex
and Dom initiating flowing moves
down the wings, and with Matt
and Dan solid in defence.
After 10 minutes we took the
lead, with a sweet passing move
resulting in Dom smashing the
ball past the flailing keeper. After
this they got more pissed off and
started coming back into the
game, with crunching tackles fly-
ing in on Simone and in particular
captain Henry, but by the end of
the half we were back in control
and looking good.
We started the 2nd half the
way we finished the 1st. Frenchy
was everywhere in midfield, and
the pace of Chris and Simone
worried their sluggish back line.
Soon our superiority paid divi-
dends, with a cross whipped in by
Alex resulting in Chris popping up
at the near post for a rare headed
goal. After this we got complacent
and they pulled one back.
This inspired them to claim
that we were "worse than Barts",
which we were unimpressed by,
and made this clear by proceed-
ing to outplay them all over the
pitch. Jim came on for Frenchy,
and Henry started to make skilful
runs through their midfield. They
never really looked like they
would pull it back, and 10 min-
utes before the end Simone
scored a sweet tap in to make it
3-1 to us.
In conclusion, they weren't very
good, we were better and so won
deservedly, our eyes now firmly
set on our BUSA group top spot.
On Wednesday afternoon,
Hackney Marshes provided a
platform for Imperial's most
active to retain their University of
London Cross Country crown.
Defying the weather, we
arrived to find a course devoid of,
well, everything - no mud, no
hills no nothing. This is not nec-
essarily a good thing in cross-
country, as it usually tends to
mean that everyone just runs
faster. Several laps of a suspi-
ciously football pitch shaped
course later and the places were
decided. Imperial's men - Dave
Mulvee, Ollie Thwaites, Andy
Greenway and Chris Mullington -
finished first from the University
of London, holding off Royal
Holloway to take gold. The sec-
ond team only just finished out-
side the medals, coming in 4th.
IC's women's team - Emma
Calderbank, Louise Dulley and
Minna Kane - stormed home to
win the women's competition
from King's and LSE, for the first
time in living memory!
The day was pretty much com-
pleted with Dave also taking
bronze in the men's race, though
he swapped the awards presen-
tation for the pub and his medal
is still in Hackney. The Champs
were run as part of the fourth
London Colleges League race,
and both men and women have
now soared to the giddy heights
of the top three, with two races
to go. A good turnout always
helps the cause, so in the (some-
what unlikely) event that any of
this has inspired you you'd be
more than welcome to turn up on
Wednesday at 1pm in the Union
for a jog in Hyde Park.
In other news, four ULU teams
went to the Luton Marathon
Relays and came back with
three trophies. A confusing lack
of opposition - or maybe we're
just improving - meant that the
men's team - all from Imperial-
finished first. The women's team
enojyed some success, taking
bronze.
Special thanks also goes to
the minibus driver who got us
there and back with great map-
reading dexterity... you know
who you are!
M A R K U S 13IRDMAN
£1 NICK DOODY
a p p e a r i n g in the C o m e d y C l u b @ t h e U n i o n
Birdman's nervous on-stage energy normally carries his
amusing, if peurile, material. However, he can also come a cropper if
| the audience doesn't immediately buy into the ridiculousness of it all.
Hilarious and rather offensive at the same time. Boo Boo 08.11.02
Saw Markus is Sheffield last night and have to say he is brilliant. I can see why
some audiences may take a dislike as he's very near the knuckle with some stuff,
but that makes it all the better for me. James 30.08.02
A very impressive writer, Doody is equally at home with cracking
puns, sharp observational stuff or surreal and disturbed flights of
fancy that don't sacrific wit for weirdness.
Top act. Funny, original material and lots of it... intelligent stuff too. Clown's
song is fabby, also does the best pun ever in the world (it's about pooing on desks).
He rocks. And he's a nice bloke. Gary Delaney 27.09.01
Fantastic. You will love this fellow of most excellent wit. Carol Masters 17.08.02
"" Nick "The Dood" Doody as he isn't yet known is a deeply disturbed, disturbingly
deep and by his own admission uncommonly well hung man who knows more
about breakfast cereal and Quantum Leap than any other human alive or dead.
The Jolyon 31.07.02
Thursday, December 12 • * imperial
Doors 7:30, Show 8:30 (No late admittance) * 9 # COll6Qe
Union £3 / £3.50 Guests / P2P £2.50 UillOn
sport.felix@ic.ac.uk Won? Lost? Tell us about it.

