It's been a busy week really. Working all the
hours the Gods have sent and more is no fun,
which I why I don't do it all that often, but some-
times you just don't have a choice.
I do have to say though, that the "artists
impression of a Champagne Breakfast" in the
last article is complete bollocks. If there's ever
been any Wye champagne breakfasts that tidy
they must have been fakes. I also have to make
an apology to Ben "Charmer" Palmer. Apparently
"the Charmer is now the Calmer this year". Sorry
Ben.
I've been asked to explain a few little things
about the main drinking clubs we have here.
This could be dangerous. Now. Do I be nice or
do I be the cow everyone knows me to be? I've
never been the nicest person so I'll go for being
a bitch. It's more natural.
Starting with the JSF then. Jock Strap
Farmers. Fucking nutters. Dirty bastards. Can be
gentlemen when they want to be though. Can
always be recognised by the green and gold
jumpers, grandfather-type white vests, usually
with complimentary stains down them and green
ties. Lovely. Usual haunts are the Union slagging
off the Garters, any local pubs and the Josh.
Initiation involves loads of alcohol (of course),
making a mess, drinking piss and a goldfish.
This club generally consists of the loudest
"gents" in the place who consider a night a good
one only if they have absolutely no idea what the
hell happened. Potential members have to be
C O L U M N
Wye 'Sup
loud, arrogant, have a book of bad jokes ready to
hand and an ability to consume twice as much
as the rest of the clubs put together.
Next, the Beaus. When not up their own arses,
the Beaus (all two of them at the moment) are
usually found in the Union having "a few quiet
drinks" and any clubs that Ben "do you know
who I am" Palmer hasn't been banned from
(Sorry Ben, but I have to be brutal. Love you
really). Always recognised by the turned up
noses, smart suits and bow ties, the Beaus are
the complete opposite of the JSF. General lady
killers, but always well turned out and nice to the
Bar Staff. Initiation involves fire, a brandy glass
and considerable amounts of pain. Aspiring
Beaus are recognisable as being highly cultured,
civilised and usually alcoholic gentlemen.
The Garters are always well dressed too.
Recognised by the garter round the left leg (I
think) and bottles of Passoa or Malibu, they usu-
ally start in the Union and work on to the clubs
after a few bottles of wine. Can't really whinge
F E L I X
about the Garters. Nice girls, but just don't get
on the wrong side of them. From past experi-
ences though, they can be a bit dangerous.
Potential candidates need to have a good friend-
ship with a good wine and be able to smell a
shopping bargain from 20 feet away.
The Druids don't exist, so I have to write about
the Meteorological Society. If I told you who was
in this elite group, I'd have to kill you, if they
don't kill me first, so I'd better keep my mouth
shut on this one. Except to mention that they
have a habit of kidnapping anyone they can
which usually pisses the Garters off to no end
whilst everyone else just pisses themselves
laughing. Recognisable for the long white coats,
balaclavas and strange grunting noises, the
Druids, when not performing any sacrifices, can
be found... Well, no. I won't say. They can't be
found. That's the thing. Seeing as "no one knows
who they are" (the best kept secret in Wye is a
load of bollocks) there's not a lot I can tell you
about them, except to say, as I don't know who
they are I don't really care. They don't really go
out as much as the other clubs and they're
absolutely crap at keeping secrets.
Hopefully there should be a picture with this.
If its there it'll be the JSF at the Champagne
Breakfast with some of the Garters in the back-
ground. If not, the system's a load of bollocks
and I'll get loads of shit from everyone here. Oh
well. Things can't get any worse, can they?
Beci
1-
r o l i tig
i n the
Meet in the Quad
and join in the singing
Music sheets provided
imperial W
J */
t
• college ^for details contact the
£baplincy x4-9600
union
1Organised by Christian
groups on campus
Tuesday, Dec 10
iivia Quiz
£1
mas
pecial
FREE
felix@ic.ac.uk
• imperial
college
union
The student newspaper of Imperial College

