B U S I N E S S 0 7
After rich promises of better things to
come last week, I now present the first
installment of our series of profiles on
spin outs from Imperial College.
Unknown to many, Imperial stu-
dents have been plotting away in little
war rooms of their own, concocting up
devious little plans to take over the
business world. Some have been her-
alded as tomorrow's entrepreneurs
whilst most, like myself, are confined
to indulging in pride salvaging exercis-
es like writing for Felix.
But little do they know, that from
my new found prerogatives, I am now
able to bring into light their little deeds
of roguery. So, I bring you, TBsC tech-
nology...
Spin outs Profile #1: TBsC Technology
Who are they?
Former PhD Mech Eng students Jdrg Feist, Simon Hubbard and MBA student Udo Dengel, who won the
Imperial College Business Challenge in 2001 with their business plan.
What do they do?
High temperature gas turbines need a layer of Thermal Barrier Coatings (TBC) which is vital protecting the
metal underneath. How long the coating lasts depends on the heat influx. TBsC, with advance doping (or
something like that) is able to produce temperature sensitive TBC, which would allow engineer to predict the
level of destruction and avoid downtime in the turbines.
Where are they now?
Renamed themselves to Southside Thermal Technologies, and have since won PWC's 'European Awards for
the Spirit of Enterprise' and Wall St. Journal Europe's categorical innovation award. They have received
research funding, but will need to secure commercial interests in the product from turbine giants like GE,
Alstom and Rolls Royce for capital funding. The idea has passed initial US and UK patent screening though,
and they are talking to the major players in the industry. Once the research is successful, STT will be ready to
fly.
This week in the City..
Oh Dear..
In his pre-budget speech,
Chancellor of Exchequer
Gordon Brown admitted to
getting his numbers wrong
in the April budget, and
have had to downgrade his
economy growth forecast
from 2%-2.5% to 1.6%.
Additionally, the public
sector borrowing will also rise to £20bn, £9bn
more than Mr Brown had expected. He blamed
the shortfall in tax revenues as the main reason,
where the ailing financial sector have seen capi-
tal gain and income tax shrink to almost half of
what it was at its peak. In a futile attempt to
cover this blunder, Mr Brown pointed out that
U.K is faring better than the likes of Japan and
U.S amidst the worst global economic depression
since the 70's.
Abbey National, Britain's sixth largest bank is to
become the first U.K bank for a decade to slash
its dividends. After several profit warnings this
year, a new management have been installed to
restructure Abbey, concentrating on its core busi-
nesses of retail banking and mortgage. These
restructuring have resulted in a raft of write down
and goodwill chargestl], which could see Abbey
announce an estimated £1.5bn lost.
Analysts suggest that the bull run[2] in govern-
ment bonds is set to end soon. The global eco-
nomic and stock market slump have seen
investors shy away to the safe haven of govern-
ment bonds. This surge in demand has pushed
yield[3] to a historic low, but with the recent rally
in the UK and US equity market, it is likely that
investors would make a turnaround. What this all
means is that governments around the world will
have to pay a higher interest or yield to borrow,
not that you care.
o
vodafone
Enfant-Terrible
The continuing saga
between Vodafone
and Vivendi
Universal, the French
conglomerate is set to
end soon with Vivendi
expected to take a
controlling share in
Cegetel. Here's how the story goes. Cegetel owns
80% of SFR, France's 3rd largest mobile opera-
tor, France is the only major European market
Vodafone is yet to penetrate. Vodafone already
owns 20% of SFR and 15% of Cegetel, but
would require the 28% of Cegetel that BT owns
to gain overall control in Cegetel and hence SFR.
Vivendi meanwhile, would like to keep the miser-
able English off their backyard, and they hold a
large share in Cegetel and pre-emption right over
any bids for BT stakes. This means they can
block any move for BT's Cegetel shares by buy-
ing it themselves instead. Vivendi can't afford
this, but might be able to find enough banks to
back it. Having just rejected Vodafone's bid for its
own share in Cegetel, Vivendi is expected to go
ahead and acquire Cegetel this week. You're not
following this are you?
MyTravel have plunged into the red for the first
time in 31 years, which has been brought about
by a disastrous trading year and changes to
aggressive accounting policies, which have seen
extra expenses charged at £70.6m, amounting to
a loss of £72.8m. However, having secured an
extension to its £250m loan facility from a con-
sortium of banks, new CEO Peter McHugh prom-
ises a review of the business in the coming
[11 Goodwill Charges: Goodwill is the extra
money a company pays for an acquisition
above what that company is worth. This good-
will is an asset, but has to be written off slow-
ly as expenses. However, some company writes
this down all at once, since investors don't care
about goodwill charges, as it's not cash expens-
es and does not affect shareholder's value.
[23 Bull Run-. When investors expect a particu-
lar market or sector to do well, they call it a bull
run, or a bullish market. The opposite of a Bull,
for some reason is a Bear.
[31 Yield: Normally, this means the return an
investment can make over a fixed period. But
for bonds, it is the coupon rate/interest payable
divided by the market price.
months, which could include disposals of some
of its loss making units.
Sir Terence Conran, founder of Habitat and
Conran Shop is to launch his first furniture col-
lection since selling Habitat to Ikea in the 70's.
The new range, Content by Conran is to be
launched for Christi-Tyler the furniture manufac-
turer and will bear the Conran name.
Deloitte & Touche will split a £100m windfall
amongst its 400 or so partners. This windfall
arose from the fact that the partners had accept-
ed share offers as bonus in Liberata, D&T's for-
mer outsourcing arm, which is now being sold to
General Atlantic for £100m, which would see
£240k down each partner's pocket. J.Cow
business.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

