20 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
21.11.2014
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Band Aid 30: fastest selling single of 2014
Jessie Ware acts as a buffer between old flames Ed and Ellie. Awkward. L-R: (back row) Kyle and William from Bastille, Guy Garvey of Elbow, Chris from Bastille, Coldplay's Chris Martin,
Dan from Bastille, Seal, Sir Bob Geldof, Karl Hyde from Underworld, drummer Roger Tyler from Queen, YouTubers Joe Sugg and Alfie Deyes, Grace and Neil from Clean Bandit. L-R:
(front row) Louis, Zayn, Liam, Niall and Harry from 1D, Olly Murs, Sinead O'Connor, Ellie Goulding, Jessie Ware, Ed Sheeran, YouTuber Zoella, Angelique Kidjo, Emeli Sande, Paloma Faith.
Kneeling L-R: co-founder of Band Aid Midge Ure and U2's Bono. Not pictured: Rita Ora and Sam Smith. Photo: Band Aid Trust / Brian Anis / Camera Press
Grace Rahman rounds up the controversy surrounding Sir Bob’s latest offering
"Geldof
remarked
that the
performance
on X Factor
meant it
had made
£1 million
before it
went on sale"
"Morrisey
once called
the original
'daily torture
on the people
of England'."
The first radio play of the
rejuvenated Band Aid single,
Do They Know It’s Christmas?,
happened this week, following a
first look at the music video on
last Saturday’s X Factor. This is the
fourth time in thirty years that the
charity song has been recorded, but
the first time the lyrics have been
changed. Bono’s controversial line
‘Well tonight thank God it’s them,
instead of you’ has been replaced with
‘Well tonight we’re reaching out and
touching you’.
Stars like 1D, Ellie Goulding, Jessie
Ware and Ed Sheeran gathered
at Sarm Studios to record the
track on Friday, which coincided
with chancellor George Osborne
announcing that the UK government
would wave the VAT on purchases
of the single. The downloadable
version was released on Monday,
with a hard copy coming out on 8th
December. The singles, with cover art
by Tracy Emin, will cost 99p and £4
respectively.
Bob Geldof, who just finished a UK
tour with old band The Boomtown
Rats announced the relaunch of Band
Aid last Monday saying, “I don’t like
doing this stuff, it’s quite embarassing
calling people you don’t know”. Ebola
has already claimed the lives of over
5000 people since March.
Of course, and perhaps not to its
detriment, the campaign hasn’t been
without its controversy. Despite being
named as collaborators in Geldof’s
initial press release, Foals, Fuse ODG
and perhaps most notably, Adele, are
not in the final recording. It has now
emerged that this conference was
given before the involvement of these
artists had been finalised.
NME reports that Foals weren’t
able to attend due to recording
commitments. Fuse ODG pulled
out on Saturday morning, telling Sir
Bob that he felt ‘awkward’ about the
new lyrics, tweeting that he felt “the
message … was not in line with the
This Is New Africa movement”.
The day after recording, The Sun
reported that Adele had “snubbed”
the charity single and that Bob Geldof
had called her “hundreds of times”.
This was later denied by Adele’s
people, who said she had made a
sizable donation to Oxfam. In a pre-
watershed interview with Sky News on
Monday that got cut short due to his
repeated swearing, Sir Bob qualified
her absence by saying that Adele was
doing nothing in the public eye at the
moment. “She’s bringing up a family
you know,” he said.
So how well is it going to do?
The original, in 1984, raised about
£8 million for aid efforts during
the Ethiopian famine. It also sold
200,000 copies in two days. By
Tuesday, Band Aid 30’s single had
already sold around 206,000 copies,
making it the fastest selling single
of 2014. The chief executive of the
Official Charts Company called
its first day’s performance “truly
exceptional”, and it’s expected to
go straight in at number one on
Sunday. But how much will it make?
In an interview with Radio 4 on
Monday, Geldof remarked that the
performance on X Factor meant it had
made £1 million before it went on
sale, presumably from pre-ordering.
While Bob and the gang are busy
promoting, several people have
spoken out against the idea of
another charity single ‘for Africa’.
Damon Albarn, formerly of Blur, told
journalists before his performance
at the RAH last week, that Band Aid
30 was perpetuating a patronising
Western stereotype that the whole
continent is in need.
In his Sky News interview, Geldof’s
swearing was in reaction to a question
about the tax status of some of his
participants. The project’s line-up,
timing, necessity, old and new lyrics
have been criticised by all parts of the
press spectrum. Morrisey once called
the original “daily torture on the
people of England”. Sir Bob doesn’t
seem to care though. Harking back to
his infamous line in 1984, that people
should “give us your fucking money”,
he told fans this week, “it really
doesn’t matter if you hate this song or
you don’t like this song, you have to
buy this thing”.

