ts
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Every year the Union produces an Annual Report detailing our financial per-
formance for the year as well as our achievements.The Annual Report of the
Trustees and Financial Statements 2013/14 is our second such publication since
registering as a charity. It has been another strong year for the Union with
achievements including:
A The launch of our Imperial Plus and Community Connection schemes
A Nore students taking part in our elections than ever before
A Our biggest and most successful Student Academic Choice Awards
AThe launch of our new #helloicu crew to welcome new students
A A revamped Union Awards that showcase our many volunteers
A A continued strong financial performance
Find out more online imperialcollegeunion.org/annualreports
Annual Report 2013/14
Union General Meeting takes place Monday 1 December
We’ve had your feedback about Higher Education Funding, and now it’s time forYOU to decide what your Union is going to do about it.
We’re holding a General Meeting on Monday 1 December at 18:30, Blackett LectureTheatre 1 to determine what our stance should be on tackling the issue of
Higher Education Policy. Should we be lobbying for…
A Free Education ATuition Fees A GraduateTax A or none of these?
This is your chance to help us try and shape the future of university funding for students like you.
A General Meeting is also a chance to talk about anything, and you can submit a paper to the Union Council Chair for a subject to be raised. Papers must be sub-
mitted by email to chairman@imperial.ac.uk by Monday 24 November.You can find information about how to write and submit a paper on our website.
Find out more online imperialcollegeunion.org/hef_factsheet
The Summer Ball 2015 -
Choose your theme
The Union is currently preparing forThe Summer Ball 2015 and we need your
help to choose a theme.
We listened to what you had to say about the ball in the our last survey and
picked the five most popular themes you wanted to see at the next ball.
A Moulin Rouge
A Vegas
A Bond
A Hollywood
A Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
Vote now: imperialcollegeunion.org/summerball

