THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 37
21.11.2014
FELIX
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
STOP THE PRESS:
A Felix-produced cookbook – put together entirely by students!
We’re looking for any keenos who’d like to contribute to this in any way, shape or
form. Recipe contributions and testers, photographers, illustrators, something I
haven’t listed...we’re after the lot.
This is a long-term voluntary project, and an amazing opportunity to get your
work out to a much wider audience – we’re talking student populations outside of
Imperial, and that’s just the beginning! To get involved, drop us an email at food.
felix@imperial.ac.uk. Carol will fix you a cuppa, and we’ll talk shop.
I feel issues of animal welfare, both
in their rearing and slaughtering,
are less contestable. Especially as
a student where money is on your
mind, I’m sure this affects most of
the meat you consume. But in the
end, is there such a thing as humane
slaughter? I feel any arguments to
say there is, are just pseudoscientific
attempts to ease one’s moral burden.
Can you really know which way of
killing eases suffering the most? It’s
utterly unverifiable!
In fact, our whole meat industry
is designed around trying to remove
you from the reality of this side of
meat production. We’ve all seen the
videos of battery-farmed chickens;
yet, when we go to the supermarkets
and buy our beautifully packaged
chicken breasts, it is the last thing
on our minds. I’m sure fewer people
would want to eat meat if the packs
came with cigarette-style warnings.
But I’m still fallible!
Now, I am not perfect; becoming
vegetarian is a gradual process.
Especially when I go abroad and there
is no concept of vegetarianism, it is
particularly hard. How am I meant
to experience Singapore if I never
try their fish head curry? It is so
fundamental to their culture that I
would be missing out if I didn’t!
Being vegetarian: not necessarily a huge "missed steak"! The use of this pun, however, is another story.
Photo: Creative Commons
What a meaty issue! (not)
CAROL ANN CHEAH
SECTION EDITOR
When Kamil (you’ll recognise him as one of our
Arts Editors) pitched this piece,I was really stoked.
I’m not deeply for or against vegetarianism myself;
after all,I live happily with a vegetarian housemate
(who taught me how to make one of my favourite
cream pasta dishes),and I willingly go meat-free for
my meals sometimes,so long as I’ve had my ix of
milk and eggs.I do adore the taste as well of certain
quality meat dishes (c’mon,I work at a burger joint!),
and for us girls it’s a safe way of making sure iron
levels are in check.What I am against though is
overtly-extreme“militant activists”(as Kamil himself
describes them)–y’know,the ones who guilt-trip
you for not subscribing to their cause,their school
of thought,etc.So it’s really nice to see some level-
headed thoughts on the matter...given that the main
reasons I eat less meat when I’m buying and cooking
for myself is both cost,and concerns over the quality
(think battery chickens et al).
Personally I’ve always been of the opinion that with
meat,it’s really a matter of quality over quantity.
Back at home and during GCSE Food Tech lessons,
both my Mum and my teacher always taught that
it’s much better to pay a bit more for a better-quality
product and eat it less often.Bearing in mind that
meat was considered a special treat in the days of
yore,I’d have to agree.I’d much rather be able to use
every single bit of a whole chicken that has been
carefully reared,compared to having to trim loads of
unusable bits off a“value-price”bird,then watching
what little is“usable”shrink like mad as it loses all
that injected water.Ick–don’t even get me started on
the taste.
In other (bi)weekly news,time for a confession
bear: my body’s been having a mind of its own.
Through no external stimuli (caffeine,all-nighters
etc),this week has suddenly been a week of weird
sleep (two 4-hour chunks instead of the typical
8-hour stretch at night) and slightly irregular eats
(funny appetite fluctuations),and it’s rearing its
ugly head already–I just got up from my second
nap today.Boy,am I glad I’m currently on reading
week.At times like these it’s all about the little
achievements to keep you going.Woke up before 8
today? Not bad.Ate all three meals and a number of
(healthy) snacks? Way to go.Water intake for the day
suficient? Round of applause,yo.
Speaking about achievements...not too long ago I
paid Dave and Luke at Brompton Food Market (next
to SNOG) a“work visit”to take product shots of their
Christmas hamper offerings.You can actually see an
edited crop of their confectionery hamper above...
so many goodies! Given that I am by no means a
professional–it was my irst paid photography job–
and that we had almost no lighting equipment,I was
actually rather chuffed with the outcome.As some
people have since asked me how to get that perfect
“food porn”shot (even before it kisses an Insta-
ilter or VCSOcam treatment) as a fellow everyday
mortal...I’ve been toying with that idea for a future
Food issue.
In fact,I’d actually like to hear from you if you’re
a budding food photographer,as Food has got an
exciting long-term project planned,and we need you
guys for that.You know how to reach us!
"The
problem
with all
of this is
that there
is always
going to
be some
hypocrisy"
The problem with all of this is
that there is always going to be some
hypocrisy unless you’re a fully-
fledged vegan. However, it is only
in small pockets of the world, like
London, that such a lifestyle would
even be possible because if it isn’t
meat, then it’s always going to be eggs
or dairy. Practically speaking, it’s a
very hard lifestyle to endure unlike,
in my opinion, vegetarianism.
I hope some of you will consider
becoming vegetarian after this article,
or at least try to cut down on your
meat consumption and see how it
goes. Or if you completely disagree
with me, I would love to hear why.
Come at me!

