Felix 1000th Edition
How The Huxley Building Got Its
Name . . . And Other Stories
Beit
The relationship between
the Beit family and
Imperial College goes
back to the early years
of the century when
Alfred Beit of Wernher,
Beit & Company gave
the College a total of
£244,000 from the firm and his private
fortune. Beit had become extremely wealthy
through the South African diamond trade and
had already given money for academic
purposes in Johannesburg and Hamburg. After
Alfred's death in 1906, his brother, Otto
(pictured above), succeeded the estate and
continued to support Imperial College. He was
knighted in 1924 and a memorial plaque was
unveiled in Beit Arch after his death in 1930.
Blackett
Patrick Blackett began
his academic career
studying physics at
Cambridge with Lord
Rutherford. During the
war he worked with
Tizard applying Operational Research to such
aspects of war as anti-submarine activity and
strategic bombing. Controversially he argued
that the atomic bombs had been dropped for
political not military reasons and he was
viewed as a voice of conscience within the
scientific community. He became a Professor
of Physics at Imperial College in 1953 and
Pro-Rector from 1961-64, receiving a life
peerage in 1969.
Huxley
Thomas Henry Huxley
was one of the big
figures in Victorian
science. After five
years spent as a Naval
surgeon, he returned
to England and was
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society. In
1881, he became the first Dean of what was
then called the Normal School of Science
and the Royal School of Mines. Best known
for his robust defence of Darwinian
Evolution, he gained the nickname,
'Darwin's Bulldog' and played a major role
in the popular acceptance of the theory.
Roderic Hill Air Chief Marshal Sir
Roderic Hill first came to
prominence during the
First World War as a flying officer. In the period between the
wars, he flew experimental flights into such subjects as wing
'flutter' and radio controlled aircraft. He became Rector in 1948
until his death in 1954. During that time, he sought to broaden the
College's focus, introducing lunchtime General Studies and a
weekly Touchstone discussion session.
Haldane Richard Haldane was the prime
mover behind the Charter of
Incorporation of the Imperial College
of Science and Technology of 1907. Always interested in educa-
tion, it was mainly because of Haldane's encouragement that
Imperial College became a part of the University of London.
Haldane studied philosophy and wrote a book on the implica-
tions of relativity. As a liberal M.P., he served as Secretary of
War and Lord Chancellor, before being forced out of public life
in 1915 because of his close ties with Germany .
Lyon Playfair Lyon Playfair started
life as a chemist
employed at the
Museum of Economic Geology, which was a forebear of the
Royal School of Mines. He was a member of many Royal
Commissions studying such subjects as the Buckingham
Palace drains, the Irish potato blight and the 18481
49 Cholera
outbreak. Playfair became an influential figure in the promo-
tion of widespread scientific education.
— 12 —
Felix 1000th Edition
D a n n o i r William Penney has been called the 'father of the British Bomb'. A student and an assistant
ML C l l J.J.C y professor at Imperial Colleg before the Second World War, he was one of the few British scien-
tists who were sent to Los Alamos to work on the Manhattan Project. He saw the atomic bomb
dropped on Nagasaki and it was the power displayed there which led him to understand that Britain needed a deter-
rent, too. However, the release of recent papers has somewhat dented Penney's reputation as it appears that he fabri-
cated the first tests of the British hydrogen bomb in order to prove the project was progressing.
As the Chairman of the U K Atomic Energy Authority, he also headed the inquiry into the 1957 Windscale radia-
tion leak. On becoming Rector in 1967, there was some concern
expressed within the College about his suitability for the role as an
internal appointment was thought to be better. Yet Penney had the
last word. After retiring in 1973 he described the job as being a
dead-end: "There is nowhere to go and at the end of it you are
dead."
Bessemer Henry Bessemer
was a one-time
student at the
College of Chemistry which was one of the
precursors of the Royal College of Science.
After his death a memorial fund was set up in
1903 in his honour. This raised £15,000 for
the building of a metallurgical college which
became part of the Royal School of Mines.
Imperial Colfeg
Usfuvessityof Lorata
Sherfield After training
lawyer, Sir Roger
Makins joined the
Foreign Office. He was sent to the American
Embassy in 1945 and was involved with the transfer
of atomic secrets between Britain and America. In
1953 he was sent back to Washington, this time for a
three year period as Ambassador.
He became the chairman of the U K Atomic Energy
Authority between 1959 and 1963 and it was during
this period that he was appointed the Chairman of the
Governors of Imperial College.
After being made Lord Sherfield in 1963, his com-
petence in the area of science policy was recognised
by another appointment, this time as Chairman of the
Lords' Select Committee on Science and Technology.
The Committee's final report suggested that a
cabinet post should be created for Science and
Technology, but Margaret Thatcher was not one of
Sherfield's most successful audiences.
Weeks Lord Weeks was the
Chairman of Vickers Ltd
from 1949-56. As part of
their corporate plan to advance technical edu-
cation, Vickers gave Imperial College
£150,000 to build a hall of residence which
was opened in 1959.
Linstead Patrick Linstead
was a chemistry
student at Imperial
College who became a member of staff, gain-
ing an international reputation in organic
chemistry. After various academic appoint-
ments, he worked at the Ministry of Supply
during the war, returning as Head of Chemistry
in 1949 and becoming Rector in 1955.
One of his most troublesome moments was
caused by his support for the proposed demoli-
tion of the Imperial Institute. This resulted in a huge public outcry
which eventually saved Queen's Tower. He also oversaw the redevel-
opment of the halls of residence in Princes Gardens. The establish-
ment of both the Haldane and Lyon Playfair libraries and the expan-
sion of the Harrington Sports Ground displayed his concern for the
wider issues of university life.
Tizard Henry Thomas Tizard
was described as "prob-
ably the best scientist in
government service" during the 1940s and cer-
tainly he was highly influential in the scientif-
ic progression of both wars.
He flew in the Royal Flying Corps testing
aircraft and bomb sights during the First
World War. Afterwards, he worked on aero
engine fuels before becoming College Rector in 1929. In the same
year he was also made Secretary of the Department of Scientific
and Industrial Research.
In his additional capacity as Chairman of the Committee for the
Scientific Survey of Air Defence, he encouraged the development
of radar. During the war he worked with Blackett in Operational
Research and was involved with the development of the 'bouncing
bomb', Whittle's jet engine and the transfer of technical informa-
tion from America. He stepped down as Rector in 1959 to become
President of Magdalen College, Oxford.
~¥7~£±g^gx\\ Sir Alfred Keogh was the second Rector of
JVeOilfl Imperial College, from 1910 to 1922. A n
organiser and administrator of the first rank,
Keogh was an army medic. As Director General of Army Medical
Services, he totally overhauled military medical organisation and
training prior to the First World War. In 1914 he was recalled to his
old medical post by the direct intervention of Kitchener and only
returned as Rector at the end of hostilities.
—13 —

