Ro47
I M P
31 May 2002
Issue 1238
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/
Supernaturals, or just
blokes in sheets?
(Page 10)
Choose your own adventure, but
with no scantily clad female
barbarians. Shame. (Page 8)
Housing Concerns Deepen
Senior College officials have told Felix
that the College has insufficient cash to
fund the Southside refurbishment.
Nonetheless, Dr Chris Towler, the Director
of Strategy, confirmed that the College
still intends to spend £12.7 million on a
new 'headquarters' building.
Felix has also learned that the
Clayponds hall of residence will definitely
be sold, but only once alternative accom-
modation has been found near the South
Kensington campus. Clayponds currently
houses 332 students, most of whom are
overseas postgraduates.
A n interim balance sheet approved two
weeks ago by the college Council shows
£30 million raised through the sale of stu-
dent residences w i t h only £8 million
being spent on residence refurbishment.
Although the original justification for sell-
ing halls close to the South Kensington
was the need to fund Southside refurbish-
ment, the money now seems to have been
diverted towards the new headquarters
building and the imminent Sports Hall
redevelopment.
Southside: looking up?
The new Director of Estates, M r Brooks-
Wilson, is understood to be considering
various options for the Southside refur-
bishment. Several Universities have
already gone down the private finance
route, either by selling off their assets to
developers and leasing them back, or by
engaging a private management compa-
ny. However, the enormous cost of the
Southside refurbishment makes it unlike-
ly that any developer could make an
acceptable profit over the life of the pro-
posed contract.
The College might also turn the whole
complex over to a housing association,
who would then be able to spend
Government subsidies to bring the build-
ing back up to scratch. However, the hall
would still be controlled by College, and
the wardening system maintained in its
present form.
Union officials, already angry at the
lack of student consultation over the
Clayponds sale, were blunt i n their
assessment of the College hierarchy.
"They know where they want to eventual-
ly end up, but they don't seem to know
how to get there..."
Dr Towler told Felix that "we don't yet
have a College-wide strategy for resi-
dences... we're only part-way through a
hugely iterative process." He also
stressed College's long-term commitment
to the provision of accommodation for first
year undergraduates and overseas post-
graduate students. Etienne
REFERENCE iga broad swipe at
COLLECTION -capitalist Western
Imperial College and HStruCtion to meet
Science Museum Libraries ^ -j J
Ixt msgs: wA 4ward?

