film feature
Live and In Person
It all started in September 1998, when an Australian actress
better known for her famous husband than her acting ability-
took to the stage at the Donmar Warehouse. Eight sell-out
weeks, universal critical acclaim and a drooling British public
later, Nicole Kidman left the country with the kind of credibility
and respect that most actors would die for. A n d it worked. No
longer an Aussie also-ran, she starred in two of the most criti-
cally acclaimed mainstream movies of 2001, has her pick of star
roles, and picked up an Oscar nomination into the bargain.
Dramatic as her career turnaround has been, it might easily
have been dismissed as a fluke that had more to do with the
play's nudity (there was a lot of it) than her acting talent.
However, when Macaulay Culkin revived his flagging career
with an appearance in Madame Melville in October 2000, the
pattern was set. American actors looking to lend their career a
bit of credibility now have a new destination - the West End. In
particular, whilst Broadway critics drool over the prospect of
tearing their performances to shreds, London's theatre review-
ers are regarded as more forgiving, thereby tempting
Hollywood's finest across the pond - particularly as the US
media tends to only pick up on the successes, thereby limiting
the chance of terminal embarrassment back home. The chance
to spend a couple of months in London seems to appeal too, as
does the opportunity to work with some of the hottest young
directors (Sam Mendes, the man responsible for American
Beauty, directed the Blue Room, whilst Shakespeare in Love
helmer John Madden has reunited with Gwyneth Paltrow for
Proof).
As a result, this summer will see the West End inundated by
some of the finest talent Hollywood has to offer. After eight
weeks in the limelight, A n n a Paquin and Hayden Christensen
were recently replaced by Matt Damon and Summer Phoenix in
This Is Our Youth. Gwyneth Paltrow and Madonna have made
tabloid headlines thanks to their appearances in Proof and Up
for Grabs respectively. Willem Dafoe recently starred in a short
run of To You, the Birdie! At the Riverside. Glen Close and
Saffron Burrows are both lined up to star in (separate) produc-
tions at the National Theatre this summer. A n d the astounding-
ly talented Philip Seymour Hoffman recently led an acclaimed
run of Jesus Hopped the A Train. Quite frankly, you're more like-
ly to catch your favourite star in action this summer via
Ticketmaster and Shaftesbury Avenue than via the Odeon and
Warner Village.
The strangest knock-on effect of all this, however, has been
for British actors. None of these stars are here for the money
(Gwyneth Paltrow, for example, will earn £300 a week for her
run at the Donmar) and they'll all have to put up with badly ven-
tilated dressing rooms and the occasional spot of mould back-
stage - and it's for precisely these reasons that most British
actors were only too happy to leave the stage behind them
when fame, fortune and state-of-the-art trailers beckoned. Now,
however, the trend that's been set by their US rivals is dragging
the Brits back into the West End. Ralph Fiennes has signed on
for a season at the NT this autumn, whilst Maggie Smith and
Judi Dench will team up in The Breath of Life, Emily Watson will
tackle Uncle Vanya and Twelfth Night, and Sean Bean will
assay the role of Macbeth. Even Britain's busiest movie star,
Ewan McGregor, is looking to take to the stage later this year
(although he has yet to find a suitable role).
So where will it all end? Who knows. These people certainly
aren't the best stage actors around, and if that's what you want,
you should look elsewhere. On the other hand, you'll rarely get
the chance to see stars who command upwards of £5 million a
movie for under £20, so it really is a chance not to be missed. As
valuable as credibility and critical success may be, a lot of the
US actors are really here to take a break from an unforgiving
work environment which will rarely see them end the day with
a "well done", let alone a standing ovation - so go on, do your bit,
help to make a movie star feel a little better, catch a bit of cul-
ture and have something really cool to tell your friends about
this summer.
Many of these shows will sell out many weeks in advance, so
for your best chance of getting a ticket, call the theatre and find
out when they release returns. You may have to turn up at an
unpleasant time of the morning, but it's not exactly a long way
to go. Plus it's a lot cheaper than buying from a tout.

