new fiction
Distance
Tonight I hit my head on a piece of furni-
ture that was hard and hurt myself. It was
not so much the hurt that mattered as the
fact that no one was there who would
have seen the hurt and tried to make it
better. There was my mother who was far
away, and my father who was also far
away; there was my love, whose words
and face and habits I knew so well that I
could hear and feel what he would say or
do if he had been here. Since he was not,
I pretended that he was, and now there
was his voice in my ear scolding me in his
funny and gentle way for being so clumsy,
saying you should be careful, as well as
his hand patting the curve of my head to
take the pain away.
It is like this most of the time. Outside
the window is someone's back garden,
and back gardens i n South Kensington
are like magic forests that have acciden-
tally woken up in the middle of all these
old, elegant brick buildings, so that look-
ing out of the window is seeing some-
thing spectacular. By myself, the beauty
of these trees sings a sad, sad song when
the branches sway as the wind comes
blowing through them, but when I pre-
tend that he is here, sitting on the w i n -
dowsill without caring how far below the
ground is and looking out of the window
too, the trees sing a love song of the cold
months that are coming, because cold
weather is an excuse to stay close to your
love.
When I looked at the clock it was so late
that for him, half a world away, it would
be so early. N o w he would be in the back
seat of his father's car, head back and
eyes closed, staying asleep but coming
awake, and the famous, terrible traffic of
our home roads would be flowing around
him so that if you thought about it he
would be made so small in the midst of all
the iron and steel and rubber moving sin-
gle-minded in two directions parallel and
opposite. On the highways you are only a
person inside your car; to the highway
there is only the rush moving over it from
seven to eight in the morning and then at
four to six in the evening, the hottest,
grimiest parts of the day. It is fun when
you are not the only person inside your
car, when friends drive friends and words
fly and happiness happens as simply as
that.
I don't know if he has that kind of hap-
piness any more. I want to know, because
there is nothing worse than having him
unhappy and not realising how bad it is
for him. In between us there are seven
hours of time and thirteen hours of plane-
flight, and it is hard to tell from a voice
over the phone how someone is doing.
You miss all the clues that he drops when
he lowers his eyes to the floor, when his
head leans to one side, when he says
something lightly but there is no smile so
you know what is wrong.
At night I sit down and try to write, or
draw, when I know I should be studying
instead, but the things I think about need
to be translated to words and lines on
paper, words and curves on an L C D
screen, rather than words and pictures
unsaid and untold that drift away as
though longing was a gas and expanded
when heated and was lost to the cold air
outside the window. The window moves
up and down and the lock is too stiff to
close. If I lock it do you think my dreams
will be able to go out and join his dreams?
We cannot even dream at the same time;
he wakes up when I am going to bed, I
wake up when he is travelling home
again, exhausted from those terrible
things called lectures and classes.
Maybe my dream tonight will hang in
the air and take a full day to travel east to
where he is so that it will cleverly arrive
just as he is going to sleep. Maybe
dreams are clever and can manage all this
time-twisting. Maybe if we can see each
other in dreams it will not be so bad and
we will not grow so far apart and the
dreams will come true if w e are patient
enough.
A n d in the meantime, I love you.
H o u s i n g Q u e s t i o n s ?
• What does a tenancy agreement mean?
• Can you move out early?
• Do you need repairs to your flat?
• What if you fall out with your housemates?
• Do you need a TV licence?
• Who has to pay for gas and electricity?
• What is council tax?
• What if your landlord keep bothering you?
• Can your landlord keep your deposit when
you leave?
No Problem too Big or too Small!

