lifestyle feature
"See Spot run.
Who needs sentences anyway? Clarissa Saunders
"...communicating i n
real, g r o w n - u p w o r d s
is just a bit old-hat for
the digital age..."
Literacy. For almost three centuries, this
fairly arbitrary concept has been one of
the predominant signs of national pros-
perity and 'social evolution' (whatever
that may be). GDP average life expectan-
cy and imperial might may come and go
as symbols of power and prestige, but
the ability to read and write has been uni-
versally accepted
(note that when I say
universally, I obvi-
ously mean in
Western Europe and
the US) as a surefire
statistical sign of
'progress' since the
early eighteenth cen-
tury. 90% of your population meets basic
literacy standards? Well then, you must
be a great and wonderful country, where
the streets are paved with gold and every
town is an Utopian idyll...
Which is all very nice, but what's it got
to do with the price of fish? Well, it
appears that that's all just too simple for
enlightened twenty-first century think-
ing. Communicating in real, grown-up,
three syllable (second letter f), words is
just a bit old-hat for the digital age. We
want something shorter, less personal
and altogether vaguer from our language
- preferably available in orange and pur-
ple Ikea flatpacks. Basically, it all boils
down to this - when was the last time
you sat down and actually wrote some-
one a real letter? Handwritten or typed, I
don't mind, just as long as it involved a
stamp, an envelope, a postbox and more
than a hundred words (there are 113
words in the first paragraph, so I don't
think that's asking for very much). A
month? A year? Never? But we don't
need snail mail, you say - we've all got
email. It's newer, it's faster, it's free; ergo
it's better. Maybe - but it's not the same.
The whole point of email is that it's sup-
posed to be quick. It's definitely not sup-
posed to suggest an agonising process of
drafts and redrafts, carefully selecting
the most poignant and meaningful words
in order to honestly convey your feelings.
You're supposed to write slapdash
English, preferably with some suspect
spelling and absolutely no regard for
grammar. A n d that's the form that our
primary form of non-verbal communica-
tion has now taken? A s Darwin so
famously said, "evolution's a funny old
game".
Let's try a different
question: How would
you feel if you received
a real letter (Basildon
Bond and everything)
from one of your
friends? From the bank,
fine. From the RBS plat-
inum card people, fine
(I've been pre-approved, you know). I'm
even happy getting mail from the
Readers bloody Digest. But from a friend?
I'd be scared witless before I'd even
opened the envelope. I mean, what kind
of correspondence requires someone to
actually write a letter? To sit down and
compose, to select their words, to con-
struct and mould their sentences? To, in a
word, write? Scary correspondence,
that's what. They're either (a) horren-
dously depressed (not good), (b) dying
(worse), (c) in love
w i t h you (very bad
indeed), or (d) all three
(...bugger). Basically,
this cannot be A Good
Thing.
Y'see, we all want
to be young, hip and
groovy (to paraphrase
Eddie Izzard), and thus we have to be
seen to be footloose and fancy free (to
paraphrase someone else... can't remem-
ber right now - might be Cole Porter). We
must not, under any circumstances,
spend our time contemplating the mean-
ing of existence, the nature of our feel-
ings, or the mental wellbeing of subsis-
tence farmers in Azerbaijan. Unless
you're very, very drunk. Or Thom Yorke.
Or a friend of mine called Ed. So (to cut a
long story sideways), we can't spend
time writing letters. We can't let anyone
"...perhaps w e ' r e
too clever, too m e d i a
s a w y a n d just a little
too ironic..."
know that we've spent the last month-
and-a-half trying to fathom the best way
to tell them something. Even saying
something serious or thought-out via the
medium of oral communication (that's
talking and telephoning to you and me)
are fairly heavily frowned upon. In fact,
we can't do anything but bounce elec-
tronic messages back and forth. We can't
write in the style of Helen Fielding, let
alone Fitzgerald or Hardy or whoever (I'm
not going to suggest that anyone would
want to exchange pleasantries in the
style of Shakespeare - even in the
Sixteenth Century that was pretty daft),
so we email or (queue gasp of righteous
indignation from assembled English pro-
fessors of the world), we exchange text
messages.
A n d (to finally get to the point that I
was trying to make several hundred
words ago) we write complete tosh. Now,
I know that's a very unfair thing to say.
Perhaps you really do fill your Sent Items
folder with delightful, insightful, witty
remarks on the state of the world today.
Perhaps. A n d perhaps your friends eyes
light up every time they receive a text
from you, in response to yet another clev-
erly constructed haiku
that combines a broad
swipe at the state of
neo-capitalist Western
culture w i t h an
instruction to meet
you in the Union Bar at
7.30. Well, perhaps...
But (and, like all the
best buts, it's a big one), that's only the
tip of the iceberg:
How about PowerPoint presentations,
corporate reports, and the whole,
benighted, bullet-point ridden world of
corporate Americana? There's not a prop-
er sentence in sight - it's as if someone,
somewhere has decided that the people
who run the world are simply incapable
of interpreting a few sentences on their
own , and must only be fed grammar free
strings of short, punchy words. Perhaps
the implication is that we're too busy to
feature lifestyle
Run, Spot, run"
investigates the sudden demise of the written word
read anything that can't be summarised
in a series of slides. Perhaps we're too
clever, too media savvy and just a little
too ironic (don't you
change tack for just a moment, let's back
track a couple of centuries, to a little
town in 15th Century Bavaria where
Johannes Gutenberg
unless he or she
absolutely has to..
think) to be swayed "...the user doesn't has just had a really
by wordy descrip- clever idea. He's just
tions and careful jux- w a n t to read a n y t h i n g invented the world's
taposition. Or per-
haps we just don't
like long words -
they're big, they're
scary, they have
things hidden up their sleeves.
How about advertising? From newspa-
pers and magazines, tubes and buses,
billboards and a million identical fly-
posters, we're constantly under threat
from written adverts - and what form do
they all take? A company name, a five
word slogan, web address and a pretty
picture. Even on the most impossibly vast
hoarding or the most extravagant maga-
zine ad, there's still no space explanation,
description or anything more than the
most meagre wordplay - just big, bold
text telling you that it exists and that it's
great. You'd be forgiven for thinking that
it 'twas ever thus, but that's certainly not
true - once upon a time, copywriting was
a skilled art form, performed by trained
professionals operating without the safe-
ty net of funky graphics and expensive
photography. Once again, well-written
words (let alone sentences and para-
graphs) have been ruled obsolete.
Finally, how about the ways in which
(we're taught) good web pages should be
constructed? The user won't scroll. The
user won't read long blocks of text. The
user needs bullets. The user won't
respond to plain text. The user likes short
words. The user wants... The list of
design dos and don'ts is a long one
indeed, and would make the journalists
of thirty or forty years ago spin in their
G&Ts - because it all adds up to one sim-
ple thing: the user doesn't want to read
anything unless he or she absolutely has
to. The user, to put it bluntly, has a pas-
sionate dislike for the written word.
On that rather depressing note, let's
first mechanical print-
ing press, and,
despite the fact that,
so far, he's only run off
a few hundred copies
of a rather nicely illustrated version of the
Bible, Europe is very rapidly waking up
to the fact that it's a shockingly good
idea. So much so, in fact, that within a
century his invention had begun to com-
pletely change the way in which
Europeans wrote and (eventually) the
way in which they communicated, by
allowing a whole new form of writing, the
novel, to exist (text can be non-linear,
y'see, whereas oral communication
forces us to tell stories in a straight line...
it's all very complicated and, quite
frankly, I really can't be bothered to go
into it right now). Perhaps the latest rad-
ical shift in the way we put words on
record will produce a similarly radical
shift in the way we write and, ultimately,
the way we think. History seems to teach
us that the form of writing that best suits
the medium in question becomes, when
that medium reaches
the impossible-to-
ignore, couldn't-live-
without-it, freely-avail-
a b l e - i n - G u a d a l a h a r a
"...we h e a d d o w n
a n inexorable road
think I know anyone who couldn't read
A n Unbearable Likeness of Being or Love
in the Time of Cholera, but what does
that mean - I'm certainly not sure that
they'd all understand them (they con-
fused the hell out of me). Literacy really
means a lot more than simply being able
to read. A n d it also means a lot more than
the ability to construct complicated sen-
tences and use $12 words ad nauseam.
According to a standard definition, it's
about the ability to function in modern
society, and to understand, interpret and
manipulate all that you read and write -
so is anything really changing here? After
all, if we all change the way in which we
read and write, what's the difference?
Literacy levels won't change - just the
way in w h i c h they're tested, right?
Maybe. But, as the norms of written
English (and French, German, Spanish
and Italian, for that matter) dissolve, the
test becomes impossible to write.
Globalisation should protect us from a
return to incompatible regional dialects
and grammars, but the ability to convey
the last nuance of meaning and essence
of thought may well slowly vanish, as we
lose both the language (the nouns) and
the global referents (the verbs and the
adjectives) that that requires.
So is this really a bad thing? Well, it
destroys art; it destroys romance; it
destroys imagination. I'd
say that's quite bad.
None of these can exist
without the kind of writ-
ing - the kind of words -
levels of saturation that t o w a r d s the l a n d of that these forms just
email and texting have don't encourage,
now achieved, the form Tubbyspeak..." Without the ability to
write down or interpret
that we are most fluent
and adept with. A n d so, given a little
time, our ability to write anything else
(and thus anything complex, passionate
or inspirational) disappears into the void
from whence it came.
But does this actually make society any
less literate? Endless statistics will hap-
pily demonstrate that literacy is increas-
ing year by year across the globe. I don't
complex ideas and ideals, our language
will head down an inexorable road
towards the land of Tubbyspeak, and
we'll be left with a culture whose litera-
ture is fuelled by asides, pop culture ref-
erences, curveball tangents, a complete
disregard for the rules of English gram-
mar and stacks of bad puns.
Not entirely unlike this.

