felix talk
Theatre of Science
Fresh from a sell-out run at London's Soho
Theatre, BAFTA winning, Emmy nominat-
ed scientists Simon Singh and Richard
Wiseman bring their Theatre of Science to
Imperial on June 11th. Their two talks
focus on the mathematics of chance and
the psychology of deception, offering up
some very bad jokes, some suspiciously
useful lifestyle tips and a lot of distinctly
odd concepts along the way.
What are the chances of that happening?
by Simon Singh
Having studied Physics at Imperial
(before moving to Cambridge for his PhD),
Simon Singh rose to prominence in 1996
with the screening of his breakthrough
documentary on the world's most famous
mathematical puzzle, Fermat's Last
Theorem. A B A F T A and an Emmy nomi-
nation later, he turned his hand to the
written word, producing two of the best-
selling maths books of all time - Fermat's
Last Theorem and The Code Book - as a
result. He is now an occasional TV and
radio presenter, a frequent lecturer and a
all round clever bloke. So anyway...
We live in a risk society, one in which
there are no surefire bets. Doctors offer
treatments with only a certain probability
of success, climatologists discuss the
likelihood of global warming, and the
dodgy chap on the street corner tempts
us with games like 3-card Monty. But can
mathematics help us to live longer, pre-
dict the future and beat the dealer? Take
a free bet, perhaps w i n a drink and learn
about probability through the experience
of gambling.
Mental Trickery by Richard Wiseman
Having started his life as an award-win-
ning professional magician, Dr Richard
Wiseman made a major left at the traffic
lights when he turned his attentions to
psychology, taking his doctorate at
Edinburgh before moving to the
University of Hertfordshire, where he
leads a team investigating the psycholo-
gy of magic, chance and the paranormal.
There is more to magic than mere dex-
trous trickery, and in the second half of
the show, Richard exposes the psycholo-
gy behind the tricks. There is more to a
magician's trickery than sleight of hand,
and however big your hands are, it helps
to understand the workings of the human
mind. Using magic tricks, demonstra-
tions, video clips, mind games and lots of
audience participation, Richard shows
how to become a master of deception.
The event will take place on the 11th of
June 2002 at 7pm in Lecture Theatre 1,
Physics, Imperial College. Tickets cost £5
(£3 concessions), all of which will help to
support this year's ICU Rag charities, and
are on sale in the Union, the Physics
Undergraduate Office, and from members
of Rag.
Bandanna Week
Choice. We're surrounded by it and it's
great. A coffee preparation method for
every day of the year. "Choose life", as
Ewan McGregor says. Yes, very good.
But weren't the teenage years tough in
the choice department? You try to go
clubbing but your mum/the bouncer/your
D.OB says no. A n d all those career choic-
es: "What are you going to be when you
grow up?", "Where..." etc
Some teenagers don't have a choice
though. At an age when many people are
choosing to experiment with cigarettes
and alcohol, the teen with cancer is being
pumped full of cytotoxic chemicals. The
dose measured to be poisonous enough to
cure you but not quite enough to kill you.
At an age when most are choosing to
assert their individuality, the teen with
cancer is going through devastating phys-
ical changes and in pain.
They have no choice about it, and it's
simply not fair. A n d neither perhaps is the
geographical roulette wheel of the NHS
which traditionally treats teenagers in
either children's or adult oncology units,
both of which are far from ideal.
The Teenage Cancer Trust (TCC) was
set up in 1990 in response to this gap in
care. Since then they have funded six ded-
icated teenage oncology units in the UK
and have plans for 14 more over the next
10 years.
The units are designed and run on the
basis of listening to those that know -
teenagers in treatment and remission and
their families. They bridge the gap
between the needs of a dependant child
and those of an independent adult.
Individualism is respected and, encour-
aged to question and ask, most patients
are fluent in 'cancer language1
. They not
only know the names of their drugs but
which vein with which type of needle the
nurses should use. The staff are lively and
encouraging and there is an atmosphere
of a youth club in the wards with music,
posters on the wall, a pool table, comput-
ers and a separate room with TV and
games where the patients can hang out
without staff or parents (unless invited in!)
This week is Bandanna Week 2002, the
second year that the TCC has run this
massive fundraiser (£100k in 2001) to fund
their ongoing work and raise awareness of
these issues in both the public and NHS
eyes. The Bandannas are designed by
designers such as Stella McCartney and
Paul Smith and by buying and wearing
one, you can express solidarity with
young cancer patients.
There are many larger cancer charities
that do essential work, especially in
research. But the TCC, in the words of
Mark Woods, one of only six people the
charity employs, "makes a difference to
young people right now." These wards
help the patients find companionship with
their peers and go a long way in overcom-
ing many of the mental difficulties, which
are often overlooked, of facing such dev-
astating illness alone.
You can purchase the bandannas in
many shops including Selfridges and Top
Shop, and also in the Chaplaincy office in
Beit East Basement.
For more information check out:
http://www.bandannaweek.com/
or email:
gillian.straine@ic.ac.uk

