music reviews
The Breeders
Title TK
Out now on 4AD records
Kim and Kelley Deal return with another
Breeders album chock full of indie-rock
goodness. Sounding a little more
stripped-down and bare than the older
material, Title TK finds soft and scuzzy
guitars picking their way across strange
song structures, whilst Kim smothers
almost unfathomable lyrics over the top
("Has anyone seen the iguana?" goes
one chorus). The whole thing is held
together by the sheer beauty of the
arrangements.
A lack of glossy production brings the
intimacy of the songs into a sharp focus -
close your eyes and the band could be
jamming on tiny little amps in the next
room, if it wasn't for the obscure sound
effects that keep dropping into the songs
for a couple of seconds before disappear-
ing.
The great little vocal harmonies put
together by the Deal sisters gain a lot
from the rawness of the sound, helped
along by the fact that their gravelly 40-a-
day voices are so similar. This is put to
great use on opening track Little Fury.
The brilliant Off You finds Kim singing
along with a lone guitar and bass, sound-
ing like someone at the far reaches of
sadness, letting the heavy sighs
between lines hang in with the music.
Although the second half of Title TK
starts to sound a little alt-country, the
album rarely strays from this minimalist
aura, and is the better for it. A welcome
return.
Title TK was recorded by Steve Albini
in Chicago. The Breeders play the Astoria
on Saturday and the Mean Fiddler on
Sunday.
The Supernaturals Belle & Sebastian
What We Did Last Summer Storytelling
Out this Monday on Koch records
As you may have read previously in these
pages, The Supernaturals once produced
such gloriously fun records as Smile and
Lazy Lover, but their recent singles have
been somewhat less than great. So
what's the album like? Well unfortunate-
ly, it seems that the mighty have fallen,
and just as badly as I first feared.
My main criticism is that they have
ditched the crisp organ/guitar collabora-
tions, and now seem to use a cheap key-
board to add Nintendo-style soundtracks
to the songs, making it all sound ama-
teurish. Worse is the fact that they now
sound like a new romantic band, and a
bad one at that.
The only track that works is Life Is A
Motorway, which shows that under all
the electronic noises and sequences lies
the talent that is desperate to be
released. This is by far the best track on
the album, and is suitably cheesy and
light. It is a great shame that the rest just
don't match up.
Too much of this album sounds as
though they are just putting on a brave
face and trying to hide the turmoil under
their skin. Hopefully the 'Naturals will
come out of their musical coma and pro-
duce songs like those of old again. A n d
please ditch that keyboard!
Out this Monday on Jeepster records
This album is an extended and half-cut
soundtrack of the Todd Solandz movie
Storytelling. Belle and Sebastian were
originally taken on to write the music for
the second half of the movie, then asked
to do it all, before being given just the
second half again. Consequently, what
you have here are the basic pieces that
they wrote for the whole film, half of
which were never used.
So what does this mean for the album?
Well, as you go through it, you do get the
impression of a story being developed,
but without seeing the film you can't
quite tell what that story is. However, I
do know that I want to see it, as the
music suggests that the film has a cer-
tain amount of depth and will make you
think.
In terms of the music, Belle and
Sebastian have done a good job of vary-
ing the pieces around a theme. The snip-
pets of dialogue from the film which
appear between tracks both help and
hinder things - they help you to see
pieces of the story, but tend to interrupt
the flow of the album.
All in all, this is relaxing, having as it
does that typical Belle and Sebastian lo-
fi indie sound. But you get bored of it too
quickly.
»•••• Tank Tank
ID Ben
A L B U M S
BELLE & SEBASTIAN - Storytelling
GARY N U M A N - Exposure
DJ SHADOW - The Private Press
THE SUPERNATURALS - What We Did
VARIOUS - Escape To Formentera
OUT THIS WEEK Monday 3 June
SINGLES
BUSTA RHYMES - Pass The Courvoisier
LAST M A N STANDING - Fate
LIBERTINES - What A Waster
NELLY - Hot In Herre
SILT - In Line

