F E L I X 3
P r o f i l e
J O H N L A N C E L O T S A U N D E R S
This Sir Galahad of I.C. is more generally
known as "Dick" - John "being so common as
to almost he of no use as a name, Lancelot
being too embarassing I His bearded and
Mephistophelean countenance is destined for
even greater notoriety, owing to a current
publicity campaign. The beard began as a
'dare' and is now being defiantly maintained
- as also i s the eternal search for the
few "who don't strongly object to •whiskers".
It also provides an effective answer to offers
of stage make-up - "No thanks, I grow my
own."
Of his school career he has little to
say except that he ran as a quarter-miler
and played the only sane character - Mortimer
Brewster - in "Arsenic and Old Lace". Not
in character ? "I'm not a Brewster, I'm
the son of a 3ea-cook." - On second
thoughts, yes I
He entered I.C. in 1950 for the Inter.
Course (?) and proceeded to study Physics'in
his next year, s t i l l talcing part in athletics
and the Dramatic Society. After the usual
disagreement with the examiners in 1952 he
departed for the S.A.P., of which he was s t i l l
a member as Junior Technician Acting Corporal
(Paid) when he returned to City and Guilds
in 1954 - in fact he enjoyed the distinc-
-tion of receiving pay from both his County
and the R.A.F. during his first three weeks
Dack.
His memory stretches back to the times
when Kitch was an under-graduate and includes
such historic occasions as that when R.C.S.
held an Official Union meeting at 11.30 p.m.
- on Piooadilly Underground Station!
He has taken an active part in Union
affairs - a recent copy of 'Phoenix' shows
him clasping a young lady in a distinctly
non-L fashion at the Pawnee Potlatch. In
the Dram. Soc. he has taken a selection of
roles, painted scenery and even tried his
hand at producing - he insists that he had
no hand in "The White Sheep of the Family"
After a year a3 Society Secretary, he
was the only member with a sufficiently un-
reliable "car" to follow in Ian Duff's steps
as President of I.C.D.S. (the petrol shortage
doesn't worry his as i t appears to run on a
peouliar mixture of water and oil). In
this position he has had the unenviable task
of trying to chivvy the planning office into
having the Concert Hall ready for the
inaugural production of "Loftur" - a mighty
epio, vaguely reminiscent of the land of
Eskimo Nell and starring (yes, you've guessed
it J) Dick Saunders.
A last point - those visiting his room
are requested to refrain from roller-skating
on his ceiling.
Continued from page 1.
Now for the background to the question about flats
very olose to the oollege. As all readers are aware, the
oollege has acquired the north, east and south sides of
Princes Gardens. The east and south sides are practically
derelict (except for the Air Squadron and its two nearest
neighbours whioh I.C. do not own). The existing buildings
will be demolished and replaced by hostels as soon as red-
tape and contractors will allow. It is estimated that
accommodation for about 600 (plus two large refectories
on the south side) will be ready by autumn, 1959.
The north side is more of a problem. Some leases
do not run out for about 8 years, and the site oannot
be developed properly until then. However, certain
houses are in such condition that they could be renovated
to serve as temporary flats during this period. The
college would require to recover their outlay involved
in such renovation in rents spread over the eight-year
period. A oiroular was sent to all members of staff asking
whether they would be interested in living in such flats.
As soon as this came to the notioe of the Union Executive
strong representations were made to the college authorities
that such flats should be available for
students to share, since Princes Gardens was
purchased expressly for student residence. A
rough investigation by the Domestic Bursar,
Mr. Seaford, and the I.C. President showed
that between 60 and 100 students could jjrobably
be accommodated (depending on the state of
delapidation of certain houses) and that the
rents would probably be well within the scope
of PG's and overseas students and possibly of
undergrads as well, A professional survey, at
present in progress, will confirm or disprove
these hopes. Mr. Seaford thinks that flats
could be made ready for next session.
The Executive hoped that the lodgings
survey would strengthen their case for making
the flats available to students. Over half of
those responding to the survey said they would
be interested, and suggested an average of £2
per week per head.Some offered considerably
more. Many others said they would like to move
into a hostel near I.C. but felt that their
digs were more suitable than sharing a flat.
Whether or not the idea is economically feasible
remains to be seen. It is quite certain that
every chance of quiokly obtaining more accommo-
dation should be thoroughly explored, and an
extra 100 near-by residents would be a great
asset to the Union and to the people concerned,
especially during the next three years.It would
also mean a hundred fewer people joining in the
scramble for good digs near I.C. Many thanks to
those who filled in their farms.
Some quotations from "Lodgings Survey" forms.
"I am fed up with being slung out of one plaoe
and then another."
"Miserable landlady."
"To me a change of scenery outweighs the obvious
advantage (i.e. more college life) of living in
the hostel."
"The tyranny of landladies in Ealing i s killing
I.C."
Someone who lives in Hornohurch and spends 3 i
hours a day travelling, writes "I would like to
live near college but I cannot get a large enough
grant from the state. They claim I live "too near"
the college."
"There's no place like home" - spends 2 hrs
travelling.
"To have to cook and wash up for myself would
drive me to marriage."
"I'm okay Jaokl"

