F E L I X
RODERIC HILL BUILDING
-mm "TH'S
T « ( V ( E . *«•*•
eKe • e 0* « s • a G
r
* • t • • *.R«
GENERAL STUDIES
Two of the General Studies Lectures on Tuesday S
20th. November were organised hy the I.C. Conservative
Society on the one hand and the Socialist Society on
the other. The large attendance at both these meetings
indicates that interest in politics i s s t i l l very
alive at I.C.
The Conservative Society had as their Guest Speak-
er Mr. Harold Watkinson, the Minister of Transport,
who spoke about the future of British roads. Mr. Wat-
kinson gave a brief outline of the network of motor-
ways that he proposed to construct and explained why
this particular plan had been adopted. In the course
of his remarks he pointed out the necessity of having
an overall plan for all forms of transportation, with-
in the framework of whioh the new road programme must
fit. He also said that the new motorways were planned
primarily for trucks, not the private motorist, and
that coupled with any new motorway there had to be
adequate ring roads within the oities so that traffic
could gain easy access to the factory areas.
The lecture organised by the Socialist Society
had the provocative title "A British Communist looks
at Hungary" and, as expected, led to some very live-
ly discussion. The speaker was Mr. Tom Durkin, who
was introduced by John Cox.
Mr. Durkin spoke for 35 minutes, during whioh
time he was frequently interrupted from the back of
the hall, then he bravely volunteered to answer ques-
tions. The questions eventually turned into a general
debate from the floor. At one time the speaker simply
sat back and let his audience get on with i t .
The meestiug was scheduled to end at 2.15 p.m.
Hut actually continued until 3*30 p.m. when i t was
finally broken vcp by the entrance of Physios III for
a lecture.
fatch out. Guilds.
Anthony Hopkins - General Studies
lecturer - professed a passionate regard
for Bo. Petrol rationing or not i t may appear
elsewhere than on the cover of Punch - per-
haps the next Hoffnung Concert.
Honorary Awards.
Ted Smith, who will have been here
30 years come April 1st, and Mooney, for
his great efforts in the Refectory at the
beginning of the term, have been made
Honorary Life Members of the Union i n
recognition of their services.
Closed Shop Policy.
Last year the Bookstall refused to
sell Christmas Cards to certain non-union
members of the staff. The Domestic Bursar
has now produced an unofficial card, for
sale to staff and students, in competition
with the official Union Card.. The unoffi-
cial card, which is of poor quality, is the
one with the photo of the Rodei-Cc Hill
building.
Carnival Chaos.
The postponement of the Carnival will
have repercussions elsewhere. In past years
the Bedford and R.C.A. Balls have been held
on the same date as the Carnival, (oollusion
between entertainments committees?). It has
become the accepted|practice for the more
virile attending the Balls to round off the
night at the Carnival; must these oelebra-
, tions now end prematurely?
Dining Hall.
lunches in the new Dining Hal] are now becoming
popular with the rank and file. Those with more time
to spare than for snack bar sandwiches are missing
the refectory queues and eating their meals in comfort.
The food is served hot and fowl appears on the menu
almost daily.
Rector's Round.
The Reotor presented plaques with the crests of
I.C. and the three constituent colleges to the res-
pective presidents at Hall Dinner on 20th. Nov. The
plaques, whioh are to adorn the new bar were produced
from a brown bag (J) and were wrapped in a eopy of
'Felix'(J). In thanking the Reotor, Kitoh expressed
regret that the Dinner could not terminate i n the new
bar, where the cry "Drinks all round on the Rector*
might have been heard.
Drum Rolls Again.
R.C.S. are to manufacture a drum as a thievable
and audible totem. This will enable Guilds to attempt
to regain face after their dreadful neglect of the
Spanner.
Hopping Mad.
It has been revealed that only eight ICWArians
supported their dance a week last Saturday. Is this,
because the President issued an edict forbidding
fraternisation within the oollege ?
There can be mo reflection oast on the males
here; maiden* from elsewhere flocked to the hop -
and had to be turned away in large numbers, dis-
appointed.

