TECHNOLOGY
Tips & Hacks
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
AMD pulls out of ‘two-horse race’
School ICT to finally be revamped
Lost focus? Try the Lytro
Have you ever taken a picture, only to be dis-
appointed when you later find it to be out of
focus? You’re certainly not alone. Enter Lytro,
the world’s first consumer-targeted light-field
camera.
So what does that mean? In your everyday
camera, what the sensor captures when you
press the button is what you’re stuck with. It
doesn’t matter how many millions of pixels
you can capture at once if the light informa-
tion you gather results in a blurry image. The
light-field technology used in the Lytro takes
a completely different approach to avoid this.
Instead of focusing on a point and capturing
the light information for that perspective, the
camera captures up to 11 million rays of light
going in every direction.
The main (and cool) advantage of this? You
get to focus and refocus your photos after
they’ve been taken. Not only that, but there’s
no auto-focus motor working in the time be-
tween you pressing the button and the picture
being taken. That results in the picture you end
up with being much closer to the one that you
saw with your eyes when you pressed the but-
ton – essential for fast moving objects and the
like.
So what about the actual camera itself? It’s
surprisingly small – a cuboid-shaped device
just over 11cm long and 4cm wide and high.
With that you get a small (3.3cm) touchscreen,
shutter and power buttons, either 8 or 16GB
of storage and a very decent 8x optical zoom.
It’s light too, weighing in at just over 200g,
but it’s strong aluminium shell means that it
doesn’t have to skimp on durability to achieve
that figure.
The pictures come in at about 20-25MB each,
and Lytro quote that the 8GB models (“Graph-
ite” and “Electric Blue”) will hold about 350
pictures, with the 16GB model (“Red Hot”)
holding up to 750. The different models are
priced at $399 and $499 respectively, which
isn’t cheap, but isn’t too expensive either when
you consider how new this technology is.
If you often find you’ve missed out on
capturing those unmissable moments due to
shoddy focusing, or perhaps you like to take
pictures of fast-moving objects, then the Lytro
may be the camera for you. Even if you don’t
buy this camera, I reckon we’ll be seeing a lot
more of this technology in the years to come.
A company spokesman for AMD recently stated that
the company is going to “let go of the old ‘AMD ver-
sus Intel’ mindset”, a rivalry that has been ongo-
ing for decades. It’s hardly surprising that they’ve
decided on a shift in strategy, as they just haven’t
been able to compete in the last few years. Even
the latest Bulldozer chips – which were meant to
be the pinnacle of desktop power – flopped. Mean-
while, Intel are going from strength to strength, with
their Sandy Bridge line trouncing anything and every-
thing that gets in the way. So what can we expect
from AMD in the coming years? They have never ex-
pressed interest in building chips for smartphones
and other handhelds before – and that’s a market
already dominated by ARM. But they could have
something in their sleeve. Or perhaps they’re look-
ing at the emerging ultrabook market: one without a
clear chip leader. Only time will tell, but with nothing
to lose, it was probably the right decision for them.
A major initiative has been launched to drag Britain’s
computer science curriculum into the 21st century,
with one major goal being the reform of an ICT cur-
riculum that has aged considerably since its intro-
duction in the 90s. The Next Gen Skills campaign,
which was coincidentally launched just before the
release of a government report on the state of the
national IT education system, aims to modernise a
syllabus which at the moment focuses heavily on
using software rather than making it. There does
appear to be some confusion over what constitutes
‘computer science’ and ‘ICT’, perhaps emblematic
of the dire need for a revision of some sort. With the
government agreeing on the need for intervention,
the only question is whether and where funding is to
be found for it. The hope is that the new curriculum
will focus on creative coding rather than repetitious
Excel tasks; creating inventive programmers (think
Minecraft) rather than earnest number-crunchers.
The revision is merely in its first steps at the mo-
ment, but the coming year should see some clearer
details emerge on the nature of the changes to be
made. Hopefully, the legacy of the BBC Micro can be
repeated in a modern context; it’s the only thing that
will keep Britain competitive in an hugely technology
dependent world.
FELIX
10 Friday 02 december 2011
Chris Bowers
I expect most of you have noticed the new
items that have started appearing in your Face-
book feeds: Spotify playlists of music that your
friends are listening to, and news articles from
a whole host of national and international pa-
pers. They are part of the ‘OpenGraph’scheme
that Facebook has been pushing in earnest over
the last few months: adding a few tags to your
website means that any links to your website
from within Facebook makes it a Facebook
page.
Facebook’s been selling this feature hard: it
describes the feature as enabling you to ‘inte-
grate your Web pages into the social graph’,
whatever that means. Yet how much control
does the average user have on articles that ap-
pear in your profile, and how intrusive is the
new service? As anyone trying to use any of
the new links will have noticed, you can’t click
on news articles on Facebook without signing
up for ‘a new social reading experience’. Be-
fore agreeing to use the service you can choose
which of your friends get to see what articles
you read, a feature which I suspect few people
are using. On getting through to the article,
you are delivered to a Facebook themed ver-
sion of the news website, with an option to
visit the actual website if you wish.
It’s all fairly straightfoward and has been
embraced with some enthusiasm by downturn-
stricken publishers as a way of driving hits and
advertising revenue. Yet despite the new me-
dia/social media feeding frenzy, of how much
benefit is this to the average user? The new in-
terface adds nothing of value to the reader, un-
less you find comfort in reading reams of PR
waffle about the power of social sharing. The
biggest change that you have probably noticed
is that your feed is now cluttered with the titles
of articles your friends have read. If you have
anywhere near the average number of friends,
the articles are bound to be from a wide se-
lection and not really catered to anything you
are interested in. As far as new and interest-
ing reading material goes, I’ve seen little. The
same applies to Spotify in my opinion. I don’t
make friends solely on the basic of music taste,
and in many cases would rather not know
about what my friends have been listening to.
One might argue that the responsibility of
choosing which feeds end up in your timeline
lies with your friends, as they are in control
of what you see after all. Yet I would have to
disagree - the sharing system in Facebook is
very cleverly organised to make limiting shar-
ing a few orders of difficulty more complex
to organise than expanding sharing. In a sys-
tem geared towards drastically increasing the
amount of information you push out to the
world, it’s not surprising we’re hit with much
more than we can possibly care about.
It wouldn’t be wise to underestimate the way
media sharing has changed our communica-
tion. Yet sharing is only effective when it is
organic, not when it is forced. Whole hordes
of PR representatives shouting about the value
of ‘next generation creative synergy’ will not
get me to read an article about something that
doesn’t interest me, no matter how hard they
push it into my feed.
Social media is in essence about finding in-
formation that interests you that you wouldn’t
have found before, but it doesn’t mean that
information can be thrown at you from ev-
ery context. When I log onto Facebook, it is
to share things with all my friends, a diverse
bunch of people from different countries, with
diverse political and cultural tastes. Shoehorn-
ing views that are of no interest to them into
my feed doesn’t interest me. Sharing has been
great, but as with everything, the point of ‘too
much’ has been reached.
Feroz Salam
Facebook: all shared out?

