POLITICS
FELIX 11
FRIDAY 02 december 2011
Looking at The Bottom Billion
A review of the book and a glance at the main problem in international development
Rory Fenton
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
The world of international develop-
ment is more often than not more
complex than the image the rock con-
certs and heart-strings-tugging TV
ads might project. Often riddled with
scandalous corruption and heated
debate, a heavy dose of evidence is
clearly needed. Oxford Professor Paul
Collier aims to provide just this in his
2007 book The Bottom Billion. Billed
as an explanation as to ‘Why the poor-
est countries are failing and what can
be done about it’, the book injects a
generous helping of evidence and sta-
tistical analysis in the aid debate, like
smashing LSE and Imperial together
in a particle accelerator.
A real strength of this book is that it
manages to be utterly devoid of ideol-
ogy. It doesn’t even argue that fight-
ing poverty is a moral issue, rather
pointing out that the practical ben-
efits more than pay for themselves.
This absence of ideology is achieved
through a technique after my own
scientific heart: statistical evidence.
Debate around development tends to
be focussed on ‘poverty traps’. The
Left believe that being poor to start
with keeps you poor; you can’t afford
anti-malaria medicine so you get sick
which means you can’t work which
keeps you poor which means you
can’t afford the malaria medicine next
time either. All the poor need, say the
Left, is one Big Push to get them onto
their feet, to buy medicine for them, to
educate their children etc. The Right,
on the other hand, deny the very exis-
tence of such traps with all the passion
of Dawkins and his New Atheists. It is
aid, they say, which keeps people poor
by making them dependent on hand-
outs and putting money in the hands
of unpleasant politicians.
Collier, on the other hand, sits be-
twixt these positions, shaking his
scarily educated head. Just look at
the evidence, he implores. The Bot-
tom Billion is just that; the evidence.
And having been head of development
research at the World Bank and now
director of the Centre for the Study
of African Economies at Oxford, he’s
accrued quite a bit of evidence in
his time, all of which has led him to
believe that yes there are some pov-
erty traps. But they come in different
forms and may be affecting a given
country in different ways. These traps
are: conflict, natural resources, being
landlocked and poor governance.
It’s pretty obvious that a country in
the midst of a civil war is not going
to develop very well economically but
what Collier does is to quantify this
truism. From the stats, a given failing
state has about a 14% chance of civil
war within a 5 year period. He finds
that each percentage point knocks a
percentage point off that risk. So a
poor country growing at 2% will have
the risk of civil war reduced to 12%
whereas a country declining at 2%
each year will have the risk increase to
16%. Of course, you might think that
the prospect of peace leads to greater
spending and so peace causes growth
and not the other way around, but
even when growth is caused by a rain
shock (a flood, drought of very good
rainy season), the same effect is found
on the risk of conflict.
This might be hard for many to ac-
cept, as it is tempting to believe that
rebels are fighting for some kind of
cause, not simply because of a low
growth rate, and besides, isn’t much
of Africa’s civil strife simply a result
of the horrors of colonialism? But
when Collier compared countries with
varying levels of economic inequality
and oppression of minorities as well
as whether or not they had been colo-
nised, he could find no clear evidence
that these made countries any more
conflict prone.
Other than the human misery caused
by civil war, the impact is economi-
cally devastating. Collier puts the
economic damage due to civil war at
$64bn to both the country itself and its
neighbours. Given that two civil wars
on average start every year, that’s
about $100bn lost – more than the en-
tire global aid budget.
So the poorer a country is, the more
likely it is the fall into the very con-
flict that keeps it poor.
Natural resources should be an easy
route out of poverty and yet some of
the world’s poorest countries have an
abundance of the stuff, just think of
Angola and the Democratic Republic
of Congo. Natural resources feed into
the conflict trap since they provide
something clearly worth fighting over,
as seen in the movie Blood Diamond
set in Sierra Leone. But natural re-
sources can damage any country be-
cause they reduce the treasury’s reli-
ance on individual taxes, thus making
politicians less accountable to their
people. It is also much easier for poli-
ticians to embezzle money from natu-
ral resources and spend the money on
simply bribing community leaders for
their people’s votes.
Simply giving poor countries money
is the obvious answer. But when used
unwisely, aid can be counterproduc-
tive. When money flows into a country
in the form of foreign currency (such
as with aid) it needs to be converted
into local currency to be useful. How-
ever, aid isn’t the only foreign curren-
cy that needs to become local; money
generated from exporting goods also
needs to be converted into local cash.
So aid money actively competes with
exports, reducing the value of engag-
ing in the kind of trade which could
pull the country out of poverty. Added
to this, many poor countries place
high tariffs on imported goods, which
makes it even less likely that citizens
will want to purchase foreign cur-
rency; they have nothing to buy with
it, reducing the exchange value of the
aid.
It also isn’t clear that aid neces-
sarily brings growth (as argued most
strongly by NYU’s William Easterly).
Collier points out that a good natural
experiment for an increase in aid mon-
ey can be seen by the increases in the
Nigerian governments revenues due to
record oil prices; no additional growth
followed. Not only can direct financial
aid have this effect, so can the debt re-
lief so loudly trumpeted by the Live 8
concerts. This doesn’t mean that aid is
doomed to failure; rather that it can’t
be seen as a magic bullet.
And aid money doesn’t necessarily
go where the West might want it to go.
Collier estimates that about 11% of
aid is actually spent on the country’s
army, representing 40% of military
spending. Interestingly, Collier finds
that the influx of aid increases the
probability of a coup; to the victors,
the spoils. Aid also reduces the need
for economic reform, as it removes its
urgency.
Given this, Collier’s conclusion
is not that we should give up on aid,
rather that it should be given when
the time is right. Corrupt governments
will only waste the stuff, but once a
genuine reformer gets in they should
receive all the help they can get.
This is undoubtedly the most contro-
versial section in The Bottom Billion.
Remember the $64bn lost by each civil
war? Collier argues that military inter-
vention can prove to be one of the most
successful forms of aid, provided inter-
vening forces are prepared to take real
risks, unlike the infamous peacekeepers
in Rwanda, who would only fire when
fired upon, not when civilians were at
risk. The economic arguments make a
novel addition to the tired (but compel-
ling) moral ones.
Collier, in all, seems convinced that we
can chip in. International regulation is his
weapon of choice to tackle companies
that pay bribes and to provide a bench
mark for reform minded politicians. His
case for military intervention is definitely
the most daring of his proposals and in a
post Iraq world, the least likely to take
place. Aid can make a difference when
directed at the right time and at the right
kind of investment (like infrastructure).
The book is certainly very ‘big picture’
and a proper review of how aid works at
the local level will have to wait for my
rereading of Poor Economics. All in all,
a worthwhile, interesting read.
And the title of the book? Perhaps the
most successful criticism contained with-
in the book is contained within that title.
It is time, Collier argues, to move away
from seeing a world of 1 billion rich peo-
ple and 5 billion poor when so many of
those poor are pulling themselves out of
poverty. The Millennium Development
Goals make this mistake by bunching the
world’s poor together. A new develop-
ment strategy focussed less on booming
China, India and Brazil could achieve a
lot more for the poorest billion who, so
far, seem stuck at the bottom rung.
The world
beyond College
walls
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Natural Resources
What Can Be Done?
Iran Mexico/US Egypt
Military Intervention
Conclusion
Conflict
After Tuesday’s storming of the Brit-
ish Embassy in Iran by angry protes-
tors, tensions have risen between
Iran and several European coun-
tries. British diplomatic staff have
been evacuated from the country
and on Wednesday Germany and
France announced they were also
withdrawing their embassy staff in
Tehran.
Wednesday saw a further break-
down in relations between London
and Tehran as Foreign Secreary Wil-
liam Hague gave Iranian diplomats
48 hours to leave the UK.
US police have found an impressive
drug tunnel, which links warehouses
in Tijuana and San Diego. The tunnel
is approximately 4.5 metres deep
and contains lighting and transport
carts for efficient drug movement.
Mexican security forces seized
three tonnes of marijuana at the
tunnel entrance shortly after discov-
ering the tunnel in a warehouse in
Tijuana.
A US police spokeswoman speak-
ing during a press conference said it
was the most impressive drug tun-
nel they have found in 5 years.
Last week protests in Tahrir Square
were restarted as the population
shows its dissatisfaction with the
rule of the military council that took
over the governance of Egypt after
the deposition of former President
Hosni Mubarak. Since they started
to lead the country, public safety
has decreased and economic in-
vestment in the country has de-
clined. After increased pressure,
the Supreme Council of the Armed
Forces promised to hold a presi-
dential election in June, as well as
releasing political prisoners.
by Joseph Letts and Rajat Jain

