BUSINESS
FELIX
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 02 december 2011
As a result of the so-called “Euro debt crisis”
– whose solution seems to be too distant
still to be clear – several of the euro club
countries have been bailed out. Starting with
Greece (2009), Ireland (2010) and Portugal
(2010) have also been rescued, and in all the
cases, the process followed a similar pattern.
At some point, financial analysts and the
“markets” – that abstraction which so conve-
niently hides the fact that they are made up of
people – start questioning the capacity of those
countries to honour their debts. How so? En-
ter the credit rating agencies, whose credibil-
ity, severely harmed by the credit crunch, does
not prevent them from offering their educated
opinion on the subject, in the form of the rather
vulgar recitation: “public debt is too high; cur-
rent deficit is not being adequately tackled;
hence, we are cutting their credit rating from
AA– to BB+ with negative outlook…”
This brings in to question the ability of those
countries to pay their debt, and panic ensues.
Their public debt bonds, which are exchanged
in secondary markets, become far less attrac-
tive than before, and the interest rates inves-
tors ask for buying new emissions surge. In no
time, these rates have reached such high levels
(about 7% interest for 10 years bonds is usu-
ally thought to be the limit) that it becomes
unsustainable for those countries to sell their
bonds on those terms. As a result, the credit rat-
ing agencies cut their rating further, and in no
time those countries have to be bailed out by
the IMF and the European Union.
As a spectator, the process seems quite dra-
matic. The attention of the media focuses on
public finances – self-styled financial experts
start pontificating about their problems, their
economies scrutinised and questioned as a
whole. A media circus begins, that only pre-
cipitates the outcome, and, upon being bailed
out, they are forced to undertake severe budget
cuts, which inevitably depress the economy
further, thus forcing them to take even more
radical measures that necessarily produce fur-
ther recession: the tragedy has just begun.
The arguments analysts and experts usually
offer are always the same. They will point out
the unsustainable amount of public debt with
respect to the GDP; then that their governments
have failed or have not done enough to reduce
their deficits; that the ongoing economic crisis
means that they are less likely to grow enough
to pay off their debts; that their economies have
severe structural problems that make the long
term sustainability of their finances impossible
unless dramatic reforms are implemented.
They will suggest liberalising the labour mar-
ket, increasing the retirement age, VAT and
other taxes, and slashing government spend-
ing: “privatisation, deregulation and liberali-
sation”, economists’ universal panacea.
These arguments seem sensible: offered from
an expert’s perspective they are by all means
good ones. However, the fallacy is that the
same arguments offered to question the public
finances of Greece, Portugal, Italy, Spain or
Ireland can equally be used to question those of
more economically fortunate countries such as
the UK, Germany, France, or the USA.
Consider, for instance, the UK, where public
debt amounts to 81% of the GDP. If the total
debt is accounted for, i.e. if the foreign debt
due to private individuals and companies is in-
cluded, the UK’s debt is of 436% of its GDP.
That is amongst the highest in the developed
world: each UK citizens owes €117,580 to
foreigners. Now, compare these figures with
those of, say, Spain: public debt, 67% GDP;
total (public+private) debt, 284% GDP; each
Spaniard owing €41,366 to foreign investors.
The prudent finances of Germany (83% GDP
public debt; 176% GDP total debt; each Ger-
man owes €50,659 abroad) seem no better than
those of the often questioned Italy: 121% GDP
public debt; but 163% of total foreign debt, so
that each Italian would owe €32,875 to foreign
investors. France has an 87% GDP public debt,
a 235% GDP total debt, and each French citoy-
en owes €66,508 abroad. Among the already
bailed out countries, Ireland seems by far the
worst case: 109% GDP public debt, and a stag-
gering 1,093% GDP total debt, with €390,969
per capita debt: the Republic of Ireland, with
4.5 million population, owes as much money as
the Kingdom of Spain, with 47 million popula-
tion. Greece has 166% GDP public debt, and
252% GDP total debt, each Greek citizen ow-
ing €38,073 abroad.
Of course, the economies of Spain, Italy,
Germany and the UK are not the same, which
roughly explains why some are so severely
questioned and others so mildly treated: it is,
after all, a matter of confidence, of whether
investors believe you will be able to honour
your debts or not. And that confidence is more
or less based on the strengths investors may
see in each country’s economy. For instance,
the UK has a huge financial sector and attracts
and moves a great deal of capital, which ac-
counts for much of the private debt; as long
as it does not have to be bailed out by the UK
government (an impossible deed, looking at
the amount it owes), the UK seems to have a
strong enough economy to be able to honour its
debts. The huge Irish debt is also explained by
the amount of foreign companies that, thanks
to the Irish fiscal dumping system, have their
European headquarters in the emerald isle; but
as the housing bubble burst, Irish indebtedness
was judged too large. In turn, Spain has suf-
fered a devastating burst of its construction
and housing bubbles, so although its public
finances are by far the best of all the countries
considered, its overall economic situation, with
20% unemployment rate, doesn’t seem very at-
tractive. And Germany’s economy has fared
so well during the recession, and its fame as a
country that always pays its debts is so well es-
tablished, that despite its public finances being
no better than any others’, it is still regarded as
a safe haven.
But, all in all, reasons to fear the long-term
sustainability of public debt are not that well
founded. Consider, for instance, Germany. It
is quite true that its economy is the strongest
12
“I have no more patience for this Europe where Au-
tumn wears the face of Spring and Spring reeks of
misery.” So spake Martha in Le Malentendu, Albert
Camus’s 20th century take on the Greek tragedy,
Oedipus. As the European countries that consti-
tute the Eurozone struggle through their sovereign
debt crisis, Martha’s bleak outlook resounds true
with the public zeitgeist now, in the 21st century.
In the late spring of 2010 Greece became the
first country in the Eurozone to receive a bailout
from the EU and IMF; in the autumn of that year
Ireland too was bailed out; this spring came Por-
tugal, next in cycle of seasons and bailouts. At
home a spring marked by freezes to public sector
pay for the next two years has now been followed
by the announcment in the Chancellor’s Autumn
Statement that increases after this period will be
capped at one per cent, indicating continuing un-
happiness for those who have taken to the streets
in strike this Wednesday.
With cuts coming quickly and signs of improve-
ment slowly, predicting the end of this age of
austerity felt in both the UK and the EU is diffi-
cult. Changes to the way things have been done
up until now will have to take place though; the
Eurozone’s crisis is reaching breaking point. Ital-
ian bond yields are beyond the levels that drove
Greece, Ireland and Portugal to their bailouts, and
as Italy is simply too big to rescue, the pattern
of the last few seasons cannot be repeated. The
solution favoured by the markets would be to allow
the ECB to buy up the bonds of struggling nations
and issue “eurobonds”, backed by all the Euro-
zone countries. But with German Chancellor An-
gela Merkel refusing to move from her stance that
solution should come instead from reform and a
closer fiscal union, we must try and call on more
patience, as we wait for the rest of this tragedy to
play out.
– The Business Editors
Letter from the Editors
A Western tragedy
A seismic map of Europe produced as part of the Global Seismic Hazard Assessment
Project achieved huge impact in benchmarking the risks of seismic activity across
borders against a global standard. For better or worse, credit rating agencies map the
debt risks of the world’s countries
The Felix Business Section finally turns its eyes to Europe in an attempt to
explain the seismic pressures of the bond markets
Albert Nickelby
“The prudent finances of
Germany seem no better
than those of the often
questioned Italy”

