BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011 13
in the eurozone, but its public debt is
still an 82% GDP; its 10 public banks
are close to bankruptcy, and many of its
municipalities and lands are broke. A
large proportion (37% and increasing)
of its energy imports are Russian gas;
and, most worryingly, its demograph-
ics are catastrophic: with an average
retirement age of 62, in 2060, 44% of
the German population will be over 65
years old. There is already a huge short-
age of qualified labour, and Germany
has been forced to attract engineers
from all over Europe to (roughly) sus-
tain its huge industrial sector.
The UK is no better: apart from its
huge external debt, it heavily relies on
an oversized financial sector that has al-
ready been bailed out by the taxpayers
and it is not, nonetheless, faring much
better. Its industry having dwarfed in
the last 30 years, many of its northern
regions have been depopulated and un-
derdeveloped, as the traditional indus-
tries were not replaced. There exists the
increasing possibility of secession of
some of its regions; and its isolation-
ist tendencies continuously harm its
national interests, as it keeps question-
ing the EU (while at the same time its
economy heavily depends on being a
member), to the point of being excluded
from many negotiations where finan-
cial taxes and other decisions directly
affecting the City are taken. There are
no natural resources left, most of them
being imported. By 2050, 25% percent
of the population will be over 65, and
although the UK is expected to become
the most populated country in Western
Europe, its social inequality, already
among the highest in the developed
world is, too, expected to grow.
Thus, with some countries bailed out,
some others at the edge of being so, and
even the most prosperous nations being
objectively in not much better position,
one can conclude that, in general, the
economic perspectives of Europe and
the Western World do not seem buoy-
ant. Recent analyses suggest that by
2050, Europe (and that includes the
UK) will have lost 50% of its wealth in
relative terms. The USA’s preponder-
ance seems to be waning, its political
elites having lost their inner consensus
in a situation that strikingly resembles
that of the British Empire during the
first half of the 20th century. The shift
towards eastern Asia seems inevitable,
and the current debt crisis appears to
be but signalling that shift. The sad
thing is that, obnubilated by our neigh-
bour’s problems, no country in the West
seems to have realised that some long-
term thinking beyond the “austerity
measures” might be necessary, if only
so that our future can be tackled with
something other than hopes of bringing
the long-absent confidence fairy back.
O
n Tuesday, George Os-
borne, Chancellor of
the Exchequer, updated
Parliament on the cur-
rent economic situation
of our nation, and what the government
plans to do about it. The Autumn State-
ment is seen as an important event in
government, as it offers an opportunity
to reflect on pledges made in the main
budget, and adjust policy depending on
recent events. The Chancellor and his
team take the Office of Budget Respon-
sibility’s published report on growth
and borrowing forecasts and use these
to adjust the official government posi-
tion accordingly.
One of the pivotal moments of Os-
borne’s address to Parliament was
when he admitted the Government’s
failure to eliminate the budget deficit
by the end of this Parliament. This was
one of the tories’ main pledges during
the election campaign of 2010, and sig-
nals a major blow to the Conservatives.
The general economic outlook is far
bleaker now than it was 24 months ago;
it seems that the austerity measures and
the weakness of our public finances,
combined with the international eco-
nomic situations have lead our econo-
my back to recession. Whether or not
Osborne’s policies are the main re-
sponsible is a question of opinion. On
the one side, the government is argu-
ing that the stagnation is mainly due
to external factors such as commodity
prices and the Eurozone crisis; on the
other hand, Labour argues that it is the
way the extensive spending cuts were
implemented – without giving time for
the economy to recover, and relying
too much on the private sector – that is
the problem.
In any case, the economic situation
is bleak, and it is going to be so for
far longer than expected. This has led
the opposition and many international
commentators to consider Osborne’s
plans as doomed. However, the Con-
servatives do not appear to be ready
to acknowledge failure. Thus, during
his address, the Chancellor pointed out
that the cost of our debt had become
extraordinary low cost. Indeed, this
week British bond prices dropped be-
low the price of German debt. That is
very significant; German debt is seen
as extremely safe, and is usually used
as a benchmark to measure your debt
against. Although Osborne’s failure to
tackle budget deficit within this Parlia-
ment will mean that the UK will have
to borrow more, this will cost less than
expected. Whether or not this is due
to the austerity measures is not clear;
analysts such as David Blanchflower
believe that the only reason for this
is that, our economic growth being so
low, investors think the Bank of Eng-
land will not dare to increase the inter-
est rates in the next few years. Conser-
vatives claim it is due to the success of
the austerity measures.
Talking about state pensions and
public sector pay could lead to nov-
els worth of material, but once again
Osborne’s message seems to be that
we are going to have to start contrib-
uting more (especially if you work in
the public sector) for our welfare. But
the increase in the basic state pen-
sion should help alleviate issues such
as dropping many into poverty at the
same time. The fuel duty increase that
was planned for January has been post-
poned till August, but lobbyists would
prefer it to be scrapped altogether,
under the claim that energy and pet-
rol companies will just increase their
prices and make consumers duty.
Finally, Osborne made pledges con-
cerning spending on infrastructure,
building and community projects.
However, he also acknowledged that
the extra expenditure in those sectors
would be compensated by further cuts
in other areas, probably firing more
civil servants and freezing their pay
further. Credit easing is planned to start
soon, helping SMEs borrow at lower
interest rates. We will also see a large
investment in infrastructure, with rail
and motorway upgrades amongst many
others and £400m to be spent on new
building projects. The 6-month work
placement idea looks good on the sur-
face, but looks remarkably similar to
the Future Jobs Fund that was scrapped
when the coalition came into office.
But at the same time, any scheme that
tries to help youth unemployment can-
not be too harshly criticised.
The main message from the Autumn
Statement is that everything is worse
than before. Thus, the Conservatives
are now on the defensive, starting to
make pledges promising plans for the
economy to start growing again. How-
ever, what Osborne offered this week
seemed to be a lot about small policy,
still too obsessed with keeping an aus-
terity plan that seems to be slowly sink-
ing. With these promises of action, at
least they seem to discard the option of
just sitting tight, crossing our fingers,
and hoping we all get out of this intact.
Autumn harvest?
Rajvinder Virdee discusses what we might reap from Osborne’s
offerings in the Autumn Statement
Rural scences depicted in The Harvest (1882) by Camille Pissarro, a
French Impressionist painter who also kept a keen eye on Capitalism
The Autumn Statement: 10 Key Conclusions
• Economic growth forecast downgraded
• An extra £111bn of government borrowing over the next 5 years
• 1% cap on public sector pay rise (after 2 year pay freeze is
over)
• Rise in state-pension age to 67 brought forward to 2026
(from 2034)
• Basic State pension to increase to £107.45 p/w
• January’s 3p increase in fuel duty delayed until August
• Credit easing of £20bn (but possibly up to £40bn) to start
helping SMEs borrow
• £1bn to subsidise 6-month work placements for 410,000
young peop
• £5bn new spending on infrastructure (another £20bn to be
unlocked from pension funds)
• £400m to kick start construction projects
“The economic
perspectives of
Europe do not seem
buoyant”

