COMMENT
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
f you’ve been paying attention
to the goings on in America in
the lead up to next year’s presi-
dential elections, you will no
doubt have heard many politi-
cal commentators expressing the view
that Ron Paul is the man that everyone
has been waiting for. The hero that
America needs. What is especially im-
pressive is that this type of praise is
happening across the board, regardless
of political loyalties or emotional ties.
Now, I’m not going to tell you
Ron Paul is a bad presidential can-
didate. He, in contrast with many in
the American political system, is very
honest, consistent and forthright with
his views. I would whole-heartedly
agree with him on many of his po-
litical positions, such as his desire
to abolish the income tax (and lower
taxes in general), and to end the “War
on Drugs”.
Best of all, he is a Libertarian who
wants to reduce the size of the govern-
ment and decentralise power, some-
thing that seems to me, at least in prin-
ciple, a very good thing. Although not
much of an achievement, he is by far
and away the best Republican candi-
date, and seems to be the most viable
alternative to another 4 years of Mr
Obama. However, as you can probably
tell from the title of this article, I find
that Ron Paul’s ideas are fraught with
practical problems to their very core.
Some of his more ludicrous views,
such as his non-belief in both evolu-
tion and the separation in Church and
State, are regrettable for a man of his
intelligence, but their importance is
negated by the fact that Mr Paul won’t
impose his beliefs on the American
people. This, somewhat ironically, is
where the main problem lies.
Essentially, Ron Paul wants deci-
sions to be increasingly made at a
state level. Whilst this means, thank-
fully, that his more ridiculous opinions
will not translate themselves into law,
it worryingly puts power in the hands
of the American people. “But surely,”
I hear you cry, “more power to the
people is a good thing, right?” This is
the point at which the problems of de-
mocracy rear their ugly heads.
Anyone who advocates individual
liberty (as Ron Paul does) must im-
mediately sense a problem when
confronted with a democratic sys-
tem. Democracy and Libertarianism,
in my mind, are complete polar op-
posites, which are incompatible with
one another. Libertarianism, admira-
bly, wants power to be given to the
individual, whereas democracy wants
power to be given to the majority. The
latter establishes a mob-rule mental-
ity, where 51% of the people can com-
pletely abolish the rights of the other
49%.
This is the reason that Ron Paul’s
America is doomed to fail. In an at-
tempt to liberate individual Ameri-
cans, Ron Paul will no doubt suppress
the freedom of minorities in many
parts the United States. In more rea-
sonable areas, where the voters are
well educated and have developed a
good understanding of the purpose of
society, there will not be many major
problems. I cannot imagine, for exam-
ple, there being any problem with the
issue gay rights in the state of Mas-
sachusetts. However, it is when you
examine some of the more bigoted
states, particularly those inhabited by
swathes of evangelical Christians, that
you recognise the social problems that
Ron Paul’s policies (or, to be more
precise, his non-policies) may cause.
What hope, for example, is there
for the individual liberty of a Texan
woman wishing to have an abortion,
living in a state where the governor,
Rick Perry, is allowed to use tax pay-
ers money to fund mass prayer events,
like one he organised to pray for a halt
America’s national decline (whatever
happened to the First Amendment?).
What hope is there for the liberty of
Let’s talk about Ron Paul
Samuel Horti
Would you have known if we had just put a picture of a random guy that wasn’t Ron Paul?
Don’t worry, this is Ron Paul. Honestly. Or is it? It is
Following the sudden impact of the first
wave of student protests last year, this
week’s pension protests almost seem
part of a natural occurrence, but one,
nonetheless, that continues to demon-
strate the ever-changing nature of politi-
cal activism. Imperial, however, remains
an anomaly amongst institutions as pro-
tests continue on (as demonstrated by
limited campus action on Wednesday).
This is by no means a negative aspect.
If there is one area of life at Imperial
College that separates us from a number
of other universities, it is the neutrality
of our Student Union. The refusal of the
sabbatical officers to break ultra vires
means that, at least for the immediate
future, we will not see them protesting
in central London alongside their coun-
terparts from other universities, such as
University College London. If anything,
officers would be representing only a
portion of students’ views should they at-
tend. They are, in a way, politicians rather
activists.
As a scientific institution, Imperial
prides itself on the search for answers
to difficult questions through considered
evidence and an avoidance, where pos-
sible, of bias. If our Union actively fol-
lowed one particular political viewpoint,
it would provide an opposing message to
the aims of the College.
For those who believe that a more
politically active Union would lead to a
more politically active student body, they
would be mistaken. As the student body
is largely inactive when it comes to ac-
tivism of their own accord, suggestions
from student representatives would be
equally likely to fall on deaf ears.
The fact that our Union does not, for
the most part, take a particular politi-
cal standpoint is something that should
be praised rather than ridiculed. If any-
thing, a far greater number of students
are likely to stand behind a Union that is
neutral and caters to as large a group of
students as possible. Such a situation,
as it stands at the moment, in no way
hinders the potential for the individual
student to organise a group to protest for
their own political view.
Some may argue that they do not repre-
sent the student viewpoint, but the neu-
trality instead provides a blank slate that
can be written on by the individual, rather
than the result of dictation by a higher
authority. We should not decry our apoliti-
cism, but instead embrace the measured
thinking and opinion that we are open to.
a homosexual couple living in the
state of Tennessee, where a recent bill,
which has passed Senate clearance,
will “prohibit teachers from discussing
homosexuality in kindergarten through
eighth-grade classrooms?” These in-
stances of asinine stupidity are by no
means isolated, as those of you who
keep up with American politics will
no doubt know. The emergence of dis-
criminatory pieces of legislature seems
to happen all too regularly.
When Democracy and stupidity
come together, nothing positive ever
gets done. It is an unfortunate fact that
Ron Paul wishes to divulge powers to
people that are far more bigoted than
he is. As a man who has garnered re-
spect from all corners of his country,
Ron Paul could do so much for the
freedom of individual Americans. As
it is, his ideas are trapped inside a
democratic system which, when com-
bined with inevitably self-centred vot-
ers, gives us a situation in which the
majority are encouraged to do as they
please, no matter what the effects on
others might be. Libertarianism can
never prevail in a Democratic system.
FELIX
Imperial is unique
rather than active
FELIX
14 Friday 02 december 2011
Why Liberty and Democracy don’t mix
”
Anyone who
advocates individual
liberty... must
immediately sense
a problem when
confronted with a
democratic system
“
Anyone w
Anyone w
advocate
advocate
Is shouting
at people in
real life too
much social
interaction
for you?
Well, you
can shout in
word form
on:
felixonline.
co.uk

