COMMENT
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011 15
Save us from loneliness, send in your articles. Just remember the mantra below.
The views and opinions expressed here are those of the author, and not Felix.
”
R
eading that title, you can
probably roughly guess
what this article is going
to be about. It’s the trains
in Britain. I used to think
the trains being often delayed, expen-
sive and not running much on the week-
end was an Essex thing, innit. It appears
that I was wrong in that assumption,
and Mock The Week panellists must be
pleased that it’s widespread enough for
everyone to appreciate their jokes. I’m
just going to go straight for the jugular
here: the trains in Britain need to be re-
nationalised
I can’t pretend to know much about what
the trains were like in the past. I also can’t
really reliably ask anyone: if I ask my mum
(who, if she’s reading, I’m eating loads of
fruit and working so hard that I could tech-
nically take Imperial to some sort of crimi-
nal tribunal) she runs out of the room to
grab her most rose-tinted of spectacles and
tell me everything was perfect. So, what I
know is what is here at the moment. Obvi-
ously, it wasn’t always perfect then, it’s not
perfect now, and it will never be perfect.
We should look to improve what we have
now. Saying “yeah, well, if you look at it
objectively it used to suck so why does it
matter if it’s awful now” is a bit defeatist.
We constantly should be trying to find a
way to improve a service.
You may, at this moment, be shouting,
“hey look you massive arsehole, we’re
over two paragraphs in and you haven’t
made an argument yet”.To this I would say
that calling me an arsehole is a bit strong,
what are you – a YouTube commenter?
Padraic Calpin
Tim Arbabzadah
The Occupy Protests are succeeding.
Just look at this paper
This title has been delayed
Never fear, the ‘well thought out’argument
is coming up now.
As mentioned above, I live in Essex.
I used to get the train to and from school
every day. They were average at best, very
expensive, and they were not either large
enough or frequent enough to have the
room for everyone to sit. The trains are pri-
vatised and are run by a private company.
The idea is that this causes competition
and the companies have to improve their
service to gain customers. Sounds fine in
theory, but there is one massive gaping
problem: only one company runs all of
the trains on the line. This is where, like
a cricketer who was thinking about Scar-
lett Johansson just as he’s about to make a
catch, privatisation drops the ball. Even if
I wanted to choose a different train com-
pany, as the current one wasn’t giving me
what I wanted, I couldn’t. In fact, even if
I drove (slightly defeating the point of a
convenient train station) to another nearby
station it would still be the same company.
When you fly from, say, Heathrow, you
can choose what airline you use (e.g Virgin
or BA).You can get to the same destination
using either airline. They have to compete
in terms of quality, price, or the best com-
promise of the two for your custom. This
gives them an incentive to keep prices low
and quality high. How can this be applied
to a service where I only have one option?
How does the idea of competition mean-
ing better service apply when a company
has a monopoly? I concede, perhaps, you
could argue that they had to compete for a
Government contract, but that’s not every
year and once they have it they have the
T
he Occupy movement, in-
spired by protest in Spain,
made famous in New York
and now a global phenom-
enon, is succeeding. On the
face of it, this might seems to be an auda-
cious claim. Indeed, some of you will be
reading this and audibly scoffing; “They
have no clear goals; what are they suc-
ceeding at?”
Actually (though I would firmly suggest
you read their statement at occupylsx.org),
that question is surprisingly valid. There is
no single event that will definitively cause
the protesters to say “right, job done”, and
head home. Though the movement advo-
cates some specific policies, such as the
abolition of Tax Havens, the main focus is
something more fundamental.
What these protests aim to do is to en-
courage public thought, discussion and
debate over the social, economic and po-
litical issues that affect all of us each day.
In short, they are trying to effect the end of
societal apathy.
What the occupiers have recognised is
that a movement will fail without wider
support, especially when you seek to
erode the concentration of power held by
the 1%. As such, they have sought to in-
clude as many people as possible from day
one. For example, the London protesters
have set up Tent City University and the
newly opened Bank of Ideas, holding daily
free talks and discussions. Even the camps
themselves welcome anyone, whether
you’re a purposeful visitor or a curious
passer-by.
For another example, consider the
movement’s General Assemblies used
to decide everything from appropriation
of food to writing their political agenda.
Totally ‘horizontal’ and once again open
to anyone, the GA reaches decisions via
collective agreement, and under the rules
any spectator can vocalise their particular
opinion or reservations.
When the protests began, many sceptics
may have glibly remarked that for “the
99%”, the number of people demonstrat-
ing seemed somewhat small. But, through
this focus on public awareness, it has taken
less than three months for a single camp to
swell into a global phenomenon.
It is with this in mind that I declare the
Occupy movement is succeeding. You
need only look to this, the student paper of
monopoly.
The operator on your line can basically
hold you to ransom. They know that you
need them and can therefore mess you
about as much as they like.An opportunity
they didn’t need a second invite to take.
Ticket prices constantly soaring, less staff
around, more delays, and don’t even try to
get a train on Sunday or you will be ban-
ished to hell (replacement bus service – at
the same price as a train, of course). Why
shouldn’t they? They have no incentive
to be anything better than the minimum
required guidelines. They know any im-
provement will be wasted, as people have
to use them anyway. What can I do? I can’t
force them to improve by taking a differ-
ent operator’s trains; I have to forgo trains
entirely to protest. For many people (not to
mention the congestion it would cause on
the roads) this just isn’t a practical solution.
Another argument, often used for privati-
sation, is that it takes the burden of the cost
of running the train service away from the
tax payer and places it onto a company that
will use ticket prices to recoup the money
spent and make a profit. The trouble be-
ing that this hands the operator a no win
no fee situation. If the train company goes
bust they have to be bailed out, as the trains
can’t just be allowed to stop running. They
won’t try to go bust, but they don’t have
to be that careful as they have a safety net.
What I don’t understand is why the Gov-
ernment just lets a company reap all the
rewards of privatisation and have no con-
sequences. Why don’t they just do all the
running of the trains in house?
The train service is a public service; it is
a reputably apolitical institution, to see that
it has managed to provoke a public debate.
In the past month we’ve seen no fewer
than three comment pieces on the Occu-
pations and two features on public protest.
However, this success marks only the
beginning. These protests have become
more than simply clumps of tents; they
have become an ideology, merging seam-
lessly with the wider public outcry that
saw 61% of British people support the No-
vember 30 strike.
As @OccupyWallStreetNYC tweeted,
“You Can’t Evict An Ideal”. Cheesy? Yes.
But, in fact, already vindicated: two weeks
ago, after 200 people were forced from
Zucotti Park, more than 1000 took to the
streets of New York, and the demonstra-
tions show no sign of stopping.
The train service
is a public service
... it just makes no
sense for it to be
privatised
“
The tra
The tra
is a pu
is a pu
there to provide you with a cheap, readily
available means of transportation. It just
makes no sense for it to be privatised. It
should be in the public domain, so it can be
runintheinterestofthepublic.I’mnotsay-
ing suddenly everything would be perfect,
but it would be a start. I also understand
that it can’t have a bottomless pit of money
to use, but it would be there to run the best
service with the available resources, not to
make the most money from it.
Private companies are there to make
money, but there are just some things
where making money isn’t the overall ob-
jective and they therefore shouldn’t play a
part. The NHS is another example where a
service must be kept as a public service. If
you disagree with that, then the other main
point is that you don’t even get the benefits
of competition.
The reward for reading this article
is a picture of Scarlett Johansson

