COMMENT
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
fter 12 hours of protest,
beginning at 7 in the
morning at Liverpool
Street, the idea of pro-
testers as lazy hippies
has simply dissolved. They believe the
mantra that the early anarchist gets the
worm. We saw electricians, librarians,
teachers, council workers and children
line the pickets and march in protest
against the changes to public sector
pensions. However, following on from
the November 9 student protest where
4,000 police, 3 helicopters, steel bar-
riers and numerous surveillance tech-
niques were used against 5,000-10,000
protestors, the strike day in London was
marked by unprovoked heavy handed
policing.
This has now been termed “total po-
licing” and has been created to save
face for the Government after last year’s
student protests and the summer’s riots.
Although people champion this as what
the police should be doing to control vi-
olence, the knock on effect is that peace-
ful protest is being squashed. In the
morning, police, with dogs, descended
on 30 picketers in Hackney arresting
them for “blocking a road”. Whilst
this occurred I took part in the Occupy
London tour of the city raising aware-
ness about the strike during the morning
rush hour. The police outnumbered us,
getting quickly physical, aggressive and
frequently kettling us; they obviously
had the idea that nothing would happen
today.
Luke Sheldon
We need a new kind of giving
“Total policing” not like total football
Before heading out on the main Lon-
don march to Victoria Embankment, I
joined the public service picket in Brix-
ton. Here people felt angry about bail-
ing out the banks whilst public service
workers have greater pressure on their
already low pay. They chanted “What
do we want?”, “A pension”, “When do
we want it?”, “Before we die!” This en-
ergy, also present on the march, quickly
fizzled out as people were shepherded
by lines of police in to almost motion-
less crowds to allow traffic to continue.
The police’s presence flattened nearly
all emotion.After 3 hours of constrained
marching, we arrived at Victoria Em-
bankment exhausted, and like the peo-
ple around us, feeling like nothing had
been achieved.
As the 2 million workers refused to
work today, 92% of London schools
closed, and thousands flooded the streets
across the country. David Cameron re-
marked in the House of Commons that
the day was a “damp squib” and Boris
Johnson asserted that it “won’t make
a bean of difference”. The lack of rec-
ognition of the protest, its support, and
the nearly successful attempts to quash
it with the force of police, meant that I
left at the end of the march completely
disillusioned. Our collective effort has
achieved nothing due to the arrogance
of the Government, which believes it
can ignore the population and its inter-
ests without sparking further riots. As if
things could not get worse, we witnessed
the baseless arrest of people leaving the
I
f you are a science student at Imperi-
al there’s very little you can do to get
involved in international aid. The
medics can use their skills to deliver
life-saving vaccinations in Mozam-
bique. The engineers can use their skills to
builddrought-fightingdamsinElSalvador.
And us scientists? We get to teach English
in a random school somewhere.
Of all the skills I’ve gained from my edu-
cation, being able to teach English isn’t one
that ever made it to my CV. And yet for so
many of us this is the only way to get in-
volved with charities. This feels like a ter-
rible waste of ability. Fortunately it doesn’t
have to be this way.
You see for all Imperial’s students that
are involved in charities, there are ques-
tions that ought to be answered: just how
do we know we’re actually making a dif-
ference? How do we measure and improve
outcomes? This is where the scientists
come in.
I would argue that the state of interna-
tional development today is much like the
state of medicine two hundred years ago.
The patient’s problem may be clear but
she finds herself surrounded by various
conflicting quack doctors, each offering
his own particular brand of tonic to cure-
all-ills. It took the rigour of the scientific
method with its ruthless reliance on ran-
domisation and evidence to break through
the quackery and create what we now call
medicine. To be poor in 2011 is much the
same. The problems may be clear but so-
lutions are offered from so many different
groups, each peddling their own particular
cure-all-ills ideology, that any correct an-
swer is likely to be lost among the crowd.
The case for a new, rigorous, evidence-
based approach to aid couldn’t be clearer.
Ayear ago I had the chance to see how this
could work in practice.
Lake Turkana, the largest body of water
in Kenya, has been the site of so many im-
portant archaeological discoveries that it is
termed “the cradle of civilisation”; a title
that will strike any foreign visitor as ironic
on seeing an area with miniscule literacy,
increasing and devastating drought and a
HIV prevalence of up to 25%. It was here
that a friend and I had the chance to inves-
tigate a fishing program, interviewing fish-
ermen who had received subsidies to help
them buy boats and nets. After speaking to
around 200 of these fishermen and going
fishing ourselves, we took the data back
home and ran it through our machines with
a statistician. The results were surprising.
It seemed that boats were bad, expen-
sive investments compared to nets. Boats
served more as a status symbol than an
economic investment. But this was good
news. It meant that the charity funding the
subsidies could shift their focus onto nets,
saving them money while increasing the
number of fish caught. They are currently
working on how best to implement this
strategy.
The power of what was essentially a lab
report level analysis was surprising and
exciting. But the role that the scientific
method can play gets so much more sexy
with Randomised Control Trials, or RCTs.
protests in Trafalgar Square; and when
we gave them legal advice, as the po-
lice were ignoring the legal process, we
were threatened with arrest ourselves.
Democracy is being burned to ashes.
However, a surprise Phoenix of civil
disobedience managed to escape from
the heavily policed flames. On the au-
thority of Occupy London we gathered
in Piccadilly Circus along with consid-
erable riot police, though, as if by magic,
hundreds of Greek football fans entered
the square celebrating a victory. The
police got distracted, the samba band
kicked into action and a flare led crowd
charged around the corner into Xtrata,
the company with the highest paid CEO
in the FTSE100. Noam Chomsky criti-
cises football for distracting the masses
from political action, though here the
distraction served a much-needed pur-
pose.
Today would have passed with no
mention of the bankers that have caused
this crisis, as the city was heavily
blocked. The politicians safely lay be-
hind 12 foot steel fences and the Tory
headquarters, ransacked in last year’s
student protests, were guarded, even
though they lay miles from the crowds.
However, by shear chance, the startling
inequality of this country – where the
CEO of Xtrata is paid £18million a year
as 60% of children in the nearby Tower
Hamlets lie in poverty – could be shone
in all its disgusting glory. The protest-
ers who peacefully entered the building
will now expect up to a year of legal
proceedings to be prosecuted with ag-
gravated trespass – a charge purely cre-
ated for policing peaceful protest. The
night of arrest was also be filled with
police harassment; the people caught in
the vicinity are being placed on police
records (hopefully including the suit-
wearing man who kicked me), police
dogs were brought in to an already con-
tained crowd and I have heard reports of
police violence in isolated pens.
Even with the disproportionate scale
of police reactions, people still felt it
necessary to highlight the issues with
the Government’s austerity measures,
where the poor are punished as CEOs
see their pay constantly rising. And for
the moments where the orange glare of
the flare guided people into the bastion
of inequality that is Deloitte, it was truly
beautiful.
To overuse a metaphor, they work just like
medical trials – properly randomised with
control groups receiving no aid and a test
group receiving ‘treatment’ such as a par-
ticular microfinance program or school
system. Carrying out this kind of trial takes
exactly the skills required in a science de-
gree.
The ability of the scientific method to
shine a light on a hitherto murky world of
guesswork and quackery has been proved
over the centuries, but its role in aid is just
starting to be recognised. Some at Imperial
have taken a lead in this – Sir Alan Fen-
wick will be talking about his experience
in just this work today at 6 in SAF. It will
likely be today’s graduates who will help
shape an aid debate in which evidence truly
triumphs over ideology. For this to happen
the aid world needs more scientists getting
involved. Looking to make a difference?
A career in development may be an unex-
pected use for your degree, but it’s much
more effective than teaching damned Eng-
lish. Who’s with me?
Some people just can’t do anything
right...
Rory Fenton
Even with the
disproportionate
scale of police
reactions, people
still felt it necessary
to highlight the
issues with the
Government’s
austerity measures
”
...the aid world
needs more
scientists getting
involved
“
...the a
...the a
needs
needs
FELIX
16 Friday 02 december 2011
”
s
s
asures
asures
“
Even w
Even w
disprop
disprop
Andrew Fok

