COMMENT
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011 17
Yes – James Clough No – Ed Middleton
IC Debating Society are always up for an argument. Sometimes they send them to us to put in here.
Unfortunately, this week, they got sidetracked for two hours debating the meaning of debates. Then
they started arguing about if they were even really there or not. Luckily, they got round to debating
Greece as well. Here it is...
G
reece has serious problems. Es-
sentially they have run out of
money, and lending any to them
is seen as a very risky business.
As such, the lenders are only will-
ing to offer high interest loans; this worsens the
problem as Greece’s interest repayments increase
and their budget deficit gets ever bigger.
How did they get into this mess? It’s this sim-
ple: the Greek government spent too much mon-
ey. “But we’re in a recession,” you say. “Keynes
says that we need to spend our way out! Increase
government spending – boost aggregate demand”
you cry. Keynes does say this, but he also says
that you must save during the good times, during
the boom, so that you can afford to spend your
way out of the bust.
Greece didn’t do this – they even managed to
lose money during the boom years. And thus,
the seeds of disaster were planted. Because they
didn’t save when they had the money, and be-
cause they have been borrowing too much for too
long, Greece simply can’t just borrow and spend
their way out of this mess.
What normally happens in this situation? Well,
usually governments have another trick up their
sleeve. They print more money; they devalue
their currency, and their debts are worth less. It
doesn’t do the country much good, but it helps
get rid of the debt. But Greece can’t do this be-
cause they are part of the Euro.
They don’t get to choose when their own cur-
rency is devalued. Political problems arise, be-
cause the rest of Europe, who still have money
and are still trusted to borrow (mainly Germany
and France) have to bail them out. These coun-
tries promise that they will guarantee the Greek
debt. And of course, Greece has to cut its spend-
ing to ensure they don’t get into the same mess
twice. There will be years and years of harsh
austerity as future Greek taxpayers are forced to
bear the burdens of older generations who earned
too little and spent too much. And what of the
next in line: Italy? Too big to fail, but also too big
to bail. Italy’s debts would swallow up the entire
bailout fund, and maybe more. Not to mention
the fact that Italy is supposed to be one of the
three countries who are guaranteeing the bailout
fund. We can’t afford to bail out big-spenders
forever.
There is another way, though. Let Greece fail
and let the Greeks accept that the Euro has failed
them. Having one currency for multiple govern-
ments has meant that they could not fully con-
trol their own financial system and deal with the
crisis. Getting help from Germany means surren-
dering political freedom: Greece will have to do
whatever its masters tell it.
If they leave the Euro and return to their old
currency, the Drachma, they can recover. Yes, it
will lose a lot of its value at first. Many Greek
civil servants, once part of a bloated bureaucra-
cy, will have to get private sector jobs. But weak
currencies can be the catalyst for future growth.
Greeks will struggle to afford the import of for-
eign goods, but they will be able to sell products
for lower prices. Imports fall but exports rise.
Money will flow back into the country. Slowly
but surely the tide will turn and Greece can ex-
perience true growth, unlike the dangerous debt-
filled bubble they resided in before.
Let Greece have its own currency, let them de-
value it, and let them sort out their problems. It
is the only way to save Greece and save Europe.
Bailing out the countries which spend all of their
money may seem like a good idea now, but one
day Germany will run out of money to help with
these bailouts, or its voters will just say no. And
when that happens, this crisis will look very, very
small in comparison.
W
hen, in 2001, Greece joined the
Eurozone, it signed a treaty that
certified its membership of this
group indefinitely. There was no
clause that permitted the seces-
sion or expulsion of a state from this particular com-
munity. This would make it very difficult for Greece
to decide to leave or, equally likely, to be thrown
out. Granted, it would not be impossible to create a
pathway by which states may leave the Eurozone,
but this would become problematic in the future.
The same problems would form that drove Abraham
Lincoln to declare war with, and reunite, the confed-
eracy of the United States in 1860. If members of a
group are free to come and go whenever they please,
the authority of the community is undermined; with-
out unanimity, it is very difficult to achieve anything.
If a state feels that a policy is not in their interest,
they can simply leave. This makes it impossible for
strong community-based governance to occur and
makes the community indecisive, stagnant and slow
to implement change. It also adds an internal politi-
cal element to the decision, where leaders of member
countries can gain political capital by threatening to
exit the Eurozone unless their state’s demands are
satisfied. This would be in nobody’s interests, since
it makes it very difficult for the community to fulfil
its goals and aid co-operation of member states.
The main danger with Greece is that of disorderly
default. This would occur if Greece could not meet
its financial obligations and so decided to simply
give up. In this instance, there would be huge losses
for investors, not just within Greece but across the
world. Many French banks would be heavily hit,
as they hold large numbers of Greek Government
bonds. This would generate a wave of instability
that would threaten to shatter both fragile and more
secure economies in Europe. Even if it wasn’t pos-
sible to prevent a default in Greece and the levels of
bailout were not sufficient for Greece to meet all of
its obligations, a public attempt is important. If other
European nations make a clear and public demon-
stration to Greece that they are supporting it in its
hour of need and attempting to shore-up its fragile
economy, Greece will be much less likely to turn
around and give up on Europe and its payments. A
strong partnership between Greece with the rest of
Europe is likely to mean that Greece can be kept on
track and any default, should it occur, can be rig-
idly controlled to minimize the damage and risk of
spread.
This element of contagion is also important with
respect to global investor confidence. Many foreign
investors have been wary of investing in Southern
European economies – as well as Western European
economies to some extent – since Greek financial
woes came to the fore. If Europe is seen as being
decisive and clear in its support of Greece, inves-
tor confidence in other European countries will be
sounder. This is important as it has consequences in
terms of borrowing for government bonds, such as
interest rates.An amputation of Greece from Europe
would mean a long period of instability in Greece
(see Argentina from 1999 onwards) and likely a dis-
astrous return for foreign investors: who, if they feel
that countries will be allowed to fail and then jetti-
soned from the community, will be much more wary
of Europe as a whole.
To conclude, it is practically important that Greece
be bailed out and allowed to continue as a function-
ing, participating member of the Eurozone. Prece-
dent for secession would cripple any executive fiscal
power of the Eurozone, reducing it to a meaning-
less association. Unmanageable debts would also
increase the likelihood of disorderly default, a cata-
strophic global economic event. More importantly,
however, is the need for Europe to be seen to public-
ly support Greece for reasons of global confidence
and internal feelings of security and community by
Eurozone nations.
“Should the Greek Economy be allowed
to fail?”
“ ” “ ”
it is practically important
that Greece... continue
as a functioning,
participating member of
the Eurozone
Let Greece have its
own currency, let them
devalue it, and let
them sort out their
problems

