ARTS
Arts Editor: Eva Rosenthal
Will Prince
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The first poetry evening I attended left me with
the somewhat sour taste of disappointment, en-
hanced, no doubt, by the dashed hopes I’d been
harbouring all week. Instead of great poetry, I
was faced by something resembling slapstick
stand-up comedy.
For that reason, I turned up to Fluent on Pa-
per with no hopes at all – and was very pleas-
antly surprised. Hosted in one of South Kens-
ington’s nicest pubs, The Builders Arms, the
atmosphere was warming, perfect for a freez-
ing November night. In front of a dark banner,
aspiring poets read their work to an audience of
friendly faces; no doubt welcoming in the face
of spilling your emotions to complete strang-
ers.
Most of those reading their poetry had never
done so in public before. They managed in spite
of shaking hands and voices; their courage was
inspiring. Ed Spencer in particular, who was
the last of the invited poets, established the ne-
cessity of ‘acting’ one’s readings. Perhaps his
poetry was not what one would call ‘first-rate’,
but no-one noticed or even cared because he
proved to be such a fantastic actor; his poems
lived and breathed in his interpretation of them.
There were even several poems written on
the spot, as people found themselves inspired
by the creativity of the evening. MattAllinson’s
hilarious poem on the organiser of the event,
Kadhim Shubber, certainly had the laughter
flowing. Dylan Lowe ended the night with a
poem written in ten minutes on the beauty of
Bulgaria.
One was never meant to enjoy poetry alone
and in silence. Instead, poetry readings were
commonplace in homes, public spaces and at
the glittering literary salons of the past. It is im-
possible to translate the nature of these events
to our hurried times, but Fluent on Paper cer-
tainly tries. From January onwards, it will be a
monthly event and I encourage both poets and
lovers of poetry to attend. It is a great success
for Imperial College students to have a poetry
night hosted by one of their own – we can do
more than science, it seems!
Fluent on Paper returns on January 22 at
The Builders Arms in South Kensington
Free House Verse
Eva Rosenthal
FELIX
18 Friday 02 december 2011
The Poet’s Column
Essence of Heaven’s Soul
by Pavitar Devgon
Summer’s shine and winter’s sleet
Autumn’s crisp and spring is sweet
Ready for the haul ahead
Acting on impulse and beat
Hardly there yet still a thorn
Innately there to see the dawn
Lending a thousand words unsaid
Open free and shackles torn
Vying for a pedestal
Every shout I return its call
Yawn and itch, my hunger’s fed
Only then to jump and fall
Unless of course already said
Marilyn’s
back
with a
new
message:
“ICSM Drama’s
Main Play this
coming March is
an adaptation of
Billy Wilder’s classic
film ‘Some Like it Hot’.
To be a part of the most
hilarious, scandalous and
glamorous play in Imperial’s
(venerated) history come to
the Auditions NEXT WEEK.
Sun 11 Dec Glenister G1, CXH 13:00-18:00
Mon 12 Dec SAF Rm G65 17:30-20:00
Tues 13 Dec SAF Rm G65 17:30-20:00
Wed 14 Dec Glenister G1 17:30-20:00
Thurs 15 Dec Sem. Rm 1,Reyn. 17:30-20:00
Ladies, if you reckon you’re the next Marilyn Monroe;
gentleman, if you have an inner gangster to let out;
come and audition!”
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new
poets. If you want to see your work ap-
pearing here, do get in touch. Addition-
ally, those interested in joining Poetry
Society, contact Osas, at oo2409@
imperial.ac.uk.
The Old Man and the Movie
It was Tuesday and I found myself having a
beer in Brinkley’s, the louche Chelsea eatery
and favourite Hugh Grant haunt, and I was
surrounded by middle-aged desperate house-
wives. They were botoxed and dyed blonde
and high-heeled. It was then that I became
engulfed in a peculiar Hemingwayesque
malaise. It was then that I realised just how
depressing desperate housewives are. It was
then that I noticed there are too many cheer-
less people busy gold digging and lust search-
ing at the same time when the two appear to
be incompatible. They demonstrate that ro-
mance is dead in all too many marriages.
It was therefore appropriate that I stumbled
upon Woody Allen’s latest cinematic oeuvre
Midnight in Paris on Wednesday. In what has
been rightfully hailed as a cinematic tour of
a golden age of art and literature, the film
prominently features Ernest Hemingway
throughout. His bold, poignant sentences in
stark contrast to Owen Wilson’s lead charac-
ter’s somewhat clumsy Californian chat.
The film explores, by means of sharp wit
and a stunning Parisian back-drop, that a
life without art is a life not worth living. As
Gertrude Stein (yes, she’s in the film too) ob-
serves: “The artist’s job is not to succumb to
despair but to find an antidote for the empti-
ness of existence.” It is around this theme that
we meet Picasso, Matisse, Dalí, Man Ray,
Scott Fitzgerald, and many more; each with
their own delightfully attributed clichés. Not
least Hemingway, parodied with such gems as
“no subject is terrible if the story is true and if
the prose is clean and honest.”
A couple of years ago I saw Woody Allen
play the clarinet with his New Orleans Jazz
Band in Paris. While his rendition of ‘If I Had
You’ sounded more asthmatic wheezing fox
than Benny Goodman, his passion for jazz
shone through. His films have consistently
played themselves out to the tune of jazz
standards and provided the uninitiated with a
glut of great melodies. Midnight in Paris is no
different, with Cole Porter making an appear-
ance as he strokes the ivories to the sound of
‘Let’s Do’ It at a characteristic 1920’s hedo-
nistic party.
The movie also argues that lasting relation-
ships are built neither on lust nor love at first
sight. Unlike the pseudo-romantic marriages
of the aforementioned desperate housewives,
they are built on understanding founded on
shared tastes. Woody Allen has his critics.
They proclaim that the gags are cheap and
that the sets are clichéd and that the plots
are thin. But I have always loved his films
(although best to avoid Scoop). Perhaps this
love too stems from shared tastes. Affection
for jazz, hearty quips, and a belief that life
shouldn’t be taken too seriously.
Charles Betts
To those who read Felix for the witty picture captions, I’m sorry
“The artist’s job is not to
succumb to despair but
to find an antidote for
the emptiness of exis-
tence”
I see why Hugh Grant likes Brinkley’s

