ARTS
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011 19
Imperial College’s very own Musi-
cal Theatre Society consistently puts
on hilarity filled shows that mix wild
humour, a flair for the outrageous and
an almost tangible passion for perfor-
mance. The first term revue of late has
progressively developed into some-
thing more elaborate. While still based
around a collection of well-known
show tunes, the plot element and stag-
ing of these performances has become
ever more ambitious. The sheer scale
of this term’s production meant that,
attending my preview, I was terrified
that perhaps in an attempt to outdo last
year’s exquisite Imperial Collage, the
well-meaning folk of one of Imperial’s
most vibrant and active societies had
completely over-reached themselves.
The script, written by Shamini Bun-
dell for this performance, sounded
completely mental and the cast was
huge. Settling down with apprehen-
sion, what I saw unfurl before me was
beyond what I could have possibly
imagined. The animated anarchic ex-
plosion of drama and pure, unbridled,
and not-a-little-bit camp fun that fol-
lowed had me either in stiches or semi-
rapturous joy.
The general concept of the story line
is a pastiche of several of Grimms’
Fairy Tales, similar, in a way, to Shrek.
However, like that perennially re-com-
missioned children’s classic, the use of
well-known characters is not overbear-
ing on the plot itself; rather it allows for
a familiar background on which the ac-
tion, concerning a few intertwined love
stories and a traveling band of lesbian
cat bandits, can take place.
I can’t begin to think of where to
start chucking the praise in terms of
who deserves it most. Ms Bundell has
crafted a fantastic script that manages
to keep you laughing without wallow-
ing in trying to be funny for the sake
of it. Any weaker gags are carried by
the strength of the cast, who with such
It’s been nearly eight years to the day
since the final installment of the Lord
of the Rings trilogy hit our screens
- eight long years with little but over-
sexed vampires and undersexed boy
wizards to fill the void. Clearly spotting
an audience starved of orcs and elves,
Dramsoc’s latest productions takes the
Dungeons and Dragons out of Beit
basements and brings them to the stage.
Written and directed by Al Norman,
Of Dice and Men takes a tongue-in-
cheek look at role playing fantasy
games. It centres on five friends, each
of varying enthusiasm, and their in-
game characters as they quest their way
a game of Witches and Wyverns. With
astute observations of life in both the
real world and in fantasy, the play is
suited to novices and level 3 Paladins
alike. Encounters with a princess, who
is more Miami than Mordor, and a frank
chat with Phil the Wraith are the kind of
thing that would probably have Tolkien
turning in his grave. Equally, I imagine
representatives of Deutsche Bank – the
show’s sponsors – may find themselves
squirming in their seats as the goblins
bicker over maximizing teamwork and
leadership skills.
Despite its two-hour duration, ODAM
maintains its freshness by hopping
between Terramundus and the Bow-
mans’ house. Brothers Evan and Drake
(played with aplomb by Luke Bullard
and Ranulf Kinloch-Jones) clash as the
former tries to introduce his girlfriend
Kate (the tireless Camilla Nicholson)
to the game, much to the disgust of
character-hat-wearing die-hard player
Drake. Sarah Brand brings a deadpan
tone to her role as lesbian witch Ivy and
Hassan Choudhury completes the band
with a modicum of sanity, playing game
master Simon.
Over in the Western Realm, things
are more farcical still. James Goodchild
struts the stage scantily-clad as Conan-
lookalike Teflon, combining dopey de-
livery with deft comic timing. In the
mond for his stellar performance as the
Prince, but also to Rebecca Miller as
the villainous Mayor; Chris Witham’s
debut performance for MT Soc as But-
tons was particularly impressive.
I really can’t stress enough how much
of a great time I had at this show. For-
tune favours the brave and this produc-
tion has levels of bravery akin to some-
one trying to revise for an end of year
A Fairytale Shredding
Will Prince
Wraith the roof with DramSoc
Matt Allinson
a short amount of time for rehearsing
have between them managed to build
up a spectacular ensemble perfor-
mance. What is most obviously recog-
nisable to an audience member is that
everyone on stage is having an absolute
blast. The energy they positively throw
into the crowd whips you along in the
show’s tidal wave. Special mention of
course always has to go to Phil Ray-
“I can’t begin to think
of where to start
chucking the praise”
closest thing I could find to a similarity
with the Steinbeck novel from which
the play takes its name, Omar Fahmy
brings shades of Lenny to his role of the
orc poet, Urg, contrasted by the flesh-
hungry energy of Zoe Pierre as Gaboo-
sa. Miztli Cardena Neville, as Areya,
adds the finishing touch, maintaining a
grave voice of reason in the face of the
hapless fellowship.
The specials effects are innovative to
say the least and give ODAM an unpre-
tentious charm, best exemplified when a
climactic fight scene is paused as Mrs.
Bowman hands out Ribenas. The script,
whilst a little long, is well written, with
echoes of Monty Python’s Holy Grail as
well as moments of real original com-
edy. DramSoc is clearly alive and w ell
at Imperial, and most important of all,
it’s got a good sense of humour.
Of Dice and Men plays tonight and
tomorrow, Union Concert Hall, £5
in advance for students, £7 other-
wise
exam the night before. However, unlike
my second year Maths module, the re-
sults here are spectacularly good, and
hell, it’s free, so you have no excuse.
Charming: An alternative ever after
is on at The Union Concert Hall,.
Runs Monday 5th - Wednesday 7th
December, 7.30pm. Tickets are
free!
No Grimm faces at Shamini Bundell’s latest MTSoc offering
Rupert Grint turned up to the workshop in ‘costume’
A play with more than the average number of sofa-wetting whale references
James took it into his own hands to complain about caption quality
Alexander Yip

