HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2 Friday 02 december 2011
Lolcat of teh week
While I know approximately one person with
a garden (and that’s a patch of scrubland),
our extensive market research revealed that
there’s a gap in the market for household
stories and tips. Behold, the Home &
Garden Section, which has somehow
survived beyond a week.
This week we’ve got some household gold
for you, do-it-yourself whiteboards! Whether
you’re thinking of getting one for your room
in halls or for private accomodation, thrill
as our resident expert provides you with his
top tips to get you started.
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Carol Ann Cheah Alexander Karapetian Niki Kesharaju Maciej Matuszewski Navid Nabijou
Deepka Rana Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian
Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Business Editors Beñat Gurrutxaga Lerma Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts
Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Stephen Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James Simpson Film Editors
John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Home & Garden Editors Tim Arbabzadah Charles Betts Navid Nabijou Travel Editors Dushi
Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Veli Akiner Sameera Auckburally
Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Deepka Rana Annina Sartor
What’s on
Chamber Music Society &
UNICEF: Charity Concert
Read Lecture Theatre, Sherfield
Building, Level 5
Monday 05 December
19:30
Chamber Music Society presents a winter-term con-
cert in association with UNICEF. The members will
play a variety of pieces from different genres – in-
cludes violin trios, four-hands, solo piano music. £3
for society members, £5 for non-members. Tickets
on sale in the JCR on December 2 from 12-2pm. All
proceeds will be donated to Children in Need.
PICK OF THE WEEK
You don’t even need a home or
garden to enjoy our new section
Having to think of countless terrible jokes does that to you
Competition
PING PONG: DIM
SUM GIVEAWAY
Christmas is coming and the pencil cases may well
be bare, but why not get back in the game?
Using colour in your note taking not only livens
up the dark winter mornings, but it has proven to
help you boost your memory by 78% and effectively
increases your attention span by 82%.
The STABILO point 88 is a fine liner available in
25 different colours that aims to bring your note
taking to life.
We’re giving away four lucky readers the chance
to win a pack of STABILO Point 88 pens (a wallet
of 20). To enter, simply email us at felix@imperial.
ac.uk with the subject heading ‘FREE PENS’. The
competition closes on Wednesday 7 December at
18:00. Winners will be randomly selected from all
entries.
21st century Tea House Ping Pong has 11 central Lon-
don and City based restaurants serving hand-made dim
sum, fragrant teas and cocktails. On top of this, the
restaurant is giving away a meal for two. Simply email
felix@imperial.ac.uk with the subject heading ‘PING
PONG’ to be in a chance with winning. Competition clos-
es on Wednesday 7 December at 18:00. In addition,
Ping Pong are now running a 20% discount for students.

