ARTS
Arts Editor: Eva Rosenthal
Will Prince
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
From the streets of Manhattan to the
crowded squares of Europe, much of the
recent media attention has been devoted
to the extravagant protest of those who
call themselves “Indignados”. Thousands
have taken to the streets, forcibly occu-
pying major landmarks in protest against
financial injustices inflicted on them by
the capitalist system. But amidst all of the
ruckus, hidden deep in the background, is
the persistent call for help of a people who
are so often forgotten and largely ignored
by the mass media of the Western World. I
am talking about the atrocious statistic re-
porting the 92% of young Tanzanians who
cannot afford to pay for secondary school.
While the noisy protest aims of the “oc-
cupy” group are often sympathised with
by Westerners, the silent cry of millions
of Tanzanians who are denied an essential
human right often falls upon deaf ears. It
is to change this gruelling reality that a
group of Imperial students has chosen to
speak out and take concrete action. Rather
than forcibly occupying town squares and
pointing fingers at potential culprits, we
have decided to adopt a different ap-
proach by reaching out to local busi-
nesses in search for potential fundraising
opportunities. The target of all our efforts
is an inspirational education establish-
ment in north eastern Tanzania, called the
TEKUA project.
TEKUA is an acronym that stands for
the five Swahili words: empowerment,
education, initiative, health and poverty.
The centre effectively uses education as
a weapon to break the crippling chain of
poverty which reduces the lives of many
young Tanzanian’s to a mere fight for sur-
vival. With education comes the empower-
ment of women in a society whose patri-
archal traditions contribute emphatically
to the spreading of HIV/AIDS. With edu-
cation, the centre takes a concrete stand
against poverty by equipping the youths
of Tanzania with the skills necessary to
find decent jobs. Most importantly, with
education comes the possibility for young
students to realise their dreams and make
positive contributions to the development
of their society. These are goals worth
fighting for. These are statistics worth
protesting against. There are 92% of Tan-
zanians who deserve a voice in our world,
and we are determined to finally give them
one.
Now how do we Imperial students fit
into this context and how can we actu-
ally make a difference to the lives of these
young Tanzanians? The answer is by doing
enough work to make the TEKUA centre
financially self-sufficient. Unfortunately
this is much easier said than done. It would
be far easier to ask people for their spare
change on street corners and donate all
the proceeds to the centre. This approach
however, would make the centre entirely
reliant on the generosity of foreigners, thus
preventing it from growing and flourishing
independently. The way we have chosen to
approach the problem is to take the skills
learned by TEKUA students at the centre
A better way to
Claudio Emma
“TEKUA stands for
five Swahili words:
empowerment,
education, initiative
health and poverty”
FELIX
20 Friday 02 december 2011
Doodle of the Week is back! This time, we give you
an awesome doodle that possibly a few of you might
have been able to get down during one of those
lengthy end-of-term lectures. Our winner is Luke Tom-
lin!
We hope his doodle will encourage some of you to
send in your boredom drawings. If this gives you no
encouragement, perhaps next week’s special prize
will: The Coffee Table Book of Doom, Steven Appleby
and Art Lester’s new compen- dium that lays out
the myriad ways you and ev-
eryone else might suddenly
cease to exist. Packed full of
invaluable information and
beautiful illustrations The
Coffee Table Book of Doom
will steer you through the
apocalypse with wit and
a wry smile, safe in the
knowledge you’re an
equally capable doodler
as Luke Tomlin and Ma-
ria Han Veiga!
“A Pound for Hope”
Contribute here to be part of the movement
against injustice:
http://www.justgiving.com/projectTEKUA/
or www.projecttekua.co.uk
TEKUA Art Exhibition
Over 700 pounds raised in just 2 days!
Bring your Imperial Card, come and visit and
make your contribution at:
58 Fenchurch St.
London
EC3M 4AB
The TEKUA project comes to London in co-operation with lo
Tanzanian education
“the silent cry of millions
of Tanzanians who are
denied an essential
human right often falls
upon deaf ears”
Doodle of the Week
TEKUA: CONTRIBUTING
They make art which is sold around the world

