ARTS
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011 21
and use those to generate an income.
The educational centre’s cur-
riculum provides lessons in three
main subjects: English, ICT and art.
While the first two subjects may
seem more directly relevant to a
young Tanzanian who is aiming to
find employment, the study of art
has proved just as fundamental to
the students. By teaching the stu-
dents painting and sculpting skills
the centre has effectively created a
workshop for young artists produc-
ing fine and vibrant pieces of art. It
is our aim to use the pieces of art
as a resource for the centre to fund
itself and create a self-sustaining cy-
cle. Practically this amounts to sell-
ing students’ artwork here in London
where the paintings and sculptures
are worth far more than they are in
Tanzania. Having been priced by a
professional art dealer, the works
are worth an average of 60 pounds
which, if you do the math, works out
to a staggering 170,216.696 Tanza-
nian Shillings! In a country where
the price of a kilo of maize is just
20 p, this is obviously a substantial
amount of money. With these profits
divided equally between the student
entire year!
As university students we are of-
ten condemned for being apathetic
towards global issues and criticised
for taking part in deleterious move-
ments such as the 99% campaign.
This is our chance to prove these
allegations wrong by stepping up to
a challenge that is highly ambitious
o make a difference
artist and the school we could pro-
vide a small stipend for the students
whilst also supporting the centre.
Success in our efforts would have
a dramatic impact on the future of
the centre. Having recently under-
gone an expansion, TEKUA has
now opened a second school where
it will give its students vocational
training in trades such as sewing and
mending clothes. Thus our work in
financially supporting the centre is
more relevant than ever. To inten-
sify our fundraising efforts we have
launched a campaign at Imperial un-
der the slogan “A Pound for Hope”.
We are asking you to make what is
a seemingly insignificant contribu-
tion of a single pound in the hopes
of reaching our target which would
support the centre financially for an
and needs the attention of the world.
It is in our power to determine the
direction of progress in Tanzanian
society and as citizens of an increas-
ingly globalised world we cannot
ignore our responsibility. With this
kind of decisive action we will un-
doubtedly have a dramatic impact
on the lives of 92% of young Tan-
zanians. So if you want become part
of our mission come and visit the
exhibition to take a stand against a
crippling statistic that deserves your
time.
The TEKUA Education Centre
project presents Tanzania: Art
for Knowledge at Chartis UK, 58
Fenchurch St., London, EC3M
4AB, 10:00-16:00 daily until De-
cember 17.
ocal businesses and Imperial College students in order to raise money towards better
TEKUA Project: The Facts
Established in 2003 in Tanzania
Mission: to aid and empower the underpriviledged youth of Tanzania
through education
It aims to reduce illiteracy, mental slavery and provide knowlegde of HIV and
gender-based violence amongst others.
The art projects, as well as providing educational support, help sustain the
TEKUA project in the long run.
According to the guys at TEKUA, the Western ‘99%’ is not the real 99%
Illustrations by Huiyen Ong
“The educational
centre’s curriculum
provides lessons in
three main subjects:
English, ICT and art”
“It is in our power
to determine
the direction
of progress in
Tanzanian society”

