MUSIC
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Youth Lagoon
The Year of
Hibernation
Lefse Records
2011
On Sunday, I was at a friend-of-a-friend’s flat; it
was almost completely burnt out. The TV had
caught fire and the ensuing blaze had torn up the
walls and slithered around the rooms, turning
home into hell. Some things had survived: a coat-
ing of soot was all the happy family photos had to
endure. Other things had been less lucky: a grand
full-length mirror had been warped to destruc-
tion by the heat and the once-intricate frame was
charred and black. I said to him, rather stupidly, “it
feels like it was a really nice place”. He was kind
enough to be patient with me and replied, simply,
“yeah, it was…”
When I returned home that evening, to my con-
spicuously uncharred flat, I listened to Youth La-
goon’s debut album, The Year of Hibernation, and
felt transported back to those dark, ash-ridden
rooms. I imagined sitting on the miraculously un-
damaged green leather sofa and thought about
the destruction brought into his home; the place
where we find solace and warmth eaten up by
flames and smoke.
But, more striking than that was the sense of
optimism. Youth Lagoon (a.k.a. Trevor Powers,
of Idaho disposition) doesn’t paint a story of de-
spair. The wistful guitar melodies, ghostly vocals,
misty piano keys, and discreet beats (file next to
Washed Out and Wild Nothing) speak of a rebirth,
of a phoenix rising from the ashes. Which brings
me nicely to why I spent my Sunday in a burnt-
out flat: the friend-of-a-friend had decided to do a
photo-shoot in the charred remains of his life, and
needed some extra hands. There can be no doubt
that if life is going to hand you heartache, there’s
no truer response than to try to make something
beautiful from it.
My reputation as “an extra pair of hands” is unim-
peachable. If you want to make use of my hands,
tweet @kadhimshubber and give me a time, place,
and bag of Haribo Starmix. Better still, tweet @
YouthLagoon and tell him his music is “too obscure
and pretentious”, and probably “too underground to
be of use to anyone”.
An essential classic for any music lover, says Clare Cheng
Origin of Symmetry
B
ack in 2001; the year iTunes was
born, J-Lo got her first UK num-
ber 1 single and George Bush
began his war on terror, Muse
released the amazingly beautiful
album that is Origin of Symmetry. Although
this was the Devonshire band’s second album
after Showbiz, it was the collection of songs
that marked the greatness that was to come.
To celebrate this momentous occasion the
band played the album in full at this year’s
Reading and Leeds Festival. The stage was
decked out with colossal forks as seen on the
album artwork, with Matt Bellamy’s glass pia-
no taking pride of place.
Their set was the best, hands down, all week-
end; the opening song ‘New Born’ being ac-
companied by flying saucers hurtling across
the screen, launching huge inflatable eyeballs
into the crowd that burst to release confetti, and
shooting fireworks that exploded high above
the stage… oh and not to mention the songs
were pretty spectacular too.
What makes Origin of Symmetry so different,
timeless even, is that it appeals to every music
listener. Even my Dad, who loves his classi-
cal and jazz, likes listening to Muse rocking it
out. The strong bass chords allow the guitar to
expand and explore, but still remain restrained
enough so as not to scare away the not-so-die-
hard rock fans.
Matt’s voice somehow manages to infil-
trate every cell of the body, being familiar and
warming, but at the same time sending a tingle
down the spine that leaves us wanting more.
His voice makes him the David Attenborough
of music.
Matt and his fellow band members even man-
age to pull off a cover of Nina Simone’s ‘Feel-
ing Good’ in this album – such a classic made
pushing up the heart rate one minute, but then
mellowing it down the next. Each song has
such feeling and emotion woven into it.
When I listen to the album I am taken on a
rollercoaster ride of different emotions. ‘Bliss’
fills me with such warmth, it makes me smile;
‘Space Dementia’ and ‘Plug In Baby’ bring up
deep feelings – sadness, passion, joy. These
songs make me want to sing my heart out. They
are able to spell out my emotions when I have
no words to explain them.
Some critics consider the songs ‘Dark Shines’
and ‘Screenager’to be downsides of the album,
perhaps reflections of the early stage in Muse’s
career. However, as a die-hard Muse fan I could
tell them to sod off. But I’ll show some restraint
and argue that these tracks still reflect the com-
plexities in their repertoire. Although really
quite different from earlier songs in the album,
they still have the same punch of emotion and
musical brilliance: the trademark of Muse.
This is what makes not only the album but the
band themselves an essential for any music lov-
er’s collection. I mean, this is what they were
producing when they first started out – imagine
how amazing they are now.
even better.
To be honest, if I need to remind/convince
you anymore of how amazing Muse is then
there is no point in you having ears to hear with.
The album begins with ‘New Born’ – the
gentle building of the piano, the low hum of the
bass and Matt’s gentle voice all lull the listener
into a false sense of security. But then the real
fun begins as the guitar chords let rip, after a
pause for anticipation. It’s a fantastic opener,
setting the tone for the ambitious tunes to come.
However, do not be deceived; this is not all
they do. The album takes off on a journey,
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Be sure not to miss...
The late Sun Ra’s explosive big band return to
Cafe Oto for a three day residency, following their
previous five day marathon when they were strand-
ed in London following the eruption of notorious
Eyjafjallajökull. Don’t miss the chance to experi-
ence the Arkestra’s legacy of spaced out cosmic
jazz. Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Sun Ra Arkestra
Cafe Oto
Tuesday 6 - Thursday 8, November
The best forking album by the best forking band to ever set foot on forking Earth
FELIX
24 Friday 02 December 2011
“Each song has such
feeling and emotion wo-
ven into it”
Thousands of fans forking out at the monolothic cutlery at Reading and Leeds Festival
“They still have the same
punch of emotion”

