MUSIC
The best of Heaven
Argentine punk had a troubled upbringing.
Though inspired by the notoriety of the Sex Pis-
tols, Argentina’s pioneers couldn’t afford to play
the same kind of media-baiting games. The year
that brought us punk rock brought Argentina a vi-
cious military dictatorship, and all evidence sug-
gests dictators don’t like punk.
One of the most important scene-setting bands
was Los Violadores (1981-) – the violators, or law-
breakers – who despite the heavy-handed censor-
ship established an underground movement of
dissent and released an album a year. One way
they survived their dangerous early period was by
adopting the name Los Voladores – the flying ones
– whenever things looked especially dicey. They’re
still going strong, chastising slightly younger up-
starts 2 Minutos (1987-) for writing unpunk songs
about beer and football.
Just as Argentine punk was escaping its op-
pressed childhood and coming of age, the Falk-
lands War made eveything associated with the
UK, well, let’s just say uncool. Sumo (1981-1987),
one of the most influential scene-setters, never
wanted to be a punk band in the first place, and
peppered its sound with everything from reggae
to tango. Luca Prodan, Sumo’s frontman, was
born in Rome but grew up in Scotland, where he
went to Gordonstoun – the famously cold and
character-building boarding school that counts
both the Queen’s husband and eldest son among
its alumni. But unlike our heir to the throne, Pro-
dan then befriended Joy Division’s Ian Curtis in
Manchester, suffered from heroin addiction, and
moved to a friend’s farm in Argentina’s backwoods
to kick the habit. There he recorded a few songs
in a small studio, eventually moved to the big city,
and ended up fronting one of the biggest bands in
Argentina. As heritage stories go, Sumo’s beats
the usual Peter-meets-Jane-at-art-school.
But let’s end with the fine example of Fun
People (1989-2000), a converse-wearing, pogo-
jumping punk band in the same bouncy vein as
Bad Brains. Originally called Anesthesia after a
famous Metallica song, they eventually wisely
promoted their music as antifascist gay hardcore
to distance themselves from the moshing bone-
heads they were attracting.
All these bands want you to visit their websites,
except Sumo who might not have one. Los Vio-
ladores: www.violadores.com, 2 Minutos:
www.2minutosweb.com.ar, Fun People: www.
funpeople.com.ar.
E
MA stands for Erika M. Ander-
son, but she performs with a full
band. Her debut album Past Life
Martyred Saints has been gather-
ing positive reviews from across
the music press spectrum, and for good rea-
son. The live performance is something else,
though. The whole gig switches between
haunting vulnerability and rip-your-face-off
intensity. Her lyrics are rarely positive and she
doesn’t betray that with her stage demeanour.
The main highlight is ‘Butterfly Knife’,
which climaxes in heavy strobing, a monstrous
wall of sound, a guitar being smashed apart
and its neck being launched into the crowd at
concerning velocity. This is followed by the
most beautiful section of the set, as she quietly
strums through ‘Marked’, with its slightly dis-
arming refrain of “I wish that every time you
touched me left a mark”. ‘Closer California’
is sublimely apathetic and ends with another
guitar being thrown to the ground.
She’s certainly somebody I’d recommend
everybody to go and see, although I’d also
recommend taking a hard hat.
Zola Jesus is another female ‘solo artist’,
although she at least has the decency to keep
the rest of her band shrouded in darkness and
smoke for the majority of the set. Her influ-
ences range from industrial bands Throbbing
Gristle and Swans to avant-garde composer
Stockhausen all the way through to Tina
Turner. The result is a unique blend of grimy
lo-fi noise, ethereal dream pop and a big voice.
There are relatively few older tracks but those
relatively few are great. The swelling build-up
of ‘Run Me Out’ is particularly pleasing.
The new album tracks also deliver. ‘Hikiko-
mori’ is a beautiful swirl of synths and wail-
ing vocals and on ‘In Your Nature’ she gives
a performance to match anything I’ve heard.
It’s a fantastic show and not one you’re likely
to get elsewhere. One of the best gigs of my
year.
Despite the insistence of a delightful lady
behind me, there is nobody that can match her
voice. It is massive. She forced her parents
into giving her opera lessons as a child, and
I’m glad they relented. As a frontwoman, she
exceeds all expectations as well, switching
between statuesque-princess mode and bent-
double-over-her-microphone-flailing-limbs
mode. There were even two forays into the
crowd and a strobe-lit headbanging sequence.
FELIX Friday 02 December 2011 25
Punk Planet by
Douglas Heaven
This week: Argentinian punk
CMYK Vibrations
Stuart Masson is impressed by EMA and Zola Jesus
If you squint, the bricks behind Zola Jesus almost look like forks
James Blake. The face of a dazed little boy,
presumably innocent and so melancholic at the
same time, with a voice, or should I say voices
(oh the beauty of transpositions) so poignant it
makes you want to bury your face in your hands
and cry – it’s OK, don’t worry, I won’t tell any-
one. So finally, I managed to witness the con-
tained and cleanly crafted songs come to life at
the HMV Forum for the last show of his tour,
and here’s the impression I got to carry around
since then.
The young prodigies Vondelpark opened
the show, a one-man act who lately adopted a
few other kids. With the looks of one of those
scruffy-haired rock bands followed constantly
by their horde of screeching groupies, their
sound was unexpected in the best possible way,
sounding much more electronic and bearing
proof of their musical maturity. Coherent with
the main act, they were a very pleasant discov-
ery, and less pretentious and ‘widespread’ (to
avoid using that other ugly m-word…) in several
ways for the harsher critics out there.
Then James Blake came on, alone, with his
traditional highly buttoned-up collared shirt and
immaculate hair. A peaceful look on his face,
collected and confident, he managed neverthe-
less to bring an imposing and nearly intimidat-
ing charisma on stage with him. The lighting
was clearly studied, the stage setting was mini-
mal, and the sound system tremendous. The
magnificence of seeing James Blake live in such
a context lied in how the music which usually
seems to appear so contained manages to gain
so much intensity and power, offering a perspec-
tive on his music I could have never imagined.
The way objects and liquids vibrate in the
video of ‘Limit to Your Love’ seemed to gain a
whole new meaning when, this time, it was my
entire body experiencing it. I gave up on keep-
ing my gaze on James Blake. I just let it all carry
me away. Eyes closed, every single organ in my
body felt the music. The show wasn’t meant to
appeal exclusively to hearing or sight anymore.
It was something transcending what was expect-
ed from a gig. A journey through some emotion-
ally charged music, like some of Antony and
the Johnsons’ concentrate of musicality and
classical immoderation blended with the blunt-
ness of post-dubstep beats.
From a faithful take on ‘I Never Learnt to
Share’ to an incredible improvisational dub of
‘CMYK’ or other sparkling renditions of some
more recent songs like ‘A Case of You,’he man-
aged to take the last breath away from every one
of us standing in that fully packed venue, mak-
ing us only scream for more.
Under the sea, where the octopuses live
Katherine Chimenes

