Tim Arbabzadah tries to not look like a hipster as he reviews a slightly obscure show
TELEVISION
FELIX Friday 02 December 2011 27
Louie: like Seinfeld, but with swearing
L
ouie is directed, written, edited by, and
starring Louis C.K. The show is basi-
cally him; in fact, I’ve heard an inter-
view that says he helps with the cin-
ematography as well. I’m not exactly
sure how to describe the look of the show, but I’ll
give it a go. It’s shot as a single camera show in the
same way as The Thick of It is. That should give
you an idea of the sort of visual style to expect,
hopefully.
Louie centres around a fictionalised version of
Louis C.K (don’t ask about the discrepancy in
name spelling, as I have no idea either). Louis C.K
is, in real life, a comedian’s comedian, who is very
well respected in the comedy world. He’s also got
a style that is very funny and accessible. It’s not
all pretentious ‘clever’ humour of deconstructing
the joke style comedy. I say that because I fear the
other sentence made it sound like he was, like, so
underground and non-mainstream, man. He really
does have jokes that many people will appreciate.
In case you haven’t noticed, I’m trying hard to not
sound a bit douchey. I’m probably failing. Any-
way, in the show, Louie is a comedian who is well
respected and doing okay, but not exactly thriving.
He has two daughters and is divorced. It’s difficult
to say what the overall plot of the show is, as there
isn’t one in the traditional sense. One of the rea-
sons for this lack of a central theme is that Louie
is basically the only main character.All other char-
acters make appearances every now and then, but
couldn’t really be described as main characters.
There is a woman that he likes that doesn’t like him
back, but it’s not your traditional sitcom will-they
won’t-they although they-obviously-will-eventu-
ally vibe. It’s a bit more tragic as he tries a couple
of times to go for it and gets batted away each time.
If you can pretend that this is a seamless segue;
I want to point out that way too many shows have
a fairly predictable basic premise and central plot
line: the main character has feelings that are not
reciprocated. That’s fine, it’s a common life oc-
currence that is relatable and can be used to derive
humour or drama from. My problem is that most
shows play that ultimate they-get-together card too
early. The guy gets the girl, then, the show thinks
“oh, fuck, hang on, that was our main plot and
we’ve been renewed and need to stretch this out
into another season. Right, let’s now have some-
thing happen and it goes badly, then we can get
them back together later on. Oh, here’s a good
idea, she gets back together with her jerk, jock
boyfriend”. If the guy has got the girl once, the
whole ‘she’s so out of his league and is his dream
girl’ aspect is like David Cameron’s social con-
science: lost.
Every episode of Louie is split into two parts,
each being fairly self-contained (absolutely seam-
less segue back into review mode, right? No, yeah,
fair point). This is interspersed with scenes of him
doing stand-up in a comedy club (think Seinfeld,
but with swearing). Actually, Seinfeld isn’t too
bad a comparison, it’s ‘mundane’ in the fact that
it’s just about a guy’s life and ‘stuff’ happening. It
differs in that it’s occasionally a bit odd. At times
it can be bleak, but sometimes the show is, surpris-
ingly, heart-warming. There was an episode where
he goes to perform to troops and that has a very
uplifting ending. I don’t want to give it away, but it
really did make you feel good afterwards.
Louie is also littered with guest stars. Consid-
ering the low budget, the quality of guest stars is
amazing. I think this shows just how popular Louis
C.K is with comedians. Everyone from Amir of
Jake and Amir fame to Chris Rock, Dane Cook
and Joan Rivers has made an appearance. These
guests are always used well, and aren’t just there to
show off that he knows famous people.
Basically, Louie is funny, well written, and worth
a watch. It may not be everyone’s cup of tea, but I
think the stand-up routines are something that we
can all enjoy, even if you don’t like the rest of the
show.
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Pick of the week
Well, he’s only human
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
Saturday | 1700 - 1800 | Quest
Hitler’s Henchmen
The life of Hermann Goering – founder of the
Gestapo and a man of extravagant tastes – is
examined in this documentary.
Monday | 2030 - 2100 | BBC1
Panorama
Sophie Raworth explores whether or not su-
permarket money-saving offers actually save
you money.
Monday | 2200 - 2300 | E4
Desperate Scousewives
Scouse based semi-reality show. This week
DJ Danny attends Debbie’s fasion show with
a very public gesture to prove his love for her.
Tuesday | 2100 - 2200 | ITV4
Billy Connolly’s Route 66
Last in series. The Scottish Comedian com-
pletes the last leg of his motor-trike journey
visiting a meteorite crater in Arizona, before
heading to the Grand Canyon and finally fin-
ishing in Santa Monica.
Wednesday | 1900 - 2000 | BBC HD
Michael Wood’s Story of England
Michael Wood explores how the great famine
and Black Death affected Kibworth during the
14th century.
Thursday | 1900 - 2000 | Nat Geo
Area 51: I Was There
Documentary explaining the work carried out
at the alleged UFO storage facility. Insiders
reveal what projects they worked on in the
Nevada base.
Friday | Anytime | 4oD
True Stories: Wikileaks - Secrets and Lies
Patrick Forbes presents an in-depth study of
the Wikileaks affair. Including interviews with
Julian Assange and business partner Daniel
Domscheit Berg.
Friday | 1700 - 1800 | ITV1
Britain’s Best Dish
Salivation in audiovisual format. The Mid-
lands and East of England final.
eleven year old child.
Jay also has two children from his first mar-
riage: Mitchell and Clair. Mitchell (Jesse Tyler
Ferguson) is gay and lives with overemotional,
over dramatic partner Cameron (Eric Stonestreet)
who enjoys dressing up as a clown during his
spare time. Together they have adopted Lily, a
Vietnamese baby.
Clair (Julie Bowen, Kevin Spacey’s sexy wife
in Horrible Bosses), a complete control freak,
is married to Phil Dunphy (Ty Burrell). Phil be-
lieves he is the coolest dad ever (he can sing and
dance to all the High School Musical songs) and
has a tendency to act like a child. They have three
children: Haley, the popular high school teenager
hooked to her phone,Alex the nerd and Luke who
probably has ADHD or some obscure syndrome
and is unbelievably accident prone. In addition,
the cast includes appearances from Jay’s crazy
ex-wife and Haley’s boyfriend Dylan who has a
talent for writing brilliant but inappropriate songs
I have a completely insane family. So when I
heard about Modern Family, I didn’t think much
of it. The advert on TV just made me cringe. That
was until I watched an episode. American com-
edies can sometimes disappoint, but this show is
fantastic. I would venture to say it’s because it has
a hint of British humour to it, with a lot of the
slapstick and puns that we love so much.
This Emmy-winning “mockumentary” is a win-
dow into the Pritchetts’ and Dunphys’ everyday
life. Jay Pritchett (Ed O’Neil) is the patriarch of
the family having a second go at fatherhood with
his new, much younger Colombian wife Gloria
(Sofia Vergara) and her son Manny. Right from
the start, the stereotypes come rolling out: old
guy with a younger wife who says “djes” (“yes”
with the cutest Colombian accent) and it keeps on
going. Manny is a grand romantic, writes songs
and poetry, wears silk shirts and cologne. He’s an
(and performing them in front of his girlfriend’s
parents).
Throughout the series two characters gain in
importance and screen time. I’m talking about
Gloria’s breasts. Approved of by arse-men, leg-
men, tit-men, women and gay men, they provide
voluptuous huge peaks to the scenery. Frequently
clad in tight and plunging fabrics, there will al-
ways be an occasion to glimpse at the view. Sub-
tlety clearly isn’t the producer’s policy.
The genius of this comedy lies most certainly
with the script, the actors’ talent at its service but
also in the simplicity and the everyday quality of
the plot. The show is based on the families of the
creators – Steven Levitan and Christopher Lloyd
– supplying it with its realism, a beautiful comedy
source. Your family may be dysfunctional but no-
where near as much as this one. You will laugh,
cry and smile. So sit down with these hilarious
and loveable characters and simply enjoy the
beauty of modern family life.
Modern Family – A Family Portrait
Marie-Laure Hicks

