FILM
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
iCU Cinema All-Nighter
Tuesday 13 December
Have you got what it takes? Simple question; it’s a
‘yes or no’ question. To make it through the iCU Cin-
ema All-Nighter, you’re going to need to sit back and
enjoy over 12 hours of the latest films. Does that
sound like something you can do, Imperial?
Simply put, the All-Nighter is six of the latest films
back-to-back on one spectacular night of cinema,
caffeine, and tub after tub of Pot Noodle. It’s a cin-
ematic journey that begins with Johnny English Re-
born. Don’t scoff, a friend of mine works at Vertigo,
the production company that makes Johnny English;
it’s basically one of the most profitable truly-British
films in recent history.
Then we have Drive, the stylish action/thriller star-
ring “OH MY GOD HE’S SO HOT” Ryan Gosling (don’t
tell my mother I wrote that…)
After this? Real Steel. Hugh Jackman acts along-
side some robots. Or something.
Then we have Paul. Like all Edgar Wright & Co
films, Paul is hilarious and intelligent, unlike oh so
many Hollywood stoner flicks. It’s a true tribute to
the science fiction genre and you’d be mad to miss
it. To run down the night we’ve got style, action and
good old troll whacking.
First we’re straight into Contagion, a film about
a global pandemic that’s genuinely described as
a “medical thriller”. You can imagine the pitch for
this film: “What if, like, fear… yeah? Spreads faster,
yeah? Than the, like, virus?” I’m probably being too
cynical, Rotten Tomatoes gives this film 84%. Then
finally ending the night we have Troll Hunter. If you’ve
made it this far then you’re a true trooper and could
probably do a fair bit of troll bashing yourself.
So there it is. Six films, one night, and a whole lot
of caffeine. See you there, if you’ve got the ovaries
for it… (What? Is it not ok to say that?)
Kadhim Shubber
Lineup:
6.00pm Johnny English Reborn
8.15pm Drive
10:30pm Real Steel
1:15am Paul
3:30am Contagion
5:45am Troll Hunter
7:30am End
Tickets:
For the whole night, £10 online (£12 on the door)
All-you-can-eat Hot Food and Drinks (including Tea/
Coffee, Hot Dogs, Toasties, Noodles and more) £5
Tickets for individual films are £3
each and available on the door.
Drinks available all night courtesy of the Union Bar.
FELIX
28 Friday 02 DECember 2011
Thousands of hormonal Twihards queued for
days for the much-anticipated arrival of The
Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn – Part 1; the
fourth film in the hugely successful vampire
love story franchise was released last week,
setting the scene for the big finale next year.
An emotionally fraught, dramatic tale, this lat-
est film shows that the structure of the Twilight
franchise – that of surging adolescent emo-
tions quashing rational thought, and the result-
ing arguments and tantrums – is still foolproof.
The first three films weren’t epic, but despite
the somewhat crammed-in storyline, the film-
makers did a pretty good job with them. How-
ever, the story for The Twilight Saga: Break-
ing Dawn – Part 1 is getting slightly ridiculous
– Bella gets pregnant with a vampire-human
hybrid that rips its way out dramatically – and
even director Bill Condon and his ace team
can’t make it perfect.
Having said that, while the filmmakers
have taken a lot of flack about their choice to
take what has been dubbed the ‘Harry Potter
gameplan’ and splitting the final novel into
two films, when it comes to profits the deci-
sion was a definite win for the backers. The
three-day opening here in the UK bagged a
rather impressive £13.91m, and is expected to
go straight to the top of the UK Box Office
chart, having shot to the top of the USA’s with
a whopping first weekend take of $138m.
The story follows on from the previous Twi-
light Saga films; after a beautiful wedding,
Edward Cullen (Robert Pattinson) and Bella
Swan (Kristen Stewart) set off on a romantic
honeymoon to Brazil. However, the trip is cut
short when Bella discovers she is pregnant with
a half-vampire half-human baby, which is fast
mutating and crushing her weak human body.
To add to the problem, when they get home
there are a few pretty angry werewolves who
are really not keen on the arrival of this mutant
child waiting on their doorstep. Can Bella’s
werewolf friend Jacob (Taylor Lautner) help
sort things out? And how will Bella and Ed-
ward cope with their new species of child?
The acting is as it always has been – fine, but
hampered by a rather miserable script. A rea-
sonable supporting cast is held up by Pattinson
still credibly portraying hurt soul Edward, but
while the intensity between him and Stewart
is genuinely convincing, for a teen flick there
are very moody faces all round. Even in the
rare moments of attempted humour, the ac-
tors can’t seem to get it across. Lautner does
a good job with angry, angsty Jacob, but even
he has his moments of childish tantrums and
storming off. Nevertheless, the whole cast do
a good job, and it is clear that a lot of effort
has gone into pushing the mood of the film to-
wards ‘dark and disturbing’ in the set-up for
the final part.
If you watch Breaking Dawn Part 1 as a pre-
quel to the total hell that is about to break loose
in part two (you know what I mean if you’ve
read the book, Twihards) then it’s ok. But if it
is viewed as a stand-alone film, the unnecessar-
ily slow pace and extended length of the film
can make it a bit dull. There’s enough to keep it
all moving along, especially in the second half,
and there is a lot of tension created by heart-
broken Jacob’s doubts, torn desperately as he
is between love and vengeance. But there is a
serious lack of fight scenes and action, other
than the threatening pack of werewolves who
really only remain on the periphery. The only
minor action shows the wolves leaping a bit as
the vampires move really fast, which gets a bit
tedious after a while.
Possibly the best thing about this film is the
effect it’s having on men across the world. As
mentioned, the film portrays Bella’s difficult
pregnancy as she carries the child of her vam-
pire husband, culminating in a graphic scene
of the baby’s birth. Viewer Brandon Gephart,
from Roseville, California, was reportedly
taken to hospital after suffering what seemed
to be a panic attack during the birthing cli-
max. “He was convulsing, snorting, trying to
breathe,” said his girlfriend Kelly Bauman.
That particular screening had to end early
when the paramedics arrived. Other cases of
men freaking out have been recorded, such as
an unnamed man from Utah (as reported by
ABC4) who also had some sort of seizure dur-
ing the same scene. “I didn’t really remember
what happened,” the man told the news crew.
“I think I blacked out. According to [my wife]
I was shaking and mumbling different noises.”
The ending naturally gears us up for the fi-
nal part of the Twilight Saga, and – alongside a
sneaky mid-credits teaser – sets the stage for a
very different Bella and the battle for her new
family’s safety in 2012’s concluding install-
ment. All in all, despite the Rotten Tomatoes
rating of just 28%, this is a reasonably enjoy-
able, easy film to watch – one to drag your
boyfriend to… unless he’s squeamish about
pregnancy.
Cure for teen pregnancy
Lucy Wiles
Director Bill Condon
Screenwriters Melissa Rosenberg,
Stephanie Meyers (novel)
Cast Robert Pattinson, Kristen Stewart,
Taylor Lautner
The Twilight Saga - Breaking
Dawn Part 1
“Edward, I’m pregnant...” “Bella, I’m leaving you...”

