An online petition calling for ex-Imperial
College staff member Babar Ahmad to
be put on trial in the United Kingdom
reached 141,000 signatures by its clos-
ing date of November 11, passing the re-
quirement of 100,000 for a discussion in
Parliament. This has led to a parliamen-
tary debate being held next week on the
issue of extradition.
Babar Ahmad is the longest impris-
oned-without-charge UK citizen, having
been imprisoned for over 7 years. He is
fighting extradition to the US and the
online petition was set up by his family
to grant him a UK trial before he is ex-
tradited.
Instead of the case being raised in
Westminster Hall as an individual dis-
cussion, Babar Ahmad’s case was in-
cluded as a part of a bigger debate on
extradition on November 24. The debate
was only attended by 35 MPs but the
conclusion was that the Babar Ahmad
online petition should be discussed in the
main chamber of the Commons.
Green Party MP Caroline Lucas spe-
cifically mentioned the case during the
debate. She acknowledged that the case
was unique and the amount of support
behind it was substantial enough for its
own discussion. She said: “the family
and the 140,000 plus people who signed
3
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011
NEWS
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
Babar Ahmad petition leads to debate
the e-petition now deserve a full Com-
mons debate on a voteable motion.”
She also mentioned that Babar Ah-
mad’s solicitors and the Crown Prosecu-
tion Service (CPS) had admitted to never
analysing the evidence in relation to his
case in a letter dated November 22. This
comes as news, as they had previously
stated that there was insufficient evi-
dence to prosecute him in the UK, hence
his extradition to the US.
Babar Ahmad’s father, Ashfaq Ahmad
commented on this revelation saying that
“It is quite shocking to learn that the CPS
made no effort to examine the evidence
seized from Babar’s home but instead
simply outsourced our criminal justice
Votable parliamentary discussion on extradition to take place on Monday
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Aemun Reza
system to the US. Had it examined the
evidence then it could have prosecuted
Babar in the UK.”
On December 5 there will be a full vot-
able parliamentary debate on extradition.
The Free Babar Ahmad Campaign hopes
“the family and peo-
ple who signed the e-
petition now deserve
a Commons debate”
Leader of the Green Party Caroline Lucas has spoken out in favour of a
discussion of the Babar Ahmad case
that this discussion will have a positive
impact on Babar Ahmad’s case. They are
confident that, even though the case is
not mentioned in the final text of the mo-
tion, it will be the milestone they need.
Ashfaq Ahmad said: “It is essential
that any reforms to the extradition laws
that are voted for apply to pending cases
such as Babar’s as it would be absolutely
immoral to extradite British citizens un-
der a Treaty that has been found by Par-
liament to be unfair.”
The full text of the motion calls upon
the House of Commons to “reform the
UK’s extradition arrangements as a mat-
ter of urgency to strengthen the protec-
tion of British citizens” through the
introduction of a Bill in Parliament to
“enact the safeguards recommended by
the Joint Committee on Human Rights in
its Fifteenth Report of 2010-12, and by
pursuing such amendments to the UK-
US Extradition Treaty 2003 and the EU
Council Framework Decision 2002 on
the European Arrest Warrant”.
This is a significant step for the Free
Babar Ahmad campaign. The organis-
ers have expressed their gratitude for the
overwhelming public support of 141,000
signatures that brought Babar Ahmad’s
case to the government’s attention. They
are now awaiting the outcome of the de-
bate on December 5 and how it will af-
fect Babar Ahmad’s case.
e-petitions
Any British citizen or UK resi-
dent can create an e-petition,
with the aim of the service
as an “easy way for the pub-
lic to engage with politics”.
Even if an e-petition reaches
100,000 signatures, it does
not guarantee a debate in the
House of Commons. Potential
reasons for a debate not to
go ahead include whether the
subject of the e-petition is go-
ing through legal proceedings,
and the resulting propriety.
Government e-petitions vary
from topics such as a call to
teach coding at primary school
level, to calling on the Coali-
tion government to solve “irre-
sponsible dog ownership”. The
website saw a surge of interest
following last summer’s riots.
An e-petition under the name
“Convicted London rioters
should loose [sic] all benefits”
passed the 100,000 mark in
early August, and at the time
of going to print stands at just
over 250,000 signatures.
Science Challenge winners announced
The Royal College of Science Union
(RCSU) held a formal dinner for alumni
and the Science Challenge 2011 winners
on Thursday 24 November. The Science
Challenge competition is an annual, na-
tional scientific essay writing competi-
tion aiming to encourage scientific de-
bate, reasoning and the communication
of science in a public-friendly context.
Imperial students may enter as well
as students from secondary schools
and colleges, with the topics separated
into Biology, Chemistry, Physics and
Mathematics. The overall winner of the
Science Challenge 2011 was Andrew
Purcell, who received £2000 for his sub-
mission to the Physics question, “Why
should the average person care whether
we discover the Higgs boson?” with Sar-
ah Byrne receiving the runner up prize
of £1000 for her essay.
The individual subject prize winners
include Felix’s very own Travel Editor
Christopher Richardson for the Biology
prize, Science Editors Alexander Kara-
petian and Kelly Oakes for the Math-
ematics and Physics prizes respectively
and Erica Thompson for the Chemistry
prize, each receiving £250 for their ef-
forts. The overall winner for the external
school entries was James Bezer, who
received £500, with runners up Hiba
Chaudhry and Joseph Herbert receiving
£250 each.
John Sanderson, President of the
Royal College of Science Association
(RCSA) was present at the dinner along
with Professor Maggie Dallman. Paul
Beaumont, Vice President (Operations)
of the RCSU and Science Challenge
Chair announced the next challenge’s
launch date to be 17 January 2012, com-
menting he “encourages people to enter
as it’s going to be bigger than ever be-
fore”, with judges including the BBC’s
Science Correspondent, The Times’s
Science Editor and Lord Robert Win-
ston.
Luke Kanczes, RCSU President, said
“it was fantastic to see that even after
graduation Imperial scientists still have
such a strong connection with not only
Imperial but the RCSU”, adding “it was
great to finally announce the winners
and I’m looking forward to next year’s
Science Challenge!”
Alexander Karapetian
This year’s dinner was held at The Gore Hotel
Maria Han Veiga

