GAMES
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 02 december 2011 FELIX
30 FELIX
Smack it down to the
ground, WWE style
Edward Bals tackles THQ’s latest professional wres-
tling game, WWE ‘12
“The vast customisation
options in WWE ‘12
really give the game
a unique touch; you
can create your own
character from scratch”
I took him, and threw him on the GROUND
“To mimic real life pre-
wrestling this game
has backstage fights,
promos and even
scripted events in the
middle of matches”
T
HQ promised that WWE ‘12
would be the game to reinvent
their tired series, and it seems that
with this new entry they have suc-
ceeded, at least in part. This is a
game which recreates the almost absurd dra-
matics and stage-play that wrestling is famous
for: from The Undertaker’s chilling entrance
to some of the, sometimes hilarious, match
modes.
The ‘campaign’ within WWE ‘12 is the
‘Road to Wrestlemania’ which puts you in the
shoes of three different characters: Sheamus
(the villain); Triple H (the outsider) and Jacob
Cass (the player-created rookie wrestler). The
Road to Wrestlemania occupies a fairly sizable
chunk of the game (roughly twelve hours) but
it is at times frustrating. To mimic real life pro-
wrestling this game mode has backstage fights,
promos and even scripted events in the middle
of matches. These scripted events can often be
the most frustrating element of this mode as
quite often I found myself fruitlessly trying to
pin an opponent, when all that was required
was a contextual button press.
Gripes about Road to Wrestlemania aside,
the other single player mode, WWE universe,
should provide many hours of enjoyment. This
mode provides a section of the game without
a story, allowing the matches to be shown in
a calendar format allowing almost complete
customisation and allowing for what the game
should be mainly about (the wrestling) to
come to the fore. Feuds and alliances will be
formed in this mode and should keep you com-
ing back for more.
The multiplayer mode is great fun as play-
ing against a human opponent is much more
enjoyable than competing against the AI op-
ponents in WWE ‘12. When against the AI the
difficulty occasionally spikes with the only
reason seemingly being to punish the player
for having become better at the game. How-
ever, the AI can be easily tweaked using a
large range of customisation options. Compet-
ing against a human opponent is still the best
experience for a match in WWE ‘12, and the
almost lag-free online multiplayer makes it
even easier to enjoy this.
In terms of controls the game is very easy
to pick up with its intuitive control system.
The A button is used to grapple, B is used for
punches, kicks, Irish whips and pins, whilst
the Y button controls the wrestler’s signature
and finishing moves. The game also supplies
button prompts for countering moves but these
flitter onto and off the screen at such a speed
that the countering system is somewhat down
to chance, unless you have lightning-fast re-
flexes. The ability to target specific limbs is
also a welcome addition as it adds an almost
tactical and strategic feel to the gameplay.
The customisation options in WWE ‘12 are
vast. You can create your own character from
scratch, altering their appearance, entrance,
move set and finishing move. There is also
an option for creating your own arena for use
in the game. These customisation options re-
ally give the game a unique touch when you
watch your wrestler come on using their own
entrance rather than a stock one.
As a complete package WWE ‘12 is worth
your time. The impressive customisation op-
tions, the large roster of over 60 characters
and the solid core gameplay make this game a
tempting package for anyone with the slightest
interest in wrestling.
(A return) to Web Games
You call it stealing, I call it a tribute. This week, and
this week only (maybe...) we’re going to offer you
up two totally awesome web games that you can
play right now in your web browser. In order to enjoy
these you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player
plug-in which can be installed from
http://get.adobe.com/flashplayer/
Top Defense
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/573681
Don’t you just hate it when you awaken from artificial
hibernation to find yourself as the only survivor on a
military starship, immediately tasked with defending
an entire planet?
Top Defence is a tower-defence game, only without
the towers. You have a variety of upgradable weap-
ons to manually attack the invading forces with,
including your basic missile strike, a slowdown ef-
fect thingy and an armour-eating nano-cloud. Choos-
ing what to upgrade with your limited ‘energy’ (the
game’s upgrade points) is a challenge, and will cer-
tainly keep you from that piece of coursework due in
at 2pm today.
Oh yeah, and the music’s pretty boss as well.
Culmination
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/584398
Culmination is more an art-piece than a game. The
music is both beautiful and calming, the art design
pure and simple. You play as the double-jumping
fallen Hero of the Earth, seeking revenge against his
King.
The combat is sword-based, easy to pick up and
fun to use. As you rack up more strikes on enemies
you temporarily gain more advanced strikes, culmi-
nating in an attack that demolishes all on screen. Go
play it now, you won’t be disappointed.

