FASHION
FASHION
Interview Dressing: Womenswear
Dress code etiquette is key for formal events. Saskia Verhagen shows us how to make the best first impression
Accesories
Your shoes and handbag should be good-quality, clean and tasteful, leather (not pat-
ent) or suede, in a co-ordinating shade to the rest of your outfit. Shoes and handbag
needn’t match; indeed, it can look rather contrived and frumpy if they do. Avoid any
designer-emblazoned anything, and worse than that, any designer knock-offs – beyond
terrible.
Shoes should be kept to a modest (less than 3”) height and your handbag should be
appropriately sized and smart. Jewellery ought to be kept to a bare minimum (sleeper
earrings, delicate necklace, inconspicuous watch) and colour-appropriate tights or
stockings are an absolute must: going bare-legged with a skirt on to an interview is a
total faux-pas.
Informal Interviews
Here we’re talking about a company dinner
with a few executives, or perhaps a casual
interview for a cool media post somewhere
you’ll find yourself fetching everyone’s tea
order for your first six months of employ-
ment. This type of interview means deci-
phering the impossible oxymoronic ‘smart/
casual’ dress code – but fear not: this is
not the Everest climbing mission that it
might seem.
An easy ensemble that never goes out
of style is the simple pairing of a high-
waisted trouser, belted over a silk shirt
(Equipment is the perennial classic, but
Miss Selfridge does the job too), keeping
your colours muted and neutral: navy, cam-
el, taupe, black, white, maybe maroon or
forest green if you’re feeling adventurous.
Top this with a tailored brass-buttoned
blazer which nips in at the waist, a small-
ish square handbag over the shoulder and
a pair of modest-height heels to complete
the look.
For these pieces on the high street, Zara
cuts a wicked jacket and their handbags
are excellent too. Think Grace Kelly during
the day, or classic Katharine Hepburn. The
look graces runways season after season
(see last season’s Paul Smith and Michael
Kors shows for well-styled examples) and
always looks elegant and effortless, yet
fabulously stylish.
Grooming
It is not quite clear why some girls find it so difficult to look properly put-together at
interview, the simplest things make the biggest of differences. Make-up should be kept
as natural as possible: after a proper cleanse, go for a tinted moisturiser and a touch of
concealer with the lightest flush of blusher on the cheeks. Take note: no bronzer, no fake
tan and no full-thickness foundation. Beyond anything else, it looks like you’ve tried too
hard and with all that effort, all you’ve managed is to look entirely ridiculous. A neutral
eye shadow with a touch of eyeliner and a lick of mascara is all you should need.
As for hair, wearing it up or down is a matter of how you feel most confident. It should
look neat and you should not feel the need to fiddle with it. Perfume, if you usually wear
it, should be fresh and never overpowering.
Formal Interviews
There are a few directions a girl can go here:
full on skirt suit, coordinating skirt and sepa-
rates, or a dress. The choice obviously de-
pends on your personal taste and the com-
pany you’re interviewing with, but most often,
trousers are not the right choice here.
If you are, indeed, a woman entering a
man’s world, the best thing is to own up to
it: look feminine and beautifully put-together,
with a CV as enviable as your innate sense of
style. The safest and most perennially styl-
ish dress is the wrap dress, made famous by
Diane von Furstenburg but which you can find
good copies up and down the high street. If
you’re going for separates, keep the colour
palette edited down to a maximum of three
shades, and never monochromatic – the fu-
neral rule applies to women too. Try white,
camel and navy; cream, black and maroon;
pale blue, mustard and navy blue.
As mentioned before, fabric choice counts:
look for cashmere blends for your sweaters,
light wool blends for skirts and jackets and
crisp cotton for shirts. Avoid anything too
stretchy or acrylic like the plague: it feels
cheap, looks cheap and fits badly.
Skirts should hit just below the knee and
sweaters, shirts and jackets should be tai-
lored but not tight. If you’re going to go for
a pattern (a subtle check, houndstooth or
stripe is acceptable), keep it to one item only,
including accessories.
G
etting dressed for your interview needn’t be the looming and perilous task that it may seem. As for men, the main principal for a good interview outfit is simple: the keyword is
subtlety. Appropriate but not boring, chic but not trendy, classic but not frumpy, feminine but not girly, and most of all, memorable – but never quirky. This is an exercise in that which
to women, comes as second nature: subliminal manipulation. We do it all the time, with a turn of phrase, a certain look – it’s all in the touches which aren’t obvious, but get the
job done. Each piece, each accessory is clearly well-chosen, sublimely chic and perfectly appropriate. The most crucial thing to remember is to buy the best quality you can afford,
look for great cuts and fabrics that fall well on you (Lord knows poly-blend doesn’t fall well on anyone) and quietly sophisticated detailing.
So don’t fret; whether you’re gunning up to meet the head honchos at a slick media firm or battening down the hatches in preparation for the endless rounds of interviews at the corporate
finance firms, the below guide should sort you out for whatever Careers Services throws your way. And by the way, looking stylish is never about what you wear, but always about how you
wear it: confidence is key.
31
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk

