FOOD
FELIX
32
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 02 december 2011
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Interview: Mark Pitts-Tucker
What a lovely name for a food! Ladies’ Fingers
or Okra (it has various different names around
the world) is one of the most popular vegetables
among West Asians, North Indians and Pakistanis,
where it is known as bamia or bamya. The follow-
ing recipe is very common in Palestine, Syria,
Greece, Cyprus, Tunisia, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Jordan,
Lebanon, Turkey, Yemen, and Israel.
Ingredients
1 kg okra
2 onions
2 tomatoes
1 stock cube
1 ½ glass olive oil
1 glass of vinegar
A pinch of salt
Preparation
Wash okra and put it in a bowl.
Pour the vinegar on it and leave it for 4-5 minutes.
Then fry it in the olive oil until it becomes ‘with-
ered’ and put it in the pot.
Fry the onions until they become brown and add
them in the pot.
Remove the oil from the frying pan and fry the to-
matoes with the stock cube.
Put them in the pot, add enough water (until it
covers everything) and boil until the water is ab-
sorbed.
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Lady’s Fingers
Recipe of the week: Thai Green Chicken Curry
Ingredients
Chicken slices (Breast) 120gms
Egg plant Slice 5gms
Pea eggplant 4gms
Kafir lime leaves 2gms
Basil leaves 5gms
Bamboo shoot 10gms
Green curry paste (readymade) 30gms
With Christmas quickly approaching, prices
are only bound to go up everywhere but
Tamarai are trying their best to offer their
award winning Pan Asian Food at an ex-
tremely pocket friendly price so all of your
extra pennies can go towards those highly
awaited presents under the tree.
A: You are the cheese grader for Cathedral
City. What does Cathedral City Cheese have
different from other cheese brands?
M: All of the cheese used for Cathedral City is
made at the award winning Davidstow Cream-
ery on the north Cornish coast. The meadows
are lush and the milk is creamy. All these fac-
tors combine to deliver a highly consistent
product with a wonderful flavour profile.
A: I’ve read that you often grade 500 cheese
samples a day. If I ask you to choose the best
cheese product that you have ever tasted,
which one would it be?
M: It is correct that on a busy day I can grade
in the region of 500 samples. Davidstow is a
large producer by any measure and there are a
lot of cheese to be assessed. My two favourite
cheeses are Cathedral City Vintage-20 and a
nice gooey, cabbage smelling Brie.
A: What knowledge and skills are needed to
be a cheese grader?
M: First the ability to taste accurately and con-
sistently, secondly a good understanding of the
manufacturing process, thirdly focus and con-
centration, and finally a thick skin if you need
to reject product.
A: Do you enjoy your job? Are there any
moments when you simply don’t want to eat
any more cheese?
M: I do enjoy my work and it is one of those
jobs that if you didn’t you would soon be found
wanting. There are times when I have certainly
had enough cheese but never too much and I
often eat cheese in the evening even after a full
days tasting!
A: Can you suggest any simple cheese-based
recipe to Imperial College Students?
M: There are so many easy ‘twists’ to cheese
on toast – cheddar with Stilton sprinkled on top
then grilled, mushrooms, tomatoes, something
hot and spicy? Use your imagination, I often
use it as a way to use up some odds and ends
from the fridge. Very cost effective too!
A: What would you have on your ideal
Christmas cheeseboard?
M: I’d go British all the way – Cathedral City
Mature as the broad appeal cheese, M&S Cor-
nish Cruncher for some real character, Cornish
Brie for super creamy texture, Red Leicester for
the splash of colour and regionality, and a soft
goats cheese for a change of taste and texture.
A: Are there any general tips to enjoy cheese
at its best?
M: Always store cheese in the fridge. When it
comes in a re-closeable pack then keep it in that
pack, If not ideal tightly wrap in grease proof
paper rather than cling film (it can go sweaty)
and finally take out of the fridge approx 15
mins before use if not for cooking.
A: Is Cathedral City currently in the process
of producing a new product?
M: We have just launched the kids snacks
‘Chedds’which was a big project launch for us.
In recent years there has been our Mild, Lighter
and Vintage-20 cheeses and, yes, there will be
more to come. Consumer trends change and
develop so standing still is only an option for
the foolish!
A: Which restaurant or café in London do
you recommend for delicious cheese-based
dishes? Any favourite dish in particular?
M: As much as I love a great restaurant meal I
really enjoy what I would call ‘great cafe grub’
and on that theme the simple done really well
is such a treat. Hot cheesy quiche with a non-
soggy base is a simple pleasure.
On the chef front look out for a guy called
Nathan Outlaw – fantastic!
Sugar 5gms
Canned Coconut milk 400ml
Fish sauce 5ml
Oil 5ml
Method
Heat oil in a thick-based sauce pan. Add
kafir lime leaf, pea eggplant, sugar and
green curry paste and sauté it.
Stir occasionally and ensure it does not
stick to the base. Add 100ml coconut
milk, chicken slices and simmer until the
chicken is cooked. Add the rest of the coco-
nut milk and bring to the boil. Season with
fish sauce and heat well. Finish with basil
leaves.Serve hot. Manish Mehrotra – Chef
Preparing the Christmas
table this year? Cooking
the turkey or pudding?
Send us an email at
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
with your recipe and/or
any other food plans you
have for Christmas!
Straight from the kitchens of Covent Garden’s Tamarai comes this dish
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Shooting the Bries with Cathedral City’s very own ‘cheese grader’
Tamarai 167 Drury Lane, Covent Garden,
London, UK WC2B 5PG; 0207 831 9399;
http://www.tamarai.co.uk/
Tuition Cheese – Mark Pitts-Tucker shares his cheese-based experiences
Davidstow Cheddar

