HOME & GARDEN
FELIX Friday 02 DECEMBER 2011 33
Home & Garden Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Charles Betts
Navid Nabijou
DIY: Whiteboard Station
Navid Nabijou helps you to experience the fun of lectures in your own home
A
s a mathematician liv-
ing with a group of other
mathematicians, I like to
think, at least some of the
time, that our conversa-
tions relate to something beyond our
chosen subject. But let’s face it: we’re
Imperial students. Inevitably, the mo-
ment does come when normal discourse
collapses into a frenzied exposition on
Graph Automorphisms and the implica-
tions of Zorn’s Lemma.
In the heat of the moment, having ev-
eryone jostling around the puny Pukka
Pad on the kitchen table can be pretty
frustrating. It disrupts the flow, forcing
everyone to be louder and more violent
as they try to get their point across.
The solution to all this? A whiteboard
station. The equations are up there on the
wall in nice, big letters that everyone can
read, there’s enough space for everyone
to stand around, and, with multiple pens,
people don’t have to fight each other
for scribbling rights. On top of all this,
there’s the added bonus that anything
you write will seem instantly important
– simply by virtue of being scrawled up
on a board.
And the boards can be put to a lot more
use than you first might think. Ours have
been used for games of Pictionary; lan-
guage lessons; even just leaving mes-
sages for each other (“pay rent” being
the most common). It functions as a nice
little communal place for people to gath-
er around. You might never have thought
of making one, yet once you have it it
somehow seems indispensable.
The size of your station will de-
pend on a few things: the number
of people living in your flat, the
length of uninterrupted wall space
you have, and what your budget
is. We have three whiteboards
side-by-side, spanning about
three metres in total.
While this guide will be for a
three-board set-up, you can eas-
ily tailor it for more or less boards
as you see fit. (Do be warned,
though, that while the boards
might look big in the shop, once
they’re up on the wall you’ll quickly
find yourself running out of writing
space.) Here’s what you’ll need:
• Whiteboard: 30” x 90” (x3)
• Pack of sticky fixers
• Board markers (x3)
• Cloths for wiping (x3)
• String
• Nails (x3)
Most of these can be picked up at
an ordinary stationery shop. The bulk
of the cost will, of course, come from
the boards. They’re usually around
£15 a pop, but if you’re lucky enough
to catch a sale at Ryman’s you can
get them for half that.
Once you have all of the above, it’s
time to get down to business. First
thing to do is hammer a nail into the
top-right corner of each board. We’ll
be using this later to hang the mark-
ers and wiping cloths.
We’re going to use the sticky fixers
to attach the boards to the wall. You
could use nails, but your landlord
might not be best pleased about
this; in fact, on the subject of pissing
How to do it off landlords, if you cheap out on the
sticky fixers there’s a chance they
could leave some nasty marks on
the wall when you eventually remove
the boards.
Now that I’ve cleared myself of any
legal trouble: apply the sticky fixers
liberally to the back of each board
(i.e. use at least 15), and attach the
boards to the wall in a line (if you’re
really anal about this, you could use
a spirit level to make sure they’re
perfectly straight).
With the main task done, you’re
going to need something for writ-
ing and erasing. Tie each of the
board markers and wiping cloths
to a piece of string, ensuring the
string is long enough to fully cross
the diagonal of each board. Put a
loop in the other end, and hang
one board marker and one wiping
cloth on the nail in the corner of
each board.
And voila! You’re done. Months
of merriment await you and your
flatmates. If the board gets too
dirty, give it a spray with some
cleaning fluid and it’ll be good as
new. Enjoy!
Next week is the last issue before Christmas! Please, please, send in your Home & Garden stories. If you do, Navid can stop writ-
ing the kind of nonsense you see above. If we don’t get any submissions, next time he’ll be teaching you how to make a scale
model of Santa’s sleigh. I’m not joking. Email us at felix@imperial.ac.uk
The blob at the top is meant to be China. Don’t ask why

