ect, discussing the dates, budget, fund-
raising target, and other related issues.
One of InterVol’s trustees, Cai Heath,
who set-up and took part in InterVol’s
first Nepal project in 2007, will be giv-
ing a talk on his experiences in Nepal
and we will be answering your ques-
tions.
Do bear in mind that volunteers are
expected to cover their own flights,
accommodation, food and insurance.
There is no cost however to volunteer
with PSD Nepal or InterVol, both or-
ganisations make sure that as much
money as possible goes into the com-
munity. There are 6-8 places available
for international volunteers next sum-
mer. Please see the ‘Nepal’ project
page of www.intervol.co.uk for more
information and a powerpoint presenta-
tion from last year’s Birmingham Uni-
versity team. Please join our Facebook
group, search ‘Project Nepal – Imperial
College London’ or go to http://www.
facebook.com/groups/projectnepal/.
We look forward to hearing from
you and seeing you at the meeting next
week!
Project Nepal has been accepted as an
official charitable project by Imperial
College Union and we are now look-
ing to increase the size of our commit-
tee. Please get in touch with us if you
would like to be involved at this stage,
especially if you already have experi-
ence of being on a committee at ICU.
Our current volunteers need support
with planning our applications process,
starting fund-raising and arranging the
upcoming meetings, being an official
part of the committee is great for your
personal development and you will de-
velop skills and experience in project
struggle to get by and often have far too
many children due to Nepal’s growing
population and levels of poverty. PSD
Nepal work with the Nepali govern-
ment to target some of the worst off
schools who really need assistance and
then target those schools with projects
such as this one. Volunteers will raise
money as a team through fund-raising
events in the UK to support the project.
Volunteers from a number of UK uni-
versities, such as Oxford, Birmingham,
Bristol and Edinburgh, take part in the
programme currently and Imperial Col-
lege will be the newest addition!
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 02 december 2011 35
Volunteer for Nepal
Dear Imperial Students!
We are announcing the new Project
Nepal group at Imperial College Union,
we have now been officially registered
as an ICU project and we have been
overwhelmed by the positive response
that the project has received so far from
students. We now need volunteers both
on our project committee and for next
summer’s international trip so please
read on for more details.
Project Nepal is partnering with two
organisations to make our goals a real-
ity next summer, we will be working
with the UK charity, InterVol (http://
www.intervol.co.uk), who will sup-
port the UK side of our work and the
Nepali organisation, Partnership for
Sustainable Development (PSD) Nepal
(http://www.psdnepal.org) who we
will work with during the summer proj-
ect. The project aims to improve edu-
cation in rural Nepal through providing
funding and volunteers to construct
school buildings and to teach basic les-
sons in primary schools. These schools
Cai Heath
Project Nepal needs you for their charitable projects
“We need volunteers
for our project
committee and
international trip”
Kevin Moulton
Jing Tang
“The project aims to
improve education
in rural Nepal
through funding and
volunteers”
On Thursday 17 November, the CGCU
hosted their annual club night at Arch-
angel on High Street Kensington. Af-
ter a highly successful Welcome Din-
ner at Café de Paris, there was a huge
amount of pressure on the CGCU exec
to see if they could pull it off again.
With their reputation somewhat dwin-
dling over the last few years, Jacky
Kwan and his committee really seem
to be stepping up to the plate this year.
The club was full to the brim on the
night. The crowd was a good mix of
freshers and slightly more mature stu-
dents, but more surprisingly, of males
and females. The music was great and
the atmosphere even better. Deals
that rivalled those at the Union kept
the masses in good spirit. Add to this
the fact that some free drink vouchers
seemed to slip away mysteriously, and
you get the levels of amusement that
the committee were hoping for.
Clearly people enjoyed the night.
Highlights include an unnamed fresh-
er turning 18 in style, an unnamed se-
nior student getting furiously slapped
around the face and some serious love
given to Spanner (see photo). So all in
all, a resounding success.
What does CGCU have to offer
next? Leaving Christmas Dinner
plans to each respective engineer-
ing society, CGCU can save for more
events next term. In the near future
there will be an Ice Skating Evening at
Winter Wonderland and in the Spring
term there can be more club nights ex-
pected!
CGCU does it again!
Engineers report on busy club night at High Street Kensington’s Archangel
Will Seez
Shaky photo quality, obviously the sign of a good night
“Deals that rivalled
those at the Union”
co-ordination with a registered charity
that are hard to get during university.
Dedicated committee members will
also have a better chance of securing
one of our international volunteer posi-
tions for next summer.
Now that you have had a chance to
settle into university for the year we
are planning on hosting an information
meeting from 12-1pm on Friday the
2nd of December in Room G39, Roy-
al School of Mines Building (RSM),
Prince Consort Road, Imperial College
Union. In this meeting, we will talk
more about the ins and outs of the proj-
flickr/bckeenan

