FELIX
36
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 02 DECEMBER 2011
HANGMAN
The Hangman Text Sound Board
Politicians sometimes sound like a broken record. Here’s the David
Cameron text board. It’s like a sound board, but it’s in your head.
Use it to make up your own fully formed sentences!
You may even form an actual policy from them. If you do, please
send them into the Coalition Government.They desperately need
them. Blue = what he says Green = what he means
We’re all in this together
You’re all in it together, good luck
For Nick Clegg, just reword it all, adding in
the words “equal partners” and “fairness”.
These strikes are damaging
These strikes are irritating, just sit down and do as you’re told like the working class used to
We have no intention of privatising
the NHS*
I intend to privatise the NHS, but
know that it would be incredibly
unpopular to do so in a direct way.
So I’m finding a way around it.
It was a momentary lapse in judgement
It was a prolonged, active decision that I took
* can anyone think of another word beginning with “c”, though?
We’re making tough decisions
We’re making really easy decisions, for us
We must cut the deficit. Imagine if
you had a bill to pay, would you pay
it or just wait...
I’m definitely sticking with this plan,
so here’s an oversimplified analogy
for you povvy plebs
* Note: said while privatising the NHS in an
underhand way
Remember, it was the LAST LABOUR
government that put us in this mess in the
first place*
Please don’t remember that before I wasn’t
screaming for regulation of the banks and
didn’t say anything like this could happen
* used to justify doing something that he claims Labour did, so
it’s okay to keep doing it then
That’s what the Big Society is all about
How did someone actually manage to sell
me on a policy that is basically just “well, we
aren’t going to bother helping you. Do it your
fucking selves.”
These strikes are irritating, just sit down and do a
T
I’m a conservative with a small “c”*
I’m media savvy enough to know that Thatcher wasn’t long
ago enough to make her policies electable again
I once met a black man
I think I saw a film with that Wesley. L. Jackson chap the other day
Send in your
drunken mate of the
week photos to:
felix@imperial.ac.uk

