FELIX Friday 02 DECEMBER 2011 37
Horoscopes*
Scorpio
This week as King of Felix, you train your
underlings of malnourished urchins in the
art of swordsmanship and lead them out to
war against RAG. Unfortunately no one on
campus can tell you where RAG is based,
and very few have even heard of them.You
regroup in the JCR to plan strategy.
Aries
This week you snort a line of coke,
pick up your son from his father’s
house and get on a tram in Croydon.
You decide to start airing your
concerns about demographic changes
in South London. Turns out your
views are unpopular.
Taurus
You’re a medical student. After watching
a morbidly obese patient die of a heart
attack: surrounded by strangers and
shitting themselves; you realise that you
hate humanity. Upon expressing this belief,
all the qualified doctors burst into applause
and you’re handed your degree on the spot.
Gemini
This week you are required to write
a circular email to the Imperial Col-
lege RAG committee, as an opening
gambit you decide to start airing your
views on the comedic merit of a uni-
versity publication. Turns out your
views are unpopular.
Cancer
This week you go on strike. Your pen-
sion is being sold down the river, which
is completely outrageous because it’s not
your fault that the world economy is down
the shitter. Unfortunately, but unsurpris-
ingly, the strike achieves nothing. Politi-
cians inexplicably call you Greedy.
Leo
This week you’re doing bong hits with Eli-
za Manningham-Buller outside of Queen’s
tower when Keith O’nions rocks up and
starts getting all whingy about respect-
ability and bullshit like that. Just when you
thought your high had been crushed for-
ever, Prof. Nutt turns up with his special
cookies and everyone mellows back out.
Virgo
This week you decided to write for Fe-
lix. Tentatively opening the office door
you can’t help but scream at the sight
of skin-blanched malnourished urchins
slumped at computer desks. “News?!
From the Outside?!” croaks what looks
like the ring leader, blinking in the unfa-
miliar light. They make you their king.
Libra
This week you’re a blade of grass in the
union quad, gently photosynthesising in
the crisp, winter sunlight when BOOM:
an investment bank put up a massive
inflatable portable recruitment bouncy
castle on you. Still, better than what
those dicks at sports night pour on you.
Sagittarius
Thisweekyourgirlfrienddoesn’tloveyou
anymore. Unfortunately, girlfriend is the
name you gave the programme you made
for your computing coursework, designed
to send you banal, cute small-talk filled
text messages at 2 hourly intervals. To add
to your broken heart, you get a 2:2.
Capricorn
This week you decide to lead your Felix
Army on a campaign to conquer IC Radio.
However, when you get there, you find
the station manager being bundled into a
police van and the Union President in what
appears to be a Stasi uniform setting alight
to their server. FoiledAgain!
Aquarius
This week, in a fit of loneliness you buy a
hamster. You very quickly realise that the
companionship derived from a creature
that primarily just eats and shits a lot isn’t
huge. You decide to name him Virginity
and deliberately lose him. Now all the
lads will think you’re a real man.
Pisces
This week you are the girl in the yel-
low jumper with gold studded black
gloves smoking in the entrance to
Sherfield at 2pm on Wednesday,
you’re so hot you ruin every guys’
day. Call me 020 7515 789715, from
6pm to 4am on weekdays.
HANGMAN
* I bet you they can’t even be arsed to change this fucking caption
The
Illiterate
Book
Club
Do you like books but can’t be bothered to read?
This section is for you: it condenses paragraphs,
themes and narrative style into a hypodermic sy-
ringe for you to inject into your bloodstream. The
perfect antidote to ignorance for the lazy.
This book concisely addresses the existential crisis of the main
character – a dog that has had to live and cope with a congenital
skin defect that has ended up defining him. The story starts with
rebellion against his oppressors, who force his “dinner” upon
him. In response, Spot goes into hiding, fearing for his life. Eric
Hill’s portrayal of this one dog’s struggle is powerful in its graphic
detail of the various places his owners seach for him in, keeping
the reader on edge whenever a cupboard is opened. How long will
Spot stay one step ahead? What is Spot willing to do in order to
escape? And if he gets caught, what will he have for dinner?
Despite the gripping narrative, at 24 pages there is little room for
plot development, leaving many plot holes unanswered – such as
the cover: the protagonist is clearly looking for something despite
the story hinging around the search for Spot.
Stuff Imperial students hate
Men
God, you are all so unattractive. None of you seem
to give a damn about your appearance. Your ward-
robe consists of two hoodies, two pairs of jeans/
trousers, four t-shirts and maybe one long-sleeved
shirt for when you want to impress the ladies at the
Union. Except, once you get there, you just stare
creepily at them because you’re too damn scared
to say anything to them. You’ve made it through
school scoring straight A’s, so you’re so bloody
scared of failure that you will go out of your way to
avoid eye contact with the girl you like at the bar.
That time you got rejected from Oxford was almost
too much to handle – if you ever fail again you will
probably die.
Women
“Ooh, look at me! Just because I have a vagina I
think my opinions and general existence are sud-
denly 100% more relevant.” Newsflash: the moment
you step out of the confines of Imperial you will sud-
denly depreciate in value like a kebab once you’re
sober. Deal with it. It’s fair enough when the girl
in question is actually pretty fit and someone that
would actually get bought drinks in a bar. A REAL le-
gitimate bar, that people who can’t integrate attend
(and not just medics). But when it’s some dumpy
short bitch who wouldn’t even get a second look if
she went to UCL, you just shake your head at all the
saps that surround her like bees around honey. Flies
around shit would be a more accurate metaphor.
Female
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
Misguided protestors campaign
against haircuts
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
Their next act: walking into an operating
theatre and scaring the shit out of the patient
Male

