4 FELIX
NEWS
Friday 02 december 2011
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
University of Cambridge
In Brief
Cambridge hold Europe’s highest
university fundraising total
Cambridge reached a milestone of US$2.0 billion
during its 800th Anniversary Campaign making it
the university with the highest fundraising total in
Europe. A mammoth US$905 million (£523 mil-
lion) was raised by the university’s colleges and
US$1.1 billion (£649 million) was raised by the
university itself. This 10 year campaign to raise
money had its most successful year between
2010-2011 when they raised US$215 million
(£135 million).
Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Leszek Borysie-
wicz said that the university and colleges were
“immensely grateful” to their donors, out of which
a massive 54,000 are alumni who have contribut-
ed to colleges and 8000 of them to the university.
The US$640 million (£390 million) of legacy
pledges mean that more benefactions will have
been created in the future. Bill Janeway, Co-
Chairman of the Campaign Board and Senior Advi-
sor to Warburg Pincus said “the case for philan-
thropy and fundraising to support Britain’s great
universities has never been stronger”. Fellow Co-
Chairman and Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley
International, Sir David Walker acknowledged that
the donors “understand the need for sustained
investment” for teaching and research to main-
tain Cambridge’s excellence.
In the year 2010-2011, Imperial College raised
£9.9 million; 19% more than the previous finan-
cial year. Imperial’s alumni have doubled the par-
ticipation rates and, as a result, more Rector’s
Scholarships have been handed out this year
than in 2010-2011. The college aims to award
Rector’s Scholarships to students who meet the
requirements to attend the university, but are un-
able to because of financial reasons. Undergradu-
ate scholarships have increased by three times,
Masters by five times and PhD scholarships have
doubled.
Niki Kesharaju An annual walkathon to promote healthy
living, jointly hosted by the Imperial Col-
lege London Diabetes Centre (ICLDC) in
Abu Dhabi and The National Health Insur-
ance Company Daman, took place at the Yas
Marina Circuit (the venue for the Abu Dhabi
Grand Prix) on November 25. Walk For Life,
which is now in its fifth year, saw a turnout
of up to 16,000, with over 45,000 having
taken part in it since it began in 2007.
The event saw participants immersed in an
afternoon of family entertainment that in-
cluded a mix of musical acts as well as fun
fitness activities, which culminated in a 5km
walk undertaken by the participants.
Hosted under the patronage of Her High-
ness Sheikha Fatima bint Mubarak, Walk
For Life is part of ICLDC’s award-winning
public health awareness campaign, “Diabe-
tes-Knowledge-Action”, encouraging the
public to take charge of their lifestyles. Ac-
cording to Dr Michael Bitzer, Daman’s Chief
Executive Officer, Walk For Life “draws the
attention of the nation to the importance of
regular exercise as part of a healthy lifestyle
practice”, alongside a healthy and balanced
diet.
Meanwhile, ICLDC’s Medical and Re-
search Director and Consultant Endocrinolo-
gist, Dr Maha Taysir, Barakat, spoke about
the enormous health benefits of exercise. “A
sedentary lifestyle and a poorly-balanced
diet are likely to lead to excess body weight,
which in turn can eventually manifest as
Type 2 Diabetes,” she said.
The ICLDC is a state-of-the-art outpatient
facility that specializes in diabetes treatment,
research, training and public health aware-
ness. Launched in August 2006, the centre
was built by Mubadala Healthcare in part-
nership with Imperial College London. It has
since offered diabetes prevention, education
and treatment to more than 100,000 people.
Carol Ann Cheah
Abu Dhabi Diabetes Centre walk on
Public sector protests
Workers took to the streets on Wednesday over Government pension plans
This Wednesday, public sector workers up and
down the country went on strike, in what was
described by some as the “biggest walkout for a
generation.” The action was directed against the
Government’s planned reforms of public sec-
tor pensions, which comprise part of its wide-
reaching deficit reduction plan.
The most contentious aspects of the changes
are plans to alter the method of calculating the
pension rate from the current system – which
is based on the worker’s final salary – to one
which is based on his or her career average earn-
ings. Accompanying this are plans to raise the
retirement age to 66 by the year 2020, with the
intention for it to eventually reach 68.
The Government argues that these reforms are
necessary, since people are now living longer
and contributions to pension plans are no longer
keeping step with the costs of those pensions.
The Unions counter that the proposed changes
will unfairly and disproportionately impact
public sector workers, with employees having
to work longer and contribute more towards an
ultimately smaller pension.
A number of public services have been closed
or partially closed as a result of the action. Well
over half of all schools in the country shut their
doors, while in hospitals thousands of non-
emergency operations and appointments were
cancelled. Accompanying the strike were large
marches in London, as well as other major cities
such as Birmingham, Leeds and Exeter.
However, in spite of the scale of the action,
problems at the country’s busy airports were
kept to a minimum, with very few flight can-
cellations. Imperial College was also little af-
fected, with very few lectures or tutorials being
cancelled.
The Government has branded the strike “irre-
sponsible”: they claim that it is damaging to the
economy and a hindrance to negotiations cur-
rently on-going with the Unions. The Unions,
however, say that the Government has not prop-
erly engaged in negotiations for some time:
“this idea that negotiations are continuing is just
not true.” In recent weeks, the Government has
hinted that its current offer to the Unions could
be retracted if an agreement is not reached soon.
Photos: Pages 6 and 7
Navid Nabijou
Andrew Fok
Imperial College London
Professor Lord Ara Darzi is a key figure in the partnership’s development
Cambridge celebrated its 800th year in 2009

