FELIX 41
SPORT
Friday 02 December 2011
Football: Men’s 7s make
light work of Heythrop
The first weekend of November saw 28
Imperial students hit the coast of north
Devon for a weekend of surfing and ini-
tiation activities.
The trip was the first of the new aca-
demic year and saw 16 newbies join the
surfsoc veterans to hit the November
swells.
The trip down was an unexpectedly
long one due to the crash on the M5
which added 6 hours on to what should
have been a 5 hour journey. A few light
beers to get over the journey on the Fri-
day night were followed by an early
start on the Saturday where the club
kitted up into their tight smelly wetsuits
for some surfing action.
The waves on the Saturday weren’t as
huge as the 50ft waves which battered
the Devon coast a fortnight before;
however, they did still provide enough
force to keep the beginners and (self-
claimed) pros happy.
The night following the Saturday surf
session was arguably one of surfsocs
finest to date. Following the initiations
which saw newbies consuming beverag-
es through the surfsoc boot of grief, the
club continued to play the usual surfsoc
marathon of games. The usual victims
of the boot never failed to entertain the
crowd, with certain committee members
prowling on innocent newbies in search
of some early swell white wash for the
Sunday session.
The Sunday saw the final surf session
of the weekend. The waves improved
in quality becoming less choppy than
the previous day, allowing everyone
to improve on their skills/ faceplant-
ing. Some members decided to sit out
this session feeling a bit dodge from the
night before. After a Sunday roast over-
looking the beach, the surfers loaded the
minibuses and hit the road.
The journey back to the grindstone
was considerably better with the travel
time halved…for the one minibus. The
second bus decided to re-join some
traffic, and are due to come back next
week…
The continued success of surfsoc over
the last year has allowed the club to up
attendances on trips to 28 per trip. With
sponsorship, and a larger committee the
club is continuing to grow and are open
to any Imperial students joining the
club…provided you can swim!
Interested in surfing?
Surfsoc welcomes beginner/interme-
diate/Kelly slater quality surfers.
To be put on the mailing list and learn
more about surfsoc simply email:
surfsoc@imperial.ac.uk
Alexander Karvelas
Surfing
Imperial Surfers
go to Devon:
Westward ho!
A fine afternoon in Fulham yielded a
impressive 4-0 away victory for the Im-
perial football 7th team against a strong
Heythrop side whose Kensington loca-
tion made it as close to a derby game as
any possible outside Varsity week.
Equipped with armfuls of food from
some of Gloucester Road’s most repu-
table food outlets, the ever-professional
7s proceeded to the tube, soon arriving
at Putney Bridge to meet the rest of the
players. After an accidental and brief
detour via the private Hurlingdon Club,
which was met with stern and disdain-
ful looks from the gatekeepers, the pitch
was found in nearby Hurlingdon Park.
The team quickly found the changing
room (whose size suggested it had actu-
ally been designed for 18-a-side Aussie
Rules Football) and pulled on the (liter-
ally) hole-filled rags which were mas-
querading as the 7s’ kit for the season.
The rare presence of a referee for the
first time in the season was a welcome
one, and he quickly got the game un-
derway with Heythrop losing the toss,
leaving the 7s to kick off. Talismanic
left-winger Ed Lambourn had been
self-diagnosed with a severe pulmonary
embolism, and was therefore unavail-
able to play for the first time this season
– a game in which his devastating pace
would surely have been useful, against a
defence which exhibited about as much
speed as a paralysed snail. His placed
was filled by Mikkel Kranker, who had
an excellent match in his first game for
Imperial. The lack of a natural goal-
keeper in the squad prompted tough-
tackling midfielder James Davies to of-
fer his services between the sticks.
After a largely even start, both teams
were pressing and it was Heythrop
who came closest with a shot power-
fully struck against the post in the first
10 minutes. Imperial’s three in central
midfield seemed to be working, with
Ben Ganesh, Chris Gunasekara and
Sergei Palmer passing with precision
and tackling with vigour. The referee’s
decision not to use linesmen was a poor
one, and lone striker Mo Alsagoff was
called offside a couple of times when
the spectators’ opinions suggested oth-
erwise.
The deadlock was broken on the twen-
ty minute mark, with winger Ephraim
Haffner-Staton, who had looked dan-
gerous on the right, cutting inside past
two defenders and hitting a powerful
shot into the bottom left corner past
the keeper. Shortly after, an accidental
kick in the head forced solid centre back
Steffan Schulz to be substituted for Ross
Maske, making his first appearance for
Imperial. The injured German had been
one of the team’s most consistent per-
formers so far in the season, with his
commanding defensive play alongside
Dom Wood combining smartly with
surprising attacking ability in front of
goal – he went into the game with two
goals already to his name.
It took just a few more minutes for the
second goal to come, with Ben releasing
Ephraim on the right hand edge of the
box who took a few touches before fin-
ishing coolly with a Robin-van-Persie-
versus-Norwich-esque chip, his second
of the game. As the first half came to
an end, there was time for yet another
goal to give Imperial a 3-0 lead into the
break. A through ball from the mid-
field released Mo who easily outpaced
the static Heythrop back line only to be
met with the onrushing keeper. A smart
sidestep to the right and a few subse-
quent touches left the keeper stranded
and the delightful chipped cross that
followed allowed Mikkel to fire home
from virtually on the goal-line – a debut
goal for the stand-in left midfielder.
The only other incident of the first
half was a rare yellow card for right
back Duncan, as he committed an ex-
cellent foul on a Heythrop midfielder
on the edge of his own box to prevent
an incisive counter-attack. The two full-
backs, captain Alex Meyer-Forsting
(a.k.a. Major Foreskin) alongside Dun-
can himself had both been excellent all
game, preventing any kind of threat
from materialising down the flanks.
Any fighting spirit from Heythrop
which had seemed to be absent for most
of the first half seemed to return at the
beginning of the second half, as the
game took a more even stance. Winger
Bhavik Bhatt replaced Chris and took up
a left midfield role, with Mikkel mov-
ing into the centre. The fourth and final
goal came midway through the second
half, as another punishing through ball
down the right flank released Mo on
the halfway line, who promptly outran
the haggard Heythrop defence and fired
confidently across the body of the keep-
er low into the corner of the net – his
third of the season.
For the final ten minutes, Sergei took
up position in goal, allowing James to
inject some of his tough-tackling and
enthusiasm into the centre of midfield.
After being unsure of his own ability
in goal, James had looked every bit the
professional keeper, with a confident
performance. The only incident in the
last few minutes was a penalty for Im-
perial being waved away by the referee
after talking to Ben, who proved the 7s’
sportsmanship, even though a penalty
would surely have led to a fifth goal.
Soon after, the final whistle blew, sig-
nalling celebrations from Imperial to
accompany their most convincing result
of the season. Ephraim was given man
of match after his sterling performance,
which had resulted in two goals for the
right winger. With performances like
this, the 7s are sure to quickly rise up
the table – form which could not have
come at a better time, as more challeng-
ing matches lie in the weeks to come.
Ed Lambourn
Football
Men’s 3rd 2
Sussex 2nd 1
Darren Ambrose, eat your heart out
Everybody goes surfin’, surfin’ Devonshire (set to the tune of the Beach
Boys song. Obviously)

