5
FELIX Friday 02 DECEMBER 2011
NEWS
New academic
health science
partnership
Imperial College London is establish-
ing ties with numerous healthcare pro-
viders in North West London includ-
ing approximately eleven NHS Trust
hospitals and institutions. The new
Academic Health Science Partnership
(AHSP), to be launched in April 2012,
aims to improve the health and care
of the local population of 1.9 million
people.
The AHSP will facilitate collabora-
tive approaches between primary, sec-
ondary, tertiary, community and men-
tal healthcare providers as well as the
academic community at Imperial. For
example, there will be greater oppor-
tunities to conduct clinical trials at a
large and meaningful scale and to ap-
ply research findings to benefit a great-
er number of patients. The AHSP could
also take a leading role in training and
educating healthcare professionals.
The idea of developing the AHSP
has been formulated by Professor Lord
Ara Darzi, Head of the Division of
Surgery at Imperial, and formerly Par-
liamentary Under-Secretary of State at
the Department of Health.
He said, “The partners involved in
developing the AHSP face many com-
mon challenges but have one unifying
goal: to bring the highest quality care to
the people of North West London. By
focusing on our strengths and system-
atically implementing what is known
across the partnership about providing
the best clinical care through innova-
tion, we should achieve much more
than we could apart. Our simple ambi-
tion is to use all of our academic and
clinical expertise to improve the qual-
ity of care for our North West London
population as a whole.”
Lord Darzi is to lead a Transitional
Partnership Board that will confirm the
membership of a number of healthcare
providers and establish the organisa-
tional and legal structure of the AHSP.
The Board will also include members
such as Sir Keith O’Nions, Rector of
Imperial, Chief Executives of the NHS
Trusts and a GP representative.
O’Nions said, “Lord Darzi has devel-
oped a convincing vision for achieving
higher quality care for patients through
innovation, and for strengthening Im-
perial’s links with healthcare provid-
ers across North West London, open-
ing new doors for all. He has achieved
widespread support for his proposals
and I look forward to working with the
other partners to shape the AHSP.”
Sophia David
Drop in UCAS applications
statements made after initial fore-
casts in October, saying: “Although
marginally down on last year, ap-
plications to the College look very
healthy. We will need to wait until
mid-January to draw any conclusions
about the final application numbers.”
Professor Buckingham told Felix
in October that this year’s applica-
tion rates to Imperial were “broadly
in line” with 2010 application fig-
ures.
While the headline figures do seem
worrying, it is clear that the situation
is more complicated than it seems at
first sight. It is certainly too soon to
be making alarmist comments – we
will only know the full impact of the
higher education funding changes in
January.
North West London hospitals and institu-
tions set to improve local healthcare
Professor Lord Ara Darzi is a key figure in the partnership’s development
Imperial College London
Latest figures continue to suggest fewer people are consider-
ing university as an option
...Continued from Front Page

