SCIENCE
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
H
ave you ever woken up the day
after a night out and mentally
recoiled in horror as you re-
member embarrassing things
that you said or did under the
influence of alcohol? Well, researchers at the
University of California, Berkeley, have dis-
covered a way to take the edge off those pain-
ful memories — all you have to do is nod off
long enough to dream.
Matthew Walker, lead author on the study
published last week in the journal Current
Biology, and his colleagues showed that rap-
id eye movement (REM) sleep, the phase of
sleep in which we dream, is associated with a
decrease in activity in a part of the brain that
processes emotions. This decrease in activity
allows a more ‘rational’ part of the brain to
take over the processing of memories, decreas-
ing their “emotional intensity”.
Thirty-five people, split into two groups,
participated in the study. Both groups viewed
150 images, chosen to elicit certain emotions,
twice, with 12 hours between the two view-
ings. The only difference was that one group
saw the images in the morning and then again
in the evening in the same day, having re-
mained awake in between, whereas the other
group saw the images in the evening and then
again the next morning, after a night’s sleep.
Those that slept in between the two viewings
reported a significant decrease in their emotional
reaction to the images. MRI scans also showed a
significant reduction in activity in the amygdala,
a part of the brain that processes emotions. Walk-
er and his colleagues noticed that when activity
in the amygdala decreased, the more ‘rational’
prefrontal cortex became more active.
REM sleep is also associated with changes
in neurotransmitters. Walker and colleagues
measured electrical brain activity and used this
to show that levels of neurotransmitters associ-
ated with stress decreased during REM sleep.
Walker thinks that reprocessing emotional ex-
periences during this period will soften those
memories and allow us to wake up feeling bet-
ter than when we went to sleep.
Unfortunately, dreaming won’t stop other
people remembering your drunken escapades,
but at least your own memories of the event
will be a bit blurry around the edges.
More seriously, the findings point to an ex-
planation of why people with post-traumatic
stress disorder find it difficult to recover from
their experiences. Walker thinks that perhaps
this dreaming therapy does not work the way it
should in people with post-traumatic stress dis-
order, so they relive the full painful experience
Dreaming of another world
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
You should have seen this guy last night... he’s going to have to nap for a very long time
Scientists discover hidden chan-
nels under nanofolds and wrinkles
Wrinkles and folds are important in nature as they
allow a large surface area to be fitted into a small
volume. Studying these features could lead to the
development of smaller electronic devices or even
flexible computer tablets. Recent research from a
group of scientists from the USA and South Korea
has bought these technologies a step closer to re-
ality.
Kyung-Suk Kim, professor of engineering at Brown
University, says that “wrinkles are everywhere in
science but they hold certain secrets.” Writing last
week in the Proceedings of the Royal Society A, Kim
and his team describe how they created wrinkles in
20 to 80 nanometre thick gold films by depositing
them on a stretched layer of polydimethylsiloxane
(PDMS), a rubber-like substrate commonly used in
the electronics industry. When the tension on the
PDMS was released the gold sheet buckled to form
wrinkles. The surface of these wrinkles was then
examined using atomic force microscopy while cut
sections of the film were studied by a scanning elec-
tron microscope.
The team discovered that when the gold film buck-
les, difficult-to-see secondary wrinkles are formed
at large separations from each other in addition to
the far more closely spaced primary wrinkles. When
the gold film is compressed to a greater degree the
spacing between these secondary wrinkles was un-
expectedly found to increase, rather than decrease,
as is the case for the main primary wrinkles.
The team also found that if the gold was com-
pressed asymmetrically it followed the so-called
Ogden model and the wrinkles began to touch, form-
ing fully-fledged folds. Upon closer examination, the
team found that previously undiscovered nanochan-
nels were buried below the films. Professor Kim
said, “They were hidden – we were the first ones
to cut [the film] and see that there are channels
underneath.”
The discoveries improve our theoretical under-
standing of folds and wrinkles, but could also have
significant implications for fluid transport and be
used in anything from microscopic pumps to water
purification systems.
DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2011.0567
Maciej Matuszewski
every time the memory is triggered.
But hope is not lost for patients with post-
traumatic stress disorder. A physician at a US
Department of Veteran Affairs hospital noticed
that post-traumatic stress disorder patients who
were taking a generic blood pressure drug had
fewer reoccurring nightmares. It turned out
that the drug has the side effect of suppress-
ing the stress neurotransmitters that are usually
reduced during REM sleep.
This observation was what prompted Walker
to investigate the link between REM sleep and
post-traumatic stress disorder in the first place.
This study helps to explain how the drug helps
those with post-traumatic stress disorder and
may even open doors to new treatments that
relate sleep and mental illness.
DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2011.10.052
FELIX
8 Friday 02 December 2011
Kelly Oakes on what to do if you need to take the edge off painful memories
Moulds are perhaps the least celebrated of or-
ganisms, with the notable exception of the one
that led to Alexander Fleming’s discovery of
penicillin in 1928. The story is well-known:
the fungal spores were accidentally allowed
to contaminate a petri dish, Fleming observed
that the mould was killing the culture of bacte-
ria on the plate, and on further investigation it
was found to be secreting an anti-bacterial sub-
stance which we now know as the first antibi-
otic: penicillin. It’s surprising, then, that we’ve
never known exactly what it was.
At least, that was the conclusion of recent
research from Imperial’s School of Public
Health, published in Molecular Ecology. The
species has usually been identified as Penicil-
lium chrysogenum, a commonly occurring
microscopic fungus found in air and house-
hold dust and on some foods. And indeed P.
chrysogenum, originally derived from mould
on a cantaloupe melon, has been the culture of
choice for industrial penicillin production over
the years. However when preserved samples
of Fleming’s culture were subjected to modern
genetic analysis techniques, they turned out
to contain a separate species, as yet unnamed.
In fact, what we’ve previously considered to
be simply P. chrysogenum actually appears to
cover four distinct species.
This finding is of more than historical in-
terest, however. Subtle differences between
species of fungus mean they secrete slightly
different versions of the antibiotic, or yield
greater or lesser amounts. Understanding the
differences and accurately identifying distinct
strains gives us the ability to select for par-
ticular pharmaceutical properties, and discover
entirely new compounds. As antibiotic resis-
tance becomes an increasingly serious prob-
lem, innovation and clearer understanding in
this field are essential.
Also this work offers a fascinating insight
into the complex and debate-filled world of
fungal species identification. Distinguishing
between species is not always straightforward,
least of all when dealing with microscopic
asexual organisms where it is difficult to even
define exactly what ‘species’ means. Indeed
Fleming himself originally identified his fun-
gus as P. rubrum, before P. chrysogenum was
accepted as the correct diagnosis.
Earlier this year, other prominent research-
ers in the field published their claim that Flem-
ing’s species is in fact P. rubens. We may well
expect a response from them soon, and the out-
come is by no means certain. It would seem a
fitting tribute, however, if Imperial scientists
could honour their famous predecessor by giv-
ing his species their proposed name of Penicil-
lium flemingii.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2011.05244.x
Fleming’s fungus finally identified
Sarah Byrne
Like us on Facebook
Follow the latest science
news from Imperial and
around the world on our
Facebook Page:
facebook.com/FelixScience

