SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 02 december 2011
The composition of the Earth’s core
has been a mystery to scientists for
nearly 60 years. While we know much
about how this section of our planet af-
fects us in terms of magnetism, energy
generation and planetary dynamics,
its precise makeup has remained hazy.
Until recently all we knew was that the
core is composed of predominantly liq-
uid iron, along with small amounts of
nickel, and 10% (by weight) of light
elements.
Researchers have now used a mix of
seismic and geophysical data, in con-
junction with laboratory models, to
determine the relative proportions of
these light elements present at the cen-
tre of our rocky planet. New research
by Haijun Huang and colleagues,
published in Nature, examines their
respective abundances and comes to
a surprising conclusion – the Earth’s
core is oxygen-poor.
The composition of the Earth’s core
is vital; differing elemental proportions
would result in different rates of cool-
ing, rate of core growth, and evolution
of our internal geodynamo – some-
thing that results in the generation of
and variation shown in our magnetic
field. By examining our core, it is also
possible to gain remarkable insight into
the conditions present when the Earth
formed, and its subsequent geochemi-
cal evolution.
The Earth’s core is known to be com-
posed of a large, liquid outer core that
houses a smaller, solid inner core – this
is shown well on the accompanying
image. The extreme temperature and
pressure conditions make it difficult
to investigate how seismic isotropy,
velocity and density would differ with
the presence of varying light elements.
Possible suspects for this light element
quota include sulphur, oxygen, silicon,
carbon and hydrogen, due to their solu-
bility at the temperature and pressure
ranges required.
Huang and the research team per-
formed shock-compression experi-
ments, where samples are subjected
to core-like conditions through high-
velocity impacts. Experiments such as
these have played a major role in un-
veiling current knowledge about core
composition; when iron-rich samples
are used the results are extremely close
to those we expect to occur in our core.
The researchers used liquid samples in
order to increase the accuracy of their
findings as far as possible, and mea-
sured the sound velocity of the shocked
samples along with the density and
temperature states achieved through
the impact.
Comparing these sound veloci-
ties and densities with the geophysi-
cal seismic data known for the core,
Huang and colleagues were able to
rule out certain compositions. They
experimented by splitting the 10%
by weight between oxygen, sulphur
and iron, and found that samples with
more than 2.5% oxygen by weight
were unable to match the required
dataset for density, temperature and
sound velocity. “The results show that
we can rule out oxygen as a major
light element in the liquid outer core,”
say the researchers.
While sulphur is able to match the
dataset required, previous accretion
models have limited the proportion of
this element to only a small amount.
Huang and colleagues have signifi-
cantly advanced our understanding of
the Earth’s geochemical origins and
elemental structure, but further ex-
Nicola Guttridge
Earth’s core deprived of oxygen
Facebook is making the world even smaller
Facebook has conducted a joint study
which suggests that there are, on
average, 3.74 degrees of separation
between users on the popular social
networking website. The study, joint
between Facebook’s data scientist
Lars Backstrom and four researchers
from the University of Milan, found
that the number of people that link
two others on average is approxi-
mately four. That is, as the authors of
the study explain, “when considering
another person in the world, a friend
of your friend knows a friend of their
friend.”
The study was carried out in May
before the ‘Subscriptions’ feature
was added to Facebook and celebrity
fan ‘Pages’ were not taken into ac-
count in the data. All active members
of the site were included in the study,
and users were deemed to be such if
they had logged on at least once over
a 28 day period. This marks the larg-
est test regarding Hungarian author
Frigyes Karinthy’s idea that there
were six degrees of separation be-
tween any two people on Earth. The
hypothesis has long since been tested
with various samples, including a no-
table effort by psychologist Stanley
Milgram in the 1960s involving de-
livering a letter to an arbitrary person
by passing through acquaintances.
Facebook’s social graph data had
721 million members at the time of
the experiment, with a total of 69
billion friendships. The researchers
were able to analyse the data using
rules from graph theory within dis-
crete mathematics and by performing
combinatorical analysis. They used a
24-core computer with a 1 terabyte
(TB) hard disk to crunch the num-
bers, costing them “no more than a
couple of thousand pounds”.
Facebook typically limits users to a
maximum cap of 5,000 friends. The
Alexander Karapetian
Sir Paul Nurse spoke at the dinner
”
There are on average
3.74 degrees of
separation between
users on Facebook
“
There ar
There ar
November 26 saw the first of what is
hoped to be an annual convening of the
science societies of universities in the UK
at a dinner, attended by some of the most
prestigious names in the discipline.
Guests of honour included HRH The
Duke of Kent; Nobel laureate Sir Paul
Nurse, who received his prize for his re-
search into cell duplication; Sir Roland
Jackson from the British Science Asso-
ciation; and Professor Kevin Warwick,
described as the “world’s first cyborg” for
implanting a RFID chip in his body.
Dinner was followed by an amusing
and inspiring speech by Sir Nurse, who
described his path into science (beginning
with the sight of Sputnik 2 over the skies
of Neasden), his work that led on to his
Nobel Prize, and where he sees science in
the future.
Of special note is the Frances Crick In-
stitute, opening in 2015. Nurse described
the Institute as being “anarchic,” with
1,500 staff being organized in no depart-
mental structure. It is hoped this way of
structuring the Institute will lead to in-
creased freedom, with no senior manag-
ers causing roadblocks to new research
proposals. When asked if there are any
examples of this arrangement in practice,
Nurse did, however, reply “in my head”.
Nurse also urged the attendees to use
their scientific skills for the good of the
nation. While he stressed that only those
with a deep passion for science should
go on to do research, it was important,
he said, that we ensure that public are of
a sound scientific knowledge, especially
as the future becomes even more scien-
tifically advanced. He used an example of
the lack of scientists in Parliament as an
example of where we fail at the moment,
especially considering the ill-informed
debate in the past, such as over GM crops.
Science
Societies
perimentation is required using differ-
ent mixes of light elements in order to
fully determine the composition of our
core.
DOI: 10.1038/nature10621
median amount from the sample size
representative of 10% of the global
population was only 100 friends,
accounting for 0.000014% of Face-
book’s total membership. Results
indicated 99.6% of all pairs of users
were connected by 5 degrees of sepa-
ration, with 92% connected with only
four. The average distance between
any two users was found to be 3.74
degrees, shorter than the average dis-
tance of 4.28 found by a similar Face-
book study in 2008, strengthening the
idea that a larger sample size often
results in a lower separation level.
The researchers said that “the av-
erage distance appears to be stabilis-
ing”, suggesting it would not change
from 3.74 even if the rest of the world
joined Facebook.
arXiv:1111.4570v1
Want to write for
Felix Science?
Email us!
Philip Kent
Cross section showing the inside the Earth
Nature
Raphael Scheps

