14 FELIX
Football
Preview
Well, with the new season well under way, we are
presenting here a searching in-depth analysis of the
players, of IC All-Stars, who are helping to make this
year's team even more successful than previous ones.
IC All-Stars
Pete Teague (Captain). Slippery right-winger recently transferred
from third division RCS for an undisclosed one-figure sum. Self-
styled most popular man in the division. Doubts, however, about
his tackling ability when up against tough opposition. Occasionally
loses head and sometimes shoots at own goal. Taking over
captaincy from Trev Phillips who occupied both right and left
wing positions last year.
John Downs. Fast talking sweeper from Mines. Previous form
unknown except that he has strong right foot. Owns a chain of
boutiques in Oldham but doubts about his management potential
with his having spent several seasons with non-Teagners, Mines.
However, his lack of a brain does make him the ideal player for
this position.
ICU Hon S e c ,
John Downs
ICU President,
Pete Teague
Riz Shakir. Imported from abroad to make this a truly international
squad.An undoubted improvement on last year's occupant of this
position though regular spectators at the All-Stars may not think
this is saying to much. Should p'ay up the centre and may improve
as the year goes on.
Steve Brightman. Temperamental, moustachioed wizard of the
dribble who plays slightly to the left of centre. Wants to be
captain next year and thus follow in the steps of P T . P o l i c e
record may count against him, however, and also the unfortunate
tendency to miss vital training sessions.
ICU D P ,
R i z Shakir
R C S U President,
Steve Brightman
Keith "Clockwork" Ahlers. Biggest drunk in the league. Plays
as far out on the right as possible and sometimes not even on
the same pitch as everyone else. Not one of the games greatest
thinkers and as a result was almost left out of All-Stars plans for
this season!
Nick "BR Special" Brayshaw. Second biggest drunk in the
league .Has supported "Union Bar" a l l his life. May find actually
playing difficult.Ambition: to become biggest drunk in the league.
Bamed for Life. After certain unsavoury incidents in a night club
in West Wickham, the F A has no alternative but to ban the
following players from ever donning an IC shirt again:- R Kill,
M Kessler and J Mortimer.
Left Wing. Position unoccupied this year.
G u i l d s President,
Keith A h l e r s
Mines President,
N i c k Brayshaw
Opposition
Brian "Bites yer legs" Flowers. This elegant, polo-necked,
ageing maestro knows every trick in the book and needs to be
watched all the time. May be less closely marked this year than
last.
Victor "Cockroach" Moorey. One of the all-time greats who
shows no intention of giving up his place, fried or otherwise, to
any up-and-coming youngster. One of the league's most expensive
players, he has been known t o hit hard both in the stomrch and in
the pocket. Plays in shirt number 40(%).
Chief Groundsman: Carl Seaford. Has unfortunate habit of declaring
pitch unplayable at short notice .However, he allows most people
the use of the ground as long as they can prove they're not
students .'Has right attitude and should go far.
Ron "We'll take 'em to the cleaners" Parker. (Striker)
Plays down the left side. This man can be insconpicuous for 89
minutes then whom, he strikes and there is very little the
opposition can do about i t . Indeed, there is very little his own
team can do about it either and this has led, in the past, to
disputes with the manager and to requests for transfer to the other
side .
A.Pathy (Midfield dynamo). All-Stars jinx player, this is the man
who may just make the difference between the two sides. For as
long as these games have been played, his paralysing influence
on Starts has been a significant factor in deciding the result.
However, more enthusiastic support from the touchlines would
encourage All-Stars heroes to chase and harry, and keep bim out
of the game.
NIGHTLINE EXHIBITION
An exhibition is open in Nightline each afternoon 29th
September to 3rd October. It is a chance to talk to a
volunteer about what happens there or just have a look at
the rooms and display of useful information.
Please come, we are in the same building as the
University Accommodation Bureau next door to the swimming
pool at 8 Princes Gardens.
Of course we are still open every night 6 pm till 9 am or
you can phone 581-2468 (int 2458). The first week at
college can be totally confusing and disorientating. If we
can help you put it in perspective or tell you where to go
for what you want, please phone or call round. Nightline is
an informal confidential student problem centre, run by
students with plenty of time to talk.
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E
R A D I O
Invite you to their Annual General Meeting
on FRIDAY 10th O C T O B E R at 12.45 in
the Senior Common Room, Union Building.
The election of the officers and managers of the station for
the coming year will be hed at this meeting.'Nomination
papers have been posted outside the IC Radio room in
Southside.
Please note* that only Full members of the station are
eligible for election, and that only full members may vote.
Details of membership may be obtained from The Secretary,
IC Radio, c/o Union Office, or from the stand at the Fresher's
fair at the start of term.'

