Feature FELIX, Friday M a y 2 9 t h 1 9 8 7 6
T h e A s h I n t e r v i e w
Imperial College's Mr Big, press baron David Jones, takes time out from a
crowded schedule to share a cup of coffee with the Rector, Professor Eric Ash
FELIX: You've been involved in various
projects to raise moneyfor the College.
One of these has been to make efforts
to contact the College alumni. How
successful do you think this has been so
far, and how much revenue do you think
will be raisedfromthe project?
Prof Ash: We have not so far attempted
to raise any money from our alumni.
The exercise so far has been to try to
find out who they are, where they live,
and to determine whether they are in any
sense interested in the College. I might
say that one of the people I wrote to
wrote back, said that he'd read between
the lines, and enclosed a cheque for £50,
which we have since framed in the
Alumnus Office as thefirstcontribution
which has reached us. However, in the
future I do very much hope that the
alunini will support the College in all
sorts of ways including financial.
FELIX: The College is trying to recruit
more to more overseas students to help
improve the College balance. Do you
think there is any possibility that the
College will need to do this at the
expense of home students, particularly
in the light of the tightening
accommodation situation ?
Prof Ash: There is no danger at all of
us supplanting home students by foreign
students, indeed one of the things that
concerns me is that for several years we
have under-recruited home students by
something like 10%, and I regard that
as one of the most important items on
our agenda; to improve our performance
in recruiting really bright home students.
I believe that we would be able to absorb
a modest additional number of overseas
students. Our target at the moment is to
go up to 1300 students—there are just
over a thousand students at present.
The accommodation business is
extremely serious. At the moment we
are able to promise first-year students
accommodation in College-owned
property of one sort or another, and we
will be able to stick to that whatever
happens. In the past we have been able
to promise, even now we are still able
to promise one year in College-owned
accommodation for first year overseas
students going on to postgraduate
courses. That promise is at risk. It really
all depends on how rapidly we can
acquire new accommodation. I would
very much like to be able to sustain that
promise, but I'm not absolutely sure that
we will be able to do so. Top priority
must go to first-year undergraduates.
FELIX: // the Collegefinallysettles the
dealfor the houses in Evelyn Gardens,
is this going to alleviate the problem and
enable us to meet these guarantees for
the immediate future?
Prof Ash: It would be an enormous help
in that direction. That is one of the most
cheerful things that have happened in
recent times, and I applaud the very
constructive reaction we have had from
ICU in enabling us to finance it. There
is no way we could have done it without
their cooperation.
FELIX: One thing you have expressed
a commitment to, during your time at IC,
is improving teaching standards in many
departments. Do youfeel there has been
any perceptible change in the last two
years?
Prof Ash: Let me start by saying that
I do not believe that teaching standards
at Imperial College were particularly
low. On the whole teaching standards
are high, were high when I came, and
academic staff regarded this as a very
serious commitment. Nonetheless, in
any organisation where you aim at the
highest possible standards in research as
well as teaching, there is going to be a
certain amount of tension between these
different types of duty which make up
the academic career. I believe that we
have been able to put a good deal of
increased emphasis on the importance
of excellence in teaching. In particular
the committee under Professor David
Blow has been examining this from all
possible angles, and has made a whole
series of suggestions, some of which
have been implemented, some of which
we are about to implement, which I
believe will make a very major
difference.
FELIX: Just before Easter it was
announced that the Governing Body was
intending to axe 100 jobs from the
College, throughout all departments
(including administration). What has
been the response ofthe campus unions
to this suggestion, and is there any
indication yet as to whether anyjobs will
have to go through compulsory
redundances?
Prof Ash: We are not at this stage
considering compulsory redundancies.
We do need to lose something like 100
posts out of the 2000 that we have in the
College at the moment; we expect that
this will be achieved within a year or two
by people not filling vacancies as they
arise, by people taking early retirement
and by people resigning to go to other
jobs.
FELIX: Do you think the tension
between aspects ofan academic's life at
Imperial will be increased as the
Government puts more strain on
universities through reduced finding;
will this cause IC to concentrate more
on improving itselfas a research centre,
and do you think this situation is likely
to change depending on the result ofthe
General Election?
Prof Ash: Well, there is a whole series
of questions there. Thefirstthing to say
is that the universities are indeed under
pressure. Imperial College has been put
under pressure, perhaps particularly
because we were allowed to enjoy a very
favourable student-staff ratio until a
couple of years ago. Becuase we no
longer have this favourable student staff
ratio, the financial provisions that we
have had from the UGC have been less
favourable than one would have
expected in view of the world-
recognised eminence of Imperial
College. I might say that Oxford and
Cambridge have been hit by exactly the
same problem. I believe that we are
going to be under continuing pressure;
my personal belief is that this will not
change very much with whatever new
administration we will face in a few
weeks time. I know that some of my
colleagues would disagree with me on
that, but that is my reading of the
situation. I do have my own favourite,
I have to admit, but I don't think it's
going to make a first order difference.
I do believe that we will have to re-think
our role to a considerable extent, and
certainly one of the pressures on
academic staff which is very evident
right here and now is that whereas we
can still get adequate funding for our
research, it is taking a larger percentage
of everybody's time and energy to
secure that funding. I see that problem
as a continuing problem and as a partial
answer we will have to get more efficient
in the way in which we produce contract
proposals and research grant proposals
and we will have to consider spreading
our proposals to agencies and industries
which we would not previously have
considered.
FELIX: You've expressed an interest in
student loan schemes; these have been
resisted by most student bodies over the
pastfew years. How do you feel a loan
scheme could benefit undergraduate
students, and is there a possibility that
students selecting a course would be
forced to go for ones which were
vocational, and, therefore likely to
enable repayment of a loan as quickly
as possible?
Prof Ash: The first thing to say is that
I'm not myself in favour of a loan
scheme if there is in fact a good
alternative. The second thing you've got
to be very clear about is that you don't
mix up the Rector with Her Majesty's
Government. I think we have to look at
the loan scheme as something which is
imposed by Government, and not really
something going to be given the weight
which I think it deserves. Here, of
course, we are making a judgement as
to what happens at the election; let's
assume for the moment that the same
administration continues and that the
committee set up by the Prime Minister,
under the chairmanship of George
Balden, will report their findings on the
loan scheme; they have not reported so
far and it has been clear for some
considerable time that they would not do
so before an election. I believe that some

