FELIX, Friday M a y 2 9 t h 1 9 8 7 7
of the fears you express are real, I
believe that the intention of the
Government is to be more dirigiste than
any Government has been so far in
higher education, that there will
therefore be a tendency to increase the
number of students in the sciences and
engineering. To some extent, as long as
this trend doesn't go too far, I think one
can see a certain amount of sense in it.
The country can make a great deal of
use of applied scientists who are
competent, but perhaps not particularly
brilliant at their work, whereas the use
you can make of people who have gone
through a degree in the arts, and who
are fairly average, is really very limited.
Up to a point some of this funnelling of
talent in to the sciences is not entirely
a mistake; what worries everyone is the
extent to which this will be pushed, and
the extent to which the universities will
lose control, and the extent to which the
people who want to study will lose
control over what they are able to do.
FELIX: Do you feel there is a danger
also that, as universities strengthen their
ties with industry, education will have
to move too far towards what is
demanded by big industrial sponsors?
Prof Ash: I think that danger exists, I
believe it can be resisted; I believe that
we can resist the tendency to go too far
towards developmental types of
research. It has always been fairly easy
for elite research teams to get money.
The trick is to get money to do what you
want to do in any case, and I believe that
we will be able to do that.
FELIX: A recent Board of Studies
meeting minuted that, due to a shortage
of space, some departments might need
to introduce 8.30am lectures. Do you see
this as a definite possibility?
Prof Ash: I do see it as a possibility and
I believe that it will be less unpopular
than you might think at first sight. It's
hard to get out of bed for a 9.30 lecture;
it is actually no harder to get out of bed
in time for an 8.30 lecture. It's purely
a matter of putting the alarm clock one
hour earlier. Moreover if you have to
commute, as some of our students do,
it is actually much"more comfortable to
commute in time for an 8.30 class than
a 9.30 class. What I think is needed is
something like the American universities
provide, and incidentally an early class
in America is 7.00am, a medium starting
time is 8.00am and a late class is
9.00am. I believe that the essential
requirement is to have a vat of coffee
available and I think that that is the
initiative that Departments should take
when they schedule lectures for 8.30.
FELIX: Few IC students know very
much about the Technology Centre
which is being set up at Silwood Park.
Could you first of all tell us a little bit
about that, and is it likely to affect the
College budget?
Prof Ash: Well it is first and foremost
an attempt to provide an interface
between the research at Imperial College
and the outside world. It is, amongst
other things, a place where small
to return funds to the College as an
excess of funds accumulate. I believe
that in time it will have a positive impact
on our budget, but quite apart from that
I also think that it will provide a better
interface between ourselves and industry
and will lead to indirect benefits which
may in fact be very much larger than
those direct benefits.
companies that people within Imperial
College would like to set up can start
their existence in a kind of sheltered
environment. I believe that, in the
fullness of time, the College will indeed
benefit. This Science Park within
Silwood Park has been set up by starting
a company called Impel. Impel is not
meant to make a profit, but it is meant
FELIX: After eighteen months in thejob
of Rector, what do you feel have been
your major achievements and do you
find the job frustrating in that the
administration is cumbersome and it
takes a long time to get anything into
practice.
Prof Ash: Let's start with the second
part of your question; do I find the job
frustrating? I would say about two thirds
of the time, yes. The problem is not just
administration; I do believe that
universities are intensely conservative
places, and there is a reluctance to
change both at the strategic and at the
tactical level. In this respect Imperial
College is no exception. I think my other
frustration has been the great difficulty
of communicating with the academic
staff. The students have a good
communications medium in FELIX,
there is nothing that corresponds to that
for the College as a whole. There was
such a thing; it got axed some years back
as a result of one of the earlier cuts; I
intend to reinstate it; we hope to have
a first issue of a new College journal
sometime in the fall. As to what I've
achieved since I've been here, I think
it's very hard to point to anything very
much. I believe that we are well on the
way to getting a better structure for
interfacing with industry, and here the
arrival of Dr David Thomas has made
an enormous difference.
I believe that we've made a good start
at communicating with our alumni; the
culmination of that first phase will be
Alumnus Day on 7th July. I believe that
we are well on the way to agreeing the
merger with St Mary's Hospital Medical
School. I'm very enthusiastic about that
particular development. The stage it has
reached is that we have the enthusiastic
support of the Board of Studies. The
final stage will be to obtain the
agreement of the Governing Body on
June 19th, and I am confident that that
will be forthcoming.
Can I make one further comment?
FELIX: Certainly.
Prof Ash: I'd like to say something
about FELIX. I think FELIX is a very
good journal. I think it really does serve
its primary role of communications
between the students and particularly
between the officers of the Union and
their constituents. I believe that it tends
to be too inward-looking. There is just
a little too much by way of jokes about
the officers and things which really are
not likely to be of enormous interest to
more than about five percent of the
students. I do think that opportunities for
looking at the role of Imperial College
in the country at large is something that
one could with advantage develop.
There's one specific thing which I would
really wish to urge on the Editor of
FELIX, this year's and next year's, and
that is never again to accept annonymous
letters. I think they are diabolical, even
if the name is supplied to the Editor.
This is a free society; I really do not
accept that any student needs to have any
fear of the consequences of writing what
he or she firmly believes to FELIX. I
believe that they should do so over their
own signatures.

