NO. 167.
F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U H I O N
FRIDAY, 10TH NOVEMBER 1961. PRICE 4D.
MORPHY DAY: BEST FOR YEARS
This year's Morphy Day, held on Novem-
ber 1st, was an outstanding success and the
best for many years. With roughly five hund-
red students on the towpath, some really
food-humoured, non-destructive ragging took
place just about continuously from 1 p.m.
to 5 p.m. This is the sort of rag that has
not been seen at this College for several
years. On the water R.C.S. won the Morphy
Cup and Guilds the Lowry, while the tow-
path battle was also won by Guilds, mainly
through better ogranisation, for the num-
bers were just about equal.
Preparations for the battle began very early
on Wednesday morning with the Guilds and
R.C.S. Executives collecting rotten fruit,
flour, paper bags, a six-foot diameter punch-
ball (to fight over) and half-a-pint of green
ink which was smeared on the hands of all
the Guildsmen taking part to avoid confus-
ion in the heat of battle. Two parties of
roughly 250 students each, suitably dressed
for the occasion, left Guilds and R . C S . at
1.15 p.m. and travelled down to Putney by
the District Line on the traditional party
ticket for 49. Guilds had the disgusting ex-
perience of discovering a King's student on
the three carriages thev took over and had
to eject him forcibly at Earl's Court.
While R.C.S. were marching across Put-
ney Bridge and Guilds were approaching
from the opposite direction (they alighted at
East Putney), the six-foot punch-ball prev-
iously mentioned was inflated at a local gar-
age, an operation taking twenty minutes and
severely straining the air supply. It was then
bowled through and over the traffic down
to the boathouse, where the mobile mascots
were lined up. All three vehicles were beauti-
fully prepared and were a credit to their col-
'eges. Well done the polishing crews.
Meanwhile the mobs had arrived and
formed up on the towpath a little to the west
of Beverly Brook, and they watched the Pre-
sidents going through the ritual starting pro-
cedure. Lawrie Austin (Guilds) beat Mc-
Pherson in the drink'ng race and thus qual-
ified for first slosh with the twelve-inch dia-
meter genuine Mooney lemon meringue pies
All near enough to see said that Law
rie made a good job of it rubbing
the remains of the pie well into Mc-
Pherson's hair and in reply Finlay made
an upward sweeping swipe that drove a good
proportion of lemon meringut up Lawrie's
nose- These pleasantries over, the ball was
rolled onto the centre-spot, and under cover
of a heavy barrage of earth clods, flour bags
and rotten fruit the two sides joined battle.
Things were a little uncoordinated at first
with the result that the ball moved sideways of
the towpath, across the mud and into the river,
leaving the combatants rather at a loose end
while the ball was retrieved. The public-
spirited gentlemen who swam after it included
Bill Macmillan. Dan Elwyn Jones and Pete
Young, the R.C.S. Vice-President who was
soaked already, having been deprived of his
trousers'and thrown into the river within thir-
ty seconds of battle commencing. Having no-
thing to do for the time being, those left on
the bank proceeded to remove each other's
trousers. Guilds doing most, if not all, the
removing.
They were distracted from this by the Low-
ry race, Guilds going by with a good lead on
Mines and R.C.S., and the crews were cheered
heartily from the bank. The ball was re-
turned eventually and the fight commenced
again. This time the Guilds pack had got
a grip of the technique necessary and under
instructions from their President at the rear
they worked together really well, wheeling
when appropriate and slowly forcing the ball
back to the R.CS. line, with occasional truces
to dig out the unfortunates who were being
trampled into the mud. Finally, despite Miss
Dorothy English's spirited cheer-leading from
the side-lines, R.C.S were forced back to Bev-
erly Brook and Guilds declared the winners.
Guilds then had the choice of being presented
with Theta or the Spanner (which was
of course in R . C S . possession) and they
chose the latter R.C.S. dug it up from
the towpath where it had been all the
time while Guildsmen were chasing the
length of England for it, and Law-
rie Austin led his men in a resoundine
Boomalacka, waving the Spanner, now
painted in purple and cream, above his head.
Another natural break now occurred while
they waited for the Morphv race to start, and
some desultory scuffling took place in die
mud. Guilds again doing most of the trouser-
removing and several sopping wet R.C.S men
walked back to the boathouse to change The
Morphy crews went by at last. R.C.S. hav-
ing a clear advantage over Guilds and after
giving them vociferous encouragement the
battle-stained and now united mob returned
to the boathouse before moving off in a Ions
column that eventually stretched the full
length of Putney Bridge. By the time the
crews returned to the boathouse there were
only -a few spectators to clap them in and
a couple of reporters from the national press
were still trying to remove flour and earth
from their clothing. No doubt in trying to
capture the atmosphere they had caught
some of the barrage as well.
The return journey provided considerable
sport R.C.S had lost their party ticket tit
was in the Vice-president's trousers and no-
body knew where they ware) so Guilds gen-
erously allowed them to travel on their tic-
ket They crossed Putney Bridge in single
file and crossed the road, the traffic court-
eously waiting during this prolonged operat-
ion, and had a couple of brief sit-downs in
the road before taking over a train at Put-
ney Bridge Station. The leaders astutely re-
alised that the law would be at South Ken-
sington (it was in fact) and therefore de-
cided to travel to High Street Kensington.
From High Street they moved on to the Al-
bert Memorial where community hymn-sing-
ing was enjoyed by all, and then a trouserless
Mike Barron led an assault on Albert him-
continued on page 2

