F E L I X
Morphy Day continued:
self: a large "Ladies" sign was left in his
lap hut later removed on the advice from a
sympathetic park-keeper that it was illegal.
The mobile mascots had arrived by this
/ime and were lined up outside the Albert
HaE attracting considerable attention from
passers-by and diverting attention from the
goings-on across the road. Albert was
quite unmoved by the antics going on
around him, and eventually the mob
kic over, through and under" a pair
of B . B C . vans on the way. Not to be left
out of it the mobile mascots had a short race
back to the Union, and despite some hairy
cornering by Sammy Klat, fancying himself
as a latter-day Charles Jarrott, Bo's age told
against him and he came last. Back in Prince
Consort Road an empty bus that happened to
be passing was commandeered, but for a short
while only, for it soon became evident that
the bus was capable of pushing a good deal
harder than the men holding it back, and it
was rapidly evacuated. Dan Elwyn Jones left
his exit rather late and was last seen disap-
pearing eastwards waving from the platform.
Just to finish things off the law arrived and
twelve constables stayed long enough to re-
move a bubble-car from one of the porches
of the Albert Hall. The mob having disap-
peared (they were in fact dancing ring-a-ring-
of-roses found the quad.) the law retreated
to their Black Maria and departed. In all, an
excellent day's sport and something to tell
the freshers about for some years to come.
Y O G I C O M E S T O I.C.
In spite of the credit squeeze, a M r . Y .
Beat made his first official appearance in an
inflated form at the Chem. Eng. Freshers'
Dinner on Monday Oct. 30th. This was main-
ly due to the generosity of Chem. Eng. 2nd
year, Thomas Hedley and a certain M r . Sol-
omon who happened to be present at the
gathering.
Mr. Bear's presence ("Call me Y o g i ! " , he
says) put speakers at ease: "His white collar
and look of prosperity are the stamp of a
second year Chemical Engineer", said one.
As the evening wore on, the grins of freshers
and hosts alike approached in magnitude the
imperturbable smile of M r . Bear. Owing to
the exuberance of one fresher after one and
a half pints, Mr. Bear passed an uncomfort-
able night in a broom cupboard, only to re-
appear still smiling at 9.30 a.m., the follow-
ing morning. His only comment was, "These
freshers get fresher every year, Boo-boo\"
L O R D M A Y O R ' S SHOW
This year the procession will be held on
SATURDAY NOV. I I T H Traditionally, City and
Guilds College is asked to take part in the
show. This year we are supplying X V budly
Guildsmen in the form of a rugby side to
play against KING'S COLLEGE along the route
between the floats representing Relaxation
Recreation. As well as the Guildsmen in the
procession. Guilds turn out en masse (c.f. Mor-
phy Day) to support the procession and to
make light work of any Kingsmen present.
The party of Guildsmen will leave from
the front of the old Guilds Building at 9.45
a.m. to be at Ludgate Hill by 10.15.
Let's see as many on Nov. 11th as there
were on Nov lst.
CONING EVENTS
by EDIT A M A M A
FRIDAY 10TH —
1. Film Society, Concert Hall — 7.00 p.m.
2. Links Club Dinner: Dining Hall: — 7.30
p.m.
SATURDAY l l T H : —
1. Lord Mayor's Show: Guilds will be half-
way up Ludgate Hill from 10.00 a.m.
SUNDAY 12TH: —
1. Rugby Club Hop: Union: 8.00 p.m.
2. Dramatic Society Rehearsals: Concert
Hall: 11.00 a m .
MONDAY 1 3 T H : —
1. Church Society Dinner: Dining Hall: -
7.00 for 7.300 p.m.
2. Phoenix will be on sale.
WEDNESDAY 1 5 T H : —
1. Indian Society Social Evening: Upper Re-
fectory: 7-30 p.m.
2. Dramatic Society Rehearsals: Concert
Hall: 6.30 p.m.
THURSDAY 1 6 T H : —
1. Union Meeting; Concert Hall: lunch-time
FWDAY 1 7 T H : —
1. R.C.S.A. Dinner and Dance: Ayrton Hall
2. Chemical Engineering Society Dance:
Upper Refectory:
SATURDAY 18TH: —
1. Catholic Society Hop: Union: 8.00 p.m.
SUNDAY 19TH:—
1. Felix Make-up Press Room: all day.
WEDNESDAY 2 2 N D : —
1. Sailing Club Dance: Ayrton Hall: 8.00
p.m.
2. Dramatic Society Rehearsals: Concert
Hall: 11.00 a.m.
Contributions for this column are welcomed.
The next fortnight we will cover will be 24lh
November to %th December.
LAMLE Y9
S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
B O O K S
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.

