There has been much controversy during
the past weeks in the columns of both Fe-
lix and Sennet over the disbanding of the
I.C.CN.D. Group. The only common feat-
ure of these various writings has been their
complete ignorance. It seems about time that
the basic facts were published.
A motion was submitted in writing to the
Secretary of I.C.U. calling for the abolit-
ion of the C.N.D. Group on the grounds of:
i. Repeated breaking of I.C.U. rules,
fi. Supporting the Committee of 100 which
flouted the law,
iii. Failing to fulfil the concept of an
I.C.U. Society.
Under the first head it was agreed that the
Group had broken nearly every Union rule,
including carrying a banner with the name
of the College on it. However, the same rule
had not been broken twice and disciplinary
action rather than abolition seemed logical.
Under the second head it was stated that al-
though (individual members supported civil
disobedience the society as a whole did not.
It would therefore seem apparent that the
society was abolished under the third head
of not being a genuine Union Society.
It was suggested that Council should not
have taken this decision but should have
left it to the S . C C A s the S.C.C. is merely
a sub-committee of Council and all its de-
cisions have to be ratified by Council, this
argument is rather fatuous The other cry
was that the Chairman of I.C.C.N.D. should
have been informed and invited to the meet-
ing. In fact the Chairman of the I.C.C.N.D.
Group was told verbally that the motion was
coming up. In view of the seriousness of the
motion it would have been sensible and
courteous to inform the Chairman of the
S.C.C. and the I.C.C.N.D. Group.
At the first Council Meeting of this ses-
sion a motion was put by the S.C.C. asking
that Council reconsider its earlier decision.
As a reconsideration would imply lac kof
confidence in the previous decision it was
pointed out that some new information was
needed. As no new information was forcom-
ing the procedural motion "that the motion
be not put" was caried. The Chairman-elect
of the ex-l.C.C.N.D. Group was present but
produced no information at all either new
or old.
In order to clear up any misconceptions
it must be understood that these decisions
by Council are not disciplinary, but were
taken because the C-N.D Group as it was
constituted did not justify its existance as
a Union Society. If the C.N.D. Group wish
to be re-incarnated then they must draw up
a new constitution which will establish them
as a society and merely a recruiting organ-
isation.
SIR A R T H U R A C L A N D PRIZE, 1962
This prize is awarded annually for essays
on general topics or scientific topics treated
in a non-specialised way. A total of 25 gns.
is available for prizes to be distributed as the
examiners think fit. The competition is open
only to undergraduates and the closing date
for entries is January 16th, 1962. Full details
are available at the Registry.
Commemoration Day was held on Thurs-
day, October 26th, this year, and the Special
Visitor was Lord Hailsham, the Minister for
Science. In his report the Rector emphasised
the growth and vitality of the College. Of
the four great building! projects which are
well advanced, the Electrical Engineering
block should be finished by the Spring, and
by the end of the year fresh demolition will
provide space for furthur buildings, includ-
ing the new Biochemistry block. A Sports
Centre is to be built in Prince's Gardens as
part of the major residential and social de-
velopment there, and new Parasitology lab-
oratories have been opened at the College
Field Station at Silwood. The Rector con-
cluded his report by saying that the College
failure rate continued to fall, especially a-
mong the women students, among whom the
proportion of first and upper seconds is
higher than among the men.
In a long an dvery polished address, with
a delivery reminiscent of Churchill, Lord
Hailsham made very few actual points and
committed himself to no definite policy. Typ-
ical of his speech was this paragraph: "But
now is research to be financed! Who is to
call the tune! And if the tune is to be called
by the spirit of research itself, the logos
as Plato puts it, carrying us along like the
wind, what conceivable motive will be his
who pays the piper!" However, the address
was entirely in character, for Lord Hailsham
Due to a lack of experienced personnel,
partly resulting from tragedies this summer,
the proposed expedition to the Karakoram
Mountains in 1962 has been abandoned.
However, it is felt that there is
enough experience in the College to
orgainse a surveying and glaciolagical
expedition to East Greenlad. The glac-
iology will be an extension of the work
carried out in Jan Mayen in recent
years and it is hoped that it will lead to ob-
servations in East Greenland and Jan May-
en in years to come. The surveying will go
hand in hand with the glaciology and will
provide detailed coverage of an area where
existing maps are incomplete.
We envisage a party of ten, comprised ot:
is by profession a politician and a lawyer,
and it was very much a politician's speech.
A musical divertimento was provided by
a small orchestra from R.C.M. and the sing-
ing was led by the l . C Choir. The ushers
seemed to be drawn exclusively from the
ranks .of the Rugby Club, and looked unus-
ually dignified in their gowns.
The Student Orator, I.C. Secretary Martin
4 Glaciologists
4 Surveyors/Climbers
2 Botanists or 2 Geologists.
Experience in glaciology and surveying ir
-
not essential, but people with knowledge of
working on icecovered terrain are to be pre-
ferred. A l l those interested are inv|ed to
contact the undersigned through the Union
Rack. When applyng, brief details of age
experience and interests should be given.
It must be emphasised that the expedition
is only in the preliminary stages of planning
and that those who go will be given a lot of
hard work — plus a wonderful experience.
A R T H U R S M I T H , J O H N S H E A R D
E A S T G R E E N L A N D

