FELIX
Editorial comment
Several complaints have been made to the
College and the Union about the noisy be-
haviour of students late at night, presumably
while on their way home from the Union
and the local pubs, after a good night on
the beer.
While the local residents may tol-
erate the occasional rag during the daytime
they will certainly not take kindly to rowdy
and noisy behaviour after 11.00 p.m. every
Friday and Saturday night during term-time.
We should remember that the success of our
Carnival depends on the generosity and good-
will of the residents, and any action which
destroys this goodwill will rebound on
us at Carnival time, so that it would be wise,
for this reason alone, to walk home quietly.
Felix requires typists. The job only in-
volves spending alternate Sundays in the
Union typing out the copy- N o great skill is
required, but moderate speed is preferred. If
you are interested, contact the Editor (Room 38,
New Hostel, or via the Union Rack) or come
up to the Press Room a week on Sunday.
liWtA to 1ht EdtfbL
Dear Sir,
I decided last Friday to be a host at the
R.C.S Freshers' dinner. The atmosphere was
less bawdy than when I was a guest in 1958;
the wine was pleasant and far more suitable
than beer and the speeches were all quite
good, though I was a bit disappointed that
the Hon. Sec. did not seem to know any
jokes that were not risque. I was glad to see
that there were no exhortations 'to join in
Morphy Day. I have never been able to un-
derstand those exalted members of I.C. who
seem to consider such childish activities as
fighting by a river, removing someone's
trouser's, singing filthy songs or anything to
do with mascots as an essential component
of the "spirit" of I.C. And as for those utter-
ly meaningless chants beginning with such
words as "Kangella" or "Boomalaka", theit
purpose is quite lost to me. It is chiefly a-
mong supporters of such activities that the
ideas that I.C. is superior to any other col-
lege, that U.L.U. is a place scarcely worthy
of a mention, and that we are practically a
University on our own, are rife. And how
ridiculous they are, we are little more than
an overgrown technical college, where the
government has decided to train as many
scientists as it can, almost isolated from the
more-thinking members of University life
(e.g. at L.S.E.) and also from the majority
of women students. I strongly advise all fre-
shers to go over to U.L.U. where they will
get a chance to get the most out of their
spare time, or at any rate to join in actively
in the I.C. societies; but why they should
be expected to litter the passive River
Thames with struggling students, I cannot
understand, can anyone?
Yours faithfully,
JOHN D . WHITE
Dear Sir,
After much consideration, I find the col-
umns of Felix are the only place in which
I can air my views on a purely academic
matter. I refer to the farcial state of affairs
which exists at present in the" Physics Dep-
artment, whereby a student cannot receive
his degree until he has satisfied the language
requirements in two languages, chosen from
French, German and Russian, Surely a de-
gree in Physics should be awarded on the
student's proficiency in Physics, not modern
languages.
Let us suppose a student obtains the equiv-
alent of a first or second class honours de-
gree, but has not passed his language test.
Until he does so, he will, technically, have
no degree and, what is more to the point,
no grant for postgraduate study or research.
Whilst I admit it is highly dtsirable to have
the ability to translate a scientific text. I
maintain that it is positively ludicrous to bar
'a student from his degree because he cannot
pass a language translation test. If he fails
after three attempts, say, the language rule
should be waived. Better still, why not ab-
olish it? The University of Manchester took
this progressive step two years ago and is
still producing good scientists.
I myself am in the happy posliion oj hav-
ing fulfilled the language requirements, but
I feel deeply sypathetic to those less fortun-
ate.
It will be interesting to see if any mem-
ber of staff this and has sufficient sense
of justice to take up the matter.
Yours sincerely,
j . PORTER, PHYSICS 3
[E X P E D I T I O N S — S U M M E R 1961]
IC had three expeditions in the field last
summer — to Malta, Arctic Norway, and
to Jan Mayen.
Although the expedition to Jan Mayen
suffered a severe set-back, a small party went
out later and were able to complete some
of the glaciological work. It appears that all
the glaciers on the island are now advancing
and the results fully confirm those obtaineu
in 1959.
Also above the Arctic Circle,, four sur-
veyors spent their vacation on the Oksfjord-
jokul icecap in the far north of Norway. Sel-
dom visited before, the glaciers were found
to have retreated only a short distance dur-
ing the last sixty years. One of the glaciers
still calves into the sea — the only one in
Norway to do so. A lot of interesting work
could still be done in the area.
On a warmer note, the Underwater Club
organised a diving expedition to Malta. Here
eight divers relaxed in the waters of the Me-
diterranean carrying out Underwater Archae-
ology surveys. The area was mapped and a
selection of classical pottery brought up from
a wreck (200 feet down) of the 2nd century
B.C.
A l l three expeditions were approved by the
Exploration Board and the Royal Geograph-
ical Society. The proposed expedition to the
Karakoram has been called off for this year.
Proposals forf expeditions for the summer
of 1962 will be considered by the Explor-
ation Board towards the end of this term.
The closing date for applicants will be po-
sted later.
Dear Sir,
In order to clear up a certain amount of
confusion regarding the "Entertainments
Committee's choice of Sunday" for the Guy
Fawkes Celebrations at Harlington, I should
like to point out that the purpose
Celebrations is primarily to provide an al-
ternative Source of entertainment for those
students who would otherwise make their
own in the vicinity of Trafalgar Square. The
directive to hold the November 5th celebrat-
ions on November 5th came to me via the
President of the Union and the Rector from
the Senate of the University of London so
that the decision was not in my hands.
Yours faithfully,
P J . ALISON
(Chairman, Entertainments Committee)
"I'm a bastard, anyway."
President of R.C.S.
"Hi diddle diddle, where is Chris Liddle?
Liberman's gone to the dogs."
Censored Council minutes.
"Every time I come in, that chap is wash-
ing up."
Young Q.A. lady referring to |well known
I.C. character's Q.A. type domesticity.
"/ only came back from Cambridge for the
Hop." President of Guilds.
"But I only met you last Thursday."
R.C.M. young lady to I.C. young gentleman.
"Why does everyone treat me as a Mother-
figure?"
ICWArian (Puzzled).

