F E L I X
by COLCUTT
ICoundi'l has met, and it seems that the
"good old days" are gone forever. For Coun
cil to decide that the long and tedious dis-
cussion of C.N.D. that they had last session
was enough, and that the decision they came
to last time was the correct one, seems fine,
but oh, the manner in which this decision was
reached!! There was a time when Imperial
College was proud that it had no "proced-
ure", no standing orders, and that any mat-
ter could be discussed sensibly and in a re-
asonable manner. Of course this system had
its faults; once the meeting reached 8 p.m.
"the few" became so fired by their own verb-
osity that the whole meeting degenerated in-
to a morass of loquacity. Yet this was in-
finitely prefeable to the melee of proposals,
counter-proposals, motions, counter-motions,
and motions Ithat the motion be not put
that made up this last council meeting, ft
is to be hoped that the President will be
able to restore some semblance of saneness
to Council before the next meeting.
Whilst thinking of C.N.D., it is worth no-
thing that the secretary to the S.C.C. re-
ting that the secretary to the S.C.C. re-
commend Council to re:
nstate the C N.D.,
whereas in fact they asked Council to recon-
sider its decision. We realise how pro-C.N.D.
is the secretary but surely this should not
affect her reporting of the S.C.C meeting.
What a scruffy lot I.C. students are! T
was sitting in the Queen's one day last week,
balancing my lunch on my knee, when I no-
ticed how beer-stained my trousers were, so
I glanced around at the other I.C. students
present. Here was no ordered casualness,
created for economy and comfort; just plain
scruffyness. Never have I seen such a col-
lection of unwashed bodies, silly inelegant
tight trousers, pointed shoes and untidy hair-
cuts. Even the briefest of conversations with
a few of them shows that their intellingence
matches their appearance. If this College is
trying to give a University education, then it
is trying to give it to students who would have
profited just as much at the local Tech.
The Bedford Union is to charge the I C.
Union £5 for supplying the girls for the
Freshers' Hop. I hope you all had your mo-
ney's worth. Thinking of women, four ladies
from the Guilds Union were seen on Morphy
Day hurling clods of earth. A pity they did
not have stronger throwing arms — many
Guildsmen still have dirty necks. Morphy
Day was also remarkable in that the Hostel
Wardens were only seen in pairs. In fact,
Morphy Day was a great sport day, and it also
ended the saga of the spanner. I hear that
the R.C.S.-man, designated to plant the last
clue on the trail has not been seen since he
set off.
The trouser-removing Freshers' dinners
reach their logical conclusion, with the sight
of a trouserless Si Lyle wandering round the
Union.
Judging from a "Sunday Times" report of
a "Pi" report, Mooney is not the only refect-
ory manager to suffer from students with klep-
tomania. U.C. is having the same trouble.
Max Finney, the Guilds secretary, has a
fabulous filing system. No one else can un-
derstand it, but it all seems to hinge around a
vast rubber ball, sitting in the centre of his
hostel room.
The new Electrical building has been
topped. The topping-out ceremony was car-
ied out by the Rector, who poured in the
last bucketful of concret, whilst the Col-
lege flag and the Union Jack were raised. Ru-
mours that the Jazz Band had been
asked to render "God save the Queen"
have been denied.
S E V E N BRIDES F O R S E V E N B R O T H E R S
A musical is always a gay light-hearted
film. SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS is
no exception and si much more. Many music-
als tend either to be mere frameworks for
the musical numbers or alternatively to have
a plot to which the sudden outburst into
song seems foreign. In the former you are
presented with a cavalcade of music, song
and dance with no linking story. In the lat-
ter, of which EXPRESSO BONGO was a
prime example, you have this sudden break
in continuity and are iforced to wait five
minutes for the, next episode, during which
time interest flags. In SEVEN BRIDES, Stephen
Vincent Benet's charming American back-
woods tale "Sobbin' Women" has been so
adapted tthat the musical numbers enable
the action to be continuously advanced.
Adam, the eldest of seven brothers visits
town in search of a wife. He returns with
Milly whi is dismayed to discover she must
also care for his six dirty unruly brothers.
On a family trip to town the six brothers
find six girls but the town's young men in-
tervene and, after a fight, the brothers have
to retreat. On being told by Adam about the
Rape of the Sabine Women they try to kid-
nap the girls and a preacher. The girls are
captured, but not a preacher, and are snow-
bound with the brothers for the winter. As
in all musicals everything sorts itself out to
make a happy ending. Memorable numbers
are 'Spring', a glorious celebrations of the
season's arrival, and "Goiri Courting" in
which Milly teaches the brothers to dance.
A mention, of a few others emphasises the
general quality — 'Wonderful Day', 'Bless
her Beautiful Hide', and Sobbin' Women' —
all presented well by Howard Keel, Jane
Powell and the brothers. Michael Gidd's ar-
rangement of the dancing is of a high order
including a gloriously exuberant Barn
Dance. This film is well directed by Stanley
Donen, an experienced hand in musicals who
was responsible also for FANNY FACE,and THE
PYJAMA GAME, and jointly with Gene Kelly
for ON T H E TOWN and SINGIN' IN T H E RAIN.
The result is one of the best post war Holly-
wood musicals.
A.J. W A L K E R
The Guildswomen mentioned oy Coicut; left
to right, Sue Livingstone, Thelma West and
Margret Lodge.
O P E R A A N D B A L L E T
A frequent complaint levelled by the be-
ginner at Opera is that it is difficult to un-
derstand what is happening on the stage.
When the Opera is sung in English, even if
the translation is a trine archaic, this diffic-
ulty is less acute, but even then the listener
may have some trouble following the plot.
A case in point is Verdi's "// Travatore".
Here one can only advise a careful study of
the programme notes before the start of the
performance or preferably the student should
read a little of the musical background be-
hind the work, as well as famiharising him-
self with the essentials of the plot by read-
ing the relevant article in some standard work
on Opera like Kobbe's "Complete Opera
Book" (A copy of which is in the Haldane
library.). Although some people will feel this
is taking their pleasure rather seriously I am
sure they will find the extra effort worth
while in the added enjoyment and satisfaction
they will get from understanding what is in
progress on the stage. "II Travatore" will be
revived at Sadkr's Wells on Dec. 1st and sub-
sequent performances will take place on Dec.
6th, 8th, 19th and 21st.
Recently London had the privilege of hear-
ing Stravinsky conduct a concert version of
his own "Persephone" — a melodrama com-
bining music, dance, mime, song, and spoken
recitation. Now Covent Garden is to stage
the same work (Dec 12th, 13th, i5th and
21st) in a triple bill with two cither one act
ballets. In thd new production the promising
Canadian tenor, Andre Turp will sing the
part of Eumolpus, while Benosova will play
the role of Persephone. The choreography
will be by Fredrick Ashton, one of the Roy-
al Ballet's most successful choreographers.
Adaptions of Shakespeare's plays have always
been very popular with Operatic composers
— particularly Verdi who was responsible
for three. The most recent adaption of this
kind is Benjamin Britten's "A Midsummer
Night's Dream" (Covent Garden Dec. 16th
22nd and 26th), though how much of the
undoubted success of the work is due to
Shakespeare and how much to Britten is a
disputed point.
I X . GIBSON

