— 6
< W 3 I 1 4 0
ILLUSIONS
F E L I X
At a crowded meeting of the Mathemat-
ical and Physical Society held on Tuesday,
October 31st, Professor Tolansky, once a
member of I.C. staff, now Professor of Phys-
ics at Royal Holloway College, bave a fas-
cinating talk on Optical Illusions and their
effect on physical measurements.
The Professor began by showing some
slides of natural methods of camouflage. In
at least one case one had to take the photo-
grapher's word that there were insects on
the tree in the picture. He then introduced
his main subject, describing how his interest
in optical illusions arose from some experim-
ents of his on the hardness of materials. A
diamond-pointed weight, dropped onto a
a flat surface, makes a square indentation
whose size depends on the hardness of the
material. When dropped onto the point of c
certain type of crystal, the indentation ns-
shown below.
Believe it or not, A B = BC.
Professor Tolansky mentioned several ex-
amples where optical illusion could lead to
a systematic error of as much as thirty per
cent in physical experiments. The golden rule
is: Never guess where you can measure.
Principles can be formulated for the con-
struction of typical illusions. One's estimates
of the length of a line depends on the posit-
ion of surrounding lines, as in the well-known
case shown at the top of the page. One's es-
timation of the radius of curvature of an arc
depends on the angle subtended by i t . A
filled-in space looks smaller than an empty
space of equal size. A black object against
a white background looks smaller than a sim-
ilar white object against a black background.
Some these effects can be seen in the fol-
lowing illusion.
Only measurements can convince most on-
lookers that the two figures are of equal
area, and that in each case A B C D is a
square.
In conclusion, he quoted the case of a five
per cent discrepancy between measurements
of radioactivity made (a) with a Geiger
counter and (b) by visually counting the scin-
tillations on a zinc suphide screen He con-
cluded that those who watched the screen
missed some of the momentary flashes of
light because they spent five per cent of their
time blinking.
Professor Fred Hoyle will speak at the
next meeting of the Society, to which every-
one is invited. This will take place next Tues-
day at 4.30 in the Physics Building.
D O M E S T I C B U R S A R ' S B U L L E T I N
1. Q U I T E A R O U N D ?
If one man owned all the property in
Queen's Gate and collected a rent of £4 per
person per week, every Christmas he could
afford to buy one pint for every person in
the U.S.A.
2. H O L D Y O U R B R E A T H !
Because the Earth is a barrage balloon it
takes the whole population four years to
inflate it. The extra day every leap year has
been assigned by international agreement as
a day of rest.
3. CCC-CCP-IC
Once upon a time the Commonwealth
Cricket Conference (CCC) commisioned
Prof. C.B. C.B. Smallffry, B . A . , L.I.S., from
the Institute of Cricket, to ascertin the rel-
ative intelligence of the natives of the cricket
playing Empire
He worked out the numbers of cubic crick-
et pitches (CCP) per head of population for
all cricket playing Imperial Colonies. His in-
telligence criterion (IC) was as follows: since
the countries were of approximately equal
cricketing standard, obviously the country
with the lowest number of CCP's per person
has the highest native intelligence. His re-
sults are published below:
England 100
West Indies 150
India 320
New Zealand 1000
Pakistan 1000
South Africa 5000
Australia 10000
Certain Colorties (Wales, Scotland, Can-
ada, U.S.A., France) were not considered in
this survey since they had not even the in-
telligence to play cricket at all.
This year, as in every other year the, fall
of the first trombone combination mute from
the trees was the sign for Imperial College
Jazz club to hold their first concert. The in-
erudite mass of readers, ignorant of the year-
ly cycle of the Indian bean-tree like, may be
unaware that this event occured on Thurs-
day 2nd November. A large body of people
packed into the Jazz Club bandroom (known
to some idiots as the Concert Hall) to hear
four totaly swinging groups. The whole thing
was a gas! The trad, jazz band led by Ken
Gibson Mew the first set- I don't remember
precisely what numbers they did expect that
the last one was "Milenberg Joys". Anyway
it was a most cohesive and swinging noise.
A Rimshot Gold Star goes to Phil Cammer-
'man for his bristling clarinet work.
The second group to appear was led by
pianoing Stan Salmons, who, after some in-
teresting reminiscences of New York, invited
the audience to "take a number from one
to four". The significance of this apparently
way out invitation is that Stan blew the first
number solo, added, a bass (Dave Cain) for
the second, trombone (Ken Gibson) for the
third and drums (Mike Smith) for the fourth.
Dig? The numbers were "Autumn in New
York" Beethoven's Choral Symphony, "Love
for Sale", and "Tangerine". Stan's approach
to modern jazz has changed considerably
since he last performed in concert, like. He
showed increasd maturity and originality.
Rimshot Gold Star for Stan.
Th next group pnvided the climax to the
concert. It was, of course, the Dave Cain
Orchestra featuring megaphone vocalist
Richard Rushton. The orchestra was introd-
uced by M r . Kenneth Gibson, that famed
musicrhall trombone artist M r . Gibson's
speech was beautifully delivered and ac-
cepted with rapture by the audience. After
tuning up, the orchestra went into "7 got
plenty of nutting* " in their controlled pure
jazz style- After a "Vamp till ready" M r .
Rushton entered and sang the vocal refrain,
in his own unique manner. Then came an
intensely moving minor passage played by
Mr. Gibson. The number finished with an
exciting tutti from the whole orchestra,
played at double tempo. Rimshot Gold Stars
go to M r . Dave Cain (piano), Mr. Ken Gib-
son, M r . Phil Cammernan (clarinet), Mr. Jo-
nathan Higley (baritone sax), Mr. John Clint
(G banjo), M r . Leachin Thims (drums).
(Thank you M r . Thim!) and M r . Richard
Rushton (megaphone vocal).
The concert was wound up by the pheno-
menally funky "Jazz Consortium", or to be
more accurate, 4/5 of the Jazz Consortium
and baritone sax. John Higley was depping
for Walter Skinner- The group consisting of
Gibson (tromb.), Higley (bari), Rushton
(piano), Cain (bs.) and Smith (drs), ladled out
soul in their rendering of "Dance of the Un-
gulates", "Moanin' " and "Night in Tunisia".
Rimshot Gold Stars all around.
As a result of the Dave Cain Orchestra's
performance, it is proposed to nominate Mr.
Dave Cain for "New Star 1961" in the
Downbeat magazine poll. He already holds
the title "Mr. Modern Jazz 1912".
T o finish on a culinary note, I would like
it to be known that a superb recipe for trom-
bone combination mute soup can be obtained
on application to Ken Gibson.
RIMSHOT

