The victorious R . C S. Morphy crew at the boathouse.
MLCJS. take Morphg. Guild* win lAtmru
R.C.S. won the Morphy Cup on Wednes-
day lst November for the second time in
three years, by the convincing margin of 2
lengths over City and Guilds. At the star in
the first three minutes of the race, the co-
hesion and power of the experienced R.C.S.
crew enabled it to take a comfortable lead,
and at the milepost it led the Guilds crew
by \ \ lengths with the Mines a further J
lengths bebjindt The distances between the
three crews gradually increased, and by Bev-
erly Brook R.C.S., now striking 31 and row-
ing with a comfortable stride, led Guilds by
nearly 2 lengths with Mines now trailing by
1$ lengths. Content with their lead, the
R.C.S crew virtually coasted home to a 2
length victory over the now desperate but tir-
ing Guildsmen, whilst the Mines crew
dropped further behind to finish 3 lengths
behind Guilds. A l l three crews raced well
and had Guilds not been handicapped by
lack of training outings they might well have
made the R-C.S. crew fight harder for their
win.
The Lowry crews were started promptly
and Guilds, striking 37, took an immediate
lead of | lengths over Mines and R.C.S.
After 1 minute. Guilds had increased their
lead to 1 length over Mines, with R.C.S..
now trailing by a further \ length. A t Bev-
erly Brook the Mines crew had reduced the
GuikJsmen's lead to i length and maintained
The season has opened with tremendous
enthusiasm being shown by all members,
largely because of the one month sailing, pay
later plan.
In the points racing, the first " B " points
was won by Penny Howard, with Mike Stick-
land and Peter Hitchcock 3rd and 4th. " A "
points was won by I.C. with Stevie Vines
first Eric Twiname, a fresher, second and
David Pentz 4th. The second " A " points was
won by Eric Twiname with David Pentz well
placed. The Commodore having decided that
two many I.C. helsmen were appearing L\
the front of the races removed one with a
violent luff.
a lead of a canvas over R.C.S. It was only in
the last few hundred yards that a desperate
effort by the R.C.S. crew enabled them to pass
the Miners, but by this time Guilds, rowing
well together and with great determination,
had made sure of the race by \ \ lengths. The
Mines crew, which contained four novice
carsmen, eventually finished only \ length
behind R . C . S , a very fine effort This was
a better race than the Morphy, although the
result was never in doubt after the first quar-
ter of a mile.
Both races showed a wealth of promising
talent for the I.C. Boat Club to draw upon
/his year and the club expects to do
well in its sphere of conection later
on. The exacting job of selecting crews
has now begun and this year's first VIII
should be at least as good as last year's
The first big event is not until the Head of
the River Race in March, although num-
erous other fixtures must be met and over-
come on the way. The policy of the I.C.B.C.
is to built a keen and fit series of crews that
will acquit themselves well in the Summer
Regatta Season and this was stressed in the
after Dinner speeches on Wednesday even-
ing. The Dinner was its usual riotous success,
and emphasised the fact that the Boat Club
offers a degree of social entertainment in ad-
dition to its normal activities.
In the three cornered match with U.C. and
Southampton, I.C. came second, even though
one member of the team left his boat in
mid stream.
CROSS COUNTRY
The second team match played at Peter-
stam on October 26th proved to be a de-
cided victory for our opponents, Shoreditch.
who won 30-76.
The following Saturday the Club, some-
what weakened by the University match a-
gainst Cambridge, put out two teams against
Goldsmiths' Q.M.C. at the latter's home
course at Dytchleys. The match proved an
ovetwhelming victory for I.C. —- the final
score being 1. I.C. " A " 18 points, 2. I.C. " B "
38 points, 3. Goldsmiths 41 points. 4. Q.M.C.
42 points.
IWed. lst Nov. brought the second U . L .
League I match of the season held at Hadley
Wood, Barnet United Hospital's course. The
course was over completely unknown ground.
The race was won by Mike Heck (L.S.E,)
and Pete Littlewood (Barts) with our first,
man John Collins, third. John Cleator and
Jim Bernard also had a good race coming
7th and 8th in spite of going off course. De-
spite I.C. being much weakened by injuries
we managed to win convincingly. 1. I.C.
252, 2. Kings 210, 3. Barts 209|, 4. U.C. 162,
5. L.S.E. 1191. This now puts I C. in an ex-
tremely strong position at the top of the
League.
The following Sat. 4th Nov. I.C. sent two
teams to the Woodbury Road Relay at St
Lukes, Exeter. This was a new fixture quite
similar to our own Hyde Park Relay being
over a tough hilly 6 x 2J miles. 23 teams en-
tered being mainly from West of England
colleges and clubs with quite a contingent
of U.L. teams. Pete Roy gave bur first team
a good start by handing over in 6th position-
Ian Linkeleter, a fast improving runner, then
took us through to 4th. The next leg saw
U.L.'s new star Farringdon, a fresher, take
U.C. through from 7th to the lead while Jeff
Greenleaf dropped into 2nd place. Jim Bern-
ard took us back into 4th place which Paul
Clifton held in the next leg. By this time
Bristol University and Devonport were well
in the lead battling it out with U.C. still
well ahead of I.C. John Collins in a superb
run brought us out of this situation with the
third faster lap of the day to give the I.C.
team third place.
It is pleasing to note that some realy promis-
ing freshers are coming to the fore as they
wow accustomed to the extra distance, spec-
tel mention should made of Chris Evans,
Jo Fitzimmonds and John Pereira.
BASKET BALL
The College club continued on its winning
way when entertained by Battersea College
at Stepney. During the first half both sides
tried to dominate the play, but the IMPS
managed to press home slight superiority, and
at half time held a 24-12 pts. In the second
half the IMPS proved themselves the much
fitter side, and capable of playing open at-
tractive "ball". The final score was 86-30.
Against the Metropolitan Police in the Lon-
don League, we played terribly; nothing more
will be said with the exception that John
Rupf, our "tame rebel" from Kansas, has
proved himself the finest asset the club has.
having maintained consistent form in all four
matches (P.S. The result againsts the "Men
in Blue" was 44-41).
A R E Y O U going to R.C.S. Carnival.
Neolithic Lights? Friday lst December. 9.30
p.m. to 6.00 a.m., only one guinea.
SAILING CLUB
Published by F E L I X B O A R D , Imperial College. London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO.. 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

