Ex IC Student
Jailed for Supporting
Peace Group
Haluk Tosun, who was an Elec Eng research
student until 1976, has been sentenced to
eight years hard labour for belonging to the
Turkish Peace Association (TPA). Following
the right wing generals coup in 1980 members
of the group have been brought before
military courts and tried under laws copied
from Mussolini's legal code—all this is in a
country that belongs to Nato! Ffulah and 22
other academics and intellectuals are now in
jail and the authorities are blocking all moves
for an appeal.
A number of people at IC intend to
campaign for Haluh's release, and a group is
being formed with the support of the social
clubs committee, individual societies includ-
ing Amnesty, and some College staff. If you
can help with petitions and other activities,
especially if you knew Haluk, please come to
the first organising meeting which will be held
on Monday 12 March in the Green
Committee Room, IC Union (all welcome),
but if you can't make it get in touch through
Amnesty Chairman Mick Robinson (Elec
Eng 2).
A f r o - C a r i b
Dear afro-carribeans and fellow students,
despite idel talk and rumours that the 'Afro-
Carib' Society has been long dead and buried,
the society will be holding its second function
of term on Thursday 15 March. This will be a
Cheese & Wine followed by a film Street
Fighter (Charles Bronson). Membership for
the year can also be obtained. This event will
be followed by what promises to be the disco
of the decade. We would like as wide a
response as possible. You don't have to be
African or Caribbean to join, just interested
in our culture.
EL Quartey, F Ajayi, C Mewkitt
3W1
As with all clubs, 3 WI will soon be going into
temporary hibernation for the exams and
summer holidays, with one remaining
speaker meeting (see What's On for details).
However, I would like to remind every-
body that the National 3W1 conference is
taking place over the Easter vacations. The
theme is 'Common Differences—Women
and Development', and is to be held at Leeds
University, 6-8 April. Anybody else wishing
to go should contact me soon (before 12
March if possible).
Finally, it was suggested that the remainder
of the 3W1 (not much!) could be used to
produce a 3W1 magazine for distribution
around College next term. If you would like
to produce the magazine, or write an article
on any relevant topic, please contact me, or
send the articles to me: John Sattaur, Physics
3, before the end of term.
Dramsoc
Dramsoc's major production of this term is
Brecht's 'Galileo', with the excellent trans-
lation by Howard Brenton who came to fame
with 'Romans In Britain'. The play remains
as relevant as ever, with the political pressures
which were brought to bear on Galileo and
his reaction to them, being fully illustrated by
the excellent script. The interference of
politicians and the military in science. Its
haphazard funding are modern day problems
which have their roots in history and it is the
analogy with the present which provides both
amusement and concern.
The concert hall has been transformed into
a purpose-built theatre for this show. Tickets
are available, £1.50, from ICDS members or
on the door. The play runs from Wednesday
14 March to Saturday 17 commencing at
7:00pm.
Tomorrow morning is the great 'Leap Frog
Stunt' down Ken High St.
Meet at RCSU Office at 10:00am for cans
and licences and the prizes available: a crate
of beer; a large cuddly toy; and, a mystery gift
from IC Radio.
So, find some friends and come along—
brekfast is also provided!
On Monday (12) we have a meeting of
General Committee, all reps must attend.
That's all folks, except Congrats to all those
elected to R C S U Exec next year, commisera-
tions to those who lost and {hopefully) thanks
to all those people who ratified me as D P -
elect (since this was written last Monday).
DP the VP
or DP the DP?
Astrosoc
Some stars end their lives with an enormous
explosion—a supernova. However, no-one
has ever positively identified a star before it
exploded, and so the type of star which
becomes supernova is uncertain. Research in
the IC Astronomy Group involving infra-red
observations with the Anglo-Australian
Telescope (AAT) and the United Kingdom
infra-red telescope (UKIRT, in Hawaii, the
largest of its type in the world) suggests that
some pre-supernovae may actually be in-
visible!
To find out more about infra red echoes etc
come to 'Supernovae and Infra-Red Echoes'
by Dr Meikleat 1:00pm on Tuesday 13 March
in Physics LT2.
s e e
On Monday, the SCC will be aiming to break
the record on meeting length—I am sure we
will finish within two hours, including an
exec meeting to deal with finance. As this is
the last meeting before SCC elections, all
SCC club senior student representatives
should turn up, with their up-to-date account
books, and nominations for social colours.
Of course, there will be refreshments, but
you'll have to wait until the meeting to see
what they are. So don't forget: Monday,
Union SCR, 6:00pm exec, 6:30pm full. Be
prompt.
SERVICING & REPAIRS
RICKY'SA
GARAGE
(PERSONAL SERVICE GUARENTEED)
19 QUEENS G A T E MEWS
SOUTH KENSINGTON
LONDON SW7
TEL: 01-581 1589
• • • • • • • • • • • • ^ • • l Page
RCS ENTS PRESENTS
AMSTERDAM '84
DONT MISS YOUR C H A N C E TO VISIT THIS
BEAUTIFUL CITY OF CANALS, DIAMONDS AND
NOOKIE AT TULIP TIME.
BOOK YOUR PLACE NOW
WITH A £10.00 DEPOSIT TO THE RCS OFFICE "
LEAVING-6.30 BEIT ARCH, FRIDAY MARCH 23rd
RETURNING-MONDAY MARCH 26th
COST-£30.00(POSTDATED CHEQUES ACCEPTED)
FURTHER DETAILS FROM RCS OFFICE
F E t f X B H B B B B B B H I H ^ H ^ a y , March 9, 1984 WM

