Back row: J Crowder, G Hurley, M Casini, R Eastman, M Peart, S Choriton,
Front row: P Edwards. J Boucher, M Burnett (Capt), P Richardson, A hangman, C Barr.
score the winning goal. The last few seconds
saw IC defending heroically with Burnett
making another excellent save. The final
whistle could not have come too soon for
those watching.
Although unknown in U A U competition,
IC had posted a warning to the other teams
when drawing 11-11 with the much-fancied
Birmingham side in Friday evening's first
game. The obvious attractions of the hotel
bar were ignored in view of Saturday
morning's game against the holders,
Liverpool. Showing an improved perfor-
mance, IC led 6-2 at the end of the second
quarter. In the third, IC lost some of their
rhythm and Liverpool fought back to trail 7-
6. The fourth period saw IC re-assert their
authority to finish 12-9 winners.
Sheffield had already established them-
selves as 'lame ducks' but their weaknesses
were only fully exposed by Imperial. IC led 6-
0 after five minutes and, even using frequen*
substitutions to rest their top players, won
comfortably by 17-7.
IC's success is a tribute to Geoff Hurley's
coaching and motivating the squad. The
Squad's fitness was superior to the other
teams and was a major factor considering
that some of the games lasted up to an hour.
Hurley's ability and control surpassed all
other players. Eastman was superb at the
'chief executioner' of moves originated by
Hurley while Casini's experience and shoot-
ing were invaluable. In goals Burnett
produced some miraculous saves when all
seemed lost.
P W L D Points
Imperial 4 3 0 ! 7
Birmingham 4 2 0 2 6
Liverpool 4 2 2 0 4
Loughborough 4 1 2 1 3
Sheffield 4 0 4 0 0
I C W a t e r P o l o
U A U C h a m p i o n s
Few teams can ever have made as spectacular
s an entry to a competition as IC in the U A U
water-polo championships. Having qualified
for the five-team final competition as
Southern Area representatives, IC achieved
the ultimate honour in student water-polo by
beating Loughborough 11-10 to clinch the
W M Gibbons Cup at the first attempt.
The tournament was organised on a league
basis and by the start of their last game the
situation facing IC was clear. Victory over
Loughborough would win the tournament, a
draw would leave the result in doubt until
Liverpool played Birmingham and defeat
would hand the competition to Birmingham.
In a hard-fought game neither team was
ever more than one goal ahead and, inspired
by the crowd, Loughborough levelled the
scores at 9-9 by the end of the third quarter.
Within two minutes of the restart Lough-
borough scored, to the obvious delight of the
crowd. For much of the quarter both defences
coped with all attacks. When Eastman, in
devastating form during ealier games, fluffed
a relatively simple chance and Hurley,
equally effective in controlling play, missed a
penalty, IC's hopes seemed to have faded.
The score was still 10-9 when the last
minute bell rang. A swift counter-attack saw
an opposition defender sent out and in the
resulting confusion Boucher levelled the
scores from close-in.
Loughborough attacked immediately, but
with less than 30 seconds remaining, Hurley
and Eastman broke away for the former to
Imperial faced blustery conditions as well as
Cambridge and ULII at the Harp on
Saturday. However the conditions proved to
be more 'of a problem for Cambridge than
Imperial, and in the fust race against the
visitors Imperial soon had a commanding 1 st,
2nd and 3rd. In the second race Bevan
decided to full his boat up before the start and
'submarine' around the course—a tactic
described in detail in a book to be published
later this year. Unfortunately after an
excellent start he hd to retire with his vessel
and crew complaining loudly at his antics.
Nevertheless the remainder of the Imperial
team sailed home with room to spare and
easily took the match.
The more important match of the day was
against ULII. Facing a very strong team,
Imperial sceptically took to their boats and
set off for the start. ULII casually played
around the starting area waiting to engage the
opposition. The stage was set to find the stuff
of which sailors are made.
Imperial's pre-start tactics caught ULII by
surprise. By sacrificing their skipper 'Chuck'
Jones, they diverted the opposition's atten-
tion and slipped through the start line in a
Page 12WkWLWkWkWkWkWkWkWUkWmW
commanding position. Some hard sailing
maintained their lead for the rest of the race
and Imperial finished with a winning 1, 2, 6
combination.
Unfortunately a discrepancy over the rules
forced a resail. Imperial's confidence was
growing, however, and they were determined
not to let victory slip from their grasp. Jones
again sacrificed himself at the start and the
other two Imperial boats again made
excellent starts. ULII would not accept
defeat, however, and fought back resolutely.
Imperial finally took command and took the
match with a 1, 3, 6 combination at the finish.
Many thanks to ULII for providing some
very exciting sailing—and the lunch as well!
Uri Gagarin
Football
ICIXI 4 K C H I X I 1
A game which IC had to win to remain a
premier division side next season, saw the
team produce their best performance of the
season, due mainly to the influence of Big
Jon. In a one-sided first half, IC opened their
account with a fine diving header m a Jon
Barden-like manner from Paul Bravery after
some good work by Dave 'Dribbler'
Stephensoon. Further inspired by their
• • • ^ • F r i d a y , March 9, 1984JgMtM
mentor John Barden, the team maintained
the onslaught on the K C H goal, and Paul 'my
hero is Jon Barden' Bravery snatched his
second goal, with a sizzling shot. However,
whilst Jon Barden was having treatment on
the sideline, a rejuvenated K C H hit back with
a goal from a corner which Jon would have
cut out easily. But with Dutch import Jon
Van Der Barden impressive as ever, Neal
Vandenbegin hit a scorching volley to make it
3-1 at the interval.
(A)roused by a Joan Hardon(?) half time
team talk IC continued to take the game to
K C H . With Dave T model myself on Jon
Barden' Hardy at his best, a fine through ball,
found Dave Stephenson in space, after Ton
Burden had made a superb dummy run on the
adjoining pitch, and Dave produced a
polished finish. The remainder of the game
consisted of a catalogue of missed chances by
the IC attack, most notably Paul 'I beg your
(Jon) Pardon' Bravery who fluffed a real
sitter.
And then came the hallowed moment, with
Heath suffering from P M T (Pre Match
Tension) and unable to continue, our
irrepresible sub Jon Barden strolled onto the
pitch to thunderous applause, for his first,
team debut. But fate struck a cruel blow to
this up-and-coming young defender when the
ref blew the whistle immediately!
\FELIX

