Education Cuts
The turn out at the open meeting on the College's response to
the U G C questions was abys^-ai. Of the fifty or so people who
turned up only about a dozen were students. Imperial College
Union has always prided itself on being apolitical. The education cuts,
however, are no longer about politics but about survival. They are
about the quality of education and the standard of teaching students
will receive in the future. Cutbacks in Government funding are going to
affect even Imperial. The College is up to its eyes in maintenance and
repair bills. The teaching budget is likely to be the first thing to suffer.
This will mean a reduction in teaching facilities, fewer lab hours, less
work will be assessed, etc, etc etc.
It is a scandal that a student body of 5,000 only a dozen seem to care.
The remainder seem only interested in rag stunts, mascotry raids and
getting pissed. Is it not time for Imperial students to grow
up and face the very real responsibility they have to protect
the future of Higher Education?
For those of you who do care there will be a grants march to-
morrow at 10.00a.m. meet at Beit Arch.
Rent Rebates
Students living in the borough of Kensington and Chelsea claim-
ing rent and rate rebates may have grounds for appealing against the
way in which their benefit has been calculated.The Student
Services Office are keen to take on some test appeals to try and rectify
the situation. If you are unhappy with the amount you have been given
call into the Student Services Office and see Karen Stott. The
closing date for applications for IC Halls, Houses and Head Tenancies
is 5.30 today. Forms should be collected and returned to Student
Services, 15 Prince's Gardens.
Colours
If you feel that anyone in your club or team has been a real superhero
this year and contributed to its running above and beyond the call of
duty then you should propose him or her for social colours before the
end of this term. Nominations, together with 70-words of justification
should be sent to Sean Davis (large handwriting and not too many long
words please so Sean can read it).
FELIX
There will not be an issue of F E L I X next Friday, the last F E L I X of term
will come out on the following Wednesday. The copy deadline for
Clubs, Sports, Whats On and Letters is Monday 12th 1.00pm.
Pallab Ghosh
Election Time at Primelia College
I was down at Primelia College earlier this week, and
I met my friends Alan, Barry, Chris, Diana and Elaine
arguing among themselves. It transpired that they
were trying to decide on next year's editor of the
weekly newspaper F E E L S I C K . The present editor,
Pallab Whow, was coming to the end of his year in
charge and his successor was one of three people
presently working on F E E L S I C K , Timbo Tie,
Rockin' Rodgers and Dave Rave. The five decided
that they would not all vote for the same person, and
finally decided on this arrangement.
Elaine decided to vote for either Tie or Rave.
Alan, Barry and Elaine agreed that they would all
vote for a different person.
If Chris and Elaine voted for the same person, Alan
and Diana would vote for the same person.
If Diana and Elaine voted for the same person,
Alan and Chris would vote for the same person.
If Barry did not vote for Rave, either Alan or Chris
(or both) would.
If Diana did not vote for Tie, then Alan or Chris
would.
I found out later that exactly two of them voted for
Rodgers.
Who voted for whom?
G o o d luck everyone.
NB In Primelia College elections, you only vote for
one candidate.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for the randomly selected winner.
Omar's Puzzle
I hope this wasn't too hard for non-bridge players. I
shouldn't think it was. One way to do it, and I think
it's the only way, is to win the first trick in South's
hand with the Ace of Clubs (AC). Lead a spade other
than the A c e and trump in North's hand. Lead a
trump from North and beat it in South's hand. Lead
the other spade otherthan the A c e and again trump
in North's hand. Lead a trump again from North and
beat it in South's hand again. Lead off the rest of the!
trumps, discarding the A c e of Diamonds from
North's hand. Lead the A c e of Spades, which now1
cannot be t r u m p e d , and d i s c a r d the K i n g of
Diamonds. Then play out all the diamonds. The main ,
catch was that you would not usually think of dis-
carding A c e and King of a suit, but in this case it is |
essential.
Of 24 correct solutions, Chris Dunn of Maths 1 was
the randomly selected winner, and can collect the
£5 cheque, courtesy of Mend-a-Bike, and a pack of
cards, courtesy of Omar, from the FELIX Office
after 1:30 pm on Monday.
N P The puzzle was not too hard, partly to see how
many people were interested. Since a lot of interest
was shown, I'll put in a harder one in the next FELIX
• which will be the last issue of term. If anyone has
any puzzles which they would like me to use for
that, since I'll have a double page, would they
please drop them in my box in the FELIX Office in
the next week,
i Thanks, Omar.
FEUX is published bv the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, SW7
Tel 01-589 Sill extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Busmen Manaqer.PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSouthey CopyrightFEUX 1984

