The Curzon Street Cinema puts on high-
quality art films—Hear and Dust and
Betrayal are typical of this. Carmen is the
latest offering, but it's not in the same class as
the earlier two films. Carlos Saura, the
Spanish director, is fascinated by the
interchangeability of art and life. Carmen is a
behind-the-screens look at the rehearsals of
Bizet's opera. The lives of the dancers begin
to follow the same story as that of the opera,
until you cannot tell which is real life and
which is make-believe. This central idea is
well put over, but the characters of those
involved are insufficiently developed—they
are paste-board figures who Saura slots into
his theme, mere marionettes who dance in
s u b s e r v i e n c e to the d i r e c t o r ' s ego.
Having said that, the film is a visual treat.
The flamenco dancing has a rhythmic
intensity and vitality that assaults the senses,
until you become full of the thud of feet and
the clacking of castanets. Even though the
plot is thin and laboured, Carmen is a lesson
in just how effective a medium film can be.
Risky Business (Warner West End) is a
superior remake of Dustin Hoffman's The
Graduate. Joel (Tom Currie) is 18, and the
American version of the 'average' middle-
class A Level pupil in Britain. As we aimed for
Imperial or Cambridge, so Joel is aiming for a
Top Class (Ivy League) university. But unlike
The Graduate, when everyone laughed at
the man who said 'plastics', Joel's future is
uncertain—the pressures of academic life
and of becoming successful are far greater,
until they totally dominate Joel's life. The
anxieties of College work are preventing him
from any rational contemplation about the
direction he is taking in his life. Events and
exams swamp him. Until his parents go away
and leave him alone for a week, and he
decides to get some 'experience'.
Risky Business is funnier than Trading
Places. The auditorium regularly rocked with
laughter, because Tom Cruise puts in a great
performance as the gauche student who gets
to learn about wine, women and fast cars. He
ends up organising a brothel for all his friends
•
, • y '
Sexy Lana Scharf prepares to
further Joel's education in 'Risky
Business'
Page 8 j ^ H H B H H H H H
in his own suburban home, into which walks
the Princeton man who wants to give Joel his
version of an U C C A interview. As a film that
is both funny and relevant to students, Risky
Business will make an excellent night out.
Vertigo (Plaza 2) is the second in the series
of vintage Hitchcock releases begun by 'Rear
Window'.
The story is about a detective (James
Stewart) who b e c o m e s an i n n o c e n t
accomplice in a complicated murder plan,
due to his fear of heights. Madeline Elster
(Kim Novak) appears to be possessed by the
spirit of her great-grandmother, Carlotta
Valdes, who committed suicide exactly one
hundred years previously in 1857. The
detective is asked to tail her and look after
her. But he also falls in love with her and is
consumed with guilt when she finally
manages (apparently) to kill herself. He
suffers a n e r v o u s b r e a k d o w n , a n d ,
possessed himself now, starts to see the face
of Madeline in every woman he meets. Then
one day he meets her living image in the
street, and the whole story starts to unravel...
Hitchcock's skill lay in his ability to fit
c o m p l e x p s y c h o l o g i c a l themes into
superficially simple situations. 'Vertigo' is no
exception. The scenes where Madeline takes
on the character of Carlotta are genuinely
creepy: one scene in a graveyard has a
dreamlike atmosphere; everything is etched
and motionless, with a ghostly figure standing
arrested by a gravestone. The nature of
identity is the most important theme. Is the
woman Stewart follows really Madeline?
Some people will dislike this film because
on the surface it appears dated and naive
compared to glossy modern films. But if you
study the undercurrents and concentrate on
the 'big' scenes, 'Vertigo' is both disturbing
and rewarding.
FILMS FOR EASTER
H e h a d
t h e s t u f f
h e r o e s w e r e
m a d e o f
T H E
R I G H T
S T U F F
The Right Stuff (Warner West End)
was launched perfectly on time for Senator
John Glenn's first test-flight for the Democra-
tic Presidential Nomination at the Iowa
caucauses. Glenn got a meagre 3.5% of the
vote and the thumbs down, but for me the
film is a success.
The story is about the Mercury space
programme, the first astronauts and the test-
pilots who preceeded them. You might think
that this is a mere nostalgic documentary.
What in fact emerges is a marvellous picture
of the sharp end of 'technological America'.
This film is highly relevant to Imperial
students, with historical interest and a study
of what it is in technology and its products
that fascinates men and motivates our society
The Right Society's canvas is immense,
ranging from the breaking of the sound
barrier in 1947 to the last solo U S spaceflight
in 1963, from the bleak and self-centred test-
pilots boozer in the Californian desert to the
razzamatazz of ticker-tape parades in New
York. The progress of the early space age is
followed meticulously^the fast jets, Sputnik,
Gagarin. We see behind the scenes at the
White House, the programme of (often very
funny) rigorous tests to choose the seven
Mercury astronauts and the immense
publicity that surrounded them. A n d
throughout it all there is the space hardware
itself. The photography of the jets and their
awesome power is truly stunning—your ears
start to ring with the roar of after-burners and
the thud of the sonic boom.
The most interesting character is Yaeger,
played by Sam Shepard. Yaeger was the first
man to break the sound barrier and is at the
top of the test-pilot's 'pyramid' of success. He
epitomises 'the right stuff, the inner-directed
drive to break barriers, the drive of the
climber who assaults a mountain 'because it's
there'. Yet he is also a loner, and unsuitable
for the media figures required by N A S A to
help fund the Mercury programme. He opts
out of becoming an astronaut, only to find
that test-pilots lose the glamour and the
funding to the space race. He retains his
integrity but loses the esteem of others. His
dilemma is made more poignant by his
character, which so rarely expresses emo-
tion. His only reply is to try and break one last
record and fly up, up in a wonderful new
plane, higher than anyone else, to the edge of
space where he can see the stars, the realm
of his rivals the astronauts. Only a plane
cannot fly in space....Shades of Icarus.
Thefuture Mercury astronauts going through intensive physical tests before being
chosen for the American Space Program
I Friday, March 9, 19841
Mel Brooks has shown an unhealthy
fascination with Nazism in several of his films,
so it's no surprise that the subject features
prominently in his latest To Be Or Not To
Be (on just about everywhere). This is a
remake of a 1942 classic comedy, but this
version is no classic.
The first half isn't all that funny, with most
of the jokes either being telegraphed or old-
hat; Brooks seems to believe his own
publicity and thinks that he only has to start
talking in his throaty Brooklyn whisper to
have the audience rolling in the aisles.
The plot revolves around a Polish couple
Frederick and Anna Bronski (played by
Brooks and his wife Anne Bancroft) who run
a theatre in Warsaw just before Hitler
invades Poland. Bronski is an actor of limited
talent. During his regular To Be or Not To Be
soliloquies from Hamlet his wife is visited
backstage by her young lover. Hitler's
invasion ends all this and the humour takes
off when Bronski tries to keep his theatre
running during various twists and turns of the
plot.
The second half is much better by virtue of
tougher direction, the inclusion of scenes
outside the theatre and some excellent
performances by supporting actors to
complement the cherubic Brooks and his
often very funny impersonations.
The degree to which you find this film
funny will depend on whether you consider
Nazism, religious persecution and mass
murder fit subjects to be used as a source of
comedy. Although the humour is always at
the expense of Nazis, neither the direction or
the acting gave any impression that what the
film dealt with was actually once very
dangerous.
Compared to other recent comedies To
Be Or Not To Be is as funny as The Meaning
of Life but it pales in comparison with Eddie
Murphy in Trading Places or 48Hrs.
Peter Rodgers
It is sixteen years since 1968 and
Lawrence Kasdan (director of 'Body-
heat') has decided to try and analyse the
Sixties' generation, who are now in their mid-
thirties and feeling The Big Chill (Classic
Oxford Street et al). Seven people who
were friends at university meet again for the
funeral of the eighth member of their group.
He was their old leader, a brilliant physicist
who became a drop-out and ended up
slashing his wrists. The seven friends spend a
weekend together, trying to reconstruct
something of the old life and asking 'What
went wrong?'
Every generation comes to ask this
question, but for the students of the late
Sixties it is all the more poignant considering
how great their hopes were, and how great
their naivety.
Their problems largely consist of a certain
emotional sterility. Each member of the
group has become wrapped up in their own
day-to-day life. Their reunion provides an
opportunity for each of them to reassess
their character and direction. Some change,
some remain the same, but the overall
atmosphere is a study in the renewal of
friendships and of self-awareness.
This all sounds really corny, but in fact The
Big Chill is great fun. The cast includes some
of the best young American actors around at
the moment (William Hurt, and Kevin Kline
of Sophie's Choice, for example). The
dialogue is witty and entertaining, in a style
reminiscent of MASH. The Big Chill is no
devastating expose of our times, thank
goodness. It is an entertaining, evocative and
occasionally sad country-house movie.
Mr Samson, a tough Cabbie with a
heart of gold.
Street Fleet (Plaza, Piccadilly Circus)
is essentially a screen version of the TV series
Taxi. The 'plot' concerns a crummy taxi firm
with a collection of lunatic drivers. By a series
of improbable incidents the young hero, tresh
to Washington D C from the Deep South,
saves the lunatics from themselves, saves the
firm from collapse and provides an inspira-
tion to us all. The soap froths and buboies
violently at times, but what saves Street Fleet
from total condemnation is the sheer
exuberance of the characters and the
sometimes very funny situations they get ;nto
The taxis make the average student car look
like a RoHs-Royce in comparison. If you can
stand soap opera on the big screen ana iike
lunatic car chases, this film is just about
worth spending your money on.
Almonds and Raisins (Phoenix, East
Finchley) is an affectionate and humorous
documentary about the Yiddish-speaKing
movie industry that enjoyed a brief flowering
in America during the Thirties. Many oi the
first generation Jews who emigrated from
Europe could not speak English. The :ilms
that catered for their needs iiivunabiy
reflected the Jewish dilemma, indeed, :ne
dilemma of all immigrants--whether :o ding
to the old traditions and values or das Heun,
the shtetl, or to become fully integrated vvith
the local community. The film includes some
extremely rare footage, with Orson Weiles
narrating and interviews with old-tmieis who
played in these Yiddish films. I found it ail
fascinating—as social history ano. JS _
W
I
opportunity to learn more about :ne
motivations and emotional characteristics j i
the Jews, the most put-upon peopie n
history.
Tony Atkins

