10 felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
New government promises urgent cuts
As the new Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government promises urgent spending cuts to reduce the
deficit, Sina Ataherian reviews how the political events of the week may affect the British economy
L
ast Wednesday, the first of
the government’s cabinet
positions began to be re-
vealed. The Liberal Demo-
crats secured five cabinet
posts and twenty ministerial jobs in
return for their participation in the
coalition. The top two economic roles
- Chancellor of the Exchequer and
Business Secretary - have been split
between the two coalition partners.
George Osborne will follow on from
his role as Shadow Chancellor by be-
coming the new Chancellor.
Having worked in the Conservative
Party for his entire career, Osborne be-
came MP for Tatton in 2001. He was
promoted to the Shadow Cabinet by
Michael Howard in 2004, and made
Shadow Chancellor in May 2005, at the
age of 34. Mr Osborne is a close friend
and advisor to David Cameron, and the
two have been compared with Blair/
Brown for sharing important roles in
transforming a major party.
Following the collapse of Northern
Rock and the start of the financial cri-
sis, Mr Osborne was instrumental in
the Tories being the only major Brit-
ish party to criticise the government’s
interventionist policies such as bailing
out the banks and printing significant-
ly more money. However, he backed
down from these positions after free-
market solutions to the economic
problems of 2008 and 2009 came to
be seen as unpopular with the British
electorate.
Although he was prominent in plan-
ning the Tory election campaign and in
writing their manifesto, Mr Osborne
was largely kept away from the public
in the weeks preceding the elections
because of the perception of him be-
ing too much of a lightweight for the
office of the Exchequer. As Chancellor,
Mr Osborne will retain responsibil-
ity for overseeing banks and financial
regulation.
The next most important economic
job has gone to the Liberal Democrat’s
Treasury spokesman. Vince Cable en-
tered parliament in 1997 after a career
in economics, having worked for the
Kenyan government, the Common-
wealth Secretary-General, and Royal
Dutch Shell.
He ran unsuccessfully for parliament
three times in the 1980s and early
1990s as a Candidate on the leftist
wing of the SDP, and later the Liberal
Democrats following the merger of the
two parties.
However, in recent years he has been
considered to be on the right of the
Liberal Democrats, having influenced
their “Orange Book”, a pamphlet advo-
cating slightly more economically lib-
eral policies for the Liberal Democrats.
He gained respect for having warned
against the problems that could have
arisen from the housing bubble and
excessive consumer debt, but was
criticised for his inconsistency in the
debates on solutions to the financial
crisis. For example, he embraced the
government’s quantitative easing pro-
gram after criticising it and claiming
that it was inspired by the “Robert
Mugabe school of economics.”
Despite personal disputes in the
past - over both economic policy and
certain allegations against George Os-
borne, over which Mr Cable filed a
formal complaint - the two will now
have to work closely with Mr Cable in
order to deliver both party’s optimistic
election promises on the economy. Al-
though the Bank of England has been
seeing the green shoots for several
month now, unemployment continues
to rise.
New coalition Cabinet positions announced
Top: David Cameron and Nick Clegg have agreed to form the first Conservative-Liberal coalition in parliamentary history
Below: Osborne (right) will chair a new parliamentary committee on financial regulation, which will include Cable (left)
£6 billion of emergency cuts
The Conservatives have announced
that the new Chancellor George Os-
borne will prepare an emergency
budget within the next fifty days that
will include £6 billion of emergency
cuts, in a bid to reduce the deficit and
increase confidence in the market for
British government bonds.
The cuts have been announced as
part of the power-sharing deal with
the Liberal Democrats. This will also
include a new tax on banks, a parlia-
mentary commission to decide on
whether to force banks to divorce their
retail and investment operations, caps
on bonuses as well as plans to increase
business lending.
The deal also accommodates a Liber-
al Democrat election promise to raise
the earnings threshold at which people
start paying income tax from £6,475 to
£10,000 pounds a year, although this
will be phased-in and not implement-
ed immediately, as promised.
The proposals will be funded by in-
creasing national insurance tax by one
per cent, increasing capital gains tax
from eighteen to forty per cent, and
scrapping the Tories’ proposal to raise
the inheritance tax threshold to £1
million.
King welcomes new agreements
Bank of England Governor Mervyn
King welcomed the new Conservative-
Liberal Democrat agreement to cut the
deficit, saying, “the agreement I have
been informed about that was reached
between Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats is a very strong and power-
ful agreement.”
King also noted that while the eco-
nomic recovery may “gather strength,”
risks “have increased somewhat, re-
flecting in particular heightened
market concerns about the prospects
for fiscal consolidation in a range of
countries.”
The comments came after the Gov-
ernor released new quarterly figures
on the economy. He predicted that the
economy will improve, achieving 3.5
percent annual growth by the begin-
ning of 2012. He also predicted that
inflation will remain below the central
bank’s 2 per cent target.
The forecasts have not changed
much since the last quarterly results
were released in February, and are
based on the interest rate staying close
to its record low of 0.5 percent this
year and reaching 1.7 percent by the
end of 2011.
FTSE reacts to coalition deal
Last Wednesday the FTSE fluctuated
significantly as news of a new Con-
servative-Liberal Democrat coalition
coincided with fears about the Greek
debt situation and its potential impact
on the financial markets.
“With the European problems likely
put on the back-burner for now we
should start to get a clearer picture of
how the U.K. plans to tackle what is
expected to be one of the largest de-
veloped-market deficits in 2010,” Jim
Reid, a strategist at Deutsche Bank,
wrote in an e-mail to clients today.
The FTSE has fallen 8.6 percent
from this year’s peak amid concern
that Greece’s debt crisis will spread. It
surged 5.2 percent on May 10 after the
European Union agreed to offer finan-
cial assistance worth 750 billion euros.
New coalition government’s economic priorities and reactions from the BoE and the FTSE
BoE Governor Mervyn King

