15
felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
THE NEW GOVERNMENT:
DAVE NEW WORLD OR CONDEM-ED?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
So What Does The
Summer Term Hold?
There will be revision and sleep. Though I’m not too sure
about the latter.
Third Year Physicist
Summer was invented especially to add insult to the intense
agony that is my 25-hour-a-day revision schedule.
Second Year Mathematics Student
I’ve got some serious revision do, sure. But it’s not all bad. The
Library does hot food (most of the time) and there are sinks in
the toilets for personal hygiene. And Molecular Biology of the
Cell makes a very acceptable pillow. The Library is practically
a palace. It’s my home away from home.
Second Year Biologist
Aw, it’s gonna be sweet. Barbacues, Pimms on the Queen’s
Lawn, sunning myself in Hyde Park. Living it large in London
without a care in the world! What’s that? Exams?! Shit!!
First Year Chemist
Drunken-mate photo of the week
Revision is dull but it doesn’t haven’t to be. Here are some Chemistry
lads who stumbled upon an alternative way to revise covalent bonding.
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken-mate
photos to catnip.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
I
have recently noticed that the Queen’s Tower is not very
tall. I have always been ever so impressed with it, look-
ing up and thinking, “Golly, it really is quite tall.” And it’s
been there right back to when I was a fresher, and prob-
ably even before that. But then I looked up again last week and
maybe I’ve got taller but suddenly it looked like “a Lilliputian
little shrimpy stubby weeny whelk thing on a massive lobster
and the lobster is Imperial” as Shakespeare once said.
Imperial College, the best university in the entire universe
(except for Cocksbridgeford Agricultural College in Whoca-
resshire) (and we should know, eh?), has a tower only about
fifty-five times taller than the incredibly short Dan Wan. If
it’s our phallic symbol then we ought to be thinking of tudor
codpieces. All I’ll say is bigger equals better. Forget spending
money on dBs; use it on this. It’s too short for our high sta-
tus, and should be put on top of Blackett, preferably with the
aforementioned editor, haha. I say the campaign starts here.
Who’s with me?!
Yours in fellowship,
Magnus Winklefilch (Aero)
Catnip: We happen to think that Editor is a towering giant
of a man. No, really, he is! Remember, keep sending stuff
in and see your name in ink!
A small issue with the
Queen’s Tower
Showdown! FOIL vs. LOIL Do we “Love Our Imperial Lives” or do they fail hard? You decide!
Having active competitions in Robot Unicorn Attack when I originally planned on revising – and I’m not even good at it! Verdict: FOIL
Running naked in Prince’s Gardens at 4 am. Verdict: LOIL
If you google exam stress , Imperial College will be at the top of the list! haha, hilarious. Verdict: FOIL
This’ll be the only time in my life I can afford to live in SW7. Verdict: LOIL
“Working” around midnight in the Library, surrounded by chinese people playing WOW and talking chinese. Joy. Verdict: FOIL
There were two girls getting off with each other at the Union. Verdict: Undecided...LOIL?
Riding on the Fire Engine to Sainsburys when you can’t be arsed to walk! Verdict: LOIL
It was a tight race but LOIL just clinched it this week.
What do you think? Is Imperial an academic haven or a socially-inept hell? Both?! Let the Cat know!

