20
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
x
ICU Dance Company compete on tour
M
onths of training, re-
hearsing and organ-
ising paid off for ICU
Dance Company af-
ter they had a highly
successful haul of awards following two
inter-university dance competitions at
the end of February. The first of which
was Loughborough University’s Dance
Competition. The day began with one
of the hardest challenges of all – as-
sembling 21 sleepy dancers outside
the union at 5am but after a couple
of jump-out-of-bed phone calls, two
dancer-filled union minibuses headed
up the M1 to Loughborough.
The first piece by the company
(choreographed by Valentina Caorsi)
was in the Advanced Contemporary
category. A hard-hitting, technically
strong piece with contemporary dance
in its purest form lost out in a category
which offered a diverse range of inter-
pretations of “contemporary dance”.
The Beginners Ballet (choreo-
graphed by Soraia Pimenta and Per-
nelle Nunez) took to the stage next with
a classical piece executed to perfec-
tion. Their performance earned them
a thoroughly deserved 2nd Place. This
was followed by the Advanced Ballet
piece (choreographed by Soraia Pi-
menta and Pernelle Nunez) which had
high expectations due to the strength
of the advanced ballet team this year. A
tango-inspired, energy fuelled routine
showcased the abilities of the dancers
who walked away with a well deserved
1st Place. To add the cherry on top, the
piece also won for Best Choreography
out of all the pieces in the competition.
The final piece at Loughborough
was a cheeky, super-speed Advanced
Jazz routine (choreographed by Elisa
Bellomo) that faced stiff competition
against 17 other universities in a cat-
egory that always delivers pieces of a
high calibre.
After success at Loughborough, the
club was highly excited for a dance-
filled weekend away in Edinburgh.
This time the club’s tap dancers led
by choreographer Georgina Stroud
also attended Edinburgh University’s
Dance-Off along with the four other
pieces.
The Beginners Tap piece was a pol-
ished, energetic routine which won 3rd
Place in its category controversially
losing out to some not-so-beginner
tappers from Sunderland. The con-
troversy continued in the tap category
with the stylish, Fosse-inspired routine
by the Advanced Tap dancers coming
2nd, losing out to an a capella piece by
Newcastle making it the second year
running an a capella piece has won.
This time the Contemporary piece
fared better with the judges awarding
2nd Place while the Advanced Ballet
piece was again placed 1st in its cat-
egory. The Beginners Ballet piece was
placed 2nd losing out to a piece by
Sunderland University which included
intermediate and advanced dancers.
All controversy aside, some excel-
lent results for the club and these were
topped off with an individual Best
Dancer award for one of the club’s
freshers, Francesca Boughey who
danced in the Advanced Ballet, Con-
temporary and Jazz pieces.
After the results were announced,
over a hundred hungry dancers cha-
otically attempted to get their hands
on the after party buffet. Following
the feeding frenzy the IC dancers re-
treated to a booth where the drinking
games began and elegant, once- com-
posed dancers were transformed into
bunnies and farm animals that had to
know their four-times-tables. A fabu-
lous competition season ended with
a cocktail, tequila and champagne
fuelled night of more dancing!
Release your arty side in Phoenix
T
here are quite a few perks
of being at an institute at
Imperial. Yes, this is a top-
ten internationally ranked
institution. Yes, that is a
Lamborghini garage down the road
and yes, those women walking up and
down Cromwell Road are wearing the
equivalent of a small fortune. However,
with every upside comes a downside
and though it’s not exactly cataclysmic
in comparison to the relative benefits
offered, there is a downside to being
at a college so single-minded in its
pursuit of scientific and technological
nirvana.
And if you’re the artsy type or to any
degree that way inclined, you’re sure
to feel it. Not in a tortuous and quite
unnecessarily gratuitous fashion such
as, say, something you would see in the
Saw series or even any film containing
Jason Schwartzman. The relative quiet
of the college’s arts scene and lack of
diversity in the general student popu-
lace is understandable given its focus
on science, but those of you who loved
your arts subjects at school may find
that part of yourselves undernour-
ished as time passes. A reality is that
most people will be wonderful but are
not going to feel as passionately as you
about art house cinema, interesting
new music scenes sprouting up around
the capital or that an international
literary legend is coming to town to
give a reading. For some, this will be
a largely ignored itch that occasion-
ally needs scratching. Others will re-
sign themselves to turning to external
sources to find their fix.
This is where Phoenix comes in.
Originally founded in 1904 as the col-
lege’s arts magazine by H.G.Wells - yes,
the guy who penned War of the Worlds
and The Time Machine - its presence
has fluctuated until a couple of years
ago when a couple of overambitious
Cardiovascular Science undergrads
had a conversation on a bus down the
Shepherds Bush Road and decided it
would be a great idea to resurrect it.
The basic idea is to take the creative
work of the student body - that means
you, arty types - and to pick the best for
inclusion in a sumptuously designed
extravaganza of literature and art pub-
lished next month. Anything will be
considered - collages, drawings and
paintings (even your A-Level work),
photography, poetry and short sto-
ries, flash-fiction, screenplays, haiku,
original designs or ideas for articles on
something you particularly feel pas-
sionate about.
Write when the inspiration takes
you - in the middle of the night, in the
shower, on the bus or under starlight.
Get in touch with us for potential ideas
for sections, editorials or design. We
are always looking for new contribu-
tors and potential editors and chances
are, if you pitch it to us and you’ve
thought about it, we’ll probably con-
sider it.
Speaking of which, now that there is
more than one editor, Phoenix should
be a very special thing indeed.
Whereas before, it would be mostly
one person putting in 32 hours over
the last two days running to print
deadline whilst simultaneously being
shafted by the latter stages of Under-
grad Medicine, now with three highly
passionate, intelligent and talented co-
editors on board, Phoenix should be a
work of art in itself come the end of the
year. So get your creative juices flow-
ing and send us over your ideas and
submissions - we can’t wait to see what
you come up with. DP
Submissions to phoenix@imperial.
ac.uk by 21st May 2010.
‘A tango-inspired,
energy fuelled rou-
tine ... 1st Place.’
‘Write when the inspiration
takes you - in the middle of
the night, in the shower, on
the bus or under starlight.’
Pernelle Nunez describes the trip to Loughborough and Edinburgh, in which the club gained impressive results
Your Club or Society Here.
Description of your awesome trip or event here.
There are 296 clubs and societies at Imperial. Want
your club to be in felix?
Send us a description of a trip, event, tour or social
with some good pictures and everyone will know
about it.
H. G Wells, author of The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy,initiated Phoenix

