27
felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
team had recovered to a very respect-
able 210, although certain (very) senior
players were disappointed that the 2s
hadn’t managed to score more runs
than the 1s for once. With a spring
in the step, the players went out to
field and some high quality open-
ing bowling from Jonny C (3-13 from
10 overs) lead to the dismissal of the
two openers in successive overs with
two unplayable balls. The previously
wayward captain, who wasn’t exactly
leading by example at the time, then
got in on the act to remove the third
batsman to leave Reading reeling. An
inspired bowling change by Pete lead
to debutante Will Baker collecting two
wickets, before things got better when
the only credible spinner, Luke, came
on and took quick wickets (and ended
up with figures of 9 overs 3-14). Pete
then came back to wrap up the innings
as Reading were bowled out for 108, of
which 50 was extras. This aside it was a
top-quality performance to give the 2s
their first win of the season. The man
of the match was, without doubt, Jon-
ny C for his all round performance: 20
runs, 3 wickets and two catches. Geek
of the day could only go to Ben Bell for
being sad enough to spend tea break
working out the countdown puzzles
that were on TV and consequently be-
ing prime evidence that playing Hock-
ey has a negative influence on you.
****
Stirred from their first win in over a
year, an energized Imperial 2nd team
gathered together for their next game,
playing Portsmouth to seal their posi-
tion in the division. With a strength-
ened batting line-up and a typically
strong bowling attack along with two
extra spinners, things were looking
good. An uneventful journey was a
relief in contrast to earlier this month
when the team managed to get lost on
their way to Harlington. Upon arrival,
traditional pre-game rituals were un-
dertaken; Pete went to buy some food
for tea and Sid had a fag.
On a green wicket, softened due to
the rain, bowling first seemed the way
to go; but losing the toss, IC were put
in to bat. After a strong bating perfor-
mance from last game, IC were keen to
repeat their performance. Joe started
the innings soundly and looked like he
was geared up to get a big score with
more leaves than a tree. Unfortunately,
at the other end, Rahul, his opening
partner, was dismissed in the second
over.
Sasha came in all guns blazing and
bought the team a quick start before
offering a catch to mid-off while look-
ing to clear the infield. This triggered
the haunting collapse that the seconds
experience all too often; Alex being
trapped lbw and Sid falling cheaply af-
ter sending a sitter back to the bowler.
Captain Pete also fell under the pres-
sure and the biggest blow came soon
after when Joe was also out leg-before.
But heroics from Ian at the tail end of
the innings, with support from Will
Baker and Will Duncan, allowed IC to
set a target of 140 and give the bowlers
something to work with.
After tea the team was ready to bring
their best to defend a low total. But a
quick start from the Portsmouth open-
ers started to put some heads down
before Sid’s loud mouth ensured some
banter; the breakthrough came and the
opening duo of Ian and Pete seemed
set to cause some havoc as they had
in Sussex. With a wicket apiece they
had the Portsmouth team under pres-
sure as Will’s sharp stop and accurate
throw provided another wicket but
despite all this, runs were still flow-
ing. Joe bowled a top spell of leg spin,
grabbing two wickets; his googly com-
pletely deceived the batsman who left
the ball only for it to hit the top of the
off stump.
This gave IC another burst of energy
as the main threat to the team was now
dismissed. But alas, with only 140 to
defend the quick start from the Ports-
mouth batsmen turned out to be too
tall an order for the bowlers to con-
tain as the final runs were scored with
ease. The team, unhappy with their
performance, headed up to the Red
Lion to drink away their sorrows. Will
dominated the pool table and a good
game of killer came to a thrilling end
where Rahul’s accuracy conquered
Sid’s flukes.
The team now has to prepare for
what will be a competitive game
against Brunel on Wednesday, where
a win would solidify their position in
the league.
T
he felixSport league ta-
ble championship for the
2009-2010 season was
shared between Fencing
Women’s 1s and Volley-
ball Men’s 1s. The female fencers were
able to boast a superior point differ-
ence, however, it would have been
unfair to demote the volleyball players
into second place due to the different
point scoring systems between the two
sports. Both the fencing and volleyball
teams completed their respective sea-
sons with unblemished records; the
fencers emerged victorious from their
eleven bouts while volleyball secured
ten victories throughout the season.
While most people have a general
understanding of what the sport of
fencing is about, the vast majority of
the public don’t know the rules regual-
tions and procedures of the sport as
it does not command the same level
of publicity as the national sports of
England such as football, cricket and
rugby.
Fencing has a long historic tradition
and is one of only four sports to have
made an appearance at every one of
the modern Olympic Games. Fenc-
ing competitors have a selection of
three weapons; epee, foil and sabre.
When competing, rules specific to
each weapon must be observed when
dueling. In epee and foil, points are
scored with the tip of the weapon on
a valid target area whereas sabre calls
for a slashing motion, hitting the op-
ponent with the side of the blade. The
areas which competitors target differ
according to the weapon, and hits are
registered electronically with the use
of a “box” that lights up. The general
aim of a bout is simple - to outscore
your opponent.
Epee uses a slightly heavier weapon
than foil or sabre and allows hits to be
scored on the whole body. The foil tar-
get area removes the head, arms and
legs and is materialised by a metallic
jacket which registers hits by complet-
ing a circuit between the foil and the
box. The sabre is similar to the foil in
weight and length, and the attacker
may target anywhere from the waist
upwards. There is a right of way rule
in fencing which is implemented in foil
and sabre to prevent simultaneous at-
tacks, epee being the only weapon to
allow double, hits. Judging the right of
way can sometimes be quite subjective
and many a match will be decided by
the referee.
BUCS team matches involve a
45-point relay for each weapon. The
team for a singlee weapon is comprised
of three people, each fencing three
bouts to five hits, with the first team to
45 being the winner. The scores from
each weapon are then added up to give
a total out of 135, which explains the
very large ‘goal difference’ the fencers
have.
felixSport caught up with Clare
Harding, captain of the successful
fencing team to discuss their success-
ful season: “Six girls were on the team
this year: Alice Mitchell, Outi Sup-
ponen, Emily Bottle, Hannah Bryars,
Helen Pennington and myself”. The
Continued from back page
Imperial 2nd XI overcome Reading 3s but are unable to repeat feat against Portsmouth
season began with high expectations
with the team winning their league the
previous year. “This season saw Alice
and Outi join the team, both of whom
are experienced fencers so we were
fairly confident that we would be able
to repeat last year’s feat!”
Oxford University provided the stiff-
est competition for Imperial within the
southern league this season: “Oxford
beat us in 2009, but it was incredibly
close with the teams only separated by
a few points. We knew that they had
lost a few of their key competitors from
last year and on the first two occasions
we met we managed to beat them quite
easily. This was mainly thanks to the
strength of our epee and foil teams.”
The Imperial team faced Oxford for a
third time this season and were able to
keep level headed and see of their chal-
lengers for a third time within a season.
After an undefeated season, plenty
of exceptional moments stand out:
“The highlight for the team was prob-
ably the BUCS semi-final victory over
Oxford- when we met them the third
time. The team felt a lot of pressure to
win that match in order to qualify for
the final in Sheffield”. The victory was
even more impressive as Imperial’s op-
ponents contained some competitors
from the British circuit. “Luckily the
team pulled through really well and
produced one of the most resounding
victories of the season”.
Promisingly, Clare believes the team
is unlikely to change drastically going
into next season: “We compete in small
teams so there can be large changes
from year to year and it’s encouraging
that the team will not change too much
for the coming season”. Furthermore,
the club was able to put out a second
team, captained by Helen Pennington
who is a part of the first team; this can
only improve the prospects of Impe-
rial’s fencers. “This allows far more
people to compete at a University level
which is a great way to retain novices.
Hopefully in future years we will be
able to recruit from here which will
give the team added depth.”
felixSport announce the World Cup league table winners
Asmen’svolleyballandwomen’sfencingcomeoutontop,wetalktothemtofindoutmoreaboutwhatgoesintoanunbeatenseason.Thisweek:fencing
Name: Clare Harding
Age: 23.
Subject: First year PhD in
Microbiology and Molecular Cell
Biology.
Height: 5ft 1
While studying at school, Clare
represented Scotland and Great
Britain at U17 level. During her
undergraduate course at Durham,
Clare fenced for Scotland in the
five nations as well as captaining
the Durham fencing team.
As a qualified fencing coach Clare
has taught children and Imperial
students.
Meet the Captain:
Women’s Fencing 1sts
Imperial fencers in action during their undefeated season

