3
felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
NEWS
Imperial graduates ‘will mould future’
S
ir Keith O’Nions has em-
phasised the need for op-
timism amongst Imperial’s
latest postgraduate students
awarded degrees at the grad-
uation ceremonies held in the Royal
Albert Hall.
The ceremonies, the largest post-
graduate awards in the history of the
college, where some 2000 students
received their degrees, were watched
by roughly 4700 guests. The ceremo-
nies were attended by Lord Sainsbury,
Professor Robert Nerem and Profes-
sor Sir Andrew McMichael, who each
received honorary degrees, as well as
entrepreneur Ram Gidoomal, Chair-
man of Singapore’s Agency for Sci-
ence Lim Chuan Poh and Trustee of
the Wolfson Foundation Lady Wolf-
son, who were admitted to the Fel-
lowship of Imperial College London.
The Rector, who described the
graduates as “our greatest contribu-
tion to societies around the world’’,
said: “As you now pursue and develop
your careers, you are amongst the
most talented and able people in the
world.’’
He continued to explain:
“Attributes such as pessimism and
self doubt have always been in short
supply at Imperial College and would
in my view be entirely misplaced at
these times. You have the knowledge
and understanding that is key to
meeting the challenges and opportu-
nities of tomorrow - you will without
doubt be part of moulding the world’s
future. Your skills, knowledge and ex-
pertise are necessary now more than
ever, because it is only through in-
novation in science, technology and
medicine and sound business sense
that our economy will advance. We
can only guess at the advances that
your generation will make - but I am
confident you will be part of it.’’
The ceremonies celebrated staff and
students who had made substantial
contributions, with Jad Marrouche
of the Department of Physics receiv-
ing a Student Award for Outstanding
Achievement to recognise his out-
reach work and Jane Mitchell from
the National Heart and Lung Insti-
tute receiving the Rector’s Award for
Excellence in Research Supervision.
Research Excellence Awards were
also given to two academic groups
specialising in molecular systems en-
gineering and nanotechnology in rec-
ognition of research of significant fu-
ture potential. The awards are worth
£150,000 each.
Postgraduates after the ceremony
were quick to mention their satisfac-
tion with Imperial with comments
praising the semi-taught, semi-re-
search based approach employed in
some degrees, explaining that this
helped spark thoughts regarding
whether they’d like to continue scien-
tific research in future. AK
As 2,000 postgraduates were awarded degrees, Sir Keith O’Nions told Imperial graduates that they will be able
to be the future of science. He might just be right. Alexander Karapetian and Joanna Cai report.
Flower Pot listens to Sir Keith O’Nions intently as he proudly gradutes with a 1st in Material Sciences. A head full of mud, who’d have thought?
Doom and gloom in the job market? Think again
A
recent poll by the Association of Graduate
Recruiters (AGR) has shown that the lat-
est batch of graduates now face improved
career and job prospects, for the first time
since the recession took place.
The poll was carried out last month, surveying 91
major graduate employers about their hiring plans for
this year. Two thirds of these companies said that they
currently still had graduate vacancies, and according to
AGR, the average graduate pay remains at 2008’s levels.
When asked about their recruitment targets for 2010,
37.4% of employers said that theirs were higher than last
year’s, 41.8% remained the same, whereas 20.8% were
lower than last year’s.
Graduate level vacancies saw a 10% fall last year, when
many companies ceased to recruit graduates and some
even withdrew their offers; the figures from this year
have almost levelled out.
However, the students who are leaving university this
year will undoubtedly face competition from the grad-
uates of 2008 and 2009, since many of them are still in
search of jobs. This will mean that despite the currently
optimistic figures for job vacancies, the competition will
remain fierce for entry-level jobs, in which one in three
requires a degree as a prerequisite.
71.5% of the companies asked confirmed that their
number of applicants were higher than last year. It can
cost employers up to £3bn each year to run the business
of recruiting, paying and training graduates, and employ-
ers will be working hard this year to try to attract the
best graduate talents, whilst forecasting the trends in the
graduate market.
There are currently over 900,000 unemployed under-
25s: 100,000 of which are graduates.
Nevertheless, many employers recruiting graduates
still stress the importance of wider employability skills
which are as, or even more, important than the specif-
ic occupational, technical or academic skills associated
with degree programmes. In a 2007 Institute of Direc-
tors (IoD) survey, 61% of members stated that graduates’
employability skills were more important than academic
skills, compared to only 12% believing that they were less
important.
A study carried out by Incomes Data Services found
that graduate recruitment in finance would increase by
15% this year, compared to the drop of 38% last year. On
the other hand, the public sector and charities will see
vacancies drop by 7% as a result of public spending cuts,
which is also the reason for the recent strikes and sit-ins
undertaken by members of King’s College and Middlesex.
Despite the recent increase in competition amongst job
applicants, employers still find that applications are of-
ten bulk written and mass e-mailed to them, which does
not do the applicant any favours. In AGR’s poll, only 29%
of employers got the impression that applicants were
working harder on their applications in the current job
climate.
For students who are, or soon will be, embarking on
their quest for that mysterious graduate job, it is impor-
tant to remember that this generation of graduates will
probably have many careers and even more jobs within
their working lifetime than any previous generation, so it
is perhaps best not to consider a career as ‘cradle to the
grave’. JC
Proportion of companies whose
graduate recruitment targets remained
the same or increased from last year’s.
79%
“You have the
knowledge and
understanding
that is key to
meeting the
challenges and
opportunities of
tomorrow”
There are currently over
900, 000 unemployed
under-25s, 100,000 of which
are graduates.

