4 felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
Confidential Review submission released
Russell Group insist student protest did not influence the release of their Browne Review reports
Continued from front page
The governmental department
dealing with the freedom of informa-
tion request was subject to a “public
interest” exemption, saying that the
information could be seen “out of
context”.
The Aldwych Group, led by LSE’s
Emmanuel Apkan-Inwang, responded
by physically handing over a letter
at the Russell Group head offices in
Trafalgar Square. The protest letter
pushed the influential Russell Group
to make their recommendations to
the Browne Review publically avail-
able alongside every other institutions’
equivalent reports. They additionally
requested a solid timetable for future
review submissions be laid down after
being given the vague timescale of “the
next few weeks” for this submission.
“As student representatives, we find
it disingenuous and underhand that
the UK’s elite universities have re-
fused several freedom of information
requests asking for its submissions to
be published,” said Akpan-Inwang.
“The outcome of the Browne Re-
view may represent the most sig-
nificant change to higher education
funding in decades. It is completely
unacceptable that it has been with-
held until after the election and clear
that the Russell Group are attempting
to stifle debate.”
The at-the-door protest yielded a
20 minute meeting between Apkan-
Inwang and two Russell Group mem-
bers, one being Director Wendy Piatt.
Talking to felix, Apkan-Inwang de-
scribed the discussions as “amicable
and civil”.
“I made the concerns of the Ald-
wych Group clear, and she [Wendy
Piatt] sympathised. The meeting was
about clarity and she gave assurances
to us that their submissions would be
made public. I think they had plenty
of time to think about their decisions
before we turned up.”
With the Russell Group seemingly
taking a U-turn in their decision to
keep their documents confidential
and publishing their submission by
the end of the week, Apkan-Inwang
championed the power of student
representation.
“We represent 20 institutions com-
ing together, and our views are diffi-
cult for the Russell Group to ignore.
There was also plenty of media cover-
age from the BBC and local newspa-
pers,” he said.
However, upon contacting the Rus-
sell Group, a spokesperson refuted
the idea of their decision regarding
confidentiality had been reversed
in response to Monday’s letter of
protest.
“We always intended to make the
submissions publically available, but
we are publishing them to our own
schedule. The publication of the re-
ports this week has nothing to do
with the Aldwych Group,” she said to
felix.
Speaking about the Russell Group’s
submission to the Browne Review,
Dr Wendy Piatt, Director General
backed up these claims.
“The Review invited those submit-
ting evidence to indicate whether
they would prefer that evidence to
remain confidential. There is and has
always been an intention to publish
our submission and our final analysis
of the issues addressed in the submis-
sion,” she stated.
The Russell Group has taken up the
option of confidentiality given by the
Review during the submission pro-
cess, but have stated that they would
only exercise this option in accord-
ance to their own investigations upon
similar matters.
“We are working on our own in-
dependently-researched report into
the issues surrounding the funding
of higher education. We submitted
our early findings for this report to
the Browne Review in time for their
first deadline and asked the Review
team to treat our advice as confiden-
tial pending the publication of our
planned reports on the funding of
universities and further analysis of
the issues involved,” Piatt said.
So, was the organised handover of
the protest letter a waste of time? At
the very least, the Aldwych Group
have established the report’s date of
publication as Friday 14th May.
Despite imminent publication, Un-
ion President Ashley Brown was “dis-
appointed” that the Russell Group
had hindered any chance of higher
education debate at the General
Election.
“Its disappointing that this General
Election wasn’t about higher educa-
tion which is vital to securing our
economic recovery and affect the fu-
tures of millions of people. We want
an open debate on the issues, which
wasn’t achieved by the Russell Group
keeping their submission confidential
for so long,” he said.
Though the Russell Group ex-
pressed confusion at the students’ ap-
pearance on their doorstep, The Ald-
wych Group have stated that they are
“just happy that the [Russell Group’s]
report is going to be published and
we will be able to see what they have
to say.”
Apkan-Inwang will now look to re-
view the Russell Group’s publication
next week and make contact with all
20 offices of the student unions in
England as they pay “close attention”
to the Russell Group’s next moves.
Who are the Aldwych Group?
As Imperial College Union are to Imperial College, the
Aldwych Group is to the Russell Group. It is the collection
of the 20 student unions whose universities are part of the
Russell Group. Imperial College Union have been an active
member since its inception.
Current chairman and LSE Union Education and Welfare
Officer, Emmanuel Apkan-Inwang said the Group’s job was
to “act and respond to the Russell Group accordingly, without
causing wider effects like the National Union of Students.”
They look to lobby for the “best outcome for [their]
members” in all decisions the Russell Group make.
The Russell Group is an organisation
that represents the 20 leading university
administrations in England. These include
Oxbridge as well as Imperial, LSE and
UCL. This means their report will hold
plenty of influence in these early stages of
the Browne Review.
The conflict between the Russell Group
and students arose when this report was kept confidential from
students. Chair of the Aldwych Group, Emmanuel Apkan-Inwang
argued that e“students deserve to know what is being said by an
organisation representing our universities.”
“Students deserve
to know what
is being said by
an organisation
representing our
universities”
Why is this submission so important?
Politics
Politics
13 Labour years: The
good, the bad & the ugly
See page 8
Sport
Sport
Female fencers top of
the felixSports league
See page 31
Aldwych Group Chair Emmanuel Apkan-Inwang with the protest letters
addressed to two senior figures of the Russell Group

