5
felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond College walls
By Tom Greany
North Korea China
E
gypt’s parliament has extended the country’s state
of emergency by two years.
The powers given to the government include ar-
rest without charge, limits on the right of assembly of
groups greater than three in number, and limits on free speech.
The powers were first instituted in 1981 following the assina-
tion of President Anwar el-Sadat. Unusual for the Egyptian
government was its desire to explain its decision regarding the
extension as well as how it planned to limit their use. The gov-
ernment promised to use the powers solely for counterterror-
ism and against drug trafficking. In addition, the government
also announced that it would revoke powers allowing censor-
ship and property confiscation. Despite these limitations of
power, many Egyptians were unhappy with the announcement
due to the fact that the state of emergency has been in place for
so long, as well as continued promises from the government
that it would be removed.
Egypt
Letters to
the Editor
NEWS
Dear Editor,
It is with great sadness, and shock, that I read
of the passing away of Ms Sharine Brown, lately
Head of Residences of the College. We did not
always see eye to eye - particularly when nego-
tiating annual rent reviews. She was, nonethe-
less, a strong champion for quality and choice
in student accommodation and a considerable
asset to the College. Whilst much attention
has been focussed on the high profile building
projects, Sharine quietly worked hard to ensure
that the best was made of the crumbling facili-
ties whilst they awaited redevelopment. I always
recognised that no matter what problems arose,
halls at Imperial College were generally better
run than those at any other London university.
She will be a great loss to the student body and
deservedly missed.
Yours faithfully,
Mustafa Arif
President 2003-2005, Imperial College Union
Lord Browne’s
Review on
Higher
Education
Funding &
Student Finance
T
he latest in a string of attacks on Chinese
schoolchildren happened Wednesday in central
Shaanxi province.
Seven students were murdered and at least
twenty injured by a knife-wielding man in Nanzheng County.
The killer, a 48-year-old man who owned the home where the
school was located, killed himself directly afterwards. The at-
tack is the sixth similar attack in China in the past eight weeks.
As many try to come to grips with reasons for why these attacks
continue to occur, some experts are questioning the state of
mental health care in China. Others have blamed the phenom-
enon on the inability of citizens to air grievances against local
authorities and see some of the attacks as revengeful. Parents
at many Chinese schools have stepped up security patrols in
response.
N
orth Korea claimed that it succeeded in creat-
ing a “unique thermo-nuclear reaction device”
for large-scale energy production by nuclear
fusion.
The announcement by North Korean state media coincides
with the birthday of Kim Il-Sung, the country’s founder. This
day is known as the “Day of the Sun”; the country’s announce-
ment likened its fusion device to a “second sun”. According to
the country’s state media, “The successful nuclear fusion in the
DPRK (North Korea) made a definite breakthrough towards the
development of new energy and opened up a new phase in the
nation’s development of the latest science and technology.” Ex-
perts are taking the announcement with extreme skepticism and
believe that North Korea likely conducted a small experiment if
there is any veracity to its claims: the majority of the country’s
nuclear program is based on Soviet technology from the 1950’s.
I
n November 2009, then Minis-
ter of Business, Innovation and
Skills, Lord Mandelson ordered
an independent review on higher
education funding and student
finance led by ex-BP Chief Executive,
Lord Browne of Madingley.
According to Lord Mandelson, the
review will consider “balance of con-
tributions to universities by taxpayers,
students, graduates and employers” to
University finances alongside the cur-
rent and future states of university tuition
fees.
The Conservative party, now in Gov-
ernment, are also in on the review and
have agreed to consider the Review’s
findings accordingly, which are due to
be published this coming Autumn.
A range of institutions, including stu-
dent unions, think tanks and lobbying
groups have been asked to submit their
arguments on the issues being reviewed.
*
Rising fees?
It has been reported that on the Re-
view’s recommendation, tuition fees
could rise by £1,000 a year from 2013.
This could eventually lead to students
being charged £7,000 a year to attend an
average course at university. Most im-
portantly for Imperial students, science
degrees may cost up to £14,000 per year.
Under a free market system, universi-
ties will be able to charge the full cost of
the course. The Review is also likely to
advise to Government to scrap subsidised
loans, and allow students to pay national
interest rates on money lent to them.

