6
COMMENT
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
R
epresentation may be the
most banal word used by
the Union. Most students
(and staff) are barely aware
that a representation net-
work in the Union exists, let alone how
it can help them. It has the unfortu-
nate status of being seen as too boring
to engage with and yet, in reality, it is
too important to ignore. Representing
their members should be the primary
function of all Unions. As much as we
like to get drunk in the bars, and join
clubs, I believe the Union’s most im-
portant function it is to provide a voice
for each student and if necessary, de-
fend them.
The key to any representative system,
like we have in the Union where stu-
dents’ views can be delivered to the Un-
ion and College, and in Britain where
our MPs and Councillors take our views
into account when making decisions (or
are meant to), is accountability. With-
out some way to hold the elected to
account, there can be no way the voter
can make a balanced judgement on who
will represent them faithfully.
Unfortunately, when people are
elected for a year and then mostly move
on, there is little chance for a voter to
show their anger at the person’s con-
duct. Let’s face it, your Departmental
Representative could get the position,
never turn up to a single meeting, never
pass on an email about bad coursework
marking or poor treatment of students,
and you can’t do anything. He or she
will sit in the job interview with that
little addition on their CV which to the
interviewer says team-player but to you
and your course says failure, betrayal
and abuse of the system. Just something
else that makes us think the Union is
ineffectual.
I don’t want to make out that I think
everyonewhotakesthesepositionsdoes
it for their CV; in most cases, people do
raise issues to the staff and further up
the representation network. Problems
also lie with getting staff to give feed-
back, and to take student representa-
tion seriously. But there is a problem.
Up until this year there has never been
a proper Representation Policy of the
Union; this may seem strange, even ab-
horrent, that we didn’t have guidelines
on how the system should operate.
Luckily, Jon Silver, the Deputy Presi-
dent of Education, has been putting it
together. It is something we should be
proud of. The body which first should
discuss and pass this policy is the Rep-
resentation and Welfare Board (RWB).
At the last meeting they took a second
look at the policy. Barely anyone at-
tended. Yes: what should be one of the
most important committees passing
what will be the most seminal policy for
some time, affecting everyone at Impe-
rial, was seemingly ignored.
Why? Because there are no reper-
cussions, no accountability. The only
people who know about the absentees
were at the meeting, or you if you read
the minutes. This means that not only
do we have a system where people can
get away with not caring, but because
of this, the positions themselves are
demeaned. This makes them seem less
important, more of a CV-grabbing goal,
where meetings to discuss the repre-
sentation of some 14,000 students are a
mere inconvenience.
I genuinely believe there are students
who would be fantastic in every level of
what soon will be a revamped, rejuve-
nated, high profile and serious repre-
sentation network, backed by policy. If
you have a problem, you will know ex-
actly where to go. And your representa-
tives will be accountable.
I want everyone to know who has
turned up for meetings and what is
being discussed, and for it to be easily
accessible, at all levels. This starts right
now. The elections for many positions
on the RWB next year are happening
now. Read the manifestos. Vote. And
next year, test us.
AlexKendallwantsyoutotesthim.Goon.
“Most students
(and staff) are
barely aware that
a representation
network in the
Union exists”
PhilSandwellisinlovewithouroldneigbour
“A room filled with
more beautiful
birds than you
could ever hope to
see at the Union.”
V
ery few things inspire an
innocent sense of won-
der in me like the Natural
History Museum. Despite
most of the visitors not
being eight years old, the Diplodocus in
the main hall still possesses the stopping
power to freeze people as if he had bent
down to introduce himself (his name
is Dippy, if you were wondering, cour-
tesy of Andrew Carnegie). Meanwhile
the Ronson Gallery, identifiable by the
swarm of children gaggling towards it,
is the room that widens the eyes of the
generation who grew up with Jurassic
Park. If, unlike me, you can pass through
it without a guilty mix of awe and fear at
how large and pointy life was 150 million
years ago then I pity the maturity of your
inner child. Even the clunky automaton
Tyrannosaurus rex should raise the hairs
on the back of a twenty-something-year-
old’s neck, in the same way a sense of
instant dread can be created by whisper-
ing “clever girl” into an unsuspecting ear.
Unearthly guttural screaming and the
subsequent jumping onto your target are
optional, but encouraged.
Downthehallwayisaroomofcreatures
that live on well past their best-before
dates, stuffed and preserved for eternity
in school-photograph-style awkward-
ness. Amongst the mounted kangaroos
and bats there are, so typically of the Nat-
ural History Museum, a few specimens
that pass under the radar of the crowds;
discovering them made me feel like I
was learning something completely new
about a very good friend. One example is
the fantastically-named pink fairy arma-
dillo, with its especially armoured rear,
but looking down the corridor of glass
cases gives a solemn impression. Gazing
into a leopard’s lifeless eyes as they stared
through me forlornly highlighted the fact
thatthisanimaldiedtoeducateagroupof
snotty, gawping children. Standing inches
fromoneofthelastremainingTasmanian
tigers to live before its species was extin-
guished gave me pangs of responsibil-
ity, which were only accentuated when I
came to the polar bear further down the
hall. Perhaps one day they might be to-
gether in a case headed “Animals Incom-
patible with the Human Race”
. On the
other hand, some of the newer exhibits
look like expressing their feelings at be-
ing re-emboweled through their bottoms
with formaldehyde and straw by tearing
the nearest little reprobate to ribbons. If
only.
One of my favourite places in the Mu-
seum is a room filled with more beautiful
birds than you could ever hope to see on
one night at the Union. The Himalayan
monal – a metallic green pheasant – puts
the native fauna to shame, as it does the
shabby-lookingdodoreplicaseeminglyput
together with a Pritt stick, some pigeons
and a Victorian taxidermist’s best wishes.
Further down is an entire case devoted
to hundreds of hummingbird specimens,
confined to a life behind glass simply for
being very small and very pretty; this dis-
play would have tugged at my heartstrings
more only if it also featured a stuffed Lab-
rador puppy. These are in contrast to the
residents of the Large Mammals Hall, who
qualify for admission by being relatively
large mammals. Having the 10 ton skel-
eton of a blue whale above your head gives
an appreciation that whales have no sense
of retaliation: if I were their size, I would
teach anyone who harpooned my buddies
a very swift lesson.
The (originally) inanimate exhibitions
are often undeservingly overlooked.
Given that astronauts of Apollo 16 trav-
elled to the Moon and back to collect it, I
feel that the Museum’s collection of rock
samples deserves better than a darkened
corridor for a home. Likewise the Ruin
Marble, whose pattern uncannily re-
sembles a decaying city, should honour
a plinth and not a porthole for convinc-
ing me that nature can imitate art. For
the only items I have ever truly consid-
ered stealing from a Museum, however,
head upstairs to the Vault. My inner
magpie replaced my generally intelligent
musings with “ooh, shiny things…” as
I gawked my way around jewels mind-
shatteringly out of my price range. And
for fun, when I want to feel completely
insignificant and worthless, I look at
the small vial at the back of the room
which is home to microscopic diamonds
formed in the dust of a dying star.
The big news at the Museum last
year was the opening of its new Dar-
win Centre, an eight storey cocoon in
which visitors are meant to learn about
scientific methods. Intended to give an
insight into the scientific discovery proc-
ess by having professional scientists on
display and ready to answer questions, I
was impressed by its realism: visiting on
a sunny Friday afternoon, I was met by
understandably deserted desks. Although
I appreciate that the Museum is trying to
teachthegeneralpublicwhathappensbe-
hind the scenes, and as much fun as iden-
tifying fly genitalia on futuristic, Minority
Report-stylescreenswas,Ifeelthatthey’re
missing the point of why people visit. I go
there to the Museum to wander around,
press my nose against the glass and to be
impressed by what the Earth has man-
aged to produce over the past few billion
years. I don’t want to hear about research
papers when I visit, I want to skim-read a
few sentences about where and when the
Ankylosaurus in front of me lived and let
my mind’s eye do the rest. The Natural
HistoryMuseumisthesinglegreatestcol-
lection of inspiration in London, let alone
within a five-minute walk of campus; put
your pen down, leave your brain in the
library and come here to give your imagi-
nation a well-deserved workout.

