7
felix FRIDAY 14 MAY 2010
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
TomHillscertainly doesn’t love Gilead Amit
“Only bigots
criticise others’
systems without
recognising their
virtues.”
I
’m sorry to hear that Gilead
Amit isn’t convinced by the poli-
tics in this country. I don’t think
anybody would think it particu-
larly rude of a foreign citizen
not to take an interest in our politics as
he may fear, but writing five columns
about the failings of British politics
and elections without providing either
constructive feedback or a balanced
argument is a different matter.
I’d be the first to admit that our elec-
toral system has its downfalls, but it also
has a lot of positives too. Moreover, for
those who plan to spend the majority of
their lives in the UK, it is of great con-
sequence. I completely accept the right
to comment, but let him who is without
sin cast the first stone. Show the British
electorate, parliament and government
a perfect democracy and we’ll fall for
it, head over heels, I promise you! But,
while that utopian system still eludes us,
we’ve got to work with what we’ve got.
Is that really something to complain
about using complex metaphors and to
deride using long words? The electorate
knows of the system’s failings, but if, as
a country, we wish for electoral reform,
they will vote for a party, such as the Lib
Dems, who promise it.
Mr Amit, you mention insults on Fa-
cebook towards our politicians who
advocate change as “a disrespectful way
to address…a politician”
. To me, this be-
haviour seems quite healthy; politicians
are like Marmite and there are always
going to be differences of opinion and
no matter how well a politician runs a
country, there are always going to be
people who speak out against him or
her, even if some of it is quite crude. I do
find it slightly hypocritical you can criti-
cise those people whilst simultaneously
showing disrespect towards those same
politicians by implying that all they do is
emit “copious doo-doo”
.
Change, and resistance to change, are
mainstays of democracy and even if the
UK’s main parties have similar policies
it is not fair to judge them, their lead-
ers and their policies by commentat-
ing on the state of the country and its
society before they’ve even been voted
in. This country has been democratic
to varying degrees for centuries and I
interpret the lack of extreme views in
the three main parties as a sign that the
British electorate thinks that this coun-
try is working well and requires only a
little fine-tuning. Furthermore, the fact
that the population of this country has
had cries of “Change!” thrown at it from
every direction is, for me, a victory for
democracy in this country, rather than
an irritation. British citizens have been
provided with many sources of infor-
mation and opinion that, hopefully, al-
lowed them to make an informed choice
last week. It shows passion and convic-
tion on the part of our politicians. This
“sensationalist mess” may be boring for
some, but it was necessary, in my opin-
ion, to ensure that the election reflected
the beliefs of the British people. An elec-
tion without campaigning and calls for
change would be a sad day for democ-
racy anywhere.
Like I mentioned before, there are
many faults with the electoral system
in the UK. For one, in Great Britain you
don’t have to show ID to vote (strangely,
it’s required in Northern Ireland). Postal
votes have been bought and polling sta-
tions closed with queues outside, and
there is an overriding unfair advantage
for Labour. I believe that we need elec-
toral reform but a blanket PR system
would remove many of the positive ec-
centricities of having constituency MPs.
I propose a halfway-house, where larger
regions of the UK (such as Scotland,
Wales, the South-East, London etc.)
elect a certain number of MPs on a PR
system, allowing voters to hold local
MPs accountable whilst providing a sys-
tem which creates a more representative
Parliament.
This country is diverse, with regional
variations in history, geography and lan-
guage as well as politics. Harking from
Yorkshire, I feel great regional pride and
anyone can see that these emotions of
local belongingness are felt right across
the country.
The British political and media es-
tablishments aren’t blind to this and
certainly don’t believe that the public
can’t think for themselves. If the public
couldn’t think and was homogenous,
why would the government have intro-
duced devolution? And since the UK is
exposed to roughly the same newspa-
pers, television channels and websites,
why did the Conservatives gain so many
seats around the UK, yet they lost share
of the vote in Scotland? It is impossible
to put the UK’s 60m inhabitants in to a
well-defined box labelled ‘the general
public’
.
The United Kingdom has had a long,
confusing and slightly eccentric history,
and this is reflected across the country
in our streets, pubs, humour, values,
workplaces and in our electoral system,
which for all its faults has many posi-
tive points. If people wish to criticise it,
they may. But, as I’m sure Gordon would
agree, only bigots criticise others’ sys-
tems without recognising their virtues.
I
’ll try and keep this brief, not
least because we’ve all got ex-
ams we should be studying for.
Also, I’m thinking most people
are getting a little bored of the
election talk. I’ll tell you now that you
might as well skip to the last sentence
for the key point of this article....The
big debate that is flying around at the
moment is reforming the electoral sys-
tem. My guess (and hope) is that you’ve
argued it through at your leisure and
have more or less made up your mind
on where you stand on the various dif-
ferent systems available. Taking that as
the case, I won’t go into huge detail try-
ing to persuade you round to my view.
There are good points for and
against all the different voting systems,
and there is clearly no single perfect
system, such is life. However, there is
a large and increasingly vocal group
calling for the introduction of Single
Transferable Vote (STV). STV put
simply is larger constituencies, with
multiple representatives in each, on
your ballot paper you rank the can-
didates in order of preference, some
maths happens and you get a group of
winners (like in the Union elections).
Like I said, I won’t go into much more
detail here, have a look on the inter-
net for a better explanation (try “John
Cleese PR”). The key benefits are that
it would take the voting power away
from the marginal seats and distribute
it more evenly around the population,
that you have a better representation
of the views of the voters and that you
still have local MPs (albeit a bit less “lo-
cal”). It won’t solve all the problems in
the world, it does have its downsides
as all things must, but the benefits are
greater and many more.
Under the current system it is pos-
sible to get an increase in votes (and
therefore popularity), but a decrease
in seats (and therefore power). That
isn’t right, it isn’t democratic. The cur-
rent system is outdated and needs to
be radically reformed. No government
will give us this easily. As I write this
Cameron and Clegg are looking round
their new address, deciding where to
draw the line down the bedroom. They
are trying to fob us off with the Alter-
native Vote system. This doesn’t go far
enough and will not make a significant
difference. We, the people, need to de-
mand reform. Real reform. This is why
I’m calling you all to join the demon-
stration in Parliament Square at 2pm
tomorrow (Saturday) to present our
demands, and make this government
work for us. See www.takebackparlia-
ment.com for more details.
SteveLongwantstotakethepowerback
“The current
system is outdated
and needs to be
radically reformed.
No government will
give us this easily. ”
For more information or to apply contact:
Sarah Cooper: programmes@exscitec.com
Tel: 01730 235683
What does the placement entail?
• receive a £800 tax free bursary for completing the 20 day placement
• have evidence that you have demonstrated and developed a range of key transferable skills
• have a CV apart from the rest and will be a strong selling point for prospective employers
• engage with young people in their learning of their subject, sharing their knowledge and
enthusiasm, and inspiring them to aim to be the best they can;
• interact with the managers and senior members of the school staff and gain some
understanding of the issues and processes of managing a complex organisation such as a
large secondary school;
• work in groups, to conduct a small-scale research enquiry that is intended to make a real and
lasting contribution to the school.
Are You......
• predicted to gain a 2:1 degree or better
• ambitious, motivated to achieve and want to make a difference
• in your penultimate year of study
• studying mathematics, science, engineering or technology
Limited Places Available!
Inspiring the Best

