TEN . FELIX SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 30TH 1 9 9 5 DIARY
o p e r a t i c s o c i e t y
This society is one of the most active societies
in college. We perform a wide variety of
music including operetta, popular West End
musicals and Gilbert and Sullivan. In fact,
this summer we had a very successful tour of
Yeomen of the Guard in Budleigh Salterton ,
Devon, which we visit every year.
We also produce a winter show in mid-
February and next year it will be The Boy-
friend by Sandy Wilson, a musical comedy set
in the 1920's (first rehearsals on 10th and
17th October!). As well as the two major pro-
ductions each year, we keep busy with musi-
cal reviews and a weekend workshop, the lat-
ter held at the beginning of term (14th-16th
October). This year it will be based on The
Scarlet Pimpernel.
So if you feel the need to let your singing
and acting skills develop in a very sociable,
friendly atmosphere, then please visit us at
the freshers' fair, where we will be pleased to
see you.
Please note, copious amounts of alcohol
are consumed to lubricate vocal chords!!
Contact:
John Savery (chairman)
Laurie Tweedale (vice-chair)
i n d u s t r i a l s o c i e t y
The ICIS is a society that aims to give all stu-
dents an insight into major companies in
industry. It is without doubt one of the most
active society at Imperial. Having a large
number of member (220 in 1994/95) as well
as a solid (and generous!) group of company
supporters, we are able to offer events almost
every week throughout the year.
We regularly organise trips to visit com-
panies at their location where we get a 'hands
on' tour of their site, a talk on what they do,
how they do it, and generous refreshments
are always provided. This is then followed up
with a question and answer session where you
get the opportunity to ask about anything you
like.
Our links with companies enable our
members to be in the exceptionally fortunate
position of hearing first about many job
opportunities. This applies as much to 1st
and 2nd years as to finalists. Our weekly pre-
sentations are an incalculable way for our
members to meet student recruitment offi-
cers. Practically speaking, this means that you
can chat over a glass of wine with the person
who will interview you for a job with their
company.
When we're not going out to visit compa-
nies, then they come to us. Several times a
term, we will organise a business game where
a company will come in, and teach us about
it's area of business, usually through a game
for enjoyment.
These events are great fun, and an excel-
lent place to make friends with other stu-
dents, and contacts in the world of business.
And, as an enticement for you to come along,
we generally provide some food and drink for
the break, where, you're free to talk to any-
one, and ask questions.
So, look out for us at The Fresher's Fair -
we're located in the Main Dining Hall
(MDH), in the Sherfield building. Finally,
membership with ICIS includes membership
of the National SIS, which entitles you to a
10% discount at any Firkin Pub.
OCTOBER
2nd Week: Fresher's Buffet with FREE
FOOD & DRINK at a Firkin PUB near
4th Week: Visit to MARS!!!! See how
your favourite chocolate bar is made and grab
as many FREE chocies U can!!!
NOVEMBER
Arthur Andersen & Co. Presentation.
Date: Wed 8 November 1995
Venue: Arthur Andersen & Co.
Arthur Andersen & Co. Skills Training. "How
to Market yourself for the job market"
Date: Wed 18 November 1995
Venue: Arthur Andersen & Co.
IBM. Presentation
Date: Wed 22 November 1995
Venue: Yet to be confirmed
DECEMBER
Christmas Dinner at a top London Hotel
(Date and Venue yet to confirmed)
IC Union
Cocktail Night
One for all you international
playboys - live jazz from 'The
John Ongom Sextet'. The cheap-
est cocktails for miles...
St. Mary's
Carribean Night
Gladys' 7pm
The ultimate Carribean expe-
rience- limbo, exotic cocktails,
steel band, and, of course, BBB's
funksome disco. We've got the
lot! Remember your grass skirts-
dressing up is obligatory.
IC Union
Freshers Carnival
Union building. Tickets: £6
The culmination of a top
week's partying!
Four rooms with top London club
Whirl-y-gig' with Astralasia & Earth
tribe in the main room, Swing sounds
from Metropolis, & acid jazz from
Bandicoot in the Ents Lounge.
There's club tunes downstairs,
chillout & cocktails in UDH, a
Gyroscope, bungee running
& a barbeque.
Tickets available
from the Union Office.

