FOURTEEN . FELIX SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 30TH 1995 QUESTIONNAIRE
The F e l i x questionnaire:
what are you doing here
How do you get to work?
I walk. I have a flat in Linstead hall
When was the last time you were late?
Today
What are you doing here?
My official title is Imperial
College Bars Manager.
What do you keep on the wall
of your workplace?
Brewers' clip badges from beer
pumps. I have close to 300 now -
but there's a guy in finance who has
over 800, he's been collecting them
for years. I only started relatively
recently when we started going into
guest beers.
Do you get paid enough?
That's a silly question - but I can
enjoy life on what I earn.
What do you have for lunch?
Pizza, sandwiches or jacket potatoes
from Basics.
What takes up most of your
time?
Planning: staffing, beers, enter-
tainments - anything to keep the
students happy and attract them to
the bar. You have to keep people
interested or they won't keep corn-
Roger from Southside and straight away we got a response. The guy
said, "look, I should be able to get you 9 gallons", and I said
"Actually, I want 54." But we got it, because of the Southside Sarah
Hughes Newting Society.
What do you find most depressing about IC?
The lack of understanding of student leisure requirements by the
administration. They make deci-
sions at 9.30 in the morning about
what I do at 9.30 in the evening,
and they've never even been here.
And people at IC are much more
stressed than they were before; the
atmosphere is a lot less calm. I used
to think it was just here, but I get
the feeling it's happening all over
the country. I think it's lack of job
security that makes everyone that
way. If you've got a job, it should
be for life - these three year con-
tracts are really bad. People spend
their time worrying whether they
will be working tomorrow, rather
than getting on with what they are
meant to be doing. I get the feeling
that people here are a lot less com-
petent than they used to be, they
spend too much time justifying
their existence.
I also get depressed by the way
everyone assumes that we have a
really competitive attitude here,
and that there's all sorts of ill-feel-
ing between us and the union.
Personally, I think all the Imperial
College bars compliment each
other: we're like a local pub, and Da Vinci's is like a continental cof-
fee bar, and the trad bar - well it's like nothing on earth, really. I
love it there.
ing back. I spend a lot of time
organising guest beers - we have 26 pumps here. It can take a lot of
negotiating: the big one coming up is when we get Sarah Hughes
Original Dark Ruby Mild on October 11th. I had no idea it had such
a cult following, it
has it's own fan "They make decisions at 9.30 in the morning
club, the Sarah :
Hughes Newting : about what I do at 9.JO in the evening, and
Society, set up in
Southside years ago. they ve never even been here.
It's a mild, but it's
6%, it's really nice. It's brewed up in Dudley, but it's so much
sought after that they brew to capacity and it's really difficult to get
hold of. I get most of our beers through an agency, and they said
there was no way we would get any - but I told them to say it was
Will you still be at
Imperial infiveyears
time?
Yes. I've been here
24 years now.
What will make you come into work tomorrow?
Personal job satisfaction.

