SPORTS FELIX SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 3 0 T H 1 9 9 5 . FIFTEEN
Hockey Club Show their Colours
Permission from your parents, passports in
the glove box, muchos guilders, beer-up
for the annual dice with death that is the I.C.
H O C K E Y C L U B T O U R OF H O L L A N D (or
at least a small part of it)
With theses, coursework, and best of all
resits finished, the 1995 tour kicked off via
Sainsbury's. The essential barbecue material
of burgers, sausages and M r Blobby ketchup
was purchased. All of which was ingeniously
preserved in dry ice - not the only thing that
was nicked from the department, oh no]
Then off to Southside to start the tour as we
meant to carry on.
Not wanting to be too vain we decided
that to play some sport over the weekend,
had a marathon pool sesh. But members
found this far too tiring so we all headed for
Bugies Bar. The purveyor of nocturnal beer
and erm, curry: rendered the first tour victim
toiletwards. Unluckily Dr Svengenson, the
said victim, was not to find out the pleasures
of a couple of lesbians in syrup figs and a berk
with a dead zebra for trousers.
Morning found us crippled and facing the
possibility of a day's travel. Our illustrious
leader, Ms DICtator, had the presence of
mind to arrange the tour on her birthday
weekend. Lured through the wilds of Suffolk
en route to Felixtowe, the promise of coffee
and bacon sarnies was but a cunning plan for
DICtator to go home and get her b'day pre-
sents. To make up numbers the men's X
decided to kidnap a helpful local.
We arrived at port with the customary
five minutes to go and ensconced ourselves
outside the duty free shop. A couple of bot-
tles of Pimms and two thousand tabs later, a
quiet Belgian couple in the corner decided to
"... the pleasures of a couple
of lesbians in syrup figs and
a berk with a dead zebra for
trousers.
leave the room - obviously we were having
too much fun.
Six hours later, having escaped the
Zeebrugge traffic the ladies VII found a IXth
and we headed for Terneuzen Hockey Club -
our unwitting tournament hosts for the
weekend. With opening time approaching we
used The Force to guide us toward a supplier
of fine ales. Unfortunately The Dark Side was
strong and all we could find was shitty Dutch
lager. Later we headed barwards to meet up
with the O l d Boys X I , where we stayed for
the duration of the evening - to mentally pre-
pare ourselves for the following morning's
hockey.
A nine o'clock start caused few problems,
well for the Dutch sides anyway. We were
there in spirit alone. This could explain the
day's results. By evening we realised that we
were far superior to every team there, but
hey it was just that their pitches resembled a
... the Dutch, being so wet
already, retired to their
windmills to put some
chickens in some bowls."
cabbage patch. We was robbed!
Time for yet another barbie, this time a la
Dutch. Not quite up to the standard we were
used to, we suffered in silence - the English
way - and chowed down. It was, quite
frankly, pissing it down and the Dutch, being
so wet already, retired to their windmills to
put some chickens in some bowls. Being only
two deep at the bar now, we took advantage
of the situation.
To pay for beer, one first had to buy
tokens, which could the be exchanged for the
bevvy of your choice: Eurofizz or Eurofizz.
Being the green minded people we are, it
seemed ecologically sound to recycle these
tickets from the bin at the back of the bar.
Not only did this save valuable Brazilian rain
forests, but also saved us paying. RESULT!
Three hundred free beers and a few tulips
later, two of our number were in casualty,
returning with sixteen stitches between
them, four of which were in Darrell Jnr's left
buttock. Meanwhile Darrell Snr was
attempting to play hide the sausage with an
old boy on a bar stool. A fun evening all
round.
Sunday's hockey fared little better.
Champagne hockey and silky skills were use-
less in the face of Dutch umpires. At this
point it became apparent that Squashy was
not feeling on top form. After ten minutes
play he retired to his sleeping bag, where he
remained until admitted to intensive care.
The rest of us piled down to a local
restaurant for the traditional feast of steak
and mussels. Certain members of the party
however, thought that the paraffin from the
table candles was somewhat more appetising,
but then found that they couldn't taste any-
thing else. After clearing out the restaurant,
we left. Returning to the camp where we fin-
ished our remaining supplies.
When morning came the group was down
to its last five cigarettes and decided to make
haste to the ferry before we ran dry. Collec-
ting Squashy from the hospital and grappling
with Belgian road signs we managed to arrive
somewhat earlier - ten minutes before depar-
ture, but since the lads had lost their ticket
we ended up being equally late.
We were now in a mood for relaxation
after a hard weekend's touring. However
Poncho our token-rugby-player-make-up-
the-numbers-type-hanger-oner had other
ideas. Making full use of his allowance he
acquired a bottle of Bell's. After cordially
offering it round - you know to keep out the
cold - he necked half a bottle and proceeded
to wreck the ship. His companion in drink,
IC Reject, finished the remaining quarter,
passed out in a corner and woke up with one
eyebrow too few. Meanwhile Poncho had
summarily thrown his breakfast to the waves,
insulted a biker, and passed out in the
restaurant. He woke up to find a razor and an
accusation by his side. Even back on dear
Blighty we were still not safe...
Pulling up at a garage for petrol we were
"Three hundred free beers
and a few tulips later, two of
our number were in casualty
surrounded by the afore mentioned biker and
his Underworld cherubic cohorts. Fearing for
our good looks and teeth, they approached
and brutally told us they were writing a letter
of complaint to Imperial College Union - less
Hell's Angels more Surrey's Solicitors. We
scarpered to the nearest drive through
McD's.
During the long drive back to the Smoke,
Darrell Jnr. had more bottom trouble and
had to lie on her front all the way to Guy's
A&E. Finally it was back to Southside to fin-
ish as we had started off, and a chance for
Poncho to detoxify on a Basic's Pizza.
BY THE HOCKEY CLUB

