F E L I X 30 October 1968
As many of you know,
I've never been opposed to
equal rights for women;
indeed as a Socialist I have
always been an ardent advo-
cate for equal pay, but men
have always had a sneaking
suspicion that the ladies
were after more than just
that.
Matriarchs
American men have
long insisted that they live
in a matriarchal society and
one can well believe them,
but until recently any sug-
gestion that the women were
taking over in I C U would
have seemed ridiculous to a
Union eagerly seeking new
ways to attract girls to IC.
Probably the only excep-
THEY TELL ME....
tions to male-dominated
ICU were ICWA and Mrs.
Rob' (now no longer with
us).
Smile-Power
However, male compla-
ncy at this College has
been shattered as the women
have moved in on one top
Union job after another, by
using the two deadly wea-
pons of the female of the
species — feminine charm
and that "woman behind the
m a n " stunt. Outstanding
exponents of the smile-
power brand of politics are
Student Houses were first suggested in the Union about
two years ago, and now I think it may be a good time to
explain both the original concepts and the actual details of
what we are getting.
The basic idea was that, if we could somehow raise the
money to buy some large local houses, then this would be
beneficial to students in two ways. Firstly, they could be
let to students at a cheaper rate than equivalent bed-sitters,
since we would not expect to make a profit. Secondly, it
would provide more accommodation in the local area, to
help avoid the need for students to go up to 10 miles out to
find somewhere to live. The main reason for opting for
houses, rather than more Halls, is that they could be
bought and converted for just over £1,000 per place, about
half the cost per place of a Hall of residence.
The biggest difficulty in this scheme, fairly under-
standably, was to find the money in the first place. We had
produced several ideas, and then we took the whole scheme
to the College Governors, for their help and advice. It
turned out that they too had been considering similar
schemes, and they agreed to try to raise the money for us.
The purchase of a house was agreed, and this should have
opened at the beginning of last session. However, the owner
of that house began to change his mind about selling, and
nftp.r several months the deal finally fell through.
The search for a new house started, and about six
months ago an organisation called "Smiths Charities"
offered to lease to os three houses in Evelyn Gardens at the
nominal rent of £2250 per annum. Since then we have
negotiated the leasing of another 14 houses, also from
Smith's Charities, which are enough for a total of 350
people. The leases are for 20 years with a possible exten-
sion to 27 years and IF we make a relatively small profit
each year, then we could save at least part of the money
to buy some replacement houses. When once the houses
are running, it should be fairly easy to control any profit
made, just by altering the rents, although we will have to
decide on a compromise between keeping rents low and
building up capital for later on.
Donations Still Needed
In order to finance the conversion of the houses into
bedsitters, the Governors had to look for donations. The
Overseas Mining Association paid for the conversion of
the first three houses and at their wish this unit is to be
called "Mining House." As you know, this house is
already open. The second group of five houses have been
paid for by the Bernard Sunley Foundation, and the con-
tractors should be finishing sections of that between 15
November and 6 December. It should then be ready for
occupation about a fortnight later. As yet no money
has been found to convert the last nine houses, which
will be split into groups of three, but it is still hoped that
they can be finished by the summer.
The exact future of the houses, in terms of both rents
and the facilities they provide, has still to be decided, and
there is no doubt that many things can be improved.
However, they will still provide housing for a large number
of IC students which is both closer and cheaper than that
which they had before.
REX LOWIN - PRESIDENT ICU
Jane Pearson, the Secretary
of ICU, and Lilas Campion,
Chairman of the Political
Societies Council and I C U
Council floor rep., both
Tories of the non-blue-
stocking type. Jane, the first
Woman on I C U Exec, al-
though nearly beaten to it
by Anita (nee Furniss) Long,
winner of the invalid first
RCSU Presidential election,
seems to be mastering the
difficulties of combining
Union and undergraduate
work despite two exam slip-
ups in previous years. Each
of the constituent college
Unions has a woman on
its executive committee—
in R C S general committee
it is rumoured that Helen
Lewis, exuberant chairman
of RCSCC, even has the ear
of RCS secretary Chris
Yewlett. Council, already
notorious for the length of
its meetings, has four femi-
nine voices—Pam Horrocks
of ICWA and Helen Rudge,
C & G Rep, besides Lilas
and Jane—and it is even
hinted that somehow Jane
Pearson is not alone on I C U
Exec. Could it be that her
former colleagues from
ICWA Exec Sue (nee Gibbs)
Lowin and Pam Horrocks
have found their
mouthpieces on Exec?
own
ICWA Obsolete
All this feminine activity
has re-aroused the old
question "Whither I C W A ? "
Surely the purposes ICWA
was originally set up for are
in the main obsolete or more
easily protected by normal
bodies of IC. Times have
now changed so much that
ICWA stands now as an ob-
stacle, not an aid to, attract-
ing girls to, and integrating
them into, this college.
Order your copy of the
next issue of F E L I X now so
as to be sure not to miss the
startling relevations of our
reporters on a certain
worldly Sunday " news-
paper." How djd it get the
world's highest circulation?
A n ace reporter from
F E L I X infiltrated this paper
posing as a garbage col-
lector, roaming the gutters
with the paper's staff, accep-
ted as one of them;jead his
tale of intrigue, q§ stories
the stars never tell, of courl
cases they never print, ol
goals by undrugged foot-
ballers! It is a story whicl
will shock you but it is s
story that must be made uj
to counter all the ones the;
make up about students.
LES EBDON
M A R T I N P L A N N I N G
makes your moneygo further
When the problem that you're faced with is the longness of
the time compared with the shortness of the money, likely
as not the answer could be a bit of Martinplanning.
What's Martinplanning? It's the way we have,at Martins of
applying all our experience of managing money to help you
make the most of yours. Call in and have a word with the
local Martins manager —guaranteed unstuffy. We don't
promise he'll make money for you, but we're absolutely
positive he'll see you get the best possible value out of
whatever you've got. Ask him for the leaflet we've
prepared specially for students.
Martins have a branch at
35 Gloucester Road, London S.W.7
Telephone: Knightsbridge3343
Ask to see Mr. Bradley
Martins go to extremes to be helpful
MARTINS
BANK

