G E R M W A R F A R E
FELIX •rim 1968
M R E P O R T O N
After all the furore and controversy in the national
press and in Parliament a few months ago, the Microbio-
logical Research Establishment at Porton Down, in a
sleepy corner of Wiltshire, seems a relatively innocuous
place. On their first open day last Wednesday, M.R.E.
appeared about as much of a threat to potential enemies
as a baby banging a potty in the United Nations.
This appearance, Low-
ever, is probably a direct re-
sult of the superb public re-
lations show they put on.
The staff fell over them-
selves in their enthusiasm to
tell visitors about the un-
classified work on show in
51 exhibits and demonstra-
tions all over the Establish-
ment, and all the time em-
phasised the safety precau-
tions taken there. Perhaps
this was principally to allay
the fears of the ladies of the
local W.I. that errant germs
might be contaminating
their home - made apricot
preserve.
A minor percentage of
the M.R.E.'s work is classi-
fied; this is on defence
against Biological Warfare
(B.W.)—it being important
not to let too many people
know Britain's means of de-
tecting B.W. and the beha-
viour of microbes in British
weather conditions. M.R.E.
staff are, however, quick to
point out that Porton does
not deal with Biological
Attack. In the words of the
Minister of Defence : " . . .
the Microbiological Re-
search Establishment is con-
cerned with the protection
of human life and not the
taking of it." On the sub-
ject of B.W. it is " interest-
ing " to note that one ship
in the Irish Sea could re-
lease a biological cloud
which would knock out the
entire U.K.
Walking round the exhibits,
the emphasis seems to be on
pure and applied research
into medical problems.
M.R.E. is looking into As-
paraginase — a cancer sup-
pressing agent that might
help in the fight against
Leukaemia — and at Mon-
key B disease, a monkey in-
fection which recently
caused several deaths
among research workers in
Germany. Other diseases
such as foot-and-mouth and
Japanese encephalitis are
also under investigation.
However the scientists,
apart from being delighted
to show off their work, also
treat the open days as a
great joke. Drawings of
evil-looking microbes ap-
pear everywhere and in the
ornate reception tent there
hangs a huge reproduction
of a cartoon from "The
Sun," poking fun at Por-
ton. Pink and white sugar
mice represent the results of
experiments on animals
(pink—dead ; white—alive).
Amateur works of art
abound. In the chandelier-
hung reception tent there
are copies of paintines such
as the Rokeby Venus, while
a Porton Down art show is
on view elsewhere.
To anyone visiting
M . R . E . expecting sensa-
tional revelations of muta-
tions and microbe death X -
Rays, the whole affair must
have been an intense disap-
pointment. The place owes
more to Doctor Spock than
Frankenstein. Perhaps in
the words of the guy from
British Movietone News :
"The pretty girls from Salis-
bury are by far the most ex-
citing things here."
PAUL HEATH
CHRIS SLEE
B O O K
Steven Rose.
Chemical & Biological Warfare
Harrap 30/-
C B W shows every sign of
becoming a focal point for
protest amongst students,
yet C B W research has been
going on for many years,
why this sudden resurgence
of interest? One of the
answers is to be found in
this book. Last February a
group of scientists, politi-
cians and journalists from
several countries met to pool
their knowledge on this
hideous form of warfare.
Their interest has been
aroused by a variety of cir-
cumstances; naturally a
good deal of anxiety was
directed towards the United
States activity in Vietnam,
but worry was also expre.
sed on the existence of
secret research establish-
ments in this country and in
the US as well as the possi-
bility that University re-
search establishments were
being partially financed by
the Defence Dept. in order to
provide data for use in CBW
situations. The result of
these deliberations has been
this book edited by Dr.
Stephen Rose of the Bio-
chemistry Dept at IC, which
is claimed as the most com-
plete dossier on C B W avail-
able in open literature.
Why have they gone to all
this trouble ? The facts re-
vealed in the front part of
the book are the more dis-
turbing for being described
almost too dispassionately,
too clinically. But what,
apart from causing horror or
giving a rather sick thrill to
the readers, do the authors
achieve? They feel the issue
is too important to remain
hidden in obscure Govern-
Tlu triK> from HAIR
Miiil,i tmirh N'I .'i WvndvHanson
ment publications and scien-
tific journals; they want a
full public discussion. A l -
ready they have had some
considerable success—BBC
T V based their feature " A
Plague on our Children " on
the findings of the confer-
ence. The mainstay of de-
fence has been persuaded to
release rather more of the
evidence collected by the
House of Commons Select
Committee on Science and
Technology during tlvir
visit to Porton Down, and
last July the Bristol repre-
sentatives at the Geneva
disarmament Conference put
forward new proposals for
strengthening the 43 year
old protocol on Chemical
and Bacteriological warfare.
Clearly this is not enough,
much more light needs to be
shed on our own involve-
ment in CBW. Public opini-
on must be steered away
from this very natural but
sentimental revulsion that
has so far characterised dis-
cussion on this subject, and
must be properly informed.
For going some way towards
this, the Authors and Edi-
tor are to be congratulated.
JOHN SOMMER
EASTERN EUROPE'S ONE TRACK MIND
It probably all started with " Repulsion "—the film
that is. Clotted with gore and oozing suspense, Roman
Polanski's necromanic little nicety averted part of the
cinema goers' gaze from Hollywood's melodrama to
Warsaw's realism. Many of us—and A L L the critics—
continued looking eastwards as we were alternately terrified
and revolted with films like " Onibaba " (Japan), " Canal "
(Poland) and " The Round Up " (Hungary). The National
Film Theatre, the Hampstead Everyman and lots of other
institutions catering for minority and more subtle tastes
peppered their audiences with more and more black and
white celluloid from the Communist Block and at the time
of writing we have Miklos Jansco rightly elevated to No. 1
revolutionary stylist via " My Way Home." and his latest
duo " Under Red Stars " (possibilities!) and " Silence and
Cry." We must also note that Yugoslavia picked up the
Special Jury Award at Cannes (1967) with Patrovic's stark
film " Happy Gypsies;" the Czechs got an Academy Award
for Mendel's " Closely Observed Trains" and at the
moment the Paris Pulman is devoting itself to a succes-
sion of Commie " Classics " which have included Polan-
ski's prize-laden " A Knife in the Water," " Romance for
a Trumpet" (Czechoslovakia) and culminating last week
with Istvan Szabo's " Father " (A) from Hungary which
won the Grand Prix at the Moscow film festival of 1967—
This is an honest, sensitive and skilful treatment of
a young boy's father-worship which goes too far. The film
is warmly sentimental when it should be and harshly real
when it has to be but I for one am just a little fed uo with
the introspectiveness of the crop of films of which this one
is typical. I'm also bored by the drabness of black and
white, the shabbiness of everyone's clothes, the political
oppression, the shell-pocked buildings and all the other
Orwellian artefacts which Eastern European films invari-
ably display. I know most of the countries have (and are
having) a lousy time of it—everyone does. But why must
these superbly talented directors pervade the medium and
the people with their own sob-story. Could be. of course,
that by depicting life as iqvariabh so, the film men are
consoling the masses with the fact that, as the norm, it IS
invariably so—so why worry! And what better way to
win fat commissions from Daddy-bear—the Russians. The
fat carrot of the Grand Prix at the Moscow Film festival
is dangled, and snatched by the film which casts the least
aspersions on Communism or the Russians after August
21st, it's good to see the Czech directors back in line for
It woud be incredible it no Felix readers bad yel fieuid
of " Hair ": The tribal love-rock musical from America."
If you never go to the theatre (and what a waste of living
in London that is) I would suggest you kick the habit and
go at once to the Shaftesbury.
" Hair " concerns a group of hippies and their rela-
tions with each other, and with society. With each other
they are exuberantly free loving, enjoying sex of any kind
(one song celebrating this is called " sodomy"), and
turned on (another song is " Hashish "). Here are black
and white, together in their alienation from society.
The main characters are Claude (Paul Nicholas),
Berger (Oliver Tobias) ajid Sheila (Annabel Leventon).
They have an interesting inter-relationship.. Claude is hung
on Sheila and Berger, and Berger digs Sheila, Sheila' . . .
Also Woof is hung on Mick Jagger ; but it is really against
the spirit of Hair' to pick out particular players.
Yet the tribe must somehow relate to the society which
tries to place demands on them. Family, job. education
these orthodoxies are shrugged off. Society then put-- it
ultimate claim upon Claude, and here is the central theme
of " Hair." The draft—" White men sending black men
to kill yellow men, to protect the land they stole, from red
men." Claude tries to avoid it (" I want to be here enjoy-
ing the things those guys are over there defending "). but
he will not stand up and refuse, burn his draft card. Event-
ually he submits, and his demise, shorn of his Hair matks
the close of " Hair," which ends with the song,' " Lei the
sun shine through," a plea to society.
The singing and dancing in " Hair " are such that i;
would be worth going simply for that. I personally pre-
ferred the last, frenetic numbers. The opening number
" Aquarius " and the title " Hair " in particular arc superb
Claude's freakout scene was good, including " Abie
Baby " about Abe Lincoln.
If you've spoken much to young Americans you will
recognise many things here ; and if not you might under-
stand better what youth in the USA is facing. Yet in a
way, " H a i r " has dated. The hippies give way to the
yippies, and Claude would probably have been out in the
streets of Chicago. E. FUFLUNS
a prize at Moscow!
// you haven't seen . . .
. . . "Decline and Fall—of a Birdwatcher "—smarten
up!
This must be one cf the most amusing films on the
circuit. Its success lies in the fact tiiat Ivan Foxweii.
who adapted the story and produced the film, has followed
meticulously Evelyn Waugn's scathing satire of Lnglar
in the 20's. You could call the film a character study a;: «
with great actors like Sir Donald Wolfitt playing the un-
scrupulously pompous Dr. Fagin, Leo McKern as .
indestructible Grimes, Colin Blakely as multi-vocatii" «i
(Sir) Solomon Philbrick and Patrick Magee setting I e
screen alight for two minutes as the demented convict, this
title is very appropriate.
JOHN SPENO

