s?
1 1 J a n u a r y 2 0 0 2 ^$08$$ T h i
I s s u e 1 2 2 3
Te
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
Jarvis again? Well it's
Pulp's on page 16
and William Boyd's
© i p a p I S
Teddington Under Threat
Teddington, the favoured sports field of
the average medic, is i n great danger of
being sold, a recent confidential College
document has suggested. This possibility
has been the subject of rumours for years,
but the document has indicated that IC
will submit an application for residential
planning permission i n "the early part of
2002". However, w e cannot find any evi-
dence that this has taken place yet.
The sports ground at Teddington was
given to the St. Mary's Hospital Medical
School (SMHMS) as a gift by Lord
Beaverbrook i n 1935, to show his grati-
tude for medical treatment he h a d
received, but since the merger of Imperial
College and S M H M S i n 1989, it has
become the property of College.
A few years ago, a review of sports facil-
ities, conducted by Frank Murray, demon-
strated that IC had an excess of outdoor
sports grounds in proportion to its require-
ments, whether this allows for separate
C C U teams or not is not known. Ideally,
College would like to find one centrally
located ground, which would accommo-
:?%Mall -f f i i J ifflMBP • -'
The Pavillion at Teddington
date all of the outdoor sports require-
ments for IC. However, although this may
sound attractive, it is not known whether
a suitable ground has been identified. A
review was initiated eight months ago to
assess how each of the outdoor sports
grounds could best be utilised and i n an
article for the ICSM Gazette, Neil Mosley,
The Sports and Leisure Manager, stated
that no decisions would be made regard-
ing the future of the sports grounds until
the results of this review were published.
However, it is also known that, at this
time, a firm of planning consultants was
appointed to investigate how planning
permission could be secured for
Teddington, despite the anticipated oppo-
sition from Richmond Council, the local
residents and sports governing bodies
such as Sports England and the National
Playing Fields Trust. Although the results
of the review are not yet known to stu-
dents, the College Strategic Plan has out-
lined that they will sell one of the sports
field over the course of the next two years,
and while Teddington is not explicitly
mentioned in relation to this, a later part of
the plan states that it is "under review",
while all the other major sports areas will
be kept for continuing use. One interest-
ing point is that this is expected to gener-
ate only £4 million, where it has been sug-
gested that the ground should generate
something in the region of £20 million, but
continued on page 2
"No appeal is complete without a
few bazaars and jumble sale type
events.
Ilk. j^MW*
Or a nice white elephant.

