felix talk
You lucky people!
Be happy, IC students, you have a mas-
sive total of two Rag Weeks coming up
this term!
Twice as many chances to do mad and
different stuff, twice as many chances to
raise tonnes of cash for charity, and twice
as many opportunities to get totally rat-
ted for a good cause.
Coming up first is Medics Rag Week,
January 28th to February 1st, raising
money for the CLIC - the charity challeng-
ing childhood cancer and leukaemia.
Grab a medic or look out for the greens to
find out what's planned...
Also there's the Rag Dash, already a
sold-out event starting at IC on January
18th and heading up north (and as far
away from sunny South Kensington as
possible, it looks like!)
Then there's the more 'bijou' ICU Rag
Week, starting on Valentines Day with the
return of the Barbershop Quartet, Hit
Squad and Grim Reapering. A pub crawl,
London raid and a ball later, it'll end on
IC Radio would like to wish you all a
happy new year. A n d if "listen to ICR"
wasn't one of your new year's resolutions,
then it really should have been!
The grand IC Radio station relaunch!
For a variety of reasons, it's taken longer
than expected to complete our brand new
studios in Beit Quad. We were broadcast-
ing from the first day of term, but to be
honest the studios were a tip, we had
about half the equipment we really need-
ed, and the production studio was merely
a figment of the technical team's imagi-
nation.
But now everything is finally up and
running, including interview room and
(shock!) production studio. As a result,
we've decided to stage a Station
Relaunch event on Thursday 17th Jan. at
7pm in the Union Bar. There'll be the
usual fun and games, plenty of drinking
and a chance to meet\greet\kill\shag
those bastards who keep playing loud
music in the mornings.
Rag Ramble
Friday February 22nd with a School
Uniform Day and balloon lift on the
Queen's Lawn.
The ICU Rag Week nominated charity is
the Shooting Star Appeal, raising money
to build the first specialist hospice for ter-
minally ill children in Kensington, Chelsea
and all of West London.
The sexy new website on
www.su.ic.ac.uk/rag will tell you what's
going on, and so will Felix over the next
few weeks. There's every chance for you
to get involved and get yourself out of the
library, so go on, you know you need a
break by now...
Save A Nation
Respect to Islamic society and every-
one who got involved in the "Save A
Nation" campaign for Afghanistan last
term. The total is at £13,000 and still ris-
ing, so if you're interested, check out the
feature on page 5 to find out the deatils of
what happened and how that lovely
money will be spent.
IC Radio
Student radio for Imperial College
It's apparent that many students here at
Imperial don't even know that we have
our own radio station. Well, IC Radio is an
ICU society, and so any IC student can
join. No experience is necessary, and
though we have over 100 members, we're
always on the lookout for new ones. We
have opportunities in every aspect of
radio, from publicity to presenting.
Why choose us?
But, when presented with the chbice of IC
Radio or one of the myriad of other sta-
tions available to you, why should you lis-
ten to us? Well, our playlists are chosen
especially for the student audience. You
can listen to your friends/contempo-
raries/enemies making stars/idiots of
themselves. Aside from a couple of min-
utes at the beginning of each hour, there
are no adverts. We run loads of competi-
tions and, due to the smaller audience,
you're a lot more likely to win. A n d apart
from all that, you can come and present or
Falmouth Keogh Rule!
Congrats to John-Joe, Javed and the FK
Hall committee for putting on a storming
show to raise money for the Rotherham
Hospice in December. Everything from a
Steps tribute band, leg waxing and slave
auction to an unintentionally Full Monty
raised £700, and a very good time was
had by all. Nice one, guys!
Carolling for cash
Two groups of carol singers made beau-
tiful music just before Christmas. A group
from the medical school serenaded travel-
ers at Victoria Station for CLIC, while IC
choir sang their hearts out at Marylebone
station and around the local mews just off
Exhibition Road for the Shooting Star
Appeal. Both were hugely successful
(either asking for donations to carry on, or
just to keep quiet) and we'll bring you the
totals next week. Thanks to all who
helped out, and keep up the excellent
singing!
helen
produce your very own show.
What music do we play?
Just about every genre of music is cov-
ered - R&B, rap, hip-hop, reggae, soul,
dance, trance, house, drum&bass,
garage, chill-out, cheese, pop, indie, rock,
alternative and some other ones that I
can't think of at the moment. We also
have talk shows and review shows, and
there's news on the hour every hour.
Listen!
As ever, we're broadcasting quality radio
programmes 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week. You can listen on 9 9 9 A M in
Southside and Linstead halls, and on the
internet at www.icradio.com anywhere.
Come and see us in the West Wing of
Beit Quad, or email info@icradio.com.
i c r a d i o i
w w w . i c r a d i o . c o m II iflUlu

