music reviews
Jimmy Eat World
Jimmy Eat World
Out now on Dreamworks records
This is the fourth album from the up and
coming American pop thrashers. It was
recorded with the band's own money
after they were dropped from their previ-
ous record label.
The release of Jimmy Eat World was
originally planned for the middle of
October but due to its unfortunate origi-
nal title [Bleed American), they thought it
best in light of the events of 11
September to postpone the release and
rethink the title too.
This is a typically American album,
and I mean that in a good way. From the
lyrics to the production, it is refreshing.
Bands more about machismo than sub-
stance - the likes of Blink 182 and Limp
Bizkit - currently dominate the American
music scene, and this really is the perfect
antidote to such dross.
Jimmy Eat World are a band with their
hearts strapped firmly to their sleeves.
Songs like Hear You Me, // You Don't,
Don't and Your House certainly would not
look out of place on, say, a soundtrack for
Dawson's Creek - you know, when they
sit around a fire and discuss their best
ever hot chocolate moment and then
smile at each other while exchanging
glances of unrequited love. Anyway...
The album opener and first single, Salt
Sweat Sugar, hits you between the eyes
like a ballistic missile, and while you're
still reeling from that, Praise Chorus
leaves you sadistically wanting more.
For those less intense moments, tracks
like The Middle and The Authority Song
feature pop sensibility crossed with killer
hooks.
There's something for everyone.
Candidate
Tiger Flies
Various
A Wireless Nation Vol 1
Out Monday 28 Jan on Snowstorm records Out now on GranKru records
Candidate first found their way into the
spotlight in April of last year when their
debut album Taking On The Enemy's
Sound was released, but after playing
one gig they dived back into their shell
and disappeared. A n d as they say - out
of sight, out of mind.
But not for long. The north London
four-piece are back, and with something
special. Tiger Flies is a delicate mix of
natural rhythms and chilled-out melodic
samples, which sounds like the bizarre
love child of Zero 7 and Coldplay.
Be warned - this isn't the kind of music
you can just listen to. It's the kind of
music you have in the background when
you're doing really important things, like
coursework or seducing your gentle-
man/lady/farm animal of choice.
If you pay attention though, amidst the
twinkling guitars and unobtrusive beats,
there are colourful lyrics with hidden
meanings and double entendres sprin-
kled throughout.
The really amazing thing about this
band is the fact that they can play a myr-
iad of weird and wonderful instruments,
from hammond organ to waikiki guitar
and back again.
The really bad thing about this band is
that their vocalist desperately needs to
work on his voice. I can say this again
and again about so many bands - they
try so hard with their music that they for-
get to find someone who can actually
sing.
Apart from that, this is a good, solid
album from a band who are going some-
where provided that they don't disappear
from the scene like last time.
This is a compilation album featuring the
best of UK rap and drum 'n' bass.
The compilation is centred around the
"A Letter To Tony Blair" campaign, which
attempts to implement legislation forc-
ing radio stations to play at least 40%
British origin music, 20% of which must
be that of new or unestablished bands.
This would no doubt increase the variety
of music on our airwaves. The campaign
is being run by GranKru records in con-
junction with the Media Access Trust.
They say, among other things, that such
a law would "enhance and benefit local
creativity".
The CD includes music from such lumi-
naries as the Freestylers, Asian Dub
Foundation (pic above), Grooverider and
Maxim of the Prodigy. Because of this, it
features quite a diverse range of styles
within the two main genres - hip-hop and
drum 'n' bass. One might have thought
that there was more "music of British ori-
gin" than this (house, indie and rock pro-
ductions are conspicuous by their
absence). Still, for the two genres cov-
ered it gives a pretty broad overview
with some quality tracks.
The Optical and E d Rush piece
Compound is a particular favorite. It fea-
tures a sort of deep throbbing bass noise
similar to that on Crazy (no, not the
Britney Spears track) and is a nice slice of
drum 'n' bass.
Some of the less well-known acts have
produced songs especially for the album,
berating the music industry. A s a politi-
cal tool, I don't know how this will fare.
As a compilation album, it's OK but far
from brilliant.
ID Warul Jess Alex

