reviews music
LIVE: Alkaline Trio + Jesse
James + Crackout @ ULU
The first band on provided a great warm-up to an evening of
alcopop-fuelled teenage pogomg. Whilst tired old hacks played
"spot the riff" - Nirvana, Pixies, Shonen Knife, Wire - the kids
just got down to some skanking. There's probably no chance of
a recording career for Jesse James, unless they come up with
some ideas of their own. Still, they're great fun live for mayhem,
moshing and working out those stresses.
Not a band to muck about with a winning formula, Crackout
carried on in much the same vein as Jesse James. Looking
younger than their audience, they delivered what might have
been expected in the form of early A s h or Bis bubblegum rock.
The crowd decided to join in midway through the half-hour
set and they really went for it, moshing frenziedly to / A m The
One. The rocked-out set rounded off with You Dumb Fuck, which
has been receiving some airplay and is likely to get more if
Crackout continue to w i n new fans.
Alkaline Trio (pic above) are now on to their fourth album and
have picked up a solid following along the way. The capacity
audience and desperate indie kids buying tickets from touts
illustrated that they're well on the way to making it.
Although they all claimed to be ill (and lead singer Matt Skiba
proved it by throwing up on stage), that didn't stop the band
from churning out an hour's worth of indietastic mosh-inspiring
music. Don't be fooled by the rather uncharacteristic single
Private Eye, which is at the tamer end of their material - they are
best when going hell for leather at the guitars.
The talent that really puts Alkaline Trio above similar bands
is the quality of their lyrics. Go and see them now, before you
have to pay a ridiculous price to watch them supporting Blink
182 later this year.
Robert
INTERVIEW with
Derek from Alkaline Trio
Alkaline Trio originated in Chicago, Illinois about five years ago.
They've released four albums and had a few changes of line-up.
Felix caught up with their latest drummer Derek Grant before
the last gig of their recent tour, at ULU (see review, left).
FELIX: H o w did you come to be playing i n Alkaline Trio?
DEREK: Well, the band started in Chicago with Matt [Skiba]
playing guitar and singing with a couple of school mates. Then
the other two left and Danny [Andriano] joined and then me.
We'd all been in various punk bands before, and we all knew of
each other.
What's the motivation behind the band?
The main motivation was to emulate our idols - the Sex Pistols,
the Ramones, punk derived from the aesthetic...
But the Sex Pistols weren't a real punk band, they were more
of a novelty band...
Well, we're really more interested in the image. We love the
schlocky misfits kind of performance. In that sense, the music is
secondary - it's the visual effect we go for.
How have you enjoyed this tour?
The other two tours were a disappointment in every way. The
interest, the vehicles, the turnout, the food, everything. But on
this one, every show is better than the last. The only real prob-
lem is trying to sleep.
One thing I like about your music is the attention paid to
lyrics...
Yeah, that's one thing Matt is definitely good at. I suppose that
the imagery and gimmicks are good, but we wouldn't want to
make them overtly so. At the end of the day, the lyrics are
important.
I've heard and interviewed a lot of up and coming indie bands
here at U L U , and I can't remember any of their names. W h y
do you think you're going to be any different?
I don't know. Our goal is just to play music. Success or lack of it
is coincidental, but it would be welcomed.
Robert
OUT THIS WEEK
The following are due out on Monday 14 January. Please note
that all release dates are subject to change.
SINGLES
BLACK REBEL MOTORCYCLE CLUB - Love Burns
BOMFUNK MCS - Superelectnc
C H E M I C A L BROTHERS - Star Guitar
P DIDDY feat NEPTUNES - Diddy
GEORGE HARRISON - M y Sweet Lord
MERCURY REV - Dark Is Rising
PINK - Get The Party Started
BRITNEY SPEARS - Overprotected
SUPER FURRY A N I M A L S - It's Not The End Of The World
WHEATUS - Leroy

