LIVE: Pulp + Fat Truckers
@ Brixton Academy
"We're Fat Truckers. We're not fat, we're not truckers and we're
from Sheffield!" Yes, and four of the five use synths. Don't ask me
what the other one does, because I'm not sure.
"We may use synthesisers but we fookin' rock!" In all honesty,
what else would you expect from a band supporting Pulp? OK,
so they're not fat, but two of them are certainly portly. They're
also geeks - this is apparent from their use of crazy sounds with
much knob twiddling. A n d ironic dancing too. They do their job
and then let a real showman take the stage.
The last time I saw Jarvis Cocker was in Stoke Newington a
year or two ago, around the time Pulp released This is Hardcore.
As you may recall, this was when he went a bit funny and
"introspective". Needless to say, he was terrified to see someone
who'd recognised him. Thankfully tonight, the Jarvis of old is
back, all elbows and posturing and wriggling.
"It's been a while since we've been here", says Jarvis wistful-
ly, gazing around the sold-out arena. The next moment, he leaps
up onto a monitor and starts waggling his wrist. "That's still
loose". Then he raises his leg and gives it a shake. "And that still
works... so let's do it". A n d they do!
The set kicks off with three songs from the new album We
Love Life. Weeds, The Night Minnie Timperley Died and Birds In
Your Garden are all received with sumptuous fervour before
Jarvis straps on his guitar to chime in the opening chords of
Something Changed. Today, he is a born natural to the game of
showmanship, flitting effortlessly from song to song whilst
maintaining relaxed yet charming banter with his adoring fol-
lowers.
The main set ends with a thunderous rendition of Sunrise.
They return for encore 1 with Sorted For Es And Wizz, much to
everyone's delight, promptly followed by Babies and The Fear.
Encore 2 brings Party Hard and a searing finale of Underwear.
Take a bow Jarvis, we still love you!
Warul
music reviews
LIVE: Ash
@ Brixton Academy
After an hour's wait, A s h finally came on stage, the lighting
making their introduction all the more spectacular, and to round
off a good opening they played Girl from Mars. They then played
eight songs back to back consisting mainly of those from the
album 1977, including Angel Interceptor and Oh Yeah.
It soon dawned on me that this was going to.be a brilliant gig
- it was the last of the tour, Tim's voice was on fire, and the band
were putting their all into it. After the first eight songs there
was a shift in style, as they played tracks from Free All Angels.
Walking Barefoot was exceptional, as I think everyone else
agreed, to go by the applause they received. I noticed after an
hour that no songs from Trailer or Nu-Clear Sounds had been
played, but that didn't matter - they worked the crowd well,
playing the favourites early on.
Ash then revealed two interesting facts: firstly, Westlife have
a sense of humour (still to be proven) and secondly, Westlife are
druggies. Tim went on to explain that Westlife rolled them a
joint using a £20 note, at which point they burst into Burn Baby
Burn - fantastic!
After a few more tunes such as Candy and Jesus Says, they
went off, only to return for an encore; and what an encore! It
was the longest encore I've ever heard, lasting over 45 minutes,
with new songs, covers, fake snow falling from the balcony and
the band's determination to make it their longest gig ever,
which it eventually was. To finish off the whole gig, they played
Numbskull with real vigour and enthusiasm.
Overall, classic!
•6990 Toby B
COMPETITION
This week, we're giving away a 90-minute video of A s h play-
ing live at the Akasaka Blitz in Tokyo last year.
QUESTION: The track Candy is from w h i c h A s h album?
Please email your answer, along with your name, year and
department, to music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 17 January.

