reviews music
INTERVIEW with
Richard from Hood
Hood's bassist Richard Adams spoke to Felix before their recent
gig at the Arts Cafe (see review, right). The album Coid House
is out now and was reviewed in Issue 1218.
FELIX: Can you introduce yourself, and say what you do?
RICHARD: I'm Richard and I play bass, and guitar sometimes.
Is Cold House an intentional progression or did you have a
plan at the start?
A little bit, but, well, it was just a bit haphazard really. We had
a set of songs that we liked that fitted together, but a lot of it
was trial and error. We wanted to make a more diverse album,
because we've done the same stuff throughout, but we wanted
to do that without it sounding like a compilation LP - we want-
ed it to flow, so it was definitely intentional.
Is there any symbolism behind the title, Cold House? Where
did that come from?
It was what Chris [lead vocals and guitar] wanted to call his
studio, 'cause he lives in a cold house, and no other titles that
we came up with really fitted. That one did, so it stayed, and we
also think that Cold House could be a genre of music.
You've got Dose One and Why? [from cLOUDDEAD] perform-
ing on the record - did you meet them to record it?
They approached us a couple of years ago, we hadn't heard of
them, but Chris just loved it and we thought "let's get them in
on it", 'cause we wanted to work with hip-hop people. We
heard what they were doing and it wasn't dissimilar to our
ideas; we just had completely different backgrounds.
Are you going to continue using hip-hop?
I don't know really, 'cause we try to change stuff on every
album. We want to do it but in a really commercial way, like Puff
Daddy, so we want really commercial samples so we can have
a hit and sell out [laughs]. I really want to do it, but to make a
full on hip-hop record would be too much of an obvious move.
I noticed more than ever on CcJd House that there are ele-
ments of glitchcore and electronica, really similar to stuff on
Toytronic and Tigerbeat Six. H o w do you feel about compar-
isons to artists like Kid606 and Cex?
It's OK, but I think we're more interested in Autechre and Boards
Of Canada and stuff like that over here. I mean, I do like Cex and
Kid606, but I also want something with a tune and a melody
that you can follow. It's the more melodic end of electronica that
we like, but we're not closed to more abstract ideas.
Finally, are there any live antics planned for tonight?
We always want to make a lot more sound live, so it's not just
like someone putting a CD on. We want to make it a bit differ-
ent and more aggressive. But we're not as intense as we used
to be. When we played with Mogwai about two years ago, they
invited us up to play on Like Herod, and my brother Chris just
came on with his B M X and started riding around the stage in
huge circles. It was one of the most surreal things I've ever seen
in my life. We're not going to be quite as wild as that tonight, I
don't think. Unless Chris is planning something in secret...
Chris
LIVE: Hood + Wauvenfold +
Cassette Boy @ Arts Cafe
Tonight's show features one of the most flawless line-ups I have
ever experienced. Wauvenfold are first to the stage. Tom Hill
and Noel Murphy mutilate twitchy cut-up beats and squeeze
numerous melodic gurgles from their mixers and laptops,
sounding established and confident. Playing tracks from their
recent On the Blink ER Wauvenfold perform their songs with
ease and humour in a live environment, adding a much-needed
warmth to their compositions.
Cassette Boy follow, with their peculiar blend of topical per-
formance art and satirical cut 'n' paste. Very sick indeed, but
very humorous nonetheless. Perhaps they could rely less on
shock tactics and yes, perhaps they could attempt something
more original. But as far as disturbing, sardonic musical proj-
ects go, they're pretty unbeatable tonight.
Finally Hood (pic above) take to the stage. This is the last leg of
their UK tour, promoting their powerful new album Cold House.
Opening with They Removed All Trace That Anything Had Ever
Happened Here, they pitch breakbeat rhythms against haunting
violin drones, hesitant guitar and a delicate forlorn vocal.
Cold indeed! You can feel it in the air, as their music seems to
convey heightened emotion. Yet Hood's music sounds compara-
tively warmer live than on record, with Gavin's faultless drum-
ming technique energising the band and transforming them
into a more relentless and aggressive unit.
Finding time to perform a few older numbers, Hood build up
their set subtly until a critical point is reached when they
explode into their finale, Diesel Pioneers. Ten minutes of furious
mesmeric white noise follows, until Hood decide that enough is
enough and quit the stage to rapturous applause. A spectacu-
lar performance from a naturally impressive band.
9B000 Francois & Chris

