reviews book
The Second Part of the
novels of William Boyd
The article published i n Felix last term reviewed the first five
books of William Boyd. Here we examine his more recent
work, starting w i t h what many consider to be his most
accomplished novel The New Confessions (1987). It is certain-
ly his longest and most ambitious work, taking in major world
events throughout the first half of the twentieth century. It
takes the form of the fictional autobiography of John James
Todd, who as w e have come to expect in Boyd's work, is
something of a loner, struggling to relate with his family,
friends and society. The plot takes us from an austere Scottish
upbringing, including of course another vivid account of life
at a public school, albeit an extremely eccentric one. Apart
from an early gift for mathematics (a fascination of Boyd's to
which he returns in his next novel), Todd finds his main cre-
ative outlet i n photography, which eventually guides h i m
towards his career as a film director. The novel takes us
through the horrors of the trenches in the First World War, and
a period in a German prisoner of w a r camp, which provides
Todd with the contacts that enable him to get a foothold in
the fledgling German film industry, where he eventually
makes his reputation. His only reading material as a prisoner
is Rousseau's Confessions, which becomes an obsession for
him and the main key to the novel. It is certainly, true that
when the action moves away from Germany with the rise of
Nazism and with Todd attempting to .build a new career in
Hollywood, the story begins to lose momentum. Todd sees lit-
tle action in the Second World War and the main battles in the
latter part of his life come with the spectre of McCarthyism. It
may perhaps be a truthful reflection of a life where great early
promise is never fully realised and where the twilight years
may offer a chance of redemption (the are many things in
Todd's life for w h i c h he has no cause to be proud), but not
necessarily a happy ending. One gets the impression that
Boyd has enthusiastically embarked upon an epic, but ulti-
mately hasn't the stamina to complete the task, but if this
remarkable book fails to live up to its early promise, the
attempt is never less than entertaining and for the most part
it is compelling.
In Brazzaville Beach (1990) Boyd examines many ethical
issues relating to the nature of scientific research. He man-
ages to weave these concerns into a plot which encompasses
a doomed love story that takes place within the Mathematics
Department at Imperial College (a backdrop in name only, the
department is fortunately unrecognisable) leading the main
character, Hope Clearwater to flee London for an African pri-
mate research station, where she attempts to piece her life
back together. While the events in England that led to her
flight are gradually revealed in flashback, the situation in
Africa becomes fraught as her research on the chimpanzee
community begins to radically conflict with the long held the-
ories of the project leader. The violence she observes i n the
chimps behaviour is mirrored by the civil w a r taking place
around her and the desperate attempts of senior members of
the research team to suppress her findings.
Boyd handles this plot with incredible skill, combining a
novel of ideas with an action thriller. This is the third of his
novels to be at least partially set in Africa and these scenes
constitute the most powerful and evocative aspects of a com-
plex but highly readable and gripping story.
For his next novel Blue Afternoon (1993), Boyd moves to a
new continent, with most of the action taking place in Manila
in 1902. At one level this is an intriguing detective story in an
unfamiliar historical setting. Salvador Carriscant is a doctor,
dedicated to introducing modern medical practices into a
country which is just recovery from a bloody colonial war
with the USA. His infatuation with the wife of an American
army officer develops into a full blown affair, whilst at the
same time a series of murders takes place with the evidence
pointing to the perpetrator being a medical man.
This central core of the novel is bookended by the story of
Kay Fischer, a struggling Los Angeles architect, who in 1936
encounters Carriscant as an old man when he comes to her
claiming to be her father. This dual perspective opens up the
story, deepening the mystery surrounding Carriscant, so that
although one can admire his efforts to modernise the Manila
hospital when faced with every kind of obstructiveness, prej-
udice and suspicion, he remains something of an enigma.
Once again Boyd displays his mastery of a complex narrative,
maintaining the suspense and delivering a few shocks in the
process.
The Destiny of Nathalie X (1995) is Boyd's second short
story collection and it is dominated by the title story, which is
one of the best things he has written. The social satire of his
third novel Stars and Bars w a s sometimes overblown, but
here it is razor sharp.
In 40 pages he dissects modern Hollywood as producers,
agents and actors queue up to exploit the latest European art
house success in the shape of a n e w African / French director
Aurelian. Our hero is probably insane, but the industry is des-
perate to laud his genius with devastating and hilarious
results. Nothing else in this sometimes experimental collec-
tion quite matches this opening shot, but all the stories are
entertaining.

