book reviews
Finally we have Armadillo (1998), Boyd's tale of the "little
armed man", Lorimer Black, who works as an insurance loss
adjuster. Black wears invisible armour every day as he careful-
ly prepares the image he will present to his business clients. In
fact his whole life has been reinvented, so that the real Milo
Blocj with his loving but demanding family are consigned to a
completely separate sphere. Lorimer blends perfectly in a world
where nothing is quite what it seems, but his stability is rocked
when he is assigned to investigate a major business fraud that
seems to taint everyone associated with it. To make his life even
more complicated he becomes infatuated with a woman he has
glanced briefly, driving by in a taxi. Boyd extends the armour
metaphor even further as Lorimer Black collects ancient (and of
course expensive) helmets. When he accidentally traps his own
head in his latest acquisition, he has to be freed by the local
casualty department, a literal release prompting him to reclaim
his real self. If you watched the recent television production of
this novel (adapted for the screen by Boyd), reading the book
can seem like looking over a familiar script. There is an extra
sub-plot here concerning a rock musician who claims to have
suffered a debilitating breakdown, but who manages to rebuild
his career based on what he perceives and Black's other-world-
ly cool (a taste for esoteric music), but otherwise Boyd's TV
translation was faithful to the original.
It appears that Boyd has not lost his taste for oddball charac-
ters, far flung geographical locations and a long historical per-
spective. April sees the publication of a new novel Any Human
Heart: The Intimate Journals Of Logan Mountstuart, another fic-
tional autobiography which promises to take us on a global jour-
nal through the twentieth century. Even after reading ten of his
books in quick succession, my appetite is whetted rather than
satiated and I shall be joining the queues as the checkout.
A Complete list of the works of William Boyd
A Good M a n in Africa (1982)
A n Ice-Cream War (1983)
On The Yankee Station (1984)
Stars and Bars (1985)
School Ties (1986)
The New Confessions (1988)
Brazzaville Beach (1991)
The Blue Afternoon (1995)
The Destiny of Nathalie X and Other Stories (1997)
Armadillo (1998)
To be published in April 2002 by Hamish-Hamilton is William
Boyd's new novel, Any Human Heart: The Intimate Journals Of
Logan Mountstuart (priced at £17.99.)
This is the story of Logan Mountstuart, told through his inti-
mate journals. His life spans the 20th century and his travels
take the reader from Uruguay to Oxford, Paris, the Bahamas,
New York and Africa. We meet his three wives, and notaries
from the worlds of royalty and literature.
Adrian
Open Season by C J Box
Putnam, $23.95
Game warden, Joe Pickett is your ideal family man with a lov-
ing wife, Marybeth, two young daughters and another child on
the way. Joe is the ranger in Saddlestrmg, a small Wyoming
town which is typical of any rural American dwelling, right
down to Main Street and the large number of townsfolk who
enjoy hunting in the nearby countryside.
One Sunday morning, Joe's discovers the body of a local out-
fitter in the woodpile in his backyard. In the man's hand is an
empty cooler, which has all the signs that it contained a small
animal. This local man is no stranger to Joe as in the first week
of his job Joe caught the outfitter, Ote Keeley, poaching deer.
The confrontation, at the time, ended with Ote humiliating Joe
by grabbing his gun away from him.
Joe immediately contacts the County Sheriff Bud Barnum and
Barnum recalls that Ote had gone into the Bighorn Mountains
with two other men as part of a poaching ring. The Sheriff
decides to send one of his deputies along with Joe and Wacey
Hedeman, a neighbouring game warden into the mountains to
bring back the other poachers. When they arrive at the camp-
site they find that the other guides have been murdered and a
local vagrant (who was killed at the campsite when the rangers
opened fire) is accused of the murders.
The case seems closed but Joe is not entirely happy and he
has many questions unanswered. These questions and espe-
cially their answers will not only affect Joe but serious jeopard-
ize his life and that of his family.
This is the first novel by C. J. Box and will probably end up on
numerous shortlists for best first novel. The plot, in my opinion,
is interesting but quite thin and although it discusses many
issues such as environmentalism, big industry and the struggle
to do the right thing in life it doesn't cover any new ground.
What makes this story stand out is the author's description of
remote wilderness (similar to Steve Hamilton's A Cold Day in
Paradise) and his character development. This is definitely true
of Joe. Some people would (cruelly) describe him as slow but is
in fact quite sharp, deeply loyal, and very stubborn and has a
devotion to his family above all else. The portrayal of his wife,
his daughters (especially his eldest, Sheridan) are equal believ-
able while the lesser characters and equally convincing. Alas
though there were not enough potential villains and the dia-
logue sometimes sags. Box has heaps of potential for the future
and many others would be proud of this as a first novel. One
final thing I would like to say about this book is that it's the first
book of possible hundreds of mystery titles that I have read
where I guessed both the villain and the reasons why the
crimes were committed about half way in. I'm still not sure if
this is a good thing or a bad one. The writing, though, was crisp
enough to keep me interested in the characters until the very
and quite shocking end.
Published my Putnam, $23.95 and is available from Amazon,
Crime in Store and can be ordered from any leading bookshop.

