reviews book
Block, Orion, £16.99
If I had any choice in the matter I would love to make a home for
myself in New York. After numerous trips to this city it is one
place I feel totally comfortable both with the people and the
town itself. Over this past year I have read numerous novels
(especially mysteries) which take place in this city and its five
boroughs. I can say that the best writer, in my mind, who man-
ages to get a grip, not just now but for the last four decades, on
the vibrant cosmopolitan and dark side of this city is the writer
of the Matt Scudder series, Lawrence Block.
A prominent and well-to-do New York City couple, Bryne and
Susan Hollander, returning to their Upper West Side apartment
on a fine summer day are brutally murdered by two thieves and
their bodies are discovered a few hours later by their daughter,
Kristin.
A few days later the murderers are found dead in a Brooklyn
apartment. The likelihood is that their deaths resulted from a
murder/suicide after a falling out. To the police this is an open-
and-shut case but the couple's niece has her suspicions that
their daughter, who inherits a fortune with their deaths, is
involved somehow. She relays these doubts to Matt Scudder
who decides to look at the case for her and of course he discov-
ers more than just a simple robbery/murder.
In this the fifteenth Scudder novel, the former alcoholic PI is
very different from the young man that was introduced 30 years
ago. Scudder has aged with each book (he is now 61) and so his
reactions, both physical and mental, are not as quick as they
once were. He has mellowed over the years and works more
with the police than once he did.
Hope to Die has many of the familiar characters that we have
been introduced to in previous novels such as Elaine, Mick
Ballou and TJ. Block writes about the people and their actions
with shocking reality as he does with New York itself.
Like with all Scudder novels, I can find no faults with this
novel and it would seem that Lawrence Block is as good a
writer as when he started out many years ago.
Note: Hope to Die can be read as a stand alone but to get a
proper feel for Matt and his past I would start earlier. Some fans
say that new readers should start with either the fifth or sixth
novels (Eight Million Ways To Die and When The Sacred Ginmill
Closes.) Starting with these novels you are introduced straight
away with the brilliance of Block's writing but they miss out on
Matt's alcoholism. For me you have to start with the first book
(The Sins Of The Fathers) to get a true feeling for the world of
Matthew Scudder.
For those who do wish to begin at the beginning, Orion has
just published the first three Matt Scudder novels in a very
attractive trade paperback entitled The Matt Scudder
Mysteries Volume I: The Sins Of The Fathers/ In The Midst Of
Death/ Time To Murder A n d Create priced at a very reason-
able £10.99 and available in any major or specialist bookshop.
The Best Reads of 2001
Below I have compiled a list of what I consider to have been the
best books that I personally read in 2001. Not all books were
published in 2001 but they were read over the past year. I would
love to hear from anyone who has a similar list or if anyone
wishes to write in with the title of their favourite book of the
past 12 months at books.felix@ic.ac.uk. A l l the books below are
available through Amazon or in the many bookshops through-
out London. Any of which that are out of print are indicated
with a star(*).
All fifteen Matt Scudder mysteries (especially When The
Sacred Ginmill Closes, Out On The Cutting Edge, A Walk
Among The Tombstone, well all of them) - Lawrence Block
The Later Elvis Cole novels (Indigo Slam and L A Requiem),
Demolition Angel and Hostage - Robert Crais
Right As Ram and Hell To Pay - George Pelecanos
Pest Control and Cross Dressing - Bill Fitzhugh
The City A n d The Pillar - Gore Vidal
The Debt To Pleasure - John Lanchester
Open Season - C J Box
The first four Stephanie Plum Novels (One For The Money, Two
For The Dough, Three To Get Ready and Four To Score) - Janet
Evanovich
The Hot Rock - Donald E Westlake
All Seven Myron Bolitar novels (especially Fade Away, Deal
Breaker and One False Move) and Tell No One - Harlan Coben
Parnall Hall - Detective(*)
The Kenzie and Gennaro novels (especially A Drink Before The
War and Darkness, Take M y Hand) and Mystic River - Dennis
Lehane
The first four Harry Bosch novels (The Black Echo, The Black
Ice, The Concrete Blonde and The Last Coyote) and The Poet -
Michael Connelly
Here's hoping 2002 is as good a literary year as 2001 was.
Jonathan

