union talk
Attention Sporty/Adventurous Types
Harlington Trust
The Harlington Trust was established in
1989 to manage, for the benefit of Imperial
College students, money received from
the gravel extraction operation at the
Harlington playing fields. The Trustees, of
whom the Union President is one, wel-
come applications for grants from stu-
dents in the College and have a maximum
of £50,000 to allocate each year.
The principles under w h i c h the
Trustees operate have been laid down by
the College's Governing Body. Perhaps
due to the origins of the funding, income
from the Trust is intended for the benefit
of IC students mainly in relation to sport-
ing, athletics and recreational facilities,
though only to finance new or improved
facilities, and not to meet running costs or
replacement of consumables.
In making their decisions the Trustees
will weigh up the cost of the bid versus
its potential benefit, the financial risk
should other sources of funding be
involved, the merit of the bid (i.e. whether
it is likely to enhance or maintain the rep-
utation of the College) and whether it is
likely to unduly benefit those who are not
current students.
Those activities with Union backing
(i.e. part of an official club or society) and
a long and sustainable existence are more
likely to gain support. While it is usually
groups that benefit, it is also possible for
students to submit individual bids,
though often they will compete either at
college level or higher, thus enhancing
the prestige of the College.
Exploration Board
The Exploration Board was set up in 1955
under the sponsorship of the College, the
Union and the Constituent College
Associations to consider proposals for
expeditions submitted by students of the
College, and to administer funds given by
the sponsors to assist with the cost of
these expeditions. Each of the sponsoring
bodies is represented on the Board, which
meets twice a year to consider proposals
submitted to it.
The Board may decide to recognise
expeditions as official College ventures,
thus providing insurance for personnel
and equipment. In many cases recogni-
tion carries with it a grant towards the
cost, though most expeditions are also
required to raise support in the form of
money or equipment from sources outside
the College. In addition, a variety of
equipment is held for loan to approved
expeditions.
The final meeting of the Board for this
academic year will take place on 6th
February, so if you are planning an expe-
dition for this summer you need to start
putting together proposals immediately.
See www.su.ic.ac.uk/exploration for
more information
Rob
Eating Disorders
Eating Disorders
Eating disorders affect many people.
Anorexia Nervosa sees the individual
starving them while Bulimia Nervosa has
patterns of binge eating followed by vom-
iting and laxative abuse. Either way the
relationship with food is changed and are
often due to feelings that make the affect-
ed person unhappy or depressed. It may
be associated with sadness, guilt, loss,
fear or anger.
It is difficult to say how many people in
the UK are affected by an eating disorder.
Many go undiagnosed but it is believed
that one in every hundred young women
are affected by Bulimia and a smaller, but
still significant, number by anorexia. The
Royal College of Psychiatry estimated in
1992 that at any one time 60,000 individu-
als were receiving treatment for an
Anorexia or Bulimia. Currently, the Eating
Disorder Association believes the figure
to be more likely 90,000, with many more
undiagnosed, particularly those w i t h
Anorexia Nervosa.
Physical signs of Anorexia can include
severe weight loss, dizziness, constipa-
tion, poor circulation (feeling cold) and
sleep difficulties. Women also experience
the stopping of periods, which usually
returns once the starving has halted.
Often Anorexics will experience osteo-
porosis (thinning of the bones).
Psychologically there is depression, mood
swings, intense fear of gaining weight
and a distorted perception of body weight
and shape. Behaviourally those affected
will wear baggy clothes, exercise exces-
sively, lie about eating meals and will
deny any problems associated.
Bulimia
Here physical signs can include sore
throats, repeated mouth infections,
dry/poor skin and sleep difficulties.
Periods don't stop, but can be irregular.
Due to the vomiting, those with Bulimia
often have poor teeth and will avoid
going to the dentist. Psychologically
those affected feel depressed, and exhibit
mood swings and highly emotional
behaviour, which is caused by the body
reacting to the consumption of large
amounts of food followed by vomiting or
taking laxatives.
If you feel you do have a problem the first
step (slightly cliched) is to recognise it.
From here there must be a genuine desire
to get better, possibly altering your
lifestyle, behaviour and circumstances.
The reason for your problem also has to
be investigated and changes made here
as well as re-shaping your ideas about
food and weight. Remember, though, you
are not alone. Medical advice should be
sought and speaking to a counsellor could
be extremely important especially with
look at the reasons for the eating disorder.
Losing weight
If you wish to or need to lose weight for
health reasons its best to do it via a con-
trolled programme. Begin with cutting
out the crap in your diet; junk food, fatty
cakes, chocolate; replacing with addition-
al fruit and vegetables. Take additional
exercise, and build up slowly. Remember
you can speak to your doctor about advice
on your diet and changes to your life that
you can make
Eating Disorder Association Helpline-
01603 621414 (weekdays 9am to 6.30pm).
David

