talk felix
By Nate Evuarherhe
I was most disappointed to hear last term,
that the Lecturer Evaluation Scheme was a
dismal and utter failure owing principally to
student apathy, and a number of other
Great Union Screw-Ups. (Namely poorly
written, hack-able computer programmes.)
If you've ever wondered how on earth some
lecturers of this University managed to get
the jobs they currently hold, this was a
much-awaited chance for us to do some
evaluation and academic feedback, and I
think the Union owes it to the entire student
body to orchestrate an evaluation/feedback
programme of some sort.
But as far as brilliant ideas go, this is
about where it stops. Not only was the
entire scheme poorly and incompetently
run, but it was also revealed last term, that
students of the computing department had
detected a bug in the supposedly secure
online system. That means of course, that if
you took the time to log on and evaluate
your lecturer, the said lecturer could (in the-
ory) be looking at your evaluation and plot-
ting to fail you at the end of the year.
The bottom-line being, that somewhere
between student apathy, and yet another
Great Union Screw-Up, a wonderfully bril-
Inkwell
liant idea went drastically wrong.
Student apathy, as is by and large the
case, was clearly the result of a belief in an
inability to effect change... a sense of impo-
tence. A feeling that the evaluation would
ultimately amount to nothing and, at the
end of the day, horribly bad lecturers would
still roam the halls next year, and beyond.
The Scheme failed to make clear the pos-
sible consequences of student opinion.
What happens to those lecturers we deem
to be grossly incompetent, and fundamen-
tally bad teachers? Do they get the sack?
Do they get a talking to by the head of the
department or what?
The poorly conceived scheme failed to
convince students on why it was important
that they voted. The result being that voter
apathy was inevitable from the start.
The timing was also horribly wrong.
There is a student "cycle of life" at IC. In the
first few weeks of term, the student is live-
ly, energetic, and bubbling with enthusi-
asm to make the best of the term etc. etc. Of
course by week 6, this becomes a figment of
the imagination, and by week 9 nobody
really gives a dead rat about study groups
and seminars anymore. The idea of carrying
out lecturer evaluation in the dying weeks
of the term was an ill-advised and unintelli-
gent one. In plain and simplistic terms, by
that time of the term, nobody gives a mon-
keys about anything anymore. Most cer-
tainly not "lecturer evaluation"! A scheme in
the very first weeks of the second, or third
term would have been a far more fruitful
and successful project.
A n d finally, let it be said, that the hacking
of the supposedly secure website, by stu-
dents of the computing department, speaks
of shamefully farcical planning by the
Union. If Imperial College of Science and
Technology (keywords: science and tech-
nology) cannot adequately produce a viable
and operational online system, then in all
fairness, how can the Union ever be taken
seriously?
The sad and unfortunate result of all this,
is that the small number of IC students who
felt the need to voice their opinion about the
people who teach them, would of course
remain unheard, and this is heart-breaking.
After all let's face it, a great many of the
lecturers who walk these halls are simply
excruciatingly bad teachers, who make sit-
ting in a lecture like watching a really long
monologue in a badly written play.
The Student voice must be heard.
Editorial
Happy New Year, dear readership, and wel-
come to another term of journalistic delight.
This first issue, I will be the first to admit, is
slightly paltry, perhaps. While the excuse is
lame: many of my writers have not returned
to the fold yet, it is valid, in that I believe
that it is my job to edit this newspaper, and
ensure its continuing existence financially,
but not necessarly to write it all. This is
meant to be a student newspapaer. Not to
mention how lazy I am.
I have been informed by nearly everyone
that my editorials are boring and full of use-
less information. Now I thought that this
was fun and quirky, but apparently it's not.
As such, I'm now going to fulfill the point of
an editorial by, in the words of a so-called
friend, 'creating a coherent view of the
issues raised in that week's publication'.
So, news. A h yes, that which we don't
write until Wednesay night, and now is
Monday night (split deadlines). Fine, so
that'll not happen. I'll comment on other
issues.
LEQs. Oh yes. You can see the Inkwell
above is discussing this, and while I agree
with his sentiments, I feel it should be
pointed out that the Union is not entirely to
blame (especially the security matters), as
Inkwell implies, but since it represents all
students here, it should have been more
sure that everything went according to
plan. However, you can't ever tell College
what to do, sadly. The words 'lumbering'
and 'behemoth' spring to mind.
In fact, having spoken (personally, and
not professionally) to various important
people in the Union, it is clear that the LEQs
were actually very important to them, and
from what I know, most of the blame should
be laid on College.
Similarily, there is a letter complaining on
the same subject, and from the negative
feedback that Felix and others have
received, I have to say that it seems that
there could be a few improvements.
However nothing ever works first time, and
this is the first year that it has been a joint
Union-College venture, so I'm willing to
give them a chance. If they screw up next
year, however...
So that was my attempt at trying to be
topical and actually commenting seriously
on the issues that affect the students.
Perhaps I'm too apathetical, but frankly that
was a real effort. I think next time I'll stick
to something easier, like random banter and
space filling when I have half a page left...
not that I mean that.
No really. So I think I'll stick to what I
know, and do something easier, like dis-
cussing my sex life. Last week I went to
bed with several nubile young...

