Page 2 FELIX October 19, 1972
THE UNION
HIERARCHY
PAGE
I a n M a c k e n z i e
t a l k s a b o u t AUTONOMY
Last year about this time, the government, in the
form of Mrs. Margaret Thatcher, Secretary of State
for the Department of Education and Science, pro-
duced a " Consultative Document" (known as the
Green Paper) on the subject of Ithe financing of
Student Unions. It heralded probably the greatest
student campaign ever.
The situation at EC. is that everyone is auto-
matically a member of the Union and that the L.E.A.'s
(Local Education Authorities) pay £6 per student to
the college, who pass it on to the I.C.U. together with
an extra £2.50 per head as a subvention. The amount
received by Unions (Union Fee) varies widely through-
out the country, largely depending on which " sector "
of higher education the college belongs to, e.g., Univer-
sities get more than Teacher Training Colleges, who
get more than Technical Colleges. If you want to see
the effect of this, compare the facilities of our Union
with those of West London College.
Prior to the Green Paper, N.U.S. was co-opera-
ting with the D.E.S. to try to remove this anomaly.
However, the government seemed more concerned
about the L.E.A.'s displeasure at having to pay what-
ever Union Fee the Governing Bodies and Student
Unions agreed upon, and the very few cases of
Unions " giving their money away " to outside organ-
isations unconstitutionally or acting unconstitutionally.
Their proposals were thus aimed at exercising
some form of control over what Unions do with their
money, and the amount of money that they get.
The main proposals were:—•
(i) The abolition of automatic membership;
(ii) Split-financing, i.e., part of existing Union
Fee would go direct to colleges for providing
essential student services, and part would go
on the grant for joining clubs, etc.;
(iii) Union constitutions must conform to a
model constitution and have some form of
outside control.
The effect of voluntary membership would be to
make almost impossible the representation of students'
opinion both at a college and on a national level,
while the split financing would greatly decrease the
amount of income to the Union and make the current
range of activities impossible. Worse still, the Union
would be in competition with other departments for
its share of the total income to the colleges, and this
could easily cause unnecessary friction between the
administration and the Union. The " small increase
in the grant" would probably not even be noticed
by students, and most would be put off by the much
higher club membership fees required under the split
financing scheme. On part (iii), one of the other
proposals suggested by the D.E.S. was that a
REGISTRAR of Student Unions, with rather
undefined (unlimited?) powers would ratify constitu-
tions, etc. At I.C., our Governing Body ratifies out
constitutional changes (this may be raised at the next
U.G.M.).
All in all, the va!st majority of students saw the
proposals as greatly damaging the strength of Unions
and limiting their power to " do what they want with
a Guaranteed Income" (AUTONOMY) (wondered
when you were going to get on to that.—Ed.).
Perhaps, not surprisingly, most college authorities,
and even L.E.A.s (though for different reasons) didn't
like the proposals, and back in January, Mrs. Thatcher
deferred the implementation of" any new scheme until
October 1973 in order to think things over!
As far as we know, she's still thinking, but be
prepared . . . it may not be long before a further set
of proposals comes out . . . only this time it might
not be a relatively tame " consultative document" —
it might just be a White Paper!
M
A
R
T
I
N
'
S BIT on
elections
Elections
At 5 p.m. on Wednesday last when I, as Returning
Officer, took down the Nomination Papers, the fol-
lowing candidates were proposed and fully seconded:
Floor Representative on Council:
K. Arundale proposed by R. A. Armitage
Welfare Officer:
Miss J. A. Rogers proposed by I. W. Mackenzie
Members of Welfare Committee:
D. Ashby proposed by Miss J. A. Rogers.
Miss J. Goodman proposed by W. A. Gerrard
Member of Union Finance Committee:
W. A. Gerrard proposed by S. Bolwell
Members of Community Action Group Committee:
T. Phillips proposed by K. G. Orkney.
D. Cummings proposed by Miss D. Hains
Secretary of External Affairs Committee:
Miss A . Hochfelden proposed by A. Smith
Members of External Affairs Committee:
O. F. Dowson proposed by R. A. Armitage
T. Phillips proposed by A. Smith
Member of Academic Affairs Committee:
J. C. Gibbons proposed by P. Cains
Member of Publications Board:
R. A. Armitage proposed by O. F. Dowson
Member of Overseas Students Committee:
T. Phillips proposed by S. Potter
At the time of writing, fully seconded nomina-
tions are still awaited for:
The University of South Kensington Co-ordinator
Imperial College Union Publicity Officer
Imperial College Union Public Relations Officer
Two members of the External Affairs Committee
One member of the Accommodation Committee
Two members of the Academic Affairs Committee
One member of the Publications Board
Two members of the Overseas Students Committee
and the Union Duplicating Officer.
The papers will remain posted until nominations
are complete and then remain posted for a further
three College Days. In the event of there being no
candidates, nominations will be accepted at the Union
General Meeting on Thursday, 19th October.
Should any post be contested, elections will be
held at the U.G.M. on the 19th.
If, however, and on the other hand, no nomina-
tions have been received by the end of Thursday's
Union Meeting, the nomination papers will be left
up and the process repeated at the next Union Meeting,
and so on, etcetera, ad nauseam.
As well as the elections described briefly (it's a
good job that he didn't explain them in detail!—Ed.)
above, at Thursday's U.G.M. the agenda will contain
* Hustings for the President of Imperial College Union
* Discussion of the N.U.S. motions
* and lots of other FUN things.
If anybody is vaguely interested in going to a
National N.U.S. conference, particularly the one at
Margate at the end of November, please come and
see me in the Union Office and I'll explain exactly
what (I think) goes on (N.B. He's never been to one!
—Ed.).
Remember, exams are only NINE months away!
I.G. UNION
MEETING
Thursday 19th.
1300 hrs.
Great Hall
Starting
* HUSTINGS AND
PRESIDENT
* NUS MOTIONS DEBATE
Special Guest Star
* JOY CLANCY,
PRESIDENT U.L.U.
What more could
anyone ask fort
Answers on a postcard to
I.W.M. or M.C.B. c/o I.C.
Union Office).
Grabba-Stikka
Week
If you've been awarded a parking
permit, collect your sticker NOW from
MCB in the Union Office.
You'll need your log book and regis-
tration card, by the way.
If you've lost a NUS.card, please col-
lect it from the Union Office.
Small Ads — Continued from page 8
ARIEL ARROW 250cc, 1961.
Excellent condition. New
tyres a!nd new Lucas bat-
tery. Taxed and tested to
July 1973, £65. Norm
Sayles, Bot. 3, Union bar or
788-6591.
1275cc COOPER ' S ' engine
and gearbox plus all odds
and sods, to tit straight into
Mini/Cooper. Excellent tun-
ning condition. Engine 1500
miles since Goldsealed and
then blueprinted. Gearbox
1,000 miles since new. Also
Cooper discs on subframe
plus 4 x 5 } Pearce mag-
alloy wheels, tyres, spacers.
Everything in excellent con-
dition. Prices will be low.
Simon Domzalski, Oil Tech
2 (RSM) letter-rack.
HONDA 50, 1 year old,
2,700 miles. V.g.c. Panniers
and carrier rack. £85 o.n.o.
Ring 3309 int. Mr. Welling?
for details.
POSTGRAD Pursues Pad in
Pimlico. Ring Andy Greas-
ley, Int 2175.
LIFTS offered to:
YORK or on route (M1, M18,
A1). Leave Fri. 20th—11.30
a.m. Return Sun. evening.
Share petrol. Rob Costelld,
Chem. Eng. 3 letter-rack.
LEEDS. Share petrol and
oil (!?). Definite dates so
far: Oct. 27, Nov. 10, both
Fridays, must leave 4 p.m.
or before. Steve Shaw (PG
2) Room 607, Biochemistry.
LIFT WANTED to LANCAS-
TER (or places en route—<
Manchester, Preston etc.}.
Most weeketnds. Share costs,
D. Salvin, Room 658, TizarcJ
Hall.

