Page 6 F E L I X November ftfe, 11973
T h e A r t and Science of playin;
the Violin
I went into Mech. E n g . 220 at 20.10 when the
lecture was about to start. The theatre was E X T R A -
O R D I N A R I L Y crowded with people. 1 saw some
lecturers i n the audience. Unfortunately, 1 was too
late to have a seat so I h a d Ito sit on the steps. I esti-
mated that at least 300 were there. Having been intro-
duced, Yehudi started his lecture smartly. However
Yehudi spoke well both in his style and the content
of the lecture itself.
H e paralleled human activities to the playing of
the violin. In fact, every human activity has its
echo i n itself. Application of the bow on the violin,
making sounds, making music c a n be modified to
be a model of one's normal life, every part i n mind.
Some examples were mentioned before he moved
to the next step, when he talked about teaching to
play the Violin in contrast with school teaching. H e
disagreed with the use of a text-book i n teaching ito
play the violin, as well as other musical instruments:
for the process inhibited the learner from having his
own kind of thinking. H e pitied a school teacher who
had to follow the same book year after year as if
he were a m a n who did not speak i n his own voice.
When Yehudi teaches music he tries to avoid using
books, as he said. Then he Introduced the moment
when a person made something wrong with himself
and, by no means, can blame any other people: the
situation when we play a wrong tune on the intru-
iment! Is this one part of life?
Y e h u d i mentioned the "addiction" in playing in-
strument or in a choir as beautiful addictions. Like
any other "addictions", this has to be learned? H e
questioned whether the musical work was a penalty
an artist has to suffer. According to him, he was sure
that we had great violinists because they were pleased
to make music and they also tried to do it as best
as they can, consistently, they tried to do a good job.
Apart, from addiction, he suggested the movement in
human beings' civilisation, i.e. the evolution of civili-
sation in various parts of the world. He praised
although a vulgar may think of time as the clock toll-
ing When he can go out from the office, musically,
time lis a .raw material for a composer to organise i n
between the second marks o n the clock, to make it
pass slowly or quickly or accelerate or even stand
still. H e told us that at school i n the night before the
holiday began he used to count to sleep to a million
and remembered the feeling of the slowness of time!
H e found, the violin was a living beautiful object.
It is a living thing because of its vibration, it is
one part of the universe, as an element of the move-
ment of the complete vibration of the whole uni-
verse, for i t is a precise part i n musical communica-
tion, via the opened ears, opened minds and bodies.
His definition of music was also the organisation of
raw material of sounds. H e tried to convince the
audience that we might 'feel that holding a violin
was.like holding a bird, its body was free of impuri-
ties. The sound is created by the space i n the hollow
part of the Violin and also if one put the violin cor-
rectly at the collar bone it sounds more since the
space i n one's body resonates too. T h e stretched
string that vibrates represents the stretching mind,
the tension, sense of direction and sense of time.
When one starts playing the violin there are roughly
three stages to be experienced: ithe passive stage with
the feeling of looseness, the gravity stage when one
tries to balance himself actively with the weights, and
the strong stage when one is able to create some sense
of acceleration.
Y e h u d i concluded his lecture with some phases
written in his notes that sound reasonable to his
arguments. H e left with the impression that music
had been played because it was believed to lead
someone to' self liberation. W e have examples of
Negroes' music i n the United States, Jews' music
in South Soviet Russia, the Gypsy music, in which
vio'ins are played in a way that they sound like
human voices. Then we were let to ask h i m some
questions.
iWellsoc lecture by Yehudi Menuhin
Eastern and Gypsies' music and compared them with
the Western style. F o r most western musicians are
well disciplined to read others' compositions, unless
a performer has some sense, some experience, some
feeling and some understanding of the composer,
he cannot, play the music in the same way that was
cxpeCiC 1 by the composer. Furthermore, he should
know .,;e world o£ J i e composer: how he lived —
brutal, romantic, etc. — what his life was like, and
what was the feeling in such a composition. Mean-
while he found the Gypsy music was somewhat dif-
ferent from what we have here. From his own experi-
ence, he found every note played, sung, cried and
spoke as the musicians played the music directly
from their heads without any score written before-
hand or by another person.
Now came the technical bit of the talk, which 1
might no: understand it correctly. H e opened the
topic by saying that as we, the audience in l . C , were
scientists, we might be interested in the violin tech-
niques. There were three techniques he discussed.
Firstly, the Vi.brato, he argued about what someone
said about vibrato, that "violinists are born with and
need not be taught" that is not really correct since
the natural vibrato produced by a player was due to
the .perfect balance of handling the violin and the
bow. H e re\ealed that in playing the violin the hands
were i n relaxation positions and movements: the vio-
tenistt never got tired because of playing it. Such a
balance made vibrato extraordinarily wonderful and
free. Secondly, the precision in playing, as one plays
along one gains more subtle sense that brings more
precision in controlling the violin. H e referred to the
su'b'.if.y in m cro-ekc ronic designs or precise phy-
sical measurements, to the ability of a human finger
to feel what a millionth of an ounce is. O n e may also
obtain the ability to understand others as well as one-
self from the self-discipline in the practice where one's
subtlety in sensation grows. Thirdly, the time.
Someone asked h i m to explain how some Indian
music w a splayed. H e introduced us to the name " G r a -
vish A n k a , " an Indian music master and told us how
the music was arranged. There are 70-80 scales in In-
dian music. Each scale has its own rule and well suits
to one frame of mind. There are 7 to 9 but not more
than 9 notes i n an octave (compared to 42 i n our sys-
tem). Rhythms are more complex than our music. F o r
example they play 6/7 and 7/8 (!) precisely. O n e c a n
clearly see how difficult it is to distinguish the counter-
rhythm to the beat since ithey are nearly equal in
the same period of time. However, the accuracy of
timing and precision in playing destroys the harmony
— this is why they sound different from our music.
The remarkable ability in Indian singers and musici-
ans is that they can detect very slight deviation of
sound from a perfect fifth and the pitch in Indian
songs are so precise however quickly they are sung.
There were so many hands raised up that he mis-
took a student as a girl. "I thought," he said, "you're
the young lady." There were some interesting quest-
ions. But the most interesting one was the last bit
that made he explained about the S U Z U K I method
of practising young musicians in Japan. They believed
that if they taught small children one " g o o d " kind
of music, this can be learned as "mother's tongue" like
language learning. Children play music with real plea-
sure like games though all of them start with the same
song. Yehudi believes this is the correct way to in-
troduce music, or arts, science and architecture, into
Kindergartens. H e was sure that even the modern 'el-
ectronic music', if someone built it in a kit form that
children can play with, is still good for the child-
ren. I was really irrpressed with the success of S U Z -
U K I method. C o u l d the learning for pleasure of chil-
dren be a part of future society? I remembered the1
lengthy clap of hands: it was about one minute; and
also his favourite word "Extraordinary"!
H.T. K O A N A N T A K O O L
NUS POSTGRAD
CONFERENCE
The conference was held at Birkbeck College
on Saturday, October 20th, and was attended by 70
delegates representing 37 Universities, Polys and C o l -
leges of Education. Discussion reflected the-deteriora-
ting economic position of P g students and centred
round Demonstrating Rates and the Grants Campaign.
In the past N.U.S. has paid scant attention to the
problems of postgraduates, but recently because of
pressure from Pg activists in various colleges, i n -
cluding I.C., and the energy of Doug Harrison, the
member of N.U.S. exec, who has recently assumed
responsibility for P g affairs the situation has begun
to change. A n as yet incomplete survey of demon-
strating rates over the country has shown wide
variation i n hourly payments, hours worked, and
the number of students involved. M a n y colleges
have successfully campaigned for increases recently
and the message seemed to be that once Postgrads are
organised in a n institution, increases can be obtained.
A t Sussex, for instance, a short strike produced
an increase from £1 to £1.60 a n d the tying of the
payment to the lecturers' pay scale, ensuring a n a n -
nual percentage increase.
The conference passed a motion o n grants and
demonstrating containing the following main points:
1. Grants should be mandatory for students obtain-
ing places for postgraduate study;
2. The rate of grant should be increased and fixed
by the notional elements making up the U . G . grant i n
the following way:—•
52/30 of the allowance for board and lodging.
47/30 of the travel and course cost element.
5/22 of the vacation subsistence allowance.
In addition, students in L o n d o n should receive an
extra allowance, again i n line with the U . G . grant.
3. Demonstrating rates should be tied to the mini-
m u m houriy rate of- the lecturer's pay scale.
This motion has to be passed by the N.U.S. annual
conference at Margate i n December before becoming
official policy. Joe Herbertson and Pete Connell, the
I.C. delegates, put forward the policy of L C . P . G .
Group that Postgrads should receive a Jiving wage.
Such a policy applied to all students would automa-
tically end many of the anomalies which the Grants
campaign lis pledged to remove. However, the student
wage is no longer N.U.S. policy and many delegates
felt that if adopted for Pgs alone it would split the
Grants Campaign and encourage a n elitist view of
the Pg position.
If you've wondered how your grant is made up
and who fixed the figure, don't bother to ask the
S.R.C. or D.E.S. A t a recent meeting neither body
was able or willing to explain it to an N.U.S. repre-
sentative a n d both denied responsibility. It was
suggested that £65 was a merit allowance, paid for
our achievement i n surviving the academic hurdle
race and winning lsts's and 2.1's. Subtract £65
from the total and it looks even more absurd! Nego-
tiations are now in course between the D.E.S. and
N.U.S. which are supposed to fix the grant for
the period 1974-8. It is essential that our views are
expressed as strongly as possible in the next few
weeks. Come to the l . C . P . G . meeting at 12.30 p.m.
today and discuss the most effective way to express
our claims for grants, London weighting and any-
thing else you-'want to raise. There's no excuse now
for explaining inactivity by saying Pgs are in a special
position a n d different from U . G . s — the P.G. grant
is being negotiated o n the same basis as the Under-
graduate grant. Support the London Grants Demo.
" on Wednesday, November 7th.
P E T E C A N N E L L
I.C. Dramatic Society wishes to clarify the condi-
tions and charges for the hire of equipment.
(No charges are made to S C A B societies).
L I G H T :
Hire charge per lantern 5p per kwh.
Fitting (if necessary) 20p.
Surcharge for late return 5p per lantern per.day.
S O U N D :
Microphone & standi
& Head
5 p per item per day
tier
Mixer
Speakers
Tape recorder
Surcharge for late return 5p per item per day
overdue.
There is a deposit of £3 on all items lor use outside
the Concert Hall.
Breakages will be paid for at replacement prices.
We require at least 5 days' notice for equipment,
which must be issued by a member of the Committee.
Equipment is to be operated by a Dramsoc Mem-
ber, or someone approved by the lighting and/or
sound director.
continued on page 2

