Page 8 F E L - I X November 6th, 1973
WINE TASTING
The wine tasting society wishes to
announce ifhe beginning of a new sea-
son of festive occasions. Details of
times, dates, places and wines will be
revealed in further instalments. We hope,
i n addition to providing more special-
feed tastings for our 'experts', to intro-
duce as many people as possible to ithe
delights of the lesser known wines of
the world. The society especially intends
Ito show the better quality Italian and
secondary French district wines thereby
introducing a wide spectrum of moder-
ately priced 'everyday' wines to its
members.
By providing the opportunity to taste
many more wines than the members
would normally encounter in such a
short season, the society hopes to in-
crease the enjoyment and appreciation
d* the vignerons' art at Imperial College.
First meeting has now been arranged
for Tuesday, 6th November ait 5.45 in
physics common room, level 8. M e m -
bership at door. The tasting is on Italian
wine.
T. C. F E L I N E ,
Chairman I.C.W.T.S.
CANOE CLUBS FIRST SPLASH
O n Friday, 26th October the club
tried to depart for ithe weekend ito Sym-
onds V a t on the River Wye. Due to
heavy traffic and two members getting
lost between Hammersmith and Ealing
we did not depart until 9.30 p.m. We
arrived at the Wye alt 2.00 a.m. due to
the driver slipping her clutch. Having
pitched tents and woken up a party of
canoeists from Birmingham Univ. we
settled down for the night. A t the crack
of dawn, 10.30, everybody suddenly
leaped out of 'their tents and plunged
into the river (Lemmings?). During Sat-
urday and Sunday many things were
learnt, i.e. what not to do i n an up-
turned canoe. O n Sunday, whilst some
people wandered around dultching bog
rolls after catching pneumonia on Sta-
urday, others did more paddling. Over-
all a 9 5 % capsizing was 'achieved.
The journey back was uneventful and
so our first major trip was quite suc-
cessful. Thanks must go to M a r i a
Assumpta for supplying a cook who
failed to poison us.
John & Canoe club committee.
X—COUNTRY CLUB
O n Saturday 27th the assembled
hordes of the U L X-Country team, that
is, 17 of them, and their massed sup-
porters (2 female) were amazed by the
arrival at Malet St. of a grey-green
coach—only 10 mins. late! After last
year's Oxford match, weren't we all
dreaming?
Maybe the relatively prompt appear-
ance Of said coach had, among others,
fooled our fell-rase expert, "first back
from de U L match?" K--l-r-y? or may-
be it was just the general apathy that
seemed to have pervaded the I.C. X -
Country team. . . .
A s it was, only superstars Rob, Neil
and Paul turned up to pit their strength
(where? where?) against Cambridge
Hare & Hounds. Hours later the coach
arrived at the C H & H headquarters, or
shack. . . . It was locked and deserted
but a pile of infamous C H & H jam
sandwiches lay in full view—yes! the
match was on! Soon crisp clean purple
U L vests were being handed out to those
deemed worthy enough for the U L 1st
and 2nd teams', after all vests like these
cost £2.50
After much milling around at the top
of Worts Causeway the 6 mile race
commenced. For those not there the
course was described as "down this 'ere
R o m a n R o a d for a mile, twice round
a two mile lap i n the woods spitting on
the picnicking couple taking photo-
graphs i n the car. park as you go, then
back up R o a d . "
Needless to say the race was not
without incident: U L 1st team members
got lost (O.K. so what's new?), direc-
tion arrows were obliterated by Mds
(ditto), M i k e Wignall of U . C . knocked
over and trod on a besuited gentleman
(hooligan), Neil knocked over a small
child (clumsy) and dogs, prams and
pedestrians strayed all over the course
as per usual.
The result? Well, Cambridge 1st did
beat U L 1st, however, doubtless due to
the efforts of Rob, Neil and Paul in be-
ing 1st, 2nd and 3rd counters i n the U L
2nd team, Cambridge 2nds were de-
feated—say no more.
Back again to the looked C H & H
shack (whoops, headquarters) and i n
through an open window—it was the
sight of,the food officer?? Cos dare I
say it? Mooney. can do better!! The
Cambridge runners further compounded
this folly by starting ito devour the jam
sandwiches before changing, hence half
the U L team only got biscuits; quicker
off the mark next time lads.
'In his haste to depart the U L captain
completely forgot those lovely U L vests
he'd so carefully re-collected and only
after M a r t i n Del of Cambridge had
chased the coach for a quarter of a
mile were 'they saved from becoming
C H & H souvenirs. . . . But there was
more to come yet. Pausing to slake our
thirsts at the L a m b & Flag gave the
coach its chance to misbehave (after a l l
it had been no trouble so far). We got
-in . . . the lights dimmed . . . we got
out . . . we pushed . . . oh memories
of Birmingham. . . .
P R N .
MOTOR SHOW 1973
Friday, 16th November 8-00^dawn, College Block
GUILDS CARNIVAL
FAIRPORT CONVENTION
Bees M a k e Honey, M i k e Absalom
Ace, Callinan & Flynn
Films, Food, Late Bar, Disco
tickets from Guilds Union Office
New version of M i n i : The Minissima.
This was an unremarkable show, even
more unremarkable than last year's if
such a thing lis physically (and gram-
matically) possible. There were no signi-
ficant new production models and little
evidence of new thinking, in some cases
no signs of thinking at all. Of course
there were the Lamborgbinis and simi-
lar pieces of exotic machinery, suitably
adorned with synthetic looking dolly-
birds but even these have become an
accepted part of the Earls Court scen-
ery and few people bother to stop and
look.
Absent from the show were the
American armoured leviathans, euphem-
istically known as Experimental Safety
Vehicles. However, I have it on good
authority that the development of these
monstrosities is continuing at an ever
increasing rate. Of course it is desirable
to have vehicles that are less vulnerable
in accidents, but it lis far better to have
less accidents. In any case the majority
of road casualties are pedestrians,
should not their safety be a greater pri-
ority than the protection of the motorist
from his own mistakes?
One brilliant idea, which has not re-
ceived nearly as much publicity as it
deserves is the A v o n Safety Wheel (see
bottom picture). It is one of those con-
cepts which is so simple that it amazes
me that no-one thought of it before.
The main danger with a conventional
wheel (left) is that should the tyre lose
air at speed, one bead will find its way
into the well used for fitting the tyre
and the fitting process will occur i n re
verse, rapidly removing the tyre. The
A v o n wheel (right) prevents this hap-
pening simply by having a metal band
to fill in Ithe well when the tyre lis fin
place, both beads are pushed over to
one side of the rim to allow the band
to be clipped into position before infla
tion. Should the tyre blow out the fact
that it is kept o n ithe rim makes it pos-
sible to safely stop the vehicle and
change the wheel.
Obviously this does not constitute a
run-flat system, as does the much publi-
cised Dunlop Denovo, but it is far
simpler, does not require special (and
very expensive) tyres, and can be fitted
to any car or light van (not just those
with power steering). The performance
in case of a tyre depressurising at speed
is equally effective, and i n any case how
many people really want to drive 'up
to 100 miles at speeds of up to 50 mph'
on a damaged and deflated tyre?
Another good idea, which regrettably
is not yet ready for production is the
British Leyland Minissima town oar
(see below). The prototype uses the run
ning gear of a standard M i n i but due
to the light weight of the car electric
propulsion lis a feasible proposition. The
overall length is only 90 inches, three
quarters that olf a M i n i , nevertheless the
vehicle is a four seater with the twe
rear passengers slitting sideways facing
the middle, ithe one door being at the
back.
Maserati Khcmsin.
£1.30 in advance £1.50 on door
• V •
<
•
•
•
• •
•
Ordinary and A v o n Safety Wheel.

