A manual for saving the world
Andya Primanda finds out how can we use the demise of historical civilisations to prevent our doom
Books books.felix@ic.ac.uk
Here is a book foretelling doom.
It warns us of a possible impend-
ing disaster, in which society would
break down, governments would
fall, and people would be pushed to
the limit and start killing and even
eating each other. In fact, all those
events had been the fate of some
societies before ours, and we might
be on our way there.
Written in the analytical histo-
ry style of his earlier work Guns,
Germs and Steel, Jared Diamond
gives an account of the successes
and failures of several societies in
facing environmental crises that
threatened their means of surviving
in Collapse. Easter Islanders, the
Mayan civilization, the Anasazi and
the Greenland Norse colony suc-
cumbed to those crises, while the
people of Tikopia, New Guinea high-
landers, and Tokugawa-era Japan
managed to make the right decisions
and survived. Also highlighted are
the Malthusian tragedy that mate-
rialized in Rwanda in 1994, where
tensions caused by overpopulation
exploded into genocide; the contrast
between deforested Haiti and green
Dominican Republic, neighbours on
the Caribbean island of Hispaniola
with differing governmental atti-
tudes towards the environment;
and the environmental problems of
China and Australia.
Human societies, past and
present, always have a major impact
on their environment. Some parts of
the world are more environmentally
fragile than the others, and if the
pressure caused by human activi-
ties on any such region is too large,
its life-sustaining ability would
break down, as would the socie-
ty that depends on it. Diamond’s
examples show that some societies
failed to anticipate environmental
crises and continued with whatever
they had been doing for years, oblivi-
ous to the destruction they would
bring until the consequences turned
up. Sometimes the insulation of
elites from problems encountered
by commoners can end up in bad
decisions; like Easter Island chiefs
that kept on erecting statues and
Mayan kings bent on attacking each
other, oblivious that their subjects
were suffering from environmental
breakdown. Today we have much
more impact on nature than those
past societies, because of our larger
numbers and more intensive use
of land and resources. Should we
start asking ourselves whether we
might be following their footsteps to
destruction?
However, the book is not all about
failures. Several societies, like the
Tikopians and New Guinea high-
landers, adopted a bottom-up
approach, with individuals actively
doing things to ensure that they
could sustain the quality of their
environment. Tokugawa, Japan and
the Dominican Republic used a dif-
ferent approach: top-down manage-
ment where a centralized author-
ity dictates effective environmental
protection measurements.
Some might think that the col-
lapsed societies just had the mis-
fortune of being at the wrong place;
their environments just unsuitable
to support civilization. The case of
societies that lived on Greenland
would dispel this argument. The
Greenland Norse chose to live
as farmers inkeeping with their
European identity, and perished
because their choice was unsuit-
able in Greenland; while the Inuit
mastered the appropriate survival
techniques and survived until today.
The environment might put pres-
sure on the society, but the people
can decide what to do about it.
Environmental activists some-
times point their fingers at big
businesses as the main perpetra-
tors of environmental destruction.
Diamond offers his own experi-
ence of involvement with several
big extractive companies, and while
some are outright destructive, there
are also big businesses that adopted
rigorous conservation practices.
The companies realise that invest-
ing and practising conservation is
profitable in the long-term interest
of their business: they would avoid
the potential costs of cleaning up
after accidents and have a more
respectable corporate image. The
public can influence businesses to
be more environmentally friendly
by knowing where to exert their
pressure – campaigning against
buying the products of companies
known to harm the environment, for
example.
Collapse reminds us to take the
environmental and population
problems seriously if we want to
be survivors. Some reappraisal of
core values would also be necessary,
because some societies made envi-
ronmentally destructive decisions
for the sake of those values. Also,
with a globalized world, countries
are becoming increasingly interde-
pendent, and a collapse anywhere
in the world would affect everyone.
Diamond summarized twelve main
environmental problems that we
must tackle if we want to survive:
destruction of natural habitats;
overfishing; biodiversity loss; soil
erosion; depletion of fossil fuels;
depletion of freshwater; exhaustion
of global photosynthetic capacity;
toxic chemicals; alien species; glo-
bal warming; population growth;
and overconsumption (Imperial stu-
dents from various disciplines might
want to pick one most familiar to
them and start doing something).
It is a Herculean task indeed, but
Jared Diamond describes his own
stance as that of a ‘cautious opti-
mist’, where he maintains hope that
we could pull ourselves through.
The reasons for his hope are that
these problems are not insoluble,
and we can learn from the success
and failure stories of earlier civiliza-
tions. There is still hope to save the
world, and this book could be consid-
ered a manual of how to do so.
Collapse: How societies
choose to fail or survive
by Jared Diamond
(Allen Lane, Hardcover)
HHHHI
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 27 Januray 2005 21

