Letters FELIX, Friday August 1st 1986 2
What a Waste!
Dear Sir,
The opening of the Queens Tower to the general
public and the consequent time and expense the project
has taken up, with financial viability clearly impossible,
would provide an excellent story for the recent comedy
series 'A Very Peculiar Practice'. Has the College really
got £28,000 available to throw at a project with no hope
of a financial return? Perhaps the odd academic
department could find a use for such a sum? Even IC
Union might be able to use the money more wisely; a
new glider, rowing eight; the list is endless.
I note that the opening of the Tower is supposed to be
of public relations value. I vaguely recall 'IC Day'
organised by the much missed Captain Lindley, being
for such a purpose. Surely College has not saddled itself
with another administrator who needs a job to keep him
out of the way?
Yours sincerely
Nick Shackley
Double
Standards
Dear Sir,
Having been fortunate enough to have been a student
at Imperial College for the past three years, but having
never before been resident in London during the
summer vacation, it has only just come to my attention
that the College undergoes a quite astonishing
transformation during that period.
Far from closing down as I, in my ignorance, had
always imagined, it has become a veritable hive of
activity: the departments are filled with summer
students, eagerly attending well structured and taught
courses, whilst Estates, in a commendable effort to
make them feel even more welcome, have carried out
extensive refurbishment and signposting in and around
the Southside residences, with an efficiency and
throughness that belies their reputation.
Whilst personally Ifindsuch activity entirely laudable
and indication of the benevolent and praiseworthy
attitude of the College Authorities, some of my more
cynical friends take a somewhat different view. It is, they
tell, me, rather ironic that College should make so much
effort over the summer, only to lapse into what they
describe as its usual uncaring stance when the 'real'
students return in October, and they even go so far as to
suggest that the College's motive are not entirely
unconnected with those of financial gain.
Of course, such views are, as allright-thinkingpeople
will realise, entirely the product of sour grapes and
Communist infiltration, are entirely without
foundation, and thus I look forward keenly to seeing
them proved wrong this October.
Yours
Ian Thomas.
A Phoney
Letter
Dear Sir,
It has come to my attention that a crazed lunatic
posing as David Jones, FELIX Editor has been
harassing members of the public into writing letters for a
certain 'magazine'. I feel that the public should be
warned about such a person, and insist that the College
Security Officer check this man's typewriter
immediately.
Yours
Chris Edwards
Boycotts:
A New View
Dear Sir,
Once again the season for international competition is
upon us and I expect most of your readers (being true
patriots) have been glued to their televisions sets eagerly
lapping up the triumph (and disasters) oftheir respective
national teams.
However, I feel that the time has come to point out
that whilst a little friendlyrivalryis no bad thing, such
blatant setting of nation against nation can only serve to
bolster the average citizen's latent jingoistic instincts
leading inevitably to an increased level of nationalism
and possible insularity in the competing nations.
Obviously were such attitudes to become prevalent in
the world they could only serve to heighten the political
tensions between countries and idealogies and so lead us
ever nearer to the nuclear precipice.
Thus I ask all true patriots, if they truely love their
countries and wish to keep them from the Holocaust to
join the various countries boycotting the
Commonwealth Games in order that world peace may
be maintained.
Yours ever so sincerely
Hugh Stiles
Chem Eng PG
A Totally
Spurious Space
Filling Letter
Dear Dave,
Congratulations on your appointment, blah blah blah
etc. I hope you manage to fill this page etc.
What I really meant to say is that I hope you'll make
sure we get some better music in the FELIX office this
year and not just endless crucial jazz-funk-bongo-reggae
fusion like your predecessor.
Yours
Mark Cottle
(Ageing Hippy)
Bad Times
Dear Sir,
As an Imperial College Union member of many years,
one of my greatest pleasures in these harrowed times has
been the peace of the Union Office. Many happy hours
have been passed reading the papers, drinking the free
coffee and borrowing cigarettes off the rich officers.
Yet, when I returned after my annual leave in
Blackpool-what do I find? Firstly, the new sabbaticals
have given up smoking, no butt end in sight. Secondly,
the coffee equipment has been removed to the hovel the
Hon Sec dares to claim 'Office', and thirdly, and this is
surely the closest this once great institution has come to
the ravening hordes of international communism the
'Times' has been banned from the environs for being
'politically unsound'. I must protest, through your
column against these heretical ideas I would ask all
upstanding decent members of this Union to visit the
Union Office as soon as possible in order to see for
themselves the terrrible conditions imposed there by the
new junta.
Yours
Dave Parry
Queen's Tower
College administration claims that
the Queen's Tower scheme was not
expected to show a working profit, or
even to cover its costs, during the first
summer of operation. That the Tower
would not do weU from the outset
might indeed have been predicted, but
I cannot believe that the College is not
disappointed in the response. The
project may in time be profitable both
financially and in public relations
terms, but it is remarkable that
something so initially costly should be
undertaken when funding has been
reduced to a minimum in other areas.
It seems that the Union may have a
struggle on its hands to win a College
loan for the new glider. I would
suggest to Gliding Club that it makes
it known that it intends to name its
new toy after some Colege dignitary.
I shall be announcing the name of the
new FELIX offset iitho in the next
issue.
NUS Affiliation
Mr Vaughen West, the London
regional secretary of the NUS has
expressed his intention to "get ICU
into the NUS" by the end of the
coming acedemic year. No doubt
many students at IC will dismiss the
possibility of ICU reaffiUiating,
convinced that the staunchly anti-
NUS altitude stili prevails at
Imperial. I would dispute that they
are entirely correct; in the last few
years the pro-NUS lobby has gained
considerable support. If for no other
reason, the need consider closely the
role of IC Union in student 'polities',
makes the discussion of affiliation to
the NUS beneficial.
Credits
For most FELIX people this issue
was probably more trouble than it
was worth. Heartfelt thanks Reg
West, Mark Cottle, David Rowe
and Muffin, Judith Hackney, Bill
Hackney, Chris Edwards, Chris
Martin, Simon Lewis, Liz Holford,
Nigel Atkinson, Sarah Kirk, Nick
Shackley, Hugh Southey, Hugh
Stiles, Pallab Ghosh, Terry
Sweeney, Christine Taig, Jackie
Peirce, Dave Colley, Kathy Tait,
Jen, Olu Adelu, and special thanks
to Rosemary Hosking.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on
behalf of Imperial College Union Publications
Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road,
London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01 589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor, David Jones. Business Manager. Jane
Spiegel. Copyright FELIX 1986 ISSN 1040-
0711.

