LIVE REVIEWS
The Hammersmith Palais truly
has outdone itself tonight, with such
a varied line-up that there really
is something for everyone, as long
as you like electronica or heavy
rock that is! Ageing German indus-
trial rockers Faust kick the show
off tonight with their unique blend
of prog and experimental “kraut”
rock – whatever that means. Taking
the music 180 degrees in the other
direction is turntablist Kid Koala
who brings his energetic scratched-
up tunes and livens the mood in the
expansive but packed venue.
A good portion of the crowd are
primarily here to see the main sup-
port act tonight, Austin, Texas’ own
Explosions In The Sky, who arrive
onstage to a rapturous applause.
They begin with a firm fan favourite,
but even though I’m a fan myself,
I sure as hell can’t remember any
of the track names. You see, EITS
aren’t your average indie band,
rather creators of epic post-rock
masterpieces which seem to tran-
scend time, but usually last about 8
minutes. At times the band, which
is a standard two guitars, drums
and bass, stand almost motionless
onstage (apart from the main gui-
tarist who sways gently), concen-
trating intensely on the delicate,
more reflective moments of their
songs. It is during these contempla-
tive periods of shimmering beauty
that I wish the crowd would show
these guys a bit of respect and not
talk quite so loudly during the per-
formance. They don’t talk for long
though, or at least I can’t hear them
any more, as my eardrums are
being assaulted by the sprawling cli-
max to the previously sombre song.
While before they stood still, they
now throw themselves across the
stage lifting their guitars high above
their heads then bringing them
crashing back down with the beat.
It is impossible not to admire the
confidence of these guys, not only
for creating such passionate music
without words to accompany it, but
for taking the time in between the
“loud bits” to fully explore the more
reflective elements to their songs.
On leaving the stage to what would
have been a standing ovation if we
weren’t already standing the band
are visibly overwhelmed at the level
of enthusiasm shown by their fans,
who are then equally disappointed
at the lack of an encore.
Another £4 pint and its now that
it becomes clear to me why EITS
couldn’t just have carried on all
night; tonight is Kieran Hebden’s
night as the only member of his
experimental electronica project,
Four Tet. It’s a shame then that
about a third of the audience for
EITS have already left by then,
either thinking that was the end of
the show, or having a snobbish dis-
like for all things electronic, as they
are really missing out. He arrives
onstage to a warm applause bash-
fully, and seems almost unsure of
what to do to begin with. The audi-
ence, myself included, are initially
unimpressed by the almost unlis-
tenable cut-ups and samples that
he gives us, but he soon reaches
his stride and leaps into a golden
oldie, Hands from the always bril-
liant album Rounds. He then seam-
lessly mixes this into another playful
piece from the same album, and
the Palais remembers, as one, why
we all loved Four Tet so much in
the first place. Gone are the more
laid-back tracks tonight, as Kieran
seems determined to get the crowd
moving and puts out some dancier
mixes of his best works which the
beered-up punters lap up appreciat-
ingly. Half an hour of samples looped
over each other and pasted onto
tribal rhythms later, and the man
known as Four Tet re-emerges from
the depths of backstage after a tri-
umphant set to appease our needs
for more with a select few extras in
an all-too-brief encore. Something
a little different then, which can
surely only be a good thing.
Toby Prudden
The Brakes are an amalgamation of
British Sea Power and The Electric
Soft Parade (and the Tenderfoot);
supposedly a cutting edge musical
experiment, but frankly, probably
just a vehicle for inert ‘Dull Parade’
members to get laid riding precari-
ously on the crest of BSP’s wave.
However, The Brakes may (and
probably should) excite you to your
very core; unless of course you are
presently touching yourself while
pondering those cherubic scamps,
The Arctic Monkeys.
Firstly, a word about the venue:
the Borderline is a place to detest
and despise. Unless your name
is Tarquin, you enjoy the work of
dead peasant and own a gold plated
top-hat, drinks are unaffordable.
Furthermore, there is, for no appar-
ent reason, a huge obelisk-like struc-
ture in the middle of the venue; so,
while at the bar desperately trying
to exchange an innocent compan-
ion for a pint of stale Fosters, you
can see nothing other than a mass
of bobbing gold plated top-hats. A
truly sickening, wretched hovel of
a venue.
To The Brakes then. I refuse to
mention either of the support bands,
as the very thought of them makes
me want to lick the tongue of a bird
flu ridden turkey. Twice. The Brakes
started with aplomb, playing almost
the entirety of Public Enemy’s Fear
Of A Black Planet while setting up.
This was fabulous as I too enjoy
fighting the power; and, have a
cocker spaniel called Chuck D who
recently took a slug in Compton. It
made me nostalgic for times past.
Tears were shed. So thank you, The
Brakes!
Musically, they are astounding.
Tightlikeaninnocentmanduringhis
first shower in prison. It all seems to
be based around the guitarist, who,
inexplicably is from Electric Soft
Parade. It is his crushing guitar riffs
- somehow played while flailing and
hopping around like a leper - which
give the songs depth and draw you
in. The singer (Eamon from BSP)
seems to have attempted to lift the
best parts from the voices of both
Neil Young and Frank Black: obvi-
ously he’s not a patch on either, but
one must respect his courage to
attempt to wail and screech melodi-
cally. From the pulsing, sing-along
single All Night Disco Party, they
launch straight into one of their
8 second thudding rants, Cheney.
These miniscule songs show off the
band’s musical talent proudly, they
also offer a stark, bracing jolt, arrest-
ing the attention of any apathetic
crowd members. However, the band
tended to repeat these songs and
others which are essentially identi-
cal, and, after the fourth or fifth
time, they stop being a novelty and
become an irritation, to all other
than the amorphous scenesters lit-
tering the venue and whooping and
hollering throughout. The Brakes
work though, they write inventive
songs and, judging by the effort
they’ve put in making their set air-
tight, they genuinely seem to enjoy
playing them. Even to Londoners.
The Brakes are a breathe of fresh
air in a scene wholly starved of talent
and inventiveness. Unfortunately
for them and us, they will always be
playing in places like the Borderline
because the lead singer is bald and
the rest of them don’t look like movie
stars or drug fiends. It’s a shame
that success is no longer based on
the attributes it should be: talent
no longer counts. Any old tune, a
dangling cigarette and high cheek-
bones are all that’s necessary. Just
ask those monkey scamps.
Peter Dominiczak
Pretentious, moi?
he excellent Eat Your Own Ears put on another of their genre-hopping nights, this time fea-
turing post-rock champions, Explosions In he Sky, and beatmaker extraordinaire Four Tet
music music.felix@ic.ac.uk
Explosions In The Sky - Texas! Thank you so much for so many great bands.
14
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 17 November 2005
Four Tet / Explosions In he Sky
Hammersmith Palais
HHHHH
he Brakes
he Borderline
HHHHI
Four Tet - Keiran Hebden, the ever-changing chameleon of the electronica scene.

