J
oel, you put forward some very interest-
ing points in your response to Anushri’s
column “A Good God Would Not Kill
People”, the most offensive of which is
your view that “we are all in a desperate state”.
As a non-Christian I find it arrogant of you to
decree that I “deserve a punishment” for my life.
Unless I repent to Jesus I am, in your eyes, mor-
ally and spiritually bankrupt.
Now of course I know you don’t actually believe
that and you would wish me all the happiness
in my life no matter what my religious leanings,
if any, but your three columns worth of Bible
quotes struck a nerve in me that I wish to fiddle
with some more.
Aside from the fact that your response totally
missed the point of Anushri’s original column,
I was very interested to hear your views on
suffering as an inevitable consequence of “God’s
justice”. In my opinion a God who is just and fair
and eternally loving would not inflict pain and
suffering unto the innocent just because a few
miscreants defy his will. To me it sounds like
pure evil. Would you want to endorse a God that
punished innocents for the wrongs of others?
That doesn’t sound very loving to me.
Allow me to quote from one of your favourite
books, Revelations 13:8: “All people living on
earth will worship [the devil] except those whose
names were written before the creation of the
world in the book of the living which belongs to
[Jesus]”
Do I take it that because my name is not in
that book belonging to Jesus, that I worship
the devil and will face an eternal struggle in
hell cavorting with Satan’s bum pokers; that no
matter what my decisions in life are; to be good
and honest, kind and loving to everyone to the
best of my ability; I shall still go to hell? Did God
specifically choose me to be punished? How
delightfully evil!
Dante said in his Divine Comedy, “The
greatest gift which God in his bounty bestowed
in creating humans, and the most conformed
to his own goodness, and that which he prizes
the most, was the freedom of the will.” That’s
nice - it really is. The idea that with all his
omnipotence and infinite wisdom, God still chose
us to be his special children and gave us free will
(not even his angels had that). I like that, I really
do. However, when you suggest that we are “lost
in sin with no future” unless we accept Jesus
“as [our] substitute [for punishment]” it seems
to stick two fingers up in the face of God’s gift of
free will.
Bad things do happen, without a doubt, but
instead of blaming god, I believe we need to be
more introspective. The problems in the world
aren’t caused by him at all; they’re merely
a consequence of our actions. And natural
disasters? Well, it just so happens that the forces
we need to keep our planet alive are the same
forces which will kill people, whether that is
God’s will or not. I would rather imagine God as
a helpless God than a God who is vengeful and
destructive. I perceive evil as being vengeful and
destructive, and I certainly don’t want to worship
an evil God.
I believe it was Bertrand Russell who said,
“There is one very serious defect in Christ’s
moral character, and that is that he believed
in hell. I do not myself feel that any person
who is really profoundly humane can believe in
everlasting punishment.” If Jesus Christ really
did believe in hell as everlasting punishment,
then there was a serious defect in his character,
and Christians have nothing less than a crisis on
their hands.
I
’ve been meaning to write this column
for weeks but unfortunately things like
work and extreme right wing tendencies
got in the way. I have briefly overcome
both these things to give you my idea on how
we could improve football. Well, not so much
football itself. I’m not going to try to sell you a
Budweiser advert but rather improve football
players. Nearly everyone thinks that football
players are grossly overpaid and this was par-
ticularly brought home to me when I heard that
the Kettering town club, which Paul Gascoigne
and some of his mates have just bought, might
go from semi-professional to fully professional!
They are in the conference, for God’s sake.
Most of them probably can’t play better than a
member of the IC first team (who always used
to be quite good but I still wouldn’t pay them).
Therefore, I feel we should switch to a system of
no win-no fee. This system is very popular with
solicitors and I think it works something like this
(I admit I have done no real research so some-
one called Alex might tell me all my facts are
wrong and I’m a Nazi but I’m willing to take the
risk). If the solicitor doesn’t win their case they
don’t collect any fees (or only a very small per-
centage of it). However, if they do win, they can
charge up to double their normal fee.
This strikes me as the perfect solution for
football. If footballers weren’t so sure that
they would collect thousands of pounds, win or
lose, they might be a lot more motivated and
passionate. There has been a lot said about the
lack of dedication of players. Liverpool’s chief
executive recently said, “We have never paid
our players more and never been less sure that
they would die for the cause.” I think that sums
up present day football brilliantly. I’m not saying
that all players are lazy and uncommitted.
Players like Wayne Rooney strike me as very
passionate. The fact he expresses his passion by
being a complete twat is a different matter.
So I reckon footballers should only get their
big, fat, pay cheques if they win. Then each
week only half the clubs would have to pay out
wages (this would also stop the clubs getting
into so much debt). I think that after a few weeks
of defeat and a lack of new cars and velour
tracksuits for their girlfriends (or boyfriends, we
must stop this homophobia in football), players
in underperforming teams would be so riled
up that they give everything they’ve got for the
full 90 minutes. This might mean that tempers
boil over a bit more often but, after all, football
is a man’s game! Maybe we could adopt the
ice hockey approach where, I believe, you are
allowed three fights a match. Alternatively we
could adopt the rugby approach where players
actually listen to the referee. Either way I think
that this could turn football into a much more
life or death sport, making matches as tense and
as exciting as gladiatorial battle.
Alternatively we could pay them a few hundred
pounds a week, like everyone else earns, and
stop worshipping them because, at the end of
the day, they are simply kicking a ball around a
field. A sealion can do much better juggling than
most footballers and yet they only get paid fish.
Is that really fair?
I
t seems the legislation is coming though
pretty soon, so I better say this now as I
may not be able to later. The boundaries of
what is considered appropriate discourse on
violent actions need to be explored. In his strug-
gle for African independence, Nelson Mandela
was deemed an extremist by the Apartheid
government of his day. Today he is a hero, yet
ironically the group he co-founded (Spear of
the Nation) was principally involved in a sabo-
tage campaign against military, government
and civilian targets. Today it is not violence
but views and language that are being deemed
illegal. Similarly, Mahatma Ghandi led 300 mil-
lion Indians in a struggle for independence from
the British Empire. Are such acts today to be
considered as terrorism? Are we to conveniently
brush aside examples of history and apply a new
set of rules for the injustices of the day?
There has been a deliberate marginalization
of this discussion, due not only to the climate
of fear but to the vast spectrum and polarity of
views. A student in the Officer Training Corps
will have hugely different views to the nature
of a just war compared to a Palestinian activist.
To the activist, the Palestinian people who are
under a most brutal occupation, with massacres
like Jenin or the Ghettoization of Gaza and West
Bank, military resistance to state sponsored
terrorism is justified. To the Chechnyan, the
recent scene of the Prime Minister yet again
shaking hands with President Putin, after most
of Groznyy has been smashed and 250, 000 of its
people killed, will be sickening. At almost every
Friday Prayer comes the same supplication from
even the most apolitical and pro-government
Imams, “Oh Allah, help the Mujahideen in Iraq,
in Palestine, Afghanistan, Kashmir, Chechnya…”
There are crises that some would rather be
imprisoned for than not to speak up.
Yet to the soldier, British or Israeli, the idea of
calling their work as state sponsored terrorism
is offensive, as is the terrorist who is coming to
try and destroy the civilization they hold dear. In
their view, they sincerely hold up their lives for
the protection of others, even at the behest of
governments with doggy dossiers. No one should
be allowed to hold the view of Bin Laden, that a
civilian anywhere can be deliberately targeted.
This is taken as granted, but what about military
targets? Nobody wants to see death or really talk
about it, yet it is happening, and it is unreason-
able to expect someone who thinks that they
have been so horribly wronged to roll over and
just die because they happen to be on the wrong
side of the argument or in the less fortunate
civilization.
This is a philosophical argument as to when
murder is permitted. If the new laws are applied
as they ‘should’ be, then there is nothing to
worry about. Nobody wishes to see political
debate stifled. Yet if the Government wishes to
see no opposition to its policies or the policies of
other states that they have good diplomatic rela-
tions with, then there is a problem. It is an obli-
gation upon all decent and good citizens to speak
up against injustices wherever they are. There
will be mistakes made, but what is worse is leav-
ing the situation to rot along with oppressed peo-
ple. If we are silent then we are complicit in the
crimes against them. Speak up, come to campus
events, and help your fellow human beings. This
generation has been vested with the authority
and privelige that no other generation in the
past has had, that is to actually enact global
change for the better.
Football revolution
What does it mean to incite hatred?
Iain Heaton
Meherzad Pahlan
On suﬀering beliefs
18
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 17 November 2005
Omar Hashmi
Liked it or loathed it? Let Felix know who you like and who you hate: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A response to Joel Holdsworth’s “On belief and suﬀering” in Felix 1334

