Anushri Patel
Bullying: name and shame
S
o, I assume that you must be a poor lone-
ly fresher crying in your room because
you left an amazing country, village
or cardboard box, have no friends and
drowning in coursework.
First of all I would like to tell you that I don’t
feel sorry for you and that I also had my depres-
sive moments (not!). But the least that I can do
to make your life easier is to write your survival
guide for the next 4 years (I know it’ comes a
bit late, but I spent 3 months in deep focusing in
Tibet to write it). That’s it, like the pope, Diogo’s
heart is generous and he wants to spread his
love (and genes) all around the world!
So, if you want to have a good time chillaxing
in London read section A. If, on the other hand,
all you want to do is to get a 95% and spend
the rest of your life in a boring routine with no
friends please jump to section B.
SECTION A
- Make friends. People don’t bite, you know?
It’s not hard to be nice and smile for 5 minutes
and, perhaps, gain a mate or a sex buddy (after
all, we are in England)!
- Party. University is not all about studying!
You can easily kill your liver and still manage to
have a decent or excellent degree. All you have
to do is plan your weeks and leave some morn-
ings off for the hangovers.
- Join a sports team. Playing sports it’s not
only about rubbing your nose in some 100kg and
2m tall dude’s armpit. It’s about team spirit,
making friends, breaking your body into three
different pieces and getting wasted.
- Release your hormones. No one survives
exam time with his hormones on fire and trying
to shag everything that moves! Having a girl-
friend/boyfriend, pulling and getting laid are not
capital sins; they are good for your body and for
your mental stability.
- Step by Wilson House, the best halls of resi-
dence in London. Fun and good nights are guar-
anteed.
SECTION B
- Catch up with all your work. Run to the
library straight after the first, pick up 5 books on
the subjects you were taught and learn them all
by heart! After a few weeks your lecturers are
going to love you and offer you their jobs.
- Don’t waste time with all that making friends
bullshit, playing sports, going out or the opposite
sex. All these really vain and superfluous things
aren’t going to get you £50,000 a year! Do 5 hours
of research a day and who knows, you might fall
in love with a test tube (I reckon it has the per-
fect size for you).
- Become an asexual being (if you’re not one
yet). Who needs the opposite sex? It’s just a
waste of space in your brain that could be filled
with Fourier Transforms or more C++ com-
mands! Having your right hand, a hole in a wall
and/or a pair of slippers as sexual partners is not
a crime: it’s the way forward for an existence of
complete work focusing!
- Never leave College. You might lose your best
seat because you arrived only 15 minutes early!
Freshers’ Survival Guide
Diogo Geraldes
T
he Rector, Sir Richard Sykes, has
announced that he “quite likes the new
Wallace and Gromit film.” The shock
revelation was announced only to the
Rector’s close friends in an informal chat two
days ago. News of the decision finally filtered
down to college staff and students yesterday
and there has been widespread outrage. So why
do Sir Richard’s film preferences have any rel-
evance to the average IC student? The Brown
Couch team tried to find out.
The new film “Wallace and Gromit in The
Curse of the Were-Rabbit” took audiences by
storm after its release in October. Widely said to
be “as good as” or “slightly better than” the ear-
lier films, the Rector’s position seems entirely
tenable. Since the announcement was made,
there has been a furious outcry from the great
unconsulted.
The staff and students argue that since the
Rector is part of College, any decision, from
trivial merging of faculties to “what’s hot and
what’s not” at the local cinema should be made
with full consultation. One member of the Union
suggested “Every student should have a say in
every decision the Rector makes - especially big
ones like this. Imperial is a very diverse college
and not everyone will like the comic antics of a
dog and man double act.”
Sameena Misbahuuddinn, Imperial Collge
Union President said recently: “After everything
that happened last year with students not being
informed” ... “this is another example of College
not informing us of what is happening and the
effects that it could have on students.”
The mad fuss that welled up yesterday forced
the college administration to host a press confer-
ence. Here the Rector attempted to justify his
position. He first pointed out that many Imperial
students and staff have seen the film and are in
agreement with his views. He drew attention to
the vital statistics: “over 1,100 staff,. 2,700 under-
graduates, and over 680 PhD students [have
seen the film]”. He also said he found it “compel-
ling and exciting”. We can only speculate that he
is referring to the plane chase towards the end
of the movie.
A statement was read out: “The opening of
the film [in which Wallace uses an assortment of
gadetry to get ready for work] shows such inno-
vation that it will surely serve as an inspiration
to all our engineers and scientists. It is partly
for this reason that we fully support the Rector’s
view that ‘the film is quite good’.”
Maybe not apocalypse now, nor the day after
tomorrow, but perhaps by the time Sir Richard
oversees a merger of Wallace and Gromit, we’ll
be a little closer to a democratic system.
Crackin’ cheese gets stamp of approval
Brown Couch
20
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 17 November 2005
S
ometimes I feel like I’m turning into my
mother; patronising the “times of today”
as though my era were so much better.
I’m not that old, but I have to deplore
today’s society when 15-year-olds are being
stabbed in school. For no reason other than for a
few kicks, pardon the pun.
The school’s principal had this to say: “The
school has a very clear, well established anti-bul-
lying policy. It is a shocking and appalling inci-
dent and it has shocked the whole college com-
munity.” Of course it’s an awful incident! Why
don’t you focus on that as opposed to defending
something that so evidently happens? The anti-
bullying policy is clearly not being implemented
very well, is it? I doubt the first port of call for
the bullies was to stab this poor girl; they must
have been after her for a while.
Every time a child in this country is stabbed
or beaten to death by his ‘schoolmates’, all they
can do is a bit of ‘soul searching’ as opposed to
confronting the problem. “How could it have
happened here?” they ask. Because it’s been
going on forever, that’s how! It’s almost as if they
have no memory of their own schooldays and are
completely blind to the cruelty around them.
Children are no more angels than the rest of
us. Like most other human-beings, they’re not
even on the same level as animals. An animal
will hurt you for survival, a human-being will
hurt you for fun. What remarkable role models
we all are to the youth of today. I wonder how
many children have seen fox hunters parading
their silly selves on television, out rightly under-
mining the authority of the Government, think-
ing that antisocial behaviour is OK in the name
of sport.
Many, if not most, British schools (fee-paying,
or not) are host to chronic, petty violence. If you
are a parent or a teacher with the necessary
time and patience you can really love, educate
and discipline children out of their inherent evil,
but it’s much easier to pretend that it isn’t there,
or to temporarily suppress its worst manifesta-
tions.
I’ve seen generations of bullying in action.
I only have to walk up and down Caledonian
Road a few times to see the local chavs pick on
anybody not dressed as ridiculously as them. I,
myself, got rather Biblically stoned at primary
school, once upon a time. Of course, my wonder-
fully supportive school imparted only the best of
punishments: they put the perpetrators’ names
in the infamous “black book”. This cycle of inane
bullying and punishment continued for a few
months, until my parents eventually conceded
and told me I could fight back. Needless to say,
after I bit the little fiends, they never touched me
again. Typically, I was punished for my actions
whilst the bullies continued their reign of terror
on the playground.
I still get the feeling that nobody knows how
to handle such a senseless crime. Perhaps they
don’t know how to handle it because they con-
tinuously deny that it happens. In the same vein
that parents who will readily believe their child
is a gem yet refuse to believe they’re capable
of stealing, schools want to believe they are the
epitome of perfection and bullying isn’t an issue.
Most schools don’t even provide somebody that
a child can turn to. Teachers will either refuse
to take anything said seriously (“just ignore it”
and “stop being so silly” are common deterring,
patronising phrases that they come out with) or,
if they happen to see bullying in action, fear of
being attacked themselves or losing their jobs
stops them from intervening. Parents of the vic-
tim can only do so much about an environment
that they aren’t in on a day to day basis, and par-
ents of the bully refuse to believe their child is
flawed. Then, finally, when a child is attacked on
school grounds, schools will seek to blame eve-
rything but themselves: television, video games,
music, parents and even Marylin Manson, to
name a few.
Why is bullying turned into such a non-issue?
Is it because it’s conducted by children, the
world’s little angels? It’s time to wake up to the
fact that kids are growing up much faster these
days, taking on both the good and bad points of
adulthood. If schools are going to be handing
out condoms to 12-year-olds, they shouldn’t need
to worry about holding those same 12-year-olds
accountable for their actions. They want to grow
up faster? Fine, let them grow up and face the
rules and laws of the society we live in. If they do
something wrong, then they need to be brought
to trial and punished for their actions. That’ll
teach them to have underage sex and stab peo-
ple in the eye.
Stop hiding from bullying and face up to it.
The more something is taboo, the worse it’ll
get behind those annoying closed doors. Bring
everything out into the open. Children who bully
should be named and shamed within the school.
Let them face the embarrassment that all other,
more grown-up, criminals face. Let them face
the same trials and punishments, and give their
victims some justice. Give teachers a safe work-
ing environment by allowing them to defend
themselves and their pupils without fear of pros-
ecution. If children want to act like adults, by
all means, just let them. They’ll soon go back to
playing with their toys when they learn the bad
isn’t as fun as the good.

