At the beginning of November was Riseweek, an anti-racism and anti-islamophobia campaign. The Union organised events from debates to world cup football to
celebrate diversity in Imperial with the support of the OSC, RAG, Debating, Model United Nations, Islamic and the Afro-Caribbean Societies. Thanks to all of you
who contributed.
Coming up at the end of November is S.H.A.G week, a week to raise awareness for Sexual Health and Guidance leading to World AIDS Day on December 1st. Look
out for the red ribbons, for getting S.H.A.G. approved and for the very many events organised for this massive week.
Take a look at the union today, and what is the most important element you will find?
The answer is Clubs and Societies, and it’s not just me who thinks so. The Union Stra-
tegic Review from last year records that 96% of you believe that ‘The Unions Clubs and
Societies are an essential part of student life.’
Given then its worth, we should firstly congratulate ourselves that we have 260 odd
active clubs, and the structures in place to support them. After all we have a deputy
president whose sole responsibility is to manage clubs and societies.
Secondly, it is worth taking a look at how we do manage our student activities, and con-
sider whether there is any room for improvement.
This may bring groans from some of you, but the aim of the exercise is not to spend
months throwing around buzz words only to come out at the end with a structure. (And
one which might bear a striking resemblance to the one we have now). Yes, we’ve all
seen these things go wrong before.
Instead the idea is to step back and think about why we do the things we do with clubs
and societies, and try and turn a history of generally successful precedents into a con-
crete policy that we can move forward with, as well as to identify, and adjust, things that
run contrary to the aims and objectives of the Union as a whole.
To this end, a working group has been set up consisting of members of the Student Ac-
tivities Committee (SAC), the body in charge of overseeing student activities. This group
is in fact directly accountable to you, the club member, as SAC is made up of the chairs
of clubs and society committees (CSC), as well as the Faculty Union presidents, and the
RAG and CAG chairs.
The point of this is that everyone can have a say in this review, we will shortly be having
an official consultation with all union members. However, of course, the best way to get
your voice heard, as always, is to talk to your nearest union representative (be it club
chair, CSC chair or Sabb).
As for official consultation, we expect to distribute questionnaires, hold focus groups,
and conduct interviews with some members of college staff and union officers, aiming
to get as big a range of opinion as possible. The aim is simply to get as many opinions as
possible. Thus we will know what you want student activities to be. So far nothing has
been ruled out, and nothing ruled in, so there’s plenty of opportunity to make a differ-
ence.
Look out for more details on specific ways to get involved in the next few weeks, notices
will be posted in Felix and on the monitors in the JCR, as well as on notice boards. Until
then, if you have any suggestions, please either contact your nearest union representa-
tive or email suggestions to dpcs@imperial.ac.uk. We look forward to hearing your
opinions.
Clubs & Societies Review
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. T: 020 7594 8060 www.union.imperial.ac.uk
JamesYearsley - Media Group Chair
Union News...
Sameena Misbahuddin - President
Union Newsletter & Email
In last week’s issue of Felix you will have found the first Union newsletter. It’s designed
to give you more information about the Union; what’s going on in the Union, what the
Union is doing for you and how you can get involved. The idea is in response to the large
amounts of feedback we received last year about the Union and the need to improve its
communications.
This is something I feel passionately about, so I hope this will be a few steps to improv-
ing the situation. The newsletter will come out every 2 weeks (but a different size so that
it doesn’t fall out!) and along with the Union Website, which is being revamped this year,
and the all new redesigned Union Email, going out this week, I hope that it will allow
those who wish to you know more about the Union, the opportunities to do so.
Smoking & the Union Building
With smoking seeming to be in the news a lot lately, I thought it would be good to give
an explanation of the provisions in the Union. There have often been requests for a
non-smoking venue to be provided amongst the Union bars. In response, last term saw
a 3 month no-smoking trial in DaVincis (the middle of the 3 bars). A lot of feedback was
received and the outcome was very mixed – a lot of people were in favour of the ban,
but this being balanced by the many people against it. In response a compromise was
found – DaVinci’s “9am-9pm” non-smoking during the week, but with smoking allowed
after 9pm during the week and all day during the weekend and vacations. This was the
arrangements at the end of last term and are the current arrangements.
Natural Sciences
Despite the merging of the 2 faculties of Life Sciences and Physical Sciences into Natural
Sciences, I’ve been assured by College that this will have no affect of the students aca-
demically. The division system of Life Sciences and department system of Physical Sci-
ences will remain, at least for the foreseeable future. If you do feel there are problems
or have concerns, please contact me or one of your Faculty representatives.
Wye
As mentioned in an article last week, changes are happening to Wye College and its
course – Applied Business Management. The Deputy Rector went to speak to the
students 2 weeks ago and then the proposals were approved by College as the way
forward.
The ABM course will be an Imperial College course for all current students and those
entering in 2006, through to the completion of their studies (~2009). All these students
will continue to receive the same degree and associateship of the as present. The staff
(AEBM) will transfer to the University of Kent, retaining an honorary association with
Imperial, and will continue to deliver the course to Imperial students under formal agree-
ment with Kent. In addition there will continue to be a component of the course deliv-
ered by Imperial academic staff who do not transfer to Kent.
From the 2007 entry, the course will become a University of Kent degree, delivered by
staff of the University of Kent (but there will continue to be a component taught by Impe-
rial staff) and will remain at the Wye campus. Students enrolling after 2007 will receive
a University of Kent degree (not a joint degree with Imperial), but there’ll be a formal
recognition of Imperial’s continued involvement. It’s proposed that this would be through
establishing of an Associateship of Wye College awarded to those receiving a University
of Kent degree.
There’ll be a review of these arrangements in 2011, allowing two full years of graduates
of Kent to have come through the course, so that both institutions can assess the value
of the current arrangements.
I will be in Wye on Friday 18th November, so if you do have any questions about this or
anything else, feel free to come and see me then.
Email: president@imperial.ac.uk
Or pop into the Union building, South Ken, first floor.
Rise to S.H.A.G...
Sarah Khatib - Deputy President (Education & Welfare

