Equal Opportunities vs T h e World
Lily Macey, Equal Opportunities officer
1^ role at ICU
I doubt if many of you even knew that there
a S s uch a thing as an equal opps officer at ICU
r l l C h less what they do when they're there. Well I
.q;y knew that there was one when I lost out to a
-ertain president's sexist views just before the ill-
•3ted S N K P J Rag Week 2000. The equal opps
,fficer is the person at the union who, with the
ielp of my fellow welfare officers, stands up to
allege, other union officials and union members
behalf of anyone who feels that they are not
eing treated fairly in any way. S o basically I hang
round, adjusting the union Equal opps policy and
viai)t until someone has a problem. Fortunately at
lCL'N
-ot many people seem to.
would like to have a small rant now and in
anting issues (when Stef has space) about the
i flings that make me angry. The reading of which
nay help to d e s c r i b e the concept of Equal
Opportunities a bit more clearly.
Equal Opportunities V s Positive Discrimination
Positive discrimination is not positive at all and I
hope to illustrate this by the way of two short
•xamples from recent media.
In the run up to Christmas I happened upon a
mall article in the Daily Mail (must be true) about
ome strange goings on in a Labour Council bor-
lugh in London. According to the article the
Council officials had decided not to put up the tra-
litional street Christmas decorations and had
also asked the workers in the council building its
self to "keep Christmas celebrations and decora-
tions to a minimum". The reason given for this sur-
prising scrougery was to avoid "offending non
Christians". Now, imagine if you will that the exact
same council had asked an ethnic minority - a
"non Christian" culture if you will - to "Tone Down"
celebrations of a major religious, festival. There
would have been outrage, a front-page story not
just a crappy two inches at the bottom of the cur-
rent affairs summary. "Racist Scandal in London
Borough", "Oppression of Minority's beliefs" or
some thing along those lines. Here the headlines
should have read "Oppression of Majority's
beliefs" because that is basically what positive dis-
crimination is about the discrimination against the
majority.
Another example of a situation where positive
discrimination is rife is human resources. This is
caused mainly government pressure to improve
employment statistics. If a company is only
employing white males then it is considered racist
and fined or taken to court. This is also true of
educational institutions. Ever wondered why there
seems to be more and more girls at IC year upon
year? There has been a steady increase in num-
bers from the days when it was a men only col-
lege. A silly and hugely over exaggerated exam-
ple of such discrimination is a Hale and Pace
sketch. It is set in a boardroom meeting of a big
company between the main heads of manage-
ment. The topic of conversation is the forthcoming
expansion and the need to recruit more staff to
accommodate the change. The purpose of the
meeting is to decide what qualities these new
staff would have, in order to decide this they con-
sult a report from the human resources depart-
ment which details the current workforce ethnici-
ty, sex and disability statistics. The report shows
that the work force is severely lacking in mentally
disabled Japanese women. There fore the motion
is carried to give preferential employment to men-
tally disabled Japanese women. Needless to say
that the actual attributes of the prospective
employees that would be beneficial to the job in
hand were not discussed at all.
Although this is a comedy sketch which has
doubtlessly lost much of its comedy in it's retelling
here by me it is based however loosely on the
truth. Companies and Colleges should not choose
employees or students on a pick and mix basis
just to satisfy the d e m a n d s of an equality
obsessed government. W h e n in actual fact in
doing so they are discriminating against deserving
people.
Equal Opportunities means just that, Equal.
Not artificially created and improved opportunities
for anyone majority or minority at the expense of
everyone else. Create opportunities and encour-
agement. Allow everyone to have chances and
then on their own merit allow to advance them-
selves. Having flexibility in the work place, giving
everyone equal opportunities and equal access to
equal representation for their individual rights.
EXTRA C O S T S
When out-competing ICU for the right to run a
bookshop in the college, Waterstones promised
that the Imperial College branch would become
their flagship academic store. Waterstones book-
shops at university campuses have been the sub-
let of complaints by students who find that text-
books are more expensive in these stores than in
•Vaterstones branches on high streets. The com-
pany has accepted the student's observations and
explained that as the sales of text books were
higher in the university branches, price increases
effected by publishers would inevitably be passed
* more quickly to customers in these branches.
Kevin has also noticed that there are no second
i hand books for sale in the on campus store, unlike
ja t
their Mallet Street and other stores.
I -EGAL R E F U S A L
Orange have recently begun to refuse students
Mobile phone contracts, solely on due to the fact
'hat they are students. One Carphone warehouse
Manager confused as to why one of is customers
"as being consistently turned down by Orange,
Systematically adjusted the credit check form until
1
°ecame clear that it was the word student in the
°C c
upation box that was causing the problem,
^ange deny preventing students from accessing
their products, pointing to their ranges of contract
services set up specially targeted at students.
However Carphone warehouse senior sales man-
agers are convinced the problem is real, and have
been threatening to stop dealing- with Orange
should they continue their discriminatory policy.
INEFFECTIVE C O M M U N I C A T I O N
This year residences have a shortage of rooms
which are in halls which are open over Easter.
Some International students needing to stay in
A m o s t l y libellous c o l u m n . K e v i n is a
r a n d o m e n t i t y w h o k n o w s n o t h i n g a b o u t
nothing
halls over the holiday period have been accommo-
dated in Southside, and are moving to Evelyn
Gardens for Easter. In a typical example of one
part of college not coordinating its activities with
another, there is a four night gap between the end
of the Residences' license period at Southside,
and the first date at which rooms in Evelyn
Gardens are available when booked through the
Conference Office. Kevin has been told that the
root of the problem was due to: "Easter occurring
at an unusual time this year," and assured that
"something would be sorted out".
S T R A N G E S N O W
Last week Kevin noticed that the snow falling in
college appeared to be slightly abnormal. The
Snowflakes appeared to be elongated and had a
stringy appearance. Apparently the mutant snow
was yet another consequence of the huge amount
of general muck and grime in the London atmos-
phere, this particular effect being attributed to
detergents in the atmosphere. With the effect of
the polluted atmosphere being so apparent with
the snowflakes, Kevin wonders what it is doing to
him.
A D V E N T U R E S WITH B A G P U S S
C u r r e n t l y B a g p u s s is safely curled up in
DramSoc's cupboard, but is apparently restless to
get out. Current ideas over the future of the huge
cat seam rather tame, some however have more
potential such as seeing how often we could get it
to appear on the television news. Kevin believes
that the cat could be used to maximum comedy
and R A G earning potential on a grand tour of
London Landmarks.
mishmash@ic.ac.uk
• Felix • 29th January 2001 • Columns/Union

