Capricorn
2
2
n
d December-20th January
Beware of P V A glue this week...as with
the sudden dissappearance of CITV's art
programmes...your craft work m a y
become a little unregulated
h
I Li by Guru Gingagal
W o m e n ' s Fencing
Victory!
Scorpio
24th October-22nd November
This week you are adopted by an alien
host you quite rightly feel very special
indeed....
Gemini
22nd May-21st June
Leo
22nd July-23rd August
This week y o u r luck s e e m s to h a v e
turned...and it w o u l d n ' t be the only
one....by the number of recent trips to
the dentist it appears that your lover has
too....perhaps cautious foreplay should
ensue....
Aries
21st March-20th April
The little creature thats been living in
symbiosis with your liver breaks free this
week which is quite a s h o c k all
green and covered in goo....
Pisces
20th February-20th March
This week you yearn for stabilty and
you begin to plant your roots....which is
unfortunate as you had passed them off
3s feet for such a long time now....and
People are beginning to notice....
Taurus
21st April-21 st May
Cross words arise this week , when tau-
r
eans begin to feel neglected....ahhh poor
little loves....
This week you are very very hungry...rav- j
e n o u s . . . d r i b b l i n g all over t h e !
place...gnawing your friend's arms...star- *
ing hungrily at their stomachs....very cun-
n i n g . . . y o u will n e v e r have to c o o k ,
again I
Aquarius
21st January-19th February
1
1
This devil may care attitude you seem to 1
be adopting might leave you free and •
e a s y ....but s p a r e a thought for the :
demons....little bit selfish isn't it «
Virgo
24th August-23rd September i
Career aspirations begin to spiral out of «
control this w e e k when h e a d h u n t e r s |
come knocking at your door...apparently 1
not so interested in the quality of your '
C V 1
Sagittarius
23rd November-21 st December
You are a little withdrawn this week....but
there are some diseases that you just
shouldn't share....
^ c h m
fear of
SOci
l ' Cancer
2
2
n
d June-21st July
uch danger this week...as you
a
dark and murky underground
e t y
formula student apparently
1
"
b|
ts of (
^ y a r s
making students out of jam and
'cars..
Libra
24th September-23rd October
Strange scratching sounds from under
your bed are explained this week when
you discover your obsessive compulsive
flatmate with an icepick lying there...des-
perately trying to get out forgot you
had left him there....d'oh...
IIC v Surrey
9 0 v 6 7
Getting back on track, with a great start to the New Year, a
decidedly small IC ladies team travelled down to Surrey Uni for
the return B U S A league match (we won the home match last
term, but were missing our star fencer, Camille R2 Datoo, this
time).
Just three fencers made it along - Kaptain Katherine Sisson.
Leucha 'Money Bags' Veneer and Cockney' Clare Grove - with
both epee and foil being fenced by everyone. Foil was first, and
although there was a great deal of level pegging to start with,
about half way through Imperial secured a lead that they were
not to loose. Everyone performed well, and the final score reflect-
ed this - a secure win of 45 v 27.
The epee didn't prove to be quite so easy, with Surrey rarely
more than 5 hits behind, and sometimes taking the lead. The
state of our team didn't help, with Clare providing entertainment
by having to borrow kit off of Surrey, and then trying to fence
with a left-handed weapon (not advisable for the only right-hand-
ed member of the team!). Still, we managed to (just about) keep
our heads, with the Kaptain fencing the final bout, taking the
score to 45 v 40 for Imperial.
Let's hope for the same result thist week, when the women
are fencing Reading and the men are matched against Royal
Holloway. If anyone is interested in watching the matches, both
are being fenced in dB's in the Union this Wednesday (31st
January), between 2:30 and 5pm. Feel free to come along and
show your support. If you would like to try fencing for yourself,
please come along to the Union Gym on a Tuesday or Friday
• lunchtime.
£
i Walking in a winter DiscDoctors Land
i
It was a bloody cold S a t u r d a y morning, and we the
I insane/brave/least hung over of DiscDoctors ventured forth to
j Cockfosters (which was doing a fine impersonation of Siberia) to
1 play Ultimate against Blue-on-Blue (BoB).
' W e used the first several points to practise our Zone and
Junk defence but due to the conditions they were not that effec-
I tive. Also the hard ground (which supposedly was soil, but was
I more like soft concrete) resulted in Big Gay injuring his ankle and
I so we lost the benefit of his handling ability. However, "The
• Claw's" knee injury had got better by this match and thus the
team was not left lacking in talent
W e soon switched to man on man defence and constantly
- forced BoB to throw backhand, punishing them for their depend-
ence on sidearm throws. This defence was successful and with
good interplay between S B G , The Package, Rob and the rest of
j the team we slowly cruised to our initial aim of taking the first
half. The first point of the second half saw BoB scoring. This was
because "Macdonalds employee" the Package, macked the disc
high in the air in our end-zone, gifting BoB with an easy catch to
score.
Jimmy, Fukwit and Diva demonstrated to the opposition the
idea of break-away cuts to the end-zone, with well placed hucks,
resulted in our score notably mounting.
With continued good play, and some nice first and second
cuts from TC and Scot, we eventually beat BoB 17-11.
•Felix • 29th January 2001 • Sport/Horoscopes

