imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
The EU referendum is fast approaching. Register to vote at www.gov.
uk/register-to-vote by Tuesday 7 June if you haven’t done so already
and get out to vote on 23 June. You can also vote by post or proxy if you
won’t be around on the day but you need to make sure you apply for
these separately. If you are living in halls you will need to make sure you
are registered because changes to voter registration mean you are not
automatically on the electoral register.
Who is eligible to vote in the EU Referendum?
A British or Irish citizens living in the UK
A Commonwealth citizens living in the UK who has (or does not require) leave to remain in the UK
Haven’t decided which way to vote yet?
We’ll have campaign teams around College for the next few weeks to give you all the facts you need to make an informed choice. We’ll also be
hosting a debate on Thursday 2 June at 18:30 in Skempton with speakers arguing both sides if you still need persuading either way.
In support of Mental Health Awareness Week, the Student Counselling
Service and partners are asking you to start a conversation about mental
wellbeing.
This initiative was created by the Mental Health Foundation and is
celebrated every year in May. The aim is to get people to talk more
openly about the issues that surround mental health and to raise
awareness of the issues people face.
To help you do this, the Staff Health and Wellbeing Team have put together a range of talks, lectures, and events including fitness classes and
swimming sessions at Ethos and meditation with the Chaplaincy. Further support is also provided by The Advice Centre in the Union, which can be
especailly during exam time - it is time to get people thinking about their own mental wellbeing. There will be hosting a number of stalls and events
around several Imperial College campuses and the Health and Wellbeing team at Imperial offer support year round.
To find out what’s on offer and how to book go to: www.imperial.ac.uk/health-and-wellbeing/mental-health-awareness-week/
Take part in Mental Health Awareness Week
Imperial Plus Volunteer Qualification
Are you volunteering in a leadership position next year? Will you
be responsible for managing other volunteers?
We have the opportunity for twenty volunteers to undertake the Institute
of Leadership & Management Level 5 Award in the Management of
Volunteers, an externally-accredited, highly respected qualification.
Holders of the award will be able to demonstrate to future employers a
rare skill set – the ability to lead, organise and motivate volunteers, which
can actually be harder than managing staff! It looks great on your CV too!
You can read more about the various modules offered in this qualification which focuses on promoting opportunities; motivating those around you,
building up strong relationships with colleagues and friendly organisations, and being a leader in your area of responsibility. Applications are open now
and close on Tuesday 24 May. Don’t miss out on this fantastic development opportunity, apply today.
Find out more by visiting imperialcollegeunion.org/ipvq
Developing your skills
Imperial Plus
Have you registered for the EU referendum yet?

