Helter skelter helicenes
Laurence Pope interviews Dr Fuchter, a synthetic and medicinal chemist at ICL
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 10 MAY
12
Dr Matthew Fuchter is a Senior
Lecturer in Synthetic and Medicinal
chemistry at Imperial College Lon-
don. In close collaboration with Dr
Alasdair Campbell from the depart-
ment of Physics, Dr Fuchter and his re-
search group have dedicated some of
their research to OLEDs and a group
of molecules known as helicenes.
Laurence Pope: So what is an
OLED? How do they diﬀer from
regular LEDs?
Dr Matthew Fuchter: OLED stands
for organic light-emitting diode. They
diﬀer from regular LEDs in that the lu-
minescent material used within them
is organic, i.e. carbon-based. This or-
ganic material can be a molecule of
low molecular weight, or a polymer.
LP: Your work focuses partly on
helicenes. What makes them so im-
portant in OLED research?
MF: My group’s research came from
a molecular interest in this class of
molecule. When we started this work
helicenes hadn’t been explored in any
depth as an OLED emissive material.
There are already small molecules and
polymers that have arisen from aca-
demic and industrial research which
produce light emitting devices with
good eﬃciencies, wide colour pallets,
long-lasting stability and so forth.
We came from another angle, ex-
ploring a feature of the helicene itself.
Helicenes are thermally-stable poly-
cyclic aromatics. Aromatic molecules
are ﬂat, but if you start to fuse them
together you get to a point where the
polyfused system can’t lie ﬂat, as the
rings start to bump into one another.
That introduces a kink or a spiral into
the molecule. Their electrons are still
fully conjugated, but the molecule is
no longer ﬂat.
Why are they interesting? For devic-
es, I see there to be two key interesting
features.
Because they’re not ﬂat, how they
pack in the solid state is somewhat
diﬀerent to common OLED materials,
which are ﬂat. How molecules pack
together in the solid state is important,
with ramiﬁcations on light emission.
But also, because helicenes are heli-
cal, they’re also chiral, and can there-
fore come in left- and right-handed
forms. We were interested in how this
chirality could potentially be exploited
in organic devices.
Putting these features together we
wanted to explore the idea of using
helicenes as the organic emissive ma-
terial in OLEDs. It’s an interesting new
class of molecule in their own right,
but also have the potential to directly
generate polarised light.
Light can be polarised in certain
ways. One form is circularly polarised
(CP) light, where the light wave trav-
erses as a helix, which also comes in
left- and right-handed forms. Stand-
ard OLEDs produce unpolarised light,
which needs to be specially ﬁltered
to generate CP light. We wondered
whether you could use these chiral
helicenes to generate a certain hand-
edness of CP light.
To cut a long story short we found
we needed a mix of organic materials,
blended with small amounts of either
left- or right-handed helicenes with
conventional, non-chiral material.
These OLEDs were able to produce
circularly polarised light using diﬀer-
ent handed helicenes. It wasn’t 100%
CP light, but rather enriched light.
LP: How does the chirality of the
helicene molecule control the chi-
rality of the light?
MF: We’re not sure why mechanisti-
cally. Light emission is generated from
the non-chiral polymer, not the heli-
cene. It therefore looks like the heli-
cene is interacting with the polymer
in some way, most likely changing the
conformation of the polymer to emit
circularly polarised light. Almost cer-
tainly the helicene is inﬂuencing the
polymer structure, possibly organising
it into a helical conformation.
LP: So where is your research now
heading?
MF: There are a few diﬀerent direc-
tions we’re heading in. One angle is
more focused on commercial tech-
nologies based on this, further vali-
dating its eﬀect using other polymers
and helicenes. How good can we get
this? Can we fabricate OLEDs that can
match up to state of the art devices
whilst also generating CP-light? Can
we tune the wavelength to emit more
than just one colour of light? There are
still a lot of unanswered questions!
Academically, we want to further
study what is happening, what the
helicene is doing to the polymer. How
does that relate to the eﬀect? Heli-
cenes are fully conjugated molecules,
which can carry charge and emit and
absorb light on their own. Potentially
you could further tune the helicene to
improve the performance of the de-
vice in terms of conductivity or light
emission.
Beyond that, OLEDs are one exam-
ple of plastic electronics. This encom-
passes a whole range of OLED devices,
such as organic transistors, organic
solar cells and so on. Do helicenes
have applicability with other devices?
Do they have any advantage, with their
chiral property? Again, we still don’t
know just yet.
LP: Has much research been carried
out with helicenes before?
MF: There are some patents out there
that claim novelty over the use of
helicenes in OLEDs. None of them
however have claimed the chirality
of helicenes, as they use the racemic
mixture, a mix of left- and right- hand-
ed molecules. Their claims of novelty
stem from the helicene’s thermal sta-
bility properties.
LP: What particular applications
can you see arising from this re-
search?
MF: There are several potential appli-
cations, some fairly immediate, oth-
ers more long-term. One application
of CP OLEDs is as the backlight of an
LCD, leading to more energy eﬃcient
displays.
3D cinema relies on CP-light, split
between your two eyes. In theory you
could fabricate an OLED TV that uti-
lises diﬀerent CP pixels to create a thin,
fully ﬂexible 3D display with diﬀerent
pixels emitting diﬀerent CP light.
In photonics, the technology of
light, there’s an interest in CP-light
emitting and CP-light detecting de-
vices. Optical communications is for
me an interesting area, which relies on
a light source being on or oﬀ to trans-
fer information. Using an intercon-
vertible CP-light source could double
channel capacity, from just on and oﬀ
to on, on-left, on-right and oﬀ.
LP: How would you sum up the sig-
niﬁcance of your research into heli-
cene use in OLEDs?
MF: The signiﬁcance for me lies in the
novelty in what we’ve discovered. I
would make two statements.
We are the ﬁrst research group to
show that a chiral small molecule do-
pant can induce polymer OLEDs to
directly emit CP light. This is the ﬁrst
time it’s been shown that you can use
dopants in this approach.
This is also the ﬁrst study to use
asymmetrically pure helicenes in this
regard. There are very few papers fo-
cusing on this asymmetrical mix.
To read more about the Fuchter
Group’s research visit imperial.ac.uk/
fuchtergroup. For more information
on Imperial’s Centre for Plastic Elec-
tronics visit imperial.ac.uk/plastice-
lectronics.
Various graphical representations of helicene architecture. The aromatic
rings begin to kink when they can no longer lie flat.
imperial.ac.uk/fuchtergroup/research/tos
Work by groups such as Dr Fuchter’s is part of the ongoing push to develop
flexible plastic electronics.
materialsgate.de
PRYING APART AN OLED
1) Cathode; 2) Organic emissive layer; 3) Radiation emission; 4) Organic conductive layer; 5) Anode. A voltage is applied
across the OLED, creating an electric current (an electron flow) that flows from the cathode to the anode. Electrons are given
to the emissive layer and removed from the conductive layer. Stripping electrons from the conductive layer creates holes that
need filling with more electrons. These holes jump up to the emissive layer to recombine with electons. Upon recombination
energy is released as a photon of light. The colour of the emitted light depends upon the material composing the emissive layer.

