ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Print Club group show @ The Print Club - Masters of the art of screen printing, the Print
Club’sgroupsshowisagreatchancetoseesomeofthemostexcitingandinnovativepro-
ponentsofthis venerableart.Theshowfeature30worksfromthegroup’sbestmembers
andtechnicians.Opens9May
Eddie Izzard@WembleyArena-Onestoponhisglobaltour,Izzardfocusesonuniversal
themes, such as material focusing on human sacrifice, Greek gods, languages and more.
Youmightbeforgivenformistakinghimfora godhimselfafterhissuperhumanexploits
inbothcomedyandmarathonrunning.11May
Deutsche Börse Photography Prize @ Photographers’ Gallery - The prestigious £30 000
prizeasdrawnnoninationsforfournomineesthisyearhaveadecidedlygrittyportfolio
focusing on war and inequality, raising questions about our jaded visual palate and ca-
pacityforempathy.UntilJune30
TimeWave@InnovationWarehouse-The firstyearof thisinternationalfestivalofthea-
treandtechnologypromisestoexplorethethemesof‘Transformation’inouryoungcen-
tury.Verymuchaneventforthemodernagewithafocusanddigitalstart-upsfeaturing
abraceofawardwinningartists. June19-23
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle was drawn in what Felix understands
wasa‘verystimulating’Electromagneticslecture.
FRIDAY 10 MAY
14
The world of theatre revolves around
the invisible. Behind the actors, oﬀ
to the side, there will be a dedicated
team of people bringing the stage to
life; lighting, staging, and sound de-
sign all form the invisible heart of
the production, playing with the au-
dience’s emotions in subtle ways and
creating the magic that keeps people
returning to the stalls. This team are
usually hidden, their work not fully
appreciated – nor understood – by
the theatre-going crowd. But what
happens when this world is brought
into the open and placed under the
brilliantly bright stage lights? It is a
question that director Katie Mitch-
ell has attempted to answer with her
stunning production of Fraülein Julie,
which seamlessly merges technology
and stagecraft to form a new kind of
theatrical experience.
A radical interpretation of Strind-
berg’s 1888 original play, Maja Zade’s
translation has cut out large portions
of the script, shifting the focus from
the eponymous Fraülein to Kristin
(Jule Böwe), the cook who can only
observe as her ﬁancé Jean (Tilman
Strauß) enters into a romantic tryst
with Fraülein Julie (Luise Wolfram).
This alone is already a radical depar-
ture from the traditional Strindberg,
but Mitchell’s meticulous production
design and staging challenge the con-
ventions of tradition even further.
The action takes place on a mid-
summer’s night at a Swedish country
estate, and a large proportion of the
stage is taken up with the kitchen in
which Kristin works; closed oﬀ to the
audience, the only way we can see
inside is through the windows. How-
ever, an enormously talented camera-
crew have invaded the set, and what
they ﬁlm is shown, live, above the
stage. The eﬀect is startling; the audi-
ence is both removed from the action,
and shown it in excruciating detail.
We get to see the pain in Kristin’s face
up close – every movement or twitch
taking on a new importance
This is not the only way in which the
audience gets to see what they would
normally not be able to. Mitchell has
said that with this production she
is attempting ‘theatrical cubism’ –
showing all the diﬀerent levels of the
production simultaneously – and she
lives up to her word. As well as the
camera-crew there are two sound-
proof recording studios oﬀ to the side,
where actors enter to record internal
monologues, and a live cellist on stage
providing the soundtrack. The real
stars of the show, however, are the
foley artists; clad in black, they take
up the front of the stage, painstakingly
creating all of the sound eﬀects in the
play. From the click of heels walking
across ﬂoorboards, to the bubbling of
pans and rustling of cloth that form
the soundscape of Kristin’s domestic
drudgery, the foley artists create all
of the ambient sounds we can hear
in the play. The result is breathtak-
ing, but also makes it diﬃcult to know
where to focus; should we be looking
at the foley artists, or the actors, or
the screen? After leaving the theatre
it is diﬃcult to tell if I’ve missed any-
thing; it is certainly a production that
needs to be seen twice.
With all of the technological wiz-
ardry going on, it wouldn’t be a sur-
prise if the performances are sub-par.
They are not. The actors, drafted over
from the Berlin Schaubühne, are ef-
fortlessly in control of their perfor-
mances. The nature of this produc-
tion requires a high level of precision;
any mistakes the actors make might
lead to the cameras or sound being
out of time.
Mitchell has said that past pro-
ductions have had to be halted com-
pletely because of slip-ups. Control is
therefore of the utmost importance.
While this lends the actors a quality
that some would describe as robotic,
it perfectly reﬂects the restrictive so-
cial values of the time and makes the
instances where the characters show
pure emotion even more shocking.
Jule Böwe is on top form as Kristin,
displaying a virtuosic ability to layer
emotion upon emotion, with slight -
almost invisible – movements betray-
ing what she is really feeling. Wolf-
ram’s Fraülein is also sublime, ﬂoating
around the stage like a hollow shell,
creating a wonderful juxtaposition
against Kristin’s stoic character.
As with any playwright whose
works have entered into the literary
canon, directors who stray too far
from the beaten path may be criti-
cised for ‘betraying the work’s integ-
rity’. I am sure that there will be a
number of critics who feel that Mitch-
ell’s take on this naturalistic classic is
too robotic, too mechanical, to truly
reﬂect what Strindberg was trying to
achieve. The script alone is radically
diﬀerent enough to give professors of
Scandinavian literature an aneurism.
Unfortunately the show has now
ﬁnished its run. However, it is my
opinion that Mitchell did not simply
succeed with this production, she
reaches dizzying heights and shows
what is possible on the stage. Fraül-
ein Julie is balanced on a knife edge
of timing and control but, by reveal-
ing the invisible art of theatrecraft to
the audience, Mitchell has created a
production that is both magical and
technical. A true modern classic.
Breaking the backdrop
Fred Fyles Writer
Google maps
filming becomes
intrusive

