MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 10 MAY
20
hen oﬀ-beat
rhythms in Wyl-
deck’s music
progress into
double time for
ever-exciting choruses, the audience
is united in a desire to dance. The dif-
ference between audience members
will be, instead, that some will favour
these ﬂashes of energy whilst others
will prefer the more serene moments,
perfectly showcasing Cece Wyldeck’s
pure treble voice. The music mixes
these lullaby moments with tinges
of dark rock perfectly. The powerful
guitar strokes in the upbeat numbers
resonate and are deﬁnitely addictive.
Despite having only formed in March
2012, the band play as if they had been
together for years, understanding ex-
actly how to blend perfectly with each
other throughout the variation in
Dark-FolkersWyldeckinConversation
Julia Spindel chatstothebandinthefirstofaninterviewdoubleteam
songs. They clearly enjoy the experi-
ence and so does the audience. Wyl-
deck’s songs are rich in memorable
riﬀs and ﬂowing melodies, success-
fully reminiscent of lost folk songs.
I spoke to Wyldeck before their set
at the Underbelly in Hoxton a few
weeks ago. They’d eaten too much at
dinner and were trying not to curl up
and nap. Cece, dressed all in white,
had employed three napkins to avoid
food stains and all had had to tie up
their hair. Here’s what they had to say:
Julia Spindel: So how did Wyl-
deck come about?
Wyldeck: We’re all from south-west
London and we’ve known each other
for ages. The boys met when they were
4 or something, then Cece met them
aged 10 (when girls were allowed to
join girls scouts). The boys had a Led
W
Zeppelin tribute type band and had
T-shirts and everything. Later on
Cece and Dave were in a punk pop
band that played alongside 2:54 (for-
merly the Vulgarians) and headlined
before The xx. After a couple of years
of this we had a couple of years oﬀ
during which Cece wrote and debated
a solo career. But after some late night
drunken texts, the Wyldeck group
was agreed on. It clicked in the ﬁrst
rehearsal.
JS: What’s your favourite and least
favourite aspect of being musician?
W: Our favourite aspect is deﬁnitely
playing your instrument and doing
gigs. It’s always great when people tell
you how much they’ve enjoyed them-
selves after we’ve put the eﬀort in.
Sometimes the free drinks are good
but sometimes not. We’re not rock
and roll enough to get trashed before
our set! Our least favourite aspect is
the social media side of stuﬀ – we just
want to make music without the has-
sle!
JS: How do you guys write a new
song?
W: Usually one of us puts some-
thing down then the others ﬁne-tune
it. Sometimes it’s Cece, sometimes
Dom and sometimes Jacob. Jacob’s
just written a song called “Beyoncé’s
baby”. You can try and shout for it
as an encore later if you like! We all
know when a song isn’t working. The
best ones are written really quickly
and those are the ones we play live,
there’s no arguing. There are lots we
never play. Sometimes songs that we
started to write ages ago resurface
and are ﬁnally ﬁnished just because
it’s a better time for them. The other
day we ﬁnished one Cece wrote 7
years ago.
JS: What would be your advice for
musicians just starting out?
W: Do it for fun, especially at the
start. Don’t take yourself too seri-
ously. Sometimes dreamers are the
ones that have enough determination
to get somewhere but it’s best to be
personable too and not have too mas-
sive an ego.
JS: What were your ﬁrst music pur-
chases?
W: Aqua, Shanks and Bigfoot, Fat-
boy Slim. (Cece) Then during our
punk pop phase I liked the Yeah Yeah
Yeahs and stuﬀ. Now I’m more into
Fleetwood Mac. My ﬁrst concert was
the Backstreet Boys.
JS: And what are you listening to
now?
W: Daughter, Prince, HAIM, Cat
Power, Polica, Kendrick Lamar,
Kanye West.
JS: Who would you most like to
meet?
W: (Cece) I’ve met idols before and
it’s been disappointing. Maybe it’s
best to keep them just as idols. (Boys)
But we would like to party with peo-
ple that know a good time. Kanye
West or Prince maybe. But you would
have to prepare yourself.
JS: Who’s your favourite on the
London gigging scene at the mo-
ment?
W: Phillious Williams. There are a
lot of nights going on at the moment
involving very similar indie bands but
they’re doing something a bit diﬀer-
ent. Mark has a great voice but speaks
completely diﬀerently!
JS: What do you think of the Lon-
don gigging scene in general?
W: People that do come along are im-
pressed and the fans we do get are re-
ally dedicated and come to gigs again
and again. We’ve learnt that we have
to gig less often and write new mate-
rial to make the repeated trips worth-
while for those people. Every couple of
months we have a new song. Tonight
we’re playing 9 songs, our longest set
yet, with two new songs.
JS: And, ﬁnally, what are your next
plans?
W: We’re playing some festivals this
summer – Wilderness festival, Damn
Dead Circus (set up by Phillious Wil-
liams) and Hamswell. But we’ll do an
EP ﬁrst as that’s a halfway step to an
album in terms of how many killer
songs you give away at once.
AMS album of the week
Suspiciously named and sensibly abbrevi-
ated, ASIWYFA are a 4 piece who play in-
strumental rock. Their sound is probably
best summarised by the title of their best
known track, “Set Guitars To Kill” - hyper-
active arena rock made to be heard from so
close to the band that you can feel splinters
flying from the drumsticks. Their self-titled
debut released in 2009 benefited from the
band’s extensive catalogue of well-practiced
demos, recorded with spacious production
focusing on bringing out the wide variety of moods the group could create.
Their second album, Gangs, adopted a more familiar mix, but fell just shy of
being truly memorable when compared to their first album.
All Hail Bright Futures dropped in March of this year, landing squarely in fa-
miliar territory. Despite a switch of guitarist and a long break from touring, the
album is full of the moshy aggression and tight musicianship we have come to
expect, now married to a jubilant mood that covers the whole album in rain-
bows and sunshine. New guitarist Niall Kennedy gives the cheerful pop riffs of
his last band, Panama Kings, a new light, without dumbing down the format of
a good instrumental track.
Considering the album’s production, what really seals the deal is the range of
new guitar sounds, likely inspired by genre contemporaries Battles and Adeb-
isi Shank. Tracks like “AMBULANCE” use a warm, fuzzy, honky-tonk sound
akin to the tone of an ice-cream truck piano. This is especially effective when
juxtaposed with ASIWYFA’s heavy moments. Gang vocals, chants and weep-
ing synthesisers make a welcome return without removing the focus from the
interplay between instruments.
Perhaps what the band loses with this album that was so strong on their pre-
vious releases was the ability to create a more varied song. Tracks clock in a
little more than 4 minutes, and no longer possess a slow build of ideas or melo-
dies – rather, they dart around, with the attention span of a small child, burn-
ing through riffs and noodly math rock passages as if they can’t wait to get it
finished. The album’s closer “Young Bright Minds” is a partial response to this,
featuring a 7 minute exploration of a riff that doesn’t really compare to their
previous epic tracks, like “Don’t Waste Time…” from their self-titled. Rather, the
band focuses on one mood throughout the album – relentless delight – and cap-
tures it perfectly. That’s very special indeed.
And So I Watch You From Afar:AllHailBrightFutures
Robin Thomas
Wyldeck in the wylderness

