SCIENCE TRAVEL PUZZLES
OLEDs Totally Mexico A welcome break
Weird fact about OLEDs: when
I applied to university I spe-
cifically singled them out as an
area of interest on my UCAS
form. I may have exaggerated...
Taking a break from thermo?
Escapism is a nice feeling some-
times. The title here is a refer-
ence to the excellent Nathan
Barley by the way!
A massive slitherlink, hashi,
a crossword, and Passi, what
more could you want in a re-
vision break? It’s like being on
The Crystal Maze.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>12 >>25 >>28
FRIDAY 10 MAY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Battyman Matt Colvin Travel
Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Christopher Witham, Carol Ann Cheah, Ross Webster Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Examining hope
t’s that time of year once
again. The last term and the
last stretch of College until
exams are over (hopefully you
won’t be returning in sum-
mer for resits). You can almost sense
the high tension and stress in the air.
It’s a familiar feeling and reminds you
that the culmination of months (and
in some people’s case years) of work
is just around the corner. Much like
Phil Collins once said, you can feel it
coming in the air tonight – which, inci-
dentally, I’ve only just realised actually
sounds pretty rude when you think
about it.
So, standard advice about not
stressing too much and blah blah
blah. It really does apply though. It’s
better to actually do three hours of
focussed work and then an hour of
chilling out as opposed to five hours
of not really concentrating. If you’re
not a final year then spare a thought
for them. In your fourth year you may
have had seven and over years of ex-
ams in summer. By then you definitely
get exam fatigue, and really have to
motivate yourself to remember that
it’s just one last push. Unless you do
a law conversion course, or are go-
ing into a job where you have to do
training and pass exams. Sorry, that’s
probably not helping the whole “one
last time” approach very much.
During the next few weeks you may
start to think that exams and work are
the only thing there is to life. At a place
like Imperial it’s really easy to get into
the mindset that it is the most impor-
tant aspect of your existence. All of
the work and your grades do matter
a lot, but remember that there is light
at the end of the tunnel. Just keep a
positive mental image of what it’ll be
like when you finish. It can be any-
thing: sunbathing on a beach/watch-
ing endless TV/reading a good book/
in Belushi’s calling the toilet attendant
“mate” and inexplicably giving him £2
coins for no reason – as long as it’s
something that makes you smile it’s
what you should remember you will
be able to do in a few month’s time. If
that still doesn’t help then remember
this: it is just an exam. Nobody will
die if you fail it (erm, except maybe
for medics? But, you will have loads
of on the job training I’m sure/hope).
Even if you do, there’s always a way
out. Retakes, resitting a year, going
to a different university to start fresh,
there’s a range of options. So, parting
words from the strange Agony Uncle
persona I appear to have adopted:
work hard for this short period of time,
and it’ll all be over soon. Then you can
forget differential equations exist.
Halls
College and the Union ping ponged
responses to each other. This is a step
forward. Now there is a much more
open dialogue. Before it was all things
that nobody was able to tell anyone
about. The fact that the Management
Board have responded to students is
definitely moving in the right direc-
tion. However, we must be careful.
The words must turn into actions and
firm guarentees. Also, we must make
sure we don’t all just get bored, forget
about it, and let things quietly slip by
without the student voice being heard.
Garden Hall and Evelyn Gardens
are still under threat, as is Pembridge.
They really are a great asset and make
being a fresher at Imperial an amazing
year. In terms of student experience
(the latest catchphrase that basically
means how good your time is here)
having such great, cheap, close ac-
commodation was a real boost. We
must hope that there will be some
good news on this front at some point,
and also continue to lobby for their
survival. They are really worth it for
Imperial. In terms of Acton, there must
now be a positive dialogue. We have to
see what we can do to make it the best
it can be, if it must be. It’s definitely
good that there is a working group and
students are involved.
MARQUEE WATCH PART 2
Queen’s Lawn hasn’t got a marquee, but
it does have a bouncy castle...
I

