TRAVEL
25
FRIDAY 10 MAY
Travel Editor:
Veronika McQuade
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Making a splash in Mexico
exico receives such
bad press these
days that it is hard
to believe it has a
safe and beautiful
peninsula kicking out into the Carib-
bean Sea. There are white beaches,
fascinating Mayan ruins and magniﬁ-
cent colonial cities. It seems that the
only two drawbacks to this balmy “Yu-
catán” Peninsula are that place names
are unpronounceable (try “Xkeken” or
“Xcaret”) and that although the street
food looks great, it might be regretted
later.
The Yucatecan feature perhaps
most alien to us Englishmen is the
“cenote”. Thousands of these magniﬁ-
cent underground sinkholes pepper
the river-free land. The Mayans relied
on cenotes for drinking water and the
occasional swim; they say that after
swimming in a cenote, you emerge 5
years younger. In addition, some were
used for human sacriﬁce such as the
haunting Sacred Cenote at Chichen
Itza used in the appeasement of the
rain God, Chaac.
Since cenotes provide much amuse-
ment to the tourist, many are open
to the public. Some of the more en-
trepreneurial Mexicans in Cuzama
lead what can only be described as a
“cenote-athon”, that is, visiting three
cenotes in as many hours. Anaemic-
looking horses transport tourists from
one cenote to the next on carts run on
rail tracks. The guide-book warned us
that this mode of transport could jar
ﬁllings loose. This I can believe. Relief
from the bumpy ride comes, however,
when another cart approaches from
the opposite direction: you must slow
down and either stand your ground, or
disembark and intentionally derail the
cart, in order to let the other pass!
The cenotes themselves are deep
underground and can be accessed ei-
ther by slippery stone steps, or as in
one case, a perilously ﬂimsy step lad-
der. However, this inconvenience is
deﬁnitely worth it. The water, which I
should add must be shared with ﬁsh,
is a surprisingly comfortable tem-
perature, crystal clear and awesomely
deep; diving opportunities are ample.
Impressive stalactites hang down to
nearly within reach and bats nest on
the cave’s ceiling. It’s a swimming ex-
perience like no other and after three
cenotes, although I still appeared the
same age, I certainly felt more alive.
Another unparalleled Yucatecan
swimming opportunity presents itself
at Tulum. Here stand the remains of
a late-Maya city still occupied during
and after the Spanish arrival. Although
not as impressive architecturally as
other Maya sites, Tulum is perched on
a cliﬀ next to the Caribbean Sea giving
it a picture-postcard beauty. On the
beach its “Castillo” is clearly visible.
The sand is white and the sea inviting.
Stop taking photos and get in!
All photos: Stephanie Walton
Stephanie Walton thinks you should vamos to South America
M
Read online: felixonline.co.uk
Gone on holiday recently? Watched TV recently? Watched a film? Listened to music?
Gone to an art gallery? Don’t just tell your Facebook friends about it (they said your
status updates are boring anyway), write for Felix. Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk

