HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 10 MAY
26
Opera Lyrics
of the Week
“Libiam ne’dolci fremiti
che suscita l’amore.”
(Let’s drink for the ecstatic
feeling that love arouses.)
Wow, that’s quite a way to an-
nounce to your lover that you’ve
got some trouble getting junior to
stand to attention. “I’m sorry my
love, but I can’t feel aroused when
I’m with you, unless I’m drunk.
Why can’t you look more like your
brother?”
Verdi: “La traviata”
Are you the laughing stock of
your Google social circle? Wow
your friends by sending stuff in:
felix@imperial.ac.uk
The hangman guide to a city banker life
Right, that’s it. I’m taking oﬀ my boy-
scout costume (which doesn’t really ﬁt
me any more) and I’m going to let old
ladies get run over when they try to
cross the road. If a bunch of lost tour-
ists ask me for directions to Earl’s Court
station, they’ll end up outside the local
homeless shelter instead. Worst of all,
I’m not going to hold the door open for
anyone. I’m fed up with this world, and
I’m just going to let it burn for a bit,
fall over, and then blow up in your face,
like a poorly made ﬁrework.
On one side, I’m stuck with all the
imbeciles that don’t know the diﬀer-
ence between muscovado and dem-
erara sugar, and on the other side,
there’s the intellectual pricks who’ll
lecture you on the correct pronun-
ciation and etymology of ‘eat a bag of
dicks’.
Everyone you are going to meet at
your workplace is somewhere be-
tween these two stereotypes, and
you can rest assured that they don’t
care about you or your feelings. They
probably don’t even remember you
were there when they pushed straight
through you, screaming into a bling-
tastic, plastic-studded phone to one of
their partners about their latest STD.
So, I’m here to tell you to give up all
semblance of being a reasonable per-
son, and instead be the greedy, self-
centered person you see on the street,
and you’ll feel a better human for it.
Do you often feel like a pillar of sup-
port, ready to be leant upon and shat
on by pigeons, within a moment’s
notice? I’m sorry, but if your friends
aren’t going to keep their business
to themselves when they’re thinking
about changing star signs, you need
to re-evaluate your friend catchment
area. They’re the kind of people who
Instagram their daily bowel move-
ments. Or Vine it, if they’re feeling
edgy. Instead, tell them to suck it up,
and deal with it in their own way –
everyone has their own problems, so
piling theirs onto you isn’t the act of
a friend (it’s a wonder Hangman has
no friends eh? His Apprentice audition
tape was rejected for being “too much
of an arsehole”). It’s the act of someone
who secretly wants you to lace their
food with laxatives, but is too afraid to
ask. It’s a fetish thing, and they don’t
think you’ll understand.
If you start making a name for your-
self as that ‘always-happy-to-help’ or
approachable kind of lass/lassette,
you’re in for a bad time. People start to
depend on you. They need someone to
create a croque en bouche for the bake
sale to supplement your bosses bo-
nuses? You. They’re looking for a ﬁnal
team mate to join them in the Crystal
Maze? You. (It’s a Tudor-Pole series,
not an O’Brian). They need someone
to write a glowing bureaucratic report
for a colleague, whilst you’re truly
wondering how they still have the job?
You. Life is a heck of a lot easier when
no-one has any expectations of you.
If you appear to be unreliable, then
you won’t be the default selection for
vomit-cleanup at the departmental
cocktail party, and you can instead get
as wasted as you want, and make even
more mess. You deserve it.
Ultimately, there’s nothing I like
more than just sitting around and ex-
erting the least physical eﬀort for the
largest gain in fuck-all. I’m not go-
ing to go out of my way, put on some
clothes and actually leave the Felix of-
ﬁce to volunteer at a soup kitchen. It
doesn’t take more than one person to
use a tin opener and microwave some
bowls of soup. Don’t volunteer for ex-
tra work, and you’ll be ﬁne.
No-one is going to be out to help
you, so you need to do everything for
yourself. Buy and suck your way to
the top. You can’t trust anyone else to
hide the bodies, or to clean up your
mess. I’m not saying that you should
go around pushing your annoying
colleagues onto the tracks infront of
the next Upminster-bound train, but
rather you don’t help them up, once
they’ve... uh... tripped. Pretend to be
traumatised and you can get their job,
extra holiday, pity sex, and most im-
portantly, a better desk.
You’re going to work there anyway, so you might as well get a head start
Bizet: “Carmen”
“Comme ils vont du fer de leur
lance, harceler le flanc des
taureaux!
(How they’re going to, with the tip
of their lances, pierce the flank of
the bulls!”)
Language used to be so beautiful.
Nowadays this would say “How
they’re going to, with the tip of their
penis,havesexwithsomeone’sarse”.
Would make Carmen a bit more en-
tertaining though. Some ‘edgy’ prick
in Shoreditch is probably writing a
modernretellingrightnowactually.
Sir Alex Ferguson poised to manage North
Korean forces
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
B
reaking news from
Pyongyang hints that the
soon-to-be ex-manager
of Manchester United
Football Club is leaving
his current job to take up a position
in Kim Jong-Un’s military advisory
committee. It is thought that the 29
year old head of state was looking for
a military tactician after an advert
was posted on Craigslist.
Sir Alex Ferguson is no stranger to
warfare on the front lines, surviving
abysmal living conditions, intermit-
tent electricity and running water,
and wide-spread malnoutrishion, af-
ter serving for 26 years in the north of
England.
Pyongyang has refused requests to
detail the transfer, simply stating that
“The supreme leader welcomes all
great western minds to his military.
BYOF. Please like our Facebook page
at www.facebook.com/northkoreais-
bestkorea.”
This news comes just days after
North Korea was seen to be with-
drawing its missiles from the coast,
after rumours that the North Korean
military forgot to actually load the
oversized Nerf missiles. The FXSu-
prLancher2k is the newest piece of
North Korean military technology,
purportedly bought oﬀ Amazon mar-
ketplace in 2001, and has an eﬀective
range of 200 metres. Not safe for dic-
tators under the age of 40.
With this new arrangement of mili-
tary advisors, the US government is
on high alert, and we advise students
to be on the look out for any suspi-
cious activity, or unattended items.
“... and they’re actually this large. They should call me Sir Chocolate Salty...“

