unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
RealAles at Imperial College Union - which
guest ale do you want in June?
We’ve been running our guest ale polls for a few months now, and as a result, we’ve
hosted a new guest ale in FiveSixEight and The Union Bar every month. May’s guest ale
is Naked Ladies, and now it’s time to vote for a new ale for June. All you need to do is
take the poll at imperialcollegeunion.org/realales and the ale with the highest votes wins!
The current poll will close at 12:00, Friday 24 May, and the winning ale will be on sale from
June.
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales
Idea Days 2013 - ﬁrst one at South Kensington,
Wednesday 15 May
Our ﬁrst Idea Day is onWednesday 15 May, 11:00 - 15:00, Sherﬁeld Foyer, South Kensington campus. You’ll be
able to tell us your opinions on a wide range of issues and what the Union can be doing to help and get some
freebies for doing so!
The day will be designed to get your input on the Union’s draft Strategic Plan, so that we can create a ﬁnal plan for
the organisation to work from for the next three years. We want to ﬁnd our what’s important to you as a student
at Imperial College, and how we can help you get the best of your experience, both during and after your time
here.
Details of Idea Days on other campuses will be coming soon. In the mean time, you can give your feedback online
on each of our Strategic Themes. All comments we receive will help us inform our Strategic Plan and ensure that
it fully caters for all of our members.
imperialcollegeunion.org/strategy
Idea Days 2013
EVENTSTHISWEEK
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
MASSAGES
Tuesday 14 May, 11:00 - 17:00
Free
Library
Sitting down hunched over your
computer can really make your
muscles ache. Come to the Library
Cafe and let a professional massue
gently massage your stress away,
making you feel more relaxed and
ready for anything.
BOXFIT
Thursday 16 May, 12:00-12:45
and 16:00-17:00
Free
Queen’s Lawn
BoxFit is a great form of exercise,
a high intensity workout. It helps
develop your overall strength
as well as balance and dynamic
ﬂexibility, also improving stamina
and coordination. A great way to
get all that frustrating stress out
of your system. In case of bad
weather BoxFit will be held in
Court 5, Ethos.
ONE BIGTHING / 5KANYWAY
Friday 17 May, 17:00 - 20:00
Free
Hyde Park
As part of Ukactive’s ‘One Big
Thing’, 5k Anyway is primarily a 5K
fun run in Hyde Park and is open to
all Imperial staff and Students. The
course can be completed anyway
you wish (run, walk, wheelbarrow
races, three legged races etc) and
we also have the opportunity of
rowing 5K in Ethos. There will be
prizes for the best fancy dress,
fastest male and female and
fastest team time.

