Issue 1546
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
10/05/13
@SportFelix
On the 1st March, the call of Newquay
found SurfSoc packing into a minibus
for our second trip of 2013. Already
full and with two people still to pick
up at Bristol, we battled on through
the Friday traﬃc towards our goal:
the sea (and Belushi’s). At Bristol, we
stocked up on passengers, port and
WKD with Carly Rae on full volume.
The creation of the ‘social seat’ and a
few Cheeky Vimto’s later, the atmos-
phere began to heat up and soon the
whole minibus was skanking to Ra-
dio1’s Friday Nite Dubstep Bangerz.
Big up to Alex ‘Karbs’ Karvelas for
not crashing at this point while Adam
‘Hardcore’ Harvey was gyrating in his
face! However, Karbs became progres-
sively less composed as the frequency
of toilet stops “on the side of a f***ing
road” increased but at around 1am
we ﬁnally rolled into our destination.
The night was still young though, and
there was still time for many Jaeger
bombs and games of International
Cock or Ball before the Belushi’s staﬀ
began to tire of our antics and we ﬁ-
nally resigned ourselves to bed.
Disaster struck on Saturday morn-
ing with the realisation that Hardcore
had lost his coat with the minibus keys
in while raving with some new Polish
friends. I dread to think what the com-
bined eﬀect of that nervous ‘shitting
myself’ feeling and the hangover had
on his bowels. But luckily it turned out
Dario ‘A-frame’ Mazza had them all
along. With the panic over and many
small but perfectly formed waves
surfed (apart from by those who were
too ill to get in the water/ had locked
their wetsuit in the minibus), a quick
nap was had before ﬁnes commenced.
As well as customary drinking, the
main activity of Saturday night was
grazing. Being the only girl on the trip,
Lucy Bareback fell victim to repeated
rounds of abuse and by the end of the
night, had pretty crispy locks. Dolled
up Sailors punters did not take having
their hair chewed so lightly though,
which nearly led to Zombie John be-
ing escorted from the premises. The
night ﬁnished with a star appearance
by Professor Bean, whose explana-
tions of palaeontology ensured that
everyone enjoyed an ‘integrated learn-
ing process’ as a bedtime story.
The waves were pretty non-existent
on Sunday morning, which was just as
well because no one had set an alarm.
Having missed check-out time and
breakfast, there was only one thing to
do: get back in the water anyway. The
bracing water was enough to revive
us despite the lack of waves, and af-
ter a few hours (or 20 minutes in one
case) we were ready for hot chocolates
and more Belushi’s burgers. Manny
and Dangermouse just couldn’t get
enough of the salty liquid though, and
managed to stay out on Fistral for an
impressive 5 hours. We reluctantly
returned to London tired but in high
spirits after another successful Surf-
Soc session.
Want to get involved? Booking is now
open for our Summer Tour - email us
at surf@imperial.ac.uk for more de-
tails!
We will surfive...
Lizzy Griffiths Sports Writer
Everybody’s surfing... surfing USA Newquay

