NEWS
4 FRIDAY 10 MAY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Find out what our dynamic community can offer you
This unique event for third and fourth year undergraduates is an ideal
opportunity to visit Imperial College Business School and find out more
about a selection of our world class Master’s programmes.
• Meet programme directors, students and alumni
• Get a flavour of our unique culture with a series of taster lectures
• Sit in on careers presentations to find out how we can help fulfil your goals
• Drop in at our admissions surgery and have your questions answered
Find out more and register at:
imperial.ac.uk/business-school/experience-evening
@imperialbiz
linkedin.com/company/
imperial-college-business-school
BUSINESS SCHOOL
EXPERIENCE EVENING
WEDNESDAY 22 MAY 2013
17.30 – 20.30
WIN AN iPad!
A winner will be chosen at random and announced at the event.
Zoe Versey Reporter
HAB you seen our balloons?
On Sunday 5 May, members of Imperi-
al College Students for the Exploration
and Development of Space (ICSEDS)
travelled to Elsworth, Cambridgesh-
ire for their first launch. The aim was
to launch two high altitude balloons
(HABs) and several model rockets built
over the course of the year.
The two HABs were the culmination
of ICSEDS’s very own space race, with
teams Alpha and Omega competing to
design and launch a HAB able to take
photographs of the curvature of the
Earth for the lowest cost. Team Alpha
chose to use a second hand HTC De-
sire smartphone, providing them with
a camera, GPS tracker, battery, and
processor in one package. Meanwhile
Team Omega built their payload from
scratch, using two Arduinos and a vari-
ety of sensors to track their balloon’s lo-
cation and altitude, and capture images.
Sadly, despite the wonderful weather
and favourable wind conditions both
teams lost the signals of their GPS
trackers, though another group of high
altitude balloonists picked up one of the
signals during the ascent. They learnt
that they need to invest in more pow-
erful ground tracking equipment and a
bigger antenna. They are hoping some-
one will come across them before they
get destroyed by the elements (they are
predicted to have landed just east of Pe-
terborough) and have started an online
campaign to raise awareness and the
likelihood of retrieval (details can be
found on their website and Twitter).
Alongside these HAB launches, mem-
bers were also able to launch their very
own model rockets, and unlike with the
HABs they had a 100% retrieval suc-
cess rate! The most impressive of the
rockets was that of Project Officer, Tee-
Jay Taiwo, who was launching a rocket
just under a meter long with a H125
motor (average thrust 125N compared
to the 1N to 3N A-class starting motors
the other members had) in order to ob-
tain his level 1 certification. ICSEDS
happily announced that he passed the
assessment after an exemplary launch,
and this will allow ICSEDS to launch
high powered rockets under his super-
vision in the future.
ICSEDS said that they would like to
thank the Imperial College Chemical
Engineering Department, for donating
the helium for both teams; Steve Ran-
dall, for kindly offering his time and
expertise at the launch, and their Pro-
ject Officer’s family members for vol-
unteering to drive the helium tanks to
the launch site.
ICSEDS is open to anyone with an in-
terest in space. Current projects include
high-powered model rocketry, high alti-
tude ballooning, and design of a ramjet
engine. ICSEDS offers the chance to
learn new skills working on hands-on
projects and to meet other space nuts/
valuable industry contacts. ICSEDS is a
branch of UKSEDS, and part of a glob-
al SEDS network that started at MIT
in 1980 and features many prominent
space figures as alumni.
For more information on projects and
membership Google ‘ICSEDS’.
All photos: ICSEDS

