BUSINESS
FELIX
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 november 2011
P
wC, Deloitte, KPMG and Ernst and
Young – better known collectively
as the Big Four. The word ‘Big’ re-
ally doesn’t do them justice; enor-
mous, gigantic and colossal are
more appropriate adjectives. It’s hard to get a
grasp of how big they are compared to other
accountancy firms until you look at the raw fig-
ures.
They really are massive compared to the next
best firm in each of the categories. They have
the most employees, the most clients, the high-
est total market capitalisation of their clients
and the highest total profit of their clients. They
are the biggest, and they have the best clients.
But it seems that people with power have no-
ticed, and the Big Four are now fighting a battle
on two fronts: on one side the Office of Fair
Trading (OFT) have referred the Big Four to
the Competition Commission; on the other side,
the EU are having a go too. They both want the
same thing – to either split the four firms up
into smaller companies, or to set a limit on the
number of clients they have.
The OFT doesn’t seem to like the fact the
Big 4 firms are dominating the market. With
99 of the FTSE 100 companies being repre-
sented by the Big Four, and just 2.3% of firms
that have been a part of the FTSE 100 in the
period 2002–2010 have actually changed audi-
tors. They claim there is a lack of competition,
which is true, to a certain extent. But the FTSE
100 represents the 100 ‘best’ companies in the
country, and they will want to be audited by
the ‘best’ firms of accountants. Is that an unfair
thing to want? Can it really be said that the four
largest firms in an industry have an unfair ma-
jority of the market share? Perhaps if there was
just one firm with these 99 clients this would be
understandable, but when there are four firms
being grouped together, the argument becomes
a bit flaky. It is like saying to Tesco, Sains-
bury’s, Asda, Morrison’s and Waitrose: Too
many people are spending their money in your
supermarkets; we are going to split you up.
The Competition Commission have the power
though. They have already forced BAA’s hand,
requiring them to sell some of their airports;
who knows what they could do to the Big Four?
The EU seem to have less of an issue with the
supposed lack of competition in audit services,
and more of an issue with the services the Big
Four can offer their clients. Reuters report that
they have seen a draft of a law that could really
shake up the Big Four. It proposes that the Big
Four should be banned from offering or pro-
viding their consulting services – even worse,
force their consulting braches to split from the
rest of the accountancy part of the firms.
We will have to wait until November to see
what the implications of these laws are, but
the situation is looking bad for the Big Four.
But to use the analogy of supermarkets again,
these laws would be like saying to a shopper
that they are allowed to buy their food from
a supermarket, but not any drinks, toiletries,
clothes or electrical goods. If some sectors are
allowed to offer numerous services ‘under one
roof’, then why can’t others? Especially when
the work – audit and assurance – that the vari-
ous consulting departments do are so closely
related.
It just seems everyone is being a bit hard on
the Big Four. Maybe people are starting to get
bored of picking on the banks and have moved
on to the next type of financial institution? The
arguments from the OFT and the EU seem
flaky. Perhaps they would be understandable if
there was one juggernaut of a firm dominating
the market, but it is not one, it is four. Would
it be such a bad thing to want to be serviced
by the best in the business if you can afford it?
There is a reason why these firms have become
so big: because they are good. Why can we not
accept that?
The End of the Big Four?
12
Article Rebuttal
The author criticises the OFT and EU de-
cisions as “flaky”, but he is unjust in the
arguments he offers for saying this. First
of all, he completely ignores the fact
that the accountancy and consultancy
markets need not be – and definitely
are not – the same as the retail market.
As the recent price war between Tesco
et al. has shown, a few players in the
retail market will not only not collude,
but can actually engage in fierce com-
petency from which the only beneficiary
is the consumer. This is because retail
products are consumed on an everyday
basis and it is fairly easy for the con-
sumer to change upon finding a better
offer. However, the market in which the
Big Four compete is not as flexible; their
services are not used in a regular basis,
and are often subject to strict contracts
from which it is difficult to escape. Be-
sides, they deal with sensitive corporate
information, so a trust relationship be-
tween customer and provider is neces-
sary.
The OFT concern about the Big Four
having established an oligopoly is there-
fore fair, and that is why they have rec-
ommended a yet-to-be-concluded inves-
tigation. It will be the exhaustive analysis
of their actions, past and present, which
will allow the OFT to determine whether
such a thing is actually taking place.
Needless to say, if it were to be con-
cluded that the Four had colluded and
were operating in a cartel, the main ben-
eficiaries of its dissolution would be the
rest of the world companies. It does not
therefore seem fair to justify such an oli-
gopoly – if it actually existed – by claim-
ing that it is their success that lead to
it; tumours also are successful growers,
but that does not mean they should not
be extirpated if harmful.
As for the EU concerns, they do seem
justified, especially if past events are
taken into account. Indeed, if the same
company who audits your accounts could
provide you with consultancy services,
then a conflict of interest could appear
as the latter grew in size. In the times of
the Big Five, Andersen Consulting faced
such a conflict of interests with Enron,
and when the latter went bankrupt, the
former sank into scandal as it arose it
had helped with the creative accounting
of the former.
Both actions are just preliminary in-
vestigations, and no culprits have been
found yet. But, as said, if someone was
to benefit from them being found, it
would be the rest of the world, and no
matter how successful the Big Four are,
we cannot risk them colluding against us
or facing and failing to solve the same
conflict of interests that lead to the En-
ron scandal.
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Total Market Capitalisation of Stock Market
Clients (£m)
PwC
Deloitte
KPMG
Ernst & Young
BDO
1,159,200
522,778
521,758
385,223
21,885
Figures from The Corporate Advisers Rankings Guide by
Hemscott
In Numbers
The Big Four
Total Profit of Stock Market Clients (£m)
PwC
Deloitte
KPMG
Ernst & Young
BDO
138,334
70,004
59,372
29,200
556
Let’s hope not, argues Rajvinder Virdee in this debate
First there were eight, then there were five, and now only four professional service
firms perform the majority of audits for both publicly and privately traded companies

