By
Charles Motraghi
BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 11 november 2011 13
Alongside finance and high-tech com-
puting, biotechnology can be thought of
as one of the few sectors where Britain
is still globally competitive. The British
pharmaceutical industry, for example,
receives 10% of global research and
development funding, despite having
only 3% of global sales. But this year
has seen a variety of worrying develop-
ments: Pfizer, previously the country’s
fourth largest investor in pharmaceuti-
cal research, announced the closure of
its R&D site in Kent, resulting in the
loss of 2,400 jobs; AstraZeneca contin-
ues to shed jobs, citing patent losses, as
well as GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis;
and start-ups complain of continual dif-
ficulties in securing venture capital. So
is the UK unique in its suffering, and
what successes, if any, has the year
seen?
Certainly, the UK is not the only
country to see job losses in this sector.
In the US, the global leader of the phar-
maceutical industry, Johnson & Johnson
is still going through the round of huge
job cuts announced in 2009, and the
Swiss giants Roche and Novartis find
themselves in a similar situation. In fact,
the latter is planning to cut 2,000 jobs
whilst setting up operations in Taizhou
(intriguingly dubbed “China’s Medical
City”), due to there being an emerg-
ing market and reduced labour costs. It
The Business of British Biotechnology
could be argued that any present mal-
aise among the British is one afflicting
the wider western biotechnology sector,
and it is not out of step with the global
economy.
But to some extent, biotechnology
here faces its own problems. For in-
stance, companies and start-ups in the
UK have been complaining about the
difficulty of securing risk capital for
years. Nearly two-fifths of biotechnol-
ogy companies here have been unable
to obtain any finance over the past year,
with many biotechnology specialists
reluctant to invest. This highlights a
longstanding gap in funding for those
who are about to enter promising drugs
into the costly early-stage testing in hu-
mans, where approximately £10 million
is needed to support the company prior
to generating results which will be of
interest to larger investors or pharma-
ceutical companies.
“A malaise afflicts
the wider biotech
sector, and it is not
out of step with the
global economy ...”
This has been assuaged somewhat re-
cently by two developments: tax credits
have been increased for research and
development enterprises; and Rich-
ard Sykes, a former rector of Impe-
rial College, is chairing a new venture
fund aiming at new British biotech-
nology companies freshly spun out of
academia. The Deepbridge Innovation
Fund is planning to raise $250m by next
year to invest in companies predomi-
nantly based in the UK, and will specifi-
cally target those with a promising drug,
but without proof of relevance.
“... but biotechnology
here faces its own
problems”
Brits might complain alongside
most Europeans that the legislative
and regulatory environment isn’t
conducive to research. Recently, the
European Court of Justice ruled that
no methods to derive embryonic stem
cells could be patented, setting us
apart from the US and Asia. Although
this does not totally condemn compa-
nies here (they can still patent their
inventions abroad), there is fear that
this will stifle commercial investment,
and research in the area is more likely
to be exploited abroad. This reflects
the feelings of many plant scientists
and genetic engineers, who have had
trouble commercialising their public-
ly-funded basic research due to Euro-
pean regulations.
The year hasn’t been all bad, how-
ever. Some companies have seen great
success in securing funding. Oxford
Nanopore, for example, raised £25
million to develop its next-generation
DNA sequencing technology, mak-
ing it a contender to win the Genom-
ics X Prize, awarded to the first team
to sequence the human genome for
under $10,000. Such an achievement
would be able to revolutionise personal
healthcare. Assisted by Imperial In-
novations, Circassia completed a £60
million round of funding in April, to
develop allergy treatments and auto-
immune therapies for the treatment of
conditions such as arthritis and pso-
riasis. Towards the high end of the
biotechnology sector, Shire Pharma-
ceuticals continues its trend of success
from last year, posting strong profits
and 24% growth this quarter due to its
The Imperial Entrepeneurs report on some of the opportunities and threats
facing one of the UK’s most promising industries
A man stands silhouetted agains a digital representation of the human
genome. The Genomics X Prize, awarded to the first research team to
sequence the human genome for under $10,000, is just one motive for
British biotech companies such as Oxford Nanopore to succeed
focus on ADHD medicines for sale in
America. Also, GlaxoSmithKline is
investing in a research park in Steve-
nage, Kent, which is estimated to cre-
ate 5,000 new jobs, and has proposed
the creation of a new biopharmaceuti-
cal plant in the north of the country.
Should we be particularly worried
about the state of biotechnology in the
UK? Perhaps not. Beyond the success
of the above companies, this is home
to four out of ten of the world’s top
universities, and eight in the top thirty.
Consequently, there is a wealth of sci-
entific talent to draw upon across the
country, which continues to be attrac-
tive to those looking to set up opera-
tions here. Also, the introduction of the
patent box late last year – a lower rate
of tax levied on patent-related incomes
– has been credited with an increase in
investment in the country’s research
and development base, according to
GSK’s chief executive Andrew Witty.
Despite the global economic downturn,
the British biotechnology sector ap-
pears to be in bullish health, with many
interesting projects in the pipeline.
Remember! If you are interested
in entrepreneurship, starting your
own company, the technology sec-
tor, or just want to listen to some
very inspiring speakers, come to
the talks organized by Imperial En-
trepreneurs! Sign up for the mail-
ing list at:
www.imperialentrepreneurs.com
Overview Deepbridge Innovation Fund
Formed as a collaboration between the fund managers SL Invest-
ment Management Ltd and the advisory group Deepbridge Capital
LLP, the Deepbridge Innovation Fund (DBIF) is an investment fund
looking to develop disruptive technologies in the Life Sciences,
Eco-Innovation and Software sectors. As traditional venture capital
firms move towards safer, late-term investments in response to the
economic slowdown, the DBIF secures itself a position in the mar-
ketplace by specifically targeting the funding gap that has opened
up at the ‘Proof of Concept’ and ‘Proof of Relevance’ stages of a
technology’s development.
Within the Life Sciences sector, DBIF focusses on funding medi-
cal technology, pharmaceuticals, and biotechnology. Its specific
emphasis on pharmaceutricals and biopharmaceuticals reflects the
expertise of Chairman Sir Richard Skyes, who has over 30 years
experience in the industry and has served as a past chairman of
GlaxoWellcome (1995-2000) and GlaxoSmithKline (2000-2002).
A typical person has got a heat output of a little more than 100W – GREEN WEEK 2011. COMING SOON.

