FELIX
14
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 NOVEMber 2011
I
t’s that time of year again. The
placards will be waved and stu-
dents will rapidly get bored of
chanting, “No ifs. No buts. No
education cuts.” Two student
demonstrations are planned for No-
vember, with the first happening on the
Wednesday just gone. However, this
year, the figh t is against the rapid in-
crease in privatisation of universities
discussed in the Government’s higher
education white paper. After a full
blown attack on the proposal of rising
fees last winter (that had little effect
on a government unwilling to listen)
questions are being posed, such as:
Why do we protest? What does it aim
to achieve?
Protest is not indulged in for per-
sonal gratification, as only the mas-
ochistic would take enjoyment from
traipsing around in freezing weather,
the possibility of ‘kettling’, and the
chance to become a stress toy for po-
lice aggression. Protest is instead a
result of democratic breakdown. Ide-
ally, we would never have to; policy
would be dictated by what the people
want, and large masses of the popu-
lation would never feel the need to
take to the streets. However, when
the majority of people are prevented
a voice; protest, a method of last re-
sort, becomes more common. Neat
examples of this are strikes. There is
rising industrial action in this coun-
try as the Government refuses to
negotiate on public sector cuts and
is happy to support companies who
wish to ignore their workers, forc-
ing employees to strike. In Germany,
however, the economic slump has not
been accompanied by union agita-
tion as negotiations were made early
on in discussions with the workers.
This vague attempt at democracy is
increasingly lacking in this country.
Strikes are another poignant ex-
ample of how people regularly argue
against protest; they lament that it
does nothing for their cause, and try
to get others to share this viewpoint.
However, any form of true protest
will always generate enemies. If you
try and raise your voice enough to be
heard then it will be decided that your
voice is too loud and you should shut
up. As the anarchist saying goes, “If
protest achieved anything, it would
be made illegal.” The legal bound-
aries of protest are decided on what
will allow people to feel a stance is
being made without ever letting any-
thing be achieved.
Government will never allow any-
thing to happen that truly challenges
its power. This is why the idea of
state condoned protest is a paradox.
If it is allowed by the state, it is be-
cause they have nothing to worry
about. This is why protest has to
make a stance in both its words and
its actions. The Occupy London
protest, which, although without de-
mands, can be seen as being against
raging inequality and corporate greed
at the expense of the vast majority, is
camping in the City of London. This
is not only the location of what they
are against, but is also an area of al-
most solely private property with the
public space controlled by a bizarrely
partially privatised local authority.
St. Paul’s occupiers are not just re-
questing change; they are physically
returning space to public use. It is
this action that may cause its eviction
by authorities. Protest is strongest
when it enacts pre-figurative politics,
that is, the action is the change you
want to see. Hence, these coming stu-
dent demonstrations and inevitable
occupations of campuses will involve
‘free universities’ that attempt to cre-
ate a new way of learning.
Although, as a possible ‘winter of
discontent’ approaches we should
remember that – when marches turn
ugly as they go off a pre-described
route, as students and lecturers strike
Doth the lady protest too
much?
Luke Sheldon
This banner only rhymes with certain accents. Also, your university name is a pronoun,
where are the captial letters? Lazy sign work. Gets a 2:2, at most
This week saw the release of a summary of
the annual Rector’s Away Day, with Sir Keith
O’Nions announcing a statement pledging
to improve the ‘undergraduate experience’,
with the improvement of assessment and
feedback becoming a priority in this aim. The
battle against feedback has been continuing
for some time now, however, and it may ulti-
mately fall to tackling the individual marker
rather than the department when it comes to
improving feedback across College.
The College seeks to improve the ‘under-
graduate experience’ through the enforce-
ment of such commitments as assessing the
provision of undergraduate accommodation
and improving the feedback that students re-
ceive for their assignments.
This specific mention towards feedback
(especially considering the clear reference
towards the results of the 2011 National
Student Survey) may appear familiar to
some of you. This would not be particularly
surprising, particularly since October 2010
saw that year’s National Student Survey re-
veal issues – again – with Imperial’s student
feedback. At the time, the Rector became
personally involved in an attempt to improve
assessment and feedback across all College
departments.
Now, it appears that history is repeating
itself. It is commendable that the College
continues to recognise that feedback is a
problem for students. However, the Away
Day has resulted in recommendations such
as ‘Points for departments to consider’, with
one such point declaring that departments
should aim to ‘be clear with students as
early in the course as possible about: what
constitutes feedback, submission deadlines
for assignments and when feedback will be
returned.
Surely, points such as this must have been
at least considered last year in the attempt
to improve feedback at that time and ham-
mered home inside departments.
Ultimately, the problem rests with the in-
dividual, and not the department. Faculties
responded last year with the attempted im-
plementation of a two-week turnover for feed-
back. While this may be achieved in a variety
of cases, the quality of this feedback is truly
what matters. It is simply unreasonable to ex-
pect all markers to provide uniform effort to-
wards the marking of coursework or reports.
Until the College and departments are
able to improve the willingness, or at least
awareness, of the marker to provide decent
feedback to students (and an increased use
of the word ‘feedback’ itself is a potentially
effective way of ensuring this), then for all
its promises and pledges, feedback and as-
sessment will remain contentious among
students.
on November 30 and lecture theatres
are occupied – protest is a last resort
due to a failing of democracy. Without
acts that are possibly of some incon-
venience and disturb the current law
and order, nothing will be achieved.
The suffragettes, a movement that
few could disagree with, was not just
people chanting in locations that were
agreed by the police, it had many dis-
comforting aspects. Windows were
smashed, fires were started, bombs
were thrown, and women died. With-
out these more militant actions, that
raised the profile of the debate, wom-
en may still not have the vote. I per-
sonally don’t condone violent direct
action, but we cannot start groaning
every time pointless rules are broken
(such as march route changes and not
being allowed to camp on a pave-
ment), otherwise the voices of the
powerless will be drowned out even
more, to our own detriment. Because
protest is rarely selfish, it is for the
benefit of all of us.
Tim would like to say congratulations
to his brother Moreed for getting his
PhD thesis in!
Wait, what, a personal message in
an advert space. That’s just beyond
deplorable. I want to write in to
Comment to say how displeased I am
(or just about anything). How do I do
this?
Email: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Got a
deadline?
Stressed?
Need to take
out your
anger on
someone on
the internet?
Then go to:
felixonline.
co.uk
FELIX
When will we be
satisfied with feedback? Tommy Allieri

