COMMENT
FELIX Friday 11 november 2011 15
It seems that Wikileaks haven’t got round to telling you, so we’ll have to.
The views expressed are the opinions of the authors, not Felix.
”
D
on’t get me wrong – I take
my hat off to anyone who
can fashion a new idea,
start a business, and suc-
cessfully market it. But,
despite this admiration (they’d be quick
to call it envy), entrepreneurs are the most
insufferable people that have ever talked at
(rather than to) me.
Whether they’re Silicon Valley start-ups
or working-from-home parents, today’s
sort of entrepreneur (who’ve come out in
droves since the financial crisis) all share
one thing in common: an unabashed, smug
elitism, placing themselves above the sala-
ried peons. Their derision of the employed
has become formulaic and rote, and I guar-
antee that any interview or blog post you
find with one will have one of the follow-
ing clichés.
The first one appears most frequently
among those whose work involves spread-
ing their own opinions: authors, bloggers,
webcomic artists, journalists and the rest.
They parrot the message of hard work
(after all, they wouldn’t have got where
they are today without it) as the only key
to success. I can see you frowning and
thinking, “but they’re right – hard work is
necessary!” Of course it is, but what these
braggart entrepreneurs fail to realise is that
there’s another component just as impor-
tant in success: luck.
The successful may have worked very
hard for it, but how many who worked
just as hard are left behind? After all, you
don’t really think you’re here because of
how good yourA-level grades are, do you?
Every musician bumped up to fame, each
Samuel Furse
Keir Little
The death of Bad Science
Why I hate entrepreneurs
blogger who talks about the amount of
hours they’ve hustled, the countless devel-
opers of one-hit-wonder smartphone apps:
they all love to assure us that anyone could
do what they did with enough hard work.
In reality? The numbers suggest other-
wise: studies show that 8 out of 10 start-up
businesses fail in the first three years. It’s
hardtogetanaccuratefigureforhowmany
manuscripts become published books, but
an optimistic estimate would be around 1
in 1000. This, of course, is not consider-
ing the people who have great ideas but
due to money, family or other hardships,
can’t even find the time to work on them.
So, entrepreneurs, I’m happy that you’ve
reached the top. But how many bodies did
you climb over on your way there?
Next, there’s the childhood story. The
entrepreneur probably didn’t do well in
school – not because they’re unintelligent,
you understand, but because the system
just isn’t for them. They got by through
cheating, stealing or plain blagging and,
even worse, are willing to boast about this.
Afterall,inasocietygearedtocreatemind-
less drone workers, these are skills that
entrepreneurs need. Why bother learning
maths when you can hire someone to do it
all for you?
In their spare time, they were already
practising their sales pitches. Everyone
has a story. “When I was a kid, I’d paint
snails’shells and sell them to the other kids
at school.When I noticed the red ones were
more popular, I painted all of them red.
Would you believe it? I already understood
fashion at the age of 7!” or “when I was
an adorable 5 year old with curly blonde
B
ad Science is dead. It has
fallen off its bench. It has
gone to meet its supervisor.
It is an ex-science. Sadly, I
am not talking about a hu-
mane rounding-up of charlatans, quacks,
homoeopathists, and people who like to
compete as to who has the best imaginary
friend. I am talking about Ben Goldacre’s
column in The Guardian.
Isthistheendofactivelyexposingdodgy
practice that would otherwise be passed off
as science? Fortunately, not quite. Prof Da-
vid Colquhoun (the pipe-smoking, tweed-
wearing, chair in Pharmacology at UCL)
is still going strong, so all is not lost. We
may even get Dr Goldacre back; he has
stopped for now at least to finish a book.
Nevertheless, it seems likely that he needs
a rest from having a well-thought-out go at
people who can, and do, dupe morons out
of their cash. And of course there are only
so many times one can say that homoeopa-
thy is bollocks before it is just repetition. I
hope that this sort of analysis will continue
though, and for two reasons.
First, it is a bit of a confidence-giver to
the rest of us. Despite being as incensed
as the next man, at the rubbish that is pre-
sented to us as good or healthy when it is
not, I still cannot quite bring myself to say
so some times.Afew weeks ago I got chat-
ting to a girlfriend of a friend of a friend.
She is an astrologer. Needless to say, part
of me wanted to run from the room. Apart
about the same size wanted to tear her to
pieces. And if she had not been an astrolo-
ger, another part of me… well, let’s not go
there. She disassociated herself quite early
on from newspaper astrologers – “because
they are talking rubbish, obviously”. “Ob-
viously” I agreed, with just a hint of ironic
tone. I let her chunter on about the position
of planets and moons and stars, throwing
in questions as she went on. I got more ir-
ritated, so the questions built up in a kind
of viva-ing way. Despite my mounting an-
noyance that there are actually people who
spend their lives messing around with this
dross, the most damning I could be was to
ask why the position of Saturn on the day
of a person’s birth was more important to
a child’s life than the difference between a
parent who was loving, absent or a violent
mentalist. She did not give a coherent an-
swer. The upside to what I did is that I do
not think I offended her, but the downside
is that I do not think she knows what she
is doing is drivel any more than she did
before. So was my behaviour weak and
disingenuous, or gentle and unflinching?
Certainly I am not afraid of asking difficult
questions, and having people, like Gol-
dacre and Colquhoun, who are prepared to
say publicly that a spade is a spade, does
make it easier for me.
Second, I think that public analysis of
this sort of thing will keep science in check.
I am not going to talk about science as a
pure entity that must be protected against
all odds. This is because it is better than
that; it is useful and effective.Also, I would
locks, I’d go from door to door in my
neighbourhood selling hand-made cards.
Everyone bought one. Even then, I knew
the value of making high-quality goods.”
It’s sickening. Can you imagine a singer
saying, “as a baby, I’d grab a pen and
pretend it was a microphone. I must have
just been destined to sing my entire life!”?
When I was a child, I’d eat wax crayons.
Clearly, my interest in long-chained hydro-
carbons at such a tender age was what led
me to study chemistry, right?
Finally, there’s the call to arms. “You too
can cast off the shackles of your desk job,
put your fingers up at the 40-hour week
and chase your dreams!” Entrepreneurs
seem to think that being employed is little
better than being a slave. Granted, many
people do feel this way, but there are a fair
few who (would you believe it?) actually
enjoy their jobs.There’s even more who do
vital work, which can only be performed
as part of a company. With a childlike un-
be hypocritical if I did call science a pure
thing, the rough translation of homoeopa-
thy is ‘retaining purity’, based on the trans-
lations we use of homeostasis and patheno-
genesis. Worse still, I think that an attitude
of reverence would be in serious danger
of making science into a sort of pseudo-
religion. Can you imagine anything worse?
Professors would become like Bishops,
Colleges and Universities like cathedrals
and anyone with a PhD would be automati-
cally trusted in the way that anyone with a
dog collar is now.
And that is the nub of it. The point of
science and the way it is different from
religion and charlatanism is that nothing
is automatic. Of course, ‘career’ scientists
have to build a reputation and produce sol-
id work, but if they are worth their salt they
should never mind being asked questions.
Difficult questions. The question now is,
will science retain this sobriety, or will it
be superseded in the way that organised
religion has?
Entrepreneurs
seem to think that
being employed is
little better than
being a slave.
“
Entrepr
Entrepr
seem to
seem to
derstanding of businesses and economics,
entrepreneurs sweep all of this under the
rug. Unemployed, overworked or under-
paid? Start a business! I’m sure all the other
unemployed people would just love to take
advantage of your new freelance decorat-
ing firm!
Some go further, and call for entrepre-
neurial skills to be taught in school, instead
of useless subjects like maths and science.
While I can’t deny that learning more real-
world skills would be useful, I can only
imagine in horror a future where 8 out of
10, if not more, young adults have just seen
their beloved business idea, which they
have cultivated their entire school lives,
fail, leaving them jobless and with no real
employable skills.
So, entrepreneurs, I’m happy for you. I
wish you the best of luck, so long as I never
have to hear about your success. Sartre said
that hell is other people, but I’d agree only
if those people are self-employed.
“I’m the spoonful of sugar that makes your medicine go down, baby” is
Lord Sugar’s favourite, and most successful, chat-up line
”
The end of
actively exposing
dodgy practice ...
fortunately, not quite.
“
The end
The end
actively
actively
The energy footprint of a vegan’s diet is one quarter that of an average person’s – GREEN WEEK 2011. COMING SOON.

