COMMENT
FELIX Friday 11 NOVEMber 2011 17
A
fter reading the ‘Heaven
of hell’ article from two
weeks back, and reading
a bit of Christian perspec-
tive on the subject in last
week’s edition, I decided to shed some
light on the subject from a Muslim’s point
of view. As well as writing on the general
importance of religion within a society.
I think it is safe to assume that the life
after death debate is an argument that has
forever been a part of human existence
and will continue to do so. Needless to say,
we humans, with our highly specialised
brains and much-expanded frontal lobes,
naturally incorporate rationality and logic
in our daily lives and decisions. No matter
how scientifically developed, intellectual-
ly refined, and culturally civilised we may
become, each one of us at some point in
their life is confronted by a series of spiri-
tual questions: What is the purpose of life?
Why are we here on Earth? Is there really a
God?And so forth. Often ignored and sel-
dom encouraged to think about, I believe
the way a person goes about tackling these
questions does shape his/her life. Each one
of us wants to be successful. However,
success is relative and we each define it in
our own ways. It is based on this definition
that we draw up our principles, prioritise
our commitments, and come up with our
individual philosophies of life.
I wouldn’t want to delve too deep into
Anum Farooq
Umair Aasem
The journey through nature
On the flip side of the coin
the concept of heaven in Islam over here,
as any attempt to do so would be futile.
The only way a person can begin to under-
stand and appreciate heaven is by having a
strong grounding in the belief in God. Im-
position never works with human beings.
We need to be intellectually convinced
and thoroughly satisfied before accepting
an argument. It is because of this rationale
that the Quran constantly appeals to reason
and encourages man to ponder, reflect and
seek knowledge.
“There are indeed signs for men of un-
derstanding” – Quran
It is only when one is convinced of the
attributes of God and his supreme knowl-
edge that things begin to make more sense.
In Islam, there are no mediators, no secret
incantations, and no Popes. The ordinary
man communicates directly with God and
moves at his own pace. There is no coer-
cion in religion. It is only when we get to
grips with God’s quality of being ‘unimag-
inable’, that the seemingly daunting idea
of an eternal afterlife becomes not only
more acceptable, but something to crave
for and look forward to.
Anyhow, I would like to use this op-
portunity to argue against ‘The Heaven of
Hell’ article’s point of view that: “Living
life as if there is nothing more to come is
surely the most fulfilling and productive
way to live”. For me, simply put, religion
is what gives life… to life.
H
ow many moments have
you actually lived? Or
reflected upon, or mar-
velled… or just, been?
Now, this is not some kind
of hippy wisdom, this is an understanding
of the world around us. Have you ever ran
through rain puddles on a sunny day and
seen a rainbow at your side? It might seem
comical, but try it, and then we’ll see who
is smiling. Tennyson personifies nature as
an eagle:
He clasps the crag with crooked hands;
Close to the sun in lonely lands,
Ring’d with the azure world, he stands.
The wrinkled sea beneath him crawls;
He watches from his mountain walls,
And like a thunderbolt he falls.
As a fifteen year old studying this poem,
I was captivated, so much so that I began
dreaming. Dreaming of exploring nature
and being lost in the wonderland, and
through travel I have attempted to fulfill
this dream. Really though, what I was
searching for was always around me, right
from the day I was born.
Try this: stop. Right now. What do you
see? Zoom out. Look at the big picture,
at the patterns that emerge. Zoom in, and
see if they are still present. Now, take a
moment and look outside, outside of your-
self, outside a window. Just spend a min-
ute looking and you will notice something
you have never seen before or thought
about. See life unraveling before you.
In the mad rush that is our lives, time is
a luxury. Paradoxically, the more we have
to get done, the more efficient we become,
and a good dose of adrenaline helps pump
us through the day.
As a bachelorette, I run on a 12-hour
day: work and countless chores multi-
tasking. I teach, and so despite the lack
of time, with a stern but tantrum like ten-
dency, there is always time for nature, de-
spite staying back for detentions! The mix
of adrenaline and nature is enjoyable. Or
maybe, I just need to get a life.
Often, it is as simple as just hopping
through the park, and chucking bread at
the birds and finding it funny to chase the
ducks. Of course, avoiding dogs (put them
on a leash darling). As an undergradu-
ate, occasionally my pilgrimage to Hyde
Park consisted of walking all around the
lake, stopping at the bridge and just be-
ing stunned at the ecosystem before me.
Sitting under trees to reflect for a while is
normal, my friends tell me it must be tree
dampness, not dog wee, where I happen to
sit. I believe them.
Exploring greenery is not unlike Enid
Blyton’s (yes, old skool!) descriptions.
As a teenager, I used to cycle in the Lee
Valley and my God, that was truly an in-
credible experience. There are these paths
swamped with willows, hollies, ivies,
bushes, trees of all sorts. The path winds
through them, eventually coming to the
marsh lakes and the canals, with the sky
spreading endlessly before.
Forests are those magical places where
every type of weather is an adventure. In
autumn, you can run over the crunchy fall
leaves and the branches with closed eyes.
There are the emerging snowdrops in win-
ter. And the tree climbing scrapes in sum-
mer. Spring, of course, spring, when all of
nature is in its element, actually add your
own description here.
Waterfalls, valleys and mountains and
the eco-kaleidoscope are not mere de-
scriptions, but realities and reflections to
reach out to, to explore and make con-
nections with. Would it be fair to say, as
Being raised up in Pakistan, I realise that
religion is a bit of a taboo subject here in
the west. People generally tend to steer
clear of the subject and questions such as
‘what is your religion?’or ‘what is the pur-
pose of your existence?’are met with awk-
ward silences. I believe removing God and
religion from a society creates a crippling
vacuum,whichhasunsurprisinglyevolved
to give rise to a materialistic and avari-
cious culture. Happiness and satisfaction
are considered to be directly proportional
to fame and wealth, and understandably
so. If this is the only life to live for and
money is what makes the world tick, then
it’s not a mystery as to what my purpose in
life would and should be. Rise in immo-
rality is a direct consequence, as morality
and religion have always complemented
each other. The obvious imbalance be-
tween body and soul leaves a person with
a feeling of emptiness and consequently
increases psychological problems within
the society as people look for peace else-
where. Family life suffers and the rising
suicide rates, drug abuse, crime rates and
divorce rates only go on further to drill the
point home.
Belief in God is what truly liberates man
and allows him to reach his full potential.
He submits to no one but God. Man is lib-
erated from man when he realises that life
and death and respect and humiliation are
God’s jurisdiction. Once a person learns to
overcome his fears, and breaks through his
self-imposed prisons such as narcissism,
materialism, pride, people’s opinions (and
in today’s age even growing old!), it is
only then that his life transforms, because
fearlessness is what breeds idealism and
any person who’s ever achieved greatness
in this world has always been an idealist
and aimed beyond his imagination.
Faith is what encourages all that is
good within a person and enhances both
the individual as well as the community.
It invigorates his will power and allows
him to dominate material desires, rather
than be dominated by them. And I finish
this article with a quote from a great phi-
losopher and poet from medieval India, Sir
MuhammadAllama Iqbal:
“In servitude, it is reduced to an almost
waterless stream, but in freedom, life is a
boundless ocean.”
we age, that our only horizon was the
expansive urban dis-utopia with shots of
adrenaline?
Even if, even if, we have no time to
stand and stare. Why not actually ob-
serve your daily journey, your commute,
the path you’re walking on. Here’s a
challenge, take a moment out every day
in your ‘normal’ routine, to stop and see
the nature surrounding you and just learn
something. Every single day.
Perhaps. I’m just a wannabe hippy
thinker; the passion for nature is an innate
tendency. My biological mother used to
put me under trees as a baby, as some sort
of experiment. I guess the connection was
made, with the family of trees. Nature, it
seems, knows how to look after its own.
The whispers of nature echo…through
dusk and dawn
In the fields there is nothing but to run
with the butterflies
In the family of nature
Laughing at the whooshing wind
As the orange coloured sky turns to pink
to navy
It only takes a moment to realise
The transience of life
”
Belief in God is
what truly liberates
man and allows
him to reach his full
potential. He submits
to no one but God.
“
Belief in
Belief in
what tru
what tru
”
Just spend a minute
looking and you will
notice something
you have never seen
before
“
Just spe
Just spe
looking
looking
”
The ordinary man
communicates
directly with God and
moves at his own
pace ... no coercion.
“
The ordi
The ordi
commun
commun

