Margot Pikovsky
ARTS
FELIX
18
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 november 2011
“SOCIETY still seems to want us to aspire to a
stick-together-for–life-and-don’t-stray model for
our person to person conduct. Why? Where does
this aspiration to monogamy come from?”
So runs the programme which I’m given for
Robert Gillespie’s recent play Love, Question
Mark. I am intrigued: after all, what does push two
people together and incite them to spend the rest of
their eternity in each other’s companies? Marriage,
love, and sex: 3 age-old, hotly debated, feverishly
contested and quintessentially relevant concepts.
And I was going to be seeing a play about them;
how could theatre possibly sound more enticing?
WeopenwithMichaelSmith(Sessions),middle-
aged widower, musing on the definition of love.
“‘Bread’, he argues ‘is an idea we can all come to
some agreement about. But love? What on earth is
love?’” Prompted by a late sexual awakening, he
questions whether his content but insipid previous
marriage fits the bill. What follows is an hour of
pondering and debate on different questions relat-
ing to sex. Add to that the arrival of Maria (Cam-
eron), a prostitute fromArgentina, shipped over for
the sole purpose of servicing Michael and we have
what would appear to be a real forum of discussion
between opposites: man and woman; social norm
and social outcast. There are some truly challeng-
ing ideas raised too: violence, commitment in men,
sexual experimentation vs. monogamous simplic-
ity-- to name but a few, and all of these are fuelled
with quotes and excerpts that Michael reads from
literary authors, scientific thinkers, historical fig-
The Poet’s Column
Come Fly With Me
by Pavitar Devgon
“Come fly with me, come run a mile,
Among the vapour clouds.
Come swim with me, across the sky
Come and let us be.”
“I shall not run, I shall not fly.
I cannot be with thee.
Alas,” she said, “my deed is done,
I cannot be with thee.”
“Then let us ride into the night,
Gracious ’pon strong steeds.
With billowing hair, you’d swiftly care
To come again with me.”
“But will you not consider the mare
Who’d work for only your pleasure?
Should you not care for they who help,
They who work your measure.
I shall not ride, I shall not trot
For you, I see, do surely not.”
“Privy, will you come to see
The work I do with honest glee;
To serenade the notes and strings.
Privy come, on swift paced wings.”
“Do you ask because of art
Or to soothe your fire?
Will it be companionably
Or will it end in mire?”
“Good maiden, surely, I presume
To present most gentlemanly,
To doff my hat and turn my coat
And whisper sweet words in thine ear.”
“How can you be so plainly wrong,
To think that tricks and guile
Could ever get me out of sorts,
Out of hours with wiles.”
“I do not lie, ‘tis honest word,
What more can I say?”
“Just promise to
Give up the chase,
Admit defeat and leave my face.”
“To win your heart, I will comply
Just as you prescribe.
I take my leave, though ’t pains me so
I shall leave this place.”
He turned to leave and took a step
When suddenly he heard a breath
And turned to answer her hasty plea:
“Will you come and fly with me?”
Fluent on Paper, apparently the first poetry night
to take place in South Kensington, has been set up
by last year’s Felix editor Kadhim Shubber, and
will likely feature amateur poets from the univer-
sity.
It must take some courage to get up in front of an
audience of your peers and read words that come
from the very depths of your soul (or at least from
somewhere rather deep and meaningful, one must
hope). It is also something of an effort to listen to
these outpourings of feeling, however good they
are. So, we decided to speak to Kadhim in order to
find out why this poetry evening would be worth
going to, for both poets and audience members.
You write some poetry right? Is that why you
decided to set up this poetry evening?
I decided to set up this poetry evening because for
onceinsteadofalwaysgoingtostuffthatotherpeo-
ple are organising, I wanted to sort of create some-
thing myself. The reason why its a poetry event,
instead of anything else, is that I love poetry and
I really believe that it’s something that needs to be
shared in public, and out loud.
Why did you start writing poetry? And what
made you want to show it to other people?
I started to write poetry three years ago because
there was a girl in my class who really enjoyed
poetry and I wanted to impress her. Suffice it to
say, my poetry was a bit shit, and she wasn’t very
impressed with it. The reason I started sharing it is
because I wanted to know if it was any good and I
wanted to share how I felt with other people, and
hopefully connect with them.
Have you ever read your poems at a poetry
night? Can you give any advice to those poets
taking part in Fluent on Paper?
I haven’t ever read my poetry in front of an audi-
ence, so it will be as nervewracking for me as for
anyone else, but it’s going to be a friendly crowd
so I’m sure it’ll be fine. I just want to ask people
not to be shy; because you shouldn’t be afraid of
sharing your emotions. Its something that should
be celebrated.
Is it mainly Imperial Students taking part? Will
you have participants from other universities?
It’s an open mic evening so I hope that the people
who come along will bring something different to
share with everyone. As well as that, I’ve chosen
three poets to read their stuff. One is a recent Im-
perial graduate, the other is a friend of mine who
studies at Manchester and the third is a guy from
Cardiff who I met in India.
Would you be alright with dramatic readings of
favourite poems for example?
I really want it to be as inclusive as possible. Poetry
is not just about expressing yourself in your own
words. Its also about someone else communicat-
ing an emotion in a way that connects with you.
So I am more than happy for people to read other
peoples poems that they have enjoyed. As long as
they give credit to the poet of course!
Where is it going to be held?Anice place?
At a pub called The Builders Arms. I first went
there in second year and I think its probably the
best pub in this area. The inside is really stylish and
the beers are very good.
Any final comments? Encouragements?
Don’t be put off. Its not going to be some preten-
tious douchefest. its just going to be a bunch of
friendly people drinking beers and reading poetry.
Its going to be very down to earth and very non-
judgemental.
Fluent on Paper; 20th November from 7pm to
9pm at The Builders Arms, South Kensington
Less love, more sex?
Rhyme, gentlemen please
ures and religious faces.The play, if not interesting,
is at the very least informative.
Unfortunately,muchliketherevelationof2009’s
Nobel Peace Prize winner, this play was largely
and undeniably underwhelming. The first half had
that astonishing quality of feeling rushed whilst re-
maining inherently stagnant. Ideas that would have
merited from a good ten minutes worth of discus-
sion and synoptical action were glossed over in a
question of seconds. Gillespie evidently suffered
from the rare problem of having too much inspira-
tion and his play seems to burst at the seams with
all the questions he’s ever wanted to ask about sex
(notice, not so much love). It’s a pity, that in asking
so many, he ends up answering few. I abashedly
hesitate to say in fact, none.The plotline is virtually
nonexistent until the second half when there is sud-
denly a rush of action and excitement which leaves
the audience nothing short of bewildered. Most of
all however, I’m troubled by the conclusions, what
few of them there are anyway, that Gillespie seems
to come to. Dare I say it’s pessimistic to assume
that all men may want out of any and every rela-
tionship is ‘to cum and keep on cumming’? Or that
each and every man shirks from commitment, par-
ticularly that ultimate and inevitable one: parent-
hood? On the subject of marriage itself, he seems
to resolve that it’s just a struggle to relive those first
six weeks of bliss, that honeymoon period but that
eventually all it becomes is ‘the hell of familiarity
and boredom’. But is it safe to assume that every
marriage is just that?
Despite the limitations of the script, I have to
hand it to the actors for their thoroughly commend-
able performances. Stuart Sessions succeeds in
accurately portraying the Everyman character of
Michael Smith without failing to keep the audience
engaged (I didn’t notice my attention wandering
once in the two hours) and his comic timing is im-
peccable throughout. Clare Cameron meanwhile
boasts a sizzling and somewhat terrifying stage
presence, albeit the sometimes off-putting discrep-
ancies in her Spanish accent are.
Although undoubtedly thought provoking, it
pains me to describe this production as unremark-
able.As you’d expect from its title, Love, Question
Mark raises enough questions, but the answers lack
thedepthanddevelopmentneededfortheaudience
to leave feeling edified. Whilst I’d never want to
increase The Sun’s circulation, Gillespie’s play is
something of a glorified Dear Deidre column and
with tickets selling at sixty times the price of the
red top, it isn’t really sixty times better.
Love, Question Mark runs at the Tabard The-
atre until 23 November
Eva Rosenthal
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new
poets. If you want to see your work ap-
pearing here, do get in touch. Addition-
ally, those interested in joining Poetry
Society, contact Osas, at osamudien.
omoigiade@imperial.ac.uk.
She was very inspired

