Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
Are you considering a career
in the City?
Did you know that about half of City law-
yers didn’t study law as an undergraduate?
Find out more about City careers in Law by
joining Allen & Overy and Imperial Alum-
ni for an interactive event on Thursday 17th
November 2011 at Imperial College from
6.00pm to 9.00pm. The trainees and asso-
ciates running this event, who all attended
Imperial College as undergraduates before
deciding to embark upon a legal career, will
share with you their experiences of convert-
ing to law and working for a global firm.
Please sign up with the Law Society to at-
tend this event.
19
It is always difficult, for unfathomable
reasons, to make it to even the best of
cultural events taking place in your own
city. As a tourist, rushing around during
a fleeting visit to the newest European
cultural capital, visiting every museum
in sight is merely second nature. But at
home, with time on one’s hands, noth-
ing. Perhaps it is the knowledge that
museums will be there the following
day, maybe offering a better student rate
on Friday evenings to tempt you with.
Except that on Fridays, relaxing seems
to be the better idea. Or maybe going to
galleries or attending concerts and plays
appears to be too expensive to suit a stu-
dent budget.
In London however, one cannot use
these excuses, simply because there is
so much on offer that should be seen
and soaked up. The following sugges-
tions may encourage you to play the
tourist in your own land.
On Wednesday, Leonardo da Vinci:
Painter at the Court of Milan opened
at the National Gallery. This is a unique
opportunity to see for example, the two
versions of the ‘Virgin of the Rocks’ ex-
hibited together, as well as several other
paintings and numerous drawings. It
is rare to see more than one Leonardo
at a time; to see several, on loan from
the greatest museums in the world, is a
privilege.
Building the Revolution: Soviet
Art and Architecture 1915 – 1935 at
the Royal Academy of Arts exhibits
the works of the soviet constructivists,
comparing it to the buildings which
were inspired by this artistic movement.
Constructivism was fuelled by the Rus-
sian revolution, and reflects its powerful
and passionate nature.
Another Russian suggestion: until the
30th of December, the films of the fa-
mous Alexsandr Sokurov are currently
running at the BFI Southbank, a chance
to see them in succession and thus expe-
rience the growth of an artist. The BFI
screens rare films on a regular basis;
they even do student prices.
Contemporary art is also on offer at
the hundreds of galleries around Lon-
don. Places like White Cube, Gagosian
or Spruth Magers, as well as a host of
smaller, less famous spaces, are gener-
ally free to the public.
The Felix Arts Curse stuck again
this week as, having declined to give
us tickets, the Young Vic’s production
of Hamlet limped through its opening
night, hampered with technical issues.
Despite missed cues and an impromptu
interval, Michael Sheen nevertheless
came away with plaudits, bringing a
deranged unpredictability and energy to
the role of the Danish prince in the mo-
ments when the audience were actually
in their seats.
Can’t be artsed: Will and Eva consider
Will Prince
FELIX Friday 11 November 2011
In their continuing struggle for the
title of top luvvy at the NT, Alex Jen-
nings and Simon Russell Beale take to
the stage in Collaborators, a new play
based on the plight of a Russian play-
write commissioned to write a play for
Stalin’s 60th birthday. With all the key
ingredients of the high calibre theatre
that the National Theatre prides itself
on, it looks a solid show. Sadly for the
masses, tickets at the minute seem are
hard to get hold of as bread in pre-war
Soviet Russia. If only, as in Soviet Rus-
sia, tickets find you.
In local news, Next Time I’ll Sing To
You comes to the Orange Tree Theatre
– watch this section next week for a re-
view, or if you like to live dangerously,
go see it before hearing our advice. The
cast of Yerma can probably hardly be-
lieve their luck, as they transfer from
Hull to the Gate Theatre, Notting Hill,
this week in a new working of Lorca’s
tragedy.
A Norwegian uses twice as much electricity as an American but produces less than half the CO2
– GREEN WEEK 2011. COMING SOON.

