Jakobs Café (20 Gloucester Road) are still looking
for enthusiastic students with good English and
presentation skills to serve their customers on a
part time basis. Shifts: 12pm to 3pm or 6pm to
9pm (Monday to Sunday) Salary: £7/hour + food.
To apply, send your CV to vidhulvinodh@gmail.
com, or phone 07466632915
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2 Friday 11 november 2011
Lolcat of teh week
In case you haven’t quite heard about
it yet, this year’s first Felix Music Night
– KABLAAM – is going ahead tomorrow
(that’s Saturday 12 November) at Metric.
As ever, we’ve teamed up with Jazz & Rock
and Music Tech to bring you a showcase
of Imperial’s finest bands and DJs, not to
mention our incredible headliner Mikill
Pane (above). It’s only £3 (online or on the
door, check our Facebook page).
Head on over to this week’s Music Section
on Page 22 for even more information –
and why not stick around for Page 23?
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Alexander Karapetian Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Features Editors Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Business
Editors Beñat Gurrutxaga Lerma Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Iñigo
Martinez de Rituerto Stephen Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Food
Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Home & Garden Editors Tim Arbabzadah Charles Betts Navid Nabijou Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett
Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Veli Akiner Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Alexandros Mousafeiris Jonathan Peek Deepka Rana
Aemun Reza Annina Sartor
CLASSIFIEDS
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
You seem to like your WKD judging by the response
to last week’s competition. If you missed it, you
can still check out last week’s Cryptic Crossword if
you’re up for winning a bottle of champagne. If you
didn’t win this time, there’ll be another chance to
bag yourself a crate of WKD just in time for Christ-
mas. Right, expect fewer alcohol related competi-
tions next week.
Last week’s WKD Purple Winner was Yi Goh.
Congratulations!
What’s on
BioMed Soc Gothic Rave
Metric, Imperial Collge Union
Saturday 19 November
20:00–01:00
Join BMS Society in our dark celebrations of all
things Gothic and Pagan. Look forward to a gro-
tesque night of fortune telling, sacrificial goat stab-
bing, and thrash metal musical chairs culminating
in an almost possessed climax of dancing. Don’t
curse yourself by staying in on Saturn’s Day and be
hypnotised in preparation for the Winter Solstice!
Correction
PICK OF THE WEEK
The Music Section is gearing up
for KABLAAM, are you?
Mikill Pane knows Ed Sheeran. Got your attention? No? Fine
Large room for rent. Located in Hammersmith/
Fulham. 5 minute walk from Barons Court Tube
Station. 2 minute walk from Charing Cross Hospi-
tal. 15 mins cycle to South Kensington campus.
£82 a week. Contact details: nh1310@imperial.
ac.uk; 07743 320 715.
Last week Felix reported in the news article ‘Council talk
Balls and bars’ that a proposed amendment to the re-
sponsible retailing of alcohol policy concerning ID cards
was rejected. This amendment was in fact passed. In
addition, voting for Honorary Life Membership required a
simple majority. Felix apologises for these errors.
Competition
College of Law – GDL, LPC
& BPTC Taster Session
Huxley, Lecture Theatre 145
Monday 14 November
18:00–20:30
Are you interested in Law? Do you want to find out
more about the GDL (Conversion Course), the LPC
(Solicitor Professional Qualification) or the BPTC
(Barrister Professional Qualification)?
Nick Ross from the College of Law will be coming
here to Imperial College to answer all your ques-
tions and give you a flavour of what it is like to study
the GDL, the LPC and the BPTC.

