A
ny of you who read my article
last week probably came to the
conclusion that I’m either a drib-
bling moron or an actual full-on
nutter. For that exact reason, I’ve
decided to simmer things down a bit and tell
you about possibly the most peaceful thing I
can imagine: an all acoustic gig on a boat gently
rocking on the Thames.
This was a strange experience for me, not
only because it was on a boat (www.tamesis
dock.co.uk) but because normally acoustic mu-
sic isn’t something I buy into. I usually find it’s
something I want to hear so little that if it ever
comes on I wish my head would literally just be
engulfed. This was different.
First on was Tangled Hair. Usually a three-
piece, this time frontman Alan Welsh dropped
his band-mates for a solo performance.
Despite complaining of a sore throat, he did
an amazing job delivering his unique style of
light-hearted rhythmic indie math-pop with soft
melodic vocals as brilliant as ever. Initially ap-
prehensive of whether the music would work
acoustically after being so mesmerised by the
full band, I was pleasantly surprised at how well
Welsh conveyed the songs with just an old gui-
tar and his vocal chords.
Welsh finished up and put down the guitar.
A tramp then strolled through the crowd and
approached the microphone. The tramp began
to serenade us but not in the usual tramp style
St Giles in the Fields, a church in Soho, is not
the most conventional musical venue, but its
large, echoing space perfectly suited Grouper’s
recognisable brand of ethereal ambient pop.
Having seen her previously performing the
stunning tape collage Rolling Gate, I wasn’t
sure what to expect from this gig – Rolling Gate
had no recognisable tracks or structure, merely
consisting of small changes in a wall of fuzz.
This was a much more conventional affair,
using guitar, piano, and of course, a lot of tape
loops.
Grouper opened the set with favourites
through a range of her albums, caressing the
audience into relaxation with her ghostly quiet
(substituting a guitar for an old, smashed-in
piece of wood). This was an actual, real-life,
not-mentally-disturbing tramp.
Something wasn’t right – there’s no such
thing as an undisturbing tramp serenade. Then,
through the mass of facial hair, I realised this
was no vagrant, it was of course Tobias Hayes
of Shoes And Socks Off.
A truly inspirational musician, he was a
perfect follow up to Tangled Hair with his
“stubbed-toe blues”. His songs, depressing yet
addictive, are so well-written that its hard to
not be in awe as you watch this unassuming
hero.
Finally, Dad Rocks! came onstage. The
beer/boat combo had taken its toll on me but
“The tramp began to ser-
enade us, but not in the
usual tramp style.”
As with many of its cultural exports, Japan’s punk
is a little different. Epitomised by bands such
as the percussion-heavy Boredoms, the metal-
heavy Boris, and psychedelic OOIOO, its brand
of noise-rock tempers avant-garde intensity with
kitschy dollops of fun.
Fastest, sharpest and strangest of the lot,
though, is Melt-Banana, who play what might as
well be cartoon music at three times the intend-
ed speed. Melt-Banana are a four-piece, but they
do without a proper drummer, the drum stool
occupied in a kind of hot-desking arrangment.
Singer Yasuko Onuki, guitarist Ichirou Agata, and
bass player Rika Hamamoto make up the band’s
sound, each given equal prominence in the in-
sane onslaught.
Imagine a soundtrack to The Itchy & Scratchy
Show scored for pneumatic drills and laserguns,
played on fast-forward and interspersed with
sound-effects from a bullet-hell shooter. Except
all those pew-pew noises are coming out of the
guitar amps. It’s not a surprise to learn that Aga-
ta converts euphoric melodies that come to him
while playing video games into guitar riffs – ap-
parently, the Tony Hawk skate-boarding series is
particularly good at getting him going.
Melt-Banana have been prolific since the core
band came together in Tokyo in 1992, releasing
ten albums and 20+ EPs, most of them put out
internationally through A-Zap, a label they start-
ed themselves. But it’s their live shows that have
made them legends. The band spring and jerk
about the stage like perpetual-motion Jacks for
an entire set, ripping relentlessly through dozens
of songs, few more than a minute long. There’s
often a popular interlude where they play through
a bunch of 10-second songs, each followed by a
politely yelped “Thank you!” to the audience.
Still, awesome as Melt-Banana are, not every-
one likes to sprinkle shichimi on their udon, so
let’s end with a nod to Shonen Knife, a pop-punk
girl band formed in Osaka in the 1980s. Sticklers
for the DIY approach, they eschewed the J-Pop
fashion and modelled themselves instead on the
Buzzcocks and Ramones. It wasn’t long before
they caught Kurt Cobain’s eye and they toured
the UK with Nirvana in the pre-Nevermind days.
Other things to like? Shonen Knife have a song
called ‘Rock n’ Roll Cake’ and 30 years in, they’re
still releasing records, still honouring their idols:
their latest album is Osaka Ramones (2011).
You can stream short sharp shots of Melt-Banana
from www.myspace.com/azap and the confec-
tionary of Shonen Knife from www.myspace.com/
shonenknife.
Punk Planet by
Douglas Heaven
This week: Melt-Banana
A tramp and a boat
George Jeffery’s tale of love, music and the Thames
when he started playing, everything fell into
place. By far one of the best guitar players I’ve
ever seen, it felt cruel that someone with so
much talent isn’t reaping the benefits that the
music industry can bring. He has this incred-
ible ability to make you feel happy with his
music and his peaceful indie sound is hard to
not fall in love with, especially when seen live.
Oh yeah and did I mention it was on an ac-
tual fucking boat?!?!?… Mental.
This gig really was something special and a
testament to the incredible shows you can go
to in London. All of the acts are on Big Scary
Monsters records (www.bsmrocks.com), go
check them out.
Does that title say I’m a tramp?! Is that what people think of me? I never knew...
Grouper impresses in a Soho church
vocals, soft fuzz and delicate instrumentation,
distorted beyond recognition by looping and
other technical trickery I won’t pretend to un-
derstand.
The second half of the set was much closer
to what I was expecting, consisting of a seem-
ingly improvised twenty minute long track.
Simple notes and chord progressions from the
guitar and piano were looped over each other
constantly, building to a delightfully ecstatic
and surprisingly loud finale.
Superb support was offered by Chris For-
syth’s Paranoid Cat Duo. In contrast to Grou-
per, this was loud, noisy psych-rock, complete
with 22 minute long tracks and steady detuning
throughout prolonged periods of pretty crazy
guitar work.
I wish I could write about the first support,
Pigeons (check them out), but sadly we were
too busy finding seats to pay attention. Grouper, a master of technical trickery
FELIX Friday 11 november 2011 23
MUSIC
Grouper
St Giles in the Fields
03.10.11
Ross Gray
If we stopped wasting food in the UK, the CO2
impact would be the equivalent of taking 1 in 4 cars off the road – GREEN WEEK 2011. COMING SOON.

