TELEVISION
FELIX
24
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
James Simpson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 November 2011
This week on Twitter
Some top tweets from Felix TV’s
followers and followees
@sickipediabot
Suicide bombers - if you really
want to see 72 virgins, then
simply pop down to GAME at
midnight.
The advent of digital satellite broadcasting
brought with it a torrent of mind-numbing
programs (including certain controversial chat
shows…) aimed at an audience with the col-
lective sentient ability of a squashed banana
(sorry, I simply couldn’t resist!). So from this
seemingly endless stream of drivel, it is rare
to find such a veritable gem of broadcasting
merit as David Attenborough’s latest offering:
Frozen Planet.
What we have here is an impeccable exposi-
tion of the best of the BBC juxtaposed with
the best of nature: the culmination of over six
years worth of filming time in some of the
toughest environments on this planet. From
amazing under-ice footage (the result of over
134 hours of filming under Arctic sea ice) to
close-ups of entire pods of orcas, this show
makes for unforgettable viewing.
The seven part series, the very love child
of the BBC and Mother Nature, concentrates
on the changing seasons at the poles, with
the first three episodes (covering Spring and
Summer) having aired already (and currently
available on iPlayer). Whilst concentrating on
the cycle of life, the show does also examine
man’s activities in these regions. But even if
you are as much the climate skeptic as I am,
don’t be put off: the breathtaking scenes and
stories throughout do more than make up for
this.
From the kleptomaniac habits of penguins,
to the clinical team hunting skills of orcas,
Frozen Planet has much in store for the view-
er. Some flawless time-lapse photography
coupled with stunning close-ups shots effec-
tively portray life in this, the most seasonal
of places. In addition, some spectacular aerial
shots give magnificent views of the barren ex-
panse of the tundra, whilst the HD is certainly
noticeable .
The BBC producers have, once again, ex-
celled themselves. Epic slow motion shots of
two 4-ton elephant seals fighting to control a
harem of over 50 females are a sight to be-
hold, especially as these mountains of blub-
ber waddle to the battlefield. As these ‘beach-
masters’ do battle the music of George Fenton
aptly provides a certain sense of grandeur to
the whole affair. With excerpts that at times
hark back to the scores of John Williams, it is
clear from where Fenton gets his inspiration,
but the music is sublime in complementing the
filming.
None of this would be as impressive without
the wise, yet dulcet, tones of Sir David At-
tenborough. Now in his 85th year, and with
over 57 years of experience in the field, there
can be no doubt that Frozen Planet hangs on
his every word. With his unique descriptions
of everything from courtship and through to
survival techniques, he provides that essential
refinement that makes this show special.
A nice addition to each episode is a 20-min-
ute addendum known as ‘Freeze Frame’ (pun
probably intended). Interviews and commen-
taries with the indefatigable crew chronicle the
risks, including 130mph windstorms, faced in
filming the program. It becomes apparent that
it was a serious undertaking to produce a show
of this calibre, and this only goes to emphasise
why you should watch it: if only to make your
TV licence payment worthwhile.
I cannot extoll the virtues of this program
enough. This documentary is nothing short of
a masterpiece. Not only is it both beautiful
and informative, but is also, dare I say, cool.
Don’t let yourself miss it.
Frozen Planet - a true masterpiece
@HBO
39 years ago today, Home
Box Office was born. #happy-
birthdayHBO
@charltonbrooker
The NOTW use of a P.I. seems
justifiable when you consider
his investigations PROVED
Harry Potter’s parents are still
alive.
@RadioTimes
Our most popular tweet today,
by miles: Downton Abbey
officially recommissioned for
third series. #DowntonAbbey
@RadioTimes
German TV lifts ban on “Nazi”
Star Trek episode #startrek
The culmination of years of filming in barren conditions, married with the inimitable voice of Sir David Attenborough
George Howard
A Great British institution
@bbcsoundeffects
Donk.
“What we have here is an
impeccable exposition
of the best of the BBC
juxtaposed with the best
of nature”

