FILM
FELIX
26
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 NOVEMBER 2011
It’s not every day you watch a film that begins
as depressingly as Melancholia. In beautifully
vibrant slow motion, we are forced to watch
in horror as the world, and four of its inhabit-
ants, come to a startlingly abrupt end by way
of planetary collision. Birds fall from the sky,
horses collapse, and our protagonist Justine (a
superbly cast Dunst) floats down a river in an
Ophelia-esque fashion. As the two planets fi-
nally meet and the orchestral score pushes into
a final crescendo, you know that this is not go-
ing to be a light-hearted journey.
The film takes part in two halves, named after
two sisters, Justine and Claire. We’re introduced
on the night of Justine’s extravagant wedding at
a luxuriant country house put on by her sister’s
millionaire husband (Sutherland), which also
appears to be approaching disaster at a simi-
larly drawn out pace. Like a snowball gather-
ing speed, tensions between Justine’s estranged
parents, delays, and an exceptionally overbear-
ing boss push Justine to breaking point, and we
are again forced to endure what essentially feels
like a beautiful, but devastating train crash of a
wedding. This is heart-wrenching stuff: Dunst
perfectly pulls off a woman who is cornered by
the oppressive forces of those around her and
longs to be left to her own devices. It’s incred-
ibly frustrating to watch her recklessly destroy
all that’s been handed to her on a silver plate,
but you cannot help but feel a sense of sadness
In brief
It’s just a jump to the left
The Rocky Horror Picture Show is no ordinary mov-
ie. The 1975 classic has a certain place in the
hearts of many: its catchy tunes, its fantastic hu-
mour, and its breath-taking but never too disturb-
ing weirdness all add up to a unique and hilarious
experience.
My first Rocky Horror experience was as a 13-
year-old, I went with a friend and his parents to
see it at the Wycombe Swan theatre. Not really
knowing anything about the show, I wasn’t entirely
sure what to expect, other than that it would be
very funny and involved transvestites. Little was I
aware that the “fancy” dress extended to the audi-
ence as much as the cast members on stage, al-
though (luckily, as I was with my friend’s parents)
not compulsory. The audience participation adds
so much to either a stage production or a film
showing, the heckling, the audience sound effects
and the fact that everyone is completely pissed
while wearing high heels and fish-nets.
So I’m very excited that next Thursday ICU Cin-
ema in conjunction with Musical Theatre Society
are putting on a showing at the Union cinema.
Doors will open at 9:15pm and the show will start
at 9:30pm.
Tickets can be bought online, they are £5 for en-
try and a goody bag of props. Tickets on-the-door
are £3.50 without goodies. It’s sure to be a hell
of an evening and if you’re a fan of either the film
or wearing something a little bit special for one
evening, you’ll love this.
Matt Allinson
Forget orchestral scores, these are songs you
would actually listen to. Or maybe you like to
have the shower scene from Psycho on repeat
during your walk to college every morning,
I’m not here to judge.
Layer Cake
“Fucking females is for poofs.”
From the opening scene with FC Kahuna’s
‘Hayling,’ you know this film’s going to have
a good selection of music. Featuring recogni-
sable songs from The Cult, Duran Duran and
Joe Cocker, the music emphasises the exciting
but lonely life of the protagonist. Well worth a
watch, particularly if you want to perfect your
cockney accent.
Twilight
“Are you still faint from the run? Or was it my
kissing expertise?”
Okay, before you spit on the page in disgust
and set the whole paper on fire, let me explain.
The music is actually pretty darn good. The
first three soundtracks had contributions from
Florence + the Machine, Bat for Lashes, The
Black Keys and Thom Yorke, and Muse even
went as far as to do a song for each OST. Who
cares if you think Edward Cullen’s a bit of a
knob, just listen to the music.
The Craft
“Light as a feather, stiff as a board.”
The ‘How Soon Is Now?’ cover may irritate
the traditionalists in the audience, but if you’re
looking for a 90s throwback you’ll be hard
pushed to find a better OST. ‘All This and Noth-
ing’ and ‘Dangerous Type’ are sure to get you in
an angsty teen mood. So girls, roll up your skirts,
pull up your socks, get out your neck chokers
and slap on some dark lipstick – we’re going
slutty gothic gunge. With witchcraft, of course.
Reservoir Dogs
“You keep talking like a bitch, I’m gonna slap
you like a bitch.”
Yes, the film where every character sounds
like a piece in Cluedo is brilliant for some
retro tunes, something that Tarantino success-
fully does in each of his bloody masterpieces.
He mixes upbeat tracks such as ‘Stuck in the
Middle with You’ with horrible gore that,
in a very disturbing way, makes you almost
enjoy the violence. I challenge anyone after
seeing this to walk down the street in a suit
and NOT have the burning desire to walk in
slow motion to ‘Little Green Bag’ playing in
their head.
(500) Days of Summer
“Just because she likes the same bizzaro crap
you do doesn’t mean she’s your soul mate.”
A film that I watch over and over, despite
how much it irritates me. Some chilled mu-
sic from Doves, Carla Bruni (who doesn’t
love a cute French voice whisper-singing
in your ears?) and The Temper Trap, and
there’s a brilliant scene with sunshine and
cartoon birds accompanied by the Hall and
Oates track ‘You Make My Dreams.’
at her predicament.
It’s not until the second half, Claire, where the
film feels like it’s really kicked into gear. Whilst
it was heavily hinted at during the first half, Jus-
tine is now painfully immobilized by crippling
depression. Unable to function normally, she
has moved back into the same country house
to be cared for with the aid of her sister’s fam-
ily, all under the gaze of Melancholia, a rogue
planet due for a flyby of Earth within the next
few days. Claire’s husband’s boyish sense of
wonder at the celestial does little to install her
with a sense of calm at the possibility of a col-
lision, whereas a rapidly recovering Justine,
convinced that life on Earth is evil, is longing
for apocalypse.
Director Lars von Trier has made a name for
himself in recent years for his half art school,
half B-Movie schlock combination when it
comes to filmmaking, and Melancholia is no
exception. It is shot beautifully but unsteadily,
with hand held camerawork adding a thick air
of unease and tension to every scene, meaning
every dull wedding conversation becomes in-
explicably uncomfortable. This contrast aids in
driving forward the dialogue, which sometimes
appears stifling, and slows the pace.
But where the film really excels is the mul-
titude of themes that it touches upon over its
running time. The whole movie is built on con-
trast: beauty versus horror, calm versus panic.
Throughout the film these ideas are played off
each other in a subtle, yet poignant style: the
bride in her wedding dress pissing on a golf
course, guests who appear dignified yet act in
the most despicable ways, and the encroaching
planet of Melancholia itself. Fundamentally
though, one idea remains: that you can only
truly know a person when they believe they are
about to die, and how they accept their fate is
a larger statement on who they are. And that is
an idea that is best discussed after you’ve seen
this film.
While many will dismiss Melancholia as
pretentious and overly stifling in its revelry
of depression (and in some cases may well be
right about it), the fact remains that von Trier
has crafted a film of visual beauty that is truly
essential viewing, even if just for the discussion
afterwards.
It’s the end of the world as we know it
Want to write for the film section?
It’s easy - just send us your articles
to film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
We are nothing, absolutely nothing,
without our loyal contributors
Christopher Dean
Director Lars von Trier
Screenwriter Lars von Trier
Cast Kirsten Dunst, Charlotte Gainsbourg,
Kiefer Sutherland, Alexander Skarsgård
Melancholia
Fiona Calcutt
Seriously, I have a thing for vampires - first Brad Pitt, then Tom Cruise, and now you...
Five films to watch for their soundtracks
MT Soc and ICU Cinema show-
ing of The Rocky Horror Picture
Show: Thursday 17 November
at 9:15pm in the
Union Concert Hall

