GAMES
That dangerous ‘O’ word
Michael Cook questions Baroness Greenfield’s claims that videogames cause
ADHD, schizophrenia and other mental disorders
FELIX
28 Friday 11 NOVEMBER 2011
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Laurence Pope
O
pinion is something of a dirty word
when it comes to science. Opinion
happens all the time within the walls
of Imperial, but it comes in the form
of chitchat, idle speculation and the
exchange of ideas. It rarely, if ever, worms its way
into academic papers and serious propositions, and
when it does it's usually questioned, dissected and
made demands of. We're keen to segregate specula-
tion and fact unless the former shows itself worthy
of being considered the latter.
In some media outlets, however, 'Opinion' is a
Get Out Of Jail Free card. It's a carte blanche to
write what you wish, and as long as you pepper that
writing with lots of 'could be's or 'may's then your
poorly-supported behind is covered. What this
means is that someone in a position of authority,
with scientific letters before and after their name,
can write an opinion column and claim more or
less whatever they wish. Write it in the right way,
and you might as well be penning the lead feature
in New Scientist.
So it was this week in The Times, where Baron-
ess Greenfield wrote an Opinion piece in which she
claimed among other things that gaming's inability
to provide 'meaning' might be causing the brains
of young, innocent, adorable children to decay into
nothingness. The headline reads, "Are video games
taking away our identities?” The headline might as
well read, "Video games are taking away our iden-
tities."
Greenfield begins by describing videogames as
'literal' experiences, by which she appears to mean
that videogames can carry no artistic meaning or
emotional weight, and are essentially no different
to playing with a cup and ball. She expresses her-
self most curiously by comparing playing Mario to
reading a book: "When you play a computer game
to rescue the princess, it is not because the princess
is meaningful to you... Yet when you read a book, it
is because you care about the characters."
It's easy to dismiss this as snobbishness – and
in an article that quotes Shakespeare and Eurip-
ides that is a fairly simple argument to make – but
what's clear is that Baroness Greenfield either
has never played a videogame, or does not enjoy
them. Giving her the benefit of the doubt that she
wouldn't write such an article having never played
videogames, the fact that she doesn't enjoy them
easily explains why she doesn't feel they have
meaning or emotional weight – because for her,
they don't. Similarly, I don't enjoy much Shake-
speare, and that makes it hard for me to relate to
any of the characters or themes being conveyed. To
say, as a result, that the medium of drama is devoid
of meaning seems a little heavy-handed.
In any case, the real problem in the article is
that Greenfield uses the lack-of-meaning argument
to motivate – namely, that by consuming content
that has no meaning we are thereby losing a part of
our mental faculties. She heavily implies through
a careful use of language that videogames are re-
sponsible for a “drop in empathy” in the popula-
tion (whatever that might mean), an “increase in
aggressiveness” and a rise in the prescription of
ADHD medication, the latter being particularly
forced as she proposes two likely causes for this
rise, and then goes on to say that "a third possibil-
ity... if... might..." until the tail end of the sentence
carries a vanishingly small probability.
But probability doesn't matter, because Baroness
Professor Susan Greenfield CBE PhD BSc holds
30 honorary degrees, is frequently on TV and ra-
dio, and was awarded the Royal Society's Faraday
Prize. Greenfield doesn't need to establish a basis
COD: MW3 theft shocks world
So I guess some of you were expecting a Mod-
ern Warfare 3 review, right? I barely have enough
money to subsist on dry bread and so little free time
that I can only sleep for half an hour each day, so
you expect me to purchase and play COD: MW3?
I guess a man can dream. If you’re all good little
girls and boys I’ll have one of my richer contribu-
tors review it next week. But for now, enjoy/endure
this amusing little piece about everyone’s favourite
modern army shooter. It would have gone into the
news section, but apparently only big news goes
there, picky editors.
It seems that the European release date of Novem-
ber 8 was a little too far away for some folk. Emu-
lating a crime that wouldn’t be out of place in a
GTA game, two enterprising masked men wielding
tear gas grenades hijacked a French truck carrying
6000 copies of Infinity Ward’s latest product. The
two men, no doubt amazingly dedicated gamers,
pulled out the drivers and escaped with the truck,
along with its precious shipment. The cargo’s over-
all value? Just shy of £350,000.
In other news, similar attacks were reported sev-
eral hours later on vans carrying large quantities
of Gatorade and Cheetos. Coincidence? I’ll let you
decide.
“Write an opinion column
in the right way, and you
might as well be penning
the lead article in New
Scientist”
for a claim; she merely needs to imply its veracity,
and herein lies the problem.
Last month, Greenfield was quoted by The Sun
as having said that videogames caused a form
of “dementia” in children. A spokesperson later
claimed this had “misrepresented” her views. She
spoke out about Internet Addiction Syndrome, af-
ter which Ben Goldacre asked her to publish results
or conduct a study. Greenfield likened Goldacre
to those who used to claim smoking didn't cause
cancer. Now, in this Times article, she constructs a
weak argument against gaming's artistic merit, and
uses it to imply a causal link between it and neuro-
logical disorders.
Last known image of one of the men
believed to have been involved
This is (another) public service
announcement to all gamers/writers/
people at Imperial.
We are looking for budding writers!
Your idea can be one-sentence or a
whole feature.
But wait, that’s not all! We’re also
looking for artists and designers. If
you’re willing to help us direct, produce,
research (i.e. play games), collate and
design the magazine then we want you.
Email:
omar.hafeez-bore06@imperial.ac.uk
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Claims that games like GTA IV negatively impact on one’s mental state need to be supported
If videogames were causing my brain to weaken
and become damaged, I would want to know. I'd
be surprised if I found a gamer who wouldn't want
to know. No one is denying Greenfield's claims
because they want to sweep this under the rug.
They're asking questions because her claims are
unsupported, they are fuelling suspicion and hatred
of videogames, and above all else they're teaching
the public that science is about people with letters
after their name telling you what is true and what
is false.
This is not how science works. But it remains to
be seen whether anyone will really make a dent in
Greenfield's arguments, or whether these 'opinion'
pieces will be a regular fixture for the next half-
decade.
“In her Times article, [Bar-
oness Greenfield] con-
structs a weak argument
against gaming’s artistic
merit”

