recommendation regarded the Union’s
wish to have representation on the
Strategic Education Committee (SEC),
which has a key role in issues such as
the College Day.
Citing the Union’s seven-year exclu-
sion from the committee, Heath claims,
“it is clear that elements within College
want to keep us off SEC to ensure they
have this sure-fire route to passing un-
popular policy. However, by doing so
they are ignoring one of the other recom-
mendations in the NSS Response, a les-
son learned from the Life Sciences Re-
structure last year – consult the student
body when undertaking large changes.”
“The Union and the Student Body are
reasonable. We are open to some chang-
es in our timetables if they result in more
opportunities and a better experience.”
Student representatives sat on the
SEC until seven years ago. Jason Par-
mar, Deputy President (Education), has
claimed that current committee mem-
bers have highlighted the usefulness of
having students on the committee.
Maciej Matuszewski
The College Day Working Party has
outlined its latest recommendations to-
wards the structure of the day. Imperial
College Union, while open to some of
the recommended changes, has taken
the opportunity to reinforce the impor-
tance of student input in the face of sig-
nificant changes. On the other hand, the
suggestions have seen strong concerns
from the Department of Humanities.
Discussions by the College Day
Working Group regarding the extension
of the College day first came to light in
January of this year, with students and
staff providing a fervent response in
face of the proposals, which included
extending teaching hours from 8am to
7pm, reducing lunchtimes and schedul-
ing exams for Saturdays.
The move came as a solution to
timetabling congestion experienced by
many departments, although no official
request had been made. Department
representatives did however indicate
that they would make use of any time-
table extensions, in spite of staff raising
issues such as unfeasible commutes and
childcare.
The cause for most concern was the
impact the plans would have on Hu-
3
FELIX Friday 11 november 2011
NEWS
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
Potential College Day revisions outlined
manities subjects and extra curricular
activities. Humanities staff criticised
the plans in a letter sent to Felix, sug-
gesting that Humanities courses would
be devalued and marginalised.
The Union also expressed concerns
regarding students’ ability to take part
in clubs and societies, also suggesting
that the longer hours will have a serious
effect on the welfare of students, most
of which already felt overworked.
Professor Dorothy Griffiths, chair of
the Group, has always stated that the
proposals were simply under consider-
ation and that no final plans had been
made.
The latest recommendations made by
the College Day Working Party sug-
gest that teaching hours should now
run from 9am until 7pm. The last hour
of this block would be reserved for the
Humanities Programme and Wednesday
afternoons would remain free.
Furthermore, Departments would
have to set aside 5pm to 7pm on Tues-
days and Thursdays and noon to 2pm on
either Monday or Friday for certain year
groups for further Humanities teaching.
The Working Party argues against set-
ting aside this time for all students since
‘the majority of Departments offer Hu-
manities in particular years’.
Recommendations for the schedul-
ing of exams have also been laid out.
Working Party recommends extended teaching hours for humanities
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Matthew Colvin
Humanities is concerned that access to languages will be restricted
Matthew Colvin
Finals reveal Imperial
University Challenge team
Internal contests for Imperial’s Univer-
sity Challenge selection took place last
week in the Blackett lab, with the initial
tryouts on Thursday 3 November seeing
attendance figures upwards of 130 stu-
dents hoping to get onto the team. Sixty
questions sent in by the show were asked
in the space of an hour with those who
fell within the top sixteen by scoring at
least 24 out of 60 making it through to
the next round.
The finals were held last Wednesday
mimicking the University Challenge
format, consisting of four 20-minute
matches with winners and losers from
the first two playing off against each
other until a winning team was formed.
Gilead Amit and Ciaran Healy, from the
2009 team, were present and read the
questions while helping with the judg-
Alexander Karapetian ing. The tournament exhausted the list
of official University Challenge ques-
tions provided, with scores of 95-90 for
the final along with close scores of 90-
85 for the first match.
Elliot Bajema commented that after
the questions were used up, they were
“still not satisfied [they] had seen enough
to make a good decision” and therefore
8 selected candidates were chosen for
an additional round with a harder set of
questions from a previous tournament.
This match ended with score 110-65.
The lineup for the 2012 series will
be: Pietro Aronica (Chemistry 1st Year
MRes + PhD), Dominic Cottrell (Medi-
cine 4th Year), Martin Evans (Phar-
macology and Translational Medical
Science 3rd Year) and Henry Guille
(Materials Science 3rd Year) with Ash-
win Braude (Physics 1st Year) in re-
serve.
While under these recommendations
departments would be able to timetable
three examinations each day, individual
students should only have to sit at most
two; except in exceptional circumstanc-
es and with the relevant Examination
Board having been informed. Addition-
ally, students should not be required “to
sit an early morning examination after
having taken a late afternoon examina-
tion the previous day”.
Both teaching and exams could be
carried out from 8am to 7pm and on
weekends and Bank Holidays in “ex-
ceptional circumstances”, such as “trav-
el disruption caused by volcanic ash”.
The Department of Humanities have
outlined its own concerns, citing in a
response to the recommendations that
‘If the recommendations of the Col-
lege Day committee go ahead, many
students will be prevented from taking
a Humanities or Languages option of
their choice,’ proceeding to claim that,
‘student choice and satisfaction will be
seriously reduced for all’.
Imperial College Union President,
Scott Heath, has taken the opportunity
to re-emphasise the importance of stu-
dent input on such issues relevant to the
‘student experience’.
Referencing the Union’s recent re-
sponse to the National Student Survey,
Heath discusses the fact that one key
Matt Allinson, a self-confessed “die-
hard fan of the show” who competed in
the finals, commented to Felix saying
he was “amazed at how much easier it
is at home on the sofa... as opposed to
gathered around a table with 3 strangers,
an opposing team, and an audience.” Al-
linson extended congratulations to the
main team, saying “I think with them
on board we stand a damn good chance
of doing well this year”, noting that “the
organisers did their best to take it seri-
ously but keep it fun.”
The team’s first challenge will be to
compete against teams from Oxford,
Manchester, Sheffield and Oxford
Brookes in the Academic Competition
Federation (ACF) Quiz, held in Oxford
on Saturday 5 November. Filming for
the 2012 series of University Challenge
will begin in February, with the show set
to broadcast in July 2012.
Deepka Rana
140 litres of water are needed to produce one cup of coffee – GREEN WEEK 2011. COMING SOON.

