FOOD
FELIX
30
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 november 2011
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
The wisdom of nature
Perfect Pizza... indeed!
by Marie-Laure Hicks
The truth is that organic products have man-
aged to attract a large number of people in the
United Kingdom. In addition, the increase in
the number of people buying organic goods is
showing no signs of slowing down. The sup-
porters of this ‘green lifestyle’ believe that it is
not just a fashion trend that is going to disap-
pear in the future, as they argue that organic
products are of greater quality despite their
slightly higher cost.
The producers explain that the reason for the
popularity of organic food is because they are
free from hormones, pesticides, preservatives,
and chemicals – offering healthier nutrition to
the consumers.
And this is scientifically confirmed.
Research that took place in the USA in 1984
proved that organic products contain many
more nutrients like phosphorus, calcium, mag-
nesium and potassium. Specifically, organic
lettuce contains almost twice as much phospho-
rus and four times the quantity of calcium that
is contained in the conventional lettuce.
Moreover, a group of European scientists
have proved that organic fruit and vegetables
contain 40% more antioxidants than normal.
Antioxidants are beneficial for the heart and
help the prevention of cancer.
In addition to the health benefits, the organic
production systems have a large ecosystem im-
pact, as they are designed to respect the balance
observed in our natural ecosystems. Organic
farms actively encourage biodiversity in order
to maintain soil fertility and aid natural pest
control – in contrast with conventional farms.
Therefore, after a great deal of research in
organic markets and farms, I have prepared a
shopping list for you listing my top five organic
products available on the market, so that you
know where to go and what to choose!
Mandarin & Ginger Extra Dark Chocolate by Seed & Bean
Description: Dominican Cocoa is delightfully blended with Italian Mandarin es-
sential oil and a hint of ginger from China for a blissfully warm enveloping orange
confection.
More details: www.seedandbean.co.uk
Mini Magoo’s Granuesli with Bluberries
Description: Rich, handmade cereals. I particularly like the dis-
tinctive flavour of each ingredient that is not tainted by any addi-
tives. You can find it many different flavours such as dates or ginger.
More Details: www.minimagoo.com
Mini Vegbox by Riverford Organic Farm
Description: It contains 7 or 8 varieties of very high quality fresh
vegetables – better then Tesco or Sainsbury’s. The most important
thing is that it is a very reasonable price – £9.85 for the whole box.
More Details: www.riverford.co.uk
Organic Almonds by Not Just Nuts
Description: A healthy snack full of energy and vitamins.
Use them as a fine flavouring, raw, sliced, ground or fried. Add to stir fries,
use in the base of a nut roast or stuffing mix and taste the difference!
More details: www.notjustnuts.co.uk
365 Organic Everyday Value Olive Oil
by Whole Foods Market
Description: It does make a significant difference to your salads. Try it
on top of fresh bread!
More details: www.wholefoodsmarket.com
Perfekt Ultimate Organic Granola
Description: The utimate balance of delicious jumbo oats,
crunchy nuts and seeds gently toasted with agave nectar.
More details: www.granovita.co.uk
Going organic with the latest natural foods
Soho Joe is the product of a husband and wife team
who both have more than twenty years experience
in the catering industry. Open from early morning
until late at night, Soho Joe is an exciting new ven-
ture situated in the heart of Soho, serving a range
of food and drinks at extremely affordable prices.
Wandering around the West End, I stumbled upon
Soho Joe. For an Italian-style trattoria, it was the
perfect balance between tradition and contem-
porary design. As you walk in, there is a mouth-
watering food counter on the side and a number of
stylish wooden tables with (surprisingly) comfort-
able stools.
You order and pay at the counter and soon
enough a lovely plate of food is put in front of you.
I had chosen an Aberdeen Angus beef burger with
chips and I had not an ounce of regret, it was sim-
ply divine. Held by two slices of ciabatta bread and
some salad, the steak was seasoned with a mix
of pepper and spices and cooked beautifully. The
chips were perfect: crispy on the outside, fluffy
and soft inside. To drink, the French Merlot was
very nice.
The atmosphere of the place really added to its
charm. Throughout the evening, the restaurant
was quite busy, people were happy and loud but
you could always have a conversation without
much difficulty. The customers were lively and
even provided a certain entertainment factor, one
of them was recognised by a waitress from being
on the cover of a men’s fitness magazine. With
Charles Trenet’s ‘La Mer’, ‘Can’t Take My Eyes Off
You’, some Stephane Pompougnac and the odd
piece of gangster music in the background, it was
an interesting and pleasant mix.
Budget-wise, the restaurant was more than rea-
sonable, even quite cheap for the quality of the
food. The burger was £7, as are all the pizzas on
the menu (they looked and smelt fantastic). The
wine was £4 a glass, but there were cheaper
drinks available. Overall, you could easily eat for a
tenner; push it to £15–£20 and you could also en-
joy a great starter of antipasti or houmous. There
are also pasta dishes and hot sandwiches. Soho
Joe offers a good priced and delicious meal in a
friendly atmosphere – good for groups, too.
Soho Joe
22-25 Dean Street
London W1D 3RY
www.sohojoe.net
Place of the week:
Soho Joe
Anastasia Eleftheriou

