CLUBS & SOCIETIES
32
Scouts
FELIX
Friday 11 november 2011
C
haplaincy is really about conver-
sation,” is the way a student once
put it. Chaplaincy is a faith based
welfare service for students. We
seek to provide hospitality, sup-
port, reflection and dialogue around belief, re-
ligion, faith and spirituality. What that actually
means is different types of ‘conversations’.
Some conversations are quite straightforward.
These are responses to clear religious needs –
‘I have just moved flat where is my nearest
mosque/temple/church?’ or ‘I would like to find
out more about my religion – can I meet with
the Faith Advisor?’ or ‘Are there prayer rooms
I can use?’
To reflect the diversity of religious views held
by members of Imperial, the Chaplaincy has a
team of Chaplains and Faith Advisors for a va-
riety of world faiths: Jewish, Christian, Muslim,
Hindu and Buddhist. The Chaplaincy Centre has
space for meetings and worship. We have quiet
places in Beit Quad and Princes Gardens for
meditation or prayer.
For those who want to explore a particular
faith practice, Chaplaincy provides opportuni-
ties for meditation from Christian, Buddhist, and
Hindu traditions.
Chaplaincy can also help with ‘conversa-
tions about meaning’. In an international aca-
demic community like Imperial there is a mas-
sive range of beliefs about the ‘big questions of
life’. These include, among others, ‘Why we are
here?’ ‘What constitutes a person?’ ‘Where do
we find meaning?’ ‘Do meanings have a lasting
value?’ ‘Why do bad things happen?’ and ‘Is
there a God/god? And if there is what does that
mean?’
These questions are not just intellectual ques-
tions. Some of these questions relate to how
we see and treat others. These influence our
relationships, our professional ethics and our
politics. The questions of purpose may influence
how we see our work and career choices. And
these apparently intellectual questions can have
emotional dimensions about trust, hope, fear and
desire.
The Chaplains have time for very open reflec-
tive conversations that allow us to do our think-
ing out loud. These conversations are confiden-
tial and respectful of the person’s worldview.
Sometimes highly creative conversations occur
because of great differences in religious and
philosophical outlook. Rooted in our own tradi-
tions, we offer space for open reflective conver-
sation to anyone who wants to use it.
Increasingly, Chaplaincy is involved in con-
versations between people from different reli-
What’s it all about?
gious traditions. This is about learning firsthand
about other people’s beliefs and practice. It is
also about becoming skilled at handling diver-
gent and conflicting views. This kind of conver-
sation is now trying to create new and positive
engagement between religious and humanist
perspectives. (See Rory Fenton’s Guardian On-
line Comment at bit.ly/nJEJxI).
The other emerging conversation of our time
is with those who describe themselves as ‘spiri-
tual but not religious’. With students at the Roy-
al College of Art we now have a non-religious
meditation time. This uses simple methods of
self awareness that allows people from different
backgrounds to share silence and stillness (and is
open to Imperial students).
Goodconversationisonethatcanbringchange
and growth to both conversation partners. Con-
versations with students and colleagues from
different religious and secular perspectives have
shown me that my own faith is not about intel-
lectual certainty but about deeper relationships
of trust.
In the Chaplaincy we are open for conver-
sation. So if you want to talk about Nietzsche
and the death of God, or you want to try Indian
cooking with our Hindu Chaplain, or walk a lab-
yrinth, or try interfaith discussion, or talk about
medical or engineering ethics, or sing carols, or
talk about your anatomy classes, or if you have a
really weird dream and want to change career, or
to find new ways to pray, or talk about someone
who has died, or if you want to find out about the
religion of the person you have just fallen in love
with, or... as I say, we are open to conversation.
For more information about Chaplaincy con-
versations and experiments in religion, spiritu-
ality and faith see www.imperial.ac.uk/chap-
laincy
College Chaplain Andrew Willson introduces the Chap-
laincy – a welfare service for Imperial students
When someone says ‘girl guide’ or ‘scout’ to you,
many people fondly envisage either the days of be-
ing one themselves, or the likes of a Brownie or
Cub Scout doing something craft based or learning
knots. What many people don’t realise is that both
organisations in fact have sections aimed at people
up to the age of 25, who do activities that are rel-
evant to them: a casual camping trip all of a sudden
has the chance to get a lot more extreme.
This term, there has been a rejuvenation of the
Scout & Guide group at Imperial, called ‘SSAGO’,
part of the Student Scout and Guide Organisation.
Last active just over 10 years ago it has re-estab-
lished, and as a project, it has many facets. The
first is as a mixed Student group, open to everyone,
which does a variety of activities (characteristic of
both Scouting & Guiding) from archery to attending
the Comedy Store.
Then there are the badges. It’s easy at Imperial
to get swept up in the everyday hustle and bustle of
labs, tutorials, lectures, coursework, and come out
of it wondering what physical, satisfying, tangible
evidence you have of your accomplishments. That’s
what the humble badge is for, a symbol of some-
thing to work towards and a true beacon of achieve-
ment once obtained. You may scoff now, but you’ll
mull it over later, and want one.
The other less obvious facet to this group is the
volunteering. In the same heady mix identified
above, it is equally easy to go through your entire
Imperial career without ever interacting with the
local, non-Imperial, community. Through SSAGO,
you’re able to get in touch with a local Guide or
Scout group to volunteer your skills and experience
to an audience from anywhere between 5 and 18,
on a one-off occasion or something more regular.
This offers really rewarding opportunity to work with
children, and allows you to share your experience
with a fascinated audience.
If you want to tie everything SSAGO has to offer
together, perhaps the most exciting and challenging
facet of the project is the opportunity to undertake
the Duke of Edinburgh Award (or finish an uncompet-
ed one), or the Queen’s Guide/ Scout Award. We’ve
got a presentation about these and more on Novem-
ber 22, and if you’d like to hear more we’d love to
hear from you by emailing ssago@imperial.ac.uk.
Jenny Wilson
“
“In a community like
Imperial there is a
massive range of beliefs
about the ‘big questions
of life” Chaplaincy can help with ‘conversations about meaning’
Chaplaincy provides opportunities for various world faiths
Better than Titanic
Jonathan Peek

