CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 11 november 2011 33
European success for Imperial at iGEM
The iGEM (international Genetically
Engineered Machine) competition is run
every year with hundreds of teams from
all over the world competing for the top
prize in synthetic biology – a shiny piece
of glass. It is now in its eighth year run-
ning and bigger than ever before, with
the grand finale at MIT now preceded
by three regionals in Europe, Asia and
America. The objective of the competi-
tion is to essentially engineer bacteria
to do something awesome – find land
mines, produce fiery luminescence, you
name it.
We were but lowly undergraduates
when we signed up to be part of this
year’s Imperial iGEM team but can now
easily be identified by a lack of personal
grooming usually observed exclusively
in the late stages of PhD thesis writing,
and if you are unfortunate enough to
catch one of us in a bar you will likely
be subjected to a rant about Gibson as-
sembly (it never works, man) or Bio-
Brick standards (it’s pointless, man). But
I digress.
Our team of biologists, biochemists
and bioengineers started out enthusiasti-
cally (and maybe a tiny bit naively) in
early July, when we brainstormed for
ideas on how to engineer microbes to do
something awesome. After two weeks
of coming up with concepts that ranged
from feasible to completely wacky, we
finally found the project of our dreams:
AuxIn. Named after the phytohormone
auxin, the project does what the title
says: we engineered E. coli to produce
indole 3-acetic acid, a type of auxin that
enhances plant root growth. We were
interested in expressing this hormone
as it makes plants grow highly branched
roots that can be used for holding down
top soil in areas prone to soil erosion and
desertification.
Once we had settled on a project, we
Rebekka Bauer jumped straight into the “human prac-
tices” component of our idea. We talked
to ecologists, plant scientists, social sci-
entists from LSE, charity founders and
a Greenpeace scientific advisor to make
sure that our project was viable and
could be implemented in a sensible way.
This led us to design Gene Guard, a con-
tainment device that prevents horizontal
gene transfer (bacteria passing on DNA
in the envrionment). We also looked at
how we could implement our project in
a culturally sensitive and responsible
way and designed a concept of using a
seed coat to cover seeds in our bacteria,
which could then be shipped to countries
such as Australia and India where soil
erosion poses a big problem.
The project was completed with a third
module, which enables bacteria to swim
towards the root exudate malate to en-
sure that the compound reaches roots.
Amazingly, we also found a paper pub-
lished last year describing how plants
Student projects share at symposium
Are you part of a student-led project
at Imperial? Or perhaps you’d like to
join one – or better yet, even start your
own? No doubt you’ve heard of the
achievements of some of the College’s
most ambitious student projects, which
include e.quinox, who deliver electric
power to rural villages in Rwanda, and
Raincatcher Imperial, who aim to im-
prove the availability of clean water to
residents in Tanzania. Such projects
clearly have a wealth of experience and
knowledge in implementing solutions
that are of benefit to the wider commu-
nity.
The Students-Led Projects Sympo-
sium (SPS) aims to bring these soci-
eties together under one room, such
that they can meet with each other and
benefit from each other’s experiences.
Jointly organised by both Imperial Col-
lege London and Loughborough Uni-
versity students, the event provide an
optimum interactive environment for
keynote speakers, representatives from
the Union and the societies to network
and exchange their thoughts and ideas
on student-led projects. In the words
of Merwin Man, who came up with
the idea of the symposium in the first
place, ‘the purpose of the conference
is to create a community to encourage
knowledge transfer between student-led
projects and its members, something
that does not exist in a functioning form
at Imperial College’. He believes that
by encouraging student projects to share
their opinions and experiences on what
works and what doesn’t, they will de-
velop a better understanding of the steps
they can take in order to successfully
meet their goals. He also hopes that the
symposium will inspire other students to
get involved in one of the most reward-
ing aspects of student-life.
The SPS, which is due to happen on
16th November 2011, will be a national
event held at Imperial College London,
with students from universities around
the UK coming down to participate in
the symposium. This event aims to bring
James Chia
these projects together and give recogni-
tion to the endeavours of students who
have already started using their skills for
the benefit of the wider community. By
sharing their ideas and presenting their
work to the public and other students,
the SPS focuses on encouraging and
developing current and new student-
led initiatives. The symposium kicks
off with panel discussions that involve
representatives from the Union and the
societies themselves, who will discuss
how they went about starting their proj-
ects, and how they are run today.
Earlier this year, Imperial College
London saw its first Global Citizenship
Symposium (GCS), a symposium of a
From e.quinox to Raincatcher Imperial; students gather to discuss their experiences
similar nature, held at a smaller scale
and targeted at Imperial College stu-
dents. The discussions revolved around
the ever-important issue of money, with
an emphasis on raising funds, and at
how the Union and CAG can support the
student’s idea or project. Simon Moss,
the co-founder of the Global Poverty
Project, who has spoken at prominent
conferences in the past, including G20
and WEF summits, was invited to the
symposium to give a presentation to the
GCS.
The SPS will be beneficial for anyone
with an interest in student-led projects,
as well as to students currently involved
in their own projects. “The symposium
will let us know what other projects ex-
ist and what they do,” says Karen Ng of
Robogals, who encourage girls at school
to take a greater interest in science and
technology. “It will help us develop
our own and others’ project, whilst
also enabling us to give more back to
the student community and to our sup-
porters!” As places are limited, prompt
registration at the website below is rec-
ommended, with the event promising to
be a stimulating overview of student-led
projects at Imperial College London,
Loughborough University and others.
November 16 2011 – go to www.
union.ic.ac.uk/cag/symposium to reg-
ister for free.
are able to break down their own cell
walls and eat bacteria – a great platform
for modifying plants without directly en-
gineering them.
And then we started living in a lab
on SAF’s 5th floor. Communist atti-
tudes towards sharing lab space quickly
morphed into imperialist conquests for
working pipettes. Tempers flared, friend-
ships were tested. However, by the end
of the summer, we came out exhausted
but happy. Our bacteria produced auxin
that could be seen to affect plants; they
swam towards malate and were taken up
into the roots and our Gene Guard mod-
ule was only a week away from comple-
tion. On top of that, our engineers had
done some amazing modelling and de-
signed an entire website from scratch.
We had also presented our project at the
Natural History Museum and set up a
radio show around iGEM, which we are
told other people listen to.
Full of good hopes, we boarded a
plane toAmsterdam on the first weekend
of term. With iron determination we ig-
nored the temptation of illicit substances
and spent our time in the hotel room
running over our vital, final 20-minute
presentation. Nervosity ran high but we
had our Disney movie moment when we
were announced as finalists and Chris
and Nikki got up to deliver the most
amazing speech of their lives.
This experience could only be topped
by what followed soon – the Imperial
iGEM team was crowned Grand Prize
winner in the first ever regional jambor-
ree.
Happy and tired, we flew back to Lon-
don and took a few days of deserved rest.
But the journey is not yet over. Soon
we will be flying out to Boston to present
our project again, this time competing
against the top teams from Europe, Asia
and America. We will continue to work
on our project until then and hopefully
find a great end to an amazing summer.
Imperial previously hosted its first Global Citizenship Symposium

