FELIX Friday 11 NOVEMber 2011 35
Horoscopes*
Scorpio
You used to like Christmas. Then you
came across Michael Buble’s Christmas
album. Sometimes there really isn’t
enough vomit in the world. What a prat.
It’s a pile of commercial crap. You go
to his house and shit in his ear. Now he
knows how it feels.
Aries
This week, you have to explain why you
gave your lab report in late. The lecturer
allows you to. Before you know it.
BAM. You’re on his office floor quicker
than a call girl in the Italian Prime
Minister’s residence. Wait, he already
agreed to give you the marks. Not again.
Taurus
With your improbable hair and silly
tan, it might have made sense to resign
to save your country. But, oh wait. No
one else knows what to do. Ah. Hmm...
maybe we should all resign... to watch
porn and have wanks all day long. Then
money wouldn’t matter as much.
Gemini
On Tuesday, you managed to trick a stu-
dent with the whole lick-for-tick trick.
You gave HIM a 2:2. Fucking long hair,
always fooling you from behind. They
may have banned the cane, but you’ve
found a new way to punish young boys.
All we’re saying is, tight gap.
Cancer
We must apologise for the above solu-
tion. It seems that former Home Sec-
retary Jacqui Smith’s husband already
‘beat’ us to it. Two, four, six, eight... Mr
Smith likes to mas_u__ate. Send in your
complete answers to Hangman. First
one gets a cock in the mouth.
Leo
Clearly, this is a story all about how
your life got flip-turned upside-down.
You got anally penetrated by Profes-
sor Schlong. Should have know by his
name and bad acting he was a porn star.
Fucking movember, makes everyone
look like Ron Jeremy.
Virgo
Feeling shit about being fat? Here’s a
tip: eat less and do more sport. Then you
might be less fucking bitchy towards up-
per class skinny chicks and have less of
a chip on your shoulder. Luckily, you’re
at Imperial, so you’ll still get loads. Still
an idea to compensate with blowjobs.
Libra
Understandably, Felix doesn’t need off-
air microphones to say what it thinks.
Some people say Netanyahu is a liar, and
Papandreaou is crazy and depressed. All
we know is Sarkozy is a titch who’s too
busy banging supermodels to care. And
if we were French, we’d go on strike.
Sagittarius
Naturally, it’s tough being tall, isn’t
it? Oh, wait. No it isn’t. Your legs are
longer, you’re hotter. And you can reach
the jam on the top shelf. We’re actually
being nice to you right now. For one
week only. Unless you happen to be
short, then that kind of back-fired. Shit.
Capricorn
We were going to write something
witty about how shit The X Factor is.
But we couldn’t muster the enthusiasm
for something that is so, so awful. Like
middle class commoners with no taste.
Apparently karaoke is worth watching.
Have people never heard of Coach Trip?
Aquarius
This episode of Coach Trip is amazing!
What’s going to happen next? Stop for
petrol? A fat guy farting? Some cow
slapping a really nice guy in the face?
You just never know. A bunch of vain,
stupid and talentless people may burst
into song. Damn, that’s ITV again.
Pisces
Let’s start tackling authority! I know,
let’s start by pissing in your mate’s
bathtub. Rip up your lecturer’s notes in
front of him, while showing him photos
of you defiling his wife (you need to be
commited). All the bitches love a bad
boy. Boobies; had to get it in there.
HANGMAN
*We’re not responsible for the financial crises. That’s due to cowboy bankers and the Greek.
Tree (n.)
1. It’s got wood. Like we do when we
see Louise Mensch. And it has sap.
Like the edge a Conservative politi-
cian’s mouth, after we’re through with
her.
2. The mobile phone network of choice
for chavvy Jamaicans.
Internet (n.)
1. A world-wide network proven to
be more effective than any training
program, gym or dumbbell set in
strengthening the male right arm.
2. The place where you’ll see a thing
on, and you’ll exclaim: “WTF? That’s
a thing?” only to find out there’s a
whole message board devoted to it.
3. To all forms of media what Tesco
is to shops. A juggernaut that puts all
else out of business, except that there
is no Sainsbury’s or Asda for competi-
tion. God help us all.
4. A safe haven for those that want to
shout racist, homophobic and sexist
views - see also Horoscopes (n.)
(con’t.)
3. Tall, pointless thing that doesn’t do
much. Has no A-Levels, but isn’t an
arts student. Some crazies say if we
chop enough down, we’re all going to
die from oxygen starvation. Like that
evening we spent with Louise Mensch.
HANGMAN
DICTIONARY
MISINFORMING IMPERIAL SINCE 1984
‘Holy shit, she’s passed out. I’m TOTALLY
using this opportunity to touch myself
while looking at her’ – Guy on left
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
Berlusconi realises those pills
weren’t Viagra
The
Illiterate
Book
Club
Every week you can buff up on the biggest new books
without lifting a finger. Okay, so, they may not be
100% accurate, but you didn’t expect us to actually
read all these did you? No, we just judged them by
their covers, but when’s that ever caused a problem?
Jezza’s latest sacrifice to the literary Gods, round the bend, asks and
answers very few questions, whilst exploring a staggeringly small
array of themes. It plunders a level of depth usually reserved for at-
taining one’s 5m swimming certificate. More than this, the off-putting
face of the middle aged man overbears what we can only imagine
would have been an otherwise rather interesting and inspiring plain
grey book cover. When cynics say that Clarkson “squeezed this out
in time for Christmas”, they accidentally have identified his medical
condition called arsewheremouthshouldbeitis. Meaning, he can
only talk out of his arse, even when he tries not to. The title round
the bend, is a possible allusion to homosexuality. In fact, the book
(probably) discusses his struggle with being a Conservative and a
homosexual. Similar themes are possibly discussed in Liam Fox and
William Hague’s upcoming memoirs. The cover picture is honest in
it’s depiction of Clarkson’s writing style; take a laxative or two and
heave out 80,000 words for Daily Mail readers to lap up. Job done.
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK

