the usage of the word ‘feedback’, whether
verbally or in writing. In a message to staff,
MacKinnon stated, “I have had enough con-
versations with students over the last couple
of years … to convince me that there is a real
problem, which needs to be addressed.”
Imperial College Union’s recent response to
the NSS highlighted that a long-term view to-
wards feedback would be the production of a
computer-based system to resolve a perceived
“lack of clarity” in mark allocation, unfair
marking and timeliness. The Union also sug-
gested that ‘cohort analysis’ should be a pos-
sibility in order to spot trends with work.
Union President Scott Heath has suggested
that PhD markers should receive “more assis-
tance with marking” in the short term.
“I have already seen shocking examples of
practice whereby a marker is given a list of
six criteria which account for the entire mark
allocation but no further guidance beyond that.
If someone has a possible 10 marks to allocate
for ‘written style’ and they are unsure how
they should be given we have to question how
the system will ever be fair unless that person
marks everything for that year group.”
Whether staff will act upon the recommen-
dations on an individual level is a question that
will be answered over the coming months.
NEWS
4 FELIX
Friday 11 november 2011
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In Brief
College to tackle feedback
The issue of assessment and feedback at Impe-
rial has been addressed at this year’s Rector’s
Away Day.
The Rector’s Away Day, which this year
took place on October 21, is an annual meet-
ing of senior Imperial staff. The focus of this
year’s event was the ‘student experience’ and
how it can be improved. The outcomes from
the meeting, notably plans for more detailed
and timely feedback, were announced on No-
vember 8 with a report and video from Rector
Sir Keith O’Nions.
The Rector’sAway Day resulted in some key
recommendations with respect to feedback.
A statement from the Rector reveals that all
Heads of Departments are to develop “action
plans outlining measures already in place and
measures that they will be introducing during
the current academic year to improve the un-
dergraduate student experience” by December.
Following on from a push for “strong and
concerted action” on feedback by the Rector
last year, departments are to consider various
improvements to feedback, including provid-
ing students with early indications of “what
constitutes feedback”, submission deadlines
and when feedback will be returned. Depart-
Alex Nowbar
Away Day yields recommendations for departments
ments are also to consider offering students
“details of common mistakes made on a par-
ticular assignment, so they can avoid them in
the future”. Also in the pipeline is potential
implementation of a “system that could be
used across departments to track the feedback
given to students and monitor timeliness” by
the College.
The outcome of the Away Day regarding ac-
commodation was that the College intends to
deliver the standards that students expect in
terms of refurbishment of current accommo-
dation. In addition, the College intends to look
into the construction of new accommodation
that fits students’ requirements of price, qual-
ity and location.
The quality and timeliness of feedback has
been in the spotlight recently, further to Im-
perial’s disappointing performance in the Na-
tional Student Survey (NSS). Imperial scored
particularly poorly in the ranking for “assess-
ment and feedback” (coming 163rd out of 168
nationally), not to mention shortfalls in areas
such as teaching and “academic support”.
Some departments have already reacted to
the College’s pledge to improve feedback.
Professor Angus MacKinnon of the Depart-
ment of Physics has sent a statement to staff,
detailing its intention for markers to increase
Death leads to safety review
College departments are to conduct a review of all
areas where liquid nitrogen is stored and used after
a laboratory worker died following a suspected re-
lease of liquid nitrogen at Chelsea and Westminster
Hospital.
A College Health And Safety Essentials (CHASE)
notice regarding the storage and use of liquid nitro-
gen was distributed following the incident. It prompt-
ed Heads of Department to undertake a full review
of all areas under their control where the substance
is stored and used, highlighting ventilation arrange-
ments and access control for the ventilation plant,
as well as indicating the importance that all those
carrying out work involving the substance are com-
petent to do so and fully aware of emergency proce-
dures. The report came into action on November 3.
The evaporation of liquid nitrogen reduces the oxy-
gen concentration in the air and can cause asphyxia-
tion, particularly in confined spaces. Nitrogen, being
odourless, colourless and tasteless, is capable of
asphyxiating without any prior warning or sensation.
The laboratory worker who died has been confirmed
as a member of Chelsea and Westminster NHS Trust
staff. The Metropolitan Police and the Health and
Safety Executive have launched a joint investigation
into the incident. A departmental assessment into
the relevance, storage and use of liquid nitrogen in
line with College procedures is ongoing.
Alexander Karapetian

