FELIX Friday 11 november 2011 7
FEATURE
B
ehind a large brown door
in Marylebone station
are the offices of Chiltern
Railways, the UK’s fast-
est growing train operating
company over the past 15 years. A few
minutes after being shown into a mod-
est meeting room on the top floor of
the building, Adrian Shooter, CBE and
Chairman of Chiltern Railways, enters,
apologising for the delay.
Mr Shooter’s story is well known.
Having effectively managed Chiltern
Railways for over 20 years, during
which he successfully completed a man-
agement buyout of the company, it now
runs as one of the most punctual UK train
operators.
Mr Shooter’s interest in the rail indus-
try was sparked by the debate surround-
ing the Beeching Report, released when
Mr Shooter was still at school. The report
called for the closure of a third of Brit-
ain’s train stations and the reorganisation
of existing tracks in order to fully re-
shape Britain’s railways. This prompted
much controversy and general public
criticism, but young Adrian agreed with
Lord Beeching’s propositions comparing
the scenario to a rose bush: “you have to
prune off the dead branches and encour-
age the new shoots of growth.”
After obtaining a degree in Mechanical
Engineering from North Staffordshire
Polytechnic, Mr Shooter joined British
Rail in 1970 as an Engineering Manage-
ment Trainee. During his 12 years in the
role, Mr Shooter primarily worked on
developing and improving the operations
and efficiency of the company.
“It was a huge company with exciting
changes taking place so there was real
opportunity for young engineers to be
involved. At the time, the IC 125, which
was the fastest diesel train in the world
at the time and still runs now, was being
brought in meaning that we had to build
new depots as well as recruit and retrain
300-odd people. Through the whole 12
years, my job was about bringing change
and modernising the way we do things,
which was really exciting.”
Mr Shooter recalls his first direct
contact with British Rail passengers in
Harpenden following 2 years of constant
disruptions to the railway system due to
track and station upgrades: “The com-
muters were pretty cross as the whole
journey had been thinned out and lots of
replacement buses had been used. When
I went to give a speech at their village
hall, packed with over 300 people, they
were baying for blood.
“To start off with, it was a big shout-
ing match, but then some people in the
audience turned on the people who were
shouting and said ‘Hey look, give the
bloke a chance.’ We were just about to
bring in new trains and a new service, so
I told them that if it doesn’t improve over
the next couple of months, then they’d
be entitled to be after my blood. In the
end, it was really good because a few of
them then took me down the pub for a
drink and we delivered what we said we
would – improving our punctuality to the
best in the country – meaning that these
commuters were fully satisfied with the
service.
“I really enjoyed that because it’s really
important that engineers realise they can
make changes. To be interfacing directly
with customers – the people who are go-
ing to put their hands in their pockets to
pay for what you’re doing – doesn’t half
concentrate your mind.”
Following the legislation in 1993 to
privatise railways, Mr Shooter was asked
by the Chairman of British Rail to come
to Chiltern Railways and make it into a
separate company – a completely self-
standing financial entity.
“This was more difficult than it sounds.
There were contracts and agreements to
be written out. Who was to be respon-
sible for looking after the stations? What
would happen if there were a conflict
between running times of passenger and
freight trains? It got much too compli-
cated but, nevertheless, worked out in
the end. The next step was to sell the
company.”
Having worked for so long with his
management team on building up the
company, Mr Shooter felt that they could
run it as well as anyone else, and so de-
cided to try and undertake a management
buyout – a process that is very rarely suc-
cessful.
“It’s rather interesting as I was actually
working for British Railways who were
selling Chiltern Railways, so I had a con-
flict of interest. I had to do three things.
Firstly, I had to continue running the rail-
ways in a proper, prompt and safe way.
Secondly, on behalf of my employer, I
had to sell the business – it was competi-
tive and we had 13 companies bidding
for it. I had to explain to prospective pur-
chasers how the company worked, what
they would need to do and the money
they should pay for it. Thirdly, in my
own time, I had to work out, with my
team, how to buy it.”
After formally winning the franchise in
1996, Mr Shooter and his team devised a
long term plan for the company which is
still on-going today.
“We’ve grown the business faster than
any of the other companies. We’ve done
that because railways, like many other
businesses, survive on their customers.
You’ve got to find out what customers
want and, importantly, what they’re pre-
pared to pay for.”
Mr Shooter rounds up his story by ex-
plaining “success in business is all about
the people. It’s about making sure you
have the right people in the right teams
with a very clear objective about what
you’re trying to achieve. If you look at
“We tend to recruit
people for attitude
and then train them
for skills.”
Mr Shooter’s Darjeeling Himalayan Steam Locomotive – in his own back garden
something that’s gone wrong, one of the
first questions you might want to ask is
‘was there a clear objective?’ Secondly
‘did all the people who were involved
in that understand the objective?’ And
thirdly, ‘did they buy into it?’”
Regarding hiring people to make up
such a team, Mr Shooter looks for “peo-
ple who are enthusiastic and are com-
mitted to working as a team. We tend to
recruit people for attitude and then train
them for skills. I want people who are
going to come here and look as if they
are enthusiastic and interested and want
to get on and do stuff, but tempered with
whatever are the appropriate qualifica-
tions for whatever the job may be.”
Added to this, Mr Shooter’s passion
for the rail industry is reflected in his
ownership of a Darjeeling Himalayan
Steam Locomotive, along with 600 yards
of railway track in the back yard of his
Bicester home. “I’ve always quite liked
two-foot gauge railways and when I be-
came aware that this would be for sale I
knew it would be the only Darjeeling Hi-
malayan Steam Locomotive ever likely
to come out of India, so I brought it to
the UK, had it overhauled and got some
replica coaches that go with it.”
However, neither being awarded a
CBE nor owning a Darjeeling Hima-
layan Steam Locomotive in his back
garden are classed by Mr Shooter as his
greatest life achievements to date. “The
thing I’m most proud of, is that over the
years, we’ve managed to develop Chil-
tern Railways into something which is a
much more valuable contribution to the
community than it was.”
Taking into account his great list of
achievements and contributions to the
rail and engineering industry, I ask Mr
Shooter what advice he would give to
current students, and what skills he feels
are most important for success.
“They need two sorts of skills. If
they’re mechanical engineers, they’ve
probably embarked upon that because
they have some interest in machines and
how machines work. The real advice I
would give to them is about honing your
people skills.
“Once at university, make sure you
find yourself in one of the various extra
curricular activities where you have the
opportunity to get on the committee for
it, and volunteer for some kind of role
where you’ll have to do things and orga-
nise people. Even if you don’t feel com-
fortable doing it, get yourself as social
sec or the like.
“Make sure you spend time in compa-
nies in your vacations. Write to compa-
nies or whatever connections you’ve got
and see what it’s actually like at work.
“On top of that, study hard and get the
best possible degree you can.”
Adrian Shooter CBE
Interview: Adrian Shooter
“The advice I would
give is about honing
your people skills.”
Alice Yang talks to the Chairman of Chiltern Railways about careers in industry
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
features.felix@gmail.com
Bottled water uses up to 2000 times more energy than tap water – GREEN WEEK 2011. COMING SOON.

