SCIENCE
FELIX
8
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 11 NOVEMBER 2011
E
ver sat with a hanky in hand, wip-
ing away tears as Edward climbs
the fire escape with a rose in his
teeth to profess his love to Vivi-
enne, in the final scene of Pretty
Woman? Or ever had a laugh at Belle and her
hilarious antics in Secret Diary of a Call Girl?
Unfortunately, in reality, life for female sex
workers is far from glamorous, romantic or
funny.
I originate from Bangalore, a thriving city in
the state of Karnataka in southern India, popu-
larly known as the ‘Garden City of India’, due
to its pretty old colonial parks, or the ‘Silicon
Valley of India’, due to its booming IT indus-
try. Growing up there, in my privileged home
in central Bangalore, sex workers certainly
never crossed my mind. So eleven years later,
when asked to do my Master’s project on HIV
and sexually transmitted infections in female
sex workers and their clients in various regions
in southern India, including Bangalore, I had
to look at my hometown from a slightly dif-
ferent angle.
The Avahan project is funded by well-known
philanthropists Bill and Melinda Gates, and
aims to prevent the spread of HIV around In-
dia. It turns out that HIV is highest in six states
in India – Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra (home
of course to Bombay and Bollywood), Tamil
Nadu, Karnataka, Nagaland and Manipur. Of
these, the last two can attribute the spread of
the virus mainly to injecting drug use, whilst
the other four states to sexual transmission.
Anyone who has tried to conduct a survey
into the lives of sex workers will know that
pitfalls abound in this kind of research. In my
project, I was making a model looking at HIV
and genital herpes. I was essentially trying to
figure out whether having one virus made you
biologically more susceptible to the other, or
whether if you had one, you were just more
likely to get the other, because you catch both
in the same way: through having unprotected
sex. Collecting data on sex workers and in par-
ticular HIV is never easy, due to the huge stig-
mas associated with them. Sex workers them-
selves are relatively easy to find, if you know
where to look, where to find the brothels. Their
clients – normal working men, often married
ones – are perhaps less forthcoming.
Condom use is a really important parameter
in most HIV and STI models, as of course the
rate of condom use can really tell you how well
condoms are preventing the spread of the vi-
rus, and how good the prevention services are
at getting them to the relevant people. One
interesting fact we found in our data was that
whilst clients reported condom usage of be-
tween 54–83%, the sex workers reported usage
of 76–99%. But hang on – aren’t the sex work-
ers and the clients having sex with each other?
So, if they are telling the truth, shouldn’t their
reported figures be exactly the same?
The massive difference between the reported
condom usage from sex workers and from their
clients is likely to be a form of response bias.
This is where someone answers a question in
the way they think the questioner wants them
to answer. So, imagine for a second that you’re
a sex worker in Bangalore. The Avahan project
is doing everything it can to give you condoms
and to encourage you to use them as much as
possible. Then a researcher from the Avahan
project turns up with a clipboard and asks you,
expectant look on his face, how many times
you have had unprotected sex with a client
in the last week. You’re pretty unlikely to say
Sex, the city and HIV
Maya Kaushik discusses the Master’s project that forced her to look at her
hometown of Bangalore in a completely different way
Want to write for Felix
Science? Email us at
science.felix@ic.ac.uk
“several times”. In some districts sex workers
had reported condom usage of 99%, which is
highly unlikely to be true, as if this was the
case there would be no HIV problem in the
region at all.
So how does one create a model when you
can’t trust the data? Well, you just have to use
your best guesstimate, which is often just the
average of what the sex workers have report-
ed and what the clients have reported. Other
behavioural data, which may or may not be
more reliable, include the length of time the
sex worker has been active in that role and the
number of sexual partnerships she has had in
the last week.
The results from the models seem to show
that HIV and genital herpes do have some
biological interaction, and the fact that one in-
creases with the other isn’t just down to the sex
workers’ behaviour patterns. The whole study
of HIV shows just how complex the spread of
this virus is – down to behaviour, biological
interactions with other STIs, and the problems
that arise when trying to get information on
these particular groups of people. The Avahan
project has dramatically increased outreach to
high-risk people in these Indian states; its work
on condom distribution, peer-to-peer outreach,
and STI testing and treatment is a great step
towards combating the spread of HIV in India.
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
Lal Bagh botanical gardens, amongst others, gives Bangalore its nice nickname, but it is also has a more sinister side...
Strawberries should be one of
boozers’ five-a-day
Succulent strawberries are more than just a sum-
mertime treat. They also protect the lining of the
stomach from the harmful effects of alcohol.
Maurizio Battino at the Marche Polytechnic Uni-
versity in Italy and colleagues gave ethanol to labo-
ratory rats and measured ulceration in the stomach
mucous membrane. Rats that had been eating a
strawberry rich diet were found to have less ulcer-
ation.
In addition to antioxidant properties, strawber-
ries also activate defensive enzymes in the body
that protect the mucous membrane of the stomach.
Battino warns that strawberries do not mitigate the
effects of getting drunk but could be a potential
source for developing new protective medicines for
gastric pathologies. (Plos One, DOI: 10.1371/jour-
nal.pone.0025878)
Juan Casasbuenas
Scientists measure dream content
for the first time
Whilst the anatomic location of brain activity during
sleep has already been identified, up until now, sci-
entists have been unable to analyse specific neuro-
nal activity associated with dream content.
Researchers at the Max Planck Institute and the
Charité hospital in Berlin enlisted the help of lucid
dreamers, who are people able to become aware of
their dreaming state and alter the content of their
dreams.
Dreamers reported their ‘lucid’ state through eye
movements and were asked to dream that they were
repeatedly clenching their fists. Using EEGs and
magnetic resonance imaging, researchers found
that a region in the sensorimotor cortex of the brain,
responsible for the planning and execution of real
movements, was activated during the dream (Cur-
rent Biology, DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2011.09.029).
Joel Winston
Flu risk weighted towards obese
Flu vaccination might be less effective for over-
weight and obese people compared to normal
weight individuals.
To prevent the infection and spread of the dis-
ease through populations, high levels of antibody
should continue after vaccination. Efficient immune
T cell responses are also vital.
Melinda Beck and colleagues at UNC Chapel Hill
studied people vaccinated in late 2009 against win-
ter influenza. They found that antibody levels fell,
and T cell immune responses were impaired sig-
nificantly in obese individuals, raising their chances
of catching the flu. The researchers are concerned
that as obesity rates rise, deaths from flu could
also increase (International Journal of Obesity, DOI:
10.1038/ijo.2011.208).
Helen Wilkes

