SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 11 NOVEMBER 2011
Physicists are proposing an experi-
ment that will require the world’s most
powerful laser. The Extreme Light
Infrastructure (ELI) Ultra-High Field
Facility is touted to produce a laser so
powerful that it would be able to pull
together the fabric of space, vacuums.
A vacuum is generally believed to be
a volume of space that contains no mat-
ter. The gaseous pressure of a vacuum
is typically much less than atmospheric
pressure, leaving it essentially empty
of matter. A perfect vacuum with no
particles in it at all, however, is virtu-
ally impossible to achieve in practice.
Vacuums are said to be permeated
with extremely small particles of mat-
ter and antimatter known as ghost par-
ticles, which are shrouded with mys-
tery and pop in and out of existence
so fast that no-one has been able to
prove that they exist. The experiment
involves combining ten lasers to gener-
ate a super-laser which will then create
an intense electrical field separating
the ghost particles. This will prevent
them from annihilating long enough to
be detected.
Scientists believe this will also allow
them to gain further insight into extra
dimensions. Professor John Collier,
director of the Central Laser Facility
at the Rutherford Appleton Labora-
tory in Oxfordshire and a leader of the
ELI project, said that “this laser will
be 200 times more powerful than the
most powerful lasers that currently ex-
ist. At this kind of intensity we start
to get into unexplored territory as it is
an area of physics that we have never
been before.”
It is difficult to deny the existence of
climate change when one points out the
obvious effects it has already made on
humanity. Coastal flooding, reduced
rainfall in dry lands and water scarcity
are common headlines in today’s news.
Among the many effects that these phe-
nomena may have, let us consider that
of human migration.
In recent times human migration has
not been given the best of reputations,
with various nations enforcing policies
designed to prevent it. However, experts
have dared to suggest that migration in the
face of environmental change may offer
opportunities as well as challenges.
Many people across the globe already
migrate for various reasons: to improve
incomes, to escape persecution, to join
family members, and to avoid environ-
mental or other threats. Reports show
that environmental factors are increas-
ingly influencing migration. Moving to
urban areas has become a common cop-
ing strategy in the face of flooding in
countries such as Bangladesh. However,
it may not come as a surprise that not
everyone is able to migrate due to socio-
political or economical factors. Con-
versely, it has also been found that peo-
ple are as likely to migrate into places
of environmental vulnerability as away
from them. This decision is most often
an ignorant one, where rapidly growing
megacities that are considered areas of
high flood risk, in coastal regions in Af-
rica or Asia for example, continue to see
new arrivals by the millions.
It is obvious that there are many in-
terlinked factors involved in the move-
ment of people across the globe. The
point that academics are trying to stress
is that migration may be the best plan
of action for many people in the face
of environmental change that threatens
their livelihoods. To aide these attempts
at survival it is necessary that countries
acknowledge this fact and remove re-
strictions on movement as well as help
build channels for it.
International policy makers should
consider mechanisms for funding adap-
tion to climate change through migra-
tion. Particular focus should be made
to populations in low-income countries
that are moving to or are trapped in
urban areas that are vulnerable to en-
vironmental change. These priorities
should be integrated in current plans for
sustainable urbanisation, climate-smart
development, conflict resolution and
emergency preparedness. In addition,
experts highlight a need for flood-con-
trol, water management, forecasting and
warning capacities for growing urban
populations. Other suggestions include
the appointment of migrant communi-
ties to demographic deficits and labour
shortages in potential host countries.
A basic infrastructure is key to ease
the relocation and settlement of these
migrant populations in urban areas. As
an increasing amount of attention is be-
ing paid to humanity’s influence on the
environment, we must take care to re-
spond accordingly to the impact of envi-
ronmental change on both migrant and
non-migrant communities.
DOI:10.1038/456877a
Katherine Portilla
Tearing apart the vacuum
The reality of migration
Computer imitates human brain
Despite computer processors being able
to operate at speeds of up to ten thou-
sand billion (1013
) bits per second they
are outperformed in many tasks by the
human brain, the neurons of which fire
a mere thousand or so times a second.
This is because modern machines are
only cable of so-called ‘serial bit-pro-
cessing’; meaning that calculations only
occur one at a time. Each neuron in the
brain, on the other hand, can communi-
cate with up to a thousand others each
time it fires, allowing for a great degree
of parallel calculation.
Last year, however, scientists from the
Japanese National Institutes for Materi-
als Science and ICT as well as Michigan
Technological University brought us
one step closer to creating a computer
which replicates the functionality of the
brain by laying down an array of three
hundred 2,3-dichloro-5,6-dicyano-p-
benzoquinone (DDQ) molecules on a
gold substrate. Each molecule can ex-
ist in any one of four electrically con-
ducting states, which are initially set
by applying a voltage using the tip of
scanning tunnelling microscope, and
can connect with up to six neighbouring
molecules. In a recently published ar-
ticle the team of scientists call this ‘one-
to-many interaction at a time’ – similar
to that found in neurons.
The system therefore forms a Cel-
lular Automaton, a concept developed
by the famed mathematician John von
Neumann. In this model each DDQ
molecule is a ‘cell’ whose state changes
with time depending on the states of
neighbouring cells and based on a set
of well-defined rules. This changing of
states over time can be used to model
mathematical problems. The team sum-
marise the process by saying that the
“300 molecules continuously exchange
information among themselves to gen-
erate the solution” to a question.
The team has already been able to cre-
ate an AND logic gate as well as model
diffusion and the mutation of normal
cells to cancer cells using their system.
The teams says that they believe that
a “generalization of [the Cellular Au-
tomaton principles] would change the
existing concept of static circuit-based
electronics and open up a new vista of
emergent computing using an assembly
of molecules”.
DOI: arXiv:1110.5844v1
Maciej Matuszewski
xxx
Environmental factors such as drought are influencing migration
Alexander Karapetian The laser’s intensity is equivalent to
the power received by the Earth from
the Sun focused onto a point smaller
than the tip of a pin. At around 200
petawatts of power, it will boast more
than 100,000 times the power of the
world’s combined electricity produc-
tion for less than a trillionth of a sec-
ond. The ELI Ultra-High Field laser is
due to be completed at the end of the
decade with a total cost of an estimat-
ed £1 billion. The United Kingdom is
among several countries hoping to host
the laser.
Plans to build three lasers to form
part of the ELI project and serve as
prototypes for the Ultra-High Field
laser have been approved this year
by the European Union. They will be
based in the Czech Republic, Hungary
and Romania. Each have a cost of ap-
proximately £200 million and are due
to become operational in 2015, with
the final ten beams each being twice as
powerful as these prototypes.
The experiment, after pulling the an-
nihilating particles apart long enough
to be detected, may help explain the
mystery of why the universe contains
far more matter than antimatter. “We
are taught to think of the vacuum as
empty space, but it seems even a true
vacuum is filled with pairs of mol-
ecules that come into our universe for
an extremely short time”, Professor
Wolfgang Sandner, president of the
German Physics Society commented.
Dr Thomas Heinzl, a professor of
theoretical physics at Plymouth Uni-
versity, said that “ELI is going to take
us into an uncharted regime of phys-
ics” and that “there could well be sur-
prises along the way.”
“300 molecules con-
tinuously exchange
information among
themselves to gener-
ate the solution”
of space
The laser target chamber in the National Ignition Facility in California,
US. It’s practically the inverse...
Recycling steel and tin cans saves 74% of the energy used to make them – GREEN WEEK 2011. COMING SOON.

