FELIX FRIDAY 10TH JANUARY L E T T E R S & E D I T O R I A L 11
L e t t e r s t o F e l i x
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
E d i t o r A l e x F e a k e s / A d v e r t i s i n g M a n a g e r M a r k B a k e r
Dear All,
One of our Union's best services
(and biggest earners) has just been
lost. Do you care? Do you even
know? You should.
The ICU Bookstore used to make
around £70000 profit annually, all of
which was directed back into the
Union, and ultimately to us - the stu-
dents.
It also used to offer basic station-
ary and essentials at near-cost price,
obviously to the direct benefit of all
atlC.
Further, it was one of the biggest
and most successful Union-run
stores in the U K , a fact that you
would expect College to have been
proud of.
Yet the decision was made, some-
where 'up there' in the Sherfield
building to put the contract out to
tender. Ignoring the facts above, and
typically not asking the customers of
the bookstore what their views are,
ICU was made to compete with the
country's largest outlets. Despite
submitting a competitive bid, the
Union came second and Waterstones
will operate from the new library
site.
Even if ICU had been successful,
their profitability would have been
severely dented by the high rent and
overheads. They will continue to
operate from the walkway site, but
are prohibited from selling texts. The
future of the store is uncertain, but
whatever the shop is used for (ideas
on a postcard) it will be impossible to
recoup the lost funds. Negotiations
are underway for College compensa-
tion to the Union, but what type of
solution is this? £70000 less for the
College to spend, with no financial
gain for the Union and large sums of
money disappearing off the campus
and into Waterstones' bank account.
Why?
This disregard of the Union and
the students needs seems to me to be
symptomatic of a fundamentally
flawed 'us and them' attitude. The
College decision-makers repeatedly
act without researching or even
informing the student population.
Plans are made out of sight, then pre-
sented imposingly so that we can
only accept or reject them, when
both students and staff should have
been involved from the beginning.
It is a mistake to run IC as a prof-
it-motivated research company. It is
a university and its prime function is
to educate - without students it could
not exist at all. Yet, undergraduates
especially feel increasingly sidelined
and that they are working for the col-
lege rather than the college working
for them. This matters! The bad news
will spread, and the appeal of univer-
sities with superior student facilities,
such as Sheffield will grow. An IC
that is socially dead will not be acad-
emically great.
ICU owns none of it's buildings,
and its continued existence relies on
the benevolence of College decision-
makers rather than any legality or
rights. The next few years will see
major upheaval around the site, par-
ticularly in Beit Quad. Perhaps
College will take the opportunity to
act positively for the non-academic,
non-economic good of the students. I
doubt it.
Jeremy Thomson, Phys 3.
Right. Hands up all of you who
knew that, (a) there was going to be
a new bookshop, (b) the franchise to
run it had been put out to tender by
the College, (c) the Union had been
invited to tender and had submitted a
proposal, (d) the current bookstore
would no longer be allowed to sell
books once the new shop opened, (e)
the Union runs the current bookstore
and (f) the surplus made on the
bookstore is ploughed back into
Union services?
I suspect that (a) and (e) might be
common knowledge, (f) may have
elicited a small response, but (b), (c)
and (d) are largely unknown to the
majority of staff and students here.
This is through no fault of their own,
they are not involved with manage-
ment of the shop, and have not been
kept informed of the ramifications of
possible outcomes of the tender.
The college general public are the
ultimate beneficiaries or losers of
any trading activity on campus.
Presumably they are interested in
whom supplied the products they
bought and where their money will
go, but unfortunately have little idea.
Some form of market research may
helped form a picture of how best a
franchise holder might achieve "aca-
demic bookselling excellence" in
line with the Rector's wishes.
The committee appointed to
award the tender might then have
had an expanded brief to consider
the peripheral benefits of a campus
bookshop as well as a straight for-
ward service based examination. A
different, some might say less nar-
rowly envisioned, set of criteria
might of led to a different decision,
as the Deputy Rector might say.
Anyway, enough carping on after
the horse has bolted etc. There arc,
however, a few questions that re-
main to be answered over the con-
duct of the College toward the
Union with regards to the bookstore,
and why the College is giving the
impression that its long term plans
discount the Union as a valid,
autonomous and vital part in this
institution's reputation and the
maintenance of its member's well-
being.
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyright Felixl996. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: MARIA AND JACKIE; FEATURES: AI-UA, PUZZLES: DUNCAN;
ILLUSTRATIONS: STAVROS; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: DAVID; PHOTOGRAPHY:
ALDOUS, LING; SPORT: DAVID; COLLATING LAST ISSUE: DAVID.
FELIX n e e d s :
photographers
news reporters
feature writers
sports reporters
illustrators
theatre reviewers
film reviewers
puzzle compilers
c o m e i n a n d s e e
u s i n t h e c o r n e r
of b e l t q u a d .
Letters may be edited for length. The guest editor's opinions
are not necessarily those
of the editor.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1075 is Monday 2nd December. Please
bring some form of identification. Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@ic.ac.uk
COMPETITION WINNERS
The lucky winner of the Felix bumper Christmas crossword competition
was Paul Timms, an undergraduate from Materials. As the first correct
entry out of the hat, Paul receives a copy of the huge Collins College
Dictionary for his trouble.
The winner of the Altered States competition which appeared in the
Christmas edition of SftW was Scott Lavery, a third year from Civil
Engineering, who correctly identified the colour of David Bowie's eyes and
wins a copy of the Altered States CD for his trouble.
All you have to do now is to step forward and present yourselves in the
Felix office to collect your prizes. Congratulations to you both, and to all
those who managed to pick up prizes of one sort or another in the massive
SftW Christmas lucky-dip and giveaway.

