FELIX FRIDAY 10TH TANUARY F E A T U R E 9
In order to overcome the excesses of the festive period,
a Mental Gymnasium of Science is recommended
Twentieth Century science had
promised a Brave New World, until
Aushwitz and the Atom bomb. Dr
Michael Taylor challenges the unethi-
cal hotbed of politics and economics
that still influences the scientific
establishment today.
When scientists like Ampere, Volta social responsibility even then? I
and Ohm first understood electricity
over two centuries ago, no doubt they
dreamt night and day of fantastic
machines to ease the toil of the land
for food; to tap the riches of nature
deep below mountain, river, tree and
ocean. Their genius gave us the
opportunity to have surplus produc-
tion following the industrial revolu-
tion, meaning that we had the poten-
tial to harness nature's resources to
meet everyone's needs. The inven-
tion of the light-bulb by Edison
would release us from the blindness
of the night. It seemed as though sci-
ence had as its basic aim the mastery
of nature to meet the basic needs of
society - food, clothing, shelter and
health.
Why now, as we are on the verge
of completing the gene map of the
human body, is half of our world
held hostage by famine and disease?
Is it the failure of science? If so, how
can we justify research into time
travel, the rings of Saturn or the divi-
sion of a fundamental particle which,
even after a closer look, seem irrele-
vant to society at large? If it is not the
failure of of science, then shouldn't
we be the tribunes of society, oppos-
ing the very system that we know has
failed to solve these problems?
It is important to appreciate that sci-
entists are part of society and so are
influenced by the ideas of society.
The prevalent ideas belong to those
who own and control the media,
industry and academia. Darwin's
theory of natural selection wasn't
published for 40 years because of the
strong creationist ideas in his society.
Certainly scientists are the ones who
choose to work with the military
behind barbed wire fences as strate-
gists of destruction, as torture tech-
nologists and as germ warfare advi-
sors. Whether or not this is a free
choice, in the face of the entry of the
market into most campusses is debat-
able, but do scientists not have a
argue we do. Let us never forget that
it was a chemist who gave Hitler a
formula for making soap from
human fat to be sold in the market. A
nuclear physicist outlined energetics
of nuclear fission to the politicians
who made the atomic bomb, from
which generations of Japanese still
suffer hereditary disorders; a biolo-
gist tested Anthrax on sheep, effec-
tively quarantining a whole island off
the British mainland, while a mathe-
matician decoded cold war memos
resulting in brutal military counter
measures.
"Science has been
plagued by capitalism"
Our crimes are many and our criti-
cisms few. It is time we faced up to
some hard facts. We are not in con-
trol of the fruits of our work. As
pawns in a game of chess, we are
employed by those who, by deciding
our funding, also decide our aims for
their own ends. Big oil companies
like Shell and BP don't fund research
into ecologically friendly cars, for
example. Instead, the fruits of our
labour are to be used by unelected
and unaccountable corporation direc-
tors and military generals whose
actions we have little or no democra-
tic say in. I argue that only when sci-
entists are part of a collectively run
society producing for need, rather
than for profit, will science not suffer
the present corruptions under modern
capitalism.
It is widely accepted within the
scientific community that the annals
of scientific thought are expanding as
never before. A fact I can't dispute as
a young researcher struggling to keep
abreast of monthly developments in
my own tiny sphere of research in the
field of space and atmospheric
physics. Unfortunately, education
ministers and university chancellors
complacently proclaim that they are
proud of the rate at which scientific
research is being produced at a time
when British scientists are deserting
academia in alarming numbers, due
to grossly inadequate salaries and
resources. This leaves a disconcert-
ing mass of untapped scientific
potential and ensures the prolifera-
tion of starvation and deadly dis-
eases.
These defenders of the system
speak of the increase of efficiency in
higher education, quoting the fact
that approximately the same number
of teachers now teach approximately
twice the number of students in high-
er education as two decades ago.
While this is true and reflects the
wholehearted dedication of the
teachers to education they never
mention the fact that they have not
increased resources. The annual gov-
ernment spending on higher educa-
tion has remained at the same level -
7.6% of the GDP (which has itself
remained level) since 1976. It is not
surprising that over 120,000 mem-
bers of staff in higher education were
on strike on the 19th November
demanding something better than the
1.5% pay rise they were offered. The
myth that the cupboards are bare in
Downing Street can easily be
exposed when they try to justify
spending £61 billion on each Trident
nuclear submarine, while schools
close for "failing", lecturers are laid
off, and students live in poverty after
having their rights to free prescrip-
tions, housing benefit, income sup-
port and book grants stripped from
them. Now they face a tax to pay for
their education. When John Major
spoke of the need to "go back to
basics", he did not mean paltry
investment in health and education.
Furthermore, can we be sure that
we are really pushing back the fron-
tiers as this expansion may suggest?
If we measure progress by techno-
logical ingenuity alone then perhaps
the answer to this question would be
yes. If, on the other hand, we define
progress as that which betters life for
most of humanity then, in a world
where over a tenth of the population
is expected to die young, the answer
most certainly is no.
While the close links being fos-
tered between science and industry
should be nurtured to bring useful
tools into the hands of those in need
of them, the favouring of competition
rather than co-operation between
research groups sponsored by busi-
ness means that science has also been
burdened by capitalism. The research
centres place emphasis on lavish
interior decorating and glossy pam-
phlets to market their products.
Although attention to detail in
research is vital for a probing under-
standing, one look at job advertise-
ments in science magazines such as
Nature, New Scientist and Scientific
American show the extent to which
scientists have become narrowed.
Intellectual isolation ensures a lack
of opportunity for research, leading
to delays in breakthroughs, during
which time millions will die of dis-
eases like cancer and AIDS.
Furthermore, the pressure faced by
most young scientists to find con-
tracts is married to a new measure of
ability - the number of research
papers written. Unfortunately, my
own experience has taught me that if
you want to write more papers in a
year, something else has to give.
Research inevitably becomes more
superficial and speculative. Is this
good science? I feel we should be
probing for deeper knowledge and
aiming towards sociological uses for
existing and contemporary ideas.
"Research inevitably
becomes more superfi-
cial and speculative"
It is not only science that loses out by
this superficiality. Ask someone
when you next buy your fish and
vegetables in your local market,
"who is a more useful part of society:
a doctor, a mathematician, a chemist,
a biologist or a physicist?" They'll
tell you the doctor even though all
five of them have the same letters
after their names.
At a time when we can send peo-
ple to the moon while half of our
population suffers from hunger and
poverty then we have some serious
moral questions to answer before the
establishment can praise the achieve-
ments of science. In the words of
Abu Saide Abolhair, "in the process
of marching to the horizon of civili-
sation, let's first stand up and take a
step further." Only when famine and
disease become a past stage in our
evolutionary history can we say that
science is as broad as it is long.

