EVE R y
F O R T N I G H T
A
*
T l
No. 11. IMPERIAL COLLEGE FRIDAY 20 OCTOBER 1950.
ALBERT MEMORIAL CONQUERED !
The last remaining peak i n South Kensington has
been scaled'. Just after closing time a few weeks
ago George Birkett (Guilds) and Keith Parsons made
the ascent, leaving a red lamp burning at the top.
They descended gracefully into the arms of two wait-
ing policemen.
At Marlborough Street next day they tactfully
became architectural students. Fining them each Is.
and ordering them to pay 25s. - a doctor's fee - the
magistrate, Mr. Daniel Hopkin, remarked: "Well, I
suppose i t was a change from your normal l i f e . Eow
go back to your architectural studies".
THE INSIDE STORY
by our special Reporter,
I tracked down George Birkett i n the bar and
learnt from him the f u l l story of their exploit.
The two of them (his friend really i_s an architect-
ural student) decided on the project one evening -
before the scaffolding was yet complete - and made
their way to the park with two companions. Leaving
them below as ooat-hangers, our heroes began to climb
the scaffolding. After many vicissitudes (what, one
wonders, do the mountaineering club know of the
hazards of night climbing?), they reached the sum-
mit and marked their achievement by lighting a road*
side lamp brought up for the purpose. Their descent
was gravitationally uneventful nut they were consid-
erably chagrined to find that in place of their two
friends, two policeman awaited them on the ground.
The lamp at the summit had presumably attracted the
law and base camp had wisely fled. The law however,
was kindly disposed enough to hel;> the two climbers
over the corrugated iron fence and insisted on
escorting them to Chelsea Police Station. There the
doctor was called. He examined their tongues, and
asked them to walk in a straight line. His verdict
was - drunk. "And were you?", I asked George. "Ho",
said he, "I'd only had five pints". They were
charged but were released on 40/- surety, and allowed
to go home.
At the court next day, the doctor's report and
the policeman's evidence weighed against them, but
the magistrate was sympathetic and.after fining
them a nominal sum asked them why they did i t .
"To see i f i t would look better from the top
than from the bottom", they replied.
"And what was your verdict?"
"Worse Sir'."
(World copyright).
COMkEMORATIOB DAY PROGRAMME
1.45 p.m. A service in Holy Trinity Church.
2.30 p.m. Procession leaves Onion Gate.
3.0. p.m. Commemoration Day Ceremony i n
University Great Hall, Imperial
Institute Road.
4.30 -7p.m. Conversazione in R.C.S.
Tea in Ayrton Kali.
8,30 -2 a.m. Commemoration Ball, Grosvenor
House.
TITLE FOE JEAN QUERTIER
Congratulations to Jean Quertier, (Guilds
194f-44T), who having raised so many hopes for
British lawn tennis, only to dash them again, has
won her f i r s t national women's singles t i t l e .
On Saturday October 14th. Miss Quertier beat
iiiss Joan Curry, the holder of the British covered
courts women's lawn tennis singles championship,
3-6, 7-5, 6-3, after saving two match points In the
tenth game of the second set.
IMPERIAL AND FOREIGN
The Miners have returned from their summer
f l i n g in various parts of. our already far-flung
Empire. One parts while on the Gold Coast, were
f i l l e d by a particularly vicious brand of beer,
aptly called "Club" lager. One of our number
claims that after two quarts of i t he saw the African
rope trick performed (the same as the Indian variety
only without the rope).
The African ceremonies are also interesting.
Another Miner went to the funeral of a native car-
penter, and found that a l l the deceased's fellow
craftsmen proceeded to cut up logs of wood and ham-
mer in nails part of the r i t u a l . This ardent
anthropologist i s now anxious to see the funeral rites
of a much older profession.
In Sweden, i t seems, the men are very bash-
ful, but not so the women. Neither language d i f f i -
culties nor the midnight sun detered those dumb
blondes. Our relations with the Scandinavians are
very close.
But experience oan also be gained at home, a
student at a colliery i n the Midlands worked on the
installation of heavy underground machinery - he
was given a spanner and told to tighten nuts. The
manager happened to pass him one morning, and slap-
ping him on the back said "That's the stuff you
want lad, practical experience". When the student
pointed out that he already had some experience of
how to tighten nuts, the Manager replied, "Aye, but
not underground".
j f i p i
•A»4 what did you think of the frescoes ?"

