z F E L I X
PROFILE— DEREK COOMBER
Derek came to Imperial College in the far-off
days of 1944, and was soon established as a rowing
man with a vague interest in Physics and a dis-
criminating taste for beer. In this turbulent
period of his youth, when the Union was coming back
to l i f e after the war, he was an early and active
member of the 69 Club. Hone, i t is said, was more
prominent in the party which bore back the stone
lion that now broods over the Union entrance hall.
He rowed in the famous I.C. VIII of 1946, though
mumps kept him from Henley, and he would have been
President of the R.C.S. in the following session but
for the hand of fate and the board of examiners.
Concerning his time in the Army, I.C.'s man of
destiny i s strangely reticent. He i s wont to smile
inscrutably, puff his pipe, and smooth the Coomber-
ian coiffure. Pressed, he w i l l admit modestly the
rapid promotion which carried him to the (local)
rank of unpaid lanoe-corporal, but the rest is
everybody's guess. At least the harsher circum-
stances ofthe military l i f e have had no discernible
effeet on his unlugubrious character.
Returning in 1948, Derek succeeded In con-
founding the academic opposition, getting a Second,
and at the end of the year he moved into that
esoteric region of the R.C.S. devoted to the per-
secution of fundamental particles. At the same
time began his long-delayed presidency of the R.C.S.
(and of the '22 Club) and his o f f i c i a l association
with the irrepressible Dai Nicholas, which now
operates in a wider sphere. In these hands R.C.S.
Union had i t s ramshackle finances marvellously
restored. Moreover i t gained the unique distinc-
tion of a President who i s current shove ha'penny
champion of I.C.
This final pinnacle of success, the culmin-
ation of such a versatile record, can have left few
doubts in the minds of Council when they came to
elect I.C.'s new President. The future will no
doubt present i t s difficulties, (November the f i f t h
approaches), but here one feels i s a man who is un-
likely to lose touch with student opinion, or f a i l
to interpret i t to the remoter seats of power.
Here, freshers, i s one who will listen to you
sympathetically at Union meetings (he has to), and
who w i l l not spurn the proffered glass should you
approach him informally in another place. One who
will be your guide, philosopher and friend in Union
affairs; and one whom you should never partner at
bridge. He i s terrible at i t .
FELIX OFFERS ANOTHER SERVICE
It has long been felt that the weekly, monthly
or terminal burden of writing home could well be
lightened. If the demand be sufficient, printed
copies of the form below w i l l be available from the
Editor.
Imperial College,
London, S.W.T.
Dear
fault.
I am well/not well.
I am happy/so-so/unhappy.
is well/not well/normal.
This is a good thing/bad thing/his own
I am hard up/absolutely broke/living on
31s.
I am coming home/being sent down on the
.... of and will stay .... days/for
ever.
Please leave some/none of the garden for
me to dig/ for burial.
Thank you for the laundry. I. w i l l try to
be cleaner/not so dirty in future.
I am working frightfully/infernally/dam-
nably hard.
The College hops are very crowded, please
send my football boots and/or spurs.
Your erring son,
Suggestions are Invited for modifications of
or additions to the form.
LETTERS TO.THE EDITOR
Letters are invited on any and every subject.
They should be as short as possible and in no case
longer than 200 words. The Editor takes no res-
ponsibility for the opinions expressed by correspon-
dents.
To The Editor of FELIX.
Sir,
City & Guilds College
12 Oct. 1950
I wish to oomplain about our own British Rail-
ways. On Sept. 26,1950 I dispatched from home a
nice big box containing most of my earthly posses-
sions and among other things - my rugger k i t .
Up to Monday, Oct 9 my box had not arrived and
as you can imagine, Iwas getting rather worried.
On Monday, Oct 9, however, a representative of
the B.R. rolled up and proceeded with the delicate
task of unloading a baby carriage..
Now sir, I have never to my knowledge ordered
a pram and to the best of my belief never had cause
to. Furthermore, I am a batchelor and intend to
remain so for some years to come. To add to the
indignity I received a note from Wlllesden Junction
a few days ago stating that:- "On and from 13 Oct
'50, storage charges w i l l accrue at the rate of
1/0| per ton per week " .
Yours faithfully,
P.D.Rich.
P.S. Do you think i t would be possible to motorize
a perambulator?
I.C. Union.
To the Editor of Felix.
Sir,
When I came to this College I read with
satisfaction that the bar was licensed from 12.50
to 2.30 and 5.30 to 11 p.m. Here, I thought, is
a Union with a proper grasp of essentials. Ima-
gine my chagrin, therefore, when I discovered that
the bar was in fact only open from 12.30 to 2 and
6 to 10.30 p.m. I have made a few enquiries and
learn that the hours were curtailed during the war
due to staff shortages, but the war finished 5
years ago and I notice that there are two barmen.
Surely the time has come to rectify this error in
our ways?
Yours etc.,
Thirsty Fresher.
I.C. DIABOLICAL SOCIETY.
CAPT: de V i l . HON. SEC: B.L. Zebut.
FRESHERS - now is the time to join I.C. Dia-
bolical Society, one of I.C's most popular. Black
mass is held every Friday and there are frequent
Witches Sabbaths in the I.C.W.A. common room. The
club ground is at Brompton Cemetry, a short broom-
stick ride from the college, and Is particularly
well equipped, the new Charnel house having been
but recently completed. Members can receive free
Instruction at any time from professional fiends.
All equipment, including familiar spirits and long
spoons (for supping with the captain), is provided.
There is the usual subscription.
Anyone wishing to Join should sign in blood
on the club notlceboard. The captain or secretary
can be raised at any time by the usual methods.
Sub-Committee Reports;
SPELLS. The spells committee state that, due to the
shortage of newt's eyelids, l i t t l e activity can be
reported during last session.
EVIL-EYE. The evil-eye committee wish to complain
against unfair treatment by the Metropolitan police,
their requests to be allowed to inspect the staff
at a nearby station having been consistently re-
fused.

