EDITORIAL
GREAT OCCASION
Commemoration Day, the event of the London
Season (or so we like to think), approaches. Once
more the robes of dignity will flutter awhile; t i l l ,
speech and ceremony over, we shall discard them for
the lighter garments of pleasure and explore the
delights of the Commemoration Ball.
This day is a unique occasion in the I.C. year.
As everyone knows, i t commemorates the visit of
their Majesties the King and Queen to the College
centenary celebrations in 1945; but the present
form of the celebrations dates only from last year.
Its success then was a tribute to the organizers
and students alike, and i t s success this year equally
rests on the enthusiasm and support of every one of
us. It i s one of the few days of the year when no-
body does any work; when the whole College collects
together and enjoys (or endures) a splash of pomp
and pageantry; when we remember what is past and
what i s in store. It is a sober but nevertheless
enjoyable day - i t is our Great Occasion.
But lest i t be thought that the strain of so
much sobriety might overcome the weaker among us,
it should hastily be added that the evening provides
the perfect antidote to the day's proceedings. The
Commemoration Ball, the like of which is rarely
seen in London, i s indeed the high-spot of the
celebrations. Here, in white tie or black, sur-
rounded by glamourous partners, we may taste the
pleasures of the table and of the dance - indeed
the night offers unlimited scope in the pursuit of
diversion. But - we may add - only to those who
remember in time to get their tickets'.
mm mo HOPS
We note with approval that the I.C. Entertainments
Committee have moved speedily from thought to act-
ion in an effort to lessen the pandemonium of Sat-
urday night 'hops'. A fortnight ago the Union was
more crowded than ever i t was last year - even the
Union lounge was Invaded by dancers. Last Saturday
vetting the men by their Union cards and the women
by - well, we presume simply by limitation of num-
ber, the Entertainments Committee enabled those
inside both to dance and to get near the bar before
closing-time.
A number of people were caught out by the -
"Show your Union card" rule; one leading member of
a political group was heard denouncing the idea as
'Closed Shop'; a l i f e member of the Union protested
that he'd never been asked for i t before and had'nt
got one anyway - he stormed off, muttering in his
beard. But the principle is sound and the inconven-
ience slight.
We like our dance ourselves, of course, and
we like our spot of beer - in fact, we find that a
subtle blend of the two are conducive to a state of
peculiar well-being. And we do not wish to deny
such pleasures to others - least of a l l to our
young and fair visitors. But something had to be
done and i t seems that 'first come f i r s t served'
as an extempore measure, was the fairest way out.
T H E S E C O N D IMPERIAL C O L L E G E UNION C O M MEMORAT ION BALL AT GROSVEf*
WILL
3
z
<
2
I
WEEK
THE
BE THERE
TODAY p
C O M M E M O R A T I O N
AT GROSVENOR HOUSE 1
3 s
I M O N D A Y ts YOUR LAST I
I CHANCE FOR A TICKET I
'VW83H ONV VSUS3H3WO WOOMn¥8SIHSNOIdnA3NOiSj)ODISW*3HiOi.«
C & G ENGINEERING SOCIETY
In search more of a free meal than of inspi-
ration, this column drifted into Queenie's on
Thursday. 12th, for the Engineering Society's
Freshers' Tea.
Dr. Sparkes, the guest speaker, gave an im-
passioned appeal to freshers to live their Univer-
sity lives to the f u l l .
The student chairman implied that, although
only at the bar could the f u l l l i f e be led to
overflowing, the Society offerred much. It was
the panacea for brain fag and the antidote to de-
partmental specialization. It also ran a free
trip round a brewery.
The eighty odd freshers who attended were
duly impressed by the excellent tea, the serious
intent of the speakers and the excellent pro-
gramme of talks and visits.
FUTURE OF ALBERT
Around this most noble of London's monu-
ments has sprung up a vast multitude of steel
poles. From Hyde Park Gate to the Albert Hall,
the whole Ruddy Gore i s buzzing with rumours as to
the explanation. Have the Ministry of Works y i e l -
ded to those misguided Individuals who regard the
Memorial as a monstrosity, and, rather than incur
the cost of demolishing it, decided to hide i t for
aver from human eyes? (Better by far that the
statue of Albert behind his hall should be hidden.
the Godiva-like ladles surrounding Albert
cause the most acute embarrasment to passing
students. Indeed, some worthies in the queue for
the last Prom, felt impelled to clothe one of them
with a board bearing the legend "Closed t i l l 5.15
a.m.")
A more likely suggestion, now that a method
of determining whether a lecturer 5 s dead or not
has been discovered, i s that a vault is to be
built to hold the mummified bodies of Emeritus
professors. Let us hope that i t i s not to be a
fortress from which molten lead will be poured on
those who attempt to light fireworks on the steps.
Will i t be a - but, no! there is already one a
short distance down the road. Are flying saucers
to be launched from this new building? Is i t to
be a bird sanctuary? A monument to Touchstone?
All these suggestions are ridiculously wide of
the mark. Our usually unreliable source states
that i t i s to be turned into a telephone kiosk for
Mr. Scott-Fleming.
P i n - u p
i

