F E L I X 5
C C
On the evening of a singularly felicitous
Friday the 13th the R.C.S. Freshers gathered for
their annual malt, hops and harangue in the Upper
Dining Hall. The buffet having been cleared they
patiently, and one believes plsasurably, submitted
to yet a further introduction to the community,
on this occasion disguised as toasts.
The toast of the College was proposed by the
Vice-President Tony de Reuck. with an erudition
which would have been unforgivable had i t not also
been witty. He lamented that R.C.S. had sprung
from such lowly beginnings in the Royal College of
Chemistry -"the Back Kitchen of the Physical Dining
Room", and proceeded to exhort the freshmen to seek
a middle way between too close an attendance on
either bar or laboratory. With tankard in hand
and tongue in cheek, he recommended them to "despise
not water that the frogs do drink", but drew grue-
some attention to the i l l s that brown-bagger flesh
is heir to.
Dean Levy replied in characteristic form with
an uproarous parable of the Saturday night he
believed to have been Sunday,for which he was cert-
ified as of unsound mind by a learned society care-
taker and newspaper boy; from which he drew the
moral that a true philosophy of l i f e saves a lot of
time and trouble.
The "Hegelian Triads" which Professor Levy
had on an earlier occasion smuggled into an address
to the freshmen, came in for a gentle parody from
President Peter Haskell, proposing the health of
the Freshers. The corners of his triangle were
occupied by Wine, Women and Song, and by carrying
out an experiment recorded by Gulliver in Lepute,
proved that the greatest of these was Wine.
As is the custom in our only harem-keeping
College, the freshmen replied through one of the
freshwemen, Eileen. Delmage, who thanked the Union
in the shortest and perhaps the best of the evening's
speeches - with sincerity and simplicity. And so
the company retired to the bar.
It probably reflects the gradual reduction
in the antiquity of our scholars that most of the
beer was consumed and the noise produced
by the "old hands" - but there can be no doubt that
even without alcoholic aid, the freshmen enjoyed them
selves enormously.
FLYING SAUCERS
Flying saucers have been seen i n many coun-
tries by a large number of reliable witnesses.
Some of these saucers are reputed to have come from
Mars, others from Russia, ana others s t i l l from the
giant U.S. navy base i n California.
Up to last Saturday evening, no saucer had yet
been seen i n British skies. It i s therefore with
much pleasure that I set before the illustrious and
potentially eminent readers of your paper, the f o l -
lowing facts.
At 2230 hours last Saturday evening I witnes-
sed a disk flying at 50,000 f t . over Kensington
nigh Street, and proceeding i n the direction of
Piccadilly Circus. It was approximately 210 f t . i n
diameter and 9 f t . 6 in., thick at the centre. In
order to ascertain i t s angular velocity - for I
realised immediately that a l l my observations would
be invaluable to posterity - I attempted to rotate
myself at exactly the same speed. This cunning
move to reduce the relative angular velocity of the
disk to aero did not meet with success. For, as my
angular velocity increaoed, the disk appeared to
recede and soon a l l I could see was an abnormally
large number of stars. The crowd who gathered i n
Kensington High Street showed considerable interest
and I am very surprised that this momentous i n c i -
dent has not so far been reported i n the daily
papers.
Further details can be obtained from the Pre-
sident and only member of the Loch Ness and Monster
Club, c/o Imperial College Union Bar.
FOOTNOTE.
The Astronomer Royal, Sit Harold Spencer Jones,
said at Brighton: "I am s t i l l patiently waiting for
reports of a flying saucer having landed anywhere.
It is significant that most of the reports of flying
saucers appear to have emanated from a country where
mass hysteria is rather prevalent."
An Appreciation.
One of the most remarkable and heartening
features of I.C. last year was the resuscitation
of Phoenix; from i t s former state of highbrow
strangulation i t has emerged a well written, well
presented and, best of a l l , Interesting magazine.
At the risk of being accused of mutual back-
scratching, i t must be said that this can only be
due to the efforts of i t s able Editor, A.V.3. de
Reuck, and his assistants - he seems to have con-
vinced his contributors that in order to get an ar-
ticle in Phoenix i t i s no longer necessary to lose
the readers in a maze of verbosity.
A quick scan through Phoenix Review immedia-
tely gives on the impression that i t i s well pre-
sented and laid out. apart from the rather regret-
table placing of two half page advertisements on
pages 6 and 7, which would have been better placed
with the other advertisements. The photographs
are excellent and well chosen for variety; for
the benefit of those who were not present, the
dark patches on the picture of the Battle of the
Serpentine are not smudges on the negative, but
soot, and the character in the water is Marcus
Hull, who had the distinction of being f i r s t man
in.
A more leisurely perusal reveals a l l sorts of
good reading. The short story is amusing and well
pointed, the articles under the heading Review of
the Year are a l l good - modesty forbids us sing-
ling out any particular one for prai3e - and the
reports of the clubs together form a most compre-
hensive picture of the year In the Union. It i s
true that the collection as a whole does not form
a magazine that one would read straight through
from cover to cover, rather does one tend to dip
into i t , but this does not detract from the fact
that nearly a l l the articles were interesting and
many amusing.
This was the f i r s t Phoenix Review, and the
idea Is good; let us hope i t will become a regu-
lar annual feature.
E.K.H.
The Sunday Times,
October 15, 1950.
P E a s e i i i ADVERTISEMENTS
Charge: 6d. per 20 words.
FOR SALE, £60. 1926, 12 H.P.Humber Tourer, perfect
condition
mechanical condition, spare engine, new tyres. Apply
A.Mulr, R.C.S. Maths II.
FOR SALE, B.S.A. bicycle, 3-speeds, a l l accessories,
£5-10s. Apply Jet Research Lab. Chem. Tech. (Ext.
267)
ADVERTISE YOUR WANTS HERE. ONLY FELIX
CAN GIVE YOU A COLLEGE-WIDE CIRCULATION.
KEEP an ocular cocked for announcement, of Jazz Club
Inaugural Meeting. A l l interested please notify
Hon.. Sec, via Union rack.
KTANTED - a copy of the first issue of FELIX (Dec. 9th
1949) in reasonable condition. Good price paid - Ed.
Felix.
HAVE YOU got your tickets for the Commemoration Day
Ball? Don't be left out this year! Sale of tickets
extended to Monday.
FISHY STORY.
Last term, a research student somewhere in
I.C. was asked by his professor what the fish were
doing in his thermostat bath. He laughed politely
in appreciation of the joke. But he soon had a
shock. There were fish in his tank! Friends had
given a nice warm home to some goldfish during his
absence.
A MAP OF SOUTH KENSINGTON.
(FELIX No.10, October 6th 1950)
ERRATUM: For UHWIN HALL read AYRTON HALL.
The same correction applies in the coming events
column.

