FELIX EDITOR Chris Stapleton, proposed by Jackie Scott
Photography
Already I have secured, as this years Photo Editor, a
fine team of photographers. Dedication in this area will
improve the look and feel of news, features and the
arts.
News
A news team and large news network has the
potential to find out more about the stories that you
should know about.
Technology
With the introduction of more technology I shall move
FELIX forward. The addition of a FAX and the
installation of a JANET pad shall enable us to
communicate across the UK.
St Mary's
Collaboration in the form of weekly meetings with
your union and other interested partys' will source
news and feature contributions that needs to be
exploited.
Sports and Clubs
The intense activity of all clubs and societys, whether
sporting or not, is not as heavily reported as I would
FELIX EDITOR
I am proposing Thomas because I want next year's
Felix to be better than this year's. Felix needs a
change. Thomas is determined, enthusiastic, fair and
hard-working. He first edited an award-winning 6th-
form magazine, and has since worked on publications
for the Petroleum Engineering industry. He will bring
new life and experience. Vote for him on March 5th
and 6th for a Felix worth reading.
-Dylan James, proposer.
Felix
Felix is boring, Hacks stuff its pages with what they
think students want-but this is simply not good
enough.
The role of Felix is to provide news and information,
interest and entertainment. I feel that the news
content of Felix must be improved. Coverage must
be comprehensive and information about forthcoming
events up to date.
Felix must provide what students want, and
particularly what they cannot get elsewhere. Reviews,
for example, are better provided by commercial
PRESIDENT
During my involvement with ICU I have known three
presidents. The most important qualities for a good
President are not, having grand schemes for the
Union, or perfect knowledge of the constitution. They
are; willingness to put in the long hours the job
demands, and the ability to respond to the people who
walk into the office with problems whilst you are
trying to concentrate on something else.
Over the past year or so Doug has proved that he
has both of these qualities.
President is no position of 'Ultimate Power'. The
majority of the President's time is spent in
Committees or dealing with students, this is what
makes the Union run. Doug has no illusions of the job
he is taking on and will do it the only way he knows
how: with absolute honesty.
If these aren't good enough reasons to vote for him
please do so anyway because if Doug leaves, the Bar
profits will plummet.
Hal.
like to see. With the cooperation of club chairpersons
I would like to cultivate greater interest in this aspect
of union life.
Features
Next year, Medicine and London life will mix with the
already excellant general science and other articles of
this year.
Opinion
Though this maybe a college with an apolitical union
we are not all without opinion. Reflection on student
and external life to goad your thoughts into action and
off academia.
Union
The good, the bad and the ugly; all reported applauded
and critisised to ensure you know what is really going
on.
Lectures
Journalism in all its forms is a fascinating subject. I
hope to arrange a series of lectures drawing on the
vast array of contacts that can be gleaned from this
the media capital of the world.
magazines.
Felix must also be fun. Satire such as the 'Baron
of Cheapskate' should be brought back; cartoons and
light-hearted articles re-introduced.
I will use Felix to dispell alienation. It must be a
window on the activities of college and a guide to the
affairs of the Union. I will seek co-operation between
Felix and the Union, Rag, St Mary's and other groups.
I will honour responsibilities such as full publication
of U.G.M. papers-although, ultimately, Felix should
remain totally independent of the Union executive.
Most of all, Felix must be accessible-it is your
newspaper. It exists for you, not just for hacks.
Anybody with anything to say must feel free to use
Felix as their forum.
Print Unit
Having exprienced the hostile nature of the Print Unit
from the 'outside', I will ensure that it is more readily
accessible to all students.
ICU has to be gently coaxed into doing new things,
radical proposals are defeated or ignored by College.
The President must make the students his priority and
to do this properly he probably won't have time to
pursue a vast number of projects.
I don't intend radical change, but as many people
already know I am always prepared to talk with
people, anytime.
There are a couple of projects I would like to
undertake. I want to try and set up a welfare fund to
help students who are particularly hard hit by the
withdrawl of benefits, introduction of loans, poll tax
etc. I would like to see more autonomy for the CCUs,
which would ease future mergers.
These will be in addition to the ongoing necessities
of protecting Harlington, student accomodation etc.
Space limits further elaboration.
DOUGIE.
NO BULLSHIT
Editorial
Velvet, sabre-toothed, ice cold and satirical. Good for
the good and bad for the bad. I shall cut and thrust
with an epee for a tongue!
Thomas Wyatt, proposed by Dylan James
Doug King, proposed by Hal Calamvokis

