PRESIDENT Mark Orrow-Whiting, proposed by Edgar Denny
I am standing for ICU president so that the union fights
over issues concerning students-loans, poll tax,
abortion, etc.
The loans proposals will reduce students' living
standards. Many working class students will be
discouraged from entering higher education.
The Poll Tax represents a huge shift of wealth from
the poor to rich. In Scotland there has been massive
non-payment. A campaign of non-payment and
demonstrations is needed.
Next year the effects of student loans, poll tax, and
benefit cuts will start to bite. Students, already on the
breadline, will face a desperate situation. A union
which fails to tackle these issues is useless.
The Tories have allowed anti-abortion amendments
to the Embryo Research Bill. Attempts to reduce the
time limit for abortion represents an attack on a
woman's right to choose. The loss of abortion rights
would mean a return to the backstreets for women
unable afford private abortions.
On these issues the government can be beaten.
Student pressure caused the banks to withdraw from
the loans scheme. Recent opinion polls show the
Tories are vulnerable.
We need a fighting union to take on these and other
issues. One that organises campaigns and
demonstrations rather than writing letters to MPs.
Ofcourse, these campaigns would be much more
effective if we were part of the national union.
The last few months have been exhilarating for
socialists. Oppressive regimes in Eastern Europe have
fallen. In many cases students acted as a catalyst for
the revolutions. Nelson Mandela has walked free.
Students here should take inspiration from these
events. The best form of solidarity we can offer is to
get rid of Thatcher.
I am in Physics II and a member of Socialist Worker
Student Society.
PRESIDENT Athos Ritsperis, proposed by Alistair Goodall
I am proposing Athos for President because I believe
he is the best person for the job.
He has proved an excellent Academic Affairs
Officer, tackling the important issues that arose. As
CU President he's helped build up and maintain an
active and thriving College society.
I know he will run the Union well, but more
importantly I know as President he will remain friendly
and approachable to all.'
Alistair Goodall (ICCAG Chair 89/90).
Apathy: Apathy is a real problem. If you don't
understand what's going on, it's not because you
aren't interested, it's because nobody tells you. I will
ensure that you are kept aware of the issues.
St Mary's: St Mary's and IC Unions are required to
merge within 3 years. Having talked to both
Presidents I believe we have an answer that will
satisfy College, without compromise.
Academic Affairs: I've seen numbers of applications
to College go down almost across the board, with
workloads on the increase. I have, as Academic
Affairs Officer instigated a workload survey in all
departments. I will be keeping a close watch on the
situation.
College: In this time of cutbacks it seems that College
has turned it's attention to the student services
(careers service, Nightline, and sporting facilities). I
will not let College dictate on these issues. These
services are necessities, not luxuries.
Welfare: I intend to expand the service, adding
information on private sector rented accommodation
and other housing issues, in conjunction with the
existing details on Poll tax, benefits, rights, loans, etc.
Overseas: I understand the issues facing Overseas
students and know a lot can be done to make them
feel a more welcome part of the Union. I intend to see
more social events like the very successful
international night, promoting cross-cultural relations.
PRESIDENT Paul Shanley, proposed by Andrew Bannister
In terms of ability and experience, I believe that Paul
Shanley has all the qualifications needed to make an
excellent Union President. As well as being UGM Chair
this year, he has sat on most major Union committees,
including Council, Union Finance, Bar, Bookshop,
Catering, Publications Board and Academic Affairs.
He has also represented IC at GUC-the sovereign
body of the University of London Union.
Previously, he worked full-time in College
administration for fifteen months. His responsibilities
included supervising twenty part-time members of
staff, and working with senior College officials.
I have no hesitation in proposing Paul Shanley for
the post of President of Imperial College Union.
Andrew Bannister.
The Union President needs not only commitment, but
also an all-round experience of both the Union and
College. The President will need to negotiate firmly
with College on a wide range of issues, and this can
best be achieved if good relations with College
officials have already been established.
Specifically next year I intend to:
• Press for improvements in College accommodation.
This will be achieved by preparing a detailed report
on each hall or house, for presentation to the Student
Residence Committee.
• Investigate ways in which College could subsidise
rents via externally generated income, such as
conference letting.
• Increase the integration of postgraduate students
into the Union, by improving PG representation and
making better use of the postgraduate budget.
• Strongly oppose any detrimental changes to the
Careers Service, such as cutbacks in funding or
staffing levels.
• Try to get College to turn Harlington back into a
sports ground.
• Keep students regularly informed of Union issues
via a weekly piece in FELIX.
Paul Shanley.

