F E L I X
1 9 5 4 - 5 5 S O C I A L C L U B S
C O M M I T T E E C H A I R M A N S R E P O R T
Despite the look of accomodation caused by the demol-
ition of the old Imperial Collage Union, 60 Jt of the Social
Clubs report an increase i a membership and one, far from
being the smallest, has doubled its number of adherents.
Among the latter 40 jf all but one have maintained
steady progress - the notable exception being the Dramatlo
Sooiety, considerably affected by the loss of its stage.
Over the past two years audienoes at the Sooiety's product-
ions have been declining though the number of actors
remains constant. Should the Sooiety deoide to discontinue
their plays, the cultural fabrio of the Collage would
rooeive a severe blow, and I would appeal to you to give
the Society a greater measure of support when they return
to their new theatre in the Unicn.
With the formation. of the Conservative and Socialist
societies,this session has witnessed a resurgence of
Politics in the College. Six members of Parliament have
trudged up Exhibition Head this year, the highlight of the
year being a Forum organised by the two aooietiea in-
conjunction with the Student Christian Movement and General.
Studies.
AH the religious societies report increased attend-
ance at their meetings. The I.C. Christian Union publicat-
ion "Starting from Zero" sold out by midday on the first
3?- r>f publication, 600 copies being sold.
The S.C.M. Prayer Meetings are better attended and the
Jewish Sooiety report an increased interest in Judaism. The
Catholic Society's outing to the Southern Cathedrals was
enjoyed by many member- of the Union, as was tha lecture
-.hey organised on Preemascairy.
In spite of the lack of aooommodation, and the
disturbing influences of Carnivals the "A" team of the
Bridge Club won all its matches and gained the U.L. First
Division Championship, the "B2" team finished third in the
Second Division, and reached the Semi-Finals in the
Hospitals and Colleges Cup. At the British Universities
Bridge Congress, three out of the six events were won by
members of Imperial College, no mean achievement for a olub
of 60 members.
The Chess Club have, on the whole, maintained last
year's high standard, and. hope to retain the Second
Division Cup. The Gliding Club have a new Slingsby
Skvlark II together with a trailer, which should be flying
by the end of this term. The Hostel is now the only plaoe of
residenoe to have a Cro3s-Channel Dean, and Prank Irving' s
flight will now go down in the epics of Gliding. This session
ha3 seen the commencement of tour grants to the Social Clubs
Committee, and the larger part will be put towards the cost
of a visit by the Gliding Club to Yugoslavia.
Our second tourists - the Mountaineering Club - are to
go on an Alpine Expedition. A 30$ increase in membership
and successful tours to the Lake District and all the local
sandstone outcrops show that they have fully merited this
grant. To both clubs we wish every success this Summer.
Showing considerable foresight the Railway Sooiety
organised their main visit in March. 48 people, some of
whom belonged to the City & Guilds Engineering Sooiety,
I.C. CHRISTIAN UNION.
Many freshers (and possibly a few of last
years students) w i l l know very l i t t l e about the
Christian Union, and so here are some of t h e i r
a c t i v i t i e s during the past year.
The aim of the members of our fellowship
individually and c o l l e c t i v e l y i s "To know Christ
and to make Him known," Each Thursday lunch time
we met for a Bible Study- sometimes i n groups of
about s i x people and often i n one large group.
The l a t t e r was very competently led by the Rev.
Ken Prior. In the Autumn Term we studied the
f i r s t chapters of St. John's Gospel, the Spring
term was devoted to some of the claims of Christ
recorded i n the same Gospel, and i n the Summer
Terra we read the Epistle to the Romans.
In November Mr. Martin .Burch was the host
at a week end house party i n Essex. This weekend
of Christian fellowship was appreciated so much
that another house party was arranged i n February,
this time Mr. Metcalfe C o l l i e r was our host.
Many students came t o the Botany Lecture
Theatre at lunchtime on Mondays to hear the
Christian Gospel from speakers including Rev.
John Stott, Miss Murial Crouch, Mr, Montague
Goodman and Mr. Metcalfe C o l l i e r . In the Summer
Term these Open Meetings were held i n the Metal-
lurgy Lecture Theatre, where there i s more room.
Mr. Metcalfe C o l l i e r has published a series of
talks he gave at I.C. i n November 1953. 600 copies
of this booklet- "Starting from Zero" were sold
to students at I.C. on the day of publication
alone!
The other a c t i v i t i e s of the C h r i s t i a n Union
have included the showing of the f i l m "The Stones
Cry Out", the arrangement of v i s i t s to the Wembley
Crusade, and tours for Overseas Students. A l l
members of the college are always welcome at any
of the meetings, and the C h r i s t i a n Union look
forward t o seeing many new fac«s this year.
visited the Swindon locomotive Depot, travelling there by
Diesel ear from Olympia. The highlight of the Easter visit
to the Bristol area, waa a Journey to Taunton in the
engineers' saloon.
The Musi owl Sooiety report an increase in tha circul-
ation of their reoord Library, and an increase in the number
of ensembles. In the hands of He. Brown, a heterogeneous body
approaching one hundred voioes waa shaped into an instrument
capable of expressing itself aignirloantly in a range of
works from Bach to vaughan Williams.
The Y.H.A., Riding Club and International Relations
Club all report satisfactory years, while our newcomers, the
Polish Sooiety have well established themselves with two -ex-
cel lent meetings, one a Concert and the other a Dance.
With the reformation of the Arab Society, and the form-
ation of a Wine Tasting Sooiety, a Sooiety farmed with the
object of increasing our. knowledge of the product of the vine
the Social Clubs now number twenty eight. I feel that there
will be few freshers whose Interests wa oannot cater for.
The Dancing Club bad a flourishing year, three classes
were held, some continuing up to the present time. Their
Secretary persevered with the thankless task of visiting
girls' colleges, and succeeded in obtaining a reoord number
of partners.
The Library Oommitee report that they now have a total
of 3,000 volumes, but 244 books were stolen or "borrowed
permanently" last year. They do not want to close the Union
Library when there is no-one actually in oharge there, but
they are seriously thinking that this will be necessary in
view of the serious losses.
In closing, I would like to thank all Club Officers for
their untiring efforts during the past year and to express
my sincere thanks to Miss Walker and i!r. Heppard, Secretaries
of the S.C.C., and to Dr. Owen, Hon. Senior Treasurer, for
their hard work for the Commitee during the Session.
RECENT WEDDINGS.
"FELIX" offers congratulations t o the
following members of the College on their recent
marriages.
Dr.K.Stedman - Dr.W.Sands.
Dr.E.H.Brown. Maureen Dennis
Miss J.White - Dr.J.F.Richardson.
Pamela Johnstone - Ken Bett.
Brynne C r i f f e t h - f f i l l e n - John Penton.
Pat Wilton - Adrian Gibbs.
Keith M i l l e r . - BA£8a£a t&mlmso* £^ /Hjk
John Evans. I ft
Hugh Huokin. % \ \
Mike Piggot. Z S m & l t .
John Lupson.. wt^^^§£i
Mike Gadsden. [tjp\ J \ j
I.C. EXPLORATION BOARD.
At a meeting of the Govenors on Friday 7th. October
i t was approved that an Exploration Board be set up within
the College. The main purpose of this board will be to.
discuss any plans that the general student body may place
before i t regarding Imperial College experditions to any
corner of the world. However i t must be recorded that a
l i t t l e bird, "The red-breasted Himalayan fly-catcher" flew
into the Editor's room yesterday and asked was i t true
that an I.C. Himalayan Experdition may be organised in
near future. All the Editor oould reply was:
"READ THE NEXT ISSUE OF W.T,n»T
Keith.
*****•**************************#****
morning coffee • lunch • tea
J A N E B R O W N
7. EXHIBITION ROAD

