A L B U M S
MUSIC FOR PLEASURE
Monaco
Peter Hook, formerly of Joy Division, got his
new band off to a flying start with the release
of their debut and immensely catchy single
What Do You Want From Me?. Admittedly I
have only heard a couple of songs by Joy
Division and. to be honest, I didn't become an
instant fan. However, the sheer exuberance of
the aforementioned single meant that I had to
give the album a listen. I couldn't imagine
missing out on any similar gems possibly con-
tained within.
So, lying back, I let the waves of the first sin-
gle wash over me again, which soon brought
me to the second track called Shine. This was a
dreamy tune that mixed pop and melancholy
sentimentality perfectly. Half of the album fol-
lows this trend with more guitar pop in the
semi-bluesy Buzz Cum and the summery
Happy Jack. The 80s New Order influence is
UPSLIOE
Sarah CracRnell
So you think you know Sarah, do you? Just
some random airhead that Pete and Bob
roped in to give St. Etienne a bit of sparkle, a bit
of that old star class, hell, even to make the
press shots look better. You bunch of cynics.
You're just the people that Crackers is going to
grind under her stacked heels with this album.
If you were expecting typically Etienne slices of
knowing cool, never sure if they're being ironic
or not, then you're in for a shock. Because
Sarah is obviously a hopeless romantic, and
while the boys were off footling around with
sequencers and stuff, she's been hard at work
with a whole bunch of other producers and
songwriters crafting an album of gorgeous
tunes brimming with love, hope and disap-
pointment.
Wide-eyed honesty is the outstanding feature
here. On Coastal Town she gets Grace to
budge over a bit on the park-bench of happy
house anthems, and still manages to sound
wistful in 'a coastal town, after the rain/You're
the brightest star, you're my best friend'. She
knows that the sweetest things always have a
bitter aftertaste, and by coupling the most exu-
berant electronica with yearning lyrics (Desert
Baby) you get songs with a mighty emotional
punch. She doesn't get it right all the time,
though, and as the middle third of the album
proves ifs all too easy to slip from musical sim-
plicity into banality. Taxi is just too damn bland
to have any impact and on Taking OffFor
France the ideas are all there but lack the arse-
kicking from Oakenfold would provide. But by
the time the disco funk of If You Leave Me
comes around, she's back on track strutting
crystal clear throughout and is necessary to
make this album sound as good as it does.
Ifs not all straight-up guitar pop. Songs like
Sweet Lips veer away, sending a thumping
disco style tumult of energy towards your ears.
There aren't just a couple of dance tracks
thrown in here either. Four quality affairs
abound, like the ethereal trip hop edge of Billy
Bones or Junk with its typical bassline founda-
tion that features heavily as the backbone of
the whole album. Undeniably there is nothing
dated about the tracks - they are definitely
placed in the sphere of 90s music.
The album closes with a bleak instrumental
that sounds as though its sole purpose is to
provide a balance to the cheerful melodies that
adorn the rest of the recording. At the end of
the recording, you're instructed to turn it off, but
I had to refuse, and reach for play again. (8)
Jason
attitude and defiance with Aretha, Gloria and
the girls in tow. The whole lot is neatly book-
ended by Ready or Not and Can't Stop Now,
both saturated with sweeping strings and
honey vocals that unashamedly push all those
buttons guaranteed to have a tear in your eye.
Lipslide is certainly a flawed album, but still
one to be treasured. (7)
Norm
RED APPLE FALLS
Smog
Just how depressed do you feel at the
moment? Girlfriend left you? Exams getting you
down? Conservative? Well, here's something to
cheer you up - you're proably happier than
Smog, members of that quietly flourishing
breed of indie miserablists who believe that a
song isn't worth its salt unless its either (a) slow
and unhappy or (b) just unhappy. Listening to
this sparse, mostly percussion-free album and
its tales of loss and loneliness makes you feel
like an intruder, as though you'd happened
upon a friend's diary and been unable to resist
reading it; a guilty pleasure.
Most of the songs consist of a strummed gui-
tar and piano, maybe a little D r u s s ; m e r e s no
bravado, no machismo, the music is still and
quiet. The rough production serves to enhance
the rawness of the sound, the imperfections in
the singer's voice are more noticeable, the
cracks more like choked-back tears. This all
makes the songs that dare to break into a trot,
such as the Giant Sand-esque / Was A
Stranger, sound incongruous - an unnecessary
effort to lighten the mood. They are better when
they are simply being miserable.
A charge of self-indulgence, of navel-gazing
to the nth degree could easily be levelled at
THE COLOUR AND THE SHAPE
The Foo Fighters
A quick history lesson: Dave Grohl, drummer
for the mildly influential grunge band Nirvana.
In 1993 Kurt Cobain, frontman of Nirvana, has
an unfortunate accident with a rifle killing him-
self. Now this leaves poor Dave unemployed.
So instead of signing on, the young lad
decides to collect together all those coppers he
earned from tips and the few coins thrown on
stage whilst he was touring the pub circuits
with the aforementioned band and form his
own record label, Roswell, and a band, the
Foo Fighters. He cobbled together the first
album in a matter of minutes, playing all the
instruments himself and even singing! Five
days after he recorded the album he got the
rest of the band together and was away. The
eponimously titled album gained great critical
acclaim.
And now, two years later. The Colour and
the Shape, is the first Foo Fighters album
recorded by the band as a whole. To call this
album punctuated would be an understate-
ment. It starts off with the gentle, floating track
Doll, all one minute twenty-three seconds of it.
And then, BAM!, straight into the mammoth
rock song that is Monkey Wrench, their current
single. Indeed this seems to be the
new Foo Fighters formula, quiet intros
followed by blinding guitar rock, with
a quiet end (or any mix and match
combination ofthose three.) But there K O l ^ / i
is a more introspective feel to several of the
tracks especially the acoustic tracks, See You
and Walking After you. Songs like these show
the other side to the Foo's muscle rock norm
and are a great addition to the album. Only
the sluggish five minute ballad February Stars
takes the introspection one step too far and
you watch in amazement as the life is visibly
sapped from your body. However you are eas-
ily revived by the scorching pop song Up in
Arms and the sublime Everlong.
The Colour and the Shape is a very good
album indeed. To describe it as rock does not
do it justice. Overall it is a big, hard-sounding
album, something that is not popular with the
British music buying public at the moment. But
with popular bands, the likes of Supergrass
and Radiohead, producing a more hard
e U y e U y u i l u i j u u n j this m u y b « 1
1 i c w o y
snw
1 0 8 9 / n
ahead. (8)
Ramzi
Smog. But music is a subjective thing, we need
different things at different times to reflect our
changing moods. No-one's happy all the time -
it's all about empathy. On the other hand,
maybe they are just miserable bastards and
I'm in the right kind of mood. Who knows? (7)
K.S. Pulaski
music

