"Whafs that woman doing on the posters?" This was
the question eating away at everyon's subconcious,
having noticed the new more sensual approach to
advertising used by the IC Choir for their Summer con-
cert. In fact, there was no obvious reason for this pic-
ture to be featured, but then we couldn't think of a
more enticing way to advertise a choir concert our-
selves, so we let it pass.
This year, the Summer concert presented us with a
relatively modern collection of pieces, all written
between 1945 and 1965. The performance started with
Leonard Bernstein's Chichester Psalms (1965). The choir
were accompanied by a fair sized orchestra, with a
robust percussion section, for this rampaging and com-
plex piece of music. The number of choir members was
notably reduced with respect to the usual turn-out and in
the Bernstein, the choir frequently found itself overpow-
ered by the orchestra. A highlight of this piece was the
nervous but very talented choirboy soloist, Gerald Beatty,
shipped in from the Choir of Westminster Cathedral.
The Bernstein was followed by a collection of five Negro
Spirituals, from A Child of Our Time (1945/1958) sung
unaccompanied by the choir and abunch of adult soloists.
Although technically well performed, the style lacked the
IC Choir
Summer Concert
spark necessary to grab the listener, which you might
expect this style of music to possess. The blame lies
equally with the composer, Sir Michael Tippet, and the
choir.
The concert endede with Maurice Durufle's Requiem
(1947), accompanied by a somewhat reduced orchestra,
and this was where we got to see what the choir was
really capable of. The orchestra/choir balance was much
better than for the Bernstein, and the Requiem was beau-
tifully sung. On the whole, the IC Choir, with ifs new con-
ductor, Christopher Dawe, and ifs slightly rejuvenated
women-on-posters attitude had a pleasingly refreshed
air.
Burak and Maria
I don't know; you buy a computer and suddenly every-
one thinks that you're an expert. All sorts of things start
landing on your desk, such as this little package, a lan-
guage tutor from Europress. The cover claims that the
program uses "proven natural methods", which seems
a less than promising, but lets stop whinging about the
cover and load the thing up.
Thankfully the application is not too system hungry,
requiring only a 486DX with 4Mb RAM and 4Mb of
free hard drive space, although when it says that it
needs a SoundBlaster compatible soundcard, it
declines to mention that you need a microphone.
However, this quibble aside, the user interface becomes
immediately workable with no instruction whatsoever,
and much to my annoyance I really started to enjoy it. I
chose the Spanish CD, in spite of the general pleas
around the office for me to try the English tutor. [Believe
me - his dulcit Tyneside Spanish sounds like someone try-
ing to stad a car but failing - Ea]
It uses the "celebrated" and "globally praised" 'Rosetta
Stone' method, which submerses the user completely in
the language, and uses thousands of photographs to ere
ate the associations with he words, meaning that, if used
correctly, the user thinks in the chosen language rather
than translates from their mother tongue. Another major
Europress
Language Labs:
Spanish
feature is that the program gives intstant feedback to your
verbal, written and accsociatative input, which gives a real
'classroom' feel. I found myself reacting instantly to the
stimuli! and even wanting to go faster, a desire for which
Rosetta Stone caters wonderfully. I started learning at a
truly astonishing rate, and I know this sounds like a some-
thing an advert might quote (believe me I wanted to be
nasty about this program) but it does work in exactly the
way it says it will. Irritatingly, there are no irritating little
features I'd like to latch onto at this point of the review; it is
just nicely skeletal in ifs structure yet slick in ifs presenta-
tion, very quick to get into and a fine language tutor.
Thafs about it really. Mr Trout
i i\im i
30059?
multimedia
Felix's summer special is
out on June 18th.
Please note: there is no issue of Felix on Friday 20th June

