T h e G r i l l
The unlikely-named heroine of The Spitfire Grill is Percy
Talbot, played by Alison Elliot, a young woman just
released from prison. She heads for the town of Gilead
where the local sheriff arranges for her to work at the
Spitfire Grill, a restaurant which is owned by Hannah
Ferguson (Ellen Burstyn). One is left wondering why
Hannah is so willing to give Percy lodgings and a job con-
sidering that Percy is treated with so much mistrust and
prejudice by the rest of the town. Perhaps the fact that
Hannah's dog takes to Percy is a major influence on her!
Despite being a hopeless cook events lead to Percy tak-
ing over in the running of the restaurant, along with
Hannah's nephew's wife, or something like that. The two
become friends and a bit of female bonding occurs
before secrets are revealed, such as the circumstances
which led to Percy's imprisonment and an explanation for
Hannah's apparently bizarre act of leaving a sack of food
each night outside the restaurant. Ifs not all happy fami-
lies, however, as some money goes missing from a safe,
triggering events which culminate in tragedy.
Light on plot, The Spitfire Grill's main dramatic driving
force is Percy's struggle to destroy the townspeople's prej-
udice and her search for a sense of belonging. The film's
strengths lie in the beautiful naturalistic scenery and sym-
pathetic heroine, with Jodie Foster look-alike, Elliot, being
an actress to look out for in future. Our sympathy for her is
made stronger by the fact that very few people are on her
side throughout the film.
Ultimately, however, the film is a little predictable and
overlong. It would perhaps work better on television than
on the big screen and probably will do little to satisfy
modern cinema audience's desire for mainstream
Hollywood fare. Jenny Ho
Beavis and Butthead
Do America
The idiotic duo hit the big
screen as they leave MTV
for the first time. After the
catastrophic theft of their TV
they find themselves travel-
ling across America with
the FBI hot on their trail,
laughing at funny-shaped
buildings and regretting
their unsurprising inability to
pull. You probably know if
you'll like this film before
you see it. If you're a fan of
MTV's most intelligent
music presenters you'll love
it, otherwise ifs not for you.
Anna Karenina
An awful film. Harsh, but
true. Leo Tolstoy's classic
romantic novel was filmed
entirely on location in St
Petersburg, but even the
picturesque backdrop can't
compensate for the
extreme tediousness of this
one. Sean Bean would be
wise to stick with Sharpe.
The first blockbuster of the Summer arrives next Friday,
Con Air, starring Nicolas Cage and produced by Jerry
Bruckheimer, the man responsible for The Rock and
Crimson Tide. Cage is the unlucky man stuck on a flight
containing the most dangerous and notorious prisoners in
the US, when one of them, Cyrus The Virus" Grissom,
successfully hijacks the plane. What follows is one of
those "roaring roller coaster rides from start to finish" that
looks like being one of the most successful of the
Summer's films. The sun is shining, the birds are singing
and we're all feeling happy because exams are nearly
over, so we're giving away some Con Air goodies.
This time those student-friendly chaps at the Odeon
Kensington have really surpassed themselves. The prizes
they have donated for the winners include:
2 sets of Army trousers
Special edition film T-Shirts and lighters
A large US style poster for the film
5 pairs of tickets to see the film at our favourite Odeon
To enter this "Competition of All Competitions", simply
write the answer to the following on a scruffy bit of paper
and drop it into the Felix Office by next Wednesday. If you
add your e-mail address we can let you know on Friday if
you've won so you can see this great film straightaway.
"Which incredibly famous superhero is
Nicolas Cage lined up to play next year?"
Last week we had a competition to win one of five pairs
of tickets to see Absolute Power at the Odeon
Kensington. The question was, "In which multi-Oscar win-
ning western did Eastwood and Hackman star with
Morgan Freeman?" The answer was the brilliant
"Unforgiven" and the five winners are:
Mark Saunders St Mary's
Gavin Summers Biochemistry
Stewart Jones Maths
Ben White Civil Engineering
Chris Gibbs Biology
Pick up your tickets from the Felix Office whenever you
want, or drop us a line to get them in the internal post.
I N E M A S
Gene Hackman stars as a Clinton-
esque corrupt President in
Absolute Power, for which we
were giving away tickets last week.
film

