F E L I X FRIDAY 30TH M A Y LETTERS & EDITORIAL 19
LETTERS TO FELIX
Dear Alex,
Having read the letters page in last
week's Felix I feel I must respond to
the two letters of criticism, namely
the letters from the Beit Hall resi-
dents and Mr A Swift.
I would like to assure the residents
of Beit Hall that the Union is indeed
taking steps to ensure that the Albert
Hall authorities are aware of the
impact of the work upon the resi-
dents, whilst it is indeed true that the
Union was not represented at the
meeting on 15t h
May we have been
represented at the similar meetings
over the previous year and found
them deeply unsatisfactory forums to
discuss the obvious issues of con-
cern.
Currently the College and the
Union are having discussions with
the Royal Albert Hall to ensure that
the work starting in September this
year has a minimal impact on the
College and its students. It is true that
we would be derelict in our duty to
our members not to be voicing our
reservations to those who may
choose to listen.
As for Mr Swift's rant, I am sorry
that he has allowed his prejudices to
get in the way of objectivity. It is
fairly inevitable with any organisa-
tion such as ours that those whom the
members of the Union choose to rep-
resent them are seen as being part of
clique. However all Union meetings
and elections are open to all mem-
bers of the Union, save for a couple
of understandable situations such as
the Union Disciplinary Committee.
Mechanisms exist for members to
hold the Union's officials, policy,
decisions, elections and constitution-
al principles to account. If we were
doing a bad job on your account,
with your money and in your name
then I would hope that the member-
ship had the courage to seek correc-
tive action. However, if people wish
to sit bleating on the sidelines with-
out participating or providing con-
structive suggestion then could I
respectively suggest that they either
put up or shut up.
The remainder of the inaccuracies
in M. Swift's letter seem to be rea-
sonably covered by Mr Roberts edi-
torial comment below the letter, save
for Mr Swift's identity. It may sim-
ply be a typo, but Mr A Swift of
Mech Eng II does not seem to appear
in the College's list of registered stu-
dents. It would be a fairly sad day if
students felt that they could not criti-
cise their elected officials without
having to assume a pseudonym.
As I am sure that most readers of
Felix do not wish to see the letters
page clogged with epistolary
duelling on this subject may I sugest
to any potential respondents that they
save their comments or criticism for
my face, in-tray or Email address,
eric.aIlsop@ic.ac.uk. However, the
best solution would be to attend the
Council meeting on Tuesday 3rd
June at 18:00 in the Union Dining
Hall (papers will be available at the
Union Office from 09:00 Monday
2nd June).
Yours sincerely,
Eric Allsop ICU President
Dear Students,
Berhanu International Travel
Agency (BITA) are looking for stu-
dents for employment over the sum-
mer. This is what they said,
"The jobs are:
- Two students with an excellent
knowledge of English language. For
preparation of a catalogue. Average
Czech wage (Including
Accommodation)
- 20 students. For recruiting
tourists from different transportation
terminal and escorting them to
Berhanu Hostels. Wage are depen-
dent upon the number of travellers
recruited.(No skill is required)
Accommodation depends on the type
of agreement."
For further details contact BITA at
bts@terminal.cz please mention
Felix and IC when writing.
Stuart Cook
Materials 11
Letters may edited for content or length.
The deadline for letters for the next issue is Tuesday 3rd June.
Letters may be e-mailed to: felix@ic.ac.uk
^ f F E L I X
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Editor Alex Feakes / Advertising Manager Mark Baker
In the present climate of competi-
tiveness and an abundance of league
tables for the public to digest, here at
IC we may take a small crumb of
comfort from the fact that we're
gradually getting closer to Oxford in
The Times University League
Tables.
It is there in black and white for
everyone to see: Cambridge,
Oxford, Imperial, LSE, Warwick,
York, UCL, St Andrews... except
that most of Jo' and Flo' Public go
glassy-eyed after the first two (and
that's if they get this far through the
paper)! Which is a shame, because
there is no point in having a reputa-
tion as good as ours (as borne out in
the league tables), if nobody has
ever heard of the damn place.
It should be the case that, as in any
form of league, the top five are well
known favourites of the public.
There should be friendly inter-uni-
versity rivalries between streets and
regions. Estates bedecked in their
higher education institution's
colours would challenge the scarf
bearing graduates of another. The
annual publication of The Times'
League Tables would be anticipated
like the FA Cup.
Unfortunately, whilst other insti-
tutions have a high profile,
Imperial's attractions have gone
unnoticed by the press and public
alike. That's not to say that
Professor Smith gets on the Today
programme or that Dr X is inter-
viewed on the News at Ten, but we
do lack the wonderful glitz and paz-
zam that say Professor Dawkin's
occupation of the Chair of Public
Annoyance and Iconoclasm at
Oxford or Professor Hawking's
sage-like pronouncements on the
universe from his lair in Cambridge
seem to manage.
But as I said at the start, we can
only pause briefly to relish our
achievement of drawing closer to
Oxford. The London School of
Economics is breathing down our
collective necks (and how sweaty it
is too)! We must man the battle-
ments, research deep in our libraries
and laboratories, draw our scarves
closer round ourselves and above all
get some better accommodation.
All in all, the College may get a
good solid third, but it looks as
though we'll have to get more 2:1s
and firsts to pull ahead of our
London rivals and close the gap on
the Oxbridge duo and'the acclaima-
tion that they receive.
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
©Felixl997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: ROBIN; PHOTOS: ROBIN; MUSIC: JASON A N D A L O K ; FILM: CHRIS;
GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: D A V I D ;
COLLATING LAST ISSUE: D A V I D
EVERY LITTLE HELPS
ALL STUDENTS A N D S T A F F SHOPPING A T
SAINSBURY'S P L E A S E A S K FOR THE FREE S C H O O L
V O U C H E R S , A S THE IMPERIAL C O L L E G E D A Y
NURSERY C A N USE THEM IN E X C H A N G E FOR T O Y S .
J U S T PUT A N Y V O U C H E R S IN THE INTERNAL
MAIL T O S U E THORNETT, D A Y NURSERY, 8 PRINCE'S
G A R D E N S . M A N Y T H A N K S !
IMPORTANT NOTICE:
FRIDAY MAY 30th: SHAFT-ED
Due to the licence for this event being refused by the Local Licensing Authority, the Union bars will have to close at 1 lpm this evening.
We apologise for any inconvenience this will cause.
Admission will now be FREE

