20 SPORT
F E L I X FRIDAY 3 0 T H M A Y
FELIX SPORT
A triumphant season for the handsome young
lads of ICAFC fourth team
Season 1996-97 was one that nobody
connected with the Fourth Team will
ever forget. It ended in glory; promo-
tion to U L U Division m, and the
Division TV Championship. Albeit,
the top spot was achieved by the nar-
rowest possible margin- level on
points with Royal Holloway, but
having a better goal difference by
recalculated, the truth was realised:
Imperial Shit On The Holloway! (All
together now... If I had the wings of a
sparrow...).
Perhaps not very sporting, but if
there's one team I hate (more than
Bolton Wankerers) then it is RH.
And so it was all the sweeter that ear-
lier in the season our biggest win was
Back: Nak, Paul, Adam, Morgan, Pete, (withheld), Dan, (withheld).
Front row: Ryan, Darren, Stu', Andy, Geordie.
one, that's one, goal! But so what-
we've got the medals!
Going into the last game of the
season versus Goldsmith Ills we
thought only a victory would give us
the Championship, so after a topsy-
turvy game which saw us go 1-0 up,
2-1 down, miss a penalty, then 3-2
down before finally equalising in the
last minute we were despondent. It
was not until numerous 'phone calls
back and forth to Holloway HQ and
then an agonising wait whilst the
goal differences were calculated and
over them and at the same time
emphasising our superiority over the
rest of the division. It was the first
game after the mid-season break (aka
Christmas Hols) and IC produced
their most fluent, skilful performance
with their full-strength team to win 6-
1. It could have been a lot more.
The league should have been won
by a more convincing margin, and
would have been if a full-strength
team had been available more often,
but events conspired against us to
such extents that for many games our
top players were out for various rea-
sons- and for one game we were
missing nine first-choice players,
needless to say, we didn't win.
We played in some remarkable
games this season, for example when
we were 2-0 down in the first game
versus Goldsmiths with only three
minutes to go (honestly). We won.
Or 2-0 down halfway through the
second half versus U C L V ; we won.
Thirteen goals were scored in two
games against UMDS, eight against
SOP, with none conceded. At home
we totally outplayed LSE who fin-
ished third, thrashed the fourth
placed team, Q M W C IV, away.
What a season!
In BUSA we had a remarkable
sequence; in the London group
matches, often playing against teams
in higher divisions, we won our
group. The reward for this was a
home tie versus the University of
East Anglia. On another day we
might have won, mistakes put us 2-0
down early on, and although we
pulled it back to 3-2 down, another
break-away goal finally put paid to
our gallant efforts. The U L U Cup for
which we were the favourites- borne
out by the fact that the final was
between R H V and QMWC IV- did-
n't go well. In fact, we were defeated
in the first round, at home, against a
team who would only win one other
game all season and finish bottom of
the entire London League- prover-
bially 92nd in the Football League!
Perhaps it is wrong to single out
individuals since this was a com-
A third sports editorial
With the summer approaching and
thoughts of sports mainly drifting
from our collective minds it's nice to
reflect on what has been achieved by
the brave and bold sportsmen of IC.
Above is an extensive account of the
season of the football fourths. If any
other teams want the opportunity to
have your pictures and a retrospec-
tive of your season in Felix then all
you have to do is write from one to
eight hundred words (or get someone
to write them for you, rugger players)
and hand them in with or without a
picture to the Felix offices in Beit
Quad. Simple, really.
I must mention the Thursday
nightskate as it really is jolly good
fun. It meets at about a quarter to ten
pm outside Mech eng and finishes at
some point in the morning in
Trafalgar Square. Inbetween there
are fun and frolics suitable for expert
skaters down to people who can go
along and stop but nothing else. This
really is a unique and exciting
evening that allows you to skate the
streets of London with some tip-top
skaters who are willing to help you to
improve. So either turn up at nine
forty five or look on the notice board
on the Sherfield walkway. Bye.
bined effort, but the thirteen players
on the team photo, along with Jamie,
were the core and casing of the
squad. The young Tippayawong,
player of the year, simply a superstar
in midfield, Darren, who scored 26 in
17 games, Sion and his stunning hat-
trick; the third of which we'll never
forget. When we were down to ten
men, the left back appeared in the
right winger's position, swung his
trusty boot (the one not held together
by tape) and then glory was his!
Morgan, the second high-
est scorer with 13 goals, produced a
great contribution which culminated
in him scoring the crucial third goal
in our last game, effectively winning
us the Championship, which he
keeps telling us, though we know it
was a combined effort. Andy, David,
Jamie, Paul, Ryan, Adam, Pete,
Chris, Mike as well as the other 18
who played at some stage during the
season all deserve massive credit.
Which just leaves me; the 'keeper for
whom the phrase, 'Harlington
Howler' was written, made far too
many mistakes to mention here, but I
don't care; we've got the medals;
we've got the Championship. Just
remember, 'I'm Stu...'!
Onto the future, Morgan, Mike and
Sion will soon be signing on, Pete
will be dazzling Europe next year
and Andy will lead the fourths to
carry on the fine traditions of IC foot-
ball.
Good luck everybody and thanks
to everyone at ICAFC, especially
those wonderful second-teamers.
Cricketers conquer UCL
Just ten men, that's all it took! The
day started badly with two last-
minute cry-offs so we went up to
Scotland, or somewhere North of the
M25, without a full team. We lost the
toss and were put into bat on a slow,
damp, wet pitch with drizzly weather
conditions which meant the match
was reduced to a 35 over slog.
A solid start was made by the two
openers scoring 48 off the first 13
overs. Then a typical middle order
collapse saw us staring 54 for 4 in the
face. The inning was then stabilised
by a veteran and a majestic 61 from
our Sri-LankanAVest Indian, Jay.
The score was pushed along and after
the final five overs were twatted by
Jameil Akabar we were in the strong
position of 197-6 off the 35 overs.
And all this with only ten men!
UCL's innings saw us take the
field in a confident mood and we set
to the task of reducing them to what
they were - stinking pools of putrid
jelly without a cricketing bone in
their invertebrate bodies. With 20
overs left we had won the game eas-
ily - thanks must go to our two leg
spinners Barry Richards and Jon
Ainsworth. In the end our first win of
the season was a demolition of UCL.

