6 SIR RON V VOR F E L I X FRIDAY 3 0 T H M A Y
After months of meticulous planning,
the time had come. I entered Sherfield,
scurried up the back stairs and
reached the top floor. Suite Five lay in
the distance. Through the landmines,
under the razor wire, passing the
'KILL BAKER' and 'SILENCE THE
VOICE' posters, I was almost there.
My lucky break came when Lynda
Davis' machine gun jammed. Our
Head of PR and Chief of IC Secret
Police hurriedly reached for her
revolver, but it was too late. I was in
the Rector's Office.
Simon Baker, Voice of Reason, talks
to Sir Ronald Oxburgh, the Rector,
about some of his favourite subjects.
Sir Ron Oxburgh
The idea for this interview, or rather chat, actually
came from a very unexpected sources within the
upper echelons of that esteemed building. After lis-
tening to me bang on about the whys and where-
fores of Imperial for the last two years, it seemed a
good idea to hear from the leader of the
Opposition, namely Sir Ron Oxburgh. No discus-
sion about the College at the moment could avoid
the exam relocation farrago; it has been a good
encapsulation of the general notion that students
feel aggrieved by the attitude of College towards
them. While I'll agree with the notion that students
will always find something to moan about, this is
not a trivial matter. Let Sir Ron now answer.
"A choice between two evils", the tent and the
Great Hall, is a view that most would support. "I
am satisfied the people that were concerned have
actually done everything possible" may raise at
least a few eyebrows among our more cynical
members. As the Rector pointed out, "the problem
developed eight days before the exams," which is
true, if one refers to the specific incident causing
the noise. The broader point is surely that College
should have erred on the side of caution by either
planning the construction work around the exams
or relocating the exams much, much earlier.
The suggestion that the last couple of weeks of
exams may indeed be moved to a variety of loca-
tions around College means that the latter option
could have been taken with a little more foresight
by Estates and the Registry. The new garden
behind Weeks Hall was "obviously considered",
but rejected because of "access problems". Hang
on a minute. Did we not have an almighty row last
year about access to this garden, deemed so impor-
tant that a path was constructed to it during last
year's exams? All in all, this is, despite the protes-
tations of the Rector, a disaster that could so easily
have been avoided.
Our conversation then turned to Campus
Renaissance. To my surprise and delight, the
Rector stated that the next big priority was Beit
Quad, a combination of increased Union facilities
and significantly upgraded accommodation offer-
ing 270 rooms. I say surprised, since it does not
appear in a recent Estates Major Projects Report
even in the planning section. Beit Quad has enor-
mous potential, and Sir Ron alluded to a
Cambridge model, which is certainly applicable in
this case (to a certain extent). A figure of about
£7million was mentioned, and we look forward to
the results.
On the broader issue of student rents, the Rector
was reasonably encouraging. Acknowledging that
we do not "have a very good arrangement at the
moment", he went on to say, "I would like us to
have rents as low as possible, but I would like those
to be economic rents...any subsidies should be
decided on grounds other than being a first year."
And so say all of us, but the figures do not seem to
bear that out. Of the £4.5 million student rent col-
lected last year plus the £2.3 million from other let-
tings, College was left with a final surplus after all
costs of £2.2 million. Rents as low as possible Sir
Ron? He quickly pointed out that this was a "spoof
figure" no depreciation charges for ultimate
replacement of the Halls were included in that fig-
ure. Quite so, nor included anywhere else at all, it
would seem. It is the case that hotels do not depre-
ciate long-standing properties, but simply keep
them in good repair. Given the large under-spend
in the maintenance budget here, we appear to do
neither. True, no loan repayments were included in
this figure. This would only apply to Clayponds, as
far as is obvious, bringing the surplus down to
about £1.2 million, or free rent for everyone in
Princes Gardens. No scope for lower rents? I
remain unconvinced that students are getting the
best deal.
Conferencing remains the big hope for College
accommodation. Again, the Rector cited a
Cambridge College, who by a "careful and clever
marketing strategy" have produced very good
returns. Sadly Imperial, whose sixties buildings he
described as "orange boxes, badly designed, badly
built", is no Cambridge college. The 'virtuous cir-
cle' of investment in accommodation stock to
attract conferencing business that would in turn
help fund more redevelopment looks very appeal-
ing, but with it comes the risk that student rents
will have to meet the shortfalls from pricing our-
selves out of the market.
The more observant of you will have noticed that I
have the odd gripe about Sherfield, both the build-
ing and the contents. "The role of administration is
to provide the College with an interface with the
outside world to leave the academics free from out-
side interference and to provide an environment in
which they can pursue their activities." Most acad-
emics that I have spoken to would contend that the
bulk of interference is not from external bodies but
from Sherfield itself.
I have before now stated that at least half the IC
teaching grant gets taken centrally. 'A totally mis-
leading figure', but one supported by several senior
academics. It is partly a case of how you do your
sums, but the near universal feeling is that our cen-
tral admin is over-bloated. Sir Ron countered this
charge by suggesting that we had one of the lowest

