F E L I X FRIDAY 3 0 T H M A Y
SIR RON V VOR 7
cost, most efficient administrations in the country.
As we can, and did, argue numbers somewhat
fruitlessly, I leave you to draw your own conclu-
sions. Suffice it to say, that 1 have heard a variety
ofviews on this subject recently, somewhat at odds
with this vision of loveliness. "College has frankly
got to sharpen up many of its areas of activity",
'The College cannot afford to go round in circles
a
s it often does", the method of allocating teaching
money by formula has been described as "abdica-
tion of management'". "Senior academics are
probably the worst perpetrators of ill-informed
chatter." The last quote, lest you were wondering,
was made by the Rector.
Sharpening up areas of activity inevitably means
services such as catering, cleaning and security, all
of which impact heavily on students. These days it
is becoming progressively more unusual to find an
organisation trying to do everything in-house
themselves. As is abundantly obvious, the core
of it. What was less apparent from the Rector were
the potential problems. A senior member of IC
recently told me that there is a real worry that the
"old College" will be neglected as the medical
schools hog the limelight. There is also concern in
some quarters about the speed of the mergers,
which will happen in less than 10 weeks; there are
still conflicts arising from the far simpler Mary's
merger which took place in 1988. The mergers pre-
sent an enormous opportunity to strengthen the
College. We shall become the largest U K universi-
ty by turnover, which will give us some serious
clout. But within IC, the medics will have 40% of
the personnel and 70% of the money. Money is
power and that's a lot of money.
The changes are also a big incentive to reform
the way College is run. Rationalisation should be at
the top of the agenda, given the obvious overlap
between the various merging institutions. Some
pruning has taken place, but only where people
have retired, as far as can be determined. Sir Ron
dents, whose interests are also of considerable
importance, begin to be affected. I can, thankfully,
only think of isolated examples where this has or
does occur. The Rector did say that he "would be
surprised if we have no voluntary redundancies by
the turn of the century." Time will tell.
A number of points become clear as a result of my
interview with the Rector and conversations with
other illuminati in College. Firstly, Imperial is
about to go through a very major transformation,
which on the whole will be very beneficial but is
not without pitfalls. This must be acknowledged at
every level in the College. Opportunities must be
seized, since they will almost certainly not present
themselves again for many years.
One thing that has become abundantly clear over
the course of this undertaking is the lack of trans-
parency in Imperial's undertakings. The evasion
and unnecessary secrecy which are the hallmark of
many dealings that the 'authorities' have with the
vs Voice of Reason
activity of Imperial College is teaching and
research, and (after prompting from the Rector)
"pastoral care of the students".
We are not a cleaning company, catering is not
our thing and, while accepting that security is
slightly different from the previous two, it cannot
be argued that we must keep it to ourselves. Given
the near-glacial pace of change in this area, I was
encouraged to hear that the Rector has "no posi-
tion" on who should own these services. Less com-
forting was the very pessimistic stance on con-
tracting out- only problems seemed to be identi-
fied, rather than opportunities; if it is such a bad
idea, why are organisations all over the world mov-
ing in this direction?
To be fair, it is vital that one approaches these
matters carefully, otherwise we, the students, will
inevitably suffer most. God forbid what would
happen if catering was contracted out and got
worse.
The medical mergers are probably the biggest chal-
lenges facing the College. "It is a win-win situa-
tion", he said, which, I think, most of us agree it
could be. Probably the most obvious grievance felt
by the South Ken students is the apparent special
treatment given to our medical brethren. The
Rector was reassuring on the level of social facili-
ties in the BMS, describing them as "no more than
students have in any larger department...much less
than they wanted." This has the potential to turn
very ugly if the medics don't get what they were
expecting, though it is good to hear that steps are
being taken to coax the medics into broader
College life.
You have all heard the marvellous advantages of
the BMS for us all, and I for one agree with much
seems to favour re-deployment, rather than redun-
dancy, which is all very well, but rarely delivers
the goods.
Such laudable compassion is not limited to the
Rector; a senior member of the Sherfield staff
related a story of a man who was up for redundan-
cy. This was put to a senior member of the
Management and Planning Group (IC's effective
head honchos), who asked "does he have a fami-
ly?" Gentlemen, we are not running a charity. The
Rector rightly said that "it is true that universities
have tried to look after their staff...to try to be a
good employer", which of course is essential for
good morale. But let us not get carried away with
this benevolent attitude, to the point where stu-
students are counterproductive, and invariably
results in egg on the faces of the powers that be.
This a view, to be fair, is supported some senior
administrative staff at IC, and hopefully will give
the necessary impetus. Students feel much more
contented if they feel that it is not the case of the
rulers and the ruled. As for Sir Ron himself, I was
broadly impressed. There are clearly areas where I
cannot agree with his stance, a feeling I suspect is
mutual! He is a very adept performer, whose work
on the Dearing Committee is vital for the defence
of Imperial's needs. A man with a lot on his plate
at the moment, I am sure that he will concentrate
on the nitty-gritty of IC once the grand projets are
up and running.

