8 A DOCTOR WRITES F E L I X FRIDAY 3 0 T H M A Y
This article was originally published in Marmalade Sandwich, the Student Newspaper of St Mary's.
However, on reflection it seems that it is perhaps equally relevant to students of the other Constituent
Colleges in South Kensington and so here it is, slightly revised in order to make it more generally direct-
ed. From the first word, I should point out that it was not written as a piece of anti-Imperial propagan-
da, it was written out of a frustration at the escalating level of misunderstanding that exists and, whilst
it may seem biased towards St Mary's, this is simply because I am a student there and have a more lim-
ited experience of Imperial College as a whole unit. Nick Oliver
This article was originally published in Marmalade Sandwich, the Student Newspaper of St Mary's.
However, on reflection it seems that it is perhaps equally relevant to students of the other Constituent
Colleges in South Kensington and so here it is, slightly revised in order to make it more generally direct-
ed. From the first word, I should point out that it was not written as a piece of anti-Imperial propagan-
da, it was written out of a frustration at the escalating level of misunderstanding that exists and, whilst
it may seem biased towards St Mary's, this is simply because I am a student there and have a more lim-
ited experience of Imperial College as a whole unit. Nick Oliver
Despite my being a focus
for the frustration of Sf
Mary's students, I felt
that this article neatly
summed up the concern
for the future of ICU and
the other CCUs. AF
Despite my being a focus
for the frustration of Sf
Mary's students, I felt
that this article neatly
summed up the concern
for the future of ICU and
the other CCUs. AF
It seems that Imperial College students wish
to keep medics at a safe distance and they
are now showing their resentment at our
impending invasion by writing bitter edito-
rials in Felix. However, the issue concern-
ing the evolving relationship between St
Mary's and Imperial is far wider and more
two-sided than this. Mary's medics have a
greater resentment at being unseated from
what we see as our home (in a physical and,
for want of a better word, spiritual sense)
and have felt strongly over this for some
years. However, only now, when firm deci-
sions about our future are being made, is our
feeling being truly noticed by the lethargic
student body at Imperial and, whilst bitter
editorials were written, they were perhaps
simply a reaction to articles printed else-
where which claim every decision made to
be a glorious victory for Mary's and a
cucumber up the arse for Imperial.
The to-ing and fro-ing of victorious
claims and bitter rebukes in Felix began at
the beginning of February after the
'Question and Answer' session with
Professor Caldwell and Professor Swanson.
The conclusions of that meeting were basi-
cally promises from Professor Swanson
(Deputy Rector of IC) that the funding for
ICSM will remain at it's present level and
will continue to be paid through College in
contrast to the other constituent Colleges
who receive their funding through Imperial
College Union (ICU). We were also told
that we could continue to play as a Medics
team in BUSA and some other smaller
issues were decided, probably in our favour.
The conclusions we can draw from this are
that i) Prof. Swanson will listen to our con-
cerns and will be reasonable in helping out
and ii) if we don't ask, we don't get. OK so
far? Good. However, the headline in Felix
was "Medics Secure Independence" which,
in a couple of areas, we have done but, Alex
Feakes, Editor of Felix, saw this article as
"a stirring story of triumph in the face of
adversity".
And perhaps he was right, but I believe
that he must realise the fact that this immi-
nent change, in one way or another, scares
or worries every one of us and so any deci-
sions which go some way to alleviating
some of these fears will be celebrated in a
way which is perhaps victorious. However,
for Mr Feakes to go on to accuse us of being
"selfish" is simply short-sighted.
Of course we are being selfish. We are
being uprooted against almost all of our
wills and, whilst we realise that without the
move, Mary's would have a very short life-
expectancy indeed, we are merely trying to
ensure that despite the geographical
changes, little else about what is a fantastic
place (though St Mary's, of course, has it's
weaknesses) alters perceptibly. The sup-
posed "deprivation of other students of
funds for their activities" is, bluntly, not our
concern and this is something which the
"...other students" must raise with the
College.
Ultimately, this has been College's free
decision and it must be assumed that it has
been fully considered, including it's knock-
on effect across the whole student body. To
criticise us directly for taking away from the
members of ICU is a pointless twisting of
fact. We are not "a room full of baying med-
ical students" any more than ICU students
are a University of simpering apathetics. We
are simply concerned and are doing every-
thing in our power to make ICSM a worthy
successor to Mary's.
Unfortunately, duplication (and even trip-
lication) of undergraduate services is a
necessity if future students are to study on
three such widely spread sites so economics
states that more funds are required.
I understand that perhaps our actions will
serve to divide the campus into medics and
non-medics but to claim that this will be
"detrimental to the substance of this institu-
tion (Imperial College)" is unwarranted
arrogance. Last year, IC rag week raised
£920 between 6000 students. St. Mary's rag
raised upwards of £30 000 between 600 stu-
dents. A mere week after Mary's rag week
ICU sabbatical positions were once again
decided by the Paddington vote (something
that has been repeated this year). If these
things are a measure of IC substance (and
can there be better indicators?), then per-
haps division was always inevitable any-
way.
A couple of weeks after this editorial, a
letter was written to Felix attempting to put
forward the Mary's point of view.
Unfortunately, this letter slipped down the
unproductive slope of being aggressive and
confrontational (hypocritically something it
accuses Alex Feakes of). For several years
now "St Mary's xenophobia", a trait pecu-
liar to all London Medical Schools ever
since their inception, has extended to IC.
I have already skimmed the surface of
why this has occurred but, unlike Alex
Feakes and Nick Jenkins, I don't believe
that this is something we should be rapidly
beginning to unravel. Of course, it has a
detrimental edge to it but after 3'/2 years at
Mary's (as opposed to just one exploratory
term), I've realised that without our xeno-
phobia (which, for the most part is purely
posturing - just visit the pavilion bar after
any big rugby game) we would lose our
fierce pride. And it is this pride which drives
us to our fantastic achievements and makes
Mary's the undeniably formidable place that
it is.
This is just one debate of many to come
and it is important to realise that aggressive
triumphalism is not wanted at IC any more
than snide jealousy and resentment are well
received at Mary's. This whole process is
inevitable and, as far as Mary's are con-
cerned, continuity is what is wanted and
needed. It is undoubtedly going to require a
lot of work but we will continue to strive to
obtain everything that we reasonably can.

