THIS summer the Natural History Museum launches its new exhibition 'Dinosaurs of the Gobi Desert'
just as Jurassic Park II fever is about to hit Britain. These pre-historic 'monsters' may still inspire fear
and excitement in children's hearts, but the new exhibition reveals some of their more tender
moments. Heather Holve reports on the first UK showing of these spectacular fossils discovered in the
1920s and explains how the exhibition quite literally unearths the domestic life of dinosaurs.
Desert opens 18 May
until 31 August and
offers a wide range of
kids activites: Dinosaur
Dig, the drama 'Legends
of the Flaming Cliffs'
and 'Travel the
Timeline' and 'Build a
Dinosuar' workshop.
s I walked in the exhibition I was immediately struck
by a towering wall of orange. Having over-enthusias-
tically fallen for last year's colour myself I felt in no place
to comment at the choice. But one should never judge too
quickly: I discovered I was standing at the foot of the
Flaming Cliffs' of the Gobi desert where Roy Chapman-
Andrews and his team made the dramatic chance dis-
covery of the first ever recorded dinosaur eggs. What they
discovered in this extreme and inhospitable landscape,
while, incidentally, looking for proof that Central Asia was
fie cradle of evolution, was one of the richest dinosaur
graveyards in the world. This landscape continues to lay
bare new fossils which fire the imagination of palaeontol-
ogists around the world today.
What these first explorers uncovered changed the
direction of future research. They found nests filled with
eggs, dinosaur babies and youngsters at different stages
of development, which provided important information
about how they nurtured their young and a direct link
between dinosaurs and their descendants, birds. The link
these explorers uncovered also extended further back
into pre-history. Many of the dinosaurs found in the Gobi
dessert are more primitive forms of North American
dinosaurs, suggesting that major groups evolved in Asia
and later spread to North America across a land bridge
that once joined the two continents.
As someone who's knowledge of dinosaurs is limited
lo impromptu lessons from my elder brother, I was
instantly lost in the face of all those bones. These skeletal
monsters may have held a fleeting resemblance to speci- .
mens in my ABC book of dinosaurs, but the impression
they left was very different. These beasts were of much
smaller than many of their North American relatives; the
larbosaurus ('alarming lizard') stood about two-thirds the
height of its more recent relative the Tyrannosaurs Rex
[tyrant lizard king'). And with so many examples of eggs,
nests and young I found myself comparing these crea-
tures to Sesame Streefs Big Bird rather than monsters like
Godzilla.
For the first time I gazed in wonder at the ostrich-like
structure of Gallimus Bullatus ('chicken-mimic'). I had
never seen fossils where a series of ages could be com-
pared, and the Gallimus was just the beginning of the
experience. A range of Protoceratops skulls from adults to
mere hatchlings showed how this turtle-beaked vegetari-
an developed. This small dinosaur, common to the Gobi,
browsed on plants, cropping and chopping vegetation
with self-sharpening teeth. What I found amazing was
that the skulls at different stages showed how the 'frill' on
the back of the head developed with age. I was looking
at how a cute and cuddly baby changes into an overly
large emu-like lizard!
So what did the audience make of this display of
dinosaur family values? I did a swift straw pole. Two very
unsuspecting kids, Kristen age 10 and Ezesme age 8
gave their expert opinion 'Really great...I loved it all. I
especially liked all those BIG teeth'. The new age 'family
values' approach to palaeontology obviously passed
these two by. Kristen and Ezesme revelled in the thrill of
knowing that, through a trick of geological timing, they'd
escaped the risk of being eaten by a monster that even
their imagination would find difficult to conjure-up.
Giles Clarke and Catherine Barr, who have been
responsible for the development of the exhibition, are
more than happy with this reaction. They arranged for the
exhibits and information to be at kid height to bring the
fossils, if not to life, then so close to the child as to make
them seem part of a pre-historic zoo. Visitors can latch
onto whichever theme touches their imagination;
dinosaurs as monsters, dinosaurs the much maligned
parent; intrepid desert adventurers past and present.
I am still not ready to throw away my ABC book of
dinosaurs, but I can now honestly say that these crea-
tures have been rescued from the 'mythical' department
"Two very unsuspect-
ing kids. Kristen age
10 and Ezesme age 8
gave their expert opin-
ion 'Really great...I
loved it all. I especially
liked all those BIG
teeth'. The new age
'family values'
approach to palaeon-
tology obviously
passed these two by."
1 0 S S / I
These eggs were discovered in the
1920s by the adventurer Roy
C h a p m a n Andrews (the model for
Indiana Jones) in the Gobi desert.
Initially believed to have been stolen
by the dinosaur Oviraptor ('egg-thief),
they have recently been discovered to
have been laid in Mongolia by the
mis-named Oviraptor osier 80 million
years ago.
of my memory's storage system and dinosaurs are now
very real to me. These beasts of the Gobi were turned to
stone while in the process of nurturing and protecting
their young from a cruel sandstorm 70-80 million years
ago. And every year the Gobi offers up a few more trea-
sures as the abrasive powers of sandstorms cut into a
new layer of the landscape.
We still have not reached 'the end' of dinosaur history.
Only in 1993, 70 years after its discovery, did the Oviraptor
(egg-thief) finally have its conviction for thieving quashed
when an adult was found not 'raiding', but protecting a
nest of 22 eggs. Dr Rinchen Barsbold, Director of the
Geological Institute ot the Mongolian Academy of
Sciences, quotes from Newton to explain recent success-
es "We stood on the shoulders of giants". He thus hon-
ours past palaeontologists and hints at the calibre of
today's international scientists busy unravelling present
day dinosaur secrets.
the golem and other stories

