Page 2 FELIX Thursday, 21st October, 1971
I. C. FOR SALE
In the last six months one of the biggest and most consistent headlines has been large
scale redundancy and unemployment and, very naturally, at the beginning of July, how this
affected graduates and school leavers. Many students in the coming session will have to
think about obtaining a job and what sort of job they want. It is going to be all too easy
to sit back and assume that at the end of the year, as a graduate, you are going to drop
into a nice convenient, ready-made to taste occupation. This was seen last year where
those students who applied late or in a casual way in most cases had difficulty in obtain-
ing employment. It is no longer a valid assumption that there are plenty of jobs for any-
one with a degree.
In a recession, which we appear to be in at the moment,
one of the first sections in which expansion fails to make nor-
mal progress is research and development. It is into this sec-
tion that most of I.C.'s graduates will be trying to obtain
employment.
In the coming session there is a very rough timetable
in which an undergraduate can hope to obtain a job. It
goes as follows:—
Autumn Term. Decision on the type of employment re-
quired. Isolate the firms to which this employment applies.
Find out information about these firms. Fill in application
forms for first interview.
First interviews. (Most of these will take
Spring Term.
place at college).
Easter Vacation. Second interviews at the firms pre-
mises.
Summer Term. Receive acceptances or rejections from
firms. The final choice as to which firm to go to.
Each step will have a time deadline but this is no more
than an aid to the clerical staff arranging visits. The more
interest you show in getting your application form in early
and the more interest you show in the firms you apply to
the more chance you have of obtaining a job.
The Appointments office has two functions. Firstly it
helps the undergraduate to make a decision on the type
of employment he wishes. A pamphlet is published by the
U.L. Appointments Board called "Main Areas of Graduate
Employment." Once the undergraduate has some idea of this
he can go to several people and publications for advice on
which firms are suitable to this requirement. Firstly, every
department has a member of staff who is directly concerned
with employment and he will be making himself known to all
third years at the beginning of this term. Many departments
also have a careers library. For obvious reasons these people
cannot be experts in all forms of employment and there is
further and much wider advice available from the Appoint-
ments Office in College Block. Mr. Ashworth of the U.L.
Appointments Board visits this College every week and is
more than glad to give advice to anyone who asks. There is
also a comprehensive Careers library adjacent to this office
which students are welcome to browse through.
Come spring and the application forms are in, the Ap-
pointments Office serves its second function, bringing em-
ployer and prospective employee together. Then it is up to
the individual student to convince the employer of his choice
that he is worth employing.
Armstrong) Room 306,
Appointments Office. (Mrs.
College Block. Int. Tel. 3916.
Publications available free. Directory of Opportunities
for Graduates. Profession Careers for Graduate Scientists and
Engineers.
Recommended for Reference. Beyond a Degree (CRAC).
You and your Job (50p).
Steven Cann (I.C.U. Welfare Officer)
SOCIAL RES-
PONSIBILITY
IN SCIENCE
N e w I . C . S o c i e t y
The British Society for
Social Responsibility in
Science was formed two
years ago by scientists who
were dissatisfied with some
of the things science and
technology are doing to the
world we Mve in, and who
wanted to do something
about it. Since then, many
good things have happened.
There have been conferences,
meetings and campaigns to
get "establishment" organisa-
tions like the British Associ-
ation for the Advancement
of Science to take social con-
sequences more seriously.
Partly because of the So-
ciety's formation, people are
now talking far more realist-
ically about the effects of
technology on our environ-
ment.
Now there is to be an "Im-
perial College Society for
Social Responsibility in
Science", an autonomous
branch of the national so-
ciety. There will be a lively
series of meetings with guest
speakers such as Kit Pedlar,
writer of 'Doomwatch' Prof.
Colin Cherry and Jerry Rav-
etz. The first meeting will be
on October 26th at 7.00 p.m.
in Mech. Eng. 342. Also this
term there will be a series
of special discussions under
the general title of 'Science
and Technology in the 3rd
World', starting October 19th
in Physics S.C.R. at 6.00
p.m. Everyone is very wel-
come to all these meetings.
Peter Elphick.
A Weekend at Silwood Park
30-31st October
Touchstone
Sir Robert Birley
(well known opponent of Apartheid)
will open a discussion on
Nationalism Today
Special Coach leaves at 14.15 hrs. on Saturday
Only charge £1.00 (including transport)
Please send your name to C. K . M c D o w a l l , 331 College Block
THIRD WORLD
FIRST NOW
If you live in Southside, one of your first
acts on entering your shoe box for the year
was probably to remove an untidy piece of
paper, entitled UNSA 3W1, thoughtlessly
pushed under your door. If you bothered to
read it, and no doubt two or three uneduca-
ted freshers did, you might have discovered
an IC organisation that believes in ithe exist-
ence of a life style somewhat less endowed
than our little orgasm of affluence.
Enough of this cynicism, let me provide
you with some facts. Firstly, UNSA 3W1 is
the combined IC branches of the United Na-
tions Students Association and the Third
World First Organisation. Its aims are
simple:—•
(i) To educate people about the problems
of the third, or developing world and to
make us aware of our responsibilities. (It is
often argued that we have none, we belive
we have).
(ii) To make students aware that it is
within their power through the medium of
VSO and other similar organisations to help
directly in the solutions of these problems.
(iii) To help raise funds for organisations
already supplying aid (Oxfam, War on
Want, UNICEF, The 3W1 Educational
Trust, Christian Aid and many others).
The order of these aims is no mistake,
money is needed, but on such a vast scale
must ultimately be from the governments of
the civilised(?) first world. However, these
governments will only bother to do more
than conscience-relieving sized foreign aid
schemes (I think that's intelligible) if there
is a massive popular demand, hence educa-
tion. It's a cliche worth repeating, that the
first thing you learn at university is how
little you know, and despite the TV gore of
Biafra and Bangla Desh, etc., where the
third world is concerned, this is one hell of
an understatement. There is the USA's crip-
pling economic exploitation of most of Latin
America (not leftist propaganda but fact)
the plight of India and Pakistan, and the
'Politics' of Africa, North and South. This
is without mentioning such humdrum
phrases as the population explosion, the en-
vironment, and educating the blacks (no
offence).
Why bother with another goody goody or-
ganisation when Carnival, now USK rag,
has the monopoly and is more entertaining?
The answer is simply that there is a desper-
ate need. USK Rag we hope will raise much
money for local and national charities; we
would like to expand student responsibility
to an International level.
Finally, as always there is money. UNSA
3W1 hope to get a large response from IC
for its banker's order campaign. This in-
volves signing a banker's order to give as
little or as much of your grant to whichever
foreign aid scheme you choose. An action
that is a thought out decision, not just a
means to remove the collecting tin. If inter-
ested, please contact Geoffe Rowe of Phy-
sics 2 and look out for UNSA 3W1 meet-
ings.
"Smashing
Time" at
Linstead
We offer our sincere con-
dolences to Dave Lee, of
Linstead Hall, for the lacer-
ations he sustained when he
succeeded in walking through
a plate glass window there.
He's not the first to do this
though — he actually fol-
lowed in the footsteps of an
ex-editor of 'FELIX', who
once, when rather the worse
for drink, ran (or rather, tot-
tered) down the stairs and
straight through the same
window. Why don't you go
the whole hog and join us,
Dave???
Members of the 'FELIX'
staff can remember there be-
ing a table placed in front
of that window last year, de-
liberately to stop anybody
walking, running or jumping
through it. We wonder which
unthinking person removed
it — it might be a good idea
if he or she returned it soon,
before someone really does
themselves an injury. Come
to think of it, I don't think
this year's editor has tried it
yet, but then, he lives in Lin-
stead, so, sooner or later . . .
STUDENTS!
This is
ordinary
This notebook cum folder
cum writing pad cum penholder is
Barclays free gift for students who
open an account with us in 1971.
No bank charges for you,
either, provided you keep your
account in credit. Call in soon.
B A R C L A Y S
a good bank to get behind you.

