Thursday, 21st October, 1971 FELIX Page 3
Editorial
Now that you have returned to your favourite College, or
if you are a fresher immersed yourself for the first time in the
delights of IC, I would ask you to ask yourself a small ques-
tion. How much time have you spent furthering the ideas
behind U.S.K. this term? When you have thought about this
for a little while you can ask yourself where this College is
going if U.S.K. does not grow faster than our insanity.
The day we enter this College we further the cause of
narrow mindedness and that is a sin, and none of these
excuses about never realising that you were guilty either. You
know now that you are guilty so begin to seek forgiveness.
If we are to accept that a centre for dedicated learning and
research in the name of science is a good idea, which we have
done already by coming here, then somehow we must bring
U.S.K. to the fore so that by social intercourse between our-
selves and the other Colleges involved we can make our
College a better place to live in.
Over these first few weeks of term we all get invited to Hall
dinners, freshers dinners etc. and oddly enough the sense of
occasion induced by these functions encourages most of the
people to attend. Why then can we not have U.S.K. functions,
of similar nature. I think a joint freshers dinner would be a
superb idea. I think joint societies with, yes folks, joint wine
and cheese parties are a superb idea and I think having
somebody in the union with enough personality and sense of
social responsibility to make the effort to push U.S.K. to the
fore is also a joint idea. So please, while you are spending
your energies fighting for the numerous rights that need
fighting for please spare a little time each week to save what
could be a very pleasant College.
Now that I've finally found myself in the editorship of this
wonderful newspaper I have also found it extremely exhaust-
ing trying to keep Felix an interesting topical newspaper. The
only way I can do this is if the students of the College con-
tribute their views, news and any features they feel they can
write that will be of interest to other students. You know
where to find me, I don't bite often, so come along and con-
tribute something. Felix is your newspaper why not use it.
It's worth keeping alive as well, I think.
Dave Sugden.
LETTERS
B A M
In the last decade, growing numbers of people in Britain
and elsewhere have become aware of the realities of world
poverty — the misery of a family on the parched plains- of
India or in the shanty towns of Latin America — and of the
obligation of the West to bear its responsibilities.
BAM (Brothers to All Men) is an organisation which feels
that many of the problems being faced by the people of the
third world are not going to be solved by sitting down at
conference tables, or by the West exporting its highly
sophisticated and very expensive equipment and machinery
to the areas of greatest need. BAM believes that if 'develop-
ment' is to have any valid or lasting meaning, it will have
to be carried out by the people themselves, under their own
leadership and using their own skills.
Since BAM was founded in 1965, it has worked to this
end by sending very carefully selected volunteers to various
parts of the third world in an attempt to put into people's
heads the idea of the potential there is to improve their
own living conditions, and then put into their hands the
tools to start the realisation of this idea.
It is with a specific aim — that of the betterment of all
men — and with suitable methods and means, which vary
according to region, that volunteers get down to the very
humble reality of everyday life at its foundations. They are
convinced that men, then communities must, before any-
thing else, be encouraged to appreciate the possibilities,
however limited, that lie in their own backyards. The bush-
man, underfed, illiterate, ignorant, badly organised and
totally devoid of means, must himself appreciate that he
can gradually improve his lot so as to pass from the stage
of survival to that of life.
BAM Needs every scrap of support It can get so that
its many projects can continue in the third world.
If you would like to know more about the activities of
BAM, write now to :
B R O T H E R S T O A L L M E N
M a n f i e l d H o u s e
S o u t h a m p t o n S t r e e t
LONDON, WC2R OLR
C O N F E R E N C E S
Dear Sir,
I take serious exception to the closing words of the article
on summer conferences in the last Felix, namely, ". . . it
would be a good idea if the organisations using I.C. facilities
should be vetted Ito see if their aims are in agreement with
those of the students."
This is an extremely dangerous statement if one considers
all its implications.
May I just remind the author that:'—
a) a democratic society tolerates various differing opinions
and groups, at least so long as they do not directly threaten
to undermine that society, and
b) Nato =
= evil is not an identity (something that is implied
by the last paragraph of the article).
I would also like to suggest to the author that he refrain
from using the not-so-occasional I.C.U. tactics of slipping
in statements/clauses that are purely polemical and bear
little relevance to the usually quite reasonable main article.
Yours faithfully,
Dori schmetterling.
Sir,
To have these off-shore islands of ours divorced1
from the
main land of Europe or to join the Common Market — that
is the question.
But it would be disastrous if that question were to divert
us from many other important problems; for example, that
of the environment. Not easily diverted would be those who
live beside the construction of a lethal, noisy, polluting, home-
devouring motorway; a motorway which according to British
Rail, may cost about nine thousand per cent more than the
same length of their "Superhighway" (rail track) in urban
areas. Even by present day standards this inflation is enor-
mous.
Industrial relations are kept before our eyes (especially
when they are bad) and in large organisations they become a
contest of power. However, there are small firms where
personal relationships are particularly vital, but one en-
counters supervisors who do not even take the trouble to
learn the names of those whom they supervise.
Productivity is a word bandied about, but I would prefer
to hear more of the two words "know how". They are, of
course, related to technology and education.
It is education which really shapes our destiny, but
diversion is easy — almost inevitable — because of the wide
range of subjects which may be studied and the time lag
between acquiring skill or knowledge and making use of it.
The cult of creativity, too, is disturbing because its adherents
do ndt seem to worry whether things are right or wrong,
useful or useless. Even more disturbing is the United Nations
(UNESCO) observation that an academic truth does not
always have a counterpart in the real, practical world. The
phrase "its only academic" is commonly used now.
Education must endeavour to regain its former status.
Yours sincerely,
WATKYN JONES.
WANTED: For I.C. Television News STOIC and FELIX
wish to audition people willing to act as newscasters and
interviewers. Those who wish to attend should contact T.
Dye STOIC, through the internal mail to Tizard hall or the
Electrical Engineering letter rack.
WANTED: Small ads will be printed in this paper free of
charge beginning next issue. Send required ad to the editor
via union letter rack. Apply in good time and take advantage
of this marvellous offer to buy or sell your things.
FELIX STILL NEEDS STAFF
If you want to help either coma to our press meetings at
12.45 Tuesdays! and Thursdays, or contact Dave Sugden
(Maths II) or at Linstead Hall 362.
PARANOID AT l.C.
Dear Felix,
On Thursday there was a party. That isn't exactly news;
it was advertised all the first week on masses of faded pink
posters. "SEX" said the biggest blackest letters, catching
everybody's eye with remarkable success, "30p" said the
smallest, ignored, irrelevant and only a paltry sum anyway.
Surprisingly not all that many took advantage of the enforced
celebrations and of those that did the bulk seemed to be
freshers like me, unaware of the subtle intricacies of I.C.
social life. Some, like me have not yet persuaded themselves
that there are no intricacies in LC's social life.
Social life seems, with no experience to the contrary, to
be simple. Either it doesn't exist for those that are too busy
working, or it exists as at the party. And at the party it was
simple, exceedingly simple.
For blokes, the first step is to ask loudly for a pint of
beer, preferably quoting a specific make to show that you
have drunk enough to tell the difference. Then after a good
swig and a healthy spasm of lip-licking the procedure begins.
Preferably with a friend to make yourself less conspicuous
you amble slowly down the corridors and through the little
rooms eyeing up the talent. Whilst doing this the first item
of conversation is, inevitably at I.C., and I quote
'Not much of it around is there?'
'No, . . . She's not bad though.'
'She's with him though. Always the same, ain't it?'
'Yes,' and so saying another swig is downed.
Perhaps now comes an interlude for contemplation. Feet
tapping to the incessant voluminous beat you remain silent,
watching the world go by. Faces that are afraid to speak to
you or acknowledge you drift stonily past, bathed in grating
glaring multicoloured fights that illuminate; little punched
computer ticker-tapes twist rhythmically in the breeze of
people passing; neon gold and silver posters force themselves
on your gaze.
Echoes of Paul Simon here, the sounds of silence every-
where. For there is no real communication, just chatter. Idle
chatter that you make and hear, about beer and liquor and
women and hopes for women. Every attempt is made by all
to get one, that's inevitable; a part of what is called the
human predicament. Carnal knowledge.
And inevitably the girls join in, it takes a fool to realise
they are onto a 'good thing'. Yep, everybody plays the game,
the pick-up game, in the same sort of way as at an auction.
36-24-36 says the auctioneer about the lot she is selling,
trying to draw as many prospective buyers as possible with
all available means of attraction. Only in this market place
the auctioneer is the lot, and everybody works on that basis.
Simple, but cold, in an impersonal way.
As for me, well I was in the same boat in a way, looking
for a girl and I did see one. She had nice eyes. Dark, under-
standing, sensitive eyes. But she had met a shy boy, and so,
unwilling to intrude, I left and wandered around Princes
Gardens. Crunching autumn leaves and watching flickering
shadows playing in the trees, and dreaming of gaelic girls,
grinning, Yours with love, Paranoid.
This issue of Felix, the
newspaper of Imperial College Union was edited by
Dave Sugden, assisted by Tony Upton, Oily Dawson,
Dave Gribble, Andrew Melvin, Colette Robertson, Ross
McBeath, Bernard Williams, and Ron Matthews. Fea-
tures: Tony Sims The sports editor
is Chris Patter, and the reviews were by John Bryan and
Stephen Amor The photo-
graphics were by Malcolm Bailey, with Colin McCall,
Steve Heap, and Stuart Cambell. Business and circula-
tion is organised by John Stares. Typing and
cleaning by Jane Cornish (Tich!)
The advertising agents are University Press Representa-
tion, Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square, London, WC2;
the printers are F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley, Glou-
cestershire. Felix is Published by the editor on behalf
of I.C.U. Publications Board, London, SW7 2BB, (01)
589 2963, Int. 2881

