Thursday, 21st October, 1971 FELIX Page 5
BENVINGUTS A L'ANDORRA
Radio Society's Expedition to Andorra
In 1969 and 1970 the Radio Society organised expeditions
to Wales and to Guernsey. These were judged to have been
successful and it was decided that this year's expedition
should go further afield. Discussions last Autumn led to
Andorra being chosen as the venue. Andorra is a small
principality set high in the Pyrenees, between France and
Spain. The terrain is rough, the lowest parts being about 5,000
feet a.s.l., rising to peaks of almost 10,000 feet. The system
of government of Andorra is unique, in that it is jointly ruled
by the Bishop of Urgell (in Spain), and by the President of
France. The forests and uncultivated land is common land, so
Andorra is popular with campers. Since there is only one
resident radio amateur in Andorra, it is considered quite
"rare" radio-wise, although an increasing number of amateurs
from France visit the country at weekends. After deciding
that the main objectives of the expedition should be to con-
tact England on the two metre amateur band, and to contact.
100 countries on the other amateur bands, detailed planning
commenced.
After the usual frantic last-minute arrangements, the party
of ten members left Southside at noon on Saturday, 26th
June. The Hovercraft crossing to Calais was made an hour
earlier than planned, owing to quick progress down the M2.
The party then drove on through France until Sunday morn-
ing, when a convenient camp site was found at Nevers. The
route to Andorra was to be rather indirect, via Perpignan,
since, in spite of our efforts, the French authorities had not
sent the transmitting licence to London, and their offices were
at Perpignan. The party reached Perpignan on Monday morn-
ing, and after negotiations (in French!!), we were told that we
could find out the callsign allocated, by telephoning from
Andorra, and the paperwork would be forwarded later. Hav-
ing left the address of a friend of a friend of one of the
party, we drove on to Saillagouse, just outside Andorra. The
next morning we crossed into the Principality. At the top of
the pass, we found the station of Sud Radio, one of the two
local broadcast stations. This warranted a visit, and we found
that Andorra's sole radio amateur was the Chief Technician
there. He showed us round the transmitting equipment, and
also took us to the balcony on top of the station building, to
see the superb scenery. He also told us how, in winter, the
station is entirely self contained—the power lines are taken
down before the blizzards blow them down.
Having replenished our food supplies in Andorra la Vella,
the capital, the question then arose of where to camp and set
up the radio station. Investigation of two known sites showed
that although they were fine locations so far as V H F radio
was concerned, they were not easily accessible with the Land
Rover and trailer. Eventually, towards evening, we continued
through Andorra towards Spain, and left the main road be-
fore turning off up a steep track towards the plateau of
Rabassa. Map reading was hampered by the fact that we
were using a French map which did not, as it turned out later,
show our road. The Spanish map had been given up pre-
viously, since it had fallen apart soon after we had bought
it. However, after various expressions of doubt, we continued
upwards, and arrived on the plateau at 10 p.m. After pitch-
ing the tents, we all slept soundly until the next morning,
when the problem arose of finding out where we were. After
using such advanced map-reading techniques as taking bear-
ings on unidentified hills and tracks, and turning round in
circles while pointing a compass in arbitrary directions, some-
one found the appropriate piece of the Spanish map, and
proved that we had, indeed, arrived at Rabassa. The map also
showed how we had arrived there, and the prospect of col-
lecting provisions regularly by this route caused some alarm.
Later that day, the main station was put on the air, and the
VHF equipment was prepared for transport to the top of the
highest hill around. The hurried construction of the VHF gear
was soon apparent, and rebuilding took place regularly.
Having telephoned Perpignan and obtained the callsign
C31DZ, a visit was made to the address given previously for
the forwarding of the transmitting licence. Upon enquiring
about the whereabouts of the house concerned, the local in-
habitants became distinctly perturbed, and it transpired that
the address had been frequented by a criminal on the run
from Interpol. After a hurried change of plan, the College
address was left with the local postmaster, who said that
he would send the licence on to London. It has yet to arrive.
On Friday, some of the party visited the proposed V H F
site, to prove its accessibility. Later that afternoon, several
of those remaining took the Land Rover to the aid of a
French couple who had got their Mini-moke stuck in a bog
not far from our camp site. After extracting them, our star
driver managed to get our vehicle stuck in the bog as
well, until it was resting on the sump and axles. After
several fruitless efforts to dig it out, it was neces-
sary to resort to more primitive methods. Two
small trees were sawn down from the nearby forest,
and these were used to lever the Land Rover out by
its front bumper (how many other vehicles could be lifted out
of a bog by their front bumper?). That evening, after our
own celebration with several bottles of local wine, the French-
man and his wife turned up with a large flagon of port as a
token of their gratitude. The state of inebriation which resul-
ted led to an early close down of the radio station, and also a
late start the next morning.
The next day, the VHF operators were taken to their site,
and helped up to it with the tent and radio gear. On the way
back the Land Rover was doing well until it reached a wet,
grassy 1 in 1 slope. It was therefore left halfway up the slope
until the next morning. It was duly retrieved, just before a
heavy rainstorm. Daily visits were made to Andorra la Vella
for food and to pick up water at a spring on the way down
the mountain. The journey time was reduced from almost two
hours to just under 1 hour (17 kilometres on the road, de-
scending 5,000 feet)—some indication of the increasing con-
fidence (??) of the drivers.
The V H F station and operators were fetched back without
incident. They had not succeeded in contacting England, be-
cause of a combination of equipment failures and very severe
weather conditions, which kept the station off the air for
much of the time.
Finally, we must express
thanks to all those, both
within the College, and else-
where, who helped to organ-
ise the expedition, particu-
larly Frank Potter and Ken
Weale for their last minute
help in financial arrange-
ments.
Scholarships
Abroad
A booklet giving in-
formation on scholar-
ships abroad available
to students who will be
graduates in 1972 has
been sent to the editor
and is available in the
press room (third floor
union building) to any-
body who is interested.
Postcript
RadSoc will be holding a
coffee evening cum film show
on Wednesday, 27 October,
at 1930 in Elec. Eng. level 6
Common Room, when we
will show slides and film of
the expedition. Anyone in-
terested either in the radio
or travel aspects, is welcome
—please contact the writer
c/o Elec. Eng. 3.
Richard Nicholls.
Opsoc Returns to Devon
The inhabitants of Bud-
leigh Salterton look upon
the annual visit of the I.C.
Operatic Society as one of
the highlights of the summer
entertainment at the Public
Hall of this quiet East Devon
town. Highlight it is indeed
for, although the wiring in
the hall is potentially lethal
in the opinion of the lighting
director, and the stage crew
would like to see the stage
rebuilt, Opsoc manage to put
on a very professional show.
This year the production
was another G. and S. opera,
"The Gondoliers". A total of
nine performances were put
on including one matinee. All
were well attended, particu-
larly the last night, when as
many people as possible —
with a liberal interpretation
of the fire regulations—were
packed into the hall.
Opsoc arrived in Budleigh
Salterton, on July 17th, and
the first three days were
spent rehearsing and paint-
ing the scenery. After a well
received first night, everyone
had more free time. The
beach although it consists en-
tirely of pebbles soon became
a popular place to spend the
day.
The local people were very
friendly and only too pleased
to help—especially members
of the tennis club who invi-
ted everyone round for
drinks on more than one oc-
casion. Everyone enjoyed
themselves and it was
certainly a holiday to
member.
This coming February
Opsoc are putting
"Yeoman of the Guard."
New members are always
welcome, whether you want
to sing or help backstage.
Meetings are held every
Tuesday, at 7.30 p.m. in
Mech Eng 342 and if you
don't want to join you can
always come along and
watch in February.
re-
on
C h a i r m a n W a n t e d
S.C.C. are now without a chairman. Great organizational
skill needed. Get in touch with John McCullough (I.C. union
office) Anna Madellis (S.C.C. secretary) or come along to the
S.C.C. meeting, Wed. 27th Oct., 7 p.m. in committee room D,
College Block. A free hall place if you are elected.
C o p y W a n t e d
U.S.K. R A G are producing 30,000 Rag Mags. The editor is
John Tollick of Q.E.C. He wants jokes, cartoons, articles and
ads by Nov. 5th at latest. Copy to Rob Armitage (c/o Lin-
stead 534 or I.C. union office). All copy accepted for the
mag gets the owner a free Mag.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
COMMEMORATION
DAY
Royal Albert Hall
Thurs. 28th Oct.
2-30 p.m.
Entrance free
without ticket at
the main door

