Page 8 FELIX Thursday, 21st October, 1971
The Film Society did well to invite John Halas (of Halas
and Batchelor) on Friday night. Mr. Halas' ability to talk on
the techniques, history and role in the cinema of animation is
equalled only by his outstanding ability to produce animated
cartoons.
Until the 1950's most cartoons were synonymous with Walt
Disney. They mean to most people Tom and Jerry, Mickey
Mouse etc., but there were important elements in these widely
distributed and commercialised trivia that Mr. Halas had
appreciated — unlike Disney who had completely prostituted
his skills to the American Public. Cartoons can exaggerate
movement, alter time, emphasise the essential and disregard
the superfluous. Music and pictures can be planned together
and colours chosen with complete freedom. That is: the total
and absolute control enjoyed by the animator makes his
medium one which can put over a message with great force.
Emotions, beliefs, theories, ideas and characters can all be
transmitted and created through a medium that for many
years has been grossly under-used.
Unfortunately it was not possible to show any of Animal
Farm the film that marked the coming of age of the animated
cartoon. Not only was this the first full length animated fea-
ture film but it was the decisive and radical answer to the
commercialised entertainment that emanated from Holly-
wood.
The only film shown that was applauded was Automania
2000. A frightening picture of man's dependence on scien-
tists, it is brilliantly funny and full of delightful ideas describ-
ing how people forced to live in permanent traffic jams would
in fact get about and be fed and clothed. The sudden shock
when the film ends with an ever-upward swell of cars that
have been made self-reproducing, overwhelming the whole
world and its controlling scientists leaves me both stunned and
moved. The applause was loud and spontaneous. Yet this film
in its eleven minutes exposes and questions the very beliefs
behind the existence of Imperial College—that science is not
necessarily going to bring the greatest good to the greatest
number.
After the lecture there was a discussion in the ICR. Possib-
ly the most interesting points of this were Mr. Halas' answers
to questions on his interpretation of Animal Farm and his
intentions in producing the film. The reason for the disparity
between the endings of the book and the film is two-fold. It
would have made a bad film, Mr. Halas thought, to have
ended it on the final note of the book and also in ending
the film with a second revolution, the revolutionary cycle is
not only established but maintained. It is only too easy to
deduce from reading Animal Farm (as with 1984) that Or-
well's book ends without any hope at all—it was after all the
work of a man who had lived to see many of his illusions
shattered in Spain and who was more sensitive than most to
the horrific implications of the gap between Communism and
Fascism after the Second World War. But in the film there
is hope—which Orwell did hint at. The animals in the book
do at least look in and see the similarities between pig and
man, in a way perhaps that on-one saw the similarities be-
tween Communism and Facism.
One cannot help noticing in all his films Mr. Halas' great
delight in certain scenes and pictures for their own sake. The
film based on Hoffnungs drawings about the conductor whose
orchestra played so loud that the Albert Hall fell down is, no
doubt, a dig at the arrogance of some musicians. But the
main impression is that what matters in the film is the sheer
fun of the cymbalist with a bandaged nose, the flautist who
hangs washing on her flute, the bassoonist with a piccolo
player in his waistcoat pocket, or the percussionist who
brains himself with his tubular bells (one could go on for
ages cataloguing the delights of his 'Symphony Orchestra').
The main impression that we got, was that of a man com-
mitted. Mr. Halas is commercial in that it would be unrealis-
tic not fake—he must eat—but Halas and Batchelor devote
to experimental work about three times as much of their in-
come as compared with the film industry's average. He is
unfailingly modest about his achievements and is apprecia-
tive of English audiences. One is glad that his films have had
the success they deserve.
Search Fees
Illegal
Accommodation agencies, some of which have for years
been taking advantage of the sellers' market in flats and bed-
sits have at last had some of their worst excesses curbed by
the courts. Until this year it was common practice for agen-
cies to charge people looking for accommodation for their
services when in statute law they are allowed to charge only
landlords; but in a High Court decision last July (Crouch and
Lees v Harridas) it was (at last) ruled that charging people
looking for accommodation is illegal.
Although this is an extremely important decision—because
it means that in theory bills from accommodation agencies
become as valuable and disposable as used loo paper, there
are (as always with the law) several snags.
These are :
(1) An agency is able to charge a fee in advance, refund-
able when no accommodation is found. One should not, how-
ever, be put off by this as in law this fee is just as refundable
when accommodation is found—as it should never have been
required in the first place. The best thing to do is to pay by
cheque and then stop the cheque. The agency (once you
have a list of addresses) is powerless to retaliate as they have
no redress in the law.
(2) Several agencies, realising the drawbacks (to them-
selves) of asking for money in advance have started a new
scheme by which anyone looking for accommodation is re-
quired to sign a contract that he will pay a certain sum of
money when accommodation is found. Now, arguably, this is
not the kind of fee that was ruled illegal in the High Court.
It could possibly be said that it is simply a contract between
two independent parties to both parties' mutual satisfaction.
Equally, it could be argued that the fee demanded in such a
contract is de facto if not de jure a search fee. The contract in
such a situation becomes illegal and unenforceable in the
courts. Unfortunately there has not yet been a case clarifying
this issue.
So this could be anyone's chance to make legal history. It is
more than likely that if an agency were to sue for the kind of
fee described above, the courts would find for the defendant,
and make the agency pay costs. So if an agency is asking you
for money do not pay up. Refuse to pay, complain like hell,
and go to the union secretary: for the union's solicitor is only
too glad to advise the defendant in what could be an extreme-
ly valuable test case, which could quite possibly make looking
for accommodation much easier for us all.
HARASSMENT
Unfortunately one's troubles are not necessarily over when
one has got accommodation as the following (true) story
shows
Someone (who had better be called X for reasons that will
become apparent at the end of the story) was offered, and
accepted some unfurnished accommodation. As the rent he
was obliged to pay was very high, he went to the Rent Officer
who agreed that the rent was excessive and had it reduced to
a 'fair' rent. The landlord then started a campaign of harass-
ment and imposed a midnight curfew on X and told all his
(Other tenants not to open the door for anyone from inside —
thus making it impossible for X to enter the building after
midnight. The landlord tried to write the curfew into X's rent
book but failed.
So not only has the landlord broken his contract with X,
who has every right to sue him for this but also he is harass-
ing him maliciously which is itself a crime. X has very wisely
taken the matter up with the union and their solicitors. The
matter rests at the moment. We hope to keep you informed.
L A M L E Y ' S
A
]^[ | for your —
I BOOKS
E
l ART MATERIALS
I PAPER BACKS
[ Y 1 STATIONERY
1 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7
Do you want to read books
by :-
Ernest Hemingway
James AJdridge
Marghanita Laski
Alan Qrury
Margery gingham
Vladimir Nabokov
George gliot
Get them from the
H a l d a n e L i b r a r y
Level 2, Library Block
Open Mon. to Fri., 10 — 5.30
McLooge
Speaks
The priorities of this campaign include setting up an
area lodgings bureau and opposing the Government's policy
on student accommodation.
An area lodgings bureau is needed to cater for all students
in West London. This would have a complete picture of
available accommodation and would eliminate competition
between accommodation officers. The U L U lodgings bureau
would cease to exist in its present form (dealing only with
university colleges). But it could form the basis of the new
lodgings bureau. Accommodation agencies that charge for
their services are one of the evils of the present system, and
we are submitting an amendment to the NUS motion on ac-
commodation calling for a concerted anti - accommodation
agency effort in one urban area. This will involve anti-accom-
domation agency publicity and legal harrying. We shall also
be making widely known the services offered by free student/
community accommodation agencies. These problems do not
affect only students and we should be wrong to concentrate
solely on getting better facilities for students. By combining
our claims with those of local communities we shall make
people realise that we know that others are worse off than we
are and we should get more co-operation from local people.
A lodgings bureau on its own will not solve the problem of
accommodation. The Robbins report recommended that 66
per cent of all student accommodation should be provided by
the Government. At present an average of 10 per cent is pro-
vided for university students—other students are a lot worse
off. We need a crash programme of new student accommo-
dation but we must also have a say in what type we want and
where we want it built, thus avoiding student ghettoes. The
IC Board of Governors agrees that an increase in residences is
needed before any large increase in student numbers is con-
templated; they have put a statement to this effect in their
financial submission for the next five years.
The Government has just published a White Paper on ac-
commodation calling for a 'fair rent' concept which will neces-
sitate means-tests and could result in a majority of wage-
earners applying for rent rebates. Another point raised is the
possible decontrolling of rents for furnished accommodation.
Most students live in furnished accommodation and this will
strike them particularly hard if it is not opposed. Other more
complex points of the White Paper affect the community as a
whole and as such should be considered by the community as
a whole.
On a more personal level; if you have any accommodation
problems about agencies, landlord harassment or applying to
the Rent Tribunal come along to the Union Office and See
Dave Hobman or Will Paulson (Accommodation Officer) who
will help you. The Union can also provide free legal advice
on accommodation problems.

