R E V I E W S I
B E R L I N / R E D RINSE
Union Concert Hall
It would seem logical to start with the
support band, who, due to the Time Flies
splitting up on the evening prior to this
gig, turned out to be a four piece band
called Red Rinse, who appeared on stage
complete with washing line. Right from
the very beginning they brought back
memories of Slade, though a little more
serious in their attitude to the music, and
in some respects lacking the polish that
Slade had. The numbers were all fairly
tight, short, and gave the impression that
the band had come from a wo/king class
background, especially when singing
about subjects such as 'I talk like that'. I
couldn't help feeling that this particular
outfit would be more suited to playing the
pub scene than support to a heavy metal
band, though in fairness they were better
than some support acts I've seen at
Hammersmith. Talking of being more
suited to pubs, they tell me that they can
be found most Saturday evenings in a
new rock venue in East Acton, the Oak
Tree Public House on Westway. One
number that they didn't play that would
have gone done well was You Can't Keep
A Good Drum Kit Down. One final,
though I wonder what image this band
would have chosen in 1978?
Berlin started as they meant to go on,
and immediately it became apparent that
there was something out of place. (I
eventually worked out what it was, I
c o u l d a c t u a l l y see this g r o u p , not
something that I usually can from the
back of the circle of the Hammersmith
Odeon, where I usually go to see groups
like this.) T h e music was excellent,
marred only by occasional feedback, and
gave the impression of good, 'classic',
heavy metal, very professionally put over,
with some excellent guitar throughout the
set. T h e style of lighting employed
reminded me of Rush last year, and
although I kept expecting to see clouds of
dry ice, unfortunately it never came. One
thing I did like about the group was the
use of two guitars, though unfortunately
their use in harmony can only be really
a p p r e c i a t e d with the use of s t e r o .
headphones. Personal favourite of the
evening had to be Lady Of Mars. I could
sum the concert up in one word, but
modesty prevents me, however, if you did
miss them, well tough, I'm just hoping
that they're on vinyl later this year
(rumour has it they could be on a future
'Metal For Muthas' album, though they
will have to change their name as there is
already a Berlin on record at present. A
name change has one advantage, when
you take out a mortgage to see them at
Wembley in two years, you won't feel so
bad that you missed them at IC, because
you won't immediately make the connec-
tion between the two names). O n c e
final comment, the concert was one of
those you come out thinking, " W h y
haven't they released a live album?"
Shep
T H E 16 T O N S T O U R
Lewisham Odeon
It was family night out at the Lewisham
Odeon, with Punk, Country and Western,
Rhythm and Blues, Reggae and tearing
the roof off the Lewisham Odeon.
First on was Blast Furnace Revenge
with their own style of driving rhythm and
blues (the blue wave), they were fairly
good and played one outstanding slow
blues number, the other high spot being
Can't Stop The Boy, an old song from
the days when they were Blast Furnace
And The Heatwaves. Then it was time for
Jamaican toaster Mikey Dread to give out
some sharp talking over a background of
rockers' rebel music. Next on was Joe Ely
(and his band) who, as far as I can tell, is
supposed to be some kind of 'New Wave
Cowboy' from Texas. He played fairly
conventional rock and although he was
the better side of average, I won't lose
any sleep if I never see him again. After
him came more tall toasts and deep dubs
from Mikey Dread. Then, to the strains of
Shift Sixteen Tons/And What Do You
Get/Another Day Older/And Deeper In
Debt (hence Sixteen Tons Tour), the
Clash took the stage and fired up with
Clash City Rockers. All clad in black
shirts and trousers they were visually
great, although I prefer the leather
jackets, zips, parachute suits, etc, of the
Westway Guerillas. Musically they were
the best I've ever heard them live, ie, only
one guitar packed in and Strummer kept
his v o i c e t h r o u g h o u t . T h e y p l a y e d
superlative versions of Train In Vain,
(White Man) In Hammersmith Palais and
Capitol Radio as well as playing a fair
selection of singles and album tracks from
all three albums. They worked hard on
stage, putting their all into the set, as
always. K e y b o a r d s were p l a y e d by
Blockhead Mickey Gallagher, who seems
to now be the fifth member of the Clash.
However, the Clash didn't appear as
threatening or subversive as they have
done on past o c c a s i o n s , seeming to
expect favourable audience reaction,
which, whilst you expect that from duff
disco bands like Pink Floyd or Genesis, is
worrying coming from the C l a s h . The
Clash unfortunately have an unenviable
choice to make, either to pander to the
tastes of the morons who shout White
Riot throughout the set, or to be really
radical and uncompromising and risk
losing support. I came away knowing that
I'd seen a fine band play a fine concert,
but nagging doubts persisted. People are
starting to say that the Clash will be the
'Rolling Stones of the '80s' — I'd rather
they broke up now than for that to
happen to them.
T O O M U C H P R E S S U R E L P
T H E S E L E C T O R
The detiut album from the Selector and
it is another Two-Tone joyous killer that
consists of whooping ska and English
reggae. When I saw Selector on the Two-
Tone tour I was impressed by them and
having listened to this album, I'm even
•more impressed.
There are thirteen songs on the album
which are all played very well the overall
sound is very tight. The best of the album
is represented by They Make Me Mad,
Missing Words, Street Feeling, My Collie
(Not A Dog), Too Much Pressure, Out
On the Streets and Carry Go Bring
Come which are so good that they are
frightening. The rest of the songs are also
very good. The band have got a stunning
insight on real life, which they are able to
put across without talking down or
preaching to you. The flying horn section
of Dick Cauthell and Rico also turn up on
the album. Rico's been in reggae and ska
since it started and it's nice to see him
getting fame and fortune through the
Specials, the Selector and Linton Kwesi
Johnson.
Well, another near perfect release from
Two-Tone which warms the heart. If you
are still dumb enough to think the Two
T o n e bands are S e c r e t Affair type
mindless mods, do some rethinking —
these are Rude boys and girls who are
inventive rather than regressive. This is
real music by real people.
Simon Jerome
10

