D E B A T E O N O V E R S E A S A I D
The house suggests that the
Western countries hinder the
progress of developing countries
D e p e n d i n g on what you mean by
'progress', ie, economic development,
education, and industry, Trevor Phillips
(ex IC Union President, now President of
N U S ) put over his motion in a strong,
humorous and fluid way, hardly pausing
for b r e a t h as he i n t e r j e c t e d facts,
and statistics with personal viewpoints.
The West hindered the East, or, as he
put it, the North hindered the South by
lending money (in meagre proportions) on
the one hand, only to demand enormous
repayment of interest, causing the Third
World to be totally beholden to the West.
Mr Phillips, although careful to point
out that his sentiments did not entirely lie
with C o m m u n i s t regimes, pointed to
China and Russia as prime examples of
'impoverished' countires who, without any
aid from the West, developed independently
(a red herring to be picked up later by the
opposition).
Undetered by the face-pulling and note-
passing tactics adopted by the other side, he
could well have continued to illustrate his
point past the generous time limit allowed by
M r R o b e r t s o n , C h a i r m a n , who had
introduced the debate by describing himself
as "possibly a little bit of aid" having worked
in a Third World country for nine years. " A
Liberal" he hastened to add.
Revenge for the "off-putting" tactics came
to Trevor Phillips when Martin Stevens, M P
for Fulham, stood up to speak against the
motion. Out came the worry beads, "and
despite Mr Phillips' calm countenance, the
beads had the desired effect of being more
fascinating than Mr Stevens's speech.
Mr Stevens pointed to several examples
of countries who had almost pleaded to be
re-included under British rule, which, let's
face it, had provided aid in the form of
education and trade. If it hadn't been for the
British, the Indians and Egyptians wouldn't
be producing cotton goods now. How easy
it was to obtan a glass of milk in Russia
became a case in point: "Very difficult," said
Mr Stevens. "Quite easy," stated Martin
Lockett, seconding the motion. " A h , but did
you take your own glass?" retorted Mr
Stevens. Mr Lockett managed to steer the
debate back to the hindrance of foreign aid
by some impressive facts, and a concise
summing-up of what was becoming a
somewhat vague outline of the motion.
Last to speak against the motion was Mr
Albert Barnafo, a Social and Economic
Studies student. His carefully prepared
speech was delivered with great conviction
and an even greater number of statistics,
some of which appeared to be of more use
to his opponents, particularly one pertaining
to aid getting into the wrong hands and
being used to buy houses for the daughters
of Nigerian government ministers; as good a
reason as any, I thought, not to give it in the
first place.
The floor was itching to make comments,
speeches, accusations and agreements but
time was short, and a debate that could have
continued long into the afternoon, judging
by the excitement generated, had to be
curtailed, with just time for a vote in the
closing minute.
Needless to say, Trevor Phillips and C o
speaking on the motion, won by a large
majority, although I tend to think that the
convictions of the audience lay strongly with
the motion and Mr Phillips anyway, prior to
the debate.
Jaqie Kingham
L O N D O N S T U D E N T D R A M A
F E S T I V A L
A n enterprising and innovative scheme, the
London Student Drama Festival sponsored
by the Evening News is drawing to a close.
This agglomeration of events was designed
basically to bridge the gap between various
student dramatic societies and professional
acting and comprised a large number of
performances of various plays and
theatrical workshops at various times of the
day in the Collegiate Theatre, Gordon
Street. Scheduled to run for twelve days, a
little spice was added by offering prizes and
getting a few famous names to volunteer
their expertise. O n paper it's been a very
good idea, being as far-reaching as involving
a group of borstal inmates in a dramatic
production.
In practice the organisers more than likely
found most trouble in publicising the
festival; with their festival offices in the U L U
building, Malet Street, they suffer from the
o l d . Droblem of being too far removed
from other centres of student life. I doubt
that many people at IC knew of the
existence of the festival, let alone had any
plans to participate or spectate. If you look
carefully, maybe you'll see their posters and
then again maybe you won't.
Perhaps the fault lies inthe lack of any
n e t w o r k t h r o u g h w h i c h t o pass
information, which is a great shame having
sen the small band of enthusiastic co-
ordinators in the Festival offices, They were
all very busy sending out information and
publicity, but it might save them a lot of time
and effort if they could check exactly what
effect it was having. In the meantime if we
hear about any more manifestations of
histrionics, we'll let you know.
Lars Wernberg-Moller
ELECTION HUSTINGS
1.00pm Thursday 6th of March
Great Hall
Come and judge for yourself.
PRESIDENT DEPUTY PRESIDENT
HON.SECRETARY FELIX EDITOR
LECTURES CANCELLED TILL 3.30PM
VOTING IN ALL DEPARTMENTS
on Monday 10th and Tuesday 11th of
March 10.00am to 5.00pm.
You will need your union card to vote.
6

