11
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 FEB
COMMENT
On age and respect for your elders
R
espect your elders” is a
mantra that I always felt
was redundant. You would
give someone due respect
if they were reasonable
and polite to you, as anyone should
be, or you would give them special
consideration, such as offering your
seat on the bus, if they were physically
infirm, not just because they were
old. It is not the case that I resent
old people; I’m just very suspicious
of anyone who demands special
treatment for being in a position
that is passively attained, like being
privately educated, provided that it
is not an affliction, though many may
view old age as one.
Back in the good old days, as many
a pensioner would wistfully sigh, once
you were claiming your free bus pass
you were a has-been. Still dignified,
yet of reduced means compared to
your prime. Not quite a second class
citizen, but no chance of being as
influential as you once were. This
would be a typical experience, though
things are changing.
When I was in the local record shop
last week I noticed something very
strange in the new releases section.
About half the LPs were in fact
repackaged and re-released Beatles
albums and compilations. Others in
the section included the new Mogwai
album and a Herbie Hancock re-
release. The aforementioned are all
great artists, however, it had never
struck me so hard how difficult it must
be to break into the music business as
a youngster when you are contending
with people such as this. Baby boomer
Will Self recently reflected on the
same issue of how, whilst minding his
children at Reading Festival, all the
teenagers were flocking to see bands
in their forties and fifties, whereas
he thought Bob Dylan, then aged 38,
was a relic of a bygone era when he
saw him in his youth. Technology, be
it in media or medicine, is helping to
preserve the aged, and this is fuelling
our era’s lust for nostalgia. And yes, I
do realise the irony of a record shop
being the setting of this.
The apparent cessation of the
ageing process is one of the biggest
reasons that is making it increasingly
difficult for young people to ‘make
it’ in Britain today. The increase of
tuition fees would help subsidise
old age pensions which is by far the
biggest expenditure in the benefits
budget. I wasn’t completely opposed
in principle to £9000 fees when they
came in, however now that they are
the status quo it seems that they
were an effective way to engineer the
social makeup of universities; many
people are tragically ignorant of how
to finance their higher education and
struggle to view it as an investment.
Meanwhile, amongst the most savage
spending cuts, politicians debate
whether or not to stop giving free TV
licences to the richest pensioners.
The youth is also despised by our
elders; statistics suggest the general
public believe 15% of girls under 16
are pregnant every year (in truth only
0.6% are) whereas the majority of news
stories about young people in the
house wife and suburban orientated
media focus on stabbings or how
someone on legal highs mutilated
themselves or their loved ones.
Some councils even install mosquito
emulating buzz tones in public spaces
to prevent yoofs from congregating, a
policy that is unlikely to improve the
self-esteem of those that it targets.
The days of 16-24 being the best years
of your life have sadly long gone.
The government consistently
favouring old over young people
is understandable; old people
vote whereas young people don’t.
Whenever I hear Russell Brand telling
us not to vote, I cry deep down inside
because the people to whom this
advice will be of most detriment to are
the ones most likely to take it. Inaction
is not going to solve any issues; a
government under the current system
will still form if some people abstain
from voting. If you want to improve
the prospects of your generation as
well as for yourself, then vote for
those who you believe will stand for
that. Alternatively organise an armed
revolution. When I was very young,
my mother once bemoaned about
being past it once you were forty.
It seems more lamentable that the
opposite is now the case.
Our Man in Dam
Anonymous
I
mperial College London has a
£3.9 million stake in the arms
industry, according to a report
in the London Student. The
report, published on Monday
27th January, details the shares that
London universities have invested
in various arms companies. Imperial
has by far the largest stake with £3.9
million out of a total of £7.4 million.
More specifically: Imperial has £1.75
million invested in General Electric,
£922 thousand in Inmarsat, £489
thousand in Texas Instruments and
£753 thousand in Rolls Royce. The
report says Imperial College refused
to comment on its holdings. To my
knowledge, it has yet to change this
decision.
To give a brief and perhaps
selective account of the companies:
Inmarsat ‘provides mobile satellite
communications services’. Two of its
four dedicated ‘market-facing business
units’ are focussed on ‘government
opportunities, both military and civil’.
One of them boasts that Inmarsat
is ‘the frontline of mission-critical
communications for US government.’
The board of directors contains one
Admiral James Ellis who apparently
served in Vietnam, the Gulf War and
is now serving as a Director of arms
industry giant Lockheed Martin.
Some Imperial students may recognise
CEO Rupert Pearce; he has lectured as
a visiting fellow on Imperial College
Business School’s Entrepreneurship
program.
General Electric, meanwhile, has
played a key role in the development
of Obama’s Drone war. As they say
in an advertising brochure: ‘the
concept of unmanned aerial systems
… is revolutionising the way military
information is gathered and even how
adversaries are engaged. GE Intelligent
Platforms has been there every step
of the way.’ I assume this means that
they accept legal responsibility for any
drone attacks that do occur? Still, legal
culpability seems unlikely since British
judges threw out Noor Khan’s appeal
for justice against the GCHQ, which
according to legal charity Reprieve
passed on locational information to
the CIA – resulting in the death of
Khan’s father. Apparently, this case
was not ‘exceptional’ enough for to
‘sit in judgement’ of a foreign power.
This may well be true: at least 4700
people have been executed without
trial (‘murdered’?) by drone attacks.
What’s one more in 4700?
General Electric have a slew of
other dubious claims to fame, be
it corruption during the sale of
fighter jets to Israel or one of the
worst environmental and nuclear
safety records in the world. As for
Texas Instruments, allow me to just
quote its ‘High Reliability’ (HiRel)
sub-group: ‘it is HiRel's vision to be
the world's number one supplier of
semiconductor-based products and
services to the defense and aerospace
markets’.
Finally, Rolls-Royce is one of those
quintessentially British institutions,
and its fortunes were made by some
quintessentially British characters.
Following the colossal military failure
inKutal-Amara,themassiveoperation
required to take Mesopotamia (Iraq),
and the incredible unpopularity of
the new liberators (sound familiar?)
which culminated in armed revolt in
1920, Secretary of State for War and
Air Winston Churchill was working
out the best way to reduce military
costs in Baghdad. Much of the cabinet
was surprised when PM Lloyd George
had cavalierly told Secretary of State
for War Winston Churchill that he
was to ‘take air with him’ also. As an
RAF book puts it ‘Lloyd George knew
that Churchill was more air-minded
than most of his political colleagues’.
Thus Churchill was acting in character
when he asked father of the RAF, Hugh
Christy Kelly
Writer
Trenchard, if he would be willing
to take on Iraq. This proved to be a
judicious decision; the subsequent
military and economic success of the
RAF in Iraq had proven the tactical
advantages that airpower could afford.
Aircraft also had their uses in purely
administrative matters. It seems that
when Churchill learnt that aerial
action had been taken to aid in tax
collection – that is, villages bombed
for not paying taxes – even the British
bulldog balked. However he soon got
over his finer scruples: when asked by
Trenchard if he wanted to ‘stifle the
growing infant’ Churchill replied he
was behind airpower ‘in every way.’
This should come as no surprise; this
is the man who couldn’t understand
‘this squeamishness about the use of
gas’ against ‘uncivilised tribes’ and
‘recalcitrant Arabs.’
Of the planes deployed in Iraq at the
time the Bristol Fighter was designed
around a Rolls-Royce engine.
However the true impact on Rolls-
Royce was due to the RAF’s expansion
following operations in Iraq, such that
by the late-20s aeroplane engines were
the mainstay of Rolls-Royce Ltd. By
the time Henry Royce died in 1933, he
had designed the Merlin aero-engine
which was to be used in the most
famous British aircraft of WWII, the
Spitfire. Thus, in 1934 it is touching
to see Lloyd George keen to keep this
legacy alive.
Our stake in the arms industry
rolls-royce.com
Ironic revelations in a record shop? How hipster...

