12 FRIDAY 07 FEB
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Christy Kelly
Writer
Philsophical Investigations
B
eneath the differences
between Wittgenstein’s
T r a c t a t u s - L o g i c o
Philosophicus and
his Philosophical
Investigations there is a more
fundamental continuity between the
texts. This article relies heavily on two
books, Alain Badiou’s Wittgenstein’s
Anti-Philosophy and Saul Kripke’s On
Rules and Private Languages.
Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus
Saul Kripke sums up the argument
in Tractatus briefly: ‘To each sentence
there corresponds a (possible) fact.
If such a fact obtains the sentence is
true, if not false. For atomic sentences
the relation between the sentence
and the fact it alleges is one of simple
correspondence or isomorphism. …
An atomic sentence is itself a fact,
putting the names in a certain relation;
and it says that … the corresponding
objects are in the same relation. Other
sentences are … truth-functions of
these.’
Kripkeadmitsthatthough‘therough
outlines are well known’, ‘in the detail
the Tractatus is amongst the most
difficult of philosophical works.’ If we
look carefully, it is not just the detail
that Kripke has neglected to include
in his description of the Tractatus.
We see that his account is roughly
expressed by the following: ‘What is
the case – a fact – is the existence of
a state of affairs.’ (2). ‘In a proposition
a thought finds an expression that
can be perceived by the senses’ (3.1).
‘A proposition is a picture of reality’
(4.01). ‘A proposition represents
the existence and non-existence of
states of affairs’ (4.1). ‘A proposition
is a truth-function of elementary
propositions.’ (5).
Now the devil is in the detail, but
Kripke’saccountinnowaynecessitates
three of the seven fundamental logical
propositions ‘The world is all that is
the case’ (1). ‘Bear in mind the general
form of a truth-function.(6). ‘What
we cannot speak about we must pass
over in silence’ (7). Although there is
a valid complaint that, though (6) is
not necessitated by Kripke’s account it
is suggested by it. Some of the ‘detail’
within (6) suggest quite different
conclusions to Kripke’s own. It has
been included amongst the ‘nays’
because of that.
Indeed, Kripke’s account only
accounts for the first half of
Wittgenstein’s explanation in the
preface ‘What can be said at all can
be said clearly, and what we cannot
talk about we must pass over in
silence.’ Much of Wittgenstein’s book
is passed over in silence because
analytical philosophy simply cannot
discuss it without some considerable
embarrassment. The embarrassment
is, of course, Wittgenstein’s mysticism,
the irrational and pessimist
Wittgenstein that appreciates
Schopenhauer and the millenarian
Spengler. Wittgenstein explicitly
makes room for his mysticism: ‘The
limits of my language are the limits
of my world.’ (5.6); ‘The sense of the
world must lie outside the world’
(6.41); ‘Propositions can express
nothing which is higher’ (6.42); ‘God
does not reveal himself in the world’
(6.432); ‘There are indeed things
which cannot be put into words. They
make themselves manifest. They are
what is mystical.’ (6.522).
In light of the above we can
understand the enigmatic final line
of the Tractatus (‘Whereof we cannot
speak…’). This is not so much an
attempt to dismiss the irrational and
the mystical but an explicit attempt
to protect it. Russell reproaches
Wittgenstein for this irrational ‘excess’,
‘the totalities concerning which Mr
Wittgenstein holds that it is impossible
to speak logically are nevertheless
thought by him to exist, and are the
subject-matter of his mysticism.’ The
analyst in Russell comes through
‘[abolishing the mystical] would
leave untouched a very large part of
Mr Wittgenstein’s theory, though
possibly not the part upon which he
himself would wish to lay most stress.’
This, however, moves too fast for, as
Wittgenstein was no doubt aware, if
you remove the mystical and its ability
to ‘make itself manifest’, you lose the
key part of Wittgenstein’s theory.
Thus: ‘A picture cannot, however,
depict its pictorial for; it displays
it.’ (2.172); ‘A thought can never be
anythingillogical;ifitwerewe’dhaveto
think illogically.’ (3.03); ‘A proposition
shows its sense. A proposition shows
how things stand if it is true. And it
says that they do so stand.’ (4.022);
‘The general propositional form is
the essence of a proposition’ (5.471).
Finally, ‘The propositions of logic
describe the scaffolding of the world,
or rather they represent it … It is
clear that something about the world
must be indicated by the fact that
certain combinations of symbols &
tautologies. This contains the decisive
point. Logic is not a field wherewe
express our wishes with the help of
signs but rather, one where the nature
of the absolutely necessary signs speak
for itself.’ Every significant ‘atom’ of
language in the Tractatus relies on the
self-evident manifestation of its own
meaning, its ability to show or display
its logical form, and if you remove the
ability for the mystical to make itself
manifest then this too must apply to
meaning itself. This leads us to the
Investigations.
Philosophical Investigations
Despite the description of Tractatus
that Kripke gives he has, undoubtedly,
a ‘powerful philosophical intelligence’
and he very persuasively argues that
the ‘sceptics paradox’ described in
(201) of the Investigations is the
central problem of the Investigations.
‘This was our paradox: no course of
action could be determined by a rule,
because every course of action can be
made out to accord with the rule.’ This
becomes clear if we follow Kripke’s
explicit example.
It is clear that I have performed a
finite number of computations in the
past. Suppose that 68 plus 57 is not a
computation I have ever performed
and both 68 and 57 are greater than
any integers I have previously used
in an additional computation. What
if a sceptic asserts that the correct
answer to the computation is, say, 5
instead of 125? They point out that in
our past experience, what we called
plus is fully consistent with a different
operator, say quus with symbol ++,
that follows the rules x++y=x+y
if x,y <57, otherwise x++y=5. The
sceptic’s point is that there is nothing
to justify that when I said plus in the
past I meant the operator + and not
++, and even if I specifically thought
of, say, the mathematical definition
of + each time I said ‘x plus y,’ there
is nothing to justify my use of plus to
mean + instead of ++ this time. Both
operations are consistent with past
experience and the use of one or the
other is logically unjustifiable.
I consider Kripke’s discussion
informative and recommend anyone
interested in the Investigation to read
it. The key point, however, is that while
the Investigations no longer maintain
as the Tractatus does that ‘whatever
can be said can be said clearly’ (for
instance family resemblances instead
of the simple correspondence between
object and fact), it has very little to
say about the ‘whereof we cannot
speak’. The Investigations have clearly
questioned the principle of the self-
evident manifestation of meaning; one
of the largely correct commonplaces
about the Investigations suggests that
Wittgenstein no longer maintains
the link between logical form and
language or the logic of meaning. Has
Wittgenstein undergone a crisis of
faith? This may be the philosophical
corollary to his growing pessimism,
not helped by WWII and the death
of Frank Ramsey. Wittgenstein
speaks: Could we not see that as the
reintroduction of faith into the very
act of speaking itself?
This explains both the pessimism
and the enduring preoccupation with
solipsism.Hispositionthattheveryact
of speaking is to act as Kierkegaard’s
soldier of faith is no easy burden to
bear.Itisperhapsnosurprisethatforall
Wittgenstein’s alleged ‘behaviourism’
he is as deeply introspective as that
Christian existentialist. This explains
Wittgenstein’s enduring desire for the
one reader who truly understands his
project.TheTractatusisWittgenstein’s
first expression of a mystical faith:
The fact that Wittgenstein made the
Investigations ready for publication
suggests that despite a very real
personal crisis, there was a more
mature expression of the same in the
Philosophical Investigations.
All references to the Tractatus are taken from the Routledge Classics
(2001) edition which uses the 1961 Pears and McGuinness translation
and includes an introduction by Bertrand Russell also quoted in the text.
References to the Investigation are from Blackwell’s third edition of the
text, translated by GEM Anscombe.

