14 FRIDAY 07 FEB
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
An open letter to the President
of Imperial College London
Dear Professor Sir Keith O’Nions,
We are writing to you as staff, students and alumni of Imperial College London, as we are
concerned that the university endowment fund is investing heavily in fossil fuels. Imperial
College's £79.1m million endowment fund is the UK's 10th largest, and £4,356,285 of this is
directly being invested in oil, coal and gas. Imperial has no ethical investment policy.
We call on Imperial to:
1) Immediately freeze any new investment in fossil fuel companies.
2) Divest from current directly owned shares and any co-mingled funds that invest in fossil
fuel companies within 5 years.
Imperial College is currently ranked 113th in People & Planet's Green League, reflecting
a lack of commitment to environmental issues. Imperial is a world-leading institution in
environmental and climate change research, and we feel the college fund should reflect this
and not be investing in resources that are the root cause of climate change.
Why is this important?
Climate change has been described as the most serious challenge of our generation. Under
the United Nations Copenhagen Accord, countries have agreed to limit warming to 2 degrees
to prevent dangerous climate change.
Climate change has been described as the most serious challenge of our generation. Under
the United Nations Copenhagen Accord, countries have agreed to limit warming to 2 degrees
to prevent dangerous climate change. Moreover, investing in fossil fuels poses a serious
financial risk. According to recent research led by Professor Lord Stern at LSE, two-thirds
of current fossil fuels reserves are unburnable if climate change is to be kept to the globally-
agreed limit of 2 degrees of warming.
In this regard, we call upon the new president of Imperial College London to set a new
precedent by working with the Endowment Fund Board to issue explicit guidance to ensure
funds are divested away from fossil fuels.
Signed by 126 signatories made up of staff, students, and university alumni. Search for Divest
Imperial from fossil fuels at: gofossilfree.org to add your signature.
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
“London has experienced far worse things during its incredible history. In living memory, people would
turn up to work to find a pile of rubble where their shop once stood. Defiantly, they grabbed a broom and
got sweeping.
We didn’t let the National Socialists get to us. We shouldn’t let millionaire socialist Bob Crow either.
”
- Discussion about the tube strikes, Felix Facebook
Of Cleaning (again), cat
allergies and weather
Felix
S
oooo, Imperial’s reseach
on cat immunotherapy
lead to the creation
of a startup and more
recently an IPO worth
£175m during an upcoming stock
market float (see page 3)?
Keep the Cat Free!
After the state of this week’s
weather, aside from investing in
a conspicuously branding free
umbrella at the Union shop, we
feel that and cat related sicknesses
or allergies are of a high priority!
After successive articles about the
Campus Services’ poor handling
of the cleaning provisions this year,
Felix is fairly impressed to see that
new information has been provided
to students. While there is some
argument that the new cleaning
booklet and detailed cleaning rota
should have always been in place,
let alone at the start of term, it is
refreshing to see some meaningful
action from the department, even
if it took over four months to get to
the stage of releasing a booklet (for
more see pg. 4).
Ignoring the fairly woeful volume
of vacuum cleaners distributed
amongst the student population
in halls, at least they can now buy
cleaning bundles from Essentials.
Finally, Monday see’s the opening
of nominations for next year’s
Sabbatical Team, along with many
other important positions such
as Departmental Representatives
(the people who can get your
department to improve your
course), student trustees (students
who are voted to sit on the Union’s
highest democratic board, and
much, much more.
You’d better start running!

