imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
EVENTSTHISWEEK
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
FREE DROP-INARTS &
CRAFTS SESSION
Tuesday 11 February, 12:00 -
14:30
Free
Dining Hall, Union Building
Release your inner child with our
fun arts & crafts session. Have
a go creating fun thumb-print
characters, a Valentine ‘s Day card
or a funky robot. Mathematical
colouring-in will also be available.
No artistic talent required
(imagination optional). Drop-in at
any time.
spring2014
Book your place
on our first Rep
Conference on 19
February
To register or find out
more, please visit
imperialcollegeunion.
org/repconference.
The International Development Conference is a day of insprational seminars from leaders in science
and international development will promote discussion and debate at the second annual International
Development Conference (IDC) on Saturday 15 February at Imperial College London. The conference
will provide an opportunity to learn the role science and technology play in international development,
and how young minds can help change the world for the better. You can find more information and
tickets on the conference’s website, imperialidc.org.
Get your ticket for the International Development Conference
Pick your GuestAles
for the h-bar and The
Union Bar for March
Give your opinion
on your educational
experience at Imperial
You can vote for a Guest Ale to feature in our
bars during March. All you need to do is take the
poll on the Union website throughout February
and the ale with the highest votes wins! Just
visit imperialcollegeunion.org/realales to cast your
vote. This month’s ales to choose from are:
The Union Bar
• AK. 3.7% ABV, £2.90 a pint
• Merrie England, 5% ABV, £3.40 a pint
• Grand Slam, 4% ABV, £3.20 a pint
• Belhaven IPA, 3.8% ABV, £3.20 a pint
The h-bar
• Yardbird IPA, 4.0% ABV, £3.30 a pint
• Ruddles Country, 4.3% ABV, £3.50 a pint
• McMullen A.K, 3.7% ABV, £3.20 a pint
• Titanic Brewery Plum Porter, 4.9% ABV£3.50
a pint
•
You can also Pick a Pizza!
Choose which guest pizza we have in
FiveSixEight. Visit imperialcollegeunion.org/pizza
to see the selections and pick your favourite. Poll
closes at 17:00 on Friday 14 February!
The National Student Survey is open for final
year Undergraduate students. Every year
the NSS gives you an important opportunity
to express their level of satisfaction with their
education. The level of involvement matters; last
year 81% of final year students filled in the NSS,
and we are hoping you will help to maintain or
beat this percentage in 2014.
For Masters students, the Postgraduate Taught
Experience Survey (PTES) 2014 is now open.
It begins this week and will close on Thursday
19 June. You will receive an email from the
Registry’s Surveys Team with your link to the
survey. The survey is your chance to tell us
about your experience of your course.
Your feedback is important for letting us know
what’s working well and what’s not at Imperial
College. We will use the findings to enhance the
student experience for our current and future
students.
For more information on both surveys, visit our
website and keep an eye out for information to
your College email address.

