17
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 FEB
CLUBS & SOCS
Hannah Edmonton
Imperial’s got Talent
S
o does Imperial really have
talent? Well, judging by
the standard of the final
ten acts at Imperial’s Got
Talent we can definitely
confirm YES! This year we had yet
another amazing turnout to what
has become Imperial’s biggest talent
competition, helping to raise £1000
for Save the Children. The wide
variety of acts left our judges amazed,
speechless, impressed and sometimes
just plain confused. Commenting on
the Belly Dancing act, ICU Save the
Children President, Anisa Nomaan,
stated she “wished she could dance
like that”. RAG President, Callum Kirk
was left stunned by the band Titch Bits
saying he was “distracted” by the shiny
purple hat and tie, and the Deputy
President of the Union, Nat Kempston,
was simply speechless after William’s
artistic dance performance. There was
even a surprise Michael Jackson dance
done by a man in a white suit, known
only as Fabio. No one knows where
he came from or how he managed to
fit himself into the program but all
we know is he can dance! The casting
of the votes was preceded by the
much-awaited raffle draw which had
some amazing prizes such as a flight
simulation and bottles of wine. The
audience was able to vote with 40% of
the votes counted for by the audience
and 60% from the judges, which led
to very close positions. Third place
went to The Techtonics, who treated
the audience to a variety of songs
from ‘Let Her Go’ by Passenger to
‘Earthquake’ By Labrinth, whilst
second place went to the Salsa dance
by Alice & Oz. Finally, the winner of
Imperial’s Got Talent 2014 was the
CGCU President Lejon and his band,
reclaiming the title they won in 2010!
The after-party was kicked off by the
headline act ZAR who sang some
favourites such as ‘Life Ain’t Easy’.
A huge congratulation to all the
performers, committee and thank you
to everyone that helped support ICU
RAG Save the Children. See you next
year!
The Case of the Man who
Defeated Death
Anisa Nomaan on Imperial’s recent talent competiton
T
he crime scene was everything short of spectacular. The crowd
gathered on top of the hillside to experience the rudimental
proceeding. Some with tears in their eyes, a helpless sorrow for
the convicted, some with ridicule on their tongues and pride
in their hearts. Others simply indifferent. Three people put on
display: beaten, mocked and hung out to die, their clothes cast for keeps.
And they did die. Their limp, lifeless bodies dragged down from the nails on
which they hung to be buried with the earth from whence they came.
As I stated before, the crime scene was unimpressive as was the crime, for
many have been killed for crimes they did not commit. What came after,
however, was a marvel that would leave even Sherlock Holmes bewildered.
For though three died that same day, only one rose on the third day, his being
as intact as it was before he entered the tomb. No pulse ball was inserted
between his arm and body or face copy placed on his dead arch nemesis.
He literally defeated death. But how did he do the undoable? How could he
defeat death without a landing cushion to break his fall?
The clues were there from the beginning. Before his immaculate conception,
prophecies proclaimed that one would come, like a lamb to the slaughter,
to die for all and in doing so conquer death. His sinless life alongside the
miracles he did were clues that this despised man was the Messiah told of
from the beginning. He was the Saviour that came to redeem his people
from destruction. But why did He do it? And how does something that
occurred over 2000 years ago affect us today? Perhaps the larger mystery is
not that he was resurrected, but that he defeated death so that those that had
rejected, and would continue to reject, him could have eternal life.
To investigate this theory, Imperial College Christian Union is hosting a
series of lunch talks from February 10th to the 14th as well as two evening
events on the Tuesday and Thursday entitled “Jesus: Case Closed?” The talks
will be 20 minutes long at 12:00 and again at 1:00 with free lunch provided
and a Q&A afterword. For more information visit: iccu.co.uk/case_closed.
php. Whether you’re fervently interested or simply want a free meal, come
along as various speakers discuss religion, God, the Bible and the case of
Jesus, because although this case may seem unimportant to some, it is, my
dear reader, far from elementary.
IC Christian Union

