24 FRIDAY 07 FEB
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
S
unn O))) are a widely famed
and much loved instutution
in any experimental music
fan’s mind. A hugely
impressive live reputation
has given then legendary status, as
have a load of releases, including
as Sunn O))), many of which
feature guest collaborators, such as
Merzbow’s appearance in ‘O))) Bow’
on 3:Flight of the Behemoth or Oren
Ambarchi, John Wiese and Xasthur
(among others) on Black One as well
as full album collaborations including
Altar, a collaboration with Boris.
The widely accepted sound of
Sunn O))) is gut shuddering drones,
played perilously loud generally robe
-lad on a foggy stage, to put it simply.
Although unrecognisable as metal
to some, Sunn O)))’s music is drone
metal, and while many people claim
Electric Wizard to be ‘the heaviest
band on earth,’ I strongly suggest
these individuals pick up a Sunn O)))
When I See The Sunn O))) (& Ulver)
AMS album of the week
Thisweek’salbumoftheweekisquitepossibly
the most anticipated metal album of the year.
This expectation surrounding Blackened Death
metal band Behemoth’s The Satanist is due to
two reasons. The first being that Behemoth are
a huge metal band. Behemoth are a household
name in their native Poland (Behemoths lead
guitarist, vocalist and lyricist, Nergal was a
judge on the Polish version of The Voice) and
have earned a large international following due to their fierce metal sound. The
second reason being that in 2010 Nergal was diagnosed with Leukaemia.
Originally told that his Leukaemia could not be treated due to its advanced
state, a diagnosis that subsequently was proved false as Nergal subsequently
recoveredafterabonemarrowtransplant,thebrushwithmortalityhasresulted
in the band writing their most focused, daring and atmospheric album to date.
Moving away from the heathen lyrical content, The Satanist shows Behemoth
embracing (unsurprisingly) more satanic imagery. The Recruitment of occultist
painter Denis Forkas Kostromitin to paint the artwork for the album (artwork
whichusedNergalsbloodmixedinthepaintnoless)istestamenttothischange
in thematic direction.
The album begins with the surprisingly tense and atmospheric “Blow Your
Trumpets Gabriel”
. Combining Nergal’s harsh, dangerous, vocals with doomy
guitarriffsandhauntingtrumpetstheopenerebbsandflowsfromdoomyguitar
and trumpet to brutal blast beat sections. Where “…Gabriel” is atmospheric the
next six songs show that Behemoth have no fears about playing fast. Songs such
as “Furor Divinus” with its melodic guitar lines and furious drumming, to the
wonderful “Ora Pro Nobis Lucifer” with it’s catchy (for Death Metal) hooks to
the black metal themed Amen all showcase Behemoths intricate understanding
of the sound they wish to achieve.
The album then returns to more atmospheric pastures with “In Absence
Of Light” featuring spoken word sections over acoustic guitars. The closer is
possibly the best track on the album displaying Behemoth’s ability to balance
the heavier and more sections of their sound with the anthemic choir and
orchestra sections, without sounding cheesy or losing their vicious edge.
Musically “The Satanist” is not the weirdest or heaviest of Behemoths releases
(In my opinion Demigod deserves the title of heaviest) this album features a
revitalised Behemoth unleashing a focussed and united piece of work.
Behemoth – The Satanist
album, for the sake of comparison if
nothing else.
The name Sunn O))), as well as
being a reference to the Fender Amp
model, was a reference to drone metal
pioneers Earth, with the idea of Sunn
revolving around Earth in mind.
Dylan Carlson, the founder of Earth,
is also the subject of a track on The
Grimmrobe Demos (1999).
Their most recent studio effort,
Monoliths and Dimensions (which
interestingly features Carlson himself)
saw the band experimenting with
more orchestral textures.
Ulver, who have seemingly reached
a similar point of experimentation, are
a Norwegian band who started out
as a Black Metal group, but before
the end of an early set of albums
called Black Metal Trilogie they had,
ironically, moved away from anything
that would traiditionally called black
metal. They then released Themes from
William Blake’s The Marriage of
Heaven and Hell, an album considered
a masterpiece through its blending
of black metal with a wider range of
genres including industrial, ambient
and some electronic sounds.
The folklore inspired band has
incorporated an impressive selection of
genresovertheircareerandinmanyways
it seems like a confluence of directions,
with both bands working towards
more acoustic, or even symphonic,
instrumentation. It seems only apt that
the two bands should release together
and the announcement of this album
certainly created a stir.
The result is expectedly unexpected,
in other words, seems to follow both
band’s trajectory, but certainly is very
different from what each band’s genre
may be on paper.
Terrestrials was certainly a long
time in the making. It was originally
made in Ulver’s Crystal Canyon
studio in Oslo in 2008, recorded ‘live
in improvisation’ over the course of a
single night. Since that fateful night,
additional violins, violas and trumpets
were added to the album, which
certainly give a much thicker timbre
and perhaps add a little to the sense
of epic grandeur in a surpremely great
musical journey, but admittedly this
may be largely due to the atmosphere
of the recording;
“You know that opening sequence
of Koyaanisqatsi, where the desolate
desert landscapes, waves and cloud
formations roll over the screen
accompanied by deep male chanting
and organ ostinatos. That’s where we
were.” – Daniel O’Sullivan
Koyaanisqatsi was an abstract film
featuring pictures of beautiful scenery
and marvels of nature juxtaposed with
chaotic images of urban life. It also,
rather endearingly, is backed up by an
amazing soundtrack, scored by Philip
Glass. O’Sullivan’s words underline an
almost cinematic or theatrical feel to
the album, as well as almost bypassing
drone and modernising the art of
minimalist composition.
Sunn O)))’s Stephen O’Malley,
a noted purveyor of sonic doom,
additionally described the album
as ‘more raga than rock,’ and this is
certainly an important aspect, but far
from refuting my minimalism point,
it merely reinforces it, as pretty much
all of the early Minimalist composers,
including Glass, Terry Riley, and La
Monte Young, dabbled in non-western
music, and particularly Indian music
as a source of inspiration for their
work, and a great example of this can
be found in Young’s releases with his
project Theatre of Eternal Music.
The opener ‘Let there be light’
is certainly reminiscient to me of
Koyaanisqatsi, especially in the use
of some rather minimalist repetitive
pulsing, which is most noticably
augmented by a very eastern sounding
trumpet, which gives it a very
theatrical, ethereal ambience.
‘Western Horn,’ the second track
is perhaps closer to Sunn O)))’s roots,
if only by virtue of posessing some
low drones, and I guess if I were really
trying to push the minimalist thing
I’d say it’s more Young than Glass.
It slowly develops, with variations
in the background and in so doing
moves through a variety of moods,
most notably a style which, tonally at
least, almost recalls doom metal but
admittedly it lacks pounding drums,
or any drums at all. Comforting
ambient sounds, feedback and piano
tones occasionally protrude through
the harsh sonic surface and these
moments of contrast are highly
satisfying.
The album seemlessly meanders
intothealbumcloser- ‘EternalReturn.’
This is possibly the most interesting
track on the album, and listening
to the opening couple of minutes,
where we hear a sort of bassy drone
metal-ish sound with strings over it,
I am very much reminded of Earth’s
recent work, which I would describe
as Drone-Country. The most notable
change to follow is the lyricism,
preceeded by synth line over which I
can almost hear the persistent chant
of ‘Koyaanisqatsi.’ I have to admit that
vocals in experimental music rarely do
it for me, and I’ve often felt that overt
human intervention in ethereal music
shatters the ambience, but I must
admit that on repeated listens the
vocals are rather evocative and seem
to form the climax of the album.
This is followed by bleak droning
and a return to the initial Earth-ish
motif, which is developed by the
gradual addition of elements to create
a very emotional and cathartic end.
I’ve often wanted to see modern
ambient or experimental musicians
distilling, in a less subtle manner
than they already do, the ideas of
minimalist composition into a modern
piece, and aside from perhaps the
work of Svarte Greiner (the closest
thing I’ve found), it seems I’ve finally
managed to find something like that in
Terrestrials.
My summation of the album is
that it’s the result of two bands coming
together at the perfect time, making
something grandiose and powerful,
which at times feels more like a
composition than an improvised work
from 2 (formally) metal bands.
It’s truly a musical journey, as it
moves through a rich variety of genres
and moods, and it’s a journey in which
I was thoroughly immersed. This is
certainly an early album of the year
contender, now someone just needs to
produce an appropriately ethereal film
to accompany it....
Riaz Agahi examines a collaboration that’s more minimal than metal
Rob Garside

