25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 FEB
MUSIC
B
ack in 2012, You Blew
It! released their debut
album, Grow Up, Dude.
Unfortunately for me,
I didn’t get around to
listening to it until last summer.
Smacking heavily of the standard
bearers of emo revival, Algernon
Cadwallader and Snowing, they were
yet another Cap’n Jazz for the modern
age type band. I’m a huge fan of that
sound, and this is one of the better
examples of it. There was one slower
song, The Fifties, was a really tender
and beautiful track that I became fairly
obsessed with, but more importantly,
gave me hope for the follow up. They
were clearly a band with more to
offer, so I promised myself to listen
to their next effort immediately. Keep
Doing What You’re Doing came out in
January, and I’m glad I was so prompt
listening to it.
You Blew It! Don’t Blow It
The opening track is the absolutely
excellent Match & Tinder. It’s an
upbeat pop-punk-esque emo track,
with a pounding drumbeat and a
really catchy chorus. It sounds like a
cheerful Snowing or a gruff Dowsing
(emo bands really love the present
participle). The song isn’t explicity
about Tinder, but the lyrics are still
really great. I have a feeling my
housemates are going to get pretty
pissed off at me singing this chorus
over and over again during the next
few weeks.
Award of the Year Award comes in
like an Into It. Over It. (emo bands
also really love punctuation) track and
pretty much sticks with that theme,
although the much more gravelly
vocals are a nice change. Strong Island
is the first track that sounds like
more typical midwest emo. A pulsing
bassline, whiney vocals and twinkly
Stuart Masson reviews the Florida band’s sophomore effort
Emiel’s Guide to
Welcome back to my history of
western music. Just before the
Christmas break we discussed
a composer named Guillaume
de Machaut and the fascinating
developments that set literate music
off on its own course. Notated music
spread like wildfire throughout
Europe and the proportion of
composers who would still be
remembered today skyrocketed.
The course of music from here on
becomes more and more complex,
and I can no longer attempt to
present as straightforward a
narrative as I have done. Instead, I
will continue by discussing with you
the major composers and styles so as
to remain relevant to the listening
of a modern audience. On the other
hand, during the 14th Century,
techniques were shared throughout
the continent – music became
internationalised, and perhaps we
could argue that in the very long-
term, it also became homogenised as
diverse European musical cultures
interacted and mixed.
A few regional styles still remained
prominent throughout the 14th
Century. The Ars Subtilior of
southern France had an obsession
with complexity and further
subtleties; composers often invented
new forms of notation in order to
communicate these. In Italy the
Trecento style became dominant,
with Francesco Landini, a blind
organist, setting the tone. Landini
worked in the republic of Florence
and wrote music for the urbane
and sophisticated mercantile elites.
The British Isles too had been
somewhat isolated and composers
had developed many peculiar and
unique styles, such as the descant
Episode 5 - The Renaissance
– a particular set of intervals used
between 3 voices moving in parallel.
However, now the great musical
unification of Europe was beginning
- the so-called ‘Renaissance’ and
composers could draw on many
of these styles in their own music.
Guillaume Dufay (1397-1474), a
Netherlandish composer, was the first
to gain fame across the continent. He
himself travelled extensively between
France and Italy and even worked for
the Pope. Despite being the last major
composer to use medieval rhythmic
structures, Dufay’s music is celebrated
for its fluid rhythms and memorable
melodies, but his most interesting
contributions are harmonic. Hopefully
you recall Pythagoras’ discovery that
more consonant intervals are the
result of simpler frequency ratios, and
remember that until this point most
composers had been concerned with
only the most consonant of these –
the 5th and the 4th. More dissonant
intervals were treated as ‘stepping-
stones’ in moving polyphonically (i.e.
multiple voices) from one consonance
to another. Now, Dufay borrowed
from the English the extensive use
of 3rds and 6ths, giving his music
an unprecedented richness and
sweetness of sound. Importantly, these
harmonies were still considered too
dissonant to finish on, but were used
purely for the character of their sound.
This represents an important change
in the way music was considered:
now free from loftier religious
aims and appreciated purely as an
auditory art and for composer’s skilful
craftsmanship.
Thanks in part to the contributions
of Dufay, the ‘Franco-Netherlandish’
style of polyphony would come to
dominate European music throughout
the Renaissance. The next major
figure was Johannes Ockeghem
(1410-1497), also born in present-day
Belgium. Ockeghem worked at the
royal courts for most of his life, but
became a canon at the now familiar
Notre Dame Cathedral. He made a
great fortune throughout his long life,
and was famed for his robust build and
deep voice. Ockeghem, like Machaut or
Perotin, continued the development
of polyphonic complexity but at an
unprecedented scale. Indeed, much
of his music is organised according to
an incredibly complex ‘superstructure’,
often so subtle that its existence was
not discovered until much later. For
example, the Missa Prolationum
is made of multiple movements,
each containing two separate yet
simultaneous ‘canons’ (complicated
types of ‘rounds’) with each part
moving at different pace. These
ingenious structures work to underlie
a “timeless flow” of polyphony.
Ockeghem extended the range of all
the voices - overlapping them so that
each gained a new independence and
importance, and he avoided cadences
(resolutions) except at key moments,
giving these a structural purpose and
creating a sort of floating sensation.
We have now reached a point where
music has become a truly creative art,
and the composers we discuss could
fairly be labelled as ‘geniuses’. We are
entering a time of new richness and
diversity and of great innovations
which will eventually lead develop into
the musical system familiar to us all.
My descriptions of this wealth will be
necessarily poor in comparison to the
music itself, so as always please check
the Felix websites for musical excerpts,
and I look forward to introducing
you next week to perhaps the greatest
musical genius yet; Josquin des Prez.
Classical Music
Emiel de Lange
guitars work together to form another
pretty decent track.
Regional Dialect opens with a similar
traditional emo sound, but then opens
up into a heavier sound. Lyrically it’s
absolutely superb. It’s a track about
a friend who’s overindulging in
narcotics and some of the lines here
are just incredible. I wouldn’t normally
quote lyrics in a review but when
they’re as good as “you won’t find a
drug you can take to forget this” then I
feel like I need to indulge myself. The
highlight is the final crushing couplet:
“for every good thing I could say about
you, there’s a great reason why I refuse
to”. It’s solid gold from start to finish.
Up next comes a couple of tracks I
don’t care for as much. House Address
starts slow and builds up to a nice
crescendo, but that’s only at the one
minute mark and the song is nearly
five minutes long. There’s lots of good
ideas here, but it’s a bit overblown and
definitely too drawn out. A Different
Kind of Kindling opens with bare
vocals. It’s a brave decision and one
that I think backfires pretty badly.
Upon every listen I’m expecting a
whole track to kick in halfway through
the first line, but then it doesn’t and
it’s just awkward. Emo singers are not
known for being in key, and this is no
exception. It’s a shame, because if the
whole track had kicked in half way
through the first line it would have
been a really good track.
Luckily, You Blew It! really pick it
up with the rest of the album. Rock
Springs does the slowed down punky
emo thing really well. It’s what Dads
tried to do with their latest EP, except,
you know, it’s really good. The ending,
with its superb instrumental section
followed by one last furiously shouted
chorus, is just sublime. You & Me &
Me goes back to the more delicate
approach, but it’s no less good. The
lyrics are great, the vocals are great,
hell, the whole damn track is great.
Again, it’s fairly comparable to Into
It. Over It., but it’s also better than
anything on Intersections [most recent
II.OI. album].
Gray Matter is punky, twinkly and
brilliant. It’s a great example of why
emo is such an exciting genre at the
moment. There’s fury, but it’s so well
channelled. This is anger at its most
intelligent. The riffs hit hard in sound,
the lyrics hit hard in content and the
whole thing is just brought together
so well.
The final track, Better to Best,
certainly isn’t the highlight of the
album, but it is a great ending. A
sparse intro leads into an almost
euphoric crescendo with wall of sound
guitars and wordless chants. This wall
of sound is interspersed with sections
of sparser guitars and lyrics, before
the two are combined for a euphoric
ending of almost hilariously emo
proportions. The repeated refrain of
“maybe things aren’t quite as bad as
I let myself believe” really shouldn’t
work, but it does. It really does. It’s
such a good way to end the album.
This is everything I wanted it to be.
The vast majority of the tracks are
great. In fact, it’s a much better record
than the debut. They’ve definitely
grown up, dude (sorry). This is
more cohesive, more varied and the
tracks are better. The heavier tracks
are fantastic from a songwriting
perspective. The softer tracks are
beautiful from a lyrical perspective.
There’s several which are fantastic
at both. It’s refreshing to see a band
attempt some progression, and it’s
great that it worked so well. Hopefully
they’ll keep doing what they’re doing
(really sorry) and just keep getting
better. Until then, listen to this.

