26 FRIDAY 07 FEB
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Immoralist
Despite being published in 1902 I find
that this novel reads as though it were
fifty years ahead of its time. The tone of
Gide’s writing is sparse, conservative and
yet at times overwhelmingly beautiful.
For a writer with an aversion to the novel
in his formative years, Gide has blended
meter, imagery, subterfuge and cipher to
yield a masterpiece. Michel, the protago-
nist, is an entrenched, introvert scholar
who suffers a severe bout of tuberculosis
on honeymoon in North Africa. His sur-
vival encourages a revival of enthusiasm
for life.
Send your submissions for
our newest regular
features!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Eoghan Totten explores a thoughtful and
subtle masterpiece from the early 1900s
“Gilde has blended
meter, imagery sub-
terfuge and cipher to
yield a masterpiece.”
Arabs battle over chessboards while French dine
in groups of six. Coffee flows and cocoa gluts.
Through the window the traffic ebbs and flows
and men dangle cigarettes out of open windows.
The Café hums while the city screams.
“The tone of Gide’s
writing is sparse, con-
servative and yet at
time overwhelmingly
beautiful.”
Beyond its thematic significance and
the context of the zenith of Nietzschean
influence the novel contains innumerable
emotive images, “The accreted layers
of acquired learning flaked away like
greasepaint, offering glimpses of bare
flesh, the real person hidden underneath.”
Gide’s utilisation of simile and allusion
blend well with Michel’s actions. At times
his relationship with his wife is superseded
and obfuscated by his preoccupation
“...uses passions, de-
sires andwhims to con-
vey subtle Nietzschean
postulations.”
One manifestation of Michel’s rebirth
takes form in the liberation of his sexual
desires, a difficult subject to confront in
any era, not least early twentieth cen-
tury France. Gide, in light of this, uses
Michel’s resurgent passions, desires and
whims as a central motif to convey subtle
(but firmly present) Nietzschean postula-
tions. Michel reneges on his obligations
to his wife, to his profession and to social
standing, searching for more base pas-
sion, for an affinity with nature free from
the shackles of culture. As identified by
Alan Sheridan of Cambridge University,
“Michel...has adopted Nietzsche’s view
that morality is a weapon of the weak, a
slave mentality.”
In the words of the protagonist , “Cul-
ture, which is born of life, ends up killing
it.” This theme is embellished by Gide’s
implementation of the first person nar-
rative. As his social standing, wealth and
obligations recede, the adverse conse-
quences of Michel’s apathy are evident to
the reader.
with nature. This is captured by Gide’s
use of seasonal imagery and (more than
once) classical allusion, “the banks of the
Cyane, still as blue as it flows through
the papyrus as on the day it wept for
Persephone.”
In sum, the novel’s progression is
seamless and fluid. In my opinion
it is informative and enlightening without
one being aware of it at the time of
reading.
Student Picks
Oblomovism. This is a Russian word for sloth or lazi-
ness. It is a word born from the indolence of the pro-
tagonist of Oblomov, the most famous work of the 19th
century writer Ivan Goncharov.
Ilya Ilyich Oblomov, a member of the landed gentry,
lives a life of complete and overwhelming indolence. He
caught the ‘illness’ as a result of spending a childhood
in the village of Oblomovka, where family and peas-
ants alike found the greatest of pleasures in the general
sleepiness that permeated their lives. Oblomov sleeps
and dreams and daydreams all day, lying in his bed, in-
capable of understanding why anyone would ever want
to enter the disingenuous social world, never far from
his treasured dressing gown. His problems – he has to
move house, his income is decreasing, his estate is fall-
ing into disrepair – stay outside; he can’t bear to think
about them
Oblomov can be read as social satire on the idleness of
the landed gentry slowly but inevitably leading to their
demise. It has elements of hilarity but for me, the true
essence of the novel lies in Goncharov’s mild, almost
loving portrayal of his tragic character, for Oblomov is
in many ways as poetic as he is tragically ridiculous. It
is this sympathy in portraying a man who to some peo-
ple – perhaps those who have never felt the wondrous
power of indolence – may be entirely unsympathetic,
which has given Oblomov its transcendence.
Oblomov by Ivan Goncharov
Eva Rosenthal picks:
Flash Fiction
London Café by Eoghan Totten

