27
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 FEB
FOOD
Skelwith Suppers: Student food, quirks and all
George Butcher and his housemates show us how it’s done on their new food blog
T
he only thing better than
cooking food, is eating
it afterwards. That’s the
(unofficial) motto of me and
my housemates. We take
turns to cook for each other and put
the results online at skelwithsuppers.
wordpress.com.
We decided to set up a blog
after realising that all the evidence
of everyone’s hard effort was
disappearing into our mouths. It’s
a record for us, but also for anyone
interested in what student food can be
if you put a bit of effort into it.
What with it now all public – we’re
getting competitive. Max’s red chilli
curry currently stands with the most
hits – whilst Dani’s pesto got the
first comment. The ‘thou who cooks
doesn’t wash up’ rule does tend to
make you a messy cook but it’s all fun
and I’m only putting on a little bit of
weight :-\ The good folks at Felix asked
me to share one of my recipes with
you, so here’s one from a recent post:
Pork Chop Pie. Enjoy!
For the shortcrust pastry, add 130
grams of flour and 60g of butter to a
bowl. Mix it together with your fingers
to create a breadcrumb type mixture
as the flour breaks the butter up. Add
a little bit of water to bring it together.
Start with a shot glass worth then add
a few ml at a time – you don’t need
much. Put in in the fridge for now. If
you over-do the water – add flour till
it stops being sticky.
Heat the oven to 180C.
Cut the fatty strip from the pork
(we’ll use it later) and then chop up
the rest into pieces. Fry them in oil
till cooked through. Prep whichever
vegetables you like (I used onions,
garlic, carrots and mushrooms) and
fry them together in a pan. When
they’re done, add the cooked pork
then 200ml of double cream and a few
splashes of milk.
Roll out the pastry you made earlier.
If you lack a rolling pin – an empty
wine or spirit bottle will do. Take a
casserole dish, add the veg/meat mix,
then lie the pastry on top and cut the
excess around the edges. I took the
cut-off excess and cut them into a ‘P’
to put on top of the pie. I suggest you
add the remainder to a separate tray
to cook – everyone likes extra pastry!
Cut a hole in the top of the pastry and
glaze with a bit of milk. If you don’t
have a brush, splash some milk over
with your fingers and use the back of
a spoon to spread it.
Stick it in the oven at 180C, check it
after 25 minutes – should take around
30 minutes depending on how thick
your pastry is.
Heat up a frying pan with some oil
and take the strip of fatty skin from
earlier. Season the side then place skin
side down in the pan. Use a heavy dish
on top to hold it flat and fry till it’s
cooked and all lovely and crispy.
I did some mash on the side – boil
some potatoes then add milk and
butter before mashing. If you’re
feeling posh, try using sweet potatoes
or butternut squash instead.
skelwithsuppers.wordpress.com
Do you write a
food blog or just
love cooking?
Share it with fellow Imperialites on
Felix Food!
Email food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Shiori
45 Moscow Rd, W2 4AH
theshiori.com // 02072219790
Open Tue-Sat. Lunch slots 1230/1300,
Dinner slots 1830/1900 and 2000/2030
Newsflash: Upmarket Japanese cuisine
is more than just sushi – there’s a
whole other world of stuff out there.
Unfortunately here in London,
upmarket Japanese usually means sushi
or fusion restaurants like Nobu. This
means that when there’s a restaurant
about that serves something unique in
the sea of sushi-teis, I’m all over it like
a rash.
“But you’re a student!” you cry. Well
as London’s riddled with lovely eating
establishments begging to be explored;
I’m willing to let my foodie side win and
make a once-in-a-blue-moon exception
for special occasions. A going-away
meal for the equally-foodie boyfriend
certainly warranted it.
Located in a tranquil side street in
Chinese-roast-duck-laden-Bayswater,
The Shiori specializes in Kyoto’s multi-
course kaiseki-ryori. It’s like a mini-
banquet of all the authentic grub Japan
has to offer – you could say that the
concept of modern-day western tasting
menus stemmed from it (just that
the Japanese have been at it for WAY
longer.)
The small size of the restaurant (12-16
seats!) lends to its lovely intimate feel.
Chef Takashi Takagi, who used to run
Sushi of Shiori on Drummond Street
and cooked at Mayfair’s Umu, is the sole
chef. Hitomi, his wife, hosts and serves
patrons with the help of one other
assistant. Course after course came
out, each looking and tasting exquisite,
and each being preceded with a small
explanation by the congenial and funny
Hitomi (ingredients, how best to eat it,
etc.) She’ll most certainly sort you out
for sake pairings too – novices, relax!
The menu itself (no a la carte by the
way) is seasonal, making the best of
both local and Japanese produce –
which does mean prices can rise or drop
slightly with the season. We recommend
the full tasting menu with 11 courses;
however there are more affordable
pared-down options available.
Price-wise, it’s no Wasabi; but that’s
Eat-out Pick of the Week
most Japanese in general. You *are*
however paying for all the detail and
effort that goes into each dish, plus the
quality of ingredients is bar none. We
do advise that you take your time and
enjoy your grub; this is not the place to
come for a “quick” all you can eat! As for
how filling it is – both my boyfriend and
I have huge appetites, and we found our
meal was deceptively sufficient despite
the small-ish size of each course. They
usually offer seconds (“okawari”) of the
rice course should you want it.
All in all, while The Shiori is one of
those places you’d assigned the cliched
“hidden gem” term to, the premise is
anything but cliche. The food speaks for
itself; personable Japanese hospitality
takes it above and beyond.
Couples, if you can get a reservation
this Valentine’s Day (or maybe later on)
– you will most certainly be spoilt, so
you’re in for a treat! Just go easy on the
PDA, as Hitomi herself quipped (with
a cute Japanese shudder) – “how do
people engage in full-on kissing while
eating sashimi? You’re here for the food,
surely!” -- Carol Ann Cheah, Food Editor
wow, much eats - very beauty. here are all 11 courses we had - bet you can’t identify more than the rice/soups/sashimi!

