28 FRIDAY 07 FEB
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How to save a life
Dallas Buyers Club
Director: Jean-Marc Vallée
Writers: Craig Borten, Melisa
Wallack
Starring: Matthew McConaughey,
Jared Leto, Jennifer Garner
Runtime: 117 minutes
Certification: 15
John Park
Film Editor
Once you contract HIV, you’re forever
“married” to the condition, as Ron
Woodroof (Matthew McConaughey)
correctly points out. In Dallas Buyers
Club, set in the 1980s when HIV and
AIDS were relatively unknown and
discrimination against the condition
was high, Woodroof finds himself in-
creasingly isolated and without help.
Despite the promise of impending
treatment, for those who have very
little time left to live, waiting is not a
luxury they can comfortably afford.
When America’s healthcare fails to
provide for him, he takes matters into
his own hands, finding options else-
where, something the Food and Drugs
Administration (FDA) does not look
upon kindly.
News of actor Rock Hudson’s AIDS
diagnosis is enough for Woodroof to
fire off a series of homophobic slurs.
He’s a bull-riding, whiskey-drinking,
women-loving, drug-taking, gam-
bling, hellraising 100% American male
cowboy who hates everything about
homosexuals with the q-word and f-
word being flung around as abusive
banter between his similar-minded
friends. So Ron isn’t the most like-
able protagonist to say the least, and
you begin to wonder whether he will
ever become a redeemable figure. But
as it stands for the first half or so, Ron
is a closed-minded, selfish SOB who
makes no apologies for the way he is.
Which is why it makes the diagnosis
even more difficult for him to accept.
Initially not thinking that dirty nee-
dles or unprotected sexual intercourse
can be causes of contracting HIV, he
immediately rejects the condition as a
gay thing, and upon being told that he
has no more than thirty days to live,
he walks out not quite understanding
the gravity of the situation. But he isn’t
silly enough to ignore the doctors en-
tirely. The fact is he has been feeling
very sick lately, and given Matthew
McConaughey’s astonishing weight
loss it would appear Ron has lost con-
siderable mass.
And McConaughey, a long way away
from the days he played sleazy, cheesy
rom-com male leads, transforms bril-
liantly to an actor of such strong, solid
versatility that the changes his por-
trayed character goes through in the
running time of the film is an utmost
privilege to witness. It’s not just his un-
recognisable physical appearance that
is worth commending, but his transi-
tion from a detestable abuser to help-
less victim is a smooth one. His AIDS
diagnosis spreads fear, judgement and
prejudice amongst people he counted
on as friends, and it’s not long before
he’s left alone and abandoned to fend
for himself. McConaughey is fearless,
faultless and supremely confident
with his trademark Southern swagger
in place, which makes the line “there
ain’t nothing out there can kill fucking
Ron Woodroof in 30 days” sound ut-
terly convincing.
His “drug-smuggling” operation
starts from a doctor in Mexico who
was stripped of his license for un-
known reasons. But he seems to know
what he’s talking about. With a clever
scheme of setting up a “Buyers Club”
in which the membership-paying indi-
viduals are given non-FDA-approved
drugs, (the legal loophole here being
that people are buying legal member-
ships, not unapproved drugs) Ron
charges a handsome amount for each
member. But what originally starts out
as a profit-making system turns into
something more meaningful. So even
now Woodroof has his selfish qualities
intact, he’s really in it for the profits
Finding himself a business part-
ner of sorts, Rayon (Jared Leto) is a
cross-dressing HIV-positive transsex-
ual whose sass and ability to bring in
plenty of customers help Ron’s Dallas
Buyers Club grow. Leto and McCo-
naughey are almost certainly going to
be winning their Oscars this year, for
Best Supporting Actor and Best Lead
Actor respectively, and very much de-
Don Jon & Anchorman 2
Joseph Gordon-Levitt stars as the
titular character in his directional
debut Don Jon. Clearly modelled
on the perma-tanned buffoons of
tv shows like Jersey Shore, Don Jon
aka Jon Martello lives a methodical
existence consisting of pumping
weights at the gym, preying on
drunk girls in clubs and above else,
watching copious amounts of porn.
Instead of just being a #MEGALAD
Jon’s addiction to porn starts to cause
more serious problems when he
begins seeing the beautiful Barbara
Sugarman (Scarlett Johansson);
real intimacy with her just does not
compare to cyber sex and Jon needs
to reevaluate his life if he wants this
to change.
Everyone’s favourite mustachioed,
misogynist news anchor Ron
Burgundy is back in Anchorman 2.
Due to his own shoddy performance
on air, Ron loses his job to his wife
Veronica Corningstone and they
separate. Ron joins global news
network (GNN) in a late-night slot
and decides that journalistic integrity
is not for him, sensationalism ftw! His
new approach to reporting is a huge
hit and earns him fame and glory but
will he be able to get his relationship
with Veronica back on track? As
endlessly quotable as its predecessor,
Anchorman 2 is filled with hilarious,
nonsensical charm. Come along for a
guaranteed good time!
Don Jon: Tuesday February 11th
18:30 and Thursday February 13th
21:00
Anchorman 2: Tuesday February
11th 20:30 and Thursday February
13th 18:30
Each film is £3 for Members/£4 for
Non-members
Buy membership here: www.
imperialcinema.co.uk
Next week: Oldboy
Imperial Cinema
servedly so. Together they make one
hell of a team: they don’t particularly
like each other, the main reason being
Ron’s inability to have an open mind
(“you know what, you don’t deserve
my money, you homophobic asshole”
says Rayon in one of their earlier en-
counters), but it turns out the two are
an unlikely match made in heaven.
Together they share snarky banter
(“would you stop staring at her tits
Rayon, you’re starting to look normal”,
“God sure was dressing the wrong
doll when he blessed you with a set of
balls” to list some examples), and yes,
believe it or not they become friends,
and the Buyers Club? Turns into
something that’s more than just about
turning a profit.
But none of these come without a
price. With no cure, the AIDS starts
taking its victims one by one, and it
doesn’t take much guessing to predict
that perhaps not everyone will make
it to the end. It’s incredibly heart-
wrenching, given the amount of qual-
ity time that was spent with the nu-
merous characters.
Adding another sympathetic pair of
eyes into the picture is Jennifer Gar-
ner’s role as Dr Eve Saks, a physician
heavily involved in the care of HIV
patients. Her close friendship with
Rayon as well as another shared with
Ron adds more perspective into the
film’s narrative which works to add
even more touching drama to the plot.
Dallas Buyers Club is a film that
knows when to play around with the
material at hand but more importantly
when to let the inevitable dark reality
to sink in. There are elements of both
feel-good and feel-bad films here, with
a delicate balance struck between the
two. The film never extends its focus
beyond the Dallas area, keeping its
story personal and intimate, which
works thanks to McConaughey.

