29
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 FEB
FILM
That Awkward
Moment
Director: Tom Gormican
Writer: Tom Gormican
Starring: Zac Efron, Michael B.
Jordan, Miles Teller, Imogen Poots
Runtime: 94 minutes
Certification: 15
Jack Steadman
Treasured Writer
That awkward review
The birth of youth culture
Teenage
Director: Matt Wolf
Writers: Jon Savage, Matt Wolf
Starring: Ben Whishaw (voice)
Runtime: 78 minutes
Certification: 12A
Fred Fyles
Treasured Writer
In a world where we really, really need
more films with strong female leads,
taking a film in what has predomi-
nantly been viewed – for better or for
worse – as a female genre and making
it about a trio of guys sounds like a
stupid idea, or at least one that should
be mildly concerning from a gender-
domination-of-Hollywood perspec-
tive. But, despite the inherent misgiv-
ings there, it’s really not. It’s actually
kind of… fresh. So points for not being
predictable, I guess.
Unfortunately, That Awkward Mo-
ment can’t help but squander those
points fairly quickly, as it turns out
that despite taking a new approach
to rom-coms it still recycles the same
old tropes, just from a different point
of view. It’s still the same old ‘blah
blah blah meant to be together oh no
I messed it up let’s try again anyway
after I win you back in nauseatingly
cute fashion’ and so on and so forth,
but with added dick jokes. Too many
dick jokes, really, even if they are some
of the funnier moments, a fact which
probably speaks volumes about either
the quality of the other jokes, or about
my tastes in comedy – I’m going to
go with the former, mostly thanks to
the jokes being (on the whole) slightly
weak (and partially because I’m not
admitting faults here, I’m not review-
ing myself, am I. Am I?). This is very
much a script that tries really hard to
put a smile on your face and ham up
the ‘comedy’ aspect of ‘rom-coms’, but
on the whole it only really succeeds in
putting a mild smirk.
Despite this try-hard aspect, though,
there are certainly moments where a
smile is irresistible, and it’s definitely
cute enough without being schmaltzy,
which is nice, and the banter between
the three main characters (Efron,
Teller and Jordan – who all have great
charisma and chemistry with each
other, if nothing else) is genuinely fun-
ny at times, including one stand-out
scene towards the end. You can’t help
but like the main characters – even if
at least one of them (Efron) is roughly
90% jerk – and the supporting cast
give their roles the best shot they can.
The main problem comes from the
storyline itself – Jordan’s character is
going through a divorce, so all three
guys make a pact to stay single for as
long as they can, which is obviously
less than 90 minutes seeing how this
is a rom-com, but whatever – it’s so
by-the-numbers it’s painful (and also
worthy of some “colour-by-numbers”
joke but I have a suspicious feeling I’ve
used that one before), and when it’s
not horribly contrived it’s just down-
right dumb. And it commits the car-
dinal sin of using a voice-over at the
start and then completely ignoring
it for basically the entire film. Minus
points for that one.
Overall then, That Awkward Mo-
ment shares a trait with Last Vegas
in that it has a semi-decent premise
with a completely useless storyline
which ultimately proves to be shored
up almost entirely by the charisma of
its main actors. The direction is never
less than acceptable, but never more
than mediocre, and the soundtrack
tries too hard to force your hands
emotionally, leaving a film that’s un-
derwhelmingly middle-of-the-road.
Having said that, of course – chuck an
extra couple of points on if you’re see-
ing it as a date movie. It’s better with
someone else.
The idea of the ‘Teenager’ – that
glorious creature trapped between
childhood and adult life – is such an
immemorial concept in our cultural
landscape, it is difficult to imagine a
time when they did not exist. But that
was not always the case. It used to be
that the line between ‘child’ and ‘adult’
was set in stone: you stayed at home
until you were old enough to work in
the factories, or be sent down a mine,
and you then entered the adult world.
Teenage, a patchwork of film, pic-
tures, and mock Super-8 material by
filmmaker Matt Wolf, explores how
this phase of social and psychological
development came about, forming an
engaging and enlightening compan-
ion piece to writer Jon Savage’s tome
‘Teenage: The Creation of Youth’.
Taking the introduction of child la-
bour laws as his starting point, Wolf
charts the journey of the adolescent
over the first four decades of the 20th
Century, ending with Elliot E. Co-
hen’s publication of ‘A Teenage Bill of
Rights’ in the New York Times in 1945.
Along the way we are introduced to
the landmarks of youth culture: the
Bright Young Things, the Jitterbugs,
even the Hitler Youth. Wolf also looks
at how the teenage demographic have
been continuously exploited during
the last century. First they were mili-
tarised, joining the Boy Scouts and
being pushed into the trenches of the
First World War; then they were de-
monised by the press, with the actions
of the Bright Young Things causing a
scandal in 1920s London; and finally
they were recognised as a market
power, and aggressively targeted by
the giants of consumerism – a trend
that continues to this day.
That is not to suggest that the film is
all doom and gloom. On the whole it is
uplifting, with Wolf repeatedly refer-
ring to the idea that youth culture was
‘for the young, and led by the young’,
and the archive material we are pre-
sented is a real treat. Eschewing the
traditional single narrator favoured
by documentary makers, Wolf instead
goes for a quartet of ‘teenage’ narra-
tors – one of whom is played by Ben
Whishaw – who describe what their
lives were like growing up in the UK,
USA, and Germany during the early
20th Century. This difference, along
with clever editing from the pro-
duction team, gives the whole film a
woozy, almost dream-like feel, which
is accentuated by the use of mock-ar-
chival footage.
While this faux-Super 8 footage
gives the film a surreal quality, it
makes it difficult to tell which parts of
the film are actually real, undermining
the narrative structure. It also marks
the short end of the wedge of retro-
fetishisation, which began with the as-
cent of ‘kooky’ Instagram filters, and
now represents a worryingly grow-
ing trend in the filmmaking industry.
One only has to look at last year’s This
Ain’t California to see how insidious
this spread has become; a so-called
documentary about the East German
skating scene of the 1980s, following
its release it was revealed to be com-
prised mostly of staged footage, using
actors. While Teenage doesn’t quite go
this far, it treads a dangerous line be-
tween fantasy and reality that doesn’t
do it any favours.
Teenage is a light, somewhat frothy
piece, that forms an excellent coun-
terpoint to Savage’s book, which of-
fers a much more tangible insight into
the world of youth culture. The way
the film is assembled resembles the
incredible work of British filmmaker
Adam Curtis, but Wolf has given it his
own unique twist, injecting a shot of
dreamy haziness into the experimen-
tal documentary genre. Adolescence
is supposed to be a wonderful, ex-
citing time, and while you could ac-
cuse Wolf of romanticising the idea
of youth (personally, my adolescence
was spent in a suburban boredom far
removed from the exploits of Evelyn
Waugh’s peers), he is certainly not the
first to do so. Both informative and
imaginative, Teenage is a thoroughly
entertaining film, that draws interest-
ing parallels between the past, the fu-
ture, and – towards the end of the film
– the present.

