30 FRIDAY 07 FEB
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director mastercla
Peter Brook
Treasured Writer
Love and Death (1975)
Allen had charmed audiences though Broadway-style comedy with heavy use of
slapstick and gags up until this early point in his career. Love and Death follows
in that vein and it genuinely made me laugh so loud and for such a sustained
amount of time that the residents of the flat next door complained (maybe more
a reflection on my oddly loud laugh than anything, but I hope you get the point).
Love and Death is a period Russian satire about the cowardly, pacifist, scholar
Boris being forced to go to war. When his brothers packed swords, he packed
a butterfly net. This film also contains many jokes for those who are interested
in Russian literature and film, specifically Dostoyevsky, Tolstoy and Eisenstein.
It’s watching films like this that make me realise what a dearth of comedy the
film industry is undergoing at the moment.
Annie Hall (1977)
The opening monologue from Annie Hall is possibly one of the greatest open-
ings to a film in the 120 years of cinema. It is just Allen playing Alfie Singer
talking against a light brown background about his philosophy on life and which
is both terrible sad and brilliantly funny. He is both animated and a master of
comic timing. He then starts talking about a break-up with Annie Hall and how
he can’t get his head around it and the movie starts and we follow Allen, I mean
Alvy (it doesn’t matter as they are basically the same person in this film) through
the ins and outs of his relationship.
Though maintaining the comic sentiments of his previous films he is trying to
do something more now than simply make an audience laugh: he says he “had
the courage to abandon ... just clowning around and the safety of complete broad
comedy. I said to myself, ‘I think I will try and make some deeper film and not be
as funny in the same way. And maybe there will be other values that will emerge,
that will be interesting or nourishing for the audience.’”
Finally it is important to mention the role Diane Keaton played in this film
(for which she won an Academy Award for Best Actress); she plays Annie and
is possibly the most believable girlfriend ever played on screen: human, affable
and just charming.
Midnight in Paris (2011)
Recently Allen has stopped appear-
ing in his own films and in Midnight
in Paris Owen Wilson plays Woody
Allen playing a writer. The film shows
a shaky relationship between Wilson
and his fiancé and her very wealthy
and snooty parents on a trip to Paris.
Wilson wanders off and finds himself
transported back in time to the 1920s
where he meets all of his favourite
authors including Hemingway and
Fitzgerald and some other famous po-
ets and artists of the time (including a
wonderful cameo of Adrian Brody as
Dalí). The story is really of a romance
between Paris and a man, and you re-
ally feel the excitement of his attempts
to go back in time. In some ways you
can see parts of the ignored craziness
that may come from The Discreet
Charm of the Bourgeoisie.
Blue Jasmine (2013)
Blue Jasmine is Allen’s film from 2013
and can only be defined as character
film. Proof that he can let is own voice
subside and allow another performer
to really become the heart of the film.
In this case that is Cate Blanchett
as the obnoxiously wealthy woman
who lost it all after her husband who
cheated on her got caught for financial
crimes. Running out of money and re-
liant on alcohol and pills, she is forced
to move into her sister’s apartment
(wonderfully played by Sally Hawk-
ins) which is small and dowdy. We see
a woman who is on one hand an aw-
fully entitled bitch, but on the other,
someone who is coming apart at the
seams and really needs help. Though
at first it seems bold for Allen to make
a film in someone else’s voice, there
have been rumours that this is actu-
ally a caustic attack on Mia Farrow, his
ex-partner after their strange and very
public relationship breakdown which
included accusations of Allen’s sexual
molestation of her children. This film
suddenly doesn’t feel like a virtuous
choice to step back to allow a new
voice in his films.
Woody Allen has managed to cre-
ate a set of films that are defined by
exclusively his voice. His constant
neuroticism, his jokes and his tragic
hunt for love. In this article I thought
it would be interesting to see where
his style came from, so I have made a
list to compare 5 films from his Top
10 Films (originally published in Sight
and Sound) with some of my favour-
ite Allen films. He made the rounds
on the stand up comedy set and I feel
this is where some of his immediacy
comes from. However his knowledge
and clear love of cinema makes him
one of the most interesting directors
around today and the fact that he has
been making at least a movie a year
since 1982 makes him one of the most
prolific too.
A brief preamble about this article: Al-
len was accused of child molestation
back in 1992, was found not guilty,
and refused visitation rights to his
adopted children. This has come back
into the public conciseness after the
Golden Globes when Dylan Farrow,
the alleged victim of the abuse, re-
leased a letter to bring her accusation
back to the public domain. The day I
am writing this, Sunday 2nd Feburary
2014, Dylan Farrow has published an
account of the alleged abuse. I fin-
ished writing this article 4 days ago,
and hope that no one sees this as an
attempt to ‘cash in’ on the publicity.
Whether the accusations are true or
not (we rely on the reasonable doubt
of the American Justice system) I think
no one would argue that Allen has had
a profound influence on cinema over
the last 40 years and has created some
joyous movies. That is what I wanted
to write about when I wrote this piece.

