31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 FEB
FILM
ass: Woody Allen
5 of Woody Allen’s Top 10 Films
The Discreet Charm of the Bour-
geoisie (Luis Buñuel, 1972)
This is a surrealist caper by Luis Bu-
ñel. It is a film in French which follows
the lives of a middle-class group who
try to have a dinner together. How-
ever, they are repeatedly interrupted
or hampered from having their party
due to misunderstandings, invading
armies or dead restaurant managers.
The film also takes place in the
dreams of the main characters which
reveal their biggest fears from humili-
ation to violent death. The dreams are
often played as tricks on the audience
and it often takes a while to tell wheth-
er the absurdity of the situation is in
fact a dream or a strange situation.
The oddity of this film really comes
from the fact that when inexplicable
things happen, the characters react
as if it is the most normal thing in the
world and I found perverse humour in
that. Of all the films that Allen quoted
in his list it’s funny that one in French
would have a voice so similar to his
own.
8½ (Federico Fellini, 1963)
This film is a dreamy masterwork
about making movies. It follows a fa-
mous director though the production
of his newest film, only there is a prob-
lem. He doesn’t know what it’s about
yet. Despite this, his producer begins
building massive sets which panics
Guido the director and makes it hard-
er for his creativity to flow. It is a study
of how creativity is not something that
can be conjured out of nowhere.
Much like the surrealist Buñel
piece, this combines dreams and real-
ity in a way so as to confuse the two.
I believe that cinema is the perfect
medium to demonstrate the power of
dreaming and the subliminal effects
and tricks that it plays with your mind
can often leave finishing watching
a film to be akin to wake up after an
intense dream, with the residual emo-
tions left with as you begin to go back
about your day.
One thing I have to admit I found
about 8½ is that the middle act feels
quite long, but the payoff was one of
sheer magnificence. It’s the final two
monologues by Guido and his writer
that are almost spoken straight to the
audience before a final dance and mu-
sical number that says, “Hell, this is
just a movie!”
The 400 Blows (François Truffaut,
1959)
The name comes from “faire les
quatre cents coups”, a French idiom
meaning to raise hell. It’s the French
New Waves’ Ferris Bueller’s Day Off.
Though the film starts with a sort
lackadaisical nature the severity of
the story starts to spiral. The boy who
bunks off school is reprimanded for
lying to his parents and teachers, but
sees his mother having an affair, he
chooses not to repeat this as he doesn’t
believe anyone will believe him.
Despite the ‘heavy’ direction of the
film it is particularly light on its feet
up until the last act and the final scene
is both exciting and kind of sad. It
sort of sums up everything the French
New Wave stood for and it breathes
and sighes beauty. Truffaut went on
to create a couple of sequels following
this boys life. However I enjoyed the
escapist ending as it was.
Rashomon (Akira Kurosawa, 1950)
A story of the rape and murder of a
Samurai and his wife told from four
different perspectives, the boasting
criminal, the shamed wife, the ghost
of the murdered Samurai (though a
medium of course) and an unbiased
onlooker. Kurosawa, also famous for
Seven Samurai among many others
creates each vivid story in such a be-
lievable and compelling way that each
version of events could be a movie in
its own right.
It manages to dissect tabloid culture
before it ever came to be in such an
insightful way that the ‘Rashomon Ef-
fect’ is now a term used by scholars
and critics to describe an event told
from with multiple points of view.
The pervading concept can also be
found in everything from a Spongebob
Squarepants episode to the film Crash
(2004).
I won’t give the ending away, and
though the film has a lot to offer it
wasn’t until the final sequence that I
understood how this film could rate so
highly on Allen’s list. Within the final
sequence we see absurdity, beautiful
camera moves and riveting tension.
Citizen Kane (Orson Welles, 1941)
The bedrock of modern cinema and
always in the top 10 films of all time
lists. I think that this makes it a lit-
tle hard to watch, knowing that you
should enjoy this film above all others,
and it obviously has merit. The sec-
tion I enjoyed most however (bearing
in mind I did actually enjoy this film)
was the song in the middle which re-
minded me of The Simpsons episode
that parodied the song “There is a
man, a certain whose face and certain
grace is known across this land…. His
name is Burns!” But again the phrase
“You buy a bag of peanuts in this town
and you get a song written about you!”
also gave me a chuckle.
Much like Rashomon it uses the
idea of searching for the truth behind
a story as the central tenant and this
may be something that Woody Allen
is looking for when he is deciding his
favourite films.

