32 FRIDAY 07 FEB
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
John Park Television Editor
The horror...the horro
American Horror Story is an anthol-
ogy series that is without doubt the
best thing that has come out of Ryan
Murphy’s head. Eat Pray Love? An
annoyingly self-centred, deluded trav-
elogue starring Julia Roberts that in-
duces vomit, but not in the amount of
gigantic volumes that Glee induces in-
stead with their weekly nauseating ep-
isodes. Nip/Tuck was all right though,
and even the recently cancelled The
New Normal had some comedy po-
tential. But right at this moment it’s all
about American Horror Story, that’s
already given us three seasons, with
a fourth one commissioned and Mur-
phy hinting that he’s got an amazing
idea for season 5. Each season being
a self-contained one helps bring out
the originality of every “reboot” series,
although AHS also prides itself in re-
cycling a large portion of its talented
cast members in different roles show-
ing off their award-worthy versatility.
American Horror
Story: Murder
House
It all begins with Murder House, in
which a family on the rocks moves
into a mansion that is bought at a ri-
diculously cheap price, which there-
fore means it’s very haunted. Psychia-
trist Ben Harmon (Dylan McDermott)
was caught cheating on his wife Vivien
(Connie Britton) and this new house
marks a fresh start, not that the mar-
ried couple and their daughter Violet
(Taissa “sister of Vera” Farmiga) are
in for any of that; turns out the house
was a home for many twisted indi-
viduals and a fair share of serial killers
back in the day, with their evil spirits
wandering the corridors and stair-
cases. Their housekeeper Moira (in a
creepy double-act of Frances Conroy
and Alexandra Breckenridge), who the
family didn’t want in the first place but
was reluctantly accepted in as a part of
a package deal, seems to know more
than she’s letting on, and she also has
some deep-buried history with the
neighbour, Constance (Jessica Lange).
Now this Constance is quite a char-
acter and is played so superbly and de-
liciously mysteriously by the Golden
Globe, SAG, Emmy-winning Lange.
She wanders in and out of the Har-
mon’s as though she owns the place,
lights a cigarette, says twisted things
like “don’t make me kill you again” to
poor old Moira and talks about how
her womb is cursed, plus she seems
to know and be connected to a lot of
the things that’s wrong with the house
in question. Her daughter Addie
(Jamie Brewer) who has Down’s Syn-
drome is also in contact with the spirit
world which adds more intrigue and
suspense with countless WTF mo-
ments involving this mother-daughter
pairing.
The rich, blood-soaked history
which the house is drenched in is re-
vealed with every episode. We have
an illegal abortion practitioner in the
1920s (Charles Montgomery) who
goes crazy and starts placing organs in
jars after his pushy wife (Lily Rabe, ex-
cellent) basically drives him nuts with
her endless complaining and emascu-
lation, the Black Dahlia killing of 1947
(Joshua Malina, killing Mena Suvari)
also happens here, nursing students
are murdered in 1968, a kinky gay
couple, the previous owners before
the Harmons, (Zachary Quinto and
Teddy Sears) with fidelity issues meet
a horrendously gruesome end, and so
on. The decades of history call for a lot
of flashback sequences that are tightly
structured and wonderfully designed.
Each fascinating guest spot is filled
with talented actors who make their
relatively shorter contributions count.
But what of the central characters?
They are all played to the highest of
standards, with Britton standing out
as a woman trying to hold it together
although she’s really starting to lose it,
and Farmiga emerging as a breakout
star, along with Evan Peters. Peters is
Tate, one of Ben’s patients, who starts
showing some interest in Violet, much
to Dr Ben’s worry. And what’s with
the horribly disfigured Larry Harvey
(Denis O’Hare) stalking Dr Ben? He
wants to warn Ben about the house,
although his intentions, like most in-
dividuals mentioned here so far, aren’t
the clearest.
As can be expected, there is plenty
of violence, sex and shock factor; Brit-
ton enjoying a nice plate of freshly pre-
pared pig brain is no doubt one of the
season’s most unforgettable moments.
The reason that AHS: Murder House
works so well is not solely dependent
on how many creepy ideas that can
come out of the writers in each epi-
sode, but in how they actually impact
these complicated characters’ stories.
Believe it or not, there is even a
surprising number of heart-tugging
scenes that mark the season’s best high
points. The relationship that eventual-
ly blossoms between the trouble Vio-
let and Tate, who is equally disturbed,
feels like a sweet, genuine romance,
Constance and Addie have their share
of touching moments, and the fam-
ily dynamic of the Harmons, mostly
stemming from Ben and Vivien, is
the glue that keeps the show together.
With pitch-perfect performances all-
round, a fine balance between shock-
horror and well-paced storytelling,
the first season not only shows prom-
ise for the future, but also wraps up to
become an easily rewatchable, highly
entertaining stand-alone season.
American Horror
Story: Asylum
Things get even more violent and un-
comfortable with the second season
Asylum. As its name suggests, the
characters here revolve around a hos-
pital/prison for the criminally insane
where madness and chaos reign. Start-
ing with a sequence in which guest
star Adam Levine’s arm gets ripped
off, Asylum is poised to become the
best of the bunch and indeed it does.
Ruled by the sadistic Sister Jude
Martin (Jessica Lange, perfect as ever,
here sporting a thick harsh Boston ac-
cent) who is a firm believer in punish-
ment in the form of electroconvulsive
therapy (ECT) as well as some good
old-fashioned caning, the Briarcliff
Mental Institution looks like the last
place any sane person would like to
end up in. Which is why when report-
er Lana Winters (Sarah Paulson), hop-
ing to expose the institution’s cruelty
and mistreatment towards its inmates,
enters and becomes trapped, we start
worrying.
Judged and hissed at by Jude for be-
ing a lesbian, Lana is desperate not
only for a story now, but now for her
freedom too. Here she befriends Kit
Walker (Evan Peters), another pa-
tient who seems to have been wrongly
locked up. The staff here consists of
Monsignor Timothy Howard (Joseph
Fiennes), a well-meaning priest who
nonetheless walks into the dark side,
Sister Mary Eunice (Lily Rabe), a na-
ïve junior nun who has a bigger role
to play as the season progresses, Dr
Oliver Thredson (Zachary Quinto), a
psychiatrist tasked with treating the

