33
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 07 FEB
TELEVISION
or...horror has a face
patients at Briarcliff, and mad scientist
Dr Arthur Arden (James Cromwell)
who is up to no good whatsoever.
Once again, the performances here
are first-class. We welcome back many
familiar faces, and those with expand-
ed roles compared to what they had in
Murder House in particular shine. Lily
Rabe further proves her worth in the
anthology as she goes through some
pretty drastic changes and embodies
them brilliantly and Zachary Quinto
takes charge of his sinister subplot
with effective stares and a suitably
creepy tone of voice. But it’s Sarah
Paulson, who only appeared in a frus-
tratingly limited capacity the year be-
fore, takes centre stage and becomes
the feminist heroine to root for. The
strength she displays throughout the
season is extraordinary and boy is she
given a lot to deal with. But with all
the difficulties she faces, she becomes
more resourceful, independent and
stronger than ever.
So what themes are waiting for its
audience in Asylum? Given that the
place is run by strict Catholic beliefs,
ideas of God and Satan are keenly ex-
plored, everyone has dark demons to
battle, especially Jude, with a juicy past
to address herself, the aftermath of the
Second World War is featured, we get
zombies, aliens (oh yes), dodgy scien-
tific experiments, a musical scene (re-
ally), and a gramophone with the song
‘Dominique’, a popular French song
recorded by Jeanine Decker aka “The
Singing Nun”, on endless repeat. That
song alone will drive you insane. All
in all it’s a jam-packed season of mad
goods.
Let’s not forget about the central
love story that also takes place. Kit
Walker, in his attempts to break free,
catches the attention of another pa-
tient, Grace Bertrand (Lizzie Bro-
cheré), and together they attempt to
survive the wrath of Sister Jude, the
conniving, twisted mind of Dr Arden
as they look for ways to get the hell
out of Briarcliff. What Peters and Bro-
cheré share here is different to Peters
and Farmiga portray in Murder House;
this time the characters are older, the
stakes are higher, and the possibility of
failure more evident.
The design of the institution itself
couldn’t be more depressing. It’s a
damp, dark, metal-barred collection of
holding cells, with dimly lit corridors
looked at from weird camera angles
(the anthology loves doing these, up-
side down shots, side angles, blurred
shots etc). It’s an unpleasant place of
residence to say the least, but with
every episode, it succeeds in drawing
you in with its forever-evolving dark
subplots. Because when else do you
see the excellent Ian McShane play a
psychopathic serial killer dressed as
Santa Claus?
After a 13-episode stint you may
well need some therapy of your own,
trying to get all the horrific images out
of your head – which is what makes
this season such a unique rollercoast-
er ride of head-spinning ideas, full-on
shock factor developments and most
of all, powerful performances.
American Horror
Story: Coven
Now the third season marks the big-
gest step down and disappointment
in the anthology. The set-up was bril-
liant; the cast assembled? Perfection.
And this season had the best promo-
tional clips of the series thus far. A live
snake being passed from one mouth
to another? Yes please. A human stuck
with dozens of voodoo needles? Score!
Floating witches? Come at me. But the
13-episode arc felt over-stuffed in the
end, as Coven lacked consistency, fun
and well-drawn characters.
It starts off promisingly enough. Fio-
na Goode (Jessica Lange, all dressed
up in black) is a powerful witch, the
reigning Supreme of witches who is
rapidly nearing death thanks to her
cancer diagnosis. And so begins the
season-long search for the next Su-
preme. Is it Zoe (welcomes back Tais-
sa Farmiga) who has the unfortunate
power to kill with sexual intercourse?
Is it Madison (Emma “niece of Julia”
Roberts), the bitchy Hollywood ac-
tress? Is it Queenie (Gabourey Sidibe)
the human voodoo doll who can inflict
pain on others through self-harm? Is
it Nan (welcome back Jamie Brewer)
who has the speical gift of telepathy?
How about Misty (Lily Rabe, her
third appearance in the anthology),
the swamp witch who can resurrect
the dead, be it humans or animals?
Is Myrtle (woohoo Frances Conroy is
also back!), Fiona’s nemesis also in the
running or is she too old for this? We
also can’t ignore Cordelia (Sarah Paul-
son – YES!), Fiona’s daughter, either,
as she acts as a carer for all the young
witches looking for a home and pro-
tection at Miss Robichaux’s Academy
for Exceptional Young Ladies.
Besides the plot of everyone trying
to figure out who the next Supreme
is and Fiona trying to kill her in order
to gain her fading powers back, the
witches’ coven also has other things
to worry about. The unsteady alliance
between witches and voodoo practi-
tioners led by Marie Laveau (Angela
Bassett) is starting to show its cracks,
and we’re also introduced to witch
hunters who, as their name suggests,
hunt down witches for a living with
their silver bullets.
All this begs for some slick sequenc-
es of action. “The only thing you have
to be afraid of is me” says Fiona after
she throws the misbehaving young
witches against the wall with her tel-
ekinetic powers. But what ensues is
disappointingly tame and the power-
ful witches with supposed powers are
never given the chance to properly
show them off. If you’re looking for a
massive showdown between a group
of witches and everyone else out to get
them, you’re in the wrong place. In-
ternal politics and bickering between
witches take over and soon these pow-
erful women are in the midst of a dull,
never-ending catfight.
Sure Marie Laveau raises some
zombies from the dead and attack the
coven, but that’s just over one episode.
The aforementioned witch hunters?
They are dispatched by a character
who is not even a witch which adds to
the long list of how badly a lot of the
plot points are handled and quickly
written off throughout the season.
Also problematic is the character
of Madame Marie Delphine LaLurie
(Kathy Bates), a much-anticipated
supporting player who Murphy prom-
ised would be five times worse than
Bates’ character in Misery. Based on
the real-life socialite, LaLurie impris-
oned and tortured her black slaves in
the early 1830s, something that is giv-
en some screen time here, contribut-
ing to the “horror” aspect of the show.
Sure Bates is a racist, sadist who liter-
ally puts blood on her hands to smear
all over her face but once you get past
the horrendous nature of this charac-
ter, you begin to wonder just how she
fits in to the overall story. In the end,
she doesn’t and she too, is tossed aside
like something that never happened.
And why was Patti LuPone even
given the guest-starring spot on the
show? She and newcomer Alexander
Dreymon play mother and son who
move in next door to the coven. After
a brief hint of potential romance be-
tween the boy and one of the witches,
they too, are dispatched elsewhere,
serving merely as an unwelcome dis-
traction from the main plot that really
matters.
Things start to pick up eventually in
the penultimate episode (there are 13
here – the middle part is the major let-
down), when the action gets going and
the plot starts moving forward instead
of meandering in pointless, inconse-
quential subjects no one ends up car-
ing about.
The wonderful performances are
still there, even the newcomers to the
anthology Bassett and Bates, who will
reportedly be sticking around for fu-
ture seasons, are a welcome addition
to the cast, with Lange prepared to
leave after season 4. But please, let’s
mark Coven as just a one-off mishap
that will never ever happen again.

