34 FRIDAY 07 FEB
TECHNOLOGY
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Yong Wen
Chua, Osama Awara
technology.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
Return to paper?
I hate wires. Every time I look at
the back of my PC and I see the
bunch of wires, my OCD kicks in.
Luckily, I can usually sit at my desk
and pretend the wires are not there.
Not for the mobile phone. When
you need to charge it, transfer data,
or listen to music, you have to
pluck some bloody cables into it. At
least, you used to. I have managed
to transition to using my mobile
phone without needing any wires
at all, and here’s how you could do
the same. (Caveat: doesn’t work on
all phones; I am using a Nexus 5.)
Power is essential to the phone.
Without juice, your phone might as
well be a formidable piece of brick
designed to kill someone and then
commit seppuku afterwards by
shattering into a million pieces of
glass. The power cable gets the cut
first via wireless charging. With a
wireless charging device, you will
no longer have to plug your phone
to charge it. It’s as convenient as
placing your phone on the charging
device, usually in the form of a mat.
There are two main standards for
wireless charging: Qi (pronounced
chee) and Powermat. Many high
end phones such as the Nexus 5
and some Nokia Lumia phones
support wireless charging directly.
Others require some kind of an add-
on to allow for wireless charging.
Unless you are one of those
annoying people who likes to
broadcast your music taste for the
scrutiny of the others on public
transport, you would probably be
usingsomeearphonesorheadphones
to listen to music on the go. Your
wireless solution to this would be
bluetooth headsets. The price range
is vast, and essentially, you get what
you pay for. If you are an audiophile,
the Logitech UE 9000 is probably the
best you can get at a hefty £300. If
you are willing to take the plunge, I
strongly recommend it. Otherwise,
if you are unwilling to spend,
but still want your audio quality,
stick to your current earphones.
One of the least used feature,
albeit equally important, is the
ability to transfer data to and from
your phone. These can include files,
or even stuff like contacts. Android
phones fare the best in this category,
arguably. Once you connect your
phone to the mobile data network,
or a WiFi network and sign in to your
Google account, your contact details
will automatically get synchronised
to your phone. iOS users have iCloud
and Windows Phone users will have
Microsoft’s services. To transfer files,
you can use cloud storage services
like Dropbox, OneDrive (formely
known as SkyDrive) or Google
Drive. Android users have the
option of using apps like AirDroid
to transfer files on an ad-hoc basis.
There are, however, some things
that still need wires. They are
however, arguably specialised.
For example, if you want to use
your phone as a remote control
for your DSLR camera, you still
need the USB on the go (OTG)
cable. If you want to connect your
phone to the TV, you still need
Maximilian Eggl’s first thoughts on Facebook’s new app
Y
es, Facebook, has
turned 10. Ten years
this giant has been
sucking out our souls,
killing our times and
generally trying to inject itself into
every aspect of our lives. Now they
have introduced their next strategy
in their multi-pronged attack to make
themselves virtually indispensible,
a reader app named paper. Almost
identical to Flipboard, it aims to
deliver a new experience to browsing
Facebook, and general news around
the Internet.
The quote I first read when I
read about Paper was “This would
be Facebook if it had been first
created in 2014”. I cannot agree
more. Doing away with the blue and
somewhat out-dated style of the
website and application, it replaces
everything with individuals little
stories on the bottom with one
randomly selected story filling up
the background. Furthermore this
format is replicated throughout
the entire app, e.g. Headlines,
News etc. All in all everything
looks really futuristic and smooth.
In terms of actual Facebook use,
it tends to everything quite well.
Messages and notifications are
almost the same (although the
double notification of both the
normal Facebook app and then paper
did annoy me to the point that I did
have to turn it off). You can post
statuses, like and comment things
etc. Furthermore the Facebook
profiles just look really great.
This app was billed as the death of
the old Facebook app and looking at it
I can understand why the bloggers of
the Internet predict this. However for
now I just believe it is too different,
feels like it is lacking to many features
to be a real killer. It does show that
Facebook is ready to change things
up and stay current, also it is a good
alternative when you are too tired
of seeing blue all the time though.
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awara
Technology Editors
Facebook has turned 10. However instead of celebrating any sort of
achievemnt, the internet is awash with studies and blogs that seem
to purport the end of the mighty social media site. However the tech
team at Felix do believe that, while facebook has lost a lot of its “cool”
factor, the end of FB is still a long way off. By the way, if you want to
see something quite nifty, have a look at Facebook.com/lookback.
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date
with the newest, wierdest and most futuristic things around
Facebook turns 10
After a month of speculation the new CEO of one of the biggest tech
companies at the moment has been revealed. Satya Nadella, who
was previously in charge of the cloud computing division of MS, will
now take the helm, at what is seen as a crucial time for the company.
Furthermore Bill Gates, the founder of MS, has stepped down as
chairman instead taking the role of “technival advisor”, perhaps
signifying a more hands-on approach to steering his company.
the HDMI. Wireless bandwidth
is just not fast enough for this yet.
I can pretty much live without
connecting my phone to any wire
most of the time. As I mentioned,
you still need wires for some
things, but the list is diminishing
as wireless bandwidth improves.
Tired of all those Wires?
Yong Wen Chua gives you some tips to avoid those pesky things
New Microsoft CEO

