36 FRIDAY 07 FEB
CATNIP catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ask Annie, your friendly Agony Aunt
Help! I’ve been sleeping with my friend,
and it’s been working as an excellent
method of stress release for months. But
with all the pre-Valentine’s excitement
going around at the moment, I’ve
started to think about him differently, I
think I want more. How can I convince
him to give it a go?
Nervous in Knightsbridge
When friends end up sleeping together
on the reg, the heady combination of
friendship and oxytocin is quite likely
to make often-unwanted feelings
form. When developed in this way,
this affects different people at different
rates, which makes it unlikely that
these feelings will be reciprocated.
Although you’ll lose your convenient
stress release, you shouldn’t sleep
with him if you’re not sure that you’re
on the same page, as it’ll just end up
messy for everyone.
Help! I went out with a guy, and we had
a great time (ifyouknowhatimean).
Now he’s asked me out again, but he’s
more keen than I am, and I don’t know
whether I’d be leading him on if I go out
with him again, what should I do?
Leading on in Leicester Square
If you enjoyed seeing him last time,
and you obviously did, you’ll probably
have fun again. Yes, he might be
more keen than you, but it is only a
second date, you’re not committing to
anything. You should give it another
go, and if you’re still not sure if you
like him enough afterwards, you can
always let him down gently afterwards.
Help! I’m addicted to Tinder! I can’t
stop mentally swiping left and right to
everyone that I pass on the street, I’ve
used up all my mobile data, and my
phone battery is always critically low.
I want to break this habit but I don’t
know how, what do I do?
Judgemental on the Jubilee Line
If you have Tinder, you’ll have
noticed that everyone is on Tinder.
The mental judgement of people is
therefore validated, but the personal
inconvenience is problematic. Try and
wean yourself off constant use, limit
yourself to only checking at certain
times of the day. If you’re particularly
worried about what will happen if
you don’t immediately respond to
your messages, you’ve got far bigger
problems than an app addiction.
Help! My housemate has just confessed
to having feelings for me, and now it’s
really awkward. Should I give it a go,
or is a housemate too risky?
Apprehensive in Angel
Getting together with a housemate
is very risky. If it works out and you
end up together, you’re immediately
thrown into the very serious situation
of living together straight away, which
is very intense. If it doesn’t work out,
you’ll end up being jealous every time
they mention a romantic interest, or
you’ll never quite bounce back from
the awkwardness. If it’s meant to be,
it’ll happen once you no longer live
together, so I’d leave it alone for now.
Help! I recently broke up with my
boyfriend of five years, and we’ve been
trying to stay friends, but he keeps
telling me about other girls that he’s
seeing now. I don’t want to know, but
I don’t know how to make him stop
without making it look like I’m jealous.
Any advice?
Heartbroken in Hampstead
He sounds like he’s over exaggerating
his romantic and sexual conquests to
you in order to gain a reaction. This
could be because he’s desperate to
make you think that he’s over it, either
because he hasn’t moved on yet, or
because he thinks that you haven’t. It’s
okay to not want to know, he’s been a
huge part of your life, and it’s natural
that your feelings would still be raw.
Just explain to him that while you are
friends now, you still have to have
boundaries in what you can discuss
while you adapt to life without each
other.
1. It will come back to bite you
There are many consequences to getting a bit inappropriate
with someone in your tutorial group, seminar, or kitchen in
halls. These consequences range from the sweet (you may
end up with an overly-clingy admirer that you just can’t
shake) to the sinister (that person who you decided was no
longer worth being with might channel their jealousy into
making your life a misery). Of course, these are things that
can happen in any situation, but the intensity of emotion is
amplified by the frequency of the interaction.
2. Everyone will know
When you become involved with someone you work with,
or spend a lot of time with, you sacrifice the intimacy
and confidentiality usually encoded in a relationship, be
it sexual or romantic. Details of your relationship will be
open for public discussion, and you have to be prepared to
bear this consequence.
3. It changes things
Assume that it works out well (at least for a while). You
will be sorely mistaken if you think that this isn’t going
to change the way that you do things together, and not
necessarily for the better. If you work together, you might
make biased decisions towards each other’s idea. If you live
together, you might be more inclined to gang up on others
you live with, even if it’s just over doing the washing up.
This isn’t fair on the other people involved, and might be
something you live to regret in the long run.
4. It never ends well
There’s no scenario in which it’s going to be easy to end
a relationship with someone you will continue to see
regularly. Whether you end on good terms or you fall
out horribly, the situation will be tense and unpleasant at
first, and not just for you, for everyone around you as well.
Everyone you both interact with is inevitably a part of your
relationship, and will pick up on the vibe that the two of
you are emitting, and that’s never fun.
Annie’s advice that
Imperial sorely needs
Why you shouldn’t shit where
you eat (Just leave it, yeah?)
Send Annie your problems and suggestions at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
gony Aunt Annie
Whiteley is the
woman who
fought for women’s
cloakroom facilities
at Imperial, and thus is qualified
to solve all your problems.
What
important
advice
should
Annie
dish out
next
week?
Email
any ideas
to the
address
below!
F
elix fanatic looking for
like-minded lover to spend
Wednesday afternoons in
the west basement together.
WLTM writer with GSOH,
preferably who edits Hangman but
could edit science, news or sport
(just not fashion or travel). Message
me and we can arrange a journalistic
rendez-vous, and I reckon we may just
hit all the deadlines.
L
oud but sometimes shy
female WLTM male with
floppy fringe and grade 8
guitar skills to help strum
her strings. Male must be
flawlessly moody but also seductively
sassy, and up for spending hours
musing over life in shadowy rooms,
or debating who was the worst Beatle
(obviously Harrison).
P
ostgraduate biology badass
looking for a pot of gold at
the end of the rainbow of
love. WLTM Irish media
mogul to make films,
podcasts and maybe more with ;).
Must have GSOH, booming laugh and
competency using Windows Movie
Maker 2012. I can Shamrock your
world if you let me.
P
hD student seeks mature
undergrad for cradle-
snatching activities. Enjoys
JCR food, slacking off, and
spending too much time
in Metric. If you want someone with
a bit more Imperial experience, any
ages considered, because you’re only
as young as (the person) you feel!
Annie’s Lonely Hearts
Feeling lonely? The impending Valentine’s Day getting you down? We all know that it’s hard to meet people at Imperial, so Aunt Annie wants to make
it a bit easier for you. If you’re looking for a special someone, missed a connection, or want to let someone know how you feel, send a message to
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk and maybe you’ll find a match here.
See something you like? Send us an email and we’ll pass it on. Let Annie help you get lucky in love.
Y
ou serve me in the bar
all the time. You’re
always wearing a black
shirt and jeans. You
always seem to serve
me quicker than anyone else, and you
always remember that my drink is a
Snakebite. How about tonight, you let
me serve you…

