4 FRIDAY 07 FEB
NEWS
Editors: Aemun Reza,
Nida Mahmud,
Maciej Matuszewski,
Aamna Mohdin
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
fter months of delay
Campus services have
finally given halls residents
a comprehensive guide
to the cleaning provisions provided
in halls. The division has recently
sent students a booklet containing
information about the services the
cleaners will provide in different areas
of the building, along with a list of
equippment available for students to
use. The guide itself also provides tips
on how to keep bedrooms clean.
Campus Services have also released
schedules pinpointing the exact date
each room will be cleaned during the
term, a list of the locations of vacuum
cleaners in halls.
Essentials has also introduced
bundles for cleaning materials,
separated into a bathroom bundle
and a kitchen bundle. For more
informaiton, go to:
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/
accommodation/currentstudents/
livinginhalls/cleaning.
I
mperials new global MBA course
launched, which will make its
teaching available to the world.
Imperial Global MBA is a
part-time online programme
that teaches key business information
via distance learning, so the student
doesn’t need to be present in classes
for most of the programme. The
new course was created due to high
demand from around the world.
An online learning platform called
The Hub has been created by the
Business school to host the new
programme. Students can use The
Hub to interact with each other and
their tutors during lectures and via
forums.
The Dean of Imperial Business
school, Professor Anandalingham
said:
“Online learning has experienced a
real surge in popularity over the last
few years. This is because significant
advancements in technology have
allowed people to effectively learn
and study without having to set foot
in the lecture theatre. Through our
innovative software, students will
get a cutting-edge online learning
experience that will make them feel
that they are on campus. They will
have the chance to really get to know
one another and feel part of Imperial’s
community despite being spread
across the world.”
The classes for this course will begin
in January 2015 and applications for
new students are currently being
accepted.
Gas leak
fears in
Royal College
of Science
building
T
he Chemistry Department’s
Royal College of Science
building was closed for a
short time last week as a
result of a suspected gas
leak.
On the evening of Monday, January 22
all Chemistry staff and students were
sent an email saying that the building
would be closed until next morning
as a result of the leak. However, the
building was tested overnight by EDF
who determined that the scare was a
false alarm.
A spokesperson for Imperial College
London said: “”Imperial received
reports of a drop in pressure in the
natural gas lines accompanied by a
smell of gas in the Chemistry Building
at approximately 18.00 yesterday.
As a precaution, the building was
evacuated and the gas supply shut
off. Gas engineers were immediately
notified and a full test of the building
took place. The engineers found no
trace of gas escaping from anywhere
in the building.
Having established its safety, the
building reopened as normal this
morning.”
Chemistry students were warned
“to be extra careful when using
mercaptans or thiols, which can often
lead to the gassy smells.”
Maciej Matuszewski
News Editor
Maciej Matuszewski
News Editor
Graduating
students leave
thousands of
pounds on
print service
A
freedom of information
request to Imperial
College has revealed
that undergraduate and
taught postgraduate
students graduating from Imperial
College left over £13,465.09 of unused
printer credit on the College’s system
at the end of the 2012/2013 academic
year. This is significantly more than
the same figure for most other UK
universities. StudentsattheUniversity
of Cambridge only left £5,142.23 on
the University’s print service while
University of St Andrew’s students left
£4,302.80.
The College, however, was keen
to point out that “students can
reclaim balances of £10 or more via
an expenses claim form” – a service
that is not available at most other
Universities – and that it actively
tries to dissuade students who are
reaching the end of their course from
buying excessive printer credits.
Furthermore, the College made
assurances that any surplus that is left
unclaimed is always invested back into
the print service infrastructure, for
example funding the “replacement of
swipe card readers by contactless card
readers”. This surplus only represents
8.7% of the total £155,706.60 of printer
credit that was purchased by students
in 2012/2013.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2014.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Nida Mahmud, Aamna Mohdin, Aemun Reza, Maciej Matuszewski Features Editor Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor Marissa Lewis Business Editor James Tsim Science
Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna
Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile Borkhataria Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson, Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park
Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs & Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charity Editor Ben Fernando Travel Editor Chris
Richardson Sports Editor Kunal Wagle Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Copycats Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor Copykittens Jonny
Pratt, Ellen Mathieson, Carol Ann Cheah
National Student Money Week
Meet the Sabbaticals
T
he Financial Support Office, in collaboration with the Imperial
College Union, is running a National Student Money Week event
between 11:00 and 14:00 on Thursday 13 February in the Junior
Common Room.
The aim of our event is to raise awareness of student financial issues and
offer help, advice and money saving tips to help with budgeting your day-
to-day finances. To find out more, visit www.imperial.ac.uk/studentfinance/
currentstudents/nsmw
Come along and meet the Financial Support team and Imperial College
Union for the chance to win some prizes or arrange a money health check.
We look forward to seeing you!
What will we be offering?
– Money saving tips
– Competitions about the cost of living in London, 		
including accommodation and food cost
– Money health check tools and appointments
– Ready Steady Cook competition
Ready Steady Cook
For budding chefs outs there, you might be interested in participating
in our Ready Steady Cook competition! £50 is up for grabs!
For a chance to win £50 just create a meal, using the contents of your
food cupboard (do not buy anything extra), and include the follow-
ing 5 ingredients: Tomatoes, Chicken (vegetarian option Tofu), Leek,
Onion and Mango
Each meal should contain two courses: a main course with either a
starter or dessert.
Entries should include the recipe, a photograph (if possible), and a
total cost of the meal.
You can:
• email your entry to student.funding@imperial.ac.uk
• hand your entry in to the Student Hub (Level 3 Sherfield
Building) or
• hand your entry in at the Money Week event (JCR, 13 Feb).
Entries will close on Monday 17 February (14:00) and the winner will be
announced on Friday 21 February.
The judges will decide on the meal that is the most appetising, inspiring and
the best value for money.
Imperial
launches new
Global MBA
Nida Mahmud
News Editor
Halls residents finally receive comprehensive
guidance about cleaning
Joe Letts
Editor-in-Chief

