6 FRIDAY 07 FEB
FEATURES
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ereira’s Business Insight
Nida Mahmud
Nida Mahmud: What businesses are
you working on?
Marcus Ereira: I tried setting up a
student card with a business partner
in the past. He was previously
studying at UPenn and saw the idea
was successful in the States; we tried
to do something similar in London,
unfortunately it didn’t work as well
as we had liked. I am working on
Tavistock full time with my business
partner Luke; it has grown very
quickly in countries and areas that we
wouldn’t have expected any business
from.
NM: How did you start up Tavistock
Tutors?
ME: It was set up when I was in
school at 17 with Luke, we grew up in
same area so knew each other since
we were kids. I had used tutors from
other agencies and had found some
were charging 45-50% commission.
So I set up my own agency with Luke.
I left school to focus on it full time and
waited for Luke to finish his A-levels
before I started University at Regents
Business School.
NM: Are you looking at starting
other businesses or are you solely
hoping to focus on Tavistock?
ME: I am looking into things, but
it is hard to say what might happen.
Steve Jobs talks about connecting
the dots; you can connect the dots
looking back but you can’t connect
them looking forward. At the moment
Tavistock Tutors is my business
and my priority. As I am generally
interested in business there are things
I have come across and looked into
and read about, whether or not I make
it a priority to dedicate a significant
time towards something other than
Tavistock Tutors is something I am
not a hundred percent sure about. I
am interested in wells out there and it
is difficult to say what might happen
ten years down the line and what else
I might want to do then.
NM: How did you set up Tavistock
Tutors and how are you different to
other similar businesses?
ME: When I started online at
www.tavistocktutors.com, we were
not able to get certain tutors other
agencies had. Some agencies only
recruited from Oxbridge and Ivy
League universities from the states,
just generally the best universities
in the world. I was 17 years old and
didn’t have any money to start out, so
I was out and about trying to recruit
wherever I could. I called up heads
of departments of universities to get
them to refer students and postgrads.
At the beginning our rates were far
cheaper than our general competitors.
At that time rates were cheaper than
others. Most competitors are charging
£55-60 an hour at the moment, we
are significantly cheaper than them
often offering the same tutor at at
£40 an hour. The tutors were still
getting paid about the same whether
they were working with us or them as
we take a smaller commission than
our competitors. At the beginning
we had lower overheads than other
companies so we could afford to do
that, even now we are still able to do
that. I am amazed by the fact some
agencies take 50% commission for
lessons on an ongoing basis.
NM: How did you put together
logistics and figure everything out?
Was it trial and error or did you have
someone helping you?
ME: We didn’t have anyone helping
out, it was mainly Luke and I trying
to organise things and a big part was
trial and error. We spoke to other
agencies to find out how much they
were charging and spoke to tutors to
find out how much they were getting
paid, so we basically tried to find
as many faults as possible with the
system. Other agencies were not very
transparent and tutors weren’t aware
of what was happening. We are the
cheapest in comparison to our direct
competitors and feel it’s good to be
transparent with our rates.
NM: What things have been the
biggest obstacles in the businesses
you have been with?
ME: Obstacles are ongoing. With
Tavistock it was difficult starting with
no money, we needed to get our name
out there. It is easy to go to printing
shops and have them hand out leaflets
on the street, but so many leaflets get
thrown in the bin, so we wanted to do
something different. I saw a bicycle
in the skip one day, I picked it up and
painted it bright orange; it was parked
outside different schools and worked
as a great piece of advertisement that
was very cheap to do. It’s hard to set
up a business when you don’t have
much money and it’s hard working
long hours and not getting paid.
My parents wanted me to finish my
studies, it was also hard to be taken
seriously at a young age. The timing
was helpful in a sense as I was living
at home; I didn’t have expenses and
didn’t need to make any money.
When you are starting a business,
it is likely that you would be
running everything yourself, from
the accounting, HR, running the
marketing and managing the overall
business; it can get difficult to juggle
everything.
NM: What are the key skills needed
for a business?
ME: I believe anyone can go and set
something up, it is really important to
be proactive and enthusiastic about
what you are doing, you have to be
prepared to work long hours. It is
fantastic to see young people setting
up business. 4 years after setting up
Tavistock Tutors we are working crazy
hours, 7 days a week and 13 hour
days, but both Luke and I enjoy it. It
is important to enjoy what you are
doing. There are lots of opportunities
despite the poor economy.
NM: Any other tips?
ME: Some things work for some
people and they don’t necessarily
work for others. I don’t think there’s a
rule book for setting up a business, but
it’s important to be different. You just
need to enjoy what you do. Nobody
should expect to make a fortune at the
start.
T
avistock Tutors was set up by Marcus Ereira and Luke Shelley when
they were just 17 years old. A few years on, the business has grown
tremendously and they have over 300 tutors on their books. They
provide private tutors for GCSE and A-levels as well as extra-curricular
activities. Tavistock Tutors started of advertising the company with a
brightly coloured orange bicycle, and now have their own G Wizz driving around
London. They have clients ranging from the Far East to America and they plan to
be the best agency in the world. I caught up with Marcus to find out more about
the enthralling duo.
News Editor

