14 FRIDAY 28 FEB
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Communist Manifesto: A History
P
re-History: The world that
formed The Manifesto was
a world in the process of,
to use Karl Polanyi’s term,
a great transformation.
The American and French revolutions
had shown once and for all that the old
absolutist orders were anachronisms
that had somehow forgotten to
die; the industrial revolution had
thoroughly transformed the basic
modes of capitalist production and
with them, the history of the future
world. The industrial revolution in
turn transformed society: in 1770, the
year Wordsworth was born, London’s
population was still somewhat less
than 1 million people, but a year after
Wordsworth died in 1851, Britain
had an urban majority and London
a population of around 3 million.
The visibility of these demographic
transformations are reflected by the
publication of Malthus’ Essay on the
Principle of Population in 1798 and
the start of modern census taking at
the turn of the century. Similarly the
landscape was becoming similarly
deformed, Blake’s ‘dark Satanic Mills’
date to the opening decade of the 19th
century. However, the fact that Blake
found the factories so remarkable
shows how little developed
industrialism was; the mills would
lose their chthonic terror in the wisps
of a mid-century miasmic fog.
It was in these new industrial hell-
holes that socialist ideas were born: the
first major Saint-Simonian journal was
L’Industrie, while Robert Owen spent
a spell as a Manchester mill manager.
Proudhon made careful use of the
new science of political economy in
order to advocate his anarchism. Their
motivations were in differing degrees
compassion and self-righteous moral
horror at the sight of the collapse of
social values that accompanied these
rapid demographic changes.
Meanwhile, the true socialist
impetus came from the gradual
development of the working class
and the growing consciousness
that something needed to be done.
It was mainly the artisanal sectors
that were interested in theoretical
lucidity for their programmes which
were coming more and more to be
called ‘communism’; the members
of Communist League which
commissioned The Manifesto were
mainly tailors and woodworkers.
Totracetheintellectualdevelopment
of The Manifesto, however, we must
also look to German philosophy.
Hegel, born like Wordsworth in 1770,
was the undisputed giant of German
philosophy. The relative sophistication
of German philosophy compared to
its French or British alternatives at
the time is probably a product of the
weakness of the German bourgeoisie,
forced to conduct a purely intellectual
revolt.
Thus, for the most part, the young
Hegelians levelled their criticisms at
organised religion and other kosher
topics. Marx held these young
Hegelians and their idealism in some
disdain (see for instance the biting
early texts, The Holy Family and The
German Ideology). However, possibly
via Feuerbach (it depends on the
Marxist you ask: Terry Eagleton would
say yes, Lukàcs no), Marx developed
a materialist conception of history
and the Hegelian dialectic which was
central to the political program put
This was a change of world-historical
importance and has naturally been
the focus of much study. In the rest
of Europe the development of the
working classes, and certainly of
working class consciousness, lagged
somewhat behind Britain.
The fact that there had been so
many reasons for the development
of the Communist Manifesto, both
social and intellectual, led some
critics to accuse Marx and Engels of
unoriginality. This is a meaningless
accusation in so far that if we are to
say that ideas have a sound basis
in social situations, we are merely
parroting a Marxist point. However
in terms of theoretical rigour, sheer
style and insight which is original in
that it revealed itself to no others,
Marx (and to a lesser extent Engles)
forth in The Manifesto.
Important as the academic heritages
are, the real reason for the birth of
communism, however, was the birth
of a new class. To use EP Thompson’s
term, the working class was ‘made’ in
Britain between 1780 and, say, 1830 in
the first revolts where the proletariat
expressed a certain measure of class
consciousness.
The notorious maturity of the
English working class – mature
because older; and older as England
was the first industrial country –
meant that the Chartist revolt could
beaslargeandasnon-violentasitwas.
divergent German socialist parties,
there only being a German language
edition. However, by 1851 Engels
could write that “The first act of
the revolutionary drama on the
continent of Europe has closed”
and the continent of Europe settled
down to two incontinent decades of
economic growth. Unsurprisingly,
The Manifesto made little headway
in this period, with no successful
translations. This was alleviated a
little by the foundation of the First
International, the founding of the
two German workers’ parties which
were to become the SPD and Marx’s
newfound notoriety as an eloquent
and powerful defender of the Paris
Commune in 1871.
The first big break for The Manifesto
camewiththetrialofAugustBebeland
relevant.
Following the start of the ‘Great
Depression’ in the mid-1870s and
the subsequent growth of the various
European workers parties, The
Manifesto’s influence spread. This, it
must be said, was little aided by the
publication of the first Volume of
Capital in 1867: it was almost certainly
very little understood or even read by
the majority of the literate workers,
so never mind the workers in general.
However in countries such as
England, where the workers’ parties
were still of little threat, the text itself
was met with universal admiration by
those qualified to know and its general
influence may have diffused down to
the lower ranks of the new Labour
Party via its leaders. This was not to
last; Lloyd George, having studied
economics at Oxford, could boast at
never having read a line of Capital, but
then, Lloyd George had been forced to
institute the outlines of a welfare-state
system and so feelings towards Marx
were probably running a little higher.
Despite this very real growth in
spread and reach, The Manifesto’s
impact before WWI was fairly limited.
Despite the appearance of the new
mass workers parties – by 1912 the
SPD was the biggest party in Germany
with a million members on the eve
of the war – there were somewhere
in the region of 100 to 150 thousand
copies of The Manifesto printed in
Germany between 1848 and 1918. It
also seems apparent that the working
class had not absorbed many of the
ideas in The Manifesto. Classics of
working-class literature such as The
Ragged Trousered Philanthropist
show just how limited the initial
reach of Marxist ideas were amongst
the working classes, and even in
intellectual radical sectors of the
working class, Darwinism was a more
ubiquitous intellectual preoccupation
than anti-capitalism. Socialism,
however, had become a recognised
force and the name of Marx was also
famous.
I will not write about the spread
and growth nor the decline and fall
of Marxism in the short twentieth
century other than the very general
remark that it cannot be understood
withoutacarefullookatthestateofthe
USSR and other countries around the
world. However, it must be mentioned
that nothing did so much to make
Marx an intrinsic part of our collective
culture as the initial existence in the
20th century of the Soviet Union.
Marxism became the hegemonic
expression of revolutionary left-wing
discontent because of the Soviet
Union’s economic and political
successes. Similarly, the decline came
with the growing realisation of its
economic and political failures. Moral
concern was of next to no importance
on either side.
Christy Kelly
Writer
is unsurpassed by any thinker of his
age. It was the Communist Manifesto
which was to first bring the attention
of the world to Marxist doors. Within
weeks of the Manifesto’s publication
the Spectre that had been haunting
Europe exploded in an inferno of
social revolt, the fires of which spread
throughout the whole of Europe. The
working classes of Europe had been
inflamed.
Pre-Soviet Influence
Following the outbreak of the
1848 revolutions, The Communist
Manifesto probably had a small but
real impact, amongst the variously
Wilhelm Liebknecht, the founders of
the SPD, as well as the lesser-known
Adolf Hepner, a socialist journalist,
for treason in 1872. These three had
been put on trial for objecting to the
Franco-Prussian War and during the
proceedings the prosecution read
out the entire text of The Manifesto.
This was a rather remarkable event,
because it led to the first large-print
run of The Manifesto, published
legally only because it was part of
court-proceedings. The 1872 preface
to the text is generally compiled with
the text and explains briefly which
elements of the text are no longer
zeno.org

