18 FRIDAY 28 FEB
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The naked truth about art history
I
n the retrospective for legendary
British artist Richard Hamilton,
currently running across both the
Tate Modern and the ICA, we have
the opportunity to see the piece
he was working on before his death
in 2011. Le Chef-d’oeuvre Inconnu,
inspired by a Balzac story, shows
three masters of European painting,
Poussin, Titian, and Courbet, studying
a computer enhanced reclining nude.
In a way, this piece neatly links a theme
that has been running throughout
art history – that of the female nude
– tracing it from the days of Titian,
through five centuries, to the current
world of Photoshop and advertising.
However, the legacy of the female
nude goes even further back; along
with the landscape and the still life, the
figurative nude forms one of the key
cornerstones of the artistic canon.
The first known examples of the
female nude can be traced back to
the Venus Figurines – prehistoric
depictions of women with exaggerated
proportions, thought to represent
fertility goddesses. The oldest of these,
the Venus of Hohle-Fels, dates back to
over 35,000 years ago. This theme then
ran through Greek statuary, forming
the concept of the classical nude, which
was to be referenced by artists for the
nexttwomillennia.TheseGreekstatues
were used to decorate temples, and
included representations of gods such
as Aphrodite and Apollo, who were
thought to be perfect representations
of physical form.
While the taste for the classical nude
has declined somewhat in the Modern
Era, it is still a theme that greatly
influences the art produced today. But
what kind of message do these works
convey? Are they celebrations of the
female form, or just another means by
which society objectifies and exploits
women?
If we are to take the idea of
‘Objectification’ literally, then it is easy
to argue that all figurative art is a form
of objectification; when an artist paints,
sculpts, or prints an image of a person,
they are essentially transforming that
person’s image into a physical object,
be it a canvas or a statue. Therefore,
it could be said, that this process of
objectification is gender neutral; when
a person is represented in art, they are
always objectified, whether they are
male or female.
However, this argument ignores
the proportion of male to female
nudes. While male nudes may be
commonplace in galleries, they are
swamped by their female counterparts.
The ‘Guerilla Girls’, a group of feminist
activists who address sexism in the
arts, demonstrate this idea succinctly
with their poster Do Women have to
be Naked to get into the Met. Museum?,
which states that ‘85% of the nudes [in
the Metropolitan Museum] are female’.
With such a disparity it is easy to see
that the balance of power is shifted far
towards the men of the art world.
This isn’t such a surprise; after all,
the ‘Male Gaze’, described by feminist
theorist Laura Mulvey, is imposed
upon the art world by the largely
heterosexual, white men who control a
large proportion of the industry.
Another issue with the comparison
between male and female nudes is
the method of presentation; while
the male nudes of classical antiquity
show muscular olympians, standing
tall and proud, the female statuary is
generally soft, rounded, and inherently
‘feminine’, promoting the female ‘ideals’
of grace and beauty. This disparity has
helped to form the societal pressures
put upon women to look good for men,
and promoted the idea of the ‘ideal
female beauty’.
This view is represented in Titian’s
stunning work Venus of Urbino (1583),
which shows the ideal reclining nude;
gazing into the viewer, with a hand
placed gently over her genitals, this
Venus is the paragon of female softness
and sensuality. Even painters who
espoused this societal ideal of beauty,
such as Peter Paul Rubens, whose
voluptuous nudes inspired the word
‘Rubenesque’, still imposed their ideas
of ideal beauty upon the female form,
making women little more than objects
of desire.
This idea of the nude objectifying
women is complicated by the uneasy
relationship between the Church
and the European art world during
the Middle Ages, where nudity was
discouraged. The only depictions of
nudity that weren’t frowned upon
were where the element was necessary,
such as in biblical stories; if one wants
to find examples of nudes from this
period, one needs look no further that
the vast wealth of depictions of ‘The
Fall’ painted by European painters.
While this theme of patriarchal religion
suppressing the very idea of female
sexuality is a familiar one, the argument
that artists who painted female nudes
were, in some way, ‘rebelling’ against
the oppression of women is laughable.
Rather than being a celebration of
female sexual independence, on the
whole nudes contain strong elements
of erotica, and are vastly an exaltation
of male sexual desire.
This inherent erotica can be found
in a number of female nudes, an idea
supported by art critic John Berger,
who states that female nudes reflect
the ‘prevailing power relationship
between females portrayed in art and
the predominantly male audience’
.
Some works featuring female nudes
are so dehumanising that they almost
become a self-parody; an example
can be seen in Courbet’s L’Origine
du Monde, which is quite simply an
extreme close up of female genitals;
we do not see the woman’s face, her
arms and legs are outside of the frame;
she is no longer human. Still, this does
not go as far as the work by British
sculptor Allen Jones, who quite literally
transforms women into objects, such
as tables and chairs.
Even artists who present women in a
way that is less obviously objectifying
imbue their subjects with heavy doses
of erotica. Degas’ nudes are often
painted performing routine activities,
such as washing; ‘they are nude’
,
Degas seems to state, ‘because they
are bathing, it is completely normal’
.
However, these works are still highly
erotic, and place the viewer into the
role of voyeur, which in some ways is
a more insidious representation of the
power imbalance. And nudes need
not be beautiful in order to be erotic
or objectifying; the work of Schiele is
grotesque, showing emaciated, twisted
forms. But instead of being horrifying
– and perhaps this is a mark of Schiele’s
genius – the paintings seem very
sexually charged, conveying an idea of
syphilitic sexuality – love in the time of
cholera, if you will.
Fred Fyles investigates the depiction the female nude in art
throughout history, and asks, is it exploitative?
Throughout the history of art there
have been a number of artists who have
sought to challenge the idea of what a
nude should be. Two examples would
be Manet’s Olympia, and Picasso’s Les
Demoiselles D’Avignon, both female
nudes that caused a shock when they
were exhibited; while the controversy
can be attributed in some part to
the painting style – more so for the
Picasso – a large amount came from
the fact that the women portrayed
were prostitutes. This idea, of society
shaming female sexuality, slots in
nicely between religious oppression
of women and objectification of the
female form in the foundation of our
patriarchal society. A counterargument
could be made for the paintings of
the late Francis Bacon, whose nude
studies of both men and women were
naturalistic to the point of grotesque;
however, this is still an example of
Bacon using the female form as an
object with which he makes a point on
the nature of beauty.
While some of the language I have
used in this article may seem strong, I
don’t want this to be seen as a polemic
against the female nude. I believe that
most of the works mentioned, although
they contribute to the debasement of
womeninsociety,arehugelyinfluential,
and incredibly moving masterpieces. I
do not believe that people need to stop
viewing such works, but perhaps you
should take a bit of time to explore the
work of female artists who are in charge
of their own image, such as Pipilotti
Rist, Yoko Ono, and Nan Goldin. All
that I ask is that people approach the
art that they view with a bit more
nuance; ‘Art for Art’s Sake’ is all well
and fine, but the works artists produce
cannot be separated from the society in
which they were made any more than
they can be removed from the medium
with which they’re formed. That’s the
naked truth.
Richard Hamilton, Le Chef-d'oeuvre inconnu 1, 2011 © The Estate of Richard Hamilton
Edouard Manet, Olympia, 1863

