22 FRIDAY 28 FEB
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What would you say to a fresher? Creative Writing students answer
Notes to a Fresher
I know what you are. I can tell, with just one glance.
You see, I’ve had a lot of experience with your type. That makes it easy to categorise you.
Let me explain.
There are three types of maths students: the geeks, the party animals and the Asians. Stereotypical, but true.
All of them have held me at some point. The Asians treat me well, keeping me clean, while the party animals
toss me into the depths of their bag where I’m surrounded by a terrible stench. The geeks leisurely flick
through, while everyone else frantically turns pages, trying to cram for the next exam.
No matter how they treat me, I do know that they love me. I am popular and well written. My contents are
the basics that every mathematician needs to know.
Now, I can feel you wanting to toss me into the corner of the room, ignoring me and piling horrible sticky
things on top of me. Don’t.
Even though I know who you are, I’ll help you study. Take care of me, and I’ll take care of you. I’ll make sure
you pass that exam. I’ll do my best, and that’s all you’ll need, I guarantee.
If you don’t, if you spill your drinks over me and let my pages be torn, I assure you that you’ll have a hard
time when it comes to revising. Plus, the library will give me to a more appreciative user and add penalties
to the meagre remains of your student loan. It’s in your interest to look after me.
So, let’s get to work.
Dearest New Imperialite,
Ahhhhhh.
Feel the satisfaction you get from this airy sigh that is not weighed
down by uncompleted tasks that hang on your mind like curtains
closed. Taste the lightness of being unattached to eternal objectives –
ongoing – as a night train on endless tracks made of Bases of endless
Wobble.
Ahhhhhh.
Enjoy the sharp end of this sigh – its finiteness – just like all the
separate days which you have lived so far. For soon, each day will be
a lump of plasticine which you can press and watch agglutinate to
merge – merge…
When expostulating spirits have you defeated and you are ready to
fall upon your own sword, remember: nothing contributes so much
to tranquilize the mind and excite the body as a steadfast, firm and
repetitive grip of purpose, a point on which the soul may fix its
intellectual eye.
Athenaeum
I sense it in the heartbeats that throb in my stairwell, harmonising
with the hum of computers. Fresh faces, bright with potential, at
home between my stacks. Dark follows fast on the heels of the day,
heralding the feast ahead. Daily sacrifice is inevitable and all I must
do is wait. Shadowed eye sockets and sly sips of coffee, heads slumped
on desks, but even oblivion offers no release.
Seasons fade into one another and the zealous swell in number,
clamouring to claim choice spots. I’m sated from within as they eat
and dream and worship me with work.
The long, hollow summer stretches ahead. And I wait. And think of
those who’ve emerged unscathed to face their futures, and those who
are yet to come.
Dear Human,
Pardon the informality. Pips is insisting that we inquire of you: do you enjoy a slice of red leicester on
occasion? Also, Mickey would like to know your shoe size.
Without further ado, let us take this opportunity to welcome you to 74b, Wilson House student halls. Our
previous human – a sad day, the day of his departure – has completed his term with us. He contributed
tirelessly to our food supplies and deposited a magnificent stench from his soles on every fabric and surface.
His scent will remain with us forever.
Let us be clear, we do not rule over you; on the contrary, we are your family. Our ideology is grounded in
core family values: Provision – essential for family wellbeing. Discipline – a necessary reformative tool.
You will come to see our shared occupancy is mutually beneficial.
In due course, you will receive a full briefing on the terms of your tenancy. Until that time, please be aware
you must not plug any small holes or crevices you may find upon arrival - for example, along the skirting
boards. This is a strict condition of occupancy. You would be wise to comply.
Wishing you well,
Minnie
Jeremiah Vocaturo
Physics w/ Theoretical Physics, 3rd Year
Cassandra Yong
2nd Year Mathematics
Chloe Houghton
Physics, 4th Year
Kristjana,
Biochemistry, 2nd year
Anon
Physics, 3rd Year

