24 FRIDAY 28 FEB
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson
music.felix@gmail.com
T
he band of the moment may
have been Foals, but there
was very capable support
from American band Cage
the Elephant. As with a lot
of supporting bands, I had only heard
a handful of their songs. However,
they performed them like they were a
leading act, causing mosh pits rarely
found during a supporting act. The
audience sang along to nearly all of
their songs, such as Aberdeen and
Shake Me Down. They could have
easily been a headlining act and I can’t
wait to see them again, whenever that
may occur. This is a band who are
well-deserving of their co-headlining
tour in America with Foals in May.
Of course, it was all about Foals.
Having masterfully headlined their
first major UK festival, Latitude, in
the summer, they were ready for the
first of their two sold-out nights,
on February 14th, at the legendary
Alexandra Palace. Prelude, from their
their latest album Holy Fire, is a great
Foals show their thoroughbred lineage
AMS album of the week
Metronomy have had a surprisingly long
journey to their current position. Started
by Joseph Mount all the way back in 1999,
it took until 2006 for the first album, fully
instrumental Pip Paine (Pay the £5000
You Owe), to be released. 2008 saw the
first recognisably “Metronomy” release,
with second album Nights Out getting a
reasonable amount of critical attention,
if not quite proving the breakthrough it
deserved to be. It was in 2011, with The
English Riviera, that Metronomy finally became the big deal they’d always
threatened to become. Big hits The Look and The Bay, along with a Mercury
prize nomination, saw a huge incerase in both sales and interest. This is the first
time they’ve had to deal with expectation, so can they pull it off?
Lead single I’m Aquarius, released last November, definitely raised
expectationsfurther.Itwasthesamesleek,sexyelectropopthatmadethemsuch
a hit, but that’s no bad thing. The rest of the album is a lot more adventurous,
and it’s hard to know how to feel about it. The Upsetter and Monstrous are really
washed out and dreamy, whilst Love Letters has a stomping honky tonk piano
that could work in an Elton John track. Month of Sundays sounds like early
Shins with synths (which obviously works), before developing into an almost
PinkFloydforthemodernagetypeaffair(whichobviouslydoesn’t).BoyRacers
is a sleek, instrumental electropop track, but it comes across a bit like Hot Chip
having a really bad day rather than as anything of interest. Call Me is possibly
the highlight for me. Frantic and angular, with Joe’s breathy high pitched vocals
at their very best. It’s an absolute belter. The Most Immaculate Haircut is not.
Quite bizarrely, it’s a fairly average indie rock track. Reservoir is another great
electropop track but then Never Wanted sounds like the worst of the 80s.
The album is fairly incohesive. There are some really great tracks here, but
there’s also a few real missteps. It seems like they were scared of falling into the
trap of just reproducing The English Riviera and have ended up trying too hard
to be different. The result is a bit messy, and on some levels really frustrating.
The best tracks here sound like natural progressions from Nights Out and The
English Riviera, and if they’d just let this album come naturally I think it could
have been highly enjoyable. As it is, it’s definitely not an album I’m going to be
revisiting in full. This is definitely ripe for cherry picking.
Metronomy - Love Letters
way for the band to come in, slowing
building up to a climax. The crowd
understandably went wild, moving in
waves forward and back. People were
falling over constantly. People at the
front were being crushed. There were
mosh pits all over the Palace and then
they played their next track, Hummer,
one of their brilliant first singles which
they did not even put onto their debut
album Antidotes. This would normally
be a type of song which people
wouldn’t necessarily know and a risky
choice to put so early. Not so for Foals.
The live version is different to the
studio version and it works just like
every other song with people singing
and dancing like crazy as if it was an
album song.
Whilst the older material made the
crowd go wild, the songs from Holy
Fire produce an even greater reaction.
During My Number, the ultimate anti-
Valentine’s Day song, the crowd was
singing much louder than the band
could play and you couldn’t really hear
vocalist Yannis Philippakis, during
it. Perhaps he was just admiring his
work as he orchestrated the crowd
with ease. The waves of people
pushing forward and back continued.
The crowd had not eased up as they
may have done for other bands and
this was due to the hits continually
coming. I was told by a random person
“don’t go near the front, you will die”;
that certainly didn’t stop me or others
doing so.
Providence was a particular
highlight for me, as the mosh pit
opened up once again, taking over
easily half the width of Alexandra
Palace. People then kneeled down and
started hitting the ground like it was
a tribal ritual. Soon there was a mass
of people hitting the ground, and then,
as expected the crowd rushed into the
pit and went in for the party of their
lives. Foals definitely know how to
have a party and they were making
it extra special after having been
“everywhere to Timbuktu” and all they
wanted to do was to “come back and
play here”. Despite this, Philippakis
did not jump from balconies feet first,
as he had done in Dublin, but merely
climbed up the speakers at one point.
Did it make a difference to the show
they gave? Hell no. They don’t need
tricks, crazy stunts or a light show
to make a great gig. However, I must
point out that they got their light show
going with lasers after Philippakis was
requested to “get your tits out or your
lasers”.
Spanish Sahara, from Total Life
Forever, was a slower song but it
had a great light show with the
aforementioned lasers, and it led
to a massive sing-along once again.
When you hear 10,000 people
singing along to the same song, it is
just unexplainable and it is the most
incredible thing. The band ended their
main setlist with Inhaler where the
band let rip with their instruments
and the crowd bounced even more so
than before.
The band then left after a criminally
short eleven song main set. They had
certainly pleased me with this but I
was waiting, for I knew more had to
come, and it sure did. Coming on for
The French Open, it was all coming
together for the end: Two Steps Twice.
This is easily one of the best songs to
end a show. Like Prelude, they built
it up slowly but over a longer time,
around eight minutes of building
up in fact. The crowd was still going
wild, again hitting the ground like a
tribe, but now, possibly, beginning to
tire. That is until the legendary ‘Ba-
ba-ba-ba’ part and the drums kick in
and everyone is screaming “That’s one
step, one step, two step”. The crowd
reaches its climax and so did Foals.
In that one minute of the end of Two
Steps Twice, Foals had cemented their
place as one of the best live bands. I
left in pain, with a bruise over my
face, a lost phone (kinda worth it) and
saddened that this was the end of the
show. For this reason, I can not wait
for September where I will be at the
front watching them headline Bestival.
A short 13 song set would leave
some disappointed after three
amazing albums for some bands but
not for those who had seen Foals on
Valentine’s Day at Alexandra Palace,
or at any day/place, for they are quite
possibly the best live band in the UK.
Stuart Masson
T
he Strypes are a young
band, having just released
their debut album Snapshot
in late 2013. They are
also young in that every
member is under the age of 19. Their
lack of original songs doesn’t stop
them from playing a blistering set of
23 songs in Shepherd’s Bush Empire,
mainly thanks to them playing a lot of
covers from bands such as Ramones
(Rockaway Beach) and The Kingsmen
(Louie Louie) on top of their own
songs.
The Strypes have not produced
anything groundbreaking, instead
taking very strong influences from 60s
and 70s music, as evident from their
covers. This makes for a really fun
time.
Starting with What a Shame, it
certainly isn’t a shame as the crowd
opens up a mosh pit from the start
and it never goes away due to this
band making sure the crowd has a fun
time. They smash through songs in
quick time, but they never feel rushed
and the crowd were in for a great
rock’n’roll party. It is evident that
they have learnt a lot from their time
supporting Arctic Monkeys during
their AM tour (although sadly not
Alex Turner’s witty lyric-writing).
This is a very new band and they
should be proud of what they have
done in such a small amount of time,
particularly their live show which
involves the crowd a great deal. They
should be able to make the step-up
to Brixton if they were to make a few
more albums. They play so well that
they deserve to be one of the next big
bands but, unfortunately, Snapshot
was definitely not one of the better
albums of last year.
With such a limited number of
original songs, they manage to play
Strypes - obvious pattern with mixed results
Aiden Langan
Music Writer
through the whole album, albeit in
a different order. However, it is the
covers that show the band at their
best. Perhaps with a few better songs,
they will be more than a very good
cover band.
Ending with You Can’t Judge a Book
by the Cover, this is not a band who
people should judge by their age but
by their music, which they perform
really well. They need to continue
their great live show, but with more of
their own songs for next time.
Aiden Langan gives his thoughts as love is in the air with Foals at Ally Pally

