25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 28 FEB
MUSIC
A
healthy mixture from
all five albums, it
was definitely a best
of Phoenix setlist
at Brixton Academy
on the 12th February. Starting with
Entertainment from their recent
album Bankrupt, the crowd went
crazy from the start. This was
understandable due to the fact that
this was Phoenix’s first UK tour since
the Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix days
(not counting their 2013 show in the
criminally small Shepherd’s Bush
Empire). Having been around 15
years, this band has definitely built up
to have an incredible live show.
Playing many hits from the Grammy
winning Wolfgang Amadeus Phoenix,
including Lasso and Lisztomania,
the band seemed to have a lot of
fun, despite the little amount of
conversationwiththecrowd.Regularly
entering the crowd, vocalist Thomas
Mars caused regular stampedes from
the crowd to reach out for him. He did
this with what seemed like little care,
but every so often you’d get a glimpse
from him and the rest of the band that
showed they were having the time of
their lives.
They played through many hits
which they have slowly built up over
the years and Too Young, from their
first album Untitled, was a nice return
to their origins and the mixture of
songs over their career was a nice
feeling, after seeing many bands who
rarely play their oldest stuff.
The most magical moment
Phoenix rise from the flames
occurred during the ending of
Sunskrupt! (a mixture of Love Like
the Sunset and Bankrupt) when a
rare mistake occurred. The ending
seemed ruined as the guitarist and
bassist could not get the timing right
but alas the guitarists stopped, came
together and finished the song with
true style looking into each other and
causing a great feeling of intimacy in
the 5000-capacity academy.
Crowd-favourite 1901 caused
everyone to come closer to Mars again
due to his returning to his natural
position, on the barrier with the
crowd, and Brixton continued to go
mental. It seemed like a party which
would not end. But alas, the band left
the stage and the crowd screamed for
the return of this French band.
They returned and played an eight-
song epic encore, which included a
huge disco ball for If I Feel Better,
Mars said it was “a dancing song” and
Brixton sure did dance.
Nicolas Godin from Air entered for
Playground Love, an Air song Mars
guests on. This was a moment which
only involved Mars, Godin on piano
and one guitarist and was a beautiful
and again intimate moment. Their
second guest was Sebastien Tellier
who entered by sitting on a speaker
and, like Godin, played piano. It was
an honour to hear Mars sing in French
for once with some of Tellier’s songs.
Tellier ended his guestship with a
guitar solo from Funky Squaredance,
a personal favourite from Untitled,
and Brixton went mad. I felt Tellier
was slightly too obscure for the crowd
but it was definitely a nice touch for
Phoenix to do, who went way past
what needed to be done to make the
crowd not only happy but beaming
with joy.
The encore culminated in Mars
running around Brixton at the end
and crowd surfing back to the stage in
a reprise of Entertainment. A victory
lap for an incredible live show and a
band who you need to see during the
rare occurrence that they return to the
UK.
Aiden Langan
Music Writer
LITE by name, full fat by nature
M
ath rock is a fairly
niche genre.
Featuring a chaotic
mixture of different
time signatures,
tempo changes and abrupt stylistic
alterations, its extreme technical
nature makes it very difficult to play
and, for a lot of people, very difficult
to listen to. However, it is a genre with
a very strong cult following, of which
I would definitely count myself. HOU
Project are a London-based Japanese
promotions company who put on
gigs by Japanese bands who might
otherwise struggle to come to Europe.
A friend and I went to an all-dayer they
put on a year or two ago (headlined by
the incredible Toe), and it was one of
the best days of music I’ve ever been
to. So, when we saw that they were
putting on another great Japanese
math band, LITE, it was very hard to
resist.
The first act we managed to see
was Alarmist. Hailing from Dublin,
this instrumental four-piece were
apparently performing for the first
time in London. The set delivered
didn’t seem to be marked by any nerves
though, as they performed a very
capable half hour of tight instrumental
math rock. They sounded a lot like
Atlas-era Battles with perhaps less of
the pop sensibility. It was definitely an
interesting watch, and I’m marking
this lot down as one to watch.
The next band on were Delta Sleep.
They are very clearly a product of
the excellent British math rock scene
fathered by the likes of Colour and
This Town Needs Guns. Featuring
vocals (a one off at this gig) and an
extremely schizophrenic approach
to their musical style, they strongly
reminded me of Tubelord, although
a lot jazzier and featuring a few less
heavy sections. It’s a sound I absolutely
adore, and considering that all of
the greats in the scene have broken
up (or replaced their lead singer and
become really shit) a new band taking
it on with such aplomb is extremely
exciting.
I’veactuallyseenThePhysicsHouse
Band before. I caught them back in
2012, and I really didn’t enjoy it. It
was all a bit too much. Unrelentingly
loud and fast, it didn’t have any of
the subtlety or craft that makes this
genre so rewarding to listen to. On
some levels, it almost seemed like a
cartoonish parody of math rock. I may
have also somewhat drunkenly and
certainly very snobbishly described
them as Brontide for morons.
Seeing them live these days (or
listening to their 2013 EP, Horizons /
Rapture) will show you that not much
has changed. It’s still all a bit much.
That’s not to say that it’s not enjoyable.
The excellent Titan is a definite
highlight. The slow build up to a jazzy,
mathy jam is a really great blend and it
shows that they do have the potential
to write legitimately great music.
It’s just they don’t seem to utilise it
properly the rest of the time.
The rest is the full-on balls-to-the-
wall math rock I didn’t really like
first time around. Admittedly, the
absolutely phenomenal Abraxical
Solapse pulls it off by just being, well
absolutely phenomenal. It definitely
showcases the band’s real ability to
write great catchy, pulsating sections.
The fact it jams about 40 of them into
just over four minutes is a slight issue.
The real issue is the rest of the songs,
where half of the upbeat sections aren’t
catchy or pulsating. For me, great math
rock has to ebb and flow. You should
have to wait through prettier, softer
sections to get to the exciting upbeat
stuff. It’s the context that makes the
good bits in songs so good. Imagine a
pop song that was just a long series of
choruses, or a Black Sabbath song that
was just intro riff after intro riff. You
can’t just give people lots of the best
bits, you have to ration them to give
them the full effect.
I should probably say something
about the actual show they put on. It
was pretty good. A large proportion
of the crowd seemed to be enjoying
it a lot, and I can definitely appreciate
they were doing what they do pretty
well. The fact I find what they do quite
tedious did put a bit of a damper on
it though.
The headliners, LITE, really showed
the rest of the bands how it’s done.
Over the course of their hour and a
quarter long set they managed to be
both beautiful and fragile, as well as
crushingly heavy and overwhelmingly
joyous. This was the last date of their
European tour, and you could tell they
wanted to go out with a bang. They
gave it everything, even extending
past curfew by over half an hour.
Their sound is fairly typical of the
Japanese math rock I’ve heard. A
heavy reliance on stop start type stuff
is underpinned with a strong groove
and a generally uplifting mood. LITE
do throw in a bit of a heavier edge into
some of their stuff, with the overall
effect being absolutely sensational.
Math rock at its best has all the
technicality without sounding like
it. LITE have an uncanny knack for
this. They make it sound so easy,
when in reality, a copy of the sheet
music would make the vast majority
of bands sob into their hands. It’s
unbelievably complex, but it doesn’t
sound forced. The setlist was a great
combination of old and new. With
lots of old favourites such as Ef and
the unbelievably dancey Infinite
Mirror mixed in with tracks off the
more electronic oriented new album
Installation, they really showcased
their vast range of fantastic material.
An unexpected highlight was new
album track Bond. Sounding like Toe
on speed, it completely blew me away.
Now, due to the very nature of math
rock, it is extremely difficult to dance
to. At any moment they can change
time signature or tempo and throw
you completely off. To dance at a math
rock gig, in front of fellow math rock
afficionados, is therefore a huge risk.
From the moment LITE hit the stage,
nobody seemed to give a shit. There
was dancing all over the shop. I’m
talking wall to wall dancing.
Everything was running late, and
the venue was literally so hot there
was sweat dripping down the walls
(I accidentally touched it at one
point and it was awful), and yet the
atmosphere was what I can only
describe as jubilant. Having a crowd
singing along to a big chorus is
pretty standard, but when you’ve got
them singing along to instrumental
math rock you’re onto a winner. It’s
hard to describe what it is, but there
is something just overwhelmingly
happy about LITE’s music that really
resonated with the crowd.
It was a really special show to have
witnessed. Everybody in the venue
seemed to be ecstatic they were there.
I definitely was.
Stuart Masson reviews a line up chocked full of math rock from home and abroad

