27
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 28 FEB
FILM
Stranger by the Lake
Director: Alain Guiraudie
Writer: Alain Guiraudie
Starring: Pierre Deladonchamps,
Christophe Paou, Patrick d’Assumçao
Runtime: 97 minutes
Certification: 18
Fred Fyles
Treasured Writer
With perhaps the notable exception
of ‘literally’, it is difficult to think of a
word in the English language that is
used so extensively and erroneously
as ‘Hitchcockian’. A word that actu-
ally applies to a very certain set of
criteria, used extensively by the great
Alfred Hitchcock in his innumerable
films, has now become so diluted as to
have lost its meaning. An icy blonde?
Hitchcockian. A false accusation?
Hitchcockian. Any hint of tension?
So Hitchcockian. This makes is all the
more refreshing to use the word to
describe Alain Guiraudie’s latest film
Stranger by the Lake, a shimmering
mirage of tension, deceit, and dan-
ger, that fully deserves the moniker of
‘Hitchcockian’.
Taking place at an idyllic lake in the
south of France, Stranger by the Lake
unfolds over the course of ten con-
secutive days; men swim in the water,
sunbathe, and go off to have furtive
sex in the bushes. Guiraudie estab-
lishes the setting as a tranquil oasis; a
new Eden just down the road from St.
Tropez. But things are not quite right,
and there is a threat that hangs over
the paradise far more insidious than
unprotected sex, or the 15 foot silurus
that supposedly lurks in the depths: a
killer is on the loose, and after a body
turns up in the lake the film takes a
sharp left-turn into thriller territory.
We follow the story of Franck
(Pierre Deladonchamps), a young
gay man who is a yearly visitor to
the beach. On his first day he notices
Henri (Patrick D’Assumçao), a portly
man who sits alone, far away from the
others on the beach; he strikes up a
friendly conversation, only to find out
that Henri is there because his girl-
friend just left him, and that he is in
no way whatsoever there for ‘cruising’.
However, Henri turns out to be far less
enigmatic than Michel (Christophe
Paou), a tall, dark adonis who rocks
a 70s-esque porn tasche. He catches
Franck’s eye, who attempts to follow
him into the woods, only to find that
he is already involved with someone;
later that night Franck overhears an
argument, and spies Michel drown-
ing his lover in the lake. Rather than
go straight to the police, Franck fights
an interior battle between fear and
lust, with the latter eventually win-
ning out. But when an inspector ar-
rives a few days later we are plunged
into a tightly wound drama; a matter
of life-or-death
Guiraudie is a master of tension.
Shooting the lake in long, languid
shots, he eschews the short, snappy
editing favoured by many directors
who attempt to make thrillers. The
results are dramatic, and we are left
with the feeling that at any time the
peaceful images could come crashing
down around us. The action is con-
fined to three locations: the car park,
the woods, and the lake. What was
once a sunny ideal suddenly becomes
sweltering, and the audience is left
perspiring in the oppressive heat. The
camera, like Franck, is trapped, and
this feeling of claustrophobia is trans-
ferred to the viewer. Another interest-
ingly subversive move by Guiraudie is
the lack of a soundtrack; rather than
rely on stabbing strings to let us know
when the drama is occurring, we are
left with just the sounds of the lake:
rustling of trees, splashing of water,
and the wafting wind. These build up
an atmosphere of extreme tension, but
at the same time remain magnificently
subtle.
This is a maaaaaaaaaaaaaan’s world
Like its contemporary Blue is the
Warmest Colour, Stranger by the Lake
has come under fire from some par-
ties about nudity that could be seen
as gratuitous. However, the focus of
the film is never on the sex, explicit
though it may be, but is instead about
the tension; tensions between Franck
and Michel, between the gay com-
munity and the authorities, between
nature and man. While undoubt-
edly slotting into the Queer Cinema
canon, Stranger by the Lake eschews
the tropes shown by many other
films centred around similar topics. It
makes an interesting companion piece
to William Friedkin’s 1980 film Cruis-
ing, in which Al Pacino immerses
himself in the New York S&M scene
in order to catch a homophobic serial
killer; while Cruising, despite sharing
many of the same themes as Stranger
by the Lake, acted as an indictment of
the gay community, Guiraudie man-
ages to create a work that explores the
dangers cruising can pose, while nev-
er criticising the practice. In fact, the
sexuality of the characters becomes
almost peripheral, so much so that the
inspector’s bemusement at the notion
of two men spending a day having
sex in the bushes without asking each
other their names seems jarring, and
reminds one that even in such an idyl-
lic setting the shadow of homophobia
cannot be escaped.
In Stranger, Guiraudie creates an
expertly balanced thriller, full to the
brim with danger and erotic tension;
meticulously shot, Guiraudie puts us
into the role of voyeur, much like the
young men watching each other in
the woods. Subtle but intense perfor-
mances from the leads, especially De-
ladonchamps, whose inner turmoil is
perfectly pitched, underpin this star-
tling drama that is guaranteed to keep
audiences on the edge of their seats.
Stranger is worth seeing for the final
five minutes alone, in which Guiraud-
ie provides a deliciously ambiguous
end scene that’s still playing in my
mind. A true masterclass of cinema.

