28 FRIDAY 28 FEB
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lars von Trier: Dan
Nymph()maniac
Parts I + II
Director: Lars von Trier
Writer: Lars von Trier
Starring: Charlotte Gainsbourg, Shia
LaBeouf, Uma Thurman, Jamie Bell
Runtime: 241 minutes
Certification: 18
Fred Fyles
Treasured Writer
Nymphomaniac, the latest offering
from Danish enfant terrible Lars von
Trier, touched down in London last
Saturday with a special ‘One-Night
Stand’ screening of both Parts I and
II. The film has left a trail of carefully
planned controversy in its wake; still
smarting from his 2011 Cannes con-
troversy, in which he mentioned that
he had sympathies with Hitler, von
Trier took a ‘Vow of Silence’ with
regards to the media, appearing in
promotional material with duct-tape
over his mouth. Those who were wor-
ried that this meant that the director’s
trademark mischievous nature would
not extend to the marketing of the film
needn’t have worried (after all, this is a
man who had FUCK tattooed on his
knuckles several decades after exit-
ing adolescence): in the run-up to the
release we have been witness to the
development of the double bracket ()
logo, entertained with the idea of a
‘softcore’ and ‘hardcore’ version, and
seen the orgasm faces of Charlotte
Gainsbourg, Shia LaBeouf, and Uma
Thurman, among others. But for all
these cheeky, flirty adverts dreamed
up by ad-men, what von Trier actually
presents is one of the least-sexy, frank-
ly off-putting films in recent years; it is
about as erotic as sandpapering walls.
The introduction to the film is un-
characteristically understated, be-
ginning with a blank screen and the
sound of water trickling. Are we in
a von Trier film? After all, he began
his last film Melancholia with images
of the end of the world, and the one
before that – the incredibly contro-
versial Antichrist – with a slow mo-
tion sequence in which a couple have
unsimulated sex while their infant son
falls to his death. This uncertainty
lasts all of three minutes, until we see
Joe (Charlotte Gainsbourg), lying face
down in the snow with blood trickling
down her face, and the heavy chords
of Rammstein seem to scream: ‘Yeah.
This is the right film’.
What follows is a four-hour epic, in
which Joe is discovered by an Selig-
man, an elderly amiable gentleman
played by Stellan Skarsgård; after be-
ing warned by Joe to not phone an
ambulance – or even worse, the police
– he can do little more than invite her
in for a cup of tea. Caught off-guard by
his gentle demeanor, Joe lets her guard
down, and begins to tell him the story
of her life – a life as a nymphomaniac.
Charting a course from her first or-
gasm, which occurred spontaneously,
accompanied with a vision of the
Whore of Babylon, through the loss
of her virginity, and finally to the de-
struction of everything she ever held
dear in the pursuit of an insatiable sex-
drive, Joe and Seligman build up one
of the oddest odd-couple relationships
seen on screen.
Seligman, an asexual academic,
seemingly has little interest in the
minutiae of Joe’s sexual conquests, in-
stead interrupting her with complete-
ly random observations; after telling
him how she lost her virginity – three
thrusts from the front, then five from
behind – he exclaims “three and five,
those are Fibonacci numbers!” These
interludes continue throughout the
film, covering topics as diverse as
fly-fishing and Bach’s musical struc-
tures, as Joe becomes more and more
incredulous, at one point telling him
“that was your weakest digression
yet”; while these odd interludes may
sound grating on paper, in actual fact
they act as welcome relief from the
unrelentingly bleak nature of Joe’s sto-
ry, which is split into eight chapters.
This narrative structure and break-
down of the fourth wall help confirm
von Trier as a master of metafilm,
something which is reinforced by
the location of the film; shot in Bel-
gium and Germany, the action takes
place exclusively in ‘Lars-land’, a sur-
real amalgamation of Northern Euro-
pean states where people use pound
notes, live in Scandinavian houses,
and speak in a strained range of ac-
cents – the most notable of which is
Shia LaBeouf’s, which ends up sound-
ing like Dick van Dyke directed by
Jane Campion. These factors serve to
sever the tethers the film has to the
real world, giving it a kind of surreal
quality; while not quite a nightmare, it
is certainly a fever-dream, coated in a
malarial sheen.
The production is, quite literally,
a film of two halves, split in twain to
avoid a bloated 4-hour mess. While
this makes sense when watching the
films separately, when one sees the
film as a whole it is easy to see where
it peaks, and where is falls down. Part
I is lighter, more energetic, and, sur-
prisingly, genuinely funny; it’s not
the usual kind of humour that von
Trier uses, which mainly comprises of
shock tactics that amount to a visual
‘fuck you’, but instead is naturally witty
and tongue-in-cheek. Newcomer Sta-
cy Martin gives a solid performance as
Young Joe, conveying a sense of un-
emotional numbness emphasised by
laconic body language, while LaBeouf
gives a quite frankly bizarre perfor-
mance as Jerôme, Joe’s first love. In
any other film LaBeouf’s dodgy accent
and constantly pained face would be
utterly jarring, but in Nymphoma-
niac there is so much going on that
this seems to be completely normal.
However, the standout performance
in the first half, and indeed the entire
film, is Uma Thurman, who plays a
jilted wife with a hysterical politeness,
asking Young Joe whether she could
“show the children the Whoring Bed.”
While Thurman is only on screen for
about ten minutes, it is this scene that
remains in my mind long after the film
is over.
As we move onto Part II things take
a left-turn, into much darker territory
familiar to those who have seen Anti-
christ. Joe (now played in flashbacks
by Gainsbourg) begins lesions with
a sadist called K, who is played with
a fearsomely cold brutality by Jamie
Bell; christened Fido, Joe is subject to
skin-breaking whippings, humiliation,
and beatings with coin-filled gloves.
Throughout the film we are subjected
to such explicit imagery that by about
an hour in footage of unsimulated sex
fails to even stimulate a gasp, but I
found the scenes with K actually very
difficult to watch, showing that von
Trier is still able to shock. The film
never quite becomes this dark after
the exit of K, but also never gets back
the same energy; the second half feels
more sluggish, and the direction von
Trier seems to be taking us becomes
unclear. A surprise ending is enough
to spice up the final five minutes, but
it is difficult to make up for the hour
that precedes it.
It is an oft-quoted claim that every
character in a von Trier film is some
facet of Lars’ personality; with any
other director this might seem far-
fetched, but von Trier seems to be able
to contain both the geeky innocence
of Seligman and the proudly sexual
nature of Joe simultaneously. So what
is he trying to say with this film? To-
wards the end he (somewhat need-
lessly) spells out the ‘message’ behind
his film; Joe’s behaviour is condemned
because she is a woman, and it is the
misogynistic world that has brought
about Joe’s downfall. While this seems
to make the film some kind of femi-
nist manifesto, it doesn’t quite seem
to ring true; Joe’s refusal to describe
herself as a ‘sex addict’, instead choos-
ing the term Nymphomaniac with
pride, plays into what, to me at least,
can only be seen as a male fantasy, and
seems to limit the power of the film.
As a work of art, Nymphomaniac is in-
credibly well done, combining striking
images with controversial topics, and
a heavy dose of genuine humour that
more than makes up for its occasional
dips in quality. But as a manifesto, it
seems contradictory, unaccessible,
and downright bizarre – perhaps a bit
like Lars von Trier himself.

