29
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 28 FEB
FILM
nish troublemaker
Dogville
Director: Lars von Trier
Writer: Lars von Trier
Starring: Nicole Kidman, Paul
Bettany, Patricia Clarkson, Stellan
Skarsgård, Lauren Bacall
Runtime: 178 minutes
Certification: 15
John Park
Film Editor
For someone who directs his leading
actresses so well, Dogville is most cer-
tainly one of his best, most intriguing
works to date. We are introduced to
Grace (Kidman), a woman with a mys-
terious past and emotional baggage
who stumbles upon a small Ameri-
can village. The residents there ap-
pear friendly enough when she passes
by, but it’s a whole different story as
she tries to integrate herself into their
small, well-built, tight society. They
are not fond of change, and a ran-
dom inclusion of an obvious outsider
doesn’t sit too comfortably with some
of the village people. Especially when
it is revealed that Grace is somehow
wanted by gun-wielding gangsters.
Her presence poses danger, but thanks
to the helpful Tom (Paul Bettany) who
instantly has some sort of protective
and emotional feelings towards the
modest lady, she is allowed to stay in
return for doing chores for the villag-
ers, which she does happily. After all,
she is running away from something
that sounds quite violent and dodgy,
the least she can do is to participate in
the community.
From the opening sequence it be-
comes painfully apparent that Dogville
isoneriskypicturefromadirectorwho
has the well-deserved reputation of
being the ‘enfant terrible’ of European
Cinema. Split into nine long chapters
including a prologue, the film sums up
in just under three hours, in which the
ever-so fragile and pale looking Kid-
man goes through all sorts of horrible
ordeals, just for wanting to fit in. As if
the film is set on stage, von Trier takes
a bold move in hardly including any
erect set pieces. So no doors, no street
marks, no grass, just a lamp post and a
few scattered walls to signal the pres-
ence of houses. The opening of doors,
acted out by all the actors, with sound
perfectly matched to the film’s action,
it feels like we’re watching a play, and
a darkly bleak one at that as well. The
stage is painted with black, white, grey
and the occasional brown, being set in
an abandoned silver mine, the colour
choices seem sensible, and we know
that despite Grace’s best efforts, her
happy days among this grim looking
village will not last long.
Where does it all go wrong for
Grace? It starts to go downhill as eve-
ryone begins to realise what the cost
of hiding Grace will be. The police
are constantly putting up flyers with
her face and name on them, and they
are being insistent that she is a dan-
gerous. They feel she should do more
work. She complies. But she’s human
and she is capable of making mis-
takes. Even the tiniest mistakes don’t
sit well with the already highly tense
and alert group of people. Tension
rises. Sexually frustrated men start
making advances on the poor, helpless
woman. Can Grace fight off a butch
man? Hardly. She gives in, and is given
the cold shoulder from the women of
the village. The men only view her as
a sexual object. What a downfall – to
go from a cleaner one day to a serially
raped victim who has no one to turn
to. And von Trier still won’t admit this
is a depressing film.
Just what is Grace hiding? After a
while, it ceases to matter, as we are all
so caught up in the spiraling drama
she finds herself in. Within minutes
she is the most hated person in the vil-
lage, and at one point in the film, she
finds herself in shackles. She tried to
run away, you see. Even the charac-
ters who showed faith and sympathy
towards Grace, as the film progresses,
turn into enemies. But this change
is never forced, which is something
von Trier excels in. Nothing feels un-
natural or too contrived. His storytell-
ing skills, although it takes a while, is
a deep and enriching experience to
fully soak up, as we can examine the
slow development of relationships
that Grace forms with the residents
of Dogville. Human connection is not
built in seconds but days, weeks and
months. And this is shown with re-
straint and von Trier is not afraid to
take his time with drawing as many
engaging sub-plots as he can.
And what a fascinating cast he man-
aged to end up with. Kidman, whose
weak, tired presence alone shrieks the
word ‘victim,’ is further able to effec-
tively stir up sympathy without being
an overly dumb or naïve stereotype.
But it’s also the frightening supporting
turns who brew the uneasy ambiance
of Dogville. Lauren Bacall, playing
the role of Ma Ginger, a local shop-
keeper who seems to be a nice old
lady with a big heart, shows that she
is made of steel if needs be. Patricia
Clarkson, a reserved-looking friendly
neighbour, has a dark and vengeful
side who participates in one of the
most heartbreaking scenes in the film.
Stellan Skarsgård, playing Clarkson’s
husband, is one of the many men who
pushes himself onto Grace. His sleazy,
creepy performance has an unpre-
dictable twist that adds more horror
to Dogville. Bettany, who starts off
as a friend of Grace, is the voice and
persuader of Dogville. He sways the
people’s emotions, so if you cross him,
which Grace of course does (not in a
vindictive way of course – there is a
series of misunderstandings, painful
miscommunication and a blow to his
ego), the consequences will be severe.
Despite its hefty running time, Dog-
ville is filled with moments to treasure.
It’s a true success in experimental film
making with all of von Trier’s gambles
paying off perfectly. The loud, violent
crescendo of the final act will bring
about all sorts of conflicting emotions,
ranging from relief, horror, sadness
and possibly guilt. It’s a challenging
watch, but an immensely rewarding
one, with a stunning cast who sadly
went unappreciated in many awards,
directed by a man whose often contro-
versial, odd remarks have put people
off even before they sit down to watch
one of his films. Dogville is a unique
and powerful film that looks at a com-
munity’s dynamic in the most brutal
and uncomfortable way – and yes,
it’s not pleasant to see so many hu-
man beings portrayed like monsters
on screen. But then again, if enough
people come together and a deep dark
crisis hits, who wouldn’t show a hint
of selfish survival instinct in desper-
ate situations? It’s a cynical view of
course, but that’s what von Trier is all
about: digging out the cynics inside us
all, portraying the world in the most
negative, but oddly plausible light.

