30 FRIDAY 28 FEB
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tom Rivlin’s Cartoon Corner
Invader Zim
Invader Zim is definitely one of those
‘cult classic’ shows. It ran for two sea-
sons on Nickelodeon about 13 years
ago, with minimal ratings, dodgy
timeslots, and a cult following that
persists to this day. But you know how
it is with sci-fi cult classic TV shows
that ran for like two episodes in the
early 2000s before being cancelled –
the fans just never shup up!
So, the plot: bug-eyed, green alien
Zim is sent to Earth by the mighty
Tallest of the Irken Empire, along with
his faithful robot sidekick, to infiltrate
it in preparation for its invasion... or so
Zim thinks. In reality, he’s been sent to
Earth to keep him out of trouble be-
cause he’s so incompetent. They didn’t
even bother to load the robot sidekick
with a brain (which in this universe
translates to him being really stupid).
Upon arrival on Earth, he successfully
infiltrates the local school (this is the
kind of show where school is spelled
“Skool”) with only contact lenses as a
disguise (the green skin is a ‘skin con-
dition’, of course). The only human
who sees through his act is a budding
paranormal investigator, a classmate
called Dib. Dib is, of course, called
crazy for believing Zim is an alien.
Invader Zim was created by Jhonen
Vasquez, who is mostly known for one
other work – a comic called Johnny the
Homicidal Maniac, which should tell
you all you need to know about him,
really. Vasquez clearly despises the
human race. All of the humans (except
for Dib and his sister, Gaz) in the show
are shown to be incredibly stupid –
blind to the poorly disguised alien
among them, slaves to their corporate
overlords and to societal pressures,
ignorant of any existence beyond TV
and fast food. It’s an oppressively cyn-
ical and bleak outlook that the show
presents, and yet one can’t help but
feel drawn in by it and agreeing with it
to a large extent. It’s an effective use of
exaggeration for both comedic effect
and to prove a point.
The show is also infused with a won-
derful hyperactive energy; watching
an episode is like being injected with
pure sugar. It isn’t just great for kids
– it makes you feel like a kid again.
That said, it can also be incredibly
dark. One episodes ends with Zim
removing a child’s eyes and replacing
them with robotic ones, which we are
shown through shadows. It may be sil-
houetted, but what he’s doing is very
clear from what we can see. The show
may have been on Nickelodeon, but it
definitely had an Adult Swim vibe to
it, and it’s clear why Nick wanted this
show axed ASAP: unlike the other
cartoon in this week’s corner, it was
meant to be for kids.
Zim was cancelled after 27 episodes,
but a cult following still exists. There
were some episodes that were record-
ed but never animated, and there’s
even been fan attempts to animate
them themselves after the recordings
were released, showing the dedica-
tion they have to the show. Zim was
dark, cynical, exciting and hilarious
(for a given sense of humour), and it
left its mark on animation. (Even if for
no other reason than one storyboard
artist was Bryan Koneitzko, who used
the connections he made on the show
to pitch Avatar: The Last Airbender to
Nick...)
Cartoons aren’t just for kids. Hope-
fully this should be common knowl-
edge by now, thanks to shows like
Family Guy and South Park. Archer is
a show that is definitely not for kids.
It’s a show about an ‘elite’ group of
secret agents working for an organi-
sation called ISIS, who go on exciting
missions to exotic locations across the
globe. Don’t be fooled by the premise,
though, as Archer is most definitely
a comedy, and all of the antics and
hijinks of the ISIS agents are played
100% for laughs, and they’re crass,
rude and funny as hell.
Refreshingly, despite ostensibly be-
ing a show about superspies, most of
the drama and plots revolve around
the office life of the secret agents.
Only two of the characters (including
the eponymous Stirling Archer) be-
gin the series as qualified field agents
(from what I can tell) – the rest of the
cast is comprised of the secretary, the
head of HR, the accountant, the intel-
ligence analyst, the mad scientist who
definitely isn’t a Nazi in hiding who
has an anime hologram wife and, of
course, Archer’s mother, Malory, the
head of ISIS. (Mommy issues, much?)
This is where the show really shines,
too. All of the office characters are
well developed and very quirky, and
Archer is at its funniest when all of
these completely insane characters are
just messing around in the office being
themselves. That isn’t to say that the
mission plots aren’t entertaining too
– watching Archer and Lana (one of
the few ‘competent’ characters) throw
snark and bile at each other whilst be-
ing shot at by drug lords and terrorists
and KGB agents and space pirates oh
my simply never gets old.
The time period in which the show
is set is described as ‘comically anach-
ronistic’ – they make 21st century ref-
erences and have mobile phones and
the internet, but the Cold War is still
going on, they all wear 60s fashion and
their computers look like the bastard
lovechildren of the BBC Micro and a
Macintosh 128K. That’s all without
mentioning the sci-fi elements like cy-
borgs and holograms (mostly thanks
to the mad scientist Krieger, whose
frequent defiance of all laws of man
and God in furtherance of his hubris
and pursuit of knowledge is frequently
played for laughs, whilst being kept
just mysterious enough to be continu-
ously funny). The Cold War setting is,
of course, all but essential for a good
spy vs. spy show, and the show makes
good use of it, with Malory, for ex-
ample, having a very long-term affair
with the head of the KGB. (He could
even be Archer’s father!)
The show recently returned for a
fifth season, and it’s turning out to
be quite different – it has the title
Archer: Vice, because it’s a more self-
contained arc about the ISIS agents
selling (literally) a ton of cocaine. It
seems like the show is playing to its
strengths with this premise, as all of
the ISIS employees are pitching in
to the effort, even if it’s in their own
‘special’ way. The majority of the
show is on Netflix, so go watch it.
GOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGO.
Archer

