31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 28 FEB
TELEVISION
Tasty treats and Norse heroes
Emily Fulham on this week’s return of two fan favourites
Hannibal
O
ne of last year’s
surprise breakout
hits, Hannibal,
returns to NBC
on 28th February
(unfortunately, no UK release date has
been announced). After premiering
to shaky viewing numbers and little
media attention, the show turned out
to be one of the best things on TV in
2013, and has since built up a huge
fanbase eager for its return. Added
to this is the fact that the first series
ended in a seriously tense finale, with
Special Agent Will Graham behind
bars accused of the murders that
Hannibal committed, and you’ve got
all the ingredients for one of the most
feverishly anticipated returns to TV
this year.
From what we’ve seen and heard
about the second series, the tension
isn’t about to let up any time soon. In
a perfectly executed move to heighten
anticipation, NBC released footage
from a scene in the first episode fea-
turing a knife fight between two of the
main characters. The trailer for the se-
ries also promises even more drama,
as Hannibal is investigated follow-
ing Will’s arrest, while Will, hell-bent
on revenge against Hannibal, slowly
starts to regain his sanity.
Expect to see several new characters
as well, including Mason Verger, one
of Hannibal’s patients. Viewers of the
Hannibal film will recognise the name
as the role played by Gary Oldman, af-
ter his relationship with Hannibal has
ended drastically badly. Some favour-
ites from the minor characters will
return too, such as Gillian Anderson
as Bedelia du Maurier, Hannibal’s psy-
chotherapist, who surprisingly may
turn out be the something of an ally to
Will Graham.
If the first series is anything to go
by, we can expect more stellar acting
from Mads Mikkelson as everyone’s
favourite cannibal, managing to strike
the perfect balance between menace
and sophistication while making far
too many puns about cannibalism for
suspicions not to arise. Hugh Dancy
is also magnificent in his portrayal
of Will Graham, whose slow spiral
into madness was the most gripping
thing about the show. Now behind
bars, Will’s attempt to convince others
of his innocence will depend on him
keeping a tight grip on his sanity and
a clear head to avoid succumbing to
more of Hannibal’s manipulations.
It remains to be seen if the second
series will follow the more familiar
killer-of-the-week format that its first
series at least partially followed; one
expects this could get more complicat-
ed with an imprisoned main character,
but no doubt there’ll still be plenty for
FBI agent Jack Crawford and the rest
of the team to do (figuring out that
Hannibal rhymes with cannibal would
be a good start).
In spite of the show being extremely
dark, both the fans and the show run-
ners seem to have a sense of humour.
After fans started photoshopping
flower crowns on pictures of the cast
in an effort to lighten up the tension,
actor Hugh Dancy gamely wore a
flower crown of his own when appear-
ing on a question and answer panel
with fans. More recently, it was an-
nounced that a range of merchandise
is planned to be released in connec-
tion to the show, including, bizarrely
enough, a selection of perfume (some
possible scent ideas: blood, human
flesh, the scent of neverending despair
as one slowly goes insane?)
The only real complaint about the
first series was that it took a few epi-
sodes to get into its stride, but from
what we’ve seen so far, that’s a mistake
that seems to have been rectified this
time around. With another thirteen
episode season to look forward to,
Hannibal promises to be one of the
TV highlights this spring.
V
ikings was the History
Channel’s answer to
Game of Thrones, with
a drastically smaller
budget and fewer
dragons (OK, no dragons). It still
had its appeal though, telling the
story of a group of Viking warriors’
first raid across to England. The
main character, Ragnar Lothbrook,
is a legendary character from Norse
tales, famous for being the scourge
of France and England. On his first
raid to the monastery of Lindisfarne,
Ragnar brings back with him a monk,
Athelstan, as a slave for him and his
family, and much of the first series
followed Athelstan’s acclimatisation to
the unfamiliar environment of Viking
life.
Season two picks up a full four years
after the events of season one, which
ended with Ragnar’s family torn
apart following his daughter’s death,
the betrayal of his wife, and an alli-
ance against his brother. Presumably,
the news that Ragnar’s infidelity has
resulted in his mistress’s pregnancy
won’t be going down well with his
wife, Lagertha (and as a shieldmaiden,
she’s definitely not a woman you want
to get on the wrong side of). Travis
Fimmel, who plays Ragnar, is a rela-
tively unknown actor who has proven
his merit in a weighty role. Occasion-
ally reminiscent of a young Brad Pitt,
it’s likely that this could lead to big
things for the actor, who was also a
high-profile model for Calvin Klein
before taking the jump into acting.
Meanwhile, it remains to be seen if
Ragnar’s relationship with his brother
Rollo can ever be repaired, now that
Rollo has allied himself with Ragnar’s
rival, the warrior chieftain Jarl Borg.
There’s also been some heavy hints
dropped about Athelstan’s journey in
series two. Actor George Blagden was
quoted as saying that “Athelstan goes
through more change in one and a half
seasons than Walter White does in
five,” with the former monk making a
transition into full-blown warrior and
lots of references to an as-of-yet un-
specified ‘dark turn’ for the character
in the first half of the series. Nonethe-
less, the monk’s questioning of his re-
Vikings
ligion will continue in the new series,
as Athelstan struggles with his Chris-
tian faith and becomes immersed in
the rituals of Norse mythology.
One of the most spectactular things
about the show is its cinematography,
and yet surprisingly the vast majority
of outdoor locations were filmed in
Ireland (another way in which Vikings
is hopping on the Game of Thrones
bandwagon). Nonetheless, scenes of
fjords, mountains, and longships bat-
tling across the ocean are stunning.
For a show that’s broadcast on the
History Channel, Vikings takes a lot of
liberties with historical accuracy, but
it’s entertaining enough to be a minor
concern. There’s enough blood and
gore to appease any Game of Thrones
fans, although notably fewer gratui-
tous sex scenes (which may be a good
or bad thing, depending on your point
of view). It may not be so grand in
scope, but there’s still plenty for fans
to sink their teeth into.
With more battles, love triangles,
and family tensions ahead, the sec-
ond series looks set to hit the ground
running. For anyone is looking to fill
the gap in epic fantasy drama, Vikings
might be an ideal choice.

