4 FRIDAY 28 FEB
FEATURES
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Amer Hasan on winning offers from 3 Dragons on
Dragons’ Den for minicab price comparison startup
What is minicabit?
minicabit enables you to compare and
book real-time quotes from licensed
minicab operators in over 30 cities
across the UK. Our technology helps
you to book great cab deals for long
distance and local trips via our website
and smartphone app. We’re backed by
O2, the mobile operator.
Congratulations on your success on
the Dragons’ Den TV show. What
was it actually like in the Den?
Thanks, the whole experience of
getting 3 investment offers from the
Dragons was a bit surreal. And it’s
great that minicabit’s app is the first
app to ever win offers in the Den!
Pitching in the Den itself was pretty
much like any other meeting with
potential investors, except everyone
was wearing TV makeup. The time in
the Den was a lot longer than shown,
where they certainly grilled me. But
the negotiation was as tense as it
appeared, as I had to carefully deal
with each of the Dragons’ offers.
Overall, it’s a great thumbs up for
the business, especially coming after
O2 had invested in us as a startup
(through their Wayra fund).
What did you study at Imperial
College?
I was a Chemistry with Management
undergraduate in 1993 (and no, I don’t
dye my hair!). In fact, I was one of the
first to take the undergrad course in
Management from the small house
they had across Exhibition Road. It’s
great to see how the Management
School has expanded since then.
How did your time at Imperial
shape your entrepreneurial career?
I’m really proud of my time at Imperial,
and in fact my entrepreneurial roots
were planted then. In my very first
Freshers week, I joined the committee
of a brand new society which was
quite focused on financial modelling
etc. Having managed its events, I
became its Chairman in my 3rd year
and totally repositioned it, rebranding
it as The Finance Society, launching
its London University-wide Capital
magazine and bringing in some big
name event sponsors…all in the
midst of a recession! I myself didn’t
have a deep interest in banking, but it
developed my skills in marketing and
also managing a big team. It became
one of the biggest societies when I
left and I understand it’s still around
today.
A key learning to any student at
Imperial today is get involved in an
extra-curricular activity. Whatever
the society, club or project is, you’ll
never have an opportunity to practice
and learn what you’re good or bad at,
and the skills you pick up will serve
you in any commercial or academic
career throughout your life.
How did your career evolve after
university?
I switched between corporate
marketing roles and doing a startup
in the late ‘90s, the latter with
mixed success. I then spent 9 years
in the mobile industry, working
at O2 and then Vodafone Global,
where I was responsible for their
Internet Partnerships and Apps
worldwide. Looking back, it was quite
entrepreneurial as mobile internet
was just taking off and was a pretty
dynamic environment to work in. I
was then itching to do a startup and
so set up minicabit in the autumn of
2010.
And how is minicabit doing now?
It’s been a long ride with the usual
ups and downs of a startup, but it’s
going great guns now! We’ve got well
over 300 licensed cab operators across
the UK on our network; Apple has
highlighted our app 6 times in their
App Store; and major venues around
the UK offer our service to their
customers, including The O2 Arena,
Wembley Arena, Expedia, London
City Airport, and Blenheim Palace
amongst many others.
We pride ourselves in doing things
differently from what one expects
from the cab sector, and are always
innovating new ideas. For instance,
until end of Sunday 2nd March, our
Twitter page (@minicabit) is giving
away 2 tickets to see Beyonce live at
The O2 Arena, with a cab ride to take
you there from anywhere in the UK
(upto £200!).
What’s your advice to students
considering doing or joining a
startup?
The startup scene has transformed
significantly, particularly in the last 5
years. In my day, joining a corporate
would be the natural starting point for
a graduate to kickoff their career and
gain valuable commercial expertise.
Now, cutting edge experience
(especially for online, mobile, tech) is
arguably to be found in startups, to the
point that corporates are increasingly
looking to partner with, or hire from,
startups as the digital revolution
gathers pace. Also, the tools to startup
a business are cheaper, and the
support network better than ever.
So now is a great time for startups,
but I caution to choose your venture
wisely, and to be prepared for a lot
of hard work in the face of almost
constant uncertainty.
Would you hire an Imperial
graduate?
My team is made up of mostly fresh
graduates, as they typically have the
talent and energy my business needs.
Funnily enough, I once tried hiring
summer interns from Imperial but
got zero response, probably because
they thought we were a minicab
firm! I ended up getting some great
grads from UCL, Manchester and
Bristol universities – the experience
of working in a startup during a
prime time BBC TV broadcast will no
doubt be added to their CV’s. We’ll
be looking to take on some summer
internships, so it would be nice to see
some applicants from Imperial this
time. We can give them a break from
their science and engineering books!
Amer Hasan is CEO of minicabit,
www.minicabit.com, @minicabit.
This week Nida Mahmud caught up with Amer Hasan, an Imperial Alumnus and CEO of minicabit. He recently appeared on Dragons’ Den and recieved offers from three out of the five Dragons.
Furthermore, minicabit is the first app to win an offer on the show. Minicabit is an app and website that enables users to compare real time quotes from cab companies. The company operates
in over 30 cities and wil be expanding to even more in 2014. Amer tells us more about minicabit and how you can win tickets to see Beyonce at The O2.

