6 FRIDAY 28 FEB
FEATURES
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Session XV: LIMUN 2014
BACKGROUND:
For the third consecutive year, the
London International Model United
Nations Conference (LIMUN) was
held at Imperial College London
and Central Hall Westminster. This
conference, which is run by a London-
based charity, brought together 1504
delegates, 65 chairs and 38 organising
staff for three days of debating,
networking, brainstorming and
meeting new people. This conference
is the largest Model United Nations
(MUN) conference in Europe and
is regarded as one of the best in
the world. As it takes place on the
Imperial College South Kensington
Campus, many students from
Imperial, as members of the Imperial
College Model United Nations
Society (ICMUN), participate in
both the organisation and debating
of the conference. This year, we had
Imperial students at every level, from
the Secretariat to the Logistics Staff.
Here are some of their comments on
LIMUN and Model United Nations in
general.
Commentary from Philippe Rival,
Deputy Secretary-General of the
LIMUN 2014 Conference:
“I have been part of LIMUN for
3 years now, first as a Delegate,
then as a Chair, and this year as
Deputy Secretary-General. Being an
Imperial College student myself, I
managed logistics for the conference
here on campus and liaised with
Imperial from the beginning. I was
also in charge of the Opening and
Closing Ceremonies, which took
place at Central Hall Westminster
and the Imperial College Great Hall
respectively. I was additionally in
charge of communications and PR,
writing both the Delegate Handbook
and promotional material and giving
the Keynote Speeches during both of
the Ceremonies. This was one of the
most rewarding, eye-opening and
tremendous experiences of my life so
far! It is well worth both the time and
the effort!”
“I often get asked why I commit so
much of an already busy schedule to
this charity and the Model United
Nations Community. I do it because
I believe the new world we are
moving into is no fan of the “silos”
mentality that has prevailed in the
past. Leaders of tomorrow will not
be the ultra-specialised, but those
who can combine expertise with
applicable, transferable skills in
many different fields. In a university
such as Imperial, we sometimes give
too much importance to being the
best in one field, and we loose our
global perspective in the process.
Engineers, scientists and specialist
have tremendous skills and knowledge
in their field, but come short when it
comes to advertising their ground-
breaking ideas and communicating
their work to the world and to the
general public. I believe Engineers
need a marketing course. Model
United Nations, debating, presenting,
public speaking, these are skills that an
Imperial College Degree does not train
for, but that make all the difference to
your Profile in the professional world.
I highly recommend and encourage
any Imperial student to broaden
their perspective and their skillset
by learning new skills and adding to
what will for sure be an outstanding
academic profile. I know first hand
that stepping into a new and unknown
field can be daunting, but it is when
those situations work out that we feel
the most joy and pride in out work.”
Commentary from Richard Tao
Junrui, a third year Chemical
Engineering student, Chair of the
World Health Organisation 2014
Simulation:
“It was a great honour chairing the
WHO, because that’s the perfect place
to go if Imperial students are ever
looking for a job in the UN. It was a
great experience to spread scientific
knowledge in writing for a wide range
of audience, so that politicians, lawyers
and economists from international
universities could also understand the
message. Although on Friday there
were delegates who did not know that
viruses are different from bacteria,
and thought that Panadol was a form
of antibiotics, they became very
knowledgeable over the conference.
They passed resolutions that
would clearly benefit the scientific
community, such as creating more job
opportunities for medics to improve
sexualhealthoftheworld’spopulation,
and increasing funding for further
R&D into antibiotics development.
When they become the future policy
Philippe Rival
Deputy Secretary-General of LI-
MUN 2014; President of ICMUN;
3rd--Year Civil Engineer @ Imperial
The London International Model United Nations 2014 Conference was hosted by Imperial
College last weekend. Over 1500 delegates from over 50 countries gathered to debate and
resolve together the problems of the world of tomorrow.
Aditya Ranjan and both his co-
chairs at the UNEP Committee
The LIMUN and UN flags proudly
flying over the Sherfield Building
Chairs of LIMUN 2014 - from all over
the world: Singapore to Switzerland
Deputy Secretary-General Philippe Rival delivering the Keynote Address at the LIMUN 2014 Opening Ceremony
A typical LIMUN 2014 Delegate Pack
philippe rival
katalin karolyi
katalin karolyi
katalin karolyi
philippe rival

