7
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 28 FEB
FEATURES
makers, they will certainly be climate
conscious and environmentally
friendly, and keep on benefiting us all!
It has been a great cultural experience
for me as well. My chairing colleague
was Greek, and the delegates come
from all parts of the world. You could
hear over 10 different languages being
spoken in the same Huxley LT. My
committee was both a celebration of
science and a celebration of culture,
and I certainly took pride in being an
ambassador of Imperial College!”
Commentary from Ahmed Raja, a
first year Theoretical Physics student,
Delegate in the International Atomic
Energy Agency 2014 Simulation:
“This experience was mind-blowing,
one of the best events of my year so
far! It showed me a whole new way of
tackling global issues and of working
with new people. It was inspiring,
motivating, entertaining and most
importantly a blast, especially the
social sessions! I highly recommend it
to anyone!”
Commentary from Filip
Karasiewicz, a second year
Aeronautical Engineering student,
Staffer in the LIMUN 2014 Logistics
Team:
“I have organised and participated
in numerous MUN conferences over
the last 5 years. After being a part
of LIMUN last year as a delegate, I
decided to join the team ‘on the other
side’ as a volunteer in the Logistics
Team. This role demanded overseeing
the preparation, smooth running and
closure of the entire event. Recalling
theMUNweekendIstillcannotrefrain
from what can only be described
as an overwhelming excitement
This conference was something
spectacular. It’s sheer size, to begin
with – 1,600 participants from every
corner of the world – was almost
incomprehensible. When I talked to
the delegates I found it flabbergasting
that so many people travelled from
as far as Indonesia or Taiwan just
for those three days of celebration of
world’s youth’s diplomatic initiative
and global awareness. When asked
about the challenge the conference
posed, in terms of logistics, I chuckled
and said: To be frank, I did not
anticipate half of the work that had
to be done throughout those three
days. If it weren’t for a fantastic and
a coherent team that put the effort
towards making it happen, we would
not have experienced LIMUN as it
was. Making such a gigantic clock tick
is a humungous task, but with great
responsibility comes even greater
satisfaction. In the end, LIMUN 2014
turned out to be a success beyond
what we could have imagined and I
simply cannot help but impatiently
await its 16th edition in February
2015.”
Commentary from Aditya
Ranjan, a second year Aeronautical
Engineering student, Chair of
the United Nations Development
Programme 2014 Simulation:
“Developing a sense of pride in
a country that you represent for
a conference, but may never even
have visited, is an important part of
every MUN conference. The beauty
of MUN is that you meet someone
from a country you never gave a
second thought to, and you end up
spending three hours talking about
the life they lead in their homeland
and it is nothing like you could ever
have imagined. I was an extremely
shy kid and it was MUN that really
taught me to communicate my ideas
effectively and to persuade people.
Once you move from being a delegate
to being a chair, it isn’t just about your
ideas and the position of the country
that you are representing, it’s about
finding a way to bring contradicting
ideas together to form a common
global solution. MUN for is me only
50% about the debate, the other 50% is
the social aspect where you meet the
most diverse set of people, in terms of
religion, ethnicity, nationality, subject
area and pretty much every other
characteristic, that you could ever
imagine. The most important part is
the people you meet and the friends
you make during the conference. You
never run out of interesting people to
learn about and learn from, and that’s
what has kept me going back to MUN
Ahmed Raja having a blast in IAEA
Shiladitya Ghosh, UN Women Chair
by day... Features Editor by night
Shiladitya, Secretary-General Kacper Pancewicz, Philippe, Ahmed, Filip and Richard: Imperial College & ICMUN involved at every level of LIMUN 2014! TEDximperialcollege
katalin karolyi
katalin karolyi
conferences over and over since the
past six years”.
Editor’s Note: I was personally
involved in LIMUN 2014 as the Head
Chair of the UN Women’s Committee
(could it get any more ironic...?) and
the Head Delegate from Imperial.
I strongly feel that having Imperial
play host to such major events with
worldly importance is a greatly
significant opportunity for my fellow
students to get involved with the
goings-on in the world, to understand
and try to tackle the massive
international problems that are faced
internationally and how they can
be affected by what we achieve with
our technical educations, and also to
get a holistic experience regarding
the psychology of human beings;
collectively, or as individuals, through
getting exposure to international
relations, bureaucracy, outspoken
individuals, ideological barriers, and
the basic rule of the world that it
doesn’t matter whether what you say
makes sense - it’s about whether you
can convince someone else that it
makes sense.
Doing MUN is a great complement
to our technical backgrounds and it
also hones our critical thinking and
problem solving skills - cooking up
a diplomatic strategy to convince a
representative of, say, Saudi Arabia,
to give their backing to a resolution
promoting the development of
renewable energy, requires the same
approach and tenacity as designing a
reaction to minimise the formation of
the unwanted side-products.
Join ICMUN & go for more MUNs
at facebook.com/groups/icmun !

