***** it*
Small Ads
Consulate. No telex records for above
transaction will confirm that E F Hutton Trust
Fund is demonic to have me framed as
demonic. Zev-Green Jacket—FELIX, Newspaper
of London Imperial College, June 10 1988 (my
birthday).
• Monkey's vomit. Penthouse Club.
• Dai Williams—steam-driven bunny test
driver. Penthouse Club.
• Bibble, bibble, bibble, bibble, bibble-Pentakis
(bibble). Penthouse (Clubl.
• Many happy returns—Zev Green-Jacket.
From all at FELIX, Newspaper of Imperial
College Union, London, 10th June 1988.
Mine's a double!
• Coo strands of a different variety? Or plan
old head hair? Only you know the answer.
• Big Bird-come and play? Everything's A
OK!
• Monsieur Gargett: A true wine connoiseur,
sip a glass before exams to stop the shakes!
• Mr Hobbs- Princess Astra or Denim? Oh!
The sweet smell of success!
• Mr Deflated/Flip Top: cheap to take out-
seeing as he voms after 3 pints.
• To my secret admirer. Come and get it-RW.
• Rhinos are a protected species-they don't
need the protection of Fisher Hall to survive!
• Take that! Gauntlet Club—you are nothing
against the strength of the Rhino Club.
• The Gauntlet Club—is the gauntlet a
reference to your mentor—ie Michael Jackson!
A fitting idol, if we may say sol-Rhino Club.
• Looking for that little something for the
special person in your life? Come to Naeem's
Fantastic Basement Sale in the basement of
House 12 Garden Hall. Just stand there and let
everything fall into your hands —34 Mad
Gardeners.
• Listen up Garden Hallmen! Have you been
sitting around wondering 'just who are they?'.
If you come to the cocktail party you'll find
out when the 34 MGs reveal all!
• So sad for the lad! Mourn for the De'ath of
the contender for now he is Gawnel—34 Mad
Gardeners.
• On site father wanted by little girl from
Weeks Hall. Zumerzet accent required.
• Phase one of the demonological process is
now complete Zev Blue-Jacket is operational.
See my small ad in the Orpington Times,
Friday 13th May 1988. The Rector has been
replaced by large tin of pineapple chunks.
Nuclear war is imminent. Rowntrees taken over
by the Milky Bar Kid's demonological double
Only another Watergate will avert the threat of
more series of Bob Says Opportunity Knocks.
See my ad in the Pervert's Weekly, Monday
30th May 1988. Union Administrator has
already been replaced by Medusa—The
Goddess of Sherry and Quiche Zev Blue-
Jacket—FELIX, Newspaper of Imperial College,
London, June 10th 1988.
• Yesterday June 6, 1988 I picked up from
Dixons my Miranda MS-1N 71006048, 35-70
zoom lens PK7507847 with 700CD flash
1035337. The camera lacks a self-timer and I
bought a mechanical accessory. Unlike my
prior Pentax ME Super the Miranda MS-1N is
non-automatic and the speed settings must be
set. Also unlike the Pentax ME Super the
Miranda MS-1N can operate at all speeds
without batteries, which only serve to indicate
the proper F stop Thus as contra sophisticated
technology, which could trigger the shutter
giving the wrong exposure is impossible, I have
inserted batteries but not the ones it came
with, but number 3922178, which I purchased
in Miami for my Olympus XA. Zev-Green
Jacket-FELIX, Newspaper of London Imperial
College June 10, 1988.
College Finance
Section gets a
slagging
Letter
he checks the facts contained within them. Also, I would
like to know how he can have the nerve to sign a letter
of this sort to someone he has never even talked to 'yours
sincerely'. Perhaps, he would like to reply.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Haisley, DoC 3
PS. Whenever I have used the FELIX Office for
production of publicity for Jazz & Rock Club, I have
always found you and your staff very helpful—despite
what anyone else may say to the contrary.
Dear Judith,
Last Monday (30th May) a charming letter demanding
three hundred and four pounds rent for a stay in 54 Lexham
Gardens over last summer arrived in my pigeonhole
(actually, it could have arrived there any time in the
previous week as I am on an industrial placement at the
moment and only came in to College to push a piece of
coursework under the relevant door). The letter stated 'In
;>hort, your final degree result will be withheld unless this
matter is resolved by the 27th May'. This, you might think,
was a reasonable response to non-payment of a year old
bill. The problem with it was that I never actually stayed
in Lexham Gardens (although I would have quite liked
to). What actually happens makes an interesting story.
About this time last year I applied for a place in College
residence over the summer along with a friend. Two days
before the end of term, I was sent a rejection letter and,
as I was supposed to be starting a vacation job the
following week, I immediately went and arranged
alternative accommodation. I was quite surprised then,
when a bill for the accommodation arrived in my
pigeonhole four days later. I sent the bill back, along with
the rejection note and a snotty letter suggesting that the
accommodation office got itself in order and left the matter
at that.
Now, almost a year later, the said mentioned letter has
arrived. On Tuesday morning, I telephoned Dave Parry
(who was very helpful) and it took him five minutes to
look through the relevant files and find that I had not
actually stayed in Lexham Gardens.
There are several reasons why I am not at all happy
with this grotty treatment by the College.
The first complaint I have is that, when the supposed
bill has been unpaid for almost a year, why is it that the
first communication that was made with me over the matter
is a letter threatening to stop my degree.
The second is that why didn't Mr Malcolm Aldridge
(in whose name the letter was written), or whoever was
responsible for the letter, get off his backside and go and
see Dave Parry before issuing it. It does, after all, seem
to be quite a serious matter threatening to stop someone's
degree. This simple action would not only have saved me
hassle but saved the College a considerable amount of time
and money—as the Registrar, Senior Tutor and other
people have to be informed and the registry has to be
instructed to withhold exam results the saving would seem
to be not insignificant.
My final complaint is that Aldridge did not even bother
to find out what course I was on, or for that matter to
contact my personal tutor, or else he would not have
written 'as this is the final part of your course' when in
fact it is the industrial placement period at the end of the
third year of a four year course. As a result of this, I did
not even receive the letter until after the deadline for
payment stated within it (a copy was sent to my home
address but, as it was postmarked after the deadline, I can
only assume that it must have been delayed by the Post
Office—ha ha).
In conclusion, I would like to suggest to Aldridge that,
before he puts his name to threatening letters in the future,
Bean's Club record
new statement
Dear Judith
We are wilting to put the record straight regarding
Bean's Club and the membership's involvement in IC
Union this year.
Bean's Club is an apolitical group with no corporate
views. The opinions expressed by members of Bean's Club
are expressed as individuals alone and are not
representative of the body of the Club as a whole.
We hope that this clears up any misunderstandings that
have arisen lately.
Yours etc,
The Bean's Club Executive Committee.
Another stinging
letter of complaint
Dear Judith,
I am writing to complain about last week's cookery
column. Yishu Nanda's Rogan Josh recipe was, in fact,
stolen from me. I lent it to Mr Nanda, completely unaware
that he intended to print it. Unless an apology and a full
retraction are both printed, I shall be forced to sue both
yourself and 'Holbein House's least favourite heartthrob'.
Madam, I shall see you in court.
Yours angrily,
Paul Shanley (Mrs).
PS. Do I get five pounds?
This headline is
bigger than the letter
Dear Judith,
I speak as someone who is sick and tired of all this petty
bickering between FELIX and the Union, I think it is about
time you stopped publishing anonymous letters and
contributions written under pseudonyms.
Yours faithfully,
Name withheld by request.
FELIX Friday 10th June 1988 11

