p z CZ I I V
Rock 'n' Roll 'n' Retail
A profile of Union Manager David Peacock by Judith Hackney
I first met David Peacock in January on a late Thursday afternoon. I was
eager to interview the President about the lead news story, but he had
been out all day showing some guy around the College that he was trying
to head-hunt from the University of London Union. I wasn't in the best
of moods when the President asked me to show Mr Peacock around the
Print Unit.
David was eventually persuaded away
from U L U , lured to Imperial by the
amazing 'potential' of IC Union, and
joined the ICU staff at the beginning
of this term. I finally managed to pin
him down for an interview and photo
session this week when I discovered
that you shouldn't judge people by
your first impressions!
David is a very difficult person to
photograph. Even in the informal
setting of Beit Quadrangle, he still
found it hard to relax in front of the
camera. He was also cagey when I
tried to find out about his life before
ULU.
He has a strong management and
catering background, having spent
most of his working life in
commercial services of one form or
another. He took a City & Guilds
cookery course at Westminster
College followed up with various
professional courses in catering,
restaurant and store management
which he studied up to teaching level.
'You can tell them I read retail at
ULU,' he told me.
David was very keen to talk about
his new job, however. 'Vat ous
people in student unions all ovei he
country tend to think that student
unions shouldn't operate full scale
commercial services but nowadays
there is pressure, both fiscally and in
terms of public relations, on unions
to offer these basic services,' he told
me.
The Union Manager is a new
position so I took the opportunity to
ask David what he felt his job
entailed. He explained that he was a
sort of area manager for all the Union
outlets with existing staff structures.
It is his job to ensure that all outlets
such as the Union Bar and Snack Bar
are reaching a desired performance
level and the services they provide are
up to standard.
I asked him about plans for the
Snack Bar. He told me that there had
been two consultants in to look at the
outlet this week. He is hoping that the
ideas they come up with added to his
own will mean a much improved
service next year. As far as the Union
Bar is concerned, David believes that
'if the right things are picked upon,
the Bar could be a really great place'.
He didn't want to make too many
instant judgements on both the Bar
and the Snack Bar as he felt that he
hadn't had a chance to see both outlets
used properly.
At this point I started wondering
just what he was planning to do in the
next year. T want to sort out all the
basics before starting on my new
ideas,' he told me. 'I want to
maximise the potential of this place.
That's my reason for being here!' He
went on enthusiastically about the
successful outlets in American
universities such as MIT, Harvard
and UCLA. 'They've managed to find
the balance between service provision
against trading surplus. Here we have
to increase our market share in every
field wherever it is practical, because
it not only benefits the Union
financially but it's also good PR. It
makes the Union seem much more
efficient.'
I asked him how he intended to
promote the Union's facilities. T
don't believe in large scale
promotions. The best thing to do is
to follow the classic marketing
principles.' These principles, he went
on to explain, were those of: good
service leads to repeated usage and
good publicity via recommendation.
He seemed slightly more at ease by
this stage so I managed to find out
more about the man behind the Union
Manager. 'Most people talk of me as
a great ideas man but I don't believe
it. If I can claim any success
professionally it is because of sheer
hard work over the last few years.'
He told me that socially he is far less
'ebullianf than he is professionally.
In the office he works too hard,
smokes too many cigarettes and
drinks too much coffee. When he has
time to unwind he enjoys the usual
pastimes such as a social drink, a bit
of cricket, etc.
The major revellation, though, was
that David spent several years as a
professional drummer in a band called
The Bell-aires. While he was teacher
training in England he would hop
away over the weekends to the
Continent. 'On Friday night we
played Amsterdam, Brussels on
Saturday and Paris on the Sunday.
Then we'd take the ferry home on
Monday morning.' The drumming
helped him to pay for the teacher
training. 'We were big in Holland,'
he laughed. The group even made
number 78 in the British Charts
around 1982 with a cover version of
Always Something There to Remind
Me.
Finally I wanted to know if he had
any ambitions left. He thought for a
bit, then told me that he didn't like
to think any further than the end of
his current job.
It's extremely difficult to sum up
the man after a few hours of
conversation but he seems an
excellent choice for such a demanding
job. He knows exactly what needs to
be done and how to go about it. I'm
convinced that, despite my initial
misgivings about the need for a Union
Manager, David Peacock will help
turn our Union into the kind of Union
which balances providing advice and
representation with obtaining
financial success and efficient
FELIX Friday 10th June 1988 3

