Catching up
with nature
Bacteria are just about the simplest
things there are, but the simplest bug
can do thousands of things that
humble the combined might of the
world's chemical industry. This
makes chemists very very jealous. It
also makes them put a lot of effort into
catching up.
The things that make chemists
jealous are the selectivity and speed
of enzymes (nature's chemical
factories). Take nitrogen fixation:
bugs can turn molecules of Nitrogen
(N,, a notoriously inert molecule)
into ammonia (NH,, a reactive
molecule easily converted into
fertilizer for the plants they live on)
at room temperature and pressure.
Whgn chemists want to make
ammonia (and they do, as more
molecules of ammonia are made than
any other chemical) they have to heat
nitrogen and hydrogen to 700 degress
at hundreds of atmospheres pressure
over a metallic catalyst. Chemists can
therefore get very annoyed watching
a lawn grow.
However, we have started to
understand how nature does this
clever trick. Chemists at the
Agriculture and Food Research
Council's Institute for Nitrogen
Fixation at Sussex University, have
been exploring the structure of the
nitrogenase enzyme (where nitrogen
fixation actually happens) and they
know quite a lot about it. The active
centre, buried deep in a large protein,
contains an atom of molybdenum (a
fairly rare second row transition
metal, and the least abundant element
known to be important for any natural
process: fans of The Hitchhiker's
Guide may want to know that its
atomic number is 42; this may or may
not be significant).
Some of the other chemists at
Sussex have been trying to second-
guess nature by building simple
molybdenum compounds and looking
at their reactions with atmospheric
nitrogen. They have been able to do
some temptingly interesting chemical
reactions, but have not yet produced
a useful room-temperature source of
ammonia.
As well as doing simple chemistry
under mild conditions, enzymes are
good at doing very complicated
chemistry extremely selectively. All
living things are, ultimately, built up
from the building bricks present in air
(oxygen, nitrogen, carbon dioxide)
and water plus a few other elements
U N D E R
MICRO
by Steve Black
in smaller quantities. The complexity
of living things is a reflection of the
complexity of the chemistry done by
their enzymes.
Consider how much chemical
jiggery-pokery must be required by
the enzymes of the plant Caffea
Arabica to assemble bits taken from
air and water into that molecule
without which student life as we know
it would be impossible, caffeine.
Enzymes presumably work because
they are very good at recognising
other molecules. An enzyme must
pick specific molecules from complex
mixtures and put them together in a
well-orchestrated way. To do this it
has to hold molecules tightly together
and encourage them to react. We are
just starting to uncover just how
enzymes go about such business.
Not all our discoveries in molecular
These diagrams show the molecular structure of the molecules in a chemical
shorthand. Carbons and hydrogens are not shown explicitly so as not to clutter
up the skeletal picture. So, each vertex in the diagram is a carbon with enough
attached hydrogens to make its total number of bonds equalfour. Me stands
for —CH,
caffeine
diquat
paraquat
dibenzo (24) crown (8): molecules like this can tell the difference between
diquat and paraquat.
a sort of sandwich with bits from the
other molecule as the filling.
Dr Williams (IC Chemistry) and his
colleages realised that they might be
able to exploit this effect to make
sandwiches with nasty molecules such
as diquat and paraquat (see diagram).
So they made a range of different
crown-ethers until they found ones
that would form the right sort of
sandwich. Their compounds can
distinguish between diquat and
paraquat even though they are very
similar chemically. Unfortunately
they have not yet found a compound
that can cure paraquat poisoning, but
their compounds can be exploited as
very sensitive detectors of paraquat.
Studies like this are starting to help
chemists understand how nature's
factories go about telling the
difference between similar molecules.
Meanwhile, other chemists are
trying to build very simple artificial
enzymes. These try to incorporatejust
a single chemical feature found in
some natural system in an attempt to
model one part of the enzyme at a
time. For example, many enzymes
work by pulling a simple organic
molecule into proximity to a metal
atom which can cause useful
transformations in the bound
molecule (bits can be added to it or
taken from it).
Chemists in the Netherlands have
recently started work on some very
crude mimics of this sort of process.
They have built relatively simple
molecules with two components: one
end of the molecule holds a metal
atom, and the other end can attract
some simple organic building blocks
and bring them close to the metal
When I finish my thesis I will be
going to Holland to see what happens
next. We hope to gain some insight
into the way enzymes use metals to
encourage their reactions. We might
even be able to design some useful
new catalysts.
Chemists all over the world are
putting a lot of effort into uncovering
nature's tricks. We may not be
moving very quickly, but we are
catching up.
Caffeine is C g H | 0 O 2 N 4 organised as
shown in the picture. If the plant had
left out just one —CH, then the
molecule would have been
theobromine (the much milder
stimulant in chocolate) and student
life would be impossible. And
caffeine is just a throwaway molecule
apparently used by the plants as an
insecticide. The molecules we are
built from are much more complex
then that (and enzymes themselves
work well because they are extremely
complex molecules).
recognition have been deliberate. For
example, workers at ICI, Imperial
College and Sheffield University were
looking for ways to encapsulate
cisplatin (a useful anti-cancer drug
with nasty side effects) when they
noticed an unusual interaction
between bits cf one of their platinum-
containing molecules and bits of their
complexing agent, a crown ether (see
diagram). Basically the flat aromatic
rings (the hexagonal bits in the
picture) can fold up (the rest of the
molecule is very flexible) to produce
P.S.
Anyone who fancies a go at the job
of Science Editor next year should
probably contact me (int 4642) and/or
next year's FELIX Editor. I've
enjoyed it and I will pass on hints and
ideas to anyone who wants them
More than one person can do this job
Next week is the last of my columns
and I will be trying to work out what
science actually is (can you think of
a good definition?).
Friday 10th June 1988 FELIX

