IN THE world of journalism,
news was once defined as a
piece of information that
someone, somewhere
doesn't want you to print.
Anything else, so the theory
goes, is merely free
advertising.
This is no less true within
the world of student
journalism.
Within College, we
observe the administration
bending over backwards
with press releases on
Alumnus Days, refectory
profits, art exhibitions, and
other miscelanea. Whilst the
Union anxiously publicises'
its achievements at UGMs,
Council meetings, and one
hundred and one other
committees.
Yet the real news is rarely
mentioned. It becomes
entangled within the internal
politics of Sherfield and the
Union Office. The shutters
are drawn as soon as one
hints of mistakes or
shortfalls within the system,
and reporters become the
victims of irrational abuse.
In the Fifth Column we will
be bringing to light some of
the things which the College
and the Union have preferred
to keep under wraps. We will
be investigating major issues
outside of College, and
exposing one or two
scandals. We will take a
more in depth look at news
as it reveals itself at Imperial,
and indulge in the occasional
general interest feature. In
short, a mixed bag, but one
thing is certain-definitely no
advertising.
:''.G*'n
L e t t e r s
Send your letters to Judith Hackney, FELLX Office, ICU, Beit
Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Slap in the face
Dear Editor,
Several of my residents found your article "Only on
Sunday" in the last editon of FELIX a bit of a slap in the
face, and so I feel it my duty to write to you and set the record
straight.
Your article mentions, for example, "beefburgers barbequed
personally by Rob Northey". Rob did an amazing job (for
one person), but what about the 50 odd residents from
Montpelier Hall who helped. Between them, they ran 4 stalls,
supplied a guide for the tours up the Queens's Tower, ran
many (if not most) of the events, they made and served all
the punch (some of the people chopping the fruit for the punch
never left the kitchens during the fair), served the ice-cream
and they made and served all the hamburgers, with a little
help from Rob Northey. That is not to say that Rob did not
work hard; on the contrary, he worked very hard, but he was
only one member of a large team, all of whom worked hard !
Furthermore, some 19 of my residents started work at noon
on the day, carrying equipment, setting up stalls and blowing
up balloons, and most of our workers only finished at about
7.30pm. In fact, I think it would be safe to say that if
Montpelier had not helped on the day, of if they had not
worked as hard or as willingly as they did, the fair would not
have been the success that it was. Did any other section of
the College make an equivalent contribution? I hope the
College appreciates what we've done.
My hall is a happy place to live; the residents are friendly,
co-operative and eager to participate in activities, even when
it involves a lot of effort and sacrifice on their part. The vast
majority of my residents are from abroad and many will be
returning home in the next 2 to 3 months, possibly never to
return to Imperial College. They stood to gain nothing by
helping at the fair. They did it because they are really nice
people—the best around! Please give them the credit and
recognition that they deserve.
Yours sincerely,
Kevin 0'Conner,
Warden, Montpelier Hall
Your point has been taken. We apologise for the omission.
Frauds & heroes
Dear Judith,
I have just taken the ICU Handbook to be printed. This is
the end of six weeks full-time editing and to be honest it is
rather a relief—and (I hope) a chance to get some sleep.
People have said I've put a lot of work into the Handbook
and I really appreciate their congratulations and thanks.
However, I feel rather a fraud—after all, it was my job! It's
been really interesting (although heavy going at times) and
in retrospect at least, I've really enjoyed it.
I'm writing to point out that the real heroes are people who
aren't getting praise and congratulations at all. They generously
gave their time to paste up, write, proof read, find things I'd
lost and generally be very helpful. It's no exaggeration to say
that the Handbook would not have appeared before the end
of the holidays, nor would it have been to the same standard,
without their help.
I very much wish these people to know how much I value
their help and how grateful I am. If I've seemed ungrateful
I apologise—it's probably because I've been working on auto
pilot to conserve energy. I also apologise if this letter is over
gushing...it's written with sincerity, I assure you!
Pippa Salmon
Congratulations on a superb Handbook—gush, gush—but
it's not quite as good as last year's wonderful effort...
Sycophantic nonsense
Dear Judith,
I'd like to take this opportunity to be as sycophantic as
possible and to plagiarise a very witty letter written about a
year ago by a certain M r Mark Cottle. In order to do this I
will probably waffle on in this vein for several lines in a
desperate attempt to fill up some space. On the other hand
I probably won't be bothered to do anything that requires much
effort.
Chris Jones
This Chris Jones person seems to have acquired the knack
of space-filling very well and I can see such talents being
well utilised in this year's FELICES.
Calculated strategy
Dear Judith,
I think it's an absolute disgrace the shocking way Rentokil
has been neglected in recent years. Fearlessly confronting
cockroaches at every turn, their most recent act of heroism
is as yet unrecognised.
The matter first came to my attention three weeks ago, when
two Rentokil employees strode boldly into the FELLX Office,
clutching plastic tubes which contained raw liver. They were
taped to the wall at strategic point carefully calculated to cause
shock amongst the FELIX staff. Liver was discovered in the
toilet, darkroom, typesetting room, by the kettle, behind the
ghetto blaster and even in Old Beit shower. However,
inspection a week later revealed only a rather fat maggot.
What was the purpose of this daring act? A l l can now be
revealed: Rentokil's 'boys in red' were saving Beit from a
horrifying plague of killer ants, which were threatening the
very foundations of IC life as we know it. But what has been
their reward? Have they been lavished with praises and
presented to the Rector? Have they been given gold watches,
carriage clocks or medals? Did anyone even bother to make
them a cup of coffee? No! They have, as ever, been ignored,
left to sink into the mists of obscurity.
This whole affair raises some worrying questions about
freedom of speech, national security etc etc. The blatant lack
of appreciation of these heroes of our time has all the hallmarks
of a cover up. A deliberate plot to wipe out the last pockets
of resistance to...to what? I think we should be told.
Yours sincerely,
P Salmon, a concerned student.
This girl's got distinct Howgate tendancies. She must be
thinking of standing for a sabbatical post this year....
F E L I X Friday August 14th 1987 11

