I\l e w s
Missing Link
T H E RECTOR has announced that the
College intends to bring out a new
newsletter aimed at departmental staff
and alumni. He hopes that this will
bridge the gap between administration
and academics, while keeping old
students up to date on College news.
Squatters evicted
RESIDENTS in Hamlet Gardens
Summer Letting Scheme have been
evicted having caused £1,000 worth of
damage.
Neighbours had complained about
bottles being thrown out of windows and
excessive noise. The residents were also
falling behind with their rent and they
were eventully asked to leave. They
decided to become squatters, but left of
their own accord when their possessions
were removed by the managers.
Inspection of the flat revealed that the
cooker had been taken. Manager Symon
Corns later apprehended two intruders,
preventing them from entering the flat.
Late audit
IT W A S revealed earlier this week that
the annual College audit will not be
ready before the end of September. This
may mean that the University Grants
Committee will postpone awarding
Imperial's grant for the coming year.
Royal School of Mines President Geoff Parsons, pictured here outside the
Natural History Museum, has been selected to jump for Britain at the World
Athletics Championships in Rome this month.
Security tightened
SECURITY in Southside is to be
heightened following a decision taken by
the Student Residence Committee last
term. The new scheme will be similar
to the arrangements in Linstead Hall.
A security guard will work from
behind a new counter at the East
entrance checking the identities of
everyone who enters. The smaller West
entrance will be made exit-only, and the
central staircase will be closed
altogether.
Southside Assistant Subwarden, A l
Birch, commented that there would be
resistance to closing off all but the
furthest entrance for residents entering
the Halls but the general improvement
in security would probably be worth it.
All four sabbaticals have attained good academic standing this year. The line
up is (from left to right): Judith Hackney (FELIX Editor); Alan Rose (Deputy
President); Chas Jackson (Honorary Secretary); and at their feet Ian Howgate
(President).
New benefit hope
for students
A POSTGRADUATE in the Geology
Department is challenging the
Government's powers to restrict housing
benefit to students who do not qualify
for a grant.
Michael Woolrich, who has taken his
case to the High Court, is arguing that
the regulations illegally prevent him
from receiving benefit, because he relies
entirely on parental support. Until
changes in the regulations last
September, he would have been eligible
for the maximum benefit on his rent.
If Mr Woolrich is successful, students
who do not receive Local Education
Authority grants could be eligible for
arrears payments of up to £800. Some
students whose parents do not pay the
contribution expected by the L E A could
also benefit.
Moderate success
for Alumnus Day
THE FIRST Imperial College Alumnus
Day, which took place on 7th July, was
declared a moderate success by the Old
Students Association. The Rector
expressed his intention to make the Day
an annual event and it is hoped that
word-of-mouth reports will attract many
more former IC students in coming
years.
B R I E F
New anti-apartheid
initiative
STUDENTS are going to be dissuaded from
accepting scholarships from IBM, Shell
and Plessey, due to their South African
links, in the latest NUS anti-apartheid
campaign. They are also putting
pressure on students not to work in
South Africa and are asking unions to
stop buying Shell petrol for their
minibuses. This new initiative follows
the success of the Barclays campaign last
year, which forced them to withdraw
after an estimated loss of £36m student
deposits.
NUS breakaway
MR ALUN DAVIS, President of National
Union of Students Wales, has announced
that they are considering breaking away
from the central Union without warning.
The executive of NUS Wales have set
up a working party to examine its
feasibility. The move has been
condemned by NUS President Vicky
Phillips who claims that such an action
will weaken the fight against cuts in
education.
New extension
THE ISLAMIC PRAYER Room in the basement
of Princes Gardens is to be extended
after money was raised from the
Kensington Committee of Friendship for
Overseas Students and Imperial College
Union. This will allow an extra 40
students to pray at any one time and
provides additional washing facilities.
Bent row
THE DRAMATIC Society's Edinburgh
Fringe venue, Theatre West End, is at
the centre of a row between the site's
owners (St John's Church) and the
directors of one of the plays scheduled
to be shown there. The Church officials
feel that Bent, a play about the lives of
homosexual men in Nazi Germany, is
unsuitable to be performed on their
premises and they may decide to ban the
production.
F E L I X is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, S W 7 2 B B (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright F E L I X 1987 ISSN 1040-0711.
52 Friday August 14th 1987 FELIX

