U n i o n
Here goes my first information
broadcast. A l l in all College is rather
quiet at the moment and my office is at
last starting to look less like a home for
lost pieces of paper. The first major pile
of stuff that went was the mountain of
AIDS leaflets that had engulfed a filing
cabinet. All of you should have had one
of these by now; if you haven't checked
your pigeon holes; if you have, read it.
The other pile that has disappeared, was
one that Carl left in the bottom of a filing
cabinet and that's gone off for paper
recycling.
Two rather interesting developments
have occurred to do with residences, one
closer to home than the other. The
University of London Management
Audit Office has produced a draft report
on intercollegiate halls that highlights the
inefficient and short-sighted way in
which these halls have and are being run.
All I can say is that any hall that can
afford to shut for half of the Summer,
buy its curtains from Harrods and lay
a whole floor aside for staff that live in,
not including the warden and the
bursars, who may have up to 12 room
flats of their own can not be being cost
effective. I've got together with the
housing officers from St Mary's
Hospital Medical School and Queen
Mary College as well as the University
of London Union President and we are
now trying to get the other colleges to
support the report because, as you would
expect the halls have rejected it as
rubbish and no one is in the position to
tell them what to do.
Closer to home there has been quite
a lot of action on the Student Residence
Committee since Union Council stopped
recognising it as a credible decision-
Many thanks for this must go to Dr
Richard Clark (warden of Linstead and
outgoing chairman of SRC). Dr Clark
is to be replaced by Dr Bryan Levitt a
man I know little about, but that College
appears to have much confidence in. A l l
I can say is if Dr Levitt manages to be
HOWGATE'S
HALF
HOUR
making body. At present the terms of
reference are being investigated with the
aim of making them more relevant and
realistic, at the same time a completely
new committee structure is being talked
about and the location of the committee
within the College management structure
is being reviewed.
anywhere near as understanding and fair
a chairman as Dr Clark he will be doing
very well. I have to say that I am rather
sorry to see Dr Clark retire from this
post as he was without a doubt the
backbone of the residences for many
years; thank you Richard!
A point which needs some discussion
would appear to be the matter of whether
College is legally allowed to withold
anyone's degree results for not paying
their bills now that the amendment of the
Data Protection Act has gone through.
Over and above this it is questionable
whether it is a reasonable thing to do,
as many people in this position have a
job guaranteed on a degree result. These
people would be in a far better position
to pay off their debt if they had their
result. Hence it would now seem a good
idea for College to look for a new way
of securing debt repayments.
A few weeks ago Alan, Chas and I
went to the U L U training school. This
sparked off some interesting
conversation about the National Union
of Students. This ranged from people
who were somewhat annoyed at us not
being in NUS to people who wanted to
know how to get out of it and what the
advantages were. At this time I do not
want to express my opinions, but would
rather hear what you thought about the
idea of reaffilation. This is an important
point as being outside of the NUS and
not discussing the pros and cons of our
situation gives us very little credibility.
As a final point we will be looking for
a Union Housing Officer at the
beginning of term so anyone interested
might like to come and talk to me about
it.
Ian Howgate
Hon Sex Poetry Corner
The time has come, the Walrus said, to talk of many things
Of shoes and ships and sealing wax, of cabbages and kings...
Each year a large number of final year
undergraduates consider undertaking
postgraduate study of one form or
another. But what is 'postgraduate
study'? What does a postgraduate do?
The answers to the seemingly simple
questions are often not known to people
who do not have postgraduate
experience.
In order to assist those who may be
contemplating taking some form of
postgraduate study, Imperial College
Union produces a Postgraduate
Handbook. This is intended as an
information guide, giving details of all
forms of postgraduate life. The next
edition will be produced around
Christmas time, and will be available to
anybody who may find it useful.
At present the Handbook is in the
preparatory stage, and there is still much
to be written. I would therefore like to
make a general appeal for articles and
information etc—anything that is useful
to know before becoming a postgrad.
For example; How do postgrads spend
their time (lectures, lab, etc), what are
the questions to ask at job interviews,
what are the job prospects like after one
finishes a postgraduate course??? A l l
information/articles would be greatly
appreciated, and should be sent to me
via the FELIX Office.
Alan Bamett,
Postgraduate Handbook Editor
1987-88
I'm afraid, that's the only verse I know
(apart from the version in original
Greek), so I'll have to fill the space with
boring serious stuff.
Insurance
Joy of joys, the Hall of Residence
Insurance will be administered by
Student Accommodation Office from
late September onwards. However I'll
be dealing with enquiries until then.
As I am continuing to deal with this
insurance at very short notice, I am
having to learn about it as I go along.
Most people manage to be very polite
when making enquiries which is much
appreciated. Those that do not achieve
this (and you know who you are) only
create problems for themselves.
Parking Permits
The current permits are valid until
October 4th (unless they are special
temporary permits). Application forms
for next session will not be handed out
until the first week of term, so there's
no point in asking for one now.
Duplicating
If anyone wants duplicating (by
Gestetner) before the start of term my
machine is currently underused, due to
a lack of committee minutes. Prices can
be provided on request.
Transport
Currently, many of the vans are lying
idle, so if you ever wanted that
postgraduate trip to the seaside, now is
the time. All you need is a registered van
driver. Van tests can be arranged as long
as you have held a clean, full licence for
18 months, and are over 21 years old.
That's all for now folks!
Chas Jackson
The Union Print Unit will re-open on
14th September
4 Friday August 14th 1987 FELIX

