• MICHAEL ARTHUR has done it
yet again! Yes folks thanks to an
administrative cock-up, Mr Arthur
forgot to add VAT on to the cost of
renting rooms. This means that the
College is set to lose several thousands
of pounds, which doesn't make paying
off the debts for the new student house
any easier.
• FOR SOME reason the Union
Executive has decided to be as officious
as possible this year. Diminutive
Handbook Editor Pippa Salmon was the
first to experience the Union at its worst.
They decided that she didn't know
enough about being a woman, at Imperial
and asked for the "women' article to be
toned down a little. They suggested the
change of 'terrible image' to' 'sexist
image' and a swap of the second and
third paragraphs. This obviously made
all the difference!' Not content with
telling her what women want to read,
they also demanded that the 'Lesbian &
Gay' article be totally rewritten, despite
the fact that it was penned by last year's
Lesbian & Gay Welfare Officer. They
also demanded that both the Snack Bar
and Union Bar articles be made more
appealing and that all negative points be
edited out. Cue one rather irate,
diminutive Handbook Editor.
• FAUX PAS ofthe month goes to Prof
Ash, our illustrious Rector, who told one
audience that College were actively
encouraging more overseas students to
come to Imperial because of the money
that could be raised, only mentioning the
students as an after thought!
• ADRIAN "JELLY" JOHNSON,
an Evelyn Gardens manager especially
selected by Lesley Gillingham for his
highly developed ability to bullshit his
way out of difficult situations, was
caught in a compromising situation after
deciding to visit the WC late one night.
When he returned to his room Jelly
discovered that the door had swung shut
on die latch, leaving poor Jelly standing
naked in the corridor. In desperation
Jelly decided to look for a bin-liner to
cover his embarrassment. A search of
the house revealed only one liner full of
rubbish, which Mr Johnson was forced
to empty before making appropriate
holes for his arms and legs.
The
good
the
bad
and the
undeniably ugly
MR WIMPY the Cook, Michael
Arsehole the janitor and Johnny
Smooth the Bursar were having a
meeting with Eric Burntout, the
Headmaster of Empirical School
for the Terminally Insane. It was
one of those occasions when they
had to decide who was going to
have to carry the can. Earlier that
week Burntout had received a
telephone call from Empirical's
Tax Collector. Burntout had been
horrified to discover that he owed
the Tax Collector two hundred
thousand pounds because Mr Wimpy had been paying all his helpers
with money from the cash box. This had been happening for years
and years, so Mr Wimpy was doing his best to convince everyone
that it wasn't his fault, since he had only been at Empirical School
for two years. As usual, everybody's first thought was to blame
Michael Arsehole. Unfortunately, as he was never allowed to handle
any money, the others had to agree that they couldn't pin this one
on him. Burntout and Johnny Smooth were, of course, far too
important to be blamed for anything. This did not stop Smooth
ticking off Burntout in his usual manner. "If only you hadn't made
all those silly remarks about Empirical being broke, we would have
been able-to cover this'up", said Smooth.
Burntout muttered somthing under his breath about Smooth being
the first up against the bike shed wall come the revolution.
After another half an hour of arguing, during which the only useful
decision made was to send Michael Arsehole out for some more
jelly babies, Mr Wimpy managed to save himself from tax exile by
suggesting that they should blame all the workers in the money
counting office. This really was quite a sensible thing to do: no ie
of the money counters knew anything about counting money. In
fact they spent all their time sending messages to each other on
their computer system and thinking up anagrams of 'VAT'.
After this was agreed, Burntout announced that he wanted to
start a newspaper for all the teachers at Empirical School so that
he could get his own back on all the sixth formers who kept writing
nasty things about him in PHALIX. He had always wanted to have
his own newspaper but now he had to persuade someone to do
all the work for it. "I think Arsehole is the man for this job" said
Smooth gleefully, delighted to have another opportunity to give
Arsehole a hard time. "But I'm far too busy holding wine and cheese
parties for the boaties", said Arsehole. As far as Arsehole and
Smooth were concerned, this was just another one of Burntout's
bad ideas.
Arsehole made an excuse for leaving and went back to his own
pokey little office. He rang Lesley Tantrum, the matron of all the
Empirical dormitories to see if she was having a worse time than
he was. Between them, Arsehole and Tantrum had made all the
sixth formers very angry at the end of the last term. They had
demanded that all the sixth-formers be out of their rooms fifteen
minutes after the end of their last class. They had not even allowed
any of the sixth-formers who had nowhere else to live to stay a
little longer. The result had been complete chaos: all the sixth-
formers had moved out of the dormitories and into the corridor.
When Arsehole ordered them out of the corridor they all gathered
their belongings and went round to stay at Arsehole's house.
Arsehole had had to live with two hundred sixth-formers for several
weeks, and he had been trying to take out his frustration on Tantrum
ever since. When he dialled Tantrum's number, however, the phone
was answered by Alan Uglybastard, the Deputy Head Boy.
"Something's come up", said Uglybastard. "Oh well, I'll phone back
in ten minutes then", said Arsehole...
Will ten minutes be long enough?
Who will lose their job first?
Find out in the next episode
• EVELYN GARDENS' resident
pain-in-the-neck, a guy known as
Flanagan, was involved in a small drugs
fracas. Feeling the need for some stash,
Flanagan made his way to Earls Court
where he made a purchase of £10. He
was somewhat disgruntled to discover
that his stash consistently extinguished
every cigarette he tried it in. Only later
was it pointed out that he had infact been
sold a licorice-allsort...
• MR FLANAGAN again ran into
trouble when he decided to squirt ex-
FELDC mega-artist, Chris Edwards with
a water pistol. Chris, not sharing
Flanagan's sense of humour, turned
around and presented him with a black
eye. Chris was later presented with a
bottle of whiskey courtesy of the Evelyn
Gardens management, for his services
to mankind.
• TALKING of Evelyn Gardens, an
alarming story has reached my ears.
Two of the cleaners found a bottle of
vodka which had been left behind by a
former resident of the room they had
been told to clean. Naturally delighted
with their find, they proceeded to tell
everyone they met, including the
gorgeous, pouting Student Accom-
modation Officer, Lesley Gillingham.
After returning from a hard morning's
cleaning, the pair discovered the bottle
gone! It was revealed later that Ms
Gillingham had ordered random
incompetent Jelly Johnson to requisition
it for her because she "needed it more
than they did".
• THE QUESTION on everybody's
lips this Summer seems to be 'why has
Union President Ian Howgate got such
poor dress sense?' The poor man has
become so embarrassed by these
remarks that he has taken to walking
around with a bucket on his head in
order to preserve his dignity.
. Chris Jones
FELIX Friday August 14th 1987 5

