SUPERMAN IV
The Quest for Peace
(PG) Cannon (Bayswater, Edgware Rd,
Fulham Rd, Haymarket, Oxford St,
Shaftesbury Ave) Warner (West End)
I must admit that I went to the cinema
with my mind made up that this film
would be a load of utter trash, and would
suit people with the intelligence and
sensitivity of an ant. The opening scene
pictures a cosmonaut walking in space
singing 'My Way' in Russian; kind of
setting the scene for the rest of the film
which is littered with humourous
dialogue. The plot revolves around the
fight between our hero Superman and
his arch-rival 'boomerang' Lex Luther
(Gene Hackman) who has more escapes
from prison than Don Juan had partners.
Lex's sole reason for existence it seems
is to finish off Superman (see Superman
i, n, m).
Superman conveniently provides him
with the opportunity, after a little boy
wrote to him asking him to get rid of all
nuclear weapons on earth. Superman
strides in to the U N and says, "I'm
gonna snaffle all your rockets" and, to
rapturous applause, throws them all into
the sun.
Lex capitalises on this by borrowing
one of Superman's body cells (from a
hair) and throws something that can only
be described as a prawn cracker (genetic
protoplasm) and two bits of cloth into
the sun. This (apparently) creates
Nuclear Man, an evil clone of our
super-hero who wears black and gold,
presumably so we can tell them apart
easily.
Meanwhile, back on Earth The Globe
newspaper is in the midst of a takeover
battle. The prospective new owner is a
Murdoch style Tits and Bums man, with
a rather shapely daughter Lucy
(Mariel Hemingway).
The other sub-plot is the love battle
involving Lois Lane (Margot Kidder),
Lucy, Clark Kent and Superman.
Together they arrange a farcical dinner
for four, with amusing results. As an
aside here, the apartment in which the
dinner is held is the same one that is used
in Death Wish for the party scene.
Gene Hackman plays the evil Lex
faultlessly and comes across as the only
real actor in the whole film, his
eccentricity and wit combining well to
form a quite admirable lunatic.
As is the case nowadays with films
aimed primarily at a young audience,
there must be a plot for kids and
something within that plot that appeals
to the 'older folk'. This film, while
funny in places, doesn't cater well for
the latter. Although patriotic,
meaningful speeches may appeal to The
American Male, I just felt like being ill.
In the end, Hackman fails to save The
Quest for Peace from predictability.
D.C.
TIN MEN
(15) Cannon (Tott.Ct.Rd) Odeon (High
St Ken, Swiss Cottage)
SET in the early 60's this film is a real
treat for those interested in the style of
the era. This, combined with some
memorable humour, good performances
and brilliant soundtrack would make this
film a hit even without a plot. In fact the
storyline of the film is extremely well
presented and really keeps you involved
with it's twists and turns.
From the first scene the stage is set
not only because of the amazing cars
involved in the accident which brings the
two 'tin men' together; but also through
the anger that is portrayed by both men
when the two highly-prized automobiles
smash together and the action begins.
The two men, Tilley (played by
Danny DeVito) and B B (Richard
Dreyfiiss) discover that they are both in
the aluminium building materials
business. They work for different
companies in the same town selling
aluminium sidings to unsuspecting
houseowners. This is a film of scams,
fast talking and a lot of ups and downs
in the lives of the salesmen involved (one
poor man has a heart attack whilst giving
his sales pitch to a couple).
Sparks start to fly when BB, in
retaliation for the original accident,
sleeps with Tilley's wife Nora (played
by Barbara Hershey), and love enters
the hard - selling world of the Tin Man.
R.A.
EVIL DEAD
(78) Cannon (Panton St, Royal)
AS for splatter movies, Evil Dead II
is definitive. The blood not only splat-
ters, but threatens to drown the cast of
this new film from the same writer and
director as the original. Not having seen
Evil Dead I cannot make comparisons,
but I can say that for this sequel prior
knowledge is not a pre-requisite for
enjoyment.
I went expecting to be so scared I'd
have to hold someone's hand on the way
home, but spent most of my time
laughing. This is not to say that there
were no shocks, there were, but it was
all done so incredibly tongue in'cheek,
with elements of Clint Eastwood and The
A Team creeping in at times, that even
when the hero resorts to self-
mutilation, the only reaction from the
audience was the aforementioned
laughter.
The story is a formula used before but
this doesn't matter. The hero acciden-
tally calls up an evil spirit which causes
the dead to rise up and try to make him
join them. Excellent camera work and
unceasing action keep your attention
right through to the end where the hero
gets a chance at reading the obligatory
passages from 'The Book of the Dead'.
All in all not for the squeamish, but
horror fans with a sense of humour
should make a beeline for the nearest
show. R.S.
Friday August 14th 1987 FELIX

