The credit
revolution
Over the past five years the
majorfinancialinstitutions
have become concerned about
the ever-increasing amount of
credit card fraud. It seems
that "magnetic strip" cards
are easy to decode and many
counterfeits are being
produced daily. Not only are
the banks becoming
dissatisfied with these
conventional cards but
individual card holders want
security in their transactions
and fewer cards to carry.
This has led to research into
security through encryption
(data secrecy) and
authentication (data protection
against unauthorised change).
There are three barriers to the
introduction of this type of sophisticated
system. The coding has been too
complicated for a layman to use; the
cards would be an unwieldy size and the
cost of introduction will be high.
However, a new silicon chip card, which
can handle a wider range of applications
than any of its wallet-size counterparts,
has been recently developed by Siemens
in Germany. It replaces the long,
exposed magnetic strip with a chip
proper identification. To ensure no
tampering can occur, all data is stored
on an EEPROM which is extremely
unstable and data is destroyed by any
external scanning energy. The tiny
charge carriers in the memory cells are
instantly neutralised when touched by a
probe and if anybody tries to examine
it under an electron microscope, the data
changes in a totally unpredictable
manner.
In addition a special protective coating
on the chip itself destroys any sensitive
information in the event of a break-in.
Siemens claim that it is totally
unhackable. The new 'smart' card is
fundamentally different from the
magnetic strip card in three ways: the
card can story any transaction data; data
cannot be abused; and the card cannot
be copied
It is hoped that as the card is
introduced, it will be used not only as
a cash card but also as an ID card and
an intelligent key that can only be used
when a PIN has been entered. Siemens
envisage the storage of medical histories
'the smart card
embedded in plastic to protect it from
damage and the elements.
It is because of the technology inside
this chip that the card can be made
secure against manipulation and can
prevent unauthorised alteration of stored
data. Component miniaturisation has
made it possible to pack major
processing power into semiconductor
devices the size of a one penny piece and
. at an affordable cost. The chip contains
a number of sophisticated memories
(RAM, ROM, EPROM AND
EEPROM) plus an active
microprocessor capable of executing
cryptographic algorithms. This enables
the cardholder to be identified
unambiguously and guarantees the
security of transaction data. The
cardholder will be able to give instant
proof of authorised access by inserting
the card into a point-of-sale (POS)
terminal and entering a personal
identification number (PIN). A check
will then be carried out on the
authenticity of both the card and the
terminal. There will be no paperwork
required as all money will be transfered
automatically from the purchaser's
account to the retailer's, after an
exchange of electronic signatures. The
new card claims to be hack-proof
because it is impossible to decode secret
data, such as the PIN, from the card;
account data is only accessible to the
cardholder; and specific data can only
be altered on a bank terminal after
on the cardholders chip and the
integration of the users fingerprints or
voice patterns as a further security
measure. They are planning to create a
'super smart' card complete with
miniature keypad and display.
This new card may sound wonderful,
if a shade big brotherish, but it does have
a few shortfalls. The PIN isn'tfiledin
any central, external memory so if the
cardholder forgets it, no one can help,
not even the bank. The only thing to be
done is to throw it away. As well as this,
of the 13 million smart cards on order,
less than 1 million have been delivered
because the chip failure rate is still
unacceptably high. Finally, no matter
how secure the chip may be, there is still
no safeguard against human error, such
as writing the PIN on the card!
Undoubtedly a version of this smart
card will be introduced into our high
streets within the next decade to combat
the massive fraud that's occuring at the
moment. However the makers have to
produce reliable chips and the banks will
have to outlay many millions of pounds
to install all the POS terminals required.
The smart card and its point-of-sale
terminals are being gradually introduce
into West Germany over the next three
years. It will be decided after this trial
period whether or not the system is
viable for worldwide use.
Information by courtesy of Siemens
Aktiengesellschaft.
U N D E R ! H T H E
MICROKCOPE
Super Ceramics
HIGH speed computers using ceramic
superconductors may be as little as three
years away, according to scientists, and
thefirstdevices to make use of the new
technology may be available within
twelve months.
These are the latest estimates from top
researchers six months after a team at
the University of Houston developed a
material, which exhibited super
conductivity at 98K (- 175°C). This has
triggered widespread interest in
superconductor technology, and has
prompted several governments to pledge
massive financial support for national
research institutions.
Until recently superconductivity was
only possible in a few materials kept at
the temperature of liquid helium, a few
degrees above absolute zero (-273°C).
Since the spring of 1986, when a team
of IBM scientists in Zurich produced a
superconductor at 23.2K (-250°C),
ceramic materials which became
superconductors at higher and higher
temperatures have been developed.
Though most of the superconductors
have been found to be too unstable for
any practical application, there are
widespread possibilities for
superconductors in the electronics and
heavy electrical industries.
Grave Robbing
A FRENCH expedition to recover
treasure from the wreck of the Titanic
has been condemned as 'grave robbery'
by representatives of the Titanic
Historical Society.
The expedition is being run by the
French Institute for Research and
Exploration of the Sea (IFREMER).
In the summer of 1985 this group
helped a team from the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution to find the
wreck of die liner. The Woods Hole
team, led by marine geologist Robert
Ballard, were able to photograph the
wreck, and completed their exploration
in the summer last year. At Ballards
instruction, the US Congress declared
the Titanic an undersea memorial,
making it illegal to salvage anything
from the wreck. Though the US
proposed drawing up an international
treaty to protect the Titanic, which lies
in international waters, there was no
support for this from France or the UK.
8 Friday August 14th 1987 FELIX

