Graduate
Play School
Why should 90 PhD research students gather for a 5-day conference, when
their subjects ranged from Zoology to Mathematics? Why should the Science
and Engineering Research Council (SERC), normally tight with money, be
willing to pay out £300 for each student to attend?
The location was Sheffield, and the
event one of the SERC "Graduate
Schools". The aim, we were informed,
was to show PhD students mat there are
many avenues worth exploring besides
a strictly academic career, and to
' 'demonstrate the interest to be found in
jobs in industry, commerce and
Government". In short the SERC are
worried about the number of research
students staying in academia, and not
going on to make a constribution to
British industry, especially with the
current Government policies in higher
education. We were, apparently, to be
"educated, not pursuaded".
As well as the 90 students, there were
10 'executives'—recently graduated
PhD students from various courses now
working in industry; companies like
IBM, BP, and from the Civil Service.
They were present not as Tutors, but to
take part in the discussions and exercises
with the students, to pass on their
experience of the real world.
The tutors, who actually ran the
course, were a high-powered lot also
from industry and Government; with
high ranking positions in their respective
areas.
The course was, to use the jargon,
'intensive'. Starting at 9.00am and
finishing around 9.00pm, with breaks,
only for meals, the course was split into
'sessions' lasting a morning or
afternoon, on one particular area of
industry. The first one for example, was
a case study into the marketing of the
"Paul Masson California Carafes" in
the early eighties.
In common with most of the sessions,
it started with a general introduction to
marketing, and a short film on the
particular area we were to study. Then
it was off into groups of about eight or
nine, to 'role play' some particular
aspect or other. The emphasis was very
much on finding out by doing; the
information we were given was neither
comprehensive nor easily
understandable, and the importance of
learning to work in a group was
continually stressed.
We were given pointers as to how to
organise our groups, pitfalls to avoid,
pointers to take. The result was, as might
be expected, total anarchy which (in our
group anyway!) didn't seem to get any
better as the course went on. Tutors kept
popping in and telling us to concentrate
on the "Process" (the way the decision
was being made) as well as the decision
whatever with other groups. In the
'Industrial Relations' exercise, one
group took the management, one the
unions etc. Tempers did run high from
time to time, but those groups with a
more laid back approach tended to have
the most success.
Throughout the five day course a
'Business Game' was organised, which
tended to be a common thread holding
the course together. Groups were
organised as companies selling hot water
boilers. Highlight was a 'trade fair' at
which the companies outdid each other
in the attempt to find best looking
itself, and was usually met by various
degress of 'get lost' looks. Maybe the
theory isn't as easy to apply as they
make out.
Part of the problem was that we all
were knackered!—having to work all
day, and then staying up most of the
night in the Bar or drinking coffee meant
that it was sometimes difficult to find the
motivation and concentration that some
of the problems required. This isn't to
say that we didn't take it seriously; I
think everybody did, it was just we were
half asleep by the end.
The 'role playing' would sometimes
be within the group, with different
members taking on different roles;
sometimes it was the group that would
take a common role and 'negotiate' or
boilers. Attempts included paper-
covered tables, cardboard boxes, traffic
bollards (!) and a Cigarette Box (!!). The
result was chaos with 'buyers' (the
tutors) being dragged from stand to stand
and being liberally plied with drinks-
it was held in the Bar. The more laid
back groups sat in the bar and waited
for the customers to come to them—not
as effective at selling boilers, but better
on the pocket. All great fun if you enjoy
making a prat of yourself!
There was a feeling that the business
game did tend to get rather boring
towards the end. Twelve decisions had
to be made in all, with half an hour for
each decision spread throughout the
course. Although some groups did get
involved in "dirty tricks" later in the
game to put their competitors out of
business, otherwise there were few real
decisions to make.
One criticism that ran through the
course referred to the amount of
feedback that we received from the
tutors. They were all people highly
regarded in their professions, and had
a great deal of experience in their
respective fields. However, what they
did was give the introduction to each
session and spend time with individual
groups during the session, and then let
each group tell the others what happened
in the concluding meeting at the end.
There was a strong feeling that they
could have put more input into the
meeting at the end, perhaps giving some
of the 'right' answers—what would
happen in practice. At the end of some
sessions you were left with a number of
possible solutions with little idea which
would be practical or possible.
The 'executives' were very useful,
giving practical advice about how to
apply to specific companies, tips etc,
although the amount they got themselves
involved in the activities of their group
clearly differed from person to person.
Was it worth it? It was hard work, and
I think I enjoyed it (although I am not
sure I would want to go again). Did it
open my eyes to a job in industry? Not
really—I didn't learn much I didn't know
already. Mind you I had already been
through the milk round once. It defintely
was good experience if you have never
had the chance to work in groups much
before. Should you go if you get offered
the chance? Why not—you get 5 days
free board with no academic work and
the chance to meet a whole lot of
interesting people—what have you got
to loose.
FELIX Friday August 14th 1987 9

