8 F E L I X
DUTCH TOUR
Exhausting but enjoyable—tms sums up the ICWSC Tour in
Holland over the Easter vacation. Twelve members of ICWSC
left London on 24th March for Groningen, laden with a huge
bulk of equipment to play five different sports.
On arrival, we were met by our hostesses and taken to our
digs, to discover that we had quite a variety of accommodation. First
in the sporting calendar was a swimming gala in Groningen on the
first evening. Although our swimmers were tired after a sleepless
night, due to a rough crossing, they made an admirable effort, result-
ing in a win for Kate Tait in the
breaststroke and runner up in the ingen and we lost this match
freestyle. The gala was con- 7—3 .though our team enjoyed
ducted in a very light-hearted some first class games. The next
manner, with lots of clown diving day was our busiest as far as
and racing. It was followed by sport was concerned, as we had
a party till the early hours : we three matches to play—hockey,
started the week as it was meant swimming and badminton. As
to go on. they were all held at different
The following day was taken places, the day went at quite a
more gently, and spent sight- hectic pace,
seeing, though the keen table Before the matches, we were
tennis team managed to get in a taken to an excellent place which
practice for their match next day. served huge savoury and sweet
The badminton match which pancakes. These were so popu-
was planned for Tuesday turned lar with the team that for the
out to be organised in the form rest of our visit we inevitably
of a singles tournament. As we made for there as soon as food
had not played anything but was mentioned. We managed a
doubles, this was an amusing ex- full team from the people on the
perience. However, Jackie Brown tour, and considering this was not
reached the finals, being finally the regular college team they
beaten 2 games to 1. played very well. The Dutch
After this peculiar arrange- team proved to be rather fitter
ment, we were ready for anything than us, and their teamwork was
in the table tennis match. As slightly superior, so we were
this too was made into a tourna- beaten 5—0, though the game
ment, it ended with the majority was by no means as one-sided as
of the ICWSC team taking part the result score may indicate. In-
just for fun. We were very cidentally, the Utrecht team went
pleased to have a win in the on to win the Dutch University
match by Janet Brownlee, who Championships,
won the whole tournament and The badminton doubles match
was presented with a silver spoon, was won by ICWSC very easily
Although the individual win- and we finished off by playing
ners in the sports were presented some friendly mixed matches. In
with prizes, we were all given the swimming match, Kate Tait
decorated Easter eggs as memen- came second in the breaststroke.
tos of our visit to Groningen. We Our programme for that day
replied by giving them an IC also included a party in a cave
plaque. The Easter eggs didn't at the side of the canals which
remain mementos for very long, started at midnight. By this time
as they were consumed on our we had got accustomed to the
journey to Utretcht the same day. Continental habit of living the
There, a huge meal was waiting clock round, so with a mixture
for us, to start us off on yet of Dutch boys and English law
another series of matches begin- students on tour, we were enter-
-ning with Table Tennis. tained very well.
The opposition here was con- On Friday, we had our last
siderably stronger than in Gron- match—squash. Although the
Dutch team tried to convince us
that squash was a new game in
^^SfiSSSS^S^SSSSSSWi Holland, the match turned out to
^^S^^BS^B^^B^r^l; be very close, 2 games all,
w m U M v _ r m ICWSC winning on points.
A JIM At ML M S We finished the tour, after
playing no less than 8 matches in
5 days by a trip round Holland
in a car and a hired minibus
driven by two members of the
men's sports committee. We
were taken to Amsterdam for a
tour of the canals, then on to the
Hague for lunch, and to Scheven-
ingen, the seaside resort in the
suburbs. On to Delft for evening
meal, thence to the Hook for the
PAPERBACKS midnight steamer to Harwich.
This last day really capped a
1.34 5 EXHn.rr.ON road, s.w.7. ™°f enjoyable tour and we hope
that maybe next year we wdl
have the pleasure of entertaining
a Dutch team in England.
B E R Y L MILNER.
TECHNICAL & GENERAL
ART MATERIALS
DRAWING INSTRUMENTS
STATIONERY
THE U.L. SOCCER CUP FINAL
At Motspur Park on Saturday, 16th March, Imperial College
won the U.L. Soccer Cup for the 5th successive year. Their oppo-
nents on this occasion were St. Mary's Hospital, rather unexpected
finalists, who were defeated by 3 goals to 1.
Although I.C. were somewhat
fortunate to survive some of the ticular-, had the St. Mary's
earlier rounds, it must be noted 'keeper groping,
that they were forced to turn out A megaphone and a coach-
against St. Mary without the club load and a half of I.C. spectators
skipper Dave Hunt who had a were now doing their bit, and
leg injury. Furthermore the with Flynn's witticisms and Car-
team's performance was bound to ter's bawlings floating across the
be affected by the semi-final re- pitch, Imperial's third goal just
play on the day before when had to come. With 15 minutes
University College were defeated to go ,a shot by Wilcox found
3—0. Nevertheless, in the final, Casemore who flicked the ball,
Imperial once again pulled out between two defenders, into the
all the stops to gain a very credit- net.
able victory. And so, for yet another year,
_ the U.L. Soccer Cup Trophy is to
Bas. James was captain for the t a k e i t s l a c e i n t h e t h c a b i .
day and as usua he marshalled n e t i n t h e U n i o n , o u n g e .
the defence brilliantly. With After the match, the victorious
the wing half-backs particularly t e a m w a s l e d t Q r e c e i y e t h d [
Austin, taking midfield control, m e d a l s b t h g n o n . p i a y i n g s k i p .
the opponents attacks were in- It was a worthy tribute !!
variably nipped in the bud and, M I K E COX
as a result, St. Mary's defence T e a m . I n g r a m > L o f t u s ? F i g J
was kept very busy The I.C. A u s t i n > J a m e S ; H u x t a b l e > Case-
forwards, however, found things m o r e > C r a w f o r d s Wilcox, Preece,
difficult against quick-tackling Vaughan
defenders and the only way
through appeared to be centres
into the goalmouth. Thus, after
half-an-hour, came the first goal,
when a corner-kick, taken by the
I.C. left-winger, Vaughan, was The Soccer Club moved quietly
scrambled into the net. and discreetly into Paris on March
Five minutes later, however, St. 25th. Except for washbowls, cup
Mary's surprisingly equalised boards and wardrobes the Cite
when their inside right shot from Universitaire had everything,
30 yards. Ingram, who had ad- including a blackboard in the
vanced to cut off the expected bedroom for tactical plans and a
through-ball, dived too late to nearby field to train on.
prevent the ball rolling into the Once settled in, Wilshaw pro-
corner of the net. duced a " yard " and the vin or-
dinaire was soon flowing freely.
On the stroke of half-time, Im- Munday as " Adult in Charge I
penal regained the lead, de- t h e n established his superiority by
servedly, with the best goal of the downing l i pints of the red stuff
match. Casemore, running in j n u seconds. Flynn, however,
from the right to meet a Fisher s a v e c j the face of the young ones by
free-kick .nodded the ball back a ten second effort, without a drop
across the goal for Wilcox to being spilt. He spent the next day
head into the roof of the net. in bed.
In the second half the pattern Rayner was quiet on his twenty-
of play was very much the same, first! Austin, however, made une
A gusty wind and a pitch that acquaintance in a Montmartre cafe
was cutting up rapidly made and a robust Auld Lang Syne plus
ball-control difficult and not a run to the Metro was too much
many goals appeared to be in the for Olding whom, we later found
offing. On the other hand, it leaning out of the fifth floor win-
seemed as though the I.C. for- dow. Directly below (the wind had1
wards had resolved to shoot more abated) windows clattered shut, but
often and shots from Wilcox, not even the ensuing polylingual
Crawford, and Austin, in par- Cont on page 9

