June 12th, 1973 F E L I X Page 3
President's Report
on the year
AS PRESENTED TO ICUGM
7th JUNE, 1973
President's A n n u a l Report
The essential purpose of a student union must be to
defend and extend the rights, the standards of living
and education of its members. T h e social, cultural and
athletic persuits of the Union as well as being very i m -
portant in their own right bring added strength and in-
volvement to the Union. But the standard against which
the Union must measure its success or failure is
whether it has tried to improve the lot of its members.
There is always a danger that the U n i o n will work
within the limitations of the College and end up with
its officers simply assisting the College administration
in its job. — which is not what we pay sabbatical offi-
cers for. Some minor reforms may be made but the
major problems facing students, the continual erosion
of our standard of living, the accommodation crisis,
etc., cannot be solved without going beyond the con-
fines of this College and challenging Government
policy. T h e political implications have to be faced up
to.
The U n i o n must decide what is needed for its mem-
bers and then aim to involve them in whatever action
is necesary to w i n the demands we are asking. T h e
grants issues has claimed the greatest attention, and
quite rightly so. T h e inadequacy of o u r grants is ex-
cluding many potential students from higher education,
particularly those from the working classes. It is caus-
ing increasing hardship amongst students, and makes
the financing of refectories and halls of residence
chaotic. I C Union, in spite of its not joining the
national rent strike — by a very narrow margin—has
played a very active role with its own demonstration to
the D E S , joining the London demonstration of Febru-
ary 21st, the refectory boycotts, a bigger strike on
M a r c h 14th than J think anyone had thought possible,
and many thousands of leaflets distributed in the lo-
cality.
Of course, there have been weaknesses. T h e main
activity has come from the left of the Union, with a
few noticeable exceptions from the "moderate" wing.
This naturally weakens our efforts to involve very large
numbers of I C students.
i It was a Tory government in 1962 which considered
the undergraduate grant level to be a bare minimum.
A n y right-wing student who wishes to assist the present
Tory government in its glorious mission of solving the
problems of Capitalism at our expense would do far
better to send their grant cheque to the London Rho-
desia Company (Lonrho) than to hold the rest of us
back.
The concentration on grants has led to a num-
ber of spin-offs within the college. I believe it con-
tributed to the freezing of hall rents for next year. W e
have gone some way towards freezing refectory prices
and laid the basis for a fight against any increases next
session. O n field course grants we have achieved an
improvement though whether a satisfactory one is not
quite clear. O n post-graduate demonstrating rates nego-
tiation is under way and the PG's themselves are getting
organised to win their claim for £2 an hour. Again
arising from the activity among P G ' s we have achieved
an insurance cover for A L L students in IC. Another
important spin-off of the grants campaign is the in-
creased contact between the Union and the I C trade
unions and the Hammersmith Trades Council.
In other ways it has been a depressing year. T h e
lack of a sabbatical President in the first term caused a
considerable lack of interest by some Union officers
and especially departmental reps. T h e number of elec-
tions, the non-viability of Northside H a l l ; vandalism
in the Union Building all cast a shadow over us.
But I believe the small victories we have won,
should encourage us to fight for major victories both
in the College and over the Government next session.
T o do this will immensely strengthen the confidence
and support our members give the Union. W e have
made a start this year which must be built on.
See you on the floor of the U G M next year.
J O H N L A N E
Oliver Dowsorfs
Its' strange now to think back
and realise that, 28 issues of Felix
later, I've only been editing the
paper for nine months. Mention
of mine months tempts me to
plunge forth o n a discourse on
the growth of the foetus over that
time, and that Felix is now ready
to be reborn, and trash like that
. . . but I shall resist temptation.
1 think — and rather hope —
that F E L I X changed right from
the start. There was a new look
to it — not so much a glossy
newspaper-size magazine, more a
newspaper-sized newspaper, and
a considerable change i n empha-
sis on contents. This year we have
printed three times as many
pages as i n the previous record
year (1970/71). Critics of what
they claim to be " a total lack
of news i n F e l i x " may be sur-
prised to learn that news as a
percentage of copy carried is up
on last year from (rough estimates
only) 1 0 % to 2 5 % and feature
articles and reviews are down
by a similar amount. Yes, F E L I X
could carry more news — there's
lots that goes on that doesn't get
printed, and I've always been the
first to admit it — but unfortuna-
tely no one's ever told me about
it (or, better still, written about
it) except o n rare occasions. A n d
don't you dare tell me that the
Felix E d should K N O W what's
happening. O n e can't (for ex-
ample) keep trying to find the
Volleyball Captain to find out
if there coach was struck by
lightning on the Costa Brava last
week.
Thus, a plea. If you want more
news in Felix next year (I think
next year's Editor is planning to
step it up anyway) you'd best tell
him about anything you hear of.
I hope you've enoyed reading
Felix this year. I also hope that
you have some practical sugges-
tions for the future — and as
you'll discover o n page — we're
offering five double tickets to
a West E n d cinema i n return for
writing and telling us about them.
One temptation I'm afraid it's
impossible to resist is to write a
post-mortem o n the year. F o r it's
been a most curious one, one in
which the credibility of I C Union
has dropped more than ever be-
fore. Fortunately the constituent
college unions have not streng-
thened at the same time, or at
least not significantly.
The fundamental change is i n
the composition of U n i o n meet-
ings. N o t only are there less
"communicants" than ever be-
fore — nearly every meeting has
been on the verge of inquoracy (if
not completely inquorate) from
the start — those going to meet-
ings are of a different ilk. U G M ' s
might as well be re-named Socsoc
meetings. It's significant that the
latter's stopped holding meetings
of its own! This has presumably
happened for two reasons. Firstly,
Socsoc have put in so many mo-
tions irrelevant to the bulk of
the incumbent student body that
few can maintain interest. Sec-
ondly, only Socsoc members (be-
cause of their interest in their
motions) can survive the petty
wafflings and methods of steering
the meetings adopted b y Messrs.
Black and Jowitt.
Fortunately, the second prob-
lem should be solved next year,
since the regime then doesn't look
as if it has a similar proportion
of ego-trippers. If a little more
spice can be added to U G M ' s , the
first " p r o b l e m " (sorry to call it
that, Socsoc, 'cos you've every
right to put up your motions)
won't need to be solved. Every
motion — well, A L M O S T every
motion — will get chucked out
automatically.
The administration has had
pretty severe problems . . . es-
pecially that of a lack of Presi-
dent for several months. Obvi-
ously 1 must congratulate John
Lane on his work since then, but
unfortunately his efforts have
been almost exclusively devoted
to work on the Grants Campaign
and other national campaigns, at
the expense of the coherence of
the members of the Union. God
knows, he's tried to get them i n -
volved — he's the only one who
has, really — but, important issue
though it is, grants doesn't seem
to have won the hearts of the rank
and file. Basically this college is
as woolly-minded moderate as
ever, and the sheer mention of
politics just turns off most people
No, I don't know what's going
to be done about it, but w h y not
try involving everyone i n some-
thing non-political (like an I C U
swim in the Serpentine on the last
day of ithe Christmas term?) and
slip i n a teaspgonful of the poli-
tical elixir when they're not look-
ins
I don't really think it matters
H O W people get involved, as long
as they do. Next year's hierarchy
have got themselves quite a job
as far as that's involved. I hope
that they don't ignore the task.
Quite honestly, the best way I
can see of strengthening I C Union
— and I've wanted to say this
for a long time, unfortunately
no one else ever does in print
or election manifestos — is to
abolish the constituent college
unions. A relic of the — thank
heaven — long-since-gone days of
mascotry, they now serve no pur-
pose other than syphoning off en-
thusiasm and involvement into i r -
relevances. Everything the C C U ' s
do — except fail — a united I C U
can do better. Society is split
enough as it is without splitting
I C U society into miners, guilds-
men and rcsians.
Whoops! There is one thing the
C C U ' s seem to do better . . .
well, with more hilarity. A n d
that is Union Meetings. But then,
surely I C U could institute the
occasional totally silly union
meeting (don't tell me, they're
all silly anyway). Just think, if
you put together the total attend-
ance at three individual C C U
Union Meetings and called it an
I C U G M it would be nearly three
times quorate!
Can Y O U honestly think of any
useful function that the C C U ' s
perform? Even their rivalry sys-
tem of rag collections doesn't
work — most other universities
(and none of them have a C C U
system), do far, far better. I C U
is probably now one of the
weakest student unions (bearing
in mind its size) in the country
— certainly in London — despite
having some of the best facilities
to draw on.
I don't think that the weakness
of I C U hinges on apathy. It's
the disease-ridden, consumptive
organisation that's at fault. I
hope something is done about it
next year. T h e year after W I L L
be too late.
O L I V E R D O W S O N
P.S. M y thanks to everyone
who has helped or criticised me
during the year, and especially
to a l l those who have encouraged
me sufficiently to last out the
year.
P.P.S. Have a very happy v a c —
I hope you get good egzam re-
sults, and that I'll see you back
in October.
P.P.P.S. 1 hope you're looking
forward as much as I a m to see-
ing the next issue of Felix o n
October 2nd!
i

