imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
People’s Climate March in London - Sunday 29 November
Student Volunteering Week is coming!
Student Volunteering Week is a national campaign across the country where we celebrate
volunteers and help inspire students to get involved. This year’s theme is a collaboration; this
can be collaborating with different student groups, College departments, charities and even
different universities.
We are looking for a fantastic team of student volunteers to get involved and help shape and
lead the week. With this you can decide what events we create and how we celebrate our
volunteers.activities during SVW - which is celebrated nationally in universities and colleges
across the UK. Volunteers will need to sign up by Sunday 13 December and come along to
our first Team Planning meeting on Wednesday 16 December, 15:00.
To register online to to: imperialcollegeunion.org/svw-team
We need your input for a new
Reynolds
Reynolds
Refurbishment
This Sunday, a day before world leaders meet in Paris for the most important UN climate
summit of our generation, we are joining our voices with the hundreds of thousands of
people and civil society groups who are marching streets
worldwide.
More than 2.000 cities and 150 countries will take part in the biggest
mobilisation in history against climate change.
In London we’re marching from Park Lane at 12:00 on Sunday 29 November. Click now to
attend the event on Facebook and invite everyone:
www.facebook.com/events/516078015212179/
On the table there is a proposal for a planet-saving deal to get the world off fossil fuels and onto a 100% clean energy plan. But the fossil fuel industry will do
everything they can to block it. That’s why it’s important for all of us to take to the streets and put pressure on our leaders to secure the clean, safe future that we
and our children deserve.
To change everything, we need everyone - especially you. Sign up and share widely: www.facebook.com/events/516078015212179/
Thanks for being involved!
Imperial College Union is investing a significant amount of money in refurbishing the social
space this Easter. This is your chance to have your say on how we can improve this space
and make it popular every night of the week. We really want to get as many students as
possible involved in shaping the design of the space.
We also want to hear from anybody who currently doesn’t use the Bar as well as current
users, what could we do to the space to make it suit you?
We also have two meetings where you can have your say and discuss ideas for us to take
on board on 30 November and 2 December at 17:30 in the Reynolds Bar. app at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/reynolds-transform

