10 Feature
South Kensington Shock Expose!
No man is an island and no college is afortress. The behemoth that is IC sits
circled by a plethora of satellites and Sam Cox has docked with every one.
Relax and she'll take you there - then in return, it's your round at the Queens!
PUC.M ST, KEN
snteer
KEN5/N^rofV qont
1. Kwality Tandoori.
The best curry house in London! They can put
up with a bunch of marauding students arriving
at any time during the evening and will serve
you with a smile. Do not piss these people off,
they have given the students of Imperial a sturdy
service long before you were out of nappies.
You can eat here for around £7 without beer,
£10 - £15 with.
2. Kensington Market
Kensington Market is a good place to shop if
you are a poor down-trodden student. It sells
mainly goth and grunge wear, earrings and
anything vaguely connected with the occult. You
can even have yourself tattooed in the basement
and then cheaply fed on the first floor. The shop
keepers are willing to barter on the price and as
all the shops sell the same stuff you can battle
them off against each other for bargains.
3. Hyper Hyper
Hyper Hyper is very similar to Kensington
Market but is about twice the price. If you have
money it is great for ball dresses and cocktail
dresses as they are all unique, so there is no
chance of the embarassment of someone turning
up in the same outfit as you. They are, however,
a little off the wall and so are not for the more
conservative amongst us. They also sell wigs
and shoes at extortionate prices so you could
really go to town with your image.
4. Harts
Harts is heaven if you find youself stuck in the
middle of the night with the munchies and
nothing to eat. For those of you living in Evelyn
Gardens, it will be almost impossible to resist
popping in to buy one of their spit roast chickens
on your way back from one of the Union's
parties. They are open 24 hours a day, seven
days a week and sell everything. Somebody give
them a medal.
5.7-Eleven
This is pretty much the same as Harts although a
little more expensive in some areas and lacking
in spit roast chickens. However, they do sell
more in the way of magazines and newspapers to
give them a plus point.
6. Cullens
Cullens isn't as great as Harts or 7-Eleven
because it closes at midnight. I only put them in
to tell you that they sell great cheap croissants.
7. Pasta Sugo
Pasta Sugo is a nice cheap restuarant that your
mother would be proud of you suggesting. You
can eat well for about £10 per head and their
pasta dishes are absolutely fabulous. It is also
suitable for those more intimate moments with
the girl whose name you can hardly remember.
8. Hoop & Toy
The Hoop & Toy is a huge pub but a little over-
priced for the quality of the beer. It seems that
everytime we do a pub crawl we finish in the
Hoop. Because of its size they have no qualms
about a large group of pissed students being sat
in the corner.
9. Anglesea Arms
The Anglesea was one of the new age yuppie
places back in the 80s. It now seems to have
settled down a bit, although you still get the odd
mobile phone. It has a beer garden and also a
little old lady (who has probably been there
since the place was built) who wanders around
collecting empty glasses and scaring off the
undesirables who sit outside singing loud and
obnoxious bar songs. She works better than any
bouncer I've ever seen.
10. Queen's Arms
The Queen's, as it is better known, seems to be
an extension of the Union Bar. It is open all day
What shows have ArtSoc organised for this term? See page 21.

