Feature 11
and serves the cheapest pint outside College.
You will find the usual motley crew of students
in there. It never has Karioke or quiz nights and
is always busy. The beer is well kept and varied,
and you're bound to make it in there at some
point during your time here.
11. Gloucester Arms
The Gloucester Arms is not as cheap as the
Queen's, and has Karioke evenings at least once
a week. It also has a bar-billiards table
(positioned rather awkwardly next to the toilets)
at a cost of £1 per game, each lasting twenty
minutes. It is rarely visited by students but is
always good for a pub crawl.
12. Merry Go Down
The Merry Go Down is probably not the best or
cheapest pub in town, but it does have an
ambiance all of its own. It is quiet most of the
time - even on Fridays. It is tucked away in a
back street of Gloucester Road and so it is great
for escapism. It also has the bonus of M T V .
Good quality beer and Merry Down cider on tap.
13. Stanhope Tavern
The Stanhope is a nightmare. It graces us with
Karioke at least three times a week and is always
packed wall to wall with lager louts who think
they are big and clever 'cos they can drink ten
pints and then 'sing' a classic hit loudly.
14. Harrington
The Harrington is a pleasant little pub with a
nice atmosphere and a pool table. It does get
very busy but always in a friendly sort of way.
The beer is pretty reasonable, both in taste and in
price, but they don't have much of a selection.
Basically it's Courage Best or Directors with a
supply of Fosters for the lager swillers.
15. Hereford
The Hereford is a small but friendly pub. It is
not over priced and the beer is of very good
quality. There is also a good selection of the
stuff to sample. Its only problem is that it is
generally a middle aged pub and so is never
heaving with young talent.
16. Luigi Malone's
This is a sort of Italian-cum-Tex-Mex place on
Brompton Road and is one of the best places to
eat in South Kensington. It has a large menu and
large plates, so be warned. The cost is around
£15 for a main course, starter and couple of
beers. The atmosphere is very relaxed and there
is a bar that serves expensive but tasty cocktails.
On Monday there is a happy hour when all the
drinks at the bar are half price.
17. Texas Lone Star
This is obviously a Tex-Mex place. The food is
great and there is plenty of it, although it isn't
the cheapest place around. You'd expect to pay
around £15 if you have a starter, main course
and a bottle of beer. The place gets very busy
after 7pm most nights, especially on weekends,
but it does have a bar that you can lounge around
in i f you have the money to spend on nasty
cocktails.
18. Chan's
Chan's is an 'eat as much as you like' place. At
£4.50 per person it provides a very limited buffet
that you can visit as many times as you like.
Open all day, it is a nice cheap alternative meal
but beware if you eat just before they fill the
trays up - you may find that there is actually no
pork in the sweet and sour pork dish and instead
you end up with a plate of carrots and onions
covered in orange gloop.
19. Mongolian Barbeque
The Mongolian Barbeque is a great place to eat
out in a large group. The menu is a selection of
meats and vegetables. You choose which ones
you fancy, add some herbs, spices and sauces
and the chefs stir fry it all in front of your eyes.
For £10, you can choose as many different
combinations as you can eat. Good fun and they
don't mind a little rowdiness.
20. The Sandwich Shop
The Sandwich Shop is probably one of the most
useful places around College, especially after
4pm! They offer a wide selection of pre-packed
and fresh sandwiches, along with a selection of
hot foods such as spring rolls, quiches and
pizzas. They also sell good portions of chips The
bonus is that after 4pm all the sarnies are half
price, bringing them down to around 60p each.
They are, of course, not as good as the Union for
lunches but do do a sterling service. (Best
bargain in South Ken: huge jam doughnuts for
only 30p.)

