Features 15
Fancy Spending The Summer In Delaware?
This summer, I was one of the five fortunate
students to have a place on the Delaware
Exchange Scheme between Imperial College and
the University of Delaware, USA. We were each
given a salary of $2,500 and we had to assist a
research professor with his work for ten weeks.
Delaware is one of the smallest states on the
east coast of America and has to put up with the
long standing 'Dela...w/iere?' joke. However, to
its advantage, it has the best crab in the world, is
within day-trip distance of Baltimore, New
York, Philadelphia and Washington DC.
We arrived in Delaware at lam in the last
week of June, to be greeted by a number of
wide-awake American students. We were
immediately invited to a Stallone video-
watching 'festival'.
The accommodation consisted of a two
bedroom apartment, a fitted kitchen, air
conditioning (a must), telephone etc. Whilst we
did have room-mates, the nice American I was
sharing with got fed up with my snoring after a
couple of weeks and stayed with his girlfriend
for the rest of the time.
We first experienced American culture at
lunch the next day. It was impossible to get
away from the " M y name is X , if you need
anything else please don't hesitate to ask". After
a while, we graded the tip on how little they said
- the less they said, the larger it was.
The work was uninteresting, without being
boring. Thankfully, Imperial College has a good
reputation, especially in Electrical Engineering,
so they didn't treat me like some brainless
American undergraduate.
The other four Imperial College students
consisted of two physicists, a chemist and a
medical student. They were all 1st class honours
people, while I was a lowly 2:2, but one of the
other students made up for my lack of
intelligence with his lack of common sense. At
one point he went wandering around New
Orleans late at night. He survived... just!
Trips were organised by the University staff
to New York, Philadelphia for the 4th of July
The Washington Monument
festivities, Baltimore for the aquarium and
Washington DC to see 'Bill's pad'.
Overall it was good fun. If you want to find
out what research is like in a foreign country,
this is the scheme for you. If you just want a
good time in the States, the same applies. While
it doesn't seem very much, the salary lasts long
enough if you don't buy fifty CDs like I did.
More information can be obtained from
Room 313C in the Mech. Eng. building. There is
a meeting at 1.15pm on Wednesday 3rd
November in Room 342 in the Mech. Eng.
building about the Delaware Exchange Scheme.
The last date for applications is Friday 12th
November.
Joshua Burrill
Help The Accommodation Office Help You
Finding accommodation outside the College
residence system is one of the biggest problems
faced by students. The condition of the flats is
more often than not disgusting and negotiating
rents etc with the landlord can be fraught with
difficulties. However help is at hand...
Imperial College Union is currently setting
up an Accommodation Bureau in conjunction
with the Accommodation Office but, in the
meantime, there are several people you can turn
to within the College who will advise you:
Pat Harvey works in the Accommodation
Office, 15 Princes Gardens. She can provide lists
of 'local' property for rent and also has a booklet
containing useful information about renting
property.
Minever Kavlak, the Union Adviser, is
available every day in the Union Office and she
is able to give legal advice about your rights as
tenants.
You can also come and talk to either Dave
Goddard, Deputy President (Finance & Services)
in the Union Office or myself, Nicky Fox, on ext
6764.
The only way this service can function
effectively is if you are prepared to help us to
help you. It is important to tell Pat Harvey if any
flats you view are in bad condition or if you
have problems with the landlord. She can then
advise other students in how to avoid the
difficulties you experienced. It is also helpful if
you Can inform her when you accept a property
so that she can update the lists - there is nothing
worse than wasting your time and effort phoning
up for flats that were let three months ago!
Pat has a questionnaire which she would like
as many students as possible to fill in about
living outside College accommodation - this will
help her to advise you better. The questionnaires
are available from the Accommodation Office.
Finally, it is most important that you do not
sign anything that you do not understand. If you
are unclear about any of the points in a contract,
make sure that it is checked by either Pat Harvey
or the Union Adviser because, once you have
signed, it is almost impossible to help you
should you run into difficulties. Above all, do
not suffer in silence - tell any of us about your
accommodation problems and we will do our
best to help you sort them out.
If you have any ideas or advice to offer about
the Accommodation Bureau please contact
either myself or Dave Goddard through the
Union Office - we both have internal telephones
and pigeonholes that you can use.
Nicky Fox
ICU Welfare and Acting Housing Officer.
See pages 10 and 11 for the best places to eat in the local area

