16 Feature
The Boatmen of South Kensington
Talent, success and tall muscular bodies, the members of Imperial College
Boat Club appear to have it all. Jim Bichard steers his boat Felixward to
introduce the new season and a couple of rowersfor your delectation.
The Imperial College Boat Club rowing on the Thames
6:30am, Putney Embankment
Scores of young men and women cycle or walk
along the riverbank, sleepily exchanging hellos
as they converge on the blue and white boat-
house. This is the first Tuesday morning outing
of the new term at Imperial College. Around
sixty rowers will be steadily propelling their
racing craft eight or ten miles in the half-light
before returning to the warmth of the changing
rooms for a quick shower and a dash to make
first lecture. Where else would you get such
dedication?
For many, this will be the pattern for two
days a week and at 8am on weekends.
Additional evening weight and ergometer
training will push the count up to ten sessions a
week for the three terms. For less experienced
rowers, six times a week is the norm.
Chief architect of this concerted effort is Bill
Mason, the head coach of Imperial College Boat
Club (ICBC) and guru to his followers. This
kind of hard grind is needed to be the best at the
top level - you have to be very well organised in
your work. By necessity your social life tends to
revolve around the Club and the rowing circuit,
as opposed to the more regularly promoted
London scene. The rowing tradition at Imperial
is very strong, and the College has benefited
from this over the years.
However, many people at Imperial College
may not have been interested in the Club's
activities; until now you may have been unaware
This kind of hard grind
is needed to be the best
at the top level
of the amount of hard work that goes into our
well publicised success. Perhaps, after reading
this, you might want to go and see what the fuss
is about and find out why the Boat Club is a
little different from the many other societies on
offer at Imperial. Anyone is welcome to have a
go - you provide the enthusiasm, we provide the
expertise. It's not all cold morning training
sessions and blisters - try to picture the thrill of
accelerating past a crew rowing to their limits, to
the accompaniment of the thundering roar of
thousands of spectators.
ICBC can long claim to be the best student
boat club in Britain - some recent results provide
proof. U A U champions five years out of the last
six; three Eights' wins at Henley Royal Regatta
in three years, two of which were in record time;
numerous Elite wins and divisional wins at
Heads and Regattas around the country,
seventeen international caps in the last two
seasons, including Under-23 Gold and Silver
Medals at World level; crews at the World
Student Games and representatives at the Senior
World Championships.
Our first eight maintained its position in the
top seven crews at the Eights Head. They have
beaten Oxford University and raced in Tokyo,
Copenhagen and Amsterdam. Meanwhile, the
women's squad, coached by Nick Wilde, has
made great advances to become one of the
country's most powerful student crews. As
schoolboy internationals and Junior National
Champions join the top squad ranks, the Club
The Andromeda Strain by Michael Crichton is reviwed on page

