Feature 17
coaches complete beginners to enjoy the thrill of
competing and to taste victory at big events.
We expect the 1993/4 season to be very big
for Imperial at all levels. On Saturday 6th
November the Club will be competing at the
Fours Head and aims to continue its successful
performance in this event. The following day,
Sunday 7th November, the College is hosting
the official U A U sponsored National Student
ICBC can long claim to
be the best student
boat club in Britain
Indoor Rowing Championships in the Great
Hall. This will be used as a valuable fitness
assessment as well as being an official U A U
event. Schools, universities and colleges from all
over the country will be attending, vying for the
Walkman prizes in various categories.
We would like to encourage non-rowers to
try their hand, perhaps at the team event for four
people. The RSM, RCS, C & G , rugby, hockey,
football or any other club can put a team
together on the day and compete for the prizes of
a barrel of beer - which is a good enough
incentive for anyone! Or i f you are around
College on Sunday, come along and give some
support to your friends, to the College or just
come along to have some fun.
Looking further ahead in the season, we are
aiming to supersede our own record of divisional
wins at the Eights' Head in March and hopefully
go on to dominate the domestic racing season,
culminating in Henley Regattas for both men
and women. The Club is also hoping to take a
small number of athletes to a training camp in
Italy at Easter, providing the students can find
the money or possibly with sponsorship. There
has already been an offer of a training camp and
Universities Race in Banyoles, Spain this month
but unfortunately, the finances of the students
prevented us from attending. This is often a
problem as rowers have to pay for most of their
trips and races, even with generous support from
Satelcom UK, based at Silwood Park.
Another problem this year, which may
become a major obstacle, is that there are around
forty top squad oarsmen, twenty intermediates,
twenty senior women and seventy novices in the
Club and our Putney boathouse has to provide
boats, racking space, changing rooms and
showers for all of them. We are absolutely
jam-packed and in addition the Club has also
had to create a makeshift gymnasium as our
previous arrangements with St. Paul's School
have become too expensive. The Club needs
more facilities in the shape of a proper gym,
more space for our £200,000 worth of boats and
a workshop so that repairs and normal
maintenance of boats can be carried out. For a
club which offers so much to students, achieves
acclaim in the national press and is obviously a
tremendous advert for the College, surely this is
reasonable?
We don't want to become a victim of our
own success as more and more people want to
experience the challenge of rowing. Most of the
We don *t want to
become a victim of our
own success
time we make room for everyone but that room
is in short supply. We want to carry on our
spectacular success and share the benefits with
even more College students. Meanwhile, Bill
Mason, his coaching team and the rowers of
Imperial College will keep on doing what they
are best at - working together to beat the
opposition and putting Imperial first.
Meet the Boat Club
Luka Grubor from Zagreb, Croatia.
Age : 19
Dept. : Computing II
Height : 6'6"
Weight : 15st
Why didyou come to Imperial College?
Firstly for academic reasons. I just wanted to row in my year off, got
Bill Mason's number via a friend -1 had no idea until I turned up
that the Boat Club had any connection with Imperial College!
What does Imperial College give you ?
The Boat Club has given me friends for life which is more than my
course can do for me. We do a lot together, but there's also the
feeling that we share something very important down at the Club.
How hard is it to combine the two?
Well it's not hard at all, in that you just decide to do something and
you do it, if you really want to. You don't have to worry about how
many hours you spend training or whatever - you just do it!
Whatplans do you havefor thefuture?
In the long term I don't feel that IC will be the end of my rowing
career. I don't want to limit myself but at the same time I don't want
the pressure of thinking about getting an Olympic medal if I'm not
good enough. I think it will be a big year for IC and you have to
think Henley - we've always been successful there and I think we
will be again. As for me, my roots are in Zagreb, and I think I will
be returning there, no matter what.
Luka's Results
1991 4th at World Junior Championships in Banyoles, Spain, rowing
for Zagreb RC.
1992 Rowed for ICBC in year off before college.
Won Ladies Plate (record time) Henley Royal Regatta.
1993 Gold Medal at under-23 World Championships in Greece
rowing for Zagreb RC, as Croatia. 12th at the Senior World
Championships in Rondrice, Czechoslovakia, in the same crew.
Meet the Boat Club (Again)
Ed Wild from Cheltenham, Great Britain.
Age : 21
Dept. : Petroleum Eng III
Height : 6'2"
Weight : 14st 71b
Why didyou come to Imperial College?
It offered me the prospects of a good future both in a career and in
rowing.
What does Imperial College give you?
I wasn't able to do International trials at my school, which could
have been a disadvantage, but this is not a problem at IC. Bill
Mason was recommended to me as a good coach.
How easy is it to combine work and sport?
Extremely hard. It has been made harder by the timetable running
from 9am to 6pm, because I have to do a lot of morning training in
order to fit all my sessions in if I want to progress. I just have to be
very organised.
Whatplansfor thefuture?
I feel that with the new intake, plus the current talent and
experience, there is the potential to make this the most competitive
IC Eight ever. Similarly, the other crews can hope to get good
results.
Ed's Results
1992 Won Japanese Henley Regatta,
Tokyo Ladies' Plate (record time), Henley Royal Regatta.
1993 Silver medal at Paris International Regatta.
Silver at World Student Games, Buffalo, N Y .
Spare man for Senior World Championships.
Last year was made possible only by some financial support from the
Rector, amongst others, to help in competing and training camps, for
which I am very grateful as are all the other recipients.
An article about the Motor Club is on page 19

