18 Clubs and Societies
Ladies Football
UAU Success
IC Ladies 3 - R H B N C 2
We started the season on a good note, being the
only IC football team to win their U A U match
against R H B N C . Not long into the game the
team began to get together rather well, despite
the number of players who had never played
before. It was a well fought first half with most
of the battling being done by Karen and Juliette
in the central midfield. A courageous run by
Chris from the other side of the pitch to receive
Caroline's throw in, resulted in a clear run into
the box and a goal ten minutes before half-time.
Shortly after the start of the second half, the
score almost became 1-1 but for excellent
defending on behalf of the goal post. We
increased our lead to 2-0 twenty minutes into
the half when a scramble in front of the net
allowed Juliette to take a shot which rebounded
for Paula to tap into the goal. Despite RHBNC
pulling back a goal, we restored our two goal
lead via Juliette's cracking shot off another
corner. Some excellent defending allowed us to
keep our lead until about ten minutes before
time when R H B N C exploited a break to bring
the final score to 3-2.
Everyone out there had a superb game. Well
done! Anyone else who is interested in playing
Ladies Football should contact Christine
DeWolf via the Union Office pigeonholes.
IC Virgins Tried To Score
Last Sunday saw the first Ladies Rugby match
of the season, a friendly against the Royal
Veterinary College. Despite a bout of flu doing
the rounds amongst some of our more seasoned
players, we still managed to field a full team,
even if half of us had only laid hands on a rugby
ball two weeks ago.
With high hopes and loud singing voices we
roared off to Potters Bar to show the vets what
IC girls are made of. Unfortunately, we didn't
play as well as we sang and by half time the
score was 20-0 to them.
A quick half time pep talk by our coach,
Adam Cheney, revealed that most of our new
players hadn't been taught how to tackle and a
quick explanation followed.
The second half went a lot better. We even
came close to scoring a couple of times!
However, all we managed was to let another try
slip by to bring the final score up to 25-0.
The score belied what was actually quite a
close game with us winning most of the scrums
and line-outs but losing out due to lack of
experience. Unabashed, we left the field with
team and bodies intact and headed off to the bar
where we soundly thrashed them in an eight man
boat race.
The IC Virgins (as we are more commonly
known) train regulary (we need to). Most of us
are beginners so we won't turn anyone away and
we'll welcome anyone with previous experience
with open arms. We have been entered in both
the Women's Rugby Football Union League and
the Universities Athletics Union Ladies Rugby
League so we've got loads of matches, mainly
on Sundays. We'd like to be able to field full
teams with reserves for them so why not come
and join us.
On Tuesday we train at 5pm. Meet in Beit Quad
or in Hyde Park.
On Thursday evening there is a video training
session for rules practice.
On Sunday there is either a match or training,
meet in Hyde Park at midday.
Our noticeboard is situated between Da Vinci's
and the Union Bar.
O r i e n t a l J f l e n u
T U E S D A Y 2nd
N O V E M B E R
MAIN DINING
H A L L
11.45 - 2.00
SHERFIELD

