Clubs and Societies 19
Constitutional Changes And Their Effect On
The Clubs And Societies
Many of you will probably be unaware of the
constitutional change that was approved at the
Union General Meeting on Friday 22nd October.
It created a new management body of the Union
that contains just twelve people on something
called the Executive Committee rather than the
old 55 member Council. Clubs and societies are
now represented by just one person, Charles
Leary, the Deputy President (Clubs & Societies).
The new streamlined management body
represents every aspect of the Union once rather
than the old system where too many people
duplicated each other's areas of responsibility. It
also puts in place a far more professional system
to have all views represented with the minimum
of people involved. Many would worry about
personal bias affecting important decisions.
There must be trust in the fact that any view will
be aired and anyone can raise a motion. Then the
elected officers will make a decision based on
the case that is presented.
In order that the views of clubs and societies
are aired properly, a new group must be created.
This group will consist of the Major and Minor
Sub-Committee Chairmen and the Deputy
President (Clubs & Societies). This is the forum
where problems directly concerning clubs will
be dealt with. For the system to work properly it
is important for society Chairs to know where to
direct their problems. Most issues can be
resolved at the major sub-committee level, and it
keeps the M S C Chairs informed of what is
happening. Major problems can then be referred
on if necessary.
Currently, most clubs are coming straight to
the Deputy President without informing their
major sub-committee chairs first. This is causing
some breakdown in communications and queues
are forming in the Union Office to see the
Deputy President.
In order to solve this problem, societies must
use their major sub-committees more than they
are currently doing. The whole system works on
communication at many levels. The constitution
is new and therefore we must change the way we
operate in order to use it to its maximum
potential. Clubs and societies comprise a major
part of both the expenditure and administration
of the Union. The success of both the new
constitution and the new post of Deputy
President (Clubs & Societies) rests with the
executive of each club and society.
C&GU Motor Club Hunt For Treasure
On Sunday 24th October, City and Guilds
College Motor Club held their Annual Treasure
Hunt. The aim of this event is to cram as many
students as you can into a car and try to solve as
many clues and collect as much 'treasure' as
possible. 'Treasure' basically means anything
that isn't nailed down, but you get bonus marks
for items such as police producer forms! The day
got off to a good start when the organisers
turned up half an hour late, but after a short wait
(for some competitors to arrive), the event got
underway only an hour behind schedule.
Everything was going fairly well until we
remembered that the clocks had just gone
forward an hour, and so we ran out of daylight
earlier than we thought we would! Faced with
the task of solving the clues in the dark, most
crews promptly went to the finish, which handily
enough happened to be a pub, and drowned their
sorrows. The results were duly announced, with
the conquering Cave family yet again winning
an event, and last place going to the Captain's
team, who decided that going to a kebab house
was much more important than getting to the
finish in time!
Forthcoming Motor Club Events include:
Freshers' Rally - Friday 29th October
Rallies are held on Friday night/Saturday
morning and involve first solving clues which
define a route down some particularly twisty
country lanes, then thrashing along it as quickly
as you can manage in order to reach the end in a
set time. These events are run at an average of
30mph, but this includes the time you have to
solve the navigation clues, so although you don't
need an Escort Cosworth to be competitive,
some enthusiastic driving is essential! These
events call for a fair degree of teamwork
between driver and navigator and are great fun
for all concerned.
Skid Control Trip - Sunday 31st October
The Skid Control trips are under professional
instruction at Goodwood Motor Circuit. The
course comes in two parts, an introductory and
an advanced part. You are taught how to deal
with a variety of skid situations and introduced
to techniques such as cadence braking, which is
the human version of ABS (anti-lock braking
system). A l l cars are supplied by the skid pan, so
all you need to do is come along and enjoy
yourself!
Brighton Trip - Sunday 7th November
On this trip we accompany our veteran car, Bo,
to Brighton on the RAC Classic Car Run. Well
we don't really accompany it, we just wave it off
from Hyde Park then get a coach down to
Brighton. When we get there we drink a lot,
watch Bo arrive, have a nice meal and then drink
a bit more. Oh, and finish the day off with a go
on the dodgems (since we are a motor club and
need to drive at least once on an event!). The
event is basically a fun day out and has an
atmosphere all of it's own - approximately one
part air to two parts alcohol.
To find out more about City and Guilds Motor
Club events, all you have to do is come to the
City and Guilds Union Office, level 3,
Mechanical Engineering, any lunchtime and ask
to speak to a member of the Motor Club or look
at our noticeboard (level 3, Mechanical
Engineering).
A review of Manhattan Murder Mystery is on page 9

