News
Da Vinci's Loses Bar Manager Constitution Passed
Trevor Phillips, an old ICU President, opening the newly refurbished
Da Vinci's Bar at the start of last year.
After two years of sterling service, Andrew Flanagan, Union Bar Manager,
has relinquished his position, writes Owain Bennallack.
Citing illness as his reason for departure, Mr Flanagan expressed his
sadness at leaving Imperial College. He went on to say that he had never
worked with a group of people as pleasant as the ICU staff team. In his two
years as manager he revitalised bar trade, an achievement which directly
allowed for the creation of Da Vinci's in its current form.
Everyone in Felix and the Union wish him a full recovery and all the
best in his future endeavours. The Union would like to thank Ian Richards
who has covered as Bar Manager, Yvonne Woods for taking on extra
catering responsibilities and the part time bar staff for all their efforts.
Rector Speaks
BY DAVID SPOONER
Last week's Commemoration Day
saw the first public address by
Professor Sir Ronald Oxburgh as
Rector since taking over from
Professor Sir Eric A s h in
September.
Speaking to this year's grad-
uates, he first addressed proposals
made at last year's Commemoration
Day by his predecessor. Last year,
Sir Eric spoke of the possibility of
Imperial College disaffiliating from
the University of London and
described the federal structure as
"sterile" and "unproductive". In
contrast, Sir Ronald seems to have
adopted a most cautious approach,
declaring an earnest hope that "we
will not feel obliged to initiate the
procedures that would lead to our
withdrawal".
Sir Ronald went on to say that if
Imperial College withdrew, other
major colleges would be likely to
do so as well. He stated that this
would result in "a depressing and
inglorious end for a great
institution".
Imperial College has been a
member of the University of
London since 1908, following the
combining of three of the
Constituent Colleges into Imperial
College. A l l three colleges did,
however, issue University of
London degrees prior to the merger.
Speaking further, Sir Ronald
Oxburgh remarked on account-
ability and that measuring the
academic, as opposed to the
financial, success of a college could
create misleading conclusions.
There was a real danger, he said,
that a system of higher education
that was marvellously accountable,
educationally correct, but
irretrievably pedestrian could
become a reality.
BY ANDREW TSENG,
NEWS EDITOR
The new constitution of Imperial
College Union (ICU) has finally
been passed. The Union General
Meeting ( U G M ) held last week
heralded a reformed I C U . It also
provided a warning to those
opposed to the Constituent College
Unions (CCU) of the strength of the
C C U support.
Under the old constitution, any
amendments to the constitution had
to go through two UGMs. The first
occurred at the end of last term
when Chris Davidson, the then ICU
President, proposed the new
constitution. The second reading
took place last Friday, at the first
U G M of this term. It was passed by
a majority of over 300. Quorum for
the meeting was 300.
The strength of the CCUs was
felt when the first amendment to the
constitution was put to the meeting.
The proposal removed various
major and minor sub-committee
chairs from the Executive
Committee of I C U (SCC, S C A B ,
Rag, A C C , R C C ) , placed the
Presidents of the three South
Kensington C C U s onto the
Executive Committee and removed
the C C U Executive Committees as
subcommittees of ICU.
During the proceedings it was
proposed that the amendment be
itself amended by not placing the
Presidents of the three CCUs onto
the Executive Committee. How-
ever, this was turned down by an
overwhelming majority which
included over 200 members of the
R S M and 100 members of the RCS.
The original amendment, with
the additional removal of the
Entertainments Chair from the
Executive Committee, was carried
almost unanimously. Under the new
constitution, any amendments need
only be passed at one U G M for it to
be considered as passed.
For the new constitution to
officially come into effect, it must
be ratified by the Board of
Governors. The next meeting of the
Board of Governors will take place
early next month.
ICU Fights Reforms
BY PAUL DIAS
Imperial College Union (ICU) has
outlined its intended course of
action regarding the student union
reforms proposed by John Patten,
the Secretary of State for
Education. This follows the
approval of a motion at last
Friday's Union General Meeting.
The motion resolved to make ICU
responsible for lobbying any
necessary parties as to the role of
student unions and how they will be
affected by the proposed Higher
Education Student's Charter.
Andrew Wensley, I C U
President, described the reforms
and their potential effects in last
week's Felix. At this week's ICU
Executive Committee meeting, the
first moves to be made by ICU were
agreed.
Firstly, the Academic Affairs
Officers will ensure that all students
are aware of the possible impact of
any changes made by the
Government. This will be carried
out through the Departmental
Representatives and Academic
Representatives in each department.
Secondly, they will organise
petitions to be signed by students
expressing ICU's reservations over
the proposed reforms. The petitions
will be distributed around College
in the near future.
M r Wensley said: "I'm very
pleased with the response from
students and from College, and I
just hope that the Government
listens to these comments for once."
Tickets are still available (free of charge) if anyone
wishes to attend the speech by the Labour Leader
(Rt. Hon.) John Smith, MP, organised by the
Save British Science Society on 17th November.
Please contact:
Mrs Eeles, Room 209, (Physics Dept.)
Tel: 071 589 5111 ext 6933 or 071 225 8860.
We apologise for incorrectly printing the extension number last week.
The deadline for letters to Felix is Monday, 6pm

