Clubs and Societies 21
South Downs
By Bike
At twenty past eight on Saturday morning, four
people, with four hangovers and about twenty
hours sleep between them, met at Prince's
Gardens before setting off to catch a train from
Victoria to the South Downs Way, which goes
from Eastbourne to Petersfield passing over
almost every hill on an 85 mile journey.
Three miles after the start one of us had a
puncture on the first downhill section and we
had to endure the sniggers of crowds of walkers.
We had the last laugh, though, as ten minutes
later we caught up to them and we found out
how difficult it was to slow down without a
brake being attached to the bike.
Despite the growing wind, abysmal map
reading skills and James's panniers being held
on only by bungee cords, we arrived at the
Youth Hostel a mere eight hours after starting to
ride. It was there that Thomas Sceffl told us all
that he normally did forty miles a day in training
for the World Cup races and that he wasn't stiff
at all. Some of us hadn't done any proper
training for four months.
The next day the wind had dropped and the
trails were much faster, passing through
woodland with some screaming descents and
killer climbs. Congratulations to James Arthur
for beating us up most of them, despite having a
twenty stone dinosaur for a bike.
With ten miles to go, and Thomas worsening
from suspected food poisoning, we left the trail
and took to the roads which also helped relieve
our saddle sores.
Thanks to all concerned for taking part.
M a t c h
R e s u l t s
The results of matches
played on Wednesday
afternoons can be put
into Felix if they are
handed into the Felix
Office no later than
8pm on Wednesday
evening.
Make The Most Of The
Culture Capital
Now that you are in the culture capital of
Britain, what are you going to do about it? If
you are not careful, you will finish the year
thinking, "I wish I had gone to see that," or
worse still, "I couldn't find anyone to go with to
see that and there was no way I'd go on my
own,"!
The Imperial College Arts Appreciation
Society is for you to take advantage of many of
the excellent facilities London has to offer. We
recognize how tough it can be on a grant and the
Union gives us a grant which allows us to chop
up to 40% off tickets.
We are a completely independent society and
that means we can organise any trip which you
want. We aim for at least one show a week.
Already planned shows include:
An Inspector Calls
Arcadia
The Comedy Store
Paul Merton Live
Grease
Five Guys Named Moe
Miss Saigon
The Magic Flute
Phantom of the Opera.
There will be more opera and ballet next term!
If you are interested in seeing any of the
above, or if you have suggestion of your own,
come along to the Union Dining Hall between
12.30pm and 1.30pm on Mondays where a
warm welcome, including a cup of tea and
chocolate biscuits, is guaranteed.
Memberships costs only £3 and will probably
be made up for on your first trip. Elections for
about three positions on the committee are being
held soon - see our noticeboard on the Walkway
near the Bookstore. If you have any queries you
can contact us in our pigeonhole in the Union
Office: Harsh Pershad (Chem II), Craig Brierly
(Phys II), Eleanor Corran (Chem Eng III), Dan
Slattery (Comp III), Helen Roberts (Bio II),
Becky Cotton (Chem Eng II).
Once you have joined we will send you a
weekly newsletter that will keep you up to date
with our events.
Shake It With The Best
Tonight, Friday 29th October, Atmosphere rears
its ugly head again at the Union. After the first
sell out, I'd advise you to arrive early to ensure
entry. The music runs for 8pm straight through
'til 2am and those happy guys down at the Met.
have given us a bar extension 'til lam. The
happy hour runs between 8pm and 9pm where
all drinks will be reduced by 20%. Entry is a
paltry £1 which guarantees a night packed full of
excitement.
It must be remembered that there is a strict
No Re-Admission policy on these nights; if you
go out through the main gates you have to pay
another quid to get back in. Also, every Friday
night, both bars are included in the event and
thus you can only get to the bar by going to the
event and paying to get in.
This is you last chance to catch Atmosphere
for a couple of weeks as we take a break and let
Rag and Guilds take over the next two Fridays.
But lovers of the Ents Groove should not fear
'cos our usual Monday night theme disco and
Club Libido on Wednesday w i l l carry on
regardless. So, when you get tired of the Beer
Festival, join us at the Union and shake it with
the best.
Candyman - ICSF's Next Film
Candyman, our bumper fun not-quite-
Halloween-but-almost film, is adapted from
Clive Barker's short story 'The Forbidden' and,
unlike many book to screen translations, comes
across very well.
The story is about urban myth and gives an
origin to the 'killer with the hook', a slave
horribly tortured, who lives on through ritual
fear and whispered rumour. Within his kingdom,
a labyrinthine housing project, the Candyman is
a name to terrify children, an object for
placatory tributes of 'sweets to the sweet' and a
subject of graffiti, in particular a huge mural on
the wall of an apartment which was the scene of
a grisly murder.
Into the projects' community comes a
researcher intrigued by the Candyman's story -
myth or reality, scaremongering or justified
terror? And is she becoming part of some mass
hallucination or is she really being stalked by a
vengeful spirit, a never-dying king seeking a
queen?
Find out on Tuesday 2nd November at 7pm.
The cost is £1.20 to ICSF members and £1.80 to
everyone else. Membership is £3.00 and this
gets you free entry to one of our films along
with the opportunity to borrow some of our
3000-odd books and videos.
Bring a hand to hold.
A review of the Gigolo Aunts' latest album is on page 6

