22 Letters
Editorial
As you can see from the tasteful peppermint
coloured centre pages, Rag Week is almost on
top of us. Lots of fun and frolics to be had by all,
I'm sure. Looking down the list, there's the
Mines' Dirty Disco on Monday 8th November.
If I remember correctly, lots of people were
going around with not a lot on. It is all in the
name of charity, of course.
Some of you may have seen the copy of the
Sun newspaper in which two girl reporters went
undercover to one of King's College's parties.
The front page headline read 'Girls were naked
and boys were naked'. It went on to say in the
article that it was an ordinary Monday night in
the College and Britain's future doctors and
other to professionals were 'having fun'.
I wonder what they would make of the Dirty
Disco? A n ordinary Monday night in Imperial
College, and no doubt boys will be naked and
girls will be naked!
It seems to me that the Sun have gone a bit
over the top. Sending two girls to spy on load of
students in one of the first weeks of term. I'm
not surprised things were a bit wild. First years
are away from home for probably the first time
and other people are meeting up with old friends
after the long summer break. A reason for a
party, don't you think?
Anyway, what is wrong with students having
fun. Some may choose to get riotously drunk
and strip off in front of everyone, others may
choose to spend the evening in front of the TV.
Each to their own. Not everyone at College is
hell-bent on getting plastered every night.
Admittedly, quite a few do. But as John McCall
said in the news story on page three, people can
have a great time without touching a drop. You
just have to know your limits.
Going back briefly to Rag Week, it's all great
fun. With something going on every day for
almost two weeks, you've got no excuse not to
go to at least one event. If you make it out of
bed in the morning of Saturday 13th November,
then you could watch the Sponsored Nude
Kamikaze Parachute Jump, another excuse for
people to get their kit off.
There are plenty of other events that don't
involve nudity or drinking, so the choice is
yours - there's something for everyone.
Blatant Advertising Ploy
Beccy,
May I draw your readers' attention to
Imperial's newest leisure facility, the I C U
Cinema. We've been open for business on the
2nd Floor of the Union Building since the start
of term, and there are currently screenings on
three to four nights per week. The programme
consists of a mixture of Hollywood blockbusters,
classics, and narrow distribution films;
November's programme (to be found in this
issue) is mainly top Hollywood movies but we
hope to increase the number of Arthouse and
foreign films shortly.
Now that we screen only industry standard
35mm film, the quality of presentation is equal
to or better than most local cinemas, with the
added bonus that we welcome any drinks or food
from Da V i n c i ' s in the cinema. Not many
cinemas or theatres allow you to enjoy a pint
(short, wine, cheeseburger etc) with the film!
I'll admit that the Odeon Leicester Square has
a better sound system than us, but we have plans
to rectify this soon, pending admissions!
However, our 9.8m wide legendary Cinema-
Scope screen is 'More of an Experience'!
This is bigger than the CinemaScope screens
at A L L three local cinemas and is only bettered
by a few premier screens in the West End. The
next film in CinemaScope is Reservoir Dogs this
Sunday at 8pm. We also hope to have a new lens
in time for Jurassic Park so that our WideScreen
picture is as large as possible too.
Of course, the cinema experience is
completed by the screening of that Bacardi ad,
amongst other advertisements, courtesy of Pearl
& Dean (remember that signature tune!).
You get all this for only £1.50 (Jurassic Park
£2) - the price of a pint, and all your friends
from University of London are welcome too.
Watch the Felix Diary Page and look out for our
posters for latest programme details!
Make ICU Cinema "Your First Choice"!
Yours,
Ian Nichol, Steffan Laugharne
ICU Cinema Management.
"UrteTor £>ea3cn& beirx) a Student'1
by is! gel Rajes
Credits
Printer: Rekha Nayak (Theatre)
Andy Thompson Jon Jordan (Music)
Typesetter: Kamran Malik (Cinema)
Rose Atkins Tony Grew
Advertising Manager:
Steve Newhouse News:
Business Manager: Andrew Tseng (Ed)
Simon Govier David Spooner
Paul Dias
Features: Shaun Joynson
Owain Bennallack (Ed) Joe McFaddon
Nicky Fox
Joshua Burrill Typing & Proofing:
All the Rag crew Kin Wei Lee
Jim Bichard Marcus Alexander
Sam Cox Phill Henry
Puzzles & Cartoons: Last, but by no means
Sphinx least:
Nigel Reyes Penguin
Charlie Leary
Photography:
Mike Chamberlain (Ed)
Stef Smith Collators last week:
Tom Bradley Steve Newhouse
Ivan Chan
Reviews: Diana Harrison
Juliette Decock (Books) Jon Jordan
Project
Opportunities
3D Scanners Ltd, a young fast-growing, high
technology company with four IC graduates,
is looking to build relationships with some
u n d e r g r a d u a t e s by m e a n s of p a r t - t i m e
projects with a view to joining our team after
graduation as Software Engineers.
P r o g r a m m i n g E x p e r i e n c e is r e q u i r e d ,
k n o w l e d g e of C + + / W i n d o w s 3.1 w o u l d be
particularly useful.
Please send/fax us your CV
SITJ SGsmmsLTB
South BankTechnopark
90 London Road
London SE1 6LN
Fax 071-922 8899
1. Leavirg h o m e Z . Fresher "a WeeKL 2). T e r m Were, l+. (
^
t
u
r
n
i
n
g h
o
m
e

