2 Rag Week Pull Out Rag Week Pull Out 3
Beer Festival
Calling all piss-heads, real ale fans, cheapskates, students... in fact anyone
who likes a good pint or two. This event is the biggest non-CAMRA beer
festival in the country, and basically involves lots of people consuming
approximately three tonnes of some of the best beer around in the comfort
and safety of the JCR, whilst being entertained by a band of Morris
Dancers. Also the Beer Festival marks the launch of this years version of
Imperial College's notorious Rag Mag.
Slave Auction
Piles of washing up? Laundry getting on top of you? Lecture notes in need
of copying? Here's the ideal solution: The Slave Auction is where anyone
who is silly enough to take part auctions off 24 hours of their time with the
proceeds going to charity. Buying a slave for the day could help you get
your life sorted out! Imagine having all your meals cooked for you, having
all those smelly socks washed, that urgent lab report written up all whilst
you sit around with your feet up having all your drinks brought to you. In
case you wondered, sexual favours are by written consent only. You could
even club together with a group of friends to buy a slave. If you fancy
signing up as a slave yourself pop along to the Guilds office and put your
name down.
Guilds' Carnival
This excellent event kicks off the first weekend of Rag Week. By now,
everyone should have recovered from the Beer Festival and will be ready to
Paaarty! There will be lots of fun to be had with two or three bands,
including the Blues Bunch, playing and inflatables (eg Sumo wrestling)
around the place. Also there will be a bar extension 'til late for all you
heavy drinkers out there (and everyone else). Buy your tickets now or miss
out. They are on sale now from the Guilds' Office (Room 340, Mech Eng
Building).
Halls Dirty Dozen
This is an event for all you Hall Residents out there. The idea is that you
get together a team of twelve keen people and go to a place of your choice
and collect for the charity of your choice for twelve hours. Sounds easy,
doesn't it?! The team that collected the most money during the day wins an
absolutely magnificent prize (usually a barrel of beer). Teams usually dress
up or do other silly things in order to raise money so take part and have an
excellent day.
Bungee Jump
On a Sunday, students would normally be lying in bed catching up on sleep
and doing all the work they hadn't done all week, but not today! About 120
mad people are going of to Cambridge to jump of a 170 foot high crane and
raise money for W.W.F. whilst they fly through the air! This is some thing
people equate to sex or just plain adrenaline, but whatever your viewpoint
on this spectacular event, it should prove to be excellent fun. If you want to
do a jump, there might just be enough time for you sign up, but you will
have to come and see us very rapidly as places are limited and going fast!
Mines' Dirty Disco
Here's another of the many opportunities during the week to get your
clothes off for charity! The Mines' Dirty Disco is, as the name implies, a
disco where the theme is the less you wear the less you pay. Therefore, if
you turn up in just a sock (if you are a man, that is), strategically placed of
course, then you probably would get in for free or have to pay very little
indeed. Of course, no clothes means no cost!
ICU Rag Week
Wed 3rd Nov
Thu 4thNov
Fri 5thNov
Sat 6thNov
Sun 7thNov
Mon 8th Nov
Tue 9thNov
Wed 10th Nov
Thu 11th Nov
Fri 12th Nov
Sat 13th Nov
Sun 14th Nov
R.C.S. Beer Festival
Slave Auction
Guilds' Carnival
Halls Dirty Dozen
Bungee Jump
Mines' Dirty Disco
Sherfield JCR
Mech Eng 220
Union Building
Somewhere Far
Somewhere High
Union Building
Hypnosis & Party Great Hall & Union
Rag Bar Evening
Film Night
Rag Bash
Union Building
Union Building
Union Building
Sponsored Nude Kamikaze Somewhere Near
Parachute Jump
Rag Rugby Somewhere Muddy
Fungal Spore '94
Hypnosis and Party
This evening is going to be fun; a bizarre sort of fun not to be missed!
Geno Washington, the hypnotist, will be in the Great Hall performing lots
of silly things and getting lots of people to help him, especially since
audience participation is half the fun. We have to stress that only over
eighteen year olds are admitted and we hold no responsibility for expectant
mothers or people of a nervous disposition. If you have never seen a
hypnotist before then go. If you have, you'll know how good it is and will
want to go again! Get there early or buy your tickets in advance is the best
advice for this evening as this show always sells out, even though we hold
it in the biggest room in college. After the hypnosis event, we all move
over to the Union Building to see a band playing in the Concert Hall and
drink the bar extension away!
Rag Bar Evening
This is where Raggies, and anyone else who wants to, converges on the
Union Bar and has a particularly excellent evening! We will be indulging
in such silly things as 1001 Down Darts and other such daft bar games.
We'll be there for a chat or any information that you may require, so pop in
and see us - we may even buy you a drink, depending on how generous
we're feeling at the time. But you'll be guaranteed a good night's
entertainment if nothing else.
Film Night
Well, this is quite explanatory really. Filmsoc have arranged to show a
special film premiere just for us, the film being 'Much Ado About
Nothing' which has had some absolutely splendid reviews. So come and
see it at the cheapest, largest, most convenient cinema in London - you'll
regret it if you don't.
Rag Bash
The last party of Rag Week and nearly the end of that marvellous period,
but this doesn't mean that you can miss this event. Tonight, Rag comes to
the Union with live live bands (featuring one of our very own sabbaticals!),
bar extension, disco and a bit of a wild time. So, for only a few pennies,
you can round up your Rag Week in style with all your friends and enjoy
yourself in the craziest way!
S.N.K.P.J.
By now, you might have heard all about the Sponsored Nude Kamikaze
Parachute Jump, but for those of you that haven't, let me inform you. This
is a little activity where a certain number of people jump out of the back of
a minibus outside Harrods wearing nothing but bowties and then proceed to
make it back to college. This is usually done as rapidly as possible but, for
the mad amongst you, there is a prize for the last person back to college!
Last year we had a female student do the jump for the first time and we
might have Paul Thomas going for his hat-trick this year. So, if you fancy
watching something silly on a Saturday morning go and watch, or for the
more daring of you - take part!
Rag Rugby
See over the page for sports news.
This year's collecting incentives: £50 - mug, £150 - T-shirt £300 - long-sleeved T-shirt, £1,000 - rugby shirt, £2,000 - tankard

