Rag Week Pull Out
Virgins Get To Grips With The Miners.
The match of the weekend has to be the charity
rugby match between the Royal School of
Mines Rugby Football team and our own
Ladies' Rugby Football team, the IC Virgins.
The ladies' team have only been going for a
year and what they may lack in talent and
fitness they make up for in enthusiasm and pure
skill when it comes to the odd boat race!
Last year, the ladies threw down the gauntlet
and the men were so bemused that they played
in stockings and suspenders! The battle then
commenced with the girls putting up a valiant
fight against the men and doing extremely well.
The final score was 27-27! So, whoever said
women can't play rugby should have been there
to witness this spectacular event.
Come along and watch the most unique game
of rugby you are likely to see. We are playing at
Osterley this year and will be travelling out
there by coach. If you want to come, see Charlie
in the R S M U Office or any member of the IC
Virgins team. This promises to be a wacky
event, so miss it at your peril. The teamsfrom last year's Rag Week Rugby Match
Beer Festival - Beer And Cider List
Brewer Beer Brewer Beer Brewer Beer
Adnams Broadside Exmoor Ales Exmoor Beast Ringwood 49er
Adnams Extra Felinfoel Double Dragon Ringwood Old Thumper
Archers Headbanger Fullers Mr Harry Robinsons Old Tom
Archers Village George Gale BBB S A Brain Dark Mild
Arkells Kingsdown George Gale HSB S A Brain S A Best
Bass Draught Bass Gibbs Mew Bishops Tipple Shepherd Neame Bishops Finger
Batemans Salem Porter Greene King Abbott Ale Shepherd Neame Master Brew
Batemans X X X B Hook Norton Old Hooky Smiles Exhibition
Batemans Winter Warmer Marstons Owd Rodger Theakstons Old Peculiar
Batemans Dark Mild Marstons Merrie Monk Thwaites Craftsman
Brakspear Mild Mauldons Black Adder Timothy Taylor Landlord
Brakspear Old Morrells Dark Mild Wadworths Old Timer
Cains Formidable Morrells Graduate Wadworths Farmers Glory
Charles Wells Bombardier Morrells Varsity Youngs Winter Warmer
Cotleigh Old Buzzard Morland Old Masters
Eldridge Pope Hardy Country Morland Old Speckled Hen Ciders
Traditional Draught
Eldridge Pope Royal Oak Palmers Bridport Weston Traditional Draught
Everards Tiger Palmers Tally Ho Weston Perry
Everards Old Original Ridleys IPA Weston Old Rosie
Exmoor Ales Exmoor Gold Ridleys Mild Zum Zum Zider Dry Scrumpy
STOP PRESS...STOP PRESS...STOP PRESS...STOP PRESS...STOP PR
News has just come in that there is a lot more to
Rag Week than initially thought! Services will
be operating during the whole week and, for a
small fee, you can get almost anything done to
anyone. C & G U are running their notorious
Hitsquad and the RCS are doing Grim Reaping,
Handcuff-O-Grams and Pint-O-Grams.
To explain these further, Hitsquad gives
you the opportunity to get a flan placed in the
face of your best friend or your worst enemy.
Lecturers are not out of the question if you can
get together enough danger money. Hits can be
booked at the C & G U Office (Mech Eng) on
production of a Union card. Contact lens wearers
can get a contact lens immunity badge which
prevents the Hitsquad flanning you in the face.
These can be obtained from the C & G U Office.
Grim Reaping involves a grim reaper
following someone around all day until they
cough up enough money to get rid of them. For a
small charge, you can have a pint and a packet
of nibbles delivered to someone (or yourself)
during a lecture, lab, tutorial... Handcuff-O-
Grams involve handcuffing two victims together
until they cough up enough money to get the
keys. Do you hate someone enough to handcuff
them to that boring person in the corner? For any
of these services, pop along to the RCS Office,
round the back of Chemistry.
Also, throughout the week, we will be
running Killer. The aim of this is to eliminate
your target in the most original way you can
think of. Be careful not to get killed yourself as
someone will be out to eliminate you. Once you
have killed someone, you then go on and try to
kill their target. The winner is the person left
alive at the end of the week. To take part, go to
the Rag office. A l l you need are two passport
photos of yourself.
There is a Rag meeting every Friday, 1.10pm in the Union Lounge

