4 Reviews
11111
l a tmk
I Wish I Were BIG
by Gerald Rose
It is hard sometimes to come to grips with
masterpieces of english literature; it is difficult
to fully comprehend the careful use of sparkling
metaphors and witty similes... But you should
have no difficulties with this one.
Gerald Rose, in his simple yet expressive
prose, depicts the struggle of an individual,
Mouse, in her fight to overcome her arch-
enemies Dog and Cat. A frail mouse, struggling
against all odds, attempts to overcome their
tyrannical oppression. But how can she fight
such powerful enemies? By training hard as
mice do. A n d yet even after her strenuous
training, she still remains too small to take Cat
and Dog on, but her very weakness and small
size is her salvation. What else could Mouse
conclude but: "I am glad they are both so big...
and I am very very small."?
Beautifully, although sometimes a bit
frighteningly, illustrated, Gerald Rose's children
books must be a pleasure for very young
children, but they do raise an issue: Is it
reasonable to expect people to pay £7.50 for 156
111 P
L
J
f
•
. , ' I s i f S s
Sex Tips For
Boys
by Kim Scapa
This book can be summarised by a few choice
phrases. "How to chat up a woman and end up
in bed" is one. However, one such as "The
Sharks' Handbook" would maybe suit it better.
Why, I hear you ask, should any male at IC
be interested in such a book?!
A l l kinds of tips are included, from how to
ask a girl out (in a nightclub or even a super-
market) to how to fart on a date without being
noticed. It also contains chapters headed
Erections and Love In Planes, which deals with
the everyday problem of how to make love in a
lavatory while cruising at 30,000 feet.
Because its written in such a serious manner,
when reading it I'm not sure whether to laugh,
cry at the thought that some men could take this
book seriously, or be violently sick.
The main difference betwen this book and its
partner 'Sex Tips For Girls', is that this book is
aimed at the subject of 'how to get your girl'
whereas the other is more 'how to keep your
man'. In both cases, the books are very sad. But
then if you are desperate...
JD
Published by: Arrow
Price: £3.99
words? 4.8p a word!. At that price this review
would cost you a mere £9.50. Still I only offer
one picture.
Oliver Cow.
Published by: Macmillan
Price: £7.50
P^lllll
Sex Tips For
Girls
by Cynthia Heimel
If you're looking for the answers to "all what
you've always wanted to know about sex
without daring to ask", you're not going to find
them in this book.
This is because, despite its title, there isn't
that much about sex itself; the topics are more
about what is related to sex. These include how
to flirt sucessfully, how to diet, how to dress to
feel good, do's and don't's of lingerie and the
book also warns of the perils of obsession.
If you actually need some of the 'advice'
given in here and don't know it already, then
you've got a problem. In which case you're
better off not reading the book altogether,
otherwise you might actually take everything
word for word, which would be even worse.
Taken seriously, this book is very sad. On
the other hand, for most of the book, the author
is sarcastic and just seems to be taking the piss.
(I hope so anyway.) Even i f the topics
themselves can be serious. This can make it fun
to read; otherwise just forget it.
JD
Pubished by: Arrow
Price: £3.99
The Andromeda
Strain
by Michael Crichton
Now, I'm not a scientist, so I assumed this 1969
effort from the ubiquitous author of 'Jurassic
Park' and 'Rising Sun' would be really boring
and, well, sad basically. Imagine my surprise
when it turned out to be the most rollicking
good read since 'Sex Tips For Boys'.
The plot has aged well. A probe sent into the
upper atmosphere to detect new bacterial strains
crashes in a small Arizona town, killing
everyone except an old man and a baby. Five
top nerds (oh, sorry, scientists) have to do lots
of experiments to try to save life as we know it.
I find it remarkable and admirable that
Crichton manages to make a taut and assured
thriller out of this nonsense. In the hands of
someone less gifted it could have sounded
dangerously like a G C S E lesson with one of
those really uninspired Biology teachers. He
also makes sure the science doesn't get in the
way of the tension.
Very highly recommended.
Tony
Published by: Arrow
Price: £4.99
WififffllSM
•:••. . . • ... •••• • •
Dirk Gently
Compendium
by Douglas Adams
Consisting of both Dirk Gently's Holistic
Detective Agency and The Long Dark Tea-Time
of the Soul and brought out in the current 'Two
bestsellers for the price of one' series by Pan,
this is a buy not to be missed if your bookcase
doesn't include either already.
Released as a refreshing change of direction
when the Hitch-Hiker's trilogy began to
struggle, they consist of the exploits of the
irrepressible Svlad ' D i r k ' Gently whose
methods of solving mysteries involve
techniques ranging from the sublime to the
downright inspirational.
The humour in true Adams style is
insurpassable with much of the text being
quoteable to great extents. Those that have read
either will buy this to read the other. Those who
haven't must buy it at once.
Magellan
Published by: Pan
Price: £4.99
Machinal, showing on the South Bank, is reviewed on page 7

