Reviews
MJhmm
Gabrielle
Find Your Way
Dreams come true. Gabrielle's album is set to
get pushed straight up into the charts as she
enters the big time world of promotion and
hype. Armani recently invited her to the Milan
Fashion Show as his guest and she was one of
the star presenters at the British Fashion Awards
etc, etc.
Back to the business... On a "worth buying
scale of 0 to 1" it gets a 1. The album starts off
nice and then progresses to a deeper and more
emotional sound. It works as an album, not just
a collection of songs which enables it to sound
better each time you listen to it. (8)
Wish
Released on GoBeat
Yo La Tengo
Painless
Another band you've never heard of. Another
opportunity for me to convince that this is worth
the skin off your back. I was once like you, until
I heard the opening 'Big Day Coming' - a song
which drops your heartbeat to a hypnotised low
with underplayed use of whispering vocals and
lacy distortion. Continuing throughout,
'Painless' is as close to perfect sublimity as I've
met. Whatever the speed, harshness or surface
finish, it has a tightening grasp on your delicate
soul. Shake your knees, rattle your skinflinted
raggy skull. It's more than unfocused ambience
and less than spiteful indie mindlessness; it's
happy, haunting, ominous and ultimate. So I'm
giving this a mark to be unrepeated this term, by
decree. (10)
Tintin
Released on City Slang
Terrorvision
New Policy One
Ain't it infuriating when you can hear a piece of
music which sounds familiar but you can't quite
remember where it was nicked from? Whatever
this originally was, it's here turned into a good
jangly post-Nirvana pop song, slightly punky in
places, too. Good, but not substantial.
Freddy Cheeseworth
Released on Total Vegas
My Life Story
Girl A, Girl B, Boy C
Facts you should know about My Life Story:
1) They feature Jake Shillingford, a true star, a
cocky genius.
2) Never before have string instruments been
put to such good use.
3) 'Girl A , Girl B, Boy C is a gorgeous sliding
pop song that Paul Weller or Roy Davies
would have killed for at their peaks.
4) The B-sides are all rubbish and sound like
ABC, so tape the song off the radio.
Guy
iifiiiii l l l f i l t l l l l
iifiiiiiHi
Gigolo Aunts
Flippin' Out
The Boston Tea Party are learning our game.
Who'd have thought that a Sid Barrett song
would inspire anyone, especially to choose a
name so peculiar, and yet on contemplation it
becomes pretty sensical in a way.
The Aunts play in the current wave of
American exports who have broken the British
market. Likeish Buffalo Tom, Grant Lee
Buffalo and Madder Rose, this is stuff which
takes the guitar and uses it in a way that makes
most British indie bands seem positively acne
ridden. Maybe it's to do with the broad musical
school over the duck pond. 'Where I Find M y
Heaven' rushes around upcountry with a ten
gallon in tow. The present single 'Bloom' stands
tall for itself and breaks out into a wall of
blazing guitar. That the American dream is
horribly awry is encompassed on tracks like
'Gun' and 'Pin Cushion'. Still, the rollercoaster
has some way to go before the gut wrenching
point that will take them over the top. (7)
Tintin
Released on Fire Records
The Other Two
Selfish
This band have great credentials. They are, I am
told, the half of New Order that no-one has
heard of and this is their second release.
'Selfish' itself follows in the style of a typical
New Order song with a chorus which repeats
itself again and again, until it sticks in your head
annoyingly.
However, it differs from the quartet's dance
music in being much more relaxed. No mean
Peter Hook bass-lines to be found here. The last
track is much better than the first three, although
it might send you to sleep. It's a soft and subtle
tune that builds, rises and then falls away into
the distance.
Timsi
Released on London
Trans-Global
Underground
Dream of 100 Nations
This double album, originally recorded whilst
the band was signed to BMG/Deconstruction
features a wealth of material, from the debut
single 'Temple Head' to a selection of new
tracks recorded since the band returned to
Nation Records.
The album includes titles such as 'Sirius B '
featuring Goldfinger and Lallaman from
stablemates Fun-Da-Mental plus the great
Nusrat Fateli Ali Khan on a track entitled 'Tutto
Grande Discordid'. A myriad of influences, a
diverse selection of sounds and rhythms.
Trans-Global Underground produce the kind
of music you have to be in the right mood for
just to survive the oppressiveness of the tunes.
Most sound better if you notch up the pitch
control a bit. (6)
Wish
Released on Nation Records
Anthrax
competition
And one of the gorgeous winners is
Jonathan Robson from Civ Eng II. Please
come into the Felix Office to claim your
bounty. There is still one pair of tickets to be
had, so get down to that old musty
library and sort out a life.
The Boat Club's achievements can be found on pages 16 and 17

