Reviews 7
mm m m
Racing Demon
While exploring the attitudes, problems and
threats to the Church O f England, Racing
Demon obviously has a lot of substance to it,
more than David Hare's other two plays. There
is a lot to chew on as we witness an old vicar
being usurped from his parish by a young naive
priest with evangelical tendencies. We are
almost encouraged to examine and question the
hierarchy within the Church itself, as well as the
state of the Church in general.
Our eyes are opened to various aspects of the
Church that are often ignored such as the vicar's
private life, and we are made to feel sad and
possibly sympathetic towards him and any
member of the Church who is hounded down by
someone.
This play does not allow your brain to sit idly
by and let the hysterical and almost blas-
phemous jokes roll over you. Active thinking is
required and, unless you are theologically
minded, the going can sometimes be a bit tough.
Persevere, though, and the effort will pay off.
A well cast and well acted play that should
please most. The best of the trilogy without a
doubt.
Harry
In rep at the Olivier Theatre, South Bank, SE1.
071 928 2252. Tickets £8.50-121. Cones and
student standbys available {check daily press).
Murmuring
Judges
The weakest of David Hare's trilogy explores
the legal system by showing the apparent flaws
and injustices within it. This is quite cleverly
done by telling the story of a sort-of-wrongly
convicted Irish bloke and the female black
lawyer who tries to fight against a dominant
male system. The ending is ninety-nine percent
predictable. Not much is left to the imagination.
The whole thing is near enough spoon-fed to
you and at least three quarters of the jokes and
arguments have been put forward before, either
by other plays or by various television
programmes. There really isn't much to this
moderately acted play except a bit of male
nudity and lots of law folk talking about the law.
It is like merging a BBC2 documentary and The
Bill with hints of Rumpole Of The Bailey.
At the end, you look back and wish that less
attention was paid to the entertaining visuals
and more to the content. A n opportunity to raise
new arguments about the legal system seems to
have been wasted and the result is a
disappointing play that lets the side down.
Harry
In rep at the Olivier Theatre, South Bank, SE1.
071 928 2252. Tickets £8.50-£21. Cones and
student standbys available (check daily press).
Savage in
Limbo
Some people are born crap; others attain
crapness - my excuse is that crapness was thrust
upon me.
It was all Ewan's fault of course. "Quicker to
drive," he'd said, and so after an impromptu
tour of Camden's back-streets we arrived late,
wondering what the hell was going on.
I soon stopped worrying about what I'd
missed and began to enjoy the play. It's set in a
sleazy New York bar, frequented by a bunch of
misfits, barflies and no-hopers. We watch them
trying to deal with life in the Bronx, all the
while searching for an escape from their dead-
end existence.
Sounds a little heavy? Well yes, the play is
challenging, but it's also very funny. John
Patrick Shanley's script bristles with spikey wit
and world-weary wisdom (he also wrote the
screenplay for Moonstruck). The cast performs
well, and the director manages to make a virtue
of the tiny venue.
So if you want an entertaining night out
which will also make you think, see this play.
Joe
Camden Studio Theatre. Tel: 071 916 4040.
Cones £4.50. Ends 6th Nov.
lYIachinal (pronounced Macinaal, meaning mechanical in Frenc
Machinal, written in 1928, is the most famous
work of the American playwright Sophie
Treadwell. It was written in a period when
women were incarcerated into a society in which
male domination was the norm and accepted; a
society in which a woman was cosseted and
protected behind closed doors and in which it
was generally expected that she should be a
devoted wife and mother, be a genius at keeping
house while making herself wonderful evening
attires out of old curtains.
This is the situation in which we meet Helen,
a young woman working as a stenographer. The
considerably older George H . Jones, her
wheeler-dealer boss, has an eye on Helen and
moreover, with every opportunity, his wandering
hands.
The opening scene is brilliant, the staging
superbly executed and simply electrifying as is
the last scene, literally. Helen, being aspiring,
would have liked to have been loved by a man
she found attractive, but at twenty-three with no
proposal to date, she is also a realist. To her,
leading a hand-to-mouth existence to support
herself and her widowed mother for the rest of
her life is less attractive than accepting the
proposal from George H. Jones whose fleshy,
'fat' hands she finds repellent and in whose
presence her 'blood runs cold'! This is Helen's
undoing as was that of many women of her time.
Right from the honeymoon, where George
boasts about the cost of their cruise and remarks
half-jokingly that he intends to get his "money's
worth", to the birth of their daughter where he
tells the exhausted Helen that she should "brace
up" and be prepared to "start the uphill climb",
one suffers with Helen. George is not heartless
but is totally incapable of understanding or
supporting his wife in her quest to find peace
and a loving life companion in him. She is led to
look elsewhere and finds a lover in whom she
rejoices and feels free. She begins to dwell on
his story of how once, in order to escape from
some bandits, he had killed using a bottle filled
with pebbles.
The story is then predictable. In the court
case ensuing against her, Helen is remorseful
and gives up trying to defend herself. She had
wanted to be free and to find peace after six
years with George H. Jones. This raise questions
on the way in which provocation is dealt with in
law and on a society that is especially shocked
when a woman turns against her husband. She is
breaking both the law and the unwritten rule of
how she is expected to behave. In English law
according to John Mortimer, husbands have
been more easily provoked than their
counterparts. In 1988 and 1992 two men were
given suspended sentences for murdering their
wives on provocation such as 'nagging'.
Convincing a judge of provocation changes the
charge from murder to man-slaughter.
Helen Jones is sent to the electric chair.
Treadwell's play is loosely based on the famous
Ruth Snyder trial that took place five years prior
to her writing the play. Ominously, Helen's
world is not all that far from what it is today!
Fiona Shaw (Helen) has handled her physically
demanding role superbly and the ambitious
staging, making use of a hoisted roof and the
completely mobile stage has worked well. It is
certainly one of the most dramatic I've seen.
Well worth going to see it.
Rekha Nayak
Lyttleton Theatre, South Bank Centre. Price:
£8.50-£21.00 For student standbys ring 071 928
2252for details.
FilmSoc's future screenings can be found on page 8

