Reviews 9
Demolition
Man
Starring: Sylvester Stallone, Wesley Snipes
Director: Marco Brambilla
The story begins in LA, 1996. Simon Phoenix,
played by Wesley Snipes, (with his hair dyed)
has taken over a section of L A where he is
holding some twenty people hostage. In order to
combat Snipes, John Sparton (Stallone) manages
to demolish the building in which the hostages
are held and is subsequently convicted for the
murders. A s punishment, both Snipes and
Stallone are frozen.
The story restarts in a Californian Utopia
where there is no violence or any real crime
barring the use of abusive language. Snipes is
defrosted to appear before the parole board and
manages to escape and get down to killing as
many people as he entertains. In order to
recapture him, Stallone is defrosted and the
scene is set for the violence which ensues.
The plot is really a vehicle for the violence.
Stallone's character, when not hitting people,
must get to grips with the change in society.
This is approached as a means to ridicule society
and results in some great one-liners.
Snipes' character, like that of Stallone's, is
fairly two dimensional, but at the end of the day
this makes little difference.
Demolition Man is very much a violent film
and doesn't pretend to be anything else, making
it a very enjoyable, if somewhat mindless film.
Ismail
Manhattan Murder Mystery Dirty Weekend
Starring: Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Alan
Alda, Angelica Hueston.
Director: Woody Allen
Fans of the "early funny ones" will welcome
this. Woody Allen returns once more to the form
that made him famous, sharp scripts, one liners,
a slapstick approach, and last (but not least)
Diane Keaton. If your favourite Woody Allen
films are The Sleeper or Bananas then you'll
really enjoy this.
Allen and Keaton play a middle aged New
York couple (surprise, surprise). He is a
publisher and she wants to open a fashionable
New York restaurant. Alan Alda stars as their
single friend and the attraction between him and
Keaton leads to the usual Allan-esque scenario
of life, love and infidelity. However, just as you
think you are in familiar territory, the plot
suddenly takes off.
Keaton's' suspicions are aroused by a
neighbour who seems less than sad about his
wife's sudden death. Obsessively following this,
she unravels a true murder mystery with many
twists and turns. The story is, at times, farcical,
but Allen develops a real tension. It's not so
much a piss-take, rather a homage to all those
old film-noirs of the 40s and 50s.
The three main characters are refusing to
quietly drift into old age. The Keaton and Alda
characters grip to this mystery like a vice, much
to the dismay of Allen. However, when the plot
thickens, he joins in just like the others.
The rapport between Allen and Keaton is as
witty as in the days of The Sleeper. It's a
welcome relief to see the back of Mia Farrow
from old Woody's life if this is the result.
Kamran Malik
Starring: Lia Williams, David McCallum
Director: Michael Winner
Michael Winner has a bit of a reputation.
Mostly, he is described as the director of the
controversial 'Death Wish' series, but he is
worthy of a bit more respect. His latest offering,
adapted from the successful novel by Helen
Zahavi, deals with a similarly contentious issue.
Bella (Lia Williams) is a woman with a
problem. Having recently moved to Brighton
from London, she is being spied on by a
neighbour who phones her to share his
pornographic thoughts. At first she is distraught,
but a meeting with a Persian mystic (Ian
Richardson) convinces her that she must take
action.
So, in true Charles Bronson style, Bella
murders her neighbour with a hammer. She is
invigorated by her new power. She really takes
revenge, buying a gun and killing any poor
pervert who crosses her path in a variety of
gruesome fashions.
Dirty Weekend is a difficult and very
challenging film, flaunting its radical feminist
agenda of female empowerment as if it were a
bus pass. Yet is is immensely difficult to dislike
the sheer balls of Winner to tackle such
contentious material head-on. He doesn't flinch
or falter for a second and this alone makes it
well worth a look.
Tony
Next week - an interview with Irish comedian Jimeoin

