Feature
so
^u&Uj/ (
^i/iiysy ^btmiw
/—»»_ - rapped in a room, surrounded by
metal furniture, accompanied by
three other doomed souls. The
chatter, the shouts, the jeers filter through the
walls of this, my prison, and taunt me as I
await my doom.
Days seem to pass, but I can't tell
because this stark room has no windows.
Then, The Moment arrives... "Der de, der de,
der de dededede..." The strains of the Blind
Everyone > etal-
furnished prison was Linstead Kitchen, the
noise was from the waiting audience, the
endless days were actually about one and a
half hours - apt -'ving
malicious attempt to prolong the agony - and
the doom was what would threaten to be the
most embarrassing experience of ray entire
life: appearing on Blin
As if being kept waiting wasn't enough,
out of the four people "lucky" enough to be
choosing from three unknown entities behind
a curtain, I was on third. So there I sat, legs
nervously swinging, folding and unfolding
the piece of paper on which my make-or-
break questions were inscribed. I read them
again for the 72nd time. This by now was
quite difficult because the sweat from my
Samantha Nagaitis
wins a blind date with a
witty, sexy IC man
drunken, heckling students, bright lights and
a lone stool where I will have to sit, fully
exposed to the audience and STOIC's
scrutiny. Despite her extraordinary predi-
cii.i:is all seems to go- smoothly for the red-
One of the boys was on next. All I could
think about was me next, me next. I think
back to how I got myself in this mess. It was
thanks to an eager re-app in my hall who
begged and begged until I relented and said I
WiH'Id do it to help him out. I knew I
f||umldn't have trusted him. A blond-haired
Italian who listens to Abbj - what more need
turn.
e stage, disorientated
• s. I search lor Cilia, mv
fort. Through t!
spot a black dress. I conclude it must* be Cilia.
But wait, Cilia seems strange. Not like she
seems on TV. Oh no! It dawns on me that
"Cilia" isn't the well-loved TV celeb but some
bloke in drag. My dreams are shattered (I
even had my autograph book in my back
pocket...). And so the nightmare begins.
I decide he isn't as bad as his first answer
suggests - but thett he pipes up "but I'd rather
play hide the sausage...". Need I write another
word? Number Two's pathetic offering is
"Frankfurter, but it still comes in the packet".
Please, hold me back. This hunky beast is
talking dirtier than I can handle. Number
Three decides to be original: "Mine's a
Whopper, but tastes just like a Big Mac!".
Sorry boys. I'm vegetarian - just decided. My
dreams of strawberries, cream and Haagen
Dazs shattered, I decide it's time for the next
question:
If we were travelling on the Channel
Tunnel and it suddenly sprung a leak, what
wouldyou do?
I wonder what they'll answer. I mean,
it's not obvious - they'll have to use their
imagination. So I was surprised to hear "If it
was a small leak I'd plug it with my finger...".
You could use your head for a big leak,
Number One. Number Two is pathetic again:
|i|i|pk or not, my tram still gets to the end of
ihe lunnel". Forget the leak, just drown, boys.
Number Three tops the lot with the shocking
"I'd get my tool kit and find my biggest
instrument. And I'd stuff that crack!". I
immediately resolve that if I end up on a date
M E M E
H C
M € 1 H E
M-M-MMEE
M E
M E
M € M S
trembling palms had smudged the ink. How
did I get into this? Would I ever live it down?
Could I get out of it? But escape attempts
were futile.
I scan my three fellow victims. A girl
with a mane of flowing red hair paces up and
down, listing every'••?
S^||:
nba^|iP;,
(and
indescribable) eventuality of disastrous
consequences, working herself and us into a
nervous frenzy. A quiet boy complete with
ponytail and bottle of Bud seems so cool and
calm: has he done this before? The other boy
keeps his mind > scribing to
me sexual acts quite beyond my under-
standing. His blind date will quite possibly be
in for an interesting evening!
Then It commences. The red-haired
girl is on first. The colour drains from her
face as she takes a deep breath and walks on
stage. I feel for her, I really do. I seize the
opportunity to take a peek at what lies ahead
and it is not good. A n audience full of
After the usual greetings, I prepare to
read my questions. First:
If you had only ten pounds to take mc i utfor a
really astmfiditts: w)k<P:-"-e\ •'!'••'••<•'• ' •'•>''• •'-•• >?•"'
Number One begins to speak, but the
crowd drowns his reply. Something about
scrapping the night out and buying ten
pounds' worth of condoms. He seems to
finish with the impressively original line " |
feel some good lovin' comin' on tonight"*.
Number Two apparently would give me the
tenner; Number Three suggests I watch him
soak it away in a sauna. I am not impressed.
Second question:
I'm useless at cooking and I eat out of a
packet every night. If I invited you to cook for me,
what would you cook and why?
"Cheese souffle", answers Number One.
in the Channel Tunnel with any of these
people, I'll take a bag of cement with me. I
wouldn't trust any of them to save anything
but their "instruments".
On Cilia's command, "Graham" booms
out his reminder. Now totally confused, my
mind races as Cilia asks who I will choose.
The audience «• es into overdrive shouting
One, Two and Three at me simultaneously.
^ i s c f f i r T iMh ^ v ^ ; : > X : , >?mtfb'''.
"And now...", says Cilia, "the one you
chose .. Number Two!" Slowly* I turn my
head towards the curtain. It twitches a few
times before revealing, in one full swing, my
romantic partner...
To come: that sexy date infull detail... d
F E L I X

