who Xmas Extra
What: Christmas Extravaganza
Keys: Science, Lapland, Bo
Xtra Curricular
Who: Chaplaincy Who: DramSoc
What: Virgin on the Unbelievable H What: Total Tragedy
Keys: Multi-Media, Graphics I Keys: Transvestite, Melodrama
The Former Bishop of Durham in Question
Photo: Ornrch ol England Communimthns Unit
You can have your question put to him live
on stage with video link. David Jenkins
(Former Bishop of Durham), who retired ear-
lier this year, has agreed to attend the college
Christmas Carol Multi-Media Video show. In
recognition of his notoriety, this year's event
is entitled "Virgin on the Unbelievable".
College Chaplain Paul Brice said "People
can find traditional carol services everywhere.
You'd be hard put to find anything like this".
The event includes video, computer graphics,
audio visual and computer-sequenced carols
but the main feature will be the questioning
of the Rt. Revd. David Jenkins, whose state-
ments caused such stir in the media when he
was Bishop of Durham. His lively mind and
continued reading make him an academic
who gets noticed.
The event combines the best of old and
new, with traditional carols, mulled wine,
minced pies and an elderly clergyman, in
conjunction with dance music, video clips
and various computer-generated offerings.
Building on last year's "Virgin on the
Spectacular", it would never happen without
the cooperation of students, clubs and depart-
ments from IC & RCA, the generosity of vari-
ous media companies and church officials
who allow us to turn the place upside-down.
"Virgin on the Unbelievable" is at 6pm
on Tuesday 13th December in Holy Trinity
Church next to the Union Building, Beit
Quad. If you would like your question put to
the bishop, please send it to the chaplain c/o
F E L I X Office.
For this term's plays DramSoc offers you
Shakespeare and Stoppard. The classic tale of
'Hamlet' with Tom Stoppard's 'Rosencrantz
and Guildernstern Are Dead.' Some of you
will have seen these plays already but just to
give you a taste of what's in store...
Hamlet
So you think you've got problems with your
life? Well how about these:
Your father has been dead only two
months and already your mum has got mar-
ried again, this time to your uncle! You're in
love with a girl but can't get beyond writing
her R E A L L Y terrible poetry. Her father
thinks you're only after a bit on the side
where-as the girl in question believes it's true
love. That would be fine if only you could
make up your mind between her, your moth-
er or your best friend!
On top off this your father's ghost is
wandering around his house, claiming that he
was murdered by his brother, your uncle/
stepfather. He wants you to kill your uncle to
avenge his death. And to cap it all everyone
believes you're mad! Which has absolutely
nothing to do with you talking to yourself
(and skulls of course).
Now you discover the truth. You're char-
acter in a play set in a draughty castle in
Denmark in Elizabethan times.
You'd probably be a bit pissed off.
Enter "Hamlet."
Hamlet: 5th, 7th, 9th December 7.30pm.
Students £2.50, Full £3.50.
"Rosencrantz and Guildernstern are dead"
Tom Stoppard's classic play is set in the
wings of Hamlet. A performance of comedy...
and tragedy. Deaths and disclosures, univer-
sal and particular or transvestite melodrama
on all levels including the suggestive. We will
transport you into a world of intrigue and
illusion... Clowns, if you like or murderers -
we can do you battles on the skirmish level,
heroes, villains, tormented lovers. Set pieces
in the poetic vein. We can give you rapiers or
rape or both by all means. Faithless wives and
ravished virgins - flagrante delicto, at a price,
but that comes under realism and for that
there are special terms.
Getting warm am I?
Rosencrantz and Guildernstern are dead:
6th, 8th, 10th December 7.30pm. Students
£2.50, Full £3.50.
Both shows: Students £4.00, Full £5.00.
If you want to buy tickets for either of
these shows they can be brought from the
Union office, from our stall in the Sherfield
building or on the door.
Where can you get lost in a box, experiment
with paint and tinsel, design Christmas cards
on an Apple Mac and watch Father
Christmas float in a jar of snow? How do you
give your silhouette to a friend, write your
name in Chinese and capture your handprint
in plaster? When can you meet Father
Christmas, answer a police quiz and build
some scientific games? What is the date for
the best children's Christmas Party in town?
The Christmas Caper is on Sunday, 4th
December from 2.30pm to 5.30pm in the
Sherfield Building - the children's party with
a distinctly scientific flavour. Craft stalls and
games for children of all ages to experiment,
model, paint, design and play. The Banyan
Theatre Company will entertain younger
children with their imaginative performance
of "The Emperor's New Clothes", the
Explainers from the Science Museum will
bring the best of the Launch Pad Exhibits
and Father Christmas will arrive from
Lapland on 'Bo' before entertaining in his
festive cabin. Fascinating 'hands on' science
and engineering stalls will intrigue older chil-
dren, and everyone will be treated to a deli-
cious tea.
The is the ideal opportunity to introduce
a child to the wonders of science, technology
and medicine through an event that will be
high calibre, exciting and enormous fun for
you and your young guests. Do come as it will
be a wondrous day. If you don't know a child,
borrow one! Don't you wish you'd had the
chance to go to a party like this when you
were under 12?!
For further information and tickets please
contact HUB Rm 355 Sherfield, ext. 48741/0.
We need more volunteers to run craft and sci-
ence stalls, please contact HUB ifyou can help.
Who: Rag
What: Rag Goes on Tour
Keys: Banned, Signs, Mags
After seeing the success of our Rag Mag on
this campus, Rag have decided to sell it
around the various colleges in London that
haven't banned it yet.
This event will take place on Saturday
3rd December (i.e. tomorrow) and we will be
travelling around by tube. Following our
exemplary behaviour on previous Rag Raids
we will be maintaining this tradition and will
definitely not be stealing signs from other
colleges. This especially applies to nice signs
saying 'Rag Office' , for our door. Nor is this
l i l M F E L I X 02DCC9'!

