Feature
Have Bass, Will Travel
FELIX talks to comedian Jim Tavare, who heads the bill at 'the Bust-a-Gut Club' next Friday.
This is the touching and totally untrue story
of one man and his double bass. The parents
pleaded with him to reconsider ("...look son,
it'll never work; you're from a good home and
she's...well, she's just a lump of wood, not
even an evergreen, for god's sake..."); society
looked on in disapproval - but they didn't
care. They had each other, and that was
enough. They eloped to the mythical land of
America, and had many adventures, including
jamming with Nirvana, but eventually grew
home-sick. So Auntie Beeb waved her magic
commissioning rod and gave them a series on
B B C 2 , with royalties, spin-offs and maybe
even a spot on the Danny Baker Show.
The double bass is 'Bassie'; the man's
name is Tavare. As in the late Jim Tavare. As
in: Jim 'how much later can he be for this
bloody interview?' Tavare. When I finally
track him down, he gives me a cheery "hello
mate, where y'been?", which I interpret as an
apology (like I have a choice, right?).
We're off and running. Jim wants to talk
about his T V show:'Jim Tavare's Picture
Postcards' (on B B C 2 this January, kiddies).
So is this another 'alternative comedian
makes it big, re-hashes his stand-up act for
T V thing? Perish the thought. Jim's written
new material especially for T V , and the
programmes - 10 minute shorts shot on film,
and almost completely without words - will be
very different from most comedy on the box.
Sounds interesting...
When Jim and Bassie grace the Union's
Ents Lounge on the 9th, expect a more
traditional night's comedy. (Well, as
traditional as a comic in full classical
musician's gear and carrying a double-bass
can get). Why a double-bass? Simple really:
Tavare used to be the bass-player in a rock
abilly band, and when he got into comedy, he
used the bass as a prop - it's since become his
trademark. Unfortunately, the original 'Bassie'
is long gone, while a recent incarnation was
stolen after a gig at Derby. Posters appeared
all over town ('Have You Seen This Double-
Bass?') and thankfully, the culprit was caught.
Tavare has been asked to attend an identity
parade of musical instruments to see if he can
recognise his 'Bassie'.
But you shouldn't have too much
trouble recognising Jim next Friday. He'll be
the one making you laugh, gjg
Pint glasses from 50p
T-Shirts from £1
Long- sleeved T-Shirts £5
Rag Mags 50p
Find out what all the fuss is about!
In the JCR 12-2pm
Tuesday 6th, Thursday 8th
& Friday 9th December
FELIX

