BackChat
In the Palm of
his Hand
After Trinity College, Cambridge, David Potter came to Imperial to do
iiiitK
IlillllM
liillll®
The wilds of Edgeware Road could be
considered a strange place to find a high-tec
British computer company, but that's where
you'll find Psion. Actually anywhere could be
considered a strange place to find a British
computer company, a fact that David Potter,
the chairman of Psion, is all too aware of.
The City, he explains, are always asking him
'when are you going to die?' - "that's the
company not me" he adds with a grin. But
twenty years on from their one-man start,
Psion show no sign that they are about to die.
David Potter was born in South Africa
but moved to what was then Rhodesia. From
there his first taste of British life was the
rarefied atmosphere of Trinity College,
Cambridge. Did he experience a culture
shock? "I kind of suffered the opposite
experience of Van Gogh and Gauguin", he
starts. Maybe he sees my eyes start to open
wide with disbelief at this easy mention of
two postimpressionist painters as he quickly
adds, "coming from sun and
bright colours and light to
October ... where the sky was real
low, like it is today and black
and murky." It doesn't take you
long to realise that David is well
educated. Indeed during our
interview he also mentions
Mozart, the classical physicists of
the nineteenth century and a
broad chunk of western political
history.
After Cambridge, David
came to Imperial to do a Ph.d in
plasma physics. It was then that he begin to
use computers to study complex non-linear
problems. "At that time", he says, "they were
big mainframes which cost millions of
pounds ... and they were treated like oracles
with priesthoods around them". In contrast,
Psion, with their Series 3, are now producing
some of the smallest computers around. It's a
measure both of technical change and the
drive to portable, personal technology, the
latter being something which is obviously
close to David's heart.
During his time at IC, David didn't
waste time but got involved in what has been
the springboard to many brilliant careers.
Well actually, if the truth be told David was a
bit of a FELIX hack and he even rose to the
grand position of editor in 1967. So after his
experience at two of Britain's premier
universities what did he think about the
'Imperial apathy problem'?
"Well I think that undergraduates talk
like that" he starts, "but I don't think that
graduate students do and I don't think that
the staff does. But the undergraduates do, but
they also talk like that at Cambridge and at
Oxford and at Birmingham and everywhere."
It's the start of a long and passionate speech
on the narrowness of the British education
system and how that produces "a tendency to
hide any kind of intellectualism with the
pretence to be gross; the hooray henrys of
this world. IC had beer drinking and all the
rest of it, which is fun, there's nothing wrong
with that but when it becomes an anti-
intellectualism and a cynicism this is
unhealthy".
After Imperial David spent some time
over in America at U C L A before coming
back to Britain in 1975. He started up Psion
using capital he had gained by investing in
the post '74 crash stock market. Within a year
he was operating at a profit.
In those early days Psion distributed
and marketed other people's software in the
'home microcomputer market'. They then
started writing their own software, so
successfully that by the start of the 1983
Psion was "probably the largest home
software producer in Britain". It's at this
point that David goes over to his 'historical
cabinet' and gets out a cassette. "This flight
simulator sold about million and a half units"
he says, and I recognise the small tape which
propelled my teenage imagination to believe
that I was a hero of the skies.
After the crash of Sinclair in the
middle '80s Psion turned their attention first
to the electronic organiser and
then the palmtop computer
market. So what does David think
about the increasing drive for
personal connectiveness, whether
by mobile phone or portable
computer?
He has a radical proposal. "I
actually want to start a new
business" he begins "which is
hospitals for young infants. We
offer ten days after birth they can
come in and we'll implant a
cellular phone in their head." I
finally realise that he is gently winding me
up and David laughs at my interruption, "it's
what God missed out on" he protests.
We end up talking about the impact of
technology on society and the man-machine
relationship. David's view is that "the
relationship of the human individual to the
machine can not be socially destructive", but
I'm not so sure. Of course the pragmatic view
is that whatever your view no-one can control
the broad progress of technology anyway.
David ends by saying, "I think the
future's fun. I do find the changing world
interesting and fun and I think it's a much
better world than when I was a kid". He's
probably right too. Q
02DGC94 F E L I X MM

