back is far worse than going forwards. It soon dawned on us that
this day was going to be a long one, and our decision to have lunch
before the hard part meant our food supplies were quickly running
out. The narrow rock scrambling of the ridge has awesome views
all around mainly because the drops to both sides are so steep. To
the south, the wall drops away to Glen Coe, a few hundred feet
below and to the north to be honest I can’t describe it. Low cloud
began to creep in on us and now and then far below us we glimpsed
a marsh and some streams. At one bit in particular the path ap-
peared to have fallen away into the valley and the group found dif-
ferent ways around this ‘hiccough’. Even Jim, hardened veteran of
the hills, described this moment as “the scariest thing ever”. Our
sometimes slow, sometimes cold and wet, sometimes violently icy
scrambling took us late into the afternoon and it was past seven by
the time we reached the second Munro and end of the route, Sgorr
nam Fiannaidh. By then the weather had closed in and the summit
was cloudy.
Our descent from the ridge followed a vague path straight down
a cliff. The pub was visible in the distance and to the fading light
those of us at the back gave everyone within hearing a classic ren-
dition of ‘I’m Dreaming of a White Easter’. We also gave serious
thought to what would happen if we saw a T-Rex in the valley. We
concluded that it would get drunk at the pub and that danger was
minimal.
Just as we were worried about night falling, the sun shone beau-
tifully over the waters of Loch Linnhe and lit up the surrounding
clouds and the face of our mountain in gold. Some things you miss
by finishing too early. The sky became darker and we finished out-
side the pub at around ten, night finally upon us. That night was
Scottish night which meant Haggis, Neeps and Tatties for dinner.
Needless to say we were all quite hungry after our twelve-hour day.
After the nail-biting, muscle-ripping experience of the day be-
fore, our plan for Saturday was an easier walk, with as little scram-
bling as possible and a relatively simple route. Sgorr Dhearg and
Sgorr Dhonuill are a twin set of Munros to the west of Glen Coe
which rise up from Loch Linnhe above the town of Ballachulish,
the most horrible modern town I have ever seen, with plastic-age
houses and bugger all to look at. The weather was similar to the day
before and after getting lost behind barbed-wire fences in the town
we began our gentle ascent up the first slope. Jiri set a good pace
in and around the heather hillside and
we were soon high above the Loch,
past the tiny scrambling section and
on the summit of Sgorr Dhearg. After
the day before I think everyone was
surprised at how easy it seemed. The
wind was light and we could see far
into the distance, though Ben Nevis
was covered in cloud. Following the
col round its curved ridge we skirted
the edge of the snow-turned-ice which
had clung to the north face, protected
and out of the wind. The summit of
Sgorr Dhonuill was in a cloud when
we reached it but somehow with
the lack of wind it was warm, even
though a little snow fell. The biscuits
and whisky were out within seconds.
In navigating our way off this sec-
ond Munro back down to Ballachul-
ish we ended up going south instead
of north, something the compasses
probably would have been useful in
telling us but then again, we were in
no hurry. Jon immediately offered to
unleash his high-performance ultra-
tech state-of-the-art GPS, which
worked fine until about 3pm every
day when the batteries died. Unluckily for his testosterone, we
found the way off the mountain before resorting to the technology.
The trail led us for about a kilometre next to a stream through a
plantation, the ground covered in moss and the whole setting very
atmospheric. I don’t even want to mention the thing that looked
like a sheep carcass covered in blood. I’m sure it was just my im-
agination. Our last few miles were along a forestry road that made
my feet feel like sandpaper and several injuries came back to haunt
me. We had good views of a clear Pap of Glen Coe which we had
climbed on day one and finally, as always happens as the end of a
good day, the sun came out.
Sunday was our final day walking in Scotland. The week so far had
been scary at times, funny at times, always exciting and frequently
wet. There were plenty of injuries to go around and we were at that
interesting place in being tired but also getting used to the strain.
As it was the last day, only another epic ascent would suffice and so
the ridge of Buachaille Etive Mor, marking the eastern end of Glen
Coe and rising like a storm out of the plain was an obvious choice.
The weather too was perfect. Driving up the road to the base of the
mountain was like driving into the sky, so low was the cloud and
so bright the light. The sky was blue and dotted with clouds. Our
climb took us along the sides of a stream and slowly got steeper
until we reached the top of the col and the view stretched away to
the south with Creise still capped with snow filling our view. From
the top of Stob Dearg we could see far to the east over Rannoch
Moor to where the wet moorland blended into the sky. The day was
so beautiful and, it being our last one, the group split. The majority
of the group completed the whole of Buachaille Etive Mor includ-
ing its two Munros; Stob Dearg and Stob na Broige. Four of us how-
ever extended the walk to include another set of mountains, a ridge
called Buachaille Etive Beag which lies to the west of Buachaille
Etive Mor. In this last day there was something for everyone, and by
the end of our epic trek over four Munros the breakaway group of
four, Gavin, Nathaniel, Jim and I only just got back to the minibus
after the others. So much so in fact that we saw it drive past on the
way back to the hut about 100 metres from where we were standing
on the hill. After trying unsuccessfully to hitch-hike in a refrigerat-
ed van we finally made contact and Rafal returned to collect us. The
sun was still out and only in a brief moment on top of Buachaille
Etive Beag did we need waterproofs. I may or may not have nearly
caused a landslide which may or may not have nearly taken out Jim,
but sometimes you have to learn the scary way whether walking up
a sixty degree scree slope is a good idea or not.
The Scotland trip of ’09 was a great success. The high cloud made
for a great set of views for the week and with the huge choice of
walks we were spoilt. We got to know the pub well, especially when
the ale selection quadrupled on the last day, and all our cooking
adventures turned out mostly successful. We played Werewolf at
some point but the day escapes me; I had no idea most of the time
which day of the week it was, which was a relief after coming from
London. Everyone was sad to leave on Monday, especially since the
weather was getting better, but we certainly made the most of the
time we had. I’m proud to say that the drying room, and its specific
smell made from the blend of many different types of wet clothes,
will never be the same again, thanks to a little group of us called the
Fellwanderers (www.fellwanderers.com).
G
len Coe, just over ten miles south of Fort William in
the Highlands of Scotland, is a legendary place. It is
a valley famous in history as the site of the massa-
cre of the MacDonald clan, which began the high-
land clearances and the end of the way of life of the
Highlanders. The scenery fits perfectly with its bloody past and its
adventurous present, where walkers and climbers scale the sur-
rounding mountains. To the north, the ridge of Aonach Eagach is
well known as one of the narrowest ridges in Scotland and takes
in two Munros; opposite on the south side lie the Three Sisters,
massive buttresses which overlook the Glen, whilst south-east the
two ridges of Buachaille Etive Beag and Buachaille Etive Mor run
north to south, the most photographed area in Scotland. From the
top of any of the Glen Coe peaks you can see west down Loch Lin-
nhe to the Isle of Mull and the Atlantic Ocean. To the east beyond
Buachaille Etive Mor the mountains drop to Rannoch Moor, a vast
bog which stretches off into the distance even on the clearest day.
This was what lay at the end of our fourteen hour minibus jour-
ney ‘into the frozen north’. Jim and Caroline were picked up at serv-
ice stations and Jon managed to find the way to what seemed to me
the biggest shopping complex in all of Scotland, where we squashed
four days worth of food for fifteen people into all the free space
left in the minibus. The conversation to decide dinner pretty much
went along the lines of ‘What’s good?’ ‘-Stew’ ‘-Yeah, let’s get lots of
vegetables and lots of potatoes’ ‘-Yeah … for four days?’ ‘-Yeah why
not?’ It was at this point that Caroline and Jim, who can both cook,
came to the rescue of Nathaniel and myself, who probably would
have caused a mutiny. Rice and pasta were quickly added.
We drove away in the dark and the rain. For further notice, Mor-
risons is better than Asda in their ale selection.
For some reason, it’s always raining when we’re using the roof
rack. This means climbing on top of a slippery tarpaulin in the rain
3 metres above the ground and trying to undo the knots which
for some reason back in London we had decided needed to be the
most complicated knots in existence. Eventually the bags, mostly
dry, were inside our new home, the ‘Alpine’ bothy, owned by the
Glencoe Independent Hostel. The beds were comfy, complete with
duvets and pillows and the kitchen had an impressive selection of
equipment. There were even showers! It soon dawned on us that
the two heating lamps, both bright red and capable of lighting up
the whole bothy made the place look like a brothel. Everyone im-
mediately got perverse ideas. Or maybe that was just me.
The first day of a tour is normally a break-in day, getting eve-
ryone used to the strenuous mountains of Scotland. The Pap of
Glen Coe, a cone-shaped mountain where the valley meets the loch
seemed like a brilliant start. It was overcast but the cloud was high,
as it would stay for the rest of the week. The sun broke through for
twenty minutes at the beginning of the day and soon we were high
on the mountain looking back on a rainbow which ended in the
stream we had just passed. Nathaniel was spending the day in the
pub ‘working’ and most of the group were recovering from the Four
Inns challenge a few days before but still we made good progress
and soon we were on top of the Pap. And so was the cloud. And
the wind. We didn’t stay long but made our way down to the col for
lunch before heading up to our first Munro of the trip, Sgorr nam
Fiannaidh. The top was wrapped in cloud and the climb wasn’t too
steep but conditions soon deteriorated. In order to escape the wind
lashing at my face, we nearly completely missed the summit, until
Florian helpfully pointed out that we were going downhill instead
of up. The wind was now at our side, ripping everything includ-
ing Jim nearly off the mountain, and we only had a short break at
the summit before beginning the slippery descent back to the road.
Once out from under the cloud the view opened up towards Kinlo-
chleven but everyone was quite wet by this stage. The bog covered
in heather; small waterfalls soaked even the rocks and the clumps
of grass grouped together above the peaty soil. This was Scotland.
Most of the group slipped and fell down the slope but everyone
kept up good spirits despite the weather. Back at the hut we were
proud to have given everyone a classic Scotland experience – those
who had injuries were worse and those who hadn’t had injuries now
did.
That night we went on a rescue mission to the Clachaig Inn,
which apparently had some beer that needed drinking. Nathaniel
finished and sent his final-year coursework from the pub (a true
student) and the conversation turned to philosophy – it was soon
agreed that a chance encounter with the Taliban, although unlikely,
would not be good for the trip. We were not ones to be complacent.
Overnight it snowed. Morning showed us the white icy peaks
of the surrounding mountains. It had not descended to the valley
but the peaks looked treacherous. The plan was to attempt Bidean
nam Bian and Stob Coire Sgream-
hach, the two Munros of which the
Three Sisters are merely rocky ten-
drils breaking over Glen Coe. The
plan was simple, sneak up a small
valley to the G Buttress, summit
the peaks and then make a slip-
pery descent of the well-forested
Lost Valley. Unfortunately things
were going to get a bit hairy. We
took a path most of the way up the
steep valley in moderate weather
until we hit the snow line. The
snow, which had mostly fallen the
night before was still powdery and
perfectly shaped over the underly-
ing rocks and vegetation. To make
things interesting we took a bear-
ing and trudged off over the snow
to the west ridge of Stob coire nan
Lochan, the peak before our main
goal of Bidean nam Bian. During
our ascent the sky was clearing
and shafts of sunlight warmed us
against the wind and knee-deep
snow. Florian ploughed on ahead
and before long we were at the
summit. About 10 minutes after everyone had reached the sum-
mit the weather decided that it was to be the end of our day and
we were surrounded with biting hail. It was a white-out. Glimpses
through the cloud at our planned route soon alerted us that much
of the route was probably impossible, even for the Fellwanderers
with their up-to-date ice climbing equipment *cough* such as extra
biscuits and … err … jelly babies (okay this is a slight digression but
who the hell thought that a good sweet design would be jelly in the
shape of babies?!?! Seriously – a BIT creepy?!). Anyway, Nathaniel
decided that we should get down into the Lost Valley as quickly
as possible, and luckily the col below us looked like it offered the
most gradual descent. Unfortunately, ‘most gradual’ in a Scottish
ice storm means a snow cliff. We broke through the overhanging
snow and descended, one by one, kicking steps into the snow cliff,
until we reached a relatively flat area (about 45 degrees).
Once regrouped, our nerves shattered, the walk down through
the Lost Valley was picturesque, and after we got out of the range
of avalanches the mood was even jolly! The Lost Valley is a flat plain
high above Glen Coe, its entrance screened by trees and boulders
so that from the main valley it is impossible to see. Waterfalls from
the surrounding cliffs join at the head of the plain before their final
rush down into Glen Coe. A scramble around some boulders and
a slight river crossing led us to a path, at the end of which was the
minibus.
That night we checked the weather and saw that the next day was
meant to be the worst of the week before slowly getting better. Like
true heroes of the mountains, we decided to have a day off and go
to visit Oban. This was great news for everyone with wet kit (eve-
ryone) as it meant another day for boots etc. in the hostel’s drying
room. I must admit that when I first visited the drying room I was
happy to spend some decent time inside making sure my kit was
neatly spread out for drying to be most efficient. By the end of the
week the room smelt like several wayward animals had died inside.
Oban, however, was a lovely place. Our tour of the whisky distill-
ery was the most generous I can remember, with glasses and many
drams of whisky thrown in. Everyone spread out in the afternoon
to explore the town, and somehow managed to nearly all meet up
in the Oban chocolate shop about an hour after leaving the distill-
ery. Students know what to do on a bad-weather day! This day of
luxury culminated in another shopping trip to Tesco, which nearly
sent Rafal mad with its hidden car park entrance. During this shop-
ping trip Jim and I suggested that a good meal might be Spaghetti
Carbonara. People heard us. No one thought to stop us. That night
we had Spaghetti Carbonara. Jesus. No one has ever seen so much
Carbonara. We could at least have helped everyone if the sauce
had tasted good. It was cheese-cream that had the consistency of
phlegm. Strange thing was that the sauce was finished. Fate had not
given the spaghetti such luck. It was a night to remember.
Thankfully for everyone, the spaghetti would be burnt off the
next day as we attempted a truly epic walk, the Aonach Eagach
ridge, famous as a long day’s walk for those without a nervous dis-
position. We drove to one end of the ridge and the plan was to walk
along part of it and then back to the minibus. The weather was
good and the clouds were even above Ben Nevis which was vis-
ible for most of the day to the north, covered in snow and even
– now and then – bathed in sunlight. Before the ridge even began
we ascended the Devil’s Staircase, part of the West Highland Way
which was nothing more than a slightly steep path. There were a
few startled looks when Nathaniel led us off-road into a bog but
our route soon became clear as we found rock beneath our feet and
the wide part of the ridge opened out before us, all the way up to
our first peak Sron Gharbh. The snow on the ridge had all melted
from the night before but on each side of us to the north and south
the mountains rose higher and the snow was still visibly thick. Our
route up to Meall Dearg, the first Munro of the day was via our first
obstacle, a rock face we had to scramble down called The Chancel-
lor (or Alistair Darling). Since our original plan was to leave the
ridge at Meall Dearg, The Chancellor would have been the hardest
bit on the route. It soon turned out to be the easiest as Rafal and
Ollie had decided to return to the minibus, allowing us to attempt
the whole ridge and finish back at the hostel.
The rest of the ridge can only be described as a Mecca of scram-
bling, comparable only to the north ridge of Tryfan in its majesty.
The main difference between the Aonach Eagach and Tryfan is
than on the Aonach Eagach there is no escape; you cannot go down
either side; there is no gentle path if you get tired of the rocks; going
21
Friday 22 May 2009 felix
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
20 felix Friday 22 May 2009
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk Clubs and Societies
Up the lost valley and
other adventures
“The bog covered in
heather; small waterfalls
soacked even the rocks
and the clumps of grass
grouped together above
the pretty soil. This was
Scotland.”
“The trail led us for about a
kilometer next to a stream
through a plantation, the
ground covered in moss
and the whole setting very
atmospheric.”
Alex Kendall reports on how the Fellwanderers managed
to completed a grade 2 scrable across one of Scotland’s
hardest ridges

