33
felix
Friday 22 May 2009
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
Gent May Regatta 2009: Scores were
settled for IC’s elite women’s eight
(W8+) in an electric atmosphere on
Sunday as IC performed the race of the
regatta in Belgium taking gold ahead of
international crews.
The event is run as two separate
one-day regattas over a 2000m course.
The W8+ had already clenched silver
the previous day. The women’s quad
(W4x) dominated every heat to take
gold in their elite final on Saturday and
third on Sunday, while the pair (W2-)
of Ellie Dorman and Erica Thompson
finished third overall.
The first win on Saturday went to the
women’s quad of Rachael Davies/Nicky
Smith/Erica Thompson/Ro Smith who
easily won their heat and was the fast-
est qualifier into the final (7:18.66).
The quad went on to win gold in the
final in a time of 7:15.66, over 6 sec-
onds ahead of Gentse RS (Belgium) in
second and was presented with medals
in a ceremony after the race. There was
little time to rest for the squad, most
of who were doubling up in events
throughout the day. The women’s 8+
(Ellie Dorman/Rachael Davies/Nicky
Smith/Erica Thompson/Selina Gra-
ham/Chloe Symmonds/Louise Hart/
Ro Smith) came second in their heat
in a time of 7:08.08 behind Upper
Thames RC which was the third fastest
qualifying time. Imperial claimed sil-
ver in the final: second only to Walling-
ford RC who finished in 7:09.77 with
Upper Thames settling for bronze. The
crew was presented with medals, flow-
ers and a noose for reasons vaguely ex-
plained in a history leaflet handed to
crews.
On Sunday the W4- (Duffy/Graham/
Symmonds/Hart) heat starting time
was 20 minutes after the W8+ starting
time and it was intended to race the 8+,
jump out and into the mini-bus and
drive up the course to the start where
the 4- would be waiting having been
rowed up by other IC squad members.
The 8+ (Cox: Connie Pidoux/Ellie
Dorman/Ro Smith/Nicky Smith/Erica
Thompson/Selina Graham/Christina
Duffy/Louise Hart/Rachael Davies)
took control of the opening heat and
Connie called a reduction in rate to
finish in second and qualify for the
final, without exhausting those hav-
ing to race afterwards. Hart, Graham
and Duffy dashed from the boat into
the revving mini-bus with coach Steele
at the wheel. The bus blasted up the
course to the start line where the three
jumped out. But there was no sign of
the 4-. Coach Steele completed a 180°
turn and took off back down the road
to find the boat. Unfortunately Bel-
gian police were having none of it and
after being chased by a raving officer
banging on the bus windows Steele
was forced to pull over. After patiently
enduring the Belgian waffle he was or-
dered to turn due to one-way traffic
around the lake. Meanwhile the three
headless chickens were at the start
without a boat had to sprint along the
towpath from the start line to the 1000
metre mark where the boat had been
waiting after a confusion of where to
meet. The crew got into their boat
and took off like a bag of spanners to-
wards the start, but were too late. Just
fifty metres from the startline the W4-
heat passed them by. Disappointment
was consoled by the thought of an im-
pending elite W8+’s final and the crew
composed themselves with a solid row
back.
With qualifying times posted for the
W8+ final IC were well under the radar
finishing 5/7th fastest qualifier due to
their conserving of energy tactics. A
master race plan was devised by cox
Connie Pidoux and Coach Steele: a
plan which cannot be revealed for ob-
vious legal reasons. Pidoux’s presence
was immense in the boat and after a
solid start the IC crew held level with
all crews until the 250m mark. With
the first push IC starting eeking ahead
and began to pull away from the pack.
Other crews attempted pushes to
regain dominance but IC were unstop-
pable with Pidoux at the helm; “They
are doing their pushes and we are still
going faster.” Coach Steele was fol-
lowing on a bicycle and reports to be-
ing “unable to stop smiling” as other
coaches had to watch their crews slip
back down the pack and swallow their
pre-race chat about the potential out-
come of the race. With 200 metres
to go Pidoux was on the bow ball of
fastest (7:04.11) heat qualifiers Comb
Belfast/Tethys/Wallingford and with
100 metres to go there was clear wa-
ter. IC took gold in a blistering 6:58.62,
with composite Comb Belfast/Tethys/
Wallingford in second (7:04.34) and
Wallingford RC (who had beaten IC
to gold the previous day) came third in
7:07.61.
Boats were de-rigged and loaded and
without delay it was straight back to
London with all windows widely open.
This was a very successful weekend for
the women’s squad collecting 22 med-
als and a cup over two days with just
15 athletes against elite international
competition. Go IC!
Women’s 8+
Bounce Back
in Belgium: IC
Squad Dominate
Christina Duffy
ICBC women reach new heights with wins in an elite international competition in Belgium.
Eastside Subwarden
Vacancies
1pplica4ons are in6ited 7or subwarden posi4ons at
the new Eastside 9alls. ;he posi4on is open to all
7ull 4me members o7 =mperial >ollege including
postgraduate students.
Further in7orma4on can be obtained by emailing
subwardens@eastsidehalls.org
1pplica4on 7orms may be downloaded 7rom
www.eastsidehalls.org
;he deadline 7or applica4ons isC
5 pm, Friday May 29th 2009
Got any summer fixtures?
Got any nice pictures?
Want to tell everyone about them?
Then send us your match reports! Medic
or IC, we’ll take them both as we want to
show off the vast sporting talent we have
here at Imperial.
Send in your report today:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk

