felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Continued on page 34
Women’s cricket continue
to bowl over opposition
Wednesday was a fine afternoon for a
game of cricket, and was the dawn of
the Imperial Women’s 1st XI second
season in competition. After the suc-
cess of our maiden season, we knew it
would be a hard act to follow.
More than half the team were mak-
ing debut performances, so there were
a few nerves rattling as we walked on
to the field (some were just anticipat-
ing the cricket tea).
After winning the toss, we elected to
bat. Tara Laforce and Kushani Ediri-
wickrema opened the batting, having
shown flare with their bats in the in-
door season. However, we lost an early
wicket in the second over and I was
called to the crease. Kushani and I bat-
ted for a few overs until we had some
unlikely guests – some men with cam-
eras! The umpire was more perturbed
than us, and went to shoo them away
– there was something a little weird
about taking random photos of women
playing cricket! After the commotion
died away, we lost a few quick wickets
in succession. Some valuable periods at
the crease from Veena Surendrakumar,
Louise Hirst and Sadaf Raza allowed
us to maintain the run rate (aided by a
number of wides along the way!)
At the 20-over mark, we had made
90 but only had 2 wickets remaining.
With the overs running out, I decided
to try and pick up the run rate. At 26
overs, our last remaining batswoman
walked out. This was Mithila Patku-
nan. I heard a shout from the Impe-
rial girls from the boundary that I had
to get 4 for my half-century. Mithila
hit several awesome shots in support,
and the in the next over I reached my
half-century! In the next over, the final
wicket fell and it was time for tea. We
knew we had a good shot at winning,
after posting a score of 137. However,
UCL were an unknown entity to us.
After tea, we came out to bowl. Elsa
Butrous and Sian Fogden were the
opening bowlers, both doing the team
proud. Sian, consistent as ever, got 2
wickets in her final 2 overs. We had
some excellent performances from
Kushani (in her first outdoor match
ever) taking the key wicket of the star
UCL batswoman who was on 22 and
looked to make a big score. The other
key wicket was taken by Aleeza Jan-
mohamed, together with a great catch.
UCL finished on 105 all out, leaving
Imperial the victors!!
A great start to the season! If you
would like to learn how to play cricket
or already know how and would like to
join in our success, please email Dha-
rani Yerrakalva or Priya Shah on icwo-
menscricket@googlemail.com
Dharani Yerrakalva
Wet and
wild in
Turkey
William Parry-Jones
The recession has hit Britain hard, the
previously rock-solid Pound taking
a beasting against other currencies.
With the exchange rate slipping on
the Dollar it was decided that Imperial
Wakeboarding club would have to look
away from the previously standard
Orlando Watersports Centre in order
to deliver a trip with good value for
money. Luckily for us, a brand new wa-
tersports complex had recently opened
near to the small city of Antalya in Tur-
key, and reports were trickling back
that the facilities and riding conditions
were world-class.
So it conspired that a group of seven
met at the Union on the last day of term
in order to “take the edge off” for the
early morning flight, this resulted in at
least six of us being completely mauled
throughout the boarding procedures.
Respect has to be given to President
Jonners ‘dub’ Watkins for holding it
together, ensuring that Thomas Cook
didn’t get to fuck us on luggage allow-
ance and that seven of us stepped off
the plane at Antalya.
We arrived at the Hip-Notics wake
park at around 11am and with the
morning sun rising over the snow
capped mountains the first thing that
struck us was the beauty of the place.
There are three lakes centred around a
large decked area that serves as a chill-
ing/eating zone, and at the end of one
of the lakes are several bungalows that
allowed us to live right at the lakeside.
The owner of the complex explained
that for the next two days we would be
the only English speakers at the site,
this meant that we would have to get
by on limited German and hand ges-
tures which was initially worrying.
The day manager of the site however
was the single most legendary person
I think any of us have met, nick-named
‘Dave’ due to his complicated Turk-
ish name he ensured that every night
was heavy on outrageous antics and he
picked up both fives and 21’s quicker
than most English-speaking people
could manage. Dave also had a pen-
chant for stacking all seven of us on
his quad bike and ragging it around the
complex whilst completely smashed.
Night time activities included Go-
Karting, Massages, and drinking the
local spirit called Raki (Turkish for
Bull Semen). The potency of Raki was
proved on the second night when Jak
managed to fall off a wall whilst piss-
ing rendering himself unconscious,
naturally Dave was on hand to stack
his corpse on the front of the quad and
I’m pretty sure there are meant to be 11 players in a cricket team
Cricket
IC Women’s 1st XI 137
UCL Women’s 1st XI 105

