3
Friday 22 May 2009 felix
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 22 May 2009
News
News Editors – Kadhim Shubber and Dan Wan
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News
Felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,433
Friday 22/05/09
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2009.
Editor in Chief: Jovan Nedić
News Editors
Dan Wan
Kadhim Shubber
Politics Editors:
James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
Science Editors
Mićo Tatalović
Daniel Burrows
Business Editor
Luke Dhanoa
International Editor
Hassan Joudi
Raphael Houdmont
Copy Editors
Louise Etheridge
Jonathan Lloyd-Williams
Sasha Nicoletti
Dina Ismail
Zoe Dobell
Music Editors
Peter Sinclair
James Houghton
Alex Ashford
What’s On Editors
Rachel D’oliviero
Lily Topham
Coffee Break Editor
Ravi Pall
Puzzles Commodore
Charles Murdoch
Clubs and Socs Editor
Alice Rowlands
Sports Editors
Jack Cornish
Mustapher Botchway
Photography
Sami Michaels
Tom Roberts
Arts Editors
Caz Knight
David Paw
Emily Wilson
Film Editors
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Jonathan Dakin
Technology Editor
Richard Lai
Fashion Editor
Dan Wan
Kawai Wong
Travel Editor
Dylan Lowe
Nightlife Editor
Catherine Jones
Food Editors
Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Deputy Editor: Kadhim Shubber Associate Editor: Gilead Amit
IC loses Fairtrade status
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor
Imperial College lost its Fairtrade sta-
tus last week because of a failure to
meet the requirements set out by the
Fairtrade Foundation. The Foundation
contacted Imperial College in Febru-
ary pointing out that Imperial had yet
to meet two of the five requirements
to qualify for Fairtrade status, namely
a commitment to campaign for in-
creased Fairtrade consumption (in the
form of trade justice campaigns and
a Fairtrade Fortnight) and the forma-
tion of a ”steering” committee. Since
then Imperial College has met the
campaign requirements and has held
a successful Fairtrade Fortnight but a
functional steering committee has yet
to materialise.
The Fairtrade steering committee
must have representatives from “the
residential/catering organisation, the
university authority, the SU execu-
tive [and] an appropriate SU society,
each associated institution”. Once this
steering group has met at least twice,
minutes must then be submitted to
the Fairtrade Foundation to prove the
committee’s existence, although it is
not explicitly clear which objectives
this steering committee must meet
or how frequently they must come
together.
Failure of the formation of this com-
mittee has led to the Fairtrade Founda-
tion contacting the commercial serv-
ices department last week to inform
then that Imperial College has been
dropped from the list of Fairtrade uni-
versities. Commercial Services Assist-
ant Director Jane Neary then contact-
ed Deputy President of Education and
Welfare Hannah Theodorou to notify
the Union.
Without a formal steering commit-
tee no University can achieve Fairtade
status, regardless of any other possible
actions. The fact that both College and
the Union have Fairtrade policies, Fair-
trade products are now more available
than ever in College and Union out-
lets, Fairtrade food is served at both
College and Union meetings (includ-
ing the wine served at the Chaplaincy
services), that Imperial College has
a Fairtrade Society are not enough to
secure Fairtrade status. Indeed, even
if every product that passed through
the university from now on bore a
Fairtrade label, Imperial would still
not be a Fairtrade university. And the
fact that the entities that need to be
represented on the steering commit-
tee have coordinated in an informal
capacity throughout the year is equally
important.
Imperial College became the 65th
UK University to be granted Fairtrade
status in September 2007 due to the
combined efforts of the Fairtrade So-
ciety, College and the Union Sabbati-
cals. Losing Fairtrade approval has had
no immediate effect on the number of
Fairtrade products available or sales
but without the guidelines set out by
the Foundation there is nothing to stop
university outlets replacing Fairtrade
products with more profitable, less
ethical ones.
So far there has been no indication
from either the Union or the College
will do so, and felix has been told that
all bodies involved are committed to
regaining Fairtrade status. And con-
sidering the size of the problem and
the time taken to process Fairtrade ap-
plication forms IC could be a fairtrade
institution within two months, but it is
not likely that Fairtrade status will be
granted again before next year.
News in Brief
Union Colours nominations open
Follow felix on Twitter
Think there is someone that has done a lot for Imperial College Union
this year? Is there someone who you think has done more than has
really been asked of them over the past several years? Do you think
that these people deserve some recognition for their hard work and
dedication? Well here’s your chance.
This year’s ICU Colours nominations have opened, so if you think
someone needs to be congratulated, go to imperialcollegeunion.org
and download the nominations form. Applications must be submitted
to colours@imperial.ac.uk and sent in by midnight on Tuesday 26th
May.
Make someone feel appreciated. Nominate them for Colours.
We’re not sure why it has taken us this long, our Technology Editor
is definitely not sure why it has taken us this long, but we are finally
there. felix has joined the ranks of the millions of users who are using
Twitter!
So, if you want to know what the team
is up to in the office, wether it be a bit of
spring cleaning, office rearrangement,
Club Tropicana hour or the actual news
stories that we are working on, then fol-
low us at @feliximperial. We even spent
five minutes coming up with a funky/
head-ache inducing background!
If felix wasn’t enough for you,
I,science has also got one, so you can
follow them too on @I_science_mag.
Battle of the Bands continues
Last week the contest to support Athlete at the Summer Ball hotted
up as 3 more bands took to the stage in the second round of The Bat-
tle for the Ball.
Under City Lights, Jimmy And The Banned and Kensington Gore
fought it out in a close competition which saw Jimmy And The Banned
narrowly take 1st place in a nail-biting 2 to 1 split decision. The band
changed the mood instantly with a sound that can only be described
as proper, fully formed and well-executed ROCK (capitals intended).
The final, which is next Friday in dBs from 19:00, will see yesterdays
winner join Jimmy and the Banned and Cosmo Jones to battle it out
for the grand prize. Interested, come along to support your band!
The world beyond
college walls
On Monday May 18th, the
war in Sri Lanka came to
an end after 26 devastating
years, as the leaders of the
Liberation Tigers of Tamil
Eelam (LTTE) were found
dead on the battlefield.
The body of Velupillai Pra-
bhakaran, the vicious found-
er and leader of the LTTE,
was found alongside those of
his sons, his head of intelli-
gence, and a number of other
commanders. Without the 250,000 civilians the rebels had been using as a
human shield, and surrounded by 25,000 governmental troops, the Tigers
had little hope of succeeding, despite dispatching suicide bombers and start-
ing fires.
The Liberation Tigers, a brutal organisation founded in 1972, wanted an
independent Eelam, in Northern and Eastern Sri Lanka. At its peak, the
LTTE controlled a quarter of the country, and the rebels weren’t afraid to ter-
rorist tactics, including the assassination of a former Indian prime minister.
The UN estimates that 8000 civilians have died since January alone, and over
250,000 have been displaced. President Mahinda Rajapaksa now faces the
difficult task of reuniting the country.
Sri Lanka
Voters cast their ballots for parliamentary and presidential elections on
Tuesday in one of Africa’s poorest, but fastest growing countries.
Malawi has seen economic growth averaging 7 percent in the past three
years, and is expected to be the second fastest growing economy (after Qatar)
this year. President Bingu wa Mutharika’s strong economic record makes him
a favourite among foreign investors, as he has secured billions of dollars in
debt relief from developed nations. Malawi depends heavily on tobacco ex-
ports but is banking on a uranium mine which opened last month to diversify
its economy.
Wa Mutharika’s chances of victory could have increased further after the
Constitutional Court upheld a decision to prevent former President Bakili
Muluzi from contesting. Mr Muluzi stepped down in 2004 after a failed at-
tempt to change the constitution to let him stand for a third term. Wa Muth-
arika stepped up to took office following an election marred by violence and
accusations of rigging. Seven candidates, including one woman, are in the
race
Malawi
A week ago, Rodrigo
Rosenberg, a lawyer in
Caracas was shot dead in
the streets.
What he left behind was a
video in which he said that
should anything happen to
him, it would be at the be-
hest of the President Alvaro
Colom.
Mr. Rosenberg said offi-
cials might want to kill him
because he represented Khalil Musa, a businessman who was slain in March
along with his daughter. The lawyer said Mr. Musa, who had been named to
the board of the Rural Development Bank of Guatemala, was killed for refus-
ing to get involved in illicit transactions at the bank.
Mr Colon denies any allegations. This week saw huge protests in the capi-
tal, Guatemala city, demanding the president’s resignation. However sup-
porters of Mr Colon, mostly rural poor who have benefitted from his so-
cial programs, staged equally impressive counter-protests. American FBI
agents have landed in Guatemala this week to investigate the killing of Mr
Rosenberg.
Guatemala
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
E
X
C
E
P
T
I
M
P
E
R
I
A
L
C
O
L
L
E
G
E
LOLCATZ
of
teH
WEEK
Humanities options severely
limited from next year
Dan Wan
Editor-in-Prowling
In a response to budget cuts in all de-
partments and a strategic review of the
College’s humanities provision, Impe-
rial College is planning to discontinue
parts of the highly popular Undergrad-
uate Humanities programme. This in-
cludes the total abolishment of some
courses altogether.
felix has managed to get its paws on
the Department of Humanities’ latest
Staff Consultation Paper, and under-
stand that the proposals brought up in
a Review of Humanities report by the
Strategic Education Committee have
passed the Senate, the highest officiat-
ing body within College.
The proposed cuts are outlined in
the paper by the listing of potential
teaching posts ‘at risk of redundancy’,
before heading into a 30 day consul-
tation period with staff to find their
views on the proposals. College hope
to bring in the cuts from October 2009,
the next academic year, whilst October
2010 could see even further reductions
in teaching personnel within the De-
partment of Humanities.
These reductions under the review
are said to be in-line with develop-
ing strategic goals of the College,
which wish to see every student better
educated in ethics and communica-
tion within science and their degree
speciality.
The proposals to go ahead, from next
year four non-language humanities
courses will see daytime courses with-
drawn from the selection Undergradu-
ates can enrol in. Art in the Twentieth
Century, Modern Literature and Dra-
ma Lecturer, Roman Empire, and Film
Studies will cease to run, with the in-
volved teaching staff to be redeployed
within the Department.
Lunchtime language courses are of-
ten in high demand, but will also be
heavily affected by the budget cuts.
Teaching hours will severely reduced
across the board over the next two
years.
Language courses for undergradu-
ate courses typically consist of two or
three hours of classes each week, run-
ning through the Autumn and Spring
terms of the academic year. Imperial
College currently offer eight language
courses, typically tiered in level of abil-
ity. In a course such as French where
full provision of differing ability-based
classes, 2008, tiers are labelled for Be-
ginners, Near Beginners, Intermediate,
High Intermediate and Advanced.
From next year, there shall be no en-
try-level courses (i.e. level 1 or 2) in any
language. This comes after criticisms
that languages at these preliminary
levels are not of the same academic
worth as an alternative core module
of that student’s degree, especially in
light of it being accredited towards a
final degree honours. All languages
will hence require GCSE or equivalent
standard prior to commencement of
the language course. Mandarin is the
only course that escapes this new rul-
ing, but is set for further review next
year in view of similarly eliminating
level 1 and 2 teaching. In more dras-
tic budget cutting measures, Japanese,
Arabic and Italian courses will be re-
duced to paying evening classes only,
and hence will not be offered as a day-
time credit course to undergraduates.
The cuts to be made, are summarised
in the table below.
Humanities courses are offered
to undergraduates as credit or non-
credit. As a credit course, Humanities
can be worth up to the equivalent of
a single degree module, and typically
taken in the second or third year of
the degree. Enthusiastic students can
sacrifice their lunchtimes out of choice
and take up any remaining places on
humanities courses at the cost of £175
Evening classes are also available to
students and staff of the College, with
enrolment costing 130 pounds for an
academic year. There are no plans or
proposals for evening classes to be cut
at this stage.
Under the review of Humanities pro-
gramme, there will be an equalisation
of credit worth across all degree cours-
es that require a humanities module to
be taken. For example, under current
structures, a humanities course for a
student on a Biology degree is worth
0.45 course units. This is whilst for a
Biochemistry undergraduate attending
the same class and taking the same ex-
ams, the course is worth considerably
less to their degree at 0.25 course units.
College advertise as their humanities
programme to be ‘an important con-
tribution to [a student’s] general edu-
cation’ by providing ‘creative activity
not amenable to the quantitative tech-
niques of science and technology.’ The
importance of this in all-science uni-
versity is something evident amongst
the student population. One student
involved in a credit language course
this year responded to the proposed
budget cuts negatively.
“I think it’s sad that the cuts are being
made, because learning new languages
or about subjects such as Modern Lit-
erature is one of the most interesting
things you can do at Imperial outside
of your course.”
Another student saw sense in the
new Humanities programme structure.
“I’ve noticed that people in language
courses are more fluent in that lan-
guage than they initially let on. There’s
very little regulation of this, and it’s not
fair that it’s so easy for them to pick up
marks towards their degrees in this
way. I think it is sensible for them to
cutting the beginner levels.”
Either way you see it, the decisions
have seemingly been made upon the
review of the Humanities programme.
So, first years taking up humanities for
their second year will see their options
severely limited.
ENTIRELY:
1. Art in the 20th
Century
2.Modern Literature
and Drama
3.Roman Empire
4.Film Studies
ALL LEVELS:
1.		 Arabic
2. Italian
3. Japanese
4. Russian
CUT BY OCTOBER 2009 CUT BY OCTOBER 2010

