Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 22 May 2009
Science
Science Editors – Mićo Tatalović and Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 22 May 2009 felix
A new way to tackle HIV with nanotechnology
A team at Yale University have used
incredibly small plastic beads to smug-
gle therapies into cells. Their paper,
published earlier this month in Nature
Materials has possible implications for
the treatment of HIV.
Small molecules have proved effec-
tive at stopping the HIV virus from re-
producing in animal models. They can
inactivate alter the virus so it is unable
to enter cells and spread.
Lead author Kim Woodrow explains
how the aim of this study was to pro-
duce a way of delivering these parti-
cles that was “safe and effective, and
much easier than getting an injection
of vaccine”.
To investigate whether it is possible
to deliver these types of molecules us-
ing small plastic beads, they first engi-
neered mice to produce green fluores-
cent proteins. They then packaged the
tiny plastic particles with molecules
Morgaine Matthews
Science Correspondent
Unobservant mums to blame for fat kids
Exercise eradicates heart
disease risk
Chloe Sharrocks
Science Correspondent
New research presented at a European
cardiovascular conference has shown
that incorporating daily exercise into
the school curriculum for children as
young as 11 can help reduce the chance
of them developing heart disease.
Cardiovascular disease is responsi-
ble for more than 2 million deaths in
Europe each year, making it Europe’s
biggest killer. Now scientists from
the Heart Centre of the University of
Leipzig have discovered that children
who take part in daily exercise as part
of their school day have a lower risk of
future heart disease.
The study has shown that after only
one year of daily exercise the number
which turn off the fluorescence, and
administered them to the vaginas of
mice. This gave them an easy way to
track how well the delivery system
worked, by simply checking the level
and location of fluorescence.
The results of these observations
were that the nanoparticles were suc-
cessfully able to penetrate the cells
below the surface of the vaginal wall,
spread through the reproductive sys-
tem, and remain effective for up to 14
days. Crucially, the mice did not show
signs of irritation.
The results indicate that this method
of delivery could be used to produce
a cream, which is easy to apply, and
would prevent the virus spreading.
However, the team have yet to test this
method against an actual virus. Sen-
ior author E. Mark Salzman is hopeful
though, and is planning ahead. He said:
“our next step in research will be to test
this approach directly in disease mod-
els – for example in the HIV model
mice.”
Gerta Keller, a Princeton University ge-
oscientist, has stirred controversy with
her newest study published in The Jour-
nal of the Geological society of London
on the April 27th this year. Her stud-
ies challenge the popular theory that
an asteroid wiped out the dinosaurs
and she has compiled powerful new
evidence asserting her position. Her
research of rock formations in Mexico,
India and the United states have led her
to conclude that volcanoes, not a vast
meteorite, were the more likely culprits
in the demise of Earth’s giant reptiles.
Keller has found ‘aftermath’ sedi-
ments that remained undisturbed and
showed signs of active life, with bur-
rows formed by creatures colonizing
the ocean floor. This research quashes
the theory that a massive tsunami fol-
lowed a meteorite impact. Understand-
What really killed off the
dinosaurs?
ing what caused the dinosaurs to dis-
appear is considered a great mystery,
theories which attempt to explain it
include asteroid or comet impacts, vol-
canoes, climate change, rising sea levels
and supernova explosions.
What scientist’s do know is that
around 65 million years ago some phe-
nomenon triggered a mass extinction.
This event is what defines the bound-
ary between the older Mesozoic Era
(the age of the reptiles) and the mod-
ern Cenozoic Era (age of the mam-
mals). Keller has amassed evidence of
the surrounding geological area around
Chicxulub (the crater formed by the
meteorite thought to have killed the
dinosaurs) and concluded that the im-
pact occurred 300,000 years before the
great extinction.
Advocated of the Chicxulub impact
theory, believe that the impact crater
and mass extinction event only appear
far apart in the sedimentary record
because of earthquakes and tsunami’s.
Keller’s research confirms that the
sandstone complex that overlays the
impact layer was not deposited over
hours or days by a tsunami but over a
long time period with no evidence of
structural disturbance.
Fossils of 52 species present in the
sediments below the impact layer and
further fossils above have lead Keller to
suggest that not a single species went
extinct as a result of the Chicxulub im-
pact. Keller believes that a massive vol-
canic eruption from the Deccan Traps
in India may be responsible for the ex-
tinction. Massive amounts of dust and
gases could have blocked sunlight and
altered the climate.
She regards her latest evidence as
sufficiently compelling to allow her
and her team to move on and investi-
gate further the evidence for Deccan
volcanism as the root of the dinosaur’s
extinction.
The new evidence challenges the popular belief that these giants
became extinct because of an asteroid impact
Emma Stokes
Science Correspondent
Forget about junk food and video
games – the cause of childhood obes-
ity is unobservant mums.
A new study has shown that babies
get fat because they are overfed by
their mothers, who just don’t notice
when baby has had enough.
Mothers who aren’t as good at read-
ing their children will keep feeding
them even when they show signs of be-
ing full, said the study, carried out at
Rutgers University in New Jersey.
The scientists said some mothers
showed “an unwillingness to slow the
pace of feeding or terminate the feed-
ing” even when their child indicated it
was satiated.
This continual overfeeding may be
“overriding the infant’s ability to self-
regulate its intake” which means they
don’t learn that enough is enough, and
may continue to gain weight when
older.
This new insight could help to cut
the childhood obesity epidemic. The
study highlights the importance of bet-
ter educating mothers on the best way
to feed and understand their children.
But the scientists warn they face “a
daunting challenge” because mothers
might take their advice as “meddling”,
“threatening” or even “an accusation of
poor mothering”.
The study, published in The Journal
of Nutrition Education and Behaviour,
was carried out on 96 low-income
mothers, all of whom were using for-
Abigail Orr
Science Correspondent
Excessive Cola
leads to paralysis
Cola soft drinks may soon carry health
warnings on their packaging if doctor’s
warnings are listened to.
A report in the International Jour-
nal of Clinical Practice suggests that
excessive drinking of cola drinks can
lead to profound muscle paralysis.
This news comes after an Australian
ostrich farmer required emergency
treatment for lung paralysis after con-
suming between 4-10 litres of cola a
day.
Other cases highlighting the danger
of excessive cola consumption have
also been reported.
For example, a pregnant woman
complained of tiredness, appetite loss
and persistent vomiting after drinking
as much as 3 litres of cola daily for six
years. Tests showed that she was suf-
fering an irregular heartbeat.
Scientists believe that cola soft
Chloe Sharrocks
Science Correspondent
To the fury of animal rights activ-
ists, The Government has announced
a humane cull of kangaroos around
Canberra.
The current number of kangaroos at
the Defence Ministry’s Majura Train-
ing Area is three times as big as that
piece of land can tolerate.
By allowing the kangaroo popula-
tion to stay at this size other plant and
animal species living in the same habi-
tat would suffer.
This cull is based on previous re-
ports that showed how the local popu-
lation of the eastern grey kangaroos
are overabundant in the area. Their
overabundance leads to overgrazing
and destabilising the native grasslands
Australian government to
cull kangaroos
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
ecosystem, threatening several endan-
gered animal species, including some
rare insects and lizards.
Overgrazing by large numbers of
kangaroos exacerbates the effects of
droughts in Australia and diminishes
numbers of other animals, especially
invertebrates, said the researchers
from Institute for Applied Ecology at
the University of Canberra and from
the Helmholtz Centre for Environ-
mental Research in Leipzig.
In February 2008 when the local
government declined Ministry of De-
fence’s proposals for translocation of
kangaroos due to high costs, the Min-
istry then adopted the culling strat-
egy to prevent further damage to the
grasslands.
But culling of thousands of kanga-
roos just outside the capital provoked
animal rights activists who called the
kangaroo shootings ‘barbaric’. Yet the
Ministry of Defence claimed the culls
were carried out humanely. Kanga-
roos are tranquilised from a distance
and then captured while sedated to
avoid stress and pain. The animals
are then euthanized with a lethal
injection.
Similar efforts to manage kangaroos
by culling failed last year when animal
rights activists intervened and inter-
rupted the cull.
Plans are under way to interrupt this
year’s cull as well. Bernard Brennan,
president of Canberra’s Animal Lib-
eration conservation group, said many
protesters from across the country
were going to take part in demonstra-
tions. “We’re not going to sit back and
let it happen,” he said.
drinks cause potassium levels in the
blood to fall dangerously low, lead-
ing to a medical condition known as
hypokalaemia.
Dr Clifford Packer from the Louis
Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Centre
in Ohio told the BBC News website:
“there is very little doubt that tens of
millions of people in industrialised
countries drink at least 2-3 litres of
cola per day. We have every reason to
think that it [health issues] is not rare.”
Caffeine-free cola fans should not
rest on their laurels either.
Dr Moses Elisaf from the Univer-
sity of Ioannina in Greece, and author
of the research paper, warned that
caffeine-free cola products could also
cause hypokalaemia because of the
fructose they contain can cause diar-
rhoea. A spokeswoman from the Brit-
ish Soft Drinks Association said they
encouraged only moderate consump-
tion of cola as part of a balanced diet
and active lifestyle.
mula feed exclusively. The team re-
corded the number of feeds per day,
the mother’s BMI and the weight gain
of the baby for the first year after birth,
as well as the sensitivity of the mother
to the child’s signals.
The researchers said that the number
of feeds per day was an “easy culprit on
which to assign blame” but that the
only variable that significantly affected
the weight of the child was how ob-
servant the mother was.
of overweight and obese students fell
from 13% to 9%, compared to the con-
trol group that saw an increase from
11% to 13%. Other benefits were also
observed in the children: increased
lung capacity, lower cholesterol levels
and improved systolic blood pressure.
Dr Claudia Walther, one of the re-
searchers, explains that children are
much less active than their ancestors
and that her team believed an increase
in exercise could reduce the children’s
susceptibility to cardiovascular disease
later in life.
The daily exercise they proposed
included at least 15 minutes of endur-
ance training, all under the supervision
of teachers. “The teachers [made] sure
that the programme was followed”, said
Dr Walther.
He also said that: “Even from these
first-year results we can say that regu-
lar physical activity has a significant
beneficial effect on body composition,
exercise capacity and cardiovascular
risk markers in children.”
The researchers hope that following
the children over the next 10-20 years
will give an idea of whether this new
lifestyle will translate into health ben-
efits later in life.
Walther is hopeful that many schools
will realise the obvious benefits and
that daily exercise will soon be incor-
porated in many German schools. He
said: “It’s so easy, all it needs is a little
more time allocated to exercise les-
sons. If we can include daily exercise
in the school curriculum, I’m sure we’ll
see an effect.” Kids, only do this stretch if you’re flexible, otherwise it’s gonna hurt
What’s that skippy, you’re going to warn the other kangaroos? BANG!
Please note that Coca-Cola bottles do not come with a minature hot
babe in a bikini! (Ed - That’s my day ruined...) Sir, my rope has snapped, what do I do now?
Anyone else think that this picture looks like some scene from a sci-fi movie?

