business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 22 May 2009
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
SIna Ataherian
Business Correspondent
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor
Crouching
Tigers,
Greening
Dragons
If conditions are ripe, financial systems
have a habit of being triggered into
permanent, fundamental change by
major historical events. Florence’s near
bankruptcy caused by its wars with ri-
val Italian cities reintroduced bonds,
almost as we know them today. The
end of the Second World War saw sub-
stantially greater internationalism. The
fiscal strains of the Vietnam War and
Johnson’s ‘Great Society’ led Nixon to
dismantle Bretton-Woods, allowing
the foreign exchange market eventu-
ally to reach its current daily volume of
around $4 trillion.
The recent, by some accounts cur-
rent, financial crisis is on a par with
such historical triggers. There is a no-
ticeable shift in mainstream economic
thinking towards progressivism and
there are strong sentiments against
many of the boom areas of the past
decade. These shifts will in turn af-
fect the career opportunities of Impe-
rial graduates who are looking to start
work in the finance sector.
We will be looking at three key areas
that we believe will see above average
growth in job creation relative to the
sector. Traditional distributed finance
that profits from managing the risks of
putting short-term deposits into long-
term investments looks set to remain
strong. At the same time, there is excit-
ing growth in a host of new and resur-
gent unorthodox areas such as Venture
Capital and peer-to-peer lending. This
week we will begin by discussing the
opportunities and continuing difficul-
ties present in the emerging markets
of Asia.
First off we can identify three im-
portant global trends that are likely
to apply to Asian markets as much as
any other. The most significant will be
increased government intervention,
probably meaning a plethora of new
roles in public advisory and regulatory
bodies. Hedging risks will also become
more popular, with hedge funds likely
to regain strength, although more as
insurers than casinos. However, most
will have to reduce their fees as clients
reconsider the value that their pru-
dence adds. The loss of confidence in
financial institutions will benefit ad-
visory boutiques as clients seek their
help navigating the rough waters.
A trend more specific to emerging
markets, particularly in Asia, will be
their continued growth. They are likely
to get out of the current troubles faster
and rebound more convincingly than
the major developed economies. This
will continue the long-term rise of
their private banking, wealth manage-
ment – especially as relative domestic
confidence increases, and wholesale
financial services.
As Asian economies begin to re-
cover growth rates closer to what they
enjoyed in the past, local banks look
especially well placed to benefit. They
have a newly found confidence relative
to their developed world peers. Their
local knowledge is now more prized,
especially given the increased popu-
larity of smaller scale and more tar-
geted lending. They will also benefit as
American and European governments
attempt to force their bailed-out banks
to invest locally. But when will they re-
turn to ‘normal’ growth?
Recovery looks more imminent for
developing countries in general. With
many attempting to stimulate out of
their woes, they will benefit from hav-
ing by definition better opportunities
for infrastructure spending. Asian
economies have generally put together
proportionately the most generous
stimulus packages, and these are more
likely to work because their banks have
fewer problems. Households also have
smaller debts, having rejected Ameri-
can consumers’ economics of spend-
ing, on long-term average, 110% of
income. This can also be said of firms
and governments, meaning they are
likelier to spend new revenue. Nor
does the continent’s recovery from
recession depend on exports to devel-
oped countries: East Asia’s current-ac-
count surplus was smaller in 2001 than
in 1998.
One of the most promising fields for
future growth in Asia is Islamic finance.
Globally, the sector is worth over $600
billion, although some of this is little
more than clients asking western funds
not to invest their money in pork. It
has been booming throughout the
decade, and was accelerated by high oil
prices. This growth enjoyed positive
feedback as the market infrastructure
matured rapidly. The financial crisis
has further boosted the popularity of a
system favouring profits from sharing
the value created by investments over
speculative gains.
Overall Asian economic growth is
not predicted to return to its recent
peak of around 9%, as that depended
on a coincidence of several fortunate,
international factors. But there is still
substantial room for further expansion
backed up by fundamental strengths.
Trend growth for the medium term is
predicted to be three times that of de-
veloped economies. As financial insti-
tutions regain their role of driving this
growth, their prospects in Asia look
good.
felix takes a look at promising career
opportunities in Asia’s emerging markets.
Business Bulletin
felix takes a look at some of the stories from the past week.
Japanese GDP contracts at 15.2%
Over the January-March period Ja-
pans Gross Domestic Product shrank
at its fastest pace since 1955. Over the
course of the quarter the countries
GDP fell by 4% and if the trend con-
tinued over the course of the year its
economy would shrink by 15.2%. This
marks the largest drop in Japans GDP
since it began compiling GDP statistics
more than 50 years ago. It is also marks
the fourth straight quarter of recession
for Japan, where GDP shrank at an an-
nual rate of 12.1% between October
and December.
The worlds second biggest economy
shrank at a markedly faster pace than
other world leaders. Over the last quar-
ter the Euro-zone economies shrank by
an average of 2.5%, the US shrank by
1.6% and the UK shrank by 1.9%.
Over the past two decades the Japa-
nese economy has become extremely
dependent on exporting gadgets and
cars. Poor sales as a result of the credit
crunch have had an extreme effect on
the country with the Yen seeing large
devaluations as a result.
Pound strengthens against dollar
After a recent low of $1.37 in early
March the Pound has shown signs of
regaining traction against the dollar.
Over the past two months the pound
has shown relatively steady improve-
ment against the dollar rising to $1.55.
Over a similar period the pound has
also risen against the euro rising from
€1.06 to €1.14.
In contrast the dollar has lost ground
to most currencies, showing investors
lack of faith.
IMF commends Brownian recov-
ery package
The governments recovery package
has been hailed as “bold and wide rang-
ing” by the International Monetary
Fund with the plans “aggressive action”
lauded as having averted a crisis.
However the IMF was still cautious
about the UK’s longer term stating that
“It remains to be seen whether the re-
cent efforts to recapitalise the banks
will be sufficient to sustain credit pro-
vision at a level required for a robust
economic recovery.”
The IMF also stuck to it’s prediction
and forecasted a decrease of 4.1% in
the UK’s GDP noting that the UK is
still “susceptible to potential shocks”
and “under stress”. It further stated that
it would like to see a reduction in tax
rates, less government spending and a
more concise explanation of the gov-
ernments plans.
Domestically the Governments re-
covery plans have been less warmly
received and opposition leaders have
been quick to use the economy as a
talking point.
Oil Prices rise to $60
As supply concerns mounted following
two fires in key US refineries, oil prices
reached their highest price this year.
As recently as December crude oil cost
as little as $33 but has risen over 50% in
price over the last six weeks.
Oil price rises have also been hailed
as being the result of growing opti-
mism in the world economic recov-
ery with several sources claiming that
oil is echoing equity markets. Other
commentators remain cautious stat-
ing that oil price rises are the result of
speculation.
Sir Victor Blank Steps down
Sir Victor Blank, chairman of Lloyds
Bank is set to step down stating that
“the right time for the Group to ap-
point a new chairman”. Deputy chair-
man Lord Leitch said that the board
were “very sad” to see him leave.
As chairman Sir Victor was required
to oversee the actions of Lloyds board
of directors on shareholders behalf.
During his tenure Lloyds bought
HBOS and succumbed to the sub-
prime bubble. Currently, Lloyds if 43%
owned by the Her Majesties Treasury.
Sir Victor had denied claims that
he has been forced to step down due
to poor performance and had been
described by his colleagues as a “first
class chairman”. He will remain on at
Lloyds while the board transitions to a
new chairman.
Europe’s largest windfarm is
finally completed
Ten years after planning began, Eu-
rope’s largest wind farm is finally add-
ing power to the national grid. Placed
on Eaglesham Moor in Scotland the
farm was officially switched on by Scot-
land’s First Minister, Alex Salmond.
It represents a large step forward in
the UK’s renewable energy policy and
shows that renewable energy installa-
tions are commercially viable.
TheAdvice
Centre
imperialcollegeunion.org/advice
student activities centre
sac
imperialcollegeunion.org/clubs
We have moved!
Come and see us in our new home
on floor 2M of the Union Bulding.

