12 felix Friday 22 May 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 22 May 2009 felix
Arts
Peer Gynt: forty scenes of
Norwegian human-troll
hybrids
Caz Knight goes to see an exciting modern adaptation of Peer
Gynt at felix Arts favourite venue, the Barbican
in love with at the wedding reception,
seeks him out to live by his side forev-
er. The second half hurtles us through
time and space to Peer’s middle age in
Africa where he has made his fortune
through nefarious endeavours (people
trafficking, arms smuggling…). Peer’s
eventual journey back home to Solveig
proves to be thoroughly soul-searching
as he contemplates what it means to be
true to oneself. Ibsen’s play shuttles
us between Peer’s conscious and sub-
conscious; blends fantasy and realism
while disregarding any convention for
the bounds of space or time that audi-
ences of the time would have been ac-
customed to at the theatre. Today in
this post-psychedelic era, it is of little
matter to us, but such is the fantasti-
cal nature of this work that one is often
left wondering how much of this sur-
realism is the original and how much is
modern interpretation.
This colossal forty scene play spins
us through a whirlwind of emotions
and settings as we try and keep up with
the unruly, boozy and inexhaustible
energy of Keith Flemming’s young Peer
Gynt and then Gerry Mulgrew’s old
Peer in the second half: ever so slightly
tempered in disposition but equally in-
sane and still trapped in his imaginary
kingdoms. The second half is where
the play comes into its own, devoid of
the booming and incessantly bawdy
humour of the first half while being
ever more resonant in its emotional
poignancy and even having this re-
viewer dangerously close to shedding a
tear when a half naked old Peer comes
back from dreaming to find himself in
a mental hospital, confused and unable
to remember the name of his doctor.
Dominic Hill has created a produc-
tion which is seamless in its execution
and choreography and which manages
to excel in its moments of pathos. The
creative team have conjured up a show
which is stunning in its use of set de-
sign, lighting and live music to realise
this deluded, fantasy world in which
our anti-hero lives and his eventual
journey back home to his loved one
who has waited for him all this time.
The production remains faithful to
the original in plot and meaning while
proving that Peer Gynt and its subplot
are utterly transferable to this epoch
while the idea of being true to oneself
has never been more topical in this so-
ciety of preconceptions, pressure and
expectations.
Peer Gynt was on at the very
lovely Barbican but unfortunately
has now closed
S
ince I last botched together
an editorial for felix I have:
turned 21, cut my hair short,
visited the Houses of Parlia-
ment twice, revised for my
finals, sat my finals, got a job for next
year, had a death in the family and vis-
ited at least four different art exhibi-
tions. All of which I could talk about at
length. But I’m not going to! Today I’m
going to answer the eternal question:
what is art?
I got thinking about this very early
on the morning after I went to see
the Gerhard Richter exhibition at the
NPG, which I reviewed last week and,
essentially, slated. What interested me
was why I hated it so much. I think the
reasons can be categorised under three
headings: lack of skill, lack of attrac-
tiveness and lack of meaning. Firstly,
this Richter dude had got a few photo-
graphs and made them blurry. Big deal.
Secondly, I didn’t even like the look of
these photographs. I certainly wouldn’t
want to hang them on my wall at home,
and looking at them gave me a head-
ache. And, lastly, I didn’t see the point
Richter was trying to make with them.
What was the guy thinking aside from
“hmm, let’s get some photographs,
make them blurry, then maybe some-
body will pay me for them – woohoo!”?
Whenever I think about what art is,
I’m taken back to a very dreary AS level
General Studies lesson, taught by a
teacher I particularly hated, who clear-
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
ly had a lot of apathy for the subject.
Forced to teach us about culture and
the arts, he screwed up a paper towel,
threw it down on the desk, and said “is
this art?” He asked for a show of hands
of who thought it was. My lone hand
crept up. He asked why. I said “because
I think it is”. This made him laugh in
my face somewhat, but my point was
that art is in the eye of the beholder. It’s
subjective and impossible to define. In
retrospect, I mostly felt sorry for the
paper towel, I felt somebody deserved
to stand up for it. And to me it repre-
sented the pointlessness of teaching
arts and culture out of a textbook for a
mandatory, pointless qualification used
to bump up the school’s UCAS points.
So I guess it had meaning.
But this recent sleepless morning
I had a minor revelation. I’ve decided
that art is just stuff to take up space
and time. It is filler. Art is something
to brighten up a blank wall, something
to listen to on the way to college, or
somewhere to go at the weekend. If
that art brightens up that blank wall
particularly well, and we look at it and
say “oh, gosh, that’s clever – I couldn’t
have done that!” then that makes it a lit-
tle better. And if that art on the blank
wall makes us look at it and think about
things we hadn’t thought about before,
then that’s better still. But it’s still just
filler. Try walking around an art gallery
thinking “filler” to yourself, over and
over again. It’s very liberating.
Ah, but what
is Art?
Thirty hours of Gilbert & Sullivan!
Lucy Harrold sits through a whole marathon of Gilbert and Sullivan classics and learns to love them
I
have to admit I know very little
about Gilbert and Sullivan’s’ Sa-
voy Operettas. My sole knowl-
edge is based on a concert pro-
duction of Trial by Jury where
I sat so close behind the conductor
I could see the words, and Sideshow
Bob’s rendition of HMS Pinafore in
The Simpsons. I’ve never seen the ap-
peal of them; Gilbert and Sullivan form
the fine line between grandiose Opera
and the more familiar territory of mu-
sical theatre. I don’t get the point of
something written in English that you
can’t hear the words to – why bother?
The plots seem bright, breezy and
ridden with aristocracy; Lord So-And-
So wishes to marry some princess but
he can’t because of some upper class
reason. Lame. After being inspired by
Marcus Brigstocke’s jolly Room 101
rip-off ‘I’ve Never Seen Star Wars’ (in
which ‘celebrities’ try something new
e.g. Esther Rantzen listens to rap mu-
sic, what a hoot!). Having finished my
exams I decided to take in some G&S.
Despite abandoning G&S completely
in 2004, Imperial’s Musical Theatre
Society (MTSoc) still upholds the tra-
dition of the Gilbert and Sullivan Mar-
athon. The marathon is held every five
years with each of the 13 Savoy Operas
being presented, sandwiched by ‘Trial
by Jury’ at the beginning and end, in
a thirty hour extravaganza held in our
very own concert hall.
In true MTSoc style, shows are
punctuated by much eating, drinking
of tea and merry banter, whilst trying
to stay awake enough to sing or play an
instrument. As well as having a lot of
fun, money is raised for RAG. Over a
hundred people answered the call to
fill the vast number of roles on offer,
as well as providing a chorus and or-
chestra for each show, all drawing from
current students, alumni and G&S fans
alike.
I arrived midday Saturday to catch
‘The Gondoliers’ – already the fourth
P
eer Gynt (pronounced ‘Per
Gynt’) was Henrik Ibsen’s
last attempt at writing a play
in verse. Aimed at being
a satire of the Norwegian
personality, it was met with hostility
in 1867, the date of its publication, and
disliked for its overdose of magic: fairy
tales taken to the extreme and twisted
with prurience and the unwell, despite
Ibsen’s claim that “the conception of
poetry in our country, in Norway, shall
shape itself according to this book”.
The National Theatre of Scotland
and Dundee Rep Ensemble’s produc-
tion, staged at the Barbican’s sumptu-
ous theatre, is a modern adaptation
which reworks the Norwegian odys-
sey into a contemporary setting while
losing none of the essence of Ibsen’s
classic.
Peer Gynt is a lay-about, living the life
of avoidance tormenting and shaming
his “poor, pretty, ugly mum”, drinking,
shagging and perpetually in his own
dream world of which he is emperor.
After crashing a wedding reception in
the local village, running off with the
bride, engaging three troll-courting
milkmaids in the mountains, fathering
a half-troll and half-human son, Peer
Gynt takes up a life of solitude where
Solveig (“Sylvie”), the village girl he fell
This guy’s mates are not impressed by his newly acquired halo
The sheer number of people involved surely shows how widely appreciated and loved Gilbert and Sullivan’s Savoy Operettas are even today
The cast of Peer Gynt performing a new disco dancing craze. That or they’re falling over. I can’t tell
show of the day. I was unsurprised to
find the plot involved a Duke’s daugh-
ter married at the age of one to a King
now masquerading as a Gondolier,
leading me to think I wasn’t going to
enjoy this next few hours.
Despite managing to predict the
ending, I was entertained by the go-
ings on in Venice. Highlights included
James Hallett and Ed Hughes as the
two Gondoliers, given the power of
joint-Kingdom in exchange for dump-
ing their wives, and Ben Rowe as the
High Inquisitor who gives them the
power. I still wasn’t convinced that Gil-
bert and Sullivan’s works were noth-
ing more than a poor man’s opera, but
stayed a while longer.
Actually, I ended up staying until
gone 11pm and helped cook dinner
(everyone helps out when you’ve got
continuous light opera on the go). The
evening’s entertainment was ‘The Yeo-
men of the Guard’ and one of the rea-
sons I did help with dinner. Yeomen
was definitely not a highlight for me.
This was not down to the perform-
Yeah, I’m a little disappointed by the lack of costumes too. But 30 hours? I take my hat off to these singers! At least I have a hat to take off
ers, all of whom were pitch perfect and
rarely made mistakes despite tiredness
and lack of practice setting in. The plot
had something to do with a man being
executed and some people falling in
love. Plus it was really long. ‘Yeoman of
the Guard’ cemented my original pre-
conceptions of Gilbert and Sullivan – a
flimsy plot and lots of sopranos mak-
ing noises that don’t sound like words.
Looking at the schedule for the rest
of the marathon I decided upon re-
turning for ‘The Sorcerer’, as a friend
had a large role in it and the title re-
minded me of Harry Potter. Anticipat-
ing the marathon would be running
late, I managed to miss the beginning
of ‘The Sorcerer’ but easily caught up
with the plot.
This piece seemed different from the
others - the plot was simple but effec-
tive and the songs were more in the
style of musical theatre. Rob Felstead
(who also coordinated the entire affair)
shone as Alexis and was well matched
by Rebekah Engeler. Dave Phipps Davis
kept us all awake and entertained with
some hilarious ad libs that I’m sure the
Edwardians would have disapproved
of.
The marathon ended with ‘Trial by
Jury’ (as per tradition) with those not
completely catatonic retiring to the bar
to discuss the overnight highlights I
had missed, and to debate which oper-
etta is best (general opinion sided with
my favourite, ‘The Sorcerer’).
I was very impressed with the high
level of performance, even into the last
hours of the marathon. Impromptu
dancing occurred frequently, with
props hastily grabbed from the table
of food. Everyone was there because
of their love of performing Gilbert and
Sullivan, which gave the epic event a
real feeling of community and affec-
tion. The marathon has encouraged
me to not be so afraid of G&S, so may-
be I’ll even see some more!

