arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
14 felix Friday 22 May 2009
Caz Knight previews some exciting happenings at the Tate Modern that you can enjoy this weekend
W
hat many people
will not realise is
that the Tate Mod-
ern, in addition
to its temporary,
paid-for events, has several floors of
permanent collections which are free.
Not only this, but once a year these
collections are ‘rehung’ and an en-
tirely new collection of art works are
brought in. This Bank Holiday week-
end the Tate Modern is hosting UBS
Openings: The Long Weekend, a four-
day long spectacle of FREE events to
celebrate the new permanent collec-
tions on Level 3 and Level 5 of the
museum: Scale & Energy and Proc-
esses, respectively. Each of the four
wings which make up Levels 3 and 5
will feature a central ‘hub’ of works,
which explore artistic movements
Surrealism, Minimalism, post-war ab-
straction and Cubism, Futurism and
Vorticism. Emanating from the hubs
are displays exploring predecessors
and opponents to these movements.
In 1971, the Tate gallery invited mini-
malist sculpturer Robert Morris to cre-
ate a retrospective of his work. What
Morris created defied the preconcep-
tions held by the curator. Instead of
transferring works from his native
New York, Morris created a new con-
cept where he would test the relations
between his work (the object) and the
body of the spectators of his work thus
relying on visitor participation. The
exhibition was closed shortly after due
to the enthusiasm and exuberance with
which the viewers took part and the
minor injuries they incurred. Despite
this age of excessive health and safety,
this weekend visitors to the Tate have
the chance, once more, to engage with
Morris’ ‘Bodyspacemotionthings’, from
Friday to Monday from 10am-10pm.
In 1971 Morris made it clear that the
plywood used in his sculptures was not
to be returned to New York but dis-
mantled and recycled. A pioneer in the
Green mentality it seems.
On Saturday from 5pm at Turbine
Hall Bridge, another recreation of his-
tory will take place when Michelangelo
Pistoletto will be rolling his News-
paper Sphere through the streets of
Southwark. First carried out in Turin,
in 1966, Pistoletto’s ‘Ball of Newspa-
pers’ was a political yet playful endeav-
our which saw this giant ball rolled
through the streets to highlight the
global events of the preceding two
years. Arte Povera (‘poor art’) came to
be when artists, like many thousand
others in France, Czechoslovakia and
the USA, of the time stood up against
established institutions of government,
industry and culture. Revolutionary
art was encouraged which lacked con-
vention in both material and style. The
late sixties were a time of revolution
and social upheaval and now seems a
perfect time for this movement to fea-
ture at the Tate: a time of uncertainty,
floundering economy and unpopular
government.
The weekend, entitled “Do it your-
self”, will allow visitors to climb over
How you can be a piece of art too
A Robert Morris highlight. You too can get involved! It looks like fun, doesn’t it? Better than revision...
Cuddly toys and body parts as art
Rosie Milton sees the confusingly named exhibition ‘The Messengers’ by Annette Messager
A
nnette Messager’s retro-
spective show ‘The Mes-
sengers’ at the Hayward
Gallery on London’s
hive of artistic activity,
the South Bank, charts her produc-
tion of work from the earliest sketches
and drawings to more recent physical
installations.
The first room of the exhibition pre-
sented a collage of images on the wall
– a composition of figurative sources
such as nipples and noses, which
when combined created the effect of
cartoon-like creatures, such as bats.
A busy group of pencil illustrations of
female nudes on another wall at first
suggested Messager’s feminine expres-
sion of her sexuality through creativity,
but lurking male figures in the same
scenes and contorted facial features
then suggested something darker and
nightmarish.
This was just the beginning of a life-
time of work using soft materials and
textures, internal body parts and exter-
nal surfaces to explore dream-like im-
ages. Messager’s main themes included
the displaced limbs of stuffed toys, the
organs of the body blown up and made
soft to the point where they reached
that indefinable state between disturb-
ing and comforting, and as a whole her
work recalled childhood memories of
being ‘tucked into’ bed with a story
never finished.
Her most mesmerising work of the
exhibition was ‘Casino’, created for the
2005 Venice Biennale, which won the
prestigious Golden Lion Award. For
this installation a large room with a
single doorway at the back was filled
with a blood-red sheet, similar to the
silk-like fabric of parachutes. A wind
machine worked from the back creat-
ing cascades of billowing fabric that
undulated and fell like the steady
movement of a person’s chest with
each breath. Under the fabric large
swellings intermittently glowed white
like jellyfish washed up on a beach in
the night. Gradually the lights dimmed
and grew again as dark forms like gi-
ant keys descended from the ceiling in
a rhythm with the heaving mass of fab-
ric. This poetic display of ambiguous
forms – at once strange, yet familiar –
Robert Morris’ exhibition, watch Pis-
toletto’s newspaper ball roll through
Southwark, listen to live music, hear
sound installations, experience per-
formance art and watch films. It is
all free and with four days to enjoy
it this will prove to be a perfect anti-
dote, whether you are celebrating the
end of exams or seeking respite from
academia.
The Long Weekend
Tate Modern
22-25 May 2009
See www.tate.org.uk/modern for full
details.
required several minutes of reflection.
Sigmund Freud called this psychologi-
cal recognition unheimlich, or ‘the un-
canny’. In his ‘Dictionary for Dreamers’
Tom Chetwynd remarks that “men
have evolved from something resem-
bling sponges” and Messager, whether
consciously or not, seems to play on
this theory with her soft fabric forms.
Rather than leaning on Freud’s
largely misogynistic interpretation of
dreams as being fundamentally based
on sexual desire and feminine irra-
tionality or their supposed envy of
‘that’ body organ, Messager is instead
recreating childlike innocence – the
confusion and jumble of images and
words that makes up a child’s first un-
derstanding of the world. She explores
this by using children’s drawings in her
early work and creating a nursery for
sparrows among other creative outlets.
Her photographic work which explores
the orifices and ‘dark corners’ of the
human body is a far cry from the ge-
neric representations of beauty which
we seem so obsessed with today. Body
hair, wrinkles and fleshy anomalies
again stray into the realm of the un-
canny and recalls Hoffmann’s tale ‘The
Sandman’ which embodies the sensory
notion of recognition yet at the same
time repulsion of that which we see as
familiar.
Messager’s work overall explores her
personal identity sometimes in a ‘real’
way that was easy to relate to – as a
child and a woman – but at other times
only recognisable as being that which
has defined Messager’s existence as a
human being with her own individual
comprehension of the world.
Annette Messager’s
The Messengers
At the Hayward Gallery
Until 25th May
Annette Messager with some of her lovely art. Plenty of sex, body parts and cuddly toys to be found here
the arts magazine of Imperial College
2009 vol 2
Poems
Photographs
Short Stories
Art
phoenix
phoenix
Out
next
week!

