2 F E L I X
M e l h f s tc i k e & d i t e r
The Bar.
June 3rd.
Dear Sir,
I regarded the front page photograph of the last issue
of Felix with no small degree of suspicion.
I noted in partioular the whiteness of the banner whioh
was exactly equalled by that of the unprinted paper, the
printing on the banner which was characteristically small
scale work, and finally the fact that the banner ran to the
extreme edges of the arch leaving doubt as to how i t was fast-
ened.
Did this banner actually appear on the Beit Building or
is a scheme afoot to precipitate us into war with Sir John
Cass who were blamed for the outrage?
With 'solitary* for hostel heretics and fudged, photo-
graphs the island site might be called the Island State.
P.S.
Tours truly,
IEAeSS/ SELLARS.JON.
They always come for you in the night.
Cell (n+1)'
Chelsea Police Station,
June 15th.
Dear Sir,
Having recovered from celebrating the end of
B.Sc. (Engineering) Examinations 1956, Part One, I was
happily reading the complimentary copy of "FELIX" sent
to the establishment where I am Sp present residing,
when, to my horror, I saw the above letter questioning
the accuracy of the reporting in "FELIX".
As a member of the dancing class in progress at
that time, I was a witness of the foul deed in question.
If the author of the above letter would care to
contact me in the bar, in, say, six month's time, on receipt
of a pint of Worthington, I should be delighted to
furnish further details of this foul deed and the perpetr-
ators thereof.
Tours Sincerely,
1CTAe?6/750.
cQexekel s ( 9 w im g
Photographs on this page were taken by Messrs. Peacocks
(R.C.S.) and Smith (C.& G.)
These photographs show the polite intrusion of the
police to point out that Bo, as a power driven vehicle,
should not leave the road in the park, and that Jezebel
as a commercial vehicle should not enter the park.
Despite the retort that there was a fire in
Bayswater, the law insisted that" a fire engint
ladened with thirty boisterous students would
have tc find some other way across the park.
FIELD CUP RACE d uecee&s
FIELD CUP
The scene was like that in which the general gives a last
minute explanation of his tactics to the troops prior to join-
ing battle. This year's Field Cup task was being placed before
the engineers.
Each department was to take a rope and then lower one
of their number over the bridge across the Serpentine into a
waiting beat. Then he was to be rowed to the chain marking
the end of the boating area where a very blunt knife would
be found. Having removed this warlike instrument the bearer
was next to be rowed to land beyond the boating station.
All he had to do then was to find a large balloon, (which, as
D.T. "s said "-could be anywhere".) filled with some lighter
than air gas - and release it. The winning department would
be that whose representative was first to release a balloon.
Much to their surprise, the Guildmen were able to leave
college without interruption from the Police and the official,
crews were lowered over the bridge without incident. Although
it was inevitable that some people should "fall" into the
Serpentine during the subsequent fighting whilst the raoe was
in progress, the actual race was comparatively orderly. Only
the Aero Department Inst their ship. Hie Electrical Department
were the eventual winners.
Unfortunately whilst the race had gcttss almost unobserved
by the "men in blue", Bo had attracted some official attention
Why was the car parked behind *he boating station? - This was
not a public highv/ayj While Bo was interviewing the police
who were being told more and more tall stories, the crowd was
not idle. The policeman's bicycle was being passed back
through the crowd and i t is reported that i t was eventually
housed in a tree.
When the dispute had been settled i t was unanimously
deoided that the balloon, on the end of a sixty-foot length
of string, should be carried back to Guild3 in Bo escorted by
the still-jubilant engineers. The route was through the park
towards Hyde Park Corner until Rutland Gate, though which
Bo turned into the main road., and came back to Guild's via
Knightsbridge and Exhibition Road. «
_
An excellent trrffic jam resulted as might well be imag-
ined. The safe oarriage of the balloon presented its own
difficulties. Lamp-posts had to be passed and long branches
on trees avoided as the prevailing wind carried the balloon
towards these obstacles. Only one lamp-post caused any
concern, however, the string got oaught in the joint between
the vertical column and the actxial arm carrying the lamp.
Bo was just stopped in time to prevent the balloon exploding
and the problem of releasing the string was soon solved after
Bo had been reversed. Reversal of Bo, however, entailed
reversal of the student mob and of the traffic behind i t .
The law became interested,but the journey continued with an
escort of two police outriders.
As spirits we:, e s t i l l high when the engineers returned
to Guild's, a Boomalaka and some fun was had at the expense
of R.C.S. On their eventual return to Guilds, the day ended
with a speech of thanks to the "men in blue" who this year
had been very kind.

