F e l i x
The Imperial College Newspaper
C i r c u l a t i o n 1200 Editor: BILL HBDSOH
There is no* the inevitable gap in the student year,
during whioh many important deoisions concerning our future
ere made. Not only personally, but as a body, the I.C. Union
will be seriously affected by nhat baoomes of the Imperial
Institute. The final decision as to what will become of the
tower will be announoed this month. Any loss of land due to
its preservation will almost certainly be passed onto the
students. They will not get the large hall that I a College
of 3000 ought to have.
The most popular sooial function is dancing. Five times
as many students attend any dance in Imperial College as
attend any other function. Battersea Polytechnic , which is
lees than half the size of I.e., has a hall that takes 700.
Next tern, this College will have to run danoes in a hall
whioh will hold 300. Students may however wander between
rival establishments, such as Queen Alexandra House, where
Bedford College have sesn a chance to exploit the shortage
of eV-urday night accomodation in South Kensington.
With this as the final issue this session, and my last
issue, I would like to express my thanks to a l l the readers
whose threepences have kept us solvent, and to all the
contributors who have provided material for us to publish.
I thank particularly the staff of FELIX who have done sc
much work:
Edith Stephen, John Bramley, John Dearden, Chris Farrow,
Pete Levin, Dave Marshall on the editorial side,
Elisabeth Kranok and Fete Ling on production,
Pat Billingham, Pete Southgate and Bill Thornley as
artists,
Ruth Billington, John Nioholls, Ian Flummer and Mike
Rutter on the business side of the paper.
The next Editor will start with a olean slate. He will
almost oertainly have a new style of FELIX, which will be
larger and have more pages. Reduction in printing will be
unnecessary, so i t should be oleaner and dearer. It may
be a new era in the life of FELIX and I wish him every
suooess with i t .
IMPERIAL COLLEGE CHRISTIAN UNION.
In November from 4th. to 11th., a Mission will be condu-
cted throughout London University by the London Inter-Faculty
Christian Union. At Imperial College, the Mission will be
organised by I.C.C.U., under the title, "What think ye of
Christ?" It will be led by Mr Miohael Griffiths B.A.
During this week, there will be a special series of
meetings, in the lunch hour and after College, whose aim will
be to consider and present the claims and person of Jesus
Christ, in a fair and straightforward manner.
Further details will be circulated and announoed next
term. s>. .
*
:
BUSY TIMES AHEAD
Barriers have been erected round the portion of the
Imperial Institute Galleries that are now being demolished.
These will no doubt, be useful to hold back the public when*
work stops owing to the discovery of Roman remains which must,
as ever the whole of the Greater London,- l i e in the eub-eoil.
The Ministries of Education and WorkS-jeAll, in conjunction with
the aroheologists then admit, the publio to view the site eh
payment of the usual small contribution,towards the X15 x 10
eost of erection of our sky-sarapere.
It is to be hoped that something will be found that w i l l
indicate that the site was used to further the arts and
science* (kulture) long before Prince Albert thought of his
•ester-plan. Probably the Romans had a road research centre
far Civil Engineers until i t was closed when the highway system
wan completed. The Albert Hall could be built on the foundat-
ions of generations of amphitheaters, where the Soots oould
have been thrown to the lions,- Soots because Christianity ens
"U* end the wolves not sufficiently vicious.
i E L S O V S
0 0W3KD0I Shall I call you bird or but a wandering voice?
(State the alternative preferred, with reasons for your
APRON STRINGS : Dr. Logan, Manchester University Health
Officer, says parents are to blame for many of the emot-
ional problems which are upsetting one out of every three
university students. His research shows that the ohief
onuses of students' anxieties are homesickness and the
final exams.
Whatever his findings , Dr. Logan's attempts in thin
field are moat welcome. The intensity of complexes ant
neuroses, and the number of mental breakdowns amongst stu-
dents is as high as, i f not higher than, the average, yet
serious attempts to understand the peyohologioal troubles
of students are few and far "between. Psychology l a by
now sufficiently advanced to have something to offer to
a l l groups of society >
>
u
t we receive far less attention
than most. We appreciate that the traditional approach
of psyoo-analysia has >< s to investigate extreme neur-
otio oases, and we cannot for that reason hope to be ae of
much interest as homosexuals and delinquents, but in a
world in whioh brain work is becoming increasingly import-
ant for production, psychologists have muoh to offer the
world by analysing the problems of brain-workers, and these
problems are by no means divorced from those of the Univ-
ersity. Apart from this, i t is high time that student
problems were looked squarely in the face, i f only for the
sake of the University itself.
( Editorial Note: Nelson had an awful hangover , from a
week's poet-examination drinking, when he wrote the above
paragraph. Readers nay draw their own conclusions. )
1
1 nsPUTIES AGAIN FIGHTING IK THE ASSEMBLY: Mr. Ibbotaon of
"Mr. President I am frustrated...." fame was forcibly evio-
A.G.M. for slandering the tellers.
ted from the I.C.U.
WEEPING JM GUILDS: G & 6 became mysteriously filled with
tear gas on the day after R.C.S. had been washed down my
Guildsmsn.
IMPERIAL GOES ANTI-IMPERIALIST: Dmftjkg the Field Cup, the
Daily Mirror were informed that we were students demonstrat-
ing in favour of BCKA and that we were throwing ourselves
Into the Serpentine as a protest against the Cyprus policy.
This was later reftrted.
APATHT AGAIN 1 Have the Test Mate*, commentaries, which can
be heard on the radio in the Unwin Lounge, anything to do
with the reduced cttendanoes at Orion Mtetings?
INTEHDUMTOLGUSRECTUS? VTDET: So "The People" has got round
to exposing the "Mayfair Smart Set" . Guess who i s likely
to eons next. (Loosely translated from Horace, the above
Latin motto of the Oggi family, means "Now and than the
people get on the hall.")
CUIUS ENGINEER: Thanks to high pressure sales, the target
number of 400 has been topped. There are approximately a
thousand Guildsnen.
Of THE DERBY D
R
A
W on the college coach going to Wednesday's
raoe meeting at Epson, 1 -irman lad Smith drew "Full Measure"
ridden by I.Smith for a 3.30. Gordon Green won with
Lavadin.
TODAY IS AN ANNTVET
Campinologists ooc
the authorities, '
since the last lor
l. The inaugural meeting of the
sd axyear age Although reoognised by
aociety appears to have disintegrated
vac
Sou* k—*M> <^ T***^tM*A QVUQC

