F E L I X
C o n s r i u t i o n S u s p e n d e d
Q&ine Westing Society &enserec
At the Social Clubs Committee meeting on June 4th., Lea
Allen was elected Chairman for 1956-57, with Ian Bell as Hon.
Seoretary and Tony Hodgson as Assistant Secretary. No represe
eutatives from the Film, Jazz, Riding or Rover Clubs were pre
present.
The ohief business was the approval of the Indian Sooiety's
constitution, which states that such a society shall exist to
show and defend the Indian colours.
An interesting exposure of the Wine Tasting Society was
given by the Chairman y^j"*
ft Apparently the wine that has
been imbibed this session has been a free gift
to the society, providing good advertisement
for the merchants concerned. The society how-
ever, collected 2/- from each person attend-
ing each meeting, and this was spent oa a
dinner for the committee later in the evening.
In additi n, some money was saved to pay for
wine which was consumed at the societies
annual dinner.
The violation of the S.C.C. rule that
all monies should be paid through the
senior treasurer is flagrant, and the
constitution of the club was suspended
until a fuller investigation could be
made.
This will not affect the society
as a whole, since i t has no functions
until next term, and next years officers cannot
be expected to suffer for the extravagances of
their predecessors. %
The Wine Tasting Society do not expeot to
get their wine free in future, so there will
be less reward for sitting on the committee*
There is scope for an Epicure Society
in the Union and this may be formed early
next session. Volunteers to. serve on the
committee of this club will be expected
to pay a substantial premium.
(Negotiations through the Editor,
Union Rack, quoting 3um prepared to pay)
VACATION ADDRESSES, Callers Welcome.
nd.
(2 Eleo.)
John Sheldon, B. V. Hughes.
Midsommarvagen 10, 2tr.
HAGERSTEN Stockholm Tel. 45 76 52
!— nd
Dick Saunders & John Elliott (2 Elec.')
Central Y.M.C.A.
MONTREAL Canada.
Personal Advertisements
TO LET DURING THE VAC:- One roos flat for one or two-
POR DETAILS apply to: J.P. BUUnghas, (via Guilds' Raok)
FOR SAIS: f ; rowing eight plus pox (first alass pedigree, needs
oenditioning) Apply I.C. Boat Club, Union raok.
FCft|
i n * *
SALE:- One brain- would ensure mediocre success in
•try- body prefers to stay at I.G.
Prioe:- 3rd. olass Honours, o.s*.o»
Apply:- Box "B", Felix, Union Rao*.
P R E S I D E N T R E V I E W S
T H E S E S S I O N
In spite of oooupying temporary premises for the whole ye r
and having to put up with many inconvenienoes as a result, the
Union has had another successful year. The rebuilding of the
Union premises is now nearing completion,and this should result
in the easing of the burden of the students as far as Union
facilities are ooncerned.
The year began with the arrival at the College of the
largest number of Freshmen the ..College has yet seen, and I hope
that the two Freshers' Days provided something of an,introduction
to the Union. Whilst on the subject of Freshers Reoeptions I
would like to say something of our Overseas Students. In the
past a special function has been arranged for students from
abroad but for one reason or another they have not been suo>
oessful. Next terra I believe a l l three Constituent Colleges
are going to hold Freshers' Dinners, and each Freshman, in-
cluding Overseas Prso.hmen will have an "Old Lag" as his host.
This method lays the onus on the Old Lags, and I would point
out that all of you will be Old Lags next year, With your
support and cooperation a new approach can be made to Ove: isas
students to get them to' join in our activities.
One of the best attended functions of the year was L
m
e
m
. Day, held for the first time in the Royal Albert Hall.
This ceremony affects us a l l sooner or later- later for some
than others- and i t was gratifying to see i t well supported.
May i t long be as successful as this year. The C
o
m
m
e
m Ball
held in the Dorchester Hotel could have been better attended,
but those who did go along had an enjoyable evening. To try
and attract more graduates who hove been presented at Comraem.
Day i t has been decided to hold the two functions on the same
day. I hope that when uou have been presented with your degrees
you will grace the Ball with your attendance.
Because of the many edicts
which have been served upon us by ,0 < , S/<<Ld&m&6Mm,
the University Senate i t would ap^ I
pear that our Nov, 5th. celebrations I
have been permanently banished to J
Harlington. This , to m
y mind, is a I
good thing because when large num- l
bers of students gather together in I
Town they seem to go berserk at the I
sight of students from other. Colleges j
At Harlington there are always the |
few irresponsible types.who thought- |
lessly scatter broken glass over the
playing field and throw fireworks at
individuals. If these people could ]
bo eliminated there would be few
grounds for complaint for holding
our celebrations at Harlington.
The Athletic and Social aotiv
ities will be highlighted by their
respective Chairmen, but I would like to mention Morphy Day
. and Sports Day. These were both successful occasions b"t
attendance was extremely poor considering there is a .
.
o
U
.
f
holiday for each function.
The one bright spot on the question ofmattendanoes has
been the increase in-popularity of Hall Dinner. This is an
encouraging sign since as well as providing an opportunity for
having an excellent meal quite cheaply i t enhances the Staff-
student relationship whioh cannot but produoe goodwill amongst
all.oonoerned.
At one of the best attended Union Meetings for some year*
the Union has again rejected a proposal to rejoin N.U.S. This
subject seems to come up annually and I would like to reaffirm
what was stated in the Presidents Report for 1947-48:- I t
must be obvious by now that the Imperial College Union and to
that extent the constituent College Unions would do far better
i f all the time an. energy spent digging up this subject every
year 'were direct into more profitable channels such as
internal matters .
' the College.
In the Into national field the Union reoieved two invitat-
ions to oenfer ;es in Genpany. I had the good fortune to attend
one and Mr Kitoheoer the other. From the reports that have
appeared in FELIX i t should now be clear that I.C.'s reputation
is high amongst most of the Technical Universities in Europe.
This International goodwill and cooperation oan be achieved by
this Union without having cause to join N.U.S.
Nationally, the Union was also represented at the Univers-
ities Conference at Southampton where full discussions were
held on domestic matters. The success of the conference appears
to have been its informality and lack of debating trioks and
points of order'.
With the New Union Building constantly in their minds,
Council have done their utmost to see that i t will be opened
in October. Fortunately I can say that there is every indication
that this will be so, although the gymnasium and top d^lng .
hall might not be fully completed by Oct. 1st. the rest of ths
building will. The Union Decoration Committee is now making its
final decisions.and I should like to express my thanks to
Mr A.V.S. de Reuok for the enormous amount of work he has don*
on this Committee.
In conclusion may I thank the Union Officers for the ass:
istsnoe they have given meathroughout the year. My especial
thanks to Mr Kitchener in the onerous position of Seoretary.
His evorhelpful hand could always be railed upon to give the
necessary support.
Finally thank you a l l for making m
y year of offioe an
enjoyable one and I wish you a l l the very bast of success
in ths future.

