P E L I X
S p o r t s N e w s
T H E E D I T O R
My parents told me never to amok* -I don't,
Or listen to a naughty Joist - I don't.
They made i t olear I must not wink
At pretty girls, or even think
About intoxicating drink - I don't.
To dance or f l i r t is very wrong
WILD youths like women, wine and song - I don't.
I kiss no girls, not even one,
I do not know how i t is done,
Xou wouldn't think I have ;nuohi fun - I don't.
When an endeavour was made to profile the Editor in
this, his last edition of FELIX, he said he was writing
his memoirs and didn't wish to infringe the copyright
of his publisher.
He referred to the above pseudo-poem, which he assures
us starts true and then changes progressively until the
last line is completely misleading.
That's why the profile is on the SPORT page.
Gymnastic Commentary
The gymnasium, whioh will be completed and ready for
use during next term will have equipment for most indoor
games installed in i t , but unfortunately an a much smaller
scale than originally hoped for beoause of its size. It
is two feet too short for a standard badminton oourt, and
netball and basketball will be limited.
Since there is an adequate gym. at the U.L.U. building
where some of our athletes train at present^ the size
should not worry.those wishing to participate in sport at
South Kensington,
The I.C. gymnasium was never intended to be perfect
due to size limitation, though an extra two feet in length
could have been found i f t e Badminton Club Offioers of
past years had been more alert.
A similar occurrence at the U.L.U. building ia where
an Olympic size swimming pool ia nearing completion. This
should be perfect in every feature, except the roof i s too
low to take the 10 metre diving board.Competitors will
hajreto dive twice from the 5 metre board.
A T H L E T I C S
any errors in this statement are due to the fact that
the reporter was sunbathing during most of the match. W
e
had a glorious afternoon for the battle at Hurlingham,
and reinforcements of ice-lollies were In constant supply.
The real surprise of the fixture occurred in the 880
yards. Maureen Hawes was our first runner, but there was
some doubt as to whether any other member of the I.C.W.S.C.
team oould survive such a distance. However, keeping to the
old .I.C.W.A, policy of never missing an opportunity, Janet
Peterson was instructed to come fourth at least. She
obeyed orders until within 200 yards of the tape when she
came flying past both King's runners and finished second
to Maureen.
Brenda Walker oame first in 6 of the 10 events on the
';i
programme, and I.C. won the relay.
Other members of the team were Celia Roberts, Barbara
Ruseel and Jean Ruaton.
MEN'S SUCCESSES
In recent athletic fixtures, the I.C. team has been
. successful, i t having lost only to Loughborough in a '
triangle match with King1
s College London. Loughborough
College, training ground of physioal training instructors
contains several athletes who will represent England at —
the ooming Olympics, and I.C, with a team depleted due to
University fixtures were not at a l l disgraced by this.
Les Locke is the outstanding athlete of the Soilage at
present, .John Evans having other outside commitments. Locke
is well supported by Pinsent and Goodwin, while in the
field events, Langdon, Lawrence, Snellock and Toynbee
give the College a formidable team, '
T H E FIRST OF
T H E CLASSICS
For every student with a spark of genius there is a dozen with ignition trouble.
J w - m n u c u . s
.
w
.
?
.
w.K

