An exercise in creative writing by John and Dominic
Boo Radleys
Frantically reading the press release on
the tube, we cautiously made our way to
ULU to meet the legend that is Boo
Radleys. Well, maybe not the legend, but
they're certainly making a big splash in
the paddling pool that is the ever
growing phalanx of noisy melodic post-
dinosaur neo-valentine pre-92 guitar
bands....
After seeing them soundcheck, we met
them in the ante-room of the ULU bar.
After ignorant introductions on our part,
the conversation dragged round to Every
Heaven their newish EP, currently at no.
1.
Liverpool scene: real or surreal?
yeah, its all madeup. there are a load of
bands, its just that they're all crap. The
La's are really boring, their FRONT MAN
Lee Mavers was in the PUB on New
Year's Eve TALKING about STUDIOS.
Boring! Boring! (And the Farm are ?
Really drab.) We are a pop band, we
want to be on totp. "We'll probably get
our heads kicked in when we go back to
Liverpool," they said.
Life on tour: well the Boo's aren't too
enthralled by the word HYGEINE. Hotel
trashing?? Well they got kicked out of
drummer lives with Dr. Phibes and the
House of Wax Equations (buy the album,
and the Boo Radleys, they're reeeeeally
great.) '89 saw the release of the Boo's
debut vinyl offering, on a local Liverpool
label, "Ichabod and I" (from a cartoon we
gather) . A mini album, good old Johnny
Peel played it and press interest began.
"It was the only deal we could get at the
time, and small labels can't afford to put
out singles." After the stonking Curve
support set (see next week's interview)the
photographer got locked in the dressing
room and missed what turned out to be
Greed. Money. Sex. Power. Drugs. Is
the world their oyster? No, they're all
made up. We probably haven't sold half
as many as that. I mean we're ahead of
the Inspiral carpets, and there's no way
we've sold more than them. It's just
certain shops. No we don't get any
money from it. But we do have a 15 year
old who fancies Martin (guitarist).
What were you doing before you were
in the band? Nothing, but we thought
about it for 12 years.
one in Bristol because they got up too
late. Hmmmm. In fact most of the places
they stay in are B & B. The tour was
going fine until they crashed into The
Pink Toothbrush in Rayleigh which is / is
not possibly interesting, so we won't talk
about it. Commenting on post-tour
activity, we hoped they'd talk about their
groopies (sic) but they don't. They'd
rather have a cup of tea and go to bed.
Bands. Groups. Artistes. Dr. Phibes??
Anyone??
Well we really like Swervedriver, The
MC5, and we asked Curve to support us
and we hate the Farm. Yeah, the
what they described as a good, but not
mindblowing, gig. We thought it was
truly, deeply and chemically great. And
our minds were blown.
Back in the dressing room, and reunited
with our photographer, we witnessed
many stars pass through the portals and
pay homage to the legend that is Boo,
including Chapterhouse, the Pale Saints
and very nearly Jim and William, but not
quite.
DISCLAIMER: this article is loosely
based on a true to life interview with the

