A Week for Life
Next week is Christian Aid Week. On
Monday, members of the West London
Chaplaincy will be collecting around
college on behalf of Christian Aid; but just
where will the money go when it comes
out of the tin again? What, in short, is all
the fuss about?
'I'm not giving money if...'
When we were collecting last year, a few
people refused to donate any money
because 'it would only be used to fund
missionary work'. They didn't want their
money being used to spread the Christian
faith. Fair enough. It would have been
better if they'd waited for an answer
though, because Christian Aid isn't a
missionary society, it's an aid charity.
Just like any other
Like the other major aid organisations
(Oxfam, Cafod and similar groups)
Christain Aid is concerned with many
different projects in many countries. Long
term projects to help communities
improve their living standards reflect the
Christian belief that all people have a
right to basic living standards, whilst
rapid response to emergency situations is
also a major concern. Christian Aid has
also been part of this year's campaign
against the third world debt crisis,
reflecting the degree to which the
developed world is responsible for the
continued problems facing developing
countries.
Life before death
From 13th to 18th May around 400,000
collectors will be at work in Britain,
aiming to beat last year's record six and
a half million pound total. There's no
doubt that the money is needed. To date,
despite the massive aid programme for
Kurdish refugees, Britain has provided no
new aid money. This means that the
money being spent on aid for Kurds in
Turkey and Iran won't be available for
use in the famine already hitting Africa.
Christian Aid alone estimates that it needs
to raise a further 1.5 million just to pay
for essential food for Eritrea: it has
already donated 2.8 million since
January. It is hoped that this will in turn
persuade European governments to fund
a further 750,000 tonnes of aid (about
S750 million worth).
The magnitude of the figures is
appalling. Yet this money is merely to
stave off starvation; it can do no long-
term good. Christian Aid and the other
aid charities try whenever possible to use
money for longer term development
projects and education in order to give
the maximum return to all the money
used. People are encouraged to learn
skills which enable them to work for their
own food rather than to depend on first
world handouts, water supplies are made
• H i W
safe and reliable, education is a prime
concern. In Bolivia, Christian Aid works
alongside a national organisation of mine
workers' cooperatives, helping their
members acquire skills essential to the
running of the cooperatives. At the same
time, mothers are taught how to mix
drinks of water, sugar and salt to prevent
death from diarrhoea or dehydration.
There is a school for children who would
otherwise be beggars, where they can
learn marketable skills.
All this, however, isn't even the top of
the iceberg. As Larry Boyd of Christian
Aid says, 'it can be very difficult for
Christian Aid to deceide which projects to
support. There are so many good ones
and such great needs that charities alone
cannot come close to covering them all'.
Christian Aid's response is two fold: to
listen to local advice on which projects
are of most help and also to seek to
change major world economic factors
which hinder third world development.
This year's campaign to encourage banks
to write off more third world debts and
relieve countries like Bolivia of the
crippling interest burdens has been a fruit
of such a process.
There must be more
There should be more to human life than
an endless struggle for survival, yet the
hard work of the poor of the third world
who try to better their lives can only pay
off if the developed world is willing to
help the process. Christian Aid can go a
small way towards that aim. Please, be
generous in your contributions on
Monday. If you wish, write to your MP
asking them to encourage higher
government spending on aid and disaster
relief.
A n d y Cooksley
(West London Chaplaincy)
'The street child has no one and sees
everyone as an enemy', says Augustin
Garcia, who lived on the streets for two
years before taking refuge at Colonia
Pirai when it started in 1972. Today he is
a teacher at Colonia Pirai, helping to
train former street children to earn a
living from skilled trades.
It can be very difficult for Christian Aid
to decide which programmes to support.
There are so many good ones and such
great needs that charities alone cannot
come close to covering them all.
For this reason Christian Aid listens to
the groups it is able to support to learn
what can be done in Britain and Ireland
to change the economic relations
between the rich countries and the Third
World that keep people poor.
Bolivian groups point out that their
country has been using a large
percentage of its earnings from exports to
pay back loans taken out before the tin
market crashed and interest rates soared.
It is a pattern repeated in many other
countries, and why Christian Aid started
its Banking on the Poor campaign, urging
debt relief for poor nations.
When people work as hard as they do
in Bolivia, they deserve a chance to live.
Larry Boyd.
12

