I M P ' m
||g| Obituary—Beverly Halstead
Beverly Halstead, an academic visitor
with the Geology department since 1989,
was by profession a geologist and a
vertebrate palaeontologist. His black clogs
and shock of white hair distinguished him
as no ordinary member of grey academia.
Bev was deeply committed to both his
study and to wider social issues.
Bev was Lancashire b o r n but moved
with his mother to Sussex following his
parents' divorce. His mother's second
marriage to a committed Marxist laid the
foundations for Bev's early politcal
leanings. He attended Lewes G r a m m a r
school and by his early teens was writing
'Nature Notes ' for the 'Worker'.
According to fellow scientist Colin
Paterson Bev's mellowing political
opinions can be traced by the surname's
he adopted: first Tarlo, his stepfather's
name, then Halstead-Talo and finally
Halstead.
Bev was someone never afraid to speak
his mind; the louder the better. Following
his first in Geology at Sheffield he came
to London and began a P h D at UCL's
Zoology Department. He enjoyed what
Peter Medawar, the then head of
department describes as the 'Communist',
atmosphere that pervaded the department
at the time. Bev was not so happy with
the academic side and a characteristically
spectacular row delayed the award of his
doctorate.
Bev's career as a research
palaeontologist began at the Natural
History Museum and later continued in
the form of a joint fellowship split
between Oxford and the Royal Dental
Hospital in London. He studied the
molecular structure of the skin of a group
of prehistoric fish and showed it to be
directly comparable with modern day
mammalian dentition. This explained the
sensitivity of teeth to certain foods such
as excessively sweet ones; the natural
environment for teeth is saline water.
This research and its conclusion reflected
Bev's, considerable powers of lateral
thinking.
He joined Reading's zoology and
geology departments in 1963 and became
a reader in 1968. By the early 1970s
Bev's sights were set outside of the
British academic scene and he spent
three years at Ife, Nigeria, as professor of
zoology, followed by a six month period
at Panjab Unirersity, Chandigarth, India.
Back at home Bev became increasingly
familiar to a wider audience with the
publication of his very accessible books
on dinosaurs. Bev also gained public
recognition as a person unafraid to
challenge the foremost scientists and
scientific institutions of the day. In 1980
his battle with the Natural History
Museum over the 'cladistics' question
began. Bev was incensed that the
museum had used cladistics (essentially
dichotomus branching diagrams) as a
didactic aid, and thereby lending support
to episodic evolutionary theories. The
argument was furious but the result was
victorous. The museum eventually
removed the offending exhibit .
Despite these brushes with the
establishment , or indeed because of
them, Bev was held in the highest regard
by his colleagues. He was this year's
President of the Geology section of the
B A and also the current president of the
Geologist's Association. For a person so
honoured by his profession Bev was
remarkable in his low-key friendly nature.
In lecture breaks and after them he was
chatty and relaxed, immensely
intereseted in us, the students. He
concluded the last lecture of the Easter
term by saying that his w o r k was done
and that the future, in every way , lay
with us. Bev was the most inspiring
person I have ever met. I miss him.
Lambert Beverly Halstead (Tarlo),
geologist and palaeontologist,
born Pendleton Lancashire 13 June 1933,
Reader in Geology and Zoology Reading
University 1968-91, married 1975 Jennifer
Middleton (one son), died near Bath 30
April 1991.
2

