Company Cars?
There are growing but unconfirmed
reports that some members of the college
staff will have company cars in the next
financial year. A source said that the
college would simply act as a'middleman'
between car users and manufacturers.
According to the source the 'deal ' would
only be available to those holding senior
lectureships and above. Since the college
itself is allegedly not involved in any
financial outlay and the cars are not
perks the fact that such cars would only
be available to certain members of the
academic staff remains unexplained.
Further reports that the college health
centre budget has been cut in real terms
are only patially true. The college
contribution will suffer a reduction in real
terms in the next financial year but the
loss is to be counterbalanced by an
increased NHS contribution. In total the
budget rise will still be ahead of projected
inflation.
Peaches 'n' Cream
A survey carried out a week ago by
Peach Tree, an external company
experienced with handling students'
unions, is to be used for future plans to
overcome student apathy. Out of 1,500
questionnaires, containing SI vouchers for
food as an incentive, over 400 have been
completed and returned. Only 300 were
needed to make the survey a statistical
success.
Union President, Paul Shanley,
described the number of forms returned
as '...more than enough to be
representative'. He also said that it would
be more than a week before any useful
results would come out of the
computerised data base.
Schroclanger
The annual Schrodinger lecture, sponsored
by IBM, was first scheduled for the Great
Hall but due to overwhelming interest it
was moved to Westminster Central Hall.
The guest speaker was Professor
Mandelbrot, the world renowned expert on
chaos and fractals. The Rector, Sir Eric
Ash, chaired the meeting.
The Schrodinger Lectures, started three
years ago, as part of a series of lectures
open to the public, a tradition at the college
that goes back over a century.
Buses took special guests and stewards to
the meeting at Westminster. Some members
of staff were critical of the re-organisation,
but this was effected well, with many
students attending. However, losing the
tradition of open events within college was
criticised.
Clanging Victory for
Jezebel
Whoops!
A Union van, hired out by Guilds and
parked outside the Albert Hall, was towed
away by the police on Wednesday night.
A group from Guilds were bewildered
when they returned to find the van
missing.
Fearing the worst, Chris Browne rushed
to the Union Office to report the van as
stolen. However, when Union President
Paul Shanley rang the Police to report it
as missing he was referred to another
number, that of the Warwick Road
holding pen, where the van was currently
residing.
In order to collect the van they were
forced to hire another van from the
Union. There was some consternation
amongst the Guilds members when they
discovered that it would cost £102 to
have the van released (£85 fees and £17
fine), until they were informed that the
Police accept all major credit cards.
Jez, the RCS fire engine, came third in its
class in last week's London to Brighton
rally. Motor Club Chairman, Rick Davis,
organised a team of thirty-five people to
work the three-one hour shifts down to
Brighton.
The team met at 5.30am on Sunday
morning and those not in the fire engine
travelled in two mini-buses. This year's
rally marked the event's thirty year
anniversary; Jez took part in the very
first London-to-Brighton run in 1961. Mr
Davis was '...absolutely dead chuffed' at
Jez's high placing against stiff competition
in this year's run. He said that the team
had concentrated their efforts on Jez's
engine rather than bodywork somewhat
in contrast to the Morris Commercial
Truck belonging to the RSM, that could
simply tag along on the run after her
formal entry had been turned down.
|
3

