Scenes From a Mall
Hmm... a Woody Allen movie.
Ooh.. it also features Bette Midler.
Wow.
1 am not, alas, in the happy majority
that finds either Allen or Midler funny. To
have the two of them in the same movie
is almost embarrassing.
Woody and Bette are a pair of yuppies
who gush with abandon about being
globe-trotting hippies in their long-gone
youth (ie. before I was born) and how
amazing they are now that they're both
successful and unique, in that their
lengthy marriage has survived sixteen
years. They pack the kids off on a skiing
vacation, romanticise wistfully and go
shopping.
Once shopping, Woody reveals that he's
been having an affair. Bette gets angry.
Woody is contrite. This goes on for a
very long time. This is pretty dull.
They make up. They break up. They
have an argument and agree to get a
divorce... this all goes on for far too long
and is still not very interesting. Together
they rush around the mall reminiscing,
neurosing and lachrymosing and in the
course of doing so boring me to nervous
exhaustion. Midler shrieks and grates,
Woody humbles and scrapes (incidentally,
this isn't really one of his films, the
director is someone else) and the film
lumbers on. To an end which is
simultaneously sickeningly sweet and
completely inconsequential.
This is a film which, from a subjective
point of view, fails completely because: a)
1 am not old enough to remember any of
the points of reference involved b) 1 don't
live in Los Angeles c) I am not neurotic
and d) I am not married.
If you fit in one or more of these
categories, don't see this film.
The Flying Gerbil
Perfectly Normal
Renzo Parachi is perfectly normal
in every way. After his mother dies
he goes into a strict routine
consisting of getting up, going to work at
the brewery, playing ice hockey for the
work's team, and then driving his late
father's cab at night for extra cash. This
loops daily into regular monotony until
he picks up Turner (Robbie Coltrane) who
after a full evening's drinking ends up as
Renzo's lodger. Turner is all that Renzo
isn't, with a love of wine, women and
Italian cuisine. However they both share
a love of opera and from this (and the
aquisition of a tidy wad of spundooligs)
they must solve the dilemma of whose
dream to follow; Renzo's, which is to
build a little house on his plot of land, or
Turner's, which is to open a theme Italian
restaurant where all the waiters dress as
characters from La Traviata and the
floorshow has an unusual highlight. With
extra subplots of a girl who lusts after
Renzo, a workmate whose hatred of
Renzo tends on the psychopathic and the
various hockey games against rivals
Eastern Clay whom the Titans (our team)
have never beaten, this bizarre look at
life builds into a compelling story with
plenty of goals for a dull guy to reach.
Save for Robbie Coltrane the cast are
unknown and all give good performances,
with Michael Riley as Renzo portraying a
character who has serenity rather than
pathos and drifts through life almost
unaffected by the goings on around him.
It's nice to see prospective girlfriend
Denise (Deborah Duchene) going after
Renzo rather than Hunk McChunk out to
grab helpless tottie, and team coach
(Kenneth Welsh) was born to wear a
lumberjack shirt and baseball cap.
Director Yves Simoneau uses some
stunning scenes with puck's eye view
hockey games, thirty second bursts-of
taxi passengers and powerful shots of
Renzo's mother's planned death (?) and
his initial shock all set to an operatic
score. The film is a delight and really gets
all the emotions into overdrive in the big
finish. If you liked 'After Hours' you'll
love this, only more so.
The Amazing Machine.
Freedom is
HSasha is a juvenile delinquent who
escapes regularly from the
penitentiary. The only reason he
seems to have for this is that he wishes
to remain free. His mother is dead, and
he knows nothing of his father, save that
the latter is alive; no one will tell him
more.
His desire to know more is brought to
the surface of the film when, upon his
latest recapture, he is told that his father
has written to the prison, asking for a
document about his son. The boy
manages to sneak a look at the envelope:
his father is serving a sentence in a
prison in the Far North. Once more,
Paradise
Sacha escapes, his objective being to
meet his father.
Life, as seen through the eyes of a
youngster. A n approach we are well-
acquainted with, through Hope and Glory,
and My Life as a Dog. The setting is
different; a hazardous journey through a
squalid world still trying to come to terms
with glasnost. But the boy, sullen with his
captors, always a rebel, still sees the
beautiful side of his world. Hope is within
him, as he learns, and always wins out,
despite outbreaks of despair when his
wishes are thwarted; indeed, as the
tattooed initials (SER) on his hand imply,
freedom is paradise.
Sacha is the focus of the film, and the
director Sergei Bodrov's efforts to express
the film through him have paid off well,
down to the gainy film used to imply
despair. Volodya Kozyrev plays the boy
with dignity: sulky, aloof, ruthless if need
be, yet with a heart of gold. Glasnost's
effects show up here and there; the Nike
t-shirts, the nudity. Humour is present,
sometimes through sheer pathos.
Certainly worth seeing, especially if
you're into this sort of film. Bodrov is a
talent to keep track of in the future.
Zia Akbar.
4

