Robin Hood
HIn the summer of 1989, Paramount
pictures presented the final
instalment of the Indiana Jones
trilogy, and since then Hollywood has
been searching for a suitable hero to fill
the gap left in the action/adventure
movie market.
Hollywood it seems, feels that the
solution is Robin Hood, as this year will
see not one but two Robin Hood movies.
This summer we can expect to see Robin
Hood—The Prince of Thieves, which stars
that man of the moment—Kevin Costner.
However, at present we have John
Irvin's simply entitled and very enjoyable
Robin Hood.
The movie stars Irish actor Patrick
Bergin in the title role, (he can currently
be seen as Julia Roberts' sadistic husband
in Sleeping with the Enemy). Alongside
him are a fine supporting cast, most
notably Uma Thurman as Maid Marian.
Visually the movie is a treat, the
Medieval period being portrayed on
screen accurately with the feel of the
Middle Ages being created from the very
first moment, with sinister shots of a
misty, murky Sherwood Forest.
With this bleak backdrop in mind it is a
pleasant surprise to find the story an
enlivening one. This Robin Hood is not
the malevolent, supernatural tale as
presented in the popular TV series but
instead it owes much to the tone of the
1938 Errol Flynn version. Irvin's Robin
Hood is played in a lighthearted tone,
which at times is almost tongue-in-cheek.
Nearly everyone knows something
about Robin Hood, and director Irvin has
kept this in mind, presenting a movie that
covers all the aspects of the Robin Hood
legend whilst neatly injecting the story
with some nice touches of humour.
The only fault with the movie is that
the familiarity of the story causes a lack
of any real excitement. Nevertheless, the
action sequences are very well staged,
everything looks terrific, and despite one
or two nasty moments, it's all good clean
fun.
Uma Thurman plays Maid Marian as a
headstrong, tough young woman which
makes a nice change. Bergin plays Robin
Hood as the champion of the people to
good effect, and all the supporting cast
(especially a memorable cameo from
Edward Fox as King John) are
marvellous.
Robin Hood is an enjoyable movie
because it doesn't take itself too seriously
and is really played for laughs, and
although it's not 'edge of the seat' type
stuff.
It's still a good evening's entertainment.
The Don.
Ballad of Sad Cafe
B B M Special films take the viewer and
" I make them feel part of the action;
the Ballad of Sad Cafe does this and
more.
Set in the deep south of America. Full
of swamps, heat, poor blacks picking
cotton and the poor living under tin
roofs. In the midst of this Miss Amelia
(Vanessa Redgrave) runs the general store
and local still, thus controls the whole
village. Half sane, vicious and cruel,
everyone respects her and no one cares
for her. Until that is into the hard
wilderness comes cousin Lymon (Cork
Hubbert). A humpback dwarf claiming to
be 'kin' to Miss Amelia. Much to the
surprise of everyone, she takes him in
and cares for him. Lymon rearranges
Amelia, dresses her up, turns her drinking
hovel into a cafe and enlivens the village
with his boasts and antics.
All is going well until Miss Amelia's
husband returns from the state
penitentiary. Marvin Macy (Keith
Carridine) is a handsome, dangerous
rebel; his only hope was love for Miss...
Amelia. She married him, took his land
and never let him back into her house.
Twisted by this rejection he returns now
to seek his revenge.
Instead of jealousy Lymon idolises
Macy, seeing Macy as everything he
cannot be. This makes Lymon the
catalyst which brings tragedy to the small
village.
What raises this film from a simple
study of relationships is the feel of it. The
main scenes are played in front of other
villagers, you can always hear the gossipy
comments which become part of the
unfolding drama.
The simplistic, bare nature of the
village is communicated in human gesture
and expression, not speech, which is
minimal and crude. The backdrop of
cotton fields and murky swamps is
devastating. As is the feel of poverty and
community in the village. Each character,
although sometimes incredible, is vivid
and powerful.
Why Amelia rejects Macy is never
made clear, adding a plot hiccup which is
quickly overcome by the mood. More
disturbing is the acceptance of white
superiority; this was clearly the case in
southern America but a sensitive film like
this, I feel, cannot pass over the issue as
a background detail.
This is a beautiful and sincere film: its
true impact takes time to appreciate.
Initially it appears naive and innocent.
Given full development Simon Callow's
first film as a director easily reaches the
mythical proportions it aspires to.
Jonty.
Mr. Johnson
HAfrica conjures up many images
today, but none are appropriate for
the Africa of the 1920's when
Nigeria was part of the British Empire
and Colonial Service was natural for an
upwardly mobile young man. Set in this
era, the film concerns the life of a young
Nigerian, Mister Johnson, who believes
that England is his true home.
Johnson travels through various jobs
during the film, starting as an accountant,
looking after the finances for a new road
to be built across the district and passing
through more lowly jobs before coming
full circle to the road again. He is the
film's villain as well as it's hero, however,
and his eventual demise comes as no
surprise.
This is not, however, just a chronicle of
a man's life, his rise and fall, but a
montage of feelings from that passage of
Nigeria's past where England pushed the
country into commercialism. It charts the
natives' feelings of intrusion and
acceptance of the new road and inspires
the heart with the beauty of the
landscape. A wonderfully stirring film.
Fred Bloggs
Of - F i l m
5

