They did fuck all, Sir'
FEATURES To Boldly Go-The
No One is
Gay Here
Ruby Venezuela and three of her troupe
came to the 'Party Against Censorship' to
perform their amazing cabaret act for
free, to help raise money for charity. The
act consists of transvestites and a single
woman. At the end, as the audience
applauded vigorously for an encore, one
male student exhibited his intolerant
hatred by shouting out 'bloody poofs'.
Their act is a wonderful celebration of
life and sexuality. The club they work in
every night, Madame Jo Jo's, is a rare
place in this society where you can
escape the inhuman culture of the macho
male.
The day that the Americans bombed
Libya I was at the theatre watching the
play 'The Normal Heart', featuring the
American actor, Martin Sheen. After the
final curtain he spoke to the audience,
delivering a speech condemning his
country's actions. How many of us
remain silent when confronted with
injustice, because we would feel
embarrassed to cause 'unnecessary'
trouble? Did anyone confront the
shouting student that night?
'The Normal Heart' is about the gay
community facing AIDS in America. It
examines the internal politics of the
community facing official indifference to
the rising death toll. Its main character
refuses to be defined by the sexual act of
buggery, instead fighting for the
recognition of the culture produced by
gay people. Why is their sexuality
ignored in the textbooks?
One of the many famous gay people he
lists is Alan Turing, the scientist who
created the concept of the 'Turing
Machine', and whose decoding of the
Nazi's Enigma Code was considered a
major contribution to our success in the
Second World War. He was openly gay,
lost his security clearance after the war,
was forced to undergo hormone
treatment to 'normalise' his behaviour,
and finally committed suicide.
'I can never allow this play to be
performed in any form. It's production is
absolutely refused. It is a play that says
Egyptians are homosexuals. This is
something I refuse to permit on stage.'
This was the response of the theatre
censor in Cairo when asked by Karim
Alrawi why his new play, 'Crossing the
Water', had been banned. In it he
portrays the relationships between seven
people leading up to and during the Suez
Crisis. The political conflict being a
backdrop to the exploration of the
personal ethics and exploitation within
the group, personal confrontation being
used to destructive ends.
The bisexual diplomat who believes in
ethics but has not the strength to act on
them. His flirtatious wife falling in love
with her husband's gay lover, a young
Egyptian poet. The wife also discovering
that her adored, late father, raped and
continually abused a thirteen year old
Egyptian girl, with the support of an
Egyptian friend. The girl being murdered
by her own family to rid themselves of
the shame. The corruption of colonial
ownership and arrogance, the lost hope
of the English as they watch the RAF
bomb Alexandria Harbour. A powerful
tragedy of lost dreams, symbolised near
the end by the hopeless search for pearls
in oyster shells.
A premiere reading of the play, by
leading British actors, followed by a
discussion with the playwright, will take
place at the ICA on Sunday 12th May
from 2:00pm to 6:00pm. Tickets £10,
cones £7. This is a part of a series of
readings and discussions of banned plays
called the Censored Theatre Project.
Events are taking place bi-monthly, for
further information telephone Linda
Brandon, ICA Talks Director on 071 930
0493. The ICA is situated on the Mall, the
road running from Buckingham Palace to
Trafalgar Square.
Starving in
Silence
One of the largest famines of modern
times occurred in China between 1959
and 1961. At least 14 million lives were
lost, the population of China actually
dropping. Yet in 1989 a BBC journalist
was told these years had had bumper
crops. Even people who had lost their
entire families spoke, not of famine, but
sannian kunan', or 'three difficult years'.
ARTICLE 19, in their report on famine
and censorship called 'Starving in Silence',
document the censorship and
misinformation behind the China famine,
as well as those in Sudan and Ethiopia.
To promote the effectiveness of their
agricultural revolution Chairman Mao's
China encouraged the active exaggeration
of estimates of crop yields. During the
years that yields were claimed to be
increasing in great bounds, the real
situation was of growing starvation due to
recurrent droughts and the continued
export of foods to the Soviet Union. This
was compounded through lack of aid due
to censorship internally and
internationally. Peng Dehuai, Red Army
founder, Long March veteran and Korean
War Hero died in 1974 after years of
imprisonment and violent interrogation
due to his attempts to make Mao aware
of the exaggerated yield reports and the
famine. He was not alone.
'They did fuck all.Sir.' Colonel Hugh
Mackay, Overseas Director of Save the
Children Fund responding to a question
by Sir Anthony Kershaw during a Foreign
Affairs Committee meeting to find out
why the British government had been
kept in the dark about the famine in
Ethiopia that lasted from 1982-85. Colonel
Mackay was explaining the disbelief of
embassy officials to reports of
approaching famine by Oxfam and Save
the Children. Examining this cynicism,
the control of information by the
Ethiopian government, the definition of
news by our own media, the censorship
by the aid organisations in respect of the
forced resettlement imposed by the
government killing at least 100,000 more
people and of the political causes of the
famine, it exposes the true killing nature
of censorship.
If you feel there is no way that your
cries of help can be heard, your attempt
to protest at encroaching hunger and
starvation will be stifled by the apathy of
hopelessness. You will starve in silence.
This book is an outstanding contribution
to the debate on the causes of famine. It
is unique in the issues that it raises,
explaining why they have not be raised
by the organisations most involved in the
famines covered.
6
Final Chapter
Hypocrisy over Porn! ri
.\L>
FEATURES
As part of Channel 4's 'Banned' Season
there was a programme 'Signals; DV8
Physical Theatre' that used dance and
talking heads to examine the issue of
homosexuality and Clause 28. The last
half was presented by a gay teacher. He
sat in an enormous arm- chair, beside
him sat an old man. He told the story of
his childhood and his father's love. The
love for a son that required no
conditions. The old man watched him as
he spoke, he was the father.
His plea for his humanity, whilst his
lover's head rested on his lap, asked us to
imagine that the person we love was
hurt, was insulted, was beaten. He did
not express hatred, just that we should
understand the pain of being threatened
because of who you love. How can so
much hatred be expressed against people
for their love, against people who do not
threaten, who do not insult? It was a
beautifully powerful defence of the
human rights and dignity of homosexuals,
something that is illegal to show where it
is most needed, in our schools. Ours is a
society where the effeminate child is
bullied, and often blamed by teachers for
being a victim. Where gays are beaten to
death by young men to express their own
perverted sense of manhood. Where
being aggressive and hard is seen as
exciting and good compared to those who
are compassionate and care.
The anti-wimp, pro-macho society is
one that rests on intolerance, preferring
the rule of violence to that of justice.
Only four years ago, at IC, the macho
culture of the Royal School of Mines was
challenged. Indeed it had been fougty
against for more than a period of four
years. They had a Union Officer called
'Hon Pornographer', who would read bad
and obscene poetry at their UGMs. Then
once a year he would organise, for
'Foreign Student's Week', an evening of
pornographic entertainment. The films
included bestiality, sado-masochism,
degrading images of men and women. It
was an annual ritual celebration of the
RSMUs attitude to manhood, one
summed-up by hard drinking and fucking.
As a Union event it relied upon the
support of the students at Imperial
College, who were thereby supporting,
and profiting from, the portrayal of
women as sexual organs to be used and
abused by men and animals.
The campaign against 'Hon Porn Night'
led to a response, in its defence, that
expressed the inhumanity of the event.
The RSMU resorted to lies and personal
insults, creating an atmosphere in which
women were afraid to stand-up at a UGM
to speak. Rather than debating the nature
of the image of women, and men, that
the Union was promoting, they hid
behind a smokescreen of freedom. Those
very people who censored through fear
claimed to be fighters against censorship.
They had lost the debate from the start.
They avoided the issues, used standing
orders to try to prevent debate, lied
about the nature of the event, even relied
upon bribes of free beer to get supporters
to the UGMs. The saddest part of the
fight was the lack of understanding about
the nature of Union representationand
democracy. In a country that relies upon
democracy as the form of government it
is rather ironic that its science and
engineering students failed to grasp that
the nature of events organised in its
name, in its building, with its equipment
and money, represent attitudes and
images that it finds acceptable. Our
Union, assisting in the staging of this
event, supported the use of these images
as a form of entertainment. Images that
insulted sexuality, that corrupted the
humanity of women into play objects for
men.
• • " ' • - t i l l *
During the fight I was called a
hypocrite, amongst many other names, as
I admitted to enjoying pornography. I
have been called this again, by those who
know about my undergraduate
campaigning activities, due to my
organisation of 'To Boldly Go'. By
showing 'Dick' and 'Visions of Ecstasy' I
have been accused of showing
pornography. The irony is that the events
were an intellectual examination of the
films, one of which, 'Dick'; actually
challenges, using wonderful humour, the
macho image of the male supported by
'Hon Porn Night'. 'Dick' is a celebration
of our humanity.
I wonder if our college has changed
over the passed four years to join in that
celebration and reject its inhuman past.
Or has it just grown silent simply due to
the pressure of work and exams, the
silence being mistaken for tolerance, the
lack of caring being mistaken for mutual
respect, the lack of debate for the
avoidance of trivial politics. Censorship is
a vital issue here, so vital because most
of us will have exercised the personal
censorship of not giving a damn. The
most effective form of censorship is not
burning books or banning events, it is to
promote lack of interest.
To Boldly Go'
Fair
M o n 13th to 17th May
J.C.R.
• E x h i b i t i o n on censorship
•Information about organisations
• B o o k s and banned videos for
sale
• ' D i c k Pack' £4 off
• F r e e info pack pack including
magazines and 40p discount
voucher for Spitting Image
T.H. H U X L E Y SOCIETY

