MLSIC
Johnathan
Richman
—Subterania 30.4.91
With a yee-hah, my stetson and a
pineapple in my hand (true! true!) 1
stumbled around Ladbroke Grove trying
to find Subterania and see a very cool
dude indeed. First came the support band
The Rockin' Birds who played a mighty
fine smokin' set of country-rock sounding
like the very cool Flying Burrito Brothers
and the even cooler Big Star. Gradually
started off just like something from Big
Star's first album before the slide guitar
picked up and plugged in. They even had
the audacity to sing a song called
Jonathan in homage to the man himself.
Heh-heh, pretty cool. And they covered
Alex Chilton's Free Again. Even cooler.
But where is Jonathan? 1 am returning
from the very nice but very
claustrophobic bar when he takes the
stage so it takes a little time to get back
down the front. At last I get there and
see Jonathan with just an amp and his
Fender strapped around his torso. At
once he is laughing, telling jokes to the
audience and trying to get the bass
feedback out of his amp. Last year
Jonathan Richman went country and this
time he seems to have gone 50s rock 'n'
roll doing his duck-walk and wiggling his
hips. This man is a major dude. When
fronting The Modern Lovers in the mid-
late 70s he gave us the third best album
ever made. Ever-ever.
When he plays a bum note he does it
again making out it's part of the song. He
sings a song in Italian after treating us to
some of his newly learnt language. He
sings 'What once was a puppy is now a
dog, and what was once a piglet is now a
hog'. Beat that Jim fuckwitt Kerr. He
sings a song about when he was seven
walking home and hearing the ice-cream
truck and how he dug its little musical
bell and how he'd buy an ice and just
hang out at the van until it drove away.
Hell, he didn't take an intermission and
he played for nearly two hours. And then
he took his guitar, his jacket and his bag
and left. The lights came on and I legged
it to the gents. Too much tea y'see.
Dominic.
Paul Leary
Enya meets REM with a bit of Kramer
and the swans added for spice. This is a
classic. If the dog on the front doesn't
grab you then the connections with the
buttholes should (Paul Leary is a butthole
surfer the sticker on the front of the
album proudly announces).
The dreamy spliff sounding vocals and
the distinct lack of chords are great but
the best thing is the musical variation-
each song is different.
With Buttholes dancy beats and semi-
falsetto vocals prove a selling point when
the repetitive guitar sound (which is on
the whole acoustic) depresses. But it is
the injection of almost indie pop-hardcore
songs which inject life into the record.
Levity, if it could be described as that,
is added by the deep organ sound and
the butthole orientated guitar wanking.
However this is not just another Butthole
Surfers spinoff. Despite it's undeniable
roots, influences seem to range from post-
punk to fairground ditties with almost
funky variations on a sometimes gothic
theme.
—The History of Dogs LP
All the conventional sounds of hippy
based rock-n-roll waste are incorporated
with a wit of wackyness. Considering the
entire album is the work of one man's,
admittedly fairly warped, brain the end
result is original and very likeable.
Seb.
Theatre of Hate
-Westworld LP
Yo! Yul Bryner is cool. My good friend
Sean was round at my place when 1
decided to review this artefact and
warned me beforehand that 'apart from
the first song, which is half decent, the
album is not good'. Well I've got an open
mind and all that but my friend Sean is
right. The album is not good. This is not
to say it is all total bollocks. No sireee,
one song is even nearly decent. Tucked
away on side two is The New Trails of
Tears which starts with a haunting choir
mixed down low and its Spanish spoken
intro.
Thematically the band must have been
heavily into spaghetti westerns and all
that outlaw stuff, as that twangy guitar so
beloved of those films is found
throughout the album. Kirk Brandon
hadn't yet learnt to sing too well and the
rhythm is suitably sparse throughout with
Kirk's dark and dank vocals creating a
mood of tension and depression.
We decided Freaks to be the worst
song on the album with semi-free-form-
sax and some very, very dodgy prog-rock
bits which sounded like something from
Yes in 1975. Now, the KLF have style.
Did you see them on Top of the Pops last
week? That's showbiz. Anywaysayowsa
back to this record. Only buy it if you're
a Spanish post-punk proto-miserablist
cowboy or y'dig brooding in your room
listening to The Smiths and want
something a bit harder but still retaining
the dark words. (Note: Errr, the songs
aren't as good though and y'still gotta be
a cowboy, right!). The record had the last
laugh making me spill my tea as I tried to
take the darned thing off my record
player. Whilst mopping up some tea
which had landed on my Yul Bryner
video collection I noticed a Yul film
called Westworld. How bizzare!
Dominic.
10

