Letters
AUT Response
To Richard Spencer and Charles Brereton. '
1 have been urged bv members of mv Association
to respond publicly to vour letter concerning the
A U T action o n examinations, which was
addressed to members of academic staff in the
College.
The decision to withdraw from the examination
process is a serious action which has never been
taken before in the history of the A U T . It is seen
bv members as a last desperate measure to
persuade the C V C P to listen to our demands. You
may be interested to hear that the action has
finally had the effect of extracting an offer. O n
26 January the C V C P made an offer of 3% to A U T
from April 1989 and a lump sum equal to 3% from
January to March 1989. The C V C P themselves
admit that the figure is derisory and the A U T are
awaiting a more sensible offer. A s soon as the
C V C P can make an acceptable proposal the action
will be called off and the examination process will
be recovered very quicklv.
M y colleagues are therefore questioning whv
vou are not writing to our Rector over this matter.
The Rector is a member of the C V C P and it is to
him that representations should be made, to urge
the C V C P to make an acceptable offer to the A U T
as soon as possible. We were recently told by the
Rector that the projected accumulated deficit for
Imperial College, indicated in the financial plan,
now amounted to about a million pounds. In the
circumstances the Rector could not support an
increase above the 3% offered. However, it has
just been announced that the College in fact
expects to be i n credit this year. Perhaps the
Rector will now be able to support those of his
colleagues on the C V C P who wish to make an
acceptable offer to the A U T .
Y o u r s sincerely,
Susan Parry, President ICAUT.
Not boring
Dear Bill,
I am writing concerning your policy, or lack of
it, o n clubs and societies.
In last week's copy of FELIX we read how you
'would like to see Clubs and Sports pages
expanded' which you then claim you cannot do
unless the clubs 'are willing to submit articles'.
In the same issue we see that you chose to head
a letter as 'Boring' which was complaining about
your treatment of ' O n e shitty clubs article'
(apparently your words).
Going back a few more issues we read that you
cannot guarantee to print club articles and that
you are offering to break the nose of anyone who
insists that you print their letters etc (FELIX 829).
I have tried to submit articles on I C C A G on a
number of occasions and have got steadily more
and more fed u p with being told that either I
would have to collate, when collation takes place
at the same time as the I C C A G Soup Run, or that
you might print it if there was space (which
invariably seems to happen).
Having chosen to spend most of this vear
treating I C C A G , and presumably other clubs, in
this high-handed manner it is too much to expect
us to come running back with articles just because
you have decided that FELIX is looking a bit thin
and needs some more pages whilst your regular
contributors get their revision done.
You have to make up your mind on clubs*
articles and not expect clubs to put a lot of effort
and time into a submission only to be told that
it won't be printed or that they must spend more
time and effort collating for vou. So do vou want
them or not?
Yours sincerely.
Alistair Goodall,
ICCAG Publicity Officer.
PS. Wouldn't it be awfully funny if you came up
with some witty heading to this letter such as
Boring, or even better don't print it due to lack
of space.
I'm sorry to hear that you have had problems
with your articles, why don't you call in and
discuss it with me—I don't bite. Most of the the
problems have arisen because we have been
lacking a Clubs editor for the past term.
Just for the record. Yes, we do ask people to
collate particularly if they submit late articles.
I do not consider this unfair because many of
our regular staff stay up until the early hours of
the morning on a regular basis to collate FELIX.
This is in addition to the work they put into
writing and laying out FELIX during the week,
consderably more effort, I might add than it
takes to write a clubs article. Do you really think
it unfair that we ask clubs who benefit from
regular articles in FELIX to put something back
into the paper occasionally?
Enraged
D t w Bill,
I would be very interested to find out who the
selfish, thoughtless idiots were who organised
the carnival outside my room in the middle of
my final exams so that I can stand outside their
room playing deafening music and shouting at
the top of my voice at 3am in the middle of their
exams.
Yours,
Enraged Beit Hall Resident.
Priorities
Dear Bill,
The students of the LSE have recently shown
how far ahead of us they really are. By voting
Winston Silcott as their Honorary President last
week they recognised that he is a hero, a victim
of the institutionalised racism of our country.
Why can't ICU be more like LSE and stand up
and fight for once, instead of contemplating its
own navel? I C U should be campaigning on real
student issues such as police brutality and their
oppression of the working classes, instead of
moaning on about so-called priorities such as bar
prices or welfare. A n d what about homophobia?
It may be legal now (homosexuality, not
homophobia that is) but you try telling the police
that. Again where is ICU?
It is up to students to mobilise to bring these
issues into the open, yes even IC students.
Hillsborough again showed the Police in their
true colours, an instrument of oppression. Where
i^ 1CL'?—at home looking after its own.
)'our>.
James Nathan, Mech Eng 1.
Satire lives
Dear Bill.
1 low wonderful it is to see that the art of satire
is not vet dead. That truly inspired piece 'Jesus
Votes Tory' (issue 833) should be regarded as an
all time classic and its author Dylan James (is that
a pseudonym?) placed in the satirists' hall of fame
alongside such people as Swift and Stoppard.
This beautifully crafted piece combined all the
cliches and false truths beloved of those on the
far right with the bland unthinking rhetoric of the
worst of the evangelists and yet was so over the
top that it had to be regarded as a joke. Just think!
If ' M r James' really believed all that he had
written, it would be frightening. Perfect Satire!
Yours faithfully.
lason Lander.
A m
e
r
e facade
Dear Mr Goodwin,
In response to the article 'Jesus Votes Tory' of
28.4.89 issue.
This is a matter which concerns both Christians
and Non-Christians alike and about which we feel
very strongly. The main objection we have to this
article concerns the continual comparison
between the welfare 'state' and charity. D James
obviously fails to understand that we are the
state, and that the welfare state is publicly
funded. Whether or not individuals, over and
above taxes, choose to give money to charity, is
a matter of their o w n personal choice. The
introduction of the welfare state was surely proof
that we cannot rely solely on charity for the
provision of the basic necessities of life.
Can we point out that the early Church 'held
everything in common and all sold their land and
gave the profits to the disciples to use for the good
of the community'. Is this not a contradiction of
provate ownership which is fundamental to the
philosophy of Toryism.
The serf-righteousness expressed by the writer
is offensive not only to us, but also to those who
are dependent on the welfare state for survival,
and who do not wish to be seen merely as the
recipients of charity.
It seems that D James is using Christianity as
a mere facade i n promoting his dangerous
political beliefs, which we sincerely hope are
contrary to those held by most Christians.
Julie Healer, Biology,
Bil Paxton, Biochemistry,
Katherine Jones, Biology.
Page 2 FELIX May 5 1989

