Felix
Editorial
B l a c k m a i l
The nice people from 'Time Out' decided to present FELIX with a bottle
of champagne at the end of last term. The champagne is currently in the
possession of Ruth Benzimra, the ULU President. An irate Ruth rang up
yesterday and threatened to drink the champagne if I did not make the
following correction to the news story entitled 'Angry' which appeared
in last weeks issue.
Ruth would prefer the paragraph which read 'The ULU exec has decided
not to publicise the demonstration' to read 'Members of the ULU exec
decided not to publicise the demonstration.'
She would also like us to point out that she is the ULU President, not
the acting ULU President...Can we have our champagne back now?
C o n g r a t u l a t i o n s
To Ramin Nakisa for completing the Alternative Prospectus. He has done
an excellent job.
Leafing through the offical prospectus it becomes apparent how
important it is to present a students-eye view to prospective
undergraduates. When it comes down to it, the prosectus is little more
than a glossy recruitment brochure complete with colour enhanced
photographs. It glosses over many of the problems which students will
be likely to face at Imperial.
The Alternative Prospectus is not there to dissuade students, but it is
there to let them know exactly what they are letting themselves in for.
Take the accommodation costs for example. The Official Prospectus
lists the current accommodation prices but ignores the fact that
accommodation costs will have increased by £10 a week when the
students actually reach Imperial. This misleading presentation of
information is grossly unfair to prospective students.
In many ways the Alternative Prospectus is not independent enough
from the College. Currently departmental articles are vetted by the Staff
Student Committee. It is reasonable that Departments should check articles
for factual accuracy, but the problem with using the Staff Student
Committee as a forum is that the Departmental Reps are forced to be very
careful what they write. It takes a lot of guts to submit an article which
is anything other than one hundred percent praiseworthy when you know
that the academics you are presenting the article to will also decide what
level of degree you will be given.
Weather
What nice weather we have been having recently. It's so nice to be able
to sit in the sun and not worry about exams. In fact it's so nice that I think
I'll cut this editorial short and go back to sleep.
T h a n k s to Stef Smith, Ramin Nakisa, Liz Warren, Tony Spencer, Adam
Harrington, Andy Clarke and Sumit, Rose and Dean, Jason Lander, Gary
Hastings and Michael McCarthy, Marge, Penny Gamble, the collators, and
everyone I have forgotten.
D O
V O U
H A V E E X A M S
N E X T W E E K ?
Because of the T R A V E L STRIKE by all forms of
public transport next week the Union will be running
a minibus shuttle service for those STUDENTS W I T H
EXAMS.
If you wish to benefit from this service fill in one of the forms
available from the Union Office. This must be done by 2pm FRIDAY
5th MAY. A timetable of pick-up times and places will then be
published in the Union by 5.30pm that day which will include who
shall be picked up at each point.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE USION-
Serving You Better
S m a l l a d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Keyboard lessons: Rock, blues,
improvisation, MIDI.
Hammersmith/Clapham (24-track
studio with modern keyboard)
first Vi hour free. Isabel 498 0781.
• The Health Centre has decided
to inaugurate a new patient
participation group to meet once
every term. This group will be in
addition to the health service
users advisory committee. Its
purpose will be to enable past,
present and future patients, of the
Health Centre to discuss with
Health Centre staff how services
could be improved. The first
meeting will be at the Health
Centre on Tuesday 18th May,
4.30-5.30pm following the
meeting of the existing users
advisory committee. So that we
can have some idea of numbers
please tell Marion Clarke,
Secretary to the Director, if you
intend to come (int 3088 or 584
6301 or drop a note in). Your
views will be very welcome.
• Dinner Dance. Saturday 6th
May, JCR. Live band, buffet,
dance demonstrations. Tickets £ 5 '
from the Haldane Library. A l l
welcome.
• Vacancies exist for two
assistant subwardens in
Falmough Keogh Hall,
Application forms are available
from the Student
Accommodation Office. The
deadline is May 16th.
• LeaRonal, the world's leading
independent supplier of
proprietory plating processes,
presently wishes to recruit a
student for the summer vacation.
The student, who should have
some knowledge of collodial
chemistry, will work in the
Research and Development
department on a variety of
projects. LeaRonal is situated in
Buxton in the Peak District and is
easily accessible by train, car or
bus. Would anybody interested
in this position please contact Dr
M Goodenough at the following
address: LeaRonal (UK) pic, High
Peak Laboratories, Ashbourne
Road, Buxton, Derbyshire, SK17
9SS (tel: 0298 71122).
L O S T & F O U N D
• Lost—Heavy silver chain
bracelet. Lost at Union Friday
28th April. £10 reward for return.
Contact Honey on ext. 7488.
FOR S A L E & W A N T E D
• Bike wanted: Men's racer, will
consider anything. Phone Rose
on 3515 (FELIX).
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• Hamlet Gardens. Twin rooms
available for Summer Term at £38
pp,p/w, situated in luxury flats
for six persons. A l l interested
parties contact Matthew
Bridgwater (aka Baldrick) on 748
0577 (evenings) for more details
and a guided tour.
• Summer—Fulham Broadway
tube, 4 large double rooms with
ensuite bathrooms. Well
equipped kitchen—washer-drying
and dish-washer. £100 per week,
per room inclusive. Phone 348
2389.
• Shared room available for
female IC student in Evelyn
Gardens for the summer term.
£25 per week. Contact Anne 351
4582.
P E R S O N A L
• Suze—Why is your head in the
toilet each morning.
• Dylan—I'm surprised to hear
about my son's views. G o d .
• Dylan—Would you like a job?
D Jenkins.
• Dylan—Are you trying to put
me out of a job? S Milligan.
• Dylan—Why don't you write a
book about it? E Currie.
• Dylan—Loved the Story—
Sunday Sport.
• Dylan—If only I'd known about
you when I was looking for a
deputy—J Anderton.
• Joan Collins is a virgin—D
James.
• Dylan—A minority of one is a
madman—G Orwell.
• Dylan—I know nobody else is
going to believe we're in contact:
Never mind J.C.
• Dylan—Ever thought of
running for R C S U President? N
Johansen-Allison.
• Has Jo gone down on the
beach yet?
• N e w RIP(?)Soc babyfood. Free
metal detector with every ten
labels.
•The DramSoc stagecrew
sincerely hope that the three girls
we rescued from the crush are
alright now, with love and
kisses, Nick, Pete and Dave xxx.
• D i d you know Ian Batt is a
Kylie fan? Je ne sais pas
pourquoi.
FOOD
IS JOLLY
SCRUMMY!
Why not try some?
The Caterpillar Cafe
(Beit Quad)
Open 8am to 8pm weekdays
May 5 1989 FELIX Page 3

