Letters
Dynamic
Democracy
Dear Bill, ' '.
I have just attended the Student Loans meeting
in the Great Hall and feel that some complaint
must be made about the disgraceful manner in
which it was conducted.
The Chairman, Neil McClusky, w h o is neither
the U G M Chairman nor the Union Council
Chairman, was extremely biased in the comments
that he made both to the Rt H o n Peter Brooke
and to the floor. Whether his views are pro- or
anti-loans, the meeting should have been chaired
in an impartial manner to give a fair chance to
all points of view. The Chairman also called Peter
Brooke, M r Easterbrooke and Peter on several
occasions, talked to Nigel Baker and rudely
interrupted with so-called points of information
while Peter Brooke was i n the middle of
answering questions.
Surely it w o u l d not have been too much to
expect some courtesy to be shown to a guest by
two official representatives of Imperial College,
especially when one was the President himself.
Nicky Fox, Physics 2.
Dog's Life
Dear Bill,
I feel I must reply to the criticisms of my work
in the article ' V i e w from a Bridge'. The tone of
the article is such that it appears that I have done
very little work for the Union at all. I would like
to point out that when last week's article was
published, I told Syd that I would expect to be
slagged off if there were things which people had
continually pressed me on, but which I hadn't
done. I would not accept criticisms where no one
had ever asked me w h y I hadn't done something.
Syd is billed as 'diplomat extraordinaire' but
surely it w o u l d have been diplomatic and more
constructive if he had discussed his criticisms
with all of us before rushing into print.
I accept the criticism that I have done very little
in the field of Academic Affairs, but I wonder if
I could have done anything at all given my job
description i n August. Perhaps M r Harbour-
Bridge could explain w h y he initiated the changes
in the sabbatical job descriptions without
consulting any of his Officers. For example, the
Deputy President was made Chairman of the
Transport Committee. This apparently innocuous
title does not take into account the fact that vans
.have to be serviced, insured, allocated to Clubs
and Societies, bills paid, accounts balanced etc—
all of which takes a lot of time. The other
sabbaticals will tell you that the system nearly
broke d o w n during the summer. (It is rather
difficult to take a van for servicing when you have
contractors etc to deal w i t h d u r i n g a
refurbishment of the premises.) This issue has
been resolved now, but I should say that I see
the job that I'm doing now to be considerably
different to what Syd proposed last year. I regret
to say this, but I have become more of a n
administrator rather than a representative.
Although I tend to work most weekends, the
amount of administrative work that needs to be
done has crowded out most of the time that I
would like to have devoted to Academic Affairs
representation, for example.
I am sorry that Syd has Seen fit to ridicule me
in front of the students, the Union Officers, and
the College personnel with Whom I have regular
dealings. A s well as this I am facing a revolt from
the Major Sub-committees (which control and
oversee the activities of the Union Clubs) over
fundamental changes i n the way that their
finances are dealt with. It brings into question
whether you can afford to have someone who
apparently has no credibility left, to have overall
financial responsibility for an Union with a £2
million annual turnover a n d to make a n d
implement important decisions on behalf of the
students and negotiate with College on that basis.
As a result I have serious doubts as to whether
I should continue as Deputy President when it
seems that i n doing so I will only cause more
harm than good.
I believe that I have worked hard for the
students of College this year. I may not always
have done my best and admit that I have made
many mistakes in the course of my work. I would
be interested to hear what the IC U G M has to
say on this matter. If the students of this College
don't think that I'm doing my job properly, then
they will surely get rid of me.
Yours sincerely,
Charles Brereton, ICU Deputy President.
Counter-Waffle
Dear Bill,
I did not intend to write in response to letters,
but considering the personal nature of M r
Greenwood's letter, I felt compelled to defend
my honour.
I am writing i n my o w n defence; it would be
very easy to get someone else to do it for me, but
this is a tactic used only by Union Officers who
wish not to dirty their image. 'Ignore it, they'll
forget it in two weeks; never write back', are very
wise words from a very wise woman; the Union
Administrator. A s a result of this advice we will
never hear Nigel Baker defend himself, it's too
risky.
M r Greenwood has unfortunately got a number
of matters wrong in his letter, it being rather long
I shall not bore you with an expansion of my
previous article to correct these at the
embarrassment of M r G r e e n w o o d ' s
misunderstandings. It is, I feel, completely
understandable that a n enthusiastic, yet
inexperienced, young Union activist will jump to
the wrong conclusions in his haste to make press.
I only wish Chris had consulted me as to the
content of his letter as well as Nigel, for I may
have managed to save h i m the embarrassment
of being made a stool pigeon, something which
will not aid his campaign for Guilds Vice
President at all. This is indeed sad as I believe
that Chris would do the job concerned well, and
I am dismayed by his rash behaviour.
What does help his cause is that he is, i n fact,
right that a Union Welfare Committee met last
term; I had not noticed its occurance as the
minutes were not distributed by the President at
Council. Unfortunately I fear the meeting was
mearly used to rubberstamp the preorganised
and hence predetermined ideas of the President.
He is also right that a Welfare Officer has been
elected and I must apologise to that person for
not noticing his presence; it is presumably
because the President had decided his job spent
much of his budget before he was elected.
M r Greenwood suggests m y article was a
matter of 'sour grapes'. This is not true; I have
no political ambitions i n this Union as, i n fact,
I cannot possibly take up a post next year. The
series of articles are intended to let me say what
should have been said many times, but which
most people are too scared to utter.
I hope Chris will understand at the end of the
series that the articles had to start with the
sabbaticals as they would have held no credibility
on other matters if I was not willing to criticise
my friends first. A cover u p does no one any r
good.
Chris asks what I d i d for Joe Student last year.
Well I suggest he reads my seven page annual
report, especially the section on the £3 million
from Harlington that my research and negotiation
had all but secured for the Students' Union of
the future. Nigel Baker blew the whole deal
whilst breaking a Council ruling in the process.
I would also like to announce my resignation
from the post of Publications Board Chairman as
I really cannot be bothered with pathetic people
like Nigel Whitfield any more. I am sure the
Committee will survive perfectly well without me
as the Committee itself does very little anyhow.
The paper referred to in Nigel's letter in the last
FELIX had been distributed in draft form at the
Pub Board meeting of December 5. It was
discussed at the next meeting on January 9, which
M r Whitfield did not attend, but sent a report
pointing out his abstention from all votes which
did not involve giving h i m more power. That
meeting, not I, agreed to the President's
suggestion to redistribute the paper and ask for
very rapid comment. The paper did not suggest
anything be done to IC Radio, only that someone
be appointed to look into a series of possibilities
concerning the whole of Pub Board. I therefore
find Nigel Whitfield's uninformed letter to FELIX
insulting, but wish h i m luck for the remainder
of his degree and request he update the Pub
Board minute book with the last one and-a-half
year's minutes as is his duty before the record
of these meetings are lost forever.
Yours Sydney Harbour-Bridge,
Tolerance
Dear Bill,
Reading M r Harbour-Bridge's article i n the last
issue, I suddenly became conscious of the fact
that Welfare money had been used in an irregular
fashion by I C U to organise that ludicrous 'AIDS
Day'!
A n d what was there? Three homosexuals trying
to persuade us of the justness of their views, a
couple of other people, with enormous crosses
hanging around their necks, distrubuting
syringes 'for the safe use of drugs' (obviously had
problems with Bible comprehension) a n d a
'family planning' group: Totally irrelevant! A
shame for Imperial College!
I call all students who subscribe to my point
of view to react;,some people have to be ousted
f r o m somewhere (remember last term's
'questionnaire' ?).
Emmanuel Saridakis, Physics 1.
Page 2 FELIX January 27 1989

