Wet Union
Dear Bill,
How does this sound as a newspaper headline?
'University Union Politburo abolish democratic
representation for students'. The Daily Telegraph
about the antics of some left-wing students'
union? N o , actually it will probably be the
Guardian referring to I C U .
I have been informed that, without consulting
the student body—ICU Council has proposed that
U G M s — t o w h o m it is responsible—should be
abolished. One may use the analogy of abolishing
the House of Lords. A more accurate appraisal
would be the Cabinet abolishing the House of
Commons. Just because ten per cent of our
students cannot attend U G M s under the current
system, Council decided that rather than re-
schedule them they will take the opportunity to
abolish them altogether. W h e n I asked Nigel
Baker what was wrong with rescheduling U G M s
to 7pm o n Fridays, I was told that this woud be
inconvenient for IC students. I make no comment
on that excuse for an excuse. The truth is simple.
Inevitably, since seats on Council are contested
posts, their occupants will be people of a n
ambitious and egotistic nature. H o w frustrating
it must be that there are regular U G M s at which
a mere three students can present motions critical
of them. Wouldn't it be wonderful if U G M s
d i d n ' t take place (fewer embarrassing
revalations!) while increasing the number of
seconders required to 25 should help crash any
remaining dissent. It is n o w easier to form a
society than to criticise Council.
The final stage in the removal of accountability
is, of course, gagging FELIX. Council now want
to make FELIX directly accountable to U G M s .
O h , of course, U G M s are going—FELIX would
be directly accountable to Council. Perhaps we
will see on Friday mornings 'FELIX—the organ of
IC Union'. I think I've made my point. It would
appear that a healthy dose of Glasnost (and not
a little Perestroika (spell?—TS), i.e. restructuring
of the Union) are required.
The motion has to be passed by two U G M s .
No doubt, if the usual poor attendance continues,
it will be passed. Attend a U G M ; they're an
endangered species, and this may be your last
chance to see one.
Simon Bradshaw, SCC Vice Chairman.
Rant with a hole
Deor Bill,
I am writing concerning the 'Students Against
Loans' posters put up by Water Polo Club around
College both before and after the Christmas
break.
I'm no Union hack but I can tell that these
posters break Union rules. Campaigning against
student loans is obviously nothing to do with
water polo, and so the money given to Water Polo
Club b y the U n i o n cannot be spent o n
campaigning against loans.
What makes things worse is that this has been
done with the full knowledge of Ian Morris. I
Letters
the posters that they are breaking Union rules,
but he has also told them that he will take no
action against them because he supports their
campaign.
Now this is hardly professional behaviour from
a man who wants to 'consider how best to project
the Union' and w h o claims to be 'not so
immature as to wreck the Union from within'.
Yours,
Ashley Unitt (Computing 3).
Honour Shock
Dear Bill,
I am writing this letter to bring to light a great
evil that has been committed i n this wonderful
world of ours. I refer ,of course , to the recent
omission i n the N e w Years Honours List.
I was shocked to see that the names of " M a d "
Nige Whitfield and Tom Cunnington were left
off the list. The accomplishments and great herioc
deeds of these two m e n must surely rank
amongst the finest i n the known world. W h o can
forget the incident i n the winter of 88 with the
ferret and the apple on the stick? I have seen
grown men weep at the mere mention of some
of their escapades.
I hope that this letter will be brought to the
attention of the general public and give these men
the recognition they deserve.
Thank Y o u .
Dave Chang
3 r d S t r e e t
cocktail bar
re-opens with a
Party Night
on Monday 30th January 5.30pm till late
itCocktails £2.00 all night
itProfessional barman
itLive music
O p e n i n g H o u r s
Monday-Friday: 5.30-11.00pm
Saturday 7.0041.00pm
Happy hour first three hours of opening, cocktails £2.00 each
Live music on various nights
Mondays Party Night, cocktails £2.00 all night
January 27 1989 FELIX Page 3

