Felix
Editorial
Into the valley of death
Children squabbling and fighting in a primary school
playground would have displayed more maturity than the
Union Officers attending Monday's Council. The meeting
was chaotic beyond belief with shouting, swearing,
amendments to amendments and procedural motions
taking the place of rational debate - indeed of any debate
at all.
And amidst the confusion, this bunch of overgrown
kiddies voted for a half-baked scheme that would abolish
Union General Meetings (UGM's) and turn Council into the
supreme body controlling the Union.
'We're the kings of the castle and you (the students) are
the dirty rascals!' Heaven help us.
On Tuesday next week at 1pm in the JCR, in a move
which reaches new heights in collective absurdity, the
Union Executive will ask the U G M to vote for its own
abolition. They will ask you, the students, to relinquish any
say that you have in the way that the Union is run and to
hand absolute power over to the handful of infant
megalomanics who sit on Council. And absolute power
does corrupt absolutely.
Theirs not to m a k e reply
Although the proposal is the most serious ever to come
before a U G M , the Union have given it very little thought
and even less debate.
Under the proposed regime twenty-five students with no
particular qualifications, a very limited ability for rational
discussion, and their own self interests their main priority,
will be quite free to ignore a mandate from 4000 students.
And if the mandate involves extra work on their behalf then
judging from the behaviour of the Neil McCluskys (Council
Chairman) of this world this is all the more likely.
Theirs not to reason w h y
The executive will argue that unless we abolish UGM's
we will be unable to merge with St Mary's Hospital Medical
School Union. They will say that time-tabling difficulties will
not allow the 2 0 0 or so medics resident at the Medical
School time to attend UGM's at the Imperial site on a lunch
time. This, the argument runs", will make UGM's less
representative.
Given the logic of the executive's argument, their
decision to abolish UGM's and make the Union totally
unrepresentative defies any sort of rationality.
Absurdity
To say that there is no alternative to the abolition of
UGM's is patently absurd. St Mary's holds its UGM's in the
evening and manages to rouse a very full attendence—why
can't IC do the same ? Has anyone considered asking St
Mary's to shuffle parts of their time table? I doubt it. For
an unofficial committee of ten people to presume that only
they know what is best for the Union is extreme arrogance.
It is easy to forget that Imperial will gain very little from
merging with St Mary's Union, whereas St Mary's stand
to gain a great deal of money. If it wasn't for this fact St
Mary's would have have absolutely no interest in merging
at all; like the RSM they are fiercely independent. For the
Union office to sacrifice its accountability to students and
the democracy of the Union for the benefit of a couple of
hundred medical students is the height of stupidity.
At this point, I suppose the executive would retort that
students are not interested in UGM's anyway. Of course
students show no interest when the Union does absolutely
nothing to encourage them to attend or even to inform them
when UGM's are about to take place. A handful of posters
when they can be bothered is not really good enough. A
few years ago, before each UGM, the Hon Sec would
gestetner a complete set of UGM papers which the FELIX
Editor would allow the Union to place in FELIX. Students
knew both the date of the UGM and had a chance to think
about the issues which were due to be raised. This year
there has been one half-hearted attempt at producing an
Exec News; it contained no details of the motions and the
exec couldn't be bothered to collate it into FELIX. No
wonder students do not attend UGM's.
It pains me to have devote so much space in FELIX to
a proposal which is so blatantly ridiculous. I urge you to
attend the UGM on Tuesday and vote against this motion.
There will be petitions circulated at the U G M copies of
which are available for signing now in FELIX and IC Radio.
Do not let the Union become a dictatorship.
The Union does not consist of the 25 people who
regularly attend Council, nor does it consist of the
Sabbaticals or the Union Office. The Union is made up of
4000 students all of whom should have a right to say what
the Union does. Do not sign that right away by being
apathetic and not voicing your views at the UGM.
C o m m e n t page 11 and page 8
Council S k e t c h page 19
T h a n k s to Dave, Sez, Liz, Ramin, Doug, Paul, Steve, Andy, Sumit, Dave,
Julian for his opinion article on page 8, Wendy, Jason, Mike, Andy, Andy,
Rob, Simon, Cosmic for Space Invaders, Phil, Ralph, Neil, Syd, Walter,
Rose, Dean, the reviewers, Steve, Rugby Club, Christian Union and SF
Soc for collating last week, this weeks collators and anyone I have
forgotten (Adam).
I N M K8-3"£.cr F i T o r
|TAK£-M -CO f C ^ P \ M C r
8oT-ri-e coMTenri
To SS~ <\\e TMA£--
i_e.sss.fc,
&3T2- , e- ev- GUN\
ANP ONe 'FR.esH
LiQuiDi'seP BA8y...
O H GOV J -frtA-T I 5
S \ C K I H K V E VOU
S££i-> T H I S '
•TXo? <hO
v x e ?
TXt>P
.'wH£(?.£ ftf<E
voaP.'oH (Jo, I T
C i u S T COULON>"T BE-
Page 4 FELIX January 27 1989

