In the age of privilege, when very few attended
and graduated from university, achieving the
degree of Doctor was a rare feat even amongst
the educated. Doctors were revered in many
of the royal courts of Europe and granted
privileges reserved only to the highest peers of
the realm: in Spain, France, the Holy Roman
Empire and Portugal, doctors were exempt
from uncovering their heads in the presence
of the sovereign, and were allowed to address
Him without previous questioning. Even the
awarding of such PhDs was performed differ-
ently – these were not, for instance, awarded
after a dissertation had been submitted, but
instead granted to honour the academic career
of the holder who, for one reason or another,
had been deemed sufficiently distinguished as
to deserve a doctoral degree. PhDs were thus
intimately linked to academia – to the point
that they were seldom awarded out of it – and
doctors inevitably pursued academic careers
because it was the only way of being awarded
such degrees in the first place.
In the first half of the 19th century German
universities redefined doctoral degrees to their
present form: degrees granted after a period of
thorough research leading to an original scien-
tific contribution. American universities soon
embraced this model and, begrudgingly, Eu-
ropean universities such as Oxford and Cam-
bridge ended up applying it too. However, the
view of PhDs as academic-leading degrees
still holds on in society.
Considering the high specialisation required
of PhD candidates, both at the point of appli-
cation, as well as in what is delivered – the
programme content, this view is hardly sur-
prising.
On average it takes at least 3 intense years to
complete a PhD, and combined with the three
to four years spent obtaining requisite Bach-
elor’s and Master’s degrees, makes doctorates
palatable only for those with a strong bent to-
wards a career in research. While the private
non-academic sector does conduct significant
amounts of research, this often does not in-
clude research deemed as risky, audacious
or too vague, so that even in the USA most
research is publicly funded and, excluding re-
search laboratories, carried out in or around
universities.
And then PhD programmes themselves
are often shaped in such a way that doctoral
students are trained for nothing but research
and academia; skills such as team working,
management, business, accountancy and law
are often completely neglected in the pursuit
of pure knowledge. It is no surprise that after
such an upbringing most PhD candidates show
a preference for academic careers when asked
about their future employment preferences.
Besides, the huge spread of university grad-
uates in the last few decades has led to a steep
increase in the amounts of doctors, drawing
the editors of Nature to declare “PhDs now
grow like mushrooms”. As they pointed out
some months ago, the number of doctorates
earned each year has grown by 40% in the
OECD countries during the last decade, and
with a limited number of academic positions
available, many such PhD graduates will nev-
er get jobs to match their qualifications; supply
has outstripped demand.
This has two main consequences. For one,
it makes the entry to an academic career a
tighter competition. PhD holders are forced
to gain better qualifications and improve their
academic CVs, often by taking successive
poorly paid postdoctoral positions. In many
disciplines, having completed a few years of
postdoc work is already an a priori require-
ment for an academic position, and in some
extreme cases such as life sciences, people
may well need to spend between five and ten
years doing postdoctoral work before even be-
ing able to apply for a tenured position, which
even then, is not guaranteed to be successful.
Recent data published by the Royal Society
shows that of all PhD holders, 47% opt for
what they euphemistically call “early career
research”, i.e. postdocs. Statistics show that
only 3.5% of PhD holders will ever manage
to become permanent research staff – academ-
ics – however, and even fewer (about 0.45%)
will become university professors. With about
17% of PhD holders undertaking non-academ-
ic research careers, the overwhelming major-
ity of PhDs end up in careers outside research.
This majority was recently reviewed in the
New York Times. In an article titled “Is a Mas-
About turns on the road to
academia
Career routes following the completion of a PhD, as published in the 2010 Royal
Society report The Scientific Century: securing our future prosperity
ter’s the new Bachelor’s?” the NYT analysed
the difficulties many Bachelor’s degree hold-
ers face when looking for graduate job posi-
tions owing to the ever increasing number of
better qualified (Master’s, in this case) degree
holders. These Master’s holders, in turn, strug-
gle for job positions that were traditionally
held for them, due to the widespread prolifera-
tion of the even more highly qualified doctors.
Hence, the second consequence: the prolifera-
tion of academic degrees seems to have dilut-
ed the value of each qualification, and is thus
changing the requirements on careers outside
academia too.
While the situation is an unhappy one for
Bachelor’s and Master’s degree holders, PhDs
working outside academia often see them-
selves in positions for which they are overly
qualified and underpaid. As was pointed out in
Nature, PhDs themselves are not linked to sig-
nificant gains in terms of salary – being only
about 1-3.5% higher than that of Master’s
holders – nor in higher job satisfaction. The
biggest beneficiaries of this situation are the
private companies, able to hire more highly
qualified candidates for less.
Over time, voices claiming for another re-
definition of doctoral degrees are becoming
louder. Arguing that the proliferation of PhDs
is leading to the above described dilution of
the degree, it has been proposed that PhDs
should be re-shaped to better match the needs
of the job market, and less so those of aca-
demia. Current EPSRC-sponsored EngD and
Centres for Doctoral Training seem to be lean-
ing in that direction, but question is whether a
mere reform of PhD programs is all PhD de-
grees need in the modern world.
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
10
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
BUSINESS
With Nature citing the number of PhDs as “growing like mushrooms”, is the
doctorate in need of reform?
Letter from the Editors
In 2009 an advisory group chaired by Sir Martin
Taylor FRS and comprising of two Nobel Laureates,
two ex Science Ministers and two leaders in in-
dustry met as an advisory group to detail recom-
mendations for government policy and the future of
science in the UK. Their report – The Scientific Cen-
tury – makes the case for continued investment in
science during an austere age.
Published in the face of impending public spend-
ing cuts, the report warned of the need for urgent
action to maintain the UK’s position of competitive
advantage in the sciences and technology. Their
advice, summarised in six recommendations for
government strategy, made the case for science
and innovation led economic growth and explained
how the fragile infrastructure that links these two
ideas would be undermined by the “false economy”
of cuts to the sector.
As well as the need to encourage industry and
private research institutions through such a fiscal
display of confidence, they also urged strong and
confidence-boosting measures towards individuals.
They recognised a need to encourage established
scientists and early career researchers with fund-
ing incentives and greater numbers of postdoctoral
fellowships, support schemes and improved visa
conditions to enable overseas collaboration, as
they put it, to “prioritise investment in excellent
people.”
The need for investment in people was traced
from primary education right through to postgradu-
ate education, and the current state of PhD train-
ing. A change in the adcademic landscape, where-
by interdepartmental and intervaristy collaboration
are encouraged, would improve the ability to prog-
ress pure science to innovation, but requires re-
searchers with broader expertise than is offered by
current PhD programmes. In order for postgraduate
degrees to remain a bastion of intellectual achieve-
ment, respected both inside and outside careers
in science, their content must change in some way
to reflect both scientific and non-scientific spheres.
As such, the ‘soft skills’ of teamwork, communi-
cation, and negotiation, often seen as peripheral
to the academic agenda, must play and more fun-
damental role if higher education in the UK is to
survive and prosper.
–The Business Editors
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma

