ally harmful to the idea of democracy,
since they tend to create a large group
of frustrated, disinterested non-voters.
On the other hand, the system of cap-
italism is fundamentally based on com-
petition. Thus, it will naturally drive
society towards a state of inequality
rather than equality. The accumulation
of wealth by one individual can only
occur at the cost of other individuals.
Granted, there do exist a few overlaps
between the basic principles of de-
mocracy and capitalism. For example,
capitalism does need a developed ju-
diciary in order to operate. This can
be observed in China, where Western
companies are often struggling since
their intellectual properties are not rig-
orously protected by the state. On the
other hand, it has to be pointed out that
capitalism outdates western democra-
cies, and was working perfectly well in
the old monarchies of pre World War I
Germany and Austro-Hungary.
BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 11
Brand Identity
The Imperial Entrepreneurs explain the impact of branding
Alexandru Podgurschi
Bloomberg BusinessWeek recently
published an article by Larry Popelka
titled “The Key to Success? Your Cor-
porate Mission.” It investigates the
particular case of the Chevrolet Volt
and it is perfectly summed up by one
line: “Most consumers no longer shop
for products. They shop for a compa-
ny.”
What makes people crave that Ralph
Lauren Polo rather than the Tommy
Hilfiger shirt, the new iPad/iPhone over
any Android device, that bottle of Moët
& Chandon rather than Veuve Clicquot
or the Toyota Prius over a Chevrolet
Volt? There are definitely enough ar-
guments to rationalise the desire, but
whether one admits it or not, an estab-
lished brand makes it that much easier
for a company to sell their product.
That is not to say that establishing
a brand in itself is an easy task. There
is a reason why most major compa-
nies have a Marketing department. It
reaches well beyond the (often) cheesy
ads on television and on billboards.
The job these people have at hand is
to create a brand identity, an image the
targeted customer can identify with, an
illusion that their customers are some-
how part of a distinguished community
that purchases those products.
The number of times you see some-
one check their phone because they
have heard someone else’s iPhone
message alert is ever increasing, yet
these iPhone owners still feel special,
like they are somehow different. And
that is precisely what consumer goods
companies try to achieve. So how do
they go about creating that identity?
The simple answer is by making them-
selves stand out from the immense
number of other companies out there.
But that’s a bit general and not all that
useful.
First off, the name is one the most
important aspects of creating a brand.
Joining together the four last names of
the founders might be a good idea for
a law or financial services company,
but unless your last names have a par-
ticularly catchy sound to it, this is to be
avoided. The last thing a start-up needs
is for people to not be able to refer to
it simply because they are unsure about
how to pronounce its name.
Secondly, the logo. The simpler it
is, the better it is. Trouble is that the
shorter and more basic the design brief,
the harder it is to actually design one.
While it can certainly change along the
way, as many companies such as Star-
bucks, Mazda or Apple have (if you
haven’t yet, please do check out Ap-
ple’s original logo), the logo should in-
stantly scream the name of your brand.
A Google search for “logo design”
should offer more than enough options
to suit anyone’s needs for any time and
price range.
As a final piece of advice, the im-
portance of a good website cannot be
underestimated. Anyone can get a de-
cent-looking one up and running with
a basic template. If your Computing
friends at Imperial refuse to help, there
are plenty of people out there willing
to do the job for a relatively small fee.
It is one of the most common, yet easi-
est to avoid, aspects of a business that
can turn people away. A perfunctory
website suggests a shady company, and
we’ve all avoided buying things off
certain websites simply because they
don’t inspire much confidence.
Creating a brand is no easy task. And
it certainly isn’t limited to the few as-
pects outlined above. Some might even
claim maintaining one is even harder.
To the entrepreneurs out there, it is of-
ten one of the most challenging aspects
of starting a business. It is sometimes
said that it is not the idea, but rather
its implementation that makes a busi-
ness, and a good realisation of an idea
will avoid becoming obsolete only if it
is well promoted. It is a combination
of management, marketing, accounting
and innovation that makes a business
thrive; establishing a brand is surely
the aspect that is most easily over-
looked and yet essential for a success-
ful venture.
Two of the most recognisable brands in the world, Coca-Cola and Pepsi-
Cola, have been warring over the soft drinks market for more than three
decades
Democracy and capitalism: an unhappy marriage?
When Lehman Brothers filed for
bankruptcy on 15 September 2008, it
marked the most dramatic collapse of
an U.S. firm in history. In many ways,
the name of the once fourth biggest in-
vestment bank in the United States has
become a synonym for the global finan-
cial meltdown that shook the world in
2008 and whose aftershocks are still
felt today.
While the precise causes of the 2008
crisis are complex, many people, in-
cluding U.S. Treasury Secretary Timo-
thy Geithner, have blamed the continu-
ous deregulation of the financial market
during the Reagan era. Any attempts to
reintroduce effective financial regula-
tions in the aftermath of the crisis have
been very successfully undermined, ei-
ther by political opposition in the U.S.
or by the indecisiveness of member
states of the European Union.
All in all, the political elite of the
western world has shown an alarming
lack of action considering the global
scale of the recent financial disaster.
Proponents of the deregulated market
have been quick to point out that the
free market is the pillar of western de-
mocracy. Since the free market creates
a healthy economy and growth, they
argue, it fundamentally helps creating
a healthy, democratic society, and thus
any financial regulation is potentially
harmful not only to the markets, but
to society as a whole. This point, how-
ever, is based on the misconception
that democracy and free market capi-
talism are pursuing the same goals, or
are even based on the same concepts. It
requires only a short analysis to recog-
nize the flaws in this conception.
Democracy is fundamentally based
on the concept of equality, most nota-
bly the equal weight of votes cast by
each individual member of society, as
well as the concept of equality before
the law. However, in order for each
citizen to access his given right and
duty of political participation, he or she
needs to be in the position to make an
informed choice. From this idea, one
can derive the right to equal access to
information and education for each in-
dividual in a democratic society. Since
people living in extreme poverty can-
not be expected to take an active role in
society in the midst of a daily struggle
for survival, democracies have a duty
to provide a certain level of care to al-
low every individual in need a certain
standard of living. Following the same
line of reasoning, it can be understood
that large social inequalities are actu-
The overlaps between the basic te-
nets of democracy and capitalism are
thus smaller than normally perceived.
In fact, some concepts of capitalism are
in direct conflict with the democratic
ideals of equality. In January 2010 it
was reported that the German Free
Democratic Party (FDP) had received
a donation of 1.1 million Euros from
Baron August von Fink, one of the
richest Germans and owner of a range
of hotels. Two days after getting into
power as the junior partner in a coali-
tion with Angela Merkel’s Christian
Democrats, the FDP pushed for a high-
ly controversial law to cut the VAT on
hotel room bookings. While the FDP
faced a fair amount of criticism from
the general population, their actions
were perfectly legal under German
law. But this idea that the wealthy can
so openly influence politics fundamen-
tally undermines the equality principle
of democracy.
The reluctance of politicians to intro-
duce effective regulations of the finan-
cial market after the 2008 crisis only
continues a basic trend in the western
world, that where necessary, the ide-
als of democracy are bent in favor of
capitalist ideas. The scale of the 2008
events, as well as the aftermath and
the current Eurozone crisis show the
grave consequences of this trend. In
this situation, some members of leftist
parties all over Europe and especially
in Greece have been calling for a re-
turn to socialist principles. These calls
for abandoning capitalism altogether
in order to save democracy are equally
flawed however. The past has shown
that socialist societies are not able to
survive without radically infringing on
the freedoms of individuals. The per-
fect unison of democracy and socialism
only ever existed in Marx’ and Engel’s
minds.
Rather, the west should shift focus
on protecting the values of democracy
as the highest good of society and bend
and restrict the ideals of the free mar-
ket wherever they infringe on those
values. It is obvious that the values of
capitalism and democracy are idealised
concepts and a working marriage of the
two has always been based on tradeoffs.
In pushing for effective regulations of
the financial markets, politicians are
given the opportunity to readjust what
can be perceived as a dangerous imbal-
ance between free marked ideas and
democratic principles that has mani-
fested over the last decades. If such a
readjustment cannot be achieved in the
aftermath of the biggest financial crisis
in decades, it is unlikely it ever will be.
Tim Zuehlsdorff
“The overlaps are
smaller than usually
perceived”

