I
feel like Computer Science stands
out from the other subjects at Im-
perial for a number of reasons, not
all of them related to social ability
or personal hygiene (I thought I’d
open with a lazy joke to lure you in, for-
give me). Like all subjects taught at Im-
perial, the course contains a lot of high-
level, greatly complex areas of study that
are entirely inaccessible to outsiders. Yet
there is a core to the course that is not like
this, a core that is dressed up in the garb
of ‘higher education’but is in fact hugely
useful in everyday life, and surprisingly
accessible to those with no grounding in
computer science at all.
There are a lot of reasons for this, fore-
mostly a simple lack of computer science
education in most countries’ education
syllabi. Those interested in the educa-
tion debate might be familiar with last
year’s review published by the govern-
ment looking into the state of computer
science education, training and support
in the UK. The report read like a lazily-
written homework assignment by some-
one who couldn’t care less about its con-
tent, which it broadly was. They noted
a lack of computer science content, but
gave no solutions.
What is important to realise about this
is that even when the situation changes
in our schools (for it surely must even-
tually) those of you reading this in Fe-
lix as it goes to press can never benefit
from such a change. You are locked out
Time for change
New Year Resolution? Get Coding
of that education forever, but you exist
in a world of increasing technological
complexity, where those with knowledge
of programming, the internet, operating
systems and electronics are increasingly
distancing themselves from those with-
out that knowledge.
This distancing is more subtle in some
places than others. Watch an episode of
24 and the CTU technology ‘experts’
will explain a situation to their superiors
using unnecessary and intentionally con-
fusing terms. They’re met with a stiff re-
buke; ‘spare me the techno-babble’, ‘just
give it to me in English!’, ‘I don’t need
to know specifics!’ This presents a clear
message to the viewer – you don’t under-
stand what they’re doing, you never will,
and you don’t need to.
The hacking stories of last year (web-
sites, rather than phones) have their
perpetrators portrayed as mysterious,
preternaturally intelligent individuals
who exist in a confusing world of so-
phisticated technology and complicated
lists of information. In reality, many of
the attacks carried out last year on high-
profile websites were little more sophis-
ticated than when my mother downloads
iTunes, installs it, and uses it to play
music. Read a BBC news article on the
matter, however, and you enter a cyber-
Tolkien world where hackers wield a
magical power that you don’t, and never
can, understand.
This is wrong. This is not the attitude
B
ack in the dear old early
14th century, “the pox”
was considered a punish-
ment from God. If you
had it, you were evil and
it was a just fate. You had wronged.
You had failed. You deserved to die.
The trouble with this idea was that there
came a time when it struck a lot of peo-
ple that this was not quite true. In the
mid and late 14th century, a lot of peo-
ple died of it. At once. Whole villages
vanished. And this happened across Eu-
rope, though sadly without BBC News
to report it. Either way, the emphasis
shifted a bit from individuals to groups
of people being ‘bad’. The thinking
was that the older generation had got
it a bit wrong, but it is alright, because
we have found out about it now. And,
co-incidentally, all the bad people are
dead so there is nothing more to worry
about. Keep praying for good harvests
and to avoid Armageddon and it will all
be fine.
And all was fine, until the next time.
That came as an influenza outbreak in
the 16th century that killed even Mary I.
Influenza, like other infectious diseases,
was not seen quite as a punishment from
God, at least not by enlightened schol-
ars. Despite that, talk of it was enough
to put the wind up the peasantry, much
as Fox News does today. We probably
get a balanced view from Shakespeare,
who seems to suggest that by this peri-
od it was understood that such an illness
could be spread, and thus could also
be contained. Containment of a sort
was achieved by restricting the move-
ment of people (a plot device in Romeo
and Juliet). Things had moved on a lot
since the God-fearing Christians of pre-
Renaissance England had thought that
prayer and being nice to God would ab-
solve them from death-by-anthrax.
What stepped things on from this
point was the discovery of the cell by
Hooke about fifty years later. A while
after this the bacterium was identified,
and then not long after that the cause of
the likes of scarlet fever, tuberculosis
and so on were begining to be under-
stood. It was infectious disease, and a
lot of them could be knocked out by
taking antibiotics. As a result we now
enjoy a whole host of other ways to die,
many of which were unknown in me-
dieval Britain, chiefly because if you
made it to 30 and had children you were
having enough of a party not to give a
damn one way or the other.
This is not the whole story though.
People in the dark ages were put to
death for things we would term illness-
es, or at least, long-term medical condi-
tions. People who had Tourette’s syn-
drome were considered to be possessed
by demons. People with manic depres-
sion or paranoid schizophrenia were
thought of either as ludicrously spiritual
and were revered, or just mad and were
burned. Sadly, none of these things has
the benefit of being caused by a plenti-
ful life-form that can be observed under
a microscope. It is ‘psychological’, and
unless you know someone who is like
that, it is an alien and often uncomfort-
able world for to encounter. A world as
terrifying as the one where coughs and
sneezes meant you were an emissary of
to technology that should be spread. The
world is becoming increasingly reliant
on software and hardware, and we are
encouraging the population to shy away
from understanding it, rather than em-
bracing it and learning to bend it to their
own ends. The average Imperial stu-
dent – intelligent, motivated and already
working closely within the world of sci-
ence – is perfectly positioned to pick up
and learn how to program, how websites
work, how data is stored, how adverts tar-
get users of certain websites, how bittor-
rent users can be identified and how the
world around them works. Once people
such as yourselves have embraced this, it
will make it easier to pass the knowledge
A representation of how you look to others when you are a knowledgable
computing lecturer
The average
Imperial student
... is perfectly
positioned to pick
up and learn how
to program
”
n how
n how
“
The ave
The ave
Imperia
Imperia
on to others, and turn around the trend of
avoiding technological complexity.
And so to the nub of my article. I’m
not one for resolutions generally, but this
year I implore every one of you to learn
something new about the technology that
you use every day. If you wish to learn
how to program, the website CodeYear
can help you with regular lectures, re-
sources and assistance. Imperial’s Ro-
botics, Gaming, Wikipedia, and other
tech-related societies are welcoming and
well-informed. As any computer scien-
tist can attest, you cannot know enough
about technology. But the more you
know, the better-equipped you’ll be for
the future.
Satan, I have no doubt.
Needless to say, I do think it is ‘Time
for a Change’. Treating illness with sus-
picion and neglect is as bonkers as many
of those who are neglected for that rea-
son. What I am nervous of, however, is
whingeing and moaning as a means to
increasing awareness. Complaining that
change is required puts ‘mental health
issues’in the same bracket as every oth-
er good cause, not least the most nause-
ating of all, the ‘needy’.
So what am I, and my fellow mental-
ists, to do? Well, we need to play a long
game. This is for the same reason that
going to the Middle Ages and telling
people the real reasons why they had
syphilis would not work. People need
to be educated at a pace at which they
can learn. In order for that to work,
all of us need to learn. We need to
learn what causes people to be manic-
depressive, or depressive, or whatever.
That means spending money on science
(obviously), but it also means talking
about it, and it means changing. So, let
us change.
Samuel Furse
Michael Cook
Treating illness
with suspicion
and neglect is ...
bonkers
“
Treating
Treating
with su
with su
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
14
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT

