”
S
omething hit me the other
day. It wasn’t a fist luck-
ily/unfortunately (delete as
appropriate based on your
opinion of me). I’ll explain, I
was reading a newspaper that wasn’t Fe-
lix (treason, I know, I wouldn’t recom-
mend that anyone else EVER does this).
I was just browsing the news section, as
I’m an intellectual/was trying to look in-
tellectual in the hope that a girl in a cof-
fee shop would notice me and be enam-
oured. It didn’t work (damn you revision
beard, you make me look unkempt – in a
bad way, not like a loveable rogue), but
I did manage to see something so obvi-
ous that I was surprised people are not
up in arms about it. The newspaper was
incredibly unsubtle in its bias. It was ob-
vious what it wanted you to take away
from the news story. It was, at times, so
clear what side it was leaning towards,
that it was bordering on being one giant
comment section (being the Comment
Editor, that would be both awesome and
incredibly destructive to my degree).
On reading a news story, I actually did
a double take and assumed I was being
paranoid. That wasn’t possible. I said in
my head, as they’re listening ALL THE
TIME. I was looking too much into
things, and taking some subtle slight
too seriously. Maybe it says something
about me that I’m doing this. Admitted-
ly, that’s entirely possible. Luckily, I’m
not the only one to notice. For example,
I think we all know what the Daily
Mail’s views on life are (oh, and, sorry,
but reading this article gives you cancer
and makes paedophilic immigrants be-
friend your children).
You may say I’m slow on the uptake.
The thing is, I did notice this a long time
Kim Jong-Jesus?
Media bias just flies right by us
ago, thought ‘meh, that’s just the way
they roll’and ignored it. Ever since then,
I think I’ve trained my brain to just use
vacuum filtration on the article and only
collect the precipitate (or facts – jokes
like that prove that I bear the scars of
recent revision).
If anything, obvious bias is possibly
less sinister than subtle undercurrents of
persuasion. Reading a story and think-
ing ‘yeah that’s their spin on it’ means
that they’ve been a bit too heavy-hand-
ed. What they aim to do is implant an
idea in your brain (Inception style, mi-
nus Leo) that you just naturally con-
clude from reading the article.
This leads me on to the future of the
print media. I think that if there were to
be a newspaper, physical and electronic,
that provided factual, well-researched,
un-biased news it would be something I
would like to read. The idea that I could
read a news story and then draw my own
conclusions without someone trying to
force their opinion on me is quite nice.
They would, of course, have a Comment
section where the newspaper could give
its comment and opinion on the news.
However, this would be a separate sec-
tion; the news would be left to the News
section and the comment to the Com-
ment. That’s sort of how it was meant to
be. You may say that this, rather handily,
gets rid of the hypocrisy of writing in
a Comment section about how news-
papers should have less comment. My
point is really boiling down to this: in a
serious paper’s News section, I expect
factual reporting that tells you what’s
happening. In the Comment section, I
can find analysis and someone’s opin-
ion on what’s going on. When reading a
person’s opinion, it’s them saying what
E
veryone ought to love,
serve, even worship me
above all else.” What a
sinister, egotistic and de-
ranged thing to say! If you
met someone who really believed that
about themselves, you would probably
not want to meet them a second time.
But isn’t that what Christians believe
about God? When Jesus was asked
which commandment was most im-
portant, he answered: “You shall love
the Lord your God with all your heart
and with all your soul and with all
your mind and with all your strength.”
Doesn’t that prove the point? Like a
North Korean dictator, God seems to
demand nothing less than wall-to-wall
adoration!
Imagine finally reaching that distant
light at the end of the tunnel – leaving
Imperial – and getting a job offer (an
unlikely scenario, I know). The job de-
scription: with every waking moment
you must pursue with resolute deter-
mination your own happiness. Vast
resources and all the help you could
ask for are at your disposal. You might
start out trying to buy satisfaction: a
suit, a yacht, a peerage – whatever does
it for you. If those didn’t hit the spot,
you might turn to art, music and natu-
ral beauty for happiness. Failing that,
perhaps relationships: marriage and
children, or maybe just a goldfish for
the time being. The latter two catego-
ries will probably offer you a degree
of satisfaction; appreciating that which
is beautiful, and loving someone who
loves you in return could be the most
profound joys of all. That is what wor-
ship is. Forget prostration and mindless
chanting; Christian worship is all about
appreciating God’s beauty and delight-
ing in our relationship with him. And
since he outshines anything you’ll see
in the world, and his love is more loyal
than that of a mother, worship turns out
to be a hedonist’s best course of action!
So when God commands us to worship
and love him, he is actually telling us
to pursue our best chance of happiness.
That’s a command I’m happy to obey.
But that might still leave us with
the impression that God is needy, like
a ronery North Korean premier, or an
Imperial student desperate for love and
affection. Was God lonely before he
made people that he could relate to?
Did he create humans so that he could
they think, so I’m ready for someone to
give a bit of a one-sided view to support
their argument. They are, after all, trying
to get me to agree with what they think.
That’s the point, and the beauty, of the
Comment section: everyone can voice
their view on a particular topic of their
choosing. They can use facts to support
their argument, but they are not just aim-
ing to deliver you facts. They are, like
a woman/man talking to a bisexual man
that she/he fancies, trying to swing you
one way rather than the other.
Another way that I think print media
could survive, if it wishes to, is by be-
coming the gold standard. You can get
your news from all the 24 hour news
channels and websites nowadays. The
trouble is, often a breaking story will
dominate. There are many consequenc-
es of this. Firstly, you end up getting a
saturation of reporting and speculation.
Just remember the tragedy in Norway
where it was suggested, incorrectly, that
it was an Islamic terrorist attack. Sec-
ondly, it means other news stories are
swept down the agenda and basically
forgotten about. What I’m suggesting is
that a newspaper, not having to rush to
immediately push out some news, could
have enough time to investigate things
a bit more. A day isn’t too long, but it
could help them fact-check.
Of course, this is the real world. It
is impossible for someone to be com-
pletely unbiased. Why? Because of who
writes the news. Humans. We are all
human, not automatons. We will all, in-
variably, without even realising it, write
something a bit biased when reporting
facts. It’s impossible not to. Whether it’s
consciously making it out as if an ex-
periment has gone well when it hasn’t,
be fulfilled in some way? The Christian
answer is that even before time existed,
God was already enjoying perfect re-
lationships in a community of three.
In God there are three ‘people’: Fa-
ther, Son and Spirit, having their own
thoughts, actions and personalities. Not
three gods, but one god in three per-
sons. So unlike a singular god, the god
of the Bible created not so that he could
be loved, but to share the love he al-
ready had. We may flatter ourselves by
suggesting that God needs us, but ulti-
mately we need him. The best attempts
of the human race to find satisfaction
apart from God have left even the most
accomplished men in history insecure,
unfulfilled and facing death with uncer-
tainty. So the better question isn’t “Is
God needy?” but “Who needs God?”
... this is the
real world. It
is impossible
for someone to
be completely
unbiased... we
are all human, not
automatons.
or subconsciously wording something
in a particular way, it’s unavoidable. I
think that if a newspaper, or any news
outlet, said, okay, we are not machines,
so let’s put some safeguards in to ensure
we are as fair as possible. Don’t ask me
what these would be. I guess having a
lot of people separately read it and flag
anything they think is too biased. Even
then it’s possible they would only tell
people about stuff they don’t agree with.
So I accept that you can’t eliminate bias
completely, but you can keep it to a
minimum.
I’ll end this by explaining why I say
it flies right by us. Obviously, it was
the catchiest title I could think of. Also,
even if it doesn’t fly by us, we are so re-
signed to it that we ignore it and so how
prevalent and influential it is whizzes
past us; we forget that it could be af-
fecting others. Then again, I guess I am
pretty biased.
Zooey Deschanel? Relevant as
she’s standing in front of the
famously unbiased Fox’s logo
... this i
... this
real wo
real wo
Tim Arbabzadah
“
John Raftery
COMMENT
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 15
... pursue ... happiness,
that’s a command I’m
happy to obey
“
... pursue
... pursue
that’s a c
that’s a c

