It is odd to think that around the time of my
birth, some 20 years ago, Jefferson Hack and
John ‘Rankin’ Waddell were on the brink of
producing the first issue of what was to be-
come one of my favourite magazines during
my late teens and beyond. Granted, Dazed
& Confused started as a rather low-key black
and white fold out poster, but it almost inevi-
tably gained momentum and acclaim, with
Rankin’s prolific photography and Hack’s
keen eye for talent, making it one of the
leading creative publications in the world. It
is not least because of this that as I crossed
London to view a showcase of the Dazed
story, my expectations were set exceedingly
high.
The exhibition itself is housed in a set of
the more modest rooms of Somerset House,
making the pieces lining the walls all the
more compelling to the eye as they track the
course of the magazine’s history. Unsur-
prisingly, the works were not just confined
to the walls, with twisted rectangular beams
stretching out from the centre of the rooms,
the sides of each layered with reels of edito-
rial frames, a quirky layout befitting what is
a rather unconventional publication.
A theme represented heavily were the
iconic portraits, celebrity and otherwise, that
have set Dazed apart from most other fash-
ion magazines, not least through Hack’s in-
credible eye for rising talent and alternative
beauty. The corridor connecting the various
spaces payed homage to all of Dazed’s front
covers, allowing visitors to take a ‘literal’
walk down memory lane.
Here many of today’s household names
first gained real exposure in the UK, gracing
the front cover in the early stages of their
career with the faces of Björk, Pharrel Wil-
liams and Eminem all lined up next to each
other as well as Dazed favourite Kate Moss,
whose affinity for the magazine stretches far
enough for her to regularly strip down in
various semi-nude editorials.
Additional shots by heavyweights such
as Terry Richardson and Rankin himself
showed an even more daring side to ‘simple’
portraits with depictions of a ghostly Iggy
Pop and a grossly make up smeared Beth
Ditto (fully clothed I assure you), both un-
der the serene gaze of an overblown close
up of the late Yves Saint Laurent, once again
highlighting the different art forms Dazed
has covered from issue to issue and the vast
range of creative geniuses that have contrib-
uted to it.
Selecting the pieces which best reflect the
last 20 years of Dazed is no mean feat, and it
is with delight that I can say Emma Reeves
and Jefferson Hack, curators of the exhibi-
tion, have risen to the task magnificently.
The collection stays true to the magazine’s
core ideals and does not simply stop at the
obviously beautiful, displaying many pieces
that can make for some very uncomfortable
viewing. Shots from Nick Knight’s famous
‘One-in-Ten’ series, featuring women who
have undergone mastectomies are on display
as well an entire room filled with screens,
upon which images of disabled individuals
are projected, clad in attire commissioned
especially by Vivienne Westwood and the
late Alexander McQueen, a celebration of
the alternative beauty found so often within
Dazed & Confused
at Somerset House
Dazed? Confused? Our caption writers are
Dazed.
With the abundance of material available
for viewing in each space, it’s not hard to
find inspiration regardless of background or
taste, highlighting the accessibility Dazed
has built upon over the years. Above all, the
exhibition reflects the mixed nature of what
Dazed has represented over the last two de-
cades. Old and new readers can appreciate
that it cannot simply be labelled a fashion,
music or photography magazine. Dazed is
one of the few ‘all-rounder’ cultural peri-
odicals that manages to capture beauty and
talent from the unconventional, quirky and
often tragic parts of life but retains its acces-
sibility by not dismissing any artist or cause
as too mainstream or insignificant.
Whether you’ve been a lifelong fan of the
magazine, want to experience snapshots of
cultural zeitgeists of days gone by or sim-
ply want to catch a glimpse of Kate Moss’s
nipples, 20 years of Dazed & Confused will
certainly not disappoint.
20 years of Dazed & Confused: Making
it up as we go along at Somerset House
until January 29. Admission free.
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
16
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
Looking back on twenty years at the forefront of fashion
Deepka Rana
“The collection stays
true to the magazine’s
core ideals”
Kate Moss, yes. Nipples, no
The Poet’s Column
Prophecy
by Pavitar Devgon
Night will end at dawn’s creation
Dark will flee from light’s oration
None will rest til seeketh peace
The battles won when falls the beast
Day will die when dusk is calling
The winners lose, the killers mourning
Endlessly the cycle rides
Fruit turns poison, true love lies
The sun is born under hidden ceiling
He grows to kill, enraged, unfeeling
The moon, she helps the all those who need
Whether ours or theirs, both cured indeed
The compass can give us direction
But only based on introspection
The eye of heaven sees the sight
And knows the way to end our plight
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new poets. If
you want to see your work appearing here, do get
in touch. Additionally, those interested in joining
Poetry Society, contact Osas, at oo2409@imperial.
ac.uk.
Fluent on Paper‘s open mic
poetry night is back this Sunday.
Come on down to The BuildersArms
in South Ken from 19:00, with or
with out some of your own material.
Flowing drinks, top poems and good
times guaranteed (or at least two of
the three).

