ARTS
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 17
In the tweet of the moment
Pirates of Carthage looks at social media’s pivotal role in bringing down Ben Ali
Will Prince
Beyond being an interminable stream
of the thoughts of Lethal Bizzle, Twit-
ter for this reviewer had always been
just another tool for procrastination.
In 2006, many of the angel investors
running their rule over the nascent
microblogging site figured the same.
To have said to them then that tweets
of 140 characters would one day be
enough to catalyse the downfall of
governments, they would have dis-
missed you as mad. How wrong they
all were.
Pirates of Carthage follows the
month or so centred around Christmas
2010 that saw the demise of the Ben
Ali regime in Tunisia. It takes a unique
approach to the story telling – we see
the events unfold through the tweets
of a select few commentators, both in
Tunisia and abroad, deftly woven with
pertinent footage from across the web
and extracts from classical literature.
Using multiple projectors and a cast
of four to recite the tweets, Pirates of
Carthage fittingly bombards the audi-
ence with information, ‘fusing’ as its
writer, Dan Kelly, explains, ‘spoken
word, video montage and Tunisian
Hip-Hop’.
The result is a highly informative,
if impassive, piece of theatre that ex-
plores the increasingly significant im-
pact of virtual social media on the real
world. Drawing references from pop
culture as well as nineteenth century
literature, Kelly encourages his audi-
ence to look beyond their normally
mundane use of the Internet and see its
role in writing the history of our age:
as on one screen a cursor idly clicks its
way through iPlayer, on another, the
Jasmin Revolution gains momentum
on Twitter.
At times the format is quite repeti-
tive – knowing how the story ends
certainly had it benefits as the last few
minutes began to grind – but no criti-
cisms can be made of its ingenuity. I
commend the production’s efforts to
let facts drive the narrative but I was
struck by how sparingly the cast was
used – they were more storytellers
than actors – and I found myself at
times hungry for a little more human-
ity and, dare I say it, emotion in the
characters behind the tweets.
As contemporary theatre goes, Pi-
rates of Carthage couldn’t have em-
braced social media much better. I
can’t say I’ve seen anything else that
effectively tells its narrative from the
perspective of the Internet, and I very
much doubt this will be the last. And
at least until then, as I despair over
yet another tweet about how amazing
Sherlock is, I can know that some-
where else on the Twittersphere some-
one is using their 140 characters for a
nobler cause. Ahem, Life Sciences.
Pirates of Carthage is showing at
The Nellie Dean 23-24 January,
tickets £5.
North Africa’s Got Talent had whittled thousands of hopefuls down to its final four
Join Felix.
At the very least, you’ll get a place to kip at lunchtime
Kadhim Shubber

