MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
18
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
Alan was telling me about your gig at Arch-
angel next Saturday the 21st. Do you have
any other gigs lined up?
Jamie: We’ve got a lot of gigs lined up actu-
ally. There’s this, then 333 on Old Street and
Roadtrip Bar. We’re playing a couple festivals
too. One’s a beer festival. Hopefully we’ll get
free beer but I don’t know...
You’d hope so.
Alan: We played at the last Silfest recently.
That was really good.
Jamie: Ah yeah, I missed that one.
What happened?
Jamie: Well... I burned down my dad’s shed
in the garden. The whole thing just went up
in flames. I ended up in the hospital with a
collapsed lung.
Alan: Hey Jamie, didn’t your dad direct some
episodes of Doctor Who?
Jamie: Well his dad sells drugs and Moroc-
can women!
xxx: No he doesn’t!
Jamie: Well, what does he do then?
xxx: I don’t know...
Eventually, the conversation wandered to-
wards Bhutanese economics, Thomas the
Tank Engine and onion ciabatta.
(Un)fortunately my recorder ran out of
steam and failed to capture those words,
like bad tumbleweed.
Perhaps for the best.
grandma’s birthday...
Jamie: You should have told her to come.
Yeah, it would’ve been a ball. Playing Rage
and Nirvana covers...
Alan: I remember playing Nirvana when I
was like 13, playing in front of assembly.
Jamie: Is that on YouTube? There’s a video
of you on YouTube...
Alan: Naked.
Jamie: ...playing in front of....
Alan: No, not that one.
Jamie: There’s that as well. I’m talking about
the one where you’re playing a drum battle in
front of assembly. And there’s the other one
where you’re playing a really beat up drum
set and all the comments are like “aw man,
you’re drumset’s shiiiit”, “this is absolute
bollocks” and all that – and then there’s one
dude, Mr. Nice Guy, “hey guys, you should
stop! This guy’s really good. I wish I had a
drum kit.”
Alan: 50,000 views it had! It’s just a shitty
drum kit! And just a really simple thing, just
really fast.
Jamie: It blew me away. That’s why you’re
in the band.
So you met through YouTube? A modern ro-
mance...
Alan: haha I sent my video through the Jazz
& Rock mailing list for an audition...
Jamie: You were late for the audition.
He’s the drummer.
Jafar: I wasn’t there. My house got burgled
that day...
So you guys just had rehearsal. How did it
go?
Sonam: It was good. As usual. Working on
new songs.
How do your songs come about?
Jamie: Different guys will write different
kinds of songs and then we try to bring it
together and kind of bring it all together to
make a common sound.
So you prefer to write songs first and then
play.
Jamie: Yeah, but we always start rehearsals
with a jam.
Jafar: Yeah, sometimes something will come
out of just jamming and we’ll hold on to that.
It’s always good to know you can just impro-
vise if you ever play out all your songs in a
set. I think we know each other well enough
that we could just jam a bit after the set.
Have you been going after a special sound?
Alan: If it sounds cool... it works. [Stroking
exam beard]
Jamie: Alan is classically trained!
Alan: I’m the most classically trained mem-
ber of the band. I even studied how to play
notes on drums.
What?
Alan: No seriously.
Jamie: Jafar plays the harmonica
Oh that’s cool. Harmonica sounds good.
Gotta buy them all - that’s the problem.
Jamie: Yeah, hardly anyone plays them in
bands. Sometimes some one plays the har-
monica but you hardly hear them on albums.
Hey Jafar, remember that guy in that band
who bought a harmonica after seeing you play
it at one of our gigs?
Jafar: Who...? Oh right, that guy... yeah...
Who?
Jamie: We don’t want to say any names.
Jafar: Yeah, no [mumble].
How did you guys meet actually?
Jamie: It was beautiful. Jafar and me met out
of fate... I saw him play one day and I thought
“what beautiful music”.
Jafar: I was fronting my own open mic night
at uni, which was happening every week.
Jamie: So that was that and then we got a
bassist and a lot of drummers.
How many drummers?
Jamie: 4...5...6...? I don’t know.
Drummers...
Jafar: So even though we had songs we
didn’t play live for months and months be-
cause every time the drummer would flake
before a gig.
A drummer flaked on me once because of his
Howlin’ Circus
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto shares liquid bread while
chatting house fires and the blues ahead of THROB
Gothic architecture makes a singular appearance in the Wild West
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Ernest Gonzales
Natural Traits
Friends of Friends
2012
The scientifically-dubious ‘most depressing day of
the year’ has past us by without running aground,
and unless you’re Maggie Dallman, you’ll probably
make it to the end of the month without being
publicly humiliated. Let’s shake off these January
blues and start living again. Ernest Gonzales, let
the beats roll.
There’s a lot to be happy about. The days are
growing longer, scary American internet legislation
appears to have stopped struggling under the wa-
ter and died, and “that terrible thing I did on New
Year’s Eve” (don’t ask...) is receding comfortably
into the distance; the perfect moment for an album
like Natural Traits to come along. It has an infec-
tious optimism that makes you feel like going out
clubbing, but just for the dancing (people do that,
right?)
Although they say never judge a book by its cover,
and in truth I distrust people who say that, I first
listened to this album because the album art is
gorgeous. But it instantly wrapped its arms around
me and had me hooked. ‘The Prudence of Evolu-
tion’, the opening track, builds layer upon layer
carefully and methodically, like a bricklayer build-
ing an impressive wall of sound before your very
ears. He makes full use of the broad spectrum of
electronica and shows just as much skill brewing
soulful deep house as he does mixing fuzzy bass
with 8-bit beats.
However, the album has its faults. At times you
begin to wonder whether his influences, uncon-
scious or otherwise, have crept a bit too obviously
to the front row. “Ah, he’s channelling Four Tet
there; this track is a bit M83; hold up, has he just
ripped off the guitar from Blue Sky Black Death?”
But it would be a disservice to make too much
of this. For a start, I’m probably wrong, but more
importantly, Ernest Gonzales hits that perfect spot
between ambient and body-moving beats in the
same way that Gold Panda does. This is an emi-
nently addictive and satisfying album.
That said, we’re not talking Lucky Shiner-esque
brilliance here; I’m yet to find an album that tops
Gold Panda’s debut. Speaking of which, if you’ve
found one, drop me a line. (Or ‘holla’, as I believe
some people say...)
If you want to ‘holla’ at me (yo), you can find me piss-
ing into the wind on Twitter @kadhimshubber. Alter-
natively, tweet @ernestgonzales and ask him if he’d
like to make a donation to the ‘That Thing Kadhim
broke on New Year’s Eve’ fund.

