Lolcat of teh week
Another week sees the return of another
section, long thought lost to the world
(read: Beit Quad). A big welcome back
to Books, ready to take you on a literary
journey like no other.
If you feel that Felix isn’t providing material
worthy of a section yet to exist, get in
contact and you could be up and editing
before you know it.
Just think of the sheer power that could be
at your fingertips, I know I do. Daily.
Page 32
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Matt Allinson Carol Ann Cheah Alexander Karapetian Philip Kent Maciej Matuszewski
Madeleine Staple Aemun Reza Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Business Editors Beñat Gurrutxaga Lerma Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah
Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Stephen Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James
Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Home & Garden Editors Tim Arbabzadah
Charles Betts Navid Nabijou Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Philip Kent Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor
Miles Robertson Copy Editors Veli Akiner Sameera Auckburally Carol Ann Cheah Jonathan Peek Deepka Rana Annina Sartor
CLASSIFIEDS
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibil-
ity for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
What’s on
Get the IC Radio App!
Want to hear the sound of Imperial
College on the go? Does the
prospect of non-stop music and
shows excite you? Download the
FREE (as in beer and ad-free) IC
Radio iPhone app today. Search
it in the App Store or use the link
below:
http://itun.es/iLv6Fz
Android and Windows Phone
users, watch this space - we care
about you too!
Brought to you by Alexander
Karapetian and Sorin Cioban
PICK OF THE WEEK
Put those journals away folks,
Books is back
This entirely speaks for itself
Part time ‘nanny’, required in W14
Nanny required in West Kensington to look af-
ter our 16 month old son, 5 mornings a week,
8.00am – midday, though there is some flexibil-
ity in the hours. The position would suit a stu-
dent as we only need help during term times.
We are looking for someone with the right
attitude, (ie loving, baby centred, curious, flexi-
ble) rather than lots of previous experience and
qualifications. Cooking and some light house-
work to do with our son (not general cleaning
etc) will also be required.
You will need an excellent standard of spoken
English and will need to provide two character
references (from the UK). You will also need to
apply for an enhanced CRB check if offered the
position.
We are in the process of establishing a home
care company, so there might be training and
other care work available in future.
£8.50 per hour
Please phone 07769 908 468 if you meet all
of the above requirements.
IC Radio App
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
2
If you’d like to have a classified advert in Felix,
just email felix@imperial.ac.uk.

