Camping in an Old Street basement
As acronyms go, the one belonging to the
City Arts & Music Project is a bit awkward.
The same goes for the name of its nightclub:
CAMP Basement.
A small club just off Old Street roundabout
and unlike a lot of its neighbouring estab-
lishments, there’s nothing pretentious about
this place; in fact the whole feel of it can be
summed up within the first two metres of
walking off the pavement. The guy taking
ticket money sits, with his tiny cash box, at
a table which is uncomfortably reminiscent of
those wobbly pieces of shit we all know and
love from the Great Hall at exam time.
Downstairs, an abundance of MDF separates
the cupboard-like toilets and fire escape from
the rest of the room. The tiled floor reminds one
of a 19th century hospital. But people who go
to clubs for nice decor are dickheads anyway.
We walked in at about midnight to the mono-
phonic fuzz of Mr Oizo’s ‘Flat Beat’, and the
warm-up DJ continued by putting a firm pair
of V’s up at DJ etiquette, playing some of the
biggest tunes in UK bass music from the past
couple of years. Then, as Lokiboi stepped up at
about half past, releases from the likes of Julio
Bashmore, Mosca, Burial and Joy O flowed
You wouldn’t get this at most club nights,
but here were a bunch of young lads play-
ing their favourite music and just having fun,
something which too often gets forgotten in
the competition for unreleased tracks and ku-
dos for finding music no one’s heard before.
ASBO, the MC for the night, kept things
lively and although I often have reservations
about MCs, ASBO played it well, serving as a
connection between the DJ and the dance floor
without basking in self-importance.
However, the young group’s inexperience at
hosting nights showed when RAMP label own-
er Tom Kerridge stepped up with a crate full
of vinyl, something the laptop DJs hadn’t seen
coming and for some reason caused significant
confusion. It took about fifteen minutes before
the correct cables were in the correct places and
Tom could get things moving again.
He restarted the proceedings with the in-
credible ‘54-46 That’s My Number’ by Toots
and the Maytals, the opening track to the film
This is England; the irony of which I’m sure
wasn’t missed by the tall, well-built skin-head.
Eventually, he setlled down into more tradi-
tional booming house music.
Unfortunately for me, the set lacked variety
and I eventually grew bored. Sometime after
3, Arkist took Tom Kerridge’s place behind
the decks, rolling out the disco house which
enlivened the dance floor once again until we
decided the lure of fried chicken was too much
and headed for the exit.
CAMP Basement is a strange place, I’ve
never seen it particularly busy; almost to the
point of being too empty, yet I find myself
really growing to like it. It’s not trying to be
anything other than a place for like-minded
heads to go and enjoy some of the best mu-
sic coming out of the UK underground dance
music scene, and for that you’ve really got to
respect it.
Walk Off the Earth
Theo Pavlakou on the
enlightening covers of the
lastest viral outfit
W
e’ve all heard Walk Off the Earth’s
cover of ‘Somebody That I Used to
Know’ by Gotye, and if you haven’t
then you should get on it, because
these guys are actually good. Actually,
they’re better than good. They’re talented. And they use
their talent creatively.
Alot of stuff goes on YouTube that really does suck (search
for any two random words, and you will find a home video
that was not worth the effort of uploading to the web), but
that’s great, because after a long day in uni, toilet television
might just be what we need to totally numb our brain. But
these guys really were worth going viral and I’m happy for
them. I mean, come on, they’re catchy, and not just the Gotye
cover, but all of their covers. (and when I say catchy, I’m not
talking about that frustrating catchy where you end up with
Nicole Scherzinger singing in your head... “Why? WHY?!”)
They put a creative twist on what they cover, from Rihan-
na to Adele, and have really done what a lot of artists try
to do but don’t quite pull off. The thing that they get right
is that they don’t try and copy the song, they add their own
innovative flavour to it, and I don’t mean that they just play
it acoustically either. They change it. They take what people
know and love, and they reform it, and that’s what makes
their music so good.
But lets take a look at where these guys were before they
hit 23,000,000+ (as seen on 16th January). So according to
Wikipedia, which I’ll use as a reference for an article that
you’ll probably read on the tube, the toilet, or not at all; their
first success was when they covered ‘Backin’ Up’ by the
Gregory Brothers, uploaded on the 13th Dec 2010, which
I’m not going to lie, I didn’t know before these guys covered
them (Does that make me uncool? Should I have? I don’t
know). That didn’t hit far higher than 1mil, which I’m as-
suming about half came after their current hit anyway, but
even so they did well. But, these guys started out in 2006!
Where were they for like 5 years? Did Sarah “Sin” Black-
wood (I don’t care how well she sings, that’s kind of lame
you have to admit) have to come into the picture for these
guys to make it as big as they are today? Did five people have
to play the guitar simultaneously for their talent to shine out?
I don’t know, but I’m excited to see what their coming album
will be like, and whether it will live up to the high expecta-
tions that these guys have created for themselves.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Be sure not to miss...
A rare chance to see the Ukranian expatriot and
fastest living pianist in this most intimate of set-
tings. Melnyk developped his own unique play-
ing style, called ‘continuous music,’ based on
fleeting counterpoints which weave a tapestry of
pure sound that suspend the passing of time
like a heart in rapture.
While in London, Melnyk will also be giving per-
sonal piano lessons, open to all interested and
adept. Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Lubomyr Melnyk
Cafe Oto
Friday 27, January
WANTED
Love music?
Enjoy writing?
Too broke to pay for gigs?
Free music as in free beer,
not free press.
Right here.
Get in touch if that
tickles your feather.
Music Editor
Music and dance in the 21st century ...
Redrum in the basement
Simon Hunter
The Horrors still horrify, but not in a good way
The most offensive thing The Horrors have
probably ever done is release Strange House.
The best thing they have ever done would
have to be a toss-up between recognising this
embarrassment and recording Sea within a
Sea. What lies inbetween was the live show
I attended.
To be honest, when you are being supported
by Cerebral Ballzy (who can only be described
in a phrase assembled by a disgruntled friend
during their support slot: “I don’t understand
why I’m not being paid to be here”) you don’t
have much to live up to as long as you don’t
sound like a mass of incomprehensible noise.
It’s not that The Horrors were bad live, in
fact compared to many other bands they were
rather good, but none of the songs enhanced
what is so great about their recorded material
or brought alive the trippy atmosphere they
create so ingeniously.
The band members instead conveyed an air
of bored teenagers belonging to the emo ado-
lescent subculture, who had been dragged out
of bed and forced to play on stage but had no
desire to do so. The light show and atmosphere
echoed the music which was darker and heavier
than on record, and it was a shame that the key-
board couldn’t be heard very well as a lot of the
best parts of each song revolve around it.
The biggest disappointment was during ‘Sea
within a Sea’ in which the intro and outro
seemed to be repeated in an ad hoc manner.
Sure, they are the best parts of the song, but
it felt as though the band didn’t put bother
putting any thought into deciding how many
repeats would have produced the greatest ef-
fect in a live environment. Instead of recreat-
ing that unique Horrors vibe, the song instead
sounded lazy and flat.
I walked away as a slightly disappointed fan,
but relieved that at least I didn’t have to endure
anything from Strange House.
The Horrors
Salle du Kao, Lyon
30th November 2011
Lily Le
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
20
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith

