MUSIC
Wolf Tracks
I am aware that most of you this week have been
force-fed a mindless barrage of exam-shaped shit-
sandwiches and so I have taken it upon myself to
brighten your mood. I am doing this by the (frankly
quite old) news that Refused have confirmed rec-
onciliation after far too many years apart. Although
perhaps more at home in the hardcore box, I feel
that Refused must be introduced to anyone inter-
ested in post-hardcore, if only for their pure badas-
sery.
Hailing from Sweden, the band is consistently
noted amongst the most important bands in the
history of alternative music. Their relatively short
lifetime of seven years (1991- 1998) saw them
amass a huge following of devoted fans, and for
good reason. Poured into their sound is an incred-
ible rawness which will resonate with any punk
or hardcore lover. Their body of work composes
a Hardcore Gospel with each section proving to
be an improvement on the last. The final piece of
this collection is the album The Shape of Punk to
Come. Not only is this album unmissable, but it’s
title has more prophetic worth than even the most
dearly held scripture for it truly has morphed the
shape of modern punk and hardcore music.
Their Viking ancestry becomes visible through
the savageness of their live shows. They didn’t do
any raping or anything though – just thought I’d
clear that up. I am NOT accusing the members of
Refused of being perpetrators of ultimate Viking
rape. Or pillaging for that matter. Although life on
the road is supposedly tough, so maybe some mi-
nor pillaging did occur. I mean we’ve all had a little
pillage at some point haven’t we? No? Just me?
Anyway, back to the live shows. Somehow the
music gets even better live and the energy of the
band is incredible. The band admit that their final
tour was “an awful experience” but after witness-
ing footage of their last ever show, this feeling is
completely hidden and even when they felt this
low, the projection of their music is amazing to
behold.
Announcing their return will have made any Re-
fused fan’s decade and hopefully a couple more of
you will have been converted now as well. Remem-
ber to check out the Recommendation and come
back next week!
Writer’s Recommendation
Who’s who?
Ran: I’m Ran, lead singer and I sometimes
play acoustic guitar on some of the songs.
Louie: I’m the drummer.
Luke: I’m Luke, I play guitar.
Henry: Henry and I play the bass.
So I heard you guys all met in halls?
Luke: Yeah. We were all in Wilson last year.
Me and Louis lived next door to each other
and Ran lived sort of two doors down. We just
sent an email around the hall and Henry said
he played bass. Thankfully in Wilson there’s a
practice room and it had a drum kit and stuff.
It started out as just playing a bit and messing
around in there.
I remember late night jams in first year... in
Orient, just going into the kitchen. The guy
next door was never around.
Luke: Yeah, good times.
Ran: Before Henry came in, after our first
bassist had left, we used to just hum the break-
down to this one song.
Luke: We’d all just be like “Bum. Bum. Ba-
dumbum!”
Ran: Haha yeah doing the bass bit... it’s kind
of sad. Then one day Henry came in and just
absolutely ripped the bass apart!
Louis: It was just this quiet chap, who just
comes in and...
Ran: Yeah, that was awesome.
How long have you guys been together then?
Ran: We’re all second year now so...
Henry: About a year.
Luke: We’ve only started gigging this year,
cause last year we were just writing stuff.
Last year was more just for fun, wasn’t it? I
mean it still is, but like – it was more like just
go down, have a practice, write some songs.
And then at the end of last year we recorded a
couple of songs... and it was just this year that
we started sending it out.
Was it for a demo or an EP?
Luke: We recorded four songs and a cover.
‘Crossroads’ by Cream.
Ran: And ‘Brimful of Asha’.
Luke: Oh yeah, the Fatboy Slim version.
Louis: I think we recorded some of it in your
room...
To get gigs or just to pass around friends?
Luke: Both really, ‘cause all the promoters
we came across asked for something. All we
had were rough recordings.
Louis: We had miked up a practice room but
it didn’t sound that great.
I used to record stuff on cassette, just ‘cause
it’s the easiest way. Just press record and it’s
done. You don’t have to worry about any-
thing.
Ran: It was handy though because you can
listen back to it...
him to come down and record it. We’ve got a
few gigs now from the Uni Music League...
Yeah, I remember some lady was handing out
flyers for that during Fresher’s Fair... what’s
that about?
Luke: It’s basically like a contest for artists
and bands in London universities. I think there
are about 40-odd bands. First round gigs are
in the university and one band represents each
one. In the second round, you play a gig at
ULU, the University of London Union. We’re
playing there on the 17th of February.
That’s a nice venue.
Luke: Yeah, it’s really cool. There are 4
rounds, so just the semi-finals and the finals
left after that.
So what do you do? Fight each other with
guitars? Who has the sharpest guitar?
Ran: haha yeah it could turn into that.
Luke: The winner gets an EP recorded by
Charlie Hugall, who’s done Florence & the
Machine and Kaiser Chiefs. But we’ve al-
ready met a promoter there who’s got us a gig
at 93 Feet East and a couple at Proud Cam-
den. We’ve just signed a contract so if we win
they’re like, “we want to manage you”.
Just don’t sign anything in blood.
“...Chicken burger!”
Luke: Sorry I’m really hungry.
You can hear Wolf Tracks’s recordings on their
SoundCloud page, soundcloud.com/wolftracks
Catch them at the ULU for the 2nd round of the
Uni Music League on February 17th
So who came up with the band name?
Ran: We were originally called Romans
which has more meaning just because our
drinking room in Wilson was called Rome.
And our house that we live in is called Rome
2... but it turns out there are already about 5
bands called the Romans, of varying success.
Like someone in the 80s or the 70s...
Luke: It’s not very smart as well cause when
you Google Romans you’ll get something
about the Roman Empire.
Ran: So there’s a bike shop called Wolf
Tracks near where I live in Scotland and I
thought “that’s cool”.
Louis: Bit random.
So being Scottish I guess you appreciate the
cold.
Ran: This winter was insane.
Have you ever heard of arctic foxes?
Ran: I think I’ve heard the name...
They’re about the size of a housecat.
Ran: Oh I thought you meant a band!
No, no, not the Arctic Monkeys!
I read somewhere that they can withstand
something like -70ºC. Some American sci-
entists had to ‘borrow’ some and put them
in a freezer cause they couldn’t figure it out.
They didn’t even shiver.
Luke: You can’t even imagine something like
that...
I think your brain would freeze.
So I heard some live songs on your Sound-
Cloud...
Louis: Yeah, my brother studied broadcasting
at uni so he’s into film and all that. So we got
FELIX Friday 20 January 2012 21
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 2: Refused
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto speaks to the animals ahead
of their appearance at next Saturday’s Felix Music Night
Wolves are only ever this friendly on National Geographic
Check out the song ‘New Noise.’
It’s super awesome.

