Borgen: not exactly Sherlock...
This week on Twitter
Some top tweets about Sherlock
@Sherlockology
Astonishingly high AI of 91 for
#Sherlock - The Reichenbach
Fall. Bonkers frankly, you just
don’t see those kind of num-
bers often!
F
irst of all, it’s worth saying that I en-
joyed Sherlock and, overall, thought it
was a good watch. In fact, I think that
the first series was excellent, except
for one major problem which I’ll get
to later. However, in the second series, there are
some things that bugged me about it. I thought I’d
focus on those as you’re also getting another view
focussing on the best bits (we spoil you).
Jostling for position at the top of my list of com-
plaints is the start of the second series. Seriously,
it looked as if the writers wrote the cliffhanger for
the first series finale, then just said “how will he
get out of this using his cunning, fuck it we’ll de-
cide later”. Sherlock escapes by Moriarty basical-
ly just going: “meh, fuck it, I’m off now. It’s stuffy
and smells of chlorine in here”. Then it ‘all tied
in’at the end of the episode. It was lazy, and even
with suspended disbelief set to maximum; it was
as weak as a drop of Robinson’s in the Pacific.
Now on to another main problem: the charac-
ters. Sherlock, himself, was not all too bad. He
was similar enough to be recognisable as the
character. At times, he was a bit of moody prick,
when in the books he is blunt but charming. With
women, he is a gentleman, but just shows no sex-
ual interest in them. The show does pretty much
capture the essence of him well, and who doesn’t
love Benny C.
The major problem, mentioned above, was Jim
Moriarty. He was terrible, I’m sorry, but he was
that’s a fact. Well, obviously it’s not a fact as it’s
my opinion, but shhhh. Moriarty in absolutely no
way resembled the figure of Professor Moriarty
in the novels, except for being Sherlock’s enemy
and the bad guy. In the books, he is an elderly,
softly spoken man, who is well respected by soci-
ety and who couldn’t have a bad word said about
in the press, as people would think it was libel.
You could say that, as it’s a show, it can take ar-
The Hound of the Baskervilles could have been
so good. Why did they come up will all the
bullshit stuff? How could you not reread
it and decide that it’s actually not an
improvement on the original.
In summary, Sherlock is good
and an enjoyable watch. The
first series was excellent,
the second not as good but
still fun and worth check-
ing out; I just like to moan,
and besides, it’s my personal
opinion. In fact, that’s the
wonderful thing about all art
forms. They are all personal
to you, in this case more so
than many others. My ver-
sion of Sherlock Holmes
is a certain way, and my
image of him in my head
is Jeremy Brett (from
the old BBC drama-
tization). If Sherlock
is your introduction
to the sleuth, you
may find the books
weird and feel like
they are wrong, as
things aren’t how
you picture them.
So it’s all about
point of view,
and how much
spare time
you manage
to make for
yourself to
write an
a r t i c l e
like this.
An epic Sherlock special...
@ItsJimMoriarty
#WhenLifeGivesYouLemons,
you won’t be able to learn
about lemons on Wikipedia
anymore. #WikipediaBlackout
#Sherlock
@digitalspy
Benedict Cumberbatch
voted greatest ever on-screen
#Sherlock Holmes
I’m afraid that I missed out on the phenomenon
that was The Killing so I was eager to watch the
BBC’s newest Danish import Borgen. Produced
by the same broadcaster as The Killing, Borgen
is a political drama about Birgitte Nyborg whose
small Moderate party’s massive election gains,
following damaging revelations about her rivals,
has made her Denmark’s first female Prime Min-
ister.
As could be expected the show has two strands
– the political drama and the personal lives of
Birgitte and those around her. The political ele-
ment is certainly entertaining but also completely
unrealistic and over the top. Every major political
development seems to happen during live televi-
sion interviews and debates – in the very first epi-
sode Birgitte immediately cuts the Moderate’s ties
former allies Labour after an interviewer suggests
that the latter has changed their policies. Admit-
tedly the show recognises that this wasn’t exactly
the cleverest thing for her to do – we get to see a
tistic licence. I just think they took too much. The
core of the character, and his personality, was so
fundamentally changed that they basically shared
a name and that’s all. In the show, he was a cut and
paste of The Master from Doctor Who. He wasn’t
scary and sinister at all. He was way too openly
crazy for you to find him intimidating, basically
like an angry chav. The shouting down the phone
of skinning people sounded like a bad impression
ofAri Gold from Entourage.
So we move on down my hit list of whinging,
which, I can assure you, has left the Felix office
a cold, dark place as nobody agrees with me (I
have been ostracised). The next target is Irene
Adler. I won’t get into a feminism debate here.
I have noticed that Steven Moffat is not good at
writing strong, sexy women. To be fair, I can’t
either, and that’s probably because neither of us
are strong, sexy women. They usually end up
turning out cringey and sounding like Jay from
the Inbetweeners (“what me? Yeah I fuck people
ALL THE TIME”). Another example is River
Song from Doctor Who. In fact, that whole epi-
sode was a bit dumb really. Why fundamentally
change the plot so much when the original plot
was so good, and easily modernisable. Plus, while
I’m at it, why did her phone suddenly have text to
unlock it when she showed it to Sherlock, when
before it was a password and why, if they were so
anxious to get rid of the photos, did they need the
passcode? Why not just blow the phone up/melt
it down? Also, why change Irene Adler from ‘the
women who beat him’, to ‘the woman who, with
a lot of help, sort of won, but actually in the end
didn’t’. The run time of that episode didn’t really
help it out: it felt a big dragged out at times.
What is the point in having a great set of char-
acters and stories to use if you’re just going to
end up throwing half of them away in a mon-
tage, and the other half alter beyond recognition.
rather amusing shot of her exasperated spin doc-
tor standing behind the cameras – but something
like this happens almost every episode. Not that
this does the Moderates any harm – despite the
election results they are still not the largest party
but Birigitte’s political manoeuvring gets her the
top job.
This doesn’t get any better once Birigitte does
get into power. While she often has to use clever
political tricks to get her way there is no sense
of any deeper exploration of the nature of power
or of politics. Almost all of the Birigitte’s prob-
lems have clear, black and white solutions. This
reached its ridiculous height in the latest episode
broadcast here in the UK, ‘100 Days’, in which
she has to decide whether to grant yet more au-
tonomy to Greendland – despite its corrupt gov-
ernment, failing schools system and alarming sui-
cide rate. It doesn’t take her long to decide that the
national pride coming from more autonomy will
somehow help the Greendlanders solve all their
problems.
The personal elements are handled somewhat
Maciej Matuszewski
Butchers in Northern England named this tasty
sausage after everyone’s favourite posh bloke
Benedict Cumberland
@BBCRadio4
#Sherlock’s Benedict Cum-
berbatch stars in Tom and Viv,
our drama about TS Eliot’s
marriage to Viv Haigh-Wood
bbc.in/wt5yFn
TELEVISION
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
22
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
Tim Arbabzadah goes all Sherlock Holmes on the scriptwriting
b e t t e r.
There is no melodrama for i t s
own sake and every character is well developed
and acts like a real person. Birgitte’s family in
particular is a joy to watch – they are clearly un-
der the strain of the difficult and unexpected situ-
ation but remain supportive.There are no massive
contrived arguments that are conveniently solved
by the end of the episode – just a very relatable
and sympathetic family trying to get on with their
daily lives.
The show is certainly a mixed bag. It’s very
engaging though unfortunately I’m hard pressed
to say it’s anything special. The characters may
be well rounded and likeable but there just isn’t
any depth to the plot.This is nothing more than an
enjoyable, middle of the road drama.

