SHERLOCK SPECIAL
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 23
...in memory of the nation’s favourite detective
S
o the second series of the
BBC’s brilliant Sherlock has
come to an end. The first se-
ries showed that it is possible
to make a fresh, modern televi-
sion adaptation while remaining impressive-
ly faithful to the hundred year old source ma-
terial. The second showed that the creative
team has lost none of their spark in the
intervening time.
The first episode ‘A Scandal
in Belgravia’, (in my opinion
the best of the three making
up this year’s showing) got
things off to a great start. It
struck the perfect mix of
references to classic Sir Ar-
thur Conan Doyle stories,
sure to raise a smile with
avid Holmes fans, and an
exciting new conflict with
Irene Adler. Like in the
Guy Ritchie Holmes film
her role has been far ex-
panded from her one ap-
pearance in Doyle’s work
but, unlike in the films,
here this works. Perhaps
it is that the chemistry be-
tween the actors playing
Adler and Holmes works
better in the TV show, at
first conveying antagonism
before moving on to, for lack
of a better phrase, professional
respect and, finally, the barest hint
of something more.
Certainly the episode’s pacing
was far better than that of the films.
Though some forty minutes shorter than either
of the movies the lack of the distraction of ever
present, over-the-top action scenes allowed far
more plot and character development to be fitted
in. Not that this is all reserved for Holmes and
Adler – one of the greatest strengths of ‘Sher-
lock’ is the growing friendship between Holmes
and Watson, which has such dramatic payoff in
the last few scenes of the final episode.
I am, however, getting ahead of myself. ‘The
Hounds of Baskerville’, the second episode,
was probably the weakest of the trio. There was
nothing technically wrong with it and it was
perfectly enjoyable, it’s just that while the other
episodes feature Holmes pitting his wits against
an intellect his equal, this, in the end, is just a
rather simple mystery. There are a few scenes
dealing with Holmes feeling fear for one of the
first times in his life as a result of being exposed
to military hallucinogens but this ends up going
nowhere. In short – a forgettable interlude that
came between two episodes that build well upon
each other.
The show’s finale, ‘The Reichenbach Fall’, is
difficult to analyse. While in many ways a great
episode it was also immensely disappointing. To
explain why, I’m afraid that I’ll have to move
into spoiler territory. The episode deals with
Moriarty, the consulting criminal introduced at
the end of the first series and person revealed
to be responsible for many of the events of ‘A
Scandal in Belgravia’, framing Holmes for caus-
ing all the crimes that he solves to make him-
self look good. Moriarty even pretends to be an
impoverished actor Holmes hired just so that he
could have a nemesis. This is done so well that
even I began to believe him.
Unfortunately this leads to a rather significant
plot hole – Holmes’ hugely influential brother
Mycroft, of whom Holmes even says that “oc-
casionally he is the British government”. He
knows very well that Moriarty is not just an
actor and he could have easily used his con-
nections to show that the evidence against his
brother was faked. Holmes’ pride explains why
he never asks Mycroft for help but Mycroft him-
self is shown to care deeply for his brother and
to want to help – but he never does, even when
the situation gets desperate. He could have even
probably had Moriarty assassinated – after all, it
is shown that he had no qualms against holding
him prisoner illegally and torturing him before
the events of the series.
I am quite vocal in my dislike of plot holes
but, while it does come close and is still excep-
tionally annoying, I’m going have to say that it
doesn’t ruin the episode for me. The reason is
that, however stupid the means by which they
get there, Holmes’and Moriarty’s final stand-off
is genuinely dramatic. You really sense that Mo-
riarty is Holmes’ equal and criminal counterpart
– Moriarty’s cry of “You’re me. You’re me” near
the end is genuinely chilling – and the tension
builds up until the final climax when … well
you might guess from the episode title.
In short, while not perfect, this show was
truly an engaging watch. The stories were, for
the most part, incredibly engaging and the act-
ing was marvellous. If you haven’t seen it yet
I strongly advise you to catch it while it’s still
on iPlayer.
Final episode has more holes than dutch cheese, says Maciej Matuszewski
BBC
Is Benedict gonna Cumber-back
for another series?
YES. Producers Steven Moffat and Mark
Gatiss both announced on Twitter that a third
series was commissioned at the same time
as the second. Unfortunately they are also
responsible for Doctor Who, which ironically
consumes a lot of their time; so the next series
will air during 2013 at the earliest.
“To explain why, I’m
afraid I’ll have to move
into spoiler territory”

