FILM
2012 Golden Globe Awards
The long-awaited awards season celebrating
2011’s best kicked off on Sunday with the Golden
Globes, held in the Beverly Hilton Hotel, California.
With Ricky Gervais hosting the show for the third
time in a row, no-one was spared from his sharp
tongue insulting Hollywood’s top stars. Johnny
Depp once again had to endure the mention of
his terrible The Tourist, whereas Jodie Foster’s
The Beaver, starring Mel Gibson about a man who
finds a cure to his depression by a talking puppet
drew some laughter at how the film made next to
nothing at the box office.
Those not present at the ceremony were not
exempt from Gervais’ opening monologue, with
the British comedian comparing socialite Kim
Kardashian and Kate Middleton to the Golden
Globes and the Oscars respectively. “The Golden
Globes,” he said, “are just like the Oscars without
all that esteem. The Golden Globes are to the Os-
cars what Kim Kardashian is to Kate Middleton: a
bit louder, bit trashier, bit drunker, and more easily
bought. Allegedly. Nothing’s been proved.” He also
picked on NBC, the American television network
airing the Golden Globes as being the “fourth big-
gest network.” A highly unflattering remark, since
there are only five basic competitive primetime
channels in the United States (ABC, CBS, FOX and
CW being the other four).
When it came to the winners, there were hard-
ly any surprises in store. Christopher Plummer
(Beginners) and Octavia Spencer (The Help) took
home the gold for their supporting gigs, Madon-
na was awarded Best Original Song for her effort
‘Masterpiece’ in her new film W.E. with Hollywood
veterans Martin Scorsese (Hugo) and Woody Al-
len (Midnight in Paris) each winning an award for
Best Director and Best Screenplay respectively.
Although Steven Spielberg’s much-lauded War
Horse left empty-handed, his another hit, The Ad-
ventures of Tintin: The Secret of the Unicorn man-
aged to win Best Animated Film.
The Best Foreign Language Film honour went to
A Separation an outstanding Iranian film which had
already been awarded the top prize last February
at the Berlin Film Festival.
Jean Dujardin (The Artist) and Michelle Williams
(My Week with Marilyn) were deservedly awarded
for their efforts in the comedy category of the
Golden Globes, with The Artist, a silent, black-and-
white film, ultimately taking home the Best Motion
Picture – Comedy award.
Meryl Streep further cemented her reputation
by winning her eigth Golden Globe for her portrayal
of Margaret Thatcher in The Iron Lady in the cat-
egory Best Performance by an Actress in a Mo-
tion Picture – Drama, with the ever-so handsome
(something Gervais even acknowledged) and still
unmarried George Clooney being honoured for his
performance in Alexander Payne’s The Descen-
dants. Director Payne’s latest film about a grieving
father in Hawaii who finds out about his comatose
wife’s infidelity also took home the top prize, Best
Motion Picture – Drama.
This is a true masterpiece. It’s certainly one of
the most emotional films of recent times, with
the last fifty minutes or so being a veritable
rollercoaster of ups and downs. This is Spiel-
berg at his absolute finest – so tearjerkingly
perfect that I am quite sure there were no dry
eyes in the cinema when I left. It was a difficult
act to follow – Michael Morpurgo’s fiercely
popular original novel was extremely highly
rated, not to mention the theatrical produc-
tion which is consistently awarded five stars
and has been called “the play of the decade”.
However, Spielberg’s portrayal of a wonderful
story has set an extremely high standard for
the rest of the films in 2012, as well as earning
itself Golden Globe nominations for ‘Best Pic-
ture: Drama’ and ‘Best Original Score’.
Shot mostly in Devon, the film tells the tale
of Joey, a thoroughbred horse, owned by a
poor tenant farmer (Mullan) and loved by the
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
26
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
horse. Considering no animals were harmed
in the making, the terror of the horses is very
realistically portrayed, and kudos must go to
the film’s chief horse trainer Bobby Lovgren
for that, as well as for managing a whopping
280 horses in a single scene.
Although the film is nearly two and a half
hours long, you are never bored. The viewer is
held gripped in Joey’s tale as he roves through
the war – the beauty and tragedy enhanced
by John Williams’ impressive score and Ja-
nusz Kaminski’s stirring cinematography. My
only criticism is a slightly slow start for the
first twenty minutes or so, but otherwise War
Horse just cannot be faulted, and is as good
a film as we’ve ever seen from the director –
who is hailing this as one of his finest works.
The film is genuinely emotional, unflinch-
ingly real, epic, and imaginative – an absolute
must-see.
Spielberg’s equine First World War
Lucy Wiles
Director Steven Spielberg
Screenwriters Lee Hall, Richard Curtis,
Michael Morpurgo (play)
Cast Jeremy Irvine, Emily Watson, Tom
Hiddleston, David Thewlis, Peter Mullan
War Horse
Don’t worry, I’ll make sure you don’t
end up like that one in The Godfather
Her Madgesty takes on the royal family
John Park
Director Madonna
Screenwriters Madonna, Alek Keshishian
Cast Abbie Cornish, Andrea Riseborough,
James D’Arcy, Oscar Isaac
W.E. role well, as she acts as the only person holding
the film together.
In a recent interview, Madonna was oddly proud
that she gave many invasive, nostalgic shots with
her narrower lenses (16mm and Super 8mm cam-
eras). Yes, the grainy close-ups that 8mm cameras
generate do give off a warm, sentimental ambi-
ance, but only when used appropriately. What
Madonna cannot resist doing is use it every few
seconds. With a massive lack of focus and far too
many narrative breaks, it’s ugly and chaotic, with
headache-inducing camera-work adding hardly
any positive qualities to the overall product. Who
knew a romantic drama could cause so much dis-
comfort to the eyes?
Good news then, that Madonna nabbed many
of the industry’s great technical geniuses to make
the more obvious aspects look and sound amaz-
ing. The costumes, provided by Arianne Phillips,
are simply divine. Wallis goes through as many as
83 costume changes, and the variety of wardrobe
Riseborough is given is an impressive collection.
Abel Korzeniowski’s score is a grand, sweeping
piece of work that inputs dramatic grandeur to a
film struggling to hold your attention. But again,
Madonna doesn’t know how to show restraint, and
decides toinclude the music infullforce whenever
it is used. It over-rides the dialogue, and just as you
thought the music could not get any more bombas-
tic, Madonna finds a way and makes it excruciat-
ing for the ears.
W.E. had some great start-up material, Madon-
na was armed with pretty costumes, triumphant
soundtrack and let’s not forget the camera lenses.
But she threw them all away to make a superficial,
shallow period film, because of her inability to
show an ounce of restraint.
Madonna doesn’t exactly have a great track re-
cord when it comes to the film industry. Both
her acting and directorial debuts were widely
panned, and subsequent attempts to make a name
for herself have not quite worked out. W.E. is her
second behind-the-camera effort, and whilst it
would be wrong to completely ignore her pas-
sion project, W.E. is unlikely to do wonders for
her film career.
The film follows two parallel stories in two
different time periods. One is of Wallis Simpson
(Riseborough) and her blossoming romance with
King Edward VIII (D’Arcy), who later abdicates
his throne because his government could not al-
low a twice-divorced American as the wife of its
monarch. Obsessed with this “fairy-tale” love
story is Wally Winthrop (Cornish), an unhappily
married woman living in modern day New York.
Visiting the same “Wallis-Edward” exhibition
over and over again, she soaks herself in the at-
mosphere of their true love and escapes her own
miserable life by picturing the life of Wallis and
Edward. To Wally, the couple shared the perfect
romance – and this belief stems from her knowl-
edge that he gave up so much for one woman.
“What must it feel like to be loved that much?”
She wonders.
As the two separate strands intersect, Ma-
donna pays no attention to the characters but is
farmer’s teenage son, Albert (Irvine). When
World War I breaks out, the farmer is forced to
sell Joey to a kind, keen young Army captain
(Hiddleston), who takes Joey with him into
battle. A heartbroken Albert promises Joey
that they’ll see each other again some day –
and eventually enlists in the army to embark
on a search for his friend. The horse accom-
panies the captain into war, and from there
crosses into enemy territory and embarks on
a hazardous journey, culminating at the Battle
of the Somme. His tale gives us a glimpse of
many aspects of warfare – from those fighting
in the front line to those left behind at home.
As proven in Saving Private Ryan, depicting
warfare is one of Spielberg’s positive strengths.
This film is packed with battle scenes, includ-
ing a memorable suicidal cavalry charge, and
not forgetting the Battle of the Somme itself.
There are highly commended performances
from Toby Kebbell as a brave Geordie cor-
poral, and, in smaller roles, Benedict Cum-
berbatch and Eddie Marsan. But, it has to be
said, the most memorable performance is by
21-year-old Irvine, who – despite a limited act-
ing repertoire – portrayed young Arthur with
sincerity. Of course, a mention must also be
made to the fourteen horses that played Joey
so convincingly, all the way from foal to adult
more interested in putting together similar look-
ing objects and events in the two timelines, whilst
rushing past so many scenes. She seems to be in
a hurry to tell us something – so imagine every-
one’s disappointment when it is revealed that she
does not in fact have much to tell. Random time-
stamps on the bottom of the screen try to establish
some sort of linear sequence, but when each scene
is so annoyingly brief, the audience cannot fully
grasp what is going on.
Hertendencytomovefastdoeshaveoneadvan-
tage though. It means that we see less of that aw-
ful plot of Wally. It’s a combination of Cornish’s
plain boring performance and repetitive narrative
that produces something so infuriatingly tacky.
There is a fine line between acting depressed, and
simply looking dull. For Cornish, it’s unfortunate-
ly the latter. It gets worse when Wally starts “see-
ing” Wallis and it’s embarrassing when the spirit
of Wallis guides Wally as some sort of guardian
angel. It’s not moving, nor is it emotional – instead
it’s creepy, and makes Wally look like a lunatic.
The existence of her alcoholic, abusive husband
meansWallyneedsaloveinterest,whichshedoes
get (Isaac), although this also is cooked up in such
a clumsy way between the two actors who are al-
lowed to share virtually no chemistry, since the
script doesn’t give them any room to develop.
When it comes to the English romance, D’Arcy
struggles to connect with the character of Wal-
lis, let alone with himself, as his flat performance
does little to convince of their “Romance of the
Century”. Only Riseborough is able to make
something out of the clunky, wit-free, romance-
free script that Madonna also co-wrote. The ris-
ing English star is confident and sassy, and grasps
the many changes and aspects of her complex

