Fassbender just can’t get enough
For Brandon (Fassbender), sex is
what starts and ends his day. He
wakes up, walks into the shower and
masturbates. At night, the internet
gives him access to all sorts of por-
nography. That’s not all. He often
enjoys the company of prostitutes,
one night stands, and even more mas-
turbation in the men’s room of his
workplace. On the outside, he’s your
average good-looking advertising
executive. Brandon probably knows
that he’s a sex addict. He would never
admit it, but you can see the pain of
a tortured man in his face whenever
he tries to satisfy his constant sexual
craving that is slowly eating away at
him. He is forever tormented – and
sex provides that brief moment of re-
lief and satisfaction. This doesn’t last
long of course, but this will have to
do. And as a single man living alone
in his apartment, Brandon seems to be
in control of his life.
This is until the sudden appearance
of his younger, troubled sister, Sissy
(Mulligan). He is not pleased with
this unannounced visitation, but being
his own sister, tries to take care of her.
But it turns out Sissy is just as dam-
aged as Brandon. Whereas Brandon
tends to actively seek out a way to
find satisfaction, Sissy is more help-
less and relies on others for comfort
and company. Her low self-esteem
and self-destructive behaviour make
her emotionally vulnerable. Hook-
ing up with Brandon’s married boss
(the excellent James Badge Dale),
on Brandon’s own bed no less, never
cleaning up after herself, the carefully
organised New York apartment life
that Brandon is so used to and needs
starts to fall apart as the unstable Sis-
sy crashes head-on into his life.
What made these characters who
they are is not the focus for Mc-
Queen. A slight hint only suggests
their troubled childhood and other
English actress. During this memora-
ble scene, McQueen shifts his camera
from Sissy to Brandon, showing our
protagonist suppress his emotions. He
does have a soft spot for his uninhib-
ited wreck of a sister, but still has no
choice but to put his needs first.
Much like his actors, McQueen re-
mains brave throughout the film, and
is never afraid to look away even in
the most exposed, uncomfortable
scenes. His long takes will no doubt
frustrate some viewers, but Shame
is not supposed to be an easy watch.
The explicit nudity is necessary to im-
mediately set the tone and McQueen
doesn’t beat around the bush intro-
ducing the central character. We are
supposed take Brandon for what he is,
but it’s hard not to wonder just what it
was that plunged him into the world
of sex addiction. What happens in the
few days of their lives we do get to
see is no doubt a gripping one, but
you may not leave the cinema feeling
fully invested in its characters. But
what Shame is proud to boast, its top-
notch performances and perceptive
direction are well worth your while.
than that, the audience has to fill the
gaps. What Shame does so brilliantly
however, is the careful examination
of its extremely complex characters.
Brandon’s world, for what it’s worth,
is a meticulously structured one, and
this is shown through the neatly de-
signed sets that surround him. It’s al-
most too clean, to the point that it sug-
gests Brandon cannot afford the time
or desire to decorate. His mind is on
one thing only.
It’s what Fassbender’s remarkable
performance shows that is truly fas-
cinating; the inner Brandon, the side
of him he never shows to anyone. His
colleagues don’t suspect a thing, and
initially, his sister doesn’t quite know.
Fassbender is an intense, focused
presence on screen, and his quiet,
blank gaze is unnerving as he seduces
women from afar. From his perfectly
still, unflinching motion, we can only
presume there is no limit to his dark
fantasies. McQueen’s frequent use of
close-ups into the actor’s face further
boosts his range as the fearless actor
finds that delicate balance between
superficial charm and disturbing hid-
den sexual appetite.
Brandon even contemplates wheth-
er a normal intimate relationship is
ever possible for someone like him.
This prompts him to approach a co-
worker; something that doesn’t quite
lead to the things he was expecting.
It’s heart-breaking to see a man so
distant from others – he’s attracted to
no-one and sex is merely a convenient
gateway for orgasm, and Brandon is
never too fussed about how he goes
about this. On one night of despera-
tion, he even goes to a gay bar. There
is nothing to suggest that Brandon is
gay, or straight for that matter. Build-
ing a deep, meaningful connection is
not his specialty, and this is all he’s
ever known.
Acting against Fassbender is the
equally effective Mulligan, who
shows, among other things, that
she can sing too. As she performs a
stripped down version of Frank Sina-
tra’s ‘New York, New York’ in a caba-
ret bar, it becomes the defining mo-
ment that tells us of the pain that Sissy
has suffered over the years, captured
so exceptionally well by the young
John Park
Director Steve McQueen
Screenwriters Steve McQueen, Abi
Morgan
Cast Michael Fassbender, Carey
Mulligan
Shame
Nothing like having a semi-nude lie-in on a day-off (watch where that hand is going, Michael!)...
FILM
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 29
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
Award Season Events to Look Forward to:
Producers Guild Awards: Saturday 21 January
Directors Guild Awards: Saturday 28 January
Screen Actors Guild Awards: Sunday 29 January
BAFTA Film Awards: Sunday 12 February
Writers Guild Awards: Sunday 19 February
Independent Spirit Awards: Saturday 25 February
Academy Awards: Sunday 26 February 2011 actor/actress winners: Christian Bale, Natalie Portman, Melissa Leo and Colin Firth

