H
ello, aspiring scientists. Cave
Johnson here.
As founder and CEO of Ap-
erture Science, I’ve been in-
vited by Felix to write about
the glamorous lifestyle that awaits you all as
attractive, well-paid and influential scientists.
Considering the fact that most of you will end
up working as drones for money-grabbing
suits in the city, who wouldn’t know the thrill
of scientific endeavour if a time-travelling
Einstein told them the secret of eternal life,
this should be quite a short article.
Instead, I want to talk to you about the rat-
race that is scientific progress, and why we
need as many able-bodied scientists as possi-
ble. Last week, I gave the boys down in the lab
a bunch of contracts to sign, allowing us to use
their bodies for some reanimation tests. All I
got back was some speech about their human
rights, but what about your rights? Don’t you
and your children have a right to a better life if
these tests prove that a concentrated solution
of kitten tears is able to repair dead cells?
As a result, my lawyer keeps calling me,
saying that I shouldn’t be slowly filling their
lab with water, but what does he know — he
even says I shouldn’t be admitting this to you.
He’s not like you and me. He’s not a scientist.
What good are all the letters at the end of
your name if you can’t even escape from a
room slowly filling with water? This is sur-
vival of the brightest in action, and we’ll have
more subjects for testing this way. If they
didn’t say no, it’s implied consent.
Now don’t get me wrong — I couldn’t get
to where I am today without the boys in the
lab, and they could not have a more satisfy-
ing job. Where else can the outcome of test-
ing the theory behind Schrodinger’s cat result
in a horde of un-killable kittens (which was
coincidentally the start of our reanimation
tests)? Certainly not Black Mesa, I can tell
you! My contacts tell me that Black Mesa is
like kindergarten — lots of crayons and peo-
ple who steal your ideas. Seriously now, don’t
go there. Please.
To contribute to science, you don’t have
to sign your life away, or even the rights to
your body parts. Even if you just participate
in some tests with us at Aperture, someone
somewhere will thank you for your contribu-
tion to science. But not me — I only thank
those who are married to science. Don’t you
want to be able to say that you helped dissect
the science behind cuteness, or developed the
cure to stupidity?
Well, just as a heads up, I’ve been in con-
Go get your hustle on. For
science
tact with the college and the kitchen staff, and
we’ve settled on a deal. As students, we know
how much you love free things, so we’re going
to be giving you all some vouchers to use in
your JCR, and over the next few weeks we’re
going to be adding a bunch of chemicals to the
food that you eat on campus. I can’t even pro-
nounce half of the stuff we’re pouring into the
coffee alone, so this is groundbreaking stuff.
Don’t worry — the boys in the lab were pretty
sure that what you will be eating and drinking
isn’t toxic. That’s why you’re doing the tests
to check. There may be some minor side ef-
fects, such as an urge to procrastinate, or not
get any work done, but it shouldn’t be too se-
rious. You get free food and can contribute to
science, so it’s smiles all around!
If you also experience the development of
superpowers, spontaneous combustion or are
abducted by aliens, then that’s probably not
us, but something to tell your grandkids! Let
us know anyway.
On the other hand, if you become hard of
hearing, start coughing up blood, or develop
a case of death, you probably ate some of the
food intended for the staff. That’s not a prob-
lem – just let a test associate know, and we’ll
fix you up, good and proper. If you want to get
even more vouchers, there’s the opportunity to
try some new methods we’ve got for re-grow-
ing organs. The procedure is painless, mainly
as we have to remove your head from the rest
of your body first. Initial tests on worms look
promising.
If you have any questions for me, then Caro-
line is waiting to take your telegrams. Send
your questions to games.felix@imperial.
ac.uk with the subject “Ask Cave” and we’ll
get right to it.
Get your hustle on. For science.
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
30
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Free Web Games
Missed Web Games last week? Yes? Well fear not,
we’re back again (don’t go having a nose bleed
from the excitement). As ever here are two totally
awesome web games that you can play right now
in your web browser. In order to enjoy these you’re
going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in, which
can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/
Multitask 2
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/567376
Normally Felix strives for high-quality pictures. If
you can get me a good screenshot of this game
on your own, send it in. I’ll give you £100. Seri-
ously, the second your hand leaves the keyboard
it’s game over.
Multitask 2 is simple in premise – you start with
one simple task, balancing a circle on a plank, be-
fore being gradually presented with more and more
tasks that need to be maintained in tandem. It’s
annoyingly addictive, and if you can make it to the
fourth task you deserve a hefty pat on the back.
Middle-aged housewives with a husband, three
kids and a dog will probably shine.
Stellar Hunter 2
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/587723
From the frustrating, finger-twitch inducing Multi-
task 2 we come to Stellar Hunt 2, altogether far
more relaxing. Lord knows, you’ll need something
to calm yourselves down.
Your aim is to collect all the stars forming pretty
patterns on the screen, using your star-attracting
cursor. It’s not what any hyper-intelligent Imperial
student would call challenging, but it’s an addict-
ing, somewhat hypnotic exercise that’s suprisingly
fun to play. Drink up now. We’re pretty sure partially-attenuated phoneutria nigriventer toxin-3 is
completely harmless
Cave Johnson here folks. Shut up and read
Questions for Cave?
Do you have any questions for Mr
Johnson? If so, email them onto
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk and I’ll
pass them onto him for answers.
Responses will be published in Felix.
So go do as the man says people.
Write in — for science.
“Don’t you have a right to
a better life if these tests
prove that a concen-
trated solution of kitten
tears is able to repair
dead cells?”
The man himself

