GAMES
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 31
The Problem of Piracy
Online piracy is a growing problem, but planned, potentially disastrous US legis-
lation is not the way to tackle it. Laurence Pope discusses
S
ome readers may well be familiar
with the acronyms SOPA and PIPA,
both of which have been bounded
about in the news over the last few
months or so. They stand for the Stop
Online Piracy Act and the closely related Protect
IP (Intellectual Property) Act. Both are bills that
are currently being considered, respectively, by
the US House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate. As their names suggest, they are aimed at
combating online piracy. The issues surrounding
these proposed laws are both numerous and com-
plicated in nature, as are the arguments wielded
by its supporters and critics; if you’re spurned
into action by this piece then there’s a wealth of
information that can be found in the very me-
dium the bills will impact – namely, the internet.
At the time of writing, SOPA has lost most of
its momentum following a statement from the
White House claiming that, whilst internet pi-
racy needs to be curbed, “we will not support
legislation that reduces freedom of expression,
increases cybersecurity risk, or undermines
the dynamic, innovative global Internet.” This,
along with the hugely negative response from in-
ternet giants such as Google, Twitter and Wiki-
pedia, has effectively clipped SOPA’s wings.
That is not the end of the story however. PIPA
still exists, and there is nothing to say that modi-
fications of SOPA will lead to it being passed
silently by Congress. This is not an issue to be
ignored.
But why are these bills so dangerous? Why did
they prompt Wikipedia, Reddit and other sites to
co-ordinate a shut down on January 18? Surely
they only aim to combat piracy that is, at the end
of the day, an illegal activity. There are laws at
the moment, such as the 1998 Digital Millen-
nium Copyright Act, which protects copyrighted
material, but SOPA and PIPA would target sites
hosting the material. It would allow the US Jus-
tice Department to target overseas sites commit-
ting or facilitating piracy, as well as force US
internet companies to cut ties with said websites
and block them from searches. Theoretically this
could target and shut down sites with a single
link to any site deemed to be violating said laws.
This could potentially affect large sites such as
YouTube and Facebook.
The ambiguous wording of the bills and their
worryingly broad nature has come under fire,
and a major worry is that large corporations will
have the power to sue smaller start-up companies
whom they believe aren’t filtering their searches
well enough, start-up companies who could have
gone on to be the next Facebook. Entertainment
companies already have the power to take down
copyrighted material. The major concern is that a
precedent will be set-up, leading to the empow-
erment of the entertainment industry online and
increased censorship.
So what do SOPA and PIPA have to do with
gaming? Quite a lot as it happens. Many game
and tech companies, who you would initially as-
sume to support the bill, have spoken out against
it. Mojang, creators of Minecraft, underwent a
site blackout on the 18th in protest, and NVIDIA
blogged that “…we oppose piracy … However,
we do not support SOPA. We don’t believe it is
the right solution to the problem.” Other compa-
nies echo this sentiment.
The question remains however: if piracy is
something to be combated, but SOPA and PIPA
are too Draconian, then what is the solution? The
answer does not lie in sweeping, misguided leg-
islation. The internet is full of very intelligent
people, and blocks, takedowns or other anti-pi-
racy measures can be easily navigated around.
Information spreads quickly; soon enough, any
measure enacted will be counteracted and the
battle will begin anew. Legislation, certainly
poorly worded and such broad legislation as
SOPA or PIPA, is akin to applying a bandage to
an axe wound.
DRM (Digital Rights Management) is often
used by media distribution companies such as
game publishers to protect their property from
being pirated. Put simply, DRM is an umbrella
term applied to any technique that stops films,
music and games from being copied (or ‘ripped’)
and distributed freely. The problem is that it’s
not all that effective at what it’s supposed to do.
As mentioned previously people are clever.
Pirates have found, and will continue to find
ways around DRM restrictions, forcing compa-
nies to continually upgrade their protection if
they want to stay ahead of the game. ‘Cracking’
DRM protection costs time – updating it costs
both time and money and forces companies into
a battle that they cannot possibly win. Another
issue with DRM lies with format and standard
changes. DRM-restricted content is not always
perfect, and often content that the owner has paid
for is lost in the changeover. It’s just not a good
anti-piracy system, as proved by the now infa-
mous game Spore.
Spore, a single player God-game, was released
in 2008 by EA Games. The game featured an
overly Draconian DRM system, requiring inter-
net activation and a limit of only three installa-
tions. Any more than that and you had to contact
EA for an added activation, which they were not
obliged to grant you. The result? Hilariously,
with over half a million downloads across vari-
ous BitTorrent sites, Spore became one the most
pirated game in history. As if to rub salt on the
wound Spore also became one of the lowest rated
games on Amazon, mostly down to its DRM sys-
tem. If there’s ever a case for aggressive DRM
failing to do its job, Spore is the one.
One solution to piracy comes from Gabe New-
ell, cofounder and CEO of Valve, the company
responsible for the digital distribution platform
Steam. Newell claims that piracy is predomi-
nantly “a service problem and not a pricing
problem,” and has to be combated by providing
a better service than the pirates. A pirate, who
can provide a copy of a game 24/7, globally
and digitally, is going to be taken up on his of-
fer far more often than a company who requires
you only buy it from a store, three months af-
ter its main-region release. By providing such a
well thought-out service such as Steam, giving
users access to regular updates, chat functions
and achievements amongst other features, Valve
has reached the point where piracy is “basically
a non-issue.” Regular readers may have noticed
my slight bias towards Valve in the past. This
bias is not without good reason.
“Spore, shipped with
aggressive anti-piracy
protection, became one of
the most pirated games in
history.”
“Paradoxically, the answer
to piracy lies in doing away
with anti-piracy protection.”
The answer to piracy lies in doing away with
DRM, not passing bills like SOPA or PIPA. To
some this may seem counter-intuitive, but as the
Spore study shows DRM alienates many players
and causes them to turn to piracy; it’s the on-
line equivalent of flipping the bird. People lose
respect for companies that support DRM, and
crack their protection and distribute it simply
because they can. “So what?” the line of arguing
often goes, “They’re big companies, they make
too much money anyway.” Enter the Steam ser-
vice model. Valve is just as big as many of its
competitors, yet commands more respect than
most. The result is that their games are pirated
far less frequently, and Steam continually rakes
in massive profits and millions of players.
In a digital age companies need to focus on
good customer service to keep existing custom-
ers and turn around pirates. Services like Steam
and Netflix already operate in this manner, and
moves by Apple to start relaxing its DRM pro-
tected music on iTunes are a good way forward.
At the end of the day piracy will always exist no
matter what you do, but it can be curbed in a way
that benefits everyone.
As for SOPA and PIPA? They’re complicated
bills, and this article can only hope to spark up
your interest in them. Educate yourself, and tell
others.
Currently PIPA is planned to undergo a proce-
dural vote in the Senate on January 24. One can
only hope that it does not pass.
The failure of Spore’s anti-piracy protection
does little to back up the case for increased
usage of DRM technology

