BOOKS
Logicomix is a rather unusual book – an explo-
ration of the early development of mathemati-
cal logic, interwoven with the profound story
of the life of one of the greatest thinkers in the
field – Bertrand Russell – all told in graphic
novel format. A tall order for any work, but
Logicomix manages it admirably.
While it does give a fascinating outline of the
basics of the field of logic, the main strength of
the book is its human focus. Russell’s story is,
when it comes down to it, a very simple one of
a man searching for meaning in the world and,
as such, it is eminently relatable. The effective
presentation of Russell’s life rests in no small
part in the fantastic framing device. I’ve al-
ways found older versions of the protagonists
telling somebody about their lives an effective
storytelling device, but Logicomix goes a step
beyond this by having fictionalised versions of
its creators discussing a lecture Russell gave
on the eve of World War II, in which used the
story of his life to explain why, despite his
pacifism, he did not object to war with Nazi
Germany.
This allows Russell’s early life to be anal-
ysed in a very natural way from both the point
of view of his older self and of external ob-
servers. While the writer’s narration provides
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
32
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
a much needed objective view on his life,
Russell’s narration helps us get into his head
– helping us to understand him and sympathise
with him. We get a real picture of a principled,
driven man who sacrifices so much of his per-
sonal happiness in a quest for mathematical
An epic quest for truth
truth.
Equally well developed are Russell’s col-
leagues, friends and family – who add much
depth to the story. Of course, given that the
book has less than 400 pages and covers sev-
eral decades of Russell’s life, some changes to
real life characters and events are inevitable –
most noticeable being the complete absence of
the protagonist’s brother Frank. Most of these,
however, are explained by the writers in the
external framing device – meaning readers are
not misinformed, while allowing the story to
fit into the limited space and maintain narrative
coherence.
Equally worth mentioning is the artwork.
Superbly drawn by Alecos Papadatos it is
striking in its realistic clarity. At times amus-
ing, at times moving, it always serves to sup-
port and add to the story and is one the book’s
greatest strengths.
Logicomix is a brilliant work. It strikes me
as sad that there are still people who refuse
to treat graphic novels seriously. While cer-
tain genres might not be to everyone’s taste, I
find it remarkably immature and snobbish for
some people to reject an entire medium out-
right. If these people gave Logicomix a chance,
they would quickly see that good graphic nov-
els don’t have to be about superheros or news-
paper comic strip characters.
An unusual biography of a fascinating philosopher
Holmes like you’ve never read him before
Given the latest upsurge in popularity for
Sherlock Holmes, and the recent film and TV
adaptations, I think that the time is right for a
review of a Holmes story in this section. I’m
not a huge fan of Holmes but I have read all of
the stories SirArthur Conan Doyle wrote about
him. It’s hardly a huge achievement – there
are sixty of them, and only four of these are
novels. However, despite this small number,
and Doyle’s clear and engaging writing style,
the Holmes tales are very repetitive. After a
few dozen one inevitably becomes bored and
stories begin to all run together. Therefore, if
asked for my favourite work about the great
detective, I would have to point to the only
story that I have read that really stands out for
me, a story not even written by Conan Doyle:
Neil Gaiman’s A Study in Emerald.
Gaiman’s pastiche reimagines Doyle’s hero
in a Cthulu Mythos setting but, despite this
radical change, this remains recognisable as
a Holmes story. Gaiman emulates Doyle’s
style perfectly and a great deal of the appeal
of the story comes from the juxtaposition of
the somewhat dry, matter-of-fact narration
and the horrifying subject matter. Just a few
paragraphs in the narrator, reminiscing on his
military experience, calmly writes how “the
gods and men of Afghanistan were savages,
unwilling to be ruled from Whitehall or from
Berlin of even from Moscow”. It’s also fun to
see how the writer imagines life would be like
if humanity had been conquered by Eldritch
Abominations. If you want to see Queen Vic-
toria as a tentacled Great Old One this is the
story for you.
Prior knowledge of both Doyle’s stories and
the Mythos is helpful as Study in Emerald is
filled to the brink with both. Knowledge of
Conan Doyle’s work in particular will allow
a careful reader to guess the solution to the
mystery pretty early in the story, and at least
a cursory acquaintance with the stories’ main
characters is required to fully understand end-
ing. Casual readers, however, shouldn’t be
particularly put off, as the mystery and the de-
ductive skills of the protagonist are more than
enough to carry the story.
In short, this is a fantastic story, well deserv-
ing of its many awards. It is also available
free to read on Gaiman’s website – beautifully
laid out and illustrated by Jouni Koponen to
resemble a 19th century paper, complete with
humorous advertisements based on 19th cen-
tury horror stories. Check it out now.
Maciej Matuszewski
Maciej Matuszewski
A Victorian Lovecraftian mystery
“If you want to see
Queen Victoria as a ten-
tacled Great Old One this
is the story for you”
Gaiman with his favourite Great Old One
Russell-ing up some serious artwork
Recommendations
With so much literature out there it may be dif-
ficult to know where to start so, to celebrate the
re-launch of the this section, we present you with
a list of books that you’re sure not to regret pick-
ing up.
Rendevous with Rama
Arthur C. Clarke
Often regarded as Clarke’s mas-
terpiece, this is the quintessen-
sial hard science fiction novel
about mankind’s desire to un-
derstand the unknown.
The God of Small Things
Arundhati Roy
A moving and tragic work ex-
ploring love and prejudice on
the Indian subcontinent.
Quo Vadis
Henryk Sienkiewicz
For those looking for something
different – a historical epic from
a Polish Nobel laureate.
Watchmen
Alan Moore
If you do like superheroes that
this is the graphic novel for you.
Smart, exciting and brilliantly
drawn.
Stand on Zanzibar
John Brunner
A powerful exploration of over-
population, greatly helped by
its unusual writing style.
The Name of the Wind
Patrick Rothfuss
A brilliant new fantasy. Not es-
pecially original but very read-
able.
Do you have a passion for books? Do you
want to write about literature? Contact us at
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk.

