I
n Prague, New Year’s Eve (or
Silvestr as the Czech would
say) is a major celebratory
holiday. With three days to
experience Prague and see in
2012, my main concern was that I’d
become one of the many that are in-
evitably frustrated by, or caught in,
the tourist trap that Prague is famed
for being. However, in a city that is
over-run with visitors 365 days of the
year, this is difficult to avoid – particu-
larly over the New Year period. In the
final couple of days leading up to the
countdown, Prague is extraordinarily
animated with an air of anticipation
settling over the city.
coffeehouse doubles as an English-
language book shop. Café Slavia is
another famous watering hole, and this
one holds the distinguished claim of
being the oldest café in Prague. Due to
its proximity to the National Theatre,
one can usually spot a D-list Czech ce-
lebrity or two sipping on their cappuci-
nos here. Indeed, it was a favourite of
Kafka’s himself.
Public transport in Prague is cheap,
but unnecessary for anyone halfway fit
and mobile; the real beauty of Prague
is in its architecture – something best
seen on foot. The city’s legacy of build-
ings and landmarks manage to touch
on almost every architectural style of
the last thousand years from gothic,
through baroque to cubism. Old Town
Square seems to be home to buildings
spanning all of these styles, from the
reknowned Astronomical Clock to St.
Nicholas’ Church.
Fancy a stroll across Charles Bridge?
No problem – as long as you don’t
mind a view of the backs of hundreds
of people (especially if you’re as ver-
tically challenged as myself) for the
entirety of the half an hour it will take
to crawl across the bridge. There is no
time of year that Prague doesn’t draw
thousands of tourists, artists, entertain-
ers, and vendors to grace its arguably
most famous landmark. So when to
take full advantage of the breathtaking
views of Prague’s landscape offered
from the vantage point of Charles
Bridge? For those of you willing to
make the effort, waking up before
dawn ought to guarantee you’ll have to
share the bridge with only a very small
number of other keen tourists. For la-
zier travellers more akin to myself, late
evening (although not on New Year’s
Eve!) makes for just a slightly busier
but more romantic picture of Prague
Castle, lit up stunningly and looking
not unlike a Walt Disney creation.
At the northern end of Charles
Bridge is a stairway leading down
to Kampa Island, which is the site of
Prague’s contemporary art museum. It
is also home to many small pubs and
eateries selling authentic Czech food
and beer. Whilst spending my first
afternoon wandering around the is-
land, I accidentally stumbled upon a
‘lovelock bridge’ – a phenomenon that
is fast becoming popular in Europe.
For anyone else as fascinated by these
universal declarations of love as I am,
this one is found very near to the John
Lennon wall on Kampa Island – some-
thing else worth a visit.
Prague Castle itself is where I was at
the start of the New Year – and I don’t
believe there was a better place for it.
Firework displays, all beautifully syn-
chronised, could be seen right across
the city from Charles Bridge below to
Petrin Hill above. The backdrop of the
castle lent the night a magical touch,
and the atmosphere among the as-
sembled revellers was relaxed and fun.
Walking back to our hotel post-fes-
tivities led us through the city’s other
major gathering points on New Year’s
Eve. Old Town Square and Wences-
las Square were evidently the livelier
places to see in midnight – even with
champagne bottles smashing and fire-
works going off mere inches from our
faces, we were only catching the tail-
end of Prague’s most raucous celebra-
tions.
The morning after, the clean-up op-
eration starts early; but for the odd few
stacks of bottles and cans haphazardly
left on street corners, by midday the
city looks just as it would any other
day of the year. Most businesses begin
trading at their usual hours. The first
day of a new year is a slow one, but
one sight worth getting a head start on
other eager tourists for is Petrin Hill.
The arduous hike (okay, slight abuse
of artistic license there) to the summit
of this hill, which stands at 1043 feet
tall, is accordingly rewarded by the
panoramic views of Prague from the
top. One’s final moments in Prague are
well spent just quietly observing from
here, and reflecting on the year that has
passed, and the year to come.
“...Prague Castle,
lit up stunningly
and looking not
unlike a Walt Disney
creation...”
Picture-perfect Prague
Dushi Arumuganesan sees in the New Year in the buzzing Czech capital
An ‘independent’ NYE firework display at the gates of Prague Castle
The view of Prague from Petrin Hill
One of a few hidden European lovelock bridges – on Kampa Island
The best way to see Prague and soak
in the ambience is to walk the entire
city, spending a day on each side of
the river Vltava, breaking each day
up with stops at any of Prague’s abun-
dant cafés and coffeehouses to people-
watch. In fact, you could blow almost
all of your holiday budget on coffee
and still see most of Prague worth see-
ing. The cafés in Prague are definitely
worth dedicating some time to. One
that is popular largely among inter-
nationals is the Globe Coffeehouse;
a regular haunt of exchange students,
ex-pats and longtime travellers, the
TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 35
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson

