CLUBS & SOCIETIES
We all take for granted that when we
switch on the tap, clean, drinkable wa-
ter will pour out. Sadly, for millions of
people around the globe, this is not the
case.
The Problem
In many countries, state-funded mu-
nicipal supplies are expensive, leav-
ing the poorest billion people in the
world with no choice but to fend for
themselves. While some are able to
dig their own wells, many rely on
community-shared sources that can-
not sustain a large population. This in-
exorably leads to perennial droughts.
Furthermore, the quality of this wa-
ter is not guaranteed and the lack of
a well-maintained system allows dis-
ease to spread very quickly amongst
the population.
Our Solution
Our solution is Raincatcher Imperial
– a university society-turned-charity
founded in 2009. We are a branch of
the registered UK charity Raincatcher
and work closely with the local Tanza-
nian NGO, Caritas, to provide a reli-
able source of clean water for the peo-
ple in the region of Tabora by building
rainwater harvesting systems.
Every year since 2009, we have sent
Have you heard about Raincatcher Imperial?
out a team of Imperial College students
to Tanzania to build these water col-
lection systems and to provide essen-
tial water sanitation training to the lo-
cal population. These systems provide
easy access to uncontaminated water
by storing rainwater form the rainy
season for use during the eight-month-
long dry period of the year. In total,
nearly a million litres of water storage
has been set up in schools, universities
and community buildings. The project
is supported purely by charitable fun-
draising through the effort of its team
members and supporters.
This Year’s Project
This year, we are going to take one
step further in reaching our goal of set-
ting up a sustainable water source for
the Tanzanian population by carrying
out two simultaneous projects.
The first project is to build tanks to
collect, filter and store water in the
town of Igunga that will provide wa-
ter for two schools – St Leo’s Primary
School and St Margaret’s Secondary
School for Girls. At the moment, the
municipal supply of water is unafford-
able and the only other option is for
students to walk over 10 km to collect
water from an alternate source. Our
tanks will have capacities of 20,000
to 100,000 litres and an estimated life-
time of over 40 years, providing a free,
sustainable supply of clean water.
The second project aims to provide
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
38
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Pavitar Devgon various training schemes for people
in local villages. We will be focusing
on topics such as water sanitation, hy-
giene and conservation. We will also
teach families how to construct their
own smaller-scale water storage con-
tainers, built from easily available or
locally-sourced materials. Further, in
collaboration with Caritas, we aim to
train a select few to carry on teaching
their fellow community members after
our departure as part of our ‘Training
of Trainers’ scheme.
Get involved!
So what can you do to help? Just look
out for the many fundraising oppor-
tunities Raincatcher will be putting
on throughout the year. Each one will
be creative, fun and for a good cause.
We’re hoping to raise £20,000 this
year, and have raised as much as in the
past.
All the money we collect will go di-
rectly to helping the Tanzanian people
and personal costs – such as flights
and accommodation – are paid for by
the team members themselves. Get
involved with one of our four depart-
ments – Research, education, fundrais-
ing or public relations – by sending us
an email now at raincatcher@impe-
rial.ac.uk.
To find out more, or to donate money
to us through Virgin Money Giving,
follow this link:
www.raincatcherimperial.org
Then look no further than Imperial’s Erasmus scheme
In March 2011, Imperial College Fi-
nance Society Conference held their
first ever finance related conference at
the prestigious Bloomberg HQ, called
the New Financial Worlds Conference.
The conference was well anticipated
and attracted over 200 people from a
range of academic backgrounds. Ulti-
mately, last year’s focus audience were
members within the finance society
along with members from other lead-
ing universities. After a rigorous selec-
tion process, candidates who attended
the conference were able to enjoy pre-
sentations of the highest quality asso-
ciated with financial markets.
The idea behind the conference was
to provide the audience with an over-
Brave New Financial World
Derivatives are on the menu at Finance Society conference, held at Bloomberg HQ
all understanding towards determining
how psychology has affected the mar-
kets in ever changing market conditions
whilst providing a broader understand-
ing towards the mechanisms associated
within the certain markets and asset
classes such as Commodities, Equi-
ties and Fixed Income. The impressive
speakers list devoted to delivering such
presentations included executives from
leading investment banks along with
internationally recognised academics
and leading market specialists. Beyond
this, there were exciting panel discus-
sions and interactive workshops which
gained tremendous feedback. Members
who attended the conference also had
the opportunity to network with a range
of top industry experts out of a typical
recruitment atmosphere encompassed
at standard company presentations on
campus, enabling more ideas about the
markets to be discussed in detail.
Last years’ undoubted success means
that we can now aim to compete with
other leading London universities to
produce and deliver a conference that
will add value to the entire city. After
a huge thought process and many meet-
ings between large numbers of people
associated with the Imperial College
Finance Society, it became apparent
that we had to develop a unique sell-
ing point which has been overlooked by
other universities.
Exclusively, the theme for future con-
ferences held by the Imperial College
Finance Society will be Derivatives
with a specialisation each year. The
Derivatives market in the last decade in
particular has ignited some of the most
extraordinary events in financial his-
tory across the globe, most notably the
financial crisis witnessed a few years
ago. Since the development of such
tools within the financial sector, inves-
tors can use Derivatives to obtain ex-
posure to certain asset classes, mitigate
risk and speculate on the markets. There
is a variety of underlying asset classes
to which the overall Derivatives market
operates on i.e. Foreign Exchange, Eq-
uity, Commodity and Interest Rate De-
rivatives. It is our aim for this years’
conference under the new name of New
Financial Worlds – Derivatives Con-
ference to provide the audience with a
greater understanding of more complex
issues surrounding Derivatives whilst
increasing the awareness. We believe
Inderjit Birdee this can be accomplished by having a
range of presentations dedicated to-
wards such products, their mechanisms
of use, and their implications within the
markets.
In particular, the specialisation for
this year’s conference will be Credit
Derivatives, i.e. Credit valuation Ad-
justment (CVA), counterparty credit
risk and risk management. Counter-
party credit risk is crucial when deter-
mining the fair value of any derivative
portfolio. In past years, it was common
to mark derivative portfolios to market
without considering the counterparty
risk associated. However as a conse-
quence of a number of high profile de-
faults in 2008, there has been a grow-
ing interest towards CVA, as this can be
considered as the difference between

