in the House of Commons, where the focus
switched from “immigration concerns” to “res-
cue” of the children suffering at the hands of the
Nazis, “to save the young generation and to miti-
gate the suffering of their parents”, as Foreign
Minister Samuel Hoare then stated. Even though
the British government had just refused to allow
10,000 Jewish children to enter Palestine, the
atrocities committed by the Nazis towards those
they deemed “inferior” and particularly the
Kristallnacht Pogrom, swayed the government
to permit an unspecified number of children un-
der the age of 17 to enter the United Kingdom,
according to the recently founded “Kindertran-
port Association” (KA). Kindertransports in
fact managed to save around 10,000 children,
from Germany, Austria, Czechoslovakia and Po-
land. None of the children were accompanied by
their parents and a few were babies carried by
children.
On Thursday 26 January, it will be an honour
to have Ruth Barnett among us at Imperial, to
tell us her experiences. Hers is an unconvention-
al story, who suffered the Holocaust from afar
and lived a different trauma to that most often
heard about in the media, of those who faced the
immediate horrors of the concentration camps.
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 39
Furthermore, her story is intimately related with
Britain, making it easier for us to understand
and identify with her experiences.
Why listen to her story? As Holocaust survi-
vor and Nobel Laureate Elie Wiesel famously
said, “for the dead and for the living we must
bear witness”. He explains in an interview with
a representative of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum, that the purpose of Holo-
caust Memorials, is to honour the memory of
those who were murdered and to remember, in
particular, for the living, who need us now. In-
deed, “the living”, the survivors, need our mem-
ory, our compassion and most importantly our
commitment. A commitment to keep alive the
memory of the past, in the name of those who
suffered, which is undoubtedly essential in or-
der to build our own future. We, also, are “the
living” Elie Wiesel was referring to and must
remember for our own sake.
As spelled out clearly by the Holocaust Memo-
rial Day Trust, genocide is evidence for what can
happen when hatred is left unchecked. This year
the motto for the Memorial is “Speak up, Speak
out”. After the Holocaust, even though the world
said “never again”, the twentieth century saw
genocide in Cambodia, Rwanda, Bosnia and
Darfur. Mass murder in these countries is little
H
olocaust Memorial Day is a day
of remembrance held annually on
the anniversary of the liberation,
by Soviet soldiers, of the concen-
tration camp Auschwitz-Birkenau
on 27 January 1945. Auschwitz was the largest
of the Nazi killing camps, where approximately
1.1 million men, women and children, including
Jews, gypsies, the handicapped, homosexuals,
Soviet prisoners of war and political dissidents,
were killed, out of a total estimate of 11 million
assassinations throughout the Holocaust across
Europe at the hands of the Nazis, from 1933 to
1945. However, what meaning do these figures
hold, with no knowledge of the personal experi-
ences of those involved?
Ruth Barnett, aged 4 and her brother Martin,
aged 7, were sent, without their parents, from
Berlin to safety in Great Britain, on what is
known as the “Kindertransport” in the months
between the Kristallnacht Pogrom of 9-10 No-
vember 1938 and the start of World War II.
It was as a result of the efforts of the British
Jewish Refugee Committee, which appealed to
members of Parliament, that a debate was held
risk-free portfolio and true portfolio values taking
into account the risk of default. Ultimately, CVA is
an important tool as essentially it is the monetized
value of the counterparty credit risk.
The venue for this year’s conference will again
be the Bloomberg HQ, to be held on 10 March
2012. This is a fitting venue as Bloomberg is a
cutting edge financial information provider. The
designated conference room has been host to a
number of politicians such as Gordon Brown and
David Cameron along with substantial finance
professionals.
I truly believe that the conference offers an
abundance of opportunities for attendees. Like
no other university led finance conference in the
city, this new style of conference evidently has a
focus point with a clear aim. By enabling the audi-
ence to be comprised on students from excellent
universities along with city professionals, speak-
ers will have the opportunity to go in depth while
attendants do not feel overwhelmed. This can be
achieved by our efficient presentation structure
where the first fifteen minutes of each presenta-
tion will be dedicated to core facts and knowledge
surrounding the topic. The remaining forty-five
minutes will be dedicated to more cutting edge
and progressive material. Furthermore having
speakers mixing with industry professionals and
enthusiastic students during networking sessions
throughout the day will provide the ideal oppor-
tunity to synergistically share a range of creative
ideas and form long term sustainable relationships
derived from a common interest.
If you are interested in attending the confer-
ence you will be required to submit an application
through our revamped website (www.nfwconfer-
ence.com). The application process open to stu-
dents will consist of a compulsory submission
your CV and a short question indicating your mo-
tivation in attending the conference. The process
for professionals will be a requirement of a profes-
sional email address to indicate current working
experience and a short summary of their motiva-
tion in attending. Once the candidate is successful
in their application, professionals can purchase
tickets for £45 with students having the unique
chance to purchase tickets at a discounted value
at £35. If you would like to know more about the
New Financial Worlds – Derivatives Conference,
you can visit our website at www.nfwconference.
com. In addition, please look out for our themed
marketing campaign throughout campus in com-
ing weeks. The Imperial College Finance Society
Conference Committee genuinely looks forward
to you attending the conference and being a part
of something that has never been done before.
For the dead and for the living, we must bear witness
Andrea Levy implores you to take up this opportunity to hear a first-hand testimony from Mrs Ruth Barnett,
a Holocaust survivor, at Imperial College
known or of little interest and media coverage is
negligible. Media coverage of Holocaust remem-
brance is no doubt only worthwhile if it is a call
to action and a call to raise awareness of current
genocide, to speak out against hatred around the
world and in our own backyard and to push our
governments to act, like the British Jewish Refu-
gee Committee did back in 1938. Ruth Barnett,
as an activist herself in raising awareness, will
link her experience to the persecution of Gyp-
sies today, the last bastion of culturally accepted
racism across Europe, which in her own words
is “a manifestation that we have not learnt from
the Holocaust”.
We are approaching a time when Holocaust
survivors and other eye witnesses of mass mur-
der in the midst of our own contintent, will no
longer be alive. Thus, as the last generation who
will be able to hear their direct testimony, it lies
in our hands to take forward their stories and the
lessons taught by history.
Come while you can.
Ruth Barnett will be talking about her experi-
ences, followed by a Q&A session – Thursday
26 January, 6.15pm, Blackett LT2. For more
info contact jsoc@imperial.ac.uk.
“What meaning do these
figures hold, with no
knowledge of the personal
experiences of those in-
volved?”
“Genocide is evidence for
what can happen when
hatred is left unchecked”
“The survivors need our
memory, our compassion
and most importantly our
commitment”
“It lies in our hands to take
forward the lessons taught
by history”

