In Brief
Imperial collects lowest amount
of university library fines
Imperial College London are bottom of a league
table. Luckily, this is a list of the amount of money
raised from library fines. Only £26,703 was collect-
ed in fines in the period between the 2005/2006
academic year and now. As all students know,
if you don’t pay your fines, you aren’t allowed to
use the library. It’s hard to speculate, but maybe
the thought of being barred from the library is so
unnerving that Imperial students promptly return
their books.
On hearing the news, Jason Parmar, Deputy
President (Education) stated that Imperial “prides
itself on its world class library facilities and learn-
ing resources”.
The highest London based university was King’s
in fourth place, who, no doubt, found it confusing
to be so high up on a table. In at number one was
Leeds, managing to collect £1,869,340 in fines
over the course of six academic years. As this is
Leeds, the term academic is used lightly. The pre-
vious statement could be seen to be unfair; the
amount raised could suggest that Leeds’ students
love their subjects so much that they can’t bear
to give their books back, or that they’re just lazy
and forget.
After looking at the table Parmar went on to say:
“It’s one of the contributing factors to why we are
so much better than UCL and are higher than them
in the rankings – lol, PAR”. He refused to comment
on the social acceptability of using the word “lol”
in conversation.
Deborah Shorley, Director of Library Services,
called Imperial’s position at the bottom of the ta-
ble as a “great victory” and that “it is a very good
reflection on the Imperial student” as they are “so
well behaved”. She stressed that Imperial only im-
poses fines to make sure the books circulate and
that it was not a way of generating money.
Team Leader for User Services Angus Brown
added, “We only charge fines on the late return of
reserved and high demand books, and otherwise
encourage students to renew items they continue
to need. It’s incredibly difficult to compare librar-
ies (and universities) across the sector, but I think
it’s fair to say we’re quietly pleased to be bottom
of this particular league.”
Tim Arbabzadah
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Support for Clayponds
different demographic” in terms of ac-
commodation costs.
“If Clayponds is closed, replac-
ing it will be impossible,” he contin-
ued. “Finding a self contained site with
136 properties of flats and houses in
zone 3 with good transport links via the
Piccadilly Line straight into college is
unrealistic. Converting those properties
into student accommodation, including
common room facilities and offices for
hall supervisors would also be expen-
sive. Clayponds provides for some of
your poorer postgraduate students the
accommodation they need, just as it has
been doing for around 20 years.”
The Rector’s response aimed to pro-
vide some background to the College’s
decisions, beginning with a reassurance
that “we care very much that safe and
affordable accommodation is provided
for students whilst they study at Col-
lege.”
The response details that a focus
group was held in February 2011,
“which returned a clear message that
students wanted the College to provide
accommodation in areas within 30 min-
utes travel time to the South Kensington
campus and close to public transport for
increased security, particularly in the
evenings.”
“Postgraduate students stressed that,
unlike when they were undergraduates
living away from home for the first time,
they wanted an independent living expe-
rience but with opportunities to socialise
as they wish. The College developed its
postgraduate accommodation strategy
with this feedback as a key focus.”
In addition, the Rector raised con-
cerns about the suitability of Claypo-
nds in the long term, citing an “over 50
minute travel time to South Kensington,
in an area with little to offer students in
their leisure time.”
“Through selling Clayponds the Col-
lege will be able to raise in the order of
£25m-£30m. This will be reinvested in
the provision of bursaries to all Imperial
postgraduates students that choose to
live in GradPad accommodation [Grif-
nior management has really annoyed
me. Clayponds is an Imperial institution
well-loved by its current and former res-
idents, many of whom return to visit. A
rationale adequate for closing such a
successful part of the College needs to
be quite spectacular, and yet it has not
been forthcoming.”
Union President Scott Heath has ac-
tively stated his concern with the clo-
sure, claiming that the “consultation
[the Union] had [with College] was
absolutely zero”. Expressing his “disap-
pointment” with the lack of contact with
College, especially in light of the “direct
impact” that such an event would have
on the student body, he continued: “the
one-year bursary scheme is a clear sign
that College recognises that Grad Pad is
pricing out a large number of students.
Unfortunately this level of bursary is not
enough to ‘price in’ students.”
“We currently have no fit for purpose
postgraduate accommodation if you
want to replicate what Clayponds of-
fers. Maybe a few years down the line
we will have postgraduate accommoda-
tion that has the same community spirit,
but until then College must provide low-
cost accommodation if they have any
care or consideration about making life
affordable (comfortable).”
“This whole situation is reminiscent
of last year’s Life Sciences restructure
and a sign that the Union needs to have
the chance to consult Management
Board papers.”
The College’s Management Board,
which is chaired by the Rector, is dele-
gated authority to approve projects with
a total value of less than £5m. Hence,
the selling of Clayponds, which could
generate over £25m, must also be ap-
proved by the College Council. Imperial
College Union, while not sitting on the
Management Board, do sit on College
Council, who will meet on 10 Febru-
ary. Heath indicated that he will “use the
position in Council to voice the opinion
of the Student Body and apologise to all
members that neglect of Management
Board to consult us means that such
comments must be aired there.”
fon Studios in Clapham or Imperial
West at Wood Lane]; the bursary will be
in the region of £25 per week for post-
graduates in 2012-13. This subsidy will
enable Imperial’s students to live in bet-
ter quality accommodation, much closer
to South Kensington, than Clayponds
currently offers.”
Past and present residents of Claypo-
nds have contacted Felix in response to
these statements.
Lauren Clark was a resident at Clay-
ponds for one year, until September
2011, and believes that the loss of the
accommodation there would “greatly
detract from the experience of future
postgraduate students”. Writing that
“the availability of affordable student
housing was instrumental in making
my time at Imperial enjoyable,” refer-
ence is also made to the estate’s social
side: “Clayponds Village also provided
a great community atmosphere and cul-
ture that can not be easily recreated.”
In response to the longer commute and
activities, she continues: “while the
commute time is something I did gripe
about, I’d have to strenuously disagree
about the surrounding area having little
to offer. Kew Gardens and Richmond
are a single bus ride away
Séverine Maréchal, writing in an
open letter, also emphasises the commu-
nity of the site, or “Clayponds identity”
– “the dynamism and enthusiasm of the
wardens and staff… fostered by numer-
ous activities and a constant on-duty
presence.” Also highlighting the afford-
ability of the location in comparison to
Griffon Studios, she continues: “Person-
ally I would not have been able to join
Imperial, would I not have had this ac-
commodation option”.
John Castle, resident at Clayponds for
the 2010-2011 academic year, recalls an
“amazing year”, again highlighting the
“superb community feel”. Rubbishing
claims that the area offers little to do
for leisure, Mr Castle highlights the lo-
cal eateries, pubs and opportunities for
sport in the nearby Gunnersbury Park.
“The way that these plans seem
to have been kept quiet by the se-
Have your say
on this story
and others at
felixonline.co.uk
...Continued from Front Page
Central Library’s new entrance was inaugu-
rated in December
Jonathan Peek
Professor David Nutt has spoken out against current drug policy
David Robertson

