LSD
The world suddenly becomes a Marks
and Spencer advert, because every-
thing, no matter how mundane, is a de-
light to the senses. That’s not just last
night’s pizza, it’s Topps Pizza with fra-
grant bell peppers, ground Argentinian
beef with a hint of chilli, gooey golden
brown mozzarella and a crunchy crust.
This is not just LSD: this is M&S LSD.
If anyone ever questions your motives
just mention Francis Crick cracked the
structure of DNA while “listening” to
“Lucy in the sky with diamonds”. Tell
them you’re solving the protein folding
problem. Oh, is that Pink Floyd in the
background? That’s just inspiration.
Alcohol
We’ve had booze for as long as we’ve
had agriculture (and civilization): take
some sugar and yeast, leave for a few
weeks and boom! Instant clothes re-
mover. Effects are as varied as the
means of consuming it: some just go
quiet and sit there, possibly as damage
control because last time they got shit-
faced they played knock down ginger at
the local police station. Others get over-
whelmed by the amount of love they
sofa while you watch TV that you find
entertaining irrespective of quality. To
top it off, you just want to eat every-
thing.
Cocaine
Since it’s not going to snow any time
soon down in London it looks like co-
caine’s your best bet for seeing anything
white and powdery that makes you feel
all giddy. It’s also the second week of
term, so don’t even say you can’t af-
ford it. Besides, if Scarface has taught
us anything it’s that the stuff makes you
ridiculously bullet-resistant, even for
Hollywood standards.
Heroin
Sometimes life really gets you down:
deadlines, relationship and financial
woes, and the news hardly helps. For
£10 or so you can shoot up and let the
problems just melt away in an opiate-
induced haze. It’s a bit like Ocean Fi-
nance for problems: it consolidates all
your existing problems into one (prob-
ably unmanageable) problem: finding a
strong enough vein and enough money
to shoot up again. Before you know it
you’ll be giving rimjobs to the janitor
of Sherfield for cash. If things get really
bad you might need to get a job at the
Union.
Crack
Cocaine’s badass freebase brother, not
held down by stupid ionic bonds. Apart
from its addictive moreish qualities, it
gets a bad rap from the people it’s as-
sociated with. Of course everyone’s go-
ing to think crack is terrible when you
have Charlie Sheen as pretty much its
poster boy, who also recommends tak-
ing ridiculous quantities. Not to men-
tion “gangstas” from “da hood” who
smuggle it wrapped in tin foil shoved
up their rectum. Hardly a glamorous
way to get high.
Ecstasy
Touted as a “clubbing” drug because it
might possibly make the ordeal of go-
ing to a club not completely unbear-
able. You actually want to dance, stop
giving a shit about how stupid you look
and possibly even have some degree of
empathy towards your fellow party-go-
ers, as opposed to wanting to drag their
testicles across a rusty cheese grater for
getting in your way on the dance floor.
Drugs. Delicious and mind-bending
Hangman does not in any way encourage the use of drugs because you shouldn’t do them. And you shouldn’t do them because they are illegal,
which is a shit reason but it’s good enough for the government. But if you must, here is a guide. We are the mum that packs a condom with her
child’s lunch because the only thing worse than underaged sex is underaged sex and pregnancy. Or if it’s with the PE teacher.
HANGMAN
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
40
Methamphetamine
If you need your teeth removed but are
too scared to go to the dentist, meth will
sort that right out. Unfortunately, it’s
a broad-spectrum antidental agent so
there might be some collateral damage.
Don’t worry, the gummy look works
well with your dishevelled hair and
clothes. It will also limit your injuries
when you try biting yourself to silence
the voices in a schizophrenic episode.
Keep tuned for the series finale when
you finally die.
Caffeine
Possibly the superhero of all drugs, and
legal too. Gets you through all-nighters,
and research has shown it increases
physical endurance and helps you to
burn calories. Or maybe they forgot to
take into account that it kills your ap-
petite like watching “Kill it, Cook it,
Eat it” should (instead it just makes you
crave for meat and murder). You should
probably think twice before heading
straight for the Red Bull, though: get-
ting the shits really isn’t fun, especially
when you haven’t actually eaten any-
thing. Now you know how an Ethiopian
with dysentery feels.
Meanwhile, on Tuesday evening in the SAF building...
.
I didn’t realise this launch was
going to get political. They
should’ve sent Andrew
Marr instead of me. Shitfuckshitfuckshitfuck. They
were laughing at all the other
tweets but now everyone is
silent. It’s like Carlos Mencia
suddenly walked in the room and
started making jokes. At least
R Wintz over there’s having the
time of his life. I bet it was him
when he was fiddling with his
iPhone earlier.
Lol. I shouldn’t appear too
amused though, I’m meant to
be the Brian Cox of Biology,
except more likeable and
with a less whiney voice.
have for the world and proceed to hit
on anything vaguely female-looking,
taking your shirt off to impress if need
be. Or cut straight to the chase and give
the object of your affections precisely
£12.60 to buy a drink, expecting some-
thing else apart from change in return.
Mushrooms
Some people start seeing rainbows ev-
erywhere like they’re looking through
a prism, some see God. But then again,
people claim to see Jesus in burnt toast
quite regularly so don’t be surprised
if your God is just a delusion. A small
handful of people see every single inan-
imate object talking to them, but this is
most likely just a manifestation of lone-
liness and the need to talk to someone.
When you’ve eaten more mushrooms
than Mario, the bin will make a decent
agony aunt in a pinch. Go ahead, press
the lever and pretend it’s opening its
mouth to speak. It is a bin though, so
it’s probably talking rubbish.
Marijuana
The green stuff has the tendency of
turning you into a consumerist’s dream:
you hit a joint, then mong out on the

