Horoscopes*
Scorpio
This week you are Marky Mark. You get
the Funky Bunch back together to take
flights from London to New York all
day, every day in the hopes one will be
hijacked. If that happens, you’re seriously
fucking shit up, Bruce Willis has nothing
on you.
Aries
This week, you’re Mitt Romney. You
make the mistake of reading your own
manifesto and watching your speeches.
Even you don’t want to vote for your-
self. Ergh. Oh well, let’s look at the cen-
trefold instead. All men, again. Damn.
Archives it is. AGAIN.
Taurus
This week, you come to the stark re-
alisation that the only things in life
that you really care about are bitches
and hoes. They rule your life. You
can’t think of anything else. Dogs and
gardening seem to be all you get up to
nowadays. Thug life.
Gemini
This week you’re a sabbatical. You get
in a lot of trouble with the Union when
you are caught masturbating while
looking at pictures of your new phone.
Your court hearing is coming up. Both
the people that know about it are ex-
cited.
Cancer
This week your project is at a point where
you need to wait until next week before
you can make any progress. Therefore,
you have nothing of any importance to do.
Finally, you know what it’s like to be a sab-
batical. You get caught masturbating over
your phone. That’s less satisfying.
Leo
This week you get on the Northern line.
You decide that such a noble action is
worthy of a song. What do you know
about Bank? Well, you put your money
in the bank. You also mention that you
get laid in King’s Cross. If they don’t
like it they can kiss off.
Virgo
This week someone publicly criticises
you live over Twitter during a speech.
What the fuck is wrong with them.
You’re just trolling. LOL people lost
their jobs to save a couple of million and
then College is going to spend 4 million
making cafes. Now THAT’S comedy.
Libra
This week, you’re a ship’s captain. Ap-
parently saying hey to your mate wasn’t
a great idea, who knew. You make a
mental note to get rid of trip hazards.
Nobody believed that you fell onto that
massive cucumber arse first, now they
won’t believe you tripped into a lifeboat.
Sagittarius
This week, you think you like someone
but aren’t sure. They don’t seem the type
to like you in that way. You don’t know
exactly what to do or whether to risk it.
It’s a dilemma that’s difficult to solve.
Oh well, at least Marky Mark and his
Funky Bunch are patrolling the skies.
Capricorn
This week you don’t see what the fuss is
about the whole stuff closing down etc.
The sites are “legal”. Isn’t that the point:
to strive to be the minimum possible
requirement for you to not be labeled as a
criminal? That’s quality service right there
surely.
Aquarius
This week you get annoyed that the
humour in Hangman isn’t exactly tailored
to your tastes.As humour is not subjective,
this means that it is their fault and not a
difference in opinion.You masturbate over
your phone to cheer yourself up. It works,
youcum.You’restillhollowinsidethough.
Pisces
This week you kidnap Benedict Cumber-
batch.An actor – can’t be that hard to scare
him and get a ransom. Next thing you
know you’re shaking hands with him and
apologising for any inconvenience caused.
Damn he’s good. You then capture Marky
Mark. You tell him to put his shirt on.
*Straight from the spit of a psychic in a back alley. I paid them to swallow, dammit.
Stuff Imperial students hate
Being in centrefolds*
Whose bloody idea was this? It’s alright for the
men: they just need one hand to cover themselves,
or none if they emulate Buffalo Bill and keep your
front to everyone. Both of ours are busy, and we
still need another arm to get undressed. We have
to perform some ridiculous co-operation with the
other girls to get our kit off without exposing our
nipples. Note to self: bring nipple tassles the next
time I get roped into one of these photoshoots.
*Hello! Yes, you, the one reading. Are you a girl?
Think you could provide a better perspective of
how girls think in this column? God knows it’s hard
thinking down to your level. Email Felix if you’re
interested!
Centrefolds
Nobody bothers reading most of Felix, apart from
Hangman/Comment because they’re occasionally
funny and the cookery section for ideas on what to
have for dinner instead of leftovers again. Oh, and
the centrefolds. Naked girls are great. Except two
things: 1. They are mostly guys. 2. They aren’t even
naked. The guys mostly get their kit off, but on half
the girls you can see a cheeky bit of bra strap. And
I’m convinced that the ones that appear truly naked
have simply had their straps photoshopped out. On
the off-chance that anyone is actually nude the girl
will cry over the phone to the editor until he adds
in an extra pom-pom to make her “decent”.Screw
this, I’m going back to masturbating over American
Apparel models.
Female
Male
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
Fucking gravity, always bringing you down when drunk. He’s clinging
on to that bike harder than his last pint
HANGMAN
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 41

