NEWS
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 7
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
RCSU Science Challenge launched
Overall winner will receive tour of CERN and £2,000
Concern over future of Humanities
Concerns have been raised about the
future of the Humanities department at
Imperial by one of its lecturers, Didier
Occhipinti. Mr Occhipinti, who teaches
French at the College, was due to pres-
ent a lecture to the Political Philosophy
Society late last term but cancelled the
event in protest of what he sees as the
threat of a “death by a thousand cuts” to
the department.
Speaking to Felix Mr Occhipinti
raised the issue of “things at the Col-
lege with which [he feels] more and
more disturbed with”. He believes that
“discrimination to humanities is on the
increase”, and that this sort of “anti-in-
tellectualism can go hand in hand with
elitism”. This discrimination has mani-
fested itself in Humanities department
having spent the past three years in a
state of near “permanent restructuring”
– the much debated proposed changes
to the College timetable being just the
latest example following large cuts in
previous years.
These latest proposals are a particu-
lar concern of Charmian Brinson, the
department’s Director of Language
Studies. She says that the “College Day
proposals as they stand will have the
effect of reducing student options and
adversely affecting the overall student
experience just at the point when stu-
dent fees are about to be tripled”. Pro-
fessor Brinson also points out “Human-
ites Department was not represented on
the College Day Committee” and that
while the former Head of the Depart-
ment, Professor Andrew Warwick, was
invited to one of Committee’s sessions
“the points he made at the meeting were
not incorporated into the College Day
document”.
Mr Occhipinti stresses that, whilst on
their own the various changes to Hu-
manities are reasonable; together they
pose a real threat to the Department. He
believes that “by toying with Humani-
ties the way management is doing a tip-
ping point will be reached from which
Humanities will not recover” and that
there is a “real divide between senior
management and students and lectur-
ers” who support humanities. Felix was
shown a student comment from last
autumn SOLE survey which bemoaned
how “departments officially encourage
humanities, but in practice, do almost
anything to discourage students from
taking any course (or at least attentively
keeping up with it)”.
He says that he does not understand
the false divide between sciences and
humanities and points out how benefi-
cial the subjects taught by the Depart-
ment can be to Imperial students. He
points to a quote from the Observer
which he thinks explains it best: “The
study of history, philosophy, languages
and literature broadens horizons and
animates minds that go on to enrich
society in many ways. The advantages
that flow from research into the creative
output of humanity might not be obvi-
ously financial, but they are incalcu-
lable.”
Maciej Matuszewski
Alexander Karapetian
Jonathan Peek
The Department of Humanities has spent the past three years in a state
of “restructuring”
The Royal College of Science Union
(RCSU) launched the Science Chal-
lenge 2012 on Tuesday 18 January
after holding an event that saw stu-
dents turn out in force. The launch
event, held in the Sir Alexander Flem-
ing building, revealed the questions
which this year’s Science Challenge
revolve around, with Paul Beaumont,
RCSU Vice President (Operations)
and Science Challenge Chair hosting
the night.
The Science Challenge is an essay
writing competition that aims to en-
courage scientific debate, reasoning
and the communication of science in
a public friendly context. Paul Beau-
mont emphasised the need for entrants
to write a “compelling scientific argu-
ment that any member of the public,
with only a basic grounding in science
could read, understand and be swayed
by”.
Guest speakers included Managing
Director of Sustainability Services at
Accenture Peter Lacy, BBC’s Science
Editor, Imperial alumnus and former
Felix Editor Pallab Ghosh and Profes-
sor Lord Robert Winston, who each
set a question along with Mark Hen-
derson, head of communications at
the Wellcome Trust, who was unable
to attend.
Entrants select one topic question
and must write 800 words by 5 March,
when the competition closes. Tues-
day’s launch event saw the speakers
tell stories of their experiences with
science communication, which were
preceded by speeches from the Prin-
cipal of the Faculty of Natural Sci-
ences Professor Maggie Dallman on
communication as a valuable asset
and former RCSU President Jad Mar-
rouche.
The event was modernised with an
interactive live twitter stream being
displayed on one screen for the at-
tendees to post collectively as they
experienced the event. The tweets
were aggregated under the hashtag
#SciChal but the screen was shortly
switched off as there was no modera-
tion mechanism in place.
The questions for this year’s Science
Challenge this year are as follows:
Lord Robert Winston: “What are
the five main ethical issues that face
modern science and how do we tackle
them?”
Pallab Ghosh: “What is the role of
science journalism in the 21st Cen-
tury?”
Peter Lacy: “What scientific break-
through should we focus on to provide
sustainable food, energy and water for
nine billion on a planet of apparently
finite natural resources, and why?”
Mark Henderson: “How should pol-
iticians best make use of science?”
The competition allows both Impe-
rial students to enter as well as stu-
dents from secondary schools and
colleges, with a separate prize branch
for external students. Two unallocated
tickets to the House of Lords dinner,
where the final is expected to be held,
were handed out during the launch
to Annina Sartor, who successfully
answered the arithmetic riddle given
with 131, the number of years since
the RCSU’s founding.
RCSU President Luke Kanczes
praised the launch, telling Felix that
he’s “really excited that [they’ve]
launched this year’s Science Chal-
lenge”, adding “hopefully, the ques-
tions will generate some fantastic
responses to some of the biggest ques-
tions facing today’s Scientists.”
The event makes a change from last
year’s scaled down version, where the
Maria Veiga
RCSU were unable to secure sponsor-
ship for the awards. The budget this
year is substantially larger and is re-
flected in the prizes.
The overall winner of this year’s
Science Challenge will receive a tour
of the Large Hadron Collider at CERN
as well as a cash prize of £2,000. The
category winners will receive a cash
prize of £500, with the finalists all
also receiving a tour and dinner recep-
tion at the House of Lords.
Guest speakers (left to right) Peter Lacy, Lord Robert Winston and Pallab Ghosh

