H
uman activity may be delaying
the Earth’s next ice age, a new
study reveals, suggesting that
atmospheric CO2
concentra-
tions need to be considerably
lower for Earth’s next climatic heartbeat to fol-
low its natural rhythm. The study, by Professor
Chronis Tzedakis and colleagues at the Envi-
ronmental Change Research Centre at Univer-
sity College London, published in Nature Geo-
science, looks at recent geological analogues
of the current interglacials in order to answer
a question that has, up to now, stumped clima-
tologists – how long do we have until the next
ice age?
Over the last few million years, Earth’s
climate has been dominated by fluctuations
between ice ages (or glacials) and their cor-
responding warm periods (interglacials), cli-
matic states that are controlled by the amount
of solar radiation reaching the high latitudes of
the Arctic and Antarctic. In turn, the amount
of solar radiation reaching Earth on timescales
of thousands of years is controlled by regular
and mathematically predictable fluctuations
in our planet’s orbit during its transit around
the Sun. For example, precession describes a
26,000 year shift in the orientation of Earth’s
axis of rotation, whereas obliquity, with a
41,000 year cycle, results from the wobble of
Earth’s axis relative to the solar plane. Despite
their predictability, complications arise when
attempting to reconstruct or predict the cli-
mate’s response to these regular perturbations.
This is because the Earth’s climate is inher-
ently complex, with many poorly understood
processes that produce feedbacks and ampli-
fications in response to changing solar insola-
tion and greenhouse gas concentrations.
It is these uncertainties that mean that study-
ing the timing of past glacial inceptions in the
context of orbital variability is a bit redun-
dant – the durations of past interglacials has
been variable as a result of different climatic
conditions and component responses. Despite
this, there are one or two candidates that may
be comparable to the modern interglacial –
in particular, one event that occurred around
780,000 years ago. This climatic interval is the
target of Tzedakis’ study, due to similarities in
the amount of solar insolation to today. In fact,
their modelling suggests that today’s levels of
solar insolation would be sufficient to initiate
an ice age in the next 1500 years, a remarkably
short amount of time. However – and this is a
big however – in order for an ice age to initi-
ate, a threshold must be reached where atmo-
spheric CO2
concentrations are low enough to
The next ice age may be late
A super cool place to live, but at what cost?
permit global cooling. Today, CO2
concentra-
tions are around 390ppm and fast increasing,
but the ice age inception threshold lies around
240ppm. The implications of this are massive
– human activity is preventing the natural cy-
clicity of Earth’s climate and may delay the
next ice age, which is immediately imminent,
at least in geological terms.
So, as the Global Warming Policy Founda-
tion (the UK’s leading source of climate change
scepticism) suggests – we have a choice. Ei-
ther we halt CO2
emissions today and dress up
warm and deal with the next ice age, or carry
on the same and bask in the searing tempera-
tures and flooding of the warm world of the
future…either way, climate change is here and
it is here to stay.
DOI:10.1038/ngeo1358
Ever since 1969, when J H Ostrom proposed
that theropod dinosaurs used their tails to
maintain balance during fast movement, sci-
entists have suggested that a wide range of
animals, from primates to rodents, use ac-
tive motion of appendages such as arms or
tails to stabilise their motion. Now a team of
scientists from the University of California,
Berkeley, has found that by moving their
tails, lizards can maintain a near constant
pitch when moving through the air after a
jump.
In their experiments the group made a num-
ber of Red-Headed Agama lizards (known
scientifically as Agama agama) jump from a
small block, or vault, to a raised platform. A
high speed, 1000 frames per second camera
was then used to record their motion. The
vault was covered with “smooth glossy card
stock”, which meant that, as they jumped,
the lizards’ legs slipped slightly – impart-
ing an angular momentum to the lizards and
causing their angle of flight through the air
to change. After analysing the changes to the
lizards’ pitch caused by this effect, the scien-
tists found that this was less than would have
been expected if the lizards didn’t have a tail
and theorised that “by rotating their tails with
respect to the body in the sagittal plane, the
lizards transferred angular momentum from
the body to tail, thereby reducing body angu-
lar velocity and ... body rotation”.
To further test it the scientists constructed
a wheeled robot with an attached rod to sim-
ulate a tail and set it running off a ramp to
simulate the lizards’ motion. The team says
that while “inertial stabilization of robotic
locomotion has been modelled before, [their
robot was] the first with a specialized tail-
like appendage for continuous inertial stabi-
lization”. When this ‘tail’ was moved in the
way the lizards’ tails had been observed to,
the angle by which the robot was rotated was
72% less than when the rod was held fixed.
Applying the model developed using this
research to velociraptors – 1.5m high the-
ropods that lived in the late Cretaceous, the
team found that their extraordinarily flexible
tails would have been even more effective
in stabilising movement through the air than
those of the Agama agama. They conclude
that “small theropods like Velociraptor with
active tails might have been capable of aerial
acrobatics beyond even those displayed by
present-day arboreal lizards”.
While this research is of clear interest to
biologists, the scientists believe the fact that
they managed to replicate the effect seen in
lizards in a robot shows that their work can
not only “advance our understanding of ap-
pendage evolution”, but also “provide bio-
logical inspiration for the next generation of
manoeuvrable search-and-rescue robots”.
DOI:10.1038/nature10710
Maciej Matuszewski
FELIX
Friday 20 january 2012
8
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
Carys Cook on how human activity may cause a delay in the next ice age
How leaping lizards use their tails
In brief
Like us on Facebook
More planets than stars?
Scientists have found that planets around a star
may be the rule, rather than the exception. An-
nounced at the American Astronomical Society
meeting and published in Nature on the same day,
an international collaboration of scientists say
that there may be more planets than stars within
our galaxy.
A new technique known as gravitational micro-
lensing has allowed the team to look for planets
further away from the host star than they have pre-
viously been able to. They found a group of plan-
ets that are very far from their host star, or even
unbound, and conclude that these planets are at
least as numerous as stars in the Milky Way.
The results indicate that planetary systems like
our own solar system may be more normal than we
had previously imagined. Whereas most exoplan-
ets found in the past have been similar to gas gi-
ants, due to the techniques used to detect them,
Cassan and his colleagues analysis suggests that
62% of stars have a super-Earth (a planet bigger
than Earth, but a lot smaller than a gas giant) or-
biting them.
facebook.com/FelixScience
These planets decided to occupy Jupiter
Science Museum Lates
Tired of the same old Union every Wednesday?
Check out the Science Museum Lates between 7
and 10pm on Wednesday the 25th. The Lottolab
on the first floor will be running a psychology ex-
periment with delicious cocktails, DJs, live artists
and more! With free entry, cheap drinks and a de-
cent ratio, what’s stopping you?
Science Museum, Wednesday 25 January, 7pm
Follow the latest science
news from Imperial and
around the world on our
Facebook page

