How we find
faces
Madhura Ghosh
Our face is one of the main things that
identifies us as an individual.
Babies have a tendency to attend to
face and “face-like” stimuli (such as a
triangle on a point as opposed to on a
base). With faces practically hard-wired
into our systems from a young age, it
makes sense that there is a part of the
brain dedicated to recognising faces in
opposition to non faces – the fusiform
gyrus.
However, what is perplexing to scien-
tists is that such a finely tuned organ as
the brain appears to have a lot of over-
lap in function between hemispheres.
Ming Meng and colleagues recently
helped clear up this area of murky un-
derstanding proving there are indeed
differences between the right and left
fusiform gyri.
Firstly, the results show that the right
fusiform gyrus tends to make face/
non-face categorical judgements. As
in, there is a clear cut-off point. In con-
trast, activity in the left fusiform gyrus
appears to correspond to face similari-
ties within an image. This is modulated
by contextual information – an almost
mental sharpening by enhancing re-
sponses to faces and diminishing them
towards almost faces.
So, when we look at the ‘faces’ of in-
animate objects, such as a car for exam-
ple; I imagine the response in the brain
goes a little like this:
Right Fusiform gyrus: “That is not a
face.”
Left Fusiform gyrus: “It’s a little too
square and metallic for a face, but look
it’s smiling!”
In the right hemisphere, as a categori-
cal judgment has been made, there is no
real enhancement or change.
This could possibly lead you to be-
lieve, with such a quick initial judge-
ment being passed, that the right fusi-
form gyrus undertakes the rapid initial
processing. As with many things con-
cerning the brain, it is not that simple.
Through careful studies, scientists have
worked out that responses in the left
side occur within two seconds of seeing
the image and diminish quickly (cor-
relating with rapid processing) while
responses on the right can last up to
eight seconds indicating deep cognition
of faces.
However, this research is not simply
about finding out where our childish
ability to delight in face-like forms aris-
es from. With the brain being as intri-
cate and delicate as it is, problems can
easily occur. Though our understanding
is currently limited; research such as
this that furthers our knowledge brings
us one step closer to treating and help-
ing a multitude of neurologically dam-
aged patients.
DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2011.1784
SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 20 january 2012 9
The brain is king
Marie-Laure Hicks on how marketing companies are trying to tap into your brain
A
s the economic crisis
continues, companies are
developing new methods
to make you buy, by go-
ing straight to the source:
your brain. Marketing and advertisement
have generally relied on focus groups and
surveys to determine the efficiency of a
campaign. This method poses a problem
as it is difficult to measure a spontaneous
reaction. Participants are asked a question
and therefore consciously think about it,
but 95% of consumer buying behaviour is
unconscious. This is where neuroscience
comes in.
In 2003, Read Montague and col-
leagues at the Baylor College of Medi-
cine, Texas, decided to investigate the
Pepsi Challenge with functional Mag-
netic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Vol-
unteers were given Pepsi or Coca Cola to
drink, first in unlabelled cups. They were
then given Pepsi or Coca Cola in labelled
cups. Read Montague and colleagues
measured brain activity as the volunteers
sipped the beverage. The results were
astonishing. Concerning the unlabelled
drinks, volunteers expressed no distinct
taste preference and most volunteers were
unable to identify the brand. However,
when the drinks were labelled, the drink
in the Coca Cola labelled cup was clearly
preferred. The parts of the brain that were
stimulated also varied. For the unlabelled
cup, volunteers expressed high activity in
the ventro-medial prefrontal cortex, as-
sociated with appetitive rewards. When
the cups were labelled, the hippocampus,
midbrain and dorsolateral prefrontal cor-
tex were also stimulated. These regions of
the brain are linked to emotions, memory
and affective influence on behaviour. The
text showed that in the case of Coke and
Pepsi, taste was not the only factor neces-
sary for preference: there was also a cul-
tural factor linked to the brand.
A number of studies on brand loyalty
have taken place since. They show that
the cerebral behaviour of loyal customers
is different to that of irregular custom-
ers in purchasing situations. Brand loy-
alty was associated with activity in the
striatum, ventro-medial prefrontal cortex
and anterior cingulate cortex, a network
linked with emotions and rewards. On the
other hand, when brand loyalty was not
involved in a purchase choice, the brain
activity patterns corresponded to more
semantic processes like mathematical
calculations, reading and strategic think-
ing. In the consumer society, successful
brands are those that form an emotional
link with their customer.
These findings are now being applied
in neuromarketing to determine the ef-
ficiency of advertisement campaigns,
packaging and brand image. NeuroFocus,
an American company, uses three factors
to determine the efficiency of ads: atten-
tion, emotional engagement and memory
retention. Using an electroencephalo-
gram (EEG), they are able to measure the
changes in electrical fields in regions of
the brain as a function of time. This meth-
od does not provide the same information
as an fMRI. The location of the brain ac-
tivity is not very accurate and signals deep
inside the brain are difficult to measure,
however being able to follow changes in
brain activity on a second by second basis
is very useful. It is also cheaper. Using re-
sults from ADHD, Alzheimer’s and pho-
bia research, the different factors can be
measured and quantized. The effective-
ness of EEG measurements was verified
by asking volunteers subjected to tests,
whilst viewing adverts, related questions.
Memorable and positive reception was
linked to increased brain activity.
Marketing companies are now begin-
ning to apply these theories. A Fanta
advert, in which a girl crashes into a
window, then walks off to start dancing
and drink some Fanta given to her, was
studied by Brain Impact, a European
company studying unconscious decisions
with fMRI. When the girl crashes into
the window it triggers a peak of nega-
tive emotion, grabbing your attention
and the ending then generates a positive
emotion. The advert also stimulates the
“emotional” regions of the brain, not the
rational ones. EEG and fMRI provide the
means to determine the exact trigger that
will generate the emotions and stimulate
the rewards and memory regions of your
brain for increased impact.
Neuroscience has already provided us
with new and useful information on the
human brain, and neuromarketing is a
growing area of research, especially in
private industry, that has the potential to
do the same. However, the capacity to
manipulate the human brain into certain
behaviours leads to serious ethical issues.
Adverts that have been developed with
information provided by neuroscience
have been shown to trigger purchase in-
tent. If businesses have the capacity to
“read their clients’ minds”, will the best
interest of consumers be taken into ac-
count? Scientists have suggested that ad-
dictions to shopping could be amplified.
In addition, volunteers taking part in stud-
ies have no control over the personal in-
formation they provide and their privacy
can be breached. With the absence of reg-
ulation, neuromarketing has potentially
dangerous applications and could affect
the freedom of choice of customers, espe-
cially as political campaigns are showing
interest in neuromarketing.
Can I interest you in some car insurance? How about consolidating all your existing debts into one single monthly repayment? Please step into my office...

