Editorial
The carefree days of Easter are over, it's
term-time again, and the sun is no longer
shining in Happy Bunny Land.
(Translation: It's Summer term, and thus
exam time, so things are looking a bit
grim). Just under a third of the current
undergraduates will be taking their finals,
and looking to other things. Whether the
careers service continues to be as helpful
and useful in the future for the next
generations of survivors of the Imperial
College experience, well...
More nonsense, M r Mee?
In the Easter Special (issue 900) I wrote
about the College plan to disaffiliate from
ULCAS (the University of London Careers
Advisory Service). A couple of hours after
the issue was distributed the Rector rang
me, concerned about some of the points I
had made. We agreed that he would
write an article presenting his views on
the subject, to be printed this term.
However, in the meantime, P E Mee, the
College Registrar, wrote a letter, which
was printed last week. The Rector, when
asked, was of the opinion that his article
would thus be unnecessary. Thus I
assume that Mr Mee's letter covers the
points he was concerned with.
Mr Mee claims that the editorial was
'...peppered...' with '...misunderstandings
and misconceptions...'. This is interesting,
considering the number in his own reply.
He states that 'There is no question of a
direct labour policy' (a situation where
the careers service would try to push
students into careers related to their
degree, and thus reduce the level of
individual choice of career. Very bad. See
issue 900's editorial for more). He fails to
say that the only reason we can rely on
this is due to the student pressure
brought upon them, which has resulted in
a policy paper on careers advice being
drawn up, which will ensure that this
does not happen.
He also attempts to imply that few IC
students use ULCAS's Gordon Square
facilities, by saying that only '...70 IC
students used the Gordon Square milk-
round this year'. He neglects to say that
far more than this used the libraries and
other facilities. Neither has there been
any guarantee that the new IC careers
service will cover the individual costs of
students using these facilities, which could
mean that students will have to pay
themselves (estimated to be £5 for a day
of research next year).
The statement that 'There are no 'start-
up' investment costs of which Angus
Fraser is unaware' is interesting, to say
the least. Benjamin Turner asked Mr
Fraser whether he was aware that the
costs proposed by Mr Mee did not include
those necessary to upgrade the current
careers library, and he replied that he
wasnot. The Careers Advisors Committee
estimated that the library was currently
only at 10% of the level of typical stand-
alone services. Of course, the plan could
be to send people to Gordon Square, and
not update our library, but that rather
begs the question of why are we
disaffiliating in the first place, if we are to
continue to use ULCAS facilities?
Especially when the students themselves
may have to pay.
When discussing the Association of
Graduate Careers Advisory Services Mr
Mee claims that '...our links are likely to
be stronger'. He again neglects to say
that the main reason for this is the policy
paper mentioned above, which was
drawn up solely due to student pressure,
and that without this our links to AGCAS
could well have been severely weakened.
At no point did I conclude that there
was a '...conspiracy to damage the
careers service.' I was merely pointing
out that while His Rectorness et al claim
they are '...trying to build a stronger,
better careers service...', almost
everybody else that was consulted by
Benjamin Turner disagreed, and most of
them were professional graduate careers
advisors, or prominent members of
various graduate careers services.
So why do the Rector and gang think
they know better? What do they know
that the experts don't? That's what
immediately sprang to my mind. Nobody
seemed to know the answer to that one.
So maybe, just maybe, there were other
reasons for their decision. This is what I
was attempting to point out to the people
who will actually be using the service,
and will actually be looking for jobs after
their degree. I was not trying to suggest
that they were deliberately conspiring to
damage the careers service, just that
there may be other reasons for the
disaffiliation, but as a by product the
service would, in the opinions of those far
more qualified than myself, and maybe
even than His Rectorness and gang, suffer
from the move.
Small Ads
FOR SALE
•LT 700 Cycle Helmet. Unwanted present.
Unword, boxed. £45 new, weill sell for £35
ono. J Young, Maths 1, or phone 071-589 0110
int 3613.
• NAD AMPLIFIER, KEF speakers and dual
turntable £100 ext 98 210.
Credits:
Typesetting and Printing: Rose and
Andy
News Editor: Stef
Arts Editor: Matt and Sumit
Books Editor: Michael
Music Editor: John
Clubs Editor: Khurrum
Photo Editor: Dick
The Team: Ian, Adam, Jonty and all the
reviewers.
The Collators: Steve and god knows
who else.
Special People of the Week: Kate (who
stayed up all night for us last week.
Fnarr), Louise and Frank and Sid, not
forgetting Steven (ditto), and Michael (just
to keep him happy)
Jammy Git of the Week: Chris. Nuff
said. And don't mention Backgammon. Or
else.
Felix is p r o d u c e d for a n d o n behalf of the Imperial
College U n i o n Publications B o a r d a n d is printed at
the Imperial College U n i o n Print Unit, Prince C o n s o r t
Road, L o n d o n S W 7 2 B B (Tel 071-225 8672).
Editor. A n d r e w B u t c h e r , M a n a g e r : C h r i s Stapleton,
Business M a n a g e r : J e r e m y B u r n e l l . C o p y r i g h t Felix
1991 ISSN 1040-0711.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
F O R O C T O B E R 1991
NO S U M M E R C H A R G E
N O FEES
Variety of houses, flats, single
bedsits a n d double bedsits.
Areas: South Kensington, Earl's
Court and Fulham.
Flats 3,4,5,6,7,8 shares
Houses 8,9,10
Prices from £47 per week per
person.
Single bedsits from £40 per week
per person
Double bedsits from £36 per week
per person
For further information and
appointments phone:
071-731 0292 anytime
081-546 8159 anytime
ask for Silvana
ACCOMMODATION FOR
SUMMER AVAILABLE

