Sunset A n i m a l s
Russian
Boycott
The Jewish Society is taking part in a
national campaign to stop the British
Government taking part in a Human
Rights conference in Moscow. According
to the society, the government had
previously stated that the visit would not
go ahead unless improvement were seen
in six Human Rights areas. As of now,
the condition have only been met in two
of these.
The Jewish society is therefore
petitioning the Home Secretary, Douglas
Hurd, to boycott the conference. Those
wishing to sign the petition, or write a
letter can meet the Jewish Society in the
JCR on Thursday.
At the Board of Studies meeting this
week the decision to lengthen the College
Day was deferred. Professor Alan
Swanson, Chairman of the working party
to look into the extension gave his
report, and although he made no official
recommendations, commented that he
personally was in favour of the college
day being lengthened.
Professor David Blow, despite being in
favour of a longer College day, spoke
against the decision being taken at the
meeting on the grounds that further
discussion was needed. The Rector, Sir
Eric Ash, suggested that the extended day
should be tried for a test period, but this
too was rejected.
The Rector then asked if he could put
his point of view to the students, so that
their view on the matter could be taken
into consideration. Deputy President, Ben
Turner, said that the Rector would be
allowed to speak at an Extraordinary
General Meeting (EGM) which would soon
be called to express the student view
before the next Board of Studies Meeting
on the 19th June.
IC Goes A b r o a d
& mmwmmmgm
Professor David Phillips, demonstrating the magic of science
Imperial College was the star attraction at
the opening of the largest science
museum in Hong Kong last week. The
centre uses new hand-on technology to
explain modern scientific discoveries.
Professor David Phillips, Dr Bob Spears,
Dr Tim Seller and Melanie Thody (School
Liason Officer) represented IC in
promoting the use of exciting
demonstrative teaching methods. The
external liason team gave lectures to rapt
audiences of school children, followed by
workshops to show teachers how to use
the imaginative demonstration techniques
in their classrooms. The event was
sponsored by Shell Hong Kong and is
expected to bring money, as well as new
students, to the college.
On Saturday 27th March an estimated
fifteen thousand people gathered in Hyde
Park for the largest anti-vivisection march
ever seen in Britain.
The route, south along Park Lane,
along Piccadilly and finally into Trafalgar
Square caused congestion for over an
hour. The head of the march arrived at
around half past three with people still
comin through over half an hour later. It
was estimated that over 20,000 people
were present filling the entire square.
At a quarter to four representatives of
various anti-vivisection and animal rights
groups spoke on subjects such as the
uselessness and unreliability of animal
tests and violations of regulations
covering vivisection. According to
representatives from the National Anti-
Vivisection Society (NAVS) over 3.5million
aninals are killed in the UK every year
and over 100 million world wide.
After the rally people were invited to
attend an exhibition in Central Halls,
Storey's Gate (just off Parliament Square)
where there were stalls and films
provided by local and national
organisations.
The march passed off peacefully with
no reports of trouble.
Theft Bit
The mail, taken from the Imperial College
postvan stolen during the Easter vacation,
was found last Wednesday. It was located
in a used garage on a run down Peckham
Estate. All the mail sacks, apart from six
registered packets, are thought to have
been recovered although there is no way
of verifying this.
Other news from the Seedy Underworld
of Crime this week includes three bikes
being stolen this week from around
College. None had D locks (Still on sale
from Security at £20.50).
T u r f
The Queen's Tower Lawn was torn up
yesterday in an attempt to revitalise the
dying grass. The contractors chose the
day due to 'ideal conditions', but had not
contacted Valorie Straw, Facilities
Manager, as previously arranged.
Valorie said that, had she been
consulted, she would have deferred the
process until Monday, after the RCS May
Ball. Louise Rafferty, organiser of the
May Ball, said 'It would have been nice to
have been informed', but added that
there was little she could have done.
2

