The Doors
Well, here it is kids, but when did
old father Hype last deliver all he
promised, I hear you ask?
The film is directed by Oliver Stone
(Platoon, Born on the Fourth of July, etc)
and stars Val Kilmer as Jim Morrison,
with Meg Ryan as Jim's 'girl', Pamela
Curson, and Kyle MacLachlan (currently
starring in a crappy serial on the box) as
the Door's keyboardist, Ray Manzarek.
After having seen the film you realise
that the film is mistitled—it should have
been called something along the lines of
Jim, the Demi-God. The film isn't so much
about the band as it is about a 'legend';
the film-makers obviously realised that it
would be much easier for audiences to
orgasm at the sight of Morrison than the
idea of four guys making some fucking
groovy music. The film is out to make
myths; myth being hype, being dollars.
In fact the first half of the film leaves
the impression that Morrison was a real
asshole—the film is riddled with
Hollywood cliches about sensitive
intellectual (ish) artists who find fame,
fortune and glory too hot to handle.
What fascinates most is Morrison's self-
destructiveness, his alcohol abuse, drug
experimentation and womanising. The
film also tries to bring out his mysticism
(which was of course very fashionable at
the time)—the film has the idea that Jim
thought that he always danced with a
Red Indian onstage, as if the music is
somewhere in his 'being', in touch with
the universe.
Cynicism aside though, this isn't a bad
Quick Change
effort. The film's strength does not really
lie in the storyline (which seems to be
stitched up from a lot of anecdotes about
Morrison's life) nor the depth of the
Morrison character, but instead in the
'concert footage'—the film is full of 'live'
performances, where the four actors
come together very well. Watching Val
Kilmer on stage in his leather pants you
can almost understand why Morrison was
the symbol of sex.
There's a great take-off of Andy Warhol
and his entourage here. Poor Andy's left
looking like a slobbering wimp opposite
Morrison.
In full, the film fails to capture the spirit
of the man, but succeeds with the music.
Anyone who likes The Doors' music
probably needs to see this film.
I.H.
Ju Dou
Before launching into a review of
this movie I feel it is only right to
inform you that it has been on the
distribution lists for so long that it has
assumed an almost mythological
significance. As such, when the time
finally came for its release I had built up
my expectations to a mixture of awe and
despair.
Quick Change is one of those films
which is based entirely around a single
premise - in this case, that trying to
escape from New York is more difficult
than the original bank heist. In some
cases this works admirably (Fatal ,
Attraction et al) and in others (The
Towering Inferno, Jaws IV etc) it has all
the charm of a burning penguin.
Thankfully, this film has Bill Murray in.
Mr Murray is possibly the single most
straight-faced comedian in the history of
motion pictures. He is more poker faced
than a poker which has lost its entire
family in a tragic air crash. His delivery
varies from the merely deadpan to the
simply dead. He plays an urban planner
who is so distraught at the giant
carcinogen New York has become that he
elects to leave for tropical climes with a
million of someone else's money. To help
him in this aim he recruits his naive but
personable girlfriend, Geena Davis and
the loveable (but, alas, very thick) Randy
Quaid, an old school pal.
After a fairly humorous opening
sequence (in which Murray rips off the
bank dressed as a clown and calls up a
variety of exciting devices to distract
attention while he makes his getaway)
the film really breaks into its stride when
the unfortunate Loomis (Quaid) manages
to foul up the whole operation with a
simple arm movement (no, you'll have to
watch the film). After this our heroes are
plunged into a world where the taxi
drivers speak only Spanish, the bus
drivers only accept exact change and no-
one will accept their cries for a kingdom
for a horse at all. Suspense claws with
comedy for top billing as Murray is forced
to wrangle with the Mafia, elude a police
cordon in his desperate efforts to procure
exact change and avoid Spanish knights
jousting with bicycles and broomsticks.
Everyone plays their part very well; the
script is top-notch and a few wonderful
lines pop up now and again. A good film.
The Flying Gerbil
Rarely do you see a film with such
an interesting story behind it. A
Chinese production financed and
post-produced by the Japanese, banned
for no obvious reasons in China, who
even tried to supress this very first
Chinese film to be nominated for an
Oscar. The film's American distributor
even organised a petition signed by
Woody Allen, David Lynch, Martin
Scorsese among many other famous
Hollywood directors, actors and musicians
urging China to lift the ban.
As for the story of the film, it may
sound too traditional: Ju Dou is the name
of the girl who is bought by Jin-Shan, the
employer of a dyeing workshop, as his
third wife. Jin-Shan has driven his two
wives to early graves already by sexually
abusing them. Not standing his torture, Ju
Dou seizes protection from Jin-Shan's
humble nephew Tian-Qing, who works for
him and fancies her like crazy already,
and becomes pregnant. A son is born,
and the family tragedy begins. However,
director Zhang Yimou has approached the
film in a different angle and has thus
retained freshness. The film's strongest
point is its stunning photography. Scenes
making full use of the contrasting colours
of the dyed cloths under the sun as well
as the depressing views of the primitive
and lifeless Chinese village won't be
easily forgotten.
By the way, if the deadpan acting in
The Last Emperor put you off from any
other films about the Chinese, this is the
film that shows that there exists some
good Chinese actors.
There will be one more week's
screening only at the ICA, by the time
this article is printed. This wonderful
melodrama is essential viewing.
D J S. Su.
4

