It must not be overlong and the head movements must not be too vigorous
0m.
To Boldly Go-The Story Continues
Banning the Banned—An Interview
Over the past three weeks, starting on
8th April, Channel 4 broadcast a unique
season of programmes and films, that
made television history in this country.
For the first time a broadcasting station
examined the issues of censorship within
broadcasting. The season called 'Banned'
was a brave and wide-ranging look at the
problems of who censors, why and how
we should respond. They showed the
films, previously prevented from public
broadcasting, including 'Life of Brian',
'Brimstone and Treacle', 'Freaks' and
'Cabinet' from Duncan Campbell's 'Secret
Society' Series. As the BBC were
unwilling to allow Channel 4 to broadcast
'Cabinet', they had to remake it
themselves.
This was a minor problem for the
producers of 'Banned', who were
negotiating with ITC - the committee that
judges what should or should not be
shown - before and throughout the .
season, hoping to persuade them to allow
the most controversial programmes to be
shown. It was ITC who insisted that 'Life
of Brian' could only be :hown after
10:30pm. Even so Mary Whitehouse
wrote to complain and over 250 phone
calls were received before the film went
out.
Up until the last moment Kim Peat,
from Channel 4's current affairs, was
hoping that they would receive
permission to broadcast 'Dick', a fifteen
minute film showing 1000 flaccid penises
in black and white with 100 women's
hilarious comments. The flaccid penis is
not banned from television, but the
regulations recommend limitations on
exposure time, fifteen minutes was
considered excessive. A decision Kim,
and the American film-maker Jo Menell,
could not understand considering how
inoffensive the film is compared to other
items broadcast during the season. Jo,
speaking at Imperial in Saturday's
conference on censorship, expressed his
surprise at the banning as Jeremy Isaacs,
the first chief executive of Channel 4, had
told him that he would definitely have
allowed the film to be shown if he had
still been in charge.
One of the prompts for the idea of a
season on censorship came from a series
of three films, 'The Truth About Lies',
commissioned by Channel 4 some time
ago. These were produced by Michael
Jones and his team at Panoptic, an
independent film company. Michael, as a
guest speaker at IC's conference, showed
clips from his documentary, 'Sex and the
Censors', a history of sexual censorship in
Britain. He explained the rules of
censorship; if fellatio is shown it must be
a position that allows for imitation, it
must not be overlong, and the head
movements must not be too vigorous.
Due to censored clips from Michael
Winner's film 'Death Wish 2' and the
extremely violent 'New York Ripper', the
former showing rape, the latter a breast
cut in half, being shown as part of 'Sex
and the Censors' at 9:00pm the ITC was
infuriated. This may have affected their
attitude to the rest of the season,
including their continued opposition to
'Dick'.
Kim hoped that their season would
become a landmark in broadcasting that
would encourage or empower other
broadcasters and journalists to fight and
struggle against unfair censorship. In
referring to the process of censorship she
explained that much of it was due to a
complex compilation of small decisions
building up to the ultimate consequence
of banning. This portrayal of the greyness
of why decisions were taken, and by
whom, was a part of creating a forum in
Among the aspects of information
control examined were thepressure put
on television by advertisers. The episode
of 'Thirty Something', that showed two
men in bed, produced a withdrawal of
advertising from eight companies when it
was shown in America. When asked
about the response to 'Banned' Kim
explained that only one programme
received no advertising, 'The Animal's
Film', as advertising executives at C4
thought there would be no market for the
space. She went on to stress that they are
one step removed from the pressure of
advertisers and would not have heard of
any complaints even if they had been
received.
One complainer, amongst many, was a
woman in a wheelchair, who visited the
television studios to comment on the
showing of the film 'Freaks'. She spent
over half an hour with Kim Peat
discussing the implications of the
portrayal of handicapped people in the
film. The major reason why the season
was conceived, and broadcast, was to
create debate. It forced discussion of the
issues within C4, especially within the
ITC, and has created argument in
newspaper leaders, letter pages, on radio
and on the streets. IC's event 'To Boldly
Go' was a major part of encouraging a
response from students. It will be
followed up over this term with an
exhibition accompanied by a book and
information fair in the JCR, along with
speaker meetings within college. Look out
for the posters.
which the simplicity of the too common
dogmaticism of debates on censorship
would be challenged. Kim concluded that
the season was about creating 'awareness
about the various different types of
censorship, how it works, who is
responsible and what we as citizens can
do about it'.
I wish to thank Kim Peat, Editorial
Administrator for Factual Programmes,
C4, for allowing us to interview her and
for the invaluable assistance she gave to
the Huxley Society's event 'To Boldly Go'.
World Report
ARTICLE 19 published their 'World
Report 1991' on 'Information Freedom
and Censorship' last month. It covers 77
countries, describing cases of
infringement of the human right, as
stated in the UN Declaration, of freedom
of expression, speech and belief.
In all there are eleven pages on the
United Kingdom, which starts with the
following sobering paragraph:
ARTICLE 19
INTERNATIONAL CENTRE AGAINST CENSORSHIP
'...There is no constitutionally significant
protection of freedom of expression or of
information. Any protection there is
depends upon conventions of restraint on
the part of the law- making and law-
enforcing authorities. Restraint does exist
but has become increasingly superficial.
This has been amply demonstrated in
recent years as former Prime Minister
Margaret Thatcher sought to re-assert
secrecy as a central principle of
government...'
There is a whole page on 'Satanic
Verses' and the blasphemy law, also
referring to the banned film 'Visions of
Ecstasy', the first ever censored for
blasphemy. ARTICLE 19, an international
pressure group for freedom of
information and expression, chairs and
co-ordinates the International Committee
for the Defence of Salman Rushdie and
his Publishers.
An old student from IC receives a
whole paragraph (p334). Past Felix Editor,
Bill Goodwin, as a trainnee journalist on
'The Engineer' was fined £5000 for
refusing to name a source. ARTICLE 19
campaigned in his defence.
On page 15, about Ethiopia, the book
refers to a journalist 'Martha Kumsa, was
held' without trial for over eight years
until September 1989, on apparent
suspicion of having links with another
ethnic oppostion group, the Oromo
Liberation Front'. The Oromo, as well as
ARTICLE 19 were represented at the
conference 'To Boldly Go' last Saturday at
IC. But who are the Oromo?
Information about ARTICLE 19 can be
found at the 'To Boldly Go' Fair, their
books and reports will be on sale at the
ICU Bookstore as well as the fair.
Oromo—The
Unheard
You've heard of the American Indians -
wiped out, lands stolen, reduce to state
dependence. You've heard of the
Aborigines. You may have even heard of
the Tasmanians - who were completely
wiped out, as extinct as the Dodo. Yet
who are the Oromo?
In their own land their language is
'effectively banned from public use', their
culture and religious institutions have
been nearly destroyed through
colonization and slavery, they are now
persecuted for being Muslims and
Protestant Christians. Over 400,000 have
become refugees and 3-4 million are
displaced within their own homeland.
The Oromo are the largest ethnic group
in NE Africa, numbering over 20 million.
When you see pictures of the starving in
Ethiopia, the likelyhood is that they are
Oromo. Why have we never heard of
them? Why do we not campaign on their
rights to their own culture and dignity?
Like the Kurds and Turkey's failure to
recognise them and their culture, until
the recent tragedy, the Oromo are not
recognised by the military dictatorship in
Ethiopia. The Kurdish plight of fleeing
millions from Saddam gains the attention
of the press and Jeffrey Archer, along
with international music stars. Who will
sing for the Oromo?
How long and what disaster will we
have to wait for?
Public Enemy
'An Enemy of the People' by Henrik
Ibsen and adapted by Arthur Miller,
portrays a doctor who discovers the
water is being poisoned by the local
factory. His attempts to warn the local
people are thwarted by censorship and
ultimately hatred.
The enemy of the people are the
people, who do not wish to hear the
problems that face them, they feel secure
in their ignorance. For the factory is the
major source of employment in the town.
He is threatened for being a disrupter, a
threat to society, and is forced to leave
the town.
Where is justice at Imperial? Many
students will see this as an irrelevant
question. What has justice to do with IC?
What kind of community do we live and
work in here? Does it support the
concepts of truth or are we public
enemies?
The 'Index on Censorship', whose editor
Andrew Graham-Yooll spoke at 'To
Boldly Go', carries articles that examine
censorship throughout the world. Their
issue on the environment, including an
article by Arthur Miller on Ibsen's play,
can be obtained free of charge as part of
an information pack to be given out in
the JCR during the 'To Boldly Go' Fair,
See posters and Felix for announcements.
'An Enemy of the People' is presently
on, in a new adaptation, at the Lyric,
Hammersmith (Box Office 081-741 2311)
until Saturday 11th May, 7:45pm evenings
and 4:00pm Saturday matinee. If you
have not seen it then go, it will set you
thinking, a rare activity in this soap opera
age.
Thanks
The Huxley Society, organiser of these
events, is grateful to its new committee
for their help, to Felix, to the current
sabbaticals, the Union Office Staff, to
London Student, the speakers at its
conference, C4 and to Spitting Image.
The reason why a Humanist society is
organising these events is in celebration
of, and to campaign for, the Open Society
as defined and defended by such eminent
Humanists as Dr Jacob Bronowski (Ascent
of Man), Prof Karl Popper, Carl Sagan and
Peter Ustinov, among many others. Look
out for our magazine, 'Experiment', to be
published soon.
To Come
Next Week:
Interviews
Banned playwright
Barbara Ehrenreich
Science Censorship
Starving in Silence
Spitting Image Rubber W o r k s 40p off.
Details next week.

