The Fall
-Shiftwork LP
'Fall Advance! Fall Advance!' are the
opening shouts on this year's Fall LP.
And advance they do. Advancing beyond
last year's superb Extricate LP, The Fall
Circushead
—The Jeremy Days LP
Green and red press releases from this
German band who describe this as
"Psychedelic beat music with memorable
pop melodies". Quickly referring to
Dominic's Psychedelia article in last
week's Felix, 1 discover that this is the
German branch of Psychedelia as it,
luckily, has no resemblance to any of the
bands mentioned within. Beat is easier, it
certainly has a great toe-tapping, finger-
licking beat. Memorable pop melodies,
well it's nothing like Kylie, but the
melodies are memorable, in particular
Give It A Name, When The Wind's
Blowin' Round and the soft, subtle Room
To Revolution. I'd say they had more
resemblance to Hothouse Flowers and
The Adventures (apart from not being
Irish) than to Jefferson Airplane. 150,000
Germans could easily be wrong, but in
this case, they're not.
Lise Yates
8
have shedded two of their number and
are now a super tight, take no prisoners,
throbbing monster of a four-piece band.
That The Fall have one of the tightest
rhythm sections in the land is often
overlooked and Craig Scanlon's snaking
guitar lines are all over the album. Mark
E's big gob is still spouting vitriol and
wickedly funny lyrics at every turn. 'Fall
Advance! Fall Advance!'.
Idiot Joy Showland sees Mark E
steaming into the Manchester 'idiot
groups with no shape or form, out of
their heads on a quid of blow.' Hello
there Happy Mondays, maybe? 'From
New York to Skegness' croons MES on
the nightmare-in-hell travelogue epic
Pittsville Direkt resplendent with wired
female backing vox. Edinburgh Man,
undoubtedly the star of all stars on this
album, is a slow, thoughtful tune that
takes one back to Bill is Dead. The War
Against Intelligence has MES complaining
about intelligence suppression in society
with mumbles about haircuts and dudes.
The title track, with its incessant
backing vocals chanting 'Shiftwork,
Shiftwork', plunders on and on, almost
drone like, reflecting the inherant
boredom in shiftwork. You Haven't Found
it Yet sees the band almost funking-out
and I swear 1 can hear Mark Smith
laughing. Though not as raw and in yer
face as their early work (Bingomasters
Breakout anyone?) this album sees The
Fall going beyond excellence to
somewhere most bands only dream of.
The Fall are fucking cool and you're an
idiot if you don't agree. 'Fall Advance!
Fall Advance!'
Dominic.
W e n c h
—A Tidy Sized Chunk LP
Imagine calling an all female band
Wench. This lack of taste is indicative of
crapulous dodgy metal.
The band pales in comparison with
other bands of the same ilk, cliched
stylised metal riffs and generally shite
lyrics abound. This really is a poor
excuse for a record—don't be deceived by
the metal-core label there is no core
about it.
Buy it if you are into insipid metal but
beware those with any self-respect.
PS. This record really does suck. If you
don't believe it you can have it.
Seb.
James Chance &
The Contortions
—Soul Exorcism LP
'And I still haven't found what I'm
looking for...' so sang God's mouthpiece,
Bono. Now if he'd listened to the self-
confessed Dictator of Disco Sophistico, the
King of Ultra Soul, Mr James Chance,
then Bono may have found that crock at
the end of the rainbow, because that's
how I feel now (and me and Bono don't
have a lot in common).
This is music for the mentally deranged,
Psycho Funk, the likes of which haven't
been heard in Britain since the demise of
the Pop Group. Ably supported by the
Contortions, who lay down a wicked slab
of back beat, chance takes songs (such as
Michael Jackson's Don't Stop till you get
Enough) rips out the warm fleshy bits,
devours and then regurgitates.
James Chance plays saxophone like
Roland Kirk meeting Billy Whizz.
James Chance has an organ that is
100% meat (no weedy wet hammond
vibrato here thank you ladies).
James Chance has a voice that could
make glass contaminated baby food a
marketable commodity.
James Chance is probably dead and
there lies the problem.
The accompanying biography certainly
reads more like an epitaph and the
concert (for it is a live recording) was
played ten years ago and released I
suspect on the strength of the new
happening Acid Jazz scene (and does he
make the current exponents look like
Tina Charles or wot!!!).
James Chance may (or may not be)
dead but I have this sneaking suspicion
that somewhere there's a party going on
to which Buddy Holly and Roy Orbison
probably aren't invited.
Davros Crippledick.

