Gary Clail
—Emotional Hooligan LP
Despite chart success, Gary Clail has not
abandoned his roots; Emotional Hooligan
is an LP of light reggae/dance (not of the
bastardized Maxi Priest variety). Try as I
may to listen to this record, however, I
find my attention slipping away like a
soapy eel on ice. While the songs are fine
nothing particularly differentiates them
from each other (apart from the singles
Beef and Human Nature) and a few
interesting samples (a dog's bark on the
title track and a small child on Magic
Penny). The lyrics are uniformly well-
intentioned but rubbish.
Pay It Ail Back Vol. 3 is a compilation
of the On-U Sound collective's various
individual efforts, all of which are based
around reggae. In some cases it's pure
and unadulterated (You Thought I Was
Dead by Lee Perry) while in others it's
danced up or souled out (Disconnection
and / Think Of You by The Strange
Parcels and Little Annie respectively).
Gary Clail makes another appearance as
does a track unashamedly called 'Stoned
Immaculate'. Two cuts from The Barmy
Army: a busy techno effort and bizarrely,
a football crowd singing Blue Moon..
Stone
The Blessing
—Highway 5 LP MLSIC
The cover is truly one of the most
terrible I have every seen. Why the road
disappears into the girl's eye and just why
all this American road imagery of striking
mountains, windswept plains and blue sky
should be on the cover of this crap song,
god only knows. Maybe if they were
some hard rockin' motha's like ZZ Top or
Steppenwolf then, yeah OK. But this band
is not rockin'. It's not even swaying. It is
vapid-soul-pop aimed at the 27-year-old
accountant who likes to dream about
being an easy rider whilst driving home
on a moped from a Network South-East
train station in Kent, before getting home
and having a cup of tea with his wife and
her mother. Truly nightmarish.
Dominic.
Bad Manners •Carnival 26.4.91
To go through this in order of
appearance, the Cuckoos seem to be
deserving of all their press coverage, as
they played an impressive professional
set. Now this poor reviewer trots all the
way up the stairs, only to find yet
another band intent on rehashing the
past. They and their tunes should be left
to fester in their flares and their flowers.
Back down the stairs. Jazz music. It's
annoying, isn't it? The Tommy Chase
Quartet play jazz. They don't play it
particularly badly, not when compared to
Southside's Monday night torture, but
they played enough to drive me upstairs
to the cocktails. Coincidentally, upstairs is
where I found Bad Manners. BJ, the ents
chairman went to great lengths to praise
them in last week's Felix, and they did
play a set which got the crowd going. But
I come not to praise Bad Manners, but to
bury them. Hands up who can remember
any Bad Manners hit apart from the Can
Can. You can? And when was that a hit?
1981? Exactly, when we had Bucks Fizz
and The Nolans (in the charts). Meanwhile
in other universities and poly's over the
country a quick glance towards NME
reveals, amongst others, dance chart-
toppers N-Joi, Hull's rising stars
Kingmaker, Neds' partners-in- crime Mega
City 4 and the innovative Shamen. Oh,
and Julian Cope too. Now I realise that IC
Union building has various restrictions
and should have been condemned years
ago, but surely we could have someone
on the up. Do you get my drift? BJ writes
that Bad Manners were back at IC after a
two year break. Let's hope they don't
have to be exhumed again.
Lise Yates
S y n e r g y featuring the Shamen
Since this evening consisted of acts
merging seamlessly into one another we
shall refer to the bands as A, B, C etc.
Band A sounded crap through six
inches of brick which may or may not
give an insight into their particular
musical forte. At this point we were still
struggling with an illiterate T&C bouncer.
We don't expect an outcry over this. We
just want you to feel sorry for us.
Band B (aka The Irresistible Force (we
think)) consisted 'of one gentlemen who
shared a chemical passion with much of
the audience and another who spent most
of his time tending to a small and
plaintive keyboard. This peculiar
combination nevertheless pounded the
crowd into a kind of blissed-out frenzy.
The Force retired amidst much repetition
of their name (in case anyone missed it, a
wise precaution) and faded into..
Until Band C arrived, although Band C
was really Woman A and Dancers E and
F (A,B,C,D accompanying Irresistible
Force). MC Kinky took the mike with her
own esoteric blend of ragga toasting and
Gregorian chant. Reviewer X felt that she
wasn't to his taste but Y thought it was
quite groovy. The audience (regardless of
opinion and oblivious to the change in
acts) continued their dazed capering. At
some point there may or may not have
been Guest DJ D who didn't really affect
proceedings, unlike the eight-foot tall
spaceman (Personality A, we kid you not)
on stilts who popped up in the crowd and
gyrated his way from one side of the hall
to the other, closely followed by a lady
juggling with fluorescent bats (as in
baseball, not as in rodent). Never say the
Shamen don't treat their fans right.
After a little more of this kind of thing
(we are now some four hours into the
evening) Band E arrived. By now the
-T&C 27.4.91
crowd had happily settled into automatic
trance mode and the fact that Band E
were in fact the Shamen provoked no
response at all. Well, not much, anyway.
The Shamen played a short but very
lively set, composed primarily of greatest
hits. Anyone there for the music could
just forget it because tunes were low
priority and rhythm as uppermost. Added
to the massed whistles of the crowd the
only real way to identify songs was the
vocals, ably provided by Shamen C and D
when Shaman A was occupied with his
bleep machine and Shaman B twanged
his guitar.
After this point Reviewer X pleaded
exhaustion and Reviewer Y felt roughly
equivalent and they left the audience to
continue their pharmaceutical
extravaganza..
Stone and A n n a B

