10 Reviews
The Book of Ultimate Truths
To The Ends of
The Earth
by David Yallop
This is no detective story but the work of a top-
class investigator whose mission is to establish
the truth about two related subjects: terrorism
and the Palestinian issue. There is no doubt that
a strong correlation exists between the two and
'Carlos the Jackal' is a man inextricably linked
with both issues. As the prologue says: "All I
had to do was find him, interview him, tell his
story." Whoever said "easier said than done"
must have been talking about this mission. After
reading half the book, we discover that the two
highly intriguing interviews that have been
related so far were in fact with an impostor!
So, off he went again to locate the real
McCoy, or should I say, the real Jackal. The
trails in this search seemed twice as misleading
as in the first but, like all professionals, David
Yallop did not rest until he found what he'd
been looking for. From beginning to end, the
search for the Jackal took a full ten years from
1983 to 1993. If you're unsure about whose side
you're on, the Palestinians or the Jews, reading
this book will help to open up your mind.
Highly recommended to everyone, although
non-fictionally it supersedes any thriller ever
written.
ZIEGLER
Published by Corgi
Price: £6.99
Missing Joseph
by Elizabeth George
An interesting exploration of motherhood and
what it means to different people. A woman
who lost a child and another who can't have
one. But this isn't all girls' talk because it's the
men who complicate the two situations by being
apparently insensitive to the issue in question.
The two separate plots are brought together
rather skillfully with adequate overlap to give
continuity. A bit of mystery is thrown in for
good measure but it doesn't grip you. If you
want some heavy psychology in layman's terms
then this is the book to read. Overall, this is no
compulsive read and it's just so easy to put
down.
ZIEGLER
Published by Bantam Books
Price: £4.99
by Robert Rankin
For some years now, many people have laboured
under the misconception that 'Ultimate Truth'
could be found within the pages of such works
as The Bible, The Koran or, for those of a
particularly perverse nature, The Maplin
Electronics Catalogue. Only now, due to the
dedicated investigative journalism of Robert
Rankin, can the real Book of Ultimate Truths be
revealed. Yes folks, buy this book and you'll
have the answer to all the great mysteries of the
universe, like: "Why can you never find a biro
when you want one?" and "Why is it impossible
to be first in a post office queue?"
Well, not really. Rankin is a humourist in the
style of Terry Pratchett or Douglas Adams and
his latest book sends up the human vice of
searching for 'the meaning of life', instead of
just getting on with living. Cornelius Murphy,
the hero of the book, is a bored teenager who
knows he's destined for better things. The
problem is convincing anyone else of his heroic
destiny. Cornelius spends much of his time
avoiding totally dead-end jobs fixed up by Mr
Yarrow, a Youth Employment Officer who
works on the strange principle that people will
be happy in jobs that begin with the same letter
as their surname.
Just when it seems that Cornelius will be
forced into a career as a mime-artiste, fate
Poseidon's Gold
by Lindsey Davis
This is the fifth book in a growing series about a
character named Marcus Didius Falco, 'the
world's first detective'. Falco (Marcus to his
friends) is a roman centurion-turned-informer (a
private investigator) - he's good at his work, but
he doesn't get enough of it.
However, the same can't be said of Ms
Davies, the author. Although the book isn't bad,
it's not particularly outstanding either. The first
book of the series, The Silver Pigs, won her an
award for Best First Novel, which gives me the
unfortunate impression that she's jumping on
her own bandwagon.
Although the mystery itself is quite well
constructed, it moves too slowly and the
attempts at adding deceptive twists and red
herrings are sadly transparent. Ms Davies is at
her best and most humourous when writing
dialogue, but not really anywhere else. The story
is let down by vague scene setting and scant
characterisation, most of which the reader is left
to insert for himself. I was left with the feeling
intervenes and a mysterious publisher hires him
to recover the Book of Ultimate Truths, the last
work of Hugo Rune, mystic, brain surgeon and
dodger of unpaid restaurant bills. A surreal
journey begins, but will Cornelius be able to
face the Ultimate Truth about himself?
Rankin has found a successful formula for
comedy and stuck to it: bizarre characters and
situations, a fine ear for dialogue and perfect
pacing. The plot is stretched very thin indeed to
get laughs and Rankin's writing doesn't have the
emotional range of Pratchett, for example.
Because of this, I didn't care much about
Cornelius and the other characters; they're
treated like circus clowns who perform for our
amusement and can't really be hurt.
The human need for answers about the world
has a rich potential for irony; both the scientific
and religious approaches can and should be
questioned. Unfortunately, Rankin limits himself
to unsubtle digs and parodies of organised
religion. Having said that, most of the jokes do
hit the mark and you could certainly do worse if
you want a light and amusing read. Those who
like Rankin's earlier books will love this. If not,
you won't find anything new here.
The St Cronan's Day Massacre
Published by: Corgi
Price: £4.99
that the characters were interchangeable,
distinguished only by one or two traits simply to
fulfil a role required (or not) by the plot.
It seems that Ms Davies simply transplanted
the 'private dick' genre to ancient Rome as a
gimmick. All the normal cliches remain: the
underemployed surly PI, his high class
girlfriend, numerous scoundrels. There was even
a seedy dive bar where our hero imbibed cups of
wine rather than shots of Bourbon. It might as
well have been Hollywood.
All in all, not nearly as gripping as Raymond
Chandler (Philip Marlowe), or as atmospheric as
Ellis Peters (Brother Cadfael - now the world's
second detective?) but a reasonable effort. I
might give her a second chance and read The
Silver Pigs, but probably only if I could find it in
the library.
Catfish
Published by: Arrow
Price: £4.99
The latest single from Opus III is reviewed on page 13

