Reviews 11
Mom seems to be the only one of the Sutphin family who's happy with life (or death)
Serial Mom
Starring: Kathleen Turner, Sam Waterston.
Ricki Lane
Director: John Waters
Beverly Sutphin (Kathleen Turner) is the
'quintessential American housewife', ie. she
restricts herself to cooking, cleaning and caring
for the children. However, all is not as it seems.
After viciously swatting a fly at the breakfast
table she proceeds to make obscene telephone
calls to the neighbours.
Later on, while back in her perfect mother
mode, she visits her son's maths teacher who
suggests that her son needs therapy for his
obsession with horror movies. Bad idea - she
runs the teacher over in the car park.
Next, her daughter Misty (Ricki Lane) is
dumped. Never fear, mom comes to the rescue
and stabs the foolish boy with a poker in the
gents. As the killing continues, woe betide
anyone who is even mildly unpleasant, as mom
will dispose of them with anything that comes to
Three Colours White is Kieslowski's second
film in a trilogy studying the ideals of the French
Revolution: liberty, equality and fraternity. (You
don't need to have seen the first film, Three
Colours Blue, to understand this one).
The film tries to examine the concept of
equality through the story of Kavol
(Zamachowski), a Polish hairdresser. He is
divorced by his beautiful French wife,
Dominique (Delpy), due to his inability to
consummate his marriage. This would have been
more understandable if she had refused him -
she is gorgeous and he is, to put it simply, not.
Left homeless and penniless in Paris, he ends up
sleeping in Metro stations, playing tunes on his
comb to earn money. He is befriended by
Mikaloj, another Pole, who smuggles Kavol
back to Warsaw. Here, Kavol manages to
become very rich surprisingly quickly and easily
and he then revenges himself on his wife, only to
find that they can still love each other.
The main problem with this film is that it has
such high ambitions. A study of equality is a
pretty major subject, which Kieslowski entirely
fails to come to grips with. Maybe it was just
over-subtle for me but, if I had not been told that
this film was about equality, I would never even
hand, be it a pair of scissors, an air conditioner
or even a leg of lamb!
A murder trial soon follows and the film gets
much, much worse. I won't spoil the non-
existent plot by revealing the verdict. This fdm
was tasteless and grotesque, these minor faults
could have been forgiven had it been in anyway
have guessed. The film also claims to be a
comedy which, again, is something of an
overstatement. It's only funny in the same way
that Carla Lane comedies are funny (ie. one
laugh every half hour and far too much misery in
between).
Three Colours White has a lot of style
funny or even slightly amusing.
If you go to see this film make sure you have
a few before you go - trust me it'll be worth the
investment.
dlh
Opens today. MGM Fulham Road. Tickets: £6
(£3.50 before 6pm, Mon-Fri)
(possibly largely due to being in a foreign
language) but very little substance. Not a bad
film if you don not believe all that has been
promised of it, but a definite disappointment.
KA
Opens today at the Chelsea Cinema, Kings
Road. Tickets £6, first perf £4 (cones £2.50).
Three Colours White
Starring: Zbigniew Zamachowski, Julie Delpy
Director: Krzysztof Kieslowski
Kavol (Zamachowski) resorts to busking to make ends meet in the Metro stations
His Lordship's Fancy at the Gate Theatre is reviewed on page 12

