Reviews 13
1
.
. pi 11
1 1
"/ heard of a man who says words so beautifully
that if he only speaks their name women give
themselves to him. If I am dumb beside your
body while silence blossoms like tumours on our
lips, it is because I hear a man climb the stairs
and clear his throat outside our door. " So
Leonard Cohen speaks as a piano starts and we
shyly inch from his poem into the ariel words of
Tori Amos' 'Silent All These Years'.
Live cuts culled from LA station KCRW, this
compilation, 'Rare On Air Vol. 1', calls my
name gently for a first half of Peter Himmelman,
Michael Penn, Juliana & Evan (that rhymes with
heaven) and Beck.
The second half trails its tail in the mud but
to finish a 'various artists' album with new
names to whisper in the the heat of passion,
"you make such a cool distraction",
demonstrates that the first volume of a series had
fulfilled itself. (7) Tintin
America, checked shirts, guitars...you've
heard it all before a thousand times but still they
keep coming. Actually, it isn't quite fair to tar
Vanilla Trainwreck and their album
'Mordecai' with this brush. They've been
delivering albums regularly ever since their self-
financed tape debut of 1989 and the guitars and
shirts are about as close as they get to the US
indie mainstream.
While labelmates such as Juliana Hatfield
have hit the big time, fame has always eluded
them but then again they've never really tried
too hard. It's difficult to pin down their sound.
You listen to a track, think you've got it and
then the next is completely different. There's the
brooding intensity of 'Alex' and 'Nothing I
Suppose', the deranged melody of 'Quagmire'
and the surging guitars of 'Pink Smoke',
reminiscent of Sub Pop's new stars Hazel. And
then there's 'Sister' with its infectious tune that
just won't get out of your head. It's quite
impossible to sum up, which makes it all the
more interesting to listen to. (8) Ridley Dash
Another offering from the Aussie folk-
rocksters, Wedding Parties and Anything and
their album Kingtide, a worthy successor to
'Difficult Loves' which came out here only a
few months ago. Poignant snapshots of the
underside of life, love and social commentary
are accompanied by down-to-earth language, all
with the distinctive vocals of Mike Thomas -
poet, philosopher and mainstay of the band. The
band themselves are accomplished and reliable,
slipping from the REMish to the Cajunish, via
Celtic sounds and the obvious influence of
Kilburn (where some of the songs were
recorded) and its folky Irishness.
This is the music of the Australian new man,
bar-room philosopher with plenty of soul-
bearing and 'person-of-the-world' advice.
Maybe it's an acquired taste but one with plenty
to savour. Even the weaker tracks like 'The Rain
In My Heart' and 'Stalactites' hold the listener
until the next flash of brilliance. Get hold of it
and broaden your tastes. (8) Al
The release of Strobe's third album, 'The
Circle Never Ends' sees them add a female
vocalist, an extra guitar and a second
percussionist, giving them a much broader
sound. They're still mainly like the psychedelic
guitar rock reminiscent of Hawkwind, Loop and
Spaceman 3 but, to this, they have incorporated
ambient tribal sound, heavy hypnotic rock and
hard-hitting industrial riffs. This is cool
background music but unfortunately it goes on a
bit too long for its own good. Strobe do all the
right things but lack that extra ingredient needed
to make it stand out. (7) Mr Happy
From the staring eyes of Gano, Ritchie and
Hoffman to their avant-garde waywardness, the
Violent Femmes can be a daunting proposition
and so it is in their album, 'New Times'. It's not
that they can't play great songs which draw you
in to stamp your feet and clap hands. No, the
problem is they just don't wanna do it like that;
too clever by measures.
The lyrics are to blame, of course. You can't
use phrases like "the poets they still had to muse
over the classicism of clean shoes" or "it was
either take over the world or learn French" and
hope to produce any melody, sweet or
otherwise. And when they were reduced to every
third line being "I see that she is pretty" in the
deeply ironic 'Mirror, Mirror', I wondered if the
irony was so deep it was imaginary.
The singular leap from reason, when it did
come, was necessarily sparkling. 'Jesus of Rio'
charts the world summit through a seedy liaison
in Copenhagen. Saving the world or getting a
quick feelgood? The Violent Femmes leave it
'til last to show they know there's a difference.
(6) Tintin
Primal Scream - 'Jailbird': From a riff which
wants to be a Harley Davidson when it grows
up, a deep down fried Southern Chicken rib of a
song gets hewn. Spicy outside, raw inside, but
make sure you get it while it's hot. Tintin
Sepultura - 'Slave New World': The Brazilians
thrash gods spew forth yet another exquisitely
brutal single from last year's stunning 'Chaos
AD'. This one'11 eat your flesh faster fnan you
can say 'necrotising fasciitis'. The perfect
soundtrack for bloody revolution, but plush
packaging doesn't excuse another ropey
selection of b-sides. Freddy Cheeseworth
Rev Horton Heat - 'Caliente'l Supersuckers -
'400 Bucks': The Rev does the Supersuckers on
some speeding tickets left by rockabilly and the
'Suckers do the Rev with a five-line whip on
guitars. Take your pick but in my book the
Fotheringham cover (as above and below) wins
bottles up. Tintin
Opus III - 'When You Made The Mountain': A
six-track remix ep from the trancy technoheads
best known for their absurdly catchy 'It's A
Fine Day'. The winner is 'Afro-Cuban' trance
edit but title of the year goes to the 'Well Hung
Parliament Adventure Mix'. Ridley Dash
Shed Seven - 'Dolphin': Claiming that they're a
"pop band in the same way that the Stone Roses
and AC/DC are pop bands" may be a load of
pretentious piffle but, if they keep writing ditties
like this with rhythmic guitars subtly overlaying
drums and bongos, then maybe we'll let them
off. Vik
Nation Of A Bell - 'Save Yourself: Crash,
Bang, Wallop, Bang, Wallop. Terence Trent
D'Arby meets Prince (NPG) and they get along
OK. Prince is a little shy so he only does the
backing vocals while Terence dominates the
lead guitar. This exemplifies New Jersey soul
and genuine talent, but the sandwich spread is a
little too thin for this kind of bread. Sphinx
Portishead - 'Numb': Take a fragile female
voice, some hip-hop beats add a liberal dose of
Twin Peaks and you know you're in for a
strange evening. Ridley Dash
---\-
It's summer and I'm just a little dummer

