14 Feature
Educational Reality
Imperial College was ranked the top engineering
institution in England by the first Times Guide
to Universities, displacing both Cambridge and
Oxford into an unthinkable second and third
place. They did manage to redeem themselves,
however, with a tie at first place (along with
Imperial, of course) for the sciences. Our
prestigious establishment is a home for high
flyers and academic excellence, which has no
double given it quite a reputation. Imperial
College - wow! A first class - double wow! In
short, a passport to success.
I came an idealistic youth (now I'm just
idealistic), hoping to find something that would
fascinate me enough that I'd consider making a
career out of it. Both the fist and second year
were shoved down the throat faster than I could
swallow - you can taste it later kid, just gotta get
fattened up a little first. Here I am in the third
and final year, beaming with triumph; I can do
what I want now.
Yep, there's options this year. Oh, wow! We
can all do what we really, really want. Then
again, if you're among those who don't know
what to do - never mind, just do what's easy
since it doesn't matter does it? Why make life
difficult, right? You have to be realistic, you
know.
Funny thing, unless there's something wrong
with that logic, it seems quite a few of us don't
really know what we want because easy is the in
thing. Because when it's easy, you get a first.
Because that's what we're here for - graduating
cum laude. You have to realistic, you know.
It's not a bad system, exams are necessary,
grade streaming is necessary. We all need to
know who has quality, since that's a precious
commodity. How many of you have been turned
off by something that was somewhat interesting
because it might be hard to score or perhaps it
would consume too much time or maybe there
aren't any past papers (risky new course!) or
because it is just plain difficult. How many of us
would jeopardise a first class degree for some
interesting or useful (which does lose its appeal
if you flunk it) course - if we were in such a
position. A very big zero I would think. You
have to be realistic, you know.
A first class isn't everything (well, maybe a
bit more important than what's interesting, but it
really isn't everything). An easy thing to say if
you've already secured that first or maybe if its
well nigh impossible. But, if you were kind of
teetering on it, or perhaps justfearful then it is a
whole new ball game. You can't just take what
you like - so much for 'options'. It's not
something that anyone addresses seriously at all.
We're all told to pick what interests us, right?
But behind that nodding facade, what manner of
force drives us? Maybe it doesn't really matter
what we do now, since what we do later on
would be totally different. If that's the case then
Imperial College is doing a great job churning
out exam experts. In any case, the inclusion of
courseworks and projects attempts to create
more of a balance, though I'm sure it is not
something all of us agree upon - except when it
is easy points, of course.
Which brings me to the point that if it would
be at all possible, College would alter the grade
contribution/distribution/allocation in order that
the students would be more motivated to select
an option they were interested in as opposed to
one they could score in. A simple suggestion
would be to reduce the contributing percentage
of option courses. This assumes that since these
courses do not affect grades very much, there
would be a greater inclination to take risks, like
doing an interesting course. The implications are
of course unclear as to whether it is truly
beneficial to us students since it means that we
have to perform well in compulsory courses,
which may be quite difficult, which of course
means it is harder to get a first.
So, which has top priority? To get the highly
acclaimed first class honours or to do something
interesting? "Both!", I hear some of you cry.
Well, it is clear they can sometimes exhibit
mutual exclusivity. A+ for any genius solutions.
Howard Lee (ISE III)
xchang
Turn your old text books into cash
FRI 17th &
WED 22nd JUNE
in the JCR, Level 2, Sherfield Building
- We are buying text books
which appear on reading
lists next year.
- Books must be in good
condition.
iCV
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION

