Opinion 15
Editorial Credits
Smoking Policy
It seems that more and more places are
enforcing no smoking policies and, at the
moment, the Union seems to be sitting back and
doing nothing. A while ago, the College brought
in a smoking policy, which was a start, but it
does have some strange quirks, like the Physics
foyer. I've walked through there many times and
am amazed that anyone could have even thought
to allocate the area at the bottom of the stairs for
smokers. Many other departments force the
smokers outside, why was Physics any different?
Most restaurants have separate smoking and
non-smoking areas, but can you have a meal in
Da Vinci's or sit in the JCR for half an hour
without having to breathe in other people's
cigarette smoke? In Da Vinci's, there are signs
above the counters asking people not to smoke
at the serving counters, but there is nothing done
about providing somewhere for people to sit and
eat without the off-putting smell of cigarette
smoke. It isn't like there is somewhere else that
non-smokers can go, is it.
Even the ICU Cinema allows smoking.
Admittedly it's only in the back five rows, but
most cinemas now don't allow smoking
anywhere. Why should the ICU Cinema be any
different? The smoke still drifts around the room
and I'm sure I am not the only one who finds it
unpleasant to have to put up with it.
Isn't it about time that something was done
about all of this. As is mentioned in the article
on page 5, the Union can be mandated to do
something if it is submitted as a motion to a
Union General Meeting; the next one is on 17th
June. The deadline for motions is 6pm today, so
it's not too late to do something about it. A
motion about smoking was submitted and passed
by a UGM a while ago forbidding smoking at
any Union meetings. I'm not sure if this is still
in operation, as Union policy only lasts for three
years. But it would be a start if students could
get the Union to do something about providing
smoking and non-smoking areas within Da
Vinci's and the JCR. I can't believe that
smokers are in the majority within the College,
so don't non-smokers have a right to some areas
that are free of cigarette smoke?
Submitting Letters
Just a quick reminder that if you want a letter
published, you must show your swipe card or
Union card to prove authorship of the letter
when you submit it. If you submit the letter by
post or by fax, the same applies - you must
bring in proof, otherwise I cannot print the letter.
It's Pleasing To
Dear Beccy,
Simon Baker has gone too far this time! How
dare he imply that Felix will make IC 'the
laughing stock of the British University
system'? He is undermining your authority as
the editor and insulting members of your news
team who, as far as I can see, are doing a
sterling job. Regarding the slur on the news
editor, I think Mr Baker meant 'Fenland
Mountain Rescue Service' but that's not the
point. His criticism was uncalled for and
Some People
unfounded. 1 have read many student news-
papers and Felix is undoubtedly the best
example.
It is obvious that Mr Baker has not done his
research at all well, as most of us at IC really
enjoy the features and news. So, everybody who
thinks Felix is the dog's bollocks, write in and
tear down Simon Baker's ivory tower.
Yours sincerely,
Jonathan (Hamish) Teale,
Physics I
Printer: Typing:
Andy Thompson Stephen Se
Wei Lee
Business Managers:
Steven Newhouse Features:
Simon Govier Patrick Wood
Paula Battacharyya
Proofing:
Tim St Clair News:
Mike Ingram
Reviews:
Wei Lee (Cinema) Collators:
Jon Jordan (Music) Mike Ingram
Patrick Wood (Opera) Simon Shaw
Fai Fung (Theatre) Tim St Clair
Jules Decock (Books) Patrick Wood
S M A L L A D S
Flat To Let In SE27.
Fully furnished conversion flat to let in SE27,
from 4/7/94. Large lounge with shutters and
wall-mounted gas heater; double bedroom;
kitchen (with washing machine) and bathroom.
£400 pern inc. Near Tulse Hill/West Norwood
BR, buses and shops. Suit non-smoking
professionals as pied-a-terre/ main base. Call
Jane on 4540/081 761 4013.
Providence Typing.
Projects, dissertations, theses, etc typed at the
best rates around. Full colour capacity and laser
printing available. Emergencies welcome. Call
on 071 252 4831.
Answers to last week's
Elimination
a Heavy, Light 22,26
b Show-Off 15,5
c Dead, Yellow 8,35
d Race, Education 12,41
e Bib, Tenet 2,30
f Level Crossing 25,38
g Jelly, Society 24,37
h First Rate 19,13
i Flaw, Floor 9,21
j Elbow Room 18,14
k Ben, Time 1,16
1 Last Straw 10,29
m Flesh, Shelf 20,27
n Mirror-Image 33,23
0 Dry, Bucket 4,31
P Box Office 3,34
q Bass, Glazing 6,36
r Maiden Over 32,11
s Cells, Squirrel 7,40
t Laughing Stock 39,28
The word left over was Light
Qmhwmt(Mm Urn Mmm^p^Mm^ ISkM
Requirements: Research student with at least 18 months remaining at IC.
Proven interest in pastoral care and social activity.
How to apply: Application forms are obtainable from the Accommodation
Office (15 Princes Gardens).
Deadline: 20 June 1994. Completed form should be sent to the Warden,
Dr. Richard Clarke, Electrical and Electronic Engineering
Department.
Enquiries: Contact the Warden on extension 5124 (day) or (071) 581 8895
(evenings and weekend).
The deadline for letters is 5pm on the Monday before publication

