Clubs and Societies
TWF Support Peruvian Nursery
The Third World First Latin American Night in
the Union Building on the 17th June is the third
event of its kind; the previous two have been
immensely successful. All the proceeds will go
to the Westnell Nursery in Lima, Peru. This
article describes the nursery and its vital role in
the shanty towns of Lima.
In Lima, as with most other Third World
Nations, the migration of people from the rural
to the urban areas has led to shanty housing on
the periphery of the city. Many of these areas are
without basic sanitation and amenities and the
standard of living is very low. many people have
little or no education and earn a living in the
informal or service sector earning less than the
minimum wage. In many families, both parents
work and the children are expected to be
economically active at a very young age. These
social and economic difficulties are compounded
by the political violence in Peru. Many people
have limited civil and political rights and live in
constant fear for their lives.
Quality education is a way of improving the
employment prospects of children growing up in
such an environment. Pre-school education,
however, is accorded a low priority in the
Peruvian state sector, yet children are obliged to
sit a basic skills test before being granted
admission into the primary school system. Low
income parents thus face difficulties in educating
their children due to the costly nature of pre-
school uniforms and materials.
The Westnell Nursery was set up to
circumvent many of the above problems; it was
founded in 1986 by two English volunteers and
has since given 650 pre-school educational
places to children from Doscientas Millas, 25 de
Febrero and Boca Negra - three of the poorest
shanty towns.in Lima. The broad goal of the
nursery is to provide a good foundation for
school entry at age six. This would include the
ability to think imaginatively and creatively and
to communicate both individually and as part of
a group. The Westnell Nursery is free to all
children in the community and overalls,
materials and a nutritious snack are provided.
Children are encouraged to take pride in their
community; indigenous cultural traditions are
respected and a sense of history is encouraged.
The staff themselves are from economically
disadvantaged backgrounds and so have an
understanding of the challenges the families
face. Educated parents are more likely to educate
their children, so staff work with parents on
parenting skills. There are also adult education
classes for women.
The nursery continues to achieve many of its
original aims and has also become a focal point
for the community: when political and social
allegiances have divided the town, the nursery
unites people through its unpartisan concern for
their children. Its success has not been without
trauma though - in July 1992 a bomb was
planted by the 'Shining Path', very close to the
nursery, causing considerable damage.
In the UK, the Westnell Society is a
registered charity, and financial support comes
from fundraising events in the UK and
individual covenanters. This does not, however,
compromise the autonomy of the organisation in
Peru, which is managed by a staff and parent
committee. Sadly, supply can never equal
demand and it is felt there is a need for similar
projects in other shanty towns. It is not certain
whether the model of the nursery can simply be
replicated in another town, but the management
team in Lima have proposed a satellite project in
the shanty town of Boca Negra. This is a
community with even fewer material resources
than the current site and no pre-school provision.
The Latin Party on 17th June will provide the
charity with an opportunity to raise money for
this much needed expansion programme.
DramSoc Presents: Equus
Religious worship takes on strange forms. The
boy kneels before a picture of a horse taken from
his father's print shop. It is up on his bedroom
wall in the place where a picture of Christ had
once been: Christ in pain, Christ physically
beaten and on his way to Calvary. That picture
had been violently ripped down by the boy's
father in some sort of Marxist rage ("Religion's
at the bottom of this!"). It is replaced by the
horse god, Equus, and the symbolism and ritual
of Christianity are permuted into a worship of
horses.
This is no teenage fad; jodhpurs and
gymkhanas are the enemy. Even when given the
opportunity, the boy doesn't want to ride a
horse. He kneels down in his pyjamas late at
night and recites the words of his creed: 'And
Neckwus begat Fleckwus, the King of spit. And
Fleckwus spoke out of his Chinkle-Chankle:
"Behold I give you Equus, my only begotten
son.'" - phrases taken from the Bible and
perversely adapted. The worship ends with the
boy physically beating himself.
This is the heart of Peter Schaffer's play
Equus. But the play does a lot more than just
paint this rather perverse scene. We are first
introduced to the boy in the psychiatrist's office.
He is there for an evaluation: he has blinded six
horses by taking their eyes out with a hoof-pick.
Is he the enemy of horses? The psychiatrist is
charged with finding out why and, through his
narrative, we examine the boy's life as it leads
up to the blindings.
The play paints vivid portraits of a
relentlessly self-improving old type socialist
father and a simple religious mother who is
baffled by her son's 'troubles'. Religion is an
obvious source of conflict and, although the
child's malaise seems to express itself through
some corrupt religious fervour, we soon gather
that darker forces are lurking...
My personal interpretation: "It's the god of
old-style socialist hypocrisy that's at the bottom
of this!"
Equus will be performed 18th and 19th June
in the Union Lounge (Union Building, Beit
Quad). £3 (£2 students). Tickets will be on sale
on the door.
Reviews of Serial Mom and Three Colours White are on page 11

