Feature 5
Cloud Control
College smoking policy is breaking
down in Physics and the JCR
There is a story that a Japanese tourist, on a
recent visit to an affluent Australian city,
remarked to his guide on the high class of the
prostitutes who frequented the street corners of
the business district. It was explained to him th it
these were not prostitutes but executives and
secretaries, forced by Draconian corporate health
initiatives to take their i i^otine hit out on the
pavement.
The Imperial College Smoking Policy came
into effect in October. 1991 With the aim of
ensuring that students and Staff could go about
their business m a smoke-free environment. "In
some ways what you do is move the problem
somewhere else." admits John Payne, Employee
Relations Manager and a member of the working
party which drew up the policy. "If you close
down one smoking area the smokers will go off
somewhue else and then it gets worse in those
areas than it was before." He perhaps has in
mind the Huxley end of the cross-campus
walkway, regularly wreathed in smoke and
carpetc sh after Maths lectures. "I can
appreciate why there is a smoking ban," says
Tom Griffeth, one of a group of smokers
standing just outside the level three entrance to
the Huxley Building. "But it would be better to
have a smoking area in the Maths department,"
adds fe tine refugee Karl I.loyd.
"Sf||||i||||i:l not be p|§|§ff||§|ii
circulation areas such as lifts, corridors, toilets
and reception areas," states die College policy.
While the Maths department carries out the letter
if not iho spirit of this guideline, the Physics
department does neither. The unenclosed
smoking area is situated in the foyer stairwell.
So, by a physical process known as 'diffusion',
smoke drifts fieely' and is often very noticeable
to anyone passing through the entrance hall.
James Gibb, the departmental supervisor,
acknowledges that the
situation is not ideal: " i
hate smoking myself -
•>KT<esi.gef ;i
whiff of it corning down
fire-risk as his main
|§|)jection to an enclosed,
^unsupervised smoking
room. Among the fair
|||||||er of those crossing:
file foyer who turned out
td be smokers, none
minded the idea of a
separate smoking room,
but most drew the line at
being turned out onto the
street.
Any fleeting discom-
fort experienced while entering Physics,
however, is nothing compared to the effect of
the unchecked miasma in the JCR. Attempts
have been made to make the vicinity of the QT
Snack Bar a no-smoking area, but without
success - all the signs have been removed.
James Woolven, manager of the QT, says he has
suffered intimidation from groups of smokers
when he has asked them to move away. Rose, a
non-smoking cashier, says it does bother her
when people smoke near the tills and would like
to see permanent signs put up next to the QT.
Again, most people didn't seem to mind the idea
of separate smoking and non-smoking areas.
"Half-and-half would be quite understandable,"
said Irfan Kausar from Elcc Eng, a smoker who
is trying to give up. "I don't mind what the
policy is as long as 1 know what's happening."
The group of smokers flaunting their fags a
few feet from the curry bar, who genuinely
seemed to believe they should be allowed to
The open-plan smoking area in the Physics departmentfoyer
JC tar: there is no provision to protect users and staff of the JCR
curry barfrom the effects of passive smoking
smoke anywhere, were in a minority. They point
out that people can always go somewhere else,
and, as far as the students in the JCR are
concerned, this is true, at least at lunchtime. But
the College staff who work there have no such
option; nor at the moment is any attempt being
made to protect them from passive smoking.
Jackie staffs the curry bar (on the opposite side
of the room to the QT, making half-and-half
segregation difficult) and has seen people come
up to be served while still smoking. Although a
smoker herself, she finds this unhygienic and
feels there should be signs up prohibiting
smoking near the food.
The health and safety of College catering
staff is the responsibility of the catering
department. Simon Westerman, College
Catering Manager, stated that he had not
previously been aware of a problem in the JCR,
but after being acquainted with the current
situation, he acknowledged that the catering
arrangements in the JCR would have to be
reviewed. The problem is that the JCR, being a
student facility, is administered by the Union
during term-time. Since the Union has no policy
on smoking, it can't do anything constructive
until the Executive have drawn one up and had it
passed at a Union General Meeting.
It seems odd that an issue that has such
potentially damaging consequences for the
College should be left to the whims of student
politics. The Health and Safety at Work Act
1974 states that employers have to ensure, so far
as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety
and welfare at work of all their employees. In
1993, a local government employee received
£15,000 in an out-of-court settlement, after her
health had been allegedly damaged by passive
smoking at work.
Patrick Wood
Further to enquiries made by Felix, the smoking
arrangements in the JCR are to be discussed at
this Monday's meeting of the Union Executive.
An interview with Kate Bellingham can be found on pages 6 & 7

