6 Feature
Tomorrow's Miss World
Kate Bellingham is the latest in the line of PEGs (Perky Energetic Girls) to
present Tomorrow's World. Paula Bhattacharyya discovers there's more to
our Kate than meets the eye.
which university did you go to
and what did you study ?
I studied physics at Oxford - I didn't really
enjoy it at all. I went to Oxford hoping to enjoy
the academic side but it turned out to be one of
these classic cases - having been top of the class
at school, I then found I was pretty much bottom
of the class at college. At school, I was given a
lot of encouragement and support by the
teachers but, at university, I found myself
somewhere where I basically had lectures
to go to, which is as good as reading a
book because you couldn't ask questions.
I chose to study physics because I was
good at it at school and I didn't really
know of anything else. What I wish I'd
done is taken a year off, gone out and
spent a bit of time in the world and then
decided what I wanted to do at university.
But, then again, if I were to say that I'd do
things differently, I probably wouldn't be
where I am now and instead I'd be
working somewhere as an electronic
engineer or a sound technician.
what did you do after
university?
I left university with a rather poor
degree thinking: "That's it, I've had my
fill of education." The first thing I did was
working in a department store over the
Christmas period. I had never done the sort
of Saturday jobs that most people did
when I was younger - my grandmother
lived with us and I used to spend a lot of
time nursing her. After working at the
store, I did a secretarial course and did a
bit of work as a secretary. I was abysmal at
it! Having done that, though, it gives you
so much more respect. You might have
these high flying ideas but, if you don't
have someone who keeps their feet on the
ground, who knows exactly what's going on and
is keeping everything in order, you're lost. I also
worked on Radio Humberside, gofering -
making the tea, answering the telephone and
basically following everybody around. I
befriended people and would go and watch what
they did; I did that for seven weeks.
I then went for the milkround again. Looking
back, maybe it wasn't the best thing to do, going
to the milkround with a poor degree. People look
at you along with everybody else and the first
thing they see is your degree result.
/
s that when you started working
for the BBC?
I applied to the BBC in various capacities -
as a journalist, an engineer, a technical operator
and I didn't get any of them, so I gave up on the
BBC. At that stage, I knew I was interested in
sound and electronics and anything that brought
these together. But they weren't interested in
me. So I did a computer aptitude test and was
offered a job as a computer programmer. So, I
and weekends - I really enjoyed it and got to
know how everything worked. I think the BBC
thought that if you were prepared to stay up all
night to work in the theatre, you must be
interested. They were very much more
concerned that you had potential, a logical mind
and the fact that you were interested rather than
if you knew all your stuff already. That suited
me down to the ground; I knew I was interested,
I just didn't have the appropriate qualifications
to prove it. They took me on. The course I did
was a mixture of lectures, training
courses and practicals at the BBC's
Training Centre, with apprenticeship
work on location. I loved it. Six months
later, I was selected to lecture about
broadcast engineering (I had got a
reputation as being a bit of a chatterbox!)
as part of a high prestige lecture tour to
sixth formers. This was hard work - you
would have to stand up in front of up to
2,000 young people and stick to your
script fairly well to fit in with everybody
else. I learnt a lot about cuing, tapes and
so on and I also learnt about how to cope
with the embarrassment when things
don't do what you expect them to - very
good training for Tomorrow's World! I
did this during the Autumn and Spring
terms and, at Christmas, I went back to
Broadcasting House and worked the
night shifts. I felt I was having a little
holiday from doing the real work which
was the engineering; I was looking
forward to getting back to it.
H ow did you get into
presenting on television?
Kate Bellingham, presenter of Tomorrow's World
worked in Macclesfield, Cheshire for three years
in this capacity. I found that I would wake up in
the morning and think about what I was doing at
6 o'clock at night. I then saw that the BBC were
advertising for electronic engineers. As long as
you had a degree, it didn't matter what the
degree was, they'd train you up. They were quite
keen to recruit people from a variety of
backgrounds, not just those who'd been through
the electronic engineering sausage machine. At
my interview with the BBC, I talked about the
voluntary work I had done at the Royal
Exchange Theatre, Manchester as part of the
sound crew. I used to work there on evenings
The opportunity to present a
programme for Schools TV came up -
they wanted women with a genuine
technical background to present the
science/technical programmes for secondary
schools. I went for the audition - I had never
stood in front of a camera before, it was
hilarious. I had a whale of a time; I smiled and
giggled a lot and they offered me the job. Some
of the work was in the studio and there were also
filming trips. My first trip was to Japan for two
weeks. I was so green, I had no concept of why
you wear make-up to go on camera. In fact, I
had no make-up with me and the cameraman
took me to buy some. The powder I still use is
the Japanese powder that I bought when I was
out there.
Then, the job at Tomorrow's World came up.
The College smoking policy is under the spotlight on page 5

