Feature 7
The current Tomorrow's World team
It turned out that they were quite keen to have a
woman with a strong technical background.
Apparently, I looked and sounded a bit like
Maggie Philbin in her youth. They wanted me to
join at the start of February, when I was six
weeks away from my final exams to become a
qualified BBC engineer. I thought it was a bit
too rushed - a bit like going off to become a
model a week before your A-levels. In the end, I
worked on Tomorrow's World from February to
June and did a summer course to get my
qualification. That was four years ago.
JIThat are the things you enjoy
VV about presenting Tomorrow s
World?
It is a chance to see things, go to places and
meet people that you'd never normally have the
chance to do. There is an element of being paid
for things that you'd love to do for a hobby if
you ever had the chance to do them like, for
example, trying out virtual reality, meeting
somebody in the states who's had really
pioneering surgery to help her hearing.
Normally, you'd just read about it or see it on
TV, but I'm actually there, meeting these people.
s there anything which you dislike
about it?
People often say to me: "You must love the
glamour, the posh events, travelling the world,
being treated like a star." In fact, it's quite an
effort for me to do all the dressing up although,
of course, I recognise the importance of it. This
is perhaps reflected by my background - this is
never what I intended to do, it just happened. I
still catch the bus to work, I like to cycle and I
can't be bothered to wear make-up. The
travelling is fun, but it's not like having a
holiday everytime you go away, its just another
hotel in another city.
T\ id you used to watch
LJ Tomorrow's World before you
began presenting it and what do you
like watching on television?
I used to watch Tomorrow's World regularly,
and remember watching Judith when I was
younger. I enjoy watching drama and escapism
stuff like Middlemarch, Morse and other
mysteries. I also like good documentaries such
as Horizon and QED.
D
o you watch yourself
Tomorrow's World?
on
Always, yes. When you are actually doing it,
things can get really out of proportion. I once
remember when I felt I had a real coughing fit
and I thought I didn't put my hand in front of my
mouth. When I watched it later, I realised that I
had just cleared my throat. You get hyped and
something little happens, you can end up
thinking it was the most important thing in the
world.
H ow do you decide what to
feature on the show?
We have a large team - people scan the
papers and specialist magazines, from Plastics
And Rubber Weekly through to Farmers' World.
Also, people write in with their ideas. These are
all put together to make a varied show.
/
s there any item featured, that for
you, stands outfrom the rest?
We do so many items and part of the nature
of Tomorrow's World is that we only skim the
surface of so many things and can't get too
deeply involved. The virtual reality sticks in my
mind, where I had the chance to experience
something that nobody else has.
TTThat is your target audience,
VV and how do you know if you
are reaching them?
Surveys have been done and they've shown
that we appeal to quite a large age range. It is
unusually balanced across the age groups, social
grouping, male/female and so on, although the
last survey was done before we were put in the
slot opposite Coronation Street, so it might have
changed.
Our target audience is everybody really. We
try to appeal to the person who has an interest in
science but no scientific background, but also to
those who have strong scientific backgrounds.
They should not feel that we are short changing
the audience and certainly they should not feel
that we are telling any untruths. We might
simplify things, but we hope we never trivialise
them or get things wrong. We check everything
we put out through various sources.
The Book Of Ultimate Truths is reviewed on page 10

