CL1X
Issue 932 1 May 1992
Victim Around the World
Professor David Phillips is to be
appointed as the Head of the
Chemistry Department from the
start of the next academic year. This
follows the announcement that the
current departmental head,
Professor Steven Ley, is to leave IC
after 18 years. Professor Ley will
remain departmental head until the
end of July and will take up his new
position as BP Chair of Organic
Chemistry at Cambridge University
in October.
Professor Ley was chosen to head
the major research group by a
committee of international
chemists. The post, financed by
£ 1 . 5 million from British
Petroleum, is one of Britain's top
academic positions, and Professor
Ley will be supervising 35
researchers.
Steven Ley's replacement,
Professor David Phillips, has been
Chair of Physical Chemistry at IC
for the past three years. In 1961
Professor Phillips took a PhD in gas
kinetics at the University of
Birmingham, and three years later
won a Fellowship to the University
of Texas, where he did a Post-
Doctorate diploma in
photochemistry. In 1967, he moved
back to England and became a
lecturer at Southampton University
where he remained until 1980 when
he became a Professor of Natural
Philosophy at the Royal Institute of
Science, London. In 1989 he was
head-hunted for IC's Chair of
Physical Chemistry.
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, who
has to appoint the new departmental
head, told i C N N that he
encountered overwhelming support
for Professor Phillips amongst
colleagues in the department. Sir
Eric said 'I was gratified to find that
everyone I spoke to suggested
David.' (iCNN).
Honorary Secretary Elections
Voting Tuesday 5th and
Wednesday 6th May.
Manifestoes on page 17.
Imperial College's rowing, eight, pictured above, left for Japan today to compete in the Annual 'Tokyo
- Henley Sister Race' against the best student university teams from countries around the world. Bristol
University will be the only other team to represent Great Britain at the two day event. IC's boat club is
the first team in the event's three year history to be invited back to compete after earning the 1991 title,
'Triumphant College Crew Winners'.
The team members are: Laurence Morgan, Bow; Daniel Forsters; Edward Wild; Karl Foreman; Luka
Gnibor; Ace Green; Stephen Ellice; Ben Poulton, Stroke; Carl Boon, Cox; Justin Waller, Sub; Bill Mason,
Coach.
Swiped
The much publicised changes to
College security will take effect
from tomorrow (Saturday 2 May).
The college security staff will take
their positions at the four main posts
around college - Sherfield, Beit
Quad. Selkirk/Keogh halls and
Mech Eng - from early on Saturday,
and the officers at these desks will
be assisted by roving patrols.
The swipe card entry system
covers all departments and campus
halls of residence and will be
brought on-line in stages throughout
• the day. Ninety five percent of the
system has already been tested and
the rest will be checked before it is
activated, but in the event of
'teething troubles' the old magnetic
locks could be reinstated. Keith
Reynolds, IC Chief Security
Officer, has asked anyone who has
Sail
difficulty with the system to go to
the security office in the main foyer
of the Sherfield Building. Mr
Reynolds said 'my priority is the
students, especially those living in
halls.' A large number of closed
circuit television cameras are also
being placed around the campus.
Earlier this week, third year
physicists complained that they had
not been issued with security cards.
Security deputy chief, Terry Briley,
told iCNN that they have not been
issued with swipe cards on the
instructions of their department,
effectively denying them access
after hours. He added that if any
students living in college
accommodation did not have swipe
cards, they should come to room
150 in the Sherfield building.
(iCNN).
The Imperial College Jet Sea team
has returned victorious from the
'Martinique Jet Sea Cup,' a nine
day off-shore yacht race. The team,
headed by Tim Parsons and
skippered by the world famous
Jerome Picard, consisted of
Emmanuel Gringarten, Evelyn
Joslin, Jean-Christophe Normand,
Emmanuel Omont, Richard Sem
and Severine Vadon.
After the victory, Mr Parsons
told Felix that 'we won first and
third races which gave us a good
lead, but the other boats caught up
in the next few races, until in the
last race, we were threatened by
E N S E M Nancy. It was right down
to the finish line until we made a
good tactical decision that allowed
us to snatch victory from the jaws
of defeat.'

