KEEP THE CAT FREE
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
10
ARTS
It’sbeenalessthansubtleyearinsomanyways.
Seems like everywhere we turn – news of the
pandemic and the impending vaccine is all
we hear. But on the other side, it is often the most
turbulent of times that encourages and unleashes
defining Art. While the rest of the world, bustles
about, Art goes about its humble duty in silence – to
awe and inspire.
Blyth Centre of Music and Arts has been quite ac-
tive amidst the flurry of lockdown and remote learning
routines of 2020. Online classes and workshops have
continued per usual drawing great involvement and
excitement from the student body. Bespoke opportuni-
ties are currently available – including a free 20 minute,
1:1 tutorial across the academic year with a range of pro-
fessional artists, open to all students and staff at Imperial
College (More details regarding these can be found on the
Blyth Centre website).
In that spirit, this year we bring to you features of the
awardees of Imperial’s Blyth Centre awards and fellowships.
The following column will run through the coming weeks in-
troducing the Blyth Centre fellowship holders and awardees
alongwiththeirartwork.Wewishtheawardeesthebestofluck
and congragulate them on their accomplishments, and hope
that this space will inspire readers to tap into their creative side
and utilize the Blyth Centre resources.
Credits: Cleo Zhang
AbouttheAwards
The fellowship is presented to students who have shown both
exceptional talent and incredible commitment to their creative
practices alongside their study at Imperial College. The fellow-
ship offers each holder £500 materials bursary, a free place on
the Arts/Short courses drawing class, a free Tate card and profes-
sional mentoring support from a range of artists
The award is presented to students who have shown great talent
and dedication to developing their creative practice alongside their
study at Imperial College. Each Art Awardee receives a £50 materials
budget and a mentoring tutorial with a professional artist.
Blyth Art Fellowship
Blyth Art Award
Unlike any other professional Art Fellowship, the tutors are bespoke
sourced after the interviews in response to each student’s work to
maximise on developing each individuals’ creative practice.
Blyth Centre 2020 Art
Awards
2020Winners
Blyth Art Fellowship
1. Photographer Louie Hext (Physics UG)
2. Artist Cleo Zhang (Life Sciences UG)
Blyth Art Award
1. Artist Freddie Hong, (Engineering Research PG)
2. Painter Grace Zhang, (Earth Science & Engineering UG)
3. Photographer George Dixon Dray (Mechanical Engineering UG)
4. Painter Santhosh Thavarajasingam (Medicine UG)
This piece is made
using the Procreate
app. It only took
me a week to finish
whereas actual oil
paintings would
take a lot longer.
I experimented
a lot with the
brush parame-
ters to mimic
the textures
and tones of
real paint-
ings, and
I think it
turned out
quite real-
istic.
A DAMP NIGHT
digital oil painting,
32.1 x 42.8cm
Written by Vaidhiswaran Ramesh Arts Editor with input from Mindy Lee

