FRIDAY 20TH NOVEMBER 2020
11
ARTS
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
My name is Cleo and I’m in my third year of Biotech. I first heard
about this award from a friend who was one of the awardees last
year. She encouraged me to apply and so I started gathering up my art
pieces to make an online portfolio. I also made new artworks during the
summer to prepare for the interview. So before receiving this award, it
has already inspired me to create more art. And I believe this award
will continue to push me forward while providing me with plenti-
ful resources and support. I’m also excited about the tutorials with
different artists as I’ve always been curious about other people’s
creative process. Although many things have been different due to
COVID, it gave me the excuse to finally experiment with digital
drawing. During lockdown, I learnt various software such as Pro-
create, Illustrator and 3D modelling tools such as Blender. And
I really came to love the versatility and convenience of digital
art which I will continue to explore in my future work.
Credits:
Santhosh G.
Thavarajasingam
My name is Santhosh G. Thavarajasingam,
and I am a 5th year medical student. I
was born in Sri Lanka and grew up in Austral-
ia and Germany. My art practice started three
years ago, when I found some acrylic colours
in my parents’ cellar during a summer break
and painted a little something with my two
brothers. We loved how painting brought
us together and enabled us to express our-
selves, so we kept painting.
My paintings reflect what I have
been, I am, and I am becoming. Some
inspiration comes from my Hindu
heritage, from the places I grew up in,
German poetry and aboriginal art.
That said, most of my ideas come
from my brothers. I would not be
painting without them. Further-
more, I would like to thank Mindy
Lee for the Byth Art Awards which allowed me
to expand my fine art practice alongside my medical studies.
I got to know about the Blyth Centre Awards through the Imperial
Art Society. The award allows me to practice art with less financial constraints and it
extremely motivates me to continue creating art. The pandemic has not affected my art practice.
But my art has changed, it has become more abstract.
Cleo Zhang
Blyth Art Fellowship
Santhosh G.
Thavarajasingam
Blyth Art Award
Shakti, a Sanskrit
word meaning femi-
nine power, is the pri-
mordial cosmic ener-
gy and represents the
dynamic forces that are
thought to move through
the entire universe. Shakti
is the concept or personi-
fication of divine feminine
creative power. The painting
depicts a female and male at a
beach. The stark but comple-
mentary colours represent the
contrast and connection of male
and female. The outstanding pur-
ple symbolises Shakti, female ener-
gy, without which the earth and this
painting would lose its beauty.
SHAKTHI
2020,
Acrylic on wood,
150 cm x 50 cm

