FRIDAY 20TH NOVEMBER 2020
13
MUSIC
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Ravel -
Pavane for a Dead Princess
In 1899 (so basically the 20th Cen-
tury), Ravel, who you might know
from his Bolero, was commissioned by
a princess to write a short orchestral
work. He chose to write a slow Baroque
(early 17th century) dance, called the
Pavane. In a change from last week,
this is very still and serene, open-
ing with a solo for what is (in
my biased opinion) the best
instrument of the orchestra-
the French Horn. Character-
istic of impressionism, this
short work develops just two
themes, but it’s the harmonies
that make it very interesting,
and the music really builds
and swells to some chords that
can only be described as delicious.
It’s best to opt for shorter recordings
here- there’s a (wrong) tendency to play
this very slow, which ends up making a
masterpiece into a bore. Ravel wouldn’t
have been happy with this, describing
slower performances as “Dead Pavane
for a Princess”. But if the tempo is right,
it’s really a magical
five minutes, incredibly sad music
tinged with hope.
Benjamin Britten -
Serenade for Tenor, Horn
and Strings
Sticking with this week’s last-minute
and tenuous theme of French Horns,
this minor work by a very famous late
Kohnfused About Classical?
Each week Michael Kohn introduces us to one old and one new classical
composition, attempting to break down barriers and make the genre more
accessible.
Disagree with me completely?
Is there a specific theme you want me to recommend classical music
for?
Or do you have music for me?
Email me at michael.kohn18@imperial.ac.uk
20th Century British composer
is really something. Written for Brit-
ten’s lover Peter Pears, and undoubt-
edly the greatest French horn player of
all time, Dennis Brain, this work sets 7
poems by great names such as Alfred,
lord Tennyson and John Keats to
music that spotlights both the singer
and the horn, often with the singer
having the melody that is responded
to by the horn. There’s a deeply serious
and gut-wrenching Elegy based on
“the Sick Rose” by William Blake, or
a slightly more playful Hymn based
on a poem by Ben Jonson, both about
3 minutes long. The best recording is
of the original dedicatees Brain and
Pears.
Three years of production produced
this master work from the band Amen
Dunes. Drawing influences from Tom
Petty, early Oasis and Late Nirvana,
the band reinvigorate and restore their
usual lo-fi dark style. Freedom is a pop
rock record for those who prefer to be
understated.
At first listen the album is solid but
not outstanding. Repeated listening is
the only way to truly appreciate the sub-
tle genius at work. This is an album that
really rewards you for taking a second
to pay attention, getting you caught on
its hooks and sucked into its pulsing
forward momentum. Picture yourself
driving down a dusty road in a converti-
ble with a chilled milkshake and fries.
Lyrical focuses is on moments from
lead singer McMahon’s childhood.
Using either real or fictional characters,
McMahon explores topics such as his
father, masculinity, and his mother.
Ranging from silky to raspy, clear cut to
riddled with vibrato, McMahon’s vocal
performance is endearingly tender;
exactly like that of a man returning to
days gone by.
Freedom is likely to be off the beaten
path for most Imperial listeners, but I
employ you to give it a chance. I believe
it to be a perfectly gentle ray of summer
sun that can break up the increasingly
dark dismal winter days.
Felix Recommends
Freedom
Artist: Amen Dunes
Forfansof:Oasis, Mazzy Star
Runtime: 47 mins
Guthrie Ruby Music Editor
GREEN
Artist: Hiroshi Yoshimura
Forfansof: 2 8 1 4, Khotin
Runtime: 43 mins
Guthrie Ruby Music Editor
Way back in the 1980’s Japanese
artists were pioneering their own style
of ambient electronic music inspired by
sounds in nature. Artists like Hiroshi
Yoshimura made it their goal to cre-
ate music that could fill buildings the
way natural sounds fill a forest, river or
desert – music that is ever present, never
overpowering, but still pleasing to the
human ear.
As a genre, Japanese ambient envi-
ronmental music is very distinct. Tracks
move at a snail’s pace. Usually, only one
or two repeated motifs are present with
occasional variation. There is never any
crowding of sounds, it sounds the way
a breath of fresh air feels. In many ways
it sounds very spiritual, the perfect
soundtrack to meditation or yoga.
GREEN is one of the all-time mas-
terpieces of Japanese ambient environ-
mental music. Using a small range of
synthesisers, Yoshimura delicately places
notes into space. It has the same calming
effect as white noise but is loaded with
artistic expression and is filled with
heart-wrenchingly ingenious moments.
It wasn’t until last year that the genre
was paid much attention. An archivist
team called “Light in the Attic” com-
piled tracks from the 80’s into an album
that received widespread acclaim. Sadly
Yoshimura died in 2003, but two of his
albums were rereleased last year, allow-
ing his music to spread across the world.

