Imperial student by day, writer by night.
What made you want to start writing?
When I would read books and watch films, I would
always ask questions and come up with ideas on how I
could change the story – e.g. What if so-and-so event
went differently? What if there was a new character
who took the plot in a different direction? What hap-
pened before this story started? What will happen af-
ter it ends? At some point, I decided to put these ideas
on paper and I ended up writing a bunch of fanfiction.
One which I wrote based on Lord of the Rings is now
80,000 words and counting – I was really obsessed
lmao. After a while, I tried to write my own contem-
porary stories, but they weren’t very good. I realized
my strength was in writing fantasy, so I decided to
stick with that for the long run.
What kind of research do you do, and how
long do you spend researching before begin-
ning a book?
It depends on the genre, but for historical
fantasy you have to do a lot of research
about the time period and the society you
are writing about. You don’t have to re-
search everything before you start writing,
but it’s good to look at a map, look at the
main cultures, and possibly the structure
of the society (e.g. monarchy, democracy,
oligarchy, etc.). If you’re doing a completely
original setting, then you need to spend time
building the world before you write.
Wikipedia is probably the best resource for infor-
mation about history, and is the first one I looked at
when researching for The Serpent’s Veil (TSV) – the
novel I’m currently writing. I spent about a week
researching and compiling information before actu-
ally putting pen to paper (or finger to keyboard lol).
It’s good to write everything down – I use Evernote
to keep track of my research. Sometimes you get lost
in a rabbit hole with research though – once I found
myself knee deep in some obscure article about Saudi
Arabian agriculture because one of the characters
was eating a fruit and I wanted to make sure it was a
fruit you could find in that region at precise time. It’s
important not to let research override the actual writ-
ing, and usually readers don’t take notice of such tiny
details (which is sad).
What inspired the book, where do you get constant
inspiration to make sure the quality is sustained?
The source of my idea for TSV was from a book called
The Wrath and the Dawn, a (young adult) YA fantasy
by Renée Ahdieh. It retells the story of Scheherezade
and Shahryar (the story is more commonly known
as 1001 Arabian Nights). I did some research about
Scheherezade, and found out that her character was
based on a real Queen named Al-Khayzuran. Origi-
nally, I was going to write a story similar to 1001 Ara-
bian Nights, but the history surrounding Al-Khayzu-
ran intrigued me and I decided to write a book that
told her story with some semblance of accuracy (and
of course a little magic thrown in because
why not).
I get constant inspiration mainly
by reading other books in my genre – so mainly YA/
historical/high fantasy. When you read successfully
published books you get an idea about what sells, and
also how to improve your writing. I don’t mean by
copying other authors’ technique but more by under-
standing what constitutes good dialogue, sentence
structure, plot pacing, character arcs etc. Reading also
gives me new ideas for plot points.
What sort of books do you read?
I read a bit of everything, but mostly fantasy and
contemporary novels. I like anything that has an
adventure or quest type plot, and plenty of swords.
Romance is nice to have, but not necessary. Right now
I’m reading The Witcher: Blood of Elves, by Andrzej
Sapkowski, and I am loving it immensely.
I also make a point to read famous novels in differ-
ent languages translated to English. You get a lot of
insight into the culture (literary and general) of other
countries when you read their most renowned books.
One author in particular whose work I always read
and enjoy is Han Kang, who won the Booker Prize
for her novel The Vegetarian. I even managed to get
through the colossus that is Anna Karenina, only to
learn that Russian literature isn’t really my cup of tea.
When you see your book attracting more and more
attention, how do you feel?
I feel really happy and validated when people leave
comments on my work, either praising it, or trying to
predict what’s going to happen. At the same time,
when I receive criticism (especially about cultural/
historical aspects), I know what to avoid and
what to include instead, which is really helpful.
In that sense, I do cater to my readers, but I
don’t feel any pressure to change the plot or
anything extreme like that; it’s more about
cultural sensitivities and making sure I don’t
offend anyone.
Tips for an imperial writer?
I’m pretty bad at following my own advice, but
I would say schedule a regular time and dura-
tion to write (e.g. Thursday 6pm for 45 min-
utes). You shouldn’t write when you ‘have time’,
but rather make the time for it like it’s a lecture or
a tutorial that you have to attend. This kind of takes
the fun out of it, but if you want to make significant
progress and you’re really passionate, it’s the best way.
Writer’s block is a real issue for me (once I didn’t write
for 6 whole months), and sometimes the only solution
is to force yourself to spit something out, even if its
complete shit. If something is there, at least it can be
edited! Also consider joining the Writers Society –
they have really useful weekly workshops and write
ins.
Where can we find your work and describe The Ser-
pent’s Veil for those who haven’t read it.
The Serpent’s Veil is set in the Arabian Peninsula dur-
ing the 8th century, and follows the story of Khayzu-
ran, whose world is turned upside down when she’s
kidnapped and sold to a travelling caravan belonging
to the Caliph (‘King’). The story is filled with decep-
tion, royalty, intrigue, and war, catering heavily to fans
of The Wrath and The Dawn, Prince of Persia, and
Aladdin. You can find it online on Amazon and other
online booksellers.
Books Editor Hari Kumarakuruparan interviews Devyani Saini on her recent work – The Serpents Veil.
Hari Kumarakuruparan Books Editor
KEEP THE CAT FREE
Books.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
14
BOOKS

