Àbout de souffle (‘Breathless’)
came as something of an
inevitable explosion in the world
of French cinema. Before the
release of Breathless in 1960, and
of other nouvelle vague pictures
such as Truffaut’s The 400 Blows
or Resnais’s Hiroshima mon
amour in 1959, there had been
a growing dissatisfaction among
French critics and directors. In
the French film magazine Cahiers du cinéma, critics like
André Bazin, as well as Truffaut and Godard, cemented a
new theory of filmmaking called La politique des auteurs,
or, as English speakers know it today, ‘auteur theory’. The
New Wave wanted films to be imprinted with the mark of
their maker, to express emotions and ideas in the same way
that a novelist creates with their pen—so-called caméra-sty-
lo. There was admiration from these French critics for
the non-conformist streaks in Renoir and Vigo. Beyond
France, they established an admiration for American
auteurs like Welles and Hitchcock in many ways before the
Americans did. Breathless was one of the ground-breaking
outcomes from those decades of discontent—“We barged
into the cinema like cavemen into the Versailles of Louis
XV”, as Godard put it.
Breathless is loose and fluid; it is full of tracking shots and
quite jarring jump cuts—most of which are there because
Godard removed parts and didn’t feel it necessary to patch
up the remains. The New Wave was not a movement,
Truffaut said, it was “a quality”. If the movie comes off as
impromptu, that’s because it is; as Richard Balducci said:
“Shooting ranged from 15 minutes to 12 hours, depending
on how many ideas Godard had that day”.
While I have no time for the modern Godard movies like
Le Livre d’image or Film Socialisme—which mask their lack
of vision with flourishes and needless abstractions—Breath-
less is different. Although it is not a film I deeply cherish, it
would be disingenuous of me to downplay its authenticity
and its impact on cinema. 60 years on, modern directors
have still not squeezed Breathless of all its nourishment, its
technique, or its flair. [If you can find it, there’s a new 4K
restoration out now to celebrate its anniversary.]
Classic Film of the Week
David Fincher: Top 5 Films
Editor Recommends
In anticipation of Fincher’s new film Mank, out on 4th
December, I’ve compiled the top 5 movies from his il-
lustrious career thus far:
I can’t think of a more fitting
end to the twentieth century
than a crazed man referred to
only as ‘The Narrator’ tell-
ing an equally crazed woman:
“Trust me, everything is go-
ing to be fine... You met me at
a very strange time in my life”,
as ‘Where is My Mind?’ by The
Pixies plays in the background, and skyscrapers holding
important records are blown up in a hopeless attempt to
erase debt.
With God slain and chucked to the roadside, politi-
cians seen as corrupt and incompetent, and inequities
numbed with rampant consumerism, the ‘everyman’ of
the twentieth century (played by Edward Norton) has
“nothing to overcome, nothing to explore” as Fincher
said. He is forced to create an übermensch, called Tyler
Durden (Brad Pitt), to create his values. The result is
brutal, rebellious, hate-filled, explosive, relieving, and
desperate. It is David Fincher’s magnum opus.
In what is Jesse Eisenberg’s best ever performance, Da-
vid Fincher—helped by a clinical, fast-paced script by
Aaron Sorkin, and some sublime editing by Angus Wall
and Kirk Baxter (who both won
an Oscar for their work)—creates
what could prove to be a modern
classic. The wit of the dialogue,
the smoothness of the picture,
and the slowly-building drama
that barely announces its pres-
ence, could maybe be overlooked
upon first viewing. However, as
rewatches reveal, this film is beautifully economical in its
plot, and exquisitely sharp in its presentation. It is hard
to concisely describe its efficacy, although the word ‘uni-
fied’ captures most of it. Every single element, from the
central performance to the Oscar-winning soundtrack,
feeds into the cold and cynical atmosphere that so often
festers in the ranks of prestigious institutions, and in the
minds of those too rational for their own good.
A clumsily-titled crime thrill-
er about two detectives chasing a
killer whose crimes take inspira-
tion from the seven deadly sins.
The colour palette for this film
bears a striking resemblance to
the sludge one sees on the banks
of the River Thames: it is dark,
squalid, feculent, and, well...mesmerizingly disgusting.
The more we look, the more we are repulsed. Every plea
we make to watch from a distance is denied. Our only
options are to either turn the movie off, or to embrace
the heinous brutality and pray that whatever was in that
Thamesian sludge does not cause lasting damage.
Nick Dunne searches for his
wife Amy after she disappears one
morning. As the film progresses,
we discover that Amy may not
be as disentangled from her own
disappearance as we previously
thought.
The first act is an exquisite,
slow burn which tonally feels somewhat similar to Den-
is Villeneuve’s 2013 film Prisoners. However, this film is
not at 3 because of its frankly fanciful resolution. That
the FBI and scrupulous police investigators find no holes
in Amy’s easily disprovable claims when she returns is in-
credibly frustrating, especially given how rigorous and
detail-oriented the film is up to that point.
A great movie that shows the
Zodiac Killer-terrorised world of
1970s San Francisco Bay Area.
While Zodiac is highly effective
in absorbing you into the era, the
movie’s suspense is contingent on
the audience’s prior knowledge of
both the killings and of the fate
of the key suspects. Those familiar with the case may find
that while chewing on the atmosphere for 160 minutes
keeps them busy, the flavour does start to fade. Howev-
er, the “Not many people have basements in California”
scene will scare even the hardened true crime enthusiast.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir Film Editor
Oliver Weir Film Editor
Directedby: Jean-Luc Godard
Starring: Jean-Paul Belmondo; Jean Seberg
Breathless
Fight Club (1999)
The Social Network (2010)
Se7en (1995)
Gone Girl (2014)
Zodiac (2007)
1
2
3
4
5
Credits: Paramount Pictures/Warner Bros.
Credits: 20th Century Fox
Credits: New Line Cinema
Credits: Columbia Pictures
Credits: 20th Century Fox
Credits: UCG
FRIDAY 20TH NOVEMBER 2020
15
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk

