KEEP THE CAT FREE
Fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
16
FASHION
Walking the streets of Fulham
to Charing Cross Hospital or
working (hardly) in Central Library.
Be sure to catch Anisia taking full ad-
vantage of a happy hour near you.
A strong believer of look good to feel
good. Anisia is in her third year at Im-
perial, the French-Romanian biomed
student is an incredible dancer, well-
known in Imperial’s Funkology Socie-
ty. Her other talents include making a
mean Espresso Martini, extra frothy.
She’s got the drip. Her fits are always
on point. And you can count on her to
outshine anyone else in the room.
Her black mini dress is from Spanish
retailer brand Zara, complimenting
her model-like figure. Overlayed with
a cosy white sweater from Missguided.
Her jacket is thrifted (we love a sus-
tainable queen!) and her small shoul-
der bag is from Mango.
She paired her clean fit with black
tights and a pair of leather knee-high
boots from ASOS. Her gold chunky
hoop earrings compliment her tan
perfectly.
When asked who her style icon is, she
replied with “I guess Lissy Roddy or
Bella Hadid, pretty basic”. Follow-
ing the famous fashion goddesses of
Instagram, Anisia is definitely a style
inspiration herself!
How to look like me
The brands:
Dress : Zara
IMPERIAL’s BEST DRESSED
The former One Direction star Harry Styles has
graced us with his presence and has marked his
moment in history by being the first ever solo male to
feature on the December cover of US Vogue.
The 26-year old singer is breaking barriers with fash-
ion. Shot by Tyler Mitchell, the gender-fluid shoot set
in West Sussex blurs the lines between conventional
gender clothing. Harry can be seen styled in a Gucci
dress straight from the Fall 2020 runway, designed by
his friend and creative director Alessando Michele.
In his interview with Vogue, Harry notes Pilates and
meditation have both brought him calmness to the “tu-
mult of 2020”. Styles exclaims his devout appreciation
of Alain de Botton’s writing, leading him to under-
stand the importance of vulnerability in relationships.
The star looks back on his time with the group, the big
move to London and the pivotal moments in his life
which have shaped who he has become. Harry states
“As a kid I definitely liked fancy dress” and remembers
a time when he had to wear tights during school plays.
Perhaps kicking starting his creative and eclectic style.
This is not the first time Styles has
collaborated with Gucci’s creative di-
rector Alessando Michele. The pair
first met in 2014, with Michele de-
scribing Harry as “the image of a new
era, of the way that a man can look”.
The Gucci muse has worn Michele’s
floral suit, part of the spring/sum-
mer 2016 collection to the Ameri-
can Music Awards. Styles was then
seen to become the face of numer-
ous Gucci campaigns and part of the
gender-neutral scent, Mémoire d’une
odeur, a bedtime necessity for the
singer.
A big lover of pearl earrings and
éliou necklaces, Styles has become a fashion icon
amongst his 13 million followers. In earlier interviews,
Harry has stated his androgenous look has taken inspi-
ration from music artists David Bowie, Jimi Hendrix
and Mick Jagger. Born and bred in Worcestershire,
the singer songwriter has also
stepped foot in the film indus-
try, with his acting debut in
Christopher Nolan’s 2017 war
film, Dunkirk.
Known to push the conven-
tional gender norms. Harry
further states that “clothes are
there to have fun with and ex-
periment with and play with”
and “once you remove any bar-
riers, you open up the arena in
which you can play”.
Harry is marking his mo-
ment in history by rewriting
the rules of masculinity. He is
redefining what it means to be a man with confidence,
wearing his own and unique style.
It’s A Sign of The Times
Elizabeth Tong Fashion Editor
Anisia Talianu
Bringing haute couture to
Imperial
Elizabeth Tong Fashion Editor
Sweater : Missguided
Shoes: Asos
Jacket: Thrifted
LOVER OF
PEARL EARRING
AND ELIOU
NECKLACES,
STYLES HAS
BECOME A
FASHION ICON
“
Check out her Instagram for more fashion inspo @anisiatln
Bag: Mango

