Union Page
Last week of Bake Off!
“You can’t sit with us!”
Your officers first hundred days in office Grab your bundle!
Mean Girls came out in 2004 (that’s 16 years ago...), but bullying is very current.
Bullying is not always straight forward. Anyone who laughs along and joins in,
or even turns a blind eye, makes a decision to do so. So joining in with bullying
is just as bad as initiating, and anyone who sees unfair things going on has a
responsibility to try to stop it.
If you are experiencing bullying while studying at Imperial (or anywhere else) it is
important to know that you are not alone, and it’s important to ask for help.
We have put together a few resources to help you deal with this. From the
Advice Centre to the College’s harrassment and bullying support line, or even
companies like Mind or No Panic! there’s always someone there who can listen
to you and help you out.
Find details and resources here: imperialcollegeunion.org/anti-bullying
On Monday 9th November, we reached a big milestone: 100 days since the
beginning of the academic year! And that also marks the first 100 days for our
full-time sabbatical officers at the Union. They’ve been working really hard for the
past months and so we thought you’d like to know what they’ve been up to.
“COVID-19 has made our jobs more challenging,
but it also highlighted their importance.”
Each of them (your four Deputy Presidents, and your Union President) have
reflected and written about their experiences of the first 100 days in office. You
can read all about it on our website: imperialcollegeunion.org/our-first-100-
days.
What a season! We’ve had such amazing entries to our Union Bake Off
competition we don’t really want it to end. We’re so very proud of you all, we
think you should consider a career in baking if that last exam put you off...
The Great British Bake Off final is next week and it also marks the final round
of our Union Bake Off competition. As usual, we’re looking forward to receiving
photos of your bakes via direct message on Instagram (@icunion).You’ll be in for
the last chance to win a £10 voucher to redeem at FiveSixEight (as soon as we’re
able to reopen, of course).
You all deserve a prize but there can only be one winner, which you will be able
to vote for, following the Bake Off final!Thank you for being so involved and
sharing your yummy stuff with us.

