eas. Tier 2 was also having an impact, but a
smaller one. The decision is a political one,
but if we don’t want to see infection levels
rebound from December 3 my assessment
is that measures between Tier 2 and Tier
3 will be necessary in the great majority of
locations.”
Ferguson’s words come as universities
prepare to send students home for Christ-
mas.
With all face to face teaching ending
on the 9th December students have been
asked to travel home between the 3rd and
9th December during the so-called “travel
window”.
Deputy chief medical officer Dr Jenny
Harries said that the travel window” will
help minimise that risk and help students
get home to their families as safely as possi-
ble for Christmas. It is crucial that students
follow the guidance in order to protect
their families and the communities they
return to.”
However, the plan has been criticised
by academics and their union. Jo Grady,
the University and College Union general
secretary, said the plans were “riddled with
holes” and “raise as many questions as they
answer”.
Dr Grady drew attention to the difficul-
ty of ensuring that transport services are
not overly full during this very short period
saying that “allowing just a week for around
one million students to travel across the
country leaves little room for error.”
She added: “If the Government instead
told universities to move online now it
would provide much more time to stagger
the movement of students and better pro-
tect the health of staff, students and their
wider communities.”
Imperial has not yet provided any details
on how students should return home but
experts are suggesting that the density of
students living in the capital might make
additional staggering of transport neces-
sary, raising the possibility of Imperial stu-
dents having a shorter widow of travel than
the official nation week.
Union President Abhijay Sood has sug-
gested instead, however, that the large
amount of transport links coming out of
London means that London is less impor-
tant than smaller university towns whose
transport could be overwhelmed by a surge
of student departures.
Felix is the newspaper of Imperial College Student
Union. We provide entertainment, information
and news while also being a space that members of
the Imperial College community can use to pub-
lish their views and respond to the views of others.
WHAT IS FELIX?
CANIWRITEFORFELIX?
Yes. We welcome all submissions and aim to pub-
lish everything we are sent. An editor will work
with you to make sure your article is in the best
condition it can be for publication. We also pro-
duce video and audio content if that interests you
more.
HOW DO I SUBMIT AN
ARTICLE TO FELIX?
• If you already have an
article in mind or have
written one already then
send it to the section
editors via email. These
email addresses can be
found at the top of each
page in a section.
• If you want to write
but don’t have a topic
in mind, check out or
section specific writers
Facebook groups that we
update every week with
topics we would like
articles about or email
the section editors
Send your article to us by 8 o’clock on Tuesday and
we can then have it ready for publication that Fri-
day!
We are also always recruiting editors,
copy editors, photographers, artists
and more. If you would like to get
invovled in Felix in a regular capacity,
email Felix@ic.ac.uk
KEEP THE CAT FREE
NEWS
Felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
2
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Neil Ferguson threatens third wave
Royal Albert Hall to reopen
for first event since March
relatives living in care homes.
These tests have also been distributed to
twenty five other London boroughs and
form part of the government’s mass testing
drive.
Hammersmith and Fulham have also
announced that they will be expanding its
local test and trace programme. Separate
from the national version run by the NHS
and Serco, the local authority will attempt
to avoid the issues that plagued that na-
tional version.
Council leader Stephen Cowan, said:
“With the continued high infection rates,
we will do everything possible to protect
people by stepping up the fight against
Covid-19 with local targeted testing allied
with robust track and tracing.
“I want to thank all the partners who are
helping us deliver this service and appeal
to everyone in the borough to continue to
stick to the advice to stay at home to save
lives during this lockdown. We can limit
the dreadful effects of this pandemic if we
all pull together.”
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Neil Ferguson threatens third wave
The Albert Hall is hosting a trial event
to test the processes developed for re-
opening safely.
The organ recital on 3rd December, the
day after national restriction on movement
and socialising end, will be the first public
event held in the Hall since 17th March
when it shut as part of the national lock-
down.
Groups will be limited to two tickets
which cost £10 and the hall will operating
at a limited capacity.
The recital will feature a repertoire rang-
ing from J.S. Bach’s to Eric Coates and Ed-
ward Elgar and will be played by the organ-
ist Thomas Trotter on the Hall’s 9,999 pipe
Calum Drysdale Editor-in-Chief

