Climate change deniers: we all know
one. They are randomly inter-
spersed amongst our friends and family.
So, this holiday season prepare yourself
by getting your facts straight. We know
how frustrating it can be and how un-
comfortable it is when your great-un-
cle is divulging endlessly that climate
change is a controversy or a scam. So, on
that note, here’s what to say when…
They say: ‘Climate change is just part of
the natural cycle’.
You say: ‘Yes, the earth’s climate has al-
ways changed. However, in the last 150
years, we have recorded exceptional
changes in climate and modelling shows
that the temperature is likely to contin-
ue to increase. Plus, the warm tempera-
tures of the Medieval Warming period
were only in some parts of the Northern
hemisphere, not the whole earth which
is happening now.’
They say: ‘There is no evidence that we
are causing catastrophic climate change’.
You say: ‘There is a clear consensus from
thousands of scientists across over 100
countries that we are causing climate
change which will affect the lives of al-
most everyone on the planet.’
They say: ‘Carbon dioxide is a gift of life,
not a pollutant’.
You say: ‘Yes, carbon dioxide is an essen-
tial compound for life on earth, and the
greenhouseeffectkeepsusalive,butwith
the quantities that have been emitted an-
thropogenically the earth is warming
They say: ‘Sunspots are causing warmer
temperatures.’
You say: ‘Since 1978 there has been no
upward trend in the amount of the sun’s
energy hitting Earth.’
They say: ‘The Climate Cult is ready to
declare on the developed world, espe-
cially the USA’.
You say: ‘Oh dear…’ The level of learn-
ing and unlearning needed is too high.
Leave the conversation; you don’t need
this today.
They say: ‘Climate change is good for us
as it will make farming more productive’.
You say: ‘Perhaps in the Global North
there will be higher agricultural pro-
ductivity; however, this benefit is likely
to be offset by the losses in the Global
South, as warming temperatures cause
more frequent weather events and deser-
tification.’
They say: ‘We have other problems to
solve; first, this isn’t a priority’.
You say: ‘Firstly, countries in the Global
North, such as the UK, have a respon-
sibility to act now to reduce emissions
and the impact of climate change as
they have contributed to the most of
emissions throughout history. Secondly,
many climate solutions will benefit us
directly, like reducing air pollution, cre-
ating jobs, and improving food security.’
When they say: ‘The Climate Cult is
ready to declare on the developed world,
especially the USA’.
You say: ‘Oh dear…’ The level of learn-
ing and unlearning needed is too high.
Leave the conversation; you don’t need
this today.
Microplastics in our plants?
Arecent paper published in Nature
sustainability studied the poten-
tial uptake of microplastic by plants. We
all know that microplastics are present
everywhere around us – in the rain fall,
the soil, the oceans and the fish we eat.
There’s even a term for this widespread
phenomenon – the ‘plastic cycle’, just
like the carbon cycle and nitrogen cycle.
But could plastic pieces also be found in-
side our salad leaves?
Well, it turns out that the possibili-
ty is there. Li and her team found that
microplastic beads below a micrometre
(0.2 μm) and even larger beads of 2 μm,
could enter the roots of wheat and salad
leavesspecies.Thisoccursatthejunction
where new lateral roots begin to form
because, during this process, there is a
small, vulnerable gap between plant cells
where external organisms such as para-
sites (and now plastic) can enter. After
gaining access inside, the tiny beads will
move throughout the rest of the plant.
But as with many scientific studies,
there’s a caveat – the study was only con-
ducted on two species of plants, so we
can’tbecertainthatthisisthecase.More
importantly, the roots were isolated in a
hydroponic culture – far different to
the natural conditions in the soil where
other the presence of microbes, fungi,
symbionts and nutrients could yield dif-
ferent results.
The takeaway from this study, though,
is not the specifics of which species un-
der which conditions might be vulnera-
ble. These are things that will hopefully
be explored in future studies. For now,
it’s about understanding the dangers
and potentials of microplastic invad-
ing, quite literally, every square inch of
life on earth. If the idea of eating foods
containing fragments of plastic doesn’t
set off alarms in societies that something
must change, I’m not sure what will.
Responding to climate deniers
Monami Miyamoto Sustainability Editor
Flora Dickie Sustainability Editor
JustlastweekinEindhoven,agroup
of Dutch students managed to build
the first electronic vehicle out of waste
materials. This includes everything
from the interiors, the seat cushions,
and the chassis – a feat that has never
been accomplished before.
Over 18 months, they integrat-
ed various forms of waste, including
household products, plastic from the
ocean, and even coconut shells and
built the car from scratch. With the
support of several companies, they
constructed a chassis out of flax fibre
combined with ocean plastic, along
with a body comprised of recycled
ABS (a hard plastic used in house-
hold products such as toys and TV).
The final product, a car named Luca,
is a two-seater capable of running up
to 90km/hour. Also, the six batteries
taken from disused cars can run Luca
for up to 220km when fully charged.
Whilst companies are transitioning
towards sustainable materials for their
interior parts, these changes feel like
nothingcomparedtothestudents’im-
pressive feat of building. There is still
plenty of room for technical improve-
ments to be made. Still, it’s exciting
to see that with a shift in perspective,
what we perceive as ‘waste’ can turn
into valuable materials capable of re-
placing the harmful ones we use today.
This week’s
inspiration
Luca - Image source: electrive.com
Monami Miyamoto Sustainability Editor
Plastics have been found both on Everest and in the Marina trench
FRIDAY 20TH NOVEMBER2020
24
Sustainability.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY

