FRIDAY 20TH NOVEMBER 2020
SCIENCE
3
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
SCIENCE
The engineering giant announced
a consortium with the Nation-
al Nuclear Laboratory and construc-
tion firm Laing O’Rourke to build
16 “small modular reactors” (SMRs).
The consortium, known as UK SMR,
were awarded £18m by the UK Govern-
ment in 2019 to design SMRs and are
now asking for a further £217m for the
next stage of the project. Prime Minister
BorisJohnsonisexpectedtoannounceat
least £200m for the project as part of a
larger green plan for economic recovery.
The UK currently gets around 20%
of its electricity from seven nuclear sites,
all of which are owned by EDF Ener-
gy. However, six of these seven sites are
due to go offline by 2030. EDF are con-
structing two new reactors at Hinkley
Point C, and are
expected to be giv-
en the green light
for two further re-
actors at Sizewell C
soon. But there will
still be a reduction in the nuclear en-
ergy supply without further action.
Rolls-Royce and their partners claim
that the use of SMRs will significantly
reduce the cost of construction. Each
nuclear plant would be built from a set
of “modules” made in factories and then
transported to the site for assembly,
turning nuclear power plant construc-
tion into something like life-size Lego.
They also argue that
this will increase
safety, as mak-
ing lots of smaller
modules will mean
that there is great-
er opportunity to practice con-
struction and learn from mistakes.
Like most new nuclear projects, UK
SMR are facing criticism, with envi-
ronmental groups such as Greenpeace
questioning why this investment is not
being directed towards renewable en-
ergy, which would not pose the same
risks associated with radioactive mate-
rials. Others are sceptical about wheth-
er the short time scale for construction
and low cost are actually achievable.
That being said, the project is pro-
jected to create thousands of jobs
over several decades, and while nu-
clear energy is certainly not perfect,
it has a much lower carbon footprint
than the fossil fuels that make up
the majority of the UK energy mix.
Rolls-Royce announces plans for 16
mini nuclear plants
20%
of UK electricity
from seven
nuclear sites
Picture credits: Shutterstock
Lily Shepherd Science Editor
Are the UK Government right to be
investing in new nuclear?
As the UK government continues to pump millions of pounds into the development of new nuclear facilities, Science Editor Lily
Shepherd discusses whether this is really the right approach for the UK energy mix.
In 2018, I spent three months working
for EDF Energy, who own the UK’s
seven nuclear sites. I started with a fair-
ly limited knowledge of nuclear power,
only familiar with the introductory the-
ory of nuclear and atomic physics (from
my degree) and the negative portrayals
of nuclear power in the media (from
the Simpsons). After months calculating
the incredibly low radiation doses that
would result from incredibly unlikely re-
actor faults, I came out of that job with
a strong sense that nuclear in the UK
is both safe and necessary. But should
it be the future of energy in the UK?
Environmental groups have long been
critical of nuclear power in this country.
Greenpeace UK describe it as “expen-
sive, hazardous and slow to build”, and
argue that it creates problems for future
generations who have to deal with dis-
posal of radioactive waste. They have
also suggested that it creates significant
national security issues, particularly with
the risk of terror attacks on nuclear facil-
ities. These are all very valid arguments.
It is unsurprising that we are fearful of
nuclear energy. Most of us have seen the
disturbing impacts of the nuclear power
station accidents at Chernobyl and Fuk-
ushima. However, those of us who have
seen HBO’s stunning drama Chernobyl
will know that this accident was prevent-
able, and the same has been said about
the Fukushima tragedy. In both cases,
experts have said that the tragic deaths
resulting from the accidents could have
been prevented if the governments re-
sponsible had followed international
best practices and standards. The UK
nuclear industry is independently reg-
ulated by the ONR (Office for Nuclear
Regulation) and has some of the strictest
nuclear safety regulations in the world.
Despite this, it is difficult to make an
argument that nuclear energy is entirely
safe and secure. However tiny, there is
always some risk involved – particularly
when external safety issues such as nucle-
ar terrorism are factored in. Renewable
energy sources such as wind and solar
do not create the same level of securi-
ty issues and are more climate friendly.
A recent study in Nature Energy from
the University of Sussex analysed nu-
clear programmes in 123 countries over
25 years, and found that countries with
large scale nuclear programmes do not
Lily Shepherd Science Editor
A nuclear power station.

