KEEP THE CAT FREE
SCIENCE
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
4
show significantly lower carbon emis-
sions than those without. They found
that countries which operate an en-
ergy mix that is partially nuclear and
partially renewable are less efficient,
as the nuclear and renewables “crowd
each other out”, resulting in the high
levels of national investment required
for successful renewable programmes
being misdirected towards nuclear.
It is clear, then, that a 100% renewable
energy mix is the ideal approach to elec-
tricitysupplyintheUK.ButtheUKcur-
rentlyusesanaverageof1873TWhofen-
ergyperyear,andtoproducethisamount
requires significant land area, as well as
investment. For example, consultancy
firm LucidCatalyst calculated that using
solar power to replace oil demand alone
would require around 23,000 square
kilometres of land – roughly 10% of UK
land area. Wind, geothermal and tidal
energy all require similarly large areas.
There are two solutions to this prob-
lem. One is to increase the efficiency of
renewable energy sources, and the other
is to find ways of storing energy so that it
is not wasted (e.g. so that solar energy is
stored on sunny days, when there is more
than we need). Both of these solutions
arefocusesofworldwideenergyresearch.
However, research does take time. If
theUKGovernmentdirectedalltheirin-
vestment in nuclear towards renewables
tomorrow, we would still be left without
energy for potentially years, as we waited
for the research to bring more efficient
or storable renewable energy. Given that
we have got a very short amount of time
to turn climate change around, we really
need an alternative to fossil fuels that we
can use right now. Using nuclear power
provides an intermediary stage on our
waytocompletedecarbonisation–astep-
ping stone – and it is therefore necessary.
That being said, nuclear should not
be the long-term future of energy in this
country. We should be seeing a gradu-
al phasing out of nuclear energy in the
next few decades, and a rapid growth in
renewable investment. The UK govern-
ment has awarded billions of pounds to
several new nuclear initiatives in recent
years, and I cannot help thinking that at
least some of this would have been bet-
ter spent elsewhere. Renewables may not
be able to provide us with all the ener-
gy we need today, but our government
should be investing much more heavily
in research so that the UK energy sec-
tor can decarbonise as soon as possible.
CONTINUED
Felix’s tips for Black Friday tech shopping
Black Friday originated in the US,
with the day following Thanksgiv-
ing signifying the start of the Christmas
shopping season. Despite the fact that
theUKdoesnotcelebrateThanksgiving,
the event has crept onto our shopping
calendar, with American companies such
as Amazon and Asda (then owned by
Walmart) introducing the event in the
early 2010s, and major British retailers
following in 2014 for fear of missing out.
Although many firms had misgivings -
with John Lewis’ CEO calling Black Fri-
day“badforbusiness”in2015-theevent
has clearly been a success for retailers.
Shoppers in the UK spent an estimat-
ed £8.29 billion over the Black Friday
weekend in 2018 – an average of £346
per person. This year’s Black Friday event
will undoubtedly be different to what
has come before; an economic downturn
caused by the coronavirus pandemic, the
second lockdown and severe shortages of
popular products such as games consoles
and laptops threatening to dampen the
retailer’s takings. With that in mind, it is
more important than ever to make sure
you get the best out of your spending.
Scrolling through pages and pag-
es of deals is a great way to make sure
your wallet ends up lighter than you
intended. The deals page on websites
are the digital equivalent of window
shopping, without the physical limi-
tations the real-life version presents,
making it easy for you to convince your-
self you need something you do not.
Before the deals start, make a list of
things you actually want. It is best to
not be too specific when doing this –
while a TV is almost definitely going
to be on sale, a specific model may not
be, and limiting your choices to a single
product might lead to disappointment.
While we associate pressure selling
with the dodgy man in the van on Rogue
Traders, the subtle tricks digital retailers
use are no less effective. A great example
of this is Amazon’s “Lightning Deals”,
with their countdown showing that the
number of discounted items is limited,
and the timer forcing you to hand over
your money in the next 15 minutes or
lose out on the deal altogether. What
this means is that you often do not get
the opportunity to compare prices across
the market, or even against the retailer
itself. It is important to not let yourself
get caught by the tactics of the retailers
– take your time researching the product
and find out if it can be found cheaper
elsewhere. The short-term deals offered
are often not that impressive, which can
be seen if you use a price tracker such as
camelcamelcamel – sometimes a deal
is only returning a product to its orig-
inal price before it had been increased
to make the deal look more impressive.
Retailers sometimes have manufac-
turers bid to build special products to
fit in a price budget. These products are
then given model numbers that are ex-
tremely similar to existing products. Not
only does this make it more difficult to
compare retailers, as they are technically
selling different models, it makes it easy
for you to inadvertently purchase an in-
ferior product. While the products will
still keep their headline features, smaller
things – such as the number of HDMI
portsonaTV–mighthavebeencutinthe
process of making the product cheaper.
The obvious rules apply here – if a
price is too good to be true, it probably
is. Companies that offer a price signif-
icantly cheaper than their competitors
are often shipping from a warehouse
outside the UK, marking your parcel as
a “gift” and hoping it is not inspected
during transit, thereby reducing costs
by avoiding VAT. Even if it does get past
customs, the items from these sellers are
often not covered by the manufacturer’s
warranty, leaving you at the mercy of the
seller. Another thing to remember is that
extended warranties are only as good as
the companies offering them – a 10 year
warranty is no good if the company you
buy from goes bankrupt in a month.
If you are making a purchase of over
£100 (and below £30,000) you should
alsopayforaportionofit–howeversmall
– using a credit card. Thanks to a power-
ful piece of legislation known as Section
75, credit card companies are jointly li-
able for any purchases you make, even
if you pay off the balance immediately.
This means that if something goes wrong
– for example, if something you ordered
never arrives – the credit card company
has to refund you if the retailer does not.
It is important to note, however, that
this protection does not apply if you pay
for something via PayPal or other third
party; wherever you can, pay directly.
Shrey Bohra Tech Writer
DECIDE WHAT YOU
NEED BEFOREHAND
IS IT EVEN A DEAL?
CHECK WHAT YOU
BUY
USE A CREDIT CARD
BUY FROM A
REPUTABLE
RETAILER

