KEEP THE CAT FREE
SCIENCE
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
6
Charity CEOs plead for more support as
research funding dwindles
Medical research charities in the
UK are facing a critical mo-
ment: as revenues plummet, many have
beenforcedtomakehugecutstototheir
research budgets. In a recent commen-
tary published in the Lancet, a leading
medical journal, CEOs of major health
charities warn of the threat to UK med-
ical research and development, likely
causing delays to medical advances and
deployment of next generation treat-
ments for patients.
Due to the pandemic, funding for
research by charities has fallen precipi-
tously. Many fundraising events like the
London Marathon have been cancelled,
while charity shops remained closed for
extended periods of time. This has led to
a 38% drop in fundraising income be-
tween March and May 2020 and a pro-
jection of a fall in research spending by
up to £368 million for 2020/21.
As the financial impact starts to bite,
charities have already taken drastic ac-
tions in anticipation of further losses.
TheBritishHeartFoundationhashalved
its budget for this year, down from £100
million. Meanwhile, Cancer Research
UK has cut £44 million from its budget,
as well as postponing all decisions on
new research ideas for 6 months - mean-
ing that no new re-
search projects
were approved or
funded in the first
half of 2020.
When the
government an-
nounced a £750
million package
to support chari-
ties back in April,
medical research
was excluded. In-
stead, money was reserved for front-line
services to patients, leading to calls for
more funding to keep research and de-
velopment going.
The effect of a lack of funding will
be keenly felt by patients and scientists
alike, as charities play a crucial role in
supporting medical research in the UK.
In 2019 alone, their fundraising efforts
brought in an estimated £1.9 billion,
which represented just over half of the
total investment in publicly funded
medical research in the UK. They also
support over 17,000 scientists and their
work to advance our understanding of
diseases and search for
cures.
Moreover, chari-
ty-funded research
has led to numer-
ous breakthroughs
over the years, such
as the development
of radiotherapy for
cancer treatments
and life-saving med-
ications for heart
attacks and strokes.
These treatments have aided in the pre-
vention of an estimated 830,000 cancer
deaths in the UK since the 1980s.
With funding not expected to recov-
er for at least 3 to 5 years, charities have
also warned of the long-term risks, such
as delays in bringing new treatments for
patients. Furthermore, there are signs
that researchers are also feeling the pres-
sure. In a recent survey, 40% of scientists
funded by charities expressed a desire to
leave the field as a result of the recent
cuts.
However, it does seem that the gov-
ernment is aware of the impact. In their
latest UK Research and Development
Roadmap policy paper, published in July
2020, the government noted that the
pandemic has “exposed the fragility of
the funding system, with large sections
of our national research activity depend-
ent on third-party funding sources, in-
cluding international student fees”. They
have also vowed to “stabilise the system”
inthenextspendingreview,whichisdue
to be published later this month.
As a result, charity bosses have called
for the government to use the review as
an opportunity to bridge the gap. They
propose setting up a new life sciences
charity partnership fund, which will en-
able improvement in patient outcomes
and help protect careers. With spend-
ing and financing policies being debated
now more frequently than ever, perhaps
there is hope that the ever-important
medical research can continue.
A conversation with Tom Whipple, Science
Editor of The Times
Last Friday, Imperial students were
lucky enough to have a conversation
with Tom Whipple, Science Editor of
TheTimes,duringanonlineeventorgan-
ised by Felix.
Speaking to aspiring journalist stu-
dents, Tom recounted how he first got
into journalism an interest alongside
his Mathematics degree. For this work
he was named the Guardian Student
Feature Writer of the Year. From there,
Tom’s began his career as a freelancer, re-
sulting in a job at The Times, where even-
tually he became Science Editor.
Inthisrole,Tomhaswrittenaboutava-
riety of topics: from the bizarre concept
known as the leap second which causes
havoc on Wall Street to the people who
refuse to leave the Chernobyl exclusion
zone. His job has also allowed him to
travel, taking him across the world to
chase the latest science stories.
Interested in journalism yourself? Dur-
ing the interview, Tom offered 3 tips to
writing a good science story:
1. Interview the scientists. Getting the
human voice into your story is poten-
tially much more interesting than the
canned quotes that the press release of-
fers. Ask why the author of the paper is
interested in the finding, and how the
science was done.
2. Read the paper. Press releases are a
great resource for finding the story, but
delving into the paper and getting to
grips with the science yourself is a much
more thorough source of information.
3. Science is received better as a feature
- not hard news. Try and go deeper with-
in your story than the classic headline,
breakthrough, pyramid structure. Hu-
manise and write a richer, more detailed
piece.
A good science journalist is also a re-
sponsible one. Science stories appear
similar across most outlets because they
are constructed by objective journalists
trying to get the science right. Unlike
some aspects of journalism, science sto-
ries tend to be the least subject to edi-
torial pressures. If you are concerned
about accuracy, it is acceptable to send
a paragraph to the scientist to sign off
on technical accuracy – but no need for
copy approval. And if you find yourself
writing in complex jargon, it is probably
a sign you do not understand the science
fully; go back and research more so that
you can explain it in layman terms.
For those who aspire to be a science
journalist like Tom, in his opinion, the
commonality in journalism is those who
persevered – it isn’t an easy field to break
into, but persistence is key to getting to
where you want to be. Take up all the
opportunities you can – graduate train-
ee schemes or getting your name on a
few national by-lines (or even writing for
your student newspaper *cough cough*)
is a good place to start.
Patrick Chan Science Writer
Alana Cullen Science Writer
IN 2019, CHARITY
FUNDRAISING
BROUGHT IN AN
ESTIMATED 1.9
BILLION POUNDS
“

