www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 2 June 2005
10 www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 2 June 2005 11
What’s really happening at Wye?
The future of the Wye campus is top of the agenda as Dave Edwards talks to the Deputy Rector, Professor Sir Leszek Borysiewicz
Last September, Imperial College
announced plans to transfer almost
all undergraduate teaching away from
the Wye campus. The Department of
Agricultural Sciences – which is wholly
based at Wye – will be closed and the
future of the campus is under threat.
Students’ groups at Wye have since
expressed frustration at a perceived lack
of communication from College manage-
ment. They have also questioned the rea-
sons why the College has chosen this
particular course of action.
Since his appointment last year,
Professor Sir Leszek Borysiewicz, the
Deputy Rector, has spent much of his
time dealing with this difficult situation.
With this in mind, I took the opportunity
to try to find some of the answers Wye
students have been looking for.
The Deputy Rector explains that such
sweeping changes are necessary for
three main reasons: low student num-
bers on most courses at Wye, declining
research standards and – unsurprisingly
– huge debts.
He tells me: “One of the first things I
had to do was to ask the question, why
is this Faculty [of Life Sciences, of which
he is Acting Principal] in considerable
debt? We looked carefully at what was
going on, and found that about 40% of that
deficit was down to the Department of
Agricultural Sciences, which was totally
based at the Wye campus. So it was
decided to close that department.
“Very quickly we began to look at cer-
tain courses that were being held at Wye,
which were attracting such low numbers
of students that sometimes we ended up
having more teachers than students, and
that is completely untenable. With the
support of Senate [the College’s senior
academic body], it was decided to close
those courses.
“The third reason was the academic
achievement. If you look at the results of
the last Research Assessment Exercise,
they questioned whether Wye was achiev-
ing the levels of excellence that Imperial
sets itself.”
Sir Leszek insists that the College is
good at communicating and consulting
with its students, despite the fact that
certain groups at Wye would strongly
disagree. “A lot of the consultation that
takes place is more informal than formal,
and I think that is a strength,” he says.
“I offer monthly meetings to the Faculty
President and the student president at
Wye, so they have every opportunity to
bring up any anxiety. So yes, I believe
we are good at communicating with the
student body.”
An official College press release, dated
last August, suggests otherwise. It reads:
“There will be no impact on course pro-
vision for current or prospective (2005
entry) students on taught undergraduate
or postgraduate courses.” But Sir Leszek
tells me not only that prospective stu-
dents in agricultural sciences were told
to look elsewhere, but also that he cannot
guarantee that current students will com-
plete their courses at Wye.
“We made it absolutely clear that we
were closing those courses down,” he
says. “The decisions were taken early
so that those who were applying had the
opportunity to apply to other institutions
that were offering those courses.
“We will continue to support [current]
students on whichever course they have
undertaken at Imperial. They will com-
plete that course at Imperial, we have
made that commitment absolutely clear.”
But will that be at the Wye campus or
elsewhere? “I can’t make that absolute
guarantee.”
Sir Leszek says he “doesn’t know”
whether sections of the Wye campus
will be sold off, but hopes to reassure
students that “this is not Armageddon
tomorrow. We’re talking about a medium
term plan. This is a three to five year
think about how we’re going to manage
this process.”
He believes that “there are some very
good science-related groups that work
at Wye,” some of which are “working
below the high levels of excellence that
we believe they’re capable of, and so will
have to relocate from the Wye campus.”
He tells me that Wye College could still
be a centre for academic excellence, but
in an entirely different form. “What’s
happening is you’re locked into the con-
cept that Wye has to be a land-based,
biology-based campus,” he says. “Why?
It may actually have an opportunity to be
something very different.
“What I do believe, having looked at it
very carefully, is that where there is aca-
demic opportunity in Wye, it will almost
certainly not reside in the Life Sciences
area, because the critical mass does not
support the kind of science that I believe
Imperial should be undertaking on that
campus.”
The best in the UK?
As one would expect, the Deputy Rector
also has a range of other issues to
deal with. He joined Imperial from the
University of Wales in 2001, the year in
which he was knighted in recognition of
his research into vaccines.
He has high praise for his place of
work. “I think this is the most fantas-
tic educational institution in the United
Kingdom,” he says confidently. “I think
it’s way ahead of anywhere else. It’s a
place that has its own identity and pur-
pose, and it looks after its staff and stu-
dents extremely well. Excellence is the
main driver, be that in education, in train-
ing or in research, that’s what it strives
for, so there’s no place I’d rather be.”
Strong words indeed, but surely the
most fantastic educational institution in
the UK would be number one in all the
league tables... wouldn’t it?
“We aren’t the dreaming spires of
Oxford and Cambridge,” says Sir Leszek.
“We are a very different institution. There
are certain things that are always going
to be far more difficult for us to score on,
but if you look at things like engineering
we’re at the very top.”
Student activities
The Deputy Rector was heavily involved in
student activities in his younger days, as
‘President of the Non-Sporting Societies’
at the Welsh National School of Medicine
in Cardiff. He believes that our students’
union is “very independently minded”
and “very effective”.
“When it wants to be heard, it makes
its views known,” he says. “Something
that has always impressed me is that you
can always have a proper discussion and
debate with students here, who I believe
share the vision that we have for Imperial
– they want this to be a high quality insti-
tution that reflects their own abilities in
being here.”
Unsurprisingly, given his own involve-
ment as a student, he believes that clubs
and societies are “very important.” So
why is he asking the Union to justify it’s
club and society activity in the latest
financial planning round?
“Because I ask everyone to justify finan-
cially all the activities they undertake.
We have to decide how far we’re able to
sponsor a particular activity for a small
number of students, given the budget that
we have.”
When I ask him whether club budgets
are going to be cut, he quickly brings
up the new sports centre, where “we’re
looking at making certain activities free
of charge.” It appears, then, that Union
clubs may have their budgets cut in order
to make certain activities free of charge
at the sports centre.
“We’re actually freeing individual stu-
dents from having to pay membership
fees for certain activities, which will
increase the amount of resource that stu-
dents have available to them. Clubs will
have to say, well, if students wish to par-
ticipate in certain group activities then
maybe they will have to contribute rather
more to those clubs and societies.”
And will he be the next Rector? “I’ve
no idea,” replies Sir Leszek, who has
been touted as the obvious successor to
Sir Richard Sykes. “But what I can say is
that the next Rector of Imperial College
will have one of the most important jobs
in British higher education.”
THE FELIX INTERVIEW felix@ic.ac.uk
“I think this is the most fantastic educational institution in the United Kingdom” – Professor Sir Leszek Borysiewicz (left), Deputy Rector of Imperial College, with Dave Edwards
“Certain courses at Wye
were attracting such low
numbers that sometimes
we ended up having more
teachers than students”
PHOTO: SIMON CLARK
“The RAE questioned
whether Wye was
achieving the levels of
excellence that Imperial
sets itself”
“Current students will
complete their course at
Imperial, but will that be
at Wye? I can’t make that
absolute guarantee”

