www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 2 June 2005 9
“I’ve been waiting, I’m still wait-
ing...”
Faithless lyrics. That’s what I
hope you’ve all been singing along
to in eager anticipation of my rumi-
natory musings this week. Musings
on a meeting with Imperial’s finest
social analyser, the inimitable Mr
Geraldes.
Inimitable, you say? I’d like to
think so, since my meetings with
gentlemen of the Latin disposition
were previously limited to crude hip-
hop videos and bad J-Lo movies,
not to mention my mother’s hide-
ous Julio Iglesias CD collection, to
which I’d rather not give a smidgen
of recognition. I also hadn’t had the
privilege of hanging out with a bio-
medical engineering student before
I met Diogo – I hold my hands up to
assuming it ranked among the ‘spot
the non-Chinese person’ courses
based in the engineering faculty, and
straightforwardly denounced any
chances of having company from
here. (Well, it’s true, isn’t it – non-EU
international students tend to hang
out in incestuous packs; I should
know having been ignored by half
my hall compatriots back in Wilson
in 2001!)
So what was he like then?
Charming, talkative and funny, albe-
it decidedly arrogant in the nicest
possible way. Diogo is undoubtedly
handsome, in the rugged way all
Football Italia fans like their men
(think Luis Amor Rodriguez from
Dream Team), and chivalrous. Our
topics of conversation included
life in Lisbon, life at Wilson, life in
London and partying.
I’ve discovered a similar arro-
gance in many affluent gentlemen
from cultures where the female is
subservient. It’s not intentional,
more a bravado-type front. Either
way, it’s slightly unappreciated by a
female capable of making and hold-
ing her own opinion when it comes
to a relationship context, which, my
fair readers, won’t be the case with
me and our dearest social analyser,
for these reasons and more.
So we’re back to square one...
or so it seems. Stormy’s one-night
stand with the Oxford clitophobe
(he wouldn’t go down on me, so I
kicked him out onto the streets) has
led to begging and pleading of the
most desperate kind. Clitophobe,
who incidentally owns a pyramidal
penis, hated being kissed with a
tongue and failed to see the point
in a Brazilian, would like to have a
second chance.
Second chances are all very well
if you’re willing to experiment and
compromise; something that he, the
king of Oxford Mechsoc, failed to
do. Stormies do not go down on you
if you refuse to go down on them.
Laming out and snoring once you’ve
had your fun does not do you any
favours, along with endless begging
and pleading emails and phone calls
to tell me how great I am. Ego-
stroking is for the insecure. Try a
new flex.
Speaking of new flexes, I’d like
to tell you that I got mistaken for a
fresher by a Busted lookalike trio in
the first year of ICSM when I accost-
ed them in the midst of a diner on
Kings’ Road. Flattering isn’t it, when
you’re about to enter your fifth year
of perjury?
Mindless charm aside, these fair
chappies failed to recognise that peo-
ple from different years do socialise
in the medschool. They also failed to
realise that the ‘future doctor flex’ of
staring at a girl for 20 minutes wear-
ing an ICSM clubs and socs top may
occasionally fail when the girl you’re
fixating upon is going to be making
you do her legwork around a local
hospital in 730 days and counting.
Adventures make the world go
round. I’ll see you next week.
The girl about town
by STORMY WOODS
COLUMNS felix@ic.ac.uk
As this is my last article this year
(everyone has to be a bit of a nerd
sometimes), I decided to finish
with an explosive investigation.
Yes, unselfish Diogo spent three
minutes of his week thinking
about humanity’s most mysterious
problems and trying to figure out
solutions to them.
Mystery 1: Why do girls go
to the bathroom in groups of
three at least?
Are they afraid of being attacked?
No! Otherwise they would bring the
whole rugby society or a cricket bat
with them. Maybe they help each
other with their makeup? I find that
hard to believe, because being a
girl (or a metrosexual) is all about
keeping the secrets of beauty and
style away from our ‘opponents’ and
trying to beat them at every oppor-
tunity.
They say that men are perverts
because all they think about is sex,
girls and sex (this is so not true: we
also think about beer, Angelina Jolie
and making love), but the same hap-
pens with girls: they are horny 70%
of their time, and the other 30% they
spend thinking about how horny
they were before! So they gather
in the bathroom and start exchang-
ing impressions about the guy that
works in the sandwich shop, the
bloke-that-smiled-at-them-right-
before-throwing-up-and-collapsing-
due-to-the-amount-of-alcohol-he-
drank or the sexy hunk from the
third floor in the library who won’t
stop staring at them (even if all he
wants is a share of their university
physics book).
Mystery 2: Where are
Saddam’s weapons of mass
destruction?
I’m sorry but I only included this
topic to make my column look
respectful and serious. How can I
find something that seemed harder
to find than life on other planets?
Moving on...
Mystery 3: Where do all the
umbrellas go?
This world has six thousand mil-
lion inhabitants. Almost half of them
have had umbrellas at some point
in their lives. But, let me think for
a bit:
1. A big percentage of people have
umbrellas.
2. Everyone loses at least one
umbrella per lifetime.
3. Nobody finds umbrellas.
So where the hell do they go? Do
they have their own refugee camp,
Umbrellaland? Are they hiding
from us? And why would they do
it? Who’s stealing them? Where are
they kept?
I thought I was audacious enough
to answer to this mystery, but it bla-
tantly has no solution!
And finally...
Mystery 4: Who is Stormy
Woods?
Everyone who reads her column
wonders what does she look like,
how does she dress and where does
she go clubbing. Yesterday I had the
opportunity to solve this mystery in
High Street Ken, but I won’t reveal
much (since I was begged not to).
So I’ll let you keep your own sexual
or envious thoughts without disturb-
ing them, feeling delighted for being
the chosen one. What a man must do
for the good of humanity...
Analyse them
by DIOGO GERALDES
Competitions
Fight Night Round 2, the sequel to the critically acclaimed ‘Fight Night’, is out
now. Featuring over thirty licensed boxers, including cover star Ricky Hatton, Fight
Night Round 2 allows you to perform like a champion and with the all new Haymaker
feature you’ll be able to take your opponents down with the just one blow.
Midnight Club 3: DUB Edition is the quintessential racing game for any true
aficionado of the automotive and racing lifestyle. It is the only game to offer the full
range of street vehicle culture. The full spectrum includes import tuners, muscle cars,
motorcycles and luxury rides, all of which are fully customisable in both style and
performance. Compete head to head with the best and most stylish racers in three of
America’s premier cities – San Diego, Atlanta and Detroit – each with multiple living
and breathing neighbourhoods.
Cold Winter is the FPS that is set to take the PlayStation2 by storm, with its
extensive attention to detail and hyper-realistic gameplay dynamics, built specifically
with the idea of creating a PC shooter experience for the console audience. You
are Andrew Sterling, British MI6 agent and expert in the kind of covert operations
the public doesn’t believe proper governments engage in. The game is released
tomorrow, Friday 3 June.
Win PS2 games
We have a copy of each of the three games to give
away. Just answer the following question:
What is currently top of the official UK games chart?
(a) Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith
(b) Half Life 2
(c) Forza Motorsport
Email your answer to felix@ic.ac.uk by Tuesday 7 June. The first person
to be randomly selected after the closing date will win the prize.

