FELIX FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 2 4 t h 1 9 8 7 1 0
Just who is this David Jones chap? Known by millions
as the man who brought homosexuality out of the
Imperial College closet and into our lecture theatres.
Mild-mannered or arrogant? Soft or stubborn? He is all
things to all people. Read on....
Jones came to Imperial four years ago
to become a Mechanical Engineer.
After his first year it was quite
apparent that this was something he
would never be able to achieve so he
decided to opt for a career in
journalism instead.
The highlights of Jones' early life
were attending a wedding in
Orpington at the age of 8 and scoring
a goal direct from a corner at the age
of 11. At secondary level he made
little mark and left with 12 O'Levels
and 4 A'Levels (but one of those was
General Studies, so it doesn't count).
Jones was glad to see the back of
Crewe as it contained memories of
several disasterous teenage love
affairs.
Jones spent his first year in Evelyn
Gardens, gaining a reputation as a
rebellious Socialist and as a drunkard.
He was only to finally settle down in
his second year, taking an active
interest in the College Dramatic
Society as actor extraordinaire and
holding the terribly important position
of Fixtures Secretary for the ICU
Cricket Club. All his dramatic parts
were those of old men, due to his
rugged features, deep, resonant voice
and his receding hairline. A sort of
cross between John Noakes of Blue
Peter and Prince Charles.
Jones had been involved in FELIX
as an occasional news reporter and
general dogs-body under Pallab
Ghosh and slightly more than that in
David Rowe's year. The neext Editor,
Hugh Southey, was to offer him the
job of Sports Editor (the naffest job
in FELIX) but Jones sniffed at this
and offered himself as News Editor.
Hugh, who had already been turned
down by better men, could do nothing
but accept.
That year he gained the reputation
for being the miserable one who sat
in the corner of the Office and told
people who wanted to use the
photocopier to 'piss off. He also
decided to run for Editor despite the
staff backing of the ever-popular
Nigel Atkinson. It was during this
third year at IC that he disappeared
from the Mechanical Engineering
Department between Tuesdays and
Fridays to concentrate on news
investigation and production. He was
now gaining mounting support from
the newer members of staff for his
election campaign due to his hard
work, easy manner and belief in
FELIX and its ideals.
Whilst Jones prepared to fight a
bitter battle with ever-popular Nigel
over the post of Editor, he was
unaware that Nigel was to retire from
the race following 'a message from
God'. This left Jones fighting for an
uncontested post, much to his
annoyance as he was confident he
would have won the battle and felt
cheated by Nigel's withdrawal.
It was around this time that College
was making overtures about taking
over the old FELIX Office for
Biology. Jones was vehemently
opposed to the plans, which proposed
that the Office be moved to the
opposite corner of Beit Quadrangle.
However, College's carrot of £35,000
for the purchase of a new litho and
typesetter was too much for the rest
of the staff to resist and Hugh Southey
finally agreed to the move. This left
Jones with the uneviable task of
moving during the first few months
of his term as Editor. As well as this
both the permanent staff decided to
leave.
By some miracle Jones managed to
obtain a pass degree that Summer,
and sulked because he wanted a third.
The rest of the staff, however,
secretly breathed a sigh of relief as
they all thought he was going to fail
and had formulated 'Plan B' to cover
such an eventuality.
It was during his first few weeks
that the staff realised just what sort
of Editor Jones was to be. Miserable
and mixed up. It took him four weeks
to bring out an 8 page FELIX, and
they still had to collate at six on the
Friday morning. He was soon to
exhibit his infamous talent for
creating four page lists of work to be
done and adding more to them than
he took off. The staff were also aware
of his staggering body odour
problems, brought on by his
reluctance to stop wearing the same
clothes day after day after day after
week. The problem became so bad
that a motion was passed at a
Publications Board meeting that any
old clothes that members had should
be donated to a special David Jones
Fund.
During the Autumn Term chaos
reigned as new staff were found and
trained. Also, the new Office took
much longer to finish than
anticipated. No edition of FELIX was
finished before Bar closing time and
Jones spent many nights catching two
hours sleep in the Editor's Office.
Jones showed us all his famous
stamina when producing the
Christmas Issue. He spent over 50
hours without sleep, only to collapse
into an exhausted heap on the Print
Room floor when the printing had
been finished. This was not well-
received by the collaters as it was 5

