FELIX FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 2 4 t h 1 9 8 7
o'clock in the morning and they still
had 4000 copies to put together and
4000 herbal teabags to staple in. This
had been Jones' idea, of course.
It was about this time that he finally
gave in to the advances of the
voluptuous Miss Judith Hackney,
one-time Handbook Editor and RCSU
Vice President, who had been
with severe wax cloggs in his ears and
an ingrowing toe-nail for over six
months. During the Spring he braved
surgery on his foot only to pour a
kettle of boiling hot water on it that
night. For the first time Jones was
unable to come into work the
following day and he's never been the
same since.
persuing him since the Summer. A
remarkable coincidence, considering
last year's RCSU VP and FELIX
Editor had just become engaged. Miss
Hackney was soon to make her mark,
both metaphorically and literally—
Jones' skin was frequently to be
marked by bruises and handcuff
burns.
It was because of this event that
everybody, including Miss Hackney,
Jones will be remembered fondly
by the staff as the one who never quite
managed to get his act together. The
Editor who could never bring himself
to get out of bed once he was in it but
was always reluctant to go back to it
at night. The Editor with a kind heart
and an open wallet. The one with a
different set of priorities from the rest
of humanity—putting Office tidying
before news writing on Thursdays.
was shocked to read the legendary
'homosexual' editorial. This lead to
a considerable amount of
correspondance in the letters' page
• and the dedication of Tom Robinson's
'Glad to be Gay' song on IC Radio.
Jones' hate of doctors' surgeries
also left him deaf for several weeks
The staff would like to say thank-
you to Jones for being one of the most
likeable and easy going Editors for a
long time and to raise our cans of
grapefruit Tango in a toast wishing
him good luck for the future in the
real world of journalism.
El
By popular
demand, it's...
Harold Larwood (later of the infamous 'BodyMae' series)
was driving through Staffordshire with another member of
the 1932 Nottinghamshire side. It was a Sunday afternoon,
so neither of them were too surprised when they happened
upon a village cricket match and, being true Englishmen
and true cricketers, they decided to stop for half an hour
to watch the game. The home team, they gathered from
an aged spectator, hud won the toss and were about to
start their innings. As the other side took the field, the
opposing captain noticed the two figures watching from
the boundary and hurried over to them. He explained that
his team were one man short and, not having recognised
either Larwood or his colleague (this was 1932.
remember) asked if either of them would like a game of
cricket. After some hesitation, Larwood admitted to having
"played a little" and volunteered to make up the numbers
for the away team. He was given some third hand whites
from the pavillion and despatched to long leg to field.
The home side's opening batsmen were in good form,
and after an hour and a half they had put on 135 without
even offering chance. The captain of the fielding side had
tried all his bowlers, but none of them had caused the
batsmen any trouble. In desperation the captain approached
Larwood, tJiinking that some fourth rate bowling might
tempt the batsmen into giving a chance, and asked if he
would like to try an over. Larwood rather sheepishly
agreed, took the ball, and, set the field for an offspin
attack. From a three pace run up he moved gracefully
towards the popping crease and delivered a perfect off-
break: the ball pitched on a length, just outside the off
stump, and cut back in, trapping the batsmen Jbw right in
front of the stumps.
Larwood, forgetting briefly that he was not playing in a
first class match, turned back to the umpire and yelled
"Owzat?!?" at the top of his voice. The umpire, not
falling into the trap of being impartial (he was also the
groundsman) kept his hands in his pockets and remained
silent. With a little more malice in his stride, Larwood
went back to his mark, and from another three paces
bowled a beautiful leg-break: the ball pitched in front of
the stumps, drew the batsman forward, took the outside
edge and went straight into the keeper's gloves.
"Owzat?", demanded Larwood and the rest of the
fielders. "Not out" replied the umpire. Larwood, after a
venomous look at the umpire, calmly paced out his full
run up of 35 yards, which took him to the steps of the
pavillion. The fielders scattered as Larwood thundered in
towards the wicket and delivered a full length ball at his
norma! pace (about 94mph). The batsmen never saw
Larwood's arm, yet alone the ball, which took all three
stumps out of the ground and knocked one of the bails
oyer the boundary.
Larwood admired his work for a few moments, turned
e
o
i
e
i
j
f
e
j
f
p the umpire, and remarked: " A y e well, we bloody
aeWi^had him that time, didn't we?"

