Union FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 24th 1 9 8 7 1 2
Highway 61 Revisited
Last week I was interviewed by one
of the compilers of the Sunday Times
"Good University Guide". It was an
informal interview, during which we
talked about many aspects of life at
Imperial. After a while my
interviewer turned to me and said,
"Now can you think of anything
positive to say about Imperial
College?" Up until then I had thought
I was being quite even-handed in
presenting both sides of the
argument—something I always try to
do when I'm asked about Imperial.
Maybe it's just that, after four years
here, and like most people who are
about to leave the place, I'm feeling
a littlejaded. On the other hand many
people are genuinely surprised to hear
an "insider's" view of a place with
such a high academic reputation.
One thing this year has done for me
is to give me a broad view of life at
Imperial, and to compare it to other
London Colleges and to a lesser
extent universities nationwide. I have
found that a view which was certainly
present in my own department is very
widespread—that is, that this College
produces graduates by a sort of
extrusion process; hard work and
slog. Learning of reams of facts is the
key; the emphasis is not on original
thought, creativity or intellectual
stimulation. This is not only a great
disappointment to those who come
here filled with enthusiasm for their
subject (and perhaps having rejected
options like medicine as being
learning —based rather than thought-
based) but also seems to contradict the
very essence of a good scientist or
engineer; that is, someone with a
lively mind, ideas and commonsense.
Is this really what a good education
is about? I very much doubt it.
Imperial's high reputation—which is
well-founded on its excellent research
record—continues to attract
employers and, to a certain extent,
potential students. But how many
students derive a great deal of
pleasure from their degree course, or
feel that they are left with much of
interest and relevance at the end of it?
It is immensely sad that so many end
up studying only for the sake of
achieving the final qualification and
then head off as fast as possible into
fields far removed from their degree
subject.
Everybody knows about the social
imbalances of Imperial College; the
lack of women, the disproportionate
number of public school students.
This creates problems which we all
know about and which affect
everyone. However, I often feel that
the social atmosphere here is not as
desperate as it's made out to be. There
are still friends to be made, there are
huge numbers of sporting,
recreational and cultural clubs and
facilities available; the whole of
London is there to be sampled. It's
not really all that bad. What really
distresses me about this place is that
Imperial, for all its "academic
excellence" and wonderful
opportunities for postgraduate
research, continually fails to inspire
its students; in fact in many cases it
manages to rid them of any
enthusiasm they once had for their
subject. I for one do not call that
education.
So, will things improve? Who
knows? It does seem that departments
will have to broaden their courses,
make them more flexible and
accessible to students from a wide
range of academic backgrounds
purely to fill places. Entrance
standards will have to become wider,
if not lower. These facts have good
implications for the social life and
promise to make courses more
enjoyable—who knows, perhaps even
more relevant and inspiring.
However, even as departments realise
that this direction is necessary for
their survival, they will find it
difficult to implement the changes. At
a time when the Government judges
the education system largely by the
cost involved in churning out one
student; at a time when competing for
research contracts becomes more and
more important; at a time when
departments are having to cut their
academic staff numbers, it is difficult
to see how they can possiblyfindthe
staff and resources to make courses
more flexible and interesting.
To me, one of the most depressing
things about this election is its
probable effect on education. True,
education does cost money and it is
an investment which does not show
financial returns overnight. However
without that investment a generation,
indeed the country as a whole, has a
very gloomy future. In fact education
as such appears to be going out of
fashion. Narrow, rapid, low-cost
churning out of fodder for industry
and commerce is the current aim.
Whose interests can this possibly
serve?
I am sorry to end the year on such
a bleak note. However I am only too
well aware of the changes those
currently in the education system will
experience during Thatcher's third
term. Changes in the grants system
and loss of state benefits will be the
obvious, immediate effects. Expect
also to see departments contracting,
good staff leaving for a less pressured
environment and resources
dwindling. I can only wish everybody
involved in managing and coping with
these changes the best of luck. As far
as the Student's Union goes, I suspect
the time has come to take the blinkers
from our eyes and to start looking
outwards. There is more to student
issues than the price of beer. How can
we remain apolitical in days like
these? As for me, for the first time
in my life I am prepared to join the
Labour Party for all its faults and to
do anything I can towards changing
the course of the next government. If
nothing else, I would like to think that
if I do ever have children there will
be an education for them worthy of
the name.
The Final Bit
This year has been both good and bad
in parts. There's not much more to
say that I haven't already said in my
Annual Report; I'm looking forward
to leaving, but not without twinges of
regret and nostalgia. It only remains
to say thank you once more to Jackie
and Gutman for being excellent
colleagues and wonderful friends; to
Jen, Pat and Kathy for making the
Union Office both successful and
hugely enjoyable; to anyone in
College or the Union who has helped,
advised, or just been kind; to all our
staff and Union officers; to Dave
Jones for getting FELIX out every
time, for printing all my drivel
unedited and for consistently putting
his neck on the line in support of
worthy causes; to Chris Martin for an
incredible amount of help when and
wherever necessary, not to mention
friendship; and finally to Alan Clarke
for giving me more love and support
this year than I can possibly have
deserved! To everyone else, have a
wonderful Summer, and the best of
luck in the future.
Goodbye,
Love, Christine
TRAINEE ACCOUNTANTS
Initially £8,500 rising to £10,350
on completion of level 2 professional examinations
The College wishes to recruit a number of graduates as trainee accountants,
working in the central administration.
The trainees will be expected to undertake a wide range of accounting duties,
aimed at giving them the fullest practical experience in all aspects of financial
management. They will be given progressively increasing responsibility within
the College as a preparation for eventual management roles. The experience
gained will fit the trainees for accountancy posts at a responsible level within
the public sector or in industry.
The trainees will be expected to pursue courses leading to membership of the
Chartered Association of Certified Accountants, normally obtainable within
3 or 4 years. Day release (one day a week during term-timel and financial
assistance with tuition/examination fees, text books etc will be given.
Further particulars from Jason Gold (01-589 5111 ext 3108)
or Malcom Aldridge (ext 3135), or call in at Level 4, Sherfield Building
Walter Returns
For reasons to be explained later, this
is likely to be Walter's last
contribution to these pages for a
considerable number of years. One
hopes the next one will be worth the
wait. And now:
Walter was delighted to receive an
invitation to that most august of
annual events, the President's Dinner.
He found himself sharing a table with
Hurricane Christine, past President
Mary Attenborough, and some
chappie called Eric Ash, and the
conversation flowed as freely as the
Roija until well past midnight. By the
time the port had been passed round
for the third time, Walter was well
impressed with the Ash fellow, and
he suggests that the governors of
Imperial College employ him in some
capacity as soon as possible.
Perhaps the high point of the
evening came with the toast proposed
by the Deputy President, Jackie the
Beanstalk: 'Up yours, Christine!' Mr
Howgate cleverly avoided the whole
thing by being in Sweden, an excuse
which apparently had not occured to
College Secretary John Smith—a
worrying lack of imagination in one
who holds such a position of power.
Finally, Walter regrets that, owing
to the over-zealous activities of the
Inland Revenue, he expects to spend
the next fifteen years in a large house
in the Wormwood district, with no
time off for good behaviour.

