News. FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 2 4 t h 1 9 8 7 1 4
rooms, and the thieves almost
certainly made their entrance using
master keys which were stolen during
the summer of 1985. Finally, in
January of this year, the Student
Residence committee announced that
it was going to replace the locks, over
a year and a half after the master key
was went missing.
Personal possessions weren't the
only things to go missing from Halls
of Residence. In Weeks Hall the
water supply went missing in January,
with residents having to flush toilets
using fire hoses. The residents
decided to take direct action, and
voted unanimously for a rent strike.
Student Accomodation Officer Lesley
Gillingham said this move was
unconstructive. although one week
later they were all told that all their
demands had been met, with repairs
being done and £8 rebates given as
compensation for inconvenience.
Meanwhile FELIX was receiving
whispers about a College bid to get
an extra 200 places in Evelyn Gardens
(whispers which would have gone
unheard in Beit Hall as the builders
prepared to do lots of noisy things
with hammers during the exam
revision period). This was
undoubtably A Good Thing,
providing basic accommodation of the
type the many students need.
Unfortunately the property was not
cheap, and to fund it rents would have
to hit the roof. Also hitting the roof
was the carpet (in Southwell and
Holbein House). This is an oblique
reference to the two occasions this
academic year when large lumps of
plaster have dropped from the ceiling
in College accommodation. Water
loosened a ceiling in Holbein in the
Autumn, and in May a 3' by 2' lump
of plaster fell to earth for no apparent
reason at all, landing on someone's
bed. Miraculously the bed was not
occupied, despite the fact that the
student was timetabled to have
lecturers at the time.
Messing around: Flan fun at the
Freshers' Reception
Academics had accommodation
problems too. Members of staff in the
Department of Computing had offices
which were so cramped that they were
being adopted as prisoners of
conscience by Amnesty International.
A new building was needed, and work
started in the Autumn term, with a
planned construction time of just 12
months. Speculation about the name
was rife: the Department of
Computing bookie was giving 3:1 on
'The Sayers Building', after the
current head of the Computing
Streaking ahead: Robin Andrew, Alistair Seymour; Murray Williamson
and Stuart Brooks raised £500 for Rag in a sponsored streak in
November
Standing out: Deputy President Jackie Peirce shows her originality
Department, Prof Sayers. 'The
Nelson Mandela Building' was quoted
at 100:1. In fact, it is to be called 'The
Penney Laboratory' after Lord
Penney, the Rector of IC during the
hippy days of the late 1960s and early
1970s.
Talking of new erections, the
scramble to be a sabbatical started
early in the academic year. As usual
chaos reigned, with the ballot for
President being re-run after the
candidates were caught doing naughty
things with each other. If you want
to refresh your memory on what
happened, I suggest that you look
back through some old copies of
FELIX, as there isn't the space to go
through the whole sorry tale again.
Or you could just wait until next year,
because it will be exactly the same.
ConSoc continued to provide a
useful social role within IC by
attracting a very high proportion of
the plonkers in College, and therefore
leaving the rest of us free to have a
good time without them. Contrary to
myth, IC ConSoc are not a bunch of
frothing fascists but are largely wets
who would join the SDP but are
frightened of being laughed at. This
year their moment of glory came
when they invited a speaker from the
South African embassy. However,
apparently fearing the appearance of
rent-a-mob, they kept the whole
meeting utterly, utterly top secret and
all crossed their hearts and hoped to
die if they told anyone. Unfortunately
the word did get out, and it became
obvious that a big demo would occur.
The speaker contracted a mysterious
and highly convenient illness which
prevented him coming, and the
meeting was postponed for a
fortnight. It was rumoured that the
speaker desperately tried to give
ConSoc some hints on how to prevent
a demo taking place, which included
shutting FELIX and invading France.
When the speaker finally did turn up
the 'rent-a-mob' reception turned out
to resemble 'rent-a-terribly-concerned
person', and apart from a few chants
nothing very much happened.
If the protestors really wanted to
mount a demo they should have
provided free food (presumably
vegetarian wholefood with no
additives), because this year has
proved that IC students have their
brains in their stomachs, not their
heads. In 1983 plans were unveiled
for a complete re-vamp of the catering
facilities in the Sherfield Building,
with the JCR, SCR and the kitchens
all being shuffled round to create a
dietary Disneyland of grills, bars and
diners. Unfortunately, cash became
short (no suprise here) and they were
modified, reputedly by John Smith,
Messing around: Bill Goodwin
(above) and Ian Howgate (below)

