What's On FELIX, Wednesday June 24th 1987 1 9
Saturday strolls in town, and
canalside walks in the evenings. A t
Headingley in Yorkshire England and
Pakistan are playing cricket from July
2nd to 7th, starting at 11am, with
other matches at Edgebaston in
Birmingham from July 23rd to 28th
and in London at either Lords or The
Oval from August 6th to 11th. Also
in northern lands there's a race
meeting at York from August 18th to
20th, and from September 9th to 12th
there is the St Leger at Doncaster.
Places to see include the Island of
Lindisfarne, o f f the coast o f
Northumberland, which can be
reached by bus when the tide is out
and the ruins of Fountains Abbey
which stand i n a beautifully
landscaped garden with lake,
watergarden and deer park and can be
reached from Ripon by bus or foot.
In Cleveland (North Yorkshire), the
former Spanish-Armada-beacon site
of Roseberry Topping rises a fifth of
a mile high. Across the Pennines in
Cumbria there is so much to see and
walk on that my puny pen feels
embarassed to write about it. but of
particular interest is the steam launch
Gondola which sails five times a day
on Coniston Water to show off the
sights in a 55 minute round trip,
costing £3. Further South, in
Cheshire and Merseyside are two
picturesque half timbered houses,
Little Moreton Hall and Speke Hall,
each with a garden and the latter with
a park, and in Derbyshire between
Mansfield and Chesterfield stands
Hardwick Hall, built f o r a
contemporary of Elizabeth I, Bess of
H a r d w i c k , w h o married five
husbands each o f whom was
successively richer. There is also a
park and a walled garden with a
scented herb and flower garden
recommended f o r visually
handicapped visitors.
There is quite a lot going on in the
Midlands. From July 6th to 9th the
Royal Agricultural Society are having
a fair at Stoneleigh in Warks, just off
the A444, near Coventry. The site is
so large they need barrage balloons
to show people the way back to the
car parks. There's a metee of events;
show jumping prize cattle and
vegetables, children's farm of young
animals, stands for different countries
where you get free food samples as
well as being able to buy you
bierwurst and croissants (this year
New Zealand, France and Germany
are participating amongst others), and
last time I was there, a whole marquee
devoted to new strains of strawberry,
with plates strategically positioned for
testing. It's a lovely day out, not just
for ye varmers, the only drawback
being that it costs £7; £3.50 for under
16s, and after 1pm (it opens at 10am)
it is £3.50 and £2 respectively. The
same people are organising a Town
and Country Festival from August
29th to 31st.
A Grand Prix is taking place at
Silverstone near Northampton on
July 12th—formula one no less, but
unless you're an afficionado these
events seem very expensive.
Birmingham is having its very own
race-round-the-towerblocks Grand
Prix on the August Bank Holiday; lets
hope the weather is kinder to them
this year. Also on August 28th to 31 st
is the mega Christian Arts Festival,
Greenbelt, at Canons Ashby Park in
Northamptonshire, with bands,
mime, dance, seminars fine art etc,
bring your own camping gear.
Baddesley Clinton is a particularly
beautiful manor house built from
1300—1634 and run by the National
Trust, set in a small park with
fishponds and woods—quaint and
relatively undiscovered by the tourist
trade. It costs £1.80 and is open
Wednesday to Sunday and Bank
Holiday Mondays, from 2pm until
6pm, and can be found just off the
A41 between Birmingham and
Warwick. The National Trust also
own part of the Long M y n d in
Shropshire, and if you want to prove »
how tough you are, climb it!
East Anglia is almost synonymous
with the Norfolk broads, but if you
want to get away from the grockles
then there's the marshes and saltings
at Brancaster, or Morston Marshes or
Stiffkey Salt Marshes, in Norfolk or
the cliffs and heaths of Dunwich in
Suffolk, or you can watch the fallow
deer from a hide in Hatfield forest on f
the Hertfordshire/Essex border.
Norfolk also has a moated medievel
manor house owned by the National •
Trust; Oxburgh Hall near Kings S
Lynn, which is £2 a throw for house,
garden and park but probably gets
rather crowded. In Kent is the
Romantic Scotney Castle Garden,
where the castle ruins surrounded by
a moat, can be seen from Wednesday I v.
to Sunday for the paltry sum of £1.90, frfj I
which includes a herb garden for
those with dim vision. Over in the
Cotwolds is the fantastic Westonburt
Arboretum with its thousands of acres
of trees...and more trees.
Wales is full of lovely countryside,
as well as large stone castles built by
the nasty English when they were still
only experimenting with Imperialism;
C o n w a y , H a r l e c h , C a e r n a v o n .
There's a military tattoo being held
in or near Cardiff Castle from August
5th to 15th, and appropriately enough
it is largely musical.
Despite a long run of bad summers
the West Country gets infested by
tourists every year, and it is possibly
to impress these that the locals put on
Regattas, where they dress up in
funny costumes, have raft races, boat
races, pelt each other with flour, do
the Cornish floral dance, and in the
town of Fowey, cook and eat a 10ft
long pasty. Good clean family
entertainment, and while you're there
why not see St Michael's Mount
which can be reached by ferry or foot
at low tide, or Cotehele, an unspoilt
medieval manor with dovecote,
working cider press, quay on the river
Tamar and its own sailing barge.
There is a great deal of coast under
preservation orders or owned by the
National Trust, and it is possible to
walk round the whole SW peninsular.
There are tons, or even tonnes, of
things to do—you could walk the
Ridgeway, the South Downs Way,
The Pennine Way, the Wealdway, the
Offa's Dyke Path, Cotswold Way,
Ickneild Way or go Ascot on July
25th or Glorious Goodwood from
July 28th to August 1st. If you get
bored with the U K slip over to Calais
or Holland. So what do you think
normal people do in the Summer?

