FELIX
The sign of a misspent youth
Nearly four years ago I arrived at Imperial
College to read Mechanical Engineering, but
without any real intention of pursuing an
engineering career. Three years later, after
drifting aimlessly through the last eighteen
months of a three year course, I was quite
relieved to pick up a lousy degree result and be
of "good academic standing", and therefore able
to take up a sabbatical post. Over the last few
days I have looked back at all this year's issues
of FELIX, and to be honest I found most of them
rather tame. On occasion FELIX has attacked
College administration for dragging its feet over
the accommodation issue and focussed more
attention on the poor teaching standards in
College, but there has not been much to reflect
the rather desolate experience that I remember
from the previous three years.
Like many students who came to Imperial, I
was attracted by the College's world-wide
reputation. I remember particularly the advice
of several friends over forty years of age, mostly
from the teaching profession, who all enthused
at length on the merits of Imperial College. Now,
after following their advice, there is no way that
I would recommend IC to any prospective
university entrant. In fact, I think I would go
further and actively discourage any sixth former
who was considering applying.
I wouldn't write this if it were based on my
own experiences only, as I have to confess I was
a lousy student. The majority of the students who
took the course with me were of a similar mind;
the number of graduates opting for careers in
accountancy and similar professions is a joke at
Imperial College, but it is a measure of how
completely their time at College drained them
of the enthusiasm which they (mostly) started out
with.
The biggest barrier to effective undergraduate
teaching is not the lack of an ability to teach,
in terms of "communication skills", etc. What
destroys the enthusiasm of students is the almost
total lack of concern which some departments,
not just Mechanical Engineering, have for their
students. I know several people who have been
through a degree course at Imperial College and
only spoken to their personal tutor on two or
three occasions. Certainly, the onus is on the
student to seek help when he needs it, but this
does not absolve academic staff from the duty
to supervise.
Over the past few weeks I have seen several
senior academics react in a very paranoid manner
to any hint of bad publicity for the College, either
in FELIX or elsewhere. The letter which a group
of postgraduates sent to me before Easter is a
prime example. Though I understand that there
are a number of Civ Eng staff who were
genuinely upset, I also know some students from
that department who thought that it was fair
comment. The College's recruitment
publications are another issue. The Imperial
College prospectus, like most university
prospectuses for that matter, paints so rosy a
picture that it is hard to reconcile with the grim
reality. I would not expect the College to produce
anything else, but for the administration to be
upset that the Union media are giving a fairer
picture is absurd. It appears that a proportion of
all the Governing Body gave the letter from our
group of postgraduates no credeance at all. This
is a pity, because letters of that sort are going
to become more frequent rather than less.
Though eyes are constantly being opened to
the teaching standards problem, it is difficult to
see how any major advances can be achieved in
the current climate. There are few people in this
College who seem to be full of hope for the
future, and when the College as a whole is
feeling the pinch (or, as the Rector would put
it, "we're broke") there's not much chance for
immediate progress. Yesterday's meeting of ICU
Council noted that student representation on
College committees was becoming less and less
effective, as decision making was in reality,
being moved away from the committee level and
entrusted more and more to central College
administration. Imperial is concentrating on
survival, and the needs of "Joe Student" are an
insignificant consideration.
FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 24th 1 9 8 7 2
Ring in the new
History would seem to suggest that FELIX has
its most memorable years when the Union is
weakest, or at least when the sabbaticals are a
bad crop. Put another way, a decent set of
sabbaticals is a curse upon the FELIX Editor.
Though I have probably missed opportunities to
criticise the running of the Union this year, it
is certainly true that the Union leadership has
been as successful as any other in recent years.
The Union sabbaticals still seem rather remote
to most students, however, and I do not believe
that this has changed much this year. There have
been several new initiatives which have deserved
wider support, and we seem to be facing up to
the usual financial constraints with a little more
calm than has been usual. In a sense it is an
indication of failure for the Union President to
report that "the relationship between FELLX and
the Union central has been excellent this year",
and I would not ideally have chosen to adopt such
a united front with the Union Office. On the
major issues however, the Exec have had my
vehement support, and if FELIX has lacked an
anti-establishment approach, then it is too bad.
I would have much preferred to have been either
last year's or next year's Editor.
On the more general question of the role of
FELLX, I am beginning to change my view quite
radically. I have tried to make FELIX as much
of a "normal" newspaper as possible; if I was
to go back to the start of last July I would put
much more effort into providing an entertaining
FELIX. That said, I am really rather proud of
this issue. 40 pages is probably a contender for
the biggest FELIX ever—I hope it makes up for
all the thin ones we have been producing
recently.
One more cup of coffee...
The annual lament of the outgoing FELLX Editor
is that he/she feels they have hardly started, and
have just about managed to get to grips with the
job. The turmoil which the office was in at the
start of the year has made me regret the rapid
passing of twelve months even more than usual.
I still have a folder full of good ideas; projects
which were forever being put off 'till the
weekend. For all that it has been tremendously
enjoyable to bring out FELIX, and, for all the
disappointment, I am sure I would choose to do
it again.
David Jones

