Sport FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 24th 1 9 8 7 29
From the pen of a man barely alive, scribbling furiously in
a remote corner of the FELIX office, /"t's...
T H E B A R O N
"I think I'll do this tomorrow", said Rabid Bones,
the F A L I X Editor, as he sat in his office watching
his staff slaving away over paste-up boards. It was
3.30 in the morning, there were only two days to
go before the publication of the last F A L I X of the
year, and Rabid had spent the last four days trying
to think of the first line of his editorial. Rabid
always liked to write something that he thought was
deep and meaningful in his editorials because it
proved to him how clever he was. This was quite
important for Rabid, who had nearly got thrown
out of Cheapskate school and had only been
awarded an "also r a n " certificate when he left. In
fact Rabid never wrote anything deep or meaningful
in his editorials; instead he would write out a
hundred lines of "I don't like Arthur M i c h a e l " .
Most of the citizens of Cheapskate were not at all
interested in who Arthur Michael was or what he
did all day, but this did not stop Rabid writing about
him at every opportunity. The only thing which
Rabid thought was more interesting than Arthur
Michael was the fact that he was a homosexual.
Nearly every editorial Rabid had written contained
at least half a column on why it was a good thing
to be a homosexual.
Rabid did not want to have to write his editorial
in a hurry this time. He thought that if he spent
a long time thinking about it he would be able to
write lots and lots of deep meaningful things about
how Cheapskate was not a nice place, and how all
the teachers at Cheapskate school did not know how
to teach. Funnily enough, the rest of the citizens
were not interested in the teachers at Cheapskate
school. They all knew that none of the teachers
could teach, but they decided not to worry about
this too much.
Now Rabid had decided to put off writing his
editorial for another day. The rest of the staff
thought that this was very silly, and that it would
be very nice if Rabid got everything done in time
for a change, so that they would all be able to go
to bed before midnight.
Rabid sighed and thought back at what had
happened that day. Earlier he had been to the
Cheapskate "Happy Families" party, which Derek
Dash and Mad Dash had held in their back garden.
Mad Dash had ordered all the Baron's men from
the Surefield fortress to dress up in silly clothes
and smile a lot at all the small citizens. Johm
Secretary was particularly upset about this. He had
had to put all his belongings in a wheelbarrow and
sell them to the crowd, one by one. John Secretary
thought that this was a very bad thing, but it would
have been alright if he had not had to chase away
a lot of F A L I X photographers who kept wanting
to put red ping pong balls on his nose. He was also
very cross because Derek Dash was not wearing
a silly outfit, and so Derek did not have to put up
with all the very small citizens pointing at him and
laughing. John Secretary had been laughed at for
at least two hours now, and was cheering himself
up by thinking of all the Surefield minions whose
lives he was going to make a misery. At the end
of the afternoon he had begun to feel much better,
however. Mad Dash had persuaded Derek to play
his violin as music for a small citizen's party game.
Derek had played the violin so badly, though, that
all the small citizens had been too busy laughing
at him to play the game properly.
The "Happy Families" party had been a great
success. A l l the important citizens had been there
as they were all too scared of Mad Dash to say no
when she asked them if they would be able to help.
The citizens' bouncer, Gutters, had been there all
afternoon, though he had spent most of that time
frightening all the very small citizens with his
beard. Cheapskate's chief cook McNorthy had been
there as well, selling more of his burgers to
everyone, and trying not to swear at any of the
citizens so that everyone would think that he was
a nice person really.
Rabid leant back in his chair and tried to think
of something nasty to write about all the people who
lived upstairs in the citizen's office. Rabid had
wanted to write something nasty about M s Plague
and Mummylonglegs all year, but was too stupid
to think of anything, after another two hours he
finally began to put pen to paper. This is what he
wrote...
' 'Dearie me'', thought Mrs Jolly Hockey-Sticks to
herselfas she looked around the citizens' office and
downed her sixth glass of sherry. ' 7 hope Whygate
isn't going to be in there much longer. He's been
speaking to Ms Plague for three hours, and I
haven't had a chance to tell him how I want him
to do his job next year yet".
Mrs Jolly Hockey-Sticks was worried. She was
the citizens' manager, and had been doing thatjob
longer than anyone in Cheapskate could remember
Every year she had to teach a new set of head
citizens what they were supposed to do, and every
now and then there would be a head citizen who
wanted to try some new ideas. Normally Mrs Jolly
Hockey-Sticks would let them try a new idea, as
long as they came to ask her if it was okay first.
None of this year's new group of head citizens
had come to ask her to tell them what their jobs
were, however, and Whygate, the new head citizen,
just spent all his time looking through the citizens'
old scrap books trying to memorise each page. At
the moment Why gate was in Ms Plague's office,
talking to her about how good he was in bed.
Suddenly the telephone rang; it was L Capone, the
Cheapskate Rent Collector. L Capone was always
calling Ms Plague because she knew that she would
always take her side in arguments with Arthur
Michael. Ms Plague told Whygate to go and
practice his joined up writing, and settled down to
a nice long chat with L Capone.
The Cheapskate Rent Collector was a devious
character. She had tried to persuade all the citizens
to vote for Simon Willy, one of her favourites, in
the election for head citizen. When one of the
citizens pointed out that the election was nothing
to do with her, since she worked for the Baron, L
Capone had threatened to scream and scream until
she was sick unless the naughty citizen apologised.
Nevertheless, she always managed to get Ms Plague
to do what she wanted and spent most of her time
telling Ms Plague and all the other citizens what
a hard job she had, and how much work she had
to do. Ever since she took over as Rent Collector
she had been recruiting a select band of citizens
to help to "clean up Cheapskate"...
Rabid read what he had written. As usual, it was
a load of rubbish. He picked up his red pen and,
for the last time, crossed everything out.

