Feature FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 2 4 t h 1 9 8 7 3 5
Soup opera
Most people should by now have heard of the Soup
Run. The actual experience, though, is more than the
simple dishing-out of soup that it sounds like. Kamala
Sen reports.
The evening starts innocuously
enough, at 9.15 in the Weeks Hall
Basement, with a handful of people
loading the van with the urns of soup
and sweet milky tea, loaves of
bread—both white and brown—and
digestive biscuits. Even the slightly
manic drive through London is
normal by College standards. The
first note of strangeness appears when
the regular "Soup Runners" give
beginners the introductory speech.
Most of this is straightforward.
Unlike the food and tea, which is
freely distributed, the few blankets
are given only to those who
specifically ask for- one. You're
warned not to wander off on your
own, or to tell anyone your name and
address—Soup Runners have had
trouble with people camping on their
doorsteps. A n d the final word of
advice—if a fight starts, stay clear and
get in the van; the Soup Runners
aren't going to stay around. This
speech gives one something to think
about until at last the van grinds to
a halt at Lincoln's Inn Fields, and
dumps everyone into a completely
different world—that of London's
down-and-outs.
After the brightness of the streets,
the pitch blackness here is an
unpleasant surprise. Even when your
eyes adjust, there's nothing to see but
dark blurs against a dark background.
As soon as the van stops, shadows
swarm around it—the Soup Run is
expected. There are about 30 people
here, many of whom are regulars;
some claim to have lived here for as
long as seven to nine years. Most of
the Soup Runners and down-and-outs
recognise each other—and their
foibles. For example there's the man
with a craving for biscuits, stalking
anyone with a pack. In another corner
there's an informed discussion on
early British cars and motorcycles
going on. The whole affair seems
slightly unreal, like hosting a very
polite tea party in a parking lot, except
fo- the occasional bout of coughing
breaking into the conversation. But
the illusion is well and truly shattered
when one takes cups of tea into the
shelter. The floor is packed with
people sleeping in elaborate
arrangements of cardboard boxes.
The more experienced Soup Runners
assure me that these are sophisticated
structures, with flaps cut to form
complex ventilation systems. Still, the
sight suddenly brings home to me
how little these people have.
The next stop is a completely
different place: Embankment.
Relatively brightly lit, and infinitely
more noisy, with the trains running
overhead every few minutes, this is
a favourite stop for numerous
charities. Indeed, the down-and-outs
who sleep under the bridge here are
said to receive several meals a day
from various sources. T h e
atmosphere is somehow rougher; the
range of people seems wider. There
are-, the quiet ones, like a former
electrical engineer who sat working
his way through a stack of paperback
westerns—his family had been killed
in an accident and he didn't see the
point of struggling on in
"respectability" on his pension. The
cardboard boxes are as much in
evidence here, but the structures are
simpler. Some people have sleeping
bags—American Army ones are said
to be barely adequate!
There are some startling views to
be heard. One man perked up when
he heard I am German. Hitler, he
said, was one of the greatest heroes
of his time. After all, didn't he create
jobs for thousands? Certainly he did
more good than harm. And, cheered
up by this little argument, he gave me
one of his "heat packs"—a device
which when rubbed gives off a mild
heat for several hours (though not as
long as claimed by the manufact-
urers). Others recognised the pack
and greeted it with enthusiasm when
the blankets ran out. Not surprisingly,
Mrs Thatcher is not a popular figure
in these circles. "What she wants is
to put us all into forced labour
camps", said one man.
Equally startling statements appear
in general conversation. T h e
"professor" held us spellbound while
he explained how plutonium is
formed by the fermentation of oil,
which in turn develops, via the
fermentation of coal, from dead trees.
Somewhat rotund, he waved away
offers of biscuits, indicating he was
watching his figure. But he was more
than happy to carry on talking about
anything, including his views on
marriage. These were rather old-
fashioned—that the man should work
and the woman should look after
him—but that didn't stop him
proposing to all us prospective
professionals on the Soup Run.
The reasons people wind up
sleeping at Embankment are as varied
as their characters. One was a
psychiatric nurse who lost his job in
Ireland due to alcoholism, but says he
is now cured and hopes to get his job
back. Then there was the woman who
had been raped, and never recovered
from the experience. The smell of
alcohol hanging in the air over some
areas suggested a reason for those
people's presence. Several people
limped heavily; sickness is, not
unexpectedly, common. Coughs are
heard all over; on one occasion we
arrived to find a couple of police
officers hovering anxiously over a
huddled figure. Then there was a
worrying case of the young man who
was confused and dizzy, but refused
medical help. Incidents like this make
for an anxious evening, as do those
occasions when someone becomes
unpleasantly aggressive. The Soup
Run isn't all sweetness and light and
grateful recipients of our
"goodies"—there are those who are
obviously hostile or merely silent and
unresponsive; perhaps they've had an
overdose o f charity, an
understandable point of view. But
what makes it worth trying is talking
to people who seem to enjoy the
conversation and attention, and
supplying some comfort to those who
come back again and again for the
soup and biscuits.
At about eleven o'clock we were on
our way back. Besides mulling over
the events of the evening, I spent the
time asking my companions how and
why they'd joined the "Soup R u n " .
Most had heard about it from friends,
many of them in the Christian Union.
This probably accounts for the image
of IC Community Action Group as a
Christian organisation, but religion
doesn't come into the dicussion at all,
so don't let that put you off. If the
Soup Run doesn't appeal, I C C A G
organises other activities such as
doing odd jobs or visiting the elderly.
Its main problem seems to be a lack
of active members—last year it had
a mailing list of about a hundred, of
which only a dozen or so people
regularly helped.

