News FELIX, W e d n e s d a y J u n e 2 4 t h 1 9 8 7 4
Only on Sunday
The first "Imperial College Family Affair" drew hundreds of visitors to
the Queen's Lawn on Sunday afternoon. The event was organised my Mrs
Clare Ash, who is the Rector's wife, in order to bring together families
of staff and students and to raise money for IC's Day Nursery.
As well as various stalls, races and games, visitors were able to visit
the Science Museum's "Lift Off" exhibition, which was open specially
for the event. Other attractions included violin playing by the Rector for
a game of musical bumps, an auction run by John Smith in fancy dress,
free tours of the Queen's Tower by Michael Arthur, and others and
beefburgers barbequed personally by Rob Northey.
The weather remained fine all afternoon and the event was generally
felt to be a great success. It is not yet known how much money has been
raised.
IC Profs win awards
The recent Birthday Honours list
contained awards for two professors
of Imperial College. Prof Aubrey
Silberston, head of the Department of
Social and Economic Studies and Prof
Cedric Turner of Mechanical
Engineering were both made
Commanders of the British Empire in
the awards announced on June 13th.
Prof Silberston has been advising
the Government Department of Trade
and Industry since he was
commissioned to write a report on the
"Multifibre Arrangement" in 1983.
His report recommended the abolition
of the Agreement, which would end
restrictions on the import of textiles
from developing countries. Some
steps have been taken by the EEC to
Five members of IC Boat Club; C
Behrens, J Waller, G Pooley, J
Walker and I Scutts (cox) have been
selected to compete in the World
Student Games in Yugoslavia this
year.
The crew are to compete in the
coxed fours and, not content with this
being the best achievement in the
history of IC Boat Club, they are also
likely to be representing Great Britain
in the U23 World Championships
this effect.
No specific reason was given for
Prof Turner's award although it
seems likely to be in recognition of
his work for the Sizewell Inquiry.
Prof Turner chaired a committee
which advised the Nuclear Safety
Inspectorate about pressure vessels in
pressurised water reactors. He was
previously involved in the repair of
Big Ben whose speed governor shaft
sheered in 1986 causing a dangerous
increase in the speed of the
mechanism.
The professors had no hesitations
in accepting their awards, and they
will both be presented to the Queen
in the near future.
later this year. The performance is
particularly impressive given that two
of the crew were complete novices
when they joined Boat Club three
years ago
There is also hope that a
lightweight, coxless four will be
joining the coxed four at the World
Student Games since they have beaten
their main rivals, the University of
London, in two out of three races.
Blueprint in
the red
The publication of a propoganda
booklet by IC Consoc, just before the
General Election, may cause the
society some financial embarrasment.
The booklet, entitled "Blueprint",
was printed in the Union Print Unit
(FELIX office). IC Union is a
registered charity and so is forbidden
by law from spending money to
promote any political party. This
prevents Consoc from using their
subvention to pay for the booklet.
Since there was not enough
advertising to cover the production
costs, the only apparent solution is to
raise money from Consoc members.
However, this possibility has been
rejected by Consoc Chairperson Dave
Burbage, who had previously checked
with Richard Eccleston (SCC
Chairperson) whether Union funds
could be used. However, it is believed
that Mr Eccleston was not informed
that the booklet would essentially be
a Conservative Party election
document.
Although the Ultra Vires laws
which apply in these instances are
very vague, the Attorney General's
guidelines suggest that Union funds
can only be used where a political
matter directly affects students. They
also state that Union Officers "might
be at personal risk" for being
"party" to misuse of funds.
Union Deputy President Jackie
Peirce said yesterday that she thought
that the editor of the booklet and the
Consoc Chairperson would be
personally responsible for the
payment if the account were not
settled. They would then become
"debtors to the Union", which could
lead to legal action.
RCS keep old
recipe
RCSU voted to stay with tradition
once again at the Gen Com on
Monday night, when a motion
proposed by Fiona Nicholas on the
subject of the 'mix' used in the Exec
initiations, was defeated. Ms Nicholas
proposed that the mix should not
contain any animal, human or dairy
products, except for fresh milk, due
to the potential health risk involved,
but the committee rejected this.
Another motion, which prohibited
the practice of throwing RCS
wrongdoers into the Round Pond in
Hyde Park was passed. RCS Vice
President Judith Hackney, who
proposed the motion told FELIX that
the Round Pond is quite shallow, and
it is not unknown for there to be
broken glass on the bottom.
Information
on AIDS
AIDS leaflets have now been
distributed to undergraduates
throughout College. The leaflets form
part of an AIDS information
campaign, which also includes
postgraduate students and all staff.
ICU President Christine Taig, who is
organising the campaign, called for
help 'stuffing envelopes' so that
postgraduates could receive the
information this week.
Undergraduates had been a priority
since most will be leaving at the end
of term, she explained.
Chris Martin, a concerned student,
commented yesterday: "I think it's a
jolly good idea."
SDI film at
IC
Imperial College has provided the
location for an "Open Space"
programme on the star wars initiative.
The programme features interviews
with a number of academics,
including the Rector, Professor Eric
Ash, and suggests that technology
should be used for more peaceful
purposes.
In the film, which will launch a new
series of Open Space on July 14th, the
Rector gave assurances that Imperial
would only accept SDI funding
provided there were no classification
clauses and no discrimination against
Russian, Chinese or other foreign
researchers in the contracts. He
expressed his unhappiness with the
SDI programme in general and his
concern that it would draw resources
from civil projects. The film also
features interviews with Professor
Manny Lehman of Computing who
explained his reasons for accepting an
SDI contract, Dr Jerry Legget of
Geology and VERTISC (Verification
Technology Information Centre) who
condemned the use of "rigged
experiments" in the American
demonstration videos, and Mr Harry
Fairbrother of the Maths Department,
who carried out research into the first
atomic bomb.
ASTMS leader John Fecamp, who
compiled the programme, told FELIX
that he was unable to find anyone at
Imperial publicly in favour of SDI,
and said that he hoped the film would
widen the issues to industry and the
rest of society.
Four universities are currently
engaged in SDI research: Herriot
Watt is working on optical computers,
and Aston, Newcastle, and RHBNC
are working on electrical insulators.
No contracts have yet been awarded
to Imperial, though several academics
are understood to have applied for
research.
Boaties to go to games

