Feature FELIX, Wednesday June 24th 1987 8
The Taig Interview:
I met Christine Taig, ICU President,
for an informal chat in the Union
Lounge Bar on a Sunday lunchtime.
I started off by asking whether she
had enjoyed the past year?
Yes, I have enjoyed it very much.
Which doesn't stop me thinking that I
can't wait to go. I would do it again,
definitely, but I wouldn't do it again next
year. But if I knew what I know now
I would still do it again. It's very, very
good but also very, very frustrating.
How long do you feel it took you to
settle down in the job?
In different respects it took a different
amount of time. I'd say that after
Christmas and a little bit into springtime
I was actually beginning to work well
myself. One of the main problems I
found was that the President has nobody
to keep her going. I suspect a year ago
Jen (the Union Administrator) used to
do it hut she's been too busy this year
to be keeping tabs on the President. It's
very difficult to get your working
patterns right, get to know the right
people, and know how to go about
things. But about half way into the
Spring Term I began to get things done.
What would you class as your major
achievement of this year then?
Everybody asks that! I'm really not
at all sure. There have been several
things which have been fairly major. At
the start of the year "Norman's" was
done up, and it is now open in the
evenings. The trade's not been
absolutely amazing but it is certainly
building up, and it's becoming more of
a regular meeting place. All that said I
hope that it will carry on next year.
There are various projects with
College which have only just been
started, so there's no actual achievement
to show for it: things like the Sports
Hall, which hopefully we will eventually
have, funded with money from
Harlington. The JCR business is still up
in the air, but I think that we have come
out of that reasonably well. I think that
these are fairly major achievements, but
of course they're not just mine. It's been
done very much as a team.
You've also been one of the people to
draw attention to gays at Imperial,
and you supported Robert Daniel in
his appointed as Gay and Lesbian
Welfare Officer.
That's something that I've wanted to
say for the last four years. I do feel that's
an achievement because we now appear
to have a Gay Society which is going to
keep going. For various reasons I've
been personally involved with people
who have come out on the wrong side
of some of the homophones at this place
and when I stood for President one of
the supposed insults that was hurled at
me most often was "Bloody Lesbian".
Did you find it difficult deciding
whether to openly support Gay rights?
Were you glad that Robert Daniel
came forward in the first term?
I was very relieved, even though I had
mentioned the subject to start with and
I had seriously considered trying to start
something up myself. But I thought it
would be wrong coming from me. It
could have been seen as something that
I was just trying to do for the glory of
it so I was very glad that somebody came
forward. As far as speaking out went,
by the time I had got to that stage I was
far more confident and was prepared to
say something. I know that people would
have spoken about me behind my back
as they have done before; some of the
rumours that have come back to me have
been very vicious indeed. But to be quite
honest I don't give a shit as they are
obviously not the sort of people I want
to bother myself about too much. On the
whole the support has been tremendous.
Do you know any of the results of the
recent Welfare Survey?
Mmmm....That was started by
somebody who, for one reason or
another, can't really finish it. It was
handed over to Lesley (Gillingham, ex-
College Welfare Advisor) to tidy up. But
now Lesley's job has changed noone is
in a position to do it and enthusiasm for
it has died down. I know that Pippa
(Salmon, incoming ICU Welfare Officer)
is very keen to find out what's really
going on with it over the Summer. I've
looked through an awful lot of the replies
myself and found many of them quite
depressing because they do indicate that
a lot of IC students are the type you
would expect—very moral, hard-
working and hard-drinking.
Did you find any surprises?
Not really. In some cases they didn't
take it seriously, which I think is a
shame. I accept that when something like
that comes through the door, it's hard
to see what relevance it has.
Does the apathy of the student
majority depress you?
Yes and no. The main route of
involvement is always going to through
the clubs and sports. But then again an
awful lot of those people don't seem to
realise that the clubs are part of the
Union. It's not the people who don't
come to the UGMs who annoy me,
because I can understand why they
don't—if everything is ticking over
nicely. They would turn up if College
decided to close down a department, or
course work was increased drastically
one year. As long as things like that
aren't happening I suspect that they
won't be bothered, unless you
manufacture an issue for people to get
worked up about—which was effectively
what happened with the 'Tie Clubs'
motion. It was supported by the people
who run the UGMs because they knew
it would bring people in and a serious
debate would happen.
The JCR issue was probably the one
most directly affecting the Union
because it does involve space that other
people were using and it does involve
money for the Union. People did
actually come out and support that very
strongly.
The people who depress me the most
are those who seem to assume that
because there are people in an office they
will do everything and nothing need be
done by anyone else. You end up with
a core of people who always help all of
the time. It's that thing about hacks again
which everybody knows about. They are
the people who actually do the work but
they get run down for it.
We've heard many conflicting reports
about when the new Chemistry
building will be built. Apparently the
UGC planned for it to be started in
either 1988 or 1989 but the College
just don't seem to have the money.
I will be amazed when that building
goes up to be quite honest. Eric Ash (the
Rector) has said to me several times that
the biggest problem is going to be raising
that money. Of course it's much easier
to find money for an academic building
than it is for halls of residence. So, I
don't know.
Recently it has been suggested that
lectures should start at 8.30am. Do
you think that this is a good idea, and
what do the College hope to gain by
this?
I would have thought that it would be
feasible to introduce this from the
student point of view. Whether they'll
like it or not I'll come onto in a minute.
What worries me is whether the staff
have been consulted; a lot of staff here
live even further away than the students
do and will find it very difficult to come
in in the morning. Students will
obviously find it very difficult: I
certainly would have done! On the other
hand it wouldn't have made much
difference because I never went to first
lectures anyway.
I think if it was brought in, that it
would have to be only introduced to first
years as they came in. Everybody else
would just rule it out and say 'no way'
and stay in bed and ignore the whole
thing. I don't think that it's an unusual
idea to be quite frank. As long as it
doesn't mean a longer working day, I
think that's acceptable.
What do think they are trying to
achieve by this day-shift?
The whole point is this business of
lecture space. Also the staff-student
ratios will come into it as well. We
haven't got enough lecture rooms to go
round if everybody's having lectures at
the same time.
So different years will have different
working days? Some studying between
8.30am and 4.30pm and others
starting in the afternoon and having
evening lectures like in America?
I can't see that happening. It's just not
how the British work. Other countries
seem to have a very different attitude to

