Feature FELIX, Wednesday June 24th 1987 9
the working day. I think it would be a
disaster as there is a very obvious limit
to how useful you can be in a day.
I think the idea of lack of lecture space
is somewhat exaggerated. The UGC
• (University Grants Committee) say we
have too much of it! We have to start
looking at ways of utilising it more
efficiently. I think it could be less of an
issue than people think.
Eric Ash doesn't think very much of
anonymous letters in FELIX, like the
Civil Engineers' letter. He called them
'diabolical'. Do you share his view?
I think that's total crap and I think that
FELIX should go on printing
anonymous letters when it's necessary.
It's very easy for someone in Eric Ash's
position, or even my position, to say
anonymous letters are a bad thing
because we've got nothing to lose. But
for somebody who is already feeling that
they are having a hard time in their
department, there's no way that they are
going to write to FELIX saying 'my
superviser is a heap of..whatever' and
then stick their name at the end of it. I
think it's quite right that people should
be able to put their views out publicly
but remain anonymous.
It did seem to cause an awful lot of
embarrassment to the Civil
Engineering Department.
It did, and I'd like to think that we
were instrumental in that. The day it
came out there was a meeting of the
Governing Body (the House ofLords of
Imperial College) Dave Colley (ICU
Hon Sec) and I had been reading this
letter and decided that maybe we ought
to bring it to everybody's attention.
Dave went out and brought back about
40 copies and told them to read the
letter. This caused absolute uproar but
I'm glad we did it. Certainly, some of
the people who read it were absolutely
horrified. Quite a few dismissed it out
of hand but some of the ones who didn't
were quite important people. For
instance, the Government's Education
Department Representative was
horrified by it and took people to task
about it.
One of the complaints many people
have voiced about the Union recently
has been that there was no Union fight
over the massive rent increases facing
students living in College
accomodation next year due to the
purchase of the new houses in Evelyn
Gardens.
I realise that people think we've done
them badly wrong. It's a very difficult
question and it's one that I tried to bring
to light several times. No doubt I didn't
try hard enough to get a proper reaction
about it but there isn't an awful lot else
we can do about it. I think that the
College will probably be forced to find
the money from somewhere else. But if
the money couldn't have been found we
would have come to a situation next year
where the College couldn't have housed
all the people it promised to. A property
came onto the market which was really
a once in a lifetime opportunity. Most
people agreed they were houses that had
to be bought. The money had to be
found from somewhere. I must add that
I am not happy about the rent increases,
but we have to be realistic to a certain
extent. I know that I probably sound like
the opposition speaking. Property prices
in London are such that to retain a
differential that large between what the
College provides and what the private
sector provides is just not feasible.
That's something which is going to
become more apparent as student-type
Committee Chairman expressed
concern that overseas students seemed
primarily to be viewed as just a source
of income.
This is a huge problem, and a lot of
people within College do see overseas
students in that light. I think that's one
of the points that the Union is going to
have to work very hard on in the future
to make sure that anything that can be
done to lessen that effect and to make
life better for overseas students is done.
There's also the prospect of student
loans.
Under the present system most people
operate their own student loan anyway!
I think if it can be done formally with
accommodation in London becomes
more and more difficult to find. The
increases are very unfortunate for those
who have to live in College
accommodation next year, but looking
five years hence there was absolutely
nothing else that could be done. But I
do feel that there are enough strong-
minded, strong-willed people to ensure
that if money does become available
from any other source it will be used to
pay off that loan and decrease the burden
on students.
You mentioned the difficulties of
raising money. I gather that the
College is doing this by increasing the
number of overseas students in every
department. The Overseas Students
a low interest rate and a long pay back
period then it's the best we can hope to
get out of this Government.
I do believe that education should be
free. I think that a mandatory grant is
the only way to do that, but we're never
going to get that under the Conservative
Government. Top up loans are probably
the next best thing. I certainly would
have got one rather than having to rely
heavily on my parents.
Banks are invidious to start off with.
I find the whole thing quite apalling. I
remember Nat West coming over and
rubbing their hands over us all the time.
They will do anything, literally
anything, to get their hands on students'
bank accounts basically. I could not
believe how much money the banks are
willing to put forward to have a stall here
in the hopes of catching a few students
and getting their grant in their account.
Who has been the least helpful College
official that you have encountered this
year?
That is a very difficult one to answer.
The most obvious one to say is Michael
Arthur, isn't it. Everybody wants me to
say Michael Arthur and to be quite
honest he has wound me up more often
than any other College official.
Sometimes he's been quite reasonable
and quite helpful, though, which is why
I can't actually say that it was Michael!
I honestly don't think he is quite a bad
as he is made out to be. But I've
certainly sworn more at him than an
other College official.
To a certain extent you have to play
the game a bit and you have to be
prepared to...well if other people are
going to be a bit devious, you have to
be a bit devious with them. You can't
afford to be too upset about that. I find
it quite possible to work with most
people in College, although there have
been times—the JCR thing was a classic
example. All the people involved just
seemed selectively deaf to everything we
were saying and attempted to confuse the
issues everytime we tried to put them
forward. It's not just one person, more
the way the administration is set up
which is frustrating and the number of
different committees; anyone you try to
pin down can pass the buck. If someone
doesn't like what you're trying to talk
about, they can quite easily refer it to
another body or another person and just
keep you running about in small circles
for a long time. I think that's something
that the College itself suffers from. It's
very inefficient and very slow. My
advice to anybody who's in this place
is to go straight for the person most
likely to be in charge of the subject and
try and bypass as many other committees
as possible.
So do you have any advice for next
year's President, Ian Howgate?
Keep calm! Try and get lots of sleep.
' Don't fly off the handle when you think
something's going wrong because,
unfortunate as it seems, if you give
yourself a reputation as somebody who's
slightly hysterical people will never take '
you seriously.
Do you have any political ambitions?
Of course I do! But you don't just go
launching into something like that next
year. I've got very strong political
ambitions. Eventually I want to go into
teaching at secondary school level.
Everything in the education system is
very, very depressing. From my point
of view anyway. You need teachers who
can inspire and you need teachers who
can really put something across and
that's what I want to do eventually.

