candidate for a post, the nominations shall
remain open until a candidate is nominated.
Nominations shall then remain open for a
further three College days after the first
nomination. An election shall he held after a
farther S College days.
In the event of there being only one candidate
for a post after nominations have closed, he
shall be declared elected. In the event of
there being more than one candidate for either
post a hustings shall be held between the
closure of nominations and the election. The
ballot shall be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on
two consecutive College days. A member of
Council or another nominated by the Returning
Officer, who shall not be a candidate or
proposer, shall be at each ballot box at all
times when the ballot is open. The positioning
of ballot boxes shall be at the discretion of
the Returning Officer.
r The Academic Affairs Officer, the External
Affairs Officer, the Junior Treasurer, the
Student Residence Officer, the Welfare Officer,
the Community Action Chairman, shall be
elected by and from the last Union General
Meeting of the Spring Teim. The Representatives
from the Imperial College Union, and the
University of London Union Representative
shall be elected at the first Union General
Meeting of the summer term.
All members of the Union shall be entitled
to nominate candidates, who shall be Full
Members of the Union. Nomination papers shall
be posted 10 College days before the election
and nominations shall close after 8 College
days. Each nomination shall include the
signatures of the proposer and 10 seconders.
In the case of a vacancy ot curing for any
of these posts, nomination papers shall be
posted within 5 College days . The election
shall take place at the first Union General
Meeting after nominations have closed. Council
shall have the power to appoint acting officers
pending the election, except in the case of the
Representatives from the Imperial College
Union. In the case of there being no candidate
for any of these posts, nominations be accepted
at the Union General Meeting. If no nominations
are received at the Union General Meeting,
nominations shall remain open until a candidate
is nominated and then until the next Union
G e n e r a l M e e t i n g , at which any further
nominations shall be received and an election
held.
All the elections refer red to in this clause
6c shall be carried out by paper ballot.
d The Imperial College Union Department
Representatives shall be elected by ballot
during the Spring Term. Members may only
stand or vote for the post of Representative of
their own Department as listed Clause S . In
the event of a vacancy occurring for one of
these posts, an election shall be held within 4
College weeks .
Nomination forms shall be posted in the
Department 15 College days before the election
and nominations shall remain open for 8 College
days. Each nomination shall include the
signatures of the proposer and 10 seconders.
In the event of there being no candidate for
any post, nominations shall remain open until
a nomination is received. Nominations shall
then remain open for a further 3 College days
after the first nomination. An election shall
be held after a further 5 College days.
In the event of there being only one candi-
date for a post after nominations have closed,
he shall be declared elected. The ballot shall
be open form 10 a m . until 5 pro. on one
College day. The current representative of a
department shall be the Deputy Returning
Officer for the election of the representative
of the same department. The Returning Officer
shall supervise all the elections referred to in
clause 4c .
e In elections under clauses 6b, 6c, and 6d.
canvassing shall be allowed but posters and
other publicity shall not be displayed until
nomination forms are posted.
f A l l elections referred to under clauses 6b, 6c,
and 6dand in aII elections for Impeiral College
Union d e l e g a t i o n s to N a t i o n a l student
conferences, the Single Transferable Vote
with Quota system shall be used.
The Single Transferable Vote with Quota
system shall be operated as defined in the
Voting Schedule appearing in the Blue Book.
Amendments to the Voting Schedule shall need
the approval of a two-thirds majority at any
Imperial College Union General Meeting to
become effective.
In any election of President, Deputy
President and Honorary Secretary, if the num-
ber of deliberate (written-in) abstentions shall
exceed the votes cast for the candidate
receiving most votes before any subsequent
re-allocation, the elections shall be declared
invalid, and nominations shall be reopened for
a further ten College days. The election shall
then take place within the next five College
da\ s .
A "College day" is defined as a weekday
during term time. A "College week*' is a
week during term time.
x The Presidents of the Constituent College
Unions, the President of the Imperial College
Women's Association, the Chairman of the
Imperial College Union Recreational Clubs
Committee, the Chairman of the Imperial
College Social Clubs Committee, the Chairman
of the Social, Cultural and Amusements
Board, the Chairman • of the Silwood Park
Committee and Representatives of the Old
Students' Associations shall be elected
according to the Constitutions of the respective
Organisations before the Joint Council Meeting.
The Chairman of Imperial College Union
Entertainments Committee shall be elected
by the Entertainments Committee, this election
being ratified by the meeting of Joint Council.
h 1 he P.O. Allans Otitic! mil be elected i.> a
meeting of the ICPGG held before Joint
Council.
i The Honorary Treasurer shall be a member of
the academic staff of Imperial College by the
Rector, after consultation with the President
of Imperial College Union. The Honorary
Treasurer shall be ex officio, an honorary
member of the Union with the privileges of a
Full Member. The appointment shall be
reviewed every three years.
7. Council Meetings
The Council shall meet at least twice per term.
The Agenda shall be publicly posted and
circulated to Council members at least one week
before the Council meeting. The Chairman shall
have a casting vote only.
8 . Term of Office
The Council shall be in office from the Ist day
of August to the 31st day of July of the following
year. The last meeting of Council in the Summer
shall be a joint meeting between the new and
retiring Councils .
Sub-Committees and C ammtssioms
9. Major Sub-Committees
a The major sub-committees of Council are the
Imperial College U n i o n A t h l e t i c Clubs
C o m m i t t e e , the Imperial College U n i o n

