READ OTHER SIDE FIRST
General conditions -. (a) Personal property is insured against Fire and Theft in a student's
lodgings or College Rooms or his room in a hall of residence or whilst in any private house,
hotel or other place of Temporary residence within the U . K . and by extension is also
insured against fire and Theft anywhere on the premises of the insured's College, University
Department, Student Union, Building or H a l l of Residence during term-time, or whilst in transit
within the U . K . between the Insured's home and term addresses (the first £5 of every loss
being excluded): or whilst accompanying the Insured on holiday travel anywhere on the
continent of Europe for the first sixty days of such travel in any policy year (the first £10 of
every loss excluded). General exclusions : losses other than from the premises as above
defined; losses of money, securities for money, stamp collections, medals and coins; motor
vehicles and their accessories and any theft from an unattended motor vehicle; pedal-cycles;
livestock; property more specificallv insured
Sum Insured: £500
lb personal liability: covers liability at Common l a w for accidental injury to persons or damage-
to property caused by the Insured's negligence as a private individual. Exclusions are the
normal ones for this type of policy: claims arising from use or possession of cycles, vehicles,
vessels, animals other than dogs and cats; claims by servants or members of one's family:
claims arising out of business activities of the Insured or the ownership or occupation of
land or buildings.
Sum Insured Any fine Accident: £250.000
P R E M I U M £2 p.a.
This insurance is arranged on a block basis, the Master Policy being held by E, Harrison
Ltd., and a certificate being issued to each student on payment of his premium. F o r more
comprehensive types of Property insurance, see the All-Risks extension, or consult the
Brokers. The College Office cannot enter into any discussion on these matters.
Higher cover under (a) can be arranged on a pro-rata basis. Please notify the Brokers if
your personal belongings are in excess of £500 in value, because failure to declare this
fact may result in under-compensation in the event of a claim.
If any item is individually worth over £50 please specify below and show value (left-harsd
column).
All claims dealt with by Harrison-Beaumont Ltd., Witney, Oxford.
Please specify here any items which are
to be included in the basic insurance
(i.e. within the £2 premium and at no
extra charge) but which are individually
worth more than £50.
ITEM. V A L U E .
A L L - RISKS SECTION : List any items
which you want to insure separately
(i.e. excluded from the run-of-the-mill
cover) against ail-risks such as loss,
damage breakage, or fire and theft
anywhere in the U . K . or Europe. To
insure these 'terns will cost £1.50 per
£100 value, and the minimum premium
is £1.50.
I T E M . V A L U E .
Total Value
Additional premium enclosed £ ..
Please be specific in your descriptions, and include serial numbers if possible
S E E O V E R
Piggott Ltd., 23/8/76 Cambridge

