19
Friday 1 May 2009 felix
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
Islam Awareness Week 2009 -The Five Pillars
Some of you were in on it. Many of you experienced it. Now, Saira Wariach will let you all find out what
The Game was all about as Islamic Society host their Islam Awareness Week
T
he 2nd-6th March was
Islam Awareness Week
at Imperial. There were
stalls throughout the week
offering henna, calligra-
phy and just a little enlightenment as to
what was REALLY going on. 2009 saw
a fresh approach to this annual event.
Each pillar of Islam was uncovered as
the week unfolded:
Monday - Declaration of Faith
We started the week with the first pil-
lar of Islam – Faith in One God, and in
Muhammad (Peace be upon him), his
final messenger.
Resonating with Reason was a dis-
cussion panel of three student converts
to Islam – all from very different cul-
tural backgrounds. It aimed to retrace
each of their individual journeys, while
at university, that had led them to rec-
ognise this faith as their own.
The panel comprised of Nicole
Ahmed, who found Islam at Imperial
after being raised without a faith in a
Bangladeshi family; Fatin Phang, a Chi-
nese Malay, currently doing her PhD
at Cambridge University; and Hamza
Tzortzis, originally a Greek Orthodox
Christian, who lectures internationally
on Islam, philosophy and politics. The
venue was packed, there were even
people on the stairs (don’t tell Health
and Safety).
The audience raised their own
questions during a very successful 45
minute Q&A session. Many stayed be-
hind afterwards for refreshments and
discussions with speakers and ISoccers
– which is what it was all about in the
end. Conversation, education, and mu-
tual respect; the perfect beginning to
the week.
Tuesday - Charity
A fundraiser BBQ for Save the Chil-
dren was held in Beit between 4-7pm.
As well as tasty food for the enjoyment
of all students on campus, this pro-
vided a great opportunity to encourage
students around campus to pose ques-
tions and learn about Islam from quiz-
zes and discussion. Over 150 burgers
were sold, and all revenue went to Save
the Children. A lot of students even
braved the rain near the end and had
a great time.
Wednesday – Hajj Pilgrimage
Malcolm X has been an inspiration to
many revolutionaries over the years,
and his life has been taken as a model
for many ordinary people looking to
change their lives and the community
around them. IAW was a platform on
which we brought the great personality
to Imperial’s attention, and what influ-
enced him to develop such morals and
values.
A talk on Malcolm X, highlighting
the influence Islam had on the latter
years of his life, after he had performed
the pilgrimage to Makkah, was con-
ducted by Sheikh Ahmed Babiki (who
has recently been involved in similar
events alongside Malcolm X’s daugh-
ter Malikah Shabazz). He gave a brief
overview of Malcolm’s life before fo-
cusing in detail on some of the ideals
for justice he so strongly held, bringing
to people’s attention the highly-preju-
diced society within which he devel-
oped those ideals.
Free pizza was a great attraction and
an opportunity for discussion, with
about 120 people attending overall.
People left feeling inspired, and curi-
ous; not only about Malcolm X, but
about the teachings of Islam.
Thursday - Fasting
As Muslims, we are obliged to fast for a
whole month, Ramadan. During IAW,
we challenged people to try fasting for
a day, from dawn till dusk, and then
to break their fast with delicious food,
great company, an inspiring talk and
entertainment. The event was publi-
cised as ‘Fast and Feast’ and was held
from 5.30pm in SAF.
The event started on time, with a
turnout of about 150+, one of the big-
gest turnouts of IAW, about a quarter
non-Muslims. Almost all the Muslims,
and about 10 non-Muslims, took up the
challenge and tried fasting on that day.
Participants shared their experience
and views about fasting, and improved
their understanding. They learnt that
it is not only abstaining from food and
drink, but includes a more spiritual as-
pect, as well as self discipline.
The event continued with a talk by
Imam Ajmal Masroor on the topic
“The relevance of acts of worship in
today’s Society” and a performance
by our very own Imperial Nasheed
Group.
Before the event, the sunset prayer
was held in congregation on the SAF
concourse, and witnessed by many
non-Muslims who were curious to see
the final pillar…
Friday - Prayer
The weekly congregational prayer was
also held as usual, at Friday lunchtime,
in the Union Building.
As the last day in IAW, Friday need-
ed a spectacle. It had to encompass
all five pillars from the week, yet still
be less academic and more fun than
the talks preceding it. It had to be a
pantomime.
Or so they thought! The EndGame
event was publicised as an ‘evening
of entertainment’. However, there was
a top-secret performance kept under
wraps until the show itself. The mantra
of which was to truly surprise the audi-
ence, bending their perceptions while
conveying the pillars in so subliminal
a way that Derren Brown would be
fooled.
The event proved successful. Howev-
er,thedetailscannotberevealedincase
the clamoured-for repeat performance
is honoured. This is no hyperbole, the
show is probably like nothing ISoc has
ever done before… and was a mission
well accomplished.
A successful term for
Imperial’s Dance Company
W
hat a month Febru-
ary was for Dance
Company! Two
competitions, a
guest performance
and eight awards….
The competition season started two
weeks ago when five dance teams trav-
elled up to Loughborough University,
amidst snow-covered fields, to strut
their stuff at the Loughborough Dance
Competition 2009 for the very first
time. Full of anticipation and high ex-
pectations, our beginner ballet, begin-
ner tap, advanced ballet, contempo-
rary and jazz dancers took to the stage
to dazzle more than 20 universities in
front of a 400+ strong audience.
Competition was fierce with such a
high level of dancing on display, but
that did not distract us from our goal.
After a long, exhilarating day and hav-
ing taken part in the Nokia Tube Dance
at lunchtime, our efforts were certainly
rewarded. Our sparkling, sophisticated
beginner tap dancers and beautiful be-
ginner ballerinas (choreography by
Fumiyo Nakagawa and Louisa Brown
respectively) both pipped the post win-
ning first place in each of their catego-
ries. Additionally the elusive advanced
contemporary entry (choreography by
Elisa Bellomo) and the talented ad-
vanced ballerinas (choreography by
Louisa Brown) were awarded second
and joint third place respectively. The
high energy, star-struck, advanced jazz
dance (choreographed by Hildur Ein-
arsdóttir) just missed out on a place in
the highest subscribed category of the
competition.
After such a successful day at Lough-
borough spirits were high for the Ed-
inburgh Dance-Off, a competition that
Imperial has made their mark on over
many years. Here, we saw the arrival
of our sixth dance team, the sexy ad-
vanced tappers (choreography by Zoë
Dobell), to form our biggest ever dance
troupe of 37 dancers! Having danced
to the highest standard, the audience
(and I) were wowed by Imperial’s me-
lange of acts.
This was reflected in the judge’s de-
cision to award first place to Imperial
in the beginners/advanced ballet and
contemporary categories, and second
place to beginners tap. But the celebra-
tions did not end there – two of our
very own dancers, Elisa Bellomo (win-
ner of ‘Best Dancer Award 2008’) and
Alvaro Feito Boirac, took to the stage
to perform the last act of the day, their
original guest piece based on a tale of
two lovers.
After such an ecstatic day, our cel-
ebrations commenced with food, drink
and laughter, and continued by boogy-
ing late into the night!
Claire Stanley reviews the overwhelmingly successful term for
Dance Company, with prizes, dancing and celebrations galore,
what more could you ask for?
Top: Advanced Contemporary Team. Below: Advanced Jazz Team
Daniele de Paola
Daniele de Paola
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 1 May 2009
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Dan Wan & Kawai Wong
Jaeger man in conversation
Harold Tillman goes through the past, present and future of his fashion diary, as well
as giving insights into building a fashion business during a Design London event. felix
Fashion Editor Kawai Wong enquires further
Cooler Bag
Forget Louis Vuitton. Forget
the It bag everybody seems
to be carrying. Pop a beer in
there to help relieve revision
stress. And it also keeps your
notes and textbooks cool.
What more can you ask for?
The best summer accessory!
Deputy Editor’s Hair
There has been some distress
within the general College
population of late. I put it
down to daily sightings of a
lanky Eastern European-look-
ing rapist on a Vespa. Oh wait,
no, we’re mistaken. It’s just
Deputy Editor Kadhim Shub-
ber and his newly acquired
hair’style’. He either used to
be cool or now is just too cool.
Home-styled it may be, but
the jury is out on the shaved
sides of his head.
Lady Gaga on Jonothan Ross
Did anyone see this? It annoys
me because she has enough
musical talent to be suc-
cessful, without all the “I’m
cute and pissy, love me, love
me please” shit. There’s too
much to be annoyed about
individually, so here’s a list:
the teacup, the eye-watering
fringe, the post-it note dress
the piece of sellophane on her
head, and, and the ‘I’m too
damn cool for light mockery’
attitude. SHIT.
SICK
SHIT
I
t is hard to imagine the suited
and belted multimillionaire
wearing a pair of punk platform
shoes. But it is true that he was
once so fond of them back in his
fashionista days. The wise and charm-
ing businessman speaks of getting into
fashion as if it is the most natural pro-
gression for him. His father was an ap-
prentice at Burton, and the family went
on to start a small textile workshop in
London. Mr. Tillman followed his fa-
therís footstep in fashion and spent
two years at the London College of
Fashion.
After graduation he took an intern-
ship with Lincroft on Savile Row,
sewing suits for customers who were
30 years his senior. In his spare time,
he would shop for cheap and stylish
clothes on Carnaby Street in London.
He then started to design his own
clothes and sell them in the tailor shop
as well as taking them to Kings Road.
As his designs gathered popularity, his
ambitions grew and he eventually took
Lincroft onto the London Stock Ex-
change, at the tender age of 24.
As a young boy, Mr. Tillman would
walk around the Jaeger shop on Regent
Street with his parents. He adored the
designs. Jaeger was in deep trouble in
the late 80s, losing £12 million before
being put on sale in 1990. Mr. Tillman
acquired the company, ìI had to have
itî, he said. Under new establishment,
Jaeger immediately cut its losses to
£3.5 million the next year, and has seen
operational profit of around £1 million
in 2008.
When Mr. Tillman took over the
company, he recognised the main rea-
son for its failure; Jaeger was too quick
to reinvent itself, and had lost a lot of
its original supporters. After he gain-
ing control of the company, he put
Jaeger back in tune with the designs
that have made the company famous.
A lot of fans have since re-embraced
the brand. Mr. Tillman then went on
put out a new line, Jaeger London, to
attract the original fan’s daughters.
Jaeger Children is now on the drawing
board, an attempt to attract the grand-
children as well.
How does Mr. Tillman position
Jaeger in the current economic cli-
mate? “I’d like to call it a downturn,
not a recession,” he smiles. He sees the
downturn as a chance to create more
opportunities, a chance to focus on
giving customers what they want.
“Although it might seem like people
are spending less, they are actually
investing in quality products.” He be-
lieves that the quick-buy philosophy
cannot last forever, and the best com-
bat strategy is to keep up the qualities
of his products.
The secret behind Mr. Tillman’s suc-
cess is “belief”. He believed in his vi-
sion and went ahead to design his first
collection when he was doing an in-
ternship at Lincroft. The creative and
producible collection enabled his first
commercial success. Although it might
come as a cruel fact for some cutting-
edge designers, commercial success
usually stems from authentic prod-
ucts that do not lose their “commercial
flair”, with products appealling to the
mass market in its own niche.
Mr. Tillman thinks that designers
should focus on their ability to build
a collection. The cross between crea-
tive design and entrepreneurship can
cause a designer to lose his flair. Form-
ing business collaborations is the way
forward.
When asked how to find the suitable
business partner, Mr. Tillman admits
that there is no perfect formula. He
also understands the difficulty for de-
signers starting up their new business-
es. As a London College of Fashion
graduate, he has pledged £1 million to
sponsor 10 MAs every year at the LCF.
In addition, as a chairman for the Brit-
ish Fashion Council, he has pioneered
a BFC fashion fund with Vogue to sup-
port designers financially and to give
them business mentoring.
Top fashion journalist Hilary Al-
exander was suitably frustrated with
the locations of the shows during the
Fashion Week. She missed enough
shows last season that she wrote on
her blog to vent her disappointment
about the impossibility of getting from
shows to shows across central London
and Paris. As the top man of the BFC,
Mr. Tillman has announced that the
London Fashion Week tent is to be
moved from its current location at
the Natural History Museum to the
Somerset House next season. He
hopes that the larger venue can
accommodate the majority of
the catwalk shows.
It is without a doubt that
London has become one of
the most interesting and
successful fashion capitals
in the world. The two de-
signers that have collabo-
rated with the global high-
street fashion house. H&M, in the past
two seasons were both British - Stella
McCartney and Matthew Williamson.
The February London Fashion Week
has also seen a record attendance. Mr.
Tillman believes that the brilliant Brit-
ish talents have attracted more fans to
the UK’s fashion industry. The forward
thinking fashion mogul hopes that
the BFC can acquire a more respect-
able stature in the UK and that also
it will become an organisation which
receives the same level of professional
recognition as in other countries such
as France and the US. With some gov-
ernment support, there can
perhaps exist a
thriving gar-
ment manu-
facturing in-
dustry here,
just like Italy.
Y
o, so I went to the Design
Museum; it was waste. I
jest. But I seriously did go
there to see the exhibition
on fashion designer Hus-
sein Chalayan.
I will say it now, if you want to see
some gash, go to this exhibition. It also
has video installations featuring Tilda
Swinton, though thankfully not her
gash.
Vulgarity aside, the runway show
projected as part of the tour does show
one piece where the model is wearing
a hat; this hat looks like some kind of
1960’s UFO and the dress she is wear-
ing originates from said hat. The dress
is subsequently abducted by the hat
and the model stands naked in the
middle of the runway while the other
models parade.
Some of the clothes that did not re-
move themselves were simply divine
(insert flamboyant hand gestures).
There was one ruffled dress, entirely
compact tulle ruffles. I had to touch it!
I got told off for doing so, but totally
worth it. However, my experience was
somewhat tainted hence forth; due to
the cripplingly fragile nature of my
psyche being unable to brush off this
micro-humiliation.
Onwards, you are transported to a
world of cone heads dressed as puri-
tanical executioners, or at least I think
that is what the designer intended to
conjure, alternatively… I am wrong.
Another interesting dress I felt
compelled to touch, (this was prior
to the “excuse me, please do not
touch the garments” episode, while
I was on a fabric induced high) was
a rubber dress. It appeared to have
been moulded while under some
extreme G-force, forcing the rubber
to ripple backward as if the dress
were liquefying off the mannequin.
Apart from these, his most publi-
cised crowd pleasers are the LED
dress and the mechanical trans-
former dress. That should make
some Mechanical Engineers jizz in
their pants.
Aftermarvellingatdresseswithbuilt-
in neck rests and an entirely carpeted
coat you are led to the video installa-
tion section. This would be the point
where my appreciation and tolerance
for modern art falters slightly. People
seem to get tied up in their own head
with this preoccupation for being odd
or kooky. The screens show the afore-
mentioned art-house-actress-turned-
blockbuster-sellout, Tilda Swinton.
She plaits her hair. She unplaits her
hair. She washes her clothes. She looks
in the mirror. These images are juxta-
posed with a seemingly unrelated dia-
logue discussing human DNA. I think
it was meant to distort my perspective
and provoke self reflection.
From the quest for identity to Ur-
ban Outfitters?! Yes, it is that small a
leap. Hussain Chalayan has put out a
ready-to-wear line of uniquely con-
structed garments currently stocking
at UO, so go and piss your money up
the wall there, I do all the time. I love
that place.
I fear I have belittled this mans crea-
tions; in fact I love them all. If I could
personify and romance them, I would.
Basically, go to the exhibition.
Hussein Chalayan exhbition at the
Design Museum runs until 17th
May. You have two weeks.
Oh la la la la, it’s Chalayan!
Vicki Masding risked her life to touch Hussein Chalayan’s gorgeous designs at the
Design Museum. You’ll be glad to know she escaped alien abduction
Alien abduction and lasers. Sci-Fi
Society’s dream girl.

