sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 Friday 1 May 2009
felix
Sport
25
felix
Friday 1 May 2009
Imperial Devils
take conference
title en route to
play-off final
Ice Hockey
2nd Division, Southern Conference
Imperial College Devils 7
Cardiff Redhawks 1
Stephen Holland
The Imperial College Devils A team
have won their first conference title
and booked their place in the play off
final for the national second division
title. After their disappointing last
place finish last season, the more expe-
rienced squad, further bolstered by the
addition of a couple of gifted finishers,
set out this season to avenge their bat-
tered reputation.
Cardiff, always the southern confer-
ence favourites, were unsettled after
a rare 3-6 defeat to the Devils before
Christmas. However slip ups against
Oxford and Bristol in away games
left the Devils one game behind the
Welsh team going into their final
match against each other. This match
counted two-fold as the last match of
the Southern Conference, but also as
the semi-final for the playoffs for the
national division, in which Cardiff
and Imperial were drawn against each
other reguardless of who finished first
or second in the conference. So, a win
from Imperial would ensure a place in
the play off final, but only a win by 4
goals would take them to the national
final with the Southern Conference
snatched from Cardiff.
The game started hard with the
Devil’s defence and netminder placed
under constant pressure, struggling to
find a rhythm against the Redhawks
onslaught. As the half-way point of the
first period passed, Imperial started
mounting their own attacks, which
paid off when Tom Koch broke the
deadlock 14 minutes in, assisted by
Chris Clough.
Imperial made it harder from them
selves when Chris Clough was then
given 2 minutes for tripping. The team
showed resilience however and Koch
got his second goal while Imperial were
down one man at 17 minutes, leaving
the first period Cardiff 0-2 Imperial.
Imperial were quick off the mark in the
second period, with Clough back on
the score sheet 2 minutes in, giving the
Devils an unprecedented 3 goal lead.
This did not please Cardiff whose frus-
tration was shown when Evan Juurak-
ko, the season’s highest penalty taker,
dropped his gloves to entice Imperial’s
Freddie Hellander into a fight, getting a
2 -minute penalty for roughing. Player-
coach Vince Miller further increased
Imperial’s lead, with an individual ef-
fort at 27 minutes. The disillusioned
Cardiff side hinted at a fightback when
Alyn Wallace skated by Imperial’s con-
fused defence and scored unassisted
making the score 4-1 to Imperial Col-
lege. But after avoiding trouble earlier
in the match, Freddie Hellander was
given a 2 minute penalty for holding,
leaving the team with potential trou-
ble, eased slightly when Cardiff picked
up their own penalty 30 seconds later,
David Williams getting 2 minutes for
high sticks.
The beginning of the third and final
period saw goals replaced by penalties
with Imperial’s Paul Gilmartin and Ilya
Smirnov receiving 2 minutes for un-
sportsman like conduct and tripping
respectively.Howeverthreequickgoals
in the final 8 minutes by Chris Clough
and Tom Koch getting his third and
fourth of the match, closed the door
on Cardiff, with a final score of Cardiff
Redhawks 1-7 Imperial College Devils.
This 6 goal win gave the Devils their
first ever conference win and first trip
to the play off finals against the win-
ner of Manchester and Huddersfield
for the national division 2 title on 19th
of April.
George Garnier - www.georgegarnier.com
Postman Pask delivers Imperial I to 12th
Stroke Adam Freeman-Pask was in-
strumental in leading the top IC crew
to 12th position overall in the biggest
head race of the season. The all-IC
crew was comprised of four college
freshers and finished second in the S2
category in 18:18.72.
Tideway Scullers’ School I were the
overall winners finishing in a time
of 17:25.21. Sculler’s crew included
Alan Campbell (Olympian/Sculler’s
Head of the River Champion), Iztop
Cop (Olympic Gold), Mahe Drysdale
(World Champion, Olympic bronze),
Olaf Tufte (Olympic Gold) and On-
drej Synek (Olympic Silver). Despite
the hired guns the win is attributed to
ex-Imperial cox Ali Williams who in
a limited time transformed the single
scullers into a crew of sweep rowers.
Rumour has it they made the switch to
sweep rowing as a result of becoming
bored out of their sculls. The standard
of competition in the HORR follow-
ing an Olympic year is always toughest
making Imperial’s 12th place ranking
even more poignant. The crew were
satisfied with the result and Pask feels
he’s a really happy man.
IC I (Adam Freeman-Pask, Leo Car-
rington, Ole Tietz, Henry Goodier, Si-
mon Hislop, Josh Yerrell, Dan Cadoux-
Hudson, Danny Bellion) were coxed
by Henry Fieldman (12th/409 overall,
2nd/81 in S2). The crew missed out
on the University pennant to Oxford
Brookes by 20 seconds. Brookes is
one of the top-ranked university clubs
in the country and have consistently
been a thorn in the side of IC crews.
Boy-siders Carrington, Goodier, Yer-
rell and Bellion have set high standards
for emerging fresher talent at Impe-
rial and their break into the first eight
bodes well for the coming years. Head
Coach Steve Trapmore gave an uplift-
ing speech to all crews before indi-
vidual crew chats: “You know what it’s
like, you’ve all done this race before”, at
which point Bowman Bellion revealed
“Eh, well I haven’t actually.”
The crew set-off at number 2 follow-
ing last year’s strong performance from
a crew featuring IC’s George Whittak-
er, Freeman-Pask and Hislop, but was
ineligible for the University pennant.
Cox Henry Fieldman was ecstatic, if
not incomprehensible with this year’s
result, “12th f*cking place after an Ol-
ympic f*cking year, with half the crew
f*cking freshers. That’s f*cking awe-
some man! FML!” The Henry Field-
man Express was in top gear coming
through the final hundred metres and
on-looking alumni on ICBC’s balcony
attested to “hearing the boat sing.”
The upset of the day came with the
defeat of IC II by the hands of arch-
nemesis IC III who ranked 6 places
higher (70th overall) than the second
boat (76th overall). When crew selec-
tions were finalised for the race there
was disappointment in the third boat
as many felt they had performed bet-
ter in training than those chosen for
IC II. But the crew should have been
delighted not to be banished to the sec-
ond boat because as Dan Topolski put
it: “There is no joy in coming second,
because to be second is to be last.” The
second boat, or “banter boat” were out-
gunned by the third who made a gal-
lant effort in the black stallion Vespoli.
IC III (Tom Bell, Tom Arnott, Gareth
Brown, Kieron Docherty, Iain Palmer,
Mike Zammit, John Davey, Andy Gor-
don) were coxed by Nicola Quinn-Py-
att and finished in 18:53.16 (8th/91 in
S3, 70th/409 overall).
IC II (James Wedlake, Will Todd,
John Dick, Richard Winchester, Dom
Meyrick-Cole, Adam Mayall, Adam
Seward, Alex Gillies) were coxed by
Connie Pidoux and finished in 18:56.63
(76th/409 overall, 8th/81 in S2). The
crew were devastated by the result and
were barely able to face IC III, whose
delight could not be contained. It was
clear when they came off the water that
the crew was not pleased with their
row. A steady rhythm could not be
found and they had to bludgeon their
way through the course. Will Todd and
Christina Duffy
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
Richard Winchester sought comfort in
each other and disappeared after the
race to be alone together.
In the novice camp, IC IV performed
well. (Sean Delaney, John Beaty,
Rory Fallon, Thomas Walshe, Ben-
jamin Fahs, Patrick Hudson, Andreas
Prøsch, Alistair Larsson) were coxed
by Deepika Reddy and finished in
19:37.87 (187th/409, 4th/60 in Novice
category).
Thus ends the head race season and
we can finally look ahead to regatta
racing; an entirely different form of
pain. Post race celebrations began in
Walkabout and all camps were satis-
fied after wins from both England and
Ireland in the Six Nations Rugby. (Ire-
land became Six Nations Grand Slam
Champions… England came second).
London RC attracted a huge crowd
of intoxicated rowers for the jungle-
themed after party. Moshing, table
dancing and naked swimming in the
Thames all made for a thoroughly en-
joyable evening.
The men’s squad will have a brief
respite from intense training this week
before the entire club jets off to Italy on
Saturday for Easter training camp.
Cox: Henry Fieldman, Adam Freeman-Pask, Leo Carrington, Ole Tietz, Henry Goodier, Simon Hislop, Josh
Yerrell, Dan Cadoux-Hudson & Danny Bellion
Imperial come 2nd in IDEA
League held in Aachen
Continued from back page
Imperial Boat Club enter
Guinness World Book of
Records, just
Earlier this year, Reporter wrote about
the day the IC Boat Club broke a very
special world record. Steve Trapmore
MBE, Head of Rowing, describes the
day.
“On 11 March I took a team of Impe-
rial College Boat Club rowers to Dor-
ney Rowing Lake, venue for the 2012
Olympic Regatta. Helped by coach
Stu Whitelaw, we set out to attempt a
world record for the fastest time a row-
ing eight can tow a water-skier over
100 metres.”
The current record stood at 19.9 sec-
onds, held by a French team. After a
couple of failed attempts with celebri-
ties, including ex Blue Peter presenter
Konnie Huq, waterski professional
Stuart Marston took up the reins.
Straight off, the Imperial rowers pow-
ered Stuart over a faultless 100 metres
which we clocked at 19.3 seconds. An-
noyingly the Guinness World Records
adjudicator clocked the same attempt
two seconds slower!
Trapmore went on to say that “Af-
ter pointing out that we were perhaps
more experienced at timing rowing
crews, I invited the adjudicator to fol-
low the attempt in the Sport Impe-
rial truck rather than from a safety
boat on the water. This did the trick,
and although we timed the run faster,
the official verdict was 19.58 seconds,
breaking the previous world record by
almost 0.4 seconds.”
Imperial Devils looking cool as ice after their win against Cardiff (yes it is a bit of a lame pun)
The rowers with Stuart Marston after they broke the world record
picture courtesy of reporter
photo by neil mossley
Claire Taylor with support from Team Fit on the leg press challenge
ble-tennis battle kicked into full swing,
Imperial Judo was showing the other
three universities (Delft-Netherlands,
Aachen-Germany and Zurich-Swit-
zerland) a little bit of Imperial finesse,
comfortably winning and boosting our
confidence for the next day.
That evening was spent in the town,
with most of “Team Fit” retiring early
to prepare for what was to be a very
tiring day, and the Floor Ball fraternity
still very unsure as to the exact rules.
Thursday morning drew in, and
after a decidedly less than adequate
sleep on the gym floor, Imperial ladies
took to the Floor Ball arena- still no
wiser about the rules. The match was
always going to be tough, but a 13-3
loss did not reflect Imperial’s ability,
likewise the men would struggle in
the first two games. By the third and
final game, however, the ladies had
notched up a 3-2 victory over Delft,
and the men were only 2-1 down deep
into the second half also against Delft.
Unfortunately, the keen forward Jack
Cornish got ‘hit on the head with the
ball’ whilst just having a casual jump.
This was in breach of the rules and he
was penalised with a two minute sin-
bin; the only one of the tournament!
This left IC with only three outfield
players. They managed to hang on for
that time, but didn’t manage to win.
However, the ladies’ victory secured
a respectable 3rd place, considering
the majority of the players had never
played Floor Ball before!
The evening was then a classic, start-
ing with a formal dinner at the premier
University venue. The alcohol was cer-
tainly in abundance allowing spirits to
fly high and friendships to be forged.
To the amazement of Imperial, the
scoring system had worked out in our
favour and we had managed a com-
mendable 2nd place overall! The cham-
pagne continued to flow on the tables
of Team IC, before we were ushered to
the most prestigious club in Aachen.
Celebrations continued into the small
hours, but not without incident… but
we certainly can’t remember them!
The next day, IC clearly took the tro-
phy for bar heavyweights, with many
contenders for the top ten headaches.
An enjoyable three days saw success,
friendships and celebrations, none of
which would have been possible with-
out the backing of Sport Imperial and
so a big thank you goes to them from
all of us. We all look forward to Floor
Ball next year.

