felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Imperial
have a
great
IDEA
Jack Cornish
Sports Editor
The IDEA League is the collaboration
of ‘five leading universities of technol-
ogy and science’, and annually a sports
event is held in celebration of the
continued collaboration between the
institutions. This year it was the turn
of RWTH Aachen to host the elite ath-
letes in a competition that was to fea-
ture Table Tennis, Floor Ball, Judo, and
a Fitness Challenge!
The thirty plus Imperial participants
had their first challenge even before
the competition had started – remem-
ber your passport and get to Kings
Cross International at 6am in time for
the EuroStar. To everyone’s surprise it
was two senior members of the ACC
that managed to fail at this, notably
this year’s Hockey Club Captain and
next year’s ACC Chair!
All present and correct, the triple
train journey to Aachen in Germany
was followed by a festival atmosphere.
Aachen’s fantastic sports centre was
based in the west of the suburban area
with views across the historic spa city.
After a introductory lunch, many of
the party chose to explore the town,
only for a call to come thought that la-
dies were needed to play table-tennis.
Teddy Middlebrook was selected as she
had her own table at home, and Izzy
Smith went along to join her as eve-
ryone else ran off. Results were rather
better than expected with the men
and women winning many games, but
eventually coming 3rd. As the epic ta-
Continued on page 25
Tim Simpson
Kendo club find national success
As with all competitions the day starts
with an ungodly noise- that of the
alarm clock at an abnormally early
time of the morning. On this day, the
4th of April and the day of the Na-
tional University Kendo Competition,
the alarm sounded about 4.45am. That
is the spirit of commitment shown by
your very own kendo club. By 5.50am
the competitors were all huddled in
Victoria ready for the first train of the
day to Canterbury where the fight was
going to be hosted by the good boys
and girls of the University of Kent.
A smaller competition than last year,
after Cambridge Kendo Club made a
mess of the timings and enraged judges
from as far afield as Japan, only 8 Uni-
versity teams were to take part. These
included teams from Cambridge, Ed-
inburgh, Oxford and UCL- so all our
old rivals were back yet again.
However before the main competi-
tion there was the kyu-grade individu-
als for those lower down the food chain
than the black belt (‘Dan grades’). Six
of our team went that show. Of special
interest were two of last year’s begin-
ners and some of this year’s club stal-
warts, Benny Wong and Danny Mak.
Wong had some cracking fights which
included the first having an encho (ex-
tra time, 1st score wins) that was at
least double the length of the actual
match itself. The star of this particular
show, however, was Danny Mak. Mak
managed to win three fights outright
with a mixture of kote (wrist) and men
(head) cuts before losing out to a kote
from a 10 year kendo veteran who be-
longs to the Mumeishi club. That club,
based outside of London, is rich in Jap-
anese kendoka, and has our very own
Yoda in residence, Yoshikawa-sensei,
as one of their teachers.
Following soon after the kyu grade
bouts were the Dan grade competi-
tion and the ladies competition (for all
ranks). Imperial only had one competi-
tor for each. Tin Wong was the man up
against it all in the Dan grade compe-
tition but he came acropper with two
men cuts received from a very ath-
letic opponent. Rachel Soon tried her
hand against two opponents both her
senior in terms of experience but lost
out to the eventual winner of the la-
dies fight, T. Volkata, from Edinburgh
University.
After these warm up “exercises” the
main competition took place. This in-
volved 5 kendoka from each Uni team
going to head-to-head in a set of indi-
vidual bouts. Imperial’s first match was
against Oxford. Of the fights two were
draws with Tin Wong and Christos Ar-
gryakis holding their own, whilst Ali
Hammad and Daniel Mak won their
tussles with a men cut and a kote re-
spectively. The second set of matches
against Edinburgh went less well. Un-
fortunately Edinburgh’s team of ninja
(with two newly arrived Japanese ken-
doka, including a 5th dan) managed
to overcome some spirited defences
although notably Tin Wong managed
to hold that bundle of vicious feminin-
ity, T. Volkata, to a rather respectable
draw. However, their performance was
enough to nab them a spot on the win-
ner’s podium with a 3rd place. Not bad
all in all especially after so little sleep.
What happens when you hit a haggis
with a shinai? Well, next year we are
off to Edinburgh to try to even the
score so maybe we can tell you then.
The Kendo team proudly adorned with their medals

