3
Friday 1 May 2009 felix
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 1 May 2009
News
News Editor – Kadhim Shubber and Dan Wan
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News
Felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,430
Friday 01/05/09
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2009.
LOL FLU
of tHe WEEK
Editor in Chief: Jovan Nedić
News Editors
Dan Wan
Kadhim Shubber
Copy Editors
Louise Etheridge
Jonathan Lloyd-Williams
Sasha Nicoletti
Dina Ismail
Politics Editors:
James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
Science Editors
Mićo Tatalović
Daniel Burrows
Arts Editors
Caz Knight
David Paw
Emily Wilson
Business Editor
Luke Dhanoa
Nightlife Editor
Catherine Jones
What’s On Editors
Rachel D’oliviero
Lily Topham
Food Editors
Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Puzzles Supremo
Charles Murdoch
Clubs and Socs Editor
Alice Rowlands
Sports Editors
Jack Cornish
Mustapher Botchway
Photography
Sami Michaels
Tom Roberts
Zoe Dobell
International Editor
Hassan Joudi
Raphael Houdmont
Film Editors
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Jonathan Dakin
Technology Editor
Richard Lai
Music Editors
Peter Sinclair
James Houghton
Alex Ashford
Fashion Editor
Dan Wan
Coffee Break Editor
Ravi Pall
Ron Burgundy
Travel Editor
Dylan Lowe
Deputy Editor: Kadhim Shubber Associate Editor: Gilead Amit
A Second Life for Imperial
medical students
Dina Ismail
News Correspondent
Imperial College third-year medical
students are taking part in a pilot pro-
gram that allows them to practice diag-
nosing and treating patients- all in the
virtual world.
The prospective doctors are treat-
ing virtual patients in Second Life, a
3D internet world where users live
and interact through online alter egos,
called avatars. It is however far from
playing out long held fantasies of being
a doctor in the world of ER or Grey’s
Anatomy. Instead, it is a step by step
exercise in patient care and treatment
management.
A virtual hospital has been set-up
and designed to look like Imperial’s
own real-life facilities where every-
thing is made to mimic the actual ex-
perience of being on a hospital ward.
Even online versions of members of
staff bear an eerie resemblance to their
real-life appearance.
From the comfort of a classroom,
students can log into the virtual medi-
cal world and transport their avatars
to the computer-generated hospital.
There they check in at a reception
desk, put on an access badge and pick
up their assignment to begin work. If
an assignment takes place in a respi-
ratory ward, students have access to
recordings of real-life patients’ breath-
ing to help with their diagnoses. And
if it is decided that x-rays are needed,
they can stroll down to the radiol-
ogy department and order them. The
idea is to think through the tests and
treatments in the same way that a doc-
tor would and reinforce lessons about
responsibility and hospital protocol.
Students even have to virtually wash
their hands before visiting a patient,
otherwise their investigation is halted
and they lose points. If advice, help or
a friendly chat is needed, students can
communicate with their professors
and other colleagues within the world
through their avatars.
As enjoyable as playing doctors may
sound, this game-based learning does
not aim to replace traditional face-to-
face training or the experiences gained
from walking the wards of real hospi-
tals and interacting with real patients.
The 3D virtual world cannot replicate
or convey real human emotion, distress
or suffering nor teach how to effective-
ly deal with it. And apparently avatars
can’t be killed. In the world of Second
Life there is even a simple mute button
that can be clicked to silence any peo-
ple you may wish to ignore- if only real
life were that easy.
Although the program is not part of
the medical school’s official curriculum
quite yet, in the future, educators see it
as a new way of learning for students
that also taps into their sophisticated
and savvy computer skills.
“The aim is to develop a more en-
gaging learning environment” said
Maria Toro-Troconis, a senior learn-
ing technologist. “You’d like to say
this makes learning fun and easy,” says
Jenny Higham, head of undergraduate
medicine, “[but] at the end of the day,
there’s still a basic requirement to learn
the facts.”
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
President Sarkozy has opened an exhibition containing ten projects by
international architects which outline their vision for Paris in 2029.
Sarkozy’s grand plan is for a greener city, and the ten options include radi-
cal ideas like a monorail network, recycling stations buried beneath parkland
and local power generation.
Nicknamed the “City of Light”, Paris is usually defined as everything within
the périphérique or ring road, giving it an official population of two million
people. But the French capital is surrounded by a plethora of suburbs and
towns administered by separate county councils and inhabited by a further
six million people.
Pressure has been growing to merge some of the neighbouring councils
together into something akin to the Greater London Authority for London’s
eight million inhabitants. While Sarkozy is pushing for this, he is opposed by
the Socialist Party which is in office in most of the councils and which sup-
port the decentralisation.
France
David Kellermann, acting Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of US mortgage
giant Freddie Mac, was found hung in his basement after apparently
committing suicide.
41-year old Mr Kellermann had worked for Freddie Mac for 16 years, be-
ginning in his mid-twenties as a financial ana-
lyst, and rising through the ranks of the cor-
poration. The death was reported by his wife
at their home in eastern state of Virginia.
Freddie Mac is a private corporation that
deals with financial services, namely owning
or guaranteeing mortgages. In September
2008, to prevent it from collapsing, the US
Federal Government took over control of the
corporation, and appointed Kellermann as the
CFO. But recently Freddie Mac’s losses have
spiralled out of control, and Mr Kellermann’s
colleagues reported that he had been working
long hours.
USA
Jacob Zuma is expected to become South Africa’s next president on the
6th of May, after his party the African National Congress won 66% of the
vote in the general elections.
A controversial figure, Jacob Zuma is a former guerrilla fighter and was an
inmate at Robben Island prison alongside Nelson Mandela. For years he has
been embroiled in legal battles on allegations of corruption and fraud, which
have only recently been dropped – on a technicality.
Despite his many flaws, Mr Zuma is undoubtedly a man of remarkable
qualities. And qualities he will need if he is to lead a country which contrib-
utes a third of the 48 sub-Saharan economies’ GDP (Gross Domestic Prod-
uct). Too many African countries have collapsed because of leaders who view
government as a means of accumulating power and dispensing favours. Mr
Zuma needs to show that South Africa, a beacon of hope for a continent of a
billion souls, can still lead the way.
South Africa
NATO and Russia have restored formal diplomatic contacts, eight
months after they were suspended over the five day war with Georgia in
August 2008.
The 28 members of the NATO military alliance met with a Russian envoy
in Brussels on Wednesday 29th April. A NATO spokesman said that disa-
greement continued over Russia’s invasion of Georgia (which has been prom-
ised NATO membership), and NATO’s planned military exercises there next
month. But significant progress had been made on the Conventional Forces
in Europe Treaty, which aims at limiting the number of tanks and other con-
ventional military equipment between the Atlantic and the Ural mountains.
NATO decided to gradually resume its ties with Russia, especially on is-
sues such as nuclear non-proliferation, the war in Afghanistan, and the fight
against terrorism, but emphasized that neither should shy away from issues
on which they fundamentally disagree.
Russia
‘UCL’ shits all over Imperial
Dan Wan
Editor-in -Prowling
After years of Imperial shitting all over
‘UCL’ in the league tables, ‘UCL’ have
finally ‘shat’ back in a fashion befitting
to their intellect, and the only tables in-
volved were snooker tables.
During the closing days of the Spring
term, the Union snooker rooms were
broken into and heavily vandalised;
including the deposition of faeces on
snooker tables. The tables and walls
were also targeted. Graffiti included
several ambiguous but aggressive mes-
sages, such as “fuck off” and “c*nt”. To
whom these messages were targeted is
still not clear, but it is thought that the
unruly depictions of genitalia are to
provide clues.
A carefully constructed structure
made of broken snooker cues, trian-
gles and a chair was also erected on
top of an uncovered snooker table.
Its delightful centrepiece featured an
impressively large piece of excrement.
The owners were seemingly so pleased
with their creation, they decided to
sign their name beneath it; the letters
‘UCL’ were found painted onto the
table felt with an unidentified white
substance, thought to be paint or glue.
After a month of headstratching, felix
have finally identified the meaning of
the letters as Bloomsbury Community
College’s lesser used name of ‘Univer-
sity College London’.
However, Deputy President (Clubs &
Societies) Lily Topham, has raised her
doubts that the defacement was work
of UCL students.
“I’m doubtful as to whether it was
actually UCL or our students trying to
put the blame on someone else – there
is absolutely no solid evidence to sug-
gest who it was.” Miss Topham duly
noted the absence of 3rd floor video
surveillance.
“This incidence has highlighted the
problems with security – particularly
on the upper floors of the Union, be-
cause, although the Union has inves-
tigated available CCTV footage and
questioned stewards on duty during
that night, there is no CCTV on the top
floor of the building and during busy
nights it is very difficult to track every
person in the Union building who takes
it into their head to do damage.” She
also reassured us that the Union Build-
ing’s security was also under “whole-
scale review” for the new term.
The faeces was thought not be of
human origin, and is reckoned to be
sheep’s, by the well-proven investiga-
tive method of scratch’n’sniff. After
extensive examination of Beit Quad
CCTV however, there were no sight-
ings of any farm animals within the
Union compound.
The snooker rooms, which are found
on the 3rd floor of the Union Building
in Beit Quad, were thought to have
been infiltrated between 22:30 and
midnight after a play held in the Union
Concert Hall on the 20th of March.
A witness to the aftermath voiced
his concerns with the motives of the
vandals. “It is immensely worrying on
two levels. Who’s carrying around a
bag of shit purely to deposit its con-
tents on a table? If not, who would
bring a poor farmyard animal into the
depths of London and have it shit all
over a snooker table?” Another stu-
dent, who wished not to be named,
also described the Union’s third floor
as “smelly as fuck”. felix concurs with
both witnesses. The damaged snooker
tables have since been relayed with new
felt. Topham assured that the damage
would not be inflicted on the Snooker
Club financially.
“As soon as the scene was discovered
we informed the club and to ensure
that they wouldn’t suffer materially
from these actions. The Clubs and So-
cieties Board had unanimously voted
to fund the refelting of the vandalised
snooker tables from Contingency,
however, Sport Imperial very kindly
offered to help as well, so my sincere
thanks to Neil Mosley [Head of Sport
Imperial] for his support.”
Topham went on to condemn the
people responsible for the vandalism
“Whoever did this needs serious psy-
chological counselling if they think
that was they did was funny or accept-
able behaviour.”
At the end of the Spring term, an-
other similar incident occurred in the
inflatable laser quest in Beit Quad,
where it was found that an individual
had left some excrement in one of the
corners. As a result, the attraction was
shut early so that the problem could be
dealt with.
Thus far, the Union is dealing these
as two separate incidents.
News in Brief
Green Week competition winner
ICU RAG Mag: Funny and Free!
Swine Flu hits the World, hard!
The winners of Imperial College Union’s ‘Greening Imperial’ competi-
tion are announced online today, with two students sharing the £1000
prize. The judging panel consisting of estates staff, the College’s new
Program Director for Corporate Social Responsibility, academic staff,
Deputy President (Education & Welfare) and the RCSU President who
part-funded the competition made the unanimous decision to award
the prize to two research students, Adele Peel and Steven Johnston
for their practical approaches to making Imperial more sustainable.
Adele’s idea tackled student halls, proposing a competition be-
tween halls to reduce their energy use and waste production. Steven
focused on the disposable paper cups available from catering out-
lets across the College, with a three-step approach to reducing the
number we use as well as recycling the ones handed out.
The People and Planet Green League 2009 will be announced in the
Autumn term.
For more details visit imperialcollegeunion.org/green.
Funny and Free! Well that’s not the complete truth but it’s definitely
funny. The ICU RAG Mag, a time honoured student joke book, is re-
leased today. Funded by advertising revenue the magazines make
money for charity by readers donating their coppers to a RAG tin.
These can be found in either the union shop or union bar. If it makes
you laugh, donate! This year’s charities are Barnardos, Shelter and
the Rainbow Trust. Any students wishing to nominate a charity for
next year are welcome to fill out the form on the inside back cover
and post it in to the RAG pigeon hole in the SAC.
At Imperial, RAG Mags have been produced for at least the last 20
years. Previous magazines feature jokes which are unpublishable by
today’s standards, with one magazine even being banned for sale
around college! The initial cover this year was itself refused for being
too risqué. Who says you can’t publish jokes about a certain MP who
was caught in an expenses scandal?
ICU RAG Mag, entertaining students for 20 years - pick up your copy
along with the Felix from points around college today!
It’s pretty hard to avoid all the commotion about Swine Flu as it has
appeared in the media all over the world. If you are worried about
it, College have set up a website with up-to-date guidance for staff,
students and visitors: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/alerts.
Trial opens of murdered Imperial UROP
students at the Old Bailey
Kadhim Shubber
Deputy Editor
The trial of two men accused of mur-
dering French students Gabriel Ferez
and Laurent Bonomo has begun at the
Old Bailey.
Dano Sonnex, 23, of Peckham South
London and Nigel Farmer, 33, of no
fixed address are charged with murder,
arson, burglary, false imprisonment
and trying to pervert the course of
justice. Both men deny all charges al-
though Dano Sonnex has admitted one
count of robbery at the victim’s bedsit
on the date of the murders.
Gabriel Ferez and Laurent Bonomo,
biochemistry masters students from
University of Clermont-Ferrand, had
almost completed a three month re-
search placement at Imperial College
when they were murdered at their bed-
sit in New Cross.
The court has heard that the stu-
dents were awoken by intruders at
5:30am on June 29th last year, held for
approximately two and a half hours
and murdered when Mr Ferez’s card
was swallowed by a bank machine.
Prosecutor Crispin Aylett QC said “to
take revenge for the fact they had been
unable to steal money from Mr Ferez,
both men were murdered in a way that
can only be described as inhuman”.
Later that night, the flat was set
alight. A man was spotted fleeing the
fire by next-door neighbour Curtis
Cronin. He shouted “I’ve got you” at
the man, meaning that he had seen his
face. Mr Cronin later provided an e-fit
that closely resembled Mr Farmer.
The trial continues at the Old Bailey.
In the papers
The Independent:
“The jury was told that both
Sonnex and Farmer had a history
of similar violence. Mr Aylett ex-
plained that Sonnex had a previous
conviction from 2002 when, aged
16, he stabbed another youth three
times in a row over a car.”
The Guardian
“ ...Farmer, who was suffering
from burns to his face and hands,
announced: “I just killed two fuck-
ing people in New Cross.”
The Times
“Jurors were told to brace them-
selves for the photographs of what
was found at the flat by firefighters
when it was set ablaze the night af-
ter the murders”
Laurent Bonomo and Gabriel
Ferez had been on a three-month
research placement at Imperial
How attractive do you think the real medic behind this avatar is?

