news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
News
4 felix Friday 1 May 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
A
fter countless surveys
and input from students,
it seems that the Impe-
rial College Union Enter-
tainments Department is
finally listening to the people it serves,
the students.
Back in October 2008 (Issue 1,411),
felix carried out a survey to review the
success of Freshers’ Week and also get
some idea of what the students really
wanted from the Union. One of the
biggest results from the survey was the
fact that students would much rather
prefer to see a live band over a live act.
The other big result from the survey
was that a whopping 83% of the stu-
dents told felix that it was the people
and not the acts that make the night,
with one student commenting that “I
didn’t really care who the acts were, it
was Freshers’ Week, I would have gone
along anyway.” Another result that
came from the survey was the cost of
the tickets for the big blow-out finale
on the Friday of Freshers’ Week, with
70% of the students questioned think-
ing that the £14.50 ticket price was too
expensive for what was on offer.
The general consensus amongst
the student body was that for any big
event, whether it be Freshers’ Week,
end of term Carnival or the Summer
Ball, people are going to come along no
matter who the acts are, and if they’re
going to pay a fair bit for their ticket,
they want something good. In the re-
cent International Student Barometer
survey, Imperial was rated bottom for
entertainment enjoyment out of all the
Russell Group universities; even below
our own Medical School. A problem
that seems to have been occurring over
the past few years is that there has been
little input from the student body into
what they want in terms of entertain-
ment from their Union, or what could
be even more worrying is that their in-
put has just been ignored.
It does seem, however, that they have
finally started to lis-
ten, with the Easter
“Credit Crunch”
Carnival being a
prime ex-
ample. The theme was elegant to say
the least: keep it simple, keep it cheap.
This is exactly what they did with tick-
ets only costing £5, no major headline
acts that would cost several thousand
pounds and, as expected, the Union
was full with around 1,200 students
having a great night. Following on
from the success of the Easter “Credit
Crunch” Carnival, it seems that the
Union has decided to yet again listen
to its students.
This year’s Summer Ball, which takes
place on the 20th June, promises to be
a great hit with acts that will satisfy a
vast range of students. The ticket pric-
es, however, are more than last year,
with ICU commenting that “Ticket
prices this year have risen owing to
several factors, costs of organising the
event have risen, bearing in mind tick-
et prices for the event have remained
static over the past two years. In addi-
tion, this year we have also applied a
more rigorous budgeting process for
the event, taking into account more
realistic costs than in previous years
and this has highlighted the need to in-
crease ticket prices to avoid incurring a
financial loss on the ball.”
It is also reported that Imperial Col-
lege have made some generous contri-
butions to the Ball this year, including
£13,000 for general costs, the College
catering department donating around
£2,000 and Commercial services do-
nating nearly £10,000 to cover the
cost of hiring the marquee after it was
found that Outreach, who normally
split the cost of the hire, pulled out in
the last minute.
The organisers of the Ball have put on
three separate entertainment sections
this year; the live music section will
be in the Beit Quad where there will
be bands playing from 20:00 onwards.
On the Live Arena, the headline act for
the evening will be Athlete who will be
playing a one and a half hour live set,
with Rosie & The Goldbug and Tape
the Radio as the supporting acts of the
night. Joining them will be the eventual
Battle of the Bands winner as well as
Jeff Automatic from Club NME.
As usual, there will be a selection of
drum and base acts with Pendulum (El
Hornet DJ Set) feat. MC Jakes being
billed as the headline act in the Dance
Venue. Other acts include Chase &
Status feat. MC Rage, Scratch Perverts,
Killa Kela and Interlope (LIVE) that
will be playing you into the small hours
of the morning.
Finally there is the Cabaret Stage
Official line-up for the
Summer Ball announced
Union finally listens to its students, but why did it take so long and are our students
going to be at a loss? Editor in Chief, Jovan Nedić, finds out
Student bands to
play with top acts
at Summer Ball
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 1 May 2009 felix
News
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Jazz and Rock Society, in conjunc-
tion with Imperial College Union are
hosting a Battle of the Bands competi-
tion, with the eventual winner playing
alongside with Athlete, Rosie and the
Goldbug and Tape the Radio.
This move by the Union is seen as a
positive one, with ever increasing stu-
dent input to the entertainments that
are provided at the Union.
The competition will consist of three
heats, held on the 7th, 14th and 21st
May, followed by a final on Friday, May
29th. A top selection of judges will be
at the event deciding on the different
winners, these include; Hannah Theo-
dorou who is Deputy President (Edu-
cation & Welfare) and a massive fan of
Goldfrapp , as well as Kadhim Shubber,
Deputy Editor of felix, who’s claims his
favourite artist at the moment is Laura
Marling.
Each battle will start from 19:00 in
dB’s, entry will cheap and there will be
a raffle at the end where the first prize
ill be free tickets to this year’s Sum-
mer Ball. The bands will be playing a
mixture of covers and their own songs
throughout the night so there will be
something for everyone. There might
also be a possibility of selecting one of
the finalists from the runners-up by
means of an online vote.
So if you are interested in having a
direct input into what you listen to at
the Summer Ball, then go along and
support your favourite band, either
that or bribe the official judges. I hear
the Deputy Editor has a particular lik-
ing for Innocent Smoothies and choco-
late Brownies!
“We don’t
foresee that
any IC students
will be unable
to purchase an
entertainments
ticket due to
an external
customer taking
that place” - ICU
Rosie & The Goldbug Tape the Radio Scratch Perverts
Chase & Status
Globe Girls
of an increased capacity, which allows
for 1000 extra attendees than we have
ever sold before, we don’t foresee that
any Ic students will be unable to pur-
chase an entertainments ticket due to
an external customer taking that place.
In addition we are monitoring ticket
sales closely throughout this period to
ensure that if we are approaching ca-
pacity that the ability for externals to
purchase tickets will be removed.”
Several students were also concerned
as to why the line-up wasn’t announced
earlier so that they could take advan-
tage of the early tickets, to which ICU
replied “We have withheld the line-up
until this point as we awaited a full set
of contracted acts. In previous years we
have released acts based on provisional
contracts and we have been let down.
We have attempted to avoid a situation
where tickets have been purchased
based on a line-up which is not 100%
certain, to avoid disappointment.”
“In addition we aim for students to
make their decision to attend the ball
based on a line-up in it’s entirety and
not on single acts. We have worked
hard this year to ensure that there is
a wide variety of entertainment on
offer, hopefully providing something
for everyone. We have based many of
our decisions for this year’s line-up on
feedback gained from the Trading and
Clubs & Societies surveys, particularly
in relation to having a live arena for the
first time.”
Even though the line-up this year
is considered to be the best in recent
years, several students have wondered
why it has taken so long for the Union
to listen to them and if they will do in
the future. Only time will tell.
PENDULUM
ATHLETE
Since their debut album ‘Vehicles & Animals’
in 2003, Athlete have been at the forefront of
the UK’s indie rock scene playing to crowds
around the world.
Their first album was met with critical and
commercial success producing singles such
as ‘You Got the Style’ and ‘El Salvador. For
their second album ‘Tourist’, Athlete scored
their biggest hit-to-date ‘Wires’ which went
on to win a coveted Ivor Nevello award for
Best Contemporary Song. ‘Beyond the Neigh-
bourhood’ was released in September 2007
reaching number 5 in the UK album chart and
spawning the hit single ‘Hurricane’. They are
currently working on their fourth studio al-
bum and are about to embark on an intimate
UK tour ahead of its release.
i.e. not a live set... AGAIN
(El Hornet DJ SET)
NOEL FIELDING &
DAVE BROWN
Noel Fielding, star of the BBC’s Mighty Boosh and his Gorilla costume-toting friend Dave Brown are here
to offer a roller coaster trip through their unique minds! Noel and Dave explain more: ‘The Doctor came to
London from Eastern Europe in 1876, he rode into town on a mule dragging a half man half pencil behind
him on a pencil case the size of a hospital stretcher. The pencil woke up with no recollection of the great
journey, frightened, incensed and slightly jet-lagged he ran straight to London Zoo and skewered a pack
of rare monkeys making the worlds largest marmaset kebab.’ That clears that one up then! Expect great
comedy, superb music and much laughter.
which will host a variety of live per-
formances which include the Globe
Girls and Imperial’s very own Jazz Big
Band. Headlining the Cabaret stage
this year will be Noel Fielding and
Dave Brown, better known as The
Doctor and the Pencil. The duo from
the hit TV show The Mighty Boosh
have joined forces to bring you a live
show that is certain to have you rolling
in the isles.
As well as live music and DJ sets, the
Summer Ball will also have other at-
tractions to keep you entertained into
the small hours of the morning, such
as the Giant Fun Fair and of course the
survivors breakfast and photo.
The line-up for the Ball is meant to
be a close guarded secret to ensure
maximum impact, however, rumours
of some of the acts have been circu-
lating after a few of bands advertised
the event on their website. Athlete
have even been telling their fans on
their website that “Although the event
is aimed at students of the college it
is not an exclusive gig and tickets are
available.” This has left several students
worried that there will not be enough
tickets available for Imperial students,
however, a statement sent by Imperial
College Union stated that “As a result
Students at the Survivors Photo from last year’s Summer Ball
Photo by Ian Gillett
IC Big Band win
Gold Award at
National Festival
Having wiped the floor with the com-
petition at the regional heat of the
National Concert Band Festival, the
Imperial College Big Band travelled
to the Royal Welsh College of Music
and Drama in Cardiff to play in the
national finals of the festival over the
Easter break. Despite having to catch
a coach from college at 7am, the band
were in fine form under the direction
of Andy Simm, opening their set with
Tom Kubis’ up tempo tune, ‘On Purple
Porpoise Parkway’. The band captured
the essence of Don Menza’s classic,
‘Groovin’ Hard’, and the set ended with
Pat Metheny’s technically intricate
‘The First Circle’, which allowed the sax
section to indulge in some jazz flute
playing that would put Ron Burgundy
to shame.
Despite tough competition from
other regional winners the band were
presented with a gold award, the only
group in the ‘open big band’ category
Jon Dennis
There’s always one person that decides not to look at the camera
to do so. The judges praised the band’s
tight ensemble playing, commenting
that the set was a ‘most enjoyable per-
formance’ and one they ‘would happily
have paid to see’. The soloing inter-
play of saxophonists Jamie McDougall
and James Trippett was described as
‘lovely’, whilst Chaz Keiderling and his
horn were commended for reaching an
‘appropriately timed climax’ that put a
smile on the judges’ faces.
This outstanding result shows the IC
Big Band to be one of the top univer-
sity big bands in the country and is the
crowning achievement of a successful
year for the band. Having enjoyed the
unique cultural experience that Wales
has to offer, the band will be taking
their award-winning jazz on tour to
Berlin in September. Their next per-
formance will be in the MDH at the
Summer Ball on 20th June, and prom-
ises to be one of the highlights of the
ball. Recordings from the competition
and other information is available at
www.icbigband.co.uk.
Killa Kella
Jeff Automatic
LIVE ARENA CABARET DANCE STAGE

