comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 1 May 2009 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 1 May 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
T
he summer term is finally
upon us; it is a time of be-
havioural change, locking
yourself away into a room
with as little distraction as
possible so as to optimise revision. For
some, it is the final leg of their univer-
sity life whilst for others it is only the
beginning. Either way, the end result is
the same; pure relief that it is finally all
over.
As I now personally reach the end of
my fifth year at Imperial and look for-
ward to employment, I couldn’t help
but look back at the major aspects of
my university life. As I see it, there are
effectively five aspects, or pillars, to any
students life at university and if any of
these pillars fall, you time will be a long
and arduous one. Education, Clubs and
Societies, Finance & Services, Housing
and Entertainments. Some of these
are clearly interlinked and dependent
upon others, but the point stands, if
one of the categories has a problem,
you will notice it.
Seeing as the first story of this year is
about entertainment, let’s go with that
one. After a hard days work in the lec-
ture theatres and labs, or even after a
hard fought sports fixture or concert,
the students need a place where they
can go, relax and have a good time.
The most obvious choice for this is the
Students’ Union, but the problem is, as
many students have pointed out time
and time again, it’s rubbish!
To me, it seems that the Union has
had a communication problem with its
students. I’m sure that numerous at-
tempts have been made and I am sure
that students have given their input,
but is it just me or do they not seem
to listen? Freshers’ Week and the Sum-
mer Ball will always be busy, no matter
what university you go to in the coun-
try, yet even though they know it is go-
ing to be busy, they still manage to get
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
The pillars of
university life.
Chapter One
Annabel Slater has a bone to pick with The Rogue
I
mperial full of plain Janes with
delusional perceptions of self-
worth, shallow brains. So says
the Rogue, quickly assuring us
that he is not some careless stu-
dent hack in the Comments section,
spouting a sexual frustration induced
harangue that insults almost every-
one here at Imperial. No, he has a wise
commentary to deliver, based on care-
fully observed field evidence which
one can and has witnessed every day.
Apparently, Imperial’s womenfolk
need taking down a peg. Especially,
he stresses, the main breed- the plain
girls (again, the Rogue can help you out
here- they’re the ones who aren’t “folli-
cally challenged” by which we can only
presume means bald or bushy haired,
or have kind of symmetrical faces,
or don’t have the body of a fat child).
They’re too proud. Nauseating. Super-
cilious. Full of undeserved confidence.
The Rogue reports how if, as a hum-
ble student, you catch the eye of a pass-
ing female student, the stranger will do
one of two things. This is very impor-
tant, so it was printed in bold type.
things wrong. The acts don’t reflect the
general population of Imperial, when
they do try, the tickets are considered
to be expensive.
I’ll be the first to give credit when
they deserve it, and for what they did
at the Easter “Credit Crunch” Carni-
val, they definitely deserve it. There
were no big name Radio 1 DJ’s costing
thousands of pounds, there weren’t
extravagant decorations and they of-
fered something for everyone, all for a
low price. The result, a packed Union,
which would have happened anyway,
full of people having a good time, en-
joying the music and the company of
people they were with. The result for
the Union, a healthy profit margin.
Why has this taken so long for them to
figure out and why was it so difficult?
I know for a fact on the Tuesday of
Freshers’ Week, the Deputy Presi-
dent (Clubs & Societies) Lily Topham,
wanted to have a showcase of the dif-
ferent arts societies of the Union. The
result there was a very full Union with
people having a fun time and again the
Union making more profit; more profit
than Tuesdays from previous Frehsers’
Week. Yet she was met with several
obstacles from the Union who didn’t
think the quality of the acts would be
good enough! How wrong they were!
The initial outlook for the Summer
Ball looks promising, yet again it seems
that they are taking on board what stu-
dents have wanted for some time. Va-
riety! They have several live bands, ac-
tual live bands, not like last year where
they advertised that The Klaxons were
playing, only for students to later real-
ise that it was a DJ Set. What was the
point of paying so much money for
one member of a band to play a DJ Set,
what was accomplished?
Overspending the entertainments
budget for the Ball by around £12,000
and making a total loss of around
£8,000 for the whole ball, that’s what.
An even more interesting question
is how have they managed to stick to
their budget this year, which was simi-
lar to last year’s, and somehow get a
better, wider range of acts for the Sum-
mer Ball?
The credibility and popularity of
any venue is mainly based on word of
mouth, and having people tell you that
the Union is a rubbish venue to go to as
soon as you arrive won’t help at all. At
the same time they haven’t been seen
to be doing much about it and have
carried on regardless of what students
say.
Let us really hope that this new
change in direction is a positive one;
one where they listen to the students
and give them what they want and not
simply do what pleases them, and then
maybe, just maybe, we can have a Un-
ion where the students will be proud of
going to.
One-shewillwalkpastwithoutnotic-
ing (Oh! She did NOT… what a stuck-
up bovine!), OR, two- she will glance at
you, hold your gaze for a little too long
(probably pretending to wonder if she
knows you, ha!) before embarrassedly
glancing away, “self-disapproving and
annoyed that she isn’t more of a bitch”.
You know, I can really sympathise with
her, what girl *doesn’t* wish just that,
when she makes eye contact with a
stranger? Like, duh! The horror! The
sheer nerve! A deplorable sense of
self-importance, indeed, when a girl
you don’t know either walks past you
or LOOKS AT YOU and then WALKS
PAST YOU. What kind of creatures are
these?
Having pointed out the nauseating
shortcomings of the average Imperial
female, the Rogue generously tosses
out a noble concession. Clearly, this
net of criticism cannot be laid on every
Imperial girl, he adds halfway through
his pontification (I can nearly use big
words as well as he can), having previ-
ously and suitably established that all
of Imperial’s womenfolk are egotistical,
that supercilious girls with borderline
trainwreck bodies are being increas-
ingly witnessed every day at Imperial,
that their unattractiveness only makes
their behavior all the more appalling,
and that girls who were bullied in high
school should seriously think about
whether they deserve to be confident
at university or not (they don’t, he re-
assures us). No, the responsibility for
the creation of these deluded creatures
lies with Imperial’s male student des-
peradoes, who first encouraged these
bloated egos. Why, in a spot of healthy,
sneering dB’s voyeurism the Rogue
and his similarly shrewd male friend
observed a “moderately attractive” girl
dancing with a group of “disgusting”
male students (possibly perverts too,
in the Rogue’s words), then receiving
some ‘nauseatingly insincere’ attention
from one of them in the hopes of get-
ting an accidental shag. Of course, he
failed, because he was one of those lap-
dogs that the Rogue is not. Meanwhile,
the girl, like the rest of her vile gender,
subconsciously “congratulated herself
on the hollow offer of casual sex” and
filled up her ego some more.
The Rogue concludes that this fun
little story illustrates his central the-
sis- that the way in which men and
women react to each other has de-
generated appallingly in Imperial, al-
though by the end of his article, he’s
suddenly attacking the superficial male
as the creator of these Frankenstein
she-monsters, as well as the original
concept of airheaded, power tripping,
borderline fugly females. We’re just
two completely different species, aren’t
we? How else do you explain the reek-
ing air of superiority that the Rogue’s
keen and fair senses detect from Impe-
rial womenfolk? No doubt, articles like
the Rogue’s can help us all get along
when we have to. So come on- don’t
you realize that Imperial is apparently
a godforsaken establishment where
almost all the men are desperate, and
all the women stuck-up? Being at Im-
perial, you see, has utterly destroyed
their desire of “a meaningful platonic
relationship”. Appallingly, most of
them are shallow, undesirable crea-
tures to boot! Take those awful women
down a peg. Quick, male students, step
back and take a good look at yourselves
to check you’re not becoming a lapdog.
I’m not sure how- probably, it involves
not being nice to girls, especially those
who aren’t even pretty enough to de-
serve it. Girls, we need to take a look
at ourselves too- apparently we all look
like we’ve been made over by mentally
defective makeup artists! But what do I
know- I mean look, I’m a woman and
I’m even writing into Felix to comment
on the Rogue’s so intelligently written
piece. The Rogue’s already laid it all
out, without having to answer the beg-
ging question of whether he actually
has any female friends here, or just the
moronic caricatures he nurses in his
head. I’m just making sure everyone
understands his message, I don’t even
have a cool nickname. And just look
at me. Chances are, I’m just a typical
Imperial girl. One of those typical de-
luded, once-bullied girls, validating my
gargantuan sense of superficial self-
worth with the regular attention of
desperate males, and by nabbing a bit
of print-space…
“Let us really
hope that this
new change of
direction is a
positive one”
“Girls, we need
to take a look at
ourselves too-
apparently we all
look like we’ve
been made over
by mentally
defective
makeup artists!”
photo by ian gillett
Dylan Lowe finds kindness in a ‘treacherous’ world
W
henever I turned
my attention to
the ‘dangers & an-
noyances’ section
of my travel guide,
I knew I was heading towards a very
wrong direction.
Hustlers? Faux guides? Pickpockets?
Robberies at knifepoint? What was I
even thinking in the first place?
Not that my past experiences helped:
trust me, I have long since lost my in-
nocence to this ruthless world. To this
date I still refuse to let a stranger into
the one-metre radius of my baggage,
and find deception in every unrecog-
nisable face. Paranoia? No my friend,
vigilance. And, to a certain extent,
snobbery.
Surely, strangers do not deserve your
individual attention, let alone your in-
dividual sympathy. Especially when, as
they attempt to explain their hardship,
the meanings are lost in translation. So
why not despise them? To sum it up in
one, typically-English, phrase ‒ ‘bloody
foreigners’.
I soon found myself at the mercy of
these ‘foreigners’.
To participate in an activity that
is hitchhiking, one must step into a
stranger’s vehicle with all of his cyni-
cism and distrust cast aside. The fact
that the driver has cared to express in-
terest on some stranger’s welfare is an
unambiguous indication of kindness.
Similarly, they have as much to despise
against foreigners as we do; still they
dispel cultural differences and commit
their act of charity.
And there should be no scepticism
on this ‘charity’ ‒ it doesn’t necessar-
ily include a sinister element. However
the movie industry decides to portray
hitchhiking, Anna and I weren’t es-
caping convicts, and the drivers who
picked us up certainly weren’t serial
killers. Here is the proof: I have made
it back in one piece.
Thanks to the media, our society
seems to be swathed with a swarm of
sad faces or mourning gowns. When
the pages of your newspaper are brim-
ming with negativity, one can’t help but
re-modify his perspectives of the world
according to this pessimists’ model.
But then, as human nature dictates, we
thrive on gloom.
After all, pain is more deeply felt ‒
and inflicts more emotions ‒ than the
process of healing.
Away from the media coverage and
computer screen, I took it upon myself
to search for and experience genuine
kindness first hand. What I found, as
I tread my path, was the joy of discov-
ering displays of compassion from the
most unlikely of places.
The formidable appearances of sev-
eral drivers along our way would have
repelled us from accepting the rides.
Chris initially emanated the impres-
sion of a Mediterranean miscreant;
Barrie with his Mohican hairstyle ap-
peared rascal-like with sadism lurking
behind his eyes. Both turned out to be
the nicest individuals I have ever met.
Rather than taking advantage of our in-
nocence, like their fellow countrymen
would, the Romanians in Valdemoro
(Julian & Lorena) had spent a stagger-
ing twenty Euros on a pair of complete
strangers.
There is always a motivation behind
every deed of kindness. In hitchhiking
terms, many of the drivers who picked
us up craved for the companionship, a
break from long periods of isolation.
Sometimes it was because we possess
something they need, for example a
better map.
It may be spiritual rather than ma-
terialistic ‒ sympathy, redemption for
one’s previous wrong-doings, repay-
ment for others’ displays of kindness,
even the mere satisfaction which
comes with being charitable.
There is no such thing as absolute
selflessness; selflessness will always be
tainted by at least a small smudge of
selfish mindset. Yet, the simple act of
generosity as motivated by mostly self-
lessness is, as quantified by our cynical
society, most noble indeed.
“There is always
a motivation
behind every
deed of
kindness...
sometimes it
was because we
had something
they needed”
Hitchhiking, I discovered, brings
the best out of this generosity. We
have been fortunate to have received
from individuals not because they had
so much to give away, but rather the
contrary.
Whether the manifestation of gen-
erosity may be materialistic as money,
refreshments, or something as subtle
as space, privacy, or most certainly
their time, many of which our Samari-
tans lacked, they were still willing to
give to a couple-in-need.
Lorena emphasised how much gen-
erosity and hospitality she had en-
countered and received when she was
herself travelling. As though in debt,
she felt it was her morale duty to repay
the kindness by becoming benevolent
and generous herself. That way, she
believed, was the only way to over-
come the ‘treachery’ that enshrouds
our lives.
I hope I have now repaid this kind-
ness by shedding some optimism on
this sceptical world.
Afonso Campos likes clapping and being locked in
T
here’s something quite
special about doing things
that the great majority of
people never actually get
do. It’s not necessarily be-
cause they’re exclusive or open only to
an elite and select group of few who
have somehow, magically acquired in-
vitations to these not-even-that-glam-
orous happenings.
For the most part, these things are
best when they are very low-key rather
than elaborate spectacles including
dancing mexican midgets in ill-fitting
cashmere underwear and stick-thin
catwalk models carrying trays filled to
the brim with intricate canapes of crap
you have never even heard of or could
even fathom eating, like domesticated
ferret covered in bacon, cut into thin
slices and dipped into a bath of pink
gold.
One of these things is being back-
stage at the end of an incredible play.
There is an inexplicable and splendid
beauty about the theatre that you just
can’t find at the movies.
The ovation and the actors covertly
shedding a tear, the scenographers
smiling timidly, the directors oozing
a radiant love for their craft, the audi-
ence shouting a corageous and mighty
“bravo”, the lights slightly dimmed,
the echo of the endless clapping - the
finale of a fantastic play is one of the
most amazing experiences one can go
through. It’s borderline impossible to
stand on the sideline and not feel like
you are in one way or another part of
this great machine where the bounda-
ries and truth are too indistinct to
make out.
As you peer through the sides of the
great stage and for a brief moment, one
of the actors turns back and your eyes
fatefully cross, it all becomes evident.
All the people on stage, all the people
in the audience, and yourself, you are all
there opposing realism and supporting
art for art’s sake. While experiencing
this from backstage is pretty magical
because you are privy to the hard work
that goes into making it all happen, it
is just as satisfactory to experience this
from the audience. If you have never
had the fortune to live through a sce-
nario in the likeness of this one, I urge
you to seek one soon.
There is something else that I have
for eons wondered about and only just
very recently manage to experience –
lock-in at a pub. I have always wanted
to know what it feels like to stay in a
pub past closing time. I’m sure I am not
alone in this musing and also sure that
like myself, you have peered in through
the shuttered windows of your local as
you stumble back to the bus station in
a sort of drunken stupor.
Inside it you witness a scene that you
wish you could be a part of.
You see people holding lit cigarettes
indoors, pints flowing past legal sell-
ing time and maybe half a dozen faces
having a laugh and talking about an
obscure and random topic like post-
modernist Italian cinema or the fall of
calligraphy as an everyday art-form or
something equally befuddling to your
brain. You desperately want to be part
of it but you do not belong to this se-
cret society for you do not work at any
establishment where lock-in happens;
nor do you actually know anyone who
works at a pub that could potentially
invite you.
Well, you might know someone, but
they hate you because you have never
been invited for lock-in by anyone
and hence will not invite you. It’s that
dreadful cycle where you think you
have no way in, similar to that whole
“in order to get work experience you
must have work experience” conun-
drum. Quite recently however, I have
been fortunate enough to have been
in many lock-ins at a really fun pub in
Tottenham Court Road, and it is every
bit as good as I imagined it to be. Be-
sides the paramount pleasure of be-
ing able to smoke cigarettes indoors
through the night, I was inundated
with good conversation (of which I un-
derstood a fair amount) and made even
better friends. I am thankful that there
is someone in my life who has noticed
that something like that would be an
easy way to break my monotony and
make me happy. If you ask nicely, I may
bring you along next time I go.
There’s
something I
have wondered
about and only
just very recently
manage to
experience –
lock-in at a pub.”

