Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 1 May 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović & Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 1 May 2009 felix
Imperial students build an
electric sportscar
Louis Palmer, a Swiss school teacher
became somewhat of a celebrity after
touring the Planet with his Solar Taxi:
a solar powered electric vehicle, last
year. He has now organised the Zero
Emissions Race which will see 6 elec-
tric vehicles racing 40,000km around
the world, across 6 continents, all in 80
days!
His electric car for this race is being
built by Imperial College students. The
team have called themselves Racing
Green Endurance (RGE), and will be
the only student led team in the whole
event.
The project started as an autono-
W
hat if cars could
run on wind power
alone? Britain is at
the cutting edge of
wind-powered car
technology. British Greenbird has just
set the land speed record (202.9km/
hr) for a wind vehicle on 26th March,
whilst Ecotricity, a British energy com-
pany, is sponsoring the revamp of the
Lotus Exige sportscar into an all elec-
tric vehicle powered by wind-generat-
ed electricity.
But this is no recent development.
Back in the 1970s, when the last fuel
crisis hit western economies, the
Windmobile (“land sailer for the hig-
way”) featured on the cover of the 1976
issue of Popular Science magazine.
This amazing vehicle could be pow-
ered by wind on the highways alone, or
could use wind to extend the range of
its electric motor. Like the Greenbird,
Windmobile could run on wind already
available in the atmosphere alone. For
most cars though, especially within
the city, the wind is not fast enough to
power them. Windmobile could use its
smart design to aid its movements and
so extend range; the Popular Science
article reported. The designer’s view
was that placing a similar sail on per-
sonal vehicles could extend their range
up to 40% as well. The plans were in
motion for a four-seat family Windmo-
bile, but the economic forces precluded
this green technology and as soon the
oil prices were down again, the Wind-
mobile was buried in history.
Several other patents have been filed
since the 1970s for using wind energy
for fuelling cars. Many of these are
based on the simple observation that
at high car speeds, the incoming wind
speed is also quick and could gener-
ate electricity. Now the skeptics could
say that most of this incoming wind
is generated by the car’s movement
in the first place, which is true (un-
less you live and drive in windy areas
used by the Green Bird), but the fact
that this wind energy is going to waste
still stands. So, many patents are based
on internal wind turbines that capture
much of the incoming wind which use
it to generate electricity and so extends
the car’s range. This works in much the
same way as re-generative braking; it
is the recycling of waste energy rather
than creation of energy anew. (Another
way around the fact that a lot of energy
is expended by cars just to push the air
around themselves, and so is lost on
drag, is to design cars so to minimize
the drag – this is the idea behind Ap-
tera electric car now on sale in Cali-
fornia. With its light and streamlined
body Aptera is very reminiscent of the
Windmobile.)
Wind cars: future of motoring?
The newest development in this area
is RoarMaxx’s Formula AE sportscar
designed by two enthusiastic high-
school students who decided to design
a car that would recapture some of the
wind energy.
The “energy lost under the friction of
the air will be recovered through aero-
dynamically optimised intakes, which
force air into the turbines like fans that
will spin brushless synchronous alter-
nators recovering a predicted 20-25%
electrical energy which will then get
stored in Ultra-Capacitors for immedi-
ate usage. Four strategically placed air
flow recovery systems will be installed
around the vehicle, but their intakes
will not be obvious because the body
work design will incorporate them in a
way that’s very pleasing to the human
eye; an important key factor in vehicle
design.”
Like the later version of Windmobile,
this car will also incorporate roof-top
solar panels to extend the range a fur-
ther 15-40%. The combination of such
‘airflow re-capture energy’ and a sail
that would generate energy from the
true wind (the one not caused by the
vehicle’s movement), might one day
lead to an all wind-powered electric
Mićo Tatalović investigates the past, present and future of wind-powered cars.
Imperial College’s Racing Green Endurance team with their new toy, a sportscar they are turning into an
electric car for the December’s Zero Emissions race around the world.
Andrew Hadland
Science Correspondent
Wind powered Lotus Exige.
Windmobile was tested by Popular Sci-
ence’s writer in 1976. It was found to go up
to 47mph in side winds of 12-18mph on wind
power alone. The vehicle used its electric mo-
tor to get up to the speed of 30mph and then
on windy highway the wind-only propulsion
carried on. With crosswinds of above 9mph
the Windmobile runs on wind and can reach
62mph. Popular Science described it as being
like “some kind of space capsule out of a Walt
Disney movie”. Later version had solar panels
on top of the arched canopy (bottom right).
Windmobile
British Greenbird wind-powered race car sponsored by Ecotricity.
Sketches for some of the patented wind-powered commercial car
ideas.
RoarMaxx’s Formula AE (alternative energy) with solar panels and windflow recovery system installed to maximise its range and efficiency.
mous off-shoot to the already well
publicised Racing Green initiative, but
it is independently backed by Imperial
College and the prestigious Energy Fu-
tures Lab (EFL).
Although RGE is still in its early days,
the project only having started in mid-
January 2009, much has already been
achieved. They have secured the use
of a sexy Radical SR3 Supersport car,
from Radical Sportscars, to modify for
the race. After much research and cal-
culation, the optimum batteries, sup-
plier and packager have been found.
Furthermore, the team has been
established from students across a
number of departments, including
Mechanical Engineering, EEE, and
Sustainable Energy Futures, ensuring
Some other wind-powered vehicles from the Wind Energy Events’ race Racing Aeolus 2008, and a streamlined Aptera electric car (top right).
car. The technology is probably already
all there, buried in unused patents, but
there are no economic incentives to
develop it.
A more realistic way of using wind to
power cars is to harvest wind for the
grid, and then charge your electric car
from that grid. In this way you use clean
wind-power to power your electric car.
This is exactly what the new develop-
ment by Ecotricity is trying to do. The
project of turning a Lotus Exige into an
electric sports car is reminiscent of the
Tesla Roadster, an electric sportscar
from California. The founder of Ecot-
ricity, charismatic entrepreneur Dale
Vinci, dissapointed with slow rate of
electric cars coming out of the major
car manufacturers, got a team of ex-
perts together to build a competitive
alternative. Important as it is to replace
internal-engine cars with electric ones,
this will only reduce carbon emissions
if the electricity powering these cars
comes from clean energy, and wind is
an excellent solution, says Vinci.
In the meantime, events where wind-
powered vehicles race (such as Racing
Aeolus 2009 in Netherlands) are at-
tracting more publicity and more inter-
est from teams from around the world.
These are vehicles like Greenbird, that
are “powered only by nature” and are
“part aeroplane, part sailboat and part
Formula One car”. So the future looks
bright for the wind-powered electric
cars.
that the best talent is used to bring
RGE success!
The team faces significant technical
challenges in modifying the SR3, in-
cluding: raising the suspension from
its current race configuration; and im-
plementing a completely new and be-
spoke electric drivetrain that can cope
and excel during the rigours of this
epic endurance event.
The vehicle will be designed and built
over the summer of 2009, ready to start
racing in Copenhagen at the UNFCCC
summit in December.
Their progress can be followed via
their website at www.racinggreen-
endurance.com, which is frequently
updated with the latest news and
information.
More information on the follow-
ing weblinks:
http://www.formulaae.com
http://www.windenergyevents.
com/
http://www.greenbird.co.uk/
Louis Palmer went around the world in his Solar Taxi. He still uses it to
drive to work. His new quest to raise awarness about electric cars is to
drive the electric sportscar designed by Imperial student team RGE.

