travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editor – Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
10 felix Friday 1 May 2009 11
Friday 1 May 2009 felix
A hitchhiker’s guide to hitchhiking
Dylan Lowe recalls something beyond thumbing his way from London to Morocco: the personal
challenge, the encounters and people along the way, and a sense of self-discovery
S
unrise was finally upon us.
It was better reflected by the
increasing influx of traffic
heading our way rather than
the morning temperature. I
observed Anna from afar, now that she
had returned to her spot by the junc-
tion where traffic from the lorry park
livened. She was complaining to me
about the cold; I don’t blame her. My
palm seemed to be fixed in its thumbs-
up gesture not because of my enthusi-
asm – it was simply frozen.
Something was going terribly wrong.
It didn’t matter if the roundabout had
directed the traffic into different di-
rections, one heading to Zaragoza/
Madrid and another into Barcelona
– there were hardly any vehicles go-
ing southwards. For those that were
southbound, the merciless junction
presented little room for stopping. The
wait continued.
I went over to Anna and gave her a
cuddle, just for the sake of salvaging
our morale. She was ready to give up
and more keen on using public trans-
port. With sleep deprivation kicking in,
I feared that I would soon snap myself.
How had we managed thus far?
Anna and I had set off from Clap-
ham Junction four days ago, accepted
a lorry ride to Portsmouth to catch a
ferry bound for Caen, blitzed through
Northern France until Brive, where our
luck expired. From there we inched to
the south of Toulouse. Rested, we at-
tempted a border crossing via Andorra
only to find the mountain passes grid-
locked with snow; several short hitches
and much walker later we wound up in
the Spanish Pyrenees. Our fortune re-
turned with a ride that took us across
the mountain range by nightfall. Hav-
ing slept rough in a car park in the
lorry park just outside of Lleida, Cat-
alunya, we hoisted the cardboards on
the fifth day hours before the sun was
even in sight.
Not that me and Anna were the only
ones partaking in this bizarre, if not
insane, endeavour. Being the 18th of
its kind, the charity Link Community
Development (LCD) – it does work in
African countries to improve stand-
ards of education – has hosted the
Morocco Hitch every year since its
creation in 1992. Apparently, hitchhik-
ing almost penniless across the conti-
nent to the African country closest to
the UK would be an effective fundrais-
ing mechanism: at least a thousand of
us did buy that concept, raising over
£300,000 in the process.
It all started when a certain Miles
Glanfield brought news of this event to
the conversations of Selkirk Hall’s 3rd
floor kitchen. “Challenge yourself to it”
was my first reaction. Granted, this is
no London Marathon, or anything re-
motely as physically demanding. But,
as we found out soon enough, it is ac-
tually our mentality that is put to the
test.
“Whenever
our fortunes
took a detour
it did send us
crying for anti-
depressants”
We had previously found ourselves
waking to rainwater seeping through
our tent; three hours of thumbing later
our chances of getting a ride was slim-
mer than that of us dying of pneumo-
nia on the spot. We were drenched to
the bone. The invitation to travel by
public bus was too hard to resist. But,
staying true to our personal challenge,
our endurance put up a good fight and
won over the temptation.
Almost two hours had passed since
sunrise. Still nothing. A little earlier I
had run into trouble with the police:
for treating the police like a taxi serv-
ice. I was reminded just how spoilt a
pair of hitchers we were to begin with
– our longest wait on the first two days
lasted no more than half an hour.
I can’t recall doing anything involv-
ing that much unpredictability in my
life (albeit a mostly uneventful life). We
could enjoy a glorious moment as we
breeze through hundreds of miles, but
whenever our fortunes took a detour
it did send us crying for anti-depres-
sants. But it is not without its positive
outcome – it served as a reminder to
us to treasure every of those ‘glorious
moments’ with awe and appreciation.
It has even more to do with human
interaction. When one gets an insight
of the lives of one’s Samaritans, it sets
this personal enlightenment from that
experienced by travelling on public
transport. For once, I felt privileged to
be part of a stranger’s voyage, share our
varying objectives and destinations yet
ostensiblyheadingtowardsthesamedi-
rection. In an increasingly frigid world,
immersing into the everyday lives of
Chris the Portuguese marine-turned
trucker, Barrie the Anglo-French cook,
Martine the geography teacher, Julien
& Laure the nomadic hippies and Ro-
main the crane driver was no everyday
occurrence.
(Special mention to the French
businessman who scared us shitless
by graphically depicting what would
happen if the Toulouse nuclear power
plant explodes – even I, with my mini-
mum knowledge on the French lan-
guage, understood what he was saying.
We bore with his banter as he took us
20k across the outskirts of Toulouse.)
Speaking of frigid, I had now begun
shivering in Lleida. My patience was
wavering. Then my eardrums shook
– it was to the awakened grinding of
a lorry engine. In a seemingly vain at-
tempt, deterred by my many failures
on a similar effort, I raised my ‘Ma-
drid’ sign so that the conductor de
camión could see. His gesture in re-
sponse, I swore down, must have been
a hallucination.
So I approached him.
“¿Va usted a Mardid?” “Si.” (“Are you
going to Madrid?” “Yeah.”)
“¿De verdad?” “De verdad, tío. Puedo
tomarte a Mardid.” (“Really?” “Really,
bruv. I can take you to Madrid.”)
Upon hearing the news, Anna dis-
played her talents as a dancer by sprint-
ing and leaping into me in a celebratory
hug – the exhilaration beats watching a
similar scene from Dirty Dancing.
That exhilaration is what found
throughout the trip: it gives proof that,
the bitterer a situation gets, the tasti-
er the sweetness when it bears fruit.
Wetness, coldness, sleeplessness, we
endured them all – the belief that our
frustration would soon end, and tables
would turn, kept us going. Just like the
monstrous queue to a rollercoaster
ride, it was all part of the suspense.
Our driver, who introduced himself
as Amadou, kept to his word: with his
two new companions he now roamed
the autopistas that led us inching to-
wards Madrid. Only one small problem
though: of Malawian ancestry, he spoke
extremely little English. The same situ-
ation would have baffled many hitch-
ers who, some of them had confessed
to us, relied entirely on English to get
them through the continent.
Fortunate for us, Amadou was fluent
in both Spanish and French; unfortu-
nate for me, Anna had fallen asleep at
the back, leaving me to fend for my-
self with my patchy GCSE-standard
Spanish.
“Just like the
monstrous
queue to a
rollercoaster
ride, it was
all part of the
suspense”
Not saying I dreaded exposing my
unfamiliarity with the language: they
love it when they see you try, don’t
they? Quite so. My enthusiasm to
generate conversation with Diego, the
window salesman who took us across
the tunnels from Vielha to Lleida, kept
my phrasebook glued to my hand. Until
the awkwardness – and the dark – got
the best of me, and I stayed quiet for
the remainder of the ride. I managed to
describe this unease to Amadou, who
seemed to have sensed the novice in
me anyway without saying.
One hour of endless conversing
later, he remarked that I hadn’t once
used my phrasebook – he was flatter-
ing me. But then, as ‘sleeping beauty’
found consciousness and tuned in with
a now French-speaking Amadou, my
head was able to interpret bits of the
dialogues from a language I knew little
of; similarly, after we had parted ways
with the trucker, Anna expressed her
amazement on her ability to uphold a
discussion on politics and life using her
meagre post- A Level French.
I then remembered what Diego had
mentioned a day earlier. “A practicar/
aprender (una idioma), viajar” – in or-
der to practise/learn a language, travel.
Too true.
Westoppedatapetrolstationenroute
to refuel. As we clambered back into
the truck I looked through the wind-
screen. My heart almost stopped at the
sight – a vehicle bearing the insignia of
the Guardia Civil (Spanish paramili-
tary police) had pulled into the station.
I certainly didn’t forget that carrying
more than one passenger in a lorry
isn’t exactly legal in Spain. As I feared,
we came under their scrutiny. Unwit-
tingly I had left my cardboard perching
behind the windscreen, though upside
down; a civil guard squinted to read
the sign (“charity hitch”) while Ama-
dou convinced the other that Anna
and I were his friends rather than mere
passengers (not entirely untrue).
Eventually we had once again evaded
arrest. Maybe I should stop forgetting
that the continental folks tend to be
more lenient on crimes petty as illegal
hitchhiking on a French motorway, or
pitching tent on private land, or kip-
ping tramp-style in a car park without
shelter?
A lot of people believed that hitch-
hiking was all about getting from point
A to point B with zero expenses, save
the energy and effort of raising your
thumb long enough to get yourself
picked up – I had been one of them. I
was especially ruthless with the plan-
ning: my emphasis had been on my
destination, Morocco, rather than the
process of getting there. As much as I
hate to admit it, I was wrong.
Should I have kept up with that at-
titude I would have missed so much
detail in the fabric. In my urgency to
reach Morocco I have made decisions
that could have potentially hastened
or slowed down our progress. For in-
stance, my stubbornness prevented
us from travelling towards Bordeaux
from Périgueux (just west of Brive), a
route that would have saved us days of
misery and pointless wander; that said,
both Anna and I had agreed with hind-
sight, it would mean sacrificing the
memories of moments and encounters
we now share and cherish.
Two pieces of memory we would nev-
er trade in for a faster track occurred
soon after Amadou had dropped us off
in the suburbs of Madrid and led us
to the train station (fine, we cheated
a little bit). As we waded through the
streets, I couldn’t help but feel the sen-
timent of the tri-colours (Anna being
white, me being yellow and Amadou
black) striding across a country re-
nowned for its racism – this metaphor
reflected the tolerance and kindness
we enjoyed. For once, my cynicism
crumbled in defeat.
The other occasion took place in
Valdemoro, a vibrant town south of
Madrid. We had arrived at the Repsol
in search for a hitch down to Algeciras
ferry port, preferably from any of the
many lorries lodged by the petrol sta-
tion. Perhaps we didn’t have any pref-
erences at all, since we were in no posi-
tion to bargain when the entire Spain
had plunged into an Easter traffic
lockdown.
Soon enough, after spending over-
night at the station waiting and resting
(hardly), the futility became clear. We
devised a plan: we would stay in Valde-
moro for a day before making another
attempt to hitchhike. Julian, who ran a
night shift behind the tapas bar, offered
us a ride into Valdemoro town. Unbe-
knownst to us, the hotels declined any
check-ins before 12pm; and so for four
hours, we took pleasure in Julian’s hos-
pitality at his flat.
“I believed that
hitchhiking was
all about getting
from point A to
point B with zero
expenses…I was
wrong”
Came noon, and Julian’s Romanian
housemateLorenaemergedfromslum-
ber and aided our search for cheap ac-
commodation (Julian was still asleep).
The pair took it upon themselves to
judge that we were too famished to
continue our hitch – we devoured at
their expense (including Anna’s very
first chocolate con churros). When I at-
tempted to pay, Lorena grimaced and
tapped her cheek.
“This (gesture) means you’re hurting
my feelings,” she explained. “You’re my
guests – allow us to look after you.”
*
TheGatwickExpresswasinfullswing
with a pledge to deliver us to Victoria
Station within 30 minutes. My shoul-
ders felt uneasy without the weight of
my rucksack; but I was relieved. Anna
was busy texting her boyfriend, with
news of her arrival from Morocco and
flirtatiously stressed how much she
missed him. A sign bearing ‘Clapham
Junction’ sped by – I was reminded
how Chris the Portuguese trucker had
clogged up the entire cross-junction by
stopping to pick us up, and grinned.
Now things have finally come to a full
circle. I found myself asking whether I
would dare to go hitchhiking again.
Quizas – perhaps.
This article is dedicated to Chris,
Barrie, Martine, Romain, Julien &
Laure, Diego, Amadou, Julian & Lore-
na, as well as any unnamed individu-
als who had offered us a hand along
our hitch to Morocco. Also to Miles,
to whom I am grateful for introducing
me to this event of a lifetime.
Interested? Contact me on travel.
felix@imperial.ac.uk for more in-
formation on how to take part in
the Morocco Hitch, or more about
it from an ex-hitcher’s perspective.
Alternatively go to http://www.
lcd.org.uk/events/hitch or become a
fan of LCD on Facebook (search for
LCD’s Morocco/Prague Hitch).
Come rain...
The happy hitchhikers at Plaza Mayor, Madrid
Our destination: Djemaa el Fna, Marrakesh. Stay tuned for more on this journey as I review aspects of my
encounters in Morocco over the next few weeks!
Me and Romain the crane driver From right: Anna Salmon, my hitch partner, Laure & Julien the hippies
The old town of Foix, just north of Andorra
Valdemoro petrol station, our one-time bedroom
Or come shine

