16 felix Friday 1 May 2009
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – Richard Lai
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 1 May 2009 felix
Technology
M
any people might not
have watched The
Gadget Show before,
due to the poor na-
tional broadcast cov-
erage of Channel Five (unless you’re
watching on Freeview, cable or satel-
lite), but the program and its enthusi-
astic presenters (who were at the show
too) are adored by a strong fanbase.
Being my third electronics show of
this academic year, and especially hav-
ing been to the massive CES in Janu-
ary, I really wasn’t expecting much ex-
citement from The Gadget Show Live.
In fact, I only found out about it right
at the beginning of the Easter holiday,
and was told it would be the TV show’s
first ever attempt at hosting such expo.
And boy, what a great start!
With all the tickets sold out early, it
was not surprising to see long queues
at the entrance every now and then. I
went on Sunday which was apparently
quieter but still fairly populated. It was
also nice to see my old pals from previ-
ous shows surrounded by big crowds,
namely Pacemaker and DIGISKIN.
What made The Gadget Show Live so
unique were the many special features
not found in most of other electronics
shows: the spectacular stage shows at
the “Gadget Show Super Theatre”, the
“How To Theatre” where independent
experts teach you how to get the most
out of your gadgets, and the many
hands-on opportunities with gadg-
ets as small as webcams to as big as a
fighter jet. Yes, they somehow man-
aged to land a Red Arrow in the con-
vention hall, courtesy of the RAF. No
test flights though, sadly, but there was
a “Gadget Test Track” where I test-
drove an awesome electric bicycle.
Even though the show was mainly for
companies to promote their products,
The Gadget Show Live had a dedicated
area for antique computers and mo-
bile phones from the last thirty years,
courtesy of The Centre for Computing
History. Most machines were switched
on for attendees to play with, the most
popular ones being Atari’s Pong, the
Apple II and the original Sony Play-
station. It was every gadget-lover’s
fantasyland.
There is no doubt that I’ll be back
next year. Keep it up, guys!
The Gadget Show Live ‘09
Richard Lai travels north to check out the TV show’s first ever exposition.
Dell Adamo
From £1,649, www.dell.co.uk
Mindflex - a mind control game
Veho USB
Microscopes
If you don’t have any spare USB ports
on your computers, you should look
away now: Veho is a UK company
which specialises in interesting USB
products. The most interesting one
was their USB Microscope line (pic-
tured left), starting from £59.99 for
their VMS-001 model (1.3 megapixels,
20x-200x magnification). Their more
expensive VMS-004 (£69.99) features
a more powerful 20x-400x magnifica-
tion, but the 2-megapixel resolution is
only achieved by interpolation.
Another special product from Veho
is the “muvi” (pictured right), which
is officially the world’s smallest cam-
corder. This £80 tiny package has a
2-megapixel sensor, and comes with a
2GB microSD card (about two to three
hours of recording). You can upgrade it
to 8GB maximum too.
To my surprise, PC World had a pretty
impressive-looking stall at the show,
but it wouldn’t change my distaste of
the chain store. They did, however,
showcased the Adamo, a new premi-
um line of laptops from Dell.
This MacBook-like laptop recently
caused some stir in the computer in-
dustry because of its diamond-studded
price tag. Since last Saturday, PC World
started offering the said laptop for just
under £1,700, but eagle-eyed readers
might have noticed that you could save
£50 if you buy direct from Dell’s web-
site. What a bargain!
Don’t have high expectations though:
this 64-bit Vista, 13” portable only has
a 1.20GHz CPU, 2GB 800MHz DDR3
RAM, 128GB SSD and just a 1-year
“Premium Warranty Support”. The
build quality and weight (1.81kg) could
be better for the price too. If you’ve
just won the lottery as well, go for the
£2,249 model (1.4GHz, 4GB RAM).
This could well be the puzzle of the
year: the objective of the British-made
ReVoMaze is to guide the shaft out of
an internal maze (no map given, of
course), and if you fall into a trap you
must start from the beginning again.
The idea is that you have to memorise
the path, and then work on the speed.
I had a go on the blue one - the en-
try model - and had no success. If your
memory and speed is better than mine,
you can then upgrade to the advanced
green model which has just come out.
Three more harder models will be re-
leased throughout the year.
Part of that slightly large price tag
actually goes towards an accumulating
prize fund for the national ReVoMaze
competition. To enter, all you need to
do is visit their website and register
your unique number etched on the
shaft. So far they have gathered just
over £2,170 in the pot, which will be
shared between winners of each of the
five categories at the live event. Surely
one of them should be a bright student
from Imperial?
ReVoMaze
£69.99, www.revomaze.co.uk
Smoking is bad for you, m’kay? Well,
it depends. Regular smokers might
want to consider the realistic-looking
but much healthier electronic cigarette
from Cigstar. You will still be getting
your doses of nicotine bar the tar, and
they come in many flavours too (to-
bacco, Marlboro, menthol, chocolate
and vanilla). What’s best is that each £1
capsule is equivalent to 15 to 20 ciga-
rettes! The £35 starter kit will therefore
last you for a while with its 6 capsules.
Even though e-cigarettes sound
dorky, you wouldn’t see the dif-
ference: the head glows gently
when you inhale, and you puff
out what appears to be smoke
- it’s just water vapour! This
means you can now “smoke” in non-
smoking areas!
There are no health issues to wor-
ry about: the e-cigarette has been
tested by New Zealand’s Ministry of
Health, and apparently soon to be
confirmed by the NHS. We will also
try to get hold of one for review, so
stay tuned!
Cigstar
From £34.99, www.cigstar.co.uk
Being a bloke, I am naturally pro-
grammed to like my big toys, and I
think I’ve just found a new favourite.
Out of the many electric-bicycle mak-
ers in the show, Ultra Motor stood out
with their A2B Metro - the world’s
only power-on-demand electric bicy-
cle. The other electric bicycles only
use the motor for assistance instead of
acceleration.
Seeing that the show had a test track,
I had a go on the Metro and loved
every second on it. Controlling the ac-
celeration was just like using a normal
motorbike without the noise. The mo-
tor did respond with a slight delay, but
the acceleration was quick enough to
remove my slight frustration.
Apparently under power the Metro
could travel up to 15.5mph, and on a
single charge it has an unassisted range
of up to 20 miles. However, if you do
run out of juice you’ll be pushing a
37kg bicycle on your own.
Such fun doesn’t come cheap either:
the A2B Metro will cost you £2,000,
and even their power-assisted version,
the A2B Hybrid, goes for £1,700.
Ultra Motor A2B
From £1,700, www.ultramotor.com
NVIDIA is about to launch their 3D
graphics products in the UK. The tech-
nology is not as simple as you might
think: the supplied glasses are actually
battery-operated, and they respond
to an infrared transmitter to flicker at
60Hz. You then need a 120Hz screen,
so that the graphics card can display
two offset images at the right timing
(but only one port is required from the
card). The glasses then block out one
image at each flicker to create the 3D
effect.
What you will see in PC World soon
are some £330-£400 NVIDIA graphics
cards that come with the 3D glasses and
USB transmitter, along with a range
of 120Hz screens. If you already have
the NVIDIA 8800 GT or better cards,
you can get the glasses and transmitter
alone for just £139, but don’t forget the
screen!
On NVIDIA’s website you will find a
list of 350+ tested games, and around
half of them are rated “very good”,
uncluding “Fallout 4”, “Left 4 Dead”,
“GRID” and “Mirror’s Edge”. Hardcore
gamers should start saving up now!
NVIDIA GeForce
3D Vision
From £139, PC World
From £60, www.veho-uk.com
Veho muvi
£79.99, www.veho-uk.com
The expo wasn’t just about electronic
gadgets, as shown by these amazing
metallic sculptures from Robosteel.
This 20-year-old family business
uses only recycled metal for their
assemblage art, ranging from cute little
WALL-Es to scary life-size Predators.
They export to all over the world, and
they do free shipping to the UK if under
20kg, so check out their website.
RoboSteel
£5-£5,000, www.robosteel.com
Here’s something handy for the regular
travellers: a power-assisted suitcase.
Sadly, it doesn’t do the whole pulling
work for you, as hinted by the compa-
ny’s motto - “because the world is not
flat”. What it does is when it detects
that you’re going uphill or up the stairs,
the motor will kick in to assist you. On
one charge it can assist you for up to
two miles. Available from John Lewis
in June with a five-year warranty.
Live Luggage
From £295, www.liveluggage.com

