SCIENCE
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
L
ast Friday night, I was sat in my
favourite bar in London with
my friends, when a well-dressed
young man in a suit came up to
me and offered to buy me a cock-
tail. Pretty exciting, for a single girl, right?
What this guy was subconsciously signal-
ling to me was that he had money (at least
enough for his appearance and a cocktail),
and therefore probably also had good health
and relatively good genes.
We’re all probably quite familiar with the
theories behind courtship and mating rituals
in the animal kingdom – why the peacock
has such a beautiful tail, or why male cranes
dance in front of females. This is the male’s
way of saying to the lucky ladies “Look at
me! I’m healthy and disease-free, I’ve got
great genes, so let’s make babies!”
These examples of courtship are about sex-
ual selection before mating, before any form
of copulation or insemination has taken place.
But what people don’t know is that, for some
species, a lot of sexual selection can take
place after the deed is done.
Domestic fowl, for example, are a promis-
cuous species, where most males get the op-
portunity to mate with most females, if they
want to. Male fowl have developed some
pretty sophisticated strategies for making sure
that their sperm has the best chance of win-
ning compared to their mates’ sperm. Sperm
is a costly thing to make, so our males want to
give themselves the best chance of insemina-
tion, with the smallest possible cost – the best
chance of winning the ‘sperm competition’.
Researchers from the University of Shef-
field found that dominant males increased the
amount of sperm they ejaculated when mat-
ing with a female depending on how many
partners she’d already had. If he was her first
partner, he ejaculated the least… no worries
there. If she’d had one previous partner, he
produced more, and if she’d had three, he pro-
duced more still.
What was interesting was that subordinate
males had a slightly different strategy. They
increased their sperm investment up until
the female had had one previous partner…if
she’d had more, they let it go, and their sperm
investment fell away. After all, if you’re a
subordinate male, you’re not so likely to get
anywhere if your girl’s had a few, more domi-
nant partners earlier in the day.
Not only did males change their sperm
investment based on the female’s promis-
cuity, but also depending on how attractive
they found her. In fowl world, a female with
a large, red comb on her head is a massive
turn on. Males produced a far higher sperm
investment when mating with a large-combed
female than when mating with small-combed
female, as well as giving the poor small-
combed girls far less action.
Males also produced the highest amount
of sperm the first time they mated with a
particular female. After the first time, the
sperm investment steadily decreased. Sort of
Have sex, then select
Maya Kaushik on selection after copulation and ‘cryptic female choice’
a ‘been there, done that’ attitude – the first
time is probably the most important in terms
of your chance of successful fertilisation.
After that, well, the novelty appears to wear
off somewhat.
So far we’ve talked as if the guys have all
the control. But there’s more at play here. It
turns out that female fowl can use their repro-
ductive tract to control, to some extent, the
sperm that has the best chance of fertilisation.
Female fowl were shown to expel some ejacu-
lates immediately after insemination, and the
probability of this sperm ejection went up as
the social status of the male went down. Of
course, it makes more sense for the female to
avoid mating with low social status males at
all, but unfortunately if you’re a female chick-
en, you don’t always have that much choice.
The selection by females that takes place after
insemination is called ‘cryptic female choice’
– cryptic, because this choice is hidden in the
female reproductive tract, and can’t be easily
seen or measured.
Sperm competition and cryptic female
choice aren’t limited to fowl. There are
plenty of studies showing these occurrences
in a wide range of species…dung flies, fruit
flies, sheep, and comb jellies, to name a few.
Far less studied and harder to measure than
the more obvious behavioural mating strate-
gies, the sexual selection that occurs post-
insemination may have had a far greater
impact on the evolution of species than was
originally thought.
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
Chickens had the opportunity to get up to a little fowl play during Green Week
Follow the latest science news
from Imperial and more on our
Facebook page:
facebook.com/FelixScience
Like us on Facebook
Confused by DOIs?
DOI stands for digitial object identifier. A DOI will
help you find the journal article a science news sto-
ry is based on.
Just type http://dx.doi.org/ into the URL bar and
add the DOI to the end. For example: http://dx.doi.
org/doi:10.1038/nature10550 will take you
straight to the Nature letter about the dwarf planet
Eris. Alternatively go to http://dx.doi.org/ and put
the DOI into the search box on that site.
Or, if you’re feeling lazy, Googling the DOI usually
works too...
Drug takers can now be caught
red-handed
Better get shopping for gloves, winter is coming
Scientists have created the world’s first fingerprint
drug-testing device.
The hand-held gadget detects drugs in the sweat
from suspects’ fingers, allowing mobile testing with
instant results.
With in-built fingerprint imaging, this technology
could give police a watertight, fool proof chain of
evidence.
Across the world prisons, police forces and even
workplaces have shown an interest in the device.
Professor David Russell, of the University of East
Anglia & Intelligent Fingerprinting Ltd, said: “The
first prototype will be able to test individuals for
drugs of abuse but we will be working to widen the
range of substances.”
Jennifer Whyntie
FELIX
10 Friday 25 november 2011

