SCIENCE
FELIX 11
Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011
Scientists at Imperial College London
have presented a theorem which sug-
gests that the wavefunction is a physi-
cal object. The paper, which emphasises
that the quantum state cannot be inter-
preted statistically, was submitted on
November 14 and has potential to shake
the foundations of quantum theory.
Wavefunctions are a means of de-
scribing the quantum state of particles
in quantum mechanics and are given in
values which lie in the complex plane.
Being functions of space and time, they
correspond to the probability density of
finding a particle in a given place at a
given time after measuring its position.
Quantum wavefunctions are affected
by the Schrödinger equation, which de-
scribes how the quantum state of a sys-
tem changes in time. The wavefunction
is the most complete description possi-
ble for a physical system, and solutions
to Schrödinger’s equation describe not
only systems at the subatomic level, but
also atomic, molecular, and other mac-
roscopic systems, potentially the entire
universe.
The paper, submitted by a trio of Im-
perial physicists led by Matthew Pusey,
reasons that if a quantum wavefunction
were purely a statistical tool, then quan-
tum states that are unconnected across
space and time would be able to com-
municate with each other. Since this ap-
pears to be very unlikely, the research-
ers conclude the wavefunction must
be physically real. The paper has been
met with scepticism online, with com-
ments questioning the its debunking of
the claim that the wavefunction must be
interpreted statistically.
David Wallace, a philosopher of phys-
ics at the University of Oxford said the
theorem is “the most important result in
the foundations of quantum mechanics”
that he’s seen in his fifteen year profes-
sional career. “This strips away obscurity
and shows you can’t have an interpreta-
tion of a quantum state as probabilistic”,
he continued. If the wavefunction is in-
deed real, it can no longer be set apart
from other physical quantities such as
momentum and velocity.
Antony Valentini, a theoretical physi-
cist at Clemson University, believes the
result may be the most important general
theorem regarding quantum mechanics
since Bell’s theorem which proved that
if quantum mechanics describes real en-
tities, it must include the idea of entan-
glement between unconnected particles.
The researchers liken their theorem to
the notion that a coin being flipped in a
biased way has the physical property of
being biased rather than it being a statis-
tical property of the coin flipping events.
The wavefunction has been interpreted
as a statistical tool for 85 years, and the
theorem appears to reopen the question
of what the wavefunction represents.
Alexander Karapetian
Wavefunction may be real after all
World’s lightest material made
The lightest material to date has been
created; weighing in at less than 10
milligrams per cubic centimetre, it is
lighter than aerogels and dense foams.
The Guinness world record beater has
a density of just 0.9 milligrams per cu-
bic centimetre, in perspective this is
100 times lighter than Styrofoam. The
research was conducted by scientists
from the University of California, Ir-
vine, HRL Laboratories and the Cali-
fornia Institute of Technology; it was
funded by the American Defense Ad-
vanced Research Projects Agency.
It is comprised of periodic hollow-
tubes, which are 1000 times thinner
than a human hair. Despite having a
low density, the micro lattice has a high
strength due to the unity of many lay-
ers of periodic hollow-tubes. In con-
trast, aerogels although ultralight, lack
strength due to their random structure.
Another attribute is super elastic-
ity; it has a tolerance to local strains
through the formation of relief cracks.
Furthermore, upon being compressed
by a load of even 50 per cent, it can re-
cover almost completely; a demonstra-
tion of its potential use as an acoustic,
energy or vibration absorber.
Scientists carefully considered each
aspect of design, for instance node ge-
ometry and cell symmetry. Through
precisely controlling such architectur-
al elements of materials, researchers
are pushing the field of Nano-materi-
als design forward. For instance, as
pointed out by Dr Bill Carter of HRL
laboratories, scientists have applied
the design principles of modern build-
ings, such as the Eiffel tower, which
are light and weight-efficient due to
their architecture, to the material’s
creation.
Through combining the properties of
strength, low density, super elasticity
and energy absorption, a truly remark-
able material has been created. There
are a wide range of potential applica-
tions, from thermal insulation to next
generation batteries.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1211649
Jula Humphries
I wish my student loan was this light
40 years ago, physicists Hendrik Casimir
and Dirk Polder, proposed that empty
space wasn’t really empty. This may
seem counterintuitive, but the answer
lies in quantum mechanics. Quantum
mechanics tells us is that a vacuum can-
not have zero energy. It is actually a
sea of virtual particles, usually photons,
which exist for infinitesimal amounts of
time and cannot be observed on the scale
at which we live.
We may not be able to see these parti-
cles, but we can see their effects. Casimir
and Polder’s theory postulated that if you
place two metal plates a small distance
apart, so that more particles exist on the
outside of the plates than within, the
overall effect would be a net attractive
force, pulling the plates together. The
force would only be noticeable when the
plates have velocities comparable to the
speed of light and is therefore difficult to
prove. Though theoretical, the Casimir
Effect has since been used to explain at-
traction of nanoscale electrical compo-
nents.
Now, researchers have gone one step
further. Chris Wilson from Chalmers
University of Technology in Gothenburg,
Sweden, and his colleagues were able to
pull photons out of the vacuum in a pro-
cess called the dynamical Casimir effect.
Wilson says: “It was a difficult technical
experiment. We were very happy when
it worked.”
The researchers used a superconduct-
ing electrical circuit and oscillator that
rapidly alters the distance an electron
must travel through the circuit. The elec-
tron’s movement is determined by the lo-
cation at which the circuit’s electric field
falls to zero. The team used a supercon-
ducting quantum interference device to
control the circuit’s characteristics.
The dynamics of the electron were al-
tered and the team was able to change
the distance from the electron to the ze-
ro-field location so quickly that the elec-
tron appeared to move at a quarter of the
speed of light. This seemed to give the
electron enough energy to transfer to the
virtual photon, allowing it to become real
and be emitted by the circuit. “Particles
were produced in pairs, coming right out
of the vacuum,” Wilson says.
Göran Johansson, Associate Professor
of Theoretical Physics, explains: “Rela-
tively little energy is therefore required
in order to excite them out of their virtual
state. In principle, one could also create
other particles from vacuum, such as
electrons or protons, but that would re-
quire a lot more energy.” Another inter-
esting effect is that the photons material-
ise is pairs, and research into explaining
why is still ongoing.
The significance of this breakthrough
is sure to soon become apparent.
Particles
from thin air
Pavitar Devgon
The interpretation of the wavefunction has been static for 85 years

