POLITICS
FELIX 13
FRIDAY 25 november 2011
West Sahara and the Arab Spring
From the United States with Love
One year on from the real start of the Arab Spring
Benjamin Lindsey
Rory Fenton
One of the long term refugee camps situated in Algeria
I hope you don’t mind a bit of London Pride?
Politics Editors: Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
TheTwentieth Century has been marked
and shaped by many international al-
liances. From NATO to the Warsaw
pact, these alliances have changed our
world, for better or worse. But even as
NATO warplanes fly over Libya and
the Arab League rails against Syria, the
strongest and most enduring of these
alliances has no formal founding docu-
ments, no official meeting chambers
and no flashy logo. The so-called “Spe-
cial Relationship” between Britain and
the United States may well be the most
important alliance of our time and this
Wednesday marked the 200th birthday
of the man who, in a very real sense,
put this alliance in motion.
John Bright was born on the 18th of
November 1811 into a very different
cross Atlantic relationship to today’s.
America as a colony was still in living
memory on both sides of the pond and
tension abounded: Bright was just three
years old when the British Navy sailed
into Washington DC and burnt down
the White House. So when the Ameri-
can Civil War broke out in 1861, it was
far from obvious that the British should
side with the Union.
As the Civil War unfolded, Britain
insisted on maintaining neutrality but
many in the country were openly pro-
Confederate. Incredibly, the City of
London raised £17m to support the
Southern war effort – a huge sum in
today’s money. The Confederacy even
bought battle ships from British com-
panies. Indeed, when the Union cap- tured a Royal Mail ship containing
Confederate diplomats, the UK threat-
ened the Union with all our war unless
they released the men. They duly com-
plied.
John Bright, MP for Birmingham at
the time, was noted for being a radical
liberaliser in Parliament in his support
of extended franchise and repealing
the infamous Corn Laws. Importantly,
he was also horrified at the continued
existence of slavery in the southern
American states, which is what led him
to seek his country’s support for Lin-
coln’s efforts against the Confederates.
This was despite his family owning a
cotton mill in the south of the USA,
which was sure to lose out should the
Union win the war. All the while, the
UK was edging towards the Confeder-
ates, believing free trade to be more
important. It was Bright’s oratorical
skills and commitment that persuaded
the then Prime Minister Palmerston to
maintain neutrality.
It was as a result of Bright’s sup-
port for the Union that a strong friend-
ship developed between Lincoln and
Bright, despite the two never meeting
in person. In Lincoln’s office hung two
portraits – one of his predecessors, the
other of John Bright. When he was
shot dead, one of Bright’s pro-Union
speeches from a year before was found
in Lincoln’s pocket.
A lone pro-Union voice in a parlia-
ment and government split between
neutrality and pro-Confederate mili-
tary intervention, John Bright’s efforts
changed the tide of Anglo-American
relations for good. Had the UK recog-
nised the Confederacy, the world today
would be a very different place indeed.
The seeds of an alliance were sown
by this man, 200 years old last week,
which for better or worse matter more
than any other today.
Who is Silvio? What is he,
That all our swines commend him?
Wholly full of vice is he;
The seven such place did lend him,
That he might removed be.
Is he blind to his hair?
For arrogance lives with blindness.
Sloth doth to his mind repair,
To help him of his spineless,
And being helped, inhabits there.
Then to Silvio let us sing,
That Silvio is expelling;
He excels each immoral thing
Upon the good earth dwelling:
To him let his bungas swing.
John Hilliard (IC 1974-78)
Who is Silvio?
Benjamin Lindsey
“Had the UK recog-
nised the Confeder-
acy, the world today
would be a very dif-
ferent place indeed.”
On 10 November 2010 a protest camp in the
Western Sahara was brutally dismantled by the
Moroccan Government, representing the start
of the real Arab Spring. One year on, despite
huge media coverage of the Arab Spring, al-
most no attention has been given to the Western
Sahara and its thirty-six year illegal occupation.
Previously a Spanish Colony, the Western
Sahara is a country in the North of Africa bor-
dered by Morocco, Algeria and Mauritania.
When the Spanish withdrew in 1975 the coun-
try was invaded by Morocco and Mauritania.
The International Court of Justice rejected the
sovereignty claim of these two countries. Mau-
ritania later withdrew from the Western Sahara
but Morocco has remained ever since. Over
thirty-five years later, the country is split in two
by a 1,500 mile wall, and over 100,000 of its
citizens are living as refugees in Algeria.
The United Nations has been active in the
country since 1991, attempting to hold a ref-
erendum of Saharawi self-determination. Al-
though there is a large body of evidence show-
ing human rights violations from organisations
such as Human Rights Watch, the UN mission
has no mandate to monitor human rights. This
is the only UN peace- keeping mission for over
20 years that has had no mechanism by which
to monitor human rights. An appeal to extend
the UN mandate to allow such monitoring has
been put forward to the UN Security Council
multiple times; each time it has been vetoed by
France.
Prior to the uprising in Tunisia in Decem-
ber of last year, the Saharawi people formed
a camp protesting against ongoing discrimina-
tion, poverty and human rights abuses, as well
as a call for Western Saharan independence.
Noam Chomsky has stated that this protest
camp marked the start of the Arab Spring. The
month long peaceful protest was eventually
dismantled by Moroccan police, resulting in
multiple deaths, hundreds of injuries and over
one hundred arrests.
A year has passed since the violent halting
of these protests and yet little has changed for
the Western Sahara. Despite global support
towards many uprisings throughout the Arab
world, the Saharawi people have been largely
ignored by the international community; a
common theme in their thirty-six year struggle
for independence. Surely now, with increasing
pressure on Syria and new aspiring democra-
cies forming in Tunisia, Egypt and Libya, is
the time to recognise the true beginning of this
movement and give them the recognition and
support they deserve.
The world beyond
College walls
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk

