L
ast Thursday the Government an-
nounced that Northern Rock was to
be bought by Virgin Money. North-
ern Rock was famously nationalised
in February 2008 as the Credit
Crunch took its first victim this side of the At-
lantic. The deal that has just been negotiated says
that Virgin will pay £747m upfront with approxi-
mately another £250m in further possible pay-
ments, valuing the deal at about £1 billion. This is
well short of the £1.4 billion of taxpayers’money
it cost to keep the bank afloat, so even though
on the face of it a £400m loss (about 28%) looks
terrible, it may still represent a good deal for us.
“The Northern Rock sold
last Thursday is not the
same Northern Rock that
was bought in 2008”
Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor, expressed the
view “[Northern Rock plc] is being sold off at a
loss, and I think there is a question as to whether
or not this is the best time, with the markets in
turmoil, to get the best deal. George Osborne will
need to explain that”. The response from George
Osborne, Chancellor of the Exchequer, was to
reveal that the deal that nationalised Northern
Rock contained a clause stating the bank had to
be privatised by 2013, hence the timing of the
sale – and the consequent loss – might be some-
what justified.
Regarding market turmoil, with the exception
of the sovereign bond market, the stock exchange
BUSINESS
FELIX
Business Editors: Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 25 november 2011
seems to have done reasonably well in the last
year; however, bank shares specifically plum-
meted with the crisis, posing the question of just
how long could the state hold on to Northern
Rock? Its nationalisation was always supposed to
be a temporary one, with pledges being made that
it would be sold as soon as possible. The problem
is, the markets (especially banks) do not look like
they are going to get much better any time soon,
especially not by 2013. Banking stocks have fall-
en dramatically over the past 5 years (Barclays:
–75%, Lloyds: –95%, RBS: –96%, HSBC:
–50%), and have all remained pretty much flat
for the last three, with perhaps a slight further de-
crease in value. If banks are losing value, it could
be argued there is no point in waiting any longer.
Lastly the Northern Rock sold last Thursday
is not the same Northern Rock that was bought
in 2008. The bank currently has just 45% of the
staff on its books as it did when nationalised. It
has been gutted of all the risky parts of the busi-
ness, and now has a more stable financial struc-
ture meaning it is actually quite a good bank. In
terms of its loan to deposit ratio (now standing
at 73%) it holds more in deposits than it lends
out in loans, making it a safe bank. Also banks
are almost never sold at 100% of their held asset
values, there is always some discount.
“If banks are losing value
... there is no point in
waiting any longer”
With banks losing value there is no guarantee
that waiting until 2013 would have helped the
Northern Rock situation, and at least now there
is someone willing to buy. The most important
thing this deal will achieve is competition. Vir-
gin Money has always wanted to buy Northern
Rock – in 2008 they made an offer for a 30%
stake in the bank that was ultimately unsuccess-
ful. They seem to have the ambition to expand
the bank onto more high streets and try and break
the stranglehold of Barclays, RBS, Lloyds and
HSBC, and that can only be a good thing. Per-
haps if Virgin can make a success of the bank,
the additional £400m could be earned back in the
form of taxes. If this means a better service and
better products for customers going to the Bank,
they should be pretty happy.
14
Northern Rock was bailed out by the Bank of
England in late 2007 following the US subprime-
mortgage crisis that was the spark to the recent
global recession. The news became awash with
economic and financial terminology, and in a cover
of the Northern Rock story The Spectator’s Allis-
ter Heath turned his attention to the BBC’s invoca-
tion of the term ‘moral hazard.’
“Jolted out of prosperous complacency by mar-
ket turmoil,” he wrote, “the public has started to
care about economics: strange jargon and ob-
scure concepts previously familiar only to invest-
ment bankers are going mainstream.” Continuing
the article, Heath moves on to say how moral haz-
ard – the risk which arises when a party is spared
from the full consequences of their actions – is a
lesson that needs to be ‘hard-learned’; that the
government ought to guarantee only the extent of
investors’ deposits required by law, rather than
the entire sum. This, he argued, would be the way
to force depositors to check on the creditworthi-
ness of thier banks.
Heath’s rationalisation of incomplete bailouts
raises the important question of accountabil-
ity, especially with regard to the investing public,
but it seems perhaps too high a price to pay for
what amounts to the encouragement of education
and foresight in investors. And indeed we may
go some way towards this aim by sticking to his
opening premise: the importance of clarity from
the media in demystifying the jargon describing
what lead us into our present situation, and what
will lead us out of it.
– The Business Editors
Letter from the Editors The Virgin of the Rock*
Business magnate Richard Branson holds up a Virgin Money credit card, presumably
with a gargantuan credit limit; he is the UK’s 4th richest man, after all
Rajvinder Virdee comments on some of the political and social ramifica-
tions of the sale of Northern Rock plc to Richard Branson’s Virgin Money
The infamous Northern Rock received its notoriety in 2007 when it became the first
bank in 150 years to suffer a bank run after having to approach the BoE for a loan
*After coining this headline the Business
Editors became aware that a BBC article by
Robert Peston was recently published un-
der the same title, however having thought
of it independently from Peston, and feel-
ing rather pleased with themselves for this
bout of creativity, they have decided to go
ahead with it anyway.

