BUSINESS
FELIX Friday 25 november 2011 15
Imperial College has joined the elite list
of universities participating in ‘Silicon
Valley comes to the UK’ (SVC2UK),
an annual event that brings successful
Silicon Valley entrepreneurs to inspire
students across the UK. Silicon
Valley comes to Imperial (SVC2I),
hosted by Imperial Entrepreneurs
and the Department of Computing
in collaboration with MIT Enterprise
Forum, brought a range of speakers to
our doorstep. They were welcomed by
an audience of over 120, and a waiting-
list of over 150.
The first of the keynote speakers was
the highly experienced Angad Paul, co-
founder and major shareholder of sever-
al companies, and currently CEO of the
$1.5 billion Caparo Group. Soft-spoken
and with calm confidence, he talked
about the challenges of running his large
business and shared the lessons that he
had learned along the way.
Following him was the dynamic Rob
Deeming of Gilt Groupe, an online shop
offering luxury brands at discounted
prices, which is based in the US but ex-
panding into the UK. He spoke of his
previous work, both entrepreneurial and
otherwise, and taught the audience that
joining a young startup is just as reward-
ing as starting your own, drawing on his
own experiences helping Gilt Groupe
grow from 30 employees to 900. He
also entertained with fascinating statis-
tics of rapid growth and critical points
of website based businesses, outlining
the importance of computing in solving
these problems and offering these op-
portunities.
The session one panel discussion
was moderated by George Berkowski,
chairman of MIT Enterprise Forum
UK, regularly involved in new ventures
and startups. The panel consisted of
the aforementioned keynote speakers,
joined by Paul Joyce – founder of Geck-
Silicon Valley comes to Imperial
oboard.com. Among many interesting
discussions, they spoke of how they be-
came entrepreneurs later in life and ex-
plained that going for it at a young age
is not always the best scenario. Build-
ing experience first, even in investment
banks as in Paul’s case, is important but
so is keeping the entrepreneurial vision
keen until the right time.
“There is no point
in becoming an
entrepreneur
without relentless
determination to
solve a particular
problem”
Following a short tea break, the next
session began with Alastair Mitchell,
founder and CEO of Huddle, a cloud-
based enterprise collaboration tool. He
spoke of the importance of beautiful
design on top of functionality, even for
something as basic as file sharing inter-
faces. Along with this, he talked about
having strong negotiating skills and not
doing any favours when sorting out a
deal – even if it is with friends. He also
had the name ‘Huddle’ trademarked and
believed in the power of having a short
catch names. It turned out to be a smart
move as many companies, including
Google, have tried to use the name.
Martin Varsavsky, entrepreneurial ge-
nius and currently Founder and CEO of
Fon, a crowdsourced WiFi network, was
the last keynote speaker of the night. His
witty anecdotes and opinionated stories
entertained one and all, and truly por-
trayed the passion of a genuine entrepre-
neur. He talked of his disgust when not
being able to access WiFi when he felt
he “deserved” it. Through this disgust he
launched Fon. Being his own boss is his
greatest motivator for being an entrepre-
neur, he explained, and said that there is
no point in becoming an entrepreneur
without relentless determination to solve
a particular problem.
The final section of the event was a
fabulous panel, with Alastair and Mar-
tin, joined by Imperial Joint Maths and
Computing alumnus Omar Tayeb. He is
CEO and founder of Blippar, the first in
mobile advertising using augmented re-
ality and image recognition. The fourth
panelist was Reshma Sohoni, currently a
Partner of famous incubator Seedcamp.
This time the panel was moderated by
Anthony Gell, a charismatic entrepre-
neur and currently Founder of Lead-
ersIn.com, an online forum devoted to
sharing the wisdom of world leaders.
His questions were creative and led to
many active discussions, one of which
being the lessons that Steve Jobs will
leave behind.
‘Silicon Valley comes to Imperial’was
one of the university stops on the larger
‘Silicon Valley comes to the UK’ tour,
which originated in Oxford before mov-
ing to Cambridge and beyond. All the
universities held their respective SVC2
events on Friday.
“The message of
entrepreneurship
is a strong one in
Imperial and, with
continuous support
for these events, is
sure to grow”
The organizers of these events and
several other lucky students were invit-
ed to join other budding entrepreneurs
to ‘Silicon Valley comes to Tech City’,
held at Ravensbourne College. Hosted
by Reid Hoffman, CEO and founder of
professional social network LinkedIn,
and Sherry Coutu, former CEO and
angel investor, it was a day filled with
several panels of the best speakers dis-
cussing the most pressing topics of en-
The Imperial Entrepeneurs report on a recent boost to the College’s entrepreneurial stature
Some of Imperial’s budding entrepreneurs gather for the the SVC2I event in association with ‘Silicon Valley
comes to the UK’, where talks from distinguished speakers were just one of may of the day’s highlights
trepreneurship and innovation.
This was then followed by ‘Silicon
Valley comes to the Science Museum’,
an invitation only dinner for hand-
picked students across the Oxbridge and
London universities, who were given the
opportunity to sit among and converse
with these great entrepreneurial minds,
and in doing so gain valuable contacts.
Silicon Valley comes to the UK has
brought some of the most intelligent and
creative people in the world to Imperial,
and as a result we have reached a new
entrepreneurial height. The message of
entrepreneurship is a strong one in Im-
perial and, with continuous support for
these events, is sure to grow.
Remember! If you are interested in
entrepreneurship, starting your own
company, the technology sector, or
just want to listen to some very in-
spiring speakers, come to the talks
organized by Imperial Entrepreneurs!
Sign up for the mailing list at:
www.imperialentrepreneurs.com
Nitin Nihalani
Silicon Valley, just south of the San Fransisco Bay Area CA, got its name
as the birthplace of a large number of silicon chip manufacturers

