COMMENT
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
O
n Monday 21st Novem-
ber and Tuesday 22nd
November Imperial’s In-
ternational Tamil Society
organised and ran a suc-
cessful Breaking the Silence Campaign.
They are one of eight different univer-
sities in London participating in the
campaign. Their stalls quickly became
overwhelmed with inquisitive passers-
by, who were interested and, more often
than not, shocked and infuriated at what
they learnt at the stall. There was also a
Krispy Kreme sale which helped raise
£150 and will go towards those caught
up in the final days of the war in 2009.
For those of you who weren’t able to at-
tend, or those who are further interest-
ed, this article details the message that
Breaking the Silence is trying to convey.
Sri Lanka stands accused of war
crimes by international human rights
organisations for some of the most
horrifying human rights violations in
history. Despite the UN calling for an
“independent investigation” into the
bloody climax of the war in 2009, the
Government has dismissed all interna-
tional concerns as “preposterous”. In a
little over a month, over 40,000 innocent
civilians, who came exclusively from
the Tamil community, which forms the
island’s largest ethnic minority, were
butchered, having been systematically
shelled in public places. The Sri Lankan
army, which is overwhelmingly made
up of the country’s largest ethnic group,
the Sinhalese, left no refuge untouched
as they deliberately targeted hospitals,
schools and even a governmentally de-
clared “safe zone”. This so-called “safe
zone” quickly became a killing field,
with thousands of desperate Tamil civil-
ians who had fled there (under the im-
pression that they would be safe from
the military’s indiscriminate bombing)
being killed. Such a heinous act can only
be described as genocide.
Worse still is the manner in which this
genocide was carried out. In addition to
aerial bombardment and artillery shells,
the Sri Lankan army used cluster bombs
and chemical weapons, which have been
prohibited by numerous international
agreements including the Geneva Proto-
col. These types of bombs, even if tar-
geted at an enemy building, will wreak
havoc on nearby civilians with devastat-
ing consequences. Using cluster bombs
to target a guerrilla fighting force, who
were defending thousands of civilians,
suggests a deliberate attempt to inflict
heavy civilian casualties. It will come
as no surprises that Sri Lanka is not one
of the 108 signatories of the Convention
of Cluster Munitions, which prohibits
the use of cluster bombs. Given the Sri
Lankan army’s recent, unrestrained use
of such weapons, there remains a very
grave threat of further use to crush any
future uprisings.
Human rights organisations and politi-
cal analysts have pointed out that future
uprisings are inevitable if the govern-
ment continues on its path of oppression.
Despite the conclusion of the war over
two years ago, and the government’s
promises to rehabilitate and relocate
all of the IDP’s (or internally displaced
persons) by 2009, 20,000 of the 300,000
Tamil people originally illegally de-
tained, without charge or trial within
these camps, are still languishing. Ban
Ki-moon, the Secretary-General of the
UN, described the camps as “the most
appalling scenes I have seen.” Indeed
Channel 4 have released videos showing
people incarcerated with a severe lack
of food and water, women separated
from families and even sexual abuse.
A leaked US embassy cable, courtesy
of Wikileaks, described how the army
ran prostitution rings, trafficked young
girls, and sexually assaulted very young
girls. Bodies of the dead were left where
they were and even more were killed in
stampedes to secure food from the insuf-
ficient supplies. Unsurprisingly NGO’s
were denied access to these camps and
journalists were strictly forbidden.
The Sri Lankan civil war has its roots
in decades of discrimination against
the Tamils by successive governments,
voted in by the Sinhalese majority. Any
attempt by Tamils to peacefully protests
against the state’s discriminatory poli-
cies, resulted in numerous anti-Tamil
riots, in which thousands were killed by
mobs.
One of the first of such policies was
the “Sinhala Only Act” in 1956. This
made Sinhala the sole official language
in Sri Lanka and forced almost all of the
Tamil people working in the civil ser-
vice to resign, due to a lack of fluency
in Sinhala, making thousands of highly
skilled and highly educated Tamils un-
employed. The economic existence and
career hopes of Tamil people were fur-
ther dashed by the “Policy of Standardi-
sation”, introduced in 1973, which saw
Tamil students having to achieve signifi-
cantly higher marks than their Sinhalese
counterparts in order to enter university.
These ills were not met without resis-
tance from the Tamil populace however.
Thirty years of peaceful protests, met
only with brutal violence and further
oppression, resulted in the Vaddukoddai
Resolution being signed in 1976 by the
Sri Lanka’s silent genocide
Visakan Balakumar
Sri Lankan armed forces are
accused of carrying out genocide
Council Chairman Baroness Eliza Manning-
ham-Buller concluded her statement to the
All Party Parliamentary Group on Thursday
17 November calling on Government to
hold a “proper, and preferably non-political
conversation, on [the issue of drugs], to re-
view current policies and explore whether
there are others offering better hope of
success.” Nevertheless, amongst the vari-
ous reasoned and well measured respons-
es to the suggestions, last week’s speech
has perhaps predictably generated opposi-
tion solely focusing on the cannabis angle,
leading to claims of “spongy liberalism” in
one particular publication. Such sugges-
tions could not be further from the truth.
A review into our current drugs policy is,
at the very least, long awaited. Indeed, the
effects that drugs have had on the crimi-
nal industry for the past several decades
show no immediate signs of abating. Eliza
remarked in her speech on the wide range
of “misery” that drugs perpetrate. That is
not to say (as some publications appear to
have implied) that it was suggested that
the immediate legalisation of cannabis
would suddenly solve the problem at hand.
Rather, Eliza said that a considered “non-
political” conversation would certainly be a
first step towards a full and frank review.
Such a review would be a bold move by the
government that has already taken bold
moves with regards to the budget and other
aspects of policy.
Obviously, with the ongoing concessions
that can only accompany a Coalition Gov-
ernment, such an objective may appear to
be increasingly far off, especially with the
government’s current stance on drugs. Po-
litical machinations play no part in an is-
sue so interconnected with areas as wide
as crime and health. A review conducted
by the country’s most informed scientific
minds, outside of the country’s current po-
litical climate would, at least, avoid snap
decisions in terms of legalisation. One can
only hope that the government recognises
the growing list of scientific figures calling
for such a debate.
Felix applauds Eliza’s decision to add
her voice to this list. Our Chairman’s mes-
sage has generated much needed debate
across the country on an issue that certain-
ly needs a rethink, not least following the
surge of popularity in ‘legal highs’ over the
last few years. After all, surely it is better to
have a full understanding of the potential
dangers of drugs, rather than taking even
greater risks?
then major Tamil party, TULF (or Tamil
United Liberation Front). This resolu-
tion, with no end to the discrimination
in sight, demanded a separate state for
Tamil people in the North and East of
Sri Lanka called Tamil Eelam, where
Tamil people made up the overwhelming
majority. The TULF won 18 out of the
23 seats they contested in the North and
East and became the first time in history
that a Tamil party formed the opposition.
This unprecedented level of support re-
flected the Tamil nation’s aspiration for
freedom. It was a demand that was given
the mandate of the people, before the
LTTE began its armed resistance.
Peaceful methods to achieve this
state failed. Those who participated in
the protests had their skulls cracked by
bayonets and rifle heads. Protesters were
stamped on before eventually being dis-
persed by shooting. However in 1983
one of the saddest moments of the war
occurred. Sinhalese mobs, backed by the
Sri Lankan military and police force, de-
scended upon the homes and businesses
of Tamil people in Colombo. Over 3,000
ordinary Tamil people were killed in just
a few days, thousands more injured and
18,000 businesses burnt. Rioters were
overtly helped by the government, who
handed them voter lists in order to iden-
tify Tamil households. No one has ever
been charged in relation to this slaughter.
Since that moment, the Sri Lankan
Armed Forces have committed many
heinous war crimes and human’s right
violations. However, as in Rwanda and
Srebrenica, the World chose to stand
back and watch in 2009. Please do not let
murderers and war criminals go unpun-
ished. Please help us break the silence.
You can help by signing the e-petition,
titled “Independent, international inves-
tigation into war crimes in Sri Lanka”
on http://epetitions.direct.gov.uk/. We
also recommend watching the acclaimed
Channel 4 documentary “Sri Lanka’s
Killing Fields” if you are further inter-
ested.
Read online
at:
felixonline.
co.uk
FELIX
A review into our drugs
policy would be a
triumph for fact
FELIX
16 Friday 25 november 2011

