ARTS
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Those of us born around the end of the 80s
and the start of the 90s have a lot to chew
over. Too young to remember a time before
Blair but old enough to recall a precious
year or two before Bush fucked the world
– sorry, “took office” – we not only grew
up in an era where wars were fought against
nouns, at the end of it all we were garroted
by a bunch of banksters.
You might think that I’m being sensation-
alist by saying Bush “fucked the world”.
That’s nothing. In A Walk On Part: The Fall
of New Labour, he gets called, “a morally
and intellectually deficient serial killer”,
and that’s before he fucked the world –
dammit, I really must start spelling “took
office” properly…
A Walk On Part is the stage-adaptation of
ex-Labour MP Chris Mullin’s political dia-
ries. It follows his time as a minor player in
the New Labour circus, from his re-election
to Sunderland South in 1997, up to resign-
ing his seat before the 2010 “bigoted wom-
an” general elections. It is a comic treat,
serving up witty one-liners, sweetly sharp
satire, and delicious impersonations of the
full array of New Labour buffoons – inevi-
tably Gordon Brown’s lower jaw conjures
the biggest laughs.
Despite the high-minded content that it
deals with, it is a very human play. John
Hodgkinson does a fantastic job deliver-
ing a portrait of Chris Mullin: a politician
who is sensitive, principled, ambitious, and
ultimately frustrated by his inability to ef-
fect real change. Ultimately Chris Mullin is
about as likeable a politician as one could
encounter (he was ridiculed during the ex-
penses scandal because, although was one
of the lowest claimaints, he claimed back
money for a tv license – for a black & white
screen TV…) But at its core, for me at
least, the play forces us to remember how
thoroughly rotten a world you and I ‘89ers’
grew up in (someone’s got to come up with
a name; why not me?) I laughed heartily at
the jokes – Geoff Hoon talking about “as-
tonishingly accurate bombing” is delight-
fully skewered – but it was a sad laugh. The
kind of laugh that only arises when there’s
naught to do but laugh, for to take it seri-
ously would make you cry in despair.
I could write all day; to properly review
this play would be to consider the whole
morally pathetic 13 years of New Labour
government. But that would probably kill
me and bore you. The play is intelligent and
it is funny; it’s human and it’s emotional;
it’s almost certainly a great evening out
with a friend. All of this means that you
can truly consider what it is saying without
being distracted by awful acting or terrible
writing.
The only gripe that I would have with A
Walk on Part lies with its treatment of Tony
Blair. Hywel Morgan captures his man-
nerisms and style masterfully. He conveys
Blair’s over-earnest faux-sincerity with
great skill. But Blair is never ridiculed di-
rectly; he’s a boyish rogue, a figure that we
are never invited to take seriously. Worse
still, at the very end, Chris Mullin con-
cludes that Blair was only ever led astray
by Bush, that naiveté was his only crime.
(For Christ’s sake, the Tories seem to get
blamed for Iraq more than Blair). A Walk
on Part is certainly a hilarious and smart in-
dictment of our politics and, of course, New
Labour. But it seems to conclude that it was
not Blair’s fault; that none of the lying, the
sleaze and the murder carried out in our
name was Blair’s fault; and that is simply
not good enough.
A Walk on Part: The Fall of New Labour con-
tinues at the Soho Theatre until Decem-
ber 10
Devil May Blair
The memoirs of Chris Mullin MP are brought to the stage to give a revealing
account of the goings-on behind the scenes during the Blair years
Kadhim Shubber
“(Bush) gets called ‘a
morally and intellectually
deficient serial killer’”
FELIX
20 Friday 25 november 2011
The judges weren’t impressed by Matt’s offering for the village talent show
“The play is intelligent
and funny; it’s human and
it’s emotional; it’s almost
certainly a great evening
out with a friend”
The Poet’s Column
FOIL
by Osas Omoigiade
I suppose it was my choice to come here…
So,
Oktoberfest?
Nah, gotta practice psychometric test
Final year project assigned
Some one or the other engineering design
Movember?
Don’t you remember -
I’ve got an interview this week
Can’t afford one misteek!
Thank you for your application…
Finance is a complication
Literature review issued
Change of Career; Science pursued
December …25th ?
Christmas? You must be having a laugh
I’ve got January Exams !
But it was my choice to come here wasn’t it.
FOIL
As we reach that stage in the term when our already
short attention spans begin to shrink, let Doodle
of the Week help you turn that unhelpful scrawl on
your lecture notes into a prize-worthy masterpiece.
We welcome doodles of any artistic calibre from
elfin figures idly reclining in the shade of a willow or
just a prodigiously detailed biro penis, we judge on
ingenuity and aesthetic quality alone. Expect prizes!
This week’s winner comes from Maria Han Veiga,
who wins the right to call herself the first ever hold-
er of Doodle of the Week. Congratulations!
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new poets. If
you want to see your work appearing here, do get
in touch. Additionally, those interested in joining
Poetry Society, contact Osas at:
oo2409@imperial.ac.uk
Doodle of the Week

