ARTS
FELIX Friday 25 November 2011 21
Me being me, and this being only
my second ever comedy gig, I was a
little sceptical about certain aspects
of last Friday’s line-up at The Ham-
mersmith Apollo. A childrens’ enter-
tainer? Musicians telling jokes? Char-
ity?! Retrospectively, however, my
aversion to live comedy was wholly
unfounded. I loved it. Being a one-
night-only gig, I’m not sure however
as to what a Felix report should say
other than “ha, I got to see the show
and you didn’t”. My perception of re-
views is that they are a tool for pro-
moters yearning to sell more tickets
to subsequent nights’ shows. Perhaps
I’m supposed to plug next year’s con-
cert (it’s an annual thing for ‘Friends
of the Earth’, a charity whose main
focus for the foreseeable future is Cli-
mate Change). Or perhaps I’m sup-
posed to plug comedy gigs in particu-
lar. Whatever it is, overall the whole
night was exemplary.
Our host for the evening, The Inbe-
tweeners’ Greg Davies skilfully com-
pered. Whilst his ‘bulky’ 6’8” frame
and ill-fitting T-Shirt was the cause of
much discomfort for the front three
rows of the stalls, it was also the main
subject of his self-degradation and
consequent enjoyment of the audi-
ence.
As a mathematician, the evening
particularly appealed to my inner
geek. Richard Herring, after warm-
ing up with a few disconnected
jokes finally stuck with the story of
his Fererro Rocher Valentines Day
promise, as well as to how his fail-
ure to appreciate exponential growth
(\Sigma{2^{years together}}) will
bankrupt him.
Headliner Tim Minchin stuck with-
the mathematical tack and convinced
the audience that comedians who
try out new material in small groups
aren’t taking large enough sample
sizes – and that anything below the
Apollo’s (sold-out) capacity of three-
thousand two hundred would make
the test unfair. He noted that 90% of
the audience had no idea what a p-val-
The residents of South Kensington
haven’t laughed so hard since a local
Science University said it was go-
ing to publish a newspaper! Cue the
drums and cymbal.
Don’t worry, you can expect much
better material from the actual come-
dians. The Comedy Hoopla is, you’ve
guessed it, a comedy night. It takes
place in the underground bar of The
Hoop and Toy (near South Kensing-
ton station) at the start of each month.
The old-school-pub and down-the-
cellar-feel combine to give an inti-
mate atmosphere, transporting you
out of London and imbuing one with
the sense that there is nothing to do in
the world but enjoy the acts.
This, in my opinion, is almost a cer-
tainty. The comedians ranged from
self-proclaimed German Comedy
Ambassador Henning Wehn through a
very loud, fairly Northern Tony Tin-
man to the wacky, sex-lined folk duo
Clantessential with more innuendos
than you can shake a stick at.
The show is split into three parts
with several acts in the first two;
the headliner taking the last third. In
between, you pop to the bar, grab a
pint and chat with some of the other
comedy enthusiasts. If you’re feeling
brave, the petite nature of the venue
allows you to go and chat with your
favourite comedian, something I
avoided following a failed heckle.
There was some real talent on show
that night. Present was the much ac-
claimed Tez Ilyas (victor of the
aforementioned heckling match, and
other less prestigious accolades), with
Pattie Brewster and Sam Furniss,
amongst others. The comedy itself
was a real mixed bag. Ilyas used a
Stewart Lee like dissection combined
with the subversion of several stereo-
types; the difference between Catho-
lics and Muslims being a memorable
one. Brewster did a good impression
of a mad cat lady, despite being a
pretty attractive young lady. Tony
Tinman used his obvious charm to
discuss the delicacies of anal bleach-
ing and Sam Furniss, something of a
regular at the Hoopla I gathered, re-
galed us with tales of his family. The
headliner, Henning Wehn has recently
appeared on QI and brought a bit of
class to the proceedings. By this I
mean he brought some good old fash-
ioned Brit-bashing banter, observa-
tions which seemed to go down well
with a South Ken audience.
Not one of the acts was poor and
this is testament to the hard work the
organisers put into finding great peo-
ple for the event. The M.C (Master
of Ceremonies) and other organisers
blatantly take pride in their work. It
was this and the fact that we all thor-
oughly enjoyed the night that makes
me sure you won’t be disappointed if
you take my advice: buy a ticket and
get giggling!
Comedy Hoopla at The Hoop and
Toy (South Kensington); returns
on December 7. Doors open at
7:30pm
ue was, and that out of those that did,
90% would again notice he hadn’t a
clue what he was talking about. With
any sample size, Minchin’s “new”
material – a song called ‘Context’,
which he sang twice (once with only
half the words, and once with the full
set) – rivalled, in my opinion some of
his classics.
Friends oftheMirth
Iain Bower
Pint of titter down at the local?
Paul Beaumont
with “childrens’ entertainer” Jeremy
Iron, and his drinking-game version
of ‘The Twelve Days of Christmas’.
Thankfully the evening hadn’t been
marketed at children, as, apart from
the FIVE GOLD RINGS, not many of
the lyrics remained intact: crude, yet
hilarious, ‘alternative’ verses slurred
by as the wine consumed as part of
Iron’s drinking-game took its toll.
The encore for the evening trans-
ported me back to three years to
school via a song I remember singing
at my own Leavers’ concert. Minchin
closed with a magical audience partic-
ipation rendition of Buckley’s ‘Halle-
lujah’. Performed in pitch black, the
song completed a perfect eclectic mix
of entertainment, calling a close on a
superb evening.
Patti Brewster. Can she really pull off mad-cat-lady?
Greg clocked up his sixth failed marriage proposal this year
“As a mathematician,
the evening
particularly appealed
to my inner geek ”
“crude, yet hilarious
‘alternative’ verses
slurred by as the
wine took its toll.”
A musical interlude just prior to the
interval caught me slightly off guard;
Badly Drawn Boy, the once homeless
man, wasn’t quite what I was expect-
ing from the evening, but he seemed
to go down well with the majority of
the audience. The musician’s jokes
however, were slightly less well re-
ceived; his tales weren’t a patch on
those told by his colleagues over the
course of the evening.
The music continued and took a
Christmas-sy twist after the interval

