Say “The Maccabees”. The response from
most people, in order of frequency, would
probably be a blank look, “is that something to
do with the Jews?”, or one of intense gushing
adoration.
In a way, they’ve had quite a bit of a strug-
gle as five young men churning out indie-pop
amongst a sea of countless others doing exactly
the same. They were dismissed by many at first
as just another hipster band that would no doubt
fade away soon enough, and have had a lot to
prove.
With a much anticipated third album on the
way, it seems they finally have managed to make
their mark on the British music scene.
Indeed, their early releases of jangly guitar pop
about first loves, nans, and a local swimming
pool did not have a depth of meaning which was
immediately apparent; except maybe to adoles-
cents who could relate to the emotions behind
the songs and old fogies who weren’t old fogy
enough to have forgotten such wistful memories.
The development of those teenage fans into
young adults between their first two albums
seemed akin to the whole attitude of the band.
Their growth and refinement between releases
has certainly not been demonstrated to such an
The return of The Maccabees
Snowflakes, dandruff or... cocaine? Well, it is the 80s
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Main Attrakionz
808s & Dark Grapes II
2011
Searching out new music is not a lone pursuit and
cannot be meaningfully automated. You can’t hope
to get past the tripe on mainstream radio or last.
fm’s “1+1 = U2” algorithm without a friend giv-
ing you a nudge and saying, “we literally won’t be
friends anymore if you don’t love this band”.
There’s a lot of music out there. Enough to fill your
ears a million times over for the rest of your days.
As a single intrepid soul, you can’t possibly listen to
enough music to filter the bad from the good. Music
websites/blogs/magazines do most of the work for
you; just as I’m hopefully doing in this column every
week. But even then, you need to be terminally un-
employed to keep up with all the music that a site
like Pitchfork sends at you.
Ultimately you’re most likely to find an album you
love the new-fashioned way: a friend posting music
on your Facebook wall. Which brings me to 808s &
Dark Grapes II by Main Attrakionz. If you listened
to A$AP Rocky last week (which I know you all
did) and thought “I’m gonna need some more of
this” (which I know you all did) then Main Attraki-
onz is the heroin to your addiction. This is forward-
thinking, groovy hip-hop; this is late-night, bedroom
music; this is a roll-your-shoulders-and-shake-your-
head-in-public album.
Jamie Fraser, who was kind enough to recom-
mend this album, sadly doesn’t have Twitter. So say
“Cheers” to his Scottish namesake instead @Jamie-
Fraser. Better still, tweet @JamieFraserFan and tell
her hip-hop didn’t die in the 90s.
Mystery Plays Records return to Cafe Oto to
welcome the winter season with a spectacular
evening of sublime and hazy electronica from
label-head Inch-Time, swiss architect AM/PM
and German glitch legend Jan Jelinek. Since the
release of Loop-finding-jazz-records 10 years ago,
Jan Jelinek has influenced much of the deepest
and grooviest electronica of recent years, while
founding the ~scape record label as an outlet
for the more adventurous strains of electronica.
Catching him in London is a rare opportunity and
certainly worth a trip up to North London.
Inch-Time’s music sountracks a snowflake crys-
talising in the breeze or a dandelion bursting in
slow motion, as the night sky paints circles in-
side circles with the stars. If that sounds a bit like
balderdash, listen to Aurora and hear what you
think. Or better yet, if you still own a tape player,
track down A Handful of Dub for slowed down and
smoked out visions.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Jan Jelinek + AM/PM + Inch-Time
Music elitism begone!
W
hat does your CD collec-
tion consist of? Oh, wait a
second, I remember now.
Nobody buys those things
anymore… it’s all about the
Internet nowadays.
At the risk of sounding old fashioned and
out of the loop, I will admit that I have only
ever downloaded two songs: one a rather funky
number by the electro-swing group The Corre-
spondents, and the other? ‘Last Christmas’ by
Wham! I realise that the confession I am about
to write will win me no friends in the ‘cool’mu-
sic crowd but I want to start the fight against
music elitism!
I didn’t buy that song because it was Christ-
mas. It was, in fact, January. I bought it because
I can honestly say that I am a Wham! fan and
that song is a classic all year round. I am often
told by a close friend to not mention the pres-
ence of Wham! in my music collection to new
acquaintances in order to avoid the inevitable
backing away, “Sorry… I have somewhere else
to be…” scenario. But to tell the truth I often
use it as a test. In my book, if you can’t accept
my love of Wham! then you are not worth hav-
ing as an acquaintance.
I am no 80s freak. I don’t own a pair of leg
warmers or have pictures of George Michael
adorning my walls. But I do love a good mel-
Emily Beech thinks Felix Music needs more Wham!
Be sure not to miss...
MUSIC
FELIX
22 Friday 25 november 2011
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
ody and something that can make me dance:
‘Club Tropicana’ just does that for me.
I am not ashamed to say that since becoming
a student over two years ago, I have been to see
LCD Soundsystem, the Jonas Brothers, Ru-
fus Wainwright and Brad Paisley, amongst
others. A mix for sure but something I feel like
I should be able to write about without fear of
reprisal.
Be sure that this ‘lack of musical taste’ is not
down to being uninterested in music. I will lis-
ten to anything and I can generally find some-
Lily Le
group themselves say it is a record that finally
demonstrates what The Maccabees should sound
like.
A snippet of this can be heard in the form of
their new single ‘Pelican’ which maintains all
the brilliance of the Wall of Arms, brings back
the liveliness of Colour It In (their debut), and
asserts a confidence and self-belief of a fully-
matured musical artist.
Say “The Maccabees”. The response should
be, “a truly excellent band”.
extent by the majority of of their peers.
Their second album, Wall of Arms hones in
on what makes The Maccabees great: univer-
sally relatable lyrics about realistic relation-
ships which are simple yet profoundly moving,
the impressive use of instruments which evoke
emotions from within the listener, and an under-
lying tone of honesty and authenticity straight
from the heart of the boys without any pretence
or insincerity.
For their next album, Given to the Wild, the
thing I like about it. In all honesty, I don’t lis-
ten ironically to any of the questionable things
on my iPod; I really do just enjoy listening to
them.
Like the classic body-image/magazine argu-
ment, perhaps the Felix music section is just
not representative enough of Imperial’s surely
diverse music taste. So I say this to you. Come
out of the woodwork fans of all things kitsch or
previously-considered-awful! We must not be
made to file our music under the category of
guilty pleasures!
Waiting in line at the hairdresser or posing for the waiting room magazines?
Cafe Oto (Dalston Kingsland)
Saturday 26, November

