TELEVISION
FELIX Friday 25 November 2011 27
So bad it’s good - Waterloo Road
I don’t normally watch shows in the ‘so bad it’s
good’ category – there are far too many genu-
inely good programmes which I can devote my
time to. The one exception to this rule is Water-
loo Road. The first time I saw it I was instantly
hooked: it was truly the most ridiculous thing
that I had ever seen on TV. The action takes
place in an unbelievably incompetently run sec-
ondary school in Rochdale, where the average
pupil death rate is one per term. This is a show
in which the staff go drinking in the pub every
day after lessons; where everybody in a posi-
tion of authority higher than the Headmaster is
insane or frankly just plain evil and where the
school motto, “ex nihilo omnia” (everything
from nothing) actively insults the pupils.
In my favourite episode, the series six finale,
a student and a teacher elope to Gretna Green to
get married; two other pupils set off explosives
during the school play and then run off to mess
about on a railway viaduct where one of them
gets stuck; and a fourth pupil becomes paralysed
after tumbling to the ground when he goes up
onto the viaduct to rescue his friend (of course
he is miraculously and inexplicably cured over
the summer holidays and the incident is never
spoken of again). To add to the staff’s troubles
this all happens on the day when the school is
being visited by the head of the governors.
Given that everything that happened could be
traced directly to their ineptitude and poor su-
pervision of pupils, in the real world the Head
Teacher and her deputy would have immedi-
ately been suspended. Here, however, in what
is the most hilarious scene that I have ever seen
on television the head of the governors actually
congratulates them on their good work, based
solely on some good predicted GCSE grades.
Having seen the behaviour of the students in
class I wouldn’t have been surprised if it turned
out that these had been falsified.
I’m sorry to say, however, that the latest se-
ries has been getting better. Not by enough to
be called good by any means, just enough to be-
come mediocre and boring. Fortunately the final
episode of this series, broadcast last week, saw
the writers returning to old habits and giving us
another laughter inducing offering.
The episode opens with the Head of PE lying
depressed on his friend’s sofa after having just
found out that his wife Sian, who is the Deputy
Head Teacher, had been cheating on him with
the new Head, Michael Byrne. He’s soon feel-
ing better, however, as he’s back in school to
lodge a formal complaint against Michael and
to unexpectedly take his children out of class to
tell them that they are leaving for Ireland later
that very same day.
The funny thing with Waterloo Road is that,
no matter how many plot holes this creates, each
episode takes place over the course of just one
school day. An episode focusing on a longer pe-
riod of time might develop some pacing issues,
but nothing that a skilled writer and director
couldn’t handle. Of course, such people aren’t
in abundance on the show’s creative team.
For Michael the day beings with him standing
outside and grabbing one of his student’s arm
to get his attention. Now, having volunteered at
secondary school I know that physical contact
with pupils is a really big no-no. It’s an especial-
ly bad idea if the pupil in question just recently
saw you threaten a man, Wayne Johnson – a for-
mer pupil who once stabbed Michael, outside
the school gate and run off when he is hit by a
truck. As the episode progresses we see Wayne
waking up from his coma and breaking out of
the hospital to confront Michael. He takes Sian
hostage and makes our Head admit what he’s
done, which of course doesn’t go down well
with Sian, who runs back to her husband.
Michael also gets a lecture from veteran
teacher Grantly about how no other Head at the
school had “promised so much and achieved so
Maciej Matuszewski little”. That’s not all that fair – while Michael
is probably the most unlikeable of all the Wa-
terloo Road Heads on a personal level he’s at
least so far managed to avoid any deaths on his
watch. He also hasn’t hacked into staff email
accounts to identify a whistleblower, like his
far more popular predecessor Karen did. Now
that I think about it, one of the whistleblower’s
emails to the LEA mentioned “falsified grades”
so perhaps my guess about the GCSE results at
the end of series six wasn’t just an overreaction.
A subplot of Wednesday’s also deals with pu-
pil Jodie Allen finding out that her foster parents
are planning to move to Bristol. Not wanting to
be separated from her best friend she takes her
advice and decides that the best thing to do is
accuse her foster father of child abuse. Eventu-
ally she admits that she was lying, but not be-
fore he is arrested and the family pretty much
torn apart.
By the end of episode, and the end-of-year
awards ceremony (where it is heavily implied
that Head of English Linda Radleigh rigged
the vote to win the pupils’ choice Best Teacher
award), almost everybody seems to have, im-
probably, made up. All I can say is that Jodie’s
foster parents are the most forgiving people that
I’ve ever seen. It seems we’re going to get a
happy ending until Linda, whose grip on sanity
has been slipping since spending a night with
Michael and then being rejected by him, decides
to run him over with her car.
This is a very fun show to watch, for all the
wrong reasons. I’m happy to hear that fifty new
episodes have been commissioned and that it
will remain on our screens until at least 2014;
though I really have no idea why it remains so
popular. Surely not everybody can be watch-
ing it ironically, like I am. After all, it won this
year’s National Television Award for Most Pop-
ular Drama. Whatever the answer to this little
mystery, I thoroughly advise you all to watch
the next series – you’re sure to have a laugh.
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Pick of the week
It’s not your nose
Far-fetched state-school drama tops National TV Awards
The Ofsted inspection suddenly seemed to have become a little less orthodox than usual
We’ve got text bigger than a Samsung 102-inch TV, why not write
an article for Felix Television? Email tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk!
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
George Barnett
James Simpson
Friday | 2100 - 2210 | Channel 4
The Experiments
Derren Brown plays mind games with groups
and the concept of right and wrong.
Saturday | 2055 - 2145 | BBC1
Casualty
Jeff and Dixie suspect an elderly man of us-
ing their ambulance as a taxi service, but
Lloyd investigates the patient’s medical his-
tory and uncovers the cause of his health
complaints. How exciting.
Sunday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Da Vinci: The Lost Treasure
Fiona Bruce travels to Florence, Milan, Paris
and Warsaw to tell the story of Leonardo da
Vinci’s life, exploring why a man whose repu-
tation rests on only a few pictures – includ-
ing the Mona Lisa – is regarded as one of
the greatest painters of all time. Also, Fiona
Bruce.
Monday | 2100 - 2200 | ITV
Doc Martin
Martin Clunes.
Tuesday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Death in Paradise
British DI Richard Poole is trying to get used
to his new Caribbean surroundings when
news comes through of another murder.
Wednesday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC2
Your Money and How They Spend It
Part two of two. Nick Robinson explores the
difficulties politicians face when trying to
change the way tax is collected, and how
Chancellors have persuaded people to pay
more in the past.
Thursday | 2100 - 2130 | BBC2
Rev
Fantastic religious comedy starring Tom Hol-
lander. The church school is up for religious
inspection.
BBC

