FILM
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Recommended films this week
Take Shelter (15) – Plagued by disturbing visions
of the Apocalypse, a dedicated family man’s
strength and sanity is put to the test as terror
and paranoia start to eat away at him. Michael
Shannon portrays one of the most likable, relat-
able American heroes in recent memory with quiet
intensity, whereas rising star Jessica Chastain
pitches in a moving supporting turn as the con-
cerned wife. Without a doubt one of the best films
of the year, Take Shelter treats the audience with a
fascinating blend of family drama and some haunt-
ing disaster film special effects.
Moneyball (12A) – You don’t need to know a thing
about baseball to be wholly captivated by this
moving sports drama of beating the odds. More
interested in the dynamic between a struggling
team’s general manager and his various obstacles
than on-field matches themselves, Brad Pitt gives
a self-confident, cheeky, yet warm performance
as Billy Beane, a real-life character who brought
about a string of unprecedented victories for his
joke of a team, the Oakland Athletics. With solid
supporting turns from Jonah Hill and the ever-so
reliable Philip Seymour Hoffman, Moneyball is a
heartfelt, moving piece of work.
50/50 (15) – Another film about fighting against
the impossible, this time it’s about surviving a
rare form of spinal cancer. When a young man in
his 20’s (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) is diagnosed with
an aggressive tumour that gives him a chance of
survival of 50%, he must find a way to cope and
live through its many painful effects. Supported by
his best friend (the hilarious Seth Rogen), his ama-
teur therapist (the warm and sweet Anna Kend-
rick) and his slightly over-bearing mother (Anjelica
Huston in a supporting role that is finally worthy of
her name and phenomenal talent), our brave hero
fights and finds humour along with his fight for
survival. With its delicate balance between drama
and comedy, this is one of the most touching, yet
hysterical films of the year.
My Week with Marilyn (15) – Michelle Williams
gives the performance of a lifetime as the late
American icon, Marilyn Monroe. Whilst filming
The Prince and the Showgirl in London opposite
Laurence Olivier (Kenneth Branagh), the director’s
assistant (Eddie Redmayne) catches the eye of
Monroe. Desperate to escape her hectic life and
pressures of work and celebrity, the two decide
to run away to the peaceful English countryside.
The two fall for one another, despite the fact that
Monroe is a married woman. It’s a tragic love
story, although peppered with light humour here
and there. For fans of Monroe this is a must-see,
and anyone yearning for a breezy light-hearted film
should also check this one out.
And one to avoid...
Dream House (15) – A predictable, painfully slow
haunted house horror that drags on for far too long
relying on its ridiculous twists, there hasn’t been
a more scare-free film with a cast as good as this.
Daniel Craig and Rachel Weisz act well together,
but even their chemistry cannot elevate this sub-
par effort from being nothing more than a lazy at-
tempt that starts off with a good idea, but ends
with many of its obvious genre clichés. You want
a better Rachel Weisz film? Watch The Deep Blue
Sea (also out this week) instead.
FELIX
28 Friday 25 november 2011
Worldwide more people have access to mobile phones than a toilet – GREEN WEEK 2011
A couple of weeks ago, the British Sikh Doctors
Organisation and Imperial Sikh Society worked
together to put on an outstanding meet and greet
event with Sikhs from all around London, a few
charities and talks on a variety of topics, culmi-
nating in the screening of the new-to-the-UK
movie: Ocean of Pearls. Director Sarab Singh
Neelam, a doctor living in Michigan, originally
had the idea based on countless real life experi-
ences of migrants throughout the world. Ocean
of Pearls won multiple awards at various film
festivals: Best Feature Film at the Detroit Film
Festival in 2009 and the Grand Jury Prize and
Audience Choice Award at the 2008 Los Ange-
les Pacific Film Festival, to name a few.
The story follows Amrit Singh (Abtahi),
whose family moved to Toronto, Canada, and
is largely involved in the Sikh community de-
veloping there. Amrit shows himself to be a
hardworking doctor and practising Sikh, though
he never really understands why his family left
“the old country” to be in Canada, yet still fol-
lows the old ways. I’m sure many of you, even
those who aren’t Sikh, know what it is like to be
in a foreign country and can relate to the experi-
ences shown.
Amrit is approached with an excellent job op-
portunity in Detroit with millions of dollars of
funding for leading a team in his research, if he
can impress the board of directors. He soon re-
alises though, that if he really wants to achieve
his goals and get the money he needs, he will
need to be “flexible” and adaptable, even going
I’m a Rocky Horror Picture Show virgin. Or,
at least, I was a Rocky Horror Picture Show
virgin until last Thursday, when my inno-
cence was taken from me in a flash of lin-
gerie, transvestitism, and hilarious heckling.
Musical Theatre Society provided the girls,
guys, and the pizazz, while iCU Cinema pro-
vided the film that’s built a rock-solid cult
following since 1970s.
The Rocky Horror Picture Show, for those
who don’t know, is a weird and perverse mu-
sical about the sexy and mad Dr. Frank-N-
Furter (played by Tim Curry) and a straight-
edge married couple’s, Janet Weiss (SLUT!)
and Brad Majors (ASSHOLE!), release into
debauchery.
But this is much more than a film. It truly
is an experience. For those in the know, it’s
a chance to dance, to sing, and to heckle the
screen. Whenever anyone in the film says Ja-
net (SLUT!) or Brad (ASSHOLE!), scores of
people scream ‘slut’or ‘asshole’at the screen.
The narrator is derided for his apparent lack
of a neck, and that horror film plot device of
going to an old castle because your car broke
down is lampooned as people shout, “CAS-
TLES DON’T HAVE TELEPHONES,” at the
hapless characters.
However, if you’re not in the know, if
you’re a Rocky virgin (as indicated by the ‘V’
drawn on your forehead by the MTSoc guys
and gals running around in lingerie) the ef-
fect of all this madness is really quite smart.
You end up mimicking the experience of Ja-
net (SLUT!) and Brad (ASSHOLE!) They’ve
turned up at this weird castle with a bunch
of barely-dressed people, and you’ve turned
up to iCU Cinema with a bunch of barely-
dressed Imperialites. They’re taken aback by
the dancing and aren’t sure what to do, and
you’re… well you get the gist.
By the end of the show, though, you’ve
been converted (rather like Janet [SLUT!]
and Brad [ASSHOLE!]) You begin to look at
the people in lingerie and begin to feel like
your jeans are a bit… stifling. But don’t tell
my mother I said that.
so far as to compromise his ethics and his identi-
ty. During one tearful scene, Amrit cuts his hair,
shedding the turban image and devoting him-
self to get that job. Meanwhile, his family and
girlfriend notice how aloof he has become and
though Amrit keeps it a secret, soon he reveals
that he cut his hair in a heated debate with his
father. How does his life go on from there? Does
he meet his ends and achieve the top job? You’ll
have to watch and find out.
However, what is important is that while there
appears to be a Pursuit of Happyness theme
in terms of Amrit and his profession, there is
a much deeper and more significant message:
should outsiders compromise there identity
to realize their dreams? Many of our Imperial
College London colleagues are foreign students
and know how intimidating it can be being in a
strange new country, where people ridicule us
for our looks, our accent or our beliefs. It does
seem so much easier to give in and be like ev-
eryone else. For Amrit, the choice to remove his
hair was made so he could present a recogni-
sable face to not just his board of directors, but
to the subconsciously xenophobic community
he finds himself in.
Is this the way forward? For each of us, we
have to make the choice and that means decid-
ing whether we will follow our dreams to the
end, regardless of what we may have to give up,
or remaining steadfast in our beliefs, despite the
setbacks, despite the bullying, despite the racism
that threatens us. Amrit’s father says during the
film that during a period of Sikh history, there
was a bounty on every Sikh head and anybody
known to be a Sikh was instantly put to death.
Despite this, the Sikhs did not cut their hair or
shirk away; they proudly wore their turbans and
denounced the injustice, fighting against terrible
odds. I’m sure a lot of you have seen the film
300? The odds were stacked even higher against
them.
I know I’ve talked a lot about Sikhs in this, but
it really applies to everyone. Whether you are
oriental, African American or European, female
or male, disabled or suffer from illness, I’m sure
that we’ve all experienced prejudice in our lives,
but we all have the right to be treated fairly and
equally. We all have things which make us who
we are and you just wouldn’t be you without
them. However, we must make sure that when
chasing that £10m dollar contract, we do not
lose sight of our ideals, our history, our identity.
Ultimately, the choice lies with you.
A pearl in the ocean
Pavitar Devgon
Director Sarab Singh Neelam
Screenwriters V. Prasad, Sarab Neelam
Cast Omid Abtahi, Heather McComb, Ron
Canada
Ocean of Pearls
Kadhim Shubber
Give yourself over to absolute pleasure
Lingerie, transvestitism, etc...
Kadhim Shubber

