GAMES
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011 FELIX
30 Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011 FELIX
Video games aren’t all about reviews and
scoresoutof10.Ifyou’vereadaninteresting
paper related to video gaming or just want
to write a game-related discussion piece
simply email games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sex, Drugs and Video Games
Voxel-based morphometry, left ventral striatum volume and adaptive neural plas-
ticity; Sam Horti breaks down some of the science behind video game addiction
W
e've all been there. We've all
played games that we are un-
able to put down, and the re-
sponsibility comes down to
others to crowbar the control-
ler – or mouse and keyboard if you're so inclined
– out of our hands. We've all got up early before
school to spend a few golden hours with our lat-
est, engrossing purchase. We've all daydreamed
in lectures about how we can't wait to get home to
complete our diamond mine in Minecraft, to rack
up those head-shots on Team Fortress 2, or get
through that edge of the seat relegation battle in
Football Manager. Some people may have even
missed said lectures to do just these things, al-
though they'd never admit to it in public, let alone
in a student newspaper.
Why exactly do we do this? What is it that
gives us that insatiable appetite to keep playing
and playing, even when we know we have much
more important things to do? Well, scientists this
week have come up with an answer. It turns out
that gamers are different in more ways than just
the obvious, potentially socially embarrassing
ones; our brains are structurally different. And as
it turns out, we're all addicts.
The study I'm referring to isn't one of those
unreliable, waste-of-time-and-energy studies on
video games which only gets enough respect to
feature in the middle pages of The Sun (or the
front page of the Daily Mail). In fact, this study
was published in Nature's Translational Psychia-
try journal, and looks like it could be the real deal.
(Warning: neuroscience ahead.) Essentially, the
study has found that frequent gaming is associ-
ated with higher levels of grey matter in the do-
pamine-related ventral striatum. This area of the
brain forms an integral part of our internal reward
system and has been shown to be closely related
to addiction on many separate occasions. Addi-
tionally, the study showed that this increase in
grey matter correlated with less deliberation time
when making decisions during a gambling task
and more loss-related activity during a monetary
incentive delay task.
So what can we glean from this? Well, if we
were being reactionary we might say that playing
video games causes our brains to swell, encour-
ages us to make rash decisions and forces us to
continually carry out tasks which we are doomed
to fail, with no thought of nobly accepting defeat.
However, the study provides, oh so predictably,
no evidence that playing video games causes any
of the features that I have already described. In
fact, it seems logical to me that the reverse is
much more likely to be true: people with brains
that predispose them to addiction, with more grey
matter in their ventral striatum, are more likely
to engage in potentially addictive activities, and
I am placing video games firmly in this category.
Indeed, it was Henrietta Bowden-Jones from our
very own Neuroscience division that suggested
that the findings "further close the gap" between
video gaming and other addictions. The idea that
people whose brains predispose them to addiction
are more inclined to play video games is some-
thing that I wish to use as a base for a potentially
controversial observation that I can't help but
make: video games are a lot like drugs.
I'd like to introduce this idea with a joke:
“Frequent gaming is
associated with higher
levels of grey matter in the
dopamine-related ventral
stratum”
“This study was published
in Nature’s Translational
Psychiatry journal, and
looks like it could be the
real deal”
What's the difference between a drug addict and
a gamer? One parts with a lot of their hard earned
cash in order to achieve short term pleasure – the
other is a drug addict. Video games, like drugs,
satisfy our brains in ways which keep drawing us
back to them. We cannot get enough. As you start
to accept this fact, yet more similarities will open
up. For example, it is a well known fact that the
more drugs you take, the more you need to take
to achieve that elusive high. Tell me, can you re-
member a game that was as magical during your
first playthrough as it was during your tenth? If
you can, then I'll certainly have whatever you're
having.
Another similarity can be drawn between the
corresponding suppliers in each cases: the drug
dealers and the video game companies. Now I'm
not particularly familiar with the way in which a
drug organisation starts up, and what understand-
ing I do have is drawn from the questionable real-
ism of The Wire (which I would recommend to
everyone, by the way). I would hasten to guess
that this first step requires that you produce a bet-
ter product than your rivals. Once you have this
product you will gradually get more and more
customers, utilising economies of scale, and be-
fore you know it you're sitting on a mountain of
cash. When you get to this stage you can start to
relax. From then on, to some extent, you can get
by on your name alone. Your business model be-
comes more about exploiting the irrational minds
of those who are so hell-bent on buying from you
than about creating a quality product.
“Video games, like drugs,
satisfy our brains in ways
which keep drawing us
back. We cannot get
enough”
With this in mind, let's examine a random gam-
ing franchise. Say, I don't know, Call of Duty.
For me, this is a series that started of with real
promise. The franchise was built up by Activi-
sion, alongside developers, with real quality at its
core, and managed to better (or at least match) its
rivals in its early days. It gradually attracted more
and more customers, utilising economies of scale,
and before you know it, Activision was sitting on
a mountain of cash. You see where I'm going with
this. And by the way, the same could be said for a
whole lot of other video game producers.
So, what does this all mean? Should we all start
checking ourselves into rehab? Well, no, not re-
ally. Because video games aren't like hard drugs.
But for a few, World of Warcraft related cases,
you won't die because of video game addiction in
the same way that you are likely to if heroin or co-
caine is your poison of choice. No, video games
are more like marijuana – practically harmless
substances (check the studies if you don't believe
me) that will let you sink into your own little
world of bliss. From what I hear anyway. I can
honestly say that I have never smoked marijuana
in my life. If I had, however, I imagine that it
would be a lot like slipping through a green pipe
into Super Mario World for a brief period of time.
DOI: 10.1038/tp.2011.53

