GAMES
Friday 25 november 2011 31
FELIX
Fort Dwarfness. Wait, what?
Dwarf Fortress: challenging, captivating, and almost completely unheard of.
Keir Little sheds some light on this hidden gem
“The game world is larger
than you could ever hope
to explore; each town has
limitless random quests”
D
eep underground, a lonely dwarf
miner breaks into an expansive
cavern. As he stumbles out into the
darkness, two trolls immediately set
upon him. “Bugger,” I say, pausing
the game to take a sip of tea, and plan best how
to save him. I order my soldiers to go down and
join the fight. Meanwhile, my carpenter, desper-
ately waiting months for the turtle shell she desires
to finish her project, finally snaps. After chopping
her own baby’s head off, she runs around in a
rage, butchering my fort’s other inhabitants, while
my soldiers are deep in the caverns fighting other
threats.
There are no reloads in this game: I abandon
my fort, and start again. After a few hours, gob-
lins attack much sooner than expected. I hurry my
dwarves inside to safety, but my beloved mayor is
caught and killed. The other dwarves, mourning
his loss, become depressed, throwing themselves
off cliffs or refusing to eat until they die. I quit, get
another cup of tea, and start again. I accidentally
flood my fort with lava. Quit, start again. I embark
upon an area so frozen, no water flows, and my
dwarves dehydrate. I quit, ready to start again be-
fore I realise that I’m meant to be writing an article
on Dwarf Fortress, not just playing it.
“Losing is fun!” is the unofficial motto of the
game, and for good reason: every playthrough ends
in the eventual demise of your fortress. How long
you wait for that moment is a matter of experience
and a lot of luck. There’s a lot that can go wrong,
from the mundane (starvation, freezing, flood-
ing) to the insane, (dragon attack, magma, murder
sprees). Dwarf Fortress makes no pretence at be-
ing easy. In the indie gaming community, it’s re-
vered: heard of by many, its influence felt in count-
less games (most notably Minecraft), but played
only by a hardcore few.
It’s not all doom and gloom. Once you’ve got
a hang of the basics, and can expect your fort to
last for a reasonable length of time, DF becomes
a game of opportunity, complexity and challenge.
Skyrim may be “staggeringly ambitious,” but it’s
Blackpool Tower compared to the Burj Khalifa
heights of ambition reached by Dwarf Fortress.
Recreate your greatest Minecraft city for your
dwarves to live in, pump magma to the surface
to boil goblins alive, arm your soldiers with steel
plate, encrusted with jewels and all engraved with
depictions of their victories. What you can do is
near-limitless and equaling each other only in their
difficulty.
Oh yes, even when things are going perfectly,
this game is hard. Without graphics to hinder your
imagination, you’re left with ASCII characters.
Like looking at the Matrix, it’s bewildering until
your mind begins to fill in the gaps. There’s no
mouse control – the interface is a series of key-
strokes, with the in-game menus being inconsistent
and little help. Of course, it’s still in development,
but the game’s sole programmer would rather work
on new features than on optimisation. “The inter-
face is coming – it's not coming in your lifetime,
but it's coming,” he says. The players prefer it this
way.
Having been in alpha release for over five years
now, the game has built up a diehard fandom. The
community is tight-knit, but welcoming, which is
fortunate: without careful guidance from veterans,
almost all new players would run away screaming.
Most still do. The fan-made wiki is so comprehen-
sive that even the developers refer to it, and the fo-
rums are a friendly place where noobs are encour-
aged to ask questions. The community are part of
what makes the game such a living, evolving thing:
sharing their creations, reporting bugs, suggesting
and commenting on new features.
The game is the brainchild of two people: broth-
ers Tarn and Zach Adams, more commonly known
as ToadyOne and ThreeToe. Toady has a PhD in
maths from Stanford, but currently works full-time
programming Dwarf Fortress, living off savings
and donations from grateful players. He has no
current plans to charge for the game, and with its
almost complete lack of graphics and notorious in-
terface problems, it’ll never gain the mainstream
attention or revenue attained by more user-friendly
indie games.
Part of the reason for its difficulty is that the
game, fully titled ‘Slaves to Armok: God of Blood,
Chapter II: Dwarf Fortress’, shares many simi-
larities with its predecessor, the original Slaves to
Armok. Known as “roguelikes,” it and others like
it were a genre of dungeon-crawling RPGs famed
for having permanent character deaths, and a myrid
of things which could kill or harm your character.
DF takes more than just the ASCII graphics
from this genre. Its adventure mode pays homage
to roguelikes, and unlike the fortress mode lets
you control a single character. The game world is
randomly generated; unconstrained by graphics, it
details the lives of hundreds of thousands of inhab-
itants in text. It’s larger than you could ever hope
to fully explore; each town has limitless random
quests. You can even visit your abandoned dwarf
fortresses, and see what foul beasts have taken over
since your dwarves left. The latest version saw a
revamp of the injuries system: if you’ve ever want-
ed a game where you can grapple and break every
bone, down to each finger and toe, you should con-
sider seeking help. In the meantime, play Dwarf
Fortress! “You can't yet strangle people with their
exposed guts,” Toady says, “though I suppose
that's now within reach.”
“Skyrim may be
‘staggeringly ambitious’,
but it’s Blackpool Tower
to Dwarf Fortress’ Burj
Khalifa”
Dwarf Fortress is defined by the brilliant mo-
ments that occur by chance: when your miner, set
alight by the magma he just dug to, decides to get
a drink from the alcohol stores, blowing up every
barrel in the process; when your butcher, about to,
ahem, deal with your kitten overpopulation prob-
lem, adopts them instead; when the Captain of the
Guard witnesses her baby’s murder by invading
elves, and vows bloody vengeance upon them. The
challenge of the game becomes part of the fun:
without it, these moments, greater than any script-
ed cutscene, wouldn’t be so satisfying.
This is a hard game, but so rewarding for those
who can master it. If you’re up for the challenge,
tread lightly at first: read the wiki, read the forums,
watch one of the many getting started guides on
YouTube. Find and read Boatmurdered, the bril-
liant, hilarious story of a playthrough by members
of the Something Awful forums. If that doesn’t in-
terest you, don’t worry: you’re not alone. You can
go back to playing MW3 now.
Little known fact – God is actually an avid
Dwarf Fortress player
Admit it – you’ve always wanted to look this
badass
You get used to it, though. I don’t even see the code. All I see is blonde, brunette, redhead...

