GAMES
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011
32 Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011 FELIX
Skyrim, Saints Row? You’ve
got nothing on Creatures!
Philip Kent puts aside the big releases of this season and talks about one of vid-
eo gaming’s grandaddies, Creatures
W
ith blockbusters such as Sky-
rim being released, and mod-
ern legends like Minecraft
celebrating its birthday, it is
often possible to overlook
some real masterpieces. One of these is Crea-
tures, and the sad thing is that many of you will
probably have never heard of it!
Creatures is the brainchild of Steve Grand
OBE, an ‘independent scientist’ who focuses his
research on artificial life. It is this research that
lead onto Creatures; one of the first games to
simulate artificial life down to its neurological
and biological underpinnings.
One of the most appealing things about Crea-
tures is the fact that, whilst incredibly complex
and even scientifically accurate (insofar as it was
possible to back in 1997 – computing power
has come a long way!),
it was still incredibly
fun, and even emotion-
al! Many a player had to
hold back a tear when one
of the Norns (one of the spe-
cies in the game) more dear to
them decided that it would quite
like to give suicide a try. Indeed,
the publisher (Mindscape – remem-
ber them?) even printed the tagline
“They’ll make you laugh. They’ll
make you cry. They’ll make you think.”
Those with a bit more of a scientific
inclination can always fire up the Sci-
ence Kit or (in later versions) the Neuro-
science Kit for some (potentially lethal)
tinkering – it’s possible to probe brain
cells, examine organ status or even
“Whilst the series is still
available to purchase,
the current owners
appear to be sitting on
an unsung hero of British
engineering.”
inject a cocktail of chemical mixtures. In later
versions, the ability to inject specific chemicals
was added and, as attempted to follow reality as
closely as possible, you could inject some ATP to
give your Norn a much-needed kick, or if you’re
slightly masochistic, you
can even pump your
creature’s blood vessels
full of cyanide. Followed
by sodium thiosulphate, of
course – I’m sure you’re not
a murderer!
Another example of the tech-
nical excellence behind the
game is the Genetics Kit. When
you got bored with natural selec-
tion killing off the weaker crea-
tures, you can simply fire up the
kit and tinker to your heart’s content
to produce the genetic sequence of
your dreams. Ageing can be disabled,
immunity to poisons added; most of
the flexibility of real-life genetics is
available at your disposal – mean-
ing that you can go wrong and end
“Creatures; one of the
first games to simulate
artificial life down to its
neurological and biological
underpinnings”
up with a stillborn more often than not! And I
haven’t even got space to mention CAOS!
Humble Bundle brings
the DRM-free deals
Never heard of the Humble Bundle? Shame on
you! The pay-what-you-want-for-a-selection-of
great-games (completely DRM free!) scheme?
Did I mention that all the games are available on
Windows, Mac and Linux systems? No? Well I
just did!
Did I also happen to bring up the fact that you
decide how your money is split, divided between
the game’s developers, two registered chari-
ties (the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the
Child’s Play Charity) and the Humble Bundle
site’s running costs? Well Mister (or Ma’am),
you’ve just been re-educated.
Seriously though, the Humble Bundle deals
(The Humble Introversion Bundle this time
around) are a good deal for both you, the develop-
ers and the charities. The game selection includes
a few small, award-winning games such as DEF-
Laurence Pope
The Electronic Frontier Foundation and the
Child’s Play Charity are the two charities the
HB supports
CON and Aquaria, and for amount of money you
can potentially shell out it’s a bloody good deal.
Just don’t be a stingy bastard!
Activision shuns free
advertisement
Laurence Pope
Activision you muppets. What on Earth are you
on?
For no apparent reason this week Activision re-
quested, i.e. demanded, that the YouTube video
series Weapon Guide Express, for the Call of Duty
series, be taken down.
OK, I lied, there is a motive for their actions. The
guy’s videos were so good that Activision hired
him to make channels for Elite TV, a section of
Call of Duty Elite, a premium service offered by
Activision. Being of sound mind the guy accepted,
but also continued on a smaller, free series on You-
Tube for his fans. That is, until Activision pulled
that particular plug, meaning the only way people
can see his stuff now is to pay.
It’s well known thatAcivision loves money in the
same way we need oxygen, but seriously? Are they
so blinded that they can’t see the huge potential in
Your guess is as good as mine folks
free YouTube advertising? The guy had 160,000+
subscribers. That’s a lot of potential customers. A
lot of potential sales.
Is this going to be a future trend for Activision?
Who knows. Let’s hope not.
It is quite sad that, whilst the series is still
available to purchase, the current owners ap-
pears to be sitting around on what is an unsung
hero of British engineering. So while we wait
for Grand’s next A-Life game (Grandroids), I do
hope that new people can experience the joy to
be had from the fun, yet realistic world of Crea-
tures.

