FASHION
Men: How to dress for an interview
As the dreaded season of interrogation kicks in, even the most macho of men start to wonder how they can dress
to impress. Ross Gray shows you what to wear to that all important interview
Suit The key to successful interview or business
dress is being conservative without being
boring, but forget trying to be interesting
when it comes to the suit.
For banking, and any client-facing busi-
ness role, you want a dark – navy or char-
coal – single breasted suit with a notch lapel
of medium width (skinny is very fashionable
at the moment – avoid this like the plague;
it will be uncool in half a year).
Small or average height men should buy
two button suits, while those on the taller
side should go for three. Always fasten the
top button on a two and the middle button
on a three, unfastening every time you sit
down when it comes to the interview itself.
Try to resist the temptation to shoot down
two birds with one stone and get a black
suit as interviewers generally do not appre-
ciate their applicants being dressed for a
funeral.
Shirt and Tie This is the one area where you can really
put your personality into business dress.
Well, not quite – if you are interviewing for
city positions, forget any shirt that’s not
blue or white.
It’s generally best to go for solid twill or
poplin cotton as it can provide you with
more creativity in the tie area, and under
no circumstances should you use French
cuffs; your interviewer will think you have a
high opinion of yourself.
If you have gone for a solid shirt and a
fairly solid suit, make sure you do not also
wear a solid tie; while you are not going to
stand out as bad, nobody will remember
you for your dress.
If wearing a solid shirt go for a dotted
or striped tie, and try to match colours as
well as possible. It’s hard to go wrong with
red or yellow/navy on pale blue, or any
shade of blue on white. As a good general
rule, your tie and shirt should never have
the same pattern – if your shirt is striped,
get a solid or dotted tie. If the same pat-
tern is to be employed, make sure there
is a large difference in pattern size, or the
combination will be too busy and difficult
on the eye.
Shoes They can be in any colour, as long as it’s
black.
If you are considering wearing brown shoes
to an interview, then you really need my guid-
ance and you’d better start paying attention.
Your shoes should be black, leather, and
polished – they should shine, but not to a
military level. A lack of shine on your shoes
indicates sloppiness in your appearance,
and any dust/dirt will make you look like an
outright slob.
The kind of shoes you can go for will vary
from role to role, but always make sure the
toes are elegantly rounded, and generally
it’s a pretty good idea to avoid loafers.
For City roles, it is standard to go for a
clean Oxford or an understated brogue. It
is worth paying for quality where shoes are
concerned, and even if you aren’t shop-
ping at Church’s you should make sure your
shoes are at least leather soled and fit well.
Accessories and
Grooming
A very simple area for most university stu-
dents preparing for interview, grooming
should probably be weighted heavily at our
most grand of institutions.
Basics that shouldn’t need stating: show-
er, shave, cut your nails and keep them
clean, brush your teeth. Use wax or gel if
your hair will appear messy without it but
avoid drowning it – nothing will make you
seem less professional than looking like you
have just discovered gel. Do not use cologne
as in a small space like an interview room it
will be overpowering and create a negative
impression.
Accessories may seem unimportant but it
is the little touches that make all the differ-
ence in business dress. Always wear a belt
matched with the colour of your shoes.
If you are going to wear a watch, try not to
make too much of a statement – nobody ap-
preciates a 19-year-old interviewing for an in-
ternship trying to be flash. Your watch should
never be better than your interviewers’.
A pocket square (white matches every-
thing) can help to complete a look and help
your tie patterns to pop, but be careful when
considering other colours; only attempt if
you are confident in your matching.
NEXT WEEK: The Best First Impression – A girl’s guide to the
perfect approach to subtle style and formality in interview dressing
33
FELIX Friday 25 november 2011
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk

