FOOD
FELIX
34
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 25 november 2011
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Warm up your winter
Spiegel Saloon returns to Central London as
part of Hyde Park’s Winter Wonderland. Open
from last Friday 3 January, the stunning bar
and restaurant is the only fully heated place
within Winter Wonderland. Going back to the
early 19th century, Spiegel Tents were travel-
ling ballrooms and entertainment salons, origi-
nating in Belgium. Spiegel Saloon maintains
this charming aura of tradition; the bar is spa-
cious – the saloon seats up to 200 visitors – and
the comfy sofas and beanbags contribute to a
warm welcoming.
If you’re up for just a quick drink or seek-
ing a place to dine, Spiegel Saloon is the per-
fect place in Winter Wonderland. Choice in
drinks is wide; Spiced Hot Farmhouse Cider,
Hot Toddy, and Mulled Wine are all great,
especially if winter flu has knocked on your
door and coursework deadlines are all over the
place. Foodwise, Spiegel Saloon offers a Prix
Fixe menu, with two courses for £14.95 and
three courses on offer for £19.45. The selec-
Young science students from Sherborne Girls in
Dorset have discovered what makes the perfect
boiled egg and soldiers. In an “Eggsperiment”
commissioned by the Royal Society of Chemistry,
a team of 12 girls tested one of Britain’s favourite
breakfasts and confirmed the optimum time for
boiling an egg, as well as the key variables that
make up the perfect dipping soldier.
Stella Botes, a 13-year-old student, told me that
“The inspiration for the ‘eggsperiment’ was to
perfect something that everyone does at home,
using science. My particular group were working
on the runniness of yolk and flexibility of bread.
The conclusions of the data were that margarine
makes a stronger soldier than butter, white bread
makes more effective dunking soldiers, the opti-
mum toasting time is 2.5 minutes, the perfect sol-
dier dimension is 1.5cm in width, and the perfect
boiled egg takes six minutes.”
Iram Hasan, who is a 17 year old student, con-
fesses, “I believe that gastronomy is inevitably
defined by taste and a person’s own preferences.
The perfect boiled egg and soldiers might not be
the perfect boiled egg and soldiers for another
person. However, scientific food experiments can
help give a more objective overview of food; reduc-
ing biased and subjective results which can lead
to inaccuracy. Heston Blumenthal highlights that
scientific food experiments can add to gastrono-
my, and as scientists, we are always looking for
the reason behind observations, even in food! Sci-
ence can make food even more exciting, as Hes-
ton does so well.”
Science is everywhere. And as a scientist you
must be able to cook a proper breakfast!
Anastasia Eleftheriou
The young food scientists are happy to answer any
more questions you might have about the experi-
ment at office@sherborne.com.
Food Experiments
tion ranges from seasonal dishes, such as The
Spiegel Christmas Plate to firm favourites such
as Bangers and Mash. The food will not be the
best you’ve ever had, but looking at the price
together with the Christmassy atmosphere, it
is the best for those who need refuelling after
a fun time on the Winter Wonderland rides.
Desserts are nothing less than fulfilling; my
suggestion would be the Chocolate Soup Plat-
ter for two, a warm bowl of melted chocolate
Ingredients
For the stuffed vine leaves:
1 cup rice Arborio
3 carrots
1 medium onion chopped
1 tsp chopped garlic
2 tsp dried basil
1 tsp dried mint
1 tsp oregano
1 tbsp olive oil
Juice from 1 lemon
500g vine leaves
Salt and black pepper to taste
For the Pourgouri:
1 small onion chopped
½ cup chopped tomatoes
½ cup bulgur wheat
¼ cup cut vermicellini(pasta)
3 tbsp olive oil
Salt and black pepper to taste
Method
For the stuffed vine leaves:
First make the stuffing. In a bowl mix the
rice, the chopped carrots and onion, the
garlic, the basil, the mint, the oregano,
the lemon juice, the olive oil, and the salt
and pepper.
Then, take one vine leaf at a time and
place it in a plate. Put 1 tsp (depending
on the size of the leaves) of the stuffing
in the centre of the leaf. Fold the sides of
the leaf towards the centre and then roll
it. After you fold each vine leaf, place it
in a pot. When you finish, cover the vine
leaves with water and add 1 tbsp of olive
oil. Place a plate on top of them, so that
they will keep their shape while they are
boiling. Put it on low heat.
For the Pourgouri:
Put the olive oil in a pot and add the
chopped onions. When they begin to take
a light golden colour add the vermicellini.
Fry them until they become brown. Add
the tomatoes and the bulgur wheat and
then add water so that the bulgur wheat
is fully covered. Add the salt and pepper.
Place it on medium heat and stir every 5
minutes. When there is no water in the
pot, reduce the heat to low until it be-
comes dry. Then remove from the heat.
Yiango Mavrocostanti
Recipe: Stuffed Vine Leaves and Pourgouri
I know you’ve had it with eggscruciating yolks
Michael Krestas
served with marshmallows, strawberries, prof-
iteroles, and waffles – the perfect chocolate ex-
perience for the cold nights to come.
Finally, what would a saloon be without
live music and entertainment? Certainly, it
wouldn’t be a saloon at all. Here, live enter-
tainment is essential, daily and, above all, free!
Check www.spiegelsaloon.co.uk for more in-
formation on bookings, menus, and gigs taking
place.
The stunningly festive bar and restaurant Spiegel Saloon
returns to Hyde Park’s Winter Wonderland
Yiango Mavrocostanti
Everyone’s obviously too busy watching the latest John Lewis Christmas advert

