FELIX
36
TRAVEL
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 25 november 2011
Veliko Tarnovo is one of the oldest settle-
ments in Bulgaria, dating back at least five mil-
lion years. Nicknamed ‘the Old Capital’, this
timeworn city sits in a mountainous region of
northern Bulgaria, surrounded by forestry and
wildlife unlikely to be seen almost anywhere
else in Europe.
Bulgaria has undergone more than its fair
share of transformations through a politi-
cal timeline heavily peppered with dynasties,
uprisings and wars. It’s this rich past that has
yielded such incredible Bulgarian sights and
wonders including, but not limited to, some of
the world’s oldest churches, monasteries and
mosques (a reminder of the 500 years or so
during which Bulgaria was a part of the Otto-
man Empire and sequestered from the rest of
Europe).
Wishing you were here
the very centre of the bridge and looking down
provides an incredible vantage point from
which to admire the overwhelming display of
Bulgarian beauty spiralling out from the river
for miles and miles. The bridge also leads the
way to Asen’s monument and the city art gal-
lery (which, incidentally, offers free entry on
Thursdays).
Venturing slightly further afield, the village
of Arbanassi (pronounced most satisfyingly, if
not entirely correctly, in the strongest Scottish
burr you can muster) lies four kilometres away
from Veliko’s centre and is famous for being at
the crux of the liberation of Bulgaria from the
Ottoman Empire. Comprehensively dispersed
with monasteries, convents and churches all or-
nately decorated and well-preserved from up to
five centuries ago, an afternoon in this village
is easily passed.
Veliko’s Main Street is home to most of the
workshops and market stalls mentioned earlier.
The districts of Gurko Street and Samovod-
ska Charshia are the best examples of archaic
Tarnovan charm. It may feel as though you’ve
stumbled onto the pages of an oddly Balkan
Dickensian novel as craftsmen ranging from
carpenters and potters to blacksmiths and farri-
ers set up shop for the day.This central vicinity
of Veliko is very hilly and, although walking
is the common mode of transport here, you
shouldn’t feel too guilty about hailing a taxi
or two at the astonishingly cheap fares they
charge.
Numerous eateries, from small, family-run
cafes to chain restaurants, are located along
Main Street, many serving solely Bulgarian
fare. A warning to all vegetarians: you will
feel severely limited in choice when eating out
– Bulgarian food is exceptionally carnivore-
friendly. Not only is food (and everything else)
ridiculously cheap, but the amount of it dished
up at one sitting will leave you immobile for
a good few hours post-meal. And then there’s
salt. Salt is a big deal here. Naturally, it’s dis-
tributed by the bucket-load onto standard items
such as meat and vegetables… but then there’s
salted yoghurt. And the Frosties in Bulgaria are
frosted with, you guessed it, salt.
Tourists should take advantage of Veliko’s
surroundings, and spend a day hiking nearby.
It is not uncommon to come across excavation
groups made up of archaeologists and amateur
history buffs digging to discover historical re-
mains and artefacts en route to the top of the
mountains and hills enclosing Veliko. There are
still exhilarating finds being made here to date,
and no doubt will be for years to come. For
many of the locals however, the neighbouring
greenery is just their back garden – a fact that
was only really brought home to me when upon
asking to speak to the owner of a shop regarding
his (hand-crafted) wooden toys, I was told that
“his phone is not ringing, he must be climbing
mountains – perhaps you wait an hour?”
It would not be impartial enough of me to fin-
ish without at least mentioning Veliko’s ‘new
town’, consisting mainly of the very recently
built shopping mall with its bowling alley, ca-
sino and cinema complex. However, I will say
this – just skip it. The old quarter is where Ve-
liko’s spirit and, dare I say it, Bulgaria’s heart,
truly lie.
“a city defined by its ubiqui-
tous feeling of renaissance”
Dushi Arumuganesan
Exploring the “Old Capital” of Bulgaria to discover the deep-seated history
of a state abundant in old-fashioned splendour and beauty
Terrific Tarnovan tales
‘The Night of Baths, Budapest’ by Balazs Mohai
Looking down on Veliko and the Yantra from midway up the Tsaravets...
But where a suddenly booming economy has
led to real estate tycoons and construction com-
pany giants laying claim to many major cities,
especially along the extremely popular Black
Sea coast, Veliko has largely managed to resist.
Don’t get me wrong, cities such as Sofia and
Varna – so different in nature to Veliko – are
still well worth visiting. Both of these places,
among others, have retained their inherent his-
torical significance and charisma while making
a fluid transition from Balkan cities trapped be-
hind the Iron Curtain to cosmopolitan Eastern
European hubs. Veliko, on the other hand, holds
an equal if not greater allure in its antiquated
setting of old markets, artisan workshops and
Tarnovan inns.
In fact, as central as Veliko has been to the
most momentous points in Bulgaria’s history,
it is most importantly associated with its role in
the ‘National Awakening of Bulgaria’, a time of
uprisings and revolts against the Ottoman rul-
ers of the country. Unsurprisingly, even today
Veliko remains a city defined by its ubiquitous
feeling of renaissance; a feeling entrenched in
not only the buildings and natural wonders but
also in the city’s inhabitants.
The city’s tourist trade is dominated by the
imposing Tsaravets fortress, which stands at the
summit of the hill of the same name and is a
reminder that Veliko was once the capital city
of the Second Bulgarian Empire. These ruins
of the extravagant palaces of former monarchs
and the once impenetrable fortress with its sev-
eral bulwarks (running up to almost twelve feet
thick!), are a stark contrast to the gently mean-
dering Yantra River below, another of Veliko’s
picturesque attributes. Stambolov’s bridge,
a striking structure made of steel, is a more
modern, man-made symbol of Veliko’s part in
gaining Bulgaria’s independence. Standing at
Travel on your doorstep
Get there: Any tube that takes you to E1
See: Galleries, museums, ‘dickheads’
Eat: The Albion, Shoreditch
Cost: £5 for some top pub fare
Next Thursday marks the first Thursday of Decem-
ber. On the first Thursday of each month, count-
less East London museums and galleries are open
late, and also give out free booze! Check out the
art on show and stick around for some evening
entertainment. Visit FirstThursdays.co.uk to find
out more!
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from
experienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to
share with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
First Thursdays returns to East London

