FELIX Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011 37
TRAVEL
Jaipur: up, up and away
H
aving been on the road
for a while at this point
in time, I’d lost all sense
of a sleeping pattern:
probably for the best
when facing a 4:30 start. After over-
coming that bitter morning sensation we
peered from our hostel window to see
what appeared to be a hot-rod straight
out of Kill Bill: we hopped in and it
roared through the dark, dusty streets of
Jaipur and took us to our take-off point.
Thanks to travelling during monsoon
we had a spot of drama as the team de-
cided whether or not a flight was even
possible. We were well catered for
and sat with milky, sugary chai and
soft biscuits as we cursed the black
clouds overhead. Thankfully the winds
subsided and the rains decided to be
fashionably late, and the balloon was
inflated and set to go.
Discontent with the restricted views offered by India’s tuk-tuks, Chris Richardson
takes to the skies to catch a bird’s eye view of India’s Golden Triangle
After being put at ease by an ex-
cellent English-speaking team and a
mandatory safety briefing, we let the
winds carry us over the villages sur-
rounding Jaipur. Ballooning is much
more graceful than I’d anticipated, so I
was able to toss aside the concerns of a
Delhi-belly and really enjoy the views.
And what views they were! It’s not
often I get to say “I’m so glad we came
for the monsoon!” but this was one of
those rare gems: the usually arid shru-
bland was lit up as a spectacular sea
“the usually arid
shrubland was lit up
as a spectacular sea
of green”
Kicking back with a chai while the Sky Waltz team get the show on the road
of green, made all-the-plusher by the
plentiful monsoon rains. A calm breeze
cooled us as we gazed over rocky hills
in the distance and vibrant Jaipur city
with its quaint Amber Fort closer by.
Having been confined to seeing In-
dia from tuk-tuks for far too long,
the bird’s eye view was welcome and
wonderful. The location is perfect for
catching a mix of the busting city and
the calmer countryside, and against the
emerald backdrop the roaming wildlife
and glistening garments of village la-
dies looked stunning. I’m sure colour
is what I’ll miss the most about India,
and from the sky you can really see it
all.
Being the first balloon of the season,
we attracted the attention of countless
villagers as we passed overhead; when
the pilot kindly dipped us closer to the
ground hoards of children chased and
waved at us with a morning “namaste!”
It was also a great experience for us to
catch a glimpse of their morning ritu-
als without being overly invasive.
After we landed with a great thud
villagers ran over to greet us, and took
more photos of us than we did of them!
Crew members spoke fluent English
and Hindi so were able to mediate and
make the meeting a little more engag-
ing: getting to mingle with the people
we’d just seen from the sky was an en-
joyable ending to a great morning es-
capade. If you’re going be sure to take
plenty of pens, which are an invaluable
resource to the children.
All in all, a fantastic and worthwhile
way to catch Indian culture alongside
a terrific backdrop of dusty buildings
and plush trees, with the usual docile
cows in view to keep you entertained
if all else fails. I only wish that I could
see more of this beautiful country from
such great heights.
Waves and gazes of awe as the balloon soars over rural villages

