CLUBS & SOCIETIES
38
Cycle? We need more
stands and security
FELIX
Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011
Welcome to Imperial: a place to get educat-
ed, entertained and inspired, a place to make
new friends, discover new hobbies and build
your skills for the future. One way of be-
ing inspired and discovering life outside of
the College campus is to volunteer with In-
toUniversity.
We met with Alex Ho who is a 4th Year
Medical student and volunteered with In-
toUniversity last year.
IntoUniversity is an organisation which
supports children from disadvantaged back-
grounds to discover their full potential. It
offers innovative programmes to help pupils
improve their academic performance, and to
give them opportunities to make educated
choices about their future. These activities
are co-ordinated in partnership with the Col-
lege Outreach Office.
Alex told us that she ended up volunteering
as a mentor for over a year, though initially
she was just looking to work with young
people as this was something she had not
done previously.
“Volunteering at IntoUniversity allowed
me to meet people I would never have
crossed paths with otherwise and I really
hope that my mentee and I stay in touch for
a long time to come. I learnt that as a mentor
you have to be a teacher, a role model and an
advisor but most importantly a friend. This
is because to be an effective mentor, it’s re-
ally important that your mentee feels com-
fortable and enjoys working with you.”
Volunteering with IntoUniversity did,
however, present challenges to Alex who
said that “the hardest part of the job was
maintaining the right balance between being
a friend and a mentor, with a young person
who may be looking for you to support them
in their school work, social life and future
plans. It’s important to gain their trust whilst
also sometimes maintaining a respectful dis-
tance.”
Although volunteering is a commitment
and requires a lot of juggling between one’s
Get out there and volunteer!
studies and other life priorities, it is some-
thing Alex would definitely recommend to
other students. “The need to set aside time to
volunteer actually helps you to organise your
schedule – IntoUniversity are also a really
supportive charity who are doing some great
work, so get involved while you can!”
She continued “working with my mentee
was a great experience and made a pleasant
change to my week. You forget how many un-
knowns there are at that age, sometimes with
no one to ask, so hopefully with the support
from IntoUniversity our mentees will feel in
a better position to make the right decisions
for themselves and their futures. Working at
IntoUniversity also made me think about my
own future... perhaps in paediatrics!”
IntoUniversity provides training to help
volunteers to participate in an appropriate
programme. The dates of those events can
be found on Union’s calendar as well as on
the Imperial College Volunteering Website
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/volunteering/
howtovolunteer/intouniversity.
Bikes are great, but getting your bike stolen isn’t.
Pretty simple stuff, but at Imperial an average of
two bikes per day are stolen. Now I’m sure that
some of them are down to the individual, but I think
a big part is the facilities and security available at
Imperial. That’s why the Bike Users Group has start-
ed up a petition for an increased amount of stands
and an overview of security for bike parking.
I’ll get back to what college should do, but it’s
your bike, so let’s do things sensibly. When you see
bikes locked with a chain that a mouse could chew
through, or maybe nothing locking the bike frame
to something solid, you just have to wonder. I’ve
been there, and the worst thing about getting your
bike stolen, even if it’s a rubbish bike, is the fact
that you don’t have that option anymore. I know it
sounds obvious, but if you cycle a bit, not having
your bike is a killer, now you have to go back to go-
ing slower, and paying for a smelly journey. So let’s
all promise to lock up our frames with a solid D-lock
(Sherfield security sells them for under half price -
£28) or a motorbike chain, then something piddly
for the wheels etc.
Now, if this all magically happened, it would be
great, but bikes would still be stolen. If you’ve ever
used the faculty building bike park, you’ll know that
you can’t have your bike upright in the stand and
lock the frame (at least with one lock you can’t).
If I had my way, and money wasn’t an issue, all of
these stands would be replaced for ones that can
be used securely. But it’s not just that, the stands
themselves are mostly unscrewed and wobbly, you
could even slide locked bikes out of them as they
are at the moment! Then when your bike does get
stolen, we’ve been told that there wasn’t a clear
enough image on the CCTV to do anything with.
A couple of years ago, there were a lot more Shef-
field stands. The way I hear it, the Rector at the time
didn’t like the look of bikes, so got rid of them. Well
we’ve got a different Rector now anyway, so why
don’t we have more Sheffield stands outside build-
ings? Obviously they can’t be in the way of vehicles,
disabled access and fire congregation points, but
there are plenty of spaced which would be perfect.
South Kensington is one thing, but it is almost im-
possible to lock your bike up in some of the other
campuses after 10, so we need more stands.
So this brings me to what we are doing. We have
a petition for effectively changing or reviewing all
of the above at tiny.cc/icbugpetition. Whilst you’re
there, you can also sign up to the Bike Users Group,
either a discussion forum for bike users or an an-
nouncement list for all events like police marking,
Dr. Bike sessions and auctions.
Stefan Piatek
Andy Yu
Fellwanderers roam Peak District
5.30pm on Friday evening. The first fellwan-
derers made their way to the Union, eager to
leave London after a hard week of work. We
quickly gathered together, packing out two
buses, and excitedly awaited our trip.
Leaving London proved rather challeng-
ing as cars seemed to be invading the roads,
leading our driver, Sarah, to despair. How-
ever, the rest of the journey to Derbyshire
went without a hitch and, after an epic race
in the countryside, both teams (miraculous-
ly) reached our destination – the village of
Edale – safe and sound. With everyone giv-
ing a hand to unload the minibuses, settling
in the hut only took a few minutes. Following
our captain Heather’s orders, we all curled
up in our sleeping bags, looking forward to
our first day walking in the Peak District.
Awakening to the lovely sound of a famil-
iar Disney song on Saturday morning all the
fell wanderers started to bustle about, some
having breakfast and others making sand-
wiches for lunch. At 8.30am we are all set
to start hiking. The fresh air helped to rouse
the last sleepy hikers of the group. Whilst the
first part of the walk was largely uneventful,
some of us soon got caught by the High Peak
District wet and muddy areas; very happy
memories indeed for two (unnamed) hikers
who got bogged down in the marsh! Half a
dozen fellow team members were needed to
rescue them - no photos are available of this
unfortunate experience though.
A subsequent lunch break enabled us to re-
cover from our fight with the mud. We then
set off up Rushup Edge and were amazed at
the number of paragliders flying up there.
Looking at them was always an astonish-
ing sight; paragliding is something prob-
ably everyone would like to experience, if
vertigo was not a worry. We stopped for a
few minutes, staring at these ‘flocks’ invad-
ing the skies, before moving on to Mam Tor.
We are lucky to have a sunny afternoon to
admire the stunning views over Edale. The
last part of the walk involved cutting across
the fields, and we soon reached the pub to
have one or two longed-for drinks. Back
in the hut, we found James and his team of
cooking volunteers preparing dinner. Today’s
menu consisted of pasta, the traditional meal
for hungry fellwanderers. The evening was
highly enjoyable as we got to know each oth-
er better. The vast majority of the group then
opted for a few drinks at the pub to conclude
the day.
It was not even that hard to wake up on
Sunday morning! After a quick breakfast,
we started packing our rucksacks and loaded
them in the buses before setting off to the
Ladybower Reservoir. There we began our
hike, slightly disappointed to see dark clouds
looming in the skies. After a short walk in
the forest, we soon started scrambling on the
path leading to White Tor, which has some
very impressive grit stone formations. From
there we might have witnessed the breathtak-
ing views of the Derwent Valley Reservoirs,
however fate (or more precisely weather) de-
cided otherwise. After a few hundred yards
from the Wheel Stones we followed the path
heading back down to the Derwent Reservoir
where we stopped to have lunch. Everyone
then agreed to have a look at Howden Dam
before setting off again.
The afternoon walk along the Reservoir
was enthralling. We stopped to see the ru-
ins of Derwent village on our way back to
Ashopton. Our hiking adventure in the Peak
District came to an end on a pub’s terrace,
with everyone enjoying a well-earned drink
as well as the beautiful Derbyshire land-
scapes, before heading back to London.
Claire Roseren
Fellwanderers shamelessly hire a fleet of paragliders as part of their new and ex-
treme measures to ensure the best possible photo opportunity
David Sutanto
Matthew Colvin

