FELIX Friday 25 NOVEMber 2011 41
Horoscopes*
Scorpio
This week you get a pint at the union af-
ter a hard week of doing fuck all. Well at
least it felt like you did fuck all, but you
know when it comes to exam time you
never know, all of a sudden it feels like
the knowledge is there. This time round
though it doesn’t happen. Shit.
Aries
This week, when asked, you say: “I don’t
want the person driving the train I’m on
to have just had a joint”. You work with
drug addicts and therefore have proof that
something being illegal doesn’t mean it
can’t be done. You still don’t realise that
your argument is fucking stupid.
Taurus
This week you take stuff that you find
in a small baggie on the back seat of the
N9 bus. As you haven’t a clue what it is
exactly, you rub some on your gums and
snort the rest. Turns out it was cat nip,
and now there are 7 cats pawing at your
face constantly. Drugs are bad.
Gemini
This week you cut your finger while
preparing some dinner. The surge of
release when you see the blood flow
makes you want to do it again. Rushing
to the bathroom you start slicing away
at the top of your thigh. You really will
do anything to procrastinate.
Cancer
This week a helicopter lands in your
back garden. Barack Obama steps out
and cries “Sophie, I love you,” and you
start making wild love. You decide that
this isn’t reality as your name isn’t So-
phie. And anyway you hate black guys
and would never sleep with one. Racist.
Leo
This week one of your friends is whing-
ing to you about how a guy won’t text
her back even though your impression
of the situation is that she’s been a com-
plete demanding bitch towards him. You
try and think of the most sensitive way
to put this to her. One black eye later,
you decide you probably failed.
Virgo
This week you retire from your position
of power and authority over the country
and decide to say that cannabis should
be legal. Everyone is incensed at your
timing, because, if you’d decided to
do something about it while you were
in charge you could have achieved
something…
Libra
This week week you’re so broke the
only thing you can afford to do is mas-
turbate. Unfortunately after your 9th
time you’re so dry that you snap your
banjo string. Upon presenting your pre-
dicament to the GP you get offered a
grand to go on Embarrassing Bodies.
Sagittarius
This week you arrive at the set for
Embarrassing Bodies. Dr Christian
spends what feels like an age looking
at your damaged instrument. Your dick
still in his hands, you faint on live TV.
You become a YouTube sensation.
Score!
Capricorn
This week you decide to take a bold
step and set up #occupyqueenstower as
a protest movement at how shit the girl
to boy ratio is at uni. To be honest, in
the grand scheme of things it’s barely
Tahrir Square, more a lonely wanker in
a tower. You wank, on your own.
Aquarius
This week you are beheaded. To be
honest going to the Democratic Republic
of Congo is never a good idea but you
figured after playing 46 hours of CoD:
MW3 you might be quick enough with
a gun to carve yourself a little empire.
Long story short, you’re not.
Pisces
This week you find yourself in a hurry
while in the lab and forget if it’s ‘always
add Acid to Water’or ‘always add Water
to Acid’. You get it wrong. The result-
ing foaming, caustic mess ruins your
new trainers. Does wonders for your
skin though.
HANGMAN
*Living on borrowed time, a little like James Murdoch’s humble acting skills
The
Illiterate
Book
Club
The Books section is for you if you can read the words
on the pages but not between the lines. You need
everything spoon-fed to you like a kid in GCSE English
who needs Of Mice and Men explained to him. The
orangutan below could use a stick better than he can.
This book answers one of life’s most enduring questions: one that
nobody has ever really cared about nor even asked that often, but it is
as old as Indonesian proto-humans who were doing ayahuasca while
watching some hairy ginger swinging through the trees. In a typical
example of “can’t see the forest for the trees”, the writers of this
book didn’t even see how similar the two words are, and that maybe
the word orange was derived from the word orangutan. Instead, this
proves to baffle with scientific mumbo-jumbo that serves nothing
more than to give the knuckle-dragging masses something to impress
their ‘mates’ at the pub with, while keeping it simple enough for their
under-developed brains to handle. It’s about as informative as the
ingredients list on a shampoo bottle: you don’t know what any of those
chemicals do, you’re only reading it because there’s nothing else and
permanently associated with bowel motions.
Stuff Imperial students hate
Having 10 guys awkwardly standing
in a circle on the dancefloor
A weekly experience throughout first year.
Why are none of them dancing? If nobody else is danc-
ing they’ll realise that I’m awful as well. Why is that one
guy just nodding his head? Oh shit, I’m trapped in this
circle. Wait, what’s that in the pocket of the guy who
likes all of my holiday pictures from 3 months ago? Oh,
it’s only a gun. Oh god, get me out of here!*
*And then you wake up. Later that night, you go to
Metric and the same thing happens. Except that it isn’t
a gun but it’s ready to go off...
It goes off.
Dancing in clubs(/Metric) when not
drunk
Arms are okay. Vaguely fling them about and copy a guy
that looks confident. But seriously, what the fuck are
you supposed to do with your legs? Guess you can just
do what you always do. Lift each one up in turn and just
stamp on the spot. On second thoughts, waiting for 20
minutes at a bar is probably better than this.
If you want to go super-incognito, just stand completely
still and vaguely nod your head while clutching your
drink for dear life. Don’t drink it too quickly, though:
it’s all you’re doing right now that doesn’t look insanely
stupid. You don’t want people to realise you actually
really hate clubs, do you?
Female
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
US Congress redefines Keith
O’Nions as a vegetable
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
See that lube? This guy got some. Unfortu-
nately, not the some he wanted
Male

