impacts on the people who they provide
vital services for. This makes striking
difficult for the strikers too, as they find
themselves reluctant to see their library
or school close. However, strikes are
one of the only tools by which workers
can try and negotiate the conditions in
which they work every day. By with-
drawing their labour, they remind us
how important their services are. In this
beginner’s guide to striking we shall
explain what N30 is about and what is
happening. We will also argue that stu-
dents can and do play an important role
in strikes, and that it is vital that we take
part in N30.
On Wednesday up to 3 million work-
ers will be on strike (about 10% of the
total workforce) in a long running dis-
pute about the coalition government’s
plans for ‘reforming’ the public sector
pensions. A strike of this size has not
been seen since the 1926 General strike
with a total of 24 unions involved, in-
cluding teachers and lecturers, proba-
tion officers, library staff, police ci-
vilians, refuse collectors, bus drivers,
nurses, and museum staff.
Although the government likes to
highlight how the Unison ballot for
strike action only received a 29% turn-
out, on average the turnout has been
44%. This is the same as the turnout for
the London mayoral elections, so the
vote was as representative as our local
democracy. The numbers are also ex-
pected to be bolstered by the thousands
who join unions in the run-up so that
they can strike as well.
The government claims to be wor-
ried about what they describe to be
unsustainable pension plans with an
aging population. Their proposals in-
clude moving the retirement age to 68,
increasing pension contributions, judg-
ing the pension on your average salary
instead of your final salary, and linking
pensions to the lower CPI inflation in-
stead of the current RPI inflation. This
has lead unions to remark that the situ-
ation will be one where workers ‘pay
more, work longer, get less’.
This involves us, as students, because
our lecturers will be directly affected
by these changes to pensions – both the
University and College Union and the
Association of Teachers and Lectur-
ers are striking on Wednesday and we
should show our support to our lectur-
Y
ou may have heard news
headlines describing the
biggest strike in genera-
tions happening on 30th
November, but perhaps
thought little of it. What has striking got
to do with students? Especially strik-
ing over pensions. Pensions seem ages
away, we’re only just dealing with our
students loans! The strike may seem
like a distant and irrelevant event.
This is more than understandable. We,
the authors, have been struggling to get
to grips with the whole idea of the strike
despite seeing ourselves as politically
engaged and politically active – perhaps
we’re just feeling weary after those ‘to-
tal policing’ tactics employed at the No-
vember 9th student demo.
But it is more than that; as students,
striking – the mass refusal to work by
employees demanding concessions
from employers and/or the government
– does not seem like something that we
can take part in. The language, e.g. the
use of the term ‘workers’, ostensibly
excludes us, as well as other groups, in-
cluding the unemployed.
However, there is in fact a long his-
tory of student strikes suggesting that
the concept may not be so alien and
irrelevant to us after all. Furthermore,
perhaps the idea of striking seems an-
tiquated – of a time when the majority
of workers would put down their tools
in the factory – not relevant in a service
sector dominated economy, particularly
when people’s jobs involve care work.
Back then, striking would cause sig-
nificant financial losses for the employ-
er; in public sector strikes this is not
the case. Instead, public sector workers
withdrawing their labour has immediate
ers – speak to them about the issue or
join them on the picket line. Or go fur-
ther than this and arrange events on the
picket line as students at the University
of Birmingham have done.
The University of Birmingham
Union have arranged for a teach-out on
the picket with discussions including
‘Whatever happened to the right to pro-
test?’, ‘Cuts are not the cure’, and ‘The
Student Experience: An Utterly Shallow
Concept’. Showing our lecturers that we
respect the work they do and that we be-
lieve they should be fairly rewarded at
the end of their job would mean a great
deal to them.
Our collective demand for pensions
justice is about fairness, however, there
is also a pragmatic argument to it: sim-
ple sums show that in contrast to the
government’s claims, pensions are in
fact sustainable in their present state.
The National Audit Office, the Office
for Budget Responsibility, and the Insti-
tute for Fiscal studies all show how as
a proportion of GDP the cost of public
pensions will gradually decrease due to
changes made by Labour and that they
are currently at a peak. Thus, it is quite
clear that our present pension system for
the public sector is sustainable and fair
as it is.
Yet, the government seems unwilling
to accept this and back down. Whilst
they have made two concessions regard-
ing pensions, these do not go far enough
to address unions’ and their members’
main concerns and therefore they have
had to resort to strike action. Epitomis-
ing the ineptitude of the government’s
bargaining in the talks with unions and
just how little the government under-
stand the grievances of ordinary work-
ers, Cabinet Minister Francis Maude
recently suggested that workers co-or-
dinate a 15 minute strike on N30 – also
known as a tea break.
However, the strike action must not
be seen in isolation, as a one-off event
and solely about pensions. Therefore
our role in the strike must go beyond
students supporting their lecturers. The
government’s attack on public sector
pensions is simply yet another exam-
ple of the government trying to shift
responsibility for the deficit on those
who cannot pay and who also bear no
responsibility for the crisis itself. It is
one attack amongst many which also
include education, healthcare, and wel-
fare – or everything that is good about
our society.
We cannot know exactly how N30
will unfold – it certainly has the poten-
tial to have a tremendous impact with
millions of people coming together to
reject the austerity measures and create
a humane society – but its significance
will be that it is yet another form of
action following on from and building
on actions by UK Uncut, the Occupy
movement, and the student protests that
show that a great number of people are
against the government’s austerity pro-
gramme which is based on making the
poor pay for an economic crisis that
they did not cause.
The strike, therefore, is part of a wider
movement against the government and
its policies that is growing in momen-
tum. Indeed, this can be seen by James
Sevitt’s remarks from Occupy London
which illustrates how many of these dif-
ferent movements are coming together:
“As Occupy London is very much in
support of those unions coming out on
strike on Wednesday 30th November,
we are busy getting prepared and its
great to see unions lending their sup-
port to the Occupy movement. Expect
to hear more from us about this soon!”
Furthermore, N30 itself has become
more than about pensions – many other
people who don’t work in the public sec-
tor will be looking to support the strike,
as James describes above for Occupy
London. As the Coalition of Resistance
describe ‘it is clear that November 30th
also represents a fundamental challenge
to the cuts and privatisation programme
of the ConDem Government.’ They
have called for all those against the cuts
to create a ‘Festival of Resistance, with
pensioners, students and unemployed
people joining together in a massive day
of defence for jobs, the NHS, the Wel-
fare State, and free education’.
Our role in this society is not just as
a student, but as a member of our lo-
cal community, and as a citizen of this
country. It is therefore vital that we par-
ticipate in this festival to protect what
we value in our society, as all of these
things are presently under threat.
Talk with one another, with your
lecturers on the picket line, join the
marches, occupy somewhere, arrange
teach-outs or teach-ins on campus, do
anything that you find meaningful, for
it is a day of possibility.
“Show our lecturers
that we respect the
work they do.”
November 30th: day of action
Izzy Koksal and Luke Sheldon on why students should care about Wednesday’s strikes
FEATURE
6 FELIX
Friday 25 november 2011
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
features.felix@gmail.com
Get involved
November 29th:
Strike rally
SOAS, 7pm
November 30th:
Student march
University of London
Union, 11am
More details:
falseeconomy.org.uk
pcs.org.uk
Why I’m striking: three strikers explain what has caused their outrage
“I will be striking on N30. It’s absolutely outrageous cut-
ting pensions. I do feel ambivalent; to forfeit a wadge
of money, when my wage is very low does worry me
greatly, however, what they are doing is obscene. It
is outrageous pensions are not protected, they’re not
fantastic anyway. You work the best years of your life
for the pensions, which are then attacked, it’s morally
wrong to attack our pensions. I’d like to do something
meaningful and valuable, I think I’ll picket the library
and town hall. It seems really important to do some-
thing meaningful with the time. “
Susan Appleton, Library Assistant, London
“I’m striking and angry. The spineless gits are attack-
ing the pensions of average earners in a thinly veiled
tactic to reduce the deficit that we didn’t cause. They
even changed the offer to cost us more in the short
term but promising more long term, condemning fu-
ture governments whilst making money for theirs.”
James Sheehan, Science Teacher, Liverpool
“I’m currently unemployed after finishing my mas-
ter’s degree, so I can’t strike in the traditional way of
stopping work, however I will be outside my local Job
Centre and picketing there in order to demand better
welfare provision and meaningful jobs. Just because
strikes are traditionally associated with workers does
not mean that the unemployed cannot take part and
demand rights for themselves, in fact, it is absolutely
vital that we take a stand. The situation for us is ap-
palling – not only is there a great deal of stigma linked
with claiming unemployment benefits (as if the indi-
vidual is choosing to be unemployed) rather than real-
ising that it could happen to anyone – but the amount
you are given to survive on is an insult. Just look at
the present climate with thousands of jobs being cut
– it is clearly not an individual’s fault if they find them-
selves out of work. I hope that N30 will see millions
take to the streets against this government sending
a clear message that we do not accept their cuts.”
Elizabeth Milne, Unemployed, London

