SCIENCE
In brief
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
E
uropa is the second innermost
of Jupiter’s four large Galilean
moons. Scientists believe that the
Jovian satellite’s icy surface hides
a liquid ocean that contains twice
the water than can be found in all of Earth’s
oceans combined. As such it is one of the
most likely places in the solar system where
extraterrestrial life could be found. However,
given that it is widely believed that the upper
crust of ice is on average 20 kilometres thick,
probing for signs of life is likely to be difficult.
But now a group of scientists lead by Britney
Schmidt from the University of Texas has said
that they believe that pockets of liquid water
may form far nearer the surface of the moon.
In a paper published last week in Nature, the
team describe how they used ten year old data
from the Galileo obiter, and observations of ice
structures in the Arctic and Antarctic to explain
the formation of previously mysterious struc-
tures on the surface of Europa called “chaos ter-
rain” – rough, vaguely circular regions which
can tower more than a hundred metres above
the surrounding ice. The team believes that the
process of formation begins with the eruption
of underwater volcanoes, similar to Iceland’s
Grimsvotn. This heats the lower layer of pure
ice in crust, which brings the heat up to higher
layers of salt contaminated ice, which has a
lower melting point. As this melts, the water
forms a sub glacial lens shaped lake of brine.
Since liquid water is denser than ice, a space
is left above the lake, causing the ice above to
sag in order to fill it. As the ice bends large
cracks are formed, into which the brine is in-
jected. Eventually pressure from the brine can
cause the ice to split apart into blocks. A simi-
lar process happens at the boundary between
the Antarctic ice sheet and the ocean. Being
so close to the surface, the brine eventually
freezes again, pushing the blocks upwards as it
expands in volume and turns into ice. The fro-
zen brine itself forms so called ‘matrix domes’,
which may themselves reach higher above the
surrounding surface than ice blocks.
As well as fully formed chaos terrains, such
as the Conamara Chaos and Murias Chaos, the
team believe that they have also found an area,
called Thera Macula, that is halfway through
this process. Galileo data shows that while it is
in many ways similar to the Conamara Chaos
its surface is dipped below rather than raised
above the surrounding ice. This suggests that, if
the team’s model is correct, liquid water of vol-
ume equivalent to the Great Lakes could exist as
little as 3km under surface of this region. While
Shallow lakes on Europa
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
Europa’s ‘Great Lake’ – scientists speculate that many more exist throughout the moon
Neutrinos still faster-than-light?
In September, physicists working on the Opera ex-
periment announced that they had observed some
subatomic particles called neutrinos travelling fast-
er than the speed of light. The neutrinos in question
undertook a journey from CERN in Geneva, through
the Earth, and finally ended up at the Gran Sasso
laboratory deep underneath the mountain of the
same name in Italy. But they arrived at Gran Sasso
a few nanoseconds earlier than they should have
done, had they been travelling at the speed of light,
suggesting that they had in fact travelled faster.
Opera published a pre-print paper of their results
online on September 22 and held a press confer-
ence the next day. Since then, physicists around
the world have been poring over their results and
publishing papers trying to either find a mistake or
use new physics to explain what is going on.
Carlo Contaldi, from Imperial College, suggested
that differences in the force of gravity at Cern and
Gran Sasso would make the clocks used to mea-
sure the time of flight of the neutrinos tick at dif-
ferent rates. This difference would reduce the sig-
nificance of the result. Others have come up with
different criticisms.
Opera have since refined their experiment and re-
ported last Friday that the neutrinos still appear to
be travelling faster than light. In the new version of
the experiment, the pulses of neutrinos sent from
Cern were made thousands of times shorter than in
the original experiment. Many scientists criticised
the original long pulses because of the large errors
they could introduce when measuring the exact ar-
rival time of the particles at Gran Sasso.
The shorter pulses allowed them to measure 20
individual neutrinos, each one associated with a
specific pulse leaving Cern. But all still appear to be
arriving too early.
This troubling result has the potential to overthrow
Einstein’s theory of special relativity and mess with
the principle of causality, which says that cause
must come before effect.
However, physicists working on the Icarus experi-
ment, also at the Gran Sasso laboratory have cast
doubt on Opera’s results. Their work is based on
a recent paper by Boston University physicists An-
drew Cohen and Sheldon Glashow, a Nobel laure-
ate. Cohen and Glashow say that if the neutrinos
had travelled faster than light, they should have
lost energy through releasing pairs of electrons and
positrons. The Icarus experiment looked for this
predicted energy loss but did not find any evidence
of it, suggesting that the neutrinos did not travel
faster than light after all.
We will not know for sure one way or the other
until independent laboratories are able to conduct
similar experiments.
Jim Al-Khalili, a Professor of Physics at the Uni-
versity of Surrey, who after the initial result said he
would “eat his boxer shorts live on TV” if it was
proved true, will surely welcome Icarus’ findings.
Kelly Oakes
the team believes that it will take the water up to
a million years to freeze completely, the surface
will have altered by enough the next time we
send a probe to Europa to be able to see if the
model is correct.
If it is, and there is shallow liquid water under
Thera Macula, this will not only give scientists a
prime site where they can look for life but would
also confirm that Europa is geologically active.
This would be an extraordinary discovery given
that so far the Earth, Jupiter’s moon Io and Sat-
urn’s moon Enceladus are the only known geo-
logically active bodies in the solar system.
DOI: 10.1038/nature10608
FELIX
8 Friday 25 november 2011
Maciej Matuszewski on the best evidence yet for water just below the surface
Throughout the history of neuroscience, we
have often been amazed by the brain’s capabil-
ity and workings. Instances like the ability to
read the jumbled headline above intrigue us –
how is a mess of letters comprehensible?
We have long known that skilled readers do
not need to read individual letters, but until re-
cently the mechanism behind this ‘scanning’
method was not well known.
This year in the annual meeting of the So-
ciety for Neuroscience, Georgetown Univer-
sity Medical Center (GUMC) neuroscientists
reported their findings of a visual dictionary.
One of the leading theories in word recogni-
tion is that the brain simultaneously retrieves
the sound and the visual perception of a word
from the same area of the brain. Glezer et al.
rebut this idea through their fMRI based study
that allowed them to look at changes in neural
activity in different areas of the brain.
Glezer says, “What we found is that once
we’ve learned a word, it is placed in a purely
visual dictionary in the brain. Having a purely
visual representation allows for the fast and
efficient word recognition we see in skilled
readers.” GUMC set out to prove this by test-
ing word recognition for homonyms such as
‘hare’ and ‘hair’. They found that different
neurons were activated, much like different
entries in a dictionary are required for the two
words. If the notion of phonology and visual
perception being interlinked held true, then the
homonyms would activate the same or similar
areas of the brain. “But this was not the case
– ‘hair’ and ‘hare’ looked just as different as
‘hair’ and ‘soup’” explains Glezer.
While she admits that on initially encounter-
ing a word we need to sound it out in order
to encode the word and match it to the writ-
ten word; subsequent presentations need no
sounds and simply letters to correctly identify
the word.
While the relevance of this new knowledge
is not immediately perceptible; Glezer outlines
that these advancements hold exciting prog-
ress in the understanding of reading disorders
like dyslexia.
“If people with dyslexia have a problem
forming this visual dictionary, it may be that
there could be ways of helping train children
with dyslexia to form a more finely tuned vi-
sual dictionary.”
Cna yuo raed tihs snentece?
Madhura Ghosh

