SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 25 NOVEMBER 2011
Last week the IPCC released the execu-
tive summary to their special report on
extreme events and disasters that will be
published in full in February next year.
The review looked at extreme events in
two ways, first considering how they
have changed over the last 50 years and
then looking at how models predict they
will change in future climate change
scenarios. The importance of this is to
understand the human and economic
damage that could be caused by climate
change. The report was welcomed by
Simon Brown, the Extremes Research
Manager at the Met Office, who told
the Guardian, “less emphasis has tradi-
tionally been given to these phenomena
which are very likely to be the means
by which ordinary people experience
climate change.”
By definition extreme events are rare,
which makes identifying trends chal-
lenging, especially for certain types of
events and regions for which records of
past events are poor. With this in mind,
however, the report had high confi-
dence that the number of hot days had
increased in the past 50 years and statis-
tical trends in heavy precipitation were
observed with confidence in a general
global increase. This highlights how our
extreme weather events have already
been changing.
Although the simulation of some fu-
ture extreme events for different emis-
sions over the next few decades did
not exceed the natural variation of the
climate some extreme events allowed
the report to make strong statements.
The IPCC are almost certain that both
extremely warm and cold days will
increase in both their severity and fre-
quency on a global scale by the end of
the 21st century if greenhouse emis-
sions continue as normal.
Everywhere but the highest northern
latitudes, heat events that currently oc-
cur once every two decades will show
up every couple of years and events that
occur once every two decade will be
up to 5ºC hotter. As both extreme heat
and cold kill, even in Western countries
(the 2003 European heat wave caused
approximately 35,000 deaths), the in-
creased frequency and magnitude of
these events will have lethal effects.
Further simulations show that heavy
rainfall events are likely to occur nearly
four times as frequently as they do now
by the end of the century. Although this
result does not translate into changes
in flooding events due to the depen-
dency of flooding on topography, sub-
strate, and development, an increase in
the heavy rainfall will be expected to
Luke Sheldon
Extreme weather set to increase
Suicidal corals know what’s coming
Scientists in Australia have con-
ducted research showing that corals
can detect when adverse conditions
threaten their survival, and can acti-
vate a cell death mechanism to save
the organism as a whole. This process
leads to coral bleaching, where corals
expel or digest the symbiotic algae
which feed them.
The researchers identified a com-
plex cascade of molecular signals
which lead to the self inflicted death
of cells, known as apoptosis, in corals
and their associated algae. Apoptosis
is a process that occurs in many or-
ganisms – including humans, which
exists to save the organism by elimi-
nating damaged or diseased cells.
Coral bleaching is currently one of
the most significant threats to coral
reefs worldwide and is triggered by
rising water temperatures which lead
to the coral and its algae becoming
heat stressed. The cell death process
begins at temperatures which are 3
degrees less than those which nor-
mally cause coral bleaching, indicat-
ing that corals can anticipate poor
conditions.
Strangely, the team from the Arc
centre of research for Coral Reef
Studies and James Cook University
found molecular signals both encour-
aging and discouraging cell death
were active at high water tempera-
tures. They have therefore proposed
a theory where corals kill off some
cells in order to strengthen others
in expectation of staging a recov-
ery once the warm water has moved
away. This theory would explain how
some corals are able to recover after
a bleaching event if it has not been
extreme.
Lead researcher Dr Tracy Ain-
sworth suggests that understanding
the recovery process of corals will
be beneficial to promoting their sur-
vival: “Understanding the recovery
process for any living organism is
always a big help”. Discoveries such
Samuel Cavenagh
”
Heavy rainfall events
are likely to occur
nearly four times
as frequently as
they do now by the
end of the century,
increasing flooding
and landslides
“
Heavy ra
Heavy ra
lik l
lik Have you ever wondered how your dog
knows when your partner is on their way
home even if they are miles away? Or
how you so often know who is calling be-
fore you pick up the phone?
Most of the three hundred people
(standing room only!) gathered in South
Kensington on October 18 to hear a lec-
ture organised by the Friends of Imperial
College had experienced one or both of
these phenomena. Is it real? Or is it just
that we don’t notice, or forget, the many
times these things don’t happen?
In his lecture on October 18, scientist
and author Dr Rupert Sheldrake tabled
evidence to suggest that these, and other
strange coincidences, happen much more
often than chance alone would suggest.
Current scientific knowledge does not
offer an explanation. Dr Sheldrake of-
fers the hypothesis that the mind creates
a ‘field’ which can be sensed by other
minds and can stretch over long distances.
However, his lecture focused more on the
evidence he had assembled rather than on
possible explanations.
Dr Sheldrake is an able speaker and
clearly knows his subject extremely well.
He kept the audience engaged throughout
his hour-long lecture and presented his ev-
idence in a compelling way. He handled,
sometimes doubtful, questions clearly and
professionally.
In thanking Dr Sheldrake, Prof Igor
Aleksander commented he was a brave
man for taking on the scientific estab-
lishment. Dr Sheldrake’s findings and
theories meet with much scepticism from
many people – both in his field and in the
broader scientific community. For some,
his work is pseudo-science at best and
brings ‘real’science into disrepute.
However, the feeling of this member of
the audience at least was that the Friends
of Imperial College had performed a ser-
vice by giving Dr Sheldrake the oppor-
tunity to expound his ideas and perhaps
stimulate the kind of fact-based response
which either allows science to advance, or
closes off blind alleys on occasion. It will
be interesting to see which in this case!
The Friends of Imperial College is dedi-
cated to spreading enthusiasm and knowl-
edge of science, technology and medicine.
It is independent of, but linked to, one
of the premier scientific establishments
on the globe and organises lectures and
events to spread knowledge and stimulate
attention to scientific developments. It
can be contacted via www.friendsofim-
perial.org.uk.
Are minds
extended?
increase flooding and also landslides.
However, these models also predicted
increased drought in the Mediterranean,
southern Europe, and parts of South and
Central America.
With extreme weather events affect-
ing both food and energy production,
the increased frequency, extremity, and
location change predicted by this report
will have damaging effects to people
and economies over the next century if
climate change continues unabated.
as this will help inform the conserva-
tion of coral reefs by helping “us to
explore ways that coral reef managers
and users can minimise other stresses
on the reef to give it the best possible
chance of recovery from bleaching”
says Dr Ainsworth.
The team also states, however, that
the control of apoptosis in corals is
“highly complex” and more study
will be required before it is fully un-
derstood.
DOI: 10.1038/srep00160
Want to write for
Felix Science?
Email us!
Paul Garwood
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change sees coral bleaching as the greatest threat to the world’s reefs
Hurricane Katrina is often used as an example of extreme weather

