Founded 1949
Students protest at platform
for South African
About forty students staged a vociferous protest when Mr. Peter
Goosen, Third Secretary at the SouthAfrican Embassy,
addressed a meeting organised by the IC Conservative Society
on Tuesday. All those students who entered Mech Eng lecture
theatre 220 had their bags checked by College Security chief
Geoffrey Reeves. The protest was entirely peaceful, but the
students created enough noise to cause some disruption. Those
involved shouted "Free Mandela, and set South Africa free!"
and called upon Mr. Goosen to tell those inside the lecture
theatre about Soweto and censorship of the press in South
Africa
Questioned about the wisdom of
inviting such a controversial person
to College, Mr. Burbage said that Mr.
Goosen had been invited because it
was felt that he would give an
interesting and informative talk, and
the meeting had not been held in
Mr. Reeves told FELIX that,
though the protestors were quite noisy
, they made no attempt to enter the
lecture theatre, and said that he was
"quite impressed with the way they
carried out their demonstration."
Two policemen were present to
ensure that there was no breach of the
Public Order Bill, and Mr. Reeves
told us that it is normal policy to liase
with the police if there is a chance that
an "anti situation" may develop.
Chas Jackson, chair of IC Anti-
Apartheid, said that in his view, a
responsible society would not invite
such a person to speak at College, and
told FELIX "It was the most spirited
demo since the last Hon Porns night
was called off." It was, he said, both
tasteless and offensive to have invited
a representative of a government that
is actively suppressing free speech to
talk at Imperial College. He asserted
that protestors had refused to enter the
lecture theatre because they felt that
their presence would dignify Mr.
Goosen's talk.
Sunny Bains, one of the protestors,
said that they felt that they were the
only mouthpiece of the oppressed in
South Africa and told FELIX
"Freedom is not his to give. Freedom
is not a gift-its a right."
Dave Burbage, President of IC
Conservative Society, said that
ConSoc had not intended to cause any
trouble, and while he had expected
there to be some form of protest, he
told FELIX that he expected it to be
rather more constructive. "The
people outside the room would I think
prefer civil war and revolution and
ultimately a tyranny of hatred within
South Africa, rather than the reforms
being proposed"," he said.
Goosen reported in FELIX 760, with
the speaker stressing that South Africa
faces " A choice between reform and
revolution, between a free democratic
society and totalitarianism."
Questioned from the floor about
how many of the black people in
South Africa have citizenship, he said
that following a review of regulations
introduced earlier, all are now citizens
of South Africa, and negotiations are
now taking place to extend citizenship
to the citizens of the independent
states.
When asked about the violence
perpetrated by the security forces
against the African National
Congress, Mr. Goosen said that he
did not deny that the ANC had
originally been a peaceful
It was right, he felt, that the South
African security services should be
criticised for such mistakes.
Continuing on the subject of the
ANC and violence, Mr. Goosen said
that he felt that it was time for
negotiations about the mechanics of
the "New South Africa" to begin,
and called on the ANC to stop their
violence; "We have to leave the past
behind. We have to accept the
injustices of the past."
The European view of South
African blacks was, Mr. Goosen
asserted, a racist one. It was not right
to consider the black majority in
South Africa as a unified mass, and
he said of those who held this view
"You're all white. Why have you
fought two world wars?" Seventy-
Union rooms simply because there
were none suitable. He stressed to
FELIX the IC ConSoc does not
necessarily agree with the views put
forward by Mr. Goosen.
The content of the talk was broadly
similar to the interview with Mr.
organisation, and gave 1961 as the
turning point in the tactics of the
group. He also expressed the view
that the attacks on ANC headquarters
in neighbouring states were justified,
but regretted that some innocent
people had been killed in these raids.
five per cent of white South Africans
were, claimed Mr. Goosen, in favour
of fundamental reform, and he said
that he would be "shocked" if one
of the other, less progressive parties,
won the general election.
Friday February 6th 1987 No. 762

