COPINION
HAVE YOU thought about your grant? The first week of any term see
long lines of students queueing for what will be their lifeline in cominq
weeks—the grant cheque. This year many will find that their cheque
is for less money than it was in previous years. Here Peter Burt
considers the grant in a little more detail than most students usually
do.
In today's society it seems fair for everyone to
expect repayment for whatever work they may do.
Students in full-time education, however,
obviously have no opportunity to earn a wage by
working regularly, although they are nonetheless
occupied usefully and face the costs incurred in
day to day living. These facts were recognized by
the Government of the day when University
education was expanded back in the early 1960's.
The Education Act of 1962 made full time study a
possibility by introducing 'duty' awards for degree
courses, and later expansion was also
accompanied by provision of financial support for
students.
The Government intends to spend £816 million
on student awards next year. Sadly, this element
of expenditure is widely begrudged. The popular
opinion is that students are a bunch of idle
layabouts who are quite happy to sit around
sponging money off the state. We frequently hear
mutterings that students should be forced to learn
the hard way by having to repay their grant money
as a loan.
This shows us the amount of work which
students (including yourself) must put into
improve their public image. However, it also gives
an indication of the degree of misunderstanding
about grants which prevails outside Colleges,
because in simple terms it can be argued that the
student grant isn't really a handout from the state
at all. A student who forgoes a wage for three years
during his course will obtain a qualification
allowing him to get a job which, in most cases, will
be well paid and consequently taxed at a higher
rate than average. The student will soon 'repay'
the money spent on his grant in this extra taxation.
Furthermore, a system of grants represent, in the
short term, a much cheaper alternative than a
system of loans for students. Although the present
Government are 'ideologically attracted' to a loans
system, they have concluded that the immediate
cost of setting up such a system is prohibitively
high, since large amounts of money will need to be
spent before there can be any repayment of loans.
It is also generally accepted that introduction of
loans could lead to a distortion in the range of
subjects studied. Although an engineer may be in a
position to repay a loan relatively soon after
graduating, a student of theology, for instance, is
unlikely to enter a well-paid job, and uncertainty
about the future may thus deter candidates from
studying such subjects.
The greatest benefit of a grants system is its
importance in encouraging people from a wide
range of backgrounds to participate in Higher
Education. There can be little doubt that, were
there no grant, only those who are particularly well
off would be able to afford to study for degrees.
The importance of Higher education is obvious at
a time of rapid technological change and mass
unemployment, and it makes sense for as many
people as possible to continue studying at this
level.
HOW THE GRANTS SYSTEM WORKS
Most student grants are awarded by the Local
Education Authorities (LEAs), although some are
paid from other sources, such as the Research
Council — who deal with many postgraduate
grants.
The majority of IC students will be in receipt of
what is know as a mandatory award, which is paid
by their home LEA. Payment of mandatory awards
is governed by statutory obligations, and providing
certain conditions are fulfilled awards are
automatically given to students. To qualify for a
mandatory award, a student has to be ordinarily
resident in the UK and must not have attended
certain courses in the past. A mandatory award
covers both tuition fees for the course and a
maintenance grant. However, the maintenance
element of the award is subject to a means test,
and the grant received by most students will be
dependent on their parents' income. Mandatory
awards are only attracted by certain designated
courses, which include full time degree courses,
teacher training courses, and some other courses
which are broadly equivalent to degree level.
Students who are not pursuing one of these
courses are still entitled to receive awards, but
only at the discretion of their LEA. However, since
1975, when cuts in public expenditure began to
take effect, discretionary awards have drastically
decreased in both number and value. Local
Authorities are currectly faced with particularly
stringent financial curbs, and with the advent of
rate-capping legislation discretionary awards seem
set to disappear altogether.
As well as their grant, students are also entitled
to other forms of support from the state. Students
may claim Housing Benefit on rents greater than
the accomodation allowance included in the grant
and are allowed Supplementary Benefit over the
summer vaction.
RECENT CHANGES IN THE GRANTS
SYSTEM
The tables below show how much money
London undergraduates get in their grant, with a
breakdown showing what the money is meant to
be spent on. Last year's figures are included for
comparison.
1. MAIN RATES OF LONDON GRANT FOR
MANDATORY AWARD HOLDERS.
1983/4 1984/5
Student not at home£1975 £2100
Student living at home£1275 £1435
Minimum Grant £410 £205
2. BREAKDOWN OF LONDON GRANT
£1983/4 1984/5
Vacation (8 weeks) £196 £204
Books, equipment £173 £180
Travel £50* £100
Miscellaneous £261 £271
Board and lodgings (30 weeks)£1295 £1347
Total maintenance grant £1975 £2100
*As well as this, most students were entitled to
claim back travel spending above this figure in full.
The main rate of student grant was increased by
4
% for this year; an increase which was more or
less in line with inflation (approximately 5%).
However, the Department of Education and
Science (DES) have managed with great cunning
to save, in effect, £20 million on student awards
this year. This has been done by halving the
minimum award (paid this year to some 60,000
students — 20,000 more- that last year) and
increasing the parental contribution for students
whose parents have an annual income of over
£97,000. The DES have also made drastic changes
in the system by which students are refunded their
travel costs. Prior to this academic year students
were entitled to claim back, within reason, the full
cost of termly travel to and from their parents
homes and daily travel into college. But now a flat
rate element is included within the grant of most
students to cover travel costs, and those students
who have unavoidable high travel costs stand to
lose out badly. As a result of all these changes a lot
of IC students will find that their grant for this year
is less than it was last year.
HOW WILL THE CHANGES AFFECT
STUDENTS?
Any reduction in funding affecting the student
grant will obviously lead to an eventual drop in
living standards for students. But there are other
reasons to object to the changes.
Last year's changes to the grants system had the
effect of reducing the level of independence
enjoyed by students. Increases in the parental
contribution mean that, unless a student is more
than 25 years old or has been at work for three
years before commencing a course, he or she will
have to scrounge even more money from parents
in order to make the grant up to its full value.
Students up to the age of 25 years are financially
tied to their parents through the parental
contribution in the grant, and, although the state
treats them as independent adults for all other
purposes, their status in this respect is no more
than that of a child. Even Mr Peter Brooke, the
Minister responsible for Higher Education, has
been quoted as saying that he 'recognizes the
illogicity and unfairness of the parental
contribution'. The problem is compounded by the
fact that 47% of all students are receiving less than
their entitlement because their parents fail to make
the grant up to its full level.
Changes to the systems of refunding travel and
perhaps housing costs are particularly worrying. A
recent survey on student costs of living concluded
that 'The contribution of items like rate rebates
rent allowances and especially travel cost
reimbursement are of great importance to a
number of students.' But this is not the only effect.
Institutions, as well as students, seem to be
worried about what may happen as a result of cuts.
Because there is very little housing suitable for
students close to some Colleges, students are
forced to commute daily to and from their classes.
Such students will end up being out of pocket
under the new 'flat rate' arrangements. As a result
some Universities, such as those at Warwick,
Lancaster, Kent, and London — all of which have a
shortage of student accommodation on the
campus — may well fail to attract bright students,
who would effectively face a cut in grant due to
unavoidably high daily travel costs. Indeed, the
Vice-Chancellor of the University of London has
expressed his 'deep concern' that the new method
of refunding travel costs will casue 'serious
damage' to our University. The anticipated
revision to Housing Benefit payments for students
will only make things worse due to the expense of
accommodation in London.
HOW TO PROTECT YOUR GRANT
Despite its flaws, the system of paying student
grants in the UK is one of the best in the world.
Nevertheless, it is generally recognized that the
system contains potential illogic and unfairness for
all its merits. Because of reductions in public
spending, this illogic and unfairness seems set to
become far more pronounced.
Students must accept that, in the short term, it
is unrealistic to expect any improvements in the
grants system. We must instead direct our
energies to preventing further erosion of the grant
and pointing out the long term benefits to
everyone of investment in education. The aim of
this article is not to scaremonger, but to point out
the very real threat facing students over the next
few years. Student grants are a soft target for
spending cuts since students have little muscle
with which to oppose them and because they are
frequently seen as an extravagant item of
expenditure. After all is said and done, students
are at present virtually alone in putting the case for
grants. No-one else will lift a finger to stop cuts in
the grant, so if you don't like such cuts it's up to
you to oppose them.
DON'T T A K E Y O U G R A N T FOR
GRANTED.
PS If you have any problems concerning your
grant, Student Services, at 15 Princes
Gardens, will be pleased to offer assistance.
12 Friday 12 October 1984 FELIX

