CLUBS
PARACHUTING
Best Films?
Visit IC Para club on Wednesday in Elec Eng
408 at 7.00pm, and see three of the best films
ever made.
We will also be taking bookings for a
parachute course to be held in November.
CND
Pen 3 Swords 0
Beginnings
In the vast antheap of the world
one little ant thinks differently
In the snarled traffic of metropolis
a small family car crashes the lights
Under a tailored and conventional suit
a heart beats out a naked rhythm
Like a room-size coloured balloon
a man blows up a religion till it bursts.
Somebody somewhere begins to unpick the
stitches
in the bright battle flag of glory.
Gavin Ewart
On Thursday 18 October at 1.00pm in
Physics L T 1 a young woman poet, Judith
Kazantzif, whose works are widely
published, will read and talk about her
poems. She will be launching a competition
aimed at encouraging students to enjoy,
appreciate and even write poetry and stories.
The competition closes on January 15 and
entries can be of any length, poetry, opinions
or storys associated with the theme of peace
and war.
This year I C C N D with the aid of a number
of groups has organised events involving
writers, poets, scientists, artists and
musicians to allow you to hear and see varied
expressions about peace and war. The
campaign will culminate in a week of
festivities and the public announcement of
the IC Peace Pledge. We strongly believe at
least on this wider issue we can all express
our views together. You may disagree
strongly with C N D , but this does not mean
you are not interested in peace, so join us!
Write down what you feel. Do not allow a
monopoly at college!
Two poets will be speaking and reading on
Thursday 8 November in remembrance of
the dead of two World Wars. Carol Ann
Duffy is a prolific poet and playwright, she
has developed her beautiful style surrounded
by the influence of the famous Liverpool
Poets. Gavin Ewart is a prime contender for
poet Laureate and is a very humerous and
cutting writer. Both will be reading their
works so come along to remember the dead
and injured and hopefully be moved to
express something yourself.
CIV ENG
Boring Soc
Civil Eng Freshers, unlightened to the Civil
Eng Society, may not realize — like it or not
— that they are all automatically members of
the department's society. In past years, the
society has organized lunch-time buffets, site
visits, pub crawls, the concrete canoe, Xmas
parties and the annual dinner, all of which
are generally successful. The committee has
been formed to serve its members hence any
suggestions or criticisms about events are all
considered.
Unfortunately, at the time of submission of
this article we have no details of our first
events, but these will be advertised around
the department, so look out, and take
advantage of the events organized for your
benefits
Eric Barnaby (Civil Eng 111, Civil Eng Soc
Chairman)
JAZZ
Cool it babe
The jazz club will be having an introductory
meeting on next Monday, 15 October, in the
Union Upper Lounge. All those who signed
the list at the Fresher's Fair and anyone else
interested in joining should come to receive
membership cards and information about
the club.
N C R Buckingham
ENTS
Lost Lizards
Last year two new attractions opened on
Saturday night in the Union Building called
Lounge Lizzards — a dreadful name if ever I
heard of one — it was so trendy that hardly
any I C s t u d e n t s went, a l t h o u g h ,
miraculously other people did, and found the
music so alternative that no one could dance
to it, and the disco so unstable that the
records jumped if anyone did.
The weeks passed and Lounge Lizzards
went from strength to strength — well it
didn't have much choice, did it? The records
stopped jumping, more people started going,
and some even danced and then it was the
end of term so it had to stop.
And so to this year, Lounge Lizzards
opens again, with a new name — 'The
Lounge', a new disco, an,d the intention, at
least, to play music that is not only danceable
but recognisable. O n the opening night —
this Saturday — the Lounge will play host to
a new band Calendar Crowd, who have been
generating a great deal of interest on the
London circuit, and after that the disco will
take over until the early hours of the
morning.
With an opening night like that, how can it
fail? Well come along and see...
WELLSOC
All in the mind?
What are the powers of the mind? Aside from
the obvious ones, other so called sixth-
senses have been suggested. Of these
telepathy is probably the best known. This is
the process by which two people can
communicate without any other means
except that of the mind. Clairvoyance, also
known as remote viewing, is another
frequently suggested ability. This allows
people to 'see' distant objects while in a
closed room. A series of experiments at
Princeton University have produced some
exciting results in this area, and were
featured in a recent Horizon program.
Perhaps the most dramatic power
suggested is that of psychokinesis.
This week Wellsoc will investigate the
powers of the mind with the excellent help of
author and comedian Michael Bentine.
Perhaps more famous for his part in the early
Goon Shows and his invention of the
childrens televison stars The Potties,
Michael Bentine has been involved in
parapsychology for many years. He has
written a number of books on the subject as
well as presenting a large number of talks. As
he is shortly to leave for America, Michael
Bentine will appear on a Tuesday for
Wellsoc, unlike the usual Monday lectures.
His talk, entitled The Powers of the Mind
starts at 7.30pm on Tuesday 16 October in
the Great Hall.
Wellsoc's Monday Lecture this week deals
with the tragic tale of John Merrick, The
Elephant Man. This horribly disfigured man,
who appeared as a circus freak for many
years, was rescued from his degradations by
a Professor from the London Hospital. The
head of Pathology from the same hospital will
tell us the true story of the Elephant Man at
7.30pm on Monday 15 October in Physics
Lecture Theatre 1.
All in all its a big week for Wellsoc. I hope
to see you at both events.
Dave Church
BAG
Nudge, nudge
Wmk,wink
I bet you thought this would be an article
about Zen and the art of Motorcycle
maintainance but its really about sex.
Sex is very interesting and quite useful if
you know how to do it. Firstly you get your
tiddle and wink it down Oxford Street. The
method is quite straight forward. Y o u angle
your tiddle backwards and press on the edge
nearer to yourself, press forcefully and this
has the effect of propelling your wink a rather
large distance.
We will be meeting in the C C U offices
(that is R S M U , C & G U , & RCSU) at 8.30am
to 9.00am on Saturday morning. I hope to
see lots of you there. You can pick up your
licenses, cans and tiddlywinks there.
FELIX Friday 12 October 1984 13

