"... today we must proclaim a bold objective: that within a decade no child
will go to bed hungry, that no family will fear for it's next day's bread and
that no human being's future and capacity will be stunted by malnutrition."
F
- ine words from Henry Kissinger at the
• World Food Conference in Rome, 1974.
Now, ten years later, they mean nothing.
They mean nothing to the 40,000
children who die every day from hunger and
hunger- related diseases in the Third World.
They mean nothing to more than 500
million men, women and children in poor
countries who go hungry every day.
They mean nothing to us in the rich
countries because our Governments fail to
respond to them. They are just words . . .
Millions of words about world
hunger have been written and
spoken in high places, year
after year. All of them
become meaningless as
the shadow of hunger
grows larger over the
earth every day.
The empty talking has
to stop. Now we must
MAKE A STAND
AGAINST
HUNGER!
HUNGER-
THE SILENT
HOLOCAUST
Every three days the same number of human
beings that perished at Hiroshima die from hunger and
hunger-related diseases — in a world that already
produces sufficient food for everyone. And the
problem of hunger is getting worse — within ten years
it is expected that another 50 million will be added to
the evergrowing numbers.
Yet such bleak statistics are not the whole story.
They do not tell of the hundreds of thousands of
people whose futures have been made more secure by
small scale development work. Oxfam is helping, and
has witnessed at first hand the real causes of poverty
and hunger in the Third World.
NATIONWIDE
'HUNGRY FOR
CHANGE' FAST
On October 10th 1984 Oxfam launched a new
Campaign For Justice Not Hunger— Hungry for
Change. On 16th, 17th and 18th November hundreds
of thousands of people throughout the U.K. will be
fasting for change. Join us in a movement campaigning
to beat world hunger. You will not only be
contributing to vital life saving work overseas but you
will be acting in sympathy and solidarity with those
who go hungry every day.
WAYSTO FAST
You can fast for 48 hours, for a day, or just miss a
meal. You can follow a partial fast rather than cutting
out meals altogether — particularly young teenagers
who require lots of energy. Even if you cannot fast, join
in by giving up something — fizzy drinks, or cakes, or
some other favourite for a time.
You can fast at home — with family and
neighbours. You can fast at work — with friends and
workmates. You can get yourself sponsored for each
hour you fast. You can organise a group fast with each
participant being sponsored, with events or speakers
— for detai I
s of how to, phone or write to the Oxfam
Area Office, (not to the Oxfam shop).
WHO CAN FAST?
Everyone who is normally fit can fast for at least
24 hours. You should not fast at all if you are under 10
years old, pregnant, have liver or kidney problems,
suffer from serious illness like diabetes, heart disease,
stomach ulcers or anorexia.
Anyone in poor health or under medical
treatment should consult their doctor.
IMPORTANT: When you do fast: Keep up your fluid
intake and your blood sugar level by drinking water;
fruit juice or milk with a spoonful of honey or sugar, or
suck a barley sugar sweet.
contd. over
rm~T end n IQNCC COCT cno ruoNizc COCT cno ruoNCC
.rriDi. rUK.Lnm locrnoi. rui\.umi ujcn » UK.uuH toe

