KLIXD
FRESHERS'
BALL
Nausea, Melville, Cucumber. These New Ascetics had a
torturous delivery, but their vigorously articulate anguish had
Wagnerian power. Unlike the understandably suicidal Ian
Curtis this man C O U L D sing (like a gulletful of rancid
Woodbine dregs).
The hall was half empty but I overcame my instinct to go and
E N J O Y elsewhere and FELT instead.
Back to entertainment: the best appreciated band (Misty
included) were Rent Party: swing (+ rap from Lucky Luciano
Lookalike). I liked them, they can play: that should beenough...
Their sartorial date is aimed at by all in the band but with various
degrees of success and contemporary influence.
The Mulatto trumpeter enjoyed himself too much to reach
often the depths of soulful bop. No Subterraneans these, but
less of the Benny Hill theme tune and more of the 'Little Red
Rooster", the engaging charm, with a honing of the talent and
your reputation could grow bigger than the rim of the sullen
one's fedora. (Sorry the proselytising but theygavemeadrink).
They are playing in the Smoke October 15, 17, 19, 21, 23, check
N M E for venues. (The cheque is in the post?)
Now the bit I've been D R E A D i n g : Misty in Roots. They played
the classics, and an encore: 'Ghetto of the City' and 'Mankind',
but antagonised the crowd by ignoring their howls for an
encore. Even given that the 'fans' knowledge of them was
mostly restricted to: 'they're meant to be quite famous'. When I
raised the point later on they pleaded deafness, and the Rasta
laid back laissez-faire approach grated: 'Enjoyee yoself mon'.
Unhappily, their performance seemed hollow and lacking in
committtment never reaching the peaks of their recorded
performance in Steve's collection.
Beam Me Up Again.
Misty and Roots at Freshers' Ball
A messy juxtaposition of the style, approach and musicality of
four acts.
My first impression of T a m i n g the Outback' was a really
decadent yaah shock of peroxided protein attached to a stringy
blanched nondescript. Welcome distraction appeared in the
form of a couple of T O T P dancer flunkies whose ablilities
almost surpased those of the 'Act' who exuded a supersonic
noise devoid of melody and punctuated by interminable,
incompetent blasts of neu H M .
luckily, I didn't recognise them when I strode into their
dressing room later on and wasforcedtocommunicatewiththe
motley crew on the flimsy postulate that I, the thinking music
person wished a quote for massive, musically literate
readership. Their'socially aware' response (after ten minutes of
silence, suspicion and sniggering): 'refreshing, new exciting',
'Victory to the Miners!', 'right of Rovershal and left of
Crupottum', mumbles about Ulysses from the automata's 'co-
lyricist' (a shifty eyed slimey type). I left the room thinking:
'tame, tired and tedious'.
'Refreshing, new', but not exciting in any credible sense were
the Doctor's Children who had a cleansing effect after T T O .
Adherents of a performance ethos as limp as that of Robert
Smith (but without the funny clothes and wig), these kiddies
stimlate the vituperative glands no end: monochrome Proust, Photos: Nigel Atkinson
FELIX Friday 12 October 1984 5

