FEATURED
Money off your rent
At the beginning of April 1983 the 'Unified
Housing Benefit' system came into full
operation across the UK. This system
replaced the old rent and rate rebate scheme
and removed responsibility for meeting
housing costs for those on supplementary or
unemployment benefit from the DHSS to the
local housing authorities.
The scheme introduced two new types of
housing benefit and a bureaucratic
nightmare that has kept Town Halls in
turmoil for over a year.
1 Certified Housing Benefit and Housing
Benefit Supplement
These benefits are only available to those
able to 'sign on' as unemployed and available
for work in the area in which they are paying
rent. Therefore they are not applicable to
full-time students during term time but they
do provide the quickest way to get the
highest proportion of your rent money back
over the vacations.
2 Standard Housing Benefit
This replaces the old rent and rate rebate
scheme and provides help with housing costs
for those not receiving supplementary
benefit. This benefit is applicable to students
in term time and to those who need to claim
back housing costs during the short
vacations but are unable or unwilling to go
through the 'signing on' procedure.
STANDARD HOUSING BENEFIT
This benefit is designed to help those on a
low income (including students) with their
rent and/or rates costs. Under the current
regulations both students in council and
private rented accommodation (including
those occupying under license agreements)
and those in College Halls, Houses and Head
Tenancie s are eligible to apply.
Unfortunately for those in IC owed
accommodation (ie Halls and Houses but not
Head Tenancies), since your rates are paid
by the University Grants Committee you are
not eligible for a rate allowance, and since
your rents include gas and electricity your
term time rebates are likely to be small, but it
is always worth applying.
HOIV TO CLAIM
Application forms for Westminister,
Kensington and Chelsea, Hammersmith and
Fulham, Lambeth, Wandsworth, Merton,
Ealing and Hounslow are available from
Student Services, for other boroughs visit
your local Town Hall. When you submit your
form you will need to include proof of your
grant from your local Education Authority,
proof of your rent ie rent book/rent
receipts/letter from your landlord (Student
S e r v i c e s if y o u are in C o l l e g e
accommodation) and a note of your term
dates. Remember these claims cannot be
backdated so the longer you delay the more
money you could be losing! Once the
housing authority are in receipt of your
application form they may ask for any
evidence relating to your claim which they
deem necessary and if they do not receive
such evidence within six weeks of their
request they will assume your claim to be
withdrawn, so make sure you reply promptly
to all letters received. Also remember that
many authorities insist on students writing to
their authority at the start of each vacation
specifically requesting a reassessment for
that period so make sure you do this if you
wish a vacation assessment to be done (ie if
you are not going to be 'signing on' for the
vacation).
Agnes sends her love, Ginny and Arthur both miss you and, by the way, your rent rebate has
just arrived.
HOW TO CALCULATE YOUR
STANDARD HOUSING BENEFIT
This can only be a rough guide as the
regulations are complicated and further
additions and subtractions may be made
according to an individuals circumstances.
HVorfc out your needs allowance these are:-
Single person £43.05
Couple £63.50
Each dependent child £11.90
2 U/orfc out your gross weekly income
The undergraduate student grant breaks
down to £59.29 pw during term time of which
£19.45 is disregarded for rent (but not rate)
rebate purposes leaving an income of £39.84
pw for rent rebates but the full £59.29 for rate
rebates. The vacation element in the grant is
£24.55 and no disregard is made on this
figure. Add on also any additional income
from sponsorships, scholarships, interest on
savings etc.
3 Work out eligible weekly rent and rates
If your rent includes any gas or electricity
charges these will be deducted from your
rent. If amounts are not specified deductions
will normally be heating £6.05 pw, cooking
£0.70 pw, hot water £0.70 pw, lighting £0.50
pw. Your rent will then be divided into rent
and rates. Rates will either be based on the
rateable value of the property in which you
live or will be assumed to be a set proportion
of your total rent (usually 30-35%). During
term time students on a grant must deduct
£19.45 from their remaining weekly rent to
get their 'eligible rent' figure. No deductions
are made from rates or vacation rents.
4 Calculate the rebate/allowance
Work out if the weekly income is more or
less than the needs allowance (N/A)
a) If income = N / A rebate/allowance:
= 60% weekly rates and 60% eligible weekly
rent
b) If income is less than N/A:
Rates: 60% weekly rates plus 8% of difference
between income and N / A
Rent: 60% eligible weekly rent plus 25% of
difference between income and N / A
c) If income is more than N/A:
Rates: 60% weekly rates minus 9% of
difference between income and N / A
Rent: 60% eligible weekly rent minus 26%
difference between income and N / A
The main disadvantage with Standard
Housing Benefit is the time it can take for
your money to arrive (anything from one to
nine months). It is worth keeping in touch
with your Housing Authority since some of
them have a disconcerting habit of
temporarily 'losing' claims if it can save them
the trouble of processing them. If you do
have particular difficulties with your cliam,
call into Student Services and we should be
able to help coax authorities into action.
Next week: How to appeal if you think that
your rent rebate is wrong.
FELIX Friday 12 October 1984

