["FEATURE FEATURED
Four Weeks in August
Dramsoc at the Fringe
On Saturday August 4th Mr Matthew Chevassut, the Dramsoc
president, boarded the overnight London to Edinburgh coach,
equipped with a change of socks and a bottle of vodka. At
approximately 6.30am Sunday morning he stumbled wearily from
the coach clutching in one hand his socks and in the other an empty
vodka bottle. The 1984 tour to the Edinburgh Fringe had begun....
This was Dramsoc's fourth Edinburgh tour, and
for the second year the society was running a
fringe venue as well as producing four shows of its
own, under the touring name of 'Beit Theatre'. In
all about 40 members were involved, many of
whom were concentrating on acting, but there was
also a large and highly experienced technical
contingent. In fact it is chiefly in the technical and
administrative departments that a tour to the
Edinburgh Festival Fringe represents a
particularly acute workload; preparations for the
summer were already underway at the start of the
previous autumn term. For the majority of the
touring party, however, 'Edinburgh' began as soon
as their summer exams had finished; in not much
more than six weeks all four shows had to be
brought to performance standard. For most of the
actors this meant four or five evenings per week
were spent at rehearsals. There was also a vast
amount of work to be done designing and building
sets, collecting props and arranging the lighting
and sound effects. As well as this, posters and
programmes for four shows had to be prepared.
Before anyone had time to forget a line, it seemed,
August had arrived, and with it a forty-ton truck
full of things theatrical departed for the north.
The first week in Edinburgh was spent in
frenzied activity as the Dramsoc die-hards
(advance party) struggled to convert St John's
church hall into a venue fit for three weeks of
'Po' cast, somewhere on the District Line
Sara Holmes-Woodhead tempts gambler Mike
Bridgeland with a glass of lemonade
almost non-stop theatre. 'Setting up' involved
erecting a considerable amount of scaffolding,
fixing tabs to most of it, hanging upwards of eighty
stage lights, building a banked seating area and an
awful lot more there isn't room to list. The
responsibility of running the venue dictated that
someone always had to be on hand to supervise
the other groups who were using the theatre, with
the result that a few of the society's martyrs never
seemed to leave the church.
On the whole, none of our own productions
were received as well as had been hoped; there
was certainly no show which achieved the same
outstanding success as the previous year's 'What
do you say before you say goodbye?
Of the two main productions, which ran on
alternate nights, 'The Gambler' did slightly better
in terms of audience figures. The play was an
adaptation, by the director Dave Wheatley, of the
novel by Dostoyevsky. Unfortunately the press
reaction (particularly important for small
companies at the Fringe) was no more than
moderate. The Scotsman in particular contented
itself with pointing out that the play lacked the
depth of the novel (hardly surprising, since it had
to be condensed into a one hour performance). It
was encouraging to receive some more
constructive comments from the general public.
The parallel production, 'Po', seemed to
polarize the reviewers. The play was written by ex-
IC student Graham Brand, directed by Adam
Tandy and was set in futuristic London. In the
Festival Times it received this glowing accolade;
'Po is a new play written by Graham Brand and
a very good one too. Set after the next war has
broken out, in a deserted London, it examines the
old problem of the release of 'savage' instincts
when the existing society breaks down. The
emphasis on the spirit of the city is a change from
the normal approach, and is refreshing and
successful. The acting is of a high quality and is
excellently cast.'
Radio Forth, on the other hand, carpingly
commented;
'...a sound idea, but the script hasn't enough
impetus to carry the show, says Festival City
Radio reviewer Aubrey Dickson. The actors don't
help things along and the end result is a complete
mishmash. Try to miss it.'
The other two Dramsoc shows were both
directed by ageing duo Nick Moran and Ross
Darling. 'Piggies in the Middle' by John Ashby was
a childrens play with music and attracted several
appreciative afternoon audiences.
'Derek' by Edward Bond was the only play
wtitten by an established playright, and had been
considered a safe bet, at least as a crowd-puller.
Surprisingly, Bond's blatantly left-wing political
themes did not go down well with the pressmen.
On this point, however, you will get the chance to
judge for yourselves as there will be three 'post-
Edinburgh' performances of Derek in two weeks
time (Thurs 18th to Sat 20th). Don't miss it; the
play is an excellently constructed piece of theatre.
In general, despite the rather indifferent
reception of our work, Edinburgh was a very
worthwhile experience, and an exciting way to
spend the summer. Anyone interested in joining
Dramsoc might like to consider taking part in next
year's tour. For the moment, however, there are
workshops on Wednesday afternoons at 2.30pm,
or why not just pop along to the Dramsoc
storeroom any lunchtime?
Big Business?
John Burgess looks at the funds for the festival
Entrepreneur Jeff Morris and his masseur Dave
Harrison in 'Piggies'
'What Festival?' We didn't know there was
one. It's a coincidence that we're here to see
the Castle at the same time. I thought the city
was pretty busy when we couldn't find a space
for the car. So who pays for this Festival of
yours? Big business?'
Each year, at the height of the summer, the city
of Edinburgh prepares to face the crowds of
loathsome Americans, excitable Italians and
British culture vultures (sporting tweed jackets or
'Frankie..' T-shirts) for the three week long
International Festival. Many of its visitors are
performers, many more are simply spactators, but
all the Festival's patrons have, to some extent,
come away with the impression that, this year at
least, the whole affair is becoming quite over-rated.
In the month leading up to the Festival,
Edinburgh District Council cleans the streets,
('cleansing' the Council calls it), hangs coats of
arms down Princes's Street, dons as many tartans
as it shelves can stock and becomes Mother
Scotland for a month. 'Balmorality', is how Dr
Jonathan Miller, the new chairman for the Fringe,
describes it. 'Scotland has been a sort of arena on
which the English project colourful romantic
fantasies. The awful thing is the way the Scot's
accept it. All this plaid and wee drams and
heather.'
A glance through the official programme
confirms it. One of the centrepieces of the Festival,
Sir David Lyndsay's 'Ane Satyre of the Thrie
Estates'is transformed from a 16th century
morality play into a spectacle 'full of action, music
and song'. 'It's never been done before', said its
director, Mr Owen Dudley Edwards, 'After all they
say about the poor old Festival, this is one of these
things we do not have the facilities or the money to
do at any other time. During the Festival we can do
it and afford a cast of this magnitude and quality'.
The Fringe Festival too lacks much original
Scottish theatre. There are some notable
exceptions,such as Graeae Theatre's
'FizzPunchFlipFlingZombie Sidecar Pick-Me-Up',
an exceptional cabaret performed by an
alarmingly frank disabled theatre troupe. Apart
from these however the programme is bleak: kilts
and Ceilidh, Burns and bagpipes all serve to
remind us that the Festival is a showcase for
British talent and Scotland is our host.
Not that the city is complaining. Well, not too
much anyway. For the Edinburgh Trader's
Association, the Festival is a time to make lots of
money. The Tartan Kilt Shop on Prince's Street
hangs a sign which reads 'If Your Name Is Here
Then We Stock Your Tartan', (the list is
impressively long); street corner bakeries stock
scotch pies (at a 'Festival Price!'); scalding hot,
unglazed pastry filled with petrified Kit-E-Kat;
highland dancing takes place in the gardens below
the Castle, and the be-bagpiped Rev Cameron
busks and bible-beats the confused passers by
with a voice louder than the city's traffic.
The real losers during the Festival, however,are
the visiting theatre companies themselves. This
year, the cost of hiring Edinburgh's top venues
have soared. The largest venue on the Fringe
'Assembly Productions, forked out £20,000 for the
Assembly Rooms in George St, 20% more than
they paid last year. Little wonder that ticket prices
here were well in excess of £3.00. The Circuit, an
extraordinary network of marquee-tents situated
in a large bomb-crater, a mile south of Edinburgh's
West End, did not appear in the Fringe listings this
year. The land has been bought by the Lyric
Theatre who are holding it for further
development. The Transport Hall, admittedly not
in Central Edinburgh, but with as much potential
and capacity as the Assembly Rooms was
occupied by just one principal company, the
Oxford University College Players, who put on
nine shows to make the lease worthwhile. 'We've
reached a critical point', said Mr William Burdett-
Coutts, Artistic Director for Assembly
Productions, 'in future, we must have more
funding from local authorities, from the Arts
Council and from sponsorship'.
But the Scottish Arts Council, doubtless aware
of the increasingly English flavour of the Festival
has cut back heavily on its funding. According to
Mr Timothy Mason, Director of the Scottish Arts
Council, 'our priorities lie necessarily with
organisations which offer employment and
entertainment 52 weeks a year rather than with a
three week event. The Festival was an obvious
area for change.' Little funding is available from
Edinburgh District Council or from commerical
sponsors either. The Labour leader for the
Council, Mr Alex Wood, described the Festival
Society as 'a self-selecting society of academic and
cultural elite'. Commercial companies,
apprehensive moneylenders at the best of times,
feel they have gone as far as they can in the way of
sponsorship; both the Fringe and the Jazz Festival
were heavily subsided this year.
The position seems to have reached a
stalemate. The larger promoters require a profit to
stage their shows next year and have had to book
many established artists to ensure a full house.
Independant and university groups, although
generally self-sufficient, rely heavily on big names
from whom to tap their audience, and they too will
stage established and traditional theatre; the
festival turns into a variety show. Nevertheless
someone's veiws will have to change if the larger
venues are to cope next year, though there are
some who hope they do not.
Sean Macrae, Mike Bridgeland and Nikki Scott at the roulette table
Friday 12 October 1984

