Marie-Laure Hicks looks into political gossip from the Far East
hina is one of the largest
and fastest growing econo-
mies in the world and (to
an extent) the country that
gave us Jacqui Chan (I’m totally go-
ing to watch Rush Hour now – Tim).
At a time when the rest of the world,
especially the Eurozone, is turning
towards China to solve their (money)
problems, China is having its own lit-
tle personal troubles. The year 2012 is
proving to be rich in political gossip.
The Bo Xilai Scandal
Bo Xilai was party secretary in
Chongqing. In February, his right
hand Wang Lijun sought refuge in
the US consulate following a possible
corruption investigation. In March,
criticism mounted against Bo includ-
ing from Wen Jiabao, the premier. In
July, Bo’s wife Gu Kailai was charged
with the murder of British business-
man Neil Heywood and ﬁnally given
a suspended death sentence. In Sep-
tember, Wang was tried in secret and
sentenced to 15 years in jail, Bo was
expelled from the Communist party
and charged with corruption, abuse of
power, maintaining improper sexual
relationships and responsibility in re-
lation to the murder.
The scandal has been perceived as
politically motivated, and one of the
rare times the party has washed its
dirty laundry in public. Bo’s dismissal
has come as a surprise: he was seen as
a popular leader and up for promotion
in the coming leadership succession.
Bo had developed a policy model that
comprised low-cost housing and wel-
fare, a distribution of wealth, which
diﬀers from the government’s policy.
The scandal is still cloaked in mys-
tery. Many question the oﬃcial story
of the murder, cyanide poisoning over
a ﬁnancial row, and claim that the Gu
Kailai present at the trial was a look-
a-like. The charges raised against Bo
have also caused some diﬃculties to
the party as it is seen that these could
apply to a number of senior party
members. Bo Xilai has not been seen
since the spring.
The Japanese Islands Dispute
It all started when the private owners
of Senkaku/Diaoyu islands sold them
to Japan. Japan, China and Taiwan all
lay territorial claims over the islands.
Following the acquisition, pre-existing
tensions escalated. Protests broke out
in China; some Japanese goods are be-
ing boycotted and a Toyota has been
attacked; a ﬂoat of Taiwanese ships
was pushed back by Japanese water
cannons; 52,000 seats on ﬂights be-
tween China and Japan have been
cancelled and a bullet was sent to the
Chinese embassy in Tokyo.
Concerns that a military conﬂict
might ensue were not appeased by
China launching its ﬁrst aircraft car-
rier. Military action however does not
seem to be on the agenda of either
country, economic and industrial ties
between the nations are too impor-
tant. Meetings over the row have be-
gun on the side-lines of the UN Gen-
eral Assembly, although it is diﬃcult
to see how either country can change
its position with both Japan and China
undergoing political change over the
next months.
The Ferrari Crash
In March, a Ferrari was involved in a
big car crash in Beijing. Within hours,
photos of the crash had been removed
from the internet and searches for
the word “Ferrari” had been blocked.
More recently, there have been claims
that the driver was the son of Ling Ji-
hua, a prominent member of the rul-
ing party. Ling Jihua has been reposi-
tioned from head of the party’s general
oﬃce of the central committee to
head of the united front work depart-
ment in September, likely preventing
a promotion to the Politburo during
the upcoming leadership succession.
Critics believe this may be linked to
the Ferrari incident. The Party has
been strongly criticised and scruti-
nised over the lifestyle and riches of
its leading members. Revelations re-
garding the lavish lifestyle of Bo Xilai,
his relatives, and other Party members
has been a great embarrassment amid
growing inequalities in the country.
Leadership Succession
On 8th November 2012, the 18th
Chinese Communist Party congress
will start and the new leadership will
be announced. Successions in lead-
erships have only occurred on three
previous occasions, with the ﬁrst two
resulting in the Cultural Revolution
and the Tiananmen Square massa-
cre. The general consensus is that Xi
Jinping will succeed as president and
Li Keqiang as premier. The succes-
sion is much less clear concerning
the remaining members of the ruling
Politburo Standing Committee. Dur-
ing the congress, the Party is expected
to put on a show of unity and conti-
nuity, masking the divisions and fac-
tions within it. The European China
Research and Advice Network does
not expect any major shift in policy,
with the new leadership focusing
on growth and national interests. Xi
Jinping has however suggested pos-
sible democratic reforms in the long
term. Maintaining economic growth,
controlling inﬂation, and keeping the
population happy will be the main
challenge. This change in power will
shape the political landscape for the
next ten years and have to deal with
the world economic crisis, growing
internal inequalities, territorial dis-
putes, a massive economy, and the
power that comes with it.
C
It’s conference season, that time of
the year when the parties’ eyes are all
(overtly, at least) focused on the up-
coming general election, and reading
some of the coverage of this weeks’
Labour and Lib Dem events you’d be
forgiven for thinking it was due to
take place in a couple of months rath-
er than years. The Tories’ have even
launched their ﬁrst anti-Labour post-
er of the election campaign: a crude
bit of photoshopping of which Lord
Ashcroft said “If I had recently do-
nated funds to the Tories I would be
asking what on earth CCHQ thought
it was doing with my money.” [Might
we recommend you contact the Felix
team for better graphics works?]
The open question, even after these
two years of debate, is whether we’ll
have to wait till 2015 or not. The
coalition, however improbably, trun-
dles on, and the picture from the Lib
Dems in Brighton last week suggests
they’re still committed to the Coali-
tion, but pushing hard to retain their
separate identity. Delegates voted to
continue supporting Osborne’s aus-
terity measures, but also called on the
party to oppose the so called ‘Secret
Courts’ legislation proposed by the
coalition.
The other big question with the Lib
Dems is whether these displays of in-
dependence are being noticed at all.
Lib Dem support has not so much
stagnated as nose-dived. But two
years is a long time; it’ll be an uphill
struggle, but the delegates in Bright-
on seemed united and with Ashdown
brought in to head the campaign the
party may well succeed in restoring
itself.
The Labour conference in Man-
chester, meanwhile, seemed to be
about getting Ed Miliband noticed,
and this is Labour’s own uphill strug-
gle. A triumphant address to party on
Tuesday seemed to earn him some
much needed credibility, most of
which seemingly evaporated the next
morning during an interview with
Evan Davis on Today. For Labour, the
next two years are less launching a
manifesto as bolstering their leader.
Conferences and Confidence – or lack thereof?
Padraic Calpin Politics Editor
POLITICS
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
12
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sex Scandal in Chongqing (and more important news)
Reuters AFP/Getty Images
PA
Reuters Imaginechina
Spot the difference? Gu Kailai before and at her trial
[Insert some kind of funny and witty joke
about Politics]
Help needed. (With ads apparently – Tim)
Write for Politics. Email us at:
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Pull a face
like a twat
Nick. Yep,
just like
that, nice
one
“Damn it,
Ed stole
Disraeli”

