Balans-ed meal
The Balans menu is an eclectic mix of
dishes from Thai to Italian and a wide
variety of cocktails. It is a café style
restaurant, which specialises in cock-
tails. If you can’t agree where to eat
out, then this is a great place for you
as there’s something for everyone on
the menu.
In hindsight the starters were the
best part of the meal; I really couldn’t
fault them. I generally believe in asking
the staﬀ what they would recommend
and they do know what’s best when it
comes to the menu. Our waiter was
really helpful (and ﬂirty may I add),
and gave us some useful pointers.
We took his advice on sharing start-
ers. We ordered the truﬄed chicken
liver parfait with balsamic red onion
marmalade and sourdough toast; it
was fantastic. I love the combination
of the meaty liver and the sweet onion
marmalade. I may have to learn how
to make this in the near future. Liver is
an acquired taste so I wouldn’t order it
on a whim. Our second starter was the
chicken potstickers with a sambal olek
dip, which the waiter encouraged us to
order – and rightly so – it was really
delicious. This is something anyone
could order, as (excluding vegetarians)
who doesn’t like a chicken dumpling?
By this point the sauvignon blanc
was ﬂowing (I’m no wine buﬀ but it
was tasty) and a live Jazz band started
playing. They were great and it did
lure the punters in, maybe because of
the small surface area of the lead sing-
er’s skirt, or maybe because it created
quite an atmosphere. If you like that
kind of stuﬀ – live bands that is, not
short skirts – I heard that they have
a band on every Wednesday night.
I should mention that it was pretty
empty when we arrived, but that was
probably because it had just turned
7pm and it was a weekday night. Nev-
ertheless it never reached full capacity.
Maybe the Soho branch (where Balans
originated) or others are busier earlier.
On to the mains: we had salmon ﬁsh
cakes, tuna steak and a side portion of
green beans. My ﬁshcakes were really
great and well-seasoned. The chive
butter sauce complemented the ﬁsh
well. It also came with a poached egg
on top, which I personally prefer more
cooked, but it went well with the ﬁsh.
There was a large amount of wilted
spinach but in my opinion the more
the merrier when it comes to vegeta-
bles. It was great to have something
lighter with the rest of the main. The
tuna steak came with a sauce of cherry
tomatoes, capers, pine nuts, olives and
gremolata. The tuna was well done
but I don’t like capers so I’d never or-
der that dish (but I’ll avoid having a
rant about them). It deﬁnitely needed
something on the side so the green
beans were an essential addition; they
were perfectly cooked and had a nice
seasoning. A sign of a good chef is one
that doesn’t overcook their veggies. I
will mention that the waiter did ad-
vise us to order the Thai curry which
is apparently their signature dish.
I’d had a curry the previous night so
I wasn’t in the mood for another but
when someone next to me ordered it
I instantly suﬀered from severe food
envy. It looked and smelled amazing
and it is also one of the cheaper items
(only £10.95) on the mains section of
the menu.
By this point I was stuﬀed to the
brim. I didn’t manage to ﬁnish dessert.
I don’t know what possessed me to or-
der the largest, sweetest thing I could,
but I ordered the banoﬃ sundae
which came with a large helping of ice
cream and crushed amaretti biscuits.
This was hard to enjoy as I was so full
but if you have a large sweet tooth/
stomach you’d enjoy it. We also or-
dered a lemon sorbet which was much
lighter (note to self: order sorbet after
massive starter and main) and it was
delicious – it really freshened up the
palate after a massive meal.
All in all the food is reasonably
priced, and if you optimise the use of
the 2-4-1 deals they do on cocktails
and the live music it would be a great
deal too. A main sets you back around
£14 but the burgers/ wraps/ salads set
you back a mere £8-£9. We didn’t in-
vest in cocktails but they did look im-
pressive. I get the impression that Bal-
ans seems like a great place to order
several items on the menu to share,
have a cocktail, and a natter. I’m going
to head to the Soho branch soon. All
in all there was good food and good
company: it’s a thumbs up from me!
Balans (Earls Court branch)
239 Old Brompton Road, London,
Greater London SW5 9HP
Monday-Thursday, Sunday:
7.30am-12am
Friday / Saturday: 7.30am-1am
Sophia Goldberg Food Editor
FOOD
La Famiglia
It doesn’t seem quite right
to say there’s a dodgy part
on the King’s Road. But
there is, just beyond the
trendy Bluebird brasserie,
where the pavement gets
a bit dirtier, the shops a
bit more Londis. It is here
that one stumbles upon
La Famiglia restaurant. A
place that proves eating out
is just as much about the at-
mosphere as it is about the food.
When it first opened, La Famiglia was a delightful place frequented by Ital-
ian expats looking for genuine Italian food. Sadly, only the food has remained
unchanged. The expats have been replaced by the sort of people that read Mi-
chael Winner’s weekly tosh in the even toshier newspaper-cum-tabloid that
has become The Sunday Times (yes, Mr Murdoch, it may be a bit rich coming
from a student newspaper). La Famiglia’s website even quotes the chap in their
review section – but then, this is a website that also states “Like a vintage wine,
La Famiglia simply improves with age” and endlessly name drops “[…] the place
has attracted the likes of Bridget Bardot, Michael Caine, Peter Sellars and Prin-
cess Margaret.” Sometimes there just isn’t enough vomit in the world. Rustic
charm has been wretchedly replaced by urban vulgarity.
Don’t get me wrong. The food is still first class, proper hearty Italian cuisine
at its best. No messing about, just putting the best ingredients on a good-sized
dish and plonking it on your table. But as I sat there, with a delicious vitello
tonnato sitting in front of me, my mouth just could not fully appreciate the
brilliance of the meal. My ears were under siege (for an overly heavy parallel,
imagine the Persian invasion of Greece at the battle of Marathon), the constant
stream of profanities coming from an odious, fat Australian to my left (no, not
you Mr Murdoch, you’re skinny) just too much to handle. And to my right, two
late comers joined an already overly crammed table and gleefully wedged their
chairs closer and closer to mine. My friend and I didn’t have the strength or
resilience the Greeks showed in 490 BC – we simply finished our main course,
got the bill, and vowed to never return to this offence on what should have
been a really cracking dinner.
One Berry Nice Pie in the Sky
Berry Pie
(ModiﬁedrecipefromChloe’sKitchen)
The crust
2.5 cups plain ﬂour
1 tbsp sugar
1 tsp salt
1 cup cold margarine cut in small
cubes 1⁄2 cup ice cold water
The ﬁlling
4 cups berries
1⁄4 cup plain ﬂour
1 tsp cinnamon
1⁄2 cup sugar
Milk for brushing
Sugar for sprinkling
Procedure:
Preheat the oven at 180°C.
Lightly grease a 9-inch pie pan. In a
medium bowl mix ﬂour, sugar, and
salt. Using a knife cut the margarine
into the ﬂour mixture until you get
a crumbly consistency. Then, add
the cold water 1 tbsp at a time and
mix. Add water until the dough just
holds. Be careful not to overwork the
dough otherwise you will get a very
hard crust. Separate the dough in 2
pieces and place it in the refrigerator.
After half an hour, remove the ﬁrst
piece from the refrigerator and roll
it out until it is 1/8 inch thick. Fit the
dough in the pan and refrigerate for
10 minutes. Then, make the ﬁlling by
mixing all the ingredients and ﬁll the
piecrust. Similarly, roll out the second
piece of dough and place it on top of
the ﬁlling. Brush the pie with milk and
sprinkle with sugar. Bake for about
55 minutes or until the pie is nicely
browned.
YiangoMavrocostanti Food Editor
13
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The food review
Satisfaction level:
Over 3.142%, surely...
Food: Have It Your Way
(Slogan may/may not have been pilfered from a known joint)
Keen on writing for us? Get in touch!
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
base2stay.com
7 Langton Street,
The World’s End,
Chelsea, London SW10 0JL
So Italian it
comes with a
scooter outside
Charles Betts

