SCIENCE
Unexpected science at the Imperial Fringe
ImperialCollegedescribetheFringe
as “a series of public events exploring
the unexpected side of science”, and
like the Edinburgh Fringe, and other
events with this name, there is a focus
on the stranger side the ﬁeld it covers;
in this instance, academic research.
The Imperial Fringe is part of
the new Imperial Festival, which
launched last year with a two-day
show of what Imperial College does,
aimed at the general public. The Im-
perial Fringe, however, has a slightly
diﬀerent remit, looking at speciﬁc
scientiﬁc topics inspired by research
currently being undertaken by Impe-
rial researchers.
Fringe events appear to be monthly,
with events for both this and next
month announced, though dates
for future talks up to and including
March have also been given.
Topics for the events currently
include the study of how the brain
works and fear, as well as another on
bones and the latest ‘groundbreaking’
research currently being undertaken
by Imperial researchers in this area.
Attendance is free and is open to
students, staﬀ, and the general pub-
lic, and no registration is necessary. A
pay bar is open all evening.
More information can be found on
the Imperial website, at http://www3.
imperial.ac.uk/festival/fringe.
Philip Kent Science Editor
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
Solar cells get a boost
Scientists at the University of Cali-
fornia Santa Barbara have developed
an improved method of generating
solar electricity. Rather than making
use of the photoelectric eﬀect, this
newly designed solar cell generates
electricity while splitting water into
oxygen and hydrogen gas. In the past,
the main diﬃculty in building such
cells has been ﬁnding a catalyst that
isn’t simply oxidised by the highly re-
active molecular oxygen involved in
the process. Recent developments in
the ﬁeld of cobalt-based catalysts have
now made them a more feasible alter-
native.
The cell makes use of a phenom-
enon known as surface plasmon
resonance (SPR), which is the reso-
nant oscillation of valence electrons
in a solid when it is hit by photons of
the electrons’ natural frequency. The
main beneﬁt of SPR is that the energy
can be built up gradually, as each in-
cident photon of a suﬃciently similar
frequency contributes. This is not the
case in cells using the photoelectric
eﬀect, where only high-frequency
photons (in the UV range) have any
eﬀect – the energy of lower frequen-
cy photons is wasted. In SPR, the
amount of energy generated is simply
proportional to the intensity of inci-
dent light.
Plasmons are best excited by pho-
tons in the visible spectrum. This is
another advantage over photovoltaic
cells, which can only use photons in
the UV spectrum; the Earth’s atmos-
phere is an excellent absorber of UV
light, which is good news for our skin,
but inconvenient for any method of
generating electricity which relies
on UV photons. Visible photons are
much more abundant on the Earth’s
surface. The fact that visible photons
have a lower frequency and thus less
energy to give would decrease the
system’s eﬃciency, as three or four
photons are needed to release a single
electron, but this is more than made
up for by the increased number of us-
able photons.
Usually, the diﬃculty in using SPR
to generate electricity is doing so
without damping the oscillating mo-
tion to the point of uselessness. The
device designed by the group of sci-
entists solves this issue by using tita-
nium oxide-capped gold electrodes.
These rods are only 90 nm in diam-
eter; an array of them is then connect-
ed to the platinum counterelectrode
(where hydrogen is evolved). The
small size of the rods limits the extent
of the plasmon’s motion, reﬂecting it
back onto its own path, creating an in-
terference pattern, which in turn gen-
erates a stronger electric ﬁeld, causing
the electrons to pile up towards the
ends of the rods. The titanium oxide
at each end acts as an electrical insu-
lator, which seems counterintuitive
at ﬁrst, but turns out to be an excel-
lent way of regulating the amount
of energy released from the surface
plasmon. Only electrons of very high
energy manage to tunnel through its
structure, and these are then used
to generate current, while the bulk
of electrons remain, and continue to
power the SPR process.
The “holes” left behind by these
high-energy electrons act like positive
charges, being transferred through
the cobalt-based catalyst wrapped
around the centre of the rods, and
used to combine oxygen radicals into
oxygen gas, completing the reaction.
One aspect of the process is yet to
be explained by any involved parties.
After being exposed to a light source,
the generated current density jumps
to some high value, as expected.
However, instead of plateauing very
quickly, it then proceeds to slowly in-
crease by another third of the original
value. None of the physical processes
involved should take more than a few
seconds, and yet the current density
continues to change for much longer
than this. Further investigation is thus
necessary to fully explain the phe-
nomena involved.
DOI: 10.1021/nl302796f
Annina Sartor Writer
ACS Publications
Peak absorbance around natural
light increases efficiency
Take a look at the stranger side of research at a new monthly event
Imperial College London
UPCOMING EVENTS
Thursday 25 October 18:00 – 21:00
South Kensington Campus
The science behind our fears: From mad scientists to brain eating zombies, Hal-
loween is steeped in the weird and wonderful world of science. This event takes a
playful glimpse at the science behind our fears, from brains to pandemics via the
science of sleep and a Zombie apocalypse.
Monday 29 November 18:00 – 21:00
South Kensington Campus
Cutting close to the bone: Bones, whether fractured, polished or fused, used as
a cultural symbol, supplier of stem cell, harbingers of joint disease or builder of
tooth palace, form the very building blocks of being human. Meet those at the
forefront of bone research and take a journey beneath your skin to the skeletons
in your closet.
“Iamincrediblyexcitedthatthey
have used my hair style to name
a festival” – Tim Arbabzadah,
Editor-in-Chief
OY, YOU RIGHT THERE READING THIS. WRITE FOR
US... please
Send it all in to: science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

