Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science
Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Clubs & Societies Editor VACANT APPLY
NOW Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski
Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors John Park, Katy Bettany Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar
Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor VACANT APPLY NOW! Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commander VACANT APPLY NOW
Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Al Norman, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham, Chris Richardson, Keir Little, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa, Lizzy Griffiths, Rox Middleton, Kingshuk Dasadhikari General Distraction
Lizzy Griffiths Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen Dedication: This issue is dedicated to Leonard Richard Marshall (2 October 1922 – 29 September 2010). Grandfather, father, and my working class hero.
LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Oh so tired
Hello, I’m groaning at you from my
desk. It’s currently 3am on Wednes-
day, and I’m looking down the barrel of
a very real possibility of an all nighter.
Something nobody ever tells you (but
I’m doing it right now as I feel like
moaning) is just how tiring making
this newspaper can be... but, honestly,
it’s still fun. I wouldn’t swap jobs with
anyone (even if the job is underwear
model fondeller – not that that job ex-
ists; probably bureaucrats ruining the
fucking world again with their red tape
and systems and stuff).
Anyway, now is the crucial time
to decide. All those of you not lucky
enough to be a fresher will know
this question: do I just persevere and
continue the all nighter, or do I go to
bed and get some (brief) sleep. It all
comes down to this: what will make
me the most awake tomorrow morn-
ing? You may think that this is just
self indulgent ramblings of a massive
tool, because that is precisely what it
is. However, it is relevant to students.
I’m essentially doing research for you:
I’m field testing to see which method
is the best and most productive, and
come revision period you’ll be thank-
ing me.
Nokia nightmare
Now onto tackling the big issue of the
day. The new generation of smart-
phones have been released and I
can’t resist giving a quick note on it.
Nokia have been shouting to anyone
who will listen (at Imperial, that’s a
decent amount) that they have “wire-
less charging”. This sounds incredible,
but it’s not exactly as it seems. I’m not
saying they are misleading you all on
purpose, I’m saying they are very good
at marketing themselves.
The way this wireless charging
works is that you plug a cushion thing
into the wall and the phone just sits
on it. So, yeah, it is charging wirelessly
in terms of the phone isn’t plugged
in, but there’s still a wire intimately
involved in the charging process.
They’ve just shifted it from being
straight into the phone to being into a
middle man. It’s not like you can wan-
der around a room and charge your
phone. That’s unfair actually, you can,
it’s just you’d be phoneless, just like
every other phone.
Perhaps you think this is unim-
portant (you’d be right) but there is
a link to a wider issue here. Perhaps
now you’re thinking I’m about to put
in some tenuous social commentary
or observation (you’d be right AGAIN,
you’re really on fire, good job you). The
point is that not everything is always
how it immediately sounds, seems,
and is told to us. Don’t let anybody
sway you with what they want you to
think and feel (erm, except for this text
here). Question marketing, question
everything.
Trusting them?
You’ll notice two stories regarding the
Imperial College Healthcare Trust in
this issue.
It’s fair to say that a lot of people
aren’t fans of the proposals. There are
three proposals on the table, and soon
we will find out the exact outcome. My
personal thoughts are that it would
seem that it is difficult to get a straight
answer out of anyone. It’s hard to find
out exactly what is going on, and how
the plans will affect the students at Im-
perial.
In a perfect world, none of the hospi-
tals will be reduced. We don’t live in that
world, but it would just be appreciated
by everyone if some honesty, rather
than a waffling non-answer, were to be
given to questions. I guess we’ll all have
to wait and see what happens.
COMMENT LONDON TECH
Effects of alcohol Discover London Smartphones?
Always a lively debate in Comment. Three whole
pages of people giving their opinions on all of the
important matters. There’s a thought about Boris
Johnson, some discussion of that sporting thing
over summer. No-one talked about it too much...
We’re launching a brand new competition to try to
help you discover London in some way. Everyone
says that they’ll in some way explore all of the ge-
neric tourist sites in this fair capital, but they usually
never get round to it. Expect some expensive prizes.
All of the latest releases by companies have been
confirmed. It’s safe to say that the iPhone has been
the king for a while, but will Nokia regain the phone
throne? Worth a look just for the beautiful and in-
formative illustrations.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Sleepless nights
Medical Summarizer Wanted
Looking for 4th, 5th or 6th year medical student with medical
understanding.
15 hours a week.
Crompton Medical Centre
London W2 1ND
For further details please contact Mr. Faisal Ahmed on
07776126204
Job Description - Summarizing all medical letters and discharge
summaries from Secondary Care (Hospitals) into the medical
records for each patient at the practice, clinical software used is
EMIS LV.
Textbooks for sale for first year Biochemistry
Molecular Biology of the Cell 4th Edition (some highlighting in
it) - £10
Biochemistry by Voet and Voet 3rd Ed - £20
Chemistry for the Biosciences - £8
Molecular Cell Biology 5th Ed (Lodish) - £15
Molecular Biology 4th Ed (Weaver) - £10
Or we can agree on a package price £50 for all 5. I’m not in Lon-
don at the moment but I can get to South Ken on a day’s notice.
If interested, please contact Angela on akl09@ic.ac.uk.
>>18 >>23 >>39
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER

