UNDERCOVER LONDON
Undercover King: Shrawan Patel
felix@imperial.ac.uk
What this is all about...
Now the academic year has begun I should give a warm welcome to the new
intake of Freshers and a welcome back to everyone else. For those who fall into
the latter category, you may have already checked for Hangman (yes it’s here to
stay), realised there’s a new section titled Coffee Break (still not sure what it is…),
checked the centrefold (wehay, some girls this week) and wondered what on
earth this pullout is all about.
To answer; we here at Felix have devised a monthly competition with prizes
which everybody can get involved with. Our general assumption is that like us,
most Imperial students are rather apathetic and may have never left West Lon-
don, that is besides the occasional visit some facility labelled Piccadilly (mental)
Institute. This we feel has got to change.
Each month we will be printing out for you a handy map of London, alongside
a selection of themed questions, photograph opportunities and tasks. Your job
therefore is to form your teams, answer the questions and complete the tasks for
a chance of winning some substantial prizes (no book tokens we promise) as well
as, of course, getting to know London a little better.
For the first issue we felt it relevant to start with the ‘Top Tourist Attractions’
as most of us (despite good intentions) will never visit them all during our time
at Imperial. However as the months progress and granted you all show some in-
terest in this feature we will send you off to the best brunch spots to the more
obscure sites such as Jack the Ripper’s local pub.
The rules of the game are self explanatory and all must be abided by. Any ques-
tions can be directed to the Felix office in the West Basement of Beit Quad. And
last but not least, we hope you have fun and that over the coming months you
enjoy the opportunity to experience and visit new and interesting spots.
UNDERCOVER LONDON
Rules
1. You will need to form yourselves into teams of 4 or 5 members. (email teams to
Felix before submitting final answers).
2. You do not have to visit the sites in any particular order.
3. The clues require a mixture of written answers and photographs.
4. All photographs must include most members of your team.
5. Try and not be a tool when doing it, and keep everything legal – or we get in
trouble .
6. The cut off for submissions will be Midnight on Sunday 28th October. You will
need to have emailed in your answers and photographs to Felix before this time
to be in with a chance of winning.
7. Verbal submissions will not be accepted. No single item may be submitted
twice.
8. The team with the highest number of points will be declared the winners and
contacted by Felix. In the scenario of a tie, the teams will be placed into a hat
and picked at random. The judges’ decision is final, and no whining, arguing or
pleading will be entertained to alter this decision. Although it may be quite en-
tertaining for us.
9. If any problems, email Felix at felix@imperial.ac.uk.
10. Every effort has been made to try and make the clues easy to understand and
up to date, however things can and will go wrong. Bear in mind that if a ques-
tion suddenly become unanswerable (e.g. an object has been taken off display),
other teams won’t be able to answer it either, so you will not be at an unfair
disadvantage.
11. Play nicely, have fun and most importantly get to know your city just a little
better.
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER 23

