Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
UNDERCOVER LONDON
British Museum
Great Russell Street, London WC1B 3DG
Closest Tube: Holborn / Russell Square
The British Museum was the world’s
ﬁrst national public museum. It was
founded in 1753, and today receives
6 million visitors per year. Somewhat
ironically, the fame of the British Mu-
seum rests on important artefacts from
beyond the British shores. The Museum
has therefore attracted controversy for
holding onto historically signiﬁcant ar-
tefacts which their countries of origin
would like back.
There is no end to the list of things to
watch out for whilst at the British Mu-
seum. The central courtyard (the larg-
est covered public place in Europe) is a
sight in itself let alone the treasures the
museum houses under its roof.
Question - Visit one of the most famous
objects in the British Museum and you
will be able to answer: What shape top
did the Egyptian stela located in the Tem-
ple of Isis at Philae have?
Question - Match each artefact with its
place of origin:
North American
Arctic Palm leaf belum
Malasian Borneo Camera coffin
Mexico Skull house
New Zealand Seal intestine parka
Ghana Ofrenda altar
Solomon Islands Kahu kiwi cloak
Buckingham Palace
Buckingham Gate, London SW1A 1AA
Closest Tube: Victoria / Green Park
Buckingham Palace has served as the of-
ﬁcial London residence of Britain's sover-
eigns since 1837 and today is the admin-
istrative headquarters of the Monarch.
It is a symbol of the British Monarchy, an
art gallery, tourist attraction and home to
some 450 members of permanent staff.
Something to watch out for – besides a
glimpse of a royal entering or leaving – is
the Changing of the Guard (daily dur-
ing the summer months; every other day
during the winter).
Task/Photo – The gates of Buckingham
Palace are forever being besieged by
tourists. Your challenge is to grab as
many of them as possible and take a
single photograph outside of the palace
with everybody waving into the camera.
You will be awarded one point per tour-
ist.
Covent Garden
Covent Garden, London WC2E 8RA
Closest Tube: Covent Garden
Covent Garden is associated with the
former fruit and vegetable market that
used to take place in the central square.
Nowadays however it serves as a popu-
lar shopping and tourist site with a mini
crafts market taking place in the Apple
Hall.
Things to watch out for are the mixed
variety of street performers known for
being funny only to children under the
age of 5 and the close by London Trans-
port Museum.
Question - Inside the central market hall,
you’ll ﬁnd on the floor outside almost
every shop front a concrete and iron gird-
er. That is, except for a handful of stores.
Your team will be awarded one point for
the correct name of each store.
Harrods
Brompton Road, London SW1X 7XL
Closest Tube: Knightsbridge
Harrods is an upmarket department
store located in Knightsbridge. The store
has over one million square feet of selling
space, making it the largest department
store in Europe. By comparison Europe's
second-largest department store has a
retail space of 650,000 square feet. In
November 1898, Harrods showcased
England's ﬁrst escalator, where nervous
customers were offered brandy at the
top to revive them after their 'ordeal'.
Owned by the Fayed brothers from 1985
to 2010 it is currently owned by Qatar
Holdings.
Question – The food courts at Harrods
are a tour de force; with stunning mo-
saics and designs. Whilst taking it all in
you will notice pair of life-size peacocks
which lie opposite to a particular fresh
food stand. What fresh food does this
stand sell?
Kensington Palace
Kensington Garden, London W8 4PX
Closest Tube: High Street Kensington /
Queensway
Kensington Palace is a royal residence lo-
cated in Kensington Gardens. It has been
a residence of the British Royal Family
since the 17th century, and is the official
London residence of the Duke and Duch-
ess of Cambridge (amongst a few other
members of royalty). Parts of the palace
are open to the public with permanent
and temporary exhibitions taking place
within.
Things to watch out for include a small
exhibition displaying a collection of Di-
ana’s dresses (till 28th Oct ‘12) and the
sights of Hyde Park such as the Diana
Memorial,AlbertMemorialaswellasthe
chance to go boating on the Serpentine.
Question - The east front of Kensington
Palace was historically the side facing the
garden. To mark the Queen’s Diamond
Jubilee a green structure decorated with
garden motifs was erected. The lamps
within are supported by metal rods de-
signed to look like what common item?
London Eye
Minster Court, London SE1 7JB
Closest Tube: Waterloo
The London Eye – the tallest Ferris wheel
inEurope–isthemostpopularpaidtour-
ist attraction in the United Kingdom, vis-
itedbyover3.5millionpeopleannually.It
has been said that it has done for London
what the Eiffel Tower did for Paris with
its sole objective of lifting people up and
over the skyline of London – a job it does
brilliantly. If you want the best views
over central London it is deﬁnitely worth
a go, though be warned you should pick
your day carefully!
Things to watch out for include the
nearby London Film Museum and the
stunning views of Westminster Palace
(particularly in the evening) from the
south side of the river.
Photo – The London Eye is the tallest
cantilevered observation wheel. Which
to the non-engineers amongst us means
it should in theory be a little unstable.
Therefore up to 5 points will be awarded
foranamusingphotographofyourgroup
propping/holding up the London Eye.
National Gallery
Trafalgar Square, London WC2N 5DN
Closest Tube: Charing Cross/Embank-
ment
In 1824, parliament paid £54,000 for 38
paintings belonging to the banker John
JuliusAngerstein.Themuseumnowhous-
es over 2300 important works from West-
ern Europe over a combined floor area
equivalent to around six football pitches.
Things to watch out for include Nelsons
Column, the National Gallery and Na-
tional Portrait Gallery.
Question – In the Central Hall of the Na-
tional Gallery, there is a portrait of a doc-
tor. What is his name and who wrote the
book he is holding?
Question – Above a set of stairs you
will spot a list noting some of the most
famous artist of all time. Who is the last
artist in the list?
National History Museum
Cromwell Road, London SW7 5BD
Closest Tube: South Kensington
The National History Museum was origi-
nally once part of the British Museum.
The collections were so appallingly man-
aged in the early Victorian era – with
many specimens sold, burnt or crushed,
and labels lost – it ﬁnally separated from
the British Museum in 1856. The new
building which is surely one of the most
magniﬁcent in London opened to the
public in 1881.
Question – Contained within the dis-
plays on the left-hand wall of the bird
gallery you will see a fossilised counter-
slab of one of the most important and
famous archaeological discoveries. By
heading to the main specimen, you will
be able to answer: what do many of the
distinctive features prove?
Question – By heading to Human Biolo-
gy you might ﬁnd you can speak Martian.
What is the translation of ‘mungle snits’?
Piccadilly Circus
Piccadilly Circus, London SW1Y 4LR
Closest Tube: Piccadilly Circus
Piccadilly Circus forms a link to the thea-
tres on Shaftesbury Avenue, as well as
the Haymarket, and Leicester Square. It
is particularly known for the neon signs
mounted on the corner building on the
northern side.
Things to watch out for include the
shopping, cinemas, theatres, food,
clubs…. basically everything you can
think of. It essentially acts as the heart of
London.
Task – They say that Paris is the city of
love… and they’re right. We have Cupid’s
brother Anteros instead. You might be
able to spot him somewhere in the Cir-
cus and ﬁnd the particular green stall
he is ﬁring his arrow at. Take a picture
of your group outside of that particular
stall.
Royal Opera House
Bow Street, London WC2E 9DD
Closest Tube: Covent Garden
The Royal Opera House is one of the
world’s premier performance venues
and the home to the Royal Ballet, Royal
Opera and Royal Opera House Orches-
tra. For those of you uninitiated into
the world of ballet and opera, the ROH
issues student tickets for a number of
shows each year for £10 or less (see ROH
for details).
Question – Along the wall of the foyer
youwillﬁndaphotographwiththename
of our University in the ballet title. What
are the names of the three dancers pho-
tographed?
St Paul’s Cathedral
StPaul’sChurchyard,LondonEC4M8AD
Closest Tube: Mansion House/St Paul’s
St Paul’s can date its origins back to the
original church founded in AD 604. It is
one of the most famous London land-
marks and at night makes for a rather
dramatic photo taken from the middle of
Millennium bridge.
Question – Outside the front gates to the
cathedral you will see a statue containing
ﬁve women. Of the four round the base
only two are holding golden items. What
are these two items?
Tate Modern
Bankside, London SE1 9TG
Closest Tube: Blackfriars/Mansion House/
London Bridge
The building housing the Tate Modern
started life out as a power station, origi-
nally built in 1947. The turbine hall is 35
metres high and 152 metres long. The
Tate Modern opened in May 2000, and
quickly became one of the UK’s most vis-
ited tourist attractions.
Question – On inspection of the Turbine
Hall floor you will notice a defect which
runs the full 152 meter length of the hall.
Once you’ve found it see if you can dis-
cover which artist created it and what
they called their installation.
Tower of London
Tower Hill, London EC3N 4AB
Closest Tube: Tower Hill
Officially known as Her Majesty's Royal
Palace and Fortress, the Tower of London
is a historic castle on the north bank of
the Thames. Founded in 1066, the tower
has had a variety of uses from a royal
palace to a prison as well as now being a
tourist site and home to the Crown Jew-
els.
Question – Head to the Middle Tower
and you will see a coat of arms above
the entrance way. Whose coat of arms
are displayed and when were they in-
stalled?
Victoria and Albert Museum
Cromwell Road, London SW7 2RL
Closest Tube: South Kensington
The V&A is probably the most direct
descendent of the Great Exhibition of
1851. It was established in 1852 as the
Museum of Manufactures. From the
start it was meant to be a classroom for
the working classes, as an educational
resource to boost industrial productiv-
ity.
Question–OneoftheV&A’smostprized
possessions is a collection of ﬁve note-
books belonging to Leonardo da Vinci.
See if you can ﬁnd the current copy on
display and answer: What drawings does
the notebook contain?
Westminster Palace
Bridge Street, London SW1A 0AA
Closest Tube: Westminster
The Palace of Westminster is the meeting
place of the House of Commons and the
House of Lords, the two houses of the
Parliament of the United Kingdom. Ini-
tially there was royal palace built on the
site in the eleventh century, and as such
Westminster was the primary residence
of the Kings of England. After 1512 it
served as the home of Parliament, which
had been meeting there since the thir-
teenth century.
Something to look out for is the palace’s
neighbour Westminster Abbey as well as
Downing Street and the Churchill War
Rooms.
Task – For obvious reasons, there are
always police guarding the entrances to
Westminster Palace. Your task is to take
as many photographs of your group out-
side Westminster with a different police
officer in each photo.
Good luck and have fun!
The questions: remember that you don’t have to do all of them!

