FASHION
Fashion Editors: Alex Ramadan,
Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Festival Fashion
Marianne Teoh gives us the Fashion low-down from Benicàssim
his summer Felix hit up
the east coast of Spain,
on a mission to discover
the summer styles at
Benicàssim Music Festi-
val (Festival Internacional de Benicàs-
sim).
A summer pilgrimage to a music
festival is essential and Benicàssim is
the place to go. Pay no heed to wor-
ries of mud, the rain and the cold: at
Benicàssim the sky is always blue, the
sun always shines and the beach is at
your doorstep. And without the warm
coat, raincoat or wellies, there will
be plenty of room in your bag for the
fashion essentials of the summer.
Everything about the festival –
bright skies, boho atmosphere, boom-
ing sound system – comes together in
perfect harmony with an unmissable
line-up that demands your attention.
Benicassim sees a beautiful mix of
hazy indie, feel-good pop, and eu-
phoric electro that will suit any music
buﬀ’s taste. The likes of Bob Dylan,
The Stone Roses, Ed Sheeran, Jessie
J and Chase & Status attracted thou-
sands, and were crucial for setting the
fashion scene.
Jessie J surprised with not only a
brilliant performance but also a great
outﬁt. Mixing rock-chic with pretty-
girl, she created a casual and original
look – her shaggy denim cut-oﬀs and
baggy tee complementing her enor-
mous stage presence. An otherwise
kitsch wolf print tee was balanced
with ﬂoral designs and a matching
ﬂoral headband, nailing the classic
festival look!
Miles Kane’s tight leopard print
trouser worked alongside his ﬂam-
boyant guyliner, blowing minimalistic
style out of the water because the best
thing about music festivals is that an-
ything goes. As Kane himself said in
an interview with Q magazine: “It is a
show! You have to feel it. If you feel it’s
right to wear leopard print and eye-
liner, then do it.” Wise words indeed.
Katy B, an outspoken lover of play-
suits, swapped her famous gold se-
quined one for a pretty, silk zip-up
playsuit with an original Hawaiian
print. Totally Enormous Extinct Di-
nosaurs’ Orlando Higginbottom, on
the other hand, preferred costumes,
combining his brilliantly crazy elec-
tro-pop with wild beautiful dancers in
dinosaur-themed outﬁts, making for a
truly stunning show.
But let’s not forget the festival goers
themselves with their well thought-
out attention grabbing looks. Outﬁts
varied from sexy, bohemian, and crea-
tive, to downright bizarre. There were
treacherous troupes of nuns running
wild through the festival, provid-
ing a totally new meaning to ‘sinful
style’. Following the traditional mean-
ing thereof, there were fanny packs/
bum bags teamed unfortunately with
speedos, their bright neon styles
bringing to mind the crying toddler
from which they were stolen.
Although technically there are no
rules to festival fashion; a once a year
occasion where you can wear whatev-
er you want, from dinosaur costumes
to simply running around in your
underwear, there are still many of us
who would like a little more guidance
and inspiration.
So here, I give you the essential tips
for mastering the art of festival fash-
ion to ﬁnd the balance between fun
and fashionable while looking eﬀort-
lessly sassy and chic.
So escape the humdrum of Lon-
don life and dance the night away at
Benicàssim, conﬁdent in what you’re
wearing. This illustrious festival has
simply everything going for it and will
deﬁnitely be top of my list.
See you in Spain next summer!
Photos by Marianne Teoh
T
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
28
HAIR
Bring along some Batiste Dry Shampoo (£4.99 from Boots) or a sea salt spray
to give you that curly beach bum look while keeping your hair manageable and
deceivingly fresh. Or, if you’re feeling adventurous, try my recipe below and
make some yourself!
Girls: A boho braided hairstyle will add so much to your look, whilst keeping
hair off your face. Two cute plaits on each side are easy and effective, but given
that extremes are in, try keeping your hair as long as possible for a hippy look
or cut it all off for an edgy style if you dare.
Homemade Sea Salt Hairspray – a recipe for textured beach curls, for men and
women
1. Fill an 8oz spray bottle with warm water (distilled would be best – grab
some from labs)
2. Add 1 Tbsp of fine sea salt
3. Add a dab of hair gel to add styling control (I used Paul Mitchell Firm Hold
gel)
4. Add 1 tsp of a deep conditioner to prevent your hair drying out (I recom-
mend Aussie 3-minute miracle deep conditioner. Coconut oil works well too
– anything with coconut will give your hair a lovely beachy scent)
5. Shake bottle well and spray generously on dry or damp hair, scrunching and
twisting as you go. Let your hair air dry and enjoy your tousled locks!
ACCESSORIES
A trilby or a panama hat is a must-have for a beach holiday festival like Benicàssim that can be jazzed
up a notch by tying a scarf of flowers around it.
Head bands, flower garlands, head scarves, and even feathered headdresses were all the rage this
summer. See Asos and Dolly Bow Bow for a brilliant range of headgear!
Headgear matched with bandeau tops are the way to go, whilst using floral print scarves as belts is
an easy way to save packing space.
CLOTHING
Bring things that are easy to wear: getting changed in your tent can be tricky.
Guys: Don’t try anything fancy, bring some trusty shorts and a few of your favourite vests and t-
shirts. Roll up the sleeves and soak up the Spanish sun!
Girls: Embrace the sunshine with a wispy and pretty summer dress, but don’t forget the essen-
tial denim cut-off shorts and loose vests. These are comfortable, stylish, and go with absolutely
everything.
TOILETRIES
Bring miniatures: your shampoo, conditioner, shaving cream, and moisturiser will only be used a
few times and you don’t want to lug big bottles around.
Take PLENTY of sunscreen – the summer sun on the Spanish coast is powerful, and a bad burn
could ruin your weekend. The biggest fashion faux pas at Benicàssim had to be the stereotypically
lobster-skinned Brits mooching around camp, regretting their decision to leave the factor-25 at
home.
SHOES
For the gloriously hot Benicàssim festival, you really need a pair of comfy beach sandals to see you
through the day (girls: don’t bother bringing heels). And if you like your moshpits, invest in some
light and stylish trainers like Toms, Keds or Converses to protect your toes.
Check out Dolly Bow Bow (www.dollybowbow.co.uk), an online boutique that sells affordable
vintage-chic clothes and accessories. If you don’t have the time to string flowers together, you can get
beautiful floral headdresses from their online store.
Katy B. Microphones
are for losers, and tal-
anted people – BURRRN
Unlike in
the Olym-
pics, she
actually
left and
stayed
away

