Exquisite corpses
Eva Rosenthal finds beauty beneath the skin
t was a wonderful quality of
Leonardo da Vinci’s, that he
had the abilities, both men-
tal and practical, necessary to
reach the minutiae of a subject
such as to become almost an expert in
ﬁelds that were not his own. Trained
in painting early on in life, but with
an inexhaustible fascination for scien-
tiﬁc learning, he collected ‘interests’
like one might collect ticket stubs. He
took care of each one, obsessing over
it, although, as happens often with
hobbies, forgetting about then for a
while. Leonardo’s works on anatomy
were some of the most detailed he
carried out, intending for them to be
published. His beginnings in the ﬁeld
concerned the true representation of
nature, in particular human and ani-
mal images, in art. Initially, Leonardo
wanted to describe human nature, in
its physiological and psychological as-
pects, for a treatise on painting.
His ﬁrst anatomical studies were of
little scientiﬁc value, being, in essence,
amalgamations of ancient knowledge.
Even so, they were compelling for their
inventiveness and (somehow) wit. One
drawing depicts, in hemisection, a man
and a woman having sex, where some
spiritual beliefs of the era – such as the
belief that semen comes from the head
– win out over science.
However, when Leonardo began dis-
secting animals and obtained access to
human remains, his anatomical draw-
ings became observations, and occa-
sionally, interpretations, of the truth.
He was, moreover, capable of accept-
ing the new ideas that resulted from his
descriptive studies, thus progressing to
a degree unparalleled in 15th century
anatomy. There are drawings of his that
can favourably compare to modern
anatomical work. For example, a study
exposing the muscles in the leg is re-
markable for the precision with which
Leonardo carried out the dissection,
especially under the adverse conditions
prevailing at the time, with cadavers
un-embalmed and falling apart.
The scientiﬁc accuracy of the ana-
tomical drawings is paramount to their
success. But their supreme beauty,
commonly associated with Leonardo’s
works, is what gives them life and vig-
our. The delicacy of a drawing depict-
ing the nervous system, including some
of the complexities of cranial nerves,
spinal cord and spinal nerves, is en-
trancing. Whilst looking at this repre-
sentation of nature, one could imagine
instead seeing a ghostly ﬁgure clothed
in a web of inﬁnite knowledge. There
is, for one further example, a draw-
ing that, whilst confused anatomically,
posits a solution that could be seen as
With most of the advertising targeting
the Freshers, Monday’s Big Tickle com-
edy evening seemed to have slipped
past the rest of the college unnoticed.
Despite this, the predominantly fresher
based audience gave the comics plenty
to work with. Where else, but Imperial,
would a debate over whether a ptero-
dactyl (or more correctly, a pterosaur)
is a dinosaur or a ring tone of R2-D2’s
beeps and whistles get truly appreci-
ated?
Adlibbing aside, however, the even-
ing was pretty uneventful. Compère
Mark Smith, Luke Honnoraty, and
headliner Ed Gamble all struggled to
keep the momentum going – the ap-
plause died before Ed could even make
it to the mic. With a large chunk of the
audience being international, some of
the material seemed a poor choice – al-
though the evening was a good intro-
duction to the British sense of humour,
which may yet prove helpful as they
start their courses.
Billed by the Union as “some of the
best young comedy stars”, they got
it right on the head. Mark and Luke
seemed to struggle though their mate-
rial and even the headliner, Ed Gamble,
resorted to an impromptu rapport with
a stoned member of the audience to
keep his set going.
Despite all this, the event had a good
audience and bodes well for future
comedy here at Imperial – something
that we appear to trail other univer-
sities on. At £3 the event was fairly
priced, although if the Union wants
to ﬁll up similar events in the future, it
should look to extending its advertising
to a wider range of potential punters.
Not so tickled
Jonathan Peek
ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
30
Leonardo da Vinci: Anatomist @ The Queen’s Galleries – Closing this Sunday, this
rarely displayed exhibition of Leonardo da Vinci’s anatomical drawings is an ex-
quisite treat for art lovers and scientist alike.
Brixton Maker’s Market – Buy local made fashion arts and crafts at great prices.
You can also buy savoury muffins, whatever they are. 13 October, 10am-5pm.
The Party Show @ The Last Tuesday Society – Renowned for their off-the-wall
parties the Last Tuesday Society also own a gallery. Their next show explores the
history and mythology of parties featuring a hotch-potch of new and established
artists. 12-17 October.
Twelfth Night @ The Globe – Stephan Fry returns to the Globe after a 17 year ab-
sence from the stage. The short run directed by Mark Rylance will hopefully be
more successful than Fry’s last attempt, which saw him abandon the set after a bad
review. Now-14 October.
Superhuman @ The Wellcome Collection – The Wellcome Collection, a self-anoint-
eddestinationfortheincurablycurious,hostsexhibitionsthatstraddlethebound-
ary between gallery, museum and freakshow. The current exhibition explores hu-
man enhancement throughout the ages in some surprising ways. Now-16 Ocotber.
more poetic than that which nature
provided. Leonardo, not knowing that
muscles could be ring-shaped, was
unable to understand how sphincter
muscles functioned. So he believed
the muscles in the – ahem – anus were
ﬁve, shaped into an opening and clos-
ing ﬂower.
Unfortunately, the excellent exhibi-
tion Leonardo da Vinci: Anatomist,
showing Leonardo’s anatomical draw-
ings at the Royal Collection, closes this
coming Sunday. The drawings are dis-
played with simplicity, in chronological
order, some juxtaposed with modern
anatomical drawings, allowing visitors
to see both Leonardo’s thought devel-
opment and the perfection of detail he
achieved. For anyone who would still
like to see these, despite the forthcom-
ing closure, there is – of course – an
app available.
I
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your draw-
ings to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is by Luke Tomlin
Bodybuilding woman at the Wellcome Collection...
Getting hench, Leo style

