BOOKS
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
Some facelifts just don’t
work as well as others
Believe the hype
Maciej Matuszewski looks at Hyperion — a classic of SF
very much enjoy short works
of ﬁction. What they may lack
in depth compared to longer
works they often make up for
in greater focus. You can read
the story in one sitting and not be dis-
tracted by any ﬁller — making it easier
for you to get to the core of the issues
being explored.
Dan Simmons’ Hyperion is an al-
most unique novel in how it combines
the best features of both longer and
shorter forms of ﬁction. The book is
set in the 28th century, where the He-
gemony of Man has colonised much of
the galaxy with the help of the artiﬁ-
cial intelligences it has created. When
the breakaway human group known as
the Ousters threatens the distant col-
ony world of Hyperion with invasion,
seven pilgrims are sent to the planet
to attempt, for the last time, to contact
the entity known as The Shrike — a
seemingly alien, godlike creature that
thrives on pain. During their journey
to the Time Tombs, where The Shrike
resides, the seven each tell each other
the stories of their lives and what drew
them to this pilgrimage. These stories
work well as individual pieces of ﬁc-
tion (indeed the ﬁnal one, ‘Remem-
bering Siri’ was published on its own
before the rest of the book was even
written) but, taken together, they
slowly reveal more and more not only
about the fascinating characters but
also about The Shrike and the reasons
for both the pilgrimage and the Oust-
er invasion.
One could argue that Hyperion
simply provides the back-story and
exposition necessary to understand
its three more action ﬁlled sequels
but that would be unfair to the novel.
Hyperion is a masterful exercise in
worldbuilding, creating a rich, de-
tailed and believable universe. It re-
spects the reader’s intelligence, with
crucial facts being revealed subtly and
complex situations being presented
diﬀerently from the points of view of
diﬀerent characters.
The three sequels — Fall of Hype-
rion, Endymion and Rise of Endymi-
on — abandon this Canterbury Tales
style storytelling to their detriment.
As is often the case with a long, unin-
terrupted narrative the story very eas-
ily becomes confused. The books try
to tackle many weighty topics, such
as the role of religion or the attitude
of highly advanced AIs towards their
human creators, but the themes often
don’t ﬁt together and not all are satis-
fyingly resolved. Various small incon-
sistencies and plot holes also begin to
appear as the story progresses. While
none of these are fatal to the narrative
they do become increasingly annoy-
ing. The worst example of this is when
a very likable character from the ﬁrst
novel is brought back in the third as
the genocidal dictator of an oppres-
sive theocratic empire with the only
reason given for this abrupt change in
personality being a statement that he
was “weak willed”.
I’m not saying that the sequels are
bad. Beneath their many problems
they tell a compelling story. My main
criticism is that they do not live up to
the promise of the ﬁrst novel, which
was a near masterpiece. They’re en-
joyable reading and probably worth a
look. The ﬁrst novel, however, is cer-
tainly worth a look — it’s a true classic
of the science ﬁction genre.
I
Earthsea — a truly magical series
Maciej Matuszewski Books Editor
Want to see your name in print?
Send your book reviews and features to books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Captions here totally
ruin the front cover...
I’m generally not a big fantasy reader
but I had heard a lot of good things
about Ursula Le Guinn’s Earthsea se-
ries and so had very high expectations
before I started reading it. I wasn’t
disappointed. Whilst featuring many
standard western fantasy elements
− kings, wizards and dragons − the
books are unique for their setting on
an archipelago of many hundreds of
islands. For a series that was begun in
the 60s there is a great deal of fresh-
ness to the Earthsea stories, especial-
ly for those who have grown tired of
fantasies set in pastiches of medieval
England.
The books have often been com-
pared to The Lord of Rings and while
her worldbuilding is not quite up to
Tolkien’s standards, le Guinn has still
invested a considerable amount of ef-
fort in creating a varied, interesting
world. There is a rich and detailed
back-story and each of the islands that
we visit has a unique and memorable
atmosphere to it. They are ﬁlled with
magic and mystery but also feel like
real places, places that you could and
would want to visit. By the time you
have ﬁnished the books their names –
Havnor, Selidor, Gont, Roke and many
others – will be ﬁxed in your mind.
The story of the books takes place
over a number of decades near the end
of a dark age for the Archipelago; with
one of the main plot strands being
the restoration of the islands’ mon-
archy and the consequences that this
brings. The ﬁrst novel of the series, A
Wizard of Earthsea, was written early
in Le Guinn’s career – which can be
felt in its less than perfect pacing and
characterisation – however she soon
improved and by the third novel, The
Farthest Shore, she had already estab-
lished herself as one of the foremost
writers in the genre. Her characters
are rich and believable and her plots
retain a feeling of wonder without
even coming close to breaking the
reader’s suspension of disbelief. De-
spite the fantastical setting, one of the
ﬁrst words that comes to mind when
describing the series is ‘relatable’ and
Le Guinn draws in the readers by sub-
tly focusing her writing on issues that
are relevant to her readers.
Le Guinn originally didn’t intend
the series to go on for as many books
as it did but unlike other series in
which new, originally unplanned
instalments descend into self indul-
gence by the author – of which the
Dune series is probably the best ex-
ample – the quality here remains
high throughout. There is a clear
split between the two halves of the
series, with the ﬁrst three novels be-
ing straight action adventure and the
later books being more contemplative
and dealing with more serious issues
such as feminism and ﬁnding one’s
purpose in life. Despite this, the two
halves don’t clash but rather comple-
ment each other. This is, in large part,
due to the character of Ged. Despite
only being the main protagonist in
the ﬁrst novel alone he is present in a
major role in all of the books. We get
to follow him from infancy to old age
from the diﬀerent points of view of all
the other major characters. He serves
as a focus and centre for the story as
well as being a compelling character
in his own right.
Forget the epic plotlines of The Far-
thest Shore and The Other Wind, and
the powerful ideological musings of
Tehanu — the series is worth reading
for Ged’s personal story alone.
The Earthsea books are a tue classic
that have inspired countless other au-
thors and received numerous prizes
and accolades. They are some of the
best books that I have ever read.

