and a call to arms
I am Mark, and I am going into my ﬁnal year in
Civil Engineering. You get a lot of talk nowa-
days about how varied and eclectic people’s
music taste is; but fuck that. I love the good
old fashioned indie pop as well as art-punk
and shoegaze and right now I have the Vac-
cines album on repeat (… so sue me if they are
not cool).
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt. O caveat lector
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Music is wonderful, wouldn’t you agree? It stirs up a great deal in one’s being.
It makes the foot tap, the heart beat slower and faster, and floods the mind
with memories and emotions. Beyond a psychophysiological episode, it actu-
ally tells us a lot about ourselves and our humanity, when other means just
aren’t enough.
And yet most of it is all too familiar. For such a miracle of our sensory ap-
paratus, it seems a shame to let it lull us into a numbing comfort to rest the
mind to; to get drunk to; to shop to. It has been brutally distilled into a mere
sedative; an instant relief to the daily pain. Hardly ever considered a force
of sublime pleasure, the acme of aesthetics; it’s essence is now cut with the
breeze of the refrigerator aisle, the stench of alcohol in sweat and vomit, and
is ultimately overridden by an end of the electromagnetic spectrum designed
to burn your retinas.
Kierkegaard once argued that music was the most perfect form of art. As
ridiculous a claim as it may be, he championed it’s ability to represent the hu-
man condition in more ways than a still painting or a petrified sculpture could
ever convey. It appears and vanishes just as quickly, leaving no physical im-
pression on the world, no proof that it ever existed, and yet it grasps us more
closely and tightly than any extended rumination on a vision of an embrace
or a crucifixion. But then again, one could argue he wasn’t getting laid too
often either. (He made his claim in an essay titled “The Immediate Stages of
the Erotic“.)
Intellectualising music is no less pretentious than a crooner’s love-drunk wit-
ticisms. Lyrics express ideas very literally, but the intangible nature of music
leaves a lot to the imagination. Unfortunately, when others’ opinions are, in
the words of the Straight Edge Boston punk band SSD, “Forced Down Your
Throat”, it’s hard to keep your mind your own. The ambiguity of a musical
statement means every listener has a completely personal experience. Hear-
ing a sound might bring back special memories or tie the listener to an aes-
thetic they might identify with, but any meaning of the music alone is open to
interpretation. In all honesty, chances are, you won’t even think about it any
more, but start feeling it instead. It falls North of the line between intuition
and influence.
When was the last time you put a record on and did nothing but listen to it?
How many songs have you heard today without even noticing them? What
silly things did the supermarket sound system make you buy today?
This column is about the more adventurous exploits of musical creativity in
modern times. Those who remain the most quiet when they have something
to say. Who don’t lie in the open, bare but empty, and are often hard to find
even with conviction.
From the earliest experiments with tape loops, when train tracks were first
used as rhythm, until the latest inclinations to let machines do the singing
or remove the human touch entirely from the equation. When wars tore art
apart, as it did to the sum of civilization, and composers felt harmonic excess
could no longer speak to the heart of man. When police brutality led young
punks from the street to the studio. When perspectives both political and
perceptual were challenged and deracinated. Modern times aren’t straight
forward. They’re not easy to face, digest or accept. The sign of the times is as
uncertain as ever, and the panorama is shifting faster than ever before. Some-
times silence can be the strongest stance.
Mostofthesetendenciescan,insomeway,bedescribedasexperimental.It’s
hard to describe them in simpler terms without appending this unfortunate
misnomer, but, in the words of Howard Stelzer of Intransitive Recordings, the
“experimental” label is “general enough to mean something to somebody”. It
is this experimentation that keeps music, and all things, moving forward, even
if it results in a blown amplifier or a perforated ear drum. The moon was never
in our back garden, nor jazz simply at the tip of our fingers. It takes some spirit
and brave curiosity to search new ground, but we’d be all the poorer for not
trying.
I’m not saying there’s anything devilish about getting down to some Marvin
Gaye every once in a full moon, but the cochlea does curl deeper than its har-
monic creases. These corners behind the octaves are worth tickling from time
to time, just to remind your brain they’re there.
Hot albums... Mercury special
Alt-J (Δ)
An Awesome Wave
Latest odds: 5/1
Field Music
Plumb
Latest odds: 10/1
Michael Kiwanuka
Home Again
Latest odds: 8/1
I will admit that I would have preferred
tohavetalkedabouttheDjangoDjango
album, but because we reviewed the
Dalston boys only a few months ago, it
is only fair to give a mention to the al-
bum which in my opinion runs a close
second. Δ’s debut album has managed
to win over the mainstream with jut-
ting, angular pop rhythms in the flavour
of Bombay Bicycle Club but with more
lyrical steel in ‘Breezeblocks’ and ‘Tes-
salate’.Isthisaperfectalbum?Definitely
not. There are too many interlude tracks
and filler to compete with some of the
very best releases, but its undoubted
strengthlieswiththeeffevescentsingles.
Mark England
The Brewis brothers’ fourth album is
possibly their finest to date, and finally
starts to garner them some of the ac-
claim that they have so richly deserved.
Many are giving the Sunderland boys
little chance with competition from the
Maccabees and Plan-B, but write them
offatyourperil.
Plumb is most definitely a pop album,
with more hooks than a Prince best-of,
yet it still pursues a distinct and ‘odd’
aesthetic. This album could be called
fragmentorybutthatiswhereitsbeauty
lies: the jumble of ideas, the lyrics laced
with self doubt, and the intelligent pop
chorusesallmakethisalbumawinner.
Mark England
Fresh from supporting Adele, Michael
Kiwanuka sings the sort of soulful sh-
mooze which you would expect, and
your mum would probably love. My-
self, I am undecided about the merits
of Mr Kiwanuka’s spiel. I cannot debate
that this a wholly accomplished album,
but it doesn’t grab me at all. I think ret-
romania has passed me by completely.
The romance of ‘Bones’ is a standout
moment, but there is so much polish
on this record that the best songs are
lost under their own production. Com-
ing from a poor North London back-
ground, I was hoping for a mix of grit
and gloss, but sadly that is lacking.
Mark England
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
32
Meet the editors
I’m Ross and I am going into my third year of
Physics. I like to think of myself as musically
diverse, though if a band plays an ATP, I prob-
ably like them. Genres I primarily listen to in-
clude indie rock, noise rock, shoegaze, ambi-
ent, and when it gets bleak, noise, black metal
and industrial. Also a huge border community
fan.
Holla. I’m Simon, a Physics PhD student. Mu-
sically, I’m about hip-hop, house and techno;
from it’s disco beginnings through to the man-
gled stuﬀ heard in the clubs around London
today. Rumours that I was Yorkshire MC of the
Year for 3 years running are unsubstantiated.
Ho, ho! I’m Íñigo and I’m in EEE. Besides Felix,
I’ve been part of the Music Tech Society since
I came here and have been broadcasting from
IC Radio on my Sunday night experimental
music show, The Big Racket! Expect anything
from jazz to punk, noise to techno... and many
sounds you’d have a hard time calling ‘music’.
So that’s what we’re about; how about you? If you’re interested in writing about what gets you bouncing, swaying or
windmilling, hit us up. We get sent loads of free CDs for you to review (in front of me right now I’ve got music from The
Mars Volta, No Doubt, Bat for Lashes, Lostprophets, the list goes on...) and we can send you to gigs totally free of charge,
requiring only a review in payment. Drop us an email (top of the page) and we’ll add you to our mailing list. However
if you’ve had a life-changing festival experience over the summer or had a record on loop for the past three months, we
want to hear about it!

