The best films from the 1940s
John Park Film Editor
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34
10. The Red Shoes (1948)
Long before Darren Aronofsky
shocked us all with his brutal and
bloody “Black Swan”, English ﬁlm-
makers Michael Powell and Emeric
Pressburger had already tapped into
the cut-throat world of ballet with
their fearless adaptation of Hans
Christian Andersen’s fairytale story
of the same name. It’s an immensely
stylish, haunting portrayal of a wom-
an forever trapped in the seemingly
inescapable world, and the world of
ballet has never looked more hard-
core and yet so beautiful. Directors
Brian De Palma and Martin Scorsese
list this as one of their favourite ﬁlms.
9. The Bicycle Thief (1948)
The go-to ﬁlm when anyone is talking
about Italian neo-realism (Roberto
Rossellini, Federico Fellini etc), or
Italian cinema in general, there isn’t
a ﬁnal shot that is more heartbreak-
ing or endearing as the one presented
here. Non-actors were hired to play
the parts, which further heightens
the unﬂinchingly authentic look the
ﬁlm is so consistently praised for. Set
in post-World War II Italy, a strug-
gling father has his bicycle stolen,
which he needs for a job he cannot af-
ford to lose. Together with his son the
two set out to search for it in the busy
streets of Rome.
Recently, the British Film Institute
(BFI) released the results of their
celebrated poll, “THE GREATEST
FILMS OF ALL TIME”, in which they
surveyed ﬁlm critics and directors to
list their ten favourite ﬁlms. Now the
Felix Film team, as much as we’d love
to, doesn’t have that kind of time or
resources. And so we decided to split
the ﬁlms up according to the decades
in which they were released. So every
week, we will present you with our top
ﬁlms of each decade, so what comes
after 1930s...erm...oh yes, the 40s.
8. Brief Encounter (1945)
Sure it’s the story of an emotional love
aﬀair between two individuals who
don’t quite have a good enough rea-
son to be unhappy in their respective
relationships, but in its warm, sympa-
thetic direction and committed per-
formances from the very few mem-
bers of the cast, especially the quietly
outstanding Celia Johnson, what we
get here is a carefully laid out, deeply
touching and possibly at times dev-
astating portrayal of potential love
and passion that simply can never be.
It’s heartbreaking, yet low-key and
tender, a gentle, soothing mixture of
touching emotions.
7.LeaveHertoHeaven(1945)
Gene Tierney makes one hell of a
femme fatale as the beautiful, seduc-
tive yet highly dangerous, unpredict-
able and obsessive Ellen, murdering,
blackmailing, lying and manipulat-
ing her way into the heart of the man
she greatly desires. Filmed in gor-
geous colours that do wonders for
Tierney’s sharp, piercing features,
this shows the actress on top form,
as well as some shocking plot devel-
opments considered controversial
for its time, that still ring true even
to this day. It’s a brutal and merciless
tale of cut-throat, selﬁsh ﬁxation that
is also made with irresistible beauty.
6. Mildred Pierce (1945)
After years of absence from the
screen, Joan Crawford, fresh out of
her terminated contract with MGM,
striking up a new deal with Warner
Brothers, actively sought out this
leading role, and her eﬀorts certainly
paid oﬀ, as her only Oscar win came
from her portrayal of the titular self-
less single mother who lets her un-
conditional love for her children get
the better of her during the after-
math of The Great Depression. Told
in ﬂashback sequences after a scene
of a mysterious murder, it also adds
an element of noir in the midst of the
melodrama.
5. The Lady Eve (1941)
Between Henry Fonda and Barbara
Stanwyck, whose bright and sparkling
dynamic that immediately comes right
oﬀ the screen is enough of a worthy fea-
ture, we are also treated to a delightful
little screwball comedy package that
balancesnotonlythebiglaughsbutalso
an underlying subplot of three con-art-
ists trying to scam an eligible bachelor.
The sassy Stanwyck and well-meaning
but ever-so dim and charmingly awk-
ward Fonda make one appealing duo
and they eﬀortlessly win us all over with
their romance. Stanwyck’s wedding
gown caused a major fashion boom,
dubbed the “The Lady Eve Dress”.
4. His Girl Friday (1940)
It moves at an extraordinary pace,
with clever, witty lines rapidly ﬁred
by actors who are endlessly watcha-
ble. The outstanding Cary Grant and
Rosalind Russell play journalists on
the hunt for a big news story about
to blow wide open. The catch is that
the two of them used to be married,
with the ex-wife now about to marry
a new man. The ex-husband tries to
use every trick up his sleeve to pre-
vent this from happening, whilst
trying to land this article. And the
result of this unstable mixture?
Chaos. Complete and utter hysteri-
cal chaos.
3. It’s a Wonderful Life (1946)
Every year near the Christmas pe-
riod you will always, always, always,
always, always ﬁnd at least one chan-
nel on television broadcasting the
most quintessential holiday movie of
all time. Although opening to mixed
reviews at the time of its ﬁrst release,
time has only been an asset to Frank
Capra’s post-war eﬀorts with James
Stewart in his ﬁrst role after his time
served in the military. It celebrates
life, love, and everything that is good,
honest and true in the world. Maybe
something a broken world wasn’t
quite ready to see, but a highly uplift-
ing tale nonetheless.
2. Double Indemnity (1944)
Another Barbara Stanwyck picture
here, but this time she is a strik-
ing yet deadly femme fatale (there
were a lot of them back in the days
of black-and-white cinema), luring
a well-behaved insurance agent into
committing murder to double a life-
insurance payout. The ﬁlm’s mood
remains dark and foggy throughout,
as one unpredictable and menacing
revelation after another await its
tightly scripted plot. Billy Wilder be-
came a prominent name, with even
Alfred Hitchcock remarking the two
most important words in motion
pictures are “Billy” and “Wilder.”
1. Casablanca (1942)
Playboy Hugh Hefner’s favourite ﬁlm
of all time; his reason being that it
has everything: “a fantastic script,
adventure, romance, unrequited love,
friendship…everything.” Never were
truer words spoken, as the winner
of the 1940s decade goes to a time-
less love story set in the African
city during the chaos of World War
II. Humphrey Bogart’s ﬁnal act is
heart-wrenchingly beautiful, Ingrid
Bergman is his equally eﬀective true
love, and the endlessly quotable lines
(“here’s looking at you, kid” being one
of many) all help shape the lasting ap-
peal of its romanticism.
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER

