56th BFI London Film Festival
Every year, the British Film Institute
(BFI) hosts Britain’s biggest, most excit-
ing, star-studded film event, the London
Film Festival, where directors worldwide
get the chance to share their accomplish-
ments with the public. As one of the
most accessible film festivals around,
any eager movie fans in London should
try to catch a screening or two. Packed
full with big-scale red carpet premieres,
in focus Q&A sessions with the stars, the
festival is truly an exciting occasion to be
taken advantage of.
Many renowned filmmakers use this
event as a platform to drive and sustain
publicity surrounding their films that
could be serious contenders come the
awards season. After Berlin in February,
Cannes in May, Venice and Toronto in
September, the next one down the list is
London in October, which would explain
the heavy presence of international press
tuning in to see which worthy films will
stand out from the crowded line-up for
further acclaim. Last year, The Artist, hot
off its Best Actor win from Cannes ar-
rived in London to wide critical praise.
The following year it walked away with
the Best Picture at the 2012 Academy
Awards. This, as well as other highly
regarded directors (last year’s guests
include Mike Leigh, Fernando Meirelles,
Terence Davies, George Clooney, Alex-
ander Payne, Madonna, Ralph Fiennes,
David Cronenberg, Steve McQueen
(obviously, not the dead movie star, the
director)) submitting their work for
consideration, shows the festival’s high-
standing reputation within the film com-
munity.
Clare Stewart, taking over the position
of Festival Director from Sandra Hebron,
has prepared a shorter but more com-
pact programme of more than 200 fea-
ture films shown across more boroughs
of London, aside from the usual Leicester
Square venues.
The festival opens on 10th October
with Tim Burton‘s Frankenweenie serv-
ing as its Opening Gala film, and the film
will also be shown simultaneously across
thirty separate locations, a first for the
festival. Burton’s new 3D stop-motion
animation tells the story of a young boy
who manages to resurrect his dead dog
but also finds that there are consequenc-
es with messing with death.
Closing the festival on 21st October is
Mike Newell’s visually dazzling adapta-
tion of Charles Dickens’ most beloved
novel, Great Expectations, starring
Ralph Fiennes, Helena Bonham Carter
and English rising star Jeremy Irvine
as Pip, a penniless orphan who climbs
the London society’s ladder thanks to
unexpected help from a mysterious
benefactor.
The full programme and detailed tick-
eting information are available on the
BFI London Film Festival website: www.
bfi.org.uk/lff
John Park Film Editor
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
35
5 hotly anticipated films of
this year’s festival:
Amour:
Michael Haneke’s Palme d’Or winning film has recently been confirmed as
Austria’s entry for next year’s Best Foreign Language Film at the Oscars. This
extraordinarily moving film about an elderly couple having to cope with dete-
riorating conditions and ultimately, death, has received universal praise since
its debut at Cannes.
Rust + Bone:
Another breakout hit from Cannes, Jacques Audiard’s intense, touching love
story between a killer whale trainer (Marion Cotillard) and an aimless bouncer
(Matthias Schoenaerts) has been noted for its two brilliant lead performances.
Their relationship is put to the test when Stephanie goes through a horrific ac-
cident and finds her legs have been amputated.
The Sessions:
Sundance loved it, Toronto loved it, and now it’s London turn to fall in love
with this unlikely blend of poignant drama and hysterical comedy as a man in
an iron lung (John Hawkes) attempts to lose his virginity with the help from
his forward-thinking priest (William H. Macy) and a sympathetic sex therapist
(Helen Hunt).
Argo:
Critics are praising Ben Affleck’s third directorial effort in which he handles
a gripping, “based-on-a-true-story” thriller with style, heart and panache. 6
American citizens hiding out in the Canadian ambassador’s house during the
Iranian revolution attempt to escape; and it’s down to a group of CIA agents to
plan an almost impossible rescue mission, by posing as a film crew.
End of Watch:
No, despite its premise, this is not your average cop-buddy drama. What sets
this apart isn’t just down to its handheld style of filming. Its action scenes are
intense and bubbling with energy, and the characters (Jake Gyllenhaal and
Michael Pena, sharing great on-screen chemistry) are put through all sorts of
hoops as they anger the wrong Mexican drug cartel.
John Park
No, this is not the Tim Burton film
This is...
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
Film Editor

