Kate Winslet - Titanic EGO
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
36
Felix Film wishes a warm and happy birthday to England’s very own Kate Winslet, celebrating her
37th birthday today; and as a special thank you to one of the most talented actresses of our time, we
look back at the highlights in the extraordinarily diverse career of a supremely gifted English ac-
tress, and what to expect in the future.
Powerful debut: Heavenly Creatures
(1994):
After bit parts in British television, Win-
slet made her ﬁlm debut in Peter Jack-
son’s dark and stylishly gripping Heav-
enly Creatures. She received wide critical
acclaim in her ﬁrst motion picture ap-
pearance, and won several awards (in-
cluding the Empire Award and London
Film Critics Circle Award for Best Ac-
tress), putting her ﬁrmly in place within
the ﬁlm industry.
Wider recognition and UK success: Sense
and Sensibility (1995), Jude (1996), Ham-
let (1996):
She landed further supporting roles in UK-
ﬁnanced ﬁlms, portraying Marianne Dash-
wood in Ang Lee’s Oscar-winning adapta-
tion of Jane Austen’s Sense and Sensibility for
which she was nominated for her ﬁrst Acad-
emy Award and won her ﬁrst BAFTA and Screen
Actors Guild Award aged 21 at the time,
Michael Winterbottom’s Jude and Ken-
neth Branagh’s all-star Shakespeare
vehicle Hamlet.
International breakthrough: Titanic
(1997):
After a long, tough auditioning pro-
cess, Winslet ﬁnally landed the part of
Rose in James Cameron’s Titanic. Little
did she, or anyone, know at that stage
that Cameron’s disaster ﬁlm would be-
come the global movie event. The ﬁlming
process was not an easy one, with harsh
working conditions and Cameron’s per-
fectionist attitude making for some
challenging events. But once the ﬁlm
ﬁnally did open, it went on to exceed
everyone’s wildest expectations, and
Winslet’s name and face were all over
the world. She received her second
Academy Award nomination here.
Return to independent cinema:
Holy Smoke! (1999), Quills
(2000), Enigma (2001), Iris
(2001):
Despite the unprecedented suc-
cess of Titanic, and despite being
offered many lucrative roles in
big-budget studio pictures, Win-
slet turned them all down and
retreated to independent ﬁlms.
Paired up with Australian direc-
tor Jane Campion, she completed
Holy Smoke! a quirky, intrigu-
ing travelogue which won both
Campion and Winslet the Elvira
Notari Prize at the 1999 Venice
Film Festival. She starred in a
period piece opposite Geof-
frey Rush as a chambermaid
to the Marquis de Sade in
a mental institution in
Quills. Her ﬁrst war ﬁlm
was in Enigma directed
by Michael Apted, and her t h ir d
Academy Award nomination came from
Iris, playing the late British author and phi-
losopher Dame Iris Murdoch.
Further success: Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
(2004), Finding Neverland (2004), Little Children
(2006):
Departing from her usual roles, she appeared with Jim Car-
rey in the weirdly brilliant, neurotic, and baffling Eternal
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind penned by Charlie Kaufman,
which earned her the fourth Academy Award nomination.
Rounding off 2004 was Finding Neverland, a semi-biograph-
ical retelling of J. M. Barrie’s relationship with Sylvia
Llewelyn Davies (Winslet) whose sons inspired
him to write Peter Pan. After scoring another
Academy Award nomination as a de-
luded adulteress in Little Children, she
set the record of becoming the
youngest actor to garner ﬁve
nominations.
In comes the much-
deserved Oscar: The
Reader (2008), Revolu-
tionary Road (2008):
2008 saw Winslet starring in some
real award-worthy, showy productions
that were sure to score her some wins after
a long streak of losing at the Oscars. It was just a
matter of choosing between her two outstand-
ing performances in The Reader, in which
she played an ex-Nazi officer with a shame-
ful secret, and in Revolutionary Road, which
reunited her with DiCaprio 11 years after the
sinking ship, playing a married couple on the
brink of a dangerous relationship meltdown.
She triumphed with the former, winning her
much-deserved golden statuette.
Later roles and an Emmy win: Conta-
gion (2011), Carnage (2011), Mildred
Pierce (2011):
Winslet had two ﬁlms premiere at
the 2011 Venice Film Festival, both of
which were well received. Contagion,
an ensemble piece chronicling the
spread and reaction to a deadly virus
outbreak, has been described as a
“tense, tightly plotted and smart”
thriller. Carnage, Roman Polanski’s
adaptation of the darkly comic play
also won her rave reviews, earning
the entire ensemble a handful of
awards. Her big award victory
after the Oscars came after she
landed the titular role in HBO’s
adaptation of Mildred Pierce,
as a struggling single mother
bringing up her two daugh-
ters during the Great De-
pression. She scooped
up essentially every single
Best Actress in a Mini-Series
Award out there, including the
top prize, the Emmy.
Upcoming roles: Movie 43 (2013),
Labor Day (2013), The Guernsey Lit-
erary and Potato Peel Pie Society
(2013):
If everything goes according to plan,
three of Winslet’s ﬁlms will be released in
2013. Movie 43 will be an ensemble com-
edy piece of several intertwining tales;
with Labor Day she unknowingly helps
an escaped convict; and The Guern-
sey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society
(goodlucktothisﬁlm’sadvertisingteam)
will reunite her and director Kenneth
Branagh for the ﬁrst time since Hamlet,
in which she is reportedly playing an
author in post World War II Guernsey
Island writing a book about the Island’s
residents’ experiences during the war.

