FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
37
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
What we watched in September
Anna Karenina (7th Sept)
Joe Wright’s bold, visually focused re-
interpretation of a story that’s been told
many, many times before starts off flaw-
lessly, with colourful, slick set pieces and
an intimate, theatrical ambiance, com-
bined with a strong lead performance
from Wright’s regular collaborator, Kei-
ra Knightley in the title role. But it lacks
consistency and the emotional impact
is severely cut short due to its need to
squeeze in as many characters and plot
points as possible. Wright however does
deserve praise for his ambition, and al-
most always hitting the mark.
Dredd (7th Sept)
Don’t be fooled into thinking that this is
about officers of the law having to ﬁght
their way up a tall building to get to the
ﬁnal bad guy. There is a surprising lack of
bullets ﬁred, bones broken, corpses fall-
ing, as often the ﬁlm does too much talk-
ing for its own good. Karl Urban tries his
best to keep it all together in this futur-
istic science ﬁction action that naturally
includes some fancy guns and gadgets,
but in the end it never adds up to any-
thing signiﬁcant.
Lawless (7th Sept)
Raw, brutal and fearless, John Hillcoat’s
Prohibition-era crime drama is certainly
not for the faint-hearted and you may be
left wanting more depth and clarity from
some of its underwritten characters. But
the star-studded ensemble comes across
wonderfully well, with the always ex-
cellent and menacing Tom Hardy once
again on top form as the eldest of the
Bondurant bootlegger brothers, sup-
plying alcohol and facing bloody conse-
quences from a corrupt law enforcement
officer (Guy Pearce, in an over-the-top
brilliant performance) as a result.
Hope Springs (14th Sept)
It has nothing wise or original to say
about long-term relationships or mar-
riages that have lost the passion, and the
rushed, feel-good ending that attempts
to tie everything up in one clean swoop
is truly awful. However, it is anchored by
exceptionally balanced performances
from Meryl Streep and Tommy Lee Jones
as an elderly married couple looking to
reignite the heat they once shared. It
asks many difficult, uncomfortable ques-
tions,mostly of a sexual nature, and their
earnest attempts to give everything a try
are both hysterical and tender.
Now Is Good (19th Sept)
Dakota Fanning’s withdrawn, distant
performance is one that grows on you as
time goes by, but you may have a hard
time sympathising with this girl early on,
which is not good news, especially since
she’s playing a young English girl from
Brighton slowly dying of leukaemia. Far-
ing a lot better is Jeremy Irvine as the
sweet, doe-eyed love interest, and the
older generation of the cast, Paddy Con-
sidine and Olivia Williams, playing the
girl’s dysfunctional divorced parents. It’s
a real tear-jerker, with a suitably beauti-
ful ending.
Hysteria (21st Sept)
Thanks to the brilliant mind of a doctor
at the end of the 19th Century and his
rich best friend, women nowadays get
to enjoy vibrators. Despite its subject
matter, which could easily be turned
into a crass, mocking farce, the direction
remains sensitive, taking logical steps
to explain the course of events. Hugh
Dancy is bright and enthusiastic as the
doctor, Rupert Everett is the excellent
comic friend, and Maggie Gyllenhaal
thrives as a free-thinking, independent
woman who gets tangled up in this his-
toric invention.
Killing Them Softly (21st Sept)
The narrative’s parallel to the state of
worldeconomics,focusingmainlyonthe
2008 ﬁnancial crisis and its aftermath,
can be tough to take in, and this is in no
way an easy ﬁlm to sit through, but with
much dense and cleverly written dia-
logue delivered with such skill and poise
by a strong ensemble of actors (Brad
Pitt, James Gandolﬁni, Richard Jenkins,
Ben Mendelsohn, Scott McNairy), this
also has time for some incredible slow-
mo action that proves Andrew Dominik
is one of the most fascinating directors
around.
Savages (21st Sept)
It’s overlong, and has an absurd, almost
unnecessary narration from the irritat-
ing Blake Lively who leads a luxurious,
comfortable life shacking up with two
successful pot-growers (Taylor Kitsch,
Aaron Taylor-Johnson). Enter a Mexi-
can drug cartel headed by the excellent
Salma Hayek and her sly, not too brainy
second-in-command Benicio del Toro,
and then we get kidnapping, shoot-outs
and some interesting developments.
Shame about the convoluted plot that
sidetracks one too many times, and an
unsatisfactory ending that wraps things
up with little consideration for its char-
acters.
Untouchable (21st Sept)
The box-office hit that was the cinematic
experience to beat in France, (currently
the second most successful ﬁlm ever
there) “Les Intouchables” tells the amaz-
ingly moving and true story of an un-
likely friendship that strikes up between
a quadriplegic millionaire and a young
man recently out of prison. Despite the
familiarity you will notice from its pre-
dictable storytelling, it’s no surprise to
discover this massive crowd-pleaser was
such a success, and it’s largely thanks to
the two fantastic leads, Francois Cluzet
and Omar Sy.
Looper (28th Sept)
Calling this the new Matrix is stretching
it a bit, but with an intriguing concept
involving time travel, it has a deep emo-
tional back story and takes its time, logi-
cally building everything up to its loud
ﬁnale. In a distant future where criminal
organisations send off victims they want
dead back into the past, it’s the Looper’s
job to take care of it. Things get com-
plicated as Joe (Joseph Gordon-Levitt)
comes face to face with his future self
(Bruce Willis), who also has an agenda
of his own.
Resident Evil: Retribution (28th Sept)
The ﬁfth entry into this tiresome, re-
petitive franchise ﬁnds no real improve-
ment, with Milla Jovovich dressed up
once again in a dominatrix costume,
slaying evil zombies, ﬁghting Umbrella
Corporation with cool weapons. There
are some returning characters, but re-
ally, who remembers or cares about any
of them. Thankfully the next instalment
promises to be the last one, and given
the way this one ends, sets up to be an
epic ﬁnale. But until then, we’ll just have
to settle for this mediocre effort.
I told you not to touch my fucking
test tube again. I’d JUST washed it

