You’re-a-Gamer Expo
Ross Webster shares his experiences of Eurogamer 2012
ast weekend saw the start
of the London Games
Festival, heralded in by
the ﬁfth Eurogamer Expo.
Not exactly as ground-
breaking as an Apple Keynote, the
Eurogamer (EG) Expo is a place for
developers and publishers to oﬀer up
their latest works to the willing pub-
lic, letting us play games months be-
fore their release. Being stretched over
four days, the expo holds a variety of
unique developers Q&A sessions, and
the opportunity to meet developers –
indie and professional alike. There’s
the usual mix of record-breaking
games with budgets larger than most
ﬁlms (slight exaggeration), but there’s
also a fresh contingent of smaller de-
velopers who get to show oﬀ their pet
projects. Hosted in Earl’s Court Ex-
hibiton Centre (only a 30 minute walk
from college) the EG expo initiates
the migration of many starved gam-
ers towards the fertile lands of cen-
tral London, ready for the autumnal
downpour.
Now, as high revenue producing se-
ries are bound to sell, there is always
the problem of little change for the
big names. That being said, this year’s
Eurogamer has brought out a lot of
sequels and there seems to be some
hope on the horizon. As examples,
I’ll have a couple of games stand up
at the front of the class and I’ll prod
them with my stick of analysis. Farcry
3 seems to have recaptured some of
the fun of the original and Assassin’s
Creed 3 is now grittier and feels a lot
more ‘lived-in’. The atmosphere of the
previous AC games, despite being set
in cities such as Rome, always lacked
the feeling of history and humanity. I
understand that ruins should feel like
ruins, but these felt like ruins for ru-
ins sake (I’m trying to see how many
ruins I can get into this piece, before
you complain. Think of it like a psy-
chological test. Or don’t, that’s the
point). Now, you’re running through
people’s houses, killing husbands and
the fathers of the children you see
running about, and you can actually
feel a slight pang of guilt (I kid, I kid. I
feel nothing) which is great.
On the opposite side of the spec-
trum, Eurogamer also gave us the
chance to play around with a few se-
quels that have run a little oﬀ-piste,
seemingly grasping for originality.
Tomb Raider now has you controlling
a character who feels more like the
public schoolgirl she is, rather than
the bigger-breasted Harrison Ford
we all remember, and Metal Gear Re-
vengeance is a futuristic Bayonetta
that bears as much resemblance to the
original Metal Gear series as the Resi-
dent Evil movies to the games (yeah, I
went there).
Not wanting to ﬁll these pages with
(even more) drivel, I think I should
get around to highlighting a few of my
favourites, that I wasn’t expecting to
see. Firstly, The Unﬁnished Swan is a
beautiful concept for a game. In the
role of a young boy, you chase a swan
into an incomplete fantasy world. The
physical world exists all around you,
but there’s no colour and no shadows,
so your screen is initially pure white.
Your one tool in this journey is a sup-
ply of paint blobs that you can throw
around the place, covering the walls
and ﬂoors, so you can see where you
need to go. It might sound like an odd
idea for a game, but I suggest you go
and watch the trailer – http://giant-
sparrow.com/games/swan/ (or just
YouTube it like normal people). I met
a few people at the stall who had is-
sues with the game from a brain-hurt
point of view, due to walking a few
steps and being surrounded by white
again, confusing that ever-so-squishy
part of the brain that tells you if you’re
going crazy.
One of the fondly remembered clas-
sics in the Felix oﬃce is Theme Hospi-
tal – a light-hearted hospital simula-
tor that also had a wonderfully steep
learning curve if you wanted to excel.
We’ve not seen games of its ilk for a
long time now, and we’re now seeing
a return to the plan, build and run
style of games. In Prison Architect,
you control the going-ons at a prison,
managing the buildings and warden-
ing team. The thing is, the engine of
the game doesn’t feel speciﬁcally made
for the prison sim genre (I joke, but I
expect I’ll get one through the post
soon). I expect that this is probably on
purpose, and should allow for a steady
ﬂow of games once this ﬂagship game
has been released. I’m just waiting for
Halls of Residence Simulator 2013,
but can’t help but feel it’ll simply be a
retitled Prison Architect. They won’t
even need to change the cover art.
L
Put simply, Dishonored is what you
get if you ask the company who cre-
ated Skyrim to go away and make
Bioshock. It’s got the immersive at-
mosphere of the former but with the
vibrant, larger-than-life visual style of
the latter – and it’s a great combina-
tion. The art director (who was a big
player in creating the visuals for Half-
Life 2) was going for “a living paint-
ing”, and has created something very
reminiscent of steampunk but with
all the colour left in. It’s consistently
atmospheric and has got bucket-loads
of attention to detail that despite the
quirky theme gives the game a real,
lived-in world.
In addition to the vivid graphics, Dis-
honored also takes a stab at one of my
pet peeves – games that are too easy.
Combat is deﬁnitely not weighted in
the player’s favour with considerable
skill required to take on a room of bad
guys and make it out alive, so stealth
gameplay is very much encouraged.
This has its own set of diﬃculties as
enemies are quick to notice when one
of their number drop to the ﬂoor, and
thankfully they haven’t inherited the
incredibly limited vision skills of their
Elder Scrolls cousins, so staying hid-
den is not easy. All this adds up to
challenging gameplay that will prob-
ably surprise. It’s easy to think you’ve
seen all these elements before and not
really take them as seriously as they
deserve – you’ll be made to pay for
that mistake. Of course, getting beat-
en to a pulp over and over is just frus-
trating but it’s refreshing to ﬁnd that
Dishonored is not a game that’s scared
of sending you back to the start. The
level I played was reasonably linear in
it’s design but there was still a lot of
choice: you could storm in crossbows
blazing, hide in the shadows and take
out the enemy one by one or even pos-
sess an innocent maid to get past the
security alarms – there’s a lot of scope
for diﬀerent approaches. Apparently
there’s also some open-world element
(well, this is Bethesda) but details as
yet are unclear.
In essence, Dishonored is deﬁnitely
a game to be getting excited about;
I’ve not been this excited for a new
game in far too long. You could argue
that we’re just playing Bioshock with
a diﬀerent skin but with the latest in
that franchise still beyond the hori-
zon, Dishonored may have beaten it
to the post with it’s fresh slice of dark,
stealthy action.
Yeah, I know this isn’t a swan. It’s
an emu. OBVS
A Dishonorable Mention
Simon Worthington Lame guy
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
38
Don’t worry sir, I’m just here to
clean all of your gutters
...WITH YOUR BLOOD
Soap-dropping expansions out Q2
2013. Pre-order NOW...

