TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
OMG new smartphones!
Unless you’ve been trapped under a
rock or on a ton of last minute holidays
the last month before freshers’ week,
you’ll be aware that a ton of great new
smartphones been announced.
The Samsung Galaxy S3 (or GS3),
Nokia Lumia 920, and Apple iPhone
5 are getting priority as my choice to
represent the three major OSs, sorry to
all the HTC fanboys (I didn’t know you
existed) and twatberry fans (I know
you don’t exist).
The Apple iPhone 5. The phone
expected for release last year ﬁnally
made its debut at the September 12th
Apple conference, and although open-
ing weekend sales topped 5 million
and they sold twice as many iPhones
as last year in the ﬁrst 24 hours, it re-
ally wasn’t the smooth launch Apple
would’ve wanted.
It’s reported that 30-40% of all brand
new iPhones are arriving to the high
paying customers scuﬀed in the box,
known as “scuﬀgate,” and iOS6 Ap-
ple Maps made news worldwide with
levels of fail not seen since the Sega
Dreamcast. Include this with bloggers
and users around the world complain-
ing about “letterboxing”, where two
black strips appear on the top and bot-
tom sides of the iPhone, and it doesn’t
sound good.
Add the standard trolling we’ve
come to expect from the other smart-
phone makers, and it’s not great. Sam-
sung poked fun with a new “the next
big thing is already here” video, which
quotes Apple users saying “we’re ﬁnal-
ly getting everything we should’ve got
last year,” and an ex-Apple user hold-
ing a space in line for the phone for his
elderly parents. Similarly a Google ad
for the Motorola RAZR Droid shows
Apple maps vs Google maps with the
caption #iLost.
TheiPhone5wasn’tthebest,smooth,
or even a grand launch we all expect of
Apple, but neither was the iPhone 4S;
maybe the company is struggling more
than we thought without all-round
legend Steve Jobs at the helm.
Or perhaps I’m being unfair and fo-
cusing on the negatives too much. Ig-
noring the bad press, the iPhone 5 is
actally an amazing phone. Apple have
successfully managed to exceed nearly
all projected pre-order ﬁgures and the
sales clearly show the company is do-
ing something very well. The new iP-
hone 5 oﬀers a great 4-inch 16:9 screen
with an impressive 326ppi (pixel per
inch) retina display. It’s best feature
though, in this editor’s opinion, is its
weight. At just 112g it’s an impressive
73g lighter than the Lumia 920 and 21g
lighter than the SG3. With the iPhones
new hardware and software update it
has also, of course, gotten a LOT fast-
er. It’s now caught up with the speeds
previously seen in the Lumia 800 and
surpassed them.
But the iPhone 5 lacks NFC (con-
tactless), which is odd of Apple to keep
out, seeing as the Lumia 920 and GS3
both have it and the GS3 has a trump
on both with external storage. The iP-
hone’s precious retina display isn’t ac-
tually a winner either, it may beat the
SG3 4.8-inch 306ppi screen, but the
Lumia 920 packs what it calls PureMo-
tion HD+. It’s a 4.5-inch screen that
packs 331ppi, and apparently its pix-
els can move twice as fast as all other
screens, making it look super smooth.
The Lumia is also the only smartphone
that packs Wireless Charging, as well
as its long awaited PureView camera
technology featuring unbeatable SLR-
esque image stabilisation and night
time photography.
All three phones however are 4G
LTE enabled, ready for the super net-
work of Orange & T-Mobile, Every-
thing Everywheres launch later this
month.
Overall, all three of these phones
have excellent hardware, but the one
thing that really seperates them is the
Operating System.
There’s no outright winner in this
though, it all depends on what you
want out of your phone.
The easiest, fastest and simplest to
use and understand has to be, bizarre-
ly, Windows Phone. However, it has
serious limitations due to the lack of
apps and its current market share. The
good news is that time is deﬁnitely on
Windows’ side, especially with the im-
minent launch of Windows 8 and free
programming software.
iOS has the largest app store in the
world and is probably has the most
recognised interface around as well as
being quite fast.
Android lets you be creative and cus-
tomise to your heart’s content, perfect
for the all tech lovers/hackers.
Laugh out loud*
at people who upgraded their phones before uni
Jason Parmar Technology Editor
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
Add me on MySpace?
After launching in 2003, MySpace was guilty of taking many of our social net-
working virginies by taking advantage of us being embarrassing teenagers
while we posed, pouting in front of mirrors with a 1MP camera phone.
But then we grew up and most of us realised that editing our profile HTML to
make people who viewed our profile see our “creativite personality” was super
lame, so we moved onto university-based Facebook.
MySpace continued to grow for a few years after Rupert Murdoch (that old
dude who owns all the world’s media) purchased it for $580million as it be-
came “the most visited website in the US”, beating Google, in 2006. But from
2008 onwards the site went into an impressively steep decline, with most of us
retrospectively deleting our accounts (or wishing we could but we’ve forgot
the password for our cringe e-mail “hot_sexy_jasonp_1991@hotmail.com”).
But, last week the cooler of the two Justins, Justin Timberlake, tweeted a link
to a video from the former social networking powerhouse entitled “new MyS-
pace”. JT appears to be the front man for the launch of the new Metro-style
“redesigned entirely from scratch” social network, and it makes sense as he has
an ownership stake in the company.
After watching it, it does look significantly cooler and better than Facebook
or Google+, and follows a design that is perfectly suited for a Windows 8 app.
I’m kind of looking forward to it.
But, whatever happens, I can’t wait for Bebo
togetarevamp.Thecouplewhocreateditwent
to Imperial, met in the then Southside bar, and
got married before selling it for $850m. I mean,
can you believe it, he found a girl at Imperial!
http://new.myspace.com/play
*
There really should be an abbreviation for this
39

