A Lemon Fresh Look at Fresher Trials
SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
46
Women’s Rugby
After hiring their new coach Danny
last Christmas, Women’s rugby has
gone from strength to strength.
With 15 freshers turning up to trials
Charlotte, The current President, is
looking to build on their success last
year and get promoted from their
current league, BUCS South 2A.
Also playing in the newly formed
LUSL, Women’s rugby is always
looking for girls to try something
new and get involved. If you’re in-
terested in anything about women’s
rugby, email charlotte.stephens09@
imperial.ac.uk
Football
With over 300 freshers signing up
and 150 turning up to trial with
only “logistics” to get in his way,
Pete Woodhead, 1st team captain,
is looking to build on the strength
that the 7 football teams showed
last year. Looking to increase their
membership from last years 130, IC
Football has a second round of trials
on Saturday, with training on Mon-
day. If you missed the first round or
are interested in playing, be it for the
1sts of the social 7ths; all are wel-
come, just get in touch with peter.
woodhead@ic.ac.uk
Women’s Football
Despite their squad being devastated
by the amount of recent graduates
leaving their side Josie, the captain, is
still optimistic; “This is the ﬁrst year of
LUSL and we think we can really make
an impact. We’ve got some good fresh-
ers coming through this year.” Playing
Football and Futsal, with a large num-
ber of people showing interest and
coming down to Harlington for trials,
their ﬁrst game is away at Roehampton
on the 17th.
Hockey
With over 60 freshers, ranging from
experienced county players down to
complete newcomers, making the trek
to Harlington for trials this Wednesday
was always going to be productive for
Hockey. The women’s team, that had
an outstanding season (winning South
Eastern 2a, the ULU premier league,
the ULU Cup andthe BUCS Cup), last
year alone had 22 prospective players
brave the ﬁrst training session and tra-
ditional hockeystick spin and run after-
wards. Watching a 6ft 8 fresher try and
put his head on a hockey stick and spin
round? Hilarious.
Rugby
After winning promotion last year,
ICURFC was looking for a good in-
take of big strong freshers. Luckily, 50
likely lads braved the Harlington wind
for trials. After going over the basics,
coach Brimah refereed a ﬁercely com-
petitive, if somewhat scrappy fresher
game. Captain Jack, who thought the
trials went smoothly despite a lack of
bibs, wants to build on promotion; “We
want to ﬁnish mid table this year, with
our 2nd and 3rd teams being promoted
up” With a team entered into LUSL as
well, rugby are always recruiting new
or experienced players. Email jack.ﬂa-
nagan11@imperial.ac.uk for details.
Gaelic Football & Hurling
An Englishman, an Irishman and a
Portuguese man walk into a bar, and
smash the place while trying to play
gaelic football. With ever growing mul-
ticulturalism, uptake in Gaelic football
at Imperial is increasing each year. Ex-
perienced players and newcomers alike
took to the ﬁeld for a run out before
the ﬁrst ﬁxture on the 26th. Hurling,
a faster and more aggressive mix of la-
crosse and hockey had “huge interest”
at freshers fair. If you want to try some-
thing diﬀerent this year, email gaelic.
sports@imperial.ac.uk
Rugby League
Under the helm of a new coach, and
with regular training sessions rugby
league is looking to break out of their
current Merit League and into the
BUCS setup. “The session went really
well – I’d forgotten how much I loved
contact sports” claimed Rugby League
fresher James Holt at the bar in 568 af-
ter the trials. Training in Hyde Park on
Wednesdays at 2pm until they move to
their new ﬂoodlit facilities at the Lin-
ford Christie Stadium, RL has games
every week starting in on the ﬁrst week
of November.
Swimming and Water Polo
On Wednesday Swimming and Water
Polo had their ﬁrst taster session and
had an amazing turn out, with around
80 people. From people swimming for
ﬁtness through to seriously competi-
tive water polo players, there are more
sessions today at 1930 for swimming
and 2045 for water polo. Email swim-
ming@imperial.ac.uk for more details.
Boxing
After their ﬁrst successful training ses-
sion yesterday, Imperial College Ama-
teur Boxing Club are oﬀering four ses-
sions in the Union Gym a week. With
classes regularly attended by 30 boxers,
and with an IC ﬁghter reaching the
semi-ﬁnals of the British Boxing Series,
the club is looking to expand to spar-
ring with universities outside of our
regular London based events. Whether
ﬁtness or competitive ﬁghting is your
goal, there is another free taster session
tonight between 6-7 and Saturday 4-6,
whatever your ability. Email boxing@
imperial.ac.uk with any queries.
American Football
American football season got oﬀ to a
great start on Wednesday with the ﬁrst
of two ‘come and try’ sessions attract-
ing a very large turnout. Which (un-
surprisingly) was retained as the club
bonded in the Union later that night
with Imperial’s Cheerleading squad,
the IC Titans. The ‘come and try’ ses-
sions oﬀer Imperial students a chance
to try the main skills and positions
required of a successful football team
and it is an opportunity that many ea-
ger students took. Six drills allowed
new players to rotate through pass-
ing, catching, running and defending
skills, while letting the experienced,
often American, players to show oﬀ
their abilities. Those students who did
choose to come down virtually unani-
mously agreed that the afternoon was a
success and displayed a ﬂair and ability
which promises to make the upcoming
season Imperial AFC’s most successful.
For students who are interested in ei-
ther American football or cheerlead-
ing, details of upcoming events and
taster sessions can be found on Impe-
rial College Union’s “What’s On”.
Triathlon
Imperial Triathlon Club saw record
interest at this year’s Freshers’ Fair, so
alongside Cross Country Club over
eighty people met for a club run around
Hyde Park. Meeting three to four times
a week, with circuit training Mondays,
cycling Richmond Park Wednesdays,
running Hyde Park on Thursdays and
swimming Friday mornings. People of
all abilities are welcome to go, whether
to compete or just to keep ﬁt. With a
5k run and duathlon (run-bike-run)
coming up in November, so if you’re
interested in a race, email triathlon@
imperial.ac.uk.
Nice hole.
Fresher Hockey 101
Bend over.
Grab stick.
Fondle Balls.
Too bad he’s not this hard with his
girlfriend.
Felix Sport Brings you a rough and incomplete guide to some of the fresher trial events
Fighting off a girl?
At Imperial?
Must be photoshopped
All I’m saying is: nice purple t-shirt there

