SPORT
47
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
Horror as Sport Imperial Tries to Bulk Girls Up
Two weeks before term starts, sport
imperial organized some FREE pre-
season ﬁtness for all abilities from
those elite athletes among us, as well
as anyone just wanting to look in tip-
top shape for the incoming freshers!
The ﬁrst week was ﬁtness-focused
to get the beer bellies and summer
laziness out of our systems. Day 1 set
the tone by starting with the very in-
nocently named ‘4x4s’. This in fact
turned out to be 4 minutes of pain fol-
lowed by 4 minutes of laughing at your
partner in pain repeated 4 times… not
as fun as it sounds! It was all worth it
in the end, however, and the feeling
did eventually return to our legs. At
least none of our group were sick dur-
ing this ordeal, unlike some (*cough*
American Football *cough*). After the
pain had worn oﬀ, and after a long
lunch break it became apparent that a
lot of thought had gone into designing
sessions speciﬁc for each sport and
this wasn’t just intended to be a pain-
ful reminder of how little exercise we
had done over the last few months.
After lunch we paid our ﬁrst visit
to the new Ethos Performance Gym,
which will be available for use by cer-
tain clubs this year. Now I have to say
that as a rather small girl I have never
been brave enough to use the weights
section in the main Ethos gym, so this
was a completely new experience. We
were taken slowly through the vari-
ous lifting techniques by the strength
and conditioning coaches (Chris, the
coach for the hockey and football
group, was a particularly good teach-
er and had only 3% body fat (!) which
gave us all something to aspire to!),
and then given a tough strength cir-
cuit incorporating the newly learned
lifts to ﬁnish.
This was the general format of the
ﬁrst week, with morning and after-
noon sessions every day targeted at
improving our general and sport-spe-
ciﬁc ﬁtness. Our only relief came dur-
ing the Thursday afternoon recovery
session in the Ethos pool, sauna and
‘ice bath’ (or more accurately, pad-
dling pool with cold water).
In week 2 we put all our weight
training and ﬁtness into action with
sessions targeting sport-speciﬁc tech-
niques such as top speed and speed
endurance training. Our group added
a fun twist to the week with a ‘Dick-
of-the-Day’ shirt kindly provided by
our trainer Chris. The winners are
featured in the pictures for everyone’s
entertainment.
In the gym we learnt Olympic lifts
(that is the lifts you see in the Olym-
pics), apparently in the Olympics a
50kg girl could lift twice her body-
weight; I was left feeling a little in-
adequate by only managing 20kg!
However, as with all of the session,
this training was designed to improve
a speciﬁc aspect of our sport-speciﬁc
strength, in this case by develop-
ing our explosive power to help us
be quicker oﬀ the mark and faster at
changing direction.
Agility and power training was then
applied to a ‘game situation’ as voted
by us (we played dodgeball), and we
are assured that there are plans to in-
clude this more often in the schedule
for next year.
In addition to training, free physio
and sport massages were available
throughout the two weeks was pro-
vide to aid our aching muscles and the
many small injuries we all acquired
during the 2 weeks.
All in all it was an extremely beneﬁ-
cial 2 weeks, and all who attended felt
ﬁtter and stronger by the end. There
are hundreds of photos on the Sport
Imperial facebook page so have a look
at them to get an idea of the fun we
had, and I hope next year more people
will come and take advantage of the
great opportunity Sport Imperial laid
on for us.
Sorcha Cotter Sports Editor
Just before Christmas I decided to
take up a “challenge” to raise money
for the Cystic Fibrosis Trust. My little
cousin, who suﬀers from the disease,
had been going through a rough patch.
I wanted to do something that would
attract sponsorship, so I plumped for
Ironman Wales. What I did know was
that this was a 2.4 mile swim followed
by a 112 mile cycle followed by a 26.2
mile run, all to be completed within
17 hours. What I didn’t know was that
the course, which takes place in and
around Tenby, is widely regarded to be
one of the toughest out there. It turns
out that Pembrokeshire is a pretty
hilly place not particularly well known
for its clement weather – who’d have
thought, eh? The bike section alone
would have 2400 vertical meters.
So I set about turning myself from
a climber into a long course triathlete.
From Christmas until September I
barely laid hands on a pint (apart from
a few “notable” exceptions, ahem)
and I’d be swimming, cycling or run-
ning for anywhere between 8 and 20
hours a week. Not only did this knock
8kg oﬀ my body weight (1 1/4 stone
for the dinosaurs), but it also turned
me into a grumpy, tired bastard. For
anyone who came into contact with
me during the last six months, sorry
about that. I came to ﬁnd swimming
interminably dull, cycling quite fun
(although getting up every Saturday
at 6am to ride for 7 hours less so) and
running pretty mundane. As much as
I enjoy living in London, it doesn’t re-
ally lend itself to long distance endur-
ance sports. Cycling only gets pleasant
once you’ve been going for an hour or
so and you’re outside the M25, and
there are only so many times you can
run around the Royal Parks before
the desire to throw tourists into the
Serpentine becomes overwhelming.
Living somewhere like the middle of
Dartmoor would make training some-
what more enthralling than yet an-
other trip up the Grand Union Canal
to Sudbury.
As well as being a drain on time and
energy, triathlon sucks up a ludicrous
amount of cash. Once you get caught
up in the bike world, it shackles you
down while it picks up your bank ac-
count and shakes it until there’s noth-
ing left. I found myself checking for
“deals” on a daily (OK, hourly) basis
and I’ve lost count of the number of
times I’ve hauled myself back from the
verge of spending hundreds of pounds
on a single wheel because it might
make things slightly easier on the day
(“but it’s so shiny and aerodynamic…
it saves you at least 0.034 milliwatts
compared to what I’ve got at the mo-
ment etc etc”). My ﬁctional account-
ant is going to be delighted that this
is all over.
The event week rolled around in the
blink of an eye. After all the hours I’d
put in I found myself considerably ﬁt-
ter than when I’d started (duh) and
thankfully injury free. It also turned
me into a hypochondriac of the high-
est order. If I thought I heard someone
sniﬄe on the other side of the room I’d
be out of there quicker than a neutri-
no detected by a machine with loose
wiring (sorry – you can take the geek
out of Imperial, but...) I can totally un-
derstand Bradley Wiggins not want-
ing to shake hands with his admirers
in the build up to a big competition.
His stakes are ever so slightly higher
than mine, after all. Event week also
gave me a problem I’d never had be-
fore – trouble with sleeping. It’s a bi-
zarre situation to ﬁnd oneself in when,
having previously considered oneself
a master of the powernap, adrenaline
spikes hit your bloodstream just regu-
larly enough to stop you getting the
requisite z’s.
The night before the big day I didn’t
sleep at all. You read all sorts of things
about training and mental preparation
during the build-up, and they all say
things like “focus on what you can do
something about, don’t worry about the
rest”. This is crazy advice because it’s
completely impossible to follow. Unless
you have the mental training of an SAS
Delta-Force MI6 super-commando,
of course you’ll spend the entire time
fretting about the weather, mechanical
failures, crashing, drowning, failing etc
etc. On top of this, triathlon is a sport
for people with OCD. Everything has
to be prepared “just so” to make your
transitions from one sport to the next
as smooth and quick as possible. Given
that this was my ﬁrst triathlon, I had
exactly no experience to draw upon
and I’d worry about not having put my
trainers in the right bag. I’m not exactly
known for my ability to micro-manage
the little details.
You can sponsor Ned online by
visiting www.justgiving.com/Ned-
sIronman or by text through Just-
TextGiving by sending ‘IRON66
£(amount you’d like to give)’ to
70070.
Part 2 will be next week.
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ned Prepares for Winter by Becoming an Ironman
That BDSM session
barely left a welt.
Must try harder.
Ned Yoxall Sports Writer
Nice rims.

