“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1525 felixonline.co.uk
05/10/12
As the ICURFC 1st XV arrived for
their ﬁrst match of tour against Har-
vard it was clear that things in Ameri-
ca were going to be a bit diﬀerent. We
were ﬁrst informed that we would be
playing on an artiﬁcial rubber crumb
pitch rather than grass, and then that
the Harvard team were only willing to
play 35 minute halves in the match.
To make matters worse, the pitch was
marked out with lines that were bare-
ly visible and the posts were declared
unsafe by the referee minutes before
kickoﬀ and moved behind the dead
ball line. Despite these setbacks, the
team was determined to put in a big
performance and a strong start from
the Imperial forwards saw a classic IC
rolling maul go 22m for second row
Chris McGeough to crash over for his
ﬁrst try in over a year. Fly half James
Cox then slotted the conversion to
take the score to 7-0 on the 5 minute
mark.
From the resultant kickoﬀ, captain
Jack Flanagan received the ball and
a strong carry saw him break 3 tack-
les before being brought to ground.
Good work at the breakdown from
the IC forwards ensured quick ball
from the ruck, and after some fast
hands in the backline, outside centre
Caolan Cotter recieved the ball and
ran 50m to score IC’s second try. Just
minutes later, a well placed kick to the
corner saw the IC forwards in perfect
position to execute another driving
maul, leading to McGeough’s second
try of the day. Some squad members
were intrigued to notice that the ‘best
lineout jumper in the club’ seemed
to never call the ball to himself, and
instead made several calls that coinci-
dentally involved McGeough receiv-
ing the ball at the back of the maul
and scoring.
On the 20 minute mark, it was the
turn of Imperial’s deadly backline to
get involved. More slick handling saw
the ball reach fullback Freddie White
who showed great pace to take the
Harvard defenders on the outside and
score in the corner. James Cox was
unsuccessful with the conversion as
a result of a gentle breeze across the
ﬁeld, leaving the score at 22-0 with
only 20 minutes played. After another
strong period of possession, quick
ruck ball and some great hands from
forwards Chris McGeough and Sean
Baker saw prop James Scaife burst
through a gap in mid ﬁeld to score.
Another successful conversion from
Cox saw the score at 29-0. From the
kickoﬀ, McGeough was again in the
thick of the action but was injured in
a crunching midair collision. Despite
his injuries he played on in the hope
of inﬂicting some payback.
Some good play from the Harvard
team then saw them enter the Impe-
rial 22 for the ﬁrst time in the match
after half an hour of play, however IC
managed to win a turnover to stamp
out any hopes of Harvard scoring.
After a scrappy period of play, a well
executed move from the base of the
scrum involving number 8 Sean Baker
and scrum half Ed Durkin saw winger
Nathan Fitzpatrick score in the corner
to make the score 34-0. Just minutes
later another strong carry from Baker
from the base of the scrum and an
excellent oﬄoad in contact saw Cox
score under the posts and convert his
own try to make the score 41-0.
On the 35 minute mark a nice move
involving Caolan Cotter’s ﬁrst pass of
the game saw George Lane take the
ball and oﬄoad to winger Olisa Ufo-
diama to score and take the scoreline
to 46-0 at half time. Despite the score-
line Captain Jack Flanagan was keen
to emphasise the need for improve-
ment in several areas, and the team
took to the ﬁeld determined to put in
a good second half performance.
From the kickoﬀ another IC lin-
eout and rolling maul saw second row
Mike O’Connell score thanks to more
pinpoint accurate throwing from
hooker Rob Kyle. Seeing that he was
unlikely to complete a hatrick of tries
due to his earler injuriies, McGeough
then left the ﬁeld to be replaced by
frenchman Pierre L’Bour.
In the next few minutes the game
became somewhat scrappier as IC
took their foot oﬀ the gas and began
playing without the structure and ac-
curacy that saw them through their
most successful season ever. The only
action of any note was a standard big
hit from Sean Baker on an unsuspect-
ing Harvard player and some more
strong defence by the entire IC team
– with ﬂankers John Hardisty and
Jack Flanagan to the fore as usual.
With the Harvard players beginning
to pile on the pressure, they were
awarded a penalty in the IC 22 for
infringements at the breakdown, but
were unable to make anything come
of their opportunity.
After 50 minutes, the IC team ﬁ-
nally began to ﬁnd some continuity,
with further scores from Cotter and
Fitzpatrick in quick succession tak-
ing the score to 63-0. With Cotter’s
pass count now at a staggering total
of 3, the backline were really begin-
ning to come into their own and min-
utes later Fitzpatrick was put in the
corner again after some great inter-
play from the IC forwards and backs.
Much to the surprise of all watch-
ing, prop Toby Spittle scored a try
(via an outrageous dummy pass that
even managed to fool some IC play-
ers including the usually astute Mike
O’Connell) and sealed a memorable
win with his second just minutes lat-
er. Some bystanders went as far as to
liken Spittle’s brace of tries to seeing
Emile Heskey scoring for England.
With the ﬁnal score reading 73-0
in a match that only lasted 70 min-
utes, the Imperial team (controver-
sially named ‘the colonials’ by several
squad members) was able to leave
Harvard full of conﬁdence for the
remainder of the tour and safe in the
knowledge that their physicality, skill
and passion for the game could not be
matched on the day.
Harvard take a hammering
SPORT
Send your match reports in to sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ICURFC 73 – 0Harvard
Sean Baker Sports Writer
That biscuit got soggy really quickly
Nice tiara Jon.
Ably watched by his teammates, Olisa charges on.

