NEWS
For new students joining Imperial
College each year, the various Face-
book groups for halls, subjects, and
for the entire year of Freshers as a
whole are an invaluable resource,
both for speciﬁc questions and get-
ting to know your future class/house/
roommates (delete as appropriate).
Unfortunately, full as they are of new
students, many of whom are arriving
in London for the ﬁrst time, these
groups are always a prime target for
advertisers and promoters, pushing
their own events through links and
the odd fake account.
This year, though, they’ve gone
one step further in creating fake Fa-
cebook groups for 2012/13 Freshers,
for each hall of residence and even a
fake event for Freshers’ Week. It’s not
clear whether these fake groups were
intended just for advertising purpos-
es or to try and collect personal infor-
mation on new students.
A company ﬁling in August found
that 1.5% of all Facebook accounts,
roughly 14.3 million, are “undesir-
able”; fake accounts intended for
spamming or phishing schemes.
All fake groups and events have
now been taken down after the Un-
ion contacted Facebook. Asked about
the incident, Union President Paul
Beaumont said: “It’s no wonder that
new students can start Uni incredibly
confused, when they’ve been a part
of fake groups mis-selling things, or
been told false information by fake
proﬁles. New students should be very
wary of groups and proﬁles that are
promoting events, encouraging peo-
ple to sign up to mailing lists, or en-
couraging people to part with money.
All of the oﬃcial and proper Face-
book “sub-groups” (faculty, depart-
mental, or hall speciﬁc) are linked
from the Union’s Freshers’ group.
All major websites and such will be
linked from the Union’s website im-
perialcollegeunion.org.”
(Union freshers’ group can be found
at: http://www.facebook.com/
groups/197209050356534/.)
Freshers fooled by large number
of fake Facebook groups
Padraic Calpin Reporter
Here is your one excuse to look at Facebook during lectures. Soak it up...
5
News Editor: Aemun Reza
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
New courses to broaden your education and enhance your potential
For all first year undergraduates. Find out more:
www.imperial.ac.uk/horizons
Make sure you register by Monday 8 October 2012
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER

