FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
6 FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER
Kids! This is where you favorite pizza chain began! (Shame on you if you
are thinking of pizza hut right now.) Yes, Mr Mario is the guy that created
pizza for pizza express. So, if you’re the kind of person who likes to pay a
little bit more for something more authentic, then Da Mario is somewhere
you should go. It’s dangerously close to college and is a great place to fill up
of food after a long day in the lab. There’s also some pretty
epic interior decorations going on, such as the great car-
toon of Mario.
This is our top pick if you want a sophisticated birthday dinner with friends.
The menu caters to everyone’s tastes and budgets, ranging from basic pizza
and pasta dishes starting at around £5 to more elaborate meat dishes for up
to £15. The best part of it, however, is that everyone gets to enjoy the Medi-
terranean décor and friendly staff, meaning you feel whisked away from any
English winter blues in a second. It really is a great atmosphere, sometimes
you worry that you’ll get a ridiculous bill on your desk... Oh, and we should
also add that if you’re timetable allows you to take a long lunch, Rocca gives
all students a complimentary plate of bread when they eat there at lunch-
times. This isn’t even “soup with bread” one piece of bread style bullshit go-
ing on, it’s a whole plate.
We spent years walking past this place barely noticing it was
there. It has just “Pizza and Pasta” written in blue neon lights
on it, as if that’s its name, which makes you just blank it. It’s
just by the entrance to South Ken station and easy to rush
by. However, definitely stop by sometime and check it
out. Huge pizzas, even huger dishes of
pasta, a slightly small but incred-
ible garlic bread starter dish
and friendly waiters / wait-
resses. It’s not the cheapest
place to go, so maybe save it
for a special occasion, or better still, suggest go-
ing there when your parents come to visit.
ITALIAN TOP PICS
A tour of some of the best p
Tim Arbabzadah and Caroline Wood spend loads of money selflessly
Rocca di papa
Intro
toon o
Not as expensive as it looks
Da Mario
The real pizza deal
The big dog
Sole Luna Pizza and Pasta
73 Old Brompton Road 34 Thurloe Street (next to South Ken station)
45 Gloucester Road
Everyone likes Italian food, right? You can’t
go wrong with it. Well we do, so here are
some of our favourite places for pizza and
pasta.
and check it
s of
It can be incredibly easy to end up spending all of your life just sitting in
the library and only sampling JCR, SCR (if you’re lucky enough to be let in),
Library Café, and, of course, all of the departmental cafés. Thing is, we hap-
pen to live around a whole load of amazing cafés. So sit back, relax, in the
Library Café (obviously), chow down on your jacket potato with beans and
cheese, and just pour over this. By which we mean pour over it in a reading
way, don’t pour your beans over it. You may just find your new favourite res-
taurant, and discover that it’s right on your doorstep. As, let’s face it, you’ll
end up living in the library at some point in your degree (*both shudder as
we remember the first term of third year chemistry*).

