FEATURES
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER 7
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
With £5 pizzas from 5pm-7pm everyday this is a great
place to get some cheap after-college pizza and read
over your lecture notes. However, it is an even bet-
ter place to get some cheap after-college pizza and
hang out with friends. With a mega chilled out
vibe and lots more on offer than just pizza (quiche
– which is amazing and comes with a salad that has
a dressing that must contain addictive drugs, salads, cakes, pasta
dishes, and loads more) Caffe Forum rates highly on our cool scale. (You
also get a free croissant if you buy a coffee in the morning... or a free coffee
if you buy a croissant... something like that. We research well) The mochas
also deserve special praise for being outstanding.
This place is niiiiiiice. And as expected, some plates
come at a price. However, we’ve found a way to en-
joy the 5* environment without having to max out
your overdraft. Go here for a pot of tea and chips.
Chips are £2.95 and you get a big wooden bowl full.
They’re proper thin fries, and are really great with
meals. This sounds odd, but the reason that we
even tried this place was that we always see loads
of people with amazing looking platefulls of chips. It took some courage
(and a long day of work, and therefore lowered regard for our bank bal-
ances) to go in and try it. Amazingly, tea is £1.95 for a pot – cheaper than
Starbucks. If you’ve got a spare afternoon and want a change of scenery,
we highly recommend that you hang out here for a bit. The three egg ome-
lettes are worth a try. That, chips, and tea is a pretty boss dinner.
This is on that row of shops that includes a few cafes. It’s another one of
those places that you just walk past everyday and think “I’ll definitely go to
that at some point, probably”, then, inevitably, you don’t bother to actually
go in the end.
Here’s the part that will make you think “nah, can’t be arsed”: it’s a little
bit pricey. However, it is really worth it. They do these open faced sandwich
things, called “tartines” apparently (yes, we are a bit uncultured and so had
to look that up). The roasted vegetable one is particularly nice. The grilled
goat’s cheese and roasted vegetable toasted tartine (we feel very sophisti-
cated saying this as if we knew it all along) is really great. Maybe that’s be-
cause I (Tim) have an almost perverse love of
goat’s cheese, or it could be the great salad
dressing that they give you. We know that
we’ve been banging on about salad dress-
ing way too much in this article, but, hon-
estly, salad is just leaves and shit without the
dressing: in other words, it’s the dressing that
makes it.
The atmosphere, well, put it this way: it’s very much
somewhere you can sit in and forget all about
quantum mechanics in. We recently found
out, with a pang of horror, that this is actually
a chain, but oh well, it’s still worth it.
Other mentions go to: Café Nero on Gloucester road, for the comfi-
est sofas in town. It’s the best Nero that
we have ever seen. We shouldn’t
keep banging on about sofa qual-
ity, but honestly these are massive
brown leather sofas that you can
just sink into.
Chopstix next to South Ken station, for well-
priced greasy Chinese that gives you that re-
ally content feeling for about 5 minutes and
then makes you feel a bit sick, Nando’s on
Gloucester road for a trustworthy ‘I can’t
be bothered to cook tonight’ quick
fix, GBK for good burgers at a good
price (the closest cheap eat for eve-
ryone in Evelyn Gardens),
and, sorry Byron, but they have much more
choice, especially for veggies. The Sand-
wich Shop on Gloucester Road when
you get bored of eating food from the
Library Café, and Wafflemeister again
near South Ken station, for when you
get that waffle urge.
Med Kitchen
Best of the rest
places in South Kensington
y eating out every night to bring you the best from the local area
Caffe Forum
Le Pain Quotidien
Cheat your way to cheap
Pretend to work and eat
Brunch in style
146 Gloucester Road
17 Exhibition Road
25 - 35 Gloucester Road
Other mentions go to: Café Nero o
est sof
we
k
it
b
ju
Chopstix next to South Ken statio
priced greasy Chinese that gives yo
ally content feeling for about 5 min
Best of th
ryone in Evely
and, so
ch
g
Gloucester Road and South Kensington station

