FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
staring down a cow, thinking, “I don’t
want to die. But, meh, there are prob-
ably less interesting ways to die”.
Of course, we didn’t turn back.
Aside from the fear of failure and per-
sonal embarrassment and the knowl-
edge that people had donated tons of
money and wouldn’t be too impressed
with me bailing because my knees
hurt a little, what really kept me go-
ing was the incredible support we had
from so many people.
There were the cars that honked
and cheered as they overtook. There
were the people who let Sioni and
I into their homes (and ensured we
were suitably hungover in the morn-
ing). There were the good guys at
Lejogstics in Inverness who ﬁxed the
skeleton after suﬀering total spinal
collapse on day 2. Half my equipment,
including the skeleton and the pan-
nier bags were lent to me by Reuben
Gibbons. The tandem was a loan from
Carole and Graham Davies. We had
an article on CNET and in local me-
dia thanks to John-Paul Jones and the
press team at Imperial. Sport Imperial
lent me some pro ‘Imperial Wheelers’
kit. Hell, we even had the original re-
cord holder Art Hoﬀman sending us
videos of support from the US. There’s
a near never-ending list of people who
helped make the cycle happen. It felt
like some huge cycle convoy mak-
ing its way down the country, rather
than just Sioni and I battling our way
through the wind and the rain.
When we arrived at Land’s End
the feeling was incredible. I took my
hands from the handlebars, lifted my
arms into the air, and soaked in the
moment (secretly praying I wouldn’t
wipe out metres from the ﬁnish line).
In case the whole trip wasn’t surreal
enough, there was a coach-load of
Chinese tourists who all wanted pho-
tos with us. (As far as I’m concerned,
Sioni and I are now national celebri-
ties in China…)
In the end, we cycled a total of
1487.17 km (924 miles) and climbed
15km vertically. It was incredible fun.
The UK is more beautiful than I had
ever thought.
But anyway, that’s all over now. My
knees still ache quite a bit, but I think
that’s to do with the fact that I haven’t
done a moment of exercise since get-
ting oﬀ the tandem for the last time.
I’m now a world record holder. It took
25 years for someone to break Art
Hoﬀman’s record; hopefully it’ll be
much sooner before someone breaks
mine. Ultimately, we raised £3,000 for
the Rector’s Scholarship Fund; money
that will help some anonymous stu-
dent who would otherwise be scraping
along, worrying about every penny he
or she spent. Who knows, maybe he
or she will end up reading this article,
in which case, let me say this: I hope
you use that money to have the fullest
university experience you can possi-
bly have. Every time you think, “nah, I
can’t do that”, remember my sorry ass
in the middle of Dartmoor, grab that
opportunity by the fucking cow horns,
and go have some fun.
Thanks Joel, Marija, Jane, Maisie,
and Paul for letting us couch surf in
their homes. Thanks to Alastair, Josh,
Sophie, Jade, Ed, Ben, and Simon’s nan
Margaret for hosting us in their homes -
and thanks to their families too. Thanks
to Greg for writing us a song, to Ken
for doing us a sketch, and to Matt for
the MS Paint masterpieces. Thanks to
Neil Mosley and Sports Imperial for
lending me some kit. Thanks to Jamie,
Toby, and Charles for lending us their
GoPros. Thanks to Elizabeth Atkin, Mi-
randa Seymour, Rosalind Griffin, Simon
Watts, John-Paul Jones and everyone
else in the College who supported us.
Thanks to Jonathan Kim for building
us the website. Thanks to all those who
donated. Thanks especially to Sioni
Summers for coming with me, to Reu-
ben Gibbons for lending the skeleton,
and to Carole and Graham Davies for
lending the tandem, it would have been
impossible without you. I hope I haven’t
missed anyone, but if I have I’ll update
it online. Thank you all so much.
For more photos, and to see a day by
day account of the trip:
Twitter.com/SkeletonFund
Facebook.com/SkeletonFund
www.SkeletonFund.com
You can still donate at
JustGiving.com/TheSkeletonFund
Kadhim and his bone
The welcome party at Land’s End
was unexpected...
It was damn good to be home
Art Hoffman, absolute legend
FRIDAY 5 OCTOBER 9

