8 March 2002
Issue 1231
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/
Near the culmination of the
Great Felix Film Quiz. Yes,
culmination. (Page 26)
Beverly Knight rides again!
Do you see what we did
there? (Page 18)
Election Result Uncertainty
The results of recent sabbatical elections
are i n danger of being overturned after a
formal complaint w a s made by the
President of the Medics' Union.
The Medics' President, Shazia Munir,
presented her argument on Tuesday, where
she alleged that the election had been run
unfairly. This followed a formal complaint
which was sellotaped to the office door of
Returning Officer David Francis last
Saturday, the day of the count. Sellotape is
not, apparently, a valid way to make a for-
mal complaint, and the count proceeded
unhindered - the results of which were
announced on Monday (see page 5).
While the Returning Officer for sabbati-
cal elections is usually the President, this
year's encumbent, Sen Ganesh, stood for
re-election. David Francis acted as
Returning Officer in his place until a meet-
ing of Union Council confirmed that he
could run the elections. This decision was
taken despite informal complaints about
his conduct during the nomination of can-
didates, implying that those now recruired
to judge his conduct were aware of dissat-
Medical U n i o n President: Complaint
isfaction before they appointed him.
The substance of M s Munir's complaint
regards the placement and limited number
of ballot boxes on medical campuses, as
well as criticism of the "lack of notice"
given for students wishing to register their
vote remotely.
Mr Francis, who is heavily criticised in
the complaint, argues that M s Munir failed
to communicate the proxy voting arrange-
ments to her student body in time, and that
the Elections Committee had moved ballot
boxes on the medical campuses in accor-
dance with M s Munir's requests.
If these complaints are upheld at subse-
quent meetings, the elections may be
entirely re-run.
It has been alleged that this enthusiasm
for re-running the election may be related
to fourth year medic Idris Harding's narrow
defeat i n the Presidential election. M r
Harding overwhelmingly beat all the other
candidates in the medic vote with a medic
turn-out greater than in any other depart-
ment, excluding the Huxley ballot which
contains three departments. This casts
doubt on the effect poor voting arrange-
ments may have had on the outcome.
The recent elections cost the Union over
£1000 - enough to kit out a Rugby team -
but there are also significant worries that
the student population would fail to turn
out for a repetition of the elections. AW
"Those election results in full.
They're not pie charts, but it's an
excuse to put a big pie on the front
page!"
Election results in full, but no pie...
The next issue of Felix is the last issue of term and will be published on Wednesday 20th March

