NUS debate
No To NUS
On Thursday and Friday next week, you
will be asked for the first time in seven
years whether you want to take Imperial
College back into the National Union of
Students. Those of us in the ever-growing
'No' campaign believe that such a move
would be detrimental to the life of stu-
dents at Imperial College. This article tells
you w h y you should vote 'No' to the NUS.
Membership would cost £35,000 per
year - that's a 10% cut for your clubs and
societies!
Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. Sure,
they might try to tempt us with a discount
in the first year, but after that it's at least
£35,000 per year for membership - and that
money is coming from the College's subven-
tion to the Union. There's no more pots of
gold in the Sherfield Building to bail us out
- it's £35,000 less for your clubs and soci-
eties, union services, developments, new
initiatives, academic representation and
welfare. In real terms that's a 10% cut for all
clubs and societies - do you think the Union
will cut its staff and administration budgets
before they cut yours?
In short, Imperial College could affiliate to
the NUS, or it could give a full grant to the
Afro-Caribbean, Arabic, Bangladeshi,
Chinese, Cypriot, Erasmus, French,
German, Hellenic, Indian, Indonesian,
Iranian, Irish, Italian, Japanese, Korean,
Lebanese, Malaysian, Mauritian, Pakistan,
Scandinavian, Singapore, Spanish, Sri
Lankan, Taiwanese, Thai Soc, Choir,
DramSoc, Jazz Big Band, Jazz & Rock Soc,
Leonardo Soc, Musical Theatre, Orchestra,
Sinfonietta, Classical Guitar, Jazz Big Band,
Abacus, Amnesty International, Artsoc,
CathSoc, Christian Student Action,
Christian Union, ConSoc, Debating,
Environmental, Finance, Hindu, His People,
IQ (LGB), Islamic, Jewish, Krishna
Consciousness, Labour, Pimlico, Pugwash,
Rocksoc, Science Fiction, Sikh, Student
Industrial Society and Origami societies. It's
your choice.
"But we would get 'money back' through
joining NUSSL!"
Not strictly true. NUSSL is the bulk-buy-
ing group that would take over all the
Union's bar, catering and shop purchasing.
With their current price range (which is like-
ly to change this year anyway) in the best-
case scenario the Union might gain £9,000
per year, but this would mean adding an
average of lOp to the price of every pint -
that works out as your entire beer budget
for the first two weeks of term!
At the moment we buy our beer through
TUCO - another purchasing consortium -
which gives us low prices and good service.
The suppliers that NUSSL uses have all
been used by ICU in the past, and have
always provided us with a bad service.
Why join an organisation that makes us use
suppliers we don't like?
It gets better! NUSSL want to tell you
what to drink - and they don't stock
Carlsberg, Lowenbrau or Castlemaine
XXXX - all best sellers in the Union bars!
And just when you thought it couldn't get
any worse - there will be a severe restriction
on the number of Real Ales that the Union
can sell.
But guess what? That's not all, folks!
NUSSL is obliged to stick to the NUS "ethi-
cal" policy, imposed by the NUS National
Executive, which would prohibit us from
selling things like KitKats. We believe that
Imperial College students should be the
only people who decide what gets sold in
our Union's bars, shop and newsagent.
"But we could get national representation
from the NUS."
The , Yes campaign would have you
believe that without the NUS, Imperial
College students don't have a voice at a
national level. They say that if nurses,
teachers and farmers' have national bodies,
then students should as well. We agree. But
just as there are many different unions for
all these groups of workers, so should there
be for students.
Does a student at Imperial College -
Europe's leading academic institution of sci-
ence, technology and medicine - need the
same representation as students who
attend Merthyr Tydfil College? Why is it an
advantage for you to be represented by the
same people who represent technical col-
leges, or Further Education colleges?
Imperial College Union was one of the
founder members of the Aldwych Group, a
group of students unions from the so-called
'ivy league1
of universities in the UK. They
take notice of us. Last year's ICU President,
Hamish Common was Chairman of the
Aldwych Group. It was Tasha Newton, an
ICU President, who persuaded the top 12
universities and colleges to rule out top-up
fees. When the Dearing Committee on
Higher Education Funding wanted to find
out real students' views on student finance,
did they go to a student body that's in the
NUS? They didn't. They came to Imperial.
People want to know your views because
you're students at Europe's equivalent of
MIT. We don't need to pay £35,000 for that
privilege. You get it when you sign up.
The Yes campaign will tell you that the
NUS introduced the London Transport
Discount Scheme. They didn't. The NUS
hijacked it at the last minute, and the
scheme has never been right since.
Tuition fees in Scotland? They don't exist
anymore. The Yes campaign will tell you
that the NUS were behind the abolition of
fees, but the students who ran the cam-
paign tell a different story. How many of the
five Scottish universities who overturned
fees were part of the NUS? One. The other
four have been out for years.
The NUS claim to be the only effective
lobbying organisation in the country. In fact,
they're the only student organisation in the
UK that hasn't had a victory in four years.
"But we can get discounts from Top Man
and H M V if we join!"
And you can get discounts from Tower
Records if you walk in there today with your
IC card. The power of an NUS card to secure
a discount is getting weaker every year; in
contrast, go for some retail therapy around
London and you'll find that most shops that
offer a "student discount" will accept your
IC card, your ULU card, your ISIC card - the
list gets longer.
Your Vote Counts.
On Thursday and Friday you have a
choice - a vote for an effective, value for
money, campaigning body providing the
services you need and much more - or a
vote for the NUS.
To learn more about why you should vote
'No' to the NUS, or to help with the cam-
paign, please visit our website at
http://union.ic.ac.uk/no2nus/

