debate NUS
NUS - Discounts and a National Voice
A Note by David Francis, Deputy
President (Education & Welfare), Imperial
College Union.
On March 14th and 15th, you'll have the
opportunity to change your experience of
Imperial College. For the first time since
1995, Imperial students are being given a
chance to join the National Union of
Students, the organisation which repre-
sents and achieves discounts for 98% of
higher and further education students in
the UK.
NUS would provide direct benefits for
every student at Imperial and for our union.
The NUS card is the one nationally recog-
nised proof of student status giving access
to a wide range of discounts ranging from
burgers to theatre tickets. This benefit
package has been enhanced through the
development of www.nusonline.co.uk On
the site you will find news, advice, informa-
tion and access to a number of special
offers. Sadly, Imperial students cannot cur-
rently access the discounts (for example
10% off all purchases from HMV) as we're
not affiliated.
The services that NUS can offer our union
range from high quality tailored training for
our elected officers, through to access to
discounted deals for our bars, catering and
shops, via NUS Services Ltd. (NUSSL);
which means more income for our union
and better prices for us. The reduction in
costs which membership of NUSSL would
bring has been calculated to be up to
£25,000. Joining NUS would cost us £35,000
and to join NUSSL - this is optional, but only
open to NUS affiliates - would be another
£60. Peanuts considering ICU last year
spent £45,000 on the wiring of the West
Basement in Beit Quad (as opposed to a
budget of £15,000) and £14,-000 on French
Polishing the Union Dining Hall.
What then does NUS offer other than dis-
counts and cheap beer? Perhaps most
important of all is national representation.
The need for a national representative voice
for students remains as great today as it
was in 1922 when the NUS was founded.
The recent growth in the student popula-
tion has enormous implications for funding
and for the nature and quality of the educa-
tional experience. NUS has been the one
national voice calling consistently for the
abolition of fees and the restoration of the
Yes To NUS
maintenance grant for students. You may
have heard the recent announcement that
Wales has followed Scotland in reinstating
student grants. That now leaves England
out of step. We need to make sure that the
government recognises the hardship and
unique needs of Imperial students.
At the moment we are among the 2% of
students in the UK without a national voice
and a YES vote for NUS is the only way we
are going to be heard. Imperial College
Union needs to be part of a strong National
Union that is maintaining the pressure on
government. NUS achieved a massive
turnout and unprecedented press coverage
in its national demonstration on 20
February. Owain James, the National
President, got the message of student hard-
ship broadcast to millions through the BBC,
ITV Channel 4, Sky and many local news
programmes. He even appeared on Richard
and Judy!
NATIONAL UNION OF STUDENTS
The government know that the present
system is not delivering. Thanks to the hard
work and targeted campaigning of NUS and
students' unions across the country change
is inevitable. It is up to us to vote YES to
ensure that our voice is heard when the
decisions about just how the system will
change are being made. 700 students'
unions representing over 4 million people of
all ages studying in universities and col-
leges, working together through NUS, have
the collective strength to win change and to
keep the student movement a force that
must be listened to.
NUS is more than a nationally recognised
campaigning body. Professional
researchers sit on a host of technical com-
mittees working behind the scenes to give
a student view on issues such as quality
assurance, careers services, student
employment and training for lecturers. NUS
have access to the heart of policy develop-
ment and decision making; 98% of students'
unions in the UK have access to this sup-
port. Imperial College's students do not.
And there's more. NUS has a wide range
of support and advice services for our union
and for students. They have specialist legal,
housing, and student financial support
advisors. They regularly produce briefings
on a whole range of areas, ensuring officers
are kept up to date with changes in the law
and involved in campaigns. NUS Ents nego-
tiate with bands and DJ's to provide free
tours of the country. LSE's students can
access this - why can't we?
NUS is a democratic organisation, with
every union able to send representatives to
their annual conference to make policy and
elect the executive.
What about the arguments of the "No"
campaign? What are their arguments
against joining? Well, I've had a good look at
their website and, apart from a lot of opin-
ion there seem to be very few "facts".
You do NOT have to declare a political
allegiance to join the NUS. The current pres-
ident was elected as an Independent, and
the largest political group - Labour Students
- has only 6 out of 26 members of the nation-
al executive. While it would cost £35,000
per annum to affiliate Imperial could save
£25,000 by joining NUSSL. The cost of
£10,000 is a fairly small sum to find in our
union, which has an annual i turnover of
over £3.5million. It could be found in a vari-
ety of ways and certainly would not require
beer prices to rise or clubs and society
budgets to be cut.
They say that NUS is so big it can't prop-
erly represent Imperial students when it
also speaks for students from across the UK.
Surely we would be better off with a strong
national union representing us on national
issues and supporting our union on local
issues rather than ICU on it's own out in the
cold? Teachers, farmers, police officers and
doctors are all represented by national bod-
ies, why should it be different for students?
What motivates the "No" campaign? We
note that this campaign is being led and
run by union hacks that have failed to give
Imperial students a choice on affiliation
since 1995. Perhaps they like to feel isolat-
ed. Perhaps they don't care if we have dis-
counts or want us to have a national voice.
NUS is the largest independent student
organisation in the world providing a
unique range of services and a strong voice
for students; a voice that is heard where
decisions are made. Your vote can make you
part of that voice. On Thursday, 14 and
Friday, 15 March, vote YES to NUS.

