talk back
JCR Chair Trauma
Dear Felix,
Once again my damned foolish con-
science has made me speak out. I have dis-
covered another way in which whoever
provided our college facilities failed to take
into account that this is Imperial College
and thus wasted funds. In this case, it is
chairs. If you spend as much time taking
coffee breaks in the JCR as I do you would
notice the severe discrepancy between the
number of chairs and the number of people
sitting on them, small knots of people sit at
one end of a row and perhaps another
clique will be at the other but in between
there are vast gaps of empty, apparently
uninhabitable space. If you are now bored,
rest assured, there is a point, this is not just
a letter about chairs or even college ineffi-
ciency, it is about you people.
Yes, it's true; IC has caught the London
transport syndrome, the bug that prevents
two strangers from voluntarily sitting next
to each other on the bus. N o w admittedly
I've had bad experiences with people who
try to talk on the tube and as far as I'm con-
cerned you're welcome to be suspicious of
someone who might be carrying a knife or
concealed bible out there in the real world,
but in the common room? The most you
have to fear is being drawn into a discus-
sion about complex integrals by a man with
an offensive beard, you are in no physical
danger, you never know, you might even
enjoy the experience. In this way you can
make new friends or discover people who
can do your work for you. Who knows,
amongst the discarded coffee cups and
polystyrene trays you might find love. OK,
so that's going a bit far but I'm sure you
understand what I'm trying to encourage.
Throw off the shackles of science fiction
addiction, tear yourself away from that
computer game and interact with real peo-
ple. Talk without typing, make some of
those sound waves you've been taught
about and tell that guy just how much you
love his beard.
Pete
The next set of letters are all opinion pieces.
I do not correct individual mistakes in let-
ters, so bear in mind that what these letters
say is not necessarily true: read the NUS fea-
tures to find out more.
More NUS Talk
Dear Will,
Fortunately I have been fairly well isolat-
ed from ICU politics this year so I'm not sure
if the points I am about to make have
already been made, but if not I think it's
about time someone said something to
make ICU council and the Sabbaticals come
to their senses!
Referendums are expensive things.
Indeed the budget for running the referen-
dum is set at £2,000 - £1,500 for the cost of
the people to sit on the ballot boxes and
£250 per campaign! Is it just me that thinks
that this is all a big waste of money since
pretty much everyone is against it
(including all the ICU presidents for the
past 6 years). Even the current President,
Sen, who suggested the referendum is
arguing against it! I personally find it quite
ironic that the biggest argument against
joining the NUS is the cost of affiliation, yet
ICU is wasting thousands of pounds just so
that it can been seen to be democratic - I
think on that score this years sabbaticals
are closing the barn door well after the
horse has bolted.
On the subject of cost I would also liked
to know which muppet was so disorgan-
ised to hold two sets of campus wide elec-
tions this year - one for sabbaticals, the
other a referendum on the NUS. The cost
could have almost been wiped in half if peo-
ple had been asked to vote on both at the
same time because you would only need to
pay one set of people to sit on the ballot
boxes!
After all the cock-ups this year maybe IC
could do with joining the NUS if only so
there's someone to hold Council's hands
and stop all of these stupid decisions!
Yours faithfully,
Tim
Ex IC student
Dear Sir,
I would like to point out a couple of points
with respect to the upcoming referendum
on NUS affiliation. The main reason put for-
ward by the pro-campaigners seems to be
that I will be able to get a nice shiny NUS
card which will allow me to get nice shiny
discounts at high street shops. However, I
was under the impression that since IC is a
college of the University of London, we are
all entitled to ULU NUS cards. It simply
entails us getting one at the freshers' fair or
(heaven forbid!) actually going to the ULU
building and applying for a card.
Seeing as Union funding has already
been cut for next year, I can see no real ben-
efit to be gained from a £ 50.000,- affiliation
to an organization which seems only to fur-
ther the political career of its president and
committee - money which would have to
come from somewhere. However much the
Union structure can be streamlined, the los-
ers will be the students in the end, as
money is taken away from student
activites. Imperial has one of the best union
club and society scenes in the U.K., and
some of the cheapest bars in London - let's
keep it that way.
Yours faithfully,
J. Whitfield, Aero 2
Dear Sir,
With the NUS referendum getting close, I
thought I would like to bring up a few
points that have been bothering me for a
while.
Joining the NUS would mean paying
around £57,000 subscription next year (and
this would most probably increase later).
College is not prepared to give any more
money to the Union and the money would
therefore have to come out of the clubs and
societies funding. In view of the already
large drop in club funding this year (artsoc
and many more!), I find it hard to justify the
further drop in funding that would be
caused by the NUS.
Joining the NUS would also mean hand-
ing over a lot of decision-making tasks to
them, including the choice of our food and
drink providers. This centralisation would
mean a net increase in the price of drinks,
especially beer, by not allowing us to
choose the cheapest provider on the mar-
ket. Student choice of chocolate would also
be greatly restricted as the NUS does not
tolerate Nestle products for example.
As for the benefits, well you might get a
reduction at your local cinema- if it didn't
already accept your swipe card- when you
go home to see your parents and also
cheaper clothes from Topshop. When it
comes to student representation though,
the NUS is being ineffective and apathetic.
Other universities are increasingly thinking
of leaving because their money is being
squandered and the NUS is unaccountable.
So what to do? Cinema reductions three

