back talk
times a year and few IC society events or
affordable beer all year round? Besides, an
NUS card is perfectly simple to obtain
through ULU!
Give me a cheap pint, any day!
Anonymous
East Meets Controversy
Dear Felix.
I recently took part in East Meets West
2002 and the show was fantastic. However,
the current ICU President was there caus-
ing what seemed to be a hell of a lot of trou-
ble over nothing.
Dramsoc reported that Sen entered their
control room and asked that the show be
delayed. Bizarre. As to the reasons, he him-
self said it was because he wanted people
to go home and not go to the aftershow
party due to his 'fire-safety' concerns. I
know, I was there when he said it. I find it
hard to believe that the President did not
know WEEKs in advance the numbers com-
ing to see the show. Either he was being
completely incompetent or he came down
just trying to cause trouble.
I find it disgusting that an official of the
Union (indeed, the President) would come
down alone and prevent nearly 75 students
entry to their own aftershow party. When
other officers of the Union came out to tell
him that their must have been a miscount,
he refused to believe them and still pre-
vented entry. Does this not seem a bit irra-
tional?
I'm also surprised that Sen Ganesh had
time to persecute the Indian Society -
there's me thinking he had a constitution to
re-draft.
Samit Ahir
There were two other letters written that
were very similar to this, so-have not been
included due to space.
Mentally Challenged
Have you been watching University
Challenge on TV this year? Thrilled at the
daring escapades of the four intrepid cru-
saders as they see off the challenges from
all comers? Thought that you could do bet-
ter?
Well, you now have a chance to do even
better. There will be hustings for the 'new*
team, for the 2002-2003 quiz season, on
Thursday the 14th of March, at 1pm, in
Seminar Room 7B in the East Basement of
the Union. This will consist of a series of
questions on all sorts of subjects, designed
to test your potential as a contestant.
The only constraint on you is that you
have to be a student next year.
Any questions to l.kilford@ic.ac.uk.
"Imperial, Kilford".
Gardening Hour
Dear Felix,
Due to remarks by the Rector (reported in
issue 1225), it was brought to our attention
that Garden Hall will be sold soon. To the
best of our knowledge Montpellier and
Brabazon will also be closed and we ques-
tion the logic of closing cheap accommoda-
tion close to college.
The lack of information from the Union to
the student body suggests that the Rector
has their full support. The Union is meant
to be an open institution that informs and
explains both their own and college's deci-
sions - decisions which affect the student
population now and in the future. However,
they are pre-occupied arguing amongst
themselves over issues the majority of stu-
dents don't know and don't care about.
The closure of Garden Hall and others will
affect the student population, and ultimate-
ly the colleges' (both in terms of reputation
and research), negatively. The logic behind
closing a hall on campus evades us.
Having to commute to college will isolate
first year students from both the Union and
college, reducing their participation in
activities and their degrees.
Not all students can afford the high price
of single en-suite rooms - especially with
the added costs of travel on the increasing-
ly expensive underground. Garden provides
cheap accommodation to a large number of
students who would not other be able to
attend Imperial. Is Imperial going to
become Yuppy Central?
Of the 84 students at Garden Hall, most of
the students that live in shared rooms thor-
oughly enjoy the experience. Not only do
overseas students (who already pay
£12,000 in fees) find it cheaper to stay at
Garden, but they also find it easier to mix
with British students. There is nothing like
sharing a room to get to know someone
from a different culture.
Why are college planning to sell a hall
that has just been renovated to renovate
another? Why not sell Beit in 5 years to
refurbish the other halls?
Garden is the most luxurious hall in col-
lege and looks stunning inside and out. If
you don't believe that, take our challenge
and visit. This invitation is extended to
union officers, college management,
estates, or anyone else involved with the
closure.
All we have been informed of is the clo-
sure of the hall, without any solid reasons.
All we ask of the college and Union is to
give us an explanation of why they plan to
do this. From our viewpoint, it is certainly
no good for the students, and surely the
Union, and hopefully the college, is here for
the students? Or is ranking higher than
other colleges in terms of research becom-
ing a higher priority?
Ahmed & Jude (Garden Hall Residents)
Health Concerns
Dear Felix,
I am writing to complain about the IC
Health Centre. Last week I had a spare hour
one morning and, needing a consultation
with a doctor, decided to go along to the
Open Clinic' in the morning. I know I'm not
registered with a doctor there, nor with a
doctor in London, but should be able to see
a doctor as a temporary visiting patient.
Upon asking if I at reception if I could be
seen in the Open Clinic, I was told I had to
register with a doctor at the Health Centre.
I then informed the receptionist I didn't
wish to register at this moment in time, and
only needed a short consultation with a
doctor. After asking my postcode (N7), she
informed me that I was in their catchment
area and therefore HAD to register if I want-
ed to see a doctor. The last time I checked
with a GP in my family, no person has to
register with a doctor to see one, but it is
preferred if the patient is staying in the area
for a long period of time. According to
Health Centre literature, they recommend
patients should register with them "if they
are staying in the area for over three
months.". Last time I checked, an eleven
week term is shorter than three months,
and most undergraduates go home for the
summer.
Regardless of this fact, N7 is about 45
minutes away from South Kensington, so if

