talk back
I were to register with a doctor, I think I
would register in N7 - if I were too ill to go
to college and needed to see a doctor, I
doubt I'd want to travel 45 minutes by tube
to college to see one. And if I ever fell ill
while at college and needed to see a doctor
I certainly hope one would see me even if I
were not registered. If someone gets a sum-
mer internship and works out of town for
the whole summer, I doubt they would reg-
ister with the doctor in the area. But I could
guarantee they would be able to see a doc-
tor if they asked at the local surgery or
health centre.
So I ask why was I denied the opportuni-
ty to see a doctor at the Imperial College
Health Centre? I am after all an Imperial
College Student, and am also entitled to
NHS treatment. If you have been denied
service at the Health Centre please write in
because this is not on.
Regards, Tom Ternent ISE2
H o w Not To...
Dear Will,
Firstly, I would like to congratulate you on
your victory in this year's sabbatical elec-
tions. I am certain that you will keep doing
a good job as Felix editor, and I am delight-
ed to continue working with you. May I also
point out that I was always planning to
submit this letter, regardless of the result.
Throughout the whole election process,
the conduct of the returning officer and his
elections committee left much to be
desired. To start with, all the dates were
changed, which was not only extremely
inconvenient for those involved, but it also
meant that voting would begin just one day
after the South Kensington hustings. As a
result, Felix was unable to cover hustings
before the start of voting.
The hustings at Wye were a complete
farce. They were due to begin at 6.30pm,
and so our returning officer, in his infinite
wisdom, decided to leave South Kensington
at 4.45pm. We eventually arrived over an
hour late. One of the two minibuses turned
up about 15 minutes before the other, and
so the two other candidates for the position
of Felix editor spoke and received questions
before the minibus I was in had even
arrived. Surely this was unfair, and David
Francis should have waited until all the can-
didates for a particular post were present.
Mr Francis' article in Felix regarding the
Single Transferable Vote system was factu-
ally incorrect and could have misled stu-
dents. The positioning of the ballot boxes
for medical students meant that it was
either very difficult or impossible for many
such students to vote. A significant number
of students, especially those in Biology, did
not even know where their ballot box was.
I could not believe my ears when the
elections committee decided to blame us,
the candidates, for the low turnout, claim-
ing that it was due to the fact that many of
us had spent only a small proportion of the
available publicity budget. It is down to the
committee to publicise these elections. A
candidate, and only a candidate, should
decide how much of his/her budget to
spend. From the results, it seems that there
is no link whatsoever between publicity
and victory. Besides, the turnout was
greater than last year, with over 10% of stu-
dents voting. Finally, how can the elections
committee possibly criticise us after Mr
Francis' terrible handling of the whole
affair? I am fully aware that I signed a piece
of paper saying that the election was con-
stitutional. I did not complain at the time
because, for reasons including the effect of
the election on my degree, the last thing I
wanted was for the whole thing to be re-
run.
I am certain that many people involved
with the election process will agree with
my comments, including most, if not all, of
the candidates. Action should be taken
against those involved, if only to prevent a
similar situation occurring next year.
Yours &c. Dave Edwards, Music Editor
0 V<
evneotby Imperial College S„ltt
^ (vegetation) Venue: Impew , '
c^V
I intellectually D i S a 5 £ ^ C 0 ^ «
>
'
/
7
%6%
'y.
e*OUs
Pnr* a r o u n d
Hyde Park Serpen**
Z %b
e g i v e n a w a y . W*'^Jc*&#
^ T a n o r * 789 7 0 2 1 t i r a t a n ® ^

