music reviews
Departure Lounge
Too Late To Die Young
Out now on Bella Union records
The British four-piece return with a pop
record produced by French D J and multi-
instrumentalist Kid Loco. Too Late To Die
Young is the third Departure Lounge
album and the follow-up to their instru-
mental project Jetlag Dreams.
Tim Keegan, singer and songwriter,
appeared on last year's Kid Loco record
Kill Your Darlings, and the co-operation
between the two helps to extend the
dreamlike atmospheres developed on the
band's first two albums. We can still find
sensual melodies and sweet choruses (I
Love You), even if we also discover a new
groovy element (King Kong Frown).
The most interesting tracks are those
where the emphasis is placed on the
instruments rather than the vocals.
Many, such as the pretty scheming
Tubular Belgians In My Goldfield and the
bluesy Coke and Flakes, could have been
written for film soundtracks.
A n d what about the rest of the record?
Actually, it's not bad. Quite good, in fact,
but something has bothered me after
each listen. The tracks sound good, but
perhaps too good: the production seems
too careful. As a result, the album sounds
too pop and too "easy listening" for me.
Indeed, Departure Lounge don't create a
very innovative style of music. I would
prefer more bugs in the production and
less perfect pop songs (What You Have Is
Good is catchy but not really exciting).
In conclusion, if you enjoy beautiful,
classic pop music, then don't wait - run
and buy this record! But if you are inter-
ested in musical discoveries and new
sounds, then you might want to try
something else...
Hoobastank
Hoobastank
Out now on Mercury records
I used to be into metal. Many moons ago,
before I came to university, I went to
Sepultura concerts; the whole lot. Luckily
in my opinion, this affliction didn't
progress to its final stages. After many
years of listening to house music and the
like, the closest I have come to metal of
late is a Travis CD - not exactly Slayer's
Reign In Blood, I think you'll agree.
Still, the rise of poorly-spelt nu-metal
has not escaped me. One thing that dif-
fers about metal in more recent times is
the number of women who like it. Back in
the day, concerts were like Elec Eng
socials, but now the numbers are almost
even. Only today, I overheard a couple of
teenage girls excited by the fact that
Slipknot were on the cover of Metal
Hammer. Quite how they know that a
man who is only seen in public wearing
a mask is "gorgeous" is beyond me.
But what has all this got to do with
Hoobastank, you ask. Well, Hoobastank
rock big time. From the opening chords,
displaying the fantastic crunch tone that
bedroom guitarists spend thousands try-
ing to imitate, you know that this album
is going to be special. The vocals may
not be up to Pavarotti standards, but who
cares when the rest is so good?'There's
nothing particularly complex or subtle in
their arrangements, but they set out with
the sort of muscular punky rock style that
just speaks for itself.
There hasn't been a better new rock
band since Therapy? If there is any sort
of justice in the world, Hoobastank will
be crowned kings of nu-metal and show
those upstarts Linkin Park how it really
should be done.
Beverley Knight
Who I Am
Out this Monday on Parlophone records
The self-assured ambassador for
Wolverhampton's almost non-existent
music scene returns w i t h this long
awaited, slickly produced follow-up to
Prodigal Sista.
Who I Am is one of the most promising
albums I've heard this year, full of emo-
tion and character. However, it is unable
to reach the higher echelons of the hall of
fame of musical royalty.
The opening track is the brilliant Get
Up, which had me dancing in circles due
to its infectious rhythms and seductive
vocals. I don't want it to end. Track two,
the likeable, mature recent single
Shoulda Woulda Coulda, begins in a man-
ner similar to that of the excellent Turin
Brakes on their inspirational track The
Underdog. When the chorus kicks in,
pleasant guitar strumming and Knight's
soulful voice bring an almost mediocre
set of lyrics to life.
It is when R&B sensibilities take hold
that this album is immensely appealing.
Unfortunately though, this doesn't hap-
pen very often.
Highlights include Beautiful
Contradiction, with its soaring vocals,
and the smooth, slow R&B number
Hurricane Jane. Erykah Badu's influ-
ences come through effectively on the
gospel-tinged Same, and Whatever's
Clever features Misteeq-style vocals.
Who I Am is Knight's best work, built
upon strong lyrics and a very powerful
voice. The chart success of the first two
singles, Get Up and Shoulda Woulda
Coulda, suggests that this may be the
album that brings her music to the
masses.
Frangois Alex Sajini

