reviews music
INTERVIEW with
Beverley Knight
Beverley Knight's new album Who I Am is released on Monday
(see review, left), and she is currently touring the UK with
Jamiroquai (a live review will appear in Felix soon).
FELIX: This album is very different from Prodigal Sista. What
inspired the changes?
BEVERLEY: This album is different and progressive. There are
some overlapping points with Prodigal Sista, but this album is
deliberately broad-based to reflect my creative influences. I
wanted to reflect my musical background.
How do you think people are going to receive your album?
The album is all about moving forward and I feel really good
about it. I don't think it will be a shock to my fans. People under-
stand progression, and I feel that my fans are growing with me.
You've been doing a lot of collaborations recently. How do
you decide who to work with?
Well, with Jay K, he asked me to work on his album and support
him on the tour. James Poise connected me to Musique Soul
Child.
What was it like w o r k i n g w i t h Musique Soul Child?
He's very easy to work with. Musique comes across shy but
he's always laughing at my accent.
Did you write all the songs on the album? Are you talking
about people you k n o w well or are all the songs about you?
All my songs, except Falling Soldier which is about Steven
Lawrence, are usually about me and are quite personal. They're
also about people I know. When I wrote the album, I was com-
ing out of a long-term relationship, so I had to be myself and
stand strong. For instance, Shoulda Woulda Coulda is very much
about that relationship, and there was a lot of pain associated
with that. I had to put all that emotion down.
What inspired Get Up?
Get Up was the first single from the album, and it was a call to
arms. It was also about personal identity, with the dancehall
influence. I'm really glad it did so well in the charts.
Do you think U K R & B gets the kind of success it deserves?
It's difficult doing R&B in the UK. For me, the biggest prejudice
is culture. People think that unless it's coming from America,
any R&B tune is just not good enough.
Do you think U K R&B is becoming "more garage"?
I don't know, but I have done some garage remixes. I don't
intend to move to garage though, for exactly the same reason
why I don't do house - it's not me!
Can you tell me what input you have regarding your music
videos?
I don't have as tight a reign as I would like to - except for the
Get Up video. I wanted people to see me perform live. In my
next video [Shoulda Woulda Coulda], I try to put the song across
in a non-cheese way.
So what are you doing next?
Well, I'm going on tour with Jay Kay, then I'm headlining my
own tour - I'll be touring the UK for 10 days.
Koram
LIVE: Bubba Sparxxx +
Princess Superstar +
Dilated Peoples @ Astoria
The evening ends with the crowd bottling the stage in disgust
at Bubba Sparxxx's premature exit. He's only been on stage for
fifteen minutes. Granted, they were fifteen excellent minutes,
racing through of half a dozen tracks from his debut album and
culminating with an excellent version of Ugly, but given that
the album is eighty minutes long, there's no excuse.
It might have been forgivable if Sparxxx (pic above) hadn't
made us wait for three quarters of an hour after Dilated Peoples
left the stage. On the other hand, he was still easily the high-
light of the evening - while Bubba's problem was that he didn't
stay on stage for long enough, Dilated's was that they should
have departed long before they finally did. With boring, weak
beats and weaker lyrics, they're everyone's indie rap nightmare.
A d d in repeated attempts to see which side of the audience can
shout louder and you've got a very dull forty-five minutes.
Which leaves Princess Superstar. Before the gig, I'd half writ-
ten her off as a lame New York ironist with a couple of OK tunes,
and this performance did nothing to change my opinion.
Problem number one: her beats are weak. Like so many, she
seems to think that she can get away with nondescript produc-
tion because her rhymmg's so good. But it doesn't work for
"real" rappers, and it certainly doesn't work for her. Problem
two: her voice is weak. She lacks authority and doesn't even
hold our attention. But the real difficulty is problem three: she
just doesn't have the whole sex thing down at all. Unlike
Madonna, or even Britney, she hasn't realised that making the
occasional reference to being "kinkier than pubic hair" isn't
enough to make you a sex symbol. Give me Li'l Kim any day.
Tcbv G

