LIVE: Mull Historical Society
+ Minuteman @ Scala
The Scala was packed out this evening, with hundreds upon
hundreds of Colin Maclntyre's fans cramming themselves into
the venue to see the legendary man himself. First though, we
were administered with a dose of Minuteman, probably to
make sure that we were all suitably sedated before Mull
Historical Society came on stage.
Minuteman were consistently disappointing. They started off
every song with something extremely promising, but unfortu-
nately each track soon degenerated into a bland, incomprehen-
sibly forgettable mish-mash of randomly selected guitar riffs
and moany, whiny vocals. The Nirvana wannabes treated us to
a whole set of brainwashingly boring tunes.
Take one mole of cheesy pop, dissolve it in some rocking guitar
riffs, stir in any instruments you can find (from flute to steel
drums) and add a spatula full of a man with a mission to put his
home on the map. Watch the fireworks and then admire the fin-
ished product - M u l l Historical Society.
The crowd, although slightly drowsy from the warm-up act,
were more than ready. Colin (pic above) gave it his best, bring-
ing out the choirboys again for a proper rendition of Instead and
practically smashing up the stage.
The set was absolutely blinding, and everyone was excited to
hear three new songs from the second album. Of course, Colin
also pulled all the old tricks out of the bag, causing riotous
pogo-dancing with the latest single Watching Xanadu and
almost leaping into the crowd while singing Barcode Bypass.
At the end, everyone was elbowing each other in the face as
they tried to grab one of the inflatable sheep released from the
ceiling. One girl nearly threw me to the floor in her (failed)
attempt to retrieve a feather boa from the stage.
All in all, a very decent night, but if you're planning on going
to an MHS gig and standing near the front, make sure you're
equipped with full riot gear.
music reviews
LIVE: Fonda 500 + Edible
5ft Smiths @ Metro
Two quid fifty for a bottle of Stella? This is why we don't go to
gigs on Oxford Street. But Edible 5ft Smiths are mental. After a
rubbish first number, they get into the swing: Christmas Song
starts as an angular thrash reminiscent of The Fall, then turns
into the Beach Boys' C h r i s t m a s album, then, sadly, into a
Coldplay-style indie ballad. It's like this all through the set as
the band, with an anorexic Steve Tyler of a frontman, lurch from
one musical extreme to another. One track sounds like It's Not
Unusual with more thrashy bits. Another could be The Byrds in
a bad light. The whole thing finishes with the inevitable apoca-
lyptic finale and then some echoey wailing for good measure.
Misty's Big Adventure play desperately shit, cheesy gimp-a-
thon music. They're like the worst, most corny hippy band from
Glastonbury who get "high on life" instead of on good honest
LSD. They wouldn't be completely out of place playing in a mar-
ket town on a Saturday morning, with hideous inbred yokels
laughing at the colourful costumes. They had a guy dancing i n
a suit with gloves stuck all over it. Whoa, trippy, man...
Fonda 500 (pic above) are doggedly unremarkable. By now, I've
managed to get fairly drunk, even with these ridiculous prices,
and still none of their songs penetrate the beery fug with suffi-
cient panache to be memorable. Shame, for the band seem so
nice - the singer has a big hat with furry ears, and the bassist
is kinda cute in a Chrissie Hynde sort of way. She i s , her flat
mate writes in my notebook, "the coolest girl ever". Even cool-
er, apparently, than Kim Deal or Kim Gordon.
Jesus, have I really come to Oxford Street to cover a gig? Or
am I just wandering around in a drunken frenzy of some kind?
Fonda 500 continue to be stunningly average throughout. As
their lead singer told us, "anyone can do this".
Jess Raoul Duke & Dr Gonzo

