reviews music
•
Singles
Roundup
S H A G G Y & ALI G (pic above) - Julie
I was going to start the review with an A l i G "Ah", but then
everyone will do that, won't they? So what can I say about this
song? Well, it's A l l G, and if you like him then you're going to
love this track just for the comedy value. Shaggy doesn't do
much, apart from his customary nonsensical rap. Ali's not as
clever as he used to be, but this is funny stuff.
ID Oscar
B R A N C A C C I O & AISHER - It's Gonna Be (A Lovely Day)
Yet another classy house track from The Annual 2002. As
usual, it's done the rounds in the clubs for ages before finally
being released. With a sample from C & C Music Factory, It's
Gonna Be does the job but isn't particularly memorable. Track
three, the Bedrock vocal mix, provides an interesting take on the
original, with a slightly more chilled-out vibe.
Dave
G O L D R U S H - Pioneers E P
Goldrush's label-mates include The Rock Of Travolta, Dustball
and Six Ray Sun, and so I wanted to like this EP a lot. But that
proved impossible from the very first note. Goldrush skim the
tiresome, emotionless scum off the surface of the weak lemon
drink that is pseudo-Stereophonies stodge-rock and pass it off
as "alt-country", making Blue sound like Aphex Twin in com-
parison.
Chris
BAZ - Smile To Shine
Oh dear. Instantly forgettable soft shiny pop drivel, attempt-
ing to cash in on the Nelly Furtado fad of the moment (well,
Nelly Furtado and all of the other no-hope no-soul no-appeal
copycats whose names I've forgotten. Baz who?).
OUT THIS W E E K
The following are due lor release on Monday 11 March:
A L B U M S
BIFFY CLYRO - Blackened Sky
BEVERLEY KNIGHT - Who I A m
SIX BY SEVEN - The Way I Feel Today
TELEPOPMUSIK - Genetic World
SINGLES
BUFFSEEDS - Barricade
MCLUSKY - To Hell With Good Intentions
LOST PROPHETS - The Fake Sound Of Progress
R H Y T H M MASTERS - Ghetto
SHAGGY & ALI G - Julie
ATHLETE - Westside
This is one of the catchiest tunes of the moment; expect to
hear it on every radio station soon. It attempts to be simple,
infectious indie-pop-rock, and succeeds. Athlete claim influ-
ences ranging from Mercury Rev to Stevie Wonder, but the
music is so fresh that it's not worth trying to detect them. Catch
this band before either (a) their voices break, (b) they go stadi-
um indie, or (c) a major signs them (aargh, artistic death!).
ID Robert
M C L U S K Y - To Hell With Good Intentions
Fat distorted basslines. Cocky as fuck vocals. Screeching gui-
tars. More energy then the national grid. Steve Albini behind
the controls. A N D they're British. This cannot, and does not, fail
to be anything short of brilliant. The kind of stuff that would
make Travis wet the bed.
Ben
W A R R E N STACEY - M y Girl, M y Girl
This is the guy who was in Popstars but didn't make it into
Hear'Say. Afterwards, he was immediately picked up by the Def
Soul label. The song begins with him saying "yeah" repeatedly,
which makes me wonder whether he's trying to impersonate
Craig David. Actually, that's the only bad thing I can think of
about this record, because I quite like it. It's harmless, catchy
R&B/pop. Let's just hope that he stops repeating himself on his
next single.
Oscar
• • • • • Robert
C O M P E T I T I O N
We're giving away an exclusive promotional copy of the new
A album Hi-Fi Serious, reviewed in Felix last week.
QUESTION: Name either of the first two A albums.
Please email your answer, along with your name, year and
department, to music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 14 March.
The winner of the competition from Issue 1229 is James
Greatbanks of Elec Eng 4, who knew that the two resident
DJs at FabricLive are A l l B and James Lavelle. He wins a copy
of FabricLive 02.

