film reviews
Editorial
"Quiet Week for Movies"
The other night I walked into this bar. It was quite a nice
Mexican bar, just off Regent street. But that didn't make it hurt
any less. Luckily my head took most of the impact.
Which explains w h y I am unable to put out a film section of
any sort of quality this week. Look, I even had to try and fill in
the gap with a picture of an empty room. Not quite empty
though. There are two planks in the bottom left-hand corner of
the room. Interesting.
In a few weeks time, March 24th to be precise, the Academy
will be celebrating the finest in film. The creme-de-la-creme of
Hollywood will be there; handing out distinguished awards to
one another. That's why w e at Felix On Film have decided to run
our own special awards ceremony. The Oscraps celebrate the
worst movies of 2001.
This year the nominations for Worst Picture include such
gems as the final nail in Steven Seagal's coffin, Exit wounds,
Mariah Carey's excellently bad, Glitter, the sprawling three
hour epic of shiteness, Peari Harbour, and of course, Time Lapse.
Seagal's work is, in fact, nominated in three different cate-
gories. These include prestigious recognition the Lifetime
Achievement category, where he competes against the likes of
Jim Varney, of Ernest Goes to Jail fame, Lone Wolf McQuaid's
Chuck Norris, and Steve Guttenberg, whose work on the Police
Academy series has scarred me for life.
Freddy Got Fingered features strongly with Tom Green get-
ting a unprecedented double nomination in the Worst Director
and Worst Actor categories. There is also deserved recognition
for Paul Hogan's Crocodile Dundee III.
This year we have also had some really bad endings. If you've
seen Planet Of The Apes you would know exactly what I'm talk-
ing about. Vanilla Sky does, in a similar vein, go from bad to
worse in the last quarter. That's why we have introduced a spe-
cial category for movies which run out of breath in the final
straight. Movies which run out of breath, trip up over their own
laces, hit the gravel, and stay there. Biting the dust.
Apart from that, JCR shop, get your act together. IC Sixths,
we will w i n on Saturday at Motspur Park. Everyone else hang
tight inside the ride - cos' here comes the rewind!
"The Oscraps"
We Salute the Worst of 2001
Worst Picture
Freddy Got Fingered (20th Century Fox)
Glitter (20th Century Fox/Sony)
*Pearl Harbour (Touchstone)
Time Lapse (Lions' Gate Films. Inc)
Exit Wounds (NPV Entertainment)
Worst Sense of Direction
Michael Bay (Pearl Harbour)
Tim Burton (Planet of the Apes)
Exit Wounds (Andrzej Bartkowiak)
Tom Green (Freddy Got Fingered)
*David Worth II (Time Lapse)
Worst Actor
Roy Scheider (Time Lapse)
Tom Green (Freddy Got Fingered)
"Steven Seagal (Exit Wounds)
Paul Hogan (Crocadile Dundee In Los Angeles)
Sylvester Stallone (Driven)
Worst Actress
Mariah Carey (Glitter)
*Penelope Cruz (Blow, Captain Corelli's Vanilla Sky)
Angelina Jolie (Original Sin)
Jennifer Lopez (Angel Eyes and The Wedding Planner)
Estella Warren (Driven and Planet of the Apes)
Worst Sequel
* Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles
Hannibal
Jurassic Park III
Pokemon 3
Scary Movie 2
Most Unfunny Comedy
Freddy Got Fingered
Rat Race
Pootie Tang
*Scary Movie 2
Crocodile Dundee in Los Angeles
Worst Ending/Plot Twist
The Others
*Planet Of The Apes
Vanilla Sky
Honourary Academy Recognition for a Lifetime Of Rubbish
Steven Seagal
Jim Varney
*Chuck Norris
Steve Guttenberg
Robin Williams
A N D T H E WINNER IS!!!. Darius

