Lady Windermere's Fan
Royal Haymarket
Exactly one hundred and ten years after the first time it was per-
formed in London, Oscar Wilde's "Lady Windermere's Fan" comes
back to the capital on the stage of the Royal Haymarket. A giant
fan hides the Victorian decorated stage, while we wonder what
could the people up in the gallery see without opera glasses.
The feeling is somewhat as if w e were in the wrong place: for-
get the Barbican's atmosphere, forget the magic of the Royal
Court, the feeling of experiencing something new and unigue,
so pervasive on many of our favourite London's stages. The
Royal Haymarket means tradition, classic plays played in the
classical manner, and the audience seems to be rather "classi-
cal" as well, and to have survived since.
Almost a play around (rather than inside) the play. High soci-
ety and its rules are the real object of the play, and Wilde's sharp
blade pierces the veils of conventions to their very core.
Once admitted to the highly esteemed Windermere's house
the disgraced Mrs Erlynne regains respectability because of that
same trait which, before admittance being granted, wouldn't
have been conceivable at all; her reputation. Wilde's glamorous
claim is that all this conventions are empty and pointless being
built primarily upon themselves. But then when misunderstand-
ing put Erlynne to the trial, nature proves stronger than interest.
We must admit that the casting is absolutely impressive, and in
particular the choice of the two primadonnas. Mother and daugh-
ter on the stage as well as in real life, Vanessa Redgrave and
Joely Richardson are the backbone and the soul of this classic.
Without their spontaneity and their freshness the play would
really taste cheesy, but they are able to superpose to the comic
register the dramatic touch of the guilt of a forsaking mother
and the awakening to realism of a "sleeping" idealistic beauty.
The guys this time are not at the level of the girls. Lord
Windermere is less than convincing - and Darlington is just a
bit more lively than a puppet.
Nonetheless the dialogue of the gentlemen late at night in
lord Darlington's living room is extremely funny: the breathtak-
ing source of so many immortal citations.
Sergio
arts reviews
Hamlet
ICSM Drama Society
The ICSM Drama Society staged Shakespeare's Hamlet from the
26th of February to the 1st of March 2002. It was held at the aus-
pices of the Imperial College Concert Hall, in South Kensington.
This shortened version was completely unaltered from
Shakespeare's original script. However, some creative direction,
wonderful acting, and a glamorous set resulted in a truly enter-
taining evening.
The cast comprised many well-known and seasoned veterans,
as well as an equal number of fresh young faces. A l l showed
much talent for their roles. I must mention Hamlet himself, bet-
ter known as Matt Stevenson, who gave a most unique perform-
ance. The rest of the cast were also outstanding, but nobody
could deny that he brought something special to the role.
The set was well styled and crafted. The sound was appro-
priate and added to the experience. There was also interesting
use of art throughout the performance. For many of the senior
cast and stage crew, this was their last play - they can retire
happily on the back of this truly riveting production.
As you would expect from Shakespeare, Hamlet had many
twists in the plot and characters, a few surprises (if you didn't
already know the story), love and tragedy, family politics, and a
very dangerous looking but precisely orchestrated duel scene -
this was breath-taking! It even had mini-singing and dancing
pieces, albeit in the mentally unstable states of some of the
characters. Along with this, the comprehensive themes and
length, it could rival a modern Bollywood production.
Mental illness was a strong theme in the play, and causes for
Hamlet's mental state were suggested to throughout. In the cur-
rent age, when recreational drugs and psychotropic substance
abuse are so rife, the play reminds us that these issues are age
old, and the consequences they have today are not dissimilar to
those of yesterday. Hamlet's sexually charged performance was
also interesting as he hinted at maternally-fixated incest. The
hard work of everybody involved ensured that there was some-
thing that everyone could relate in this diligently crafted pro-
duction from ICSM.

