coffee break
GFQQ - The Great Felix Quote Quiz
by Bobby Cyclops & Dr. Hot Fudge
THE P E N U L T I M A T E G F Q Q Number of players: 65
Bumper GFQQ, bumper GFQQ! Look at all this space, enough space to be free to tell jokes The Leader Board - top 15
without the threatening end of the text-box looming up on me! Enough jokes, you've prob- Name Score
ably had enough. Prizes! The main topic of conversation regarding prizes is a really good Simon North 139
DVD player - Fudge and Myself will go out soon with our £300 and find you the best one Christopher Dent 135
we can get hold of. Note - there are NO prizes for second or third place: losers have no Anthony Rodriques 134
place at the Fudge Ranch! This week we have a whole range of quotes for you, hopefully Chris Ince 133.5
some quite obscure ones which will tax our top players to the limit. Daniel Sauder 127.5
I have been recommended for my own safety not to give any more controversial Star John Anderson 126.5
Wars questions, but I believe that our readers are mature or at lest restrained enouqh not Andrew Ince 113.5
to take the answers too seriously. So next week, when the controversial answers are pub- Michael Simonds 104.5
lished please don't flood our mail-box with ranting, just accept the truth. Fred Marquis 100.5
Bobby Cyclops Chris Toffis 71
Answers to last week's quotes: Rebekah Hymas 62.5
1. Christopher Walken/Vmcenzo Coccotti - True Romance Arosha Bandara 61
2. Morgan Freeman/Ellis Boyd Redding - The Shawshank Redemption Gregory Mann 59.5
3. Jean Reno/Vincent - Ronin Geoff Lay 58
4. Kurtwood Smith/Clarence Boddicker - Robocop Kim Randell 58
5. John Candy/Spike Nolan - Brewster's Millions
Answers to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk or to
Bonus, (a point for each) Wangdoodles, Hornswogglers, Snozzwangers and rotten the Felix Office - West Wing Basement,
Vernicious Knids (One extra point for pointing out film/book disparities). Beit Quad.
r l i s - A
Part-Time Shop Staff
Needed
Staff needed to work in the
Shop and Newsagent.
Many variable hours available.
£4.10 per hour plus benefits.
Training provided.
Please stop by the Shop and ask for the Manager.
Email: unionshop@ic.ac.uk.
shop
Work for yourself. Work at the Union...
...and make a difference to your social life.
Bonus Question 1. In the new T3 film, Arnie has
taken a pay-cut - what are his
reasons?
Bonus Question 2. What is the name of the myth-
ical text that the entire Star
Wars saga is rumoured to be
taken from?
Bonus Question 3. What is the full title of the
Thundercat's primary nemesis
(and his dog)?
Bonus Question 4. Which cartoon character's
motto is "We will put out the
fires of evil"?
Bonus Question 5. How was the light-sabre
sound made in the 'original'
three Star Wars movies?

