felix talk
Medic Union Update
Goodbye Gladys'
Tonight students w i l l be saying a
slurred farewell to the much-loved St
Mary's Bar. There have been a series of
events this week to mark the closure of
Gladys', giving supporters of the bar an
opportunity to prop it up one last time.
King George V and Queen M a r y
opened the 'new' St Mary's Medical
School building in 1933, which included
the student-dining hall, Gladys'. Since
then Gladys' has been the centre for
med school life in Paddington. It has
been a venue for concerts, shows and, of
course, cheesy bops.
Much to the disappointment of the
students and doctors, Gladys' is being
closed to make way for new research
facilities. The bar has been kept open
this year thanks to the hard work of the
bar committee and our bar manager,
Katie Schwab.
All tickets for tonight have been sold
well in advance (well, it is half price
drinks). I'm sure Gladys' will get the
send off it deserves.
Charing Cross Refurbishment
On the other side of London, in
Hammersmith, things are very different.
The much needed refurbishment of the
Charing Cross student facilities looks
set to be complete by mid March. When
the area is finally opened, students can
expect a brand new funky bar (or is it a
pub?) a comfy cafeteria, a coffee area, a
gym and bop/dance area complete with
DJ booth, stage and lighting, and all the
associated accoutrements!
The project has been split into two
main phases, as the £800,000 raised was
only sufficient for the ground floor refur-
bishment. We hope to start the second
phase, which includes the toilets and
basement, once further funding has
been secured, so watch out for new
developments.
Given the number of students now liv-
ing in Hammersmith, and the loss of the
Mary's bar, we are all looking forward to
the new facilities opening, and are espe-
cially looking forward to the big opening
party...
Medics R a g
This year's Medic Rag Week has beat-
en all ICSM R A G records, raising over
£55,000. The Rag Dash to Edinburgh
was a great warm up to the week's
events, raising over £6,000. The week
itself included Breakfast at Imperial's,
ICS&M R A G Games and the infamous
Circle Line Pub C r a w l . London was
invaded all week by hundreds of stu-
dents in scrubs, completing various
challenges and collecting loads of
money for Children w i t h Cancer and
Leukaemia. Congratulations to the Rag
Team who worked incredibly hard for
the last few months, especially to
Hayley Kirsop the Rag Chair.
More news
The new ICSM SU website is now up
and running, complete w i t h the latest
news, contacts and personal prefer-
ences. Thank you to Phil Ward, who has
worked incredibly hard on setting this
up. Check out www.su.ic.ac.uk/medic
Shazia Munir, ICSM SU President
Chaplaincy
What does w o r k i n g i n the City do to
people's humanity?
"Being Human in the Square Mile" - a
talk given in the chaplaincy last week-
kick started a few discussions. Victor
Stock, priest of a church at the heart of
the city, gave his reflections on 15 years
of listening to stories of city dealers and
financiers.
The City in popular imagination is a
place driven w i t h the need to make
money. It is a place where increasing the
numbers and maximising profit on deals
is the measure of success. Failure, and
the fear of failure, is the shadow side of
this pursuit of success. There is the col-
lective fear that "London will be eclipsed
by Frankfurt". Then there are the person-
al fears of failing in the race to increase
profit. So in what ways can true human
success and failure be measured?
When the personal fears of those at the
top stifle the trust and imagination of
everyone else the organisation becomes
a hellish place to be.
Of course the City offers the compen-
sation of making a great deal of money.
One of Victor's interesting observations
is the process City workers go through
when they retire from the money busi-
ness in their forties. This premature age
of retirement coming partly because
there is no financial reason to carry on
working.
This raises the questions for people
"what is my life about?" and "now that I
have the freedom to chose what to do
with my life what am I going to choose?"
Victor's role had been that of helping
individuals to reflect upon these issues.
These are questions for all of us but the
daily pressures of work and study can
make it harder to encounter these ques-
tions.
The City, so busy Monday to Friday, is
deserted on Saturdays and Sundays. It is
an extreme example of the separation in
urban life of work place and living place.
We find meaning in our day-to-day,
face to face relationships. With friends
and good colleagues we can be our-
selves. At the same time, however, we
are surrounded by millions of others. The
vastness of the city offers extreme isola-
tion and loneliness. Yet the anonymity
also offers freedom to explore new
options and ways of living. This is also
the dilemma of student life in a universi-
ty. There is the freedom to explore identi-
ty but also the risk of being outside the
group. There are also the options of stay-
ing within the like-minded tribe or mov-
ing into new groups and contacts.
So, the question posed by our speaker
from the city is: "Is our humanity
enriched or eroded by the places in
which we live or the organisations in
which we work?"
For further opportunities to reflect on
being human join us on Wednesday 20th
March, 1 pm, when our guest speaker is
Lucy Winkett from St.Paul's Cathedral.

