felix talk
IC Radio - Learn To Mix
Cheese, cheese, cheese, cheese, spam
eggs and cheese. Cheesy Wotsits. Shaft.
Discos. Rock solid, super potent, Blue
Stilton potency cheese. Everywhere you
turn, there's always cheese. No disrespect
to cheese or anything, but you can get the
impression at this university that cheese
rules supreme, and while for a lot of people
this is a happy state of affairs, for many
others this is just one big turn-off., a com-
ponent of the apathy that rules IC, just
another reason to not bother.
But is it really all that bad?
I think not. Look below the surface, and
you find that there is a whole world of stuff
that has absolutely nothing to do with
cheese whatsoever. Take the Union for
example. Sure, we can take a glance at an
ent and brand it 'cheese', but what of the
chill-out room upstairs that so often
accompany these drunken rampages in
dBs? I've heard allsorts up there; prog
house, drum 'ri bass, and all the breaks
and hip-hop you could hope to squeeze
between them.
What about elsewhere? Explore a little
and you'll soon find something to suit your
tastes. Take IC Radio, for example. The
diversity of shows we put out is huge.
Tuesday nights give you Chilled with
Etienne and Guillaume; a great collection
of everything you never knew existed,
from quality French rap to dirty Drum 'n'
Bass.
Friday nights bring you Deep House
with Suvir, lots of lovely progressive stuff
which follows on just nicely from my own
show Evolution, where I give you my
favourite prog house, breaks, and the odd
spot of trance.
Even amongst these pages, looking at
the music and club reviews should be
strong evidence that there are people here
at IC whose primary musical and enter-
tainment concern is not cheese. So take
notice. Read, listen, get involved, and don't
just pawn yourself off with 'it's all cheese'.
Learn to M i x
Which brings me neatly on to my next
little item. On Wednesday, IC Radio is
holding its first Learn to Mix session of the
year. It's your opportunity to try your hand
at some beatmixing with professional
turntables, and find out for yourself how
it's really done. Whether you're a seasoned
pro with a few tricks up your sleeve, or
totally new to the whole concept and have
never touched a deck in your life, come
along and join in. There'll be basic training
and one-on-one guidance for the latter
group, and those with a little more knowl-
edge can perhaps give us all a few tips. So
get yourself along. You know you want to.
Chilled with Etienne & Guillaume,
Tuesdays 20:00 - 22:00
Evolution with Phil Stewart, Fridays
17:00 - 18:00
Deep House with Suvir, Fridays 18:00 -
19:00
Learn to Mix, Wednesday 13th 15:00 -
evening.
Phil
icradio
www.icradio.com
Wine Tasting With ABV
Do you simply drink wine, or do you taste
wine?
As part of the brand spanking new ABV
Society (it's not a drinking club!), we are
proud to announce the reinstatement of
Wine Tasting as the very core of your stu-
dent social life at IC (well, maybe not... but
it's still quite fun!). In case you missed it,
"ABV" is the new RSCU club, a kind of bas-
tard child of the Wine Tasting and Real Ale
Societies, with the addition of a new wing,
dealing with (sigh...) cocktails.
Wine Tasting at Imperial is by no means a
new thing, we have had a very successful
society for the previous 46 years building up
a huge contact base of professionals posi-
tively yearning to impinge their knowledge
(and alcohol!) onto our young and receptive
minds. All good you may say, and we would
agree, but for reasons unknown the bureau-
cratic monolith that is IC Union decided
that Wine Tasting falls into the "unaccept-
able funding" pigeon hole, resulting in the
death of the society last September. So after
a period of silence on the WT front, enter the
RCSU, astride a white horse offering just
enough funding to overcome the inertia and
get the society moving again.
So, the first question you may ask is why
go to all this hassle just to drink wine, we
don't need an excuse to get drunk, let alone
one with such pretentious connotations... I
would first point out (and I cannot stress
this enough), we are not a society aimed at
getting drunk! Anyone can drink wine, it's
simply a case of tilting the glass and swal-
lowing, what we aim to teach our members
is the art of "tasting" the wine, a fantastic
challenge requiring keen concentration, a
good memory and a vivid imagination.
Tasting involves plunging into the depths of
the wine, unmasking a wealth of informa-
tion and revealing an extra dimension to
what is so often a routine event.
In a usual wine tasting event, we taste
about 6-8 different wines of a specific theme
(region, style etc.). The tasting is guided by
an external expert, who introduces us to the
individual wines, explaining their charac-
teristics and how they relate to the cre-
ational process. We aim to hold tastings
approximately every two weeks, this
should allow us to cover a wide range of
styles of wine and provide our members
with a solid introduction to the world of
wine. Tastings last approximately two
hours and will cost around six pounds
(although we do hope to do some for free,
later on in the year). We also hold tastings
of whisky, port and champagne, although
these are seen as extras to our primary aim
of tasting wine. If any of this interests you,
our first event is to be held on the 12th of
March, the unmissable "Introduction to
Wine Tasting". You will be told how to drink,
how to smell, what to look at and which
characteristics of a wine are important as
we taste eight wines (4 red, 4 white) espe-
cially chosen to exemplify the differences
possible between wines. For more informa-
tion, go to www.su.ic.ac.uk/wine or join our
WotNot mailing list.

