Union Page
Summer Ball featuring The Hoosiers
Party like it’s 2005
Tickets are on sale now to our Noughties themed Spring Carnival
featuring Propaganda! Join us on Friday 20 March and you can expect a
huge night of throwback hits, giveaways, drinks deals, and more.
Prep your velvet tracksuits and low rise jeans because we’ll also be
giving away prizes for best dressed on the night.
Tickets start from just £3.00, get yours now:
imperialcollegeunion.org/springcarnival20.
Celebrate the Elections Results
After a week of campaigning and voting, come and celebrate the
elections results. You’ll hear the results for major positions, including
the OfficerTrustees (President and four Deputy Presidents), Felix Editor,
Council Chair, Student Trustees, Liberation & Community Officers and
Constituent Union Presidents.
Results will be announced from 20:00-22:00 whilst CSP results will be
released online. Departmental Reps, Constituent Unions and DepSoc
committees will be shown on screen at the party.There will be a live DJ
and entry is FREE.
Results Party: 19:00 onwards, Friday 13 March
Metric (South Kensington Campus)
We’re excited to have The Hoosiers headlining your Summer Ball this
June. With chart-topping albums and tens of millions of streams on
Spotify, this is one of our biggest Summer Ball headliners to date and a
performance you do not want to miss.
Your ticket also includes live acts from Kate Lomas and Tape Deck
Discotheque, fairground rides, fireworks, a drinks reception upon
arrival, a main meal & dessert from one of our food vendors, and much
more. Standard tickets are on sale now for £67
.50 (Ball & After Party)
and £60.00 (Ball Only ticket).
Get your tickets now at imperialcollegeunion.org/summerball.
Women’s History Month Events
Check out our upcoming events celebrating Women’s History Month.
Gender and LanguageTalk -Tuesday 17 March, 13:00-14:00
Join us for an insightful talk on gender and language by Nadine Buchmann,
from the Centre of Languahes, Culture and Communication.
Vagina MuseumTrip -Wednesday 18 March, 13:30-15:30
Join us on a trip to the Vagina Museum in Camden!
Signifying Misdirection:“Rethinking”and reframing our queer colour self
-Thursday 19 March, 12:30-13:30
Join us for a book talk and signing event with Dr Monalesia Earle, author
of Writing Queer Women of Color: Representation and Misdirection in
Contemporary Fiction and Graphic Narratives.
For more details, go to imperialcollegeunion.org/WHM.

