Quigley
Down
Under
On Extended Wings
Since Magnum PI finished, the
name T o m Selleck has not been
associated with particularly good or
successful films, unless the tag Three Men
and a... was attached. I doubt that this
film is going to do m u c h to change this
situation, but, as westerns go, this ain't
bad.
Recent attempts to resurrect this genre
have sat at two extremes, with the
extremely cerebral guilt driven Dances
with Wolves at one end, a n d the all flash
and bang Young Guns at the other.
Quigley Down Under sits squarely in the
middle, having transferred itself to
Australia to allow a return to the more
traditional action/adventure/romance
format of the older westerns.
Quigley has been hired by an English
landowner, purportedly to shoot dingoes.
So he deports himself to Australia, picks
up a mad w o m a n ( Laura sex, lies and
videotape San Giacomo), and is told that
he is to shoot Aborigines. Naturally
enough he refuses, and is thus beaten to
a pulp, chucked in the desert (complete
with pertly beautiful mad woman),
rescued by Aborigines, and appointed as
their unofficial protector. W h e n the nasty
English landowner (Alan R i c k m a n , loving
every moment, and acting everyone else
off the screen) starts killing abos, Quigley
goes out for revenge...
Selleck is heroic and, frankly, very
tedious. San Giacomo is frankly, sexy,
and manages to make something
interesting out of a very strange, and
imperfectly developed, character.
Rickman is villainous, evil, and, frankly,
RSC. Australia is beautiful, a n d the Abos,
frankly, mysterious. The film? W o r t h
seeing solely for Rickman. (1 won't
comment on San Giacomo to avoid
accusations of sexism...)
Pendragon
•Book
— C o m i c / Graphic
by Diane Ackerman
Wekwomtek—pleu!
The poet—she flies.
If you've ever wanted to fly, to just
be in the sky, to see the w o r l d in its
bedcovers from above. Here's your
chance. Let your mind and its
imagination be passengers in a plane with
Diane A c k e r m a n . Let them see what she
shows you and then you will know what
it is to fly! She will show y o u what it's
like to live a life 'On Extended Wings',
'...what it was like to be this smitten with
flight, this new to its dangers, this far
short of mastery, this deeply in love with
a Universe in w h i c h things can fly.'
Wherever y o u sit reading in this
enclosing city, you'll feel space and
remember an awe at a w o r l d beyond
cities, cars and enclosure. You'll feel the
sun, and its inconvenience, when in your
eyes. Why? Because A c k e r m a n brings to
her descriptions a raw excitement and a
poetically trained mind. Easily forgiven is
Awakenings
What is it like to miss out 20 years
of your life? Could you wake-up
years after you fell asleep, and still
stay sane? Now imagine a w a r d
containing m a n y post-encephalitic
patients; survivors of 'sleeping disease'.
They have been left in their trances,
looked after in the 'chronic care facility'
of Bainbridge Hospital. This is the initial
scene in Awakenings, a film based on a
true story.
Dr. Malcolm Sayer (Robin Williams)
arrives on the scene. Innocent, idealistic,
reclusive, he has difficulty adapting from
his previous research to the realities of
dealing with mental patients. Because of
his background, his approach is radically
different to all the other doctors. Whereas
they are happy merely looking after the
long-term mental patients, he wonders
w h y nothing is being done to find a
solution for their problems.
Sayer sets about correlating data, and
finds a group of patients with the same
symptoms, and he sets about finding a
cure. He obtains permission to try a new
drug on one of the patients; Leonard
Lowe (Robert de Niro). After a short
while, he shows dramatic improvement,
waking from his 'slumber', to normality.
Due to the success of this test case, Dr.
Sayer is given permission to try the cure
on all other patients with similar
symptoms. H e has a similar success with
each.
This is m y only grumble w i t h an
otherwise excellent film. The change-over
from comatosed vegetable to lucid
consciousness is all too sudden. In 'oh, so
A m e r i c a n style', they all wake up and
suddenly all is sweetness and light. This
doesn't last too long, and the film soon
gets into its more realistic stride again.
the occasional, oversensitive ramble;
because in view of the honesty of her
writing, she appears to honestly believe
what she has written.
Essentially On Extended Wings is an
enthusiastic account of Ackerman's time
spent learning to fly and of the people
she meets. It is also in m e m o r y of a close
friend who rehabilitates her love of flying
and the sky, after it had c o m e close to
being murdered. It is for Martin V a n der
Linde, A c k e r m a n described their c o m m o n
belief as '...the world is a fairground open
only for one season, and y o u must enter
it hungry and full of awe, eager for the
rides that will thrill and teach you,
though some may be dangerous.'
On Extended Wings radiates this belief,
leaving y o u looking wide-eyed and
longingly at the sky, feeling 'By God, how
I want to fly.'
Undala Alam.
The catch phrase of the film comes into
play; 'There is no such thing as a simple
miracle'.
One by one, things start going wrong.
Some of the patients get disillusioned; 'I
feel old and I feel swindled—that's how I
feel'. Side effects of the drug also come
into play; it causes severe paranoia. After
this things go severely downhill, and the
drug is no longer considered viable.
Despite the fact that m a n y sad things
happen in Awakenings, it is a happy film.
It is about the strength of the human
spirit, about the motivation of a doctor,
and about real life. Something makes me
think that the film world is looking up.
This is a beautiful film that is tangible,
not a distant abstract film. It's there, it's
real, it's alive.
Stef.

