The R o a d H o m e
The Road Home is not a road
movie (despite the confusing
advertising posters and the title),
road movies are no longer 'a la mode' in
Hollywood. The journey is in fact an
emotional one,'In a world spinning out of
control, it's easy to lose your way...'. The
film concerns the desire of an A m e r i c a n
teenager to find some kind of foundation,
a base for his life. His parents and society
have let him down, so what is he to do?
Rebellion seems to be the answer.
The film is made by the English
director Hugh Hudson (who also directed
Chariots of Fire and Grey stoke, the
Tarzan film) and stars Donald Sutherland
as the therapist Dr Charles Loftis, and
that well k n o w n 'rebel' A d a m Horovitz
from the Beastie Boys, as the
rebel/delinquent T i m Doolan. The film is
set in the middle-class suburbs of Los
Angeles, where the houses are 'nice' the
parents are 'nice' and the kids too are
'nice'. Unfortunately the truth is that
underneath the niceities is a vacuum (and
not the sinister corruption of the
Lynchian middle America!).
T i m Doolan's parents are unable to
'cope' with their child, or rather do not
really feel responsible for him. So they
throw him in a private mental institution
for kids (something w h i c h is apparently
B l o o d Oath
W h y is this film called Blood Oath ?
A l l the right ingredients are
present: George Takei (Mr Sulu),
900 Anzacs (dead), a small and otherwise
unheard-of island which is the centre of a
huge territorial battle (read Falkland Isles)
and a lead m a n who you've never heard
of, but was in that thing o n T V a while
back (Bryan Brown). A l l this and Jason
Donovan (crap) too.
Disposing of these in order of
introduction: George Takei is very
disappointing, failing to say 'Phasers
locked on target' even once, nor is there
a 'Warp Factor five, sir' even for his
devoted fans. Distressingly, George here
bayonetted soldiers found on A m b o n .
During the trial, attention is focussed on
the clash of Eastern and Western cultures,
particularly by examining two young
soldiers, one on either side. This is where
Jason 'Spunky' Donovan comes in, in a
profoundly negligible role (four words).
The one thing this is not, is a war
movie, nor is it a straight-forward
courtroom drama. Several themes (justice
and retribution, East-West clash, abuse of
power, and the innocence of individuals)
are playing in parallel without tangling in
each other. The creators of this film
obviously set out to expose a story w h i c h
the world needs to know about, and to
puts on a convincing and interesting
performance in a true-life role as the
Japanese baron/commander who ordered
the execution and general nastiness in the
P O W camp on A m b o n Island during
W o r l d War II. During his command of the
camp, 1100 Australian POWs entered the
camp. Only 300 came out.
Bryan Brown's job (you must remember
him, he was in that thing about the
special effects man) is to prosecute the
Japanese officers in charge of the camp
for the war crimes they have
undoubtedly committed, proved by the
statements of the Australians and the
mass graves of decapitated and
this extent have succeeded in making a
movie which holds the attention, without
the unnecessary superimposition of the
usual neon 'This is a true story' nonsense.
Although an attractive(ish) nurse shows
up in the film a n d gradually becomes a
closer and closer ally of the leading man,
there is an astounding and very welcome
absence of a gratuitous love story.
A l l told this is a rather good film, more
thought-provoking and consequently
probably less successful than most. Y o u
may actually remember this in six
months.
W h y is this film called Blood Oath ?
The Erasing Drying Turtle Vaseline
becoming m o r e and more acceptable in
America). A l l T i m wants is to be able to
communicate to his parents, to be
understood. The film isn't actually too
dissimilar from Rebel Without a Cause. I
can understand that the film doesn't have
a James Dean to push it along, but what
is harder to accept is the saccharine
nature of the film—it falls into the trap of
being 'nice' enough for what the
filmmakers must consider to be mass
consumption. The director never really
gets a clear focus on any particular
aspect in the film, instead choosing to
superficially depict Tim's angst, or looking
briefly at his father's need to demonstrate
his love but being totally incapable of
doing so. W e even get a brief glimpse of
Dr Loftis' alcoholic problem without any
real developments. In the end the film
just makes a few weak points, without
leaving any lasting impressions.
I.H.
Goodbye,
Farewell,
Amen
A l l good things must come to an
end. A l l good cliches must be used
regularly on the reviews pages.
After nearly two years a n d three editors,
finally I leave this hallowed post to edit
Q M W ' s Cub, m y spare time finally
following m y academic life to Mile End.
I hope that over the time I have
overseen these pages, some of this has
been of use to you. Entertainment is
expensive in London, and I have been
endeavoring to provide a useful guide to
what it is w o r t h spending your well-
earned overdraft on in your spare time.
(Spare time? Y o u IC students don't k n o w
the meaning of the word...) The main aim
of the pages is not to give a cynical
professional opinion, but that of the
average cynical student. I don't k n o w if I
succeeded, but I hope so. If not, at least
we're cheaper than Time Out, and I got
to see a L O T of free movies.
In true show business tradition I would
now like to thank... M y fellow Arts
editors Toby, Ian and Michael. The
regular reviewers, namely I.H., J L W ,
Fruit, Alien Sex Fiend, Liz W., The
A m a z i n g Flying Gerbil Machine (who will
succeed me...) and, of course, the
wonderful Pendragon (whoever he may
be...) and anyone else who ever wrote a
review.
See ya, it's been fun!
A d a m T.
—Editorial
— F i l m

