The Friends of Palestine Society give their view of the Jewish
Society exhibition.
The Many Sided Coin OPINION
The exhibition staged in the J C R on 19,
20 and 21 February 1991 by the Jewish
Society has caused distress and concern
among many students because of its
derogatory tone and implications about
several Middle-Eastern leaders, and in
particular Yasser Arafat, chairman of the
P L O and President of the State of
Palestine. I was asked by several overseas
society representatives to put together the
following comments and corrections,
which I shall limit to only two points.
First, the issues of terrorism. The
designers of the exhibition falsely
attribute 'terrorism' to the P L O and to its
main constituent element Fatah, w h i c h is
Mr Arafat's o w n factions. T h e y contend
that the P L O is a terrorist organisation,
and that its elected leader, M r Arafat, is
also a terrorist. Such derogatory
statements about the P L O chairman
Arafat and his faction Fatah are without
foundation because the so-called
Palestinian terrorism is nothing more than
the struggle for liberation of Palestine,
m u c h like the struggle for the liberation
of Kuwait, and in particular, of the areas
of Palestine w h i c h were reserved by the
U N for the A r a b State in 1947, and w h i c h
Israel has usurped. It goes without saying
that these areas include and exceed the
West Bank a n d the Gaza Strip. The
Palestinian struggle for the liberation is
justified by a number of U N resolutions,
by the U N Charter and by international
law. It is obvious that to describe the
struggle of the Palestinians against Israel's
usurpation of their ancestral homeland as
terrorism is tantamount to distortion of
the facts and to misleading opinion.
The originators of the exhibition appear
to forget that real terrorism in Palestine
was initiated and is still continued by
Zionist Jews and by the State of Israel. A s
examples that are in no w a y exhaustive,
it is sufficient to cite the campaign of
violence and terror directed by Jewish
terrorists at British and Palestinians alike,
such as the bombing of the K i n g David
Hotel at Jerusalem on July 22 1946,
which was the seat of the government,
killing 91 of its senior officials; the
capture and hanging of British officers,
the dynamiting of homes over the heads
of their occupants in A r a b residential
quarters; bombings of A r a b market
places, and the notorious and heinous
outrage committed on A p r i l 9 1948
involving the Irgun (a Zionist terrorist
organisation led by M e n a c h e m Begin); the
massacre of 250 men, w o m e n and
children at Deir Yassin, 'without any
military reason or provocation of any
kind' as reported by Jacques De Reynier,
the Chief Delegate of the International
Red Cross at the time.
Israeli terrorism was not limited to acts
that took place during the British
mandate but continued during and after
the war of 1948 by the deportation of
one million Palestinians, the destruction
of several hundred A r a b villages, the
brutal repression of the uprising since
1987 in the West Bank and Gaza District,
O.S.C. Statement
For three consecutive days, from 19 to 21
February 1991, IC Jewish Society hosted
a controversial exhibition in the JCR. The
society made no secret of the fact that
the exhibition was designed by Israelis in
Tel-Aviv and occupied Jerusalem, and
actually released their names (Messrs Y
Hofshi and I Brosh). Because of its strong
political statements and allegations, the
display angered a very large number of
students. Clearly provocations of this
nature threaten the concord between
students of different origins and
backgrounds at Imperial.
It is quite unacceptable, especially in
difficult times filled with political
uncertainty, for a society to ignite a "
political argument that has no place in
the College. A l l other societies, especially
those whose members are directly
affected by the recent conflict, have kept
quiet on purpose in order to preserve the
gentle and peaceful student relations. In
the past there has been a strong
commitment by all clubs and societies to
abide by their constitutions, a n d with
respect and consideration for other clubs
and societies, we all wish that it will
remain so. However, the exhibition
staged a display of opinions highly critical
of all Middle-Eastern countries and their
regimes, openly describing them as
murderous, barbaric and other such
offending comments. Paragraph 2 of the
constitution of the Jewish Society states:
'The object of the society is to promote
an appreciation of matters of Jewish and
Israeli interest.'. There is a fine line
between promoting an appreciation of
someone's interests, and alienating and
hurting members of this college.
It is for all the above reasons that the
Overseas Student Committee unanimously
condemns such behaviour, especially that
it has itself always promoted and upheld
an understanding and cordial relationship
between overseas and home students.
The Overseas Student Committee.
the shooting of close to one thousand
Palestinians, including 159 children below
16, many of w h o m were less than ten
years old, w h o fought the occupation
with stones a n d finally the massacre of 21
unarmed Palestinians on October 8 1990
in the area of the H a r a m Al-Sharif at
Jerusalem, for w h i c h Israel was
condemned by the U N Security Council.
Furthermore, the political defamation of
the P L O is accompanied by a flagrant and
shameful defamation of M r Arafat
personally. T h e leader of six million
people for over 25 years was referred to
in cynical a n d foul language fit for use
only by those w h o will lower themselves
to it.
The Executive Committee,
Friends of Palestine Society.
ADS
3 piece suite (3 seat sofa, 2
seat sofa, armchair &
footstool) Moss Green, Good
Condition
£500
also:
10 speed Raleigh Pursuit
Racer
Male 22"' £70.
Phone: D a n 071-586 4103
or Elec E n g p i g e o n h o l e — D U G
LOST
Yellow Folder (A4)
containing lecture notes probably
lost in Southside on Tuesday 12th
March. If found please contact
Tracy Jenkins, Biochem II
CRIME
PREVENTION
WEEK
from
Monday 15th April
Sherfield Ante Room
In attendance will be
representatives from Gerrard Road
Police Station,
Crime Prevention and Home Beat
Office
Lectures on Personal Safety, and
Office Crime Prevention
A L S O C Y C L E CODING

