The Trials of China
What strikes y o u immediately in China
are the bicycles - all old-fashioned brand-
new black 'Roadsters' swarming in tides.
The Chinese have very few private cars.
Bicycles are used for transporting
everything from pigs in panniers to three-
piece suites o n rear carriers. In Shanghai
I saw eight T V sets on one bike. W h e n
you start talking fowl, the numbers reach
the hundreds - w i t h beaks, bills and
combs trailing o n the ground and hitting
spokes.
Transport through China comes in a
variety of forms, with all the conventional
third world characteristics. Other active
museum pieces are the colossal black and
red steam trains still manufactured in
Datong. They rattle and clatter congo
fashion through the cultivated market
garden country.
There are three classes of train ticket.
The cheapest ticket, the 'hard-seat' is in
fact padded but it's hard on the stamina.
A certain advert for cruelty to animals
describes the journey of lambs being
transported across Europe. 'Imagine being
locked in a train carriage for thirty-six
hours. Y o u ' d have nothing to eat and
drink. Before long you'd be collapsing
from exhaustion. Now imagine the train is
travelling at 100 m p h but there is
nowhere to sit and nothing to hold on to.
Y o u ' d be thrown about, crushed and
trampled. If y o u are frail or weak you
may not survive. N o w imagine there are
600 people c r a m m e d in there with you.
That's more than five times rush hour
crowds.'
W i t h the exception of the speed and
food, this could describe a Chinese hard-
seat train journey. The carriage from
X i a n to Chengdu had 167 seats and over
300 people stood, spat, squawked,
coughed, ate, littered and smoked in the
aisles. The lights stayed on all night. I
wrote in m y diary:
'After twelve hours, eighty of those
standing had slumped into crumpled
heaps on the floor of the aisle, oblivious
to the sputum, cigarettes, chewed chicken
and fish bones, sunflower seeds and
melon carcasses. I attempted to reach the
toilet, woke thirty people, got halfway
along the carriage and gave up. I tried to
sleep. Another man sank from his feet in
the aisle and slumped against me. W e
propped each other up rocking from left
to right for the next five hours. I lost
sight of the end of the carriage as the
smoking, choking atmosphere
accumulated. A little boy opposite
chewed a boiled egg for twenty minutes
and then spat it over me.'
Hard-sleepers are the best value for
money. The bunks are three high, the
highest is about two metres off the floor
and reachable only by acrobats. The
lower bunk is communal by day and
consequently fills with crumbs and
cigarette ash. The best to go for is the
middle bunk, but you rarely have a
choice. A s a foreigner you never get
offered hard-sleepers when you buy your
ticket. The key is to take your life in
your hands and to buy a hard-seat ticket
in the hope of up grading it to a hard-
sleeper once on the train. W h e n you
board the train you must find the
controller, w h o usually resides in carriage
nine. It helps if you have the words 'hard-
seat change to hard-sleeper' written down
in Mandarin.
Soft-sleepers are for high ranking party
officials, and the cream of China's
'classless' society. They are equipped with
w o o d panelling, potted plants, lace
curtains, 'teacup sets, carpets and fully
operational air conditioning.
of the rack. They remain standing,
pushing and squatting, oblivious to the
demands that they sit d o w n and fasten
their seatbelts. The 'plane bounces in and
skids uncontrollably along the runway.
The most preferable form, by far, of
transport in C h i n a is the boat.
Unfortunately, most rivers run east-west
and so you are restricted to routes along
the Yangtse from Chongqing to Shanghai,
or from Canton to W u z h o u up the Pearl
River.
To do any sort of travelling you need
to understand the money. There are two
kinds of money in China: people's money
or 'RMB', pronounced rem-em-bee and
tourist money, ' F E C , standing for foreign
exchange certificates. This system has
Buses, like anywhere in Asia, are cheap
and long past retiring age. Since buses
stop everywhere you get to see bits of
the countryside you wouldn't see on the
trains.
F r o m Beijing there are flights in every
conceivable direction. China Airways
(CAAC) have an unenviable safety record,
and lose more planes each year than any
other airline. The only emergency
instructions come garbled through the
loudspeakers in Mandarin as you rush full
throttle along the runway. If y o u collect
enough in-flight magazines you can
fathom out where the exits are. A i r
conditioning comes in the form of a
paper fan w h i c h you flap, nervously
wishing you were in a hard-seat on a
train. About ten minutes into the air and
along comes the in-flight meal - a packet
of nuts and an ice cream.
T w o hours later, they announce that we
will be landing shortly. Everyone stands
up and begins to yank their bundles out
only been created in the last decade in
an attempt to exploit tourists as m u c h as
possible. The creation of F E C has caused
a black market. Where ever you travel in
China you encounter the 'Money
Changers' - a curious breed of parasitic
people who eke out a living on the
streets trading R M B for F E C . In the bank,
rates are 1:1, but on the street in 1988 it
was almost 2:1. In the summer of 1990
the rate had dropped to 1.25:1. This
means that every 100 F E C y o u get for
your travellers cheques is worth 125 R M B
on the street. Confused? Y o u will be.
The currency is called the 'Yuan'. There
are ten 'Mao' to the Y u a n and ten 'Fen'
to the Mao. This means there are 100
Fen to the yuan. The y u a n is also called
the 'Quy' (pronounced cu-wu-eye) and the
Mao is also called the Jiao.
In theory all foreigners have to buy
everything in F E C . However, you can
purchase false w o r k cards w h i c h say you
teach English in Beijing for example.
14

