The Trials of China continued
caked door a n d boarded. The seat
numbers made little sense, so I found
myself a nice w i n d o w seat a n d refused to
move. Once in the country we picked up
a little too m u c h speed as w e bounced
and bruised our way south.
Foiled by the trains again, 1 flew to
Chongqing, (a flight w h i c h was cancelled
once because the control tower was on
fire) and combined a trip through the
gorges of the muddy red Yangste River
with ascents of two more Buddhist
Mountains.
'1 found a chair and sat on deck reading
and writing post cards as the steep green
fertile terraces of the Yangtse's levees
passed slowly by. Small rickety longboats
plied the b r o w n waters and little people
toiled on the banks like umpa-lumpas
beside a chocolate river. In the late
afternoon w e moored alongside
Shibaozhai, a 12-storey pagoda tacked
onto the side of an oblong slab of
sandstone protruding from the muddy
flood plains. A steep flight of stairs took
you up a dark narrow damp alleyway
and back to the 18th century. A little
cobbled street lined with butchers and
traders snaked off in both directions. W i t h
excited chattering and pointing, I was
guided to the right up another narrow
passage lined w i t h ancient m e n selling
smoked and decaying eggs... The view
from the top of the pagoda was worth
the climb. The river snaked off to the
east with the evening sun ringing brightly
from the ripples. To the south lay grey
clay roofs nestled in lush green terraced
paddy fields.'
The majority of the trip along the
Yangtse is past low-lying flood plains, but
for a short stretch two days from
Chongqing you pass steep, vertical, ship-
crushing cliffs straight out of Jason and
the Argonauts.
'Back in the cabin I played another
game of Chinese chess. It was faster than
the last and just as I thought I'd lost m y
opponent gave up! I went back on deck
and sat in the sun watching the vast slabs
of rock dipping and folding into the
swirling brown waters to emerge on the
other side. Steeper and deeper gorges
appeared in the haze ahead, darkening as
we passed beneath them.'
Shanghai is over six days* by boat from
Chongqing. Stopping to visit Huan Shan
and Nanjing, it had taken me ten days.
Five days before, I had slept on a sweaty,
cockroach-ridden provincial station
platform in deepest Jiangxi province.
Today I dined o n banana splits in a chilly
air-conditioned revolving restaurant
overlooking a sprawling international
harbour front. Shanghai had it all.
Intriguing markets sold budget bonsai
trees, terrapins, turtles and the inevitable
crickets in cages. Bunches of water-filled
plastic bags billowed with colourful,
worried-looking ornamental fish. A music
conservatory of international acclaim
boasted flocks of child prodigies. Brahms
piano concertos mingled w i t h Shanghai's
improvised jazz bands. But Shanghai's
sights lie in the streets. Roads of 1920's
architecture sprouting futuristic domes,
towers and spires above an insectoid
rush-hour of two, three, and four wheel
hybrid vehicles segregated from
pedestrian-clogged bike lanes. Parks are
filled by tai c h i and martial arts are
performed in streets outside hotels.
In the south of China lies Guangxi
province. I arrived by boat up the Pearl
River from Canton. Famous for its karst
limestone scenery, it offers an ideal
opportunity to reach Chinese village life,
whilst not straying far from banana
pancakes, pizzas and ice cream sundaes.
Such things are most welcome after the
hundredth day of rice, egg and tomato.
Yangshuo offers such delicacies amongst
the shaggy camel hump hills. The L i river
slithers between them and the pace of life
is more gentle then in Guillin, the original
karst resort.
The Chinese flag boasts five yellow
stars on a red background. These
represent the fifty minority people w h i c h
constitute the People's Republic of China.
Y u n n a n province to the west of Guangxi
supports many of these minority tribes.
Most don't recognise the political borders
and are synonymous with m a n y of the
people from north Thailand.
F r o m K u n n m i n g , the capital of Y u n n a n ,
I took a train north, back to Chengdu to
join the Silk road and to trace it across
the Gobi, and Taklamakan deserts,
towards Pakistan.
The further west you travel in the
China, the less Chinese it becomes, until
you reach the special autonomous region
of Xinjiang province with its Turkish-
speaking population, with their mosques
and veils and noodles.
Even in three months, I didn't reach
Inner Mongolia, Yunnan's border lands,
Sichuan's W o o l o n g Nature Reserve,
Xinjiang's borders or Tibet's high
plateaus. After twelve weeks I was spat
out over the Khunjerab pass, into the
disputed border territories of Northern
Pakistan (see 'Passage to Pakistan' article,
Felix 896, 1 M a r c h 1991). Out of the
frying pan and into the fire!
Travelling o n the cheap in 'the Middle
Kingdom' is hard work, but the rewards
are clear. China is without doubt a
country of extremes, a vast territory
promising misty sacred mountains,
immense deserts, fertile plains, isolated
beaches and peaceful sleepy countryside,
filled with over 1.2 billion people with
w h o m to make contact. It can't be seen
or done, it has to be experienced. If you
go, take your time and pack your
patience. Don't treat it as an assault
course. Go to watch and learn. Y o u will
not change China, but it will certainly
change you.

