FELIX
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine are putting on the Ritz in.
Filthy Rich and Really Offensive! FELIX
Being Rich? What is it? H o w do you get
it? H o w do y o u avoid it? H o w often
should you have it? Is it really all it's
cracked up to be? Should it bend like
that?
In this feature we plumb the depths and
depth our plums in search of that elusive
quantity: M O N E Y . Specifically, what are
the differences between someone with
M O N E Y and someone without it? Is it
possible to have it without knowing? H o w
possible is it to be rich without any
money?
Before settling down to the main
feature, sipping your Coke and spilling
your popcorn y o u should be warned that
being rich may not be all it's customarily
supposed to be. Thanks to the class
system we no longer live w i t h (gee
thanks Mr. Major), a merry perspiring
aspirer may find him/herself in bed with
a chicken. No, hang on, that's wrong.
Ermm..in the company of such reprobates
as are listed below : Do y o u really want
to share your jellied eels with the
following?
• Jason Donovan
• Bernard Manning
• Bernard Matthews
• Bernard Bresslaw
• K e n Dodd (IS INNOCENT -it's official)
• Keith Harris (and Orville, may he rot in
a gibbet for all eternity (with Colonel
Sanders for company)).
• Robert M a x w e l l (ooer, a bit of satire,
our name's The A m a z i n g Flying Gerbil
Machine, goodnight)
By this point only those of you who still
think the Poll Tax is a neat idea will still
be with us. This is not sufficient grounds
for being rich, however. Judging by the
comprehensive list above there is also a
5 0 % chance that you are called Bernard
and a 100% chance of being a complete
git (except Bob Maxwell; we can't afford
the lawyers).
Hell-bent as you are on the pursuit of
riches, we feel that we should put you
right on a few fallacies c o m m o n l y held
by the public.
Things the rich don't do:
• Spread butter with a fish-knife
• Pass port to the right
• Live in Cardboard City, SW1
• Shop regularly at Cascade in Oxford St.
(the shop with the legs)
• Use Sex Reactor machines outside
newsagents.
• Fish for lunch in rubbish bins
• Wear their underpants for a five week
stretch
• Orgasm watching Treasure Hunt (what
do you mean nobody does this anyway?)
• Wear open-toed sandals and lecture on
Open University.
• Argue over prices in Tandy.
If you do any of the latter then you are
Mr (or Mrs) Sad and you should lock
yourself in a strong metal box until Xmas
when everyone is the m o o d to forgive all
and sundry, save Derek Beatty. It's also
important not to believe y o u are rich
when in fact you may simply have some
taste.
At this point it's probably best to
undergo a few surgical modifications; get
a good accent put in (Middle European or
Middle Eastern are recommended for the
beginner; Burkina Fasese is not), lose
your chin and if possible a large part of
your brain. (If you are Bernard Manning
gain at least twenty stone and don't
bother with the part of your cerebellum
that's left).
Okay, we hear you say (do you come
from Venus?) so I've done all this and
k n o w what not to do. What do I do?
Y o u seem like a real smasher (super
smashin' lovely, listen to Tony) so we'll
spill the beans and swing the cat. W e
followed some rich looking plebs for a
week or so (honest officer, we're press)
and this is an average day for the
terminally well-to-do and posh nobs:
• Shop at Harrods on your A m e r i c a n
Express Platinum Card.
• Failing Harrods, go in search of an
antique Persian Carpet at an auction.
• Go horse-racing.
• Go horse-racing after some inoffensive
animal under the guise of pest control.
• Spit on the homeless.
• Make well observed comments on 'an
honest day's work'
• Spend silly money on the kind of things
you get in crackers only they aren't made
of plastic.
• Do things just like n o r m a l people, like
buying aeroplanes and popping in to see
Imelda on their way to their country
place in the West Indies.
• Buy a newspaper (see Bob
Maxwell-off-thanks-for-asking)
• Have someone go to the lavatory for
you. (Crap gag, we know).
Okay. So failing actually having loads of
dosh dropping willy nilly hither and yon,
how easy is it to F A K E being rich on a
stude grant (ie. not very m u c h at all) ? In
the interest of journalistic truth and
beauty T A F G M Inc. have researched this
much neglected topic.
1) Going to Harrods. This bit is actually
quite easy. In fact it's a piece of piss.
However, actually simulating oilfed
tendencies once there is very hard,
particularly if you resemble an excited
Muppet (cf. F l y i n g Gerbil) or the lost
fourth member of The Jam (cf. A m a z i n g
Machine). Harrods is stuffed with staff
who manage to be obsequious and
condescending without k n o w i n g what
either of them mean. W h e n one (NB it is
essential to refer to yourself as 'one' in
The Amazing Machine meets the
lunch at the hard rock cafe.
swank joints rather than 'Flying Gerbil Of
Fleet Street!') examines the gold dustbins
(£450, a real snip) and the enamelled
swimming pools laughingly referred to as
baths (between £2500 for a standard
model and £35000 with optional
wo/manservant) it is necessary to remark
how five day's stubble is in fact terribly
'in' in Milan.
2) Go to an auction. This involves
bravery on a grandiose scale as you
contend with the doorman of the Savoy
who seems oddly unconvinced of your
identity as y o u explain that you look
taller on screen. Giving your name as
'Emilio Estevez' is also frowned upon.
The doorman will then give you the
runaround by telling you to go to the
Waldorf. At the Waldorf it is only possible
to remain inconspicuous as you enter the
Grand Ballroom by retreating under a
tablecloth and shuffling slowly for an exit.
The fifty gently gyrating geriatrics o n the
floor are admirably restrained in their
complete failure to notice you, but trying
to steal the cutlery will only earn you a
quick and easy departure.
Once at the auction you are expected
to wander all over the carpets during
what is termed the 'viewing'. This in fact
offers the other bidders a chance to eye
you with distaste as you become aware
that y o u may just possibly have
overdressed for the occasion. If
necessary, get your partner to take
diversionary action (fainting, dying,
having a baby or all three) while you sit
in a corner a n d look disreputable. At no
point make A N Y gags about bombs
whatsoever. O n c e the bidding begins
everyone sits stiller than glass in a
desperate attempt to avoid the
Young Guns' and Jason Donovan for
auctioneer's gaze. While he exhorts you
to feel the quality and buy buy buy it is
vital not to lose your head in the wild
excitement and seize a fifteen by twenty
handwoven Kashgai rug for less than the
cost of a second-hand racehorse.
3) Go horse-racing. A bit of a no-no,
we're afraid. Although it may seem
simple to do this, many obstacles intrude,
not least the simple fact that nobody
knows what y o u do. H o w do you get into
a racecourse? D o you pay? Where do you
go once inside? What's the point?
Another blow is that even Aristotle
Onassis will not lend you his prize
courser for an afternoon. Unless you have
a couple of mates in pantomime it is very
hard to experience the joy and sorrow of
watching your very own filly tear down
the turf. (Even if you do it doesn't get
much easier).
4) Go fox-hunting. W e w o u l d have tried
this except we're not bastards and it's hell
getting the blood out.
5) Being offensive purely .because you
can afford a law suit or the cost of an
efficient hit m a n to clean up any
misdemeanour. Try this at your peril,
kiddies, because being a smelly old poo-
head doesn't make many friends in this
day and age. If you can ignore the
massed throngs of homeless with their
cardboard Barratt Homes and faces that
only days without food can buy and not
feel guilt or pity then you're a
better/worse man than I or he.
Note, that to maximise your insult
potential it is necessary to both ignore
any aspect of value other than wealth
and also to rub the price differential in as
much as possible. Comments such as 'You
couldn't give me the price of a cup of M Y
tea' and 'The only reason you're poor is
that you spend too m u c h of your time
thinking of others' are prime examples of
offensive potential. With true filthy
richness comes a pure narrow-mindedness
that can range from 'get up off their
arses' to 'probably on drugs and have
AIDS anyway' in a quantum leap that
would leave Einstein a dribbling potato
(as opposed to a festering stiffy).
6) A Night A t The Opera. This has
nothing to do w i t h being rich. It's a M a r x
Brothers film.
7) Similarly, any attempt to Horse
Feathers, Duck Soup or M o n k e y Business
will do little for your financial ego.
8) W e like the M a r x Brothers (except
for Karl, who wasn't funny).
9) Wear Designer clothes. A few
hundred 'hard earned' on a feather duster
and a crimplene swimming costume that
can be worn on a single occasion, get
you into 'Headliners' in the Mail on
Sunday magazine and embarrass your
children in years to come. Be daring,
wild, outrageous and exciting like Cher,
Grace Jones, Bette Midler and Barbara
Cartland. Unfortunately this is extremely
hard to do even if y o u utilise the services
of The Student Loan Company, Ltd. since
a Vivienne Westwood G-string was
recently auctioned at Christie's in
exchange for a small Third W o r l d country
and half of the Hope Diamond. Designer
clothes are also only practical if you are
built like an arthritic giraffe, preferably
with crutches. A n n e Summers, despite
those deceptively shot catalogues, is not
designer wear. Neither are those plastic
policemen's helmets. Deely boppers are
completely out. However, if you include
all three together the ensemble IS. To
truly capitalise on the benefits of looking
designed at low cost, buy up the
wardrobe of a defunct 70's T V series
(Starsky A n d Hutch being a classic
example) for the price of a bag of crisps
and look arrogant.
10) Art. The more people can guess
what a work is, the less worthwhile your
having it. As such, a cheap way of
simulating this effect is to steal your
youngest relative's portfolio (Early Period)
in the knowledge that whatever the
subject (Mummy, Daddy, Spaceship) it will
resemble a bowl of tie-dyed muesli.
Should you ever be drawn into a
conversation on your masterworks, reel
off some Spanish names and some
Scottish ones. Refer to 'small galleries' in
Holborn a lot and your listener should be
satisfied.
(Incidentally, the same principle can be
applied to our reviews.)
We've only touched u p o n the aspects of
opulence w h i c h are open to discussion.
Since Felix is a family newspaper we feel
that any description of the more decadent
side of wealth should be confined to a
few handy catchphrases w h i c h you can
employ to good effect by simply inserting
them into a lull in conversation :
Swapping... Victoria Principal... flake...
more than three in there... any more?...
whipped cream... A n d r e w (Lloyd
Webber's) n e w one... Cher and that
dreadful man... donkey... sex... nasal
decay... flogging a dead horse (or donkey
if appropriate)... I've got piles... I'm rolling
in it... Keith Harris and Orville (only to be
used in very open discussions; random
use costs lives)... masking tape... four
percent... five percent... amazing...
flying... gerbil... machine... Bernard...
Pertwee's production of 'Die Kroppe'...
Emilio Estevez... deely boppers... a
trilobite... heterosexual intercourse (social,
but only for those 'one drink too many'
type conversations)... Isn't it funny how
popular the name Bernard's become all of
a sudden?... Hello, m y darlings... Smash
the system! A n a r c h y Now!... Don't worry,
it won't bite...
The Amazing Flying .Gerbil Machine.
It's easy to blend in, even at
the Waldorf! But it is all too
easy to fall into the decadent
drug culture of the very rich.

