MLSIC
Interview
W h e n I received the fax from Soho's
promotion company, I must confess I was
a little surprised by the meeting place. It
was a B H S cafe in W o o d Green.
Undeterred, w e set off to meet the
eminently photogenic twins Jackie and
Pauline...
So how did you get started?
W e were the first people to do the
circle line party. W e got a boogy
box, a n d T i m had an acoustic
guitar and we sang live. W e advertised it
in Time Out as a gig, and all these people
came on the train until we eventually got
thrown off by the police. W e went on the
platform and people started giving us
money!
A l l the time w e were recording stuff
and approaching record companies but
nothing was coming of it. The big turning
point came w h e n a station agency
became interested,in us, and they got us
gigs. W e supported everyone from The
Gypsy Kings down to Sigue Sigue Sputnik.
We supported absolutely everybody, and
we got better as well. Lots of people
started to c o m e and see us play live.
Eventually w e signed to Virgin, foolishly,
and the rest is history really.
What happened to the first album?
It was released'89. W e were signed to a
subsidiary of Virgin called Head and we
released our first single, called Piece of
You—a housey, pop track. They really
believed in it. They thought it was going
to be really big, and so did we, but it
wasn't. It tickled the top 100, at
something like 79, and then dropped
straight out of the charts.
At the time it was considered to be a
house track: y o u can see h o w long ago it
was as radio 1 were only having one
house track playlisted per week. So we
were fucked. W e didn't get any support
from the radio and after that we were
stuck. Virgin just got cold feet. We
believed at the time that they knew what
they were talking about, but they didn't.
The main thing we learnt from that is
never, ever compromise o n the music.
Would you re-record them?
We still do some of them now, but they
belong to V i r g i n unfortunately. W e do
them live but its a real piss-off 'cause
some of them are really good songs. So
we've learnt never to compromise.
W h e n was Hippychick recorded?
It was done 2 years ago.
I first heard it on Happydaze, the
Gary Crowly project.
Y e a h he was really good. It was so
helpful. The only thing we noticed about
it was that there were no w o m e n on it,
and no black artists. I'm quite proud of
the fact that we are on it.
Have you experienced any racism in
the music industry?
Yeah. We've had people say to us, w h e n
we were trying to get a deal in the first
place, 'its white men who are doing what
you are doing'. Y o u should leave it to
them to make indie music. Y o u should be
singing like Chaka Khan, and he meant it.
He wasn't being nasty he just believed it.
He thought that what we were doing was
not right for two black w o m e n to do. I
couldn't believe it—but w h e n he said that
I went absolutely livid. I gave him a
mouthful. I haven't forgotten it to this
day.
How did you go down in America?
W e were visiting radio stations and they
had copies of Hippychick with no vocals
and were saying, 'go on then, sing'. After
one radio station we did, w h e n we got
back to the record company,-they
thought it was a joke, but he (the DJ)
wanted us to crumble. They've got such a
big deal about people 'tracking' (singing
on records) over there.
What do you think about Sinead ()'
Connor, and the fuss surrounding
her?
W e actually went to the station that
smashed her records on air. W e went
there and they didn't k n o w us from
A d a m , all they knew was that we were
English, and the minute we walked in
they said, on air, 'What do you think of
that Sinead O ' Connor? What do you
think of that fucking bitch?' I was
completely flabbergasted. I said, 'err, well,
I really like her records', and then after
they had done with slagging her off, I
asked him (the DJ) what it was all about
and he said they will never play her
records again and she was terrible. I
really like her. I don't like her music, but
I really admire her.
Nobody has really stood with her over
what she's said have they?
I think that's typical. Y o u can compare it
with when people have asked us, 'Why
wasn't Hippychick a hit?' and we said,
well, you didn't play it. People, later on,
ask w h y are we slagging off people like
Radio 1, but we're not, we're just telling
the truth. It's what happened, it's fact, but
people are complaining about it.
We've always had to fight. It's no
different now, just because we've had one
hit single. It's good in that it happened
w h e n people were listening to us. That's
probably w h y it upset so many people:
we were having a hit w h e n most people
were too scared to say anything. We
were sat in the B B C and it was our first
Top of the Pops. We'd just got in the
charts and w e all decided if they said
'take the sticker off the guitar' and 'don't
wear the dresses' we'd go home - that
would have meant that hippychick would
not have got to number eight.
Just talking to Soho made us realise
that stardom hasn't gone to their
heads. Commenting on future plans
they said:
They're pulling the album from the shops
to re-promote it on the back of the new
single, Love Generation. W e are going to
carry on anyway, when we first recorded
Hippychick, released it, and it wasn't a
hit, we just carried on. That's what we'll
do. W e can record at home anyway,
we've got the equipment to do it. The
minute we go along with everyone else,
it always goes wrong for us, but the
minute we just do what we do, and don't
give a damn, and stick to our principles,
it goes right: w h i c h is the sentiment
of Hippychick in fact. That's when
things go right for us.
20

