Richard Crouch and Chris Stapleton investigate...
Ideal Kitchens
The Kitchens of Distinction are a
criminally overlooked band, possibly
because they're difficult to categorise:
they don't sound quite like anyone else.
Their songs abound with strange
melodies, interwoven textures, a
yearning, forlorn hope, flashes of irony.
The second album, Strange Free World, is
out this week and it's a cracker. If you've
never heard them, try the current single
Drive That Fast.
Dan from Kitchens of Distinction lives
in Tooting Broadway. W e met him there
in a quiet pub; Dan got the drinks in,
then talked freely about being a
professional kitchen. W e kept the drinks
coming and threw in the occasional
question...
I'm Dan, I play drums, Julian plays guitar
and Patrick plays bass, sings and writes
9 9 % of the lyrics. It's just us three and
lots of effects pedals.
The thing about the history of the band
is that it's ultimately so boring that we lie
about it all the time. W e fucked around a
while as a hobby, never thinking that
we'd do anything any good, and then
sometime in 1987 we made a little 7"
record; it was really atrocious, but it got
us some gigs in London. So we've been
around since about 1987, but I only gave
up m y job in 1989, I've only been a
professional kitchen for about two years.
The other boys gave up theirs before me,
1 was the last one to jump over the cliff
into the Rock Abyss! It was a pretty
heavy thing to do really. But it was
alright. W h e n I left m y job I thought
'Fucking brilliant—it's the best thing I've
ever done!'. A n d it is.
We've been really lucky, but we're not
one of those bands that gets on the front
cover of a music paper a n d then is very
famous. It doesn't matter. Just as long as
your latest record is better than the last
one you did, that's the most important
thing. A n d we're all really happy doing
what we're doing, because each record
that we've doen H A S been better than
the last one. People try and make you
bigger than you actually are—that's what
happens with bands eventually. The core
of the band is music and all around it are
people saying, 'Ooh, I really hope you're
going to be big, I really hope you'll do
this and that,' and the record company is
saying 'You've got to sell this amount of
records,' and you've got press like N M E
and Melody M a k e r who want you to be a
certain kind of band, but essentially it's
all about music, and if we weren't happy
doing what we're doing we wouldn't do
it. - «•*• "
Felix: So you do it for purely artistic
reasons?
A n d to make a living from it! We are at
the moment. W e get most of our money
from gigs. W e get a small advance from
One Little Indian (KOD's record label), a
royalty advance to live on every year,
but it's just enough to live on, that's all.
The thing is, u m , we don't sell a lot of
records, so we're not going to make
money from selling records. Well, we
haven't yet, anyway. But it's alright. I'm
much happier. I used to earn a lot more
money when I was working, but it was a
bunch of shit.
Felix: what do you think now when
you ask yourself 'What am I going to
be doing in five years?'
Well I don't ask myself that anymore—
I've become a complete existentialist, just
living for the day. I can't think more than
a month/two months ahead, and I'm
happy because I always was like that,
getting pushed into thinking about
moving, changing job, it's just society,
that's all, and we're lucky enough to be
in this little playground called 'music'
where we're doing a job that we like
doing. In fact it's not even a job—the only
time we've considered it being a job was
just before we got a manager. W e had
started freaking out because we're no
good as managers; dealing with record
companies, all the rubbish that goes
around a band became too m u c h and
that's when we started thinking 'It's a job
now, so let's get a manager and get back
to basics which is playing music.
Felix: You seem to have a low opinion
of the music press.
O h yeah, definitely. Because music isn't
about words, is it? Words can't describe
music really. The music press is all about
what bands are doing what, are they
bigger than so-and-so, where were they
seen, what did they say, all this sort of
shit which has got fuck all to do with
music!! One of America's saving graces, is
that it's got a massive college radio
circuit which means that your records,
even if you're a little piddly band and
you don't matter over here, will get
played in A m e r i c a , and getting the
records played is what it's all about as far
as I'm concerned. W e find it really
difficult to get played over here on the
radio. W e can get some press but that
means bugger all! That's m y pet hate,
actually. I mean, I like a lot of the
journalists that we've met—about half of
those we met are nice and they're the
sort that like bands, but w h e n you get
onto the higher level and you're nearing
editor status, they've just got BIG E G O S
and they're on some kind of trip about,
oh, I can do something for this band...I'm
just not into that at all.
Felix: Is the rest of the band as
idealistic as y o u are?
Yeah, definitely. The others are probably
a little bit more respectful about the
press. That's no bad thing. But I haven't
had a lot to prove me wrong, really. I
mean we've got a small country and
we've got so many magazines and papers
coming out about indie music and yet it's
not on the radio! That imbalance is
pathetic! For that sort of coverage of
indie music there should be indie radio
stations playing indie music all day, but
there isn't, there's just a few shows every
week.
Felix: How do you approach
songwriting?
Music comes first—once we've got some
basic ideas we usually go into a room
and play. We'll have some songs that
we've got going already so we have
something concrete to p l a y on, and then
we'll have some more experimental stuff
and occasionally something happens, but
the lyrics always come last.
At the moment we've got this Kitchens
sound, and that's really good. It's not
based on anybody else. Julian's got a
whole headful of melodies, and then
Patrick adds a discordant melody and
there's all these things going on...some of
the music is so dense you have to work
to pull out all the different parts of it. It's
like—have y o u seen Spinal Tap? We're
very lucky to have two visionaries in the
band: Julian's fire and Patrick's ice and
I'm somewhere inbetween, like lukewarm
water.
Below: Richard Crouch (left) with
Dan, the drummer, in a Tooting
Broadway public house.
21

