Felix Edition 900
Wednesday 20th March 1991
'Out with the Butcher' Students'
A n estimated 1500 people crowded into
Prince Consort Road for one of the
largest demonstrations against Saddam
Hussein to date. At midday on Sunday
17th March, the demonstration came from
beyond Hyde Park toward the Iraqi
Embassy, in Queens Gate.
The march was halted in front of the
Royal School of Mines, as police feared
trouble if the protestors were allowed to
reach the embassy. The crowd, consisting
mainly of Iraqi families inclusive of
children, stayed peaceful, chanting
slogans along the lines of ' D o w n , down
with Saddam' and 'Out with the Butcher'.
Later, the placards were collected, and
the crowd disbanded without apparent
trouble.
The protest followed another w h i c h
took place on Queens Gate earlier in the
week, on Monday 11th M a r c h , involving
about 200 people. This demonstration was
similarly trouble-free
Future In
Danger?
Rector
Decides
The isolation of Imperial College from the
University of London could increase if
one of College's current ideas is to go
ahead. The plan is one to disaffiliate from
the University of London Careers
Advisory Servive (ULCAS), replacing it
with an entirely IC based one.
Both A n d r e Skapski, Chairman of the
Careers Advisory Commission, and
Benjamin Turner, ICU Deputy President,
are taking action to prevent the move,
but it appears that they may be too late.
Believing it to be an academic matter,
they think that it should be discussed and
decided at the next Board of Studies
meeting, in May. The Rector, Sir Eric
Ash, insists that the matter is purely
managerial, and so can be decided by
himself in consultation with the College's
Managing Director, Mr Angus Fraser,
without seeking the opinion of the
academic body.
The Rector claims that the advantages
lie in simplification of the management
structure along with increased
accountability of careers staff. Russ
Clarke, IC's chief careers adviser from
U L C A S , is viewing the problem from
another angle. H e believes that the
careers service provided to students
would suffer, mostly in the scope of
career opportunities covered, but also
from the removal of the large information
gathering network currently available. He
added that the careers service was
especially needed now due to the
recession.
Although fears that this is the beginning
of a complete split from the University of
London were not specifically denied by
the Rector, he commented that he saw
U L as having certain uses, saying that he
would like to share some of the smaller
courses with other colleges in the future.
It seems that there is m u c h confusion
over this matter, not only whether IC
should split from U L C A S , but also over
who has the authority to decide.
2

