Football
i c 2n d s
Over the past two weeks the IC 2nds
Juggernaut has accelerated rapidly and its
momentum is now irresistable.
After thrashing SOP 6-2, M X U C H were
destroyed 5-1. Two goals a piece for M
A b d o and S Barry plus another from A
Jalan left the opposition shell-shocked.
Q M C were next to try their luck in a
showpiece double-header. N Leonard
scoring the fastest goal, M A b d o the best
individual goal and S Barry another
inevitable goal of the season so far left
Q M C 3-0 d o w n and out. A consolation
goal could only give the captain a
nervous second half.
Five minutes after the end of the first
game Q M C came back for a second
helping of anihilation from the seconds.
5-0 this time, goals from M Abdo, guest B
W o o d , S Barry and M Plurruner gave IC a
four goal lead. N Leonard, the IC captain,
then stepped up to score the classiest and
final goal of the day. Showing
uncompromising (unknown?) skill, he
fooled the Q M C defence, and the 2nds, by
chipping, curling and floating the ball past
the Q M C keeper. However, his
celebration Samba showed he could do
with some more dance lessons. (Tart!)
Three days later U C II were beaten 2-0
with a double strike from M A b d o to seal
a hard fought victory.
U D M S II on hearing of IC's invincibility
decided to stay in bed and conceded the
points.
IC II's last home game of the season
saw the defeat of an upstart Kings II 5-2.
Two from S Barry and a glorious hattrick
from M Plummer earned IC two points,
and w o n IC 2nds, comprehensively, the
U L U Y award of Champion Reserves. The
victory also set up a showdown with St
Georges, for the league, in the final game
next Saturday. Where they will find out
that nobody mixes it with IC 2nds and
keeps a clean sheet.
Finally the captain has a few words for
the 2nds w h i c h he was too pissed to
remember at the club dinner.
'You're the best, it's official and I salute
you.'
Sailing Snooker
A raggle-taggle bunch of sailors (five from
.IC and four from London) arrived at the
Exeter Union disco late on Friday night
and set about getting in a few beers and
trying to find our hosts, both proved
hihgly amusing past times.
Saturday m o r n i n g was cloudy with a
gentle breeze. Imperial were starting the
day as clear outsiders but determined to
have a good time, so it wasn't surprising
that, despite snapping at their heels all
the way, we lost both legs of the first
match against Oxford. Next, however we
sailed London and obtained a rousing
victory w i n n i n g 1, 2, 6 in the first leg and
1, 3, 5 in the second).
After lunch w e had two very close
races against Plymouth, but an excellent
start in the first gave us the edge and
although narrowly beaten i n the second
we w o n the match on points. Our final
match on Saturday was against Bristol
and two very noisy races were sailed. In
the first a poor start left a lot of work to
do, but Imperial refused to be intimidated
by Bristol's loud protests and w o n on
'greens' (point penalties given to the
opposition). The second race again
involved a lot of shouting but IC was able
to take advantage of Bristol's lack of
concentration to pip them at the post.
A very merry evening was spent
consuming copious quantities of food (and
some drink as well) laid on b y Exeter at
a pub, as well as socialising with the
locals until well into the morning (some
of us anyway).
Sunday morning brought a miserable
looking day but a good stiff breeze. IC
lost disappointingly to Exeter I (coming 4,
5, 6 in the first race and 4th with two
capsizes in the second). Later Exeter II
made good use of picking the fastest
boats and two poor starts by IC to w i n
despite Imperial fighting to the end.
Imperial made it into the semi-finals
where they were unfortunately unable to
overcome their shock at being there and
lost to Oxford the eventual winners. So IC
headed home, stopping only to appease
their raging hunger, after a great
weekend's racing.
Last week saw the annual Inter-Varsity
Snooker Tournament take place in Bath
with IC being represented by two teams.
The A team got off to a good start by
winning all their group matches with
relative ease to proceed to the last 16. J
Burnett (capt) led the way with his usual
demolition job of the opposition, ably
supported by J Devoys, S Contogoulas, S
Gallagher and A K h a n bringing up the
rear.
The next r o u n d saw the team go 4-0
down against East A n g l i a A before
making an excellent comeback to win 6-5
with J Burnett winning a memorable
sudden-death play-off against EA's
number one player.
The quarter final match was against
Queens, Belfast A who had just beaten
last year's winners 5-0. The whole team
played very solidly with A K h a n
compiling a 50-break clearance in his
game. Unfortunately the A's lost the
match 6-5 on literally the last ball of the
match and were knocked out of the
tournament.
The B team faired less well mainly due
to being grouped with a couple of very
good A teams. The team consisted of B
Drinkwater (capt), N Danson, H Shah, D
Ramshaw and A Michie. Most of the
players managed to win a couple of good
games but overall they were rather
unlucky in the fact that they lost quite a
few matches by only a few points.
Clubs/Sports editor wanted
apply at me Felix office, northwest corner of Beit Quad

