SplotSoc
It's 6.30am on a grey Saturday morning.
You've had three hours sleep, and you
wake up to a mouth containing not a
tongue, but something w h i c h feels and
tastes like an inside-out tram driver's
glove. Logic dictates that the sensible
thing to do w o u l d be to stay in bed, and
maybe look to regaining constructive
consciousness by, say, around 2pm.
Not so for around thirty die-hard
individuals, whose priorities are about as
whaked-out as Saddam Hussein's sense of
honesty. It's off to Finmere, to take on
Oxford. First task for the day—find a bus
somewhere in South Ken, a n d avoid
looking suspicious in all that camo.
We arrived at the site to find not
Oxford University, but Oxford Poly. A n d
an under-strength team at that. They
were consequently reinforced by dozens
or so Wolverines (Gulo Luseus to you
Latin freaks out there), members of the
site team.
A n d so to the match—eight games,
winner at the end takes the pathetically
small cup back to the trophy cabinet.
Things were looking good for Imperial at
the half-way stage—two matches drawn,
and two won. The Gulo's on the other
side were looking increasingly pissed off
and Societies
Clint Eastwood strides forth
with losing, and started getting upset.
Especially after losing game four in five
minutes flat.
Over the next three games, they got
their act together, and with some
interesting marshalling, won two games,
setting up a grand finale. Two-all, and
one to play. B y then, Oxford had lost all
heart and decided on mass, suicidal
charge. Suicidal it was, leaving some
twenty-odd Imperial players closing on all
directions on a bunch of increasingly
desperate Gulo's. Their numbers declined
significantly w i t h the onset of several
'walls of paint' hurtling in their direction
(the product more of suspect aim than
enthusiasm), leaving Leo 'That's not a
lovebite, I was hit by a paintball' Hume-
Wright to snatch the flag.
Other achievements of the day include
the debagging and infliction of an internal
Jacuzzi to the prat from Oxford who tried
to spray us with water during the photo,
and the collection of other 'trophies' by
A d a m , Matt a n d Gareth—the Latent
Criminal Pack.
Cheers and thanks to all those who
participated in the ritual shredding of
Oxford—despite their impromptu
reinforcements. A rematch has been
planned—at their suggestion—is there no
end to masochism in this world?
Rifle & Pistol
As far as competition goes this has been
a pretty uneventful year for us. We
challenged over a dozen other university
teams but only two agreed'to shoot
against us. Personally I think that the
others were too scared to face us because
we are so totally brilliant. This is
especially true of those ponces at Oxford
who we will definitely beat for the Howe
Cup in May.
The pistol team has had two matches
so far, both against our o l d adversaries
Cambridge. The first match was Police
Pistol w h i c h we won 1594 to 1474 and
the second was Service Pistol B w h i c h we
won 289 to 202. Hardly anybody on
either team had shot either competition
type before and so it was educational as
well as fun. That's what I like about
Cambridge—we always beat them and
they always come back for more. The
rifle team has fared less well. They were
only able to arrange one match, against
London Hospital who wre rumoured to be
so good we thought we'd get completely
hammered. O n the day, however it
turned out to be extremely close, so close
in fact that all we needed was for the last
man to shoot 92 or above for us to w i n
(and up to this point no one in the team
had shot less than 92). In fact the last
man scored 67 and we were beaten 537
to 561 but it was a good match anyway.
A quiet year so far but next year, we'll
take on the world.
A C C Exec elections after Easter. A n y
sports club members interested in
standing find out what it's about from
your captains. Captains please tell your
members.
A l l A C C clubs should have had new
elections before May 1. Club articles for
Union H a n d b o o k - I N N O W . Y o u r loss if
you don't write one. A l l colours to be in
by first week of term.
The President's XI are
looking for beer teams to
play in the forthcoming
season.
Any group interested in
fielding some competition
should contact Paul
Shanley on 3501 or in the
Union Office.
27

