Shan's
New Look
UGM
Proposal
Union President, Paul Shanley, is to
change the appearance of Union General
Meetings (UGM's). Included in the changes
are the following; UGM's are to be held
termly, with Extraordinary General
Meetings (EGM's) held when necessary,
and 'Exec News' and motions are to be
included in the Felix preceding the U G M .
Two of Mr Shanley's changes will have
to be twice ratified at consecutive UGM's,
a process w h i c h could take considerable
time at one U G M per term. These
changes are that no more verbal reports
are to be given, shortening UGM's, and
that the number of seconders needed to
call an E G M are to be reduced to 100
enabling them to be called more
frequently.
Ski Team
in Rubber
Fetish on
Slopes
Imperial College and the Institute National
Polytechnique de Grenoble (INPG) are
jointly putting forward a ski team for this
year's 'Olympub Games'. The event w h i c h
brings together students from all over
Europe aims to promote relations within
the community and between European
corporations and prospective graduates.
Sponsored by the E C and companies
across the European continent, the list of
events includes Pro-Am downhill racing,
slalom and other team contests involving
dingies and inflatable mattresses. The four
day tournament culminates in a careers
fair in w h i c h the team's sponsors promote
themselves.
The IC and INPG team consists of
Laurent Georges (INPG, Physics),
Emmanuel Gringarten (IC, Maths), Marciel
Humblot (IC and INPG, Physics),
Emmanuel Omont (IC, Aero), T i m Parsons
(IC, Aero) and Marc Zanchetta (IC, Aero).
The six man team will be using the
event to promote the advantages a n d
prestige of IC and INPG as two of the top
European study institutions. Publicity
packs being distributed by the team at
the fair contain copies of the Imperial
College A n n u a l Report and the Union
undergraduate handbook together with
other material, including copies of Felix.
Maxwell Pulls Out
Robert Maxwell, media mogul and fellow
of Imperial College, pulled out of an
Industrial Society talk last week. The
event, w h i c h was to take place last
Thursday, was organised as far back as
the beginning of the year.
O n the day of th talk, the society was
told by Benjamin Turner, Union Deputy
President, that Robert M a x w e l l would not
be able to attend, as he was currently in
the United States.
Advertising and preparation for the
event have cost the Industrial Society an
estimated SI00, w h i c h is now wasted.
Miss M . Sachdiva, chairman, stated that 'It
would have been helpful if Mr. Maxwell's
staff had contacted us a week or two
beforehand...'. The Industrial Society is
now trying to arrange a n e w date.
Red Noses All Round?
Comic Relief red noses spread around the
W o r l d last Thursday. Despite this, College
got by fairly unaffected, w i t h few Comic
Relief noses being displayed.
Rag organised events were succesful,
raising an estimated £1000 on the day.
These included a 24 hour backgammon
playing session, and a daring streak
around the Albert Hall. Zia Ackbar,
wearing only a layer of shaving foam, ran
backwards around the building, raising
£180. The Queen's Tower Lions were also
decorated in appropriate manner for the
day; their noses were covered by
masking tape and painted red. A l l money
raised by Rag was donated direct to
Comic Relief, rather than to the usual
charities.
Other events included a sponsored
water fight organised by Chemical
Engineering, and an eat-in at Burger
King, in w h i c h five Southside residents
attempted to eat through the entire
selection of food. T i m Sullivan and Matt
Dixon, of Tizard Hall had their Heads
shaved, raising £500 between them.
The joint Imperial College and Institute Nationale
Politechnique de Grenoble ski team.

