Editorial
About 42 years ago a few guys got
together in the Union Bar and decided
that as Phoenix concerned itself solely
with the more artistic nature of the
written word, something else was needed.
Thus Felix was born.
900 issues later, he's still alive and well,
unlike Phoenix, which despite the rather
spectacular nature of it's namesakes death
rites, appears to be slowly fading away.
However, not everything has changed: In
the very first issue of Felix there was a
letter discussing the problems caused at
some of the 'hops' that the Union had
recently started, which leads me rather
nicely on to...
The eternal nature of the idiot
Why is it? Us guys and gals are
supposedly amongst the most intelligent
people in the country, so why do some of
us act like subhumans
Just as an example, take last Fridays
Ents gig in the union lounge. There was a
bar extension until midnight, two bands,
and a disco until 1.00 am. There were
two constraints to entry: Firstly you had
to pay, SI before 9.45pm, and £2
thereafter. The second was, as usual, the
fire regulations. Only a certain number of
people are allowed to be in the union
building at any one time. This is a law,
and is not negotiable.
Now forgive me if I've missed
something, but all this sounds pretty
reasonable to me. A quid is hardly a
large amount to pay, and fire regs are
fire regs. That's just the way things are.
So why is it that some people have to
try to get in for free, or try to get in after
the building's full? What am I missing?
Why does it seem stupid to me?
I don't believe anyone could give me a
convincing argument why they can't pay
a quid. As for the fire regulations, if they
didn't spend all night in southside (the
money from which goes into the already
swollen coffers of college), but came over
to the Union Bar (cheaper, and the
money from which goes to the Union,
and thus back to us, the students) before
11.30 pm, then they'd get in (and if they
managed to make it before 9.45 they
wouldn't even have to pay" so much).
But instead, certain people decide that
it would be a jolly sensible and whizzo
idea to hassle and threaten the (unpaid)
Ents staff, the (overworked) bar staff,
smash windows, and physically, break
down a door that had only just received
a new bolt, to replace the one broken last
time it was smashed down.
Then providing they get in, they * ' "
proceed to drink those vital extra couple
of pints (on top of the numerous ones
they've already drunk). Then they cause
trouble, look for fights, and hassle any
female that they take a fancy to.
Well, it seems sensible to me, after all,
their mates must think they're really
hard.
Jobs. Big Jobbies
Imperial, in common with most colleges
and universities, have a careers service.
Our careers service is affiliated to the
University of London Careers Advisory
Service (ULCAS), and thus has access to
all of its resources (quite a few).
'So what?' thinks you, the devoted
reader. Well, the upper management of
College (ie His Rectorness, Angus Fraser,
the managing director of college, and
Peter Mee, College registrar) have
decided that our careers service should
disaffiliate from ULCAS.
'So what?' you may still think. Well,
Ben Turner, ICU Deputy President, has
been doing his homework, and decided
that this isn't a very good idea. Russ
Clark, the head of IC Careers Service,
Shiona llewellyn, an ULCAS careers
advisor, Brian Steptoe, the director of
ULCAS, and Mike Gavin, the chairman of
the Association of Graduate Careers
Advisory Service's credential committee,
all agree with him.
The main objection to disaffiliation
revolves around the advisors themselves.
At present they are trained by ULCAS,
and have a very broad knowledge, and
are thus able to advise in depth on a
wide number of very different career
types. If the careers services became
disaffiliated the future employees would
be responsible to Peter Mee, and
ultimately to Angus Fraser. This could
lead to graduates being encouraged to
remain in their disciplines (thus lowering
the range of advice available). This is
known as a direct labour policy, and it
could lead to problems with AGCAS, who
are not happy about this type of advice,
it is absolutely vital that IC's careers
service remains a part of AGCAS, as this
allows us access to the AGCAS Central
Services Unit, which gives us advice,
information, back-up, and professional
accreditation of our careers service.
So, now we come to the fun part. His
Rectorness and goons have already
decided that we are going to disaffiliate.
Before Christmas Peter Mee told Brian
Steptoe that IC was disaffiliating (before
any consultation that I know of). At the
end of last term a meeting of the Careers
Advisors Committee was called, to discuss
'Imperials intention to disaffiliate' (Peter
Mee's words again). They intend to make
the changes before the next Governing
Body meeting, and before the next Board
of Studies meeting.
According to Paul Shanley, ICU
President The only people I have spoken
to who are agreed in principle with the
scheme are the Rector, Angus Fraser, and
Peter Mee.' On the 8th of March a
meeting of the IC careers advisors
committee decided that there was '...a
strong consensus in the committee in
favour of option 2'. Option 2 (one of
many) was 'Stay in ULCAS, but bargain
hard for a better deal'. Andrzej Skapski,
the chairman of the committee, has
presented this paper to His Rectorness et
al, but they have apparently ignored it. In
the opinion of Ben Turner and Paul
Shanley there has been little or no
consultation at any level. Angus Fraser
was unaware that we are unable to
function independently at the moment
without a start-up investment, which
Peter Mee should have told him, so it
appears that they haven't even consulted
amongst themselves. Clever, isn't it?
The reasons they have given are two-
fold: Firstly they claim that it will be
cheaper for College. This has been
proved incorrect by Ben Turner, with
help from several of the people he's
spoken to. On top of this the costing
they've done is incorrect, as it ignores the
initial start-up costs to cover the loss of
the ULCAS facilities, especially the library
at Gordon Square.
Secondly, managerial accountability: At
present the careers staff answer to the
UL, not IC. This can't be changed at
present, but in reality it makes little
difference. His Rectorness claims it does
because he thinks there are too many
companies and vacancies being advertised
outside the field of acidemia. So in real
terms what He's talking about wanting to
have more control over the careers
service so that HE can decide what jobs
are advertised, and thus what career
opportunities are available through the IC
careers service. So, do you want HIM
deciding what kind of job you should do?
Credits
Typesetting and Printing: Rose and
Andy
News Editor: Stef Smith
Arts Editor: Adam
Books Editor: Michael
Music Editor: John
Photo Editor: Richard
Features Editor: Roland
Front Cover: Stef Smith
The Gang: Nigel, Jonti, James, Ian, Our
Special Correspondent, Liu Jian Guo,
Adam H, Toby, Chris Riley, all the
reviewers, etc, etc...
The Collators: Firstly thanks to all the
people who helped during the last issue.
A list may appear in the next issue.
Secondly (!), thanks must go to Morgana
Systems of Milton Keynes for machine
collating this issue at an early hour of this
morning.
Felix is produced for and on behalf of the Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed at
the Imperial College Union Print Unit, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel 071-225 8672).
Editor: Andrew Butcher, Manager: Chris Stapleton,
Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Copyright Felix
1991 ISSN 1040-0711.
35

