Comics. Where do you buy them, and what do you buy? Alien
FEATURES The Good, the Bad,
So just supposing you've read some of the
comic stuff in the last few issues of Felix,
and are thinking 'I'm an open minded,
tasteful kind of person, and I'd like to find
out more about this stuff...' (we live in
hope, Alien Sex Fiend). What do you do?
Well, the obvious thing w o u l d be to buy
some comics. Pretty clever idea, eh?
There's just one eensy-weensy problem:
There is a vast amount of comic material
produced, and not all of it is, shall we
say, very good. Also, there are relatively
few specialist comic shops. So firstly, let's
deal with the shops...
GOSH!
Great Russell Street, W l .
Situated opposite the British Museum, this
is one of the smaller and more friendly
shops in central London. Upstairs houses
the standard selection of A m e r i c a n
imported comics, with a smallish, but
often ridiculously cheap a n d quite
complete, selection of back issues (I
picked up a New Mutants No. 2 for £1.50,
Pendragon). Downstairs is packed out
with other forms of strip, especially
Newspaper cartoons along the lines of
Footrot Flats, Calvin and Hobbes, and
Bloom County. The friendliness of the
staff (in contrast with the surly attitude of
many in Forbidden Planet) was enough to
make this m y regular comic shop last
year.
COMIC S H O W C A S E
Neal Street, Covent Garden
Primarily orientated towards the
mainstream D C / M a r v e l selection, their
New Releases section is horribly laid out,
making it difficult to find what y o u are
looking for. There is an average selection
of back issues, at average prices, and a
few Graphic Novels. But essentially there
is nothing to make this shop stand out
from all the others. Only really worth
visiting if you've been struggling to find
something elsewhere.
M E G A CITY
Inverness Street, Camden Town.
The key w o r d here is Big. The most
impressive back issue selection I've yet
found in London, and usually at very
reasonable prices. Marvel, D C and
independents are separated into different
sections, and once you k n o w this, finding
the issues you want becomes simplicity
itself. The New releases are also stocked,
but are displayed in a system I haven't
quite worked out yet. There is an O K
selection of merchandising, with a few T-
shirts and posters, as well as a pretty
good selection of Graphic Novels.
F A N T A S Y INN
Charing Cross Road (back of Leicester
Square)
D o w n in the basement of the Book Inn.
It's cramped and packed with a lot of
stuff you don't find elsewhere. The layout
means it's hard to find things. If you can
work your way through the mess then
there are some good finds at reasonable
prices. Some merchandising but not a lot.
Nice homely feel.
P A R A D I S E A L L E Y
Off Denmark Street in an alley next to
Andy's Guitars
Small is the k e y w o r d here. It's a tiny
backroom of a place but the layout is
great. A l l the comics are in easy to find
alphabetic order (unless you want obscure
independents) a n d there is a huge sea of
stacked merchandise ranging from Space
1999 to Starskey and Hutch. The prices
usually aren't silly and the range of stuff
is wide. Not a place for n e w releases but
a good place for back issues.
M E A N W H I L E
Camden T o w n (near the tube station),
It's fairly small, very new, a few odd
imports and a rather small selection. I
didn't find it very useful but if y o u like
mainstream or one offs then there is
probably something there.
FORBIDDEN P L A N E T
New Oxford Street, just east of
Tottenham Court Road Tube Station
The Forbidden Planet chain are probably
the best k n o w n specialist comic shops in
the country, and as such they have a
large shop, and a large selection of titles.
However, all is not sunshine and roses in
happy bunny land: The shop is somewhat
confusingly laid out, their back issue
selection can be limited (probably due to
the amount of people w h o use it), and
their prices are often a few pence higher.
Also, the new release section, while in
alphabetical order, is in a very
inconvenient place. To top it all off, it's
generally very crowded, there can be
long queues, they don't supply the comics
in protective plastic bags, a n d the staff
are sometimes less than friendly.
This said, they do get new titles in
quickly, and have a large selection of
merchandising and graphic novels. There
is also a very good SF and Fantasy
bookshop in the basement.
T H E VIRGIN COMIC S H O P
Upstairs in both Virgin Megastores,
Oxford Street
Not a lot to be said, other than it's small,
with a limited selection (generally only
the big companies), but the staff are
friendly enough, and they do bag their
comics. The layout of the store takes a
bit of time to get used to, as well. Alright.
So, now you k n o w where y o u can buy
them, what should you buy? Good
question. Obviously a lot depends on the
individual. After all, as with any art form,
are very much a matter of taste. Both
myself and Pendragon tend towards the
best of the superhero genre, but comics
are published covering a huge number of
subjects. If in doubt, you can always ask
the staff at shops, your mates, or just b u y
a copy and see. So, onto what we think
are some of the better comics around,
starting with America...
M A R V E L US
Marvel Comics, in general, remain the
most childish of the mainstream
A m e r i c a n comics, rarely experimenting
with their characters in the way that D C
often do. The blandness of characters
such as Captain America, Quasar or Thor
bears witness to this, and things don't
look as if they are getting any better.
They have just released a comic called
DarkHawk, where the hero gains his
powers by 'mysteriously finding a suit'.
Ho H u m .
Within this though, some good stuff can
be found, principally among their X or
Mutant books.
The Uncanny X-Men
For many years this has been the
undisputed champion of the comic-book
market. Chris Claremont w h o has been
writing it for well over ten years, has
shifted the focus away from the actual
super-heroics, and concentrated on the
relationships a n d problems of the (ever-
changing) team. For a while it has been
hampered by a profusion of sub-plots
which only surfaced every few years or
8
Sex Fiend, Pendragon and the Amazing Machine tell all.
and the Graphic
so, but this is being done away with, as
hot penciller J i m Lee helps plot the book,
leading to a more streamlined form of
story telling. Recommended, although it
takes time to get into, so either give it
time, or find a friend who buys it.
X-Factor
The original X - M e n , reformed. For a
while it was languishing in the hands of
an over verbose scripter, but has now
been given a new penciller, and in the
autumn a new writer (Peter David, who
has done so m u c h to resurrect the Hulk).
Rumors are that they are going to
become a government team. Looks like
its going to be good...
X-Force
Due to start in a couple of months. Rising
from the ashes of New Mutants, Cable
and his charges are introducing a new
concept to the Mutant books. They no
longer wait for the bad guys to come to
them. They're going out for their enemies
blood... It is still relatively unusual to
have a M a r v e l character that kills, so an
entire team of them should be interesting.
The creative team behind the book is
strong, but will they w i m p out? W e hope
not.
Excalibur
The only British mutant team, again it
has lost its direction over the last year.
A r o u n d issue 40 though, British
writer/Artist A l a n Davis takes over, so it
might be worth a look again.
Wolverine
Great character in X-Men, but in his o w n
book he is hindered by O k writing and
lousy art. Still worth a look, as some of
the stories can be good.
Amongst the non-mutant books, worth
looking out for are:
The Incredible Hulk
Now totally different form the character
y o u might remember from TV, he is
intelligent and has a very bad attitude.
There is some fascinating political
manoeuvering going on, w h i c h has
managed to totally change the direction
of the book.
SpiderMan
Produced totally by the incredible artist
Tod McFarlane, this is the first new
Spiderman book in a long time, and the
first time McFarlane has scripted. Thus
this aspect can be weak, but the art and
dialogue, along with the generally darker
slant of the title makes up for it. This
said, the scripting is getting better.
Also worth looking at are the other
three Spider M a n Titles, especially
Amazing Spiderman.
D E T E C T I V E COMICS
D C are the other big A m e r i c a n company,
and, indeed, were the first comics
company. T h e y have the three longest
running characters in the comics field:
Batman, SuperMan, and W o n d e r W o m a n .
In general, while they do have less
mature titles (SuperMan and Wonder
Woman, to name two), their comics have
a far more adult outlook, a n d they are
willing to address issues that 'super-hero'
comics traditionally avoid. This is
combined w i t h a more orderly world, and
fewer heroes, w h i c h leads to an overall
'tightness' and consistency within the
titles, and far fewer continuity problems.
Batman
M y unashamedly favourite character, and
thoroughly recommended as a good way
to start in comics, or as something new if
you already read 'em. There are three
titles that feature Batman, and of the two
that follow his current adventures, this is
currently the best. The creative team of
Grant, Mitchell, and Breyfogle portray
The Batman as he should be, dark and
driven but still a man, not a cardboard
cut-out. The art is also excellent, with a
slightly stylised feel. Recommended
highly.
Detective Comics
The other comic following The Batmans
current adventures, and the weaker of
the two. The art is of a dated, almost
70's style, and the characterisation not
nearly as strong as in Batman. Still head-
and-shoulders above a lot of Marvel stuff,
and worthwhile buying so as better to
understand 'Batman' (it's only 65p a
month).
If*!
Legends of the Dark Knight
The third regular title featuring The
Batman, and something of a new idea.
Different Artist/Writer teams produce five
issue stories, w h i c h can be set anywhere
in the history of Bats, whether past,
present, or future. So far (it's up to issue
17) there has been one incredible story,
one good story, one fair story, and the
current one, despite a weak start, is
getting better. B u y it, especially issues 11
to 15, w h i c h are one of the best
introductions to the Batman character.
Green A r r o w
A radical departure from most comics,
and Using a previously established
character as well, this title explemplifies
the best of D C . A very mature comic,
dealing with real people, and examining
the real w o r l d through them. The first
two years of the strip were concerned
with an investigation by the writers of
the role of the victim in modern crime,
via Green A r r o w ' s adventures. If you
want to see what can be done within the
framework of a superhero comic, or just
don't believe that they can address
serious, real life issues, then buy this, and
have your opinions changed.
Also recommended from D C are
Sandman and Doom Patrol.
BRITISH COMICS
Some of the most talented people in
modern comics are British, although
several of them n o w work for American
Companies. Of the stuff that's actually
published over here, the three best are...
Knights Of Pendragon
Good. One of the best monthly comics
produced at the moment. A n eco-thriller
with mystical overtones, rooting deep into
our Celtic a n d Arthurian heritage. The
script is brilliant, with occasional
humorous one-liners. The art takes time
to get used to, but is generally good,
albeit variable, but the colouring is, well,
sexy. Provided the writers manage to
keep up the originality and tension, it'll
continue to be essential reading. Buy it,
and all the back issues (it's only on
number 10, so there aren't too many).
2000AD
T H E stalwart of the British comics
industry, and home of the infamous Judge
Dredd. Recently turned all- colour, it is
usually entertaining, and sometimes
inspired. The only problem is that the
stories can be of variable quality, but as
this is due to them publishing stuff by
new people, it's excusable. Vast amounts
of the old stuff is available i n collections,
and many are well worth buying. Also
reprints material monthly in Best of
2000AD Monthly. A n easy way to get into
comics, and w o r t h a try.
TOXIC!
See review o n page 10.
9

