Toxic!
Right, for those of you who don't
know very much about the comic
industry, a little bit of background:
For many years the stalwart of the British
comics industry has been 2000AD. A
huge number of the British artists and
writers who've since gone on to bigger
things and critical acclaim started off
writing or drawing strips for it.
A few months ago several of these guys
got together and decided that it would be
a really cool idea to start their own
company. So they did. They also got hold
of lots more of the talented British
creators, and persuaded them to work for
them. Then they thought they'd better
produce a comic.
Thus was born TOXIC!, an A 4 , full
colour weekly. But what about a review?
Well, starting with the cover: It's gross.
But in an endearing kind of way. The
main artwork is a rather tasteful picture
of a guy bearing more than passing
resemblance to a nasty green dinosaur,
carrying a gun bearing the literate
inscription 'Saur Y a Coming, Bronto
Breath!'. In the background is the equally
civilised Marshal Law, politely noting that
the afore mentioned, and jolly attractive
chap should 'Consider yourself...
EXTINCT!', w h i c h is hardly surprising
considering that the Marshal has just
blown a two foot wide hole the bloke's
chest.
Inside there are four strips, three of
which are the first parts of series, the last
painted by the fast-becoming-legendary
Simon Bisley, w h i c h is excellent. Of the
other three, Mufo Maniac is the weakest.
The Marshal Law story is, typically, very
good, although not as brilliant as it has
been in the past, but it looks like it'll be
getting better. The best of them is
Accident Man, with some excellent visual
humour.
TOXIC! is being pushed as a newstand
comic, that is, not just for 'comic fans'.
Apocalypse want it to be sold in news-
agents, and are trying to appeal to the
'general pubic'. This obviously puts it into
competion with 2000AD, a n d indeed it
pushes the boundaries of even m y sense
of coincidence that 2000AD has just gone
totally full colour (TOXIC! is full colour
throughout). However, TOXIC! appears to
be aimed at a more adult audience than
2000AD, even given the latter's recent
maturisation (is that a real word?)(Not
according to m y dictionary... Reviews
Ed.).
In conclusion, the first issue is generally
good, and with the arrival of Dan Abnett
(of Felix interview fame) as editor it
should improve. To sum up, it's worth a
quid (and it only costs 99p!), but it tends
to be slightly more sick than neccessary
in places and it's potential has not been
realised. With time it should be, and
some of the up and coming strips sound
excellent. W i t h the amount of talent
behind it, it should be a big success. I
liked it. But then I'm a real sicko
anyway...
Alien Sex Fiend
Night Sun
i F r o m the opening notes of the
score y o u can tell that this is an
'arty' sort of film. T h e credits
appear (in Italian) with a small subtitle
telling the audience w h o subtitled the
film.
The film opens showing a small boy in
19th century costume standing under a
blossoming tree with his hand held out.
The camera pans around the impressive
rocky mountainous landscape and returns
360 degrees to the boy, w h o still has his
hand held out. Eventually a blossom falls
into his hand, and he leans against the
tree, thanking God for this wondrous gift.
This rather tacky beginning is necessary
to set the character of the film, but is by
no means representative. Next scene; the
boy has grown into a handsome young
man, Sergio Giuramondo (Julian Sands),
quite unsurprisingly a bit of a lady's man.
The king arranges for him to be married
to an ex-mistress of his, Christina
(Nastassja Kinski). Before the wedding,
Christina confesses to Sergio, that she has
'loved before'. Not able to bear the
shame, he does not even stay to hear her
out, running from the room.
After this, he cannot face the world he
knows, so he becomes a monk. Not even
this provides enough solitude for the
troubled Sergio, he becomes a hermit,
forcing ever increasing hardships upon
himself in an effort to find his soul. M a n y
hear of this handsome hermit living on
the hill. One woman, bored and in search
of a little sport decides to try and seduce
him. He barely manages to keep his self-
control, mainly by staring out of the
window, praying, and inflicting pain on
himself (He chops off one of his fingers).
The w o m a n leaves his hut, a changed
person, and from this his reputation as a
saint spreads.
A s more people visit Sergio, they bring
gifts. Eventually,his shack gets
redecorated, and all that he has struggled
to avoid finds him again. The site of
hermitage becomes a pilgrimage for all
and sundry, and his sainthood is
commercialised. A m o n g his visitors is a
young girl, Matilda, a thinly masked
analogy to the devil.
The girl seems quite harmless and has
come to have her aversion to daylight
cured by the 'miracle worker'. By using
fairly direct methods, Matilda manages to
seduce Sergio, and he once again must
leave, having totally lost his grip on the
quest for the truth. O K , so I've given
away most of the plot. This doesn't
matter. The acting is superb, and the
atmosphere is enough to carry you with
the characters for the length of the film.
It is never fast, but always has pace
enough to hold the attention.
At last, a film that leaves you thinking.
If you are sick of Rocky 72 or 'Three
men and a carbon based life-form' then
this is for you; it's a bit out of the
ordinary and it's beautiful. Night Sun will
be on limited release around the country.
Dig around in Time Out a n d start living
your life.
Stef.

