politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk Politics
tioned the position of former president
Bill Clinton, who would become First
Gentleman if she were elected. Some
are suggesting that he would become
President-by-proxy. However Hillary
Rodham (to use her maiden name as
she often does) whose parents were
famously tough with her as a child
– There is a story that Hillary came
home and complained about a bully at
school; her mother replied that there
was no room in the house for cowards
– is unlikely to allow her husband or
anyone else boss her around.
Barack Obama, like Hillary has his-
toric potential, as he could become
the first black president of the United
States. While Hillary Clinton has de-
veloped an Iron Lady image, Obama
has been labeled as a “rock star” and
a “beach babe”; hold on we are talking
about Presidential Candidates aren’t
we? He has become a media darling
and is certainly the candidate with the
most charisma. When he made his first
trip to the state of New Hampshire –
one of the first to choose its candidate
for president – the governor joked that
he had booked Mr. Obama for an ap-
pearance because he would sell more
tickets than the Rolling Stones. In ad-
dition he has been the only candidate
to really keep up with Hillary Clinton.
Despite being behind her in the polls,
until recently he had consistently raised
more money than she or any other can-
didate had. In truth Barack Obama has
a hell of a lot going for him. His mul-
ticultural background and upbringing
has allowed him to claim a unique for-
eign policy viewpoint and as the only
serious candidate to have explicitly
opposed the war in Iraq he has been
able to speak credibly about ending the
war in Iraq. Despite receiving criticism
for a perceived inability to dent Hillary
Clinton’s campaign, the man whose
name people always get wrong is whom
I’d like to see in the White House.
You’ll notice that I’ve left out a lot of
candidates. The two I’ve mentioned
are Democrat nominees and I haven’t
mentioned any Republican candidates.
By this I’m implying that they are nei-
ther electable or that I don’t believe
that they should be elected. In the
Democrat camp, the person in ‘third’
place is John Edwards. I don’t person-
ally believe that he is unsuitable for the
job, rather that should he be elected as
Democrat nominee it will not be be-
cause he is the right person for job it
will be because the Democratic Party
was unable to stomach voting for a
woman or a black man. Obama and
Clinton are such strong candidates that
the only thing that would trip up their
campaign would be a personal scandal
or the emergence of prejudice inside
the privacy of the voting booth.
On the republican side we have a
combination of persons who are un-
likely to be elected and who should
not in my view be allowed to hold of-
fice. Mitt Romney and John McCain
are unelectable. John McCain because
he is a neo-conservative in a time when
neo-conservatism has lost all credibil-
ity and Mitt Romney because he is at
once a weak candidate and a Mormon.
Then we have Rudy Giuliani who cer-
tainly is electable but I hope that he
isn’t. I am amazed at how a man who
has so consistently lied about his politi-
cal background and his 9/11 experience
has become the front-runner for the
Republican Party nomination. At the
forefront of these lies is his warped ac-
count of his achievements as mayor of
New York and his claim that he spent as
much time in the rubble at ground zero
as rescue workers did. Strange then that
9,000 ground zero workers are filing
a class action lawsuit against NYC for
health-and-life-threatening conditions
and injuries sustained in the pit while
he remains a picture of health. A can-
didate should start as they mean to go
on, god forbid what this means for the
U.S.A if Rudy is elected President.
As students, we may get our kicks from
buying food reduced to clear at 2am in
Big Sainsbury’s, but frankly, there are
more important things out there in the
wide universe. And here are just a few
of them.
Australia gets a new prime
minister
Australia elected a new Prime Min-
ister last week in the form of former
diplomat Kevin Rudd. It ends 11 years
of conservative rule lead by John
Howard. Howard sent troops to the
deeply unpopular war in Iraq and has
aligned himself closely with US Presi-
dent George Bush. Rudd promises to
keep good relations with the world
superpower, but will withdraw forces
from the Middle East and intends to
sign the Kyoto protocol.
Ethnic discrimination in Malaysia
Ethnic Indians took to the streets in
Kuala Lumpur in protest of the Malay
dominated government’s openly dis-
criminatory laws. Police used tear gas
and water cannons to quell outbursts
of violence which erupted sporadically
amongst the 10,000 marchers. The
Hindu groups want a change to laws
which prioritise ethnic Malays when it
comes to employment and university
places. Malays represent around 60%
of the population and have the lowest
rates of academic achievement and
income. Indians make up 8% and Chi-
nese approximately one fifth.
Bomb blast in Sri Lanka
Two bombs exploded within hours of
one another in the Sri Lankan capital
of Colombo on Wednesday. 17 died
in the attack in the on going civil war
which has an estimated death toll of
70,000 since hostilities began in the
1970’s. The Tamil Tiger organisation
fights for an independent state in the
northern part of the island. Their dif-
ferences lie in language, access to edu-
cation and religion - Sri Lanka’s gov-
ernment is dominated by Buddhists,
whilst the Tigers are mainly Hindu.
Blasphemy in Sudan
A British teacher was arrested in Su-
dan after allegations of blasphemy. The
crime was committed in a classroom
where she had encouraged the children
to name a teddy bear after the Muslim
prophet Mohammad. Foreign Secre-
tary David Milliband was quickly on
the phone to the Sudanese ambassa-
dor in attempt to resolve the issue, and
Prime Minister Gordon Brown said he
was ‘very sorry’ for Ms Gibbons.
Musharraf officially a civillian
General Pervez Musharraf, the leader
of the south Asian country Pakistan
since a coup in 1999, has given up his
military uniform in a bid to legitimate-
ly win an election expected by January
2008. He is one of America’s most im-
portant allies in the ‘War on Terror’ as
a neighbour of Afghanistan, but is run-
ning into trouble over such close ties
domestically. General Ashfaq Kayani
now heads the military of the nuclear
armed nation.
Bush’s last chance
George Bush welcomed Israel’s Prime
Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian
Authority President Mahmoud Abbas
to Annapolis, USA for the start of a
new round of bilateral talks. Many see
this conference as the last chance for
the Bush administration to redeem it-
self on the international stage. “Israel
must demonstrate its support for the
creation of a prosperous and success-
ful Palestinian state by removing unau-
thorized outposts, ending settlement
expansion, and finding other ways for
the Palestinian Authority to exercise
it’s responsibilities without compro-
mising Israel’s security” the president
said.
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
World news summarised faster than mach 3
Being intelligent persons, you may
have noticed that we are reaching the
end of the page and so therefore the
end of my article. The U.S.A. faces
problems on a scale that it has not faced
since its conception with the War of
Independence. It faces a world resent-
ful of its mistakes made in the War on
Terror and worst still its enemies hold
all the cards in this oil-addicted planet.
Its status as a superpower, which has
been unchallenged since the fall of the
Soviet Union, will see fresh opposition
with the rise of China and the return to
authoritarian government in Russia. As
a result of the mis-handling of govern-
ment by the Bush Administration the
United States finds itself with more en-
emies than friends. With luck I’ve given
a broad – but by no means complete
– and detailed – but by no means en-
tirely precise – view of the U.S.A Today
and with even more luck I’ve left you
better informed to consider the U.S.A
Tomorrow.
By January 2009, the White House, heart of the world’s primary superpower, will have a new occupant with the chance of repairing the nation’s image
10 felix Friday 30 November 2007

