14 felix Friday 30 November 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lightning strikes twice
I
read Mike’s editorial last week
– as you all should – and it re-
minded me that for every per-
son up late at night staring at a
blinking cursor, thinking of plot
lines and dying for some, just a little
or any inspiration at all, there must be
millions out there at the same time,
putting pen to paper or fingers to keys
in the search for some kind of creative
enlightenment and understanding.
My own “novel” has hit a standstill,
and so too have the screenplays, sit-
ting on my desktop redundant and
neglected. The songs I have “written”
are tabbed on pieces of paper scattered
around my room and I can’t remem-
ber 99% of ideas that have come to my
mind.
With the advent of Myspace and
Youtube, the blogosphere exploded.
Everyone and anyone with a creative
desire or ambition began spelling out
their thoughts and feelings, and sud-
denly everyone had an outlet and an
audience. Didn’t like what was on TV?
Look for it on Youtube and you were
likely to come up with someone expe-
riencing or thinking about something
similar. Those who have begun to ex-
ploit this are no longer reliant on the
networks. Now, we give each other
what we want.
It is not as if the Studio heads have
not latched onto this. Youtube hoaxer
and cult legend lonelygirl15 – the
product of a couple of North American
filmmakers – now has its own, highly
subscribed online serial and the excel-
lent Quarterlife, originally produced
for Myspace TV, has now been picked
up by NBC and will begin airing next
Spring in the United States. The crea-
tive realm is not just for a select elite or
those suffering for their art.
Back in the real world, Huang Khoo
took a trip to the Barbican to see the
return of the incredible Gergiev con-
ducting Mahler’s Symphony No.6. It is
wonderful to read about people’s ex-
periences of art and music, especially
ones so inspiring and memorable.
Mike Cook unrepentently delves into
the world of “children’s” books – given
even the loftiest of editors have en-
joyed J.K.Rowling’s finest at one point
or another, it is hardly something to
keep quiet about.
There is another groundbreaking
installment of Student Arts in Focus,
while Caz Knight takes a look at one of
our greatest Romantic poets. Read her
breakdown of Keats’ Ode on a Grecian
Urn later in this section. I take a look
at some travel and road novels in Cul-
ture 101 – there are some obligatory
classics, some novel choices and a few
looser interpretations of the genre but
all share the common theme of journey
and self-awareness.
Finally, there is a review of Drama
Society’s sparkly new production of
Brian Friel’s Translations to your right
– its run ends this Saturday so hurry,
get your tickets and enjoy some home
grown talent.
Huang Khoo braces himself for pyrotechnics at the Barbican – Gergiev’s back...
U
pon arriving at the Bar-
bican, I am immediately
struck by the vast, open,
nature of the location.
As the biggest dedicated
performance-arts venue in Europe, this
shouldn’t have been much of a surprise
but the open structure emphasises the
sheer magnitude of the place.
Walking into the Concert Hall, I am
equally impressed it. While perhaps
not quite of the same grandeur of the
Royal Albert Hall, the Concert Hall at
the Barbican is nothing short of im-
pressive. The seats are well-arranged
too, with a clear and unobstructed
view of the entire orchestra.
Tonight’s programme consists of
Tishchenko’s Cello Concerto No. 1, fol-
lowed by Mahler’s Symphony No. 6 in
A minor, with a 20-minute interval be-
tween the two pieces.
The Concerto is performed by Tim
Hugh, an international soloist as well
as the Principal Cellist of the London
Symphony Orchestra. He studied cello
under Aldo Parisot while at Yale and
later with William Pleeth and the great
Jacqueline du Pré while at St. Johns
College, Cambridge.
Hugh has also worked as soloist with
many great conductors including Pre-
vin, Sir Colin Davis, Rostropovich,
Menuhin, Xavier-Roth, Chung and
Tortelier. He has recently toured the
UK playing the Elgar and Brahms Con-
certos with the Moscow Philharmonic
and in Spain with the LSO at Alhambra
Palace. Hugh plays on a cello by Petrus
Roman of Venice 1708.
Mahler’s Symphony No. 6, nicknamed
‘The Tragic’ will be performed by the
LSO, with Valery Gergiev at the helm.
Born in Moscow, Gergiev studied con-
ducting at the Leningrad Conservatory
and at the age of 24, won the Herbert
von Karajan Conductor’s Competi-
tion in Berlin. Gergiev is the Artistic
and General Director of the Mariinsky
Theatre and has toured in 45 countries
with the Kirov Opera, Ballet and Or-
chestra. In 2003, Gergiev led a consid-
erable portion of St. Petersburg’s 300th
anniversary celebrations, conducted
the globally televised anniversary gala,
and opened the Carnegie Hall season
with the Kirov Orchestra, being the
first Russian conductor to do so since
Tchaikovsky conducted the first-ever
concert in Carnegie Hall. Gergiev is
currently the Principal Conductor of
the LSO.
It is worth noting at this point that
the choice of repertoire for tonight’s
concert doesn’t cater particularly well
to the more ‘casual’ listener of classi-
cal music; the Tishchenko, in particu-
lar, whereas Mahler’s work is generally
akin to Marmite; you either love it, or
can’t stand it.
The Tishchenko starts out with a
long monologue on the cello, where the
composer’s admiration for his teacher
Shostakovich is evident and where
the tone of the entire piece is set. The
music starts off with an anxious, dis-
cordant, and uneasy feel. This is fur-
ther emphasised when the orchestra
is introduced, gradually increasing
in energy and intensity, before slowly
subsiding away towards the end. The
insistent, repeated four-note motif and
the brooding, jarring passages all serve
to create an atmosphere of suspense
and unease. The solo writing is fan-
tastic; with every register and charac-
teristic of the cello exploited and Tim
Hugh puts on a fine performance, full
of enthusiasm and energy.
After the interval, the audience and
musicians take their seats, and I am
slightly surprised (even by Mahler
standards) by the size of the orchestra;
two timpanis, cowbells, a celesta, two
harps, nine horns and a hammer! And
not just some Stanley job, but a ludi-
crously proportioned mallet, straight
out of an ACME catalogue of a ‘Loony
Tunes’ cartoon. This is most definitely
not your average set-up.
The first movement is intense and
march-like, with conflicting demands
of tempo that Gergiev handles with the
utmost ease, making it seem easy and
natural. Alma’s theme, which reoccurs
throughout the entire Symphony, is in-
troduced to the audience. The second
movement is slower, more emotional
and yet full of turmoil, with nasty,
complex rhythms that are dealt with by
Gergiev once again.
In the third movement, things begin
to get darker, more brooding and men-
acing, building up towards the final
movement. The fourth is tragic, pow-
erful, and emotional. I had never be-
fore heard the fourth movement played
with such energy, intensity and feroc-
ity as I did that night, like witnessing a
wild beast caged for the first time. The
first of two hammer strikes, signalling
the first of three tragic events in Mahl-
er’s life, sent chills racing down my
spine. The fourth movement is brutal
but never out of control, with Gergiev
in total control and the orchestra rev-
elling in the music. The final A minor
chord falls like an iron curtain.
The Symphony ends and the hall is
filled with rapturous applause. There
is a standing ovation, people are whis-
tling and stamping their feet on the
ground. Gergiev, and the LSO, have
given the audience a truly fantastic and
memorable performance.
Arts needs you!
Felix Arts is looking to regularly cover
performances, exhibitions, concerts and
more held by Imperial societies – but we
need you to keep us updated! Intermail us
at arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
David Paw
Arts Editor
Gergiev will be conducting Mahler’s Symphonies throughout the Winter. Book ahead – tickets sell fast

