arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Arts
An almost perfect Translation(s)
Afonso Campos reviews the latest Dramsoc production and leaves the theatre refreshed and content
I
t is a frightening prospect that
of staging a play so well known,
loved and over analysed like
Translations. A text studied by
dozens of thousands every year,
from GCSE and A-Level right up to
university level, not only invites tre-
mendous amount of criticism (some
of it more constructive than the rest),
it sets expectations of the audience at
a very high threshold. Despite one or
two directorial kinks, first time direc-
tor Rebecca Banerjee has overseen and
taken care of her actors rather well and
is to be commended for it.
The level of talent is fantastic. It is
refreshing to see a science focused in-
stitution such as ours still abounding
with artistic capacity. The interactions
between character pairs felt substan-
tial and genuine. Hugh Mor O’Donnell
played by Sam Abu-Wardeh was par-
ticularly good. His voice projection was
spot on, as was his acting. He seemed
completely comfortable on stage, as if
it were an innate part of him.
The romance scene was quite en-
thralling. There was a subtle beauty
that arose from the truth of the situa-
tion. It felt real and not in the slightest
contrived. Lara Gill’s (playing Maire)
breathing and sighing while on stage
with Alex (playing Yolland) was quite
gripping. The pair was able to transmit
the awkward but enchanting, childlike
state of being utterly in love and know-
ing it can last.
Manus’ (Andrew Somerville) slouch-
ing and eyes reveal a character that is
clearly tormented and distraught – a
romantic fool who has not had the
fortune of requited love. His voice
and somewhat disgruntled and aim-
less walk heighten the sense of loss in
him. His interaction with Sarah (Lucy
Anderson) before he exits was beau-
tifully depressing. The two capture
the essence of that anagnorisis and
quick moment of realisation just be-
fore forcefully losing someone forever.
Lucy’s part is a tough one due to the
lack of spoken lines. Everything is in
the eyes and body language; however
she rises to the challenge and plays her
part flawlessly.
Jimmy-Jack played by Seb Junemann
was another star in the play. His pres-
ence is electrifying and his scene of
drunken stupor is worthy of note. His
enunciation and intoxicated behaviour
is such that it would make a tough, in-
ebriated pirate sit in a corner and cry
in shame.
Owen, played by Brandon Cano-
Errecart was the only character to be
slightly detached. While his peers all
try hard (ones more successfully than
others) to put on the Irish accent,
Brandon fails to do so, differentiating
and placing him on plane different to
the others. His communications feel
strange, not because he is not a good
actor in his own right, but because
his American accent props up too of-
ten rendering his character much less
credible and believable.
One cannot miss the care that has
also gone into creating the set. Kaush-
ali Trivedi and his team clearly worked
long and hard making sure the audi-
ence would be transported to Ireland
in the early 1800s.
While the creative side is certainly
worthy of this perhaps ego-boosting
review, the production of the play
faltered slightly, One would expect
something more than six weeks in the
making to have been the target of some
serious marketing efforts. The sort of
turnout on opening night was rather
uninspiring, with under thirty souls
scattered throughout the auditorium.
The quality of the program is also
rather poor. It is badly designed and
written, and with over 6 fonts used, it
is incoherent and difficult to read. It
seems perhaps unfair that the actors
put so much work and devotion into
the machine, only to have their work
appreciated by an empty house. It is
time Imperial productions start mak-
ing their actors proud and filling up
those seats, whatever it takes.
Left to right: Lucy Anderson, Seb Junemann and Felix’s very own Andrew Somerville
The Translations cast inspire others to audition for future Dramsoc productions

