16 felix Friday 30 November 2007
Culture 101 – Literary road trips
Let David Paw guide you through the sweetest escapes and most manic sojourns of the literary world
F
eeling a little seasonal affec-
tive? Missing the debauch-
ery of summer? Aren’t we
all. Often it is one of the
high points of anyone’s year,
etched in the memory for eons and
recounted at bars and gatherings end-
lessly. Afterall, we are a travel-obsessed
nation. Perhaps it says more about us
and our current state than we’d care to
mention, but we love little more than
spending half the year thinking about
the trip, a little less than the next half
planning it and then actually taking off
and going for the rest of it.
We all have our ideal trips – the city
break, the backpacking adventure or
the overland odyssey, but more often
than not we just don’t find the time
to get up and go. A pithy alternative,
perhaps, but escape is still attainable in
the form of film, music and of course,
literature. The books here have been
chosen for their common theme and
vary wildly between epics that we all
dream of, such as travelling the roads
of the Americas, awakenings and emo-
tionally turbulent trips and gargantuan
voyages through the afterlife. We hope
you like.
Alex Garland – The Beach
Each generation searches for its
Shangri-La. Although the islands of
Thailand have since lost much of their
virginal allure in the eyes of incessant
“explorers”, back when Garland wrote
The Beach they were still relatively un-
touched by the package-tour brigade.
Tat from elitist spiritual pretenders
aside, The Beach almost perfectly cap-
tures one of the desires found in so
many of our generation – the some-
times overwhelming desire to travel,
wander the earth, to keep moving and
discover a little slice of heaven for our-
selves, and for ourselves alone.
The Beach charts the story of Rich-
ard, a young British backpacker –Gar-
land when he was “18 or 19” – who
travels through Thailand to find a
Utopian community on one of the is-
lands after being given a map by Daffy,
a crazed and older traveller who has
been around too long and seen too
much. On one level an engaging ad-
venture, and on another asking ques-
tions about the inherent unrest and
destructive nature of backpackers like
Richard, The Beach is a fine addition to
the pantheon of literary wanderers.
Dante Alighieri – The Divine
Comedy
This is not your typical travel novel
involving a road-trip, given, but for
scope and depth alongside sheer scale
and imagination, travelling through the
circles of Hell from Purgatory and into
Paradise takes some beating. Contrary
to popular belief, reviewers do some-
times read what they write about.
I can’t say I remember all of it –
something about not resting on downy
plumes and something about a sub-
liminal passage that if you understand,
you’re amazing, and if you don’t, you’re
retarded – but in essence it tracks the
travels of Dante, the Luke to Virgil’s
Ben Kinobe, through Hell, watch-
ing sinners burn and get all sorts of
twisted stuff done to them (it’s worth it
just for this) before popping by Satan’s
place to say “Hi” while he chews on Ju-
das’ face, then emerging to the stars in
Purgatory.
He climbs the mountain of Purga-
tory before reaching the gate, passing
through and ascending the terraces of
Purgatory while watching nice folks be-
ing purged of their sins. Virgil departs
and Dante hooks up with Beatrice (the
Love of his life and BFF) and then they
ascend into the spheres of Heaven
before meeting Jesus, Mary and God,
whom grants him understanding of
human and divine nature.
There’s a lot of dry, Florentine poli-
tics in this book. It is seen to be of im-
portance as it shaped the West’s per-
ception of “Hell” whilst also being key
to the evolution of the Italian language,
but other than that, and being really,
really long, I can’t think of anything
more worthy of the title “trophy book”.
Other than War and Peace, of course.
Ernesto Guevara – The Motorcycle
Diaries
Eloquent and colourful, The Motor-
cycle Diaries are the recollections of
a young Ernesto Guevara who, at the
age of 23, packed up his medical stud-
ies and decided he needed to see more
of the world. Travelling with his friend
Alberto and his trusty steed La Ponde-
rosa, a 500cc Norton motorcycle, get-
ting shit-faced and picking up women
was always on the agenda, but along
the way it is interesting to watch his
increasing sentiment towards the peo-
ple of the Lands he visits – a forgotten
leper colony in Argentina or a Chil-
ean copper mine which had already
claimed numerous victims.
Guevara takes much at surface level
and tells it so matter-of-factly that one
begins to believe it all to be entirely
normal. Likened to a more focused and
(slightly more) sober On The Road, it
does for South America what Kerouac
did for its Northern counterpart.
Hunter S. Thomson – Fear and
Loathing in Las Vegas
I remember reading an interview with
Brian Molko from Placebo who, after
reading Marilyn Manson’s book Long
Hard Road Out Of Hell, stated happily
that it made him want to go out an do
as many drugs and get as “fucked up”
as he possibly could. Can’t say that was
my reaction after reading Fear and
Loathing, but it has that effect on some
people. So I’m told. Repeatedly.
Fear and Loathing is the based-
on-a-true-story account of Thomp-
son and a friend’s long, drug-fuelled
bender-cum-road adventure in Vegas
while on assignment for Sports Illus-
trated. Living out the last days of the
fervent counterculture of the time, the
novel follows their hallucinations and
dragged-out trips, ultimately culminat-
ing in inevitable paranoia and a ragged
mutual mistrust.
Lambasting the American Dream
and its ultimate futility, as well as
chronicling the optimism-turned-cyn-
Of all the places Kerouac wrote about and romanticised, it is perhaps his recollections of the California coast that are the most inspiring
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts

