arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Arts
icism of the era, Fear and Loathing is
important for its significance in both
20th Century American Literary his-
tory and Pop culture.
David Halsey and Diana Landau –
Magnetic North
This little-known novel charts the ex-
pedition undertaken by the author and
his travel companions, photographer
Pete Souchuk and their adopted native
mutt Ki, across the Canadian wilder-
ness. Abandoned by his original team,
Halsey was convinced to continue his
journey by a fervent and gregarious
stranger at a bar.
Refocusing and with new teammate
Souchuk, he set out in the spring of
1977 to trek across the entire continent
from Vancouver to the banks of the
St Lawrence river on the East Coast,
eschewing any motorised transport-
travelling by foot, canoe and dogsled.
Landau completed the novel after Hal-
sey’s death making the account even
more affecting, for better or worse.
Magnetic North is an incredible and
inspiring tale for its distilled and pure
sense of passion and overwhelming
sense of accomplishment. It is clear
that Halsey, a suburbanite, was born
to be out in the woods. The descrip-
tions of the landscapes and the people
he meets are uplifting – every face
is imaginable, every step seemingly
traceable. More than any other tale of
adventure, it makes you want to be out
there, pack on your back, stepping out
into the frosted wilderness.
Don DeLillo – Americana
Not his best novel, but as far as debuts
go, pretty blinding. The journey in this
case is that of David Bell, a late twenty-
something TV exec who, sick of living
in his cynical little dream of America,
takes on an assignment with a camera
team to explore and make a film on the
sprawling urban landscape and society
of America.
Heralding the arrival of a major tal-
ent, Americana is sparkling in its de-
scriptions of characters and half-laughs
and half-despairs like its characters.
Criticised as being not plot-centric
enough, its portraits are exciting and
DeLillo’s prose never misses a beat.
Cynical, detached, seemingly past the
point of caring – as a reader, you expe-
rience all of these in DeLillo’s style and
more. Pretty authentic, then.
Jack Kerouac – On The Road
“A selection of road novels would be
unthinkable without the ultimate pae-
an to the essence of road travel”. Or,
that’s what I would have said if I had
reviewed it earlier. Never quite instill-
ing the same respect as other writers
installed in literary canon, yet hugely
influential, Kerouac had a rollercoast-
er career from a struggling, middling
writer living with relatives on the East
Coast, to the self-styled “King of the
Beatniks”, which he references in later
novels after On The Road. You could
trace a line in his life, his dreams and
regrets through his novels, up to his
breaking point in Big Sur. Any of his
wild, frantic novels could make the
cut (including the wonderful Visions of
Cody) but On The Road is where it all
started.
Leaving his aunt’s house in New York
state to follow the wildly charismatic
Dean Moriarty (Kerouac’s real life
friend and fellow Beat Neal Cassady)
on the road, the novel plots their trav-
els across the great plains of the Mid-
west and the mountains of the Rockies
to the sunlicked hills of central Califor-
nia, all wide-eyed and partied-up in a
feverish need to feed off the essence
and joy of pure being.
Legend has it that On The Road was
written in a long, continuous Benze-
drine-fuelled session after Kerouac
returned back from his adventures.
Offering an alternative to Fitzger-
ald’s American dream of material and
wealth-driven excess, On The Road
served up a new ideology and set a
precedent that echoes powerfully even
in our generation.
Mari Akasaka – Vibrator
Vibrator was received as a portrait of a
generational crisis in its native Japan.
This is not a book for the light hearted.
It follows Rei, a journalist – young,
lost, neurotic, the usual – who meets
a truck driver late one night in a con-
venience store. She is wrenched from
the monotony and neurosis of her daily
life by an inexplicable attraction to him
and joins him on an emotional road-
trip through the backroads of Japan
while reliving her traumatic childhood
and searching for the kind of self-un-
derstanding that crystallises only dur-
ing the course of a journey.
Dealing in extremes, it is rich and
intricate in parts, while delivering bull-
ish verbal haymakers in others. Case
in point; Rei’s opening stream of con-
sciousness outpourings while in her lo-
cal convenience store in the middle of
the night. One part of you thinks Nat-
suo Kirino, the other is imagining Jeff
Bridges as The Dude strolling down
the aisle, milk in his beard. Despite its
minimalist components – set over the
course of a night, involving just two
characters in a very short novel – Aka-
saka tells the story of Rei with skill and
delicacy.
Ethan Hawke – Ash Wednesday
Call it variety, call it novelty value or
call it curiosity, but as far as writing
attempts by famously moody and re-
flective Hollywood creative types go,
Hawke’s Ash Wednesday isn’t as bad
as it could be. Certainly given the ef-
forts of current celebs to release au-
tobiographies to cash in on their fif-
teen minutes, it is commendable that
Hawke actually bothered to put pen
to paper and work through the agony
that is ‘Writing A Novel’ for 200 pages.
The story recounts a familiar tale of
star-crossed lovers Jimmy and Chris-
tie, travelling Transamerica to recount
forgotten scenes and trace memories,
separated, yet upon re-evaluation of
their lives, realising that the other is all
they’ve got.
The character descriptions and de-
velopments are pretty interesting given
that novels are probably not Hawke’s
forte, but for anyone who’s seen his
conversational epics with Julie Delpy
(Before Sunrise/Before Sunset) and is
wondering just what is going on in the
mind of the man (or is just plain curi-
ous) it’s worth a look. Available from
Amazon for next to nada – worth a
look for the curious amongst you.
DeLillo’s Americana is one of cynicism and detachment, while Vibrator is more about the resonance of
memory than what you’re thinking
Guevara’s Motorcycle Diaries was adapted into a Walter Salles film not so long ago Lucifer chews on Judas’ and Brutus’ faces. Delish

