18 felix Friday 30 November 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
SAIF – Systematic torture special
More real fucking culture; this week the right venerable John Mayer analyses another modern classic
T
his weeks piece is an enig-
matic photo from the cele-
brated German photogra-
pher Gai Bühn. Although
initially impenetrable, it
could be argued that on one level this
is a straight-forward protest against
the treatment of the political prisoners
in Guantanamo Bay.
However, on a deeper level it is ap-
parent that the pillowcase is a repre-
sentation of the way in which we are
all forced to silence our inner desires
in order to function in society.
The subject depicted in the photo
is undergoing an internal battle – he
is enslaved to the laws of civilisation
but is craving the independent, free
thought brought to him through his
music. This conflict is clearly tearing
him apart, leading to the rejection of
his autonomy – we see him attempting
to throw the battered old Casio key-
board across the room.
When he’s not singing tribute
songs about coprophilia, being
really famous and ploughing
Jessica Simpson, John Mayer
can be found chilling with his
pal Dave Chapelle and playing
Stevie Ray Vaughan covers on his
vintage Fender Strat (bastard).
He also released a couple of shite
solo CDs and has covered Tay Zon-
day’s masterpiece Chocolate Rain
to the melody of Say It Right. He
attended Berkley. Whoever thought of this must have been in a world of suck. This guy is basically like the worst superhero ever
Stanzas for Students – Ode on a Grecian Urn
Caz Knight puts the rest of us to shame with her in depth analysis of Keats’ super-duper masterpiece
F
ouryearsafterapplyingtothe
Royal College of Surgeons at
Guy’s Hospital, John Keats
wrote Ode on a Grecian Urn,
inspired by a trip to the Brit-
ish museum to see the Elgin Marbles.
These were sculptures that decorated
the Parthenon, and other buildings on
the Acropolis of Athens and upon the
instruction of Thomas Bruce, seventh
Earl of Elgin, half the remaining sculp-
tures were seized from Athens and
brought to London between 1801 and
1812.
This was not carried out without op-
position. Lord Byron himself lamented
their removal from Greece: “Dull is the
eye that will not weep to see / Thy walls
defaced, thy mouldering shrines re-
moved / By British hands…”. His views
obviously fell on deaf ears, as Keats was
able to visit the Elgin Marbles and so
be inspired by an urn he saw there to
write this poem. Indeed, even Francis
Crick (co-discoverer of DNA) went on
to use this poem as inspiration for the
title of his book What Mad Pursuit –
see first stanza.
Upon initial reading, the poem is
shrouded in mystery. One does not
know to whom the poem is referring,
what the characters are doing or where
they are going, highlighting Keats’ the-
ory of ‘Negative Capability’ whereby
great minds have the ability to accept
that not everything can be resolved
(something I’m sure that a lot of scien-
tists might have trouble doing).
Keats observed the scene depicted
on the urn and delved into his own in-
terpretation of what is happening in it.
The ode seems to be addressed to the
people on the urn; the poet recognis-
ing the flurry of events spurred on by
passion, both envying and pitying their
situation.
He longs for their perpetual energy
made possible by the fact that they are
immobile, etched on the urn and sus-
pended forever in this way. Yet he pit-
ies the fact that they, nor their feelings,
can not change and that they are locked
in this passion, never to achieve climax
- “that can not shed / your leaves, nor
ever bid the spring adieu”.
The most controversial and complex
aspect of the poem comes in the last
two lines, regarded as one of the most
notorious quotations in English Litera-
ture. Due to some ambiguous punc-
tuation, it is unclear who the speaker
is and to whom it is being addressed.
Poet T.S. Elliot thought very little of
the last two lines. He referred to them
as “ a serious blemish on a beautiful
poem”. One interpretation is that it is
Keats who is addressing and criticising
the figures on the urn.
Another interpretation is that it is
the urn who is the speaker. It begins by
quoting Sir Joshua Reynolds (greatest
authority on art at the time)- “Beauty is
truth, truth beauty” and goes on to af-
firm that truth is indeed all we need to
create superb art. The preceding words
to the last two lines, “thou say’st”, imply
that it is the urn’s and not Keats’ voice.
Maybe we should accept that not
everything can be answered and enjoy
the poem for what it is – perhaps the
last two lines were added for no other
reason than to confuse!
Ode on a Grecian Urn
Thou still unravish’d bride of quietness,
Thou foster-child of silence and slow time,
Sylvan historian, who canst thou express
A flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme:
What leaf-fring’d legend haunt about thy shape
Of deities or mortals, or of both,
In Tempe or the dales of Arcady?
What men or gods are these? What maidens
loth?
What mad pursuit? What struggle to escape?
What pipes and timbrels? What wild ecstasy?
Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard
Are sweeter: therefore, ye soft pipes, play on;
Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear’d,
Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone:
Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave
Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;
Bold lover, never, never canst thou kiss,
Though winning near the goal - yet, do not grieve;
She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,
For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!
Ah, happy, happy boughs! that cannot shed
Your leaves, nor ever bid the spring adieu;
And, happy melodist, unwearied,
For ever piping songs for ever new;
More happy love! more happy, happy love!
For ever warm and still to be enjoy’d,
For ever panting, and for ever young;
All breathing human passion far above,
That leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloy’d,
A burning forehead, and a parching tongue.
Who are these coming to the sacrifice?
To what green altar, O mysterious priest,
Lead’st thou that heifer lowing at the skies,
And all her silken flanks with garlands drest?
What little town by river or sea shore,
Or mountain-built with peaceful citadel,
Is emptied of this folk, this pious morn?
And, little town, thy streets for evermore
Will silent be; and not a soul to tell
Why thou art desolate, can e’er return.
O Attic shape! Fair attitude! with brede
Of marble men and maidens overwrought,
With forest branches and the trodden weed;
Thou, silent form, dost tease us out of thought
As doth eternity: Cold Pastoral!
When old age shall this generation waste,
Thou shalt remain, in midst of other woe
Than ours, a friend to man, to whom thou say’st,
“Beauty is truth, truth beauty,” - that is all
Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know.

