arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Arts
Are you sitting comfortably? Good
Mike Cook is wondering whether he should act his age when it comes to his choice of reading material
I
don’t read an awful lot. That
may come as a surprise to those
of you who were foolish enough
to believe that the Felix staff had
any experience or knowledge of
their subject whatsoever. The truth is
that I, like many of you, simply have
too much to do. When reading gets
slotted in, I need to go for something
enjoyable. There was a time when I’d
be taking recommendations, hovering
in the Penguin Classics section and
so on. But at the moment, I just want
something to read.
Now, it gets a bit difficult here be-
cause on the one hand, it’s not like I
still watch kids television on a Saturday
morning. The fact that I don’t have a
television set is neither here nor there
– the point is, I’m too old for it. Even if
Pokemon was just getting good. Simi-
larly, I try to lay off consuming large
amounts of sugar and running around
until I bang into a doorframe because
it’s a little unbecoming. And also I can’t
afford sweets.
In general, really, getting older
means doing older things. Grown-up
stuff. Stuff that seemed boring when
you were younger, like studying, and
now still seems pretty much as boring.
Like studying. However, when it comes
to books I don’t find it as easy to draw
the mark.
Maybe it’s because a story is a story,
and at the end of the day it’s either a
good one or it isn’t. The presentation
of the thing is entirely in my mind – if I
want Doctor Seuss to be a battle-hard-
ened demon slayer I’m quite within my
rights to make him so. Not to mention
that, on the whole, a younger target
market means simpler vocabulary, and
that definitely means easier reading for
when I’ve done far too many course-
works and eaten far too little real food.
Maybe it’s not time to grow up and
let go of things just yet, then. His Dark
Materials is this Christmas’ obligatory
kid-magnet for cinemas nationwide,
and that in turn has filled tube stations,
coffee shops and living rooms with
blue paperbacks of Philip Pullman’s os-
tensibly teen-oriented books, as adults
try and indulge themselves in a little bit
more of pop culture. Not that that’s a
bad thing, and if there’s one thing we
have to thank Rowling for, it’s that peo-
ple have broadened their desire to read
past the headlines of The Sun.
So, we’re reading His Dark Materi-
als, we had a crack at Harry Potter and
a few of us might have even dipped
into Stormbreaker – although the
books were so short, a dip was prob-
ably all that was needed. Where’s the
problem?
Something bizarre happened as
Harry Potter hit fame and fortune
worldwide. ‘Adult’ covers appeared.
Though they were no doubt fuelled by
a desire to make the book seem even
more accessible to adults, they engen-
dered this sense of shame in people,
even with the ridiculously overdone
‘older’ covers. They slapped this big,
comfy divide between what was ‘adult’
and what was ‘children’, even though
people had been quite happily read-
ing books before then, and the notion
of age was just a method of indexing
them in Waterstones.
It’s a little sad to see it now – just as
webecomecomfortablewiththeideaof
exploring the gaudy, colourful sections
of bookshops, we’re suddenly told to
wait and only read things if they come
with a special jacket that looks like it
was designed by H.R. Giger. Which is
a bit of a shame, because the wealth of
top-quality fiction that got exposure as
a result of Harry Potter’s success – A
Series of Unfortunate Events, Tales of
the Otori, and basically anything writ-
ten by Bernard Cornwell – fell by the
wayside as soon as it reached the 18+
market.
Christmas is coming up now, and
that means it’s a good opportunity to
guiltlessly drop into a bookshop and
pick up something that probably isn’t
aimed at you. Hence why I’m writing
this to you whilst wearing some pleas-
ingly tight Pokemon underwear. Some
of these books are ludicrously cheap,
and are guaranteed to give you just as
good an experience as Mikami, Rich-
ard Hammond, Dawkins or whatever
other nonsense you’re picking up be-
cause the posters tell you to.
Go watch some Saturday morning
kids TV, buy some Coco Pops and
kick back with a copy of Stormbreaker.
You’re never too old.
So this is basically just a blatant excuse to stick a picture of Nicole Kidman in. And some little freak
The Best of the Youngest
Tales of the Otori
We tried in vain to get you into this a
few weeks back – a five-book series of war-mongering,
love, adolescence and religion set in a Feudal Japan-like
fictional world. Really great stuff from an author that has
a lot of experience with the culture. The first three books
can be picked up for the ridiculous sum of £7.49 on Ama-
zon. Please do it now.
His Dark Materials
Well, it is. If you haven’t read the completely insane tril-
ogy from Pullman then hurry up before Hollywood ruins
the entire thing for you. In all senses of the word. It’s big,
it’s (mostly) clever and it made me cry. True story. £3.49
each on Amazon.
The Hardy Boys
Oh come on. Come on. Okay, maybe not this one. Still…
£3.50 each on Amazon. Can’t go wrong. Kind of.
Note to Amazon.com - Can we have our money now?

