film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Film
Gangster murders the competition
Robin George Andrews
With the Hollywood hotshots Ridley, Russell and Denzel on board, does American Gangster stand out
against the prestigious mobster pedigree before it? Well, it certainly doesn’t give up without a fight
There are two sides to the American
Dream, apparently. Not quite under-
standing why the US has claims on a
term which could apply to anyone in
the world – in that you can achieve
monetary and social success through
hard work and perseverance – I can
clearly see that after watching Ridley
Scott’s new film, there are two very dif-
ferent ways of achieving success.
One is represented by Denzel Wash-
ington’s portrayal of Frank Lucas, a re-
al-life heroin kingpin operating during
the closing days of the Vietnam War;
the other is conveyed through Russell
Crowe’s incarnation of Richie Rob-
erts, the detective who brought down
his drug empire. An influential direc-
tor and two Academy Award winning
stars definitely sounds like a promis-
ing mix, so do this trio of Hollywood’s
finest do justice to the near-legendary
crime saga? As Washington’s charac-
ter quotes quite rightly, “either you’re
somebody, or you’re nobody.” So which
is it to be for American Gangster?
The story itself is based on real life
events, and although I knew very little
about Frank Lucas and his New York
heroin ring, everything on show here
seemed believable enough. Not only
that, but it was utterly enthralling;
to watch how a black man in 1960’s
America overtakes the Mafia in the
drugs business with the truly ingen-
ious method of smuggling in heroin
from South-East Asia was, frankly,
stunning.
On the other side is one of the few
honest cops left in the city (Crowe), a
cop who we see ridiculed by officers
and criminals alike early on for not tak-
ing one million dollars of bribe money.
With his marriage falling apart at the
seams simultaneously, he decides it is
time to show New York what he is ca-
pable of.
As Frank Lucas rises to the top of his
game, parallels are drawn at every step
with the rise of Roberts’ detective, and,
although they rarely physically cross
paths, you can feel just how close each
American Gangster ★★★★✫
Director: Ridley Scott
Writer: Steve Zaillian
Cast: Russell Crowe,
Denzel Washington
of them is to unlimited success – and
catastrophic failure.
In the mix are several large collec-
tives of corrupt cops, tens of loyal fam-
ily members of the Lucas household,
many hundreds of faithful civilians
from Harlem, and thousands upon
thousands of heroin addicts. This film
is rated 18, not because of the vio-
lence content (although there are some
shocking moments) but rather due to
the explicitness with which the drug
abuse aspect is handled; every time
someone is seen injecting Lucas’ her-
oin, alluringly known as “Blue Magic”
with all the panache and style of a de-
signer brand, the after effects are quite
clearly shown and are nothing short of
nauseating.
Lucas’ rise to the top is carefully
juxtaposed against the effects of long-
term heroin addiction, and, although
you cannot help but admire his abil-
ity to fulfil his ambitions and attain
such power, to see him cutting into a
Thanksgiving turkey in his million dol-
lar mansion whilst a baby cries over the
lifeless remains of his blood-covered
father is sickening. Scott really under-
lines the idea that intelligence, hard-
work, and persistence enable people
to achieve both wonderful dreams and
terrible nightmares.
Roberts’ determination to bring Lu-
cas down is equally as captivating, and
his rough-and-ready but clearly intui-
tive character is instantly likeable. The
film may be the story of the rise and fall
of Frank Lucas, but my primary source
of enjoyment was seeing just how this
isolated detective was able to bring the
enormous drug empire crashing to its
knees.
Both of the leads, although rarely in
the same scenes, have a demanding
screen presence and their perform-
ances drive the film. This, however,
isn’t to say the supporting cast aren’t
up to scratch. The entire ensemble is
magnificent with both high standards
in impeccable acting and genuine,
thorough characterisation. This is the
real deal.
The climax of films based on real-life
events can often be quite, well, anticli-
mactic, but American Gangster thank-
fully sidesteps this problem; a careful
script shows that a film can end as
dramatically and as intriguingly with
arrests and words as it can with a spec-
tacular, Departed-esque shoot-out.
Although the beginning is a little
slow, as soon as both of the lead roles
collide on their respective paths to in-
dividual glory everything kicks off, and
despite a hefty running time of 158
minutes my patience was never once
tested.
This film is most certainly some-
thing, and I wouldn’t be surprised if the
director in question was tipped to win
Best Director at the Academy Awards.
Here’s to American Gangster, showing
how anyone can achieve anything if
they put there mind to it. And the con-
sequences of the paths they take...
Left: Come to daddy! Right: I would have gone for the poppy, but they’re all being used for the smack
Left: Russell Crowe on realising Denzel stole his Oscar way back in 2001. Right: Russell’s salary demands getting somewhat ridiculous

