games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 30 November 2007
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
G
uess what? It’s finally
here!
Despite getting some-
what delayed for a week
longer than expected,
the Super Mario Galaxy issue of Felix
Games has arrived.
It wasn’t easy going but I’m quite glad
that it’s over, for now. It’s best not to
think about the other games of clas-
sic descent out there and particularly
those on the cusp of release into a spar-
kling new existence.
This week, we make a preamble into
the world of platformers and try to
see why they’re revered. It’s just sad
that despite all the respect people give
them, they don’t do much to ensure the
continued survival of the quintessential
platformer. It was only recently that I
dug out my old copy of Jak & Daxter to
tide me over until I get to sit down with
Super Mario Galaxy for a longer ses-
sion. It’s definitely one of my favourite
games merely because it embodies the
tenets that make jumpathon titles so
precious. The collectible here is the
Precursor Egg - a metallic orb of sorts
that can be used as a currency in order
to get another set of items: power cells.
The thing about power cells is that like
the stars in Mario, a certain number is
needed to proceed further. The initia-
tive to keep collecting after the lower
limit is in the form of an extended end-
ing. To some this may be a mere Easter
egg, while to others it may very well
change the entire game. Brilliant.
Our most honourable Chief Ed Kim
JongTomospeakstheheartsandminds
of the Felix team as he reviews Super
Mario Galaxy. All attempts to thwart
his review have failed as the North Fe-
lix forces have quelled any possible up-
risings from the Riposte Raiders. Jokes
aside, there’s a very good reason why
everyone has something hearty to say
about the all new Mario: it’s earned the
praise.
A little inset is due here though. Un-
fortunately we ran out of space to put
in Luigi - Mario’s younger brother. Al-
ways an underdog, the ganglier Luigi
is still a lovable old fool. He dons the
green part of the Italian flag and nev-
er fails to be there to lend his famous
brother a helping hand. While he’s
shunted to sidekick status, do not let
that undermine his skills. He’s quite
the brawler in Smash Brothers and is
actually a better jumper than Mario!
This week marks the first time that
the Felix Games of this year has moved
beyond a spread and into the land of
Foure Pai’ges. What better way to do
that than to celebrate Mario. Initially,
it was going to be a timeline of events
but we wanted to be different from the
thousands of gaming websites out there
by really getting into the Mario mood.
Check it out and tell us what you think
about it! Hopefully, we’ll be able to
continue at this magnitude from now
on. Most importantly, it’s about you lot
being actively involved that will help us
offer you more pages in the future.
Next week we’ll be taking a look at
Assassin’s Creed and Call of Duty 4.
Start writing, soldiers!
This
Week
Reader Riposte
He’s baaaaaack
How far have we come? Its-a Maaarrrrrio!
Will I make it? Ooh, shiny...
Azfarul Islam rediscovers Jak & Daxter and ponders about the platformer genre
T
he watershed release that
is Super Mario Galaxy is
portentous on many lev-
els. Not only is it a verita-
ble return to form for Nin-
tendo when it comes to their tenderly
loved Mario franchise, but this game
may yet again herald an resurgence in
the delicate yet mercurial craft of old
known as the platformer.
Face it: pureblood adventure and
platform games have become quite
intermingled with the vicissitudes that
govern the recent ilk of games. In or-
der to survive a surreptitiously harsh
market, games have had to marry into
various genres to evolve and stay on
top of a hypothetical foodchain where
the rabid gamer is the ultimate preda-
tor. This means platforming has been
relegated to a gameplay element rather
than a raison d’être. Somewhere in this
act, there’s something precious becom-
ing ever so lost.
What truly makes a platformer title
so immersive, so addicting is that they
are pure and simple in execution and
accessibility; mastery becomes a care-
fully honed art. There’s no need to up-
grade character stats or micromanage
weapons. The key is to offer a core set
of skills to the curious gamer, augment
them with the occasional euphoria-
inducing power-up and then tasking
him or her to overcome increasingly
challenging odds. This means that the
player is more in segue with his or her
character and soon, playing the game
becomes quite intrinsic. It’s no sur-
prise that the best platformer games
are lauded for the quality and intuitiv-
ity offered by their control systems.
Platform games take this infinitesi-
mal playability further by satiating that
primal desire to collect treasures of
one’s triumphs. Almost all platform
games are distinguished by some form
of collectible item; whether they are
integral to your quest or not doesn’t
really matter. It’s just that the existence
of so many of these buggers spurns an
ingrained desire to go after them. Par-
ticularly infuriating are those that are
placed just beyond reach for the time
being. You know that that little nest
will be gnawing at the back of your
mind and you will return to claim them
once you’ve become a little less green.
‘tis a truly strange yet wondrous thing,
the platformer.
Against all odds, it’s reassuring to
see some developers have the fortitude
and quality to maintain a healthier bal-
ance such that one can truly christen
their work with the noble moniker of
‘platformer’. Nintendo is one of the
masters at this craft and Super Mario
Galaxy is their current opus. However,
let’s not forget that there are other ti-
tles constantly vying for the throne
of the Mushroom Kingdom. And you
know what? By their own rights, these
games are true quality.
The curious thing about the modern
platformer is that they inevitably bear
vestiges of trysts with other genres.
However, once you start playing and
break out into that indulgent smile,
perhaps you can find it within yourself
to forgive them.
Jak and Daxter
Jak and Daxter is a luscious platformer
through and through; but fortunately
it succeeds on many more fronts than
mere gameplay alone. Firstly, it’s pre-
sented with the care and nuances of
an animated film. The characters are
expressive, personable and more im-
portantly, you genuinely care for them.
The voice acting is of exemplar quality
and the humour quite palatable. Story
subtleties are expressed through beau-
tifully haunting artistry. Speaking of
visual effects, the game was quite the
graphical feast then and still is. The
world is an organic, persistent place
that actually changes as day passes to
night and night passes to day - all while
you’re playing. Character animations
are exquisite with little flourishes to be
savoured everywhere. Combined with
addicting platforming mechanics you
have a game that is worth playing over
and over again despite it being a fair
few years after its release.
Klonoa 2: Lunatea’s Veil
Klonoa 2 is a side-scrolling platformer
lost in time and it’s all the more beau-
tiful for that reason. It embraces sim-
plicity in execution and appeal, moreso
than others of the same quality. Offer-
ing the very basics of motion, the key
to success in Klonoa 2 lies in the crea-
tive problem solving brought into the
proceedings courtesy of an arcane cir-
clet. The solutions lie within the myri-
ad enemies that react in different ways
to your single magic attack and us-
ing a combination of these properties
will you traverse a world about to be
doomed. However, story elements mat-
ter little; the character designs evoke a
sinister toybox-like atmosphere that
can be charming and chilling in equal
measures. This is a vibrant, thoroughly
addicting adventure. And no, I don’t
know what kind of animal Klonoa is.
Prince of Persia: Sands of Time
The original was a gaming landmark
and the reincarnation is equally so. It’s
a fantastic accretion of all the things we
love in our games: ethereal graphics, a
haunting soundtrack, puissant voice
acting, a beautifully choreographed
story and above all else, fiendishly
clever, gravity-defying platforming
puzzles. Introducing a parkour-esque
mechanic of running along walls and
basically performing feats of superhu-
man ability, you had to steer the Prince
clear of the vicious traps that litter
the gargantuan Persian castle. Armed
with the power of time itself, you can
reverse, slow down and even stop it.
While it may give you a feeling of pow-
er-mongering, the gameplay situations
cause it to be more a cohesive mechan-
ic than a weapon of luxury.
Psychonauts
While it’s a game that is quite difficult
to recommend as a platformer; there’s
really no other title like it really. Of-
fering a rather basic (yet satisfying)
playing experience littered with some
design issues, Psychonauts is entirely
about the plot, personalities and crea-
tive pulse. It’s a game that is one part
thought-provoking, one part hilarious
and all parts brilliant. To put it shortly:
it’s a game where you enter the minds
of others and these physical manifes-
tations of their psyche become your
playing fields. Genius.
What are your favourite non-Mario,
modern platformers? Write to Reader
Riposte at games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
and let your thoughts be heard... er,
read.

