games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Games
Super Smash Brothers Melee (GameCube)
Mario vs Link? Bowser vs Ganondorf? Perhaps many a year ago you would
have thought it impossible, but here we have Super Smash Brothers Me-
lee. Dignity, conformity and all other uptight-ities are forgone for non-stop,
grin-inducing hellamashups between your favourite (and sometimes, not-
so-favourite) Nintendo characters. This game is fast, frantic and it will have
you playing round after round to settle old scores and kickstart new ones!
Bowser, the King of all Koo-
pas, is easily one of the most pro-
lific videogame villains around.
This echolian fiend has yet to
quell his desire to take over the
harmless Mushroom Kingdom,
but that grand scheme has been
thwarted thus far by the stalwart
hero Mario.
In his spare time between plans
of domination and raising a large
Koopa army, Bowser had sired no
less than eight offspring: the sev-
en Koopalings and Bowser Jr.
While he has failed to take over
the Kingdom, Bowser sleeps well
at night knowing that kidnapping
the Princess is dead easy.
Now only if he could stop Mario
from taking her back...
The pure-hearted Princess
Peach, bedecked in a classic
pink, is the royal head of the
Mushroom Kingdom.
Notmuchisknownabouther
royal duties, but it is assumed
that given her absurdly re-
lentless propensity to become
spirited away by Bowser, the
Kingdom runs autonomously.
When not under incarcera-
tion, Princess Peach is a kind
and noble lady of peace with
a bit of a competitive streak
if the more sporty
Mario games are to be
believed!
She can hold her
own in a Melee bout
and utilises her
umbrella quite
shrewdly.
Careful Bows-
er, you may be
pissing off the
wrong Princess!
Mario Kart 64 (Nintendo 64)
Lunchtime after lunchtime was spent in sixth-form playing Mario Kart 64
when we really should have been playing football or lifting up girls skirts.
The handling was tuned to perfection and the courses remain unmatched
today compared with any other Mario Kart title since; who can forget the
satisfaction from successfully boosting with a mushroom through the tunnel
on the Koopa Troopa Beach, pipping your friends to the finish line?
Layout and Design by Azfarul Islam
Mario 64 (Nintendo 64)
Best. Game. Ever. Mario 64 paved
the way not only for the entire 3D
platforming genre, but also all of
Nintendo’s other existing 2D fran-
chises at the time. Link followed
shortly after with Ocarina of Time
and Samus rolled in during the fol-
lowing generation with Metroid
Prime. Clearly, since it is the Best.
Game. Ever. Mario 64 pummels
every other launch title made into
the ground. Yes, we’re sniping at
you Halo fanboys. Bring your Shot-
ty Snipers over to our playground
and we’ll Ground Pound you into
the dust.

