30 felix Friday 30 November 2007
Wat’s Wat in Angkor, Cambodia
When I enthusiastically start raving
to people about having visited Angkor
Wat during the summer, I discovered
that I was often greeted with blank,
glazed looks, much to my disappoint-
ment. It could be that I am exceedingly
dull and this was the first time I had
managed to pick up on it, but it could
also be that these people are just purely
ignorant. Let us go with the latter op-
tion. Now I am not being judgemental
– just a few months ago I would have
occupied a very similar blank expres-
sion myself. The problem therefore,
lies in the fact that it would seem that
Angkor is just not as famous as it de-
serves to be. I’m sure that anyone from
South East Asia will read this in disbe-
lief when I point out that Angkor is not
so well heard of here (Hang on… con-
sidering the vast number of Singapore-
ans and Malaysians here at Imperial, I
suppose this means I’m directing this
article to a only a small minority of the
Imperial readership. Nevermind- Keep
reading).
It’s not that I’d never heard of it – but
having now visited it in all its splen-
dour, it’s difficult for me to understand
and remember why it is not as inter-
nationally renowned as it should be. I
believe that Angkor is just as magnifi-
cent as the Pyramids of Giza, and with
its fame, it deserves the onslaught of
endless tacky ornaments and posters
in all its glory. So let me pitch Angkor
to you.
Angkor is a region within Cambo-
dia, and is the name collectively given
to the ruins and temples that made up
the Khmer empire which flourished
there from 9-15th Century AD. So
just a bunch of rubble then? Well, it
is true that some of the religious sites
have been reduced to a few bricks as
its remains, but nobody can argue that
with over a thousand temples encom-
passing an area of over one thousand
square miles, there is no religious site
within the world that equals it. The
one thousand square miles means that
employing a friendly tuk-tuk driver for
the day becomes something of a ne-
cessity. With this comes the inevitable
stops to the endless shops that he is
subsidised by for every tourist he takes
there. But that rant can be saved for
another time.
Angkor Wat itself is the most famous
of the temples within Angkor, be-
ing the world’s largest single religious
monument. This is little wonder, con-
sidering that the monument was built
to be used at the Khmer King Surya-
varman’s state temple and capital city.
Angkor Wat is masculine and proud
in its beauty – an obvious symbol of a
Kingdom that once had power over an
How sunrise is supposed to look, at Angkor Wat
Travels without my Aunt: Part 4
Theo Georgeiou Delisle For many, the lure of the library is all
about the thrill of the hunt for a free
computer. Times to find a computer
include 11:57pm every evening and
when you have your own laptop. Once
you have found a free computer you
should congratulate yourself; you are a
chosen individual.
Now, take out every possession
within your bag and place it carefully
around you. Remember, in the event
of a confrontation with a student with
an ambiguous accent these items will
be your safety net allowing you to sub-
stantiate your claim that you really
were at the computer all night. As soon
as you have emptied your bag you are
free to leave your space and go to the
cinema for the day.
For many however, a single free com-
puter is not enough. Indeed on level 4
of the library you may find a curious
species who group together to social-
ise during the evening. The fountain
of their entertainment appears to be a
computer game which involves super-
human clicking on the mouse while
simultaneously shouting. Needless to
say, this was somewhat distracting for
me as I tried to complete a long and
boring essay. Nevertheless, the game
continued ceaselessly into the night
and indeed drew in other library mem-
bers who came from levels far and wide
to gaze upon the marvel that was the
competitor’s index finger action (he
did have a lovely index finger though).
When you have finished in the library
it is time to print off all your work.
Luckily, Imperial Construction Ltd
has provided you with a small square
of plastic with which to accomplish
this feat. Take your library card to the
printer and swipe in. As you have only
enough credit to photocopy the title of
your work, you need to top up your ac-
count. To do this, simply answer three
riddles and the security officer will then
ask you to complete a simple mime
based charade, after which you are
good to go. If you find that the printer
decides to eat your money please use
the red phone which provides you with
a direct line to King’s College London.
“Good evening sir,”
“Good evening,”
“The usual table by the window?”
“Yes please”.
Welcome to the library. The library
is located north by north west of LoUD
Constructions Ltd and is currently a
centre for archaeological digs centred
around the Imperial College campus.
Only last week a shammy leather dat-
ing back from at least 2.15pm last
Wednesday was found near the Peri-
odicals on Level 3, so you can imagine
the excitement when only yesterday
(and that means yesterday from what-
ever day you are reading this) a small
pocket of quiet was located on level 7
for 10 minutes. Reports are sketchy at
the moment but a close insider (Mr. A
Wong) breathlessly informed me that
the quietness came quite unexpectedly
in the middle of a shouting contest be-
tween Biochemistry and Medicine just
after a youtube clip about fat kanga-
roos had been played.
was that the dark blue sky was replaced
by dark grey clouds – clearly the sun
was in better places that day. But sun-
rise or not, Angkor Wat is no less an
impressive feat. In fact, it is such a
source of national pride that Cambodia
has it mounted centrally in its flag. Per-
haps we too, should take more pride in
our heritage sites and consider putting
Stonehenge on our flag.
Angkor Wat may have been the tem-
ple with the most grandeur, but I would
not have chosen it as my favourite tem-
ple. Preah Khan had an extra special
atmosphere about it – how many tem-
ples can boast of having parts of a jun-
gle which have grown and intertwined
withinitsarchitectureoverhundredsof
years? Tomb Raider fans will, of course,
extensive area of South East Asia. Our
best friend Lonely Planet informed us
that watching the sunrise over Ang-
khor Wat at 5am was something that
was a necessity. So, after about 2 hours
of sleep (watching Wimbledon ten-
nis can be surprisingly addictive, even
whilst travelling), with excitement
dampening down that sick feeling one
has with too little sleep, we eagerly set
off to watch the sun rise to illuminate
the sight of the greatest religious mon-
ument there is.
We arrived to see Angkor Wat sur-
rounded by a rather gloomy, oppressive
dark blue sky and waited for a brilliant
bright light to shine upon the scene (it
is religious, after all). And waited. And
waited some more. All that happened
recognise Preah Khan, where many of
the scenes were shot for the film. This
was the temple which stood out for
me, but many of the smaller temples
also left a lasting impression. Set with-
in dark, dense, humid forests- often
with no tourists within sight, they had
an eerie, haunting beauty about them
which reminds you of how time passes,
causing a kingdom that once was to be
reduced to ruins.
It is difficult to write about Angkor
without delving into the social and
political strife that has ransacked the
country of Cambodia in recent years,
but I feel this deserves attention in its
own right. (As in… prepare yourself for
another Felix article about Cambodia)
However, the aftermath of what has
occurred in Cambodia seeps through
as a reminder, even in the most tourist-
orientated of places such as Angkor.
It is impossible to visit any temple
without being surrounded by about
ten, bedraggled children, all doe-eyed,
shoeless and eager to sell you bracelets
whilst telling you (in perfectly formed
English that they are taught locally for
the purpose of local economy i.e. har-
assing us tourists) that $1 for a bracelet
is a lot for them, and not a lot for us.
For any moral guidance as to what one
should do, I refer you to Ahran’s article
last week concerning Tiny Tim.
You could compare Angkor to Rome,
in that both are representative of king-
doms that once ruled proudly. But un-
like Rome, there was something of a
sad quality about Angkor – whereas
Rome still acts as a pinnacle within arts
and literature today, the recent events
in Cambodia made Angkor seem like
a symbol of how a country can decline
from becoming a great kingdom into
the unstable state that it is currently
in.
I would argue that this made visiting
Angkor all the more a poignant experi-
ence, and urge you to see for yourself
why the Cambodians present Angkor
Wat with such pride on their national
flag.
Computer claimed, off to the cinema we go!
One thousand temples spread over one thousand square miles – it’s surprising Angkor is not more famous
Nadine Richards
Travel Editor
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards

