news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
News
Homophobic chants in the Union?
Witnesses disgusted by footballers’ anti-gay songs: IC Football Club issues complete denial of incident
Imperial alumnus and historian David
Irving, and BNP leader Nick Griffin at-
tended a debate on free speech at the
Oxford Union on Tuesday night. De-
spite the droves of anti-fascist protes-
tors who turned up to the Union,
delaying the debate for over an hour,
eventually it successfully went ahead.
The event was scheduled to begin at
8:30pm, however around 1000 protes-
tors showed up causing a lengthy de-
lay. The demonstrators believed that
the Oxford Union was irresponsibly
giving the two controversial figures a
platform to air fascist views that could
incite racial hatred. Oxford Union has
also been accused of holding a publicity
stunt in order to raise its own profile.
However, many people have come
out in support of the debate since they
believe it is rather hypocritical to deny
someone the privilege to talk on the
topic of free speech, no matter what
their views are. Supporters have also
pointed out that society will never be
able to understand how extremists
think if they are not given the chance
to voice their opinions.
Mr Irving and Mr Griffin didn’t actu-
ally speak in the same discussions since
they were separated due to “safety rea-
sons”, although both debates were on
the same subject. Mr Irving was joined
by two MPs, a journalist and the Ox-
ford Union President Luke Tryl whilst
two Oxford University postgrads sat
on the panel with Mr Griffin.
Felix contacted Jonny Wright, an Ox-
ford University student who attended
the forum and reported on the event in
his blog. Mr Wright stated he was “im-
mensely glad … to be able to hear Irv-
ing speak” although he admitted that
he “felt sickened by Irving’s constant
references to the Holocaust.”
Whilst it seems the debate itself
maintained a civil atmosphere, the
anti-fascists hogged the limelight
throughout the night. Disrupting the
debate for over an hour wasn’t all – lat-
er on some of them managed to storm
past the security guards into the debat-
ing chamber. Further still, the demon-
strators chanted “kill Tryl” at various
points throughout the evening, which
as one of the forum participants put it
“fell very much outside the limits of le-
gitimate free speech.”
A thorny issue indeed, maybe some-
thing to put to the floor. What does
this house think? Left, BNP leader Nick Griffin and right, David “Holocaust denier” Irving
Oxford Union debate goes ahead despite protests
Tom Roberts
& Andrew Somerville
An official complaint has been lodged
with Imperial College Union (ICU) by
students outraged at the behaviour of
some members of the Imperial College
Football Club, following reports of an-
ti-homosexual chanting and offensive
behaviour.
According to witnesses, at approxi-
mately 10:30pm on Saturday members
of one of the IC football teams chanted
homophobic phrases in Da Vinci’s,
amongst which were the phrases: “fag-
gots take it up the arse!” and, “poof,
poof, poof!”
Some of these were directed at an
unknown person who was chased from
the bar area, back to his table by the
chanting group. It is believed that the
pursued man was not connected in any
way to the football team, and witnesses
said that they thought the chanting was
intended to intimidate this person, not
simply as a joke between friends.
Felix was told that one of the stu-
dent staff on duty saw this incident,
then spoke to the footballers and pre-
sumably asked them to stop. Another
team member then arrived, at which
point they requested more drinks. A
senior member of bar staff then alleg-
edly agreed to give them 16 pints (one
more round) in return that they left
the bar once they had finished. Report-
edly, the student bar staff member who
witnessed the incident questioned the
senior staff member on duty asking
why they had been served.
Having finished their drinks, a mem-
ber of the football team is said to have
thrown his plastic skiff at the bar. One
of the students who was in Da Vinci’s
at the time told Felix that the bar man-
ager “had a little chat” to the offending
member, after which they all began to
leave. In the Beit Quad the footballers
becameincreasinglyrowdyand“almost
began fighting with each other.” At this
Why can’t we all just get along?
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
point Felix’s source asked the security
guard in Beit Lodge to intervene. Upon
seeing the guard emerge from his office
the football club members dispersed
and left the Union premises.
Speaking about the incident, the eye-
witnesses who contacted Felix stated
that they were “angry,” adding that they
“didn’t care what the individuals think,
but having a public chant is completely
unnecessary,” and questioned: “why
were they saying those things?”
Felix’s sources also spoke to the sen-
ior staff member working on Saturday
night. They told Felix that he had said
he “expected this kind of thing on a
Wednesday, not Saturday,” and that
“[the bar staff] can’t stop them from
singing what they sang.” He is also
reported to have said that since there
were only three staff on duty: “we can’t
do anything about it.”
Felix contacted the Imperial College
Football Club for comment. A senior
member of the Football Club, who was
present in Da Vinci’s on Saturday but
wished to remain anonymous, totally
denied this account of events, stating
that the reports were “unfounded.”
The committee member stated that
he was “astounded people can make
these things up.” His version of events
was contradictory; he confirmed that
the football club was chanting, but said
that these were no different than usual:
“only [directed] against the Rugby club
and the medics.” He also strongly de-
nies claims that the football team were
asked to leave. Similarly, he said that
they were not served as an incentive to
leave; instead the drinks were simply
bought as the footballers’ final round
before they headed off to a house party.
He finished by saying that, “IC Football
Club is open to people from all back-
grounds, cultures and sexualities.”
Felix also contacted the President
of Imperial Queers (Lesbian, Gay, Bi-
sexual, Transgender society), Richard
Hayden. He was “very shocked” by the
reports from Felix’s sources and added
that he “didn’t expect to hear about
this [kind of behaviour] at Imperial, I
expect people here to be more mature,”
and that “being drunk is not a good
enough excuse – it shouldn’t lower
your tolerance.”
When asked about whether he knew
of any similar instances of homophobic
hostility at Imperial, Mr Hayden said
that he “could only remember one:”
namely an incident last year on the Is-
lamic Society’s public internet forums,
but other than that he “couldn’t think
of any other incidents.”
The Union has stated that it is cur-
rently investigating Saturday night’s
incident, and that disciplinary proce-
dure will be followed accordingly; if
accounts are accurate the Equal Op-
portunities policy would certainly
have been breached. If one of the foot-
ball teams is identified, or the Football
Club as a whole is found culpable, they
could face a week’s ban from the Un-
ion’s bars.
The site of the alleged incident: Da Vinci’s bar

