31
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Dinosaurs, food, bonding and rocks
The De La Beche society’s Tim Chalk and Steph Wilk report on their intrepid journey to the Isle of Wight
E
rasmus is awesome. Fact.
Once you understand this,
your life will be much im-
proved and will lead to a
greater state of happiness,
possibly even a Zen-like state of per-
petual nirvana. Either that or you will
wake up with a hangover the size of a
continent. Which continent I hear you
ask (slightly perplexed and perhaps
strangely aroused by the paper this fine
article is printed on)? Why, Europe of
course!
Erasmus is the rather contrived ac-
ronym for the “European Community
Action Scheme for the Mobility of
University Students”. The governments
of the member nations give money to
students so they can move to a dif-
ferent university in another European
country for a year and get well and
truly battered in the name of educa-
tion. The unofficial nickname for the
scheme amongst its participants is Or-
gasmus, which surely shouldn’t need
much explanation (unless you study
Computing).
Saturday the 27th of October is a
date that will go down in history, not
because Gordon Brown announced he
was going to run away with the milk-
man, but because it was the date that
the Erasmus Society held its European
Welcome Party. Gordon would prob-
ably have been happy at the lack of
publicity.
With free beer to draw in the early
punters, dB’s filled up pretty quickly.
By the end of the night, there were
somewhere around 250-300 chaps
and chap-ettes having the time of their
lives. It was strategically (i.e. acciden-
tally) arranged to coincide with the
C&G dinner and the Club managed
to sell about 100 memberships on the
door, doubling the total membership
of the club in one fine evening.
The pivotal factor in attracting peo-
ple in was undoubtedly the quality of
the two DJs spinning the tunes that
night.
Florent Daubigney, one of the visiting
Erasmus guys himself, had no trouble
in keeping the crowd smiling all night
with his great dance floor friendly
blend of house seeing as he has wowed
crowds of more than 2,500 at his uni-
versity in Lyon. The vibes were so good,
even Sir Richard Sykes would have got
up and shaken his bootay had he been
there. Which of course he wasn’t. But
he would’ve. And Margaret Thatcher
would’ve. But she wasn’t there either,
thankfully.
Also knocking out the sound was IC
graduate extraordinaire, Nathan Allis-
ton. He played a range of commercial
hip-hop and juicy R&B beats, hinting
at his previous sets at Embargos and
Crazy Larry’s, which of course went
T
his term’s DLB trip was
to the lovely Isle of Wight
which as everyone knows
has its own language, time
zone and currency. The
mix of seniors and freshers on the trip
allowed for some top class bonding
over our favourite past-time: looking
at, and talking about rocks.
When we arrived, a trip to Morri-
sons was called for to sample the first
of their fine dinners and stock up on
various bits and bobs. This was fol-
lowed by a trip to the dinosaur muse-
um which was very empty, allowing us
to run around, dig up bones, have fun
and acquire some brilliant souvenirs
but most importantly learn about di-
nosaurs. After that we made ourselves
at home in Winchester House which
was definitely the nicest youth hostel
I’ve ever seen.
Having eaten some of our fish and
chips over a game of ‘Ho Down’ or two
we prepared for a night out at Bogey’s,
ordering a convoy of taxis. Apparently
in Isle of Wight language that’s not a
really shit name but actually quite
cool. On Saturday we headed off to
Morrisons for meal two, personally I
recommend the chicken tikka. We all
finished the night in different states of
disrepair, depending on when you re-
turned to the hostel – some a lot earlier
than others.
We then spent the day in the centre
of the huge fold that comprises most of
the island. Not actually in the rock you
understand, but on the exposed bits
along the beach. During luncheon two
athletic young alpha males went for a
dip in the sea (this then meant they
thought it appropriate to spend the
remainder of the trip naked and hence
they still haven’t found their penises).
The day ended with a look at some real
dinosaur foot prints, minus one that
had been chain-sawed out of the rock.
We would never steal anything like
that (way too heavy). As a warning: be
careful of the locals, apparently on the
Isle of Wight they don’t agree with sci-
entific exploration, especially at Poom.
Saturday was completed with a
lovely formal homemade dinner in
the evening, cooked by four fabulous
pests (no guesses where we got the
food from). The dinner was delicious
– people were saying it was their best
spaghetti bolognaise ever, some loved
it so much they couldn’t help but drink
it for pudding. A 19th birthday was
celebrated with a rather interesting
display of the human body and a gentle
midnight swim.
On our journey home some local
knowledge pointed us in the direction
of an amazing roast dinner which sent
the majority into a contented sleep.
The trip was great, everyone bonded,
some perhaps a bit too much, and I’d
like to thank the organisers for their
hard work and Shell for their gener-
ous sponsorship on behalf of everyone.
Can’t wait for the next one!
De La Beche society considers where to take its dinosaur search next Best. Photo. Ever. Send in your captions to felix@imperial.ac.uk
Two DLB members auditioning for Channel 4’s Time Team
Erasmus European Welcome Party
David Kaye loves Erasmus society. He thinks you will too once you’ve read about their recent get-together
down an absolute treat: thank you very
much, vicar.
All-in-all, the Erasmus welcome par-
ty went absolutely spiffingly and you
are whole-heartedly invited to the next
event. Join the Imperial College Eras-
mus 07-08 group on Facebook and get
involved in the japery. Then maybe you
can eat four packets of Crispy M&M’s
and write up the event for Felix whilst
blazing on a sugar high just like me.
Pow.
Eras-mash up!
Happy, happy times

