32 felix Friday 30 November 2007
“F
ood loaded on the
minibus?” “Yep.” “Per-
sonal kit?” “Yep.” “In-
grid?” “Yep... No, wait.
We left her with Nath-
aniel for a weekend last term, and now
she’s gotten a puncture…”
Anybody hanging around the en-
trance to Beit Quad on Friday 3rd No-
vember might have overhead the above
conversation. Just in case they’ve been
fretting about it for the past two weeks,
I guess I should clarify at this point
that Ingrid is an inflatable woman
purchased from a jokeshop, and is the
mascot of the Fellwanderers – the hill-
walking club of Imperial. She tends to
mysteriously show up in group pictures
on rugged mountaintops – but relax,
folks, she’s anatomically incorrect and
makes perfectly suitable family view-
ing! Well, more or less. And, due to her
unfortunate stab wounds, she wasn’t
able to come to the Peak District with
us. Which was a shame, because she
missed out on a great trip.
We arrived at the Middleton-by-
Youlgreave camping barn at half eleven
on Friday evening, which is pretty early
by our standards – possibly due to the
effect of Nick’s ‘Motivational Music’ on
Martin, the driver. After unloading the
bus by torchlight, a few people stayed
outside to admire the crystal-clear
night sky, while the rest of us bed-
ded down for some sleep before the
half seven start planned for Saturday
morning.
The morning was a foggy one, with
a grey and overcast sky threatening
rain. Cursing the over-optimistic BBC
weather reports of the previous day,
we headed off to Edale in the minbus.
The plan was to park at Edale village
and climb onto the Kinder Scout pla-
teau, which runs along the northern
side of Edale itself. The route would
run west along the edge of the plateau,
with a brief – and optional – scram-
bling stop at the outcrop known as
Ringing Roger (who the original Roger
was and whether he enjoyed being
rung, I’ve no idea). To begin with the
rocks were too wet and slippery to do
much, so we plodded on through the
drizzle. And then, just as we reached
Ain’t no Peak high enough
Three-man grass surfing: coming to an Olympics near you
Fellwanderer Chris Mark reports on the club’s recent trip to the Peak District
without their trusty and anatomically incorrect ‘female’ inflatable mascot Ingrid

