33
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
the point from which the most scenic
views could be obtained, the Weather
Gods heard our pleas. The curtain of
grey mist and wind-blown water was
twitched aside, and suddenly we were
standing on the plateau crest, beneath
a fantastic sunny sky, looking out over
the Dark Peak region which makes up
the northern half of the Peak District.
Elated, we celebrated with lunch and a
group photo before turning south, de-
scending back into the valley towards
the Mam Tor – Back Tor ridge which
marks the southern limit of Edale. In
contrast to the wild, remote landscape
of Kinder Scout, the floor of Edale val-
ley is covered in picturesque farmland,
criss-crossed by footpaths. Pausing to
conduct a short experiment on wheth-
er you can fit medium sized female
Fellwanderers through the sheepdog
hatch in a stile – thanks to Yvonne and
Anna for proving that it’s possible – we
began the ascent of Mam Tor. Although
not particularly high, topping out at
517 metres, the route up is a steep one.
Steeper for some than others, in fact, as
Nick, Anna, Gareth, and Julia got bored
following the path, and cut straight up
the mountainside – a technique known
as ‘Scottish Navigation’. The rest of us,
opting for the less strenuous route, met
them at the top of the tor, which was
covered by the remains of an Iron Age
hillfort. Passing along the ridge, Mar-
tin and Melissa headed down early to
the minibus, while the rest of us took a
short detour to the top of Back Tor, for
some gorgeous views and a few photo-
graphs. After that, it was back to the
camping barn for supper and a trip to
the local pub, where Julia did her best
to show everyone how drinking games
are played back in Aachen.
Sunday morning was a beautiful one,
with an eight thirty lie-in to ease a few
sore heads from the night before. The
only bum note was Gareth’s discovery
that his water bottle had leaked dur-
ing the night, soaking the floorboards
and the end of Yvonne’s sleeping bag.
Yvonne was unconcerned, however,
and we soon had the minibus packed
and were on our way south towards
the High Peak Trail, which follows
the roadbed of a disused railway. The
trail provided easy walking though
the morning, with a lunch break on
Harboro Rocks, which, thanks to the
exposed crags on it’s southern face,
was covered with climbers. After a bit
of scrambling, we turned off the trail,
making a loop down towards Carsing-
ton Water before returning to the start
of the walk and the road to London. Fi-
nally, a curry in Hampstead Heath’s old
town was the perfect finish to a great
weekend.
If this sounds like something
you’d like to get involved in,
come to one of our lunches, every
Tuesday in dB’s at 12.30; or email
christopher.mark@ic.ac.uk. You
can see photographs from all our
trips on www.fellwanderers.com Ode to Peter Dominiczak (not that anyone will get this caption...)
The Fellwanderers doing what they do so brilliantly
DramSoc’s latest outdoor backdrop is very convincing, don’t you think?
“Some of us cut
straight up the
mountainside: a
technique known
as ‘Scottish
Navigation’”

