felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Winning streak
Women’s football finally get a full team and win
Wednesday’s BUSA match took the IC
women’s team to the Chelsea Football
Training Grounds to play St. George’s
with ten players. The game started slow
and IC were unable to create any real
chances. Admittedly, it was quite chal-
lenging when the entire St. George’s
team were in their penalty box defend-
ing. St. George began doing all the
attacking but with Coach Squashie’s
words of defensive wisdom echoing in
our heads, IC’s backline were bloody
amazing dismantling plays. It was as
if Kate, Vivian, Emma and Cheryl had
reached an almost telepathic level of
communication.
The IC midfield saw a couple of
changes this week, but settled down
well to produce some quality runs. Pav
made a spectacular run down the left
leaving the St. George defence eating
her dust. Literally. A St. George de-
Football
Imperial Women’s 1st 1
St. Georges Women’s 1st 0
Cheryl See
fender had taken to the ground after
Pav sped by, and had to be substitut-
ed off. Steph, on the otherside of the
pitch, was as usual picking her beef
with one of the players prompting the
referee to give them both a warning of
“Now, now girls, let’s not get rowdy!”
Tough love.
The second half started and IC were
the more prominent team. With Steph
charging down the right and Karen on
the left, all the ten St. George players
who ran back to defend were stretched
wide, leaving space for Pav, Rita and
Lily. Unfortunately, it was just not the
attackers’ day and many shots were de-
nied by a St. George player or sent out
just wide.
A more amusing, or worrying, mo-
ment of the game was when St. George,
not wanting to miss out on contribut-
ing to the Retarded Football Antics
Hall of Fame, saw a player attempting
a throw-in by means of a one handed
basketball-like lob.
IC began to get impatient and the
backline began to push up to support
the attack. Even more chances were
created by Kate with her crosses and
Emma with hers. With fifteen min-
utes to go, IC finally scored. Pav had
drifted in a beauty of a cross from
the right which fell to Lily in the box.
St. George’s keeper closed her down
quickly but due to what can only be
excused as a really bad sense of judge-
ment, the keeper took out Lily rather
than the ball, and the St. George goal
was left unattended. The ball had been
squeezed out and was rolling away at a
turtle-like speed. Cheryl, who had al-
ready started to make a run in when the
ball left Pav’s feet, experienced a stroke
of good luck in reaching the loose ball
before anyone else. It was an easy goal
and would never have been possible
had Lily not taken out the goalie... by
accident.
Pumped from the goal, Emma decid-
ed to make a run from the right side of
the pitch to the left and began to attack
quite vivaciously. This of course, in-
spired the backline to consider careers
in more attacking roles, leaving goalie
Emily defender-less in the IC half. For-
tunately, the IC defence were brought
to their senses after Emily let loose a
tirade, pointing out to Emma that she
was, in fact, a right back and not a left
forward.
It is believed now that word will
spread of our tactic of bringing less
than a full squad of players to BUSA
games, causing the opposition to get
over-confident and under-estimating
us. The subtleties of the mind games
we play are beyond our foe.
Since this is a double match report, I
will continue to tell the tale of how on
Sunday, IC Women’s secured their first
win of the season in the ULU Premier-
ship, coming back to form with a stun-
ning 5-1 victory over Goldsmiths.
ICdominatedfromthebeginningand
five minutes into the game launched
an attack which saw Chin taking on
two defenders and when they realized
that they were out-skilled, one of them
dropped to the ground clutching her
leg in agony and play was stopped. And
play was stopped for a long time and
then surprisingly resumed again before
the New Year. It seemed like a pathetic
attempt to break IC’s momentum, but
the first goal of the game came ten min-
utes after play was resumed. Chin hit
a beauty of volley which was punched
away by the Goldsmiths’ keeper only
for IC’s Lily to send the ball into the
back of the net on the rebound. Many
creative plays were constructed with
Dehydys, Pav and Steph being behind
a lot of clever touches, crosses and
through balls to Chin and Lily upfront.
And two minutes after the Lily’s goal,
superstar Rita got her first goal for IC
and not wanting to stop there, she pro-
ceeded to score her second for IC.
Goldsmiths was suffering from poor
support down the wings and their for-
wardwasgettingmorefrustratedbythe
second, engaging IC’s left back, Cheryl
in a shoving match, which Cheryl won,
giving away a free kick just outside the
box in the process. The beef-of-the-
match was between Cheryl and Gold-
smiths No.2 and surprisingly Steph was
not involved. The freekick surmounted
to nothing and IC keeper Emily did not
face many (or any) challenges and the
first half came to an end.
The second half started with Gold-
smiths out for vengeance. They played
quick passes succeeding in stirring the
almost slumbering IC defence. Laura,
Emma and Jools made crucial clear-
ances. Unfortunately the attacking
onslaught resulted in a lucky goal for
the opposition. Whatever hope was
kindled from that goal was shortlived
because Rita netted herself a hat trick
soon after, officially making her dame
of the game.
Due to my over-attentiveness, ex-
actly how another Goldsmiths player
became injured will not be explained.
We could pretend that she collided
with one of the IC players, which is
the equivalent to running into a wall.
The Goldsmiths player, being sporting,
began to hobble off the pitch but their
coach, gesticulating wildly started
shouting, “fall to the ground!” So she
did. And as Emily pointed out, it felt
like we were on a time-out in a basket-
ball game. Play resumed and Dehydys
scored, punishing Goldsmiths for their
time wastage. Dehydys, from the edge
of the box, took a cheeky, but an ab-
solutely perfect shot on goal that went
over the defenders, confused the keep-
er and into the back of the net.
Goldsmiths kept trying and won
quite a few corners but even though
their forward was rubbing up against
Emily in an attempt to seduce the
ball in for a goal, it didn’t happen. IC
made a substituion, bringing on keeper
Keren for keeper Emily, who probably
was fighting the urge to swim in disin-
fectant after the encounter(s) with the
forward.
Football
Imperial Women’s 1st 5
Goldsmith’s Women’s 1st 1
Royal School of Mines Hockey teams continue rich vein of form, see page 38

