science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
4 felix Friday 30 November 2007
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Imperial’s PowerPoint poster farce
Want to make a poster using Imperial templates? Best not read these tips: might lead to very dodgy science
SPECIAL
STUDENT
OFFER
SAVE 50%
WHERE WILL IT TAKE YOU
THIS WEEK?
OR GO ONLINE www.newscientist.com/s/3376
CALL THE HOTLINE + 44 (0) 8456 731 731
9am to 9pm, 7 days a week. Please quote special offer code 3376
SUBSCRIBE TO NEW SCIENTIST AND GET
51 WEEKLY ISSUES DELIVERED DIRECT TO YOUR DOOR • LATEST SCIENCE &
TECHNOLOGY JOBS • CAREERS ADVICE • FREE FULL ACCESS TO THE ENTIRE
CONTENT OF NEWSCIENTIST.COM INCLUDING THE 15 YEAR ARCHIVE
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
Competition!
1) Physicists at Imperial’s Centre for
Cold Matter study Bose-Einstein con-
densates, splitting the cloud of cold at-
oms up using a gold-plated what?
A: Scalpel
B: Silicon chip
C: Sandwich
2) What is the name of ESA’s mission,
intended to tell us more about how to
deflect asteroids on threatening trajec-
tories by actually colliding with one?
A: Impacta
B: Rosetta
C: Don Quijote
3) The Island Rule, invoked to explain
the size of mammals on islands, claims
larger animals shrink as they evolve
and smaller ones grow. However, in a
recent paper, this rule has been cast in
doubt. What method did the authors
employ to reach this conclusion?
A: They performed a meta-analysis of
papers on island mammal sizes
B: They conducted extensive inter-
views with the cast of ‘Lost’
C: They studied fossils of Homo Flo-
riensis, a species of mini-people nick-
named “Hobbits”
4) Scientists from the University of
New Mexico recently looked for evi-
dence of human oestrus, a visible state
of female fertility. Whom did they use
as ideal test-subjects?
A: Fashion students
B: Dinner ladies
C: Lap dancers
5) Researchers from the University of
Bradford have studied Incan ritual sac-
rifices of children using:
A: Stable isotopes from samples of the
victims’ hair
B: DNA traces left on dried llama meat
fed to the children on their pilgrimage
C: Peruvian re-enactors and Oujisitics
6) Norwegian scientists studying the
interplay between herbal medicines
and modern drug treatments have
found low awareness of the potential
interference caused by natural reme-
dies. One example, St John’s Wort, can
reduce the effect of birth control pills
for one. But what else?
A:Valerian
B: Viagra
C: Vicks
7) In August, (Dr.) Brian May was
awarded a Ph.D. by Imperial for his
study of zodiacal dust. But where did
he take his measurements?
A: In a mountaintop hut in Tenerife
B: On the roof of Buckingham Palace
C: In the Mauna Kea observatory,
Hawaii
Have you been paying attention this year?
We’ve got some great prizes, so have a go!
The rules: All correct submissions
received by 13:00 on Wednesday
5th December (next week!) to
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk will
be entered into the prize-draw.
1st prize: 6 month subscription
to New Scientist
2nd prize: 2 books of Q&A from
New Scientist’s ‘Last Word’
column & a USB stick
3rd prize: 1 ‘Last Word’ Q&A book
& a USB stick
Go to www3.imperial.ac.uk/graphicidentity/templatesandresources/
pcrunningwindows/presentations if you want to see the offending
webpage for yourself. I hope it won’t be up for much longer though
It started so well: “Presenting a clear,
consistent image of the College to raise
its profile worldwide is key to making
first impressions lasting impressions.”
Yet anyone who’s read Imperial’s
own guide to making a poster using
an Imperial College PowerPoint tem-
plate will know that some of the advice
which follows this peppy introduction
is highly suspect.
Let me say at the outset that I have
no quibbles with the purpose of the
template itself, nor of the guide. I re-
cently came across this webpage pre-
cisely because I was looking for an Im-
perial template to use on a poster, as I
believe that used well, these templates
can make a poster highly effective. Not
only has a huge amount of care clearly
been put into getting the look of these
templates right, but by using these
templates, one confers some of Impe-
rial’s considerable reputation upon
oneself, purely by association.
This may be slightly sneaky, but it
pales in comparison with the guide’s
suggestions for undesirable data.
After some useful tips on what col-
our, background, and typeface to use
when raising our profile, the guide
proffers some advice on how to display
data in graphic form. And it is here that
this otherwise inoffensive and helpful
document reveals a deeply cynical and
unscientific attitude. When discussing
tables, it makes the very valid point
that they can lack visual impact – that
if one wishes to highlight large differ-
ences in the data, a bar chart is much
more effective. Yet it then goes on to
suggest that one should therefore em-
ploy a table if one wishes to “downplay”
the very same differences, as the table
“will display the same information in a
less dramatic way”.
This is undoubtedly true, but is dis-
ingenuous at best on a page aimed at
scientists, as it represents a travesty of
the scientific spirit. Surely any advice
by Imperial to us, its staff and students,
on how to present our data should tell
us how to do this as lucidly as possible,
not how to obfuscate. Furthermore,
bear in mind that this webpage is ac-
cessible to the wider public – do we
wish to present a clear, consistent im-
age of ourselves as dissemblers?
A jaded student might conclude that
this is one of the vaunted transferable
skills needed when winging off into the
wild blue corporate yonder, and regret-
tably, this may well be the case. After
all, the example the author clearly had
in mind was the use of data with an as-
sociated agenda – he or she may think
this little sleight-of hand entirely natu-
ral in a commercial or political context
say, and never have considered using it
on scientific data.
Yet, as events at Bell Labs and Seoul
National University in recent years
have shown, scientific data holds no
inherent truth – it is only the intellec-
tual honesty of scientists which gives
it the value we, and society, place in it.
Jan Hendrik Schön and Hwang Woo-
Suk were quite rightly pilloried for de-
basing the gold standard by fabricating
data in published research on organic
electronics and human cloning respec-
tively. This is an extreme end of the
spectrum of scientific misconduct, but
any scientist at Imperial who follows
the tips on our own website too closely
is well on the way to sharing Schön and
Hwang’s fate.
Here’s a thought: if this webpage
indicates that the more corporate ele-
ments of Imperial hold a laxer attitude
to data than is permissible amongst its
scientists, maybe the former should
raise their standards to match the pro-
file they cherish so; a profile which
many of us work hard to uphold. After
all, what’s sauce for the goose…
Do our competition!

