6 felix Friday 30 November 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
It’s not even winter yet, you wimps!
W
ell. That’s it,
then. Christmas
is “coming”. You
and I know this,
of course, because
we have calendars, memories and a
centuries-old Christian culture behind
us. We’re not jackasses who use bill-
boards and shop windows to work out
what month it is. But what I mean is,
there’s now no avoiding it. You see, I
can ignore the gurning retards in green
and red poncing around Oxford Street.
I can use an encyclopedia rather than
risk having the Internet vomit chunks
of seasonal cheer all over me. I can
even drink coffee at home rather than
get my latte spat in with Christmassi-
ness. But last weekend, something ter-
rible happened.
The newspapers ran out of Autum-
nal features. And as we all know, that
means that Christmas is “coming”.
If anyone from the Telegraph Media
Group – hell, anyone from the press in
general – is reading this, here are some
things I have absolutely no interest in
this coming December – baubles. Mak-
ing my own Christmas pudding. Lead
paint. Children who eat lead paint.
Snow. Whether Private Average-in-
everything-but-ugliness will be home
to see his kids. Noel Edmonds making
a comeback. Hannukah – guys, it’s not
a secular holiday, get over it. Marks
and Spencer. Ant and Dec. The Holly
and the Ivy. Peace. Goodwill to all men.
Tiny chocolate reindeer.
Because for me, Christmas doesn’t
start until five in the afternoon on
Christmas Eve, when I stumble to the
local church, away from London and
back in the motherland, and pretend to
be a Christian for the only hour in the
year. After that, everyone has precisely
thirty-six hours to invoke Christmas
on me. You can throw ribbons at me,
you can stuff mince pies so far down
my throat I start crapping raisins, you
can play the same fucking rerun of
Harry Potter if you really want to. I
won’t complain.
Obviously, the reason they want
Christmas to start early is because it
means you’re more likely to buy things
more often, and start cosying down for
the winter like we’re living in the New
World circa 1700. Which, for some rea-
son, you’re all more than happy to do.
Waltzing around with seventeen layers
of clothing on, staggering in whenever
there’s a slight breeze as if you’ve just
trekked for four days across the tundra,
and saying things like “It’s cold out.” as
you walk into a lecture theatre.
I didn’t sleep here overnight, alright,
I’m well aware it’s bloody cold out. I
just don’t have the urge to whine about
it like it’s a bad government policy. “Ah,
wouldn’t’ve have had this shit under
Blair. Oh no. He knew how to regulate
weather fronts.”
It’s not even winter yet, you cowardly
bastards. The holly was going up in Ox-
ford Street in late October. The leaves
on the trees had barely fallen down
then, probably because they reasoned
it would be less effort to just hang on
for a couple of weeks until Spring was
declared again. This is the time of year
you go out for long walks and mince
around in piles of red and gold in Hyde
Park, not act like you’re Lawrence
Oates and popping out to get a pint
of milk is some dangerous expedition.
The guy died in a blizzard to save an
expedition team, and even he probably
made less of a fuss of it than some of
you seem to.
Leave the coat at home tomorrow
and enjoy the cold a little. Remember
when seeing your breath in the air used
to be fun? Yeah? Well, instead of re-
placing that for tacky versions of the
same products you’ve been buying all
year – gingerbread my arse, Starbucks
– try to remember why Winter is fun.
Christmas will happen in its own time,
it’s the same sodding day every year.
Don’t let the preceding month get
drowned in a wash of red and green
tinsel.
Kiekhov vs. Oppningbukh
Gilead Amit
(An extract from the transcript of the
1998 World Chess Championship final,
as broadcast on PKWN radio)
‘…a tightly-contested match that is
sure to be the highlight of the season.
Kiekhov to make the first move; you
can feel the tension in the auditorium
as his fingers hover over the board –
and they’re off! Kiekhov opens with
the Pushkin attack, a tactic that won
him the World Championship against
Obvistschek last year. Oppningbukh
responds with the Flamingo defence,
and both sides are now busy trying to
gain control of the centre.’
‘White brings his knights into play
– Kiekhov has long been thought of as
having some of the best knights in the
game, an advantage he’s going to have
to use effectively to have any hope of
breaking through Oppningbukh’s de-
fence, which is in stellar form in this
match. Oppningbukh racing down the
King side – h5, g4! What an advance,
he’s made it to g4 – Kiekhov is go-
ing to need everything in his arsenal
to hold him back now. Wait! What’s
this? Oppningbukh has left a gaping
hole in his defence – you can tell by
his grimace that he’s just noticed; will
Kiekhov?’
‘This position is almost identical to
that of Studebaker v Salzkartoffel in
the Euro Championship final of 1994 –
Studebaker won in the last few seconds
of gametime, barely edging past black’s
pawn structure to win the game with
true style. They don’t play games like
that anymore, do they, Jack?’
‘No, they certainly don’t, Tim, but
Kiekhov is certainly up there with
the greats; it might almost be Knott-
Horseigh himself behind the board,
ruthlessly exploiting the weaknesses
in his opponent’s defence and setting
himself up beautifully for a potential
queen-side mate. I’ve got to tell you,
though, I’m impressed with Oppning-
bukh’s stamina for holding on at this
stage of the game.’
‘I know what you mean, Jack; it really
takes a cool mind to play the Sashimi
countergambit when your centre con-
trol is weakening by the move.’
‘Kiekhov’s move – he’s pushing his
pieces up the board; he’s spotted some-
thing – knight, now rook – then bish-
op from the other side…check! Check
again! Oppningbukh’s on the run, des-
perately trying to get to his king before
Kiekhov’s attack.’
‘And it fails! So close and yet so far!
Oppningbukh’s queen-side rook sav-
ing the day with a heroic self-sacrifice
to keep the match going. As the piece
is carried off the table amid rousing
cheers, Oppningbukh knows that his
line-up is one short. ‘
‘This is the exciting part of the
match, Timmy boy, isn’t it? The ten-
sion mounting as the clock ticks down,
only a handful of pieces left, slogging it
out till the final whistle.’
‘It really makes you glad to be alive,
alright. I have a hunch that it’s not go-
ing to last for much longer, though –
Kiekhov’s got that glint in his eye I’d
know anywhere; I’d say he’s looking to
make a final queen-side push.’
‘You may be right, Timmikins; if I
were to make an attack at the moment,
that’s where I’d go – battered-down de-
fence, uncoordinated attack, with the
open file going all the way down. I won-
der if he won’t go for the transposed
Reagan-Gorbachev manoeuvre?’
‘I’d say the Bush-Hussein variation
would be more his style. There! Look!
The queen-side pawns edging closer to
row 8!’
‘Almost there, boys, only a few more
rows to go!’
‘Oppningbukh completely out of the
game now, Kiekhov taking full control
as he makes a substitution. B-file pawn
out – well-played, tremendous board-
coverage; that’s a piece we’ll see emu-
lated in chess clubs the world over by
tomorrow, eh Jack?’
‘Unquestionably; fine fellow. But
Kiekhov exchanges him for his queen;
wise move, on the whole – the queen
does tend to make a crucial change
to the match, even in the last few
seconds.’
‘Look at the difference made already!
It’s check again! This time with no easy
escape!’
‘Check! Check! Oppningbukh’s king
hopelessly tries to escape Kiekhov’s co-
ordinated attack, but it’s just too much!
One final push…and there it is! Mate!
Mate! Maaaaaate!!’
‘He’s done it! Kiekhov has brought
the title back to Lithuania! Fantastic!
What do you have to say to that, Jack?’
‘Mate! Mate! Maaaaaaaaaaate!’
‘As you can tell, Jack’s still a little
caught up in the emotion of the mo-
ment, and who can blame him! It’s
been a thrilling night for us all here
in Pietropavlovsk, and I hope all you
chess-fans out there enjoyed it as
much as we did. Remember; keep the
hooliganism to a minimum! And have
a good night.’
Themed Christmas lights on Oxford Street: Genuine festive spirit or
ingenius ad campaign?
“
It makes you
glad to be alive,
alright. I have a
hunch that it’s
not going to last
much longer,
though
A. Geek
An amateur prepares to pull off the Pushkin attack
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

