comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Comment
Wheelie chair amenities for all
I
f you have spent time working
in a company you have prob-
ably noticed how annoying it is
that smokers seem to regularly
get away with taking breaks for
a good 15-20 minutes, yet if you are
caught loitering, aimlessly wasting
time, (or perhaps sending amusing sto-
ries through the MS Word thesaurus
five consecutive times) you’re in poo
up to your armpits. We are being pun-
ished for our healthy habits. This is not
just. Companies even seem to think
it is their obligation to not only allow
these going ons, but to provide facili-
ties for them. I have, therefore, come
up with an ingenious plan.
You know how everyone secretly (or
in many cases not so secretly) enjoys
the simple pleasures of a wheelie chair?
The up and down motion, the spinning
around and around and oh! The scoot-
ing to and fro? Don’t you just love the
freedom those four degrees bring you?
(Incidentally, I really think someone
should be working on a wheelie chair
Let’s talk about God, some more
L
ast week Richard Criddle of
the ICCU wrote an interest-
ing piece about God and
purpose in life. He suggest-
ed that life and the actions
we choose to take in it are pointless
without God. Well let me reply to this
tripe. Have you ever heard of Pythago-
ras by any chance? Or maybe you wan-
dered through GCSE maths and never
came across it preferring to refer to the
bible’s chapter on geometry!
Okay, so that started a little aggres-
sively. But here is the thing – you are
wrong! Plain and simple. I further find
your way of putting your point across
inflammatory and aim not to respond
in the same tone. Instaed, I will stick
Stefan Olsson-
Robbie
with personal attacks on you and not
your religious group (only kidding by
the way).
Your error lies in that you assign no
value to yourself or the impact you
have on others. When I read your letter
I could not help but feel that you are a
very sad man to believe that your life is
pointless without “the big dude in the
sky” patting you on the back when it is
all over and telling you that it all mat-
tered to Him.
My life has meaning to me and I am
not a believer. The actions I take di-
rectly impact those around me. When
I tell my girlfriend I love her (yes I am
trying to earn brownie points here)
that action has an impact on her life.
When I put in extra hours in lab lead-
ing to more work getting done my lab
partner also benefits from my actions.
It is the good I can do for those others
that gives considerable meaning to the
actions.
Is it vain of me to believe that I can
have a positive impact on the world? Is
it vain to hope that I can become a good
scientist? A scientist that can in turn
help move the human race forward,
even in the tiniest way. The answer is
clearly no, it is not. My contribution
to the human race may be forgotten in
100 years but that does not mean the
effects of my contribution will have
dissipated. And here you further stray
from reason and suggest that it is only
what people remember about you that
matters!
Might I be so bold as to suggest that
you are the vain one! You are the one
that lacks direction! And worst of all
you consider that your life is pointless!
You can quote the bible and discuss the
truth of what it says but ultimately only
a sense of self-worth can drive you to
truly excel and only by excelling will
you be remembered like Pythagoras.
So if you fear the oblivion from mem-
ory I recommend that you start work-
ing very hard to be a brilliant innovator
and hence remembered by the world.
Good luck sir and if there is God he
will appreciate that you, like Him, tried
to create!
with all six degrees of freedom to allow
the office-worker the full expression of
his inner child.) Look around you next
time you get into the office or the labs
and you will undoubtedly see some-
one quashing the desires of their inner
self in this repressive ‘adult’ society we
have created. (Help, help, I’m being re-
pressed. You see him repressing me?).
This restriction of the expression of
our souls is clearly not a healthy con-
straint; any psychologist will tell you
that it’s not good to keep things bot-
tled up. Therefore, it is my conviction
that companies should provide wheelie
chair enjoyment amenities for all their
employees. All it need be is one room
with a nice floor and a number of well
maintained wheelies. Of course, from
the more prestigious companies one
would expect some other wheelie chair
regalia to facilitate the full range of
possible activities; wheelie chair row-
ing, wheelie chair hockey, synchro-
nized wheelie chair dancing, wheelie
chair jousting, wheelie chair drag-rac-
ing etc.
It is because of the current suppres-
sion of our behaviour that the wheelie
chair has not been explored as a medi-
um in the art and sports world. I mean,
if they can do Swan Lake on ice it can
only be the tyranny of office etiquette
that has restricted the development
of Swan Lake on wheelie chairs. Re-
straint and adulthood are curses and I
say break free. Kick the autumn leaves
as you wade through them, don’t walk
around them whatever you do. Slide
down banisters if it makes you happy.
Jump in a puddle. Have a spin on that
chair and race your neighbour, you
know it’s the right thing to do.
So what are we to do about all this?
How about writing a letter to your MP
highlighting the injustice in the system?
Together we can force the government
to draw up legislation requiring that
all companies provide these wheelie
chair enjoyment amenities. If, say, half
a million people are true enough to
their inner self to do this, we cannot
be ignored. Together we can change
world. At the moment our government
seems keen on only going forward and
not back. I say going back has got to be
in, it’s right there alongside round and
round and up and down…
Jellybean
Wheeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee!
Are you a first year?
Felix wants to interview you!
How have you found your first
term at Imperial?
How are your halls?
Email your impressions to
felix@imperial.ac.uk or come
and find us next week when we
come round to your halls for
interviews

