politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 30 November 2007
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
Today in the old US of A
Kadhim Shubber does a quick analysis of our friendly neighbourhood superpower
Kadhim Shubber
My heartfelt apologies to all those who
didn’t have a politics article to read last
week, Imperial suppressed my writ-
ing by giving me actual work to do;
can you believe the cheek? As a way of
showing the sincerity of my apology, I
give you… a whole three pages of raw,
hardcore and uncensored politics. This
week I’m looking at what’s happening
in the home of Captain ‘Chaz’ America
and asking; how are things today in the
U.S.A.?
We got to start somewhere and I ar-
bitrarily choose the war on terror. As
if you didn’t already know, terrorism
is a problem for the U.S.A. While 9/11
triggered the war on terror, it has not
been fought – in the traditional sense
– on U.S. soil. The ‘war on terror’ is
being fought in Iraq and Afghanistan;
although I sometimes get the impres-
sion some people would rather fight it
in Iran.
At the very least the presence of
U.S. troops in Iraq is a bit confusing.
I include it in the war against terror
section for convenience but the top-
pling of Saddam did not help destroy
anti-western radicalism, it didn’t really
achieve anything else either; ok it did
topple Saddam. But there are plenty
of tyrannical leaders on this earth who
haven’t been pulled out of the ground
by U.S. marines. The invasion and oc-
cupation (for want of a better word)
of Iraq achieved increased oil prices,
increased hatred of the U.S., greater
instability in the Middle East and the
death of U.S. soldiers; if you can spot
the benefits contact me please. The
situation in Iraq isn’t good; sorry let
me be clear it’s a mess. While improve-
ments have been seen due to the tem-
porary U.S. surge – by improvement I
mean less people are getting blown up
– Iraq is going to remain a divided, cor-
rupt and weak nation for many years to
come, and that’s the absolute best case
scenario. The current government un-
der Nouri al Maliki is not representa-
tive of all the groups within Iraq and
this causes further friction between
Kurdish, Sunni and Shia people. Iraq
is unable to resist the influence of it’s
neighbouring nations such as Iran and
people within government and other
official institutions are more likely to
consider their tribal allegiances more
important than the proper execution
of their job – in a less elegant way I’m
saying that the police and army are
full of Iraqi men who use their train-
ing for death squad style killings rather
than what’s in their job description.
The burning question is ‘what was the
righteous cause that justifies this insta-
bility?’ but unfortunately the answer
is that there is none. The war in Iraq
was the product of a U.S. government
that failed to adequately consider the
consequences. One can imagine a con-
versation between Dick Cheney and
George Bush today.
Cheney: “Hey look at that, our ac-
tions had real-world consequences”
Bush: *spits out coffee* “WHAAT!”
The war in terror is also being fought
in Afghanistan, albeit with a smaller
U.S. presence than in Iraq. It is nice
and easy to label the Taliban as ter-
rorists. They are interested in driving
foreigners out of the country and im-
posing their beliefs in Afghanistan, not
international terrorism. The Coun-
cil on Foreign Relations reports that
violence in Afghanistan reached its
highest level since the ousting of the
country’s Taliban rulers in October
this year. It was marked by a worri-
some rise in suicide bombings. Attacks
have also increasingly spread beyond
the restive south to central and eastern
provinces, which have been far more
stable. However at the same time I am
strangely optimistic about the future
of Afghanistan because with the com-
mitment of NATO and other powers
I believe that the Taliban can be de-
feated militarily while simultaneously
security and services can be provided
to Afghans.
But to really judge the success of the
U.S.’s engagement in Afghanistan (and
Iraq) we have to look at the aims of the
war on terror. Essentially it’s about de-
feating terrorists and stopping more
terrorists from springing up in their
place. Just as a note, spreading democ-
racy is not the aim of the war on ter-
ror; it is one of the methods used in the
war on terror. The current conflicts do
not achieve either of these aims. The
reason why the wars in Afghanistan
and Iraq have no benefit to the war on
terror is because what the U.S. and its
allies are doing there is nation-building
– not with a lot of success. Of course
nation-building does help fight ter-
rorists because as living standards in-
crease people are going to be less likely
to take up arms, but it is very indirect.
However this does not apply in today’s
situation because firstly the nation
building has occurred after a lot of na-
tion destroying and secondly because
we have seen well educated and rela-
tively well off persons turn to terrorism
here in the UK. By the time U.S. troops
have pulled out of Iraq the negative ef-
fects of occupation will cancel out any
benefits from nation building.
I’ve spent a lot of time talking about
Afghanistan and Iraq, and how they are
doing but that’s not what this article is
about. What’s the impact on the U.S.
because of these conflicts and the war
on terror in general? There are three
main areas, the impact on the image of
the U.S. and Americans, the economic
George Bush is nearing the end of his maximum term in office as President of the USA
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
This week, the students of Imperial
College London have been graced by
a 3,000 word essay by Kadhim Shub-
ber on America, spread gloriosly over
3 solid pages of politics. It’s enough to
give Ann Widdecombe some form of
brain disease. I have chosen to make
a brief comment on the article to
ensure both sides of what is a many
facetted truth is heard.
Kadhim suggests two main reasons
for the US invasion of Iraq. Firstly,
protecting America from terrorism.
It is generally accepted that this ob-
jective has indeed failed, and worse,
increased Islamic radicalisation and
Western antipathy. It would be highly
unlikely (however George Bush and
his administration are caricatured)
that political and military analysts
with years of experience and training
could have arrived at such a conclu-
sion (that invading a predominately
Muslim country would increase sym-
pathy towards the US in the region).
The second is the objective of se-
curing of oil reserves. It is the only
credible reason for American efforts
in the Middle East. Indeed Kadhim
goes on to explain quite elegantly the
importance of crude in the world to-
day – it is vital. The US navy ensures
supplies flow freely to itself, Europe,
India, China and Japan; all net oil
importers and drivers of the global
economy. America is the guardian of
world trade.
It is likely that US policy was meant
to have the effects of the first Gulf
War in the early 90’s, which drove fuel
prices low, ended the volatility that
emerged in the 1970’s and is generally
attributed to bringing about the high
growth and employment witnessed
throughout the last decade. Whether
these long term objectives will be
achieved by the US this time around
is yet to be seen, and for the moment,
it has appeared that the instability
generated has adversely affected the
American economy. But then surely
we all have blood on our hands for en-
joying the prosperity brought about
in the 1990’s due to American inter-
vention in the Middle East.
I am a great advocate of certain as-
pects of liberalism, most probably in-
duced by the media environment that
I have gown up in, but that’s a whole
other kettle of moral fish. Is it right
that, as Kadhim points out, so much
of the world’s energy resources are
under the control of despotic govern-
ments? The power and technology
that has grown through development
is now transferred to the hands of
power driven rent seekers (to use an
economic term) who can then hold
other nations to ransom and mistreat
its own populace.
America has not achieved what it set
out to since 2003. Its actions are laced
with hypocrisy in the name of attain-
ing a higher goal. Its status of world
hegemon is being eroded quickly by
emerging powers in Asia. We should
not lose sight of these goals and what
the US does for the world. When
its dominance wanes, our ‘friendly
neighbourhood superpower’ may well
be missed.
cost and the effect on the security of
the U.S. You don’t need to be a genius
to figure out that the U.S.’s image has
suffered greatly. No longer is it seen as
a bastion of freedom or protector of
human rights; amazing that one man
accomplished so much. In terms of the
economic cost, the price of instability
is certainly very high. Oil prices have
rocketed in direct response to instabil-
ity in the Middle East; this instability
in part is fuelled by the crisis in Iraq
and the growing tension with Iran. I’ll
come back to the current economic
health of the U.S. later but if we want
to talk sheer figures, some economists
have put the cost of the war on ter-
ror between 1 trillion and 2 trillion
dollars.
Finally, I’d like to address the last im-
pact of the war on terror which is the
security of U.S. citizens. The justifica-
tion for the actions of the Bush Admin-
istration both at home and abroad was
to protect Americans. The war in Iraq
did not improve the security of Ameri-
cans; in fact it put many Americans –
soldiers and other professionals – in a
worse security situation with no tangi-
ble gain for citizens at home. In general,
the foreign policy of the U.S. since 9/11
has not efficiently improved the secu-
rity of U.S. citizens. While the ousting
“Iraq is going to
remain a divided,
corrupt and
weak nation for
many years”

