politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 30 November 2007 felix
Politics
of al-Qaeda from Afghanistan certainly
dealt a huge blow to their operations,
it would be incredibly naïve to equate
the defeat of al-Qaeda in Afghanistan
(it would also be quite naïve to sup-
pose that this defeat was complete) to
the destruction of international terror-
ism. In short, because I know I’ve gone
on long enough, it doesn’t seem to me
that the war on terror is achieving very
much nor does it seem to me that very
much can be achieved by the large-
scale invasion of nations.
When I stated that there was no rea-
son for the inexplicable invasion of
Iraq, I’m sure many of you immediately
thought of oil. The black stuff is incal-
culably important in the 21st century
for a myriad of reasons and there’s no
doubt that its extraction, transporta-
tion and consumption weighs heav-
ily on the economy and politics of the
U.S.A. President George W. Bush, in
this year’s State of the Union address,
warned of an addiction to imported oil
and its perils. I’m going to convince of
you how extensive the addiction and
tangible the peril is in this case.
You’ll be shocked to hear it but the
security threat due to the U.S.’s oil de-
pendence is far greater than the threat
of international terrorism. Lets take a
look at why. In the ten countries with
the biggest oil reserves, we find among
others Iran, Russia and Venezuela.
While these are the three countries
with especially frosty relationships
with U.S.A at this point, the top ten
countries in general are either instable,
corrupt or have political interests that
do not align with the U.S. Examples of
these are Iraq, Nigeria and Saudi Ara-
bia. It just so happens that most of the
oil in the world is situated in places in-
habited by people who don’t have the
average American’s interests at heart.
This is important because of the enor-
mous wealth that is generated through
the sale of oil. The people whose in-
terests diverge from America’s are ex-
tremely well funded and have a dispro-
portionately large political clout due to
their oil. Russia is able to move towards
authoritarianism while simultaneously
Iran continues with confidence with
its nuclear program; because of their
oil wealth, these and other producer
countries are free to ignore U.S. poli-
cies and to pursue interests inimical
to the national security of the United
States. This problem is furthered be-
cause it reduces the ability of the U.S. to
achieve its’ goals through multi-lateral
channels. I’m lucky enough to have the
perfect example of this readily available
in the form of Iran’s nuclear program.
The U.S. has attempted to gain direct
and strong action through the U.N and
the E.U, the U.N. most notably of the
two. It is nearly impossible for the U.S.
to persuade the Security Council to
take significant action because two ve-
to-holding members – China and Rus-
sia – are more interested in Iran’s oil
reserves than its nuclear capabilities.
China in particular provides support
to oil producing countries that the U.S.
would rather isolate, due to the mas-
sive demand for oil from its growing
economy.
Today the purchase of oil has become
blind. Oil takes precedence in foreign
policy and other factors become invis-
ible, we are blinded to them. Consider
the close relationship of the U.S. with
Saudi Arabia. The land of the free is
closely allied with a nation that recent-
ly sentenced a woman to 90 lashes af-
ter being raped by a gang of seven men;
her crime was being in the same car as
a male friend who was also raped in
the same incident. I had to include this
piece of recent news because it dem-
onstrates the misogynistic, dictatorial
and oppressive governance in Saudi
Arabia. The United States is forced to
deal with nations that are run in com-
plete contradiction to the values that it
was founded on due to its dependence
on oil. Things become even stranger
when you take a closer look at the re-
lationship between Venezuela and the
U.S. I’m sure you’ve all heard the rant-
ing of Hugo Chavez and realized that
he is opposed to U.S. involvement in
Southern American affairs but what
you may not know is that Venezuela is
the U.S.’s fourth largest supplier of oil.
In reality, U.S. dollars are directly fi-
nancing the efforts of Chavez to attack
U.S. influence in Southern America.
Western Civilization is built on oil.
In terms of the products derived from
crude oil and the direct energy uses
such as in transport, oil could be said
to be everywhere in our society. This
addiction has resulted in the danger-
ous international position as described
above. Although the solution is hard
to swallow it is certainly not difficult
to imagine. Increase efficiency of oil
and gas use, switch from oil-derived
products to alternatives, encourage
supply of oil from sources outside the
Persian Gulf, make the oil and gas in-
frastructure more efficient and secure
and increase investment in new energy
technologies. Simple eh?
It probably could be simple if the
men and women in Capitol Hill really
had the foresight and will to make it
happen. Unfortunately the environ-
ment has not become a popular politi-
cal issue in the U.S. as it has here in the
UK. Despite this let’s look at the cur-
rent political goings-on in the U.S.A.
Just a short aside, Bush has well and
truly become a lame-duck president.
During his first term he did not use his
presidential veto against congressional
bills once. However, recently he has
used his veto on bills with both public
and bi-partisan support, and in fact on
one occasion has had his veto overrid-
den by congress. With the democrats
in control of both houses on Capitol
Hill, governance in Washington has
become a case of Congress versus the
President.
By far the most interesting event in
the U.S. at the moment is the upcom-
ing Presidential Election. In my eyes
there are two candidates who have a
chance of winning.
Hillary Clinton. If you don’t know
who Hillary Clinton is then you must
have spent much of the 90’s living un-
der a rock. Wife to former President
Bill Clinton, she is widely seen as the
frontrunner to gain the Democrat
nomination and then the Presidency.
She began her campaign by saying “I’m
in, I’m in to win”. From the start Hillary
Clinton’s campaign has been based on
unwavering confidence of victory and
with some polls putting her 27 points
ahead of her democratic rivals it’s hard
to disagree with her confidence. Like
most Presidential elections, there is a
focus on personality rather than the is-
sues. She has been lauded as an Iron
lady. Certainly her gender puts her in
a unique position as she would be-
come the first ever female president
of the U.S.A. Accused of playing the
gender card at a televised debate held
in Las Vegas she responded: “People
are not attacking me because I’m a
woman; they’re attacking me because
I’m ahead.” Nonetheless, critics – some
within her own party – continue to put
forward arguments against her running
in the general election race. She is said
to be a divisive figure for which some
Americans would never vote. That,
however, applies to almost every politi-
cian. Other commentators have ques-
Hillary Clinton leads the polls ahead of what many bill as the most open US Presidential race in recent history; but is she too devisive?
The invasion of Iraq will most likely be the defining memory of George Bush’s presidency
“Hillary Clinton’s
campaign has
been based on
unwavering
confidence”

