Food
hod without frontiers
.... t M -
Yishu Nanda graduated from Imperial College in 1986 and is now
doing research in the Department of Chemical Engineering. He
established a strong culinary reputation in Holbein House after serving
a number of gastronomic wonders in events as diverse as gourmet
lunches to international dinners.
The 'eight jewel stuffed duck' (Cantonese), the 'almond flavoured
steamed rice pudding' (Chekiang Province), Rogan Josh and Chicken
Tikka are just some of the gastronomic delights which have graced
his table
Yishu's infectious love for food soon spread to the pages of FELIX.
His gastronomic survey of the world aimed to inspire students to be
adventurous when eating abroad. The ambitious gastronomic itinerary
included Thessalonika, Paris, Rome, Venice, Delhi and Lagos. He
provided a brief background about the regional dishes before
recommending places to eat.
Yishu is fortunate to have a diverse knowledge on food from all over the world. Four years in LibeJa (West Africa), six years in
a Polish school in England, his love for Chinese and Italian food have enriched his Indian culinary heritage. He has worked in the
restaurant of a resort island hotel in New England where he first learned the joy of eating fresh seafood. He still reminisces about
his first lobster. To cap it all Yishu is an adept cocktail bartender and has even earned his livelihood making flambee coffees.
Restaurant Review
Spago
(6 Glendower Place, S Kensington
01-225 2407).
I would not have dreamed that an
establishment with a strong Italian
flavour existed within walking
distance of the College.
The establishment is run from a
single room seating at most 30
people. The small confines of the
place help it to acquire a rich
atmosphere by eight o'clock. A
clientele in the 20s to mid-30s age
group, peppered with a few Italians
holed out in London, seeking
nostalgia from the live TV
broadcasts from Italian television,
provides a pleasant setting for a
meal.
The a la carte menu was varied
but not so much so that one would
have visions of a frantic chef tying
the spaghetti into knots. The
appetizers were priced in the 90p to
£3.10 price range. I settled for the
classic starter of 'Proscuitto Melone'
(£2.80). Anyone who has not eaten
this special salted and air-dried ham
accompanied with melon slices
must try it.
The others dining with me had
the garlic bread (90p). I was a little
surprised to find the bread in the
form of thin but large discs which
had been baked and rubbed with
olive oil and garlic.
The main course choices were
priced at around £3.50. I was able
to sample a wide cross-section of the
menu.
Spaghetti Pesto, Pesto is made
from fresh basil leaves, walnuts,
garlic and pignoli (pine-nuts).
Although very flavoursome I found
the combination of pasta and the
pesto a little too dry.
Fetuccini Funghi Basco. The pasta
is bathed in a sauce made with wild
mushrooms. The overall impression
created was pleasant but did not
especially excite me.
Spaghetti Cartoccio—Cooking 'al
cartoccio' is popular with fish but
works equally well with pasta. Enzo
the chef produced a great
combination of mussles, prawns,
squid and pasta. The under-cooked
pasta is combined with the tomato
sauce, olive oil, parsley and other
ingredients and cooked to
completion wrapped in foil in an
oven.
The menu offered a number of
pizzas with interesting names priced
at around £2.50.1 did not have the
gastronomic energy to try one.
Maybe next time.
The a la carte menu was
supplemented by a number of
specials which included a risotto of
the fruits of the sea and the classic
'Carpaccio', a marinated raw beef
dish.
My share of the bill came to £7.50
which bought me a beer, starter,
main course an an expresso. Not at
all bad for South Ken.
Enzo, the chef did a first rate job.
My compliments to the chef and the
two brothers from Milan that run
the place. When you go there ask for
Cinzia to show you to a table.
People are recommended to make
a booking if dining during peak
hours. Spago has been known to
serve food as late as midnight, so be
a little bit more ambitious next time
you feel hungry late at night.
Classic Volumes
on Food
Giuliano Bugiali's The Taste of Italy
has pride of place on my cookery
shelf. The book is extremely well
written covering a wide range of
regional Italian dishes. 125 recipes
presented with stunning visual
impact provided by 250 colour
photos of Italian settings as well as
the dishes. It is one of the best books
on food that I have read, a bargain
at £12.95. Bugiali runs a cookery
school in Florence and has long
been regarded as an authority on
Italian food.
I C C A G S o u p R u n
This is a plea to all you hardworking
postgrads who don't get holidays and to
all you undergrads who are still in London
and obviously don't want holidays.
If you are around any Thursday evening at
9.15pm then come along on the Soup Run
and we promise we'll get you back
enlightened and enlivened by 11pm.
We leave Week's Hall (the large ugly
building next to The Student
Accommodation Office) basement at about
9.30pm (but arrive earlier and see true
chaos) to give out tea, soup, sandwiches,
and biscuits to some of London's
homeless, most of whom are more
talkative and interesting than a great many
students.
You don't have to be a particular sort of
person to come and you don't have to
' come again, but please see if you can make
it some time this summer because we
really are short of people.
SUBWARDEN FOR OLD HOSTEL
BEIT HALL
Applications are invited for the post of Subwarden in Beit Hall to take
up duty from the end of September 1988.
The Subwarden is required to assist the Warden and the Hall Committee
in keeping the peace and promoting the social life of the Hall.
Applicants should, for preference, be postgraduate students with at least
t w o full years to run in the College.
The Subwarden will receive rent-free accommodation in a self-contained
flat.
Applications should be sent, by August 23rd, to:
Dr P J Finley,
Beit Hall
accompanied by a current C V and t w o references.
Preliminary enquiries on 4 0 1 3 (day) or 3671 (evening) are welcome.
August 12 1988 FELIX

