ELIXi*
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Nol031 02JUN95
Keep off
the
Grass
BY R A C H E L W A L T E R S
F o l l o w i n g another spate of
cannabis raids on Imperial
College halls, there is still
confusion about the details of
IC's drugs policy. Five more
students are facing college
disciplinary proceedings after
being caught with marijuana in
the past week.
Over the bank holiday
weekend a number of students
were found with cannabis seeds
and marijuana plants in
Southside. One student, found
with a two-foot tall marijuana
plant, several packets of cannabis
seeds and a set of precision
scales, vigorously denied that he
was a dealer. Earlier i n the
weekend a drugs pusher was
chased out of Southside by a sub-
warden.
College security are conti-
nuing to press for a clarification
of college policy on the issue.
There appears to be a wide
discrepancy i n the way hall
wardens are dealing with the
problem. According to Terry
Briley, deputy head of security,
some wardens deal w i t h
offenders at residence tribunals,
whilst other students face college
disciplinary action. "Some
wardens don't even tell us at all,"
he said.
Peter Mee, Imperial's
registrar, admitted that "it is an
(Continued on back page)
"Straight, go straight!" "Right?" "No! I said straight!" Imperial College Union sent a team of sabba
officers, Union staff and students to a gruelling raft race last weekend, writes Owain Bennallack. The one
mile journey along the River Wye, billed as the 'toughest endurance test in Britain', certainly lived up to e
With the lowest river conditionsfor fifteen years, thefirstday saw team seventeen having to carry and drag
Consort' over large sections of river and eventually being forced to abandon ship after 28 miles. It w
withdraw for the second day to recuperate. Then, on Bank Holiday Monday, the raft set out again - with a
down crew and reinforcements from the disbanded RSPCA team. Hitting the water at 6.00am, they bat
to complete the route, passing Chepstow Castle and cheering crowds at midday. Despite this rude aw
need for training andfitness,everyone present was proud of their involvement and there are even plans
outing! Dan Look, Deputy President, commented: "Obviously I am disappointed that we didn't comp
hundred miles but I think everyone worked really hard to achieve the distance we did". The Prince Con
partially sponsored by STA Travel and the Union Bookstore and hopes to raise around £1500for various cha
NUS Rejects Graduate Tax
BY R A C H E L W A L T E R S
The National Union of Students
has rejected proposals to support
funding based on student contri-
butions. A t the extraordinary
general meeting in Derby last
Tuesday, delegates voted instead
to continue to call for grants to
be increased to 1979 levels.
The N U S held a £300,000
conference earlier this year,
leading to the formulation of
their document " F u n d i n g our
Future". The policy review
calculated that basic rates of
income tax would have to be
increased by at least 6.5p in the
pound to fund the current
expansion of higher education
with grants at the 1979/80 levels.
As an alternative, the document
came out in favour of a graduate
tax and maintenance income
contingency loans. These would
differ from the present student
loans system because repayment
would be related to the students'
future income. Graduate
employers should contribute to
funding through National
Insurance contributions.
The conference put these
proposals to debate. But despite
support from N U S President Jim
M u r p h y , the one thousand
delegates voted to retain the
original p o l i c y , calling for a
return to full students grants.
B news one&sixtccn • editorial&intro three • travel: Venezuela, Spain and Egypt four • travel:
South Africa and Bali five • travel: Cyprus, Germany and Going Nowhere six • travel: China,
Venice and Thailand seven • travel: Prague, Ecuador and Hitching eight&nine • s-files: sci-
travels ten • xtra curricular eleven • standby twelve&thirteen • eightdayguide fourteen&fifteen Q

