Xtra Curricular
Guts: Defying the laws of gravity with just your rope to hold you up.
J^pCferica^bii
Caving Adventures in Slovenia
Keys: Plateau, Bivouac, Plugs
In there last lecture of the year members will
talk about the I C Caving Club's recent
expeditions to Slovenia. The Caving Club has
a long history of expeditions including places
as far afield as Peru, M o r r o c c o and the
Himalayas.
Last Summer a group of undergraduates
and postgraduates spent six weeks exploring
and mapping previously unknown potholes
in a remote high altitude plateau of the Julian
Alps (North West Slovenia).
Due to the difficulty in reaching the
plateau it was necessary to live on the
mountain top in a bivouac where there were
no rivers and the only source of water was
from snow plugs. Three new cave systems
were discovered and a further two were
extended significantly. The talk will include
photographs of these new caves.
In February four members of the
expedition left their caving equipment and
put on their winter mountaineering gear in
order to visit the plateau while under deep
snow in order to search for holes blowing
through the snow which are a clue to as yet
unknown cave systems.
What they found was much better than
they had expected and will be the key to this
years Summer expedition back to the plateau.
The talk is on Thursday, 8 June at 12.30pm
in the Biology W2IW3 lecture theatre. Admission
is free and all are welcome.
Run-down of this week's ents
Keys: Music, Dancing, Madness
Doesn't time fly when you're having fun?
Here we are two thirds into the final term
and the Ents office is b r i m m i n g with
enthusiasm and excitement just as if it was
Freshers; Of course, this isn't strictly true -
even the Events crew have exams, so the
office is bereft of all life and I struggle on
gamely with only my D a n n i i M i n o g u e
posters for company. But we're still laying on
the best value for money events in London...
Friday - Indie Sounds
It's here - an escape from all that 'Faceless
Techno Bollocks' as the T-shirt says. A
chance to shake your head and stomp your
feet to the finest indie sounds of the past 20
years at 'Pop Tarts'. Stuffed with Britpop, US
guitar sounds, New Wave and Retro-Indie.
Free before 9pm, £1 after and bar open until
lam.
Monday - Monday Madness
Our usual beer promotion - a chance to chill
out in the quad. The perfect summer night in
the city.
Wednesday - Club Spanque
Short but sweet... A brief visit to the unreality
of 'Club Spanque'. In three more weeks I can
give it a new name! From 8pm until 11.30pm.
Thursday - Cocktail Night
Balmy sunny evenings, the chink of ice in a
long glass... The i C U Cocktail Night, you
can't beat it. Cocktails from £1.70, the perfect
way to celebrate the end of your exams, or
just the fact that it's Thursday.
Friday - Music, Dancing, Bar Extension
For those of you who've missed your
repetitive beats, a night of (and I'm quoting
here) ' M i n d expanding deep house grooves,
hypnotic trance, happy hardcore and
banging' techno' with guest DJs and live
music from Wave Method. So for the best
sounds, join our 'Mantra'. Free before 9pm,
£1 after.
And that's almost it, except to remind
you that it's only a fortnight u n t i l the
'Midsummer Nights Carnival'. Tickets are
starting to sell fast, so buy now or miss out -
you've been warned!
:i)!^GJUi^0(3
A Midsummer Night's Dream
Keys: Shakespeare, Sixties
Intensive preparations have begun for
this term's D r a m S o c production of ' A
Midsummer Night's Dream'. Written over
three decades ago this classic play (by that
aging star B i l l y Shakespeare) w i l l be
rereleased in late June with a new improved
Sixties sound track and will be performed
exclusively for the students of Imperial
College.
Set in Athens (a record studio), our four
lovers rebel against their parental commands
and escape to the woods (a nightclub).
Classic Shakespeare, classic rock 'n roll
we will be seeing for the first time a newly
discovered band from Imperial, 'The Fairies'.
'A week of talent and Rock' -
The New Musical Express
'Billy's best, and the best of the Sixties' -
Melody Maker
02JUIO5 F E L I X MM

