The S-Files
^Scientific expeditions
°Hot°Sticky
°R travellers tale
Cornwall and on: scientific expeditions
WANDERLUST: 1831 TO 1994
DARWIN VS IC IN GHANA
TANZANIAN CORAL COUNTER
! Every traveller must consider the same questions. Where should I go, and
why? How should I travel? How will I eat and live? In this week's S-files we
I take the theme of travel and look at three scientific expeditions, in 1831, in
1957 and in 1994.
In 1831, Charles Darwin, then little more than a beetle collector, was
engaged as a ship's naturalist on the Beagle which was on its way to map the desolate coast of
South America. He didn't see England again for five years, and in the time he was away, he
collected plants, animals and also fossils, writing in his journal: "a fine group of fossil bones
tell their story of former times with almost a living tongue".
In 1957, Imperial's Natural History Society gained funding from the Exploration Board
for the first time to make an expedition to a region of tropical rainforest in Ghana, West
Africa. They studied the changes i n
food crops caused when forest was
felled, and the report about this trip,
along with others to Greece (1959),
Iran (1960), Ethiopia (1962), Uganda
(1965), Greenland (1966) and many
other places, are i n the Haldane
library (General Books 910.4).
Below, find out what Darwin ate,
where he slept and what he thought
about it all as he sailed towards the
Galapagos Islands. See how the IC
team felt about West Africa, and
what they did there. A n d on the right, hear first-hand about one IC student who, last year,
went diving off a tiny Tanzanian island to help save the coral reef.
In comparison with the exotic locations i n Africa, Asia and India visited by many
Imperial expeditions, two reports look slightly different. They are from the teams which
visited Cornwall. It just seems to prove the point made in the introduction to Ghana 1957:
"Exploration indicates doing something new, and exploration in the biological sense is
possible anywhere in the world - even in one's back garden".
S-files
Typical menu:
Mwtfon and corned beef,
!lf|f^ . XitrT!chips; potatoes and
SBR1
*** , ijfoltfjpie, fruit salad. "The
W* f^,, voter supply w#s stored
fliT^Frr1
'- >-«inwcft&r, and tfeis wesson
^^^^^^fc. . t exc^ent excust^for dpnllhg lager while
*Tr»e fa&ilbalow hod o lacge dirorigTroom
;v
'..-v Qtu&J3 bawoorrt.;*rith aflufhing toilet. At
M'.'yWTa
" thef%ack was a wng hut VrTier».|he Boys
. oijct tfceirfsrriilies couid nVe.-^tJ* ^
• (Kepokpr0
)
• 2 !j s ;
' :
" •'"Sofllfcftund the climate hoi and sticky,
arid others tl§sbughr-it warm and
•
• '••'•>'/?.' • pleasant. We realised fiefore we left
longer in vogue, although most people
" • .X • " advised us to wear hats to stop our tesir
(RerjoCp43)
S-files spoke to Tammy Davison
of Biology II who spent 1 0 weeks
in Tanzania last summer:
> Why did you go to Tanzania?
I volunteered as a diver collecting
data for a research project on the island of Chole,
off the Tanzanian coast. In that area, there are
problems with people coming down to the sea and
"dynamite fishing" - blowing the fish up so that they
float to the surface. Also the reefs are being
destroyed by people paid to collect coral and sell it
for trinkets.
> What is being done?
The project I worked on is organised by Frontier,
who have also done conservation projects in rain
forests in Vietnam, game parks in Uganda and the
Rufiji Delta near Chole. They only go in when the
government of the area invites them. Frontier is
trying to turn the area into a multi-user marine park
which the locals, the tourists and the
conservationists will all be happy with. So they're
teaching sustainable fishing and doing research
projects about the area.
> How did you help?
Our job was to dive around the reefs in pairs, and
one of us would count the number and type of fish -
there were about 60 species - while the other one
did a Benthic survey, looking at the surface of the
reef and seeing whether it was rock, coral, sand or
sea grass. We had plastic slates and pencils to write
it all down.
> What did you eat?
Generally what the locals ate: rice, fish and kidney
beans, although we did have the luxury of a bottle
of soy sauce. There was lots of fresh fruit, bananas
and green oranges. We took it in turns to get up,
start the fire, and cook breakfast, which was Ugi -
sort of maize porridge with sugar.
> What sort of place did you live in?
Chole is a really idyllic island, and we lived in long
open huts made of mangrove poles and woven
palm leaves. We slept on the floor, and our
individual spaces were marked out with mosquito
nets hanging from the ceiling. We dug our own
toilets - a pit six feet square and ten feet deep with
mangrove poles across it. Then you squat - it was
surrounded by a fence, though!
> What was the atmosphere like?
Absolutely superb. Nobody knew anyone else
before they went but it was excellent. There's a real
community aspect to Chole and the locals accepted
us being there. There's a hotel being built on the
island now, and tourism is developing. Eventually I
think people who visit places like Kenya will also
hear about Chole.
> Was the project part of your degree?
It's certainly helped with my degree - not directly,
but I was in Tanzania learning how to sample and
collect data, while half of the people on my course
were on a marine ecology field trip in Cornwall.
Frontier are at 77, Leonard Street, London
(Old St Tube)
f F E L I X D2JUR95

