F E L I X F R I D A Y 2 8 T H F E B R U A R Y COLLEGE HIERARCHY 13
Would the real Mike
What was your background before coming to
Imperial College?
Well, I was brought up in Watford. At school I
guess I was a scientist. I suppose the place to go
was IC. But you wouldn't, nobody ever did, it was
too close to home.
When I was in the lower sixth, my Chemistry
master mentioned that he had received a bursary
from Shell to go to university, so I thought well
this sounds good and I wrote to all the big compa-
nies I had ever heard of saying I'm a bright kid, I
want to go to university, will you pay me, and BP
put me through university doing Economics and
Chemistry. I ended up in Scotland, University of
Stirling. Stirling spelt with an ' i ' .
I was employed by B P until four years ago,
that's twenty-two years, which was a ball. It was a
lot of fun, but I guess I got a middle age crisis or
something. The last ten years were nearly all over-
seas and I reached a point where I'd had enough. It
was at that stage I thought well hang on, I don't
want to be at Head Office in London, you know
big offices, so that was when I started looking
about leaving BP. Then I got a phonecall asking
whether I would be interested in coming to IC and
so it all sort of worked out and I ended up here after
all, I'm delighted to say.
And what did you do within BP, was finance
your area?
Well, when I graduated from the University of
Stirling, I was smart enough, I'm glad to say, to
realise that if I ever did want to leave BP a C V with
University of Stirling on is not that great. It seemed
smart to get an additional
qualification, so I quali-
fied as an accountant
while I was in BP and then
spent the next twenty
years desperately trying
not to be an accountant.
So you had obviously
had enough after twen-
ty-two years, but did you generally enjoy your
time up until then?
Oh yes, it's a big fun place. If you're an accoun-
tant doing things with lots of money is always nice.
I mean whether you're spending it or borrowing it,
if its got lots of zeros on the end, it's quite pleas-
ant.
Interestingly, people have asked if it was diffi-
cult to come here after working for a multi-nation-
al oil company and the answer's no, not at all. The
culture is actually, strange to say, not that dissimi-
lar, IC is quite like BP in some ways, in that its
numerate, I mean it's engineeringy based, it's
international, clearly, and it has, what's the word, a
confidence i.e. arrogance to the place because IC's
good at what it does as is BP.
Hansen please
forward...
Mike Hansen is Director of Finance at
Imperial College. Glorified accountant
or essential to the College's future?
"...doing things with money is
always nice...spending it or
borrowing it, if it's got lots
of zeros on the end, it's quite
pleasant."
What do actually do as the Director of Finance?
What do I do? Finance is a broad set, it goes
from the making sure staff salaries are paid month-
ly through to making sure the electricity bills are
paid otherwise the lights go out. Then there's the
glamorous bit, dealing with the Executive
Committee of the Governing Body and and the
Boarding Committee. It's a very varied job, in
simple terms it's probably anything to do with
money.
Do you socialise with the
people you work with?
The place does suffer
from the fact that it is in the
centre of London and many
of the staff commute. 1
probably socialise more than I have done with my
work colleagues in former places I've worked but
I don't spend all my time hanging out with the peo-
ple I work with. One has different circles of friends
in different places.
Do you worry about waste in your department?
Do you attempt to cut the cost of running
Finance?
Not particularly Finance. Obviously we try and
cut the cost of everything, whatever it is and it's
always, a trade off between cutting costs and keep-
ing the services going. There are some things
which are really easy wins, like buying your elec-
tricity cheaper. It would be
difficult for me to do my job
if my colleagues didn't
think I was at least doing
my bit on the efficiency
front. I have a completely
clear conscience on that
front.
Your job is cost-cutting
and being efficient?
Well, no, it's getting good value for money on
the things I'm involved with whatever that hap-
pens to be and obviously, because I look at the
numbers more than most, I'm able to do that.
Do you feel that the administrative staff really
reagrd themselves as being here for the students
and because of the students, or do they resent
having to deal with the 'great unwashed'?
No, I have got a completely clear conscience on
the attitude of my employees. What you don't see
is the amount of crap they take from certain stu-
dents, you don't see the verbal abuse, you don't see
the stuff being thrown at them which happens.
What probably annoys me more than anything
about this place is an inference that for some rea-
son because people are not directly academically
step
„ j Dr Matiui
1 Dr Rodney Ea
i l l Ian Caldwell
I Lynda Davies
._) Vernon McC
"Last year, we ended up, 90
of us, at the top of Queen's
Tower for a few beers."
related, they are somehow less concerned about the
well-being of College. It's interesting, when
University Challenge was on and we were win-
ning, it was a real buzz, people at the operational
level were really proud in the pub to say I work at
Imperial College.
If someone thinks they
are not getting a reason-
able service then they
should complain, if they
don't get satisfaction they
should come and see me in
Room 442 or email me at m.hansen@ic.ac.uk.
Fundamentally, I expect my people, and they know
it and accept it, to provide a reasonable service. If
it wasn't for the students and staff we wouldn't be
here, the only reason we're here is to make the
whole thing work.
Being on the Bookstore committee, why did you
give Waterstones the tender?
I don't think it's fair to give my personal opin-
ion because it was a committee decision. What I'm
happy to say is that I have no doubt that our main
concern was to get the best bookshop. Whether it
was the right decision or not, some people believe
the Union could have done better because of their
committment. I don't know but I'm absolutely sure
that it was done in a completely fair and open-
minded way and that the union was well- repre-
sented. It was difficult, if they'd done a really bum
job it would have been easy but they didn't, they
did a really good presentation. There was a differ-
ence of views, people had different standpoints but
at the end of the day, I don't think that anybody
would say that they didn't fully agree with the
decision. I'll be very disapointed if we don't end
up with a very good bookshop,
What do you do in your spare time?
It depends on the day I suppose. I do social run-
ning once a week with the City Hash House
Harriers, I was pounding around Bayswater last
night. We've run from the Southside bar on two or
three ocassions this year.
Have you ever run in the Marathon?
No, it's a drinking club with a running problem,
real athletes needn't apply! We're not very serious.
We start from the pub, run the circle back, and
spend a few hours drinking. Last year we ended up,
ninety of us, at the top of the Queen's Tower for a
few beers.
Interview: Maria, Photo: Robin

