F E L I X F R I D A Y 2 8 T H F E B R U A R Y LETTERS & NOTICES 17
LETTERS TO FELIX
POG are innocent?
Dear Felix,
POG, or Pretensions of Grandeur,
stole the show at last Friday's band
night. The support band attracted
crowds in excess of 250 people, far
more than the headline band
Resident Waste.
The gig was marred, however, by
an unfortunate incident with Mark
Home, Union Ents manager.
Andy Haynes, POG's singer, pro-
duced a tobacco cigarette shaped like
a joint as a stage gag for one of the
bands own songs, Hallucinogenic
Haze. After lighting the alleged spliff
he handed it down to the crowd.
Commendably, Union stewards
acted promptly and detained those
who were smoking the fake reefer.
However, once convinced it was
only tobacco they let them go.
Mr Haynes acted swiftly to calm
the situation, announcing the incident
as a stage prank. After the gig
though, Mr Home banned POG from
playing at Union events ever again.
Most are aware of the Union's
drug policies, and the Stewards
should be congratulated for their
quick response and for their decision
to let the situation pass, but is it right
for POG to be punished for a stunt so
trivial as this? After all Mr Home has
condoned comedians on Union com-
edy nights who not only joke about
all types of drags, but hand out free
samples of legal hallucinogens.
Is it right for the Union to judge an
obviously thriving culture, or should
the world be more aware that it
exists?
Adam Foster, President & CEO of
SPOGA (Society for POG
Awareness).
Disgusting husting
Dear Alex,
I am writing to express my severe
disappointment at the performance of
the candidates for ICU President
shown at hustings this [Tuesday]
evening. Having been one of the few
people interested enough to attend I
was offended at the lack of respect
the candidates appear to have for
Imperial College Union and those
members who take an active role in
the organisation of Union events.
Those of us who are heavily
involved in Clubs and Societies
realise how much influence the
Union has on our ability to run our
events. With the huge pressure on
space in the Union building I find
suggestions to turn the space due to
be gained after Biology leave Beit
Quad into either a brothel or a
playpen highly offensive. It is diffi-
cult enough to convince College to
take our space problems seriously,
what hope is there for us when presi-
dential candidates don't take it seri-
ously?
I was disgusted and outraged by
the performance this evening and
find it insulting that the candidates do
not believe that they need to outline
any ideas or answer any of the sub-
stantial questions regarding the
future direction of the Union. Can
either of the candidates possibly
believe that those students who put
long hours into their societies, and
therefore the Union, would place it's
future in their hands?
Disgusted ofOpsoc,
Laurie Tweedale
Victoria Swerling.
Dodgy posters
Dear Felix,
Now I'm confused....! read the let-
ter about Friday night names at the
Union, and racked my brains about
any lewdness or cheap innuendo &
drew a blank. And lo & behold.. I
found some of the posters that could
be considered a bit dodgy .. & I'd just
like to point out none of them are
official Union posters - the big give-
away is there's no Union logo.
The Union does operate a policy of
not producing publicity that may
offend, and we would be very inter-
ested to hear of any posters that do
cause any of our members offence.
Cheers
Mark Home
Events & Marketing Manager.
The Referee's a
Dear Referee,
Due to your unforeseen adhesion
to your boyfriend, we, the players of
the IC 2™ X V , have been forced to
concede the match to a team of limit-
ed and often negligible ability.
We thoroughly believe you should
be hung, drawn and quartered.
If, and only if, this is done, we will
be happy and believe our destiny will
be fulfiled.
Yours,
lCRFC2nd
XV
(The letter is signed by the captain, J
Harrison, and the other fifteen members
of the squad.).
Letters may be edited for length.
The guest editor's opinions are not
necessarily those of the editor.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1082
is Tuesday 4th March.
Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@ic.ac.uk
W H A T D O You S A Y A F T E R Y O U S A Y H E L L O ?
Communicating with others group
University life cans be fun and stimulating, but many students find
it tricky and lonely. Often students feel a sense of isolation -
perhaps this is the first experience of living away from home.
Making and keeping new friends can present a challenge.
This support group will consist of 6 - 8 students and will
take place on 9 consecutive Thursdays between 5.30 and 7.00pm,
beginning Thursday 24th April, with a brief initial interview for
prospective participants on Monday 10th or Monday 17th March.
The group will take place at Imperial College Health Centre and
will be facilitated by David Allman who is a counsellor there.
Participants will be expected to agree to a confidentiality contract.
To arrange an initial interview, contact Liliane Carter at the Health
Centre on extension 49381.
T H E L E V E R H U L M E T R U S T
Grant Applications Compiler / Receptionist
Graduating Students looking for a short-term appointment may
wish to apply
The Trust have a vacancy for someone to join their team dealing
with applications for academic grants. The fixed-term contract
would be for a maximum of 10 months with a four day week
starting 26th August. Salary is set about £13,500 pa, pro rata.
Applicants should have excellent English skills and typing skills of
60 wpm. Knowledge of Word 7 is highly desirable.
Would suit someone with office experience graduating this year.
Hand-written applications with cv by 15th April to Ms S Herd, The
Leverhulme Trust, 15-19 New Fetter Lane, London EC4A 1 NR.
Cycle Coding
Anyone who cycles into Colleges cannot be unaware of the very
real danger of having their bike stolen. To attempt to combat
these thefts, the local Police have organised free cycle coding
sessions.
Don't leave it until the last minute - get your cycle coded
W e d n e s d a y 5th M a r c h , 10-6
Thursday 6th M a r c h , 1 2 - 8
Postgraduate Scholarships
and Awards
Closing dates are approaching for various awards for
Postgraduate study at IC. However, they are limited in number
and are applicable to specific courses and nationalities. For more
details see Departmental notice boards or the Postgraduate
prospectus.
A p p l i c a t i o n f o r m s f r o m t h e S c h o l a r s h i p s O f f i c e ,
R o o m 3 1 4 , S h e r f i e l d B u i l d i n g
Exam Stress Workshops
W e d n e s d a y 5th M a r c h and W e d n e s d a y 12th M a r c h 1997,
3 - 4 . 3 0 p m in the Health Centre
To take full advantage you are advised to attend both free
workshops, which will be led by Psychotherapist Claudio Calvi.
For bookings, ring Liliane Carter on (59)49381
After this week's hustings, confidence in the candidates for certain posi-
tions is not high. Would the real candidate please step forward.
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyright Felixl997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-07U
NEWS: ROBIN; FEATURES: A F U A , HAMISH AND M A R I A ; ILLUSTRATIONS:
STAVROS; PUZZLES: DUNCAN; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: D A V I D AND M A R K ;
W E B EDITOR: LEON; PHOTOGRAPHY: LING AND ROBIN; SPORT: SIMON AND
Mo; COLLATING LAST ISSUE: DAVID AND M R COOPER, CHEERS!

