8 MONARCHY F E L I X F R I D A Y 2 8 T H F E B R U A R Y
1 ong to
t f c Oueenfiasone very reaf power: to sacf
an unefecte5 person can 5ismiss tf]e efecte5
Xnti
j&on't Uno
The monarchy is the last bastion of a wholly
corrupt and murderous colonial history that
should be removed, especially if Britain is
determined to remain in the upper echeleons
of worldwide finance, industry and politics.
Many countries in the world operate perfect-
ly well without a monarchy, in fact they oper-
ate better! For example France and Germany,
whose economies are thriving. There is no
reason why Britain should not do the same.
The royals are paid monstrous amounts to
act as upstanding citizens and yet this model
family is awash with adultery, divorce and
treachery. In short, if they wish to lead the
sordid lives of their 'normal' subjects then
they should be willing to receive the comple-
mentary pay cuts that their loyal subjects;
nurses, doctors, teachers, university lecturers
and all manner of public servants are contin-
ually having to endure. There is an alarming
decline in funding for our Great Nation's
education, NHS and military and yet insane
amounts of money are being given to one
family so they can galavant across the globe,
ski holidays, and Caribbean trips, thousands
to lavish on designer clothing, not to mention
the huge number of servants that they
employ. It is absolutely ludicrous that illiter-
acy levels in Britain are among the highest in
the developed world, that the queues on NHS
waiting lists are insurmountable, that class
sizes are ridiculously large and yet it is possi-
ble that £60 million in a royal
yacht. Will you benefit from a royal yacht?
Some pro-royalists may argue that the
Royal family brings in tourist revenue, yet
today this is a la;.. .••.-/. London
thrives on it's unique culture and cosmopoli-
tan atmosphere.
In addition, the monarchy perpetuates the
survival of the notorious British class system
which impedes the competitive viability of
Britain as well as violating all humanitarian
codes of conduct. In fact the monarchy is a
symbol of upper class tyranny. One may
argue that the monarchy is a diplomatic aid
and a symbol of neutrality but the following
statements made by the monarchy in recent
years profess otherwise.
In reaction to the ban on handguns due to
the horrific Dunblane affair one member of
the monarchy, who shall remain unnamed,
insisted that any actions to ban them were
inappropriate, his reasoning, "If someone
with a cricket bat went into a primary school
and murdered children one would not sud-
denly seek to ban cricket bats." In Dunblane
16 children, all under six, and their school
teacher were murdered.
On a diplomatic visit to Hong-Kong this
same member decided to offer derogatory
comments about the population and its "slitty
eyes", among other things.
Overall, the monarchy is impeding the
British economy, their only positive contribu-
tion is in the sale of newspapers, where we
are informed daily of the sexual deviances of
our suceeding King.
In conclusion, the concept of an inherited
head of state, along with its entourage of var-
ious dukes, lords and squires is archaic and
reprehensible. Britain should bravely enter
the age of the millenium and abolish the
monarchy.
Ifto S i f c
lift
1
%
I
66% 32% I
b 56% 42% 40%
3 i S
F E L I X F R I D A Y 2 8 T H F E B R U A R Y MONARCHY 9
rufe over us?
a prime minister, fast use5 in r]er name by th> 6o\>ernor'6eneraf of Xustrafta. Is it rigfyt tr]at
0rime TDinister, or is it an important 6afance neccessaro for t(je way our country is run?
Can you imagine it: The People's Republic
of Britain? Oliver Cromwell called it the
Commonwealth of England. There is little
doubt that there is a lot wrong with the whole
hereditary principle: the vast majority of the
country, including a substantial number of
left-wing Tory MPs believe in constitutional
reform of the Lords, but the mainstream
political parties all want the Queen to stay.
Why?
Britain's constitution consists of a variety
of documents, including the Magna Carta,
The 1688 Bill of Rights, and common law
and statute law. Claire Rayner said on the
infamous and inarticulate Carlton debate that
Britain needs a written constitution and elect-
ed House of Lords and no more monarchy. I
can imagine nothing more boring and clinical
than an off-the-shelf constitution and a
President. We have an institution that has
served us for over a thousand years, it is
famous throughout the world (when someone
says "The Queen' they nearly always mean
the British Queen) and brings in untold
investment in the form of tourism and trade
fairs on the Royal Yacht (estimated to be bil-
lions of pounds a year). The cost of this
British icon is minute in comparison with the
financial benefits we receive. .
The monarch is a symbol of continuity, ris-
ing above politics. Her immense experience
of constitutional affairs allows her to advise
her Prime Ministers at their weekly meetings,
something which ex-Prime Ministers of aj§l
political parties said ths dated;..,
Monarchs . •
.
• sensB
live i 'I their political neutrality, and their role
as head of state takes much of the pressure
off the serving Prime Minister. Many
observers say that the role and glamour of our
monarch should be reduced to that of
Scandinavian countries (a bicycling monar-
chy), but it is worth remembering that our
Queen represents a country with a population
greater than that of the monarchies of
Norway, Sweden, Finland, Holland,
Denmark and Belgium combined - why
shouldn't they be more glamorous?
The Way Forward Group consists of the
Queen, her immediate family, plus a few con-
stitutional experts. They are always looking
for ways to prepare the monarchy for the 21st
century, including primogeniture (the first-
born child inheriting rather than the first-born
son), reducing the Civil List, reducing free-
bies and glamorous trips, paying tax, doing
more charity work, improving Britain's
image abroad (who would a foreign country
rather have - Her Majesty or John Major?).
Many of these changes have been imple-
mented, and more are in the pipeline.
Many people argue that the behaviour of
the Royal Family has; shown that they are not
fit to govern us. Th&Jjress love nothing more
than a story that qjjplpnes royals and sex.
The behaviour of past royals was appalling in
comparison with the present and of elected
politicians, and the public is not exactly
'Ihebatlleisnotalioutthel d behaviour of
.i particular member (do note the Queen's
jjjernu iour has always been impeccable) but
lie institution as a whole. It should >
<
i ly, for
}£>ro
•riages,adultery, public extravagance and in
ther unpopularity. A recent survey say tl
. the population, the highest it has ever
,-Australia, New Zealand and Canada. re|
• The monarchv has been around for
• Sovereign since the start of" the reign o
merely decorative role: we have a man)
•have HM Prisons. HM Customs and c
Commonwealth and Queen of many otf
1 Proposed changes include writing a cc
removing the House of Lords and havir
countries. The Fabian Society suggeste
/ears to see if the countries" wished t
<
Carlton's televised public debate, whe;
W e c o n d i Mkmrirey r f I €
Survey Questions
1. Do you think the monarchy
should be scrapped in favour of
republic with a President of Britain?
2. Should the Sovereign's role in
constitutional affairs be lessened, to
something similar to the
Scandinavian model ?
3. Would you like to see a written
constitution?
4. Do you think Charles should
ascend to the throne?
5. Should female royals be given
equal rights of succession?
6. Do you think that a parliamentary
monarchy is the best form of gov-
' -
attack during the past few years, with three failed mar-
ternal wrangling inciting gleeful press coverage and fur-
umber of people supporting a republic rose to a third of
n. In Scotland a majority rejected a monarchy, and in
iicanism is on the ascendant.
a thousand years, with England united under one
ng Egbert in 8u2. The Sovereign plays an enormous if
/al regiments, a Royal Navy and a Royal Air Force, we
Durse H M Government. The Sovereign is head of the
ountries including Canada, Australia and New Zealand,
itution, removing all hereditary elements from the state,
British President, in a similar model to other European
n elected House of Lords, and referendums every five
tain the monarchy. Attention recently has focused on
anellists were frequently shouted down by the jeering
: exposed to this and others decrying it as an obscenity,
pinion (results left), questions above.

