10 NEWS FEATURE F E L I X F R I D A Y 2 8 T H F E B R U A R Y
S A B B A T I C A L CLECTION INTERVIEWS
What do the candidates really
think? Felix & IC Radio put the
questions to them, so here are the
results...
To hear the full interviews, tune into IC Radio on 999AM this
evening at 6pm.
By Mark Baker and Chris Earls
Felix Editor
Jeremy Thomson
Questioned initially as to why he is standing for Felix Editor, Jeremy
suggested that he is "the best person to do it, from the experience
point of view." He stressed that he has been involved with Felix
throughout his three years at IC and therefore knows "all the back-
ground to it." In addition to his experience Jeremy emphasised that
with so many major issues due to be discussed in the coming year he
is "someone who isn't afraid to mince their words."
Discussing this year's News pages and how he wishes to change
them, Jeremy accepted that there may have be too much London
news saying "It's very important that any news that's not in IC is
directly relevant to students." He went on to say that while news of
IC research may be important it must be realised that Felix "is not a
College newspaper it's the student's newspaper."
As to the expression of political views in Felix, Jeremy insisted that
although he has his own opinions, "it's not up to me to make Felix
my political mouthpiece." He further expressed his wish to reunite
the current two sections of Felix into a single A4 publication, insisting
"We can get a lot more done, in the time, effort and money avail-
able."
With his extensive experience on the production and writing side of
Felix, Jeremy was asked whether he felt that there are any areas
where he needs training. He responded by conceding that most of the
finance side would be new to him and that "I don't have much experi-
ence in advertising."
DP (Clubs & Societies)
Sarah Thomas
Apart from her experience in City & Guilds and ICU hockey, Sarah
admitted that she has not been involved in other clubs and societies
but suggested that this was hot a problem. She highlighted her dual
perspective both from an individual club member and from the organi-
sation level as C&G President. With this and her current role as ICU
Council Chair in mind she denied suggestions that she might be
regarded as a hack, but pointed out that her experience has enabled
her to "pick out the way things have been done wrongly in the past".
With communication featuring in both manifestoes Sarah suggested
that she would like to see joint events between medics and those on
the South Kensington campus to alleviate the current "animosity".
She emphasised the Mary's involvement in the rugby club tours but
had difficulty suggesting what other type of joint events she envis-
aged. She denied that "ovciapping" clubs and societies should be
forced to merged but that people should be encouraged to communi-
cate and "let them make their decisions."
As Council Chair Sarah suggested that it was difficult for her to say
what she would have done differently to the current sabbatical team
with regard to the bookstore tender but did say that "in retrospect
maybe it should have been publicised a little more beforehand.". She
said that "however much protesting we do it's not going to change,
we have to accept the fact that we can't get it back."
Encouraging students to vote for her, Sarah said that her experi-
ence would enable her to "change the things that don't work and con-
tinue the things that do."
Smita Chaturvedi
With her limited experience in hockey and ACC, Samita denied that
she did not have enough experience to do the job, and suggested that
whatever she did not know at the start she would be able to pick up
at the start of her sabbatical year. Samita accepted that the only direct
experience she has of clubs, other than hockey, is of the Indian
Society and being involved with "a few of the sports societies". She
denied suggestions that she might favour sports clubs saying that
"because they [arts societies] are so small I'd like to bring them out
and promote them."
With regard to communication Samita suggested that joint social
events would be a way to break down the existing rivalry between
South Kensington and medical students. Samita agreed with her rival
candidate that any mergers should not be forced saying "I really do
think it's their decision". She did however admit that this might be to
the detriment of the overall student body commenting that "Yeah
maybe it will be a bit of a disadvantage", but denied that her position
was due to electoral expedience.
With regard to the recent loss of the academic bookstore, Samita
felt unable to offer an opinion on how the tender should have been
handled differently. "I wasn't there, I'm not on Council or anything"
she said before adding that "as far as I can see I wouldn't have
changed much."
Questioned as to why students should vote for her she replied that
"I'm very enthusiastic to do the job, I've got the energy and determi-
nation to do it well and would like to do it well."
DP (Finance & Services)
Duncan Tindall
Duncan revealed that he decided to stand a few weeks before papers
went up because "it just seemed the right thing to do". He picked out
communication as being an important issue, stating that as soon as
sabbaticals are elected, the 50 students on council "are the only peo-
ple that they see". He suggested that the new Clubs and Societies

