F E L I X F R I D A Y 2 8 T H F E B R U A R Y NEWS FEATURE 11
Resource Centre would aid communication, and it would be "helping
clubs to help themselves".
Duncan thought that he was "an approachable person" and that
"people would find it easier to talk to me than some of the other sab-
baticals of previous years". He thought that MSC and club treasurers
would have an easier job "if they have previous examples" of Budget
and 5 Year Plan submissions.
He claimed that we should ensure that "College knows the student
populous wasn't happy with" losing the Bookstore, although he
emphasised that it was "just one part of one of the Union's trading
arms." He said that the loss could raise interest from the students
and that "we have learnt a number of lessons" from the experience.
In defence of the current sabbaticals, he admitted that "it was a
very difficult situation for the Union to be in" and that "whatever hap-
pened the sabbs would be blamed."
On the future of ICU Bookstore, Duncan made the point that "there
will be more space for stationery, regalia and things like that". Finally
he said that they would have to "think quite hard" about their options
with the Bookstore.
Robert Clarice
Robert stated that he had "an ideal perspective" due to his experi-
ence in Industry. He also would like to see stronger communication,
especially with academic staff, saying that "academic staff do tend to
listen, far more than people give them credit for".
He pointed out that "its the average club treasurer who has to draw
up the 5 Year Plan" and thus they should be given more help, particu-
larly details of previous years' finances. He also suggested that the
training given to "people like club treasurers is not significant
enough".
Still on the topic of training, he felt that it could be expanded to
teach MSC treasurers "how they can train their clubs to improve the
input of 5YPs, budgets and costings." Robert stressed it was impor-
tant for there to be "a general filtering down of information from the
top," such as providing justification when 5YPs are cut.
Commenting on the loss of the Bookstore, Robert said that he felt
"its a bit of a disgrace that we lost it". But as the contracts were
signed all that could be done "is ensure that this type of thing never
happens again". He recommended that there should be "some deep
thought" into what the Union will use the current Bookstore site for.
With regard to tenders, he claimed the Union has "got to be strident
and actively chasing them".
He thought that the Union should seek to raise its profile "so that
people understand why we needed the bookstore" and the impor-
tance of financial independence.
He proposed that ICU ought to make use of its "direct 1-1 contact
with many members of staff" and warned that there was a risk that
"Waterstones will stock a very limited range of high profile books."
John Savery
John started by drawing attention to his experience in SCAB, as Chair
and Treasurer. He claimed that in the last year "things have improved
significantly" in SCAB. He said that "the next big thing" would be the
move of medical schools to the South Ken campus. He mentioned
that it was "a bit worrying" that the new halls have not yet received
planning permission, and that when Biology moves out of Beit Quad
"there isn't going to be any building time" to expand ICU. Stressing
that "the first year is going to be really hard work" due to the
increased demand on space and services.
On the subject of communication, John stated that " M S C chairs
get a hell of a lot of flak" and highlighted the need to "work together
as a team."
To help clubs prepare 5YPs and budgets, he recommended that
DP(F&S) should give more information on the previous year's submis-
sion, in particular why it was cut. He thought that "we need to be a
lot more open in what we say and do."
Speaking about the Bookstore he said that no matter what is done
"it's not going to win us it back." But we should "make students
realise" what services ICU provides and how they can influence
them.
ICU must advertise itself more, he claimed. If people had been bet-
ter informed about the Bookstore "there would have been a lot
more... gut feeling about it".
As to the future of the Bookstore, he said that we could "ask the
student what they want ... on their campus", making the point that
"nobody's asked that question yet."
President
Omar Kheir
Asked initially why he is standing for President, Omar emphasised the
fact that he has "been here a long time", and of his experience "from
the whole thing." He was unable however to suggest two things
which he would do during his year in the post saying, "I can't tell you
what I'm going to do. I couldn't honestly make any promises."
With the recent loss of the Union bookstore, Omar was pessimistic
about College's assurance to refund lost profits commenting, " if they
want to do something else they will and there's not much we can do
about it." He also suggested that "people are making a lot of fuss
over an issue I don't feel too strongly about" and that he doesn't see
it as a "horrible loss."
Following his joke manifesto, Omar refuted suggestions that he is
not a serious candidate insisting that he had been trying to "make an
impact" and that "there are some subtle digs in my manifesto." He
did admit though that there were irregularities with his nomination
papers and that his proposer did not actually sign them, as required by
the ICU Constitution.
On the issue of future education funding, Omar emphasised his
personal preference for a form of graduate tax, and said that unless
he is advised otherwise by IC students this would be his public line as
President.
Commenting on why people should vote for him, Omar suggested
that since he is a "people person", he expects support "simply
because they know me or they've been recommended to vote for
me."
Sam Baker
Pointing to her role as Academic Affairs Officer with the RCS and her
position as Dance Club President, Sam suggested that she was a suit-
able candidate as she had "seen things from different angles."
Questioned as to what she would do as President she responded that
"you can't move mountains", but that if elected she would do her
best to "represent all of the students at IC".
On the issue of the loss of the Union bookstore she felt that
"there's nothing we can really do about that, we can just work on
what we do have." Sam suggested that she would attempt to keep
College to their commitment to make up lost profits by "liaising with
College."
Asked about her limited experience, Sam admitted that "perhaps
compared to Omar yes I've got a lot more limited range of experi-
ences." She insisted however that her experience of Academic Affairs
would do "nothing but help me".
Sam conceded that on the issue of future student funding, "I don't
have a firm idea at all" but insisted that "I don't believe as President I
should have." She emphasised that she would represent all IC stu-
dents, but had difficulty saying how she would obtain a "consensus of
opinion" on this matter.
People should vote for her because "I can do the job, I'm willing to
do it", she said, adding that "I'm not just going for the people who
know me, think I'm a great person, if they like what they see and
believe I can do the job then they should vote for me."

