11
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
am still haunted by sudden night-
marish jolts of “Shit. What time
is it? Have I missed first lecture
again?” This is followed by en-
joying a light liquid relief of tea, whilst
staring into the familiar grey sky and
basking in the knowledge summer
brings, ignoring the lack of money, but
having the freedom to do anything,
whenever, wherever.
However, one critical barrier to this
freedom is the weather....the British live
through it. Much like the war effort, it
unifies people; we all know the experi-
ence and usually can find a whole con-
versation worth of complaints, which
somehow makes it more bearable. I
come from the south west, specifical-
ly Bristol. Now don’t get me wrong, I
love Bristol and am grateful that I grew
up there, I even rejoice in my slightly
twangy regional accent but (and it is a
big British BUT), since moving away to
the distinctly sunnier/drier south east,
I can make one observation; the south
west is WET. My childhood memo-
ries are full of camping/sailing trips
in Devon, Cornwall and South Wales,
all set against the back drop of grey,
endless weeks of drizzle and relent-
less rain drops. This is then followed
by a feeling of almost disrespect for
my parents. WHY would you actually
choose to live and holiday in a place
so notoriously damp? On asking my
parents this, a simple apathetic shoul-
der shrug and a look of hurt ensues.
You might think I am exaggerating.
Perhaps I am, but the South West pe-
ninsula is prone to very heavy rainfall
lasting from about 5 to 15 hours. The
famous downfall of 200mm devastat-
ed Boscastle, Cornwall on 16 August
2004 and is one of the many freakishly
typical summer showers, which hap-
pened to also be the week of the annual
family camping trip.
Maybe I should be more grateful for
those holidays, after all there is also a
great deal of hope when launching off
into a holiday in the South West, not
dissimilar to the rush of gambling at
a casino or betting on the under-dog,
partly because it does have some win-
ning potential. If through sheer luck,
you happen to holiday in a week of
totally amazing weather, you will be
able to longue on beautifully serene,
cliff encased beaches and with a bit of
blurry cider fuel, enjoy the night life of
the infamous Newquay, enhanced by
the rush of implausibility. I have expe-
rienced this rush once, when on holi-
day in Devon with friends, when we
received 3 whole blissful days of sun,
BBQ’s on the beach, skinny dipping
and the rest! The return of the rain
brought a couple of kooked up nights
in £10 Tesco tents before breaking into
a conveniently absent friend’s caravan
for shelter. I look back on those times
fondly and it reminds me that despite
rain, summer is summer and even
without sun there are still times to be
had. In fact, the optimist in me says,
that the British weather actually adds
to a holiday when in the right company
and becomes a kind of running joke.
Of course the obvious example of
this “joke” is the atmosphere at an
often wet Glastonbury, which dem-
onstrates the mass embrace for mud,
wellies and Macs.... it just adds to the
experience. A cliché, but a true one, so
for those who have never been on an
outdoor British summer experience, I
urge you to take a gamble.
The next time you have a free week in
the spring/summer and feeling partic-
ularly resilient, pack up a sturdy tent,
waterproofs and some baked beans
and head for the turbulent southwest.
At the very least it should help you to
realise an appreciation for the location
of Imperial.
Katie Tomlinson questions her parents
“Much like the war
effort, the British
weather unifies
people; we all know
the experience
and will happily
complain about it”
T
he memory was somewhat
hazy. I remember the cheese-
cake we brought upstairs,
the drunken chat (me being
drunk, she sober) ‒ and somehow I
ended in her car, confessing my affec-
tion for her. Then, further obscured by
the effects of intoxicants, my recollec-
tion says things got intimate.
Here’s the bummer. For a relation-
ship that accelerated at this rate — I
had only seen her three times before
the occasion — it would have been
such a heavenly pairing, that would
seem too good to be true. Well, this
certain scenario took place towards
the epilogue of my farewell party, since
two days later I was bound on a flight
to London from the Land of the Long
White Cloud.
That’s right. I fell in love with a girl in
New Zealand.
Which nicely typifies summer ro-
mances ‒ they happen in the most
unlikely of places, and they never
last long. They serve as heart-felt les-
sons in the field and, be it Romeo-ite
or Casanovan, deeply influences your
perception of love. They are unfor-
gettable, enduringly bittersweet, and,
particularly in my position, immensely
missed.
And it is from this new-found long-
ing, and experience, that I’ve had my
revelation.
I used to firmly believe in the notori-
ous male-to-female ratio, surrounded
by fellow believers, and blame much
of my failures on it. How foolish was I,
with hindsight, to base my ‘chances’ on
statistics and figures that hardly repre-
sent the fact.
So allow me to urge you, ladies and
especially gentlemen, to venture out
of the endearing pessimism. For the
Freshers ‒ being one myself only three
months ago ‒ clinging on to the only
familiar setting that is Imperial Col-
lege in unfamiliarity is absolutely fair
enough. But once acquaintances be-
came old, and routines repetitive, isn’t
it time to try something new?
And to emphasise my point, I’ll play
the hypocrite and cite the golden rule
of relationships-past: move on.
All in all, do not put too much faith
in the faux safety of your comfort zone,
let alone dwell in it. In our case, fellow
members of our celebrated institute,
try not to confine your sex life to with-
in the boundaries of Imperial.
And guys, if you’ve yet again con-
demned Imperial’s most clichéd ratio
for falling short of that hot chick, go
straighten up your dick and try hard-
er. If the sixty-seven-to-thirty-three
blame game (and/or Warcraft) is the
only game you play, then I’m afraid ho-
mosexuality is your only other option
for inter-human sexual enlightenment.
People say that university is not all
about academic achievements. Bear
that in mind when you engage in so-
cieties you’ve found at Freshers’ Fair,
or continue pursuing your previous
interests. You will come to appreciate
the benefits brought by the social op-
portunities not only from inside the
university, but outside of it.
If it wasn’t for my hitchhiking stunt
from London to Morocco, I wouldn’t
have discovered a lifelong friendship in
my hitch partner, who goes to Queen
Mary. If it wasn’t for fencing, which I
picked up last year at Freshers’ Fair, I
wouldn’t have met a horde of ridicu-
lously gracious Kiwis and befriended
them, with one of which I have further
developed something I could only de-
scribe as magical.
I appreciate that, being an Imperial
student, we are less inclined to include
any more activities in our busy lives
other than the odd sporting commit-
ment, frequent pilgrimage to the li-
brary and generally drinking ourselves
into liver failure. But if we look around,
with a bit of time management skills,
there are numerous opportunities for
discovery, each potentially taking us
into the real world where zero bollocks
ratios ‘define’ our love lives.
So do have faith, and for heaven’s
sake do do something. That’s because,
just like summer romances, you can-
not find it around the corner when you
haven’t even bothered taking the turn.
Meanwhile I’m spending way too
much time gazing into the snapshot.
She was by my side, my arms wrapped
around her shoulders; she was smil-
ing to the camera. I will keep remind-
ing myself how much I love her still,
and lamenting on the opportunity we
are never blessed with to take things
further.
At least for now.
Disclaimer: The picture above is not
of Dylan Lowe and his partner.
Dylan Lowe falls in love with a Kiwi
“And guys, if you’ve
condemned Im-
perial’s clichéd
male:female ratio,
go straighten up
your dick and try
harder.”

