12 felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
COMMENT
I
have milk intolerant cats and I
am now questioning my entire
existence!
If my cats were people they
would be prissy fashionistas not
Aristocats! Their attitude can, I sup-
pose, be partly attributed to the fact I
have taken to referring to them under
the pseudonym of pharaohs of ancient
Egypt or translations like “little king”.
One such example of their insanity
is their refusal to relinquish their fur
coats, they insist upon wearing even in
the heat of the English summer! And
now as the headline suggests they have
selected to vomit up any food which
does not suit their delicate palates
only to then gorge in the middle of the
night on rich sauced meats and alco-
hol. Should this bulimia continue, they
shall have to be sectioned. (I should
make clear at this point in the summer,
I have been living alone for two weeks
and it’s all getting rather Howard
Hughes. Any alcohol consumed by my
cats was not forced consumption, but
simply passive inhalation of fermenta-
tion fumes).
Anyway I am rather disillusioned
with the new “rep” my cats are getting
for themselves...I would say they were
even on the ‘erb (catnip) but I fear (as
I am sure they do) that would be buy-
ing into the stereotype too much...late
night parties, fine dining, fine clothes
and drugs. No no, no one wants their
image to be completely contrived;
there’s nothing worse in fashion.
I was reading something the other
day in the Guardian supplement maga-
zine (not because i am cultured enough
to sit and read the Guardian – it was
on the floor of a train, so rather I am
courteous enough to pick up rubbish);
see now you’re getting a better picture
of who I am. Taken in by the picture on
the front I decided to read on. Bear in
mind my screening process for litera-
ture of worth at this point is anything
that can top the all so nail-biting “no
smoking” sign. Though newspapers
rarely make the cut, not due to their
content, rather their constitution, they
leave that horrid inky residue, making
you look like you’ve had fisticuffs with
a chimney sweep. I would much rather
breeze through glossy magazine pages
or paw the pages of a new book where
at least the print is fixed to the paper.
I would prefer the phrase “the words
leapt off the page” to remain a meta-
phor. I understand papers are kept
cheap to provide news for hoi polloi,
but I will not support this effort to illu-
minate the masses by allowing people
to read my forehead should I mistak-
enly mop my brow after reading. Not
to worry, they will probably be offering
free disposable gloves with every paper
soon to decrease the spread of swine
flu, every cloud...
I digress! The article in the aforemen-
tioned supplement (other supplements
are available , for example, ‘Fabulous’
with a heartfelt interview with Pe-
ter Andre and how much he loves his
godamn kids) brought up ‘The URGE’
The tag line reads ‘ever been tempted
by the perverse?’ Standing on the edge
of a high cliff and suddenly thinking
and pondering with great intensity,
what if I jumped?! Standing a little too
close to the platform edge or having
thoughts of swerving into oncoming
traffic? All are possible symptoms of
The Urge. It seems the fear of death
plays a big role and toying with the
thought of our mortality. One sugges-
tion for the origin of such thoughts is
that it is a safety mechanism; by imag-
ining the most catastrophic outcome
of our actions it forces us to ‘back away
from the edge’.
One such minor example of the
urge manifested in myself is; pushing
against a pane of glass. I have old sash
windows at home and when rain hits
the glass – it gives that brittle twang
that makes it seem like it could shatter
easily, so sometimes I push really hard
with my index finger on the window
and tempt it to crack. (Insert pun re-
garding my mental state!)
Conversely, the desire to not react,
procrastination; another trait I exhibit
without abeyance. Something of the
highest importance needs to be done
‘now-or-never’ and yet you find your-
self putting it off until tomorrow, for
no other reason than to force yourself
tantalisingly close to the reality you do
not wish to see.
The article did however reassure us
that these feelings are probably com-
pletely natural, helpful even, and com-
pared this phenomenon to that of a
toddler testing boundaries. It is all part
of personal development. Or not.
Could it be part of a desire to break
free? To break away from the monot-
ony? To shake up your life and spark
you into action! Like a volcano – surg-
es of intense readiness to burst, often
qwelled, but with an uneasy rever-
beration that leaves you unsteady yet
exhilarated. And in a world where you
could find yourself trailing along with
the masses, doing the standard 9 to 5
thing and falling foul of all the social
norms you never thought you would,
you might just be tempted to stand
past the yellow line.
Or else – is it this new obsession with
The X Factor? With everyone believing
they could be the special one, that they
are utterly unique, they are extraor-
dinary, that forces us into the outra-
geous, if only to prove we can stand
out in a crowd.
Maybe we are just bored.
Vicki Masding has some odd cats
“Standing on the
edge of a high
cliff and suddenly
thinking and
pondering with
great intensity,
what if I jumped?!”
I’m done with being nice for the Freshers’ sake, almost...
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
W
elcome back to Impe-
rial. Old habits die hard
and I’m glad you’ve
picked up felix once
again. I bet you’ve missed holding the
slightly crispy collection of pages each
week, desperately flicking through
them to find something even a fraction
more entertaining than what you’re
meant to be doing.
For those who have picked up this pa-
per for the first time, thank you and well
done on finally becoming a proper Im-
perial student. Whether you like or hate
felix and its twisted sense of humour,
you haven’t stitched yourself into the
social fabric of College until you’ve read
then thrown us to the floor in vigorous
disgust, delight or boredom.
To those whom I haven’t yet had the
pleasure of being introduced, I’m Dan,
and I’m sure you’ve all mistakenly voted
me in as Editor.
Despite appearances, I’ve been work-
ing hard, albeit sporadically, over the
summer. The will to leave South Ken-
sington for more than a day at a time
fights a constant battle with the joy and
rushes I get from doing my work as Edi-
tor. I’ve already produced the Freshers’
Handbook and the Freshers’ issue of
felix. I think I’m done with being arti-
ficially chirpy for the sake of the Fresh-
ers. I’m extremely delighted to return to
spitting nails at the rest of you! I jest.
To those familiar with felix, you’ll
have noticed a redesign, from masthead
to paper size. I hope you like it. Some
of the changes were necessary and most
were unnecessary, but I hope it is the
content that you define felix with. As
I promised in my overly-strung mani-
festo, the news will be feature-led and
there will be a return of student-drawn
comics and an agony aunt.
For those who remembered, Needy
McNeedy departed our ranks two years
ago. I still see her wandering around the
Union craving cheap and dirty pints,
her addictions have got the better of
her, and a comeback was categorically
off the cards. Instead, we’ve recruited
the socially-skewed mind of Aunty
McPickle. Check out her ramblings in
the extended Coffee Break section.
One welcome leads to many. We
have new Section Editors on board,
namely in Arts, Science, Technology,
Business, and Politics. We hope you
enjoy their ramblings.
Felixonline.co.uk will be a website
that I’ll be proud to showcase, and I
hope everyone finds it simple and fun
to use. You’ll be able to see the latest
stories with video accompaniment, and
then spew your verbal ejaculation onto
our discussion boards.
I want to thank both Chris Birkett
and Ravi Pall on behalf of the entire fe-
lix team for their effort and time given
towards the website this summer. Any-
one that sees them should immediately
offer them a hug and pint, in whichever
order preferable. The website should be
up and running in the near future, so
look out for it. No doubt, we’ll dance
and shout about it when it’s finally
launched.
Then there was my promise to open
up felix as a club. From here on in, I’d
consider every student at Imperial a
member. Those who read it are also the
ones that could potentially write for it.
Those who don’t read it also have an
equal chance of writing for it. We don’t
expect masterpieces coming through
our mailboxes everyday; we expect
things written with interest and pas-
sion. You can submit an article to any
section of the paper. We are in no posi-
tion to refuse the submission of a rea-
sonable article written by an Imperial
student.
If you missed us at Freshers’ Fair, first
off: shame on you for not coming to
find us as soon as you stepped foot onto
soggy ground that morning. Secondly,
it doesn’t really matter if you didn’t see
us. There’s no boat to miss, and you can
write, edit and have a bit of a laugh with
felix whenever you want throughout
the year.
I’ve probably said this a million times
to so many of you, but if you see me
around College, pick my brains. If you
don’t see me around College, come
down to the felix office in the West
Wing of Beit Quad.
“I hope you like the
new design. Some
of the changes were
necessary and most
where unnecessary,”

