14
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
NICE (The National Institute for
Health and Clinical Excellence) is a
health authority of the NHS. Its func-
tion is to publish appraisals on whether
or not particular treatments should be
considered for use by the NHS. NICE
was established partially as a result of
the controversy surrounding the ‘post
code lottery’ wherein particular treat-
ments were given to patients based
on the geographical location of their
home. It is the body responsible for the
approval of life-extending drugs, nota-
bly Herceptin and Revlimid.
NICE invites consultee and commen-
tator organisations to take part in the ap-
praisal (these can include a variety of dif-
ferentgroupswithwildlydifferingagendas
i.e. manufacturers of competing drugs,
patient groups, health care professionals
etc). Along with this, there is an academic
centre which collates all the information
on the drug undergoing appraisal and pre-
pares a report. Interplay between these
bodiesandafurtherindependentappraisal
committee leads to the creation of an ap-
praisal consultation document which is
submitted to NICE for approval.
It’s all rather professional and trans-
parent really. NICE appraisals are
based on calculations and evaluations
of drugs according to cost-effective-
ness in specific life scenarios. In other
words, it’s a trade off between money
and life. Sound dodgy? You know, the
whole quantifying the value of life
thing? Well it shouldn’t.
QALY stands for quality adjusted
life year. This is a quantitative meas-
ure used to guage the health benefits
provided by a treatment regime. This is
calculated as the number of years that
would be added as a result of the treat-
ment, with each year in perfect health
assigned a value of 1.0, through to im-
mediate death with a value of 0. Prob-
lems arise in that some argue that there
are health states worse than death, and
that therefore as a result there should
be negative values possible on the
health spectrum. Also, determining
the level of health depends on meas-
ures that some argue can place dis-
proportionate importance on physical
pain or disability over mental health.
The effects of a patient’s health on the
quality of life of others (e.g. caregiv-
ers or family) do not figure into these
calculations.
The weighting values of between 0
and 1 are usually determined by meth-
ods such as the following: Time-trade-
off (TTO), Visual Analogue Scale, and
Standard Gamble, as explained in the
right hand box.
However, the weight assigned to a
particular condition can vary greatly,
depending on the population being
surveyed. For example those who do
not suffer from the affliction in ques-
tion are on average more likely to
overestimate the detrimental effect on
quality of life, compared to those who
are afflicted.
QALY is used in cost-utility analysis
to calculate the ratio of cost against
QALYs saved for a particular health
care intervention (i.e. an older more
established drug that may have a lower
efficacy). This is then used to allocate
healthcare resources (finite resources
provided by the taxpayer also required
for other medical purposes such as
helping keep babies alive - the other
end of the spectrum), with an inter-
vention with a lower cost to QALY
saved ratio being preferred and as a re-
sult chosen over an intervention with a
higher ratio. This method is controver-
sial because it means that some people
will not receive treatment as it is calcu-
lated that the cost of the intervention
is not warranted by the benefit to their
quality of life (as a guideline, NICE ac-
cepts, as cost effective, those interven-
tions with an incremental cost-effec-
tiveness ratio of less than £20,000 per
QALY, rising to £30,000 on occasions)
Its supporters argue that since health
care resources are inevitably limited,
this method enables them to be allo-
cated in the way that is most beneficial
to society relative to other treatments
i.e. instead of most beneficial to the
single patient. This makes logical sense
in a way that most sane people can un-
derstand. Finite NHS resources dictate
the necessity to prioritise some treat-
ments over others.
Since the UK is a welfare state, basic
health care is fundamentally free to all
citizens in the sense that it is funded by
general taxation including national in-
surance contributions. This model, de-
spite all criticism of the NHS, has been
generally accepted as a good thing 60
years on. And so I hear you ask, “why
is this topical now and what does this
have to do with NICE”. Well…..this is
where it gets a bit more political.
It seems as though our neighbours
on the other side of the pond have re-
cently taken to a bit of NHS bashing,
you know, the whole “evil” “orwellian”
and “socialist” rhetoric. This wave of
abuse came in response to murmurs
from congressional republican town
hall meetings of the proposal for state-
sponsored “death panels” as part of
Obamas support for a completely pub-
licly funded healthcare programme.
Since then, the Obama administration
has announced they would support a
‘health insurance cooperative’, which
represents a compromise from their
stance earlier in the summer, but is at
least slightly progressive. The last time
a similar democratic health care plan
was proposed (the Clinton adminis-
tration in 1993) it was shot down by a
pact of conservatives, libertarians and
the health insurance industry. And so
the grim fact remains; the USA is the
only wealthy industrialised nation that
does not provide universal health care.
They are in a blinkered minority in be-
lieving that health care is a service, and
not a fundamental human right (out-
side the realm of one’s ability to pay).
NathanLey
NathanLey Science Editor
Be grateful for the ‘Death Panels’
The welfare state may be under attack, but the method and philosophy remains by far the fairest option
Here, respondents are asked to
choose between either remaining
in a state of ill health for a period
of time, or being restored to per-
fect health but having a shorter life
expectancy.
Respondants are asked to rate a
state of ill health on a scale from 0 to
100, with 0 representing death and
100 representing a state of perfect
health. This method has the advan-
tage of being the easiest to ask, but
it is the most subjective. It can be
considered as similar to other linear
scales such as the Borg scale
In this method, respondents are
asked to choose between remain-
ing in a state of ill health for a pe-
riod of time, or choosing a medical
intervention which has a chance
of either restoring them to perfect
health, or killing them
Time-trade-off (TTO) Visual analogue scale (VAS) Standard gamble (SG)
Consequently, they at present have a
society in which health insurance is
available to the highest bidder subject
to the harsh conditions presented by
market forces. All this results in a na-
tion in which medical debt is the high-
est cause of personal bankruptcy.
As recently as last week Florida
Democrat Alan Grayson accused re-
publicans of obstructing health care
reform as “foot-dragging, knuckle-
dragging Neanderthals”. And you can
see his point. He based his opinions
on a Harvard study which concluded
that the US health care crisis is costing
44,000 lives a year. All this in the most
powerful country on earth? I’ll take
death panels any day.
The USA will continue to stick to
their ways so long as scaremongering
and demonisation remain effective po-
litical tools. Whilst the UK will contin-
ue to provide treatment and approve
effective and cost-effective drugs in
accordance with democratic scientific
judgement in a way which does not
hinge on how much cash someone has
sat in their kitty. NICE is entirely nec-
essary and continues to perform a fair
and proper role in our society.
A new publishing company was
launched in London last month.
MediKidz started originally in New
Zealand in 2006, but has now they aim
for global business to produce comic
books about as many medical condi-
tions as possible.
Two medical doctors Dr Kate Hers-
ov and Dr Kim Chilman-Blair realized
there was hardly any child-friendly
information about illnesses that af-
fect children all over the world. Af-
fected children are left to their own
devices. Their families are left with
the burden of explaining the medical
issues surrounding their condition.
“There is no medical information for
kids” Chilman-Blair told Felix. “Often
when we made a diagnosis of a young
child we felt helpless that we had noth-
ing to give the child themselves to un-
derstand what we had just told them,”
Hersov told the BBC.
So, the two doctors decided to start a
series of comic books that would even-
tually cover up to 300 most common
paediatric conditions, including condi-
tions such as asthma, leukemia, HIV
and diabetes. They already have 26 ti-
tles in stock, and several UK hospitals
ordered copies as well a national cater-
ing company that is going to distribute
comic books about obesity in schools
around the country.
The comic book series features su-
perhero team called MediKidz. They
live on a planet that is shaped like a
human body, the MediLand. Each
character has super powers related to
certain part of the body, such as Chi,
an expert in lungs, or Axon, a brain
specialist. In each comic book they
take a child character on an exciting
tour of Mediland, explaining along the
way the disease the child suffers from,
what caused it and how it can be di-
agnosed and treated. So each comics
book is like a package of information
explaining both the science behind the
disease and the issues that patients will
encounter such as medical procedures
and medication they will have to take.
Importantly the scientific information
is delivered in an engaging and humor-
ous way, through visually appealing
comic books.
“Comic books appeal to kids across
the board” Chilman-Blair told Felix
in an interview, “They appeal to both
boys and girls, and even parents can
learn from them. We would like our
comics to become a one-stop-shop for
all medical issues.”
This isn’t the first time anyone came
up with the idea of using comics to
deliver scientific or medical informa-
tion. Comics have also been used in
health promotion and to help children
cope with the psychological impact of
diseases including cancer and diabe-
tes, examples include Captain Chemo
comics and Omega Boy vs Dr. Diabe-
tes. Some of these have actually been
drawn and conceived by the children
patients themselves, perhaps showing
the need and inclination of children
for such materials in a comic book
medium. The comic books can be
purchased from their website (www.
medikidz.com) for £5.99 each, and
part of the cost is contributed to the
charity MediKidz Foundation, which
aims to help educate children in the
developing countries and deliver this
information to them for free. The com-
ics are good value for money, in this re-
viewer’s opinion. They explain quite a
bit of science in the 32 pages, and the
narrative is actually very engaging. If
you don’t want to cash out for com-
ics but still want to support MediKidz’
charitable aims, you can join them on
Facebook and Twitter.
MediKidz: Superheroes explain medicine to children
MicoTatalovic
MicoTatalovic Science Reporter
Skinderella is one of six superheroes
making understanding medicine easy

