15
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
What is Science? What should Science
be? How does theory become fact?
These are all very worthwhile ques-
tions, but are they useful? Do they even
have answers? Philosophy of science is
concerned with the assumptions, foun-
dations and implications of science,
from problems of proof to other ethical
problems.
Every student at Imperial College
uses and applies ‘science’ everyday,
whether that be in a lab, lecture or
workshop, working with a set of prin-
ciples which are set in stone. These
principles guide us through problem
sheets, projects and experiments, and
in general our degrees would be bloody
difficult without them. One aspect of
the philosophy deals directly with this
issue, it deals with the fundamentals
of science, the very building blocks on
which science is based.
From Newton’s Laws to the survival
of the fittest, these principles are the
bare bones of science. But, one thing
that annoys me bitterly is when people
compare science to a religion, saying
that it is founded on a set of ‘beliefs’,
and these ‘beliefs’ are no more con-
clusive than any other theory. This
started me thinking, how could I prove
that what we are studying is solid,
indisputable and unequivocal fact?
However, before I start sounding too
much like Richard Dawkins, I would
like to say that science, by definition,
is responsible for the fundamentals of
the universe. But why? These ‘beliefs’
translate into the laws, methods and
predictions by which science and sci-
entists obey. Newton’s laws are known
to be laws because of the fact that they
are universal, but we cannot test each
and every case in which they apply
to truly test that they are universal. It
would be a complete waste of time. We
expect the sun to rise every morning
and it does without fail, but there is ab-
solutely no way we can be totally sure
that tomorrow it won’t. People don’t
panic every night about the possibility
of no sun the next day. Human intui-
tion leads us to believe that Newton’s
laws are universal and that the sun will
rise tomorrow, because we have never
experienced a situation where they
haven’t occurred, and it’s our nature to
expect what has come before.
I am not trying to convince you here
that you should abandon all hope and
trust in science and run away in the
opposite direction, more questioning
the fact that should we be questioning
the science that we are being taught
here? Could one complete an entire
degree and then turn around and
ask how, what and why you studied
this subject. Would asking questions,
which could shake the foundations of
science, be worth the effort? An anal-
ogous situation to this is a child asking
the question ‘why’ repeatedly, every-
one’s done it, and will have it done too
them. It is annoying, but hark back to
your childhood and you’ll realise that
the reason that you did it was sim-
ply because you were curious about
your surroundings. Why do light
bulbs work? Electricity, why? Heats
up the metal inside.......why? etc, and
the conversation would end up with
a stern ‘because I said so’ from your
parents. Why not try this technique
with lectures, see what happens when
you ask them for conclusive proof that
the sun will rise tomorrow or that E
always, without a shadow of a doubt,
equals mc2.
Do we really have to bore ourselves
Philosophy of Science: a help or hindrance?
RichardHoward
RichardHoward Science Reporter
A mental workout in all respects - enter the Brain Gym
This is exactly where I have been go-
ing wrong all these years. So many
lectures I have spent trying as hard
as possible to concentrate on the de-
lights displayed before me, only to
be greeted by an unavoidable wall of
sleep hitting within first ten minutes.
But now a technique has come to light,
something so extraordinary and unu-
sual, it must work. Children’s concen-
tration spans are being improved up
and down the country thanks to an in-
creasingly popular ‘movement-based’
programme known as the ‘Brain Gym.’
According to the official website for
‘Educational Kinesiology and Brain
Gym’ this revolutionary technique has
been practiced for 27 years and is used
in over 80 countries worldwide. Many
schools teach its methods on a daily
basis and the reported results are often
of a profound increase in concentra-
tion, calmness and learning ability.
My problem with this? Don’t think
for one minute I opposed to teach-
ers using any creative method they
can think up in a moment of panic
to restore discipline to a room full of
25-odd school children. My issue lies
with the way in which Brain Gym is
presented to be a science. An actual
method where the processed involved
are directly and unquestionably linked
to the results achieved.
Some of what the Brain Gym cur-
riculum teaches is common sense and
BrigetteAtkins
BrigetteAtkins Science Editor sound advice. For example, it advises
pupils drink water often throughout
the day to hydrate the body and allow
for better concentration. This is fair
enough; a person is likely to be less
attentive if they are dehydrated. Un-
fortunately the Brain Gym Teachers
Edition does then go on to say ‘proc-
essed foods do not contain water’ and
foods such as soup are ‘processed in
the body as food’ and ‘[do] not serve
the body’s water needs’. Aside from
this obsession about water, there are
other methods to engage your mind
in preparation for learning. Most are
more than a little obscure and several
are actually quite tricky to coordi-
nate, involving twisting your fingers
into complicated knots to connect
the pathways in your brain. In the
box are some of the more popular
Brain Gym exercises. You may like to
try them out in lectures for your own
amusement.
While these routines are pretty
laughable in themselves, the fact that it
is being taught as a ‘science’ to young
children is worrying. What Brain
Gym actually is a pseudoscience, lit-
tered technical terms and packed with
oceans of irrelevant or incorrect ‘sci-
ence’ to market a supposedly proven-
to-work product at an unknowing
mass – in this case children. It is also,
for teachers, a quick and seemingly
cheap cure-all to manage a lesson in an
age where every child seems come with
a behavioural disability label attached
and tougher child protection legisla-
tions make controlling a classroom in-
creasingly difficult.
Brain Gym is not an entirely new
concept, the teachers’ handbook from
1989 is still in use, but with over 1700
teachers recently trained in its meth-
ods by the one body, Osiris, at around
£3000 per head, Brain Gym is fast be-
coming big business.
The trouble is, it probably works. We
are all affected by the placebo effect
to varying degrees and teacher or pu-
pil expectation of such a programme
will have an enormous influence on
results in the classroom. However
dressing up what is, in all honesty, a
way to get children to burn off some
energy and settle down as factual sci-
ence is completely misleading and
incorrect. As Ben Goldacre quoted in
the Guardian’s ‘Bad Science’ column;
‘In an ideal world, we would be teach-
ing children enough science in school
that they were able to stand up to a
teacher who was spouting this kind of
rubbish.’
Brain Gym basics:
Brain Buttons - this will (apparently) increase blood flow to your
brain and help ‘switch [the brain] on’ before a lesson: make as large
a ‘C’ as you can with your forefinger and thumb. Place this below
your collar bone on each side of your sternum. Press lightly in a puls-
ing manner. At the same time, pulse your navel area with your other
hand for around two minutes.
Cross Crawl – helps information pass between the left and right
hemispheres of the brain. Essential for language skills. Can be done
standing or sitting (I would recommend the latter mid-lecture): with
a marching motion, put your left hand on your right knee as you
bring it up. Change hands for your left knee as you raise it. Again,
two minutes should do the trick.
Hook-Ups – despite a promising title, this appears to be one of the
more complicated routines. For calming nerves simply: standing or
sitting, cross your right ankle over your left. Do the same with your
wrists but link your fingers keeping your right hand on top. Bend out
your elbows and turn the fingers towards your body until they rest
on your sternum. Stay like this for several minutes.
Hold it, this guy needs calm and a
time to reflect right now
“I am not trying to
convince you here
that you should
abandon all hope
and trust in science
and run away
in the opposite
direction...”
with all this rubbish, shouldn’t we let
science go about its daily business.
Nothing so far, of this kind, has sunk
the great ship science and hopefully
will never. But the thing that grinds
my gears is the fact that the essence of
science is to deal with these obscure
hang ups, and clear the room of these
enigmatic spiders’ webs. This philo-
sophical problem is like a bad rash, if
you ignore it, it might go away. How-
ever, it is more likely that it’ll stay, and
what is much more of a pain is that
there are no clear cut ways of dealing
with them.
In gaining knowledge on how the
fundamentals of science are proven to
be fundamental, in themselves, would
we be better off as a student of science
and related subjects? Would be able to
appreciate the detail, intricacies and,
dare I say, beauty of science more?
Philosophy of science has a go at
shedding light on this particular prob-
lem, so should we be taught it in our
mainstream courses?

