16
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
In a General
Election year
A
nother year begins in
British politics with the
reopening of Parliament
on 12th October. This
year will see a general
election, most likely in May, in which
the Conservative party will almost cer-
tainly win. The only real question is-
by how much?
Recent polling data from YouGov
show the Conservatives to have a 14%
lead over Labour in the popular vote,
which would correspond to an overall
majority of 70, or 360 seats for the To-
ries, 199 for Labour and 55 for the Lib
Dems. This of course far from guaran-
tees a Tory win, polling data in the UK
often proves inaccurate, if only because
we are still so far away from the elec-
tion date and so much could happen
between now and May.
So why have the Conservatives taken
such a lead? As is too often the case in
politics, people aren’t thinking of voting
Conservative because they particularly
like them, but because they no longer
approve of Labour. Since 1997, Labour
have taken the country into 2 unpopu-
lar wars, put the country in the worst
economic position to recover from the
global recession and encroached on civ-
il liberties. On top of this, popular senti-
ment appears to be of the opinion that
Labour has had long enough to enact
the changes which they had promised
12 years ago.
So as we come up to the general elec-
tion, what promises will the parties
make, and will it matter? The number
of people who will read the 3 main par-
ties manifestoes will be negligible in
proportion to the number that vote, and
as such the vote, if it were to be close, is
likely to be decided by the charisma of
the leaders and the slogans of the party,
rather than from any detailed inspec-
tion of their policies.
Assuming the election is in May, the
parties still have over half a year in
which to persuade the electorate to vote
for them, and as such it is still quite early
for anyone to lay down grand plans for
government. However, the past 3 weeks
have seen the main parties’ political
conferences and they have been fairly
telling. Labour spent their conference
addressing themselves in an attempt to
unite the party, though this meant an
absence of reaching out to the country.
The Lib Dem conference main high-
light was watching Nick Clegg distance
himself from the party by going against
one of their long held ideals- that there
should be no tuition fees.
Tuition fees being a matter important
to students, and by pointing out that
the Lib Dems might have to keep tui-
tion fees if it proved ‘too expensive’ to
scrap them, they are sure to lose student
votes. The so called ‘Mansion Tax’ on
homes worth over £1m also didn’t meet
with much approval amongst the party.
The Conservative conference saw the
signs of a rift in the party about Europe
and the potential for a referendum on
the Lisbon treaty.
The Tories are aware that they have
not won yet, and the main message to
the party has been to not be complacent
of victory, but to truly win over the peo-
ple and secure a ‘“strong and positive
mandate” for the bold plans to revive
the economy. These would include tax
cuts for new businesses and assessing
everyone on disability allowance for
their ability to work.
Still, almost an entire year of univer-
sity waits before the general election is
likely to occur and lots could happen in
that time, though it does seem that a
miracle would be needed for Labour to
hold their majority. Who knows, maybe
Gordon Brown will show us his char-
ismatic competent side which he has
managed to hide so very well. Or maybe
Cameron will turn out to be a pimp.
JamesLees
JamesLees Politics Editor
The most important question in politics today: Dominic Grieve MP, hot or not?
Fixing Broken Britain?
This week is the Conservative
Party Conference, held in Manches-
ter. Wednesday’s main theme was
“fixing broken Britain”. A number of
issues were being addressed, includ-
ing schooling, sport, and welfare re-
form, but I want to look at proposals
by Shadow Justice Secretary Dominic
Grieve MP, that will enable the dis-
closure of offenders’ identities to the
public. Woah! alarm bells are ring-
ing in my head already. I’m thinking
of the words ‘vigilante’, ‘lynchings’ and
‘revenge’.
This is supposedly to aid crime pre-
vention and public safety. I believe
this will, in fact, do the opposite. Re-
leasing the details of offenders will, I
think, lead to revenge attacks, possi-
bly against innocent members of the
public.
Picture this: a kid’s bike is stolen.
Kid tells Dad. Dad ‘googles’ local of-
fenders, and finds a man living 3
streets away, who, as a teenager, stole
a bike. “Hey! It’s him!” One drunken
night, Dad and mates go to this guy’s
house, who made a mistake years ago,
and hence forth, hospitalise him. Dad
and mates go to prison. And the kid
still doesn’t have his bike back! Now,
this may seem far-fetched, but it could
happen!
I think that just because you are,
in the eyes of the law, an ‘offender’,
doesn’t give the government the right
to tell all who you are, especially when
many crimes are mistakes from a past
life. Many criminals are reformed, and
should be able to continue with their
lives. Imagine if you had a criminal
record, and you were then put in a da-
tabase for all to see. Would you be OK
with this?
Now, you may be wondering, what
about a persons right to privacy? This
is one of the fundamental Human
Rights, guarded by the Human Rights
Act.
Not a problem for the Tories it
seems, as they are planning to annul
this cornerstone of Justice. WHAT!
This is just plain wrong! The pledge
reads that under a Tory government,
“The Human Rights Act 1998 will be
repealed and replaced with a British
Bill of Rights, which will enable the UK
to rebalance laws in favour of public
protection”. Denying a person’s right
to privacy, whoever that person may
be, can never be justified, and the fact
that a major political party is actively
proposing this is very worrying. Es-
pecially when, because of the amount
of in-fighting in the Labour party
over the recent months, and the little
public support for the Liberal Demo-
crats, it looks like they will be our next
Government.
Fixing broken Britain?, or breaking
Britain some more?
Cries of corruption cripple Romania in run-up to November Presidential Election
Romania appears to be in turmoil
following the dismissal of a govern-
ment minister. Dan Nica, the Internal
Minister and member of the Social
Democratic Party (PSD) was fired by
Prime Minister Emil Boc of the Demo-
cratic Liberal Party (PD-L), who then
proposed a member of his own party
as the replacement.
In late September Nica made claims
that all buses had been hired at the
time of the upcoming November elec-
tion, alleging that they were going to be
used to move people around, thereby
allowing them to vote more than once.
The PSD, who are currently the mi-
nority party in a coalition government
with the PD-L, responded to the dis-
missal of Nica by all 9 ministers who
are part of the PSD resigning in protest,
which in turn has caused a lack of con-
fidence in the Romanian government.
All this is occurring at a time when
Romania is struggling to fulfil obliga-
tions in a deal for financial aid from the
IMF- a deal worth €20bn. The collapse
of the coalition government prompted
Fitch Ratings to say that Romania’s
credit rating with the IMF could be
downgraded if it created significant de-
terioration to economic policies, which
would in turn cause long term difficul-
ties for the already troubled state.
The threat of this has caused the PSD
to come out in support of the continu-
ing reforms proposed by the PD-L, but
they will also be attempting to join with
the liberal opposition to try to bring
down Boc’s cabinet in a no confidence
vote, a move which is likely to create
even more uncertainty for Romania.
The IMF is demanding sweeping fis-
cal reforms aimed at limiting uninhib-
ited salary growth in the public sector,
ensuring how tax money is spent and
controlled and clarifying salary levels
in different sectors. The end goal be-
ing to free up state money for mod-
ernisation, which is vital in bringing
back foreign investment, preventing a
financing crisis, and diminishing fraud
in the 2nd most corrupt EU state, as
revealed by Transparency Internation-
al last November.
In response to what is perceived as
James Lees
James Lees Politics Editor
Phil Murray
Phil Murray Politics Editor
public sector pay cuts, over 800,000
public workers have gone out on strike
in the most wide-ranging protest in the
country since the fall of Communism.
The average teacher or hospital
worker is currently on approximately
$500 a month, which is significantly
lower than the average for the EU. As
such, further pay cuts, when combined
with the governments’ planned com-
pulsory unpaid leave later this year,
have been deemed unacceptable by
trade union officials who announced
strikes may be extended and a mass
rally is to be held on Wednesday.
“The most wide
ranging protest
in the country
since the fall of
Communism”
“all 9 ministers
who are part of the
PSD resigning in
protest”
Want to write for the Politics section?
Email any of the Editors at
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk

