17
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
Surveillance Society
In 1994, the paper CCTV: Looking out
for you by the Home Office under Con-
servative Prime Minister John Major
was published. Mr. Major was not ter-
ribly concerned: “I have no doubt we
will hear some protest about a threat
to civil liberties. Well, I have no sym-
pathy whatsoever for so-called liber-
ties of that kind.” It is understood that
Mr. Major held the view ‘if you have
nothing to hide, you have nothing to
fear’ giving the Conservatives the carte
blanche to blitzkrieg the private lives of
ordinary citizens. There is one CCTV
camera for every fourteenth person
and it does certainly act as a deterrent
in some places, but while CCTV is a
valuable tool for investigating crime,
footage rarely secures a conviction
on its own e.g. only 8% of incidents
caught on camera in Midlothian led to
arrest. Over the past four years Scot-
land alone has spent £42 million on
CCTV cameras. For the same money
350 full-time police officers could have
been hired. A report, written by Detec-
tive Chief Inspector Mick Neville, who
runs the Metropolitan Police’s Visual
Images Identifications and Detections
Office, found that for every 1,000 cam-
eras in London, less than one crime is
solved per year.
The revelation that the UK National
DNA Database (NDNAD) is the larg-
est in the world should come as no
surprise. The NDNAD traces its roots
back to 1994 when the Criminal Justice
and Public Order Act (CJPOA) was
passed in Parliament. The police could
now take samples by force if neces-
sary. The CJPOA gave the police pow-
ers to search the database for matches
between DNA profiles. If a person was
subsequently found guilty, their infor-
mation and samples could be stored
on the database indefinitely. However,
if the suspect was not charged or was
acquitted the DNA samples had to be
destroyed. The Criminal Justice and
Police Act enabled the NDNAD to re-
tain samples indefinitely taken from
consenting volunteers participating in
mass screenings. The Criminal Justice
Act allowed DNA profiles, fingerprints
and “other” information to be taken
without consent from anyone arrested
on suspicion of any recordable offence.
Police can keep this information in-
definitely, even if the person arrested is
never charged. The Counter-Terrorism
Act (CTA) extended police powers to
allow DNA and fingerprints to be
taken from people subject to control
orders. The samples were to be used
only “in the interest of national secu-
rity.” The latter amendments were all
done in the name of the War on Terror,
though who exactly the terrorists are
remains open for interpretation. Natu-
rally though, it has all gone sensation-
ally wrong. In 2008 the Home Office
revealed that 2,324,879 recorded crim-
inals, or 40%, in England and Wales did
not have their DNA sample stored on
the NDNAD. In addition, 857,366 in-
nocent individuals’ profiles were cur-
rently held on the NDNAD.
The government grants itself the
right, through the Regulation of Inves-
tigatory Powers Act (RIPA), to access a
person’s electronic communications in
a highly unrestricted manner, infring-
ing on the privacy of their correspond-
ence in the name of national security.
In 2003, several addendums were add-
ed to the bill, the intelligence service
can now also collect data from job cen-
tres and local councils. Initially nine
organisations could invoke the RIPA
but today 792 government organisa-
tions are allowed to appeal to the act.
474 councils now have the same power
as MI5 with regards to RIPA.
Dorset council put a family under sur-
veillance to check that they lived in the
school catchment area. The same coun-
cil put local fishermen under surveil-
lance looking for illegal fishing. An in-
vestigation by the Guardian showed that
several thousand of these kinds of petty
misdemeanours are being targeted as
threats to national security every month.
Nearly 60 new powers contained in
more than 25 Acts of Parliament have
stymied our freedoms and broken
pledges set out in the Magna Carta
and Bill of Rights, thanks to New La-
bour and the other parties. Whilst our
political parties are doing a formidable
job in eating away our freedom, there
is also another player on the stage,
namely the EU. The EU Data Retention
Directive aims to harmonise mem-
ber states’ provisions relating to the
retention of communications data.
The caller, the time and the means of
communication are available for the
purpose of the investigation, detec-
tion and prosecution of serious crime
and terrorism. Telecommunications
companies have to store this informa-
tion for at least six months. We make
hundreds of calls each year the details
of which, not contents, are stored. The
directive also covers Internet access,
email and Internet telephony.
42 human rights and civil liberties
organisations banded together to op-
pose the directive in the European
Court of Justice where they lost.
Brussels thus imposed a highly un-
popular law which would damage the
people, the industry and not in the
least, the credibility of themselves. Ef-
fectively this leaves the security servic-
es cherry picking as to which law they
shall use to violate our fundamental
human right to privacy. The European
Parliament is particularly keen to strike
down bloggers with “malicious intent”
or a “hidden agenda”, which cannot ap-
ply to their own staff since they are not
even bloggers but promoters of an of-
ficial organization that, most definitely,
has an agenda, though hidden it is not.
The EU for example spent €1.8 mil-
lion on propaganda in Ireland to force
them, in their second referendum on
the same question, to ratify the Lis-
bon Treaty. After the first rejection, a
leaked document from the European
Commission read “the internet has
allowed increased communication
between citizen groups away from
Government and traditional media
dominated sources.” The report went
on to say “because of the many differ-
ent sources of No campaigners on the
internet, classic rebuttals is made im-
possible.” Thus, the ‘No’ campaigners
are the bad guys for using the blogo-
sphere as the ‘Yes’ campaigners cannot
instigate an effective counter offensive
where they do not control the battle
field. In 2008 alone, the EU spent more
than €2.4 billion on propaganda or ad-
vertisement of the EU, which is more
than Coca Cola’s entire global advertis-
ing budget.
This is the Britain New Labour, the
Conservatives and the EU created. A
realm where freedom of speech is de-
livered a blow day after day, where de-
mocracy and liberty are shackled, tor-
tured and are screaming in their closed
confinements that once was the birth
of a proud democracy, the Palace of
Westminster. The indifference shown
by this country in the face of the pre-
vious and current government’s war
on basic human rights has clearly dis-
played the true spirit of a people that
has forgotten its history and “A nation
which forgets its past has no future” –
Sir Winston S. Churchill. If we do not
care about our civil liberties then we do
not deserve our freedom.
Neil Dhir
Neil Dhir
The visible face of the conspiracy against civil liberty in the United Kingdom
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Raphael Houdmont
The Central American country of Honduras has had a turbulent
summer.
In the morning of June 28th, following an arrest warrant issued by the
Supreme Court, soldiers from the Honduran military stormed President
Manuel Zelaya’s residence in Tegucigalpa, the capital, overcame ten presi-
dential guards, bundled Mr. Zelaya (pictured) into his private jet while he
was still in his pyjamas, and sent him into exile in Costa Rica.
Members of the Supreme Court and Roberto Micheletti, the Speaker of
Congress, had deemed Zelaya’s recent attempt at constitutional reform un-
constitutional. Zelaya, a supporter of Hugo Chavez’s socialism, was suppos-
edly seeking to run for a third consecutive term as president.
International reaction to the military coup has been almost universally
negative, and no foreign government has yet recognized the Interim Govern-
ment led by Mr. Micheletti. Since the coup, Zelaya has made several attempts
to return to power, unsuccessfully trying to land his plane at Tegucigalpa’s
airport on July 5th, and crossing the border from Nicaragua into Hondu-
ras on July 26th, before being forced to turn back by Honduran soldiers.
On September 21st, he reappeared in the Brazilian embassy in Tegucigalpa,
prompting a curfew throughout the city, and bringing much of the country
to a standstill until earlier this week.
Honduras
On October 1st 1949, Mao Zedong stood before the Gate of Heavenly
Peace, facing Tiananmen Square, and declared the founding of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China.
On the same day this year, China held huge displays of military might to
celebrate the National Day. 10,000 goose-stepping soldiers marched down
Chang’an Avenue, followed by an impressive array of 500 tanks, the latest in
intercontinental ballistic missile technology, over 150 military aircraft, and
100,000 civilian participants.
The parade, which stretched over three kilometers, was perfectly choreo-
graphed during four months of training. Soldiers were told to blink only once
every forty seconds, and took precisely 116 steps per minute. All of the com-
munist party’s senior members attended, including Chairman Hu Jintao and
Premier Wen Jiabao.
The lavish ceremony was a reminder to the country, and the world, of
China’s growing military, political and economic clout. Despite these signifi-
cant gains, China’s leaders still complain that the world has not accepted its
emergence. Developed countries argue in turn that China has yet to demon-
strate that it will accept the responsibility which naturally comes with greater
power.
China
The discovery of a second uranium-enrichment plant near the city of
Qom in Iran has prompted outrage from international observers, but
ensuing talks may turn out to be fruitful, for once.
The plant, which can be used for making weapons-usable uranium, sug-
gests that Iran, which is also working to produce plutonium, another bomb
ingredient, is getting threateningly close to being able to build nuclear weap-
ons. Although its leaders stress that all nuclear activity is for civilian pur-
poses only, few outsiders believe their claim.
In response to the threat, talks have been held in Geneva between Iran
and six countries – the United States, Britain, France, Germany, Russia and
China. These talks also open the first formal, direct negotiations between
Iran and the US in three decades. Similar attempts at making Iran relinquish
its nuclear ambitions have failed because of a lack of support from Russia
and China.
This time however, Iran has agreed, in principal, to export much of its
stock of uranium for processing, and to reveal its new plant to UN inspectors
within a fortnight. Western officials caution that these agreements could still
unravel during negotiations over details, but the deals offer the hope that the
nuclear crisis could be diffused, at least temporarily.
Iran

