FILM
Film Editors
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Jonathan Dakin
Zuzanna Blaszczak & Jonathan Dakin
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FILM
Film Editors
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Jonathan Dakin
Zuzanna Blaszczak & Jonathan Dakin
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
This was undoubtedly THE summer
blockbuster. Bruno was an out-and-
out disappointment, as predictable as
it was unnecessarily grotesque. Public
Enemies was saved from the realms
of forever-forgotten films by the ever-
suave Johnny Depp. And, well, the less
said about G.I. Joe: Rise of the Cobra
the better.
Whereas all these films failed to live
up to their advertising campaigns,
Neill Blomkamp’s District 9 surpassed
the hype created for it. One could
barely avoid the “for humans only”
signs, and the strange silhouettes of
the creatures we later got to know as
“prawns”, plastered all over the streets-
a very clever advertising campaign.
Anyone who went to the cinema in
the past year and caught a glimpse
of the trailers would be familiar with
the shot of a huge spaceship hovering
precariously over Johannesburg, with
confused and distressed news reports
played over the top.
The advertising campaign was tantalis-
ing, making this film, for me at least, the
mosteagerlyanticipatedreleaseoftheyear.
Filmed in a pseudo-documentary
style, the film quickly draws viewers
into a world (more specifically, Johan-
nesburg) in which there is a strange
‘District 9’. From a series of quickfire
interviews with officials and report-
ers we learn all we need to know: the
spaceship appeared some 20 years ago
and after much deliberation it was de-
cided that if the aliens weren’t going
to come out, we’d have to go in. The
aliens were found in a very malnour-
ished state, so were removed from the
ship and deposited in District 9, a pur-
pose-built refugee camp in the middle
of Johannesburg.
As the years went by it became ob-
vious that the aliens would have to
stay (their spaceship seemed to have
stopped working) and District 9 trans-
forms into a fully fledged slum, with
more than one millions “prawns” liv-
ing there. This causes a fair amount of
social unrest: no one wants to live near
these “prawns”, with their tentacles and
cat-food addiction.
Step in Multi-National United
(MNU), the organisation responsible
for moving the “prawns” to District 10,
200km outside of Johannesburg. The
man entrusted to oversee the reloca-
tion is Wikus van der Merwe (Sharlto
Copley), a nerdy, pen-pushing bu-
reaucrat (seems he could have been
plucked from any corridor in Imperial)
who is given the position more for his
connections than his capabilities (his
father-in-law is high up in MNU). And
so the movie begins.
I won’t divulge any more informa-
tion, suffice to say that the aliens are
not as peculiar as we first think and
the men and women in the film are not
entirely good and innocent. Made for
a paltry £18 million, the film packs an
enormous punch. The special effects
are brilliant throughout and the acting
is as moving as it is funny. However, a
film set in South Africa that addresses
racial issues obviously has to face up to
certain questions.
A South African film in which a par-
ticular group is shunned, segregated
and nationally despised simply be-
cause of how they look, and who are
eventually understood and assisted by
a middle-class white man… it sounds
very familiar. It’s obviousy about
Apartheid, right? Actually, no, accord-
ing to director Blomkamp, who says it
is more about current predicament of
the hundreds of thousands of Zimba-
bwean refugees in South Africa, who
are treated badly by both white and
black South Africans. But why address
South Africa’s recent history – whether
it’s Apartheid or the problems faced by
Zimbabweans – in the terms of an al-
ien movie? Could it be that Blomkamp
found it too difficult to make a straight
film about human turmoil in South
Africa? It is certainly striking that one
of the best films about South Africa to
be made in years features aliens in the
place of blacks – whether black Zimba-
bweans or black South Africans. Blom-
kamp has created a sci-fi masterpiece;
his only flaw is that he and the movie
seem alienated, literally, from recent
South African history.
ShaneO’Neill
ShaneO’Neill
Brief hello and
a quick rant
B
A
very warm welcome to
all the fresher’s and an
even warmer welcome
to those returning from
a blissful summer to the
next year of ungratifying and pointless
work. If you haven’t realised it yet, the
only thing that stands a chance in mak-
ing this coming year bearable and, dare
I say, enjoyable, is not, as you might
think, booze. No, it’s something much
better, something that will get your
heart racing faster, will make you laugh
uncontrollably and weep like a child,
something that will make you feel
alive, happy, sad, depressed, perplexed
and totally ‘bungalowed’ without the
head splitting, gut emptying, hangover
next day.
That ‘something’ is any great movie.
And here at the film section, my humble
self and your fellow students who feel
the need to satisfy their inner ‘writing’
souls, will try to guide you in the quest
for the perfect movie to suit your mood.
In the dangerous and murky world of
cinema releases we promise to steer you
clear of the battalion of film wrecks out
there and to scream out the movies you
must not miss. And occasionally we will
publish simple reviews for you to make
up your own mind.
After that heaping dollop of cheesy
cliche, let me move on to what’s been
bothering me since late September. You
must have heard about the Swiss ar-
resting Roman Polanski. And you must
have heard of the Hollywood outrage
that followed, of the Polish, French and
other governments that made a PUB-
LIC stand in suppport of the famous di-
rector. All I want to know is when exact-
ly we found ourelves in a world where
creating a few good movies and being
recognized all over the globe makes
you above the law. Not many people
nowadays are naive enough to believe
that the world is a fair place, but hav-
ing it blantanly displayed by the media
and national governments is as much
of a shocker as the fact that sometimes
justice wins.
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Zuzanna Blaszczak Film Editor
What sci-fi is all about
CHRISTMAS CAME HALF A YEAR EARLY THIS SUMMER WITH
NEILL BLOMKAMP’S PRAWN INVASION IN SOUTH AFRICA
...and Away they Go, thank god
American Beauty, Road to Perdition,
Revolutionary Road, all award winning
movies, with tons of publicity and in-
ternational, well-earned acclaim. Apart
from having some common attributes
like a rather depressive tone, some in-
genious photography, and soundtracks
that fit the movies like a glove, they
also share the same director. With his
previous work Sam Mendes has proved
that he can tell a perfect story, one that
grips, one that has a moral, with well
developed characters and inevitably
one that has a memorable ending. It
thus pains me to have to say that his
most recent project, a ‘no-story’ about
a young quirky couple looking for
their place in the world, does not fulfill
standards he got his viewers used to.
The movie starts off interestingly
enough. We are introduced to the main
characters in a amusing and fairly brave
opening scene. Burt and Verona (John
Krasinski from the american Office,
and Maya Rudolph from Idiocracy) are
in their early thirties, a couple and ex-
pecting their first child. After learning
that Burt’s parents will be leaving the
States for Antwerp for two years they
decide to leave their trailer and find a
new home for themselves somewhere
in America. In order to do that they
visit their friends and family scattered
around the north American continent.
In the beginning we encounter bi-
zarre and slightly off-kilter characters,
like Burt’s parents, Maya’s friends in
Phoenix or Burt’s friend in Tucson, that
turn the first thirty minutes of the film
into an enjoyable comedy with a good
dash of social commentary thrown in.
However, as the movie progresses the
bits and pieces of humorous dialogue
we are treated to and the funny scenes
come to a stop, to be replaced by eve-
ryday drama. I think I understand
Mendes’ attempt to show how real life
problems affect real people; how, un-
like in the movies, turmoil and tragedy
go unnoticed by anyone but the vic-
tims. It seems the director also wished
to make one of those films like Slum-
dog millionaire or Juno that show the
darker side of humanity, fate, life and
yet, in the end, have a heartwarming
effect on the viewers. Unfortunately
Don’t let the hugely stereotyped alien ship fool you, the movie is one of the
most original releases this year.
Away We Go lacks the flair of the
above mentioned movies- there is no
story, no real character development
or even a proper soundtrack to carry
the initial momentum forward. As the
film takes on it’s more serious tone, the
pace seems to slow down with a lot of
unnecessary scenes and starts getting
quite tiresome, especially that even by
this time Burt and Verona fail to truly
endear themselves to the audience.
It’s also a bit of a shame that, as usual,
the trailers spoil the majority of jokes
from the movie. In the end Away We
Go is one of the numerous mediocre
films that have no plot holes, no strik-
ing unrealism, no visible flaw and yet
they’re not particularly entertaining
to watch, nor have they some deeper
meaning to be pondered. The film is
too tender, too sickly sweet and simply
not quirky enough. It will surely end
where all mediocre films end, in the
sweet oblivion of forgetfulness.

