unionpage
On Tuesday 6 October College was
transformed for the day to become a
bustling bazaar of stalls from all of our
Clubs & Societies, as well as many external
companies making it the single biggest
day for Clubs & Societies at Imperial: a
celebration of everything extracurricular in
amongst an otherwise hectic week getting
to grips with academics. By the looks of
the turnout it also seems to have been our
most successful ever!
It wasn’t all smooth running though. In
initial plans many clubs were all prepared
for a stall in the gentle early autumn
sunshine, but as the day approached the
Met Office had a different story to tell and
so on Monday it was all change. It was a
quick turnaround to the contingency Wet
Weather Plan as some heavy rain was on
the cards. Overall however, those clubs
who had to move dealt with it admirably
making for an enjoyable day to be had by all
and the mood proving impermeable to the
outside dampness.
What was also apparent is that this year we
seem to have some very hardy Freshers
with an estimated 7000 punters coming to
campus to see what stalls could take their
fancy, signing up to mailing lists and getting
a-hold of some freebies. Last year we had
over 50% of students getting involved in at
least one Club or Society and if Freshers’
Fair was anything to go by, we’ll hopefully
top that, maintaining our position as the
University with the greatest extracurricular
participation the UK!
Across the entire campus there was
certainly a buzz. The SAF contained the
majority of ICSMSU clubs. The nearby
Queen’s Lawn Campus Car Park was the
home of an eclectic group of vehicles,
including Jezebel, the RCSU’s mascot 1916
Dennis Fire Engine that was taking tours
around the local area on the day.
The Tower Rooms featured our music and
arts groups which made for an acoustic
feast when you could hear the offerings
above the crowds which filled the room to
maximum capacity at some points of the
day.
The Great Hall brought new meaning to
the saying ‘it’s a small world’ as it was
filled with all of our International societies.
We get told many times that Imperial has
a rich diversity of cultures represented at
the College, but to look at that room was
to properly understand what is meant by
‘International’.
The JCR was one of the areas which was
impacted by the Wet Weather Plan, all of a
sudden welcoming in many of the clubs of
the City & Guild’s College Union in addition
to those that were already there many for
an exciting mix.
The Business School Foyer, despite being a
bit out of the way of many of the areas still
saw much attention for the Sports Clubs
therein. From the grapevine, it sounds like
there were several sign ups from Freshers
and returning students alike thinking about
how they were going to stay active this
year, which also sounds it might be a
promising year for our Sports Teams.
Still more activity could be seen in Beit
Quad which was initially intended to be the
home of the Outdoor based societies who
regularly get out and about to enjoy some
of Britain’s country side. They soon had
to welcome in yet more sports clubs as
well as some politics too! All of our Union
Media clubs (such as this fine publication)
could also be found there. On top of this
there was a stage with live performances
from many clubs with external guests, Her
Majesty’s Coldstream Guards making a
particularly special appearance during day
in association with Wind Band, but many
thanks go to all those clubs who gave up
their time to practice and perform on the
day.
Because of the wet weather, the Union
Building itself became a hub of activity with
clubs spread across 3 rooms. Represented
here were our Faith societies, Martial Arts
and the Departmental societies of the
RCSU and RSM. Our financially minded
clubs were also based here and soldiered
on, so if you couldn’t find them on the
day- its not to late to get in touch with them
now!
The day didn’t stop at 4pm though, as
everyone was invited over to the Union for
the Freshers’ Fair After party which went
on until 11. At the party there was still more
live entertainment from clubs with Music
Tech finishing up the evening in style. Many
thanks go to Tosin Ajayi who compered
both during the day and evening. Awards
were also given out to clubs in each area
with the most innovative stalls from the
day. These went to PASS, Geophysics
Soc, Ultimate Frisbee, Engineers Without
Boarders, Polish Society and Snow Sports
with the overall winner being Balloon
Twisting society so many congratulations to
all of them.
Overall I hope that everyone who was there
on the day had a great time. For those of
you browsing, I hope you found at least
one club who shares your interests or
something that you want to try out this year.
For all who helped out with a stall thank
you for giving up even more of your time
to promote all the things you and your club
do- its thanks to your efforts that we’re able
to boast about all of our Clubs & Societies.
Finally it’s only left to thank everyone else
who helped out in the background, in
particular those who were there from 7am
to help set everything up. Here’s to another
great year ahead for Clubs & Societies.
Freshers’ Fair 2009
imperialcollegeunion.org
JennyWilson
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) dpcs@imperial.ac.uk

