29
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
FOOD
Food Editor
Food Editor APPLY NOW!!
APPLY NOW!!
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The science behind chilli’s hot hot heat
T
his is a new series of ar-
ticles on the science of
food and cooking. In
weeks to come, I’ll be
looking at the reasons
as to why foods taste the way they
do, and how cooking processes go
towards producing delicious dishes.
Chillies are one of the oldest spices
in the world, with evidence that they
were used in Ecuadorean cooking over
6,000 years ago. They were an impor-
tant part of Aztec cooking, with the
definition of fasting being abstaining
from chilli and salt. Aztecs made a bit-
ter, frothy chocolate drink called xoco-
latl with chilli, vanilla and honey. This
was associated with the goddess of fer-
tility, Xochiquetzal and was favoured
by nobility. Christopher Columbus was
one of the first Europeans to encounter
chillies, and Diego Alvarez Chanca, a
doctor on Columbus’ second voyage to
the West Indies, took chillies back to
the Old World. Today, world produc-
tion and consumption of chilli is twen-
ty times that of black pepper, the next
most popular spice.
Chilies are the fruits of the Capsicum
genus, members of the Solanaceae, or
nightshade family, renowned for pro-
ducing interesting alkaloids. For exam-
ple, tobacco produces nicotine, green
potatoes produce toxic solanine, and
deadly nightshade produces atropine,
which can be used to treat a flatline
during cardiac arrest. Within chillies,
the seed-bearing tissue known as the
placenta contains capsaicin-secreting
glands. Seeds get their heat when the
placenta splits, allowing capsaicin to
leak onto them. So if you want to get
the flavour of chillies without all the
heat, you can remove the spongy ribs
and seeds before cooking.
Capsaicin has the chemical formula
8-methyl-N-vanillyl-6-nonenamide. It
belongs to the chemical class of alkyl
amides, which are also produced by
black pepper and ginger plants. These
differ from the isothiocyanates pro-
duced by horseradish and mustard, in
that they act primarily in the mouth.
While isothiocyanates are small, vola-
tile molecules, which float into the
nose and sinuses and act there, alkyl
amides, are bigger, so remain on your
tongue. This is why mustard “gets up
your nose”, while chilli and black pep-
per make your mouth burn.
Capsaicin is fairly insoluble in water,
due to the fatty side chain sticking off
the vanillin ring in its structure. This
is why drinking water doesn’t really
relieve pain caused by chillies. Once
you’ve eaten chillies and want to stop
the burning, drinking milk or yoghurt
can help, due to the fats and a milk pro-
tein called casein having a detergent
effect on capsaicin. Alcohol, preferably
neat vodka, can also help, as capsaicin
is both fat and alcohol soluble. Without
a remedy, capsaicin-induced pain gen-
erally subsides within fifteen minutes.
Chillies produce capsaicin as a second-
ary metabolite – an organic compound
not directly involved in the plant’s
growth, development or reproduction.
So it’s reasonable to assume that it has
evolved for a purpose. To find out that
purpose, we can look at how capsaicin
affects animals in the wild. Exclud-
ing humans, mammals learn to avoid
chillies due to the pain they cause.
Mammals’ teeth grind up chillies and
destroy the seeds, wasting the invest-
ment the plant has made in the fruits
in order to reproduce.
On the other hand, birds swallow
chillies whole, protecting the seed.
They also disperse seeds further than
mammals might, as they fly. So it
should come as no surprise that birds
are totally immune to capsaicin and
cannot taste it. The only other animals
that regularly eat chillies are Homo
sapiens, but we are definitely not im-
mune to their effects!
The effects on the human body are
many and varied. The most obvious
is the burning sensation in the mouth
– or elsewhere if you forget to wash
your hands. Capsaicin chemically
stimulates receptors on the tongue and
mucous membranes to
release cal-
cium ions, triggering pain signals to
the brain.
A side effect of these signals is the re-
lease of endorphins, which act as pain-
killers and produce a good feeling. In
addition, as Heston Blumenthal found
on putting a colleague in an MRI scan-
ner, parts of the limbic system of the
brain including the cingulate cortex
and amygdala are activated when chil-
lies are tasted, indicating an emotional
response.
Capsaicin also increases metabolic
rate and affects thermoregulation,
making the body feel hotter and induc-
ing cooling mechanisms such as swea-
ing and vasodilation.
Chilies are the fruits of the Capsicum genus, that originated in the Americas: Aw, so pretty, yet so HOT.
felix’s new food guru, Jade Dickinson gets technical about the fruits that were meant to keep you away
Finally, here are two chilli-based recipes to try:
Penne All’Arrabiata
Peel the garlic and cut in half. Heat the oil in a pan and
add the garlic and chillies. Brown the garlic, stirring
with a wooden spoon, and then use the spoon to
remove and save both. Put the basil in the hot oil for
a few moments to flavour it, then remove. Add the
tomatoes and season. Return the chillies and cook
for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, cook the penne in boiling
salted water until al dente. Drain. Add the garlic and
basil to the pasta. Now, this is the key step. Remove
the chillies from the sauce. Take one and squeeze the
seeds out of the chilli and into the sauce. Stir and test
for spiciness. Continue adding chilli to the sauce until
it suits your taste. Stir the pasta into the tomato sauce.
Serve with Parmesan to grate.
350g penne pasta
3 garlic cloves
400g tin chopped tomatoes
2 tablespoons olive oil
3 dried chilies
two handfuls fresh basil
Xocolatl
The original drinking chocolate.
Boil the kettle. Mix a small amount of boiling water with
two teaspoons of cocoa powder in a saucepan.
Take a large dried red chill and bruise slightly, then add to
the saucepan along with two tablespoons of honey and
one split vanilla pod (or one teaspoon vanilla essence).
Add enough milk to make one mug, and bring slowly to a
simmer.
Taste a little for spiciness, and when it is ready, remove the
chilli and vanilla pod and pour into a mug. For a treat, add
some double cream.
This is surprisingly tasty, with the
dried chilli giving it a smoky note and
a bit of a kick.
Combined with the vanilla and
honey, this makes a more grown up
hot chocolate, rivaling tea or coffee
as the perfect hot drink.
Serves 4

