3
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Eastside is back: bigger and better
T
wo years after the demoli-
sion of Linstead Hall, the
new Halls of Residences
have finally opened in its
place. With the Southside Halls
completed two years ago, the East-
side development now completes
Imperial’s Princes’ Gardens restora-
tion project.
Last Saturday saw Eastside’s Wilkin-
son, Gabor and Linstead Halls receive
their first intake of Freshers for the
new year. Eastside Bar and Essentials
shop, the two outlets available to stu-
dents on the ground floor, also began
the academic year in full swing having
opened a week previously.
Though the design mirrors the
Southside complex, there have been
several major alterations to the living
spaces.
The new intake can count them-
selves extremely lucky to be living in
such pristine and luxurious accommo-
dation, and both students and parents
were impressed alike. Prince’s Gardens
this week is in stark contrast to pre-
2005 before the project to transform
what College has dubbed the Prince’s
Gardens ‘residential village’.
The felix team inspected out the
new halls last weekend as the Freshers
moved into their new homes.
Each Hall houses around 150 stu-
dents, whom are mostly living in sin-
gle occupancy rooms. The students
are accommodated throughout nine
floors, with Ground and Basement
floors now living spaces.
However, the most evident design
change from Southside are the kitchens
on each floor. On a tour given by User
Co-ordinator of the Eastside project
Paddy Jackman, it was explained feed-
back surveys from Southside residents
were used to determine areas of design
alteration for the new project. Students
that lived in Southside had brought
up the issue of using their communal
kitchens, typically shared between 16-
24 people, on their own. They felt the
kitchens were unwelcoming and cold
when cooking and eating alone. The
Southside Halls have been previously
criticised by residents for being “un-
homely” and “too clinical”.
In response to this negative feedback,
Jackman explained the implementa-
tion of a double-kitchen feature for
the larger floors in the three Eastside
Halls. Kitchens have been scaled down
from the typical Southside dimen-
sions very slightly, but still retain sev-
eral communal eating and preparation
areas. However, a secondary smaller
kitchenette now lies around the cor-
ner from the large one. This second-
ary kitchenette has been designed to
mimic a typical home kitchen in size
and utility. To further counteract the
clinical feel in Southside, countertops
are a faux-granite pattern instead of
stainless steel.
Alongside two differently- sized wi-
descreen televisions, the double-kitch-
ens feature shared cupboards, fridges
and freezers; they have no designated
compartments installed. Hall Senior
Carlotta Ridolfi is already seeing the
benefits of these alterations.
“The kitchens are lot more com-
munal which promote an element of
trust and sharing amongst us. We’re
learning to live with each other with
a lot more respect for other people’s
things. It can only help the first years
once they move out to real houses,” she
said. “The place has generally a more
friendly environment compared to
Southside.”
Room sizes have also been better
regulated throughout the design stages
of the Eastside construction. Southside
suffered from an inequality of room
Fresher mugged on her very first day at Imperial
sizes when it first opened two years ago,
despite all residents paying rent from a
corresponding single price-band. Sin-
gle occupancy rooms have been clearly
categorised into three bands: standard,
premium and deluxe. Premium and de-
luxe rooms have extra space compared
to standard, and are fitting with a larger
bed and armchair.
Despite these luxuries, there has
been debate from several Union offi-
cials regarding the pricing of the new
price-bands for rooms in Eastside.
Standard rooms fall into price-band
“E”, the second most expensive band
in this year’s rent pricing system, and
will cost students £176.47 per week.
Premium rooms will set back residents
£188.65, and deluxe rooms £219.59.
The few double rooms within the three
halls are priced at £130.83. Deputy
President (Welfare) John James stated
that he was pleased with Eastside and
its rental rates.
“Eastside isn’t cheap but it is good
value. The rooms are luxurious, there’s
ample social space and the facilities
on the door step are superb. Eastside
is second to none and that is reflected
in the price, although efforts such as
a creating a relatively high percentage
of twin rooms have been made to keep
prices down.”
The Eastside complex features a new
bar and convenience shop; both are
available to students, staff and the pub-
lic. The new bar, cleverly named ‘East-
side’, has been open for a week prior to
the Freshers’ arrival. College staff were
invited for a welcome party and lunch-
time promotions took place through-
out the week. The bar-cum-restaurant
replaces Harringtons, Southside’s
original bar, which closed down when
the original Southside complex was
demolished in 2005.
Eastside bar serves drinks at prices
slightly dearer than the Union’s Da
Vinci’s bar. A pint of Fosters’ lager
costs £2.50 compared to the Union’s
cheap-as-chips £2.00. Reception has
been so far positive.
The convenience store has been ge-
nerically dubbed ‘Essentials’, and offers
students a wide range of alcohol, and a
slimmer range of vegetables and food.
The delivery of stock on moving-in day
largely contained the popular brand
of instant mashed potato, Smash, and
several varieties of vodka.
From shop shelf to home oven: Essentials convenience store (left) and a first floor ‘kitchenette’ in Wilkinson Hall
A new student to Imperial College has
been mugged after Saturday’s Mingle,
in an event that left the victim with
injuries.
The student, unnamed, was walking
back to her halls at around 2AM with a
friend from the year’s opening event at
the Union. The pair were approached
on Prince Consort Road by three men
asking for a spare cigarette. The situ-
ation escalated by the Royal Albert
Mansions.
The female victim was left with a
suspected broken arm after she got
caught up in a fight between her male
friend and the three muggers. The
male victim has been said to be quite
badly bruised. As the scuffle broke out,
a handbag containing several expen-
sive personal items were taken. All the
victim’s cards and Blackberry phone
were claimed to be inside. No property
of the male vitcim was taken.
After the muggers fled the scene, the
pair desperately made their way back
to Beit Quad to notify security of the
happenings. However, security was
not present at the Security Lodge un-
der the archway to the Union. Instead,
they caught the attention of Union
staff clearing away after close.
Two members of the Union staff
then escorted the pair to Weeks Hall
security as it was the nearest manned
security office. During the short walk
to Prince’s Gardens, there was a fur-
ther verbal altercation on Exhibition
Road between the male friend and an-
other group of individuals.
The three attackers were inside the
Union during the Mingle’s entertain-
ment hours and hence it is to be ques-
tioned if the attackers were also Impe-
rial students.
The Mingle is the Freshers’ very first
chance to meet each other and see live
acts; Jo Whiley and MPho performed
on the night. The problem lies with the
fact that the new intake of students did
not yet have any official College iden-
tification to prove their legibility to en-
ter the Mingle. The tickets were gen-
erally sold through Halls’ wardening
teams to ensure only Imperial students
were present at the event. However,
it is confirmed that some tickets were
sold on the door. If the muggers were
indeed not Imperial students, on-the-
night tickets were an easy way into the
£7.50 event.
The three men in question are said
to be Asian ethnicity. Police are in the
middle of an on-going investigation
into the incidents.
Deputy President (Welfare) John
James acknowledged the unfortunate
incident.
“The Union regrets this incident and
can assure students that the police are
doing everything in their power to
identify the attacker.”
It is largely unusual for incidents of this
nature to occur around or on campus.
Previous incidents of muggings involv-
ing Imperial students that have occurred
have generally occured in Hyde Park.
A theft of a bag from the Union on
Tuesday night has also been reported
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief
to police. The owner of the laptop
bag was not an Imperial student, but
actually a visitor. The bag was said to
contain personal documentation in-
cluding a passport and qualification
certificates. The events that occured
last week are thought not to be con-
nected. Deputy President James has
some words of warning for the rest of
the student body.
“We would like to take this opportu-
nity to remind the student body to be
alert and wary when out and about in
all parts of London and that personal
attack alarms are available from the
Advice Centre.”
Albert Hall Mansions laden with scaffolding, where the mugging took place
Just over two years under construction, Eastside finally re-opens. Editor-in-Chief Dan Wan reports

