32
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor APPLY NOW!
APPLY NOW!
clubs&socs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
x
Outdoor Club go testing themselves
S
o we come to another year
at Imperial College, and I’ve
somehow found myself in a
committee position for the
Outdoor Club which carries genuine
responsibilities. In between weeks
touring The Alps, the committee man-
aged to put together a pre-term, pre-
freshers-arrival trip, from the 18th-
20th September.
As a reader who is statistically un-
likely to be a member of the Outdoor
Club, you won’t know that every term
we organise weekend trips away to var-
ious hot (cold), sunny (rainy) regions of
the country, roughly every two weeks,
to do outdoors-y type stuff.
Our destination this time: Ogwen
Valley, Snowdonia National Park
(Wales). Our first port of call was Bir-
mingham, not for the nightlife believe
it or not, but to pick up the club’s very
own ex-professional jobseeker Neil,
and for dinner at Big John’s - the home
of, amongst every other fast food im-
aginable, the 20 inch pizza.
After clearing immigration at the
English/Welsh border in record time
we pushed on to the campsite arriving
shortly after 1am, rapidly establishing
our base camp.
With the promise of good weath-
er Jonny and Robin set off to climb
the classic mountaineering route of
Grooved Arête on the East Face of Try-
fan - 560 feet of Very Difficult climb-
ing. Equally motivated Benn got his
bike out and headed off at 10:30am
for the Marin trail, a 25km Red grade
mountain biking route, with steep in-
clines and ridiculous single track, full
of logs, rocks, jumps, technical de-
scents and intense climbs. Recognised
as a 2-4 hour ride, he impressively
finished in 2hours 5mins. After lunch
and some stretching he descended
upon the 22km Penmachno. Half
way through he needed a break, but
finished in under 3 hours. Benn de-
scribed it as “[an] excellent ride, more
challenging in sections than Marin,
but not as ‘complete’ a ride.” Having re-
cently entered myself into a mountain
marathon, I decided a training run was
needed. Phil joined me and we put to-
gether a route that would take us from
the campsite around Llyn(lake, I think)
Ogwen over the summits of Y Garn
(947m) and Foel Goch (831m) and
down to the town of Llanberis in the
next valley. After a gruelling two-and-
a-half hours, we spent the rest of the
afternoon ‘recovering’ in Pete’s Eats, a
famous climber’s café where the tea is
served in pints!
Meanwhile, Neil and Boris were
busy making an impressive ascent of
the worryinly named ‘Cemetery Gates’
at E1 5b. That evening, we cooked
up our club special: chilli con carne.
When the rain started we were forced
into our luxury 10 men tent and spent
the evening drinking our beers, while
the conversation took some…erm…
interesting…turns. Fortunately for all
a mildly intoxicated Chef Rob busied
himself turning out pots of sainsbury’s
basics Angel Delight.
Day two came, and I soon discovered
that we hadn’t brought any club rock-
shoes (see, this is why we need a dry
run). I don’t actually own any of my
own climbing gear, I just borrow eve-
rything from the clubs vast stores, so
it was looking like I’d be out running
again. Being completely knackered
from the previous day’s run, I decided
to go for a walk instead, and because I
couldn’t be bothered to do any naviga-
tion, I just followed the same route as
the day before, with the hope of tak-
ing in some scenery this time. There
were thankfully no major incidents,
but at one point I found myself look-
ing for a footpath which didn’t seem
to exist, which led to me wasting a
hour wandering round a hillside, af-
ter which I ended up running to make
up some lost time. Benn was back out
on the bike, in the morning he went
slate mountain-biking describing it as
“extremely difficult descents on loose
slate. Sharp edges and very unforgiv-
ing riding made for a difficult but en-
joyable morning.” He then spent the
afternoon making new tracks on vari-
ous mountains, but by 5pm had found
himself lost in a valley, with no mo-
bile reception. He called back to base
camp via a landline and was picked up
around nightfall (‘thanks guys’ - Benn).
Jonny and Robin headed up the first
two pitches of the ‘Direct route’ on
Dinas Mot, but progressed with an ac-
cidental traverse over to ‘the cracks’,
“which we unfortunately had to finish,”
said Jonny. Must have been hard. It
probably wasn’t made any easier by the
massive shit encountered on pitch 3.
Yes, human, yes fresh. Nice. They fin-
ished the day on Cromlech boulders.
Local boy Sam joined Neil and Boris
on day two for some good climbs in the
Llanberis slate quarries. Boris and Sam
both lead their hardest routes to date;
Boris on Gnat Attack (E1 5b) and Sam
on Fool’s Gold (E1 5c). Boris also lead
Looning the Tube (E1 5a). What Neil
did remains a mystery to me! Probably
dossing at the bottom of the crag eating
biscuits! (joking! (or am I?)). Keen not
to be outdone by Neil and Boris, Rob
and James went off to climb Cemetery
Gates, and succeeded! Phil and Pavlo
did their turn on Grooved Arête, but
found themselves stuck behind 3 par-
ties. They completed the route by 7.30,
just as it started to get dark, but were
able to make an epic head-torch assist-
ed descent of Tryfans North Ridge in
just 55 minutes. With everyone on the
bus we made it across the border and
back to civilisation (Birmingham?), for
our customary Big John’s dinner.
Our bus full of outdoorists finally
made it back to Beit, content, if a little
later than planned!
Get involved! Details of our trips
can be found at http://union.
ic.ac.uk/outdoor Thanks to Phil
Leadbeater and Jonny Phillips for
their contributions The Outdoor Club look remarkably happy despite being stuck in Wales
Justin Whitehouse heads to Wales, and does a dry run with the Outdoor Club in preparation for the new year
H.G. Wells’ Phoenix rises once again for Imperial College’s creative community
There are quite a few perks of being at
an institute at Imperial. Yes, this is a
top-ten internationally ranked institu-
tion. Yes, that is a Lamborghini garage
down the road and yes, those women
walking up and down Cromwell Road
are wearing the equivalent of a small
fortune. However, with every upside
comes a downside and though it’s not
exactly cataclysmic in comparison to
the relative benefits offered, there is a
downside to being at a college so sin-
gle-minded in its pursuit of scientific
and technological nirvana.
And if you’re the artsy type or to any
degree that way inclined, you’re sure
to feel it. Not in a tortuous and quite
unnecessarily gratuitous fashion such
as, say, something you would see in the
Saw series or even any film containing
Jason Schwartzman. The relative quiet
of the College’s arts scene and lack of
diversity in the general student popu-
lace is understandable given its focus
on science, but those of you who loved
your arts subjects at school may find
that part of yourselves undernourished
as time passes. Arealityisthatmostpeo-
ple will be wonderful but are not going to
feel as passionately as you about art house
cinema, interesting new music scenes
sprouting up around the capital or that an
international literary legend is coming to
town to give a reading. For some, this will
be a largely ignored itch that occasionally
needs scratching. Others will resign them-
selvestoturningtoexternalsourcestofind
their fix.
ThisiswherePhoenix comes in. Orig-
inally founded in the 1920’s as the col-
lege’s arts magazine by H.G.Wells - yes,
David Paw
David Paw Phoenix Editor the guy who penned War of the Worlds
and The Time Machine - its presence
has fluctuated until a couple of years
ago when a couple of overambitious
Cardiovascular Science undergrads
had a conversation on a bus down the
Shepherds Bush Road and decided it
would be a great idea to resurrect it.
The basic idea is to take the creative
workofthestudentbody-thatmeansyou,
arty types - and to pick the best for inclu-
sion in a glossy, sumptuously designed ex-
travaganza of literature and art published
in the summer term. Anything will be
considered - collages, drawings and
paintings (even your A Level work),
photography, poetry and short sto-
ries, flash fiction, screenplays, haiku,
original designs or ideas for articles on
something you particularly feel pas-
sionate about. Write when the inspi-
ration takes you - in the middle of the
night, in the shower, on the bus or un-
der starlight. Get in touch with us for
potential ideas for sections, editorials
or design. We are always looking for
new contributors and potential edi-
tors and chances are, if you pitch it to
us and you’ve thought about it, we’ll
probably consider it.
Speaking of which, now that there
is more than one editor, Phoenix
shouldbeaveryspecialthingindeed.
Whereas before, it would be mostly
one person putting in 32 hours over
the last two days running to print
deadline whilst simultaneously be-
ing shafted by the latter stages of
Undergrad Medicine, now with
two highly passionate, intelligent
and talented co-editors on board,
Phoenix should be a work of art
in itself come the end of the year.
So get your creative juices flowing and
send us over your ideas and submis-
sions - we can’t wait to see what you
come up with.
phoenix
phoenix

