4 felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
Summer mayhem for student finances
A
s the fallout from the re-
cession becomes more ap-
parent to the country. And
as the UK government
struggles to plug the growing state
debt, student financing has been
topping recent agendas. From poli-
tics to commerce, funding for past,
current and future students has been
a headline topic over the summer.
1. In a report from the Confedera-
tion of British Industry, an organisa-
tion of 100,000 members representing
business interests in Britain, tuition
fees were held up as a potential area for
government savings. It recommended
that money be saved from the sup-
port system in place, and that students
should come to see above-inflation
increases in fees as ‘inevitable’. It also
recommended that the government
should scrap its target of 50% of school
leavers entering university, a proposal
that was immediately dismissed by
the Higher Education minister for
England.
The National Union of Students hit
out at the CBI’s report, describing its
recommendations as a ‘gross hypoc-
risy’. The report also encouraged busi-
nesses to provide more sponsorships
for students.
2. At the Liberal Democrat confer-
ence in Bournemouth, party leader
Nick Clegg outlined plans to put on
hold the party’s long-standing opposi-
tion to tuition fees. He stated that the
party should be ‘realistic’ about what
the country could afford over the next
few years.
Believing the scrapping of the fees a
Old BBC Wood Lane site bought out by Imperial College for new campus
Imperial expanded its London cam-
puses by seven acres over the summer,
with the acquisition of a site, currently
owned by the BBC, on Wood Lane.
The Woodlands site will mainly be
used for postgraduates and research-
ers, with the possibility of providing
housing for postgraduate students as
well as gym facilities and a crèche.
In a letter to staff, Chief Operating
Officer for Imperial College, Dr Mar-
tin Knight, justified the purchase of the
new campus, stating: “Thanks to the
College’s continuing success, our ac-
tivities have expanded, and demand for
teaching, research and administration
space has grown to the point where
our existing campuses in west London
have become increasingly congested.
Further development of our academic
activities means we require room to
expand, and the chance to acquire over
seven acres of freehold land and 25,000
sq metres of buildings in such a loca-
tion in west London, close to our exist-
ing campuses, was a rare opportunity
that was too promising to miss.
Dr Knight made suggestions as to
the use of the new campus: “At a time
when there is significant and growing
demand for the education that Imperi-
al offers, it will allow us to build quality,
tailored accommodation for students,
particularly to meet the significant
rising need among postgraduate stu-
dents. Currently we provide only 330
College bed spaces for a community of
4,500 postgraduates.”
According to the BBC website, the
Woodlands site was originally devel-
oped in 1981, as a base for BBC Enter-
prises, which evolved into BBC World-
wide, the BBC’s commercial subsidiary.
The site has also housed Studio Capital
Projects, who were responsible for the
major capital expenditure required to
develop the BBC’s studio infrastruc-
ture. BBC Worldwide were housed at
the Woodlands site until September
2008, when they were moved to the
nearby Media Village.
Paul Anastasiasis, a post graduate
student based at the Hammersmith
campus, disagrees with this use of col-
lege money and the need for more post
graduate accomodation. He told felix:
“I think that given the pending large
staff cuts in the Faculty of Medicine
the money would be better spent fund-
AliceRowlands
AliceRowlands News Reporter
Imperial students who have
not yet received their final
notification of entitlement
have been encouraged by the
College to bring with them
a copy of their completed
application form.
Anyone who cannot yet pay for
accommodation without their
loan should contact Jasmin
Wills of the Student Finance
department at jasmin.wills@
imperial.ac.uk quoting their
College Identifier Number.
Here with no money?
1. 4.
Christopher Woolley runs through a summer of financial disarray and debate for students new and old
2.
3.
central element of Lib Dem policy, the
party’s federal policy committee voted
14 to 5 to keep the pledge in their up-
coming election manifesto. The Con-
servative and Labour parties have not
ruled out future fee increases.
3. A backlog of new and continuing
student finance applications has built
up at the Student Loans Company,
leaving nearly 170,000 without their
final notification of loan entitlement.
The company has reported a 16% rise
in applications as more people opt for
university over the struggle to find per-
manent employment.
Many returning students are also
taking out loans for the first time to
cover financial hardship, having been
able to fund their studies previously.
The chief executive of the SLC has
apologised to those without funding,
and admitted that their phone systems
had effectively ground to a halt.
4. Lord Sutherland has called for the
re-introduction of tuition fees in
Scotland. The former Vice-Chancel-
lor of the University of London and
former Principle of Edinburgh Uni-
versity proposed that money from stu-
dents from higher income households
would cover the cost of supporting
those from lower income households.
The ruling Scottish National Party
pledged not to bring back the fees in
their 2007 manifesto. Tuition fees were
abolished in 2000 by the then Labour
& Liberal Democrat coalition govern-
ment of Scotland.
5. The government opted not to set
an interest rate on student loans this
year, effectively making it 0%. The in-
terest rate is normally set to match
the retail price index (RPI) inflation
measure of last March, or the Bank of
England’s base interest rate plus 1%,
depending on which is lower.
As the RPI has faltered through the
recession the rate should have been
minus 0.4%. The Bank of England is
keeping a close eye on inflation, and
looks likely to keep the base rate at a
historic low of 0.5% for some time as
the G20 leaders predict a slow eco-
nomic recovery over the next decade.
5.
What’s your story?
How badly have you been
affected by the SLC’s backlog?
felix wants to hear about your
student loan nightmares for an
in-depth feature next week.
If you would like to share
your experiences in regards
to acquiring the loan you
registered for, drop us an email
at felix@imperial.ac.uk. We’ll
get back to you as quickly as
possible.
ing the excellent research associated
with Imperial and which will provide
post graduate students much better ca-
reer oportunities. However if the profit
made from the halls is re-invested in
research then in the long term it could
be a good idea.”
The expansion of west London cam-
pues comes amid on going suggestion
that the Wye campus may be cut. felix
wonders whether a new development
is necessary while college still dith-
ers over the neccessity of our country
campus.
Undergraduates are unlikely to no-
tice much change due to the new
campus, though many will be pleased
about having fewer sweaty postgrads
cycling in from Ealing. Many South
Ken based students have been left pon-
dering what better use could be made
of £28 million. Members of the ACC
may be interested to note this equates
to over 18 million pints of snakebite,
which would be enough beers to run
an ACC bar night every Wednesday
for the next 60 years. College could
buy every student at Imperial a swanky
new MacBook for less money, or the
money could be used to rent a floor of
the new Eastside Halls for two weeks.

