5
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
60 YEARS OLD AND LOOKING GOOD
FELIX HAS OFFICIALLY REACHED RETIREMENT AGE, THOUGH THERE’LL BE NO FREEDOM PASSES OR
PENSIONS FOR THIS CAT. INSTEAD, FELIX BRUSHES UP TO CELEBRATE ITS 60th ANNIVERSARY IN STYLE.
C
ome the 9th of December, fe-
lix will celebrate its diamond
jubilee as the student news-
paper of Imperial College.
As part of the celebrations, the weekly
masthead will feature a newly designed
logo whose design is inspired by the
very first logo from 1949.
The felix logo has traditionally fea-
tured Felix the Cat, the official mascot
and creature-sake of the newspaper. In
years gone by the cat has adorned the
pages of felix in a variety of incarna-
tions; from sabre-toothed tabby cats to
more predatory pumas and tigers.
The upcoming academic year will
see the feline’s original form reinstated
on the front pages of the newspaper.
Our Layout Editor and resident graph-
ic designer Carlos Karingal scanned
in archived issues from 1949 to adapt
the original logo into a cleaner, mod-
ernised version. Alongside subtle
modifications to the left eye, arm and
paws, the cat is now silhouetted and set
against a black ring.
Despite the frequent remodelling
over the years, the outgoing iteration
has proven to be the most popular with
past Editors. The distinctive ‘knight’
featured a humanised cat holding a
shield, sword and cape in full colour.
It was soon incorporated into an of-
ficial crest that was heavily utilised in
editions of Felix throughout the 1980s
and 1990s.
Its popularity came to light in 1999,
when Editor Dave Roberts made the
decision to replace the ‘knight’ with
silhouette of a leaping cat; featureless
and barely recognisable as Felix.
The following year, all feline con-
notations were removed wholesale
from the paper’s artwork. Instead, a
pair of scowling human eyes stared
at the reader from the masthead. The
cat made its return upon the arrival of
Will Dugdale as Editor, albeit in a novel
‘sabre-toothed’ form.
As Dugdale’s tenure as Editor came
to an end, Dave Roberts resurrected
the ‘knight’ from the dark depths of
the 1990s. Five years on and the knight
has since been incorporated into the
Felix masthead in two forms: the first
with full crest and motto: ‘keep the cat
free’, and the second as a circled, lone
silhouette (which was used right up to
this past year).
Felix was said to have spawned from
Phoenix, the arts magazine at College
set up by the now legendary author
H.G. Wells. Phoenix had become the
central publication on campus, and
there was ever-increasing pressure to
report news and goings-on in College.
Prior to 1949, Phoenix had started to
feature current affairs articles amongst
the arts and culture submissions. The
Phoenix editors subsequently took the
decision to create a fortnightly College
newspaper, with its name thought to
be a pun on its parent publication.
The first issue was released on the
9th of December and cost each student
only 3 pence.
60 years on, Felix, in his very first
form, has returned.
Left to right: The ‘knight’ iteration of Felix the Cat, the original cat from 1949, and the updated version for this year
Imperial in University
Challenge 1st round victory
Imperial College London is through
to the second round of the BBC’s Uni-
versity Challenge, as the team led by
physicist Gilead Amit triumphed over
Southampton University.
Along with teammates Simon Good
(3rd year Physics), Ciaran Healy (2nd
year Chemistry), Benedict Nicolson
(4th year Maths) and Edward Bright-
man (3rd year Earth Science postgrad-
uate), Imperial scored 175 points while
Southampton gained only 135.
The team was joined by the felix
mascot (right) and with two physicists
on a team which failed to correctly de-
fine capacitance.
This isn’t the first time that Imperial
has acquitted itself well on the famous
quiz show. University Challenge was
won by Imperial in 1996 and also in
2001, a victory followed by a second
place in 2002.
The current plans are for Imperial
to return to our screens when the 2nd
round airs on the 30th of November.
The show will be broadcast in
daVinci’s.
Kadhim Shubber
Kadhim Shubber News Editor
Want to be one of the Rector’s Ambassadors?
Emily Govan
Emily Govan Imperial College
We are looking for enthusiastic, con-
fident and engaged Imperial students
to volunteer as the official Imperial
student ambassadors. If you are confi-
dent, social and have a strong speaking
voice, this is the job for you!
Rector’s Ambassadors are the of-
ficial tour guides of Imperial College
London. The scheme will involve guid-
ing official Imperial College tours,
representing Imperial at Open Days,
giving student Life talks at schools,
meeting and greeting delegations of
international visitors, ushering at spe-
cial Imperial occasions and attending
formal events.
The guided tours will be held every
Wednesday at 3pm (with additional
slots for visiting groups) and there will
be a rota organised from the Interna-
tional Office. Rector’s Ambassadors
will also have the opportunity to travel
to recruitment fairs, international
schools (in the UK and abroad) and
other destinations as Ambassadors of
Imperial.
Rector’s Ambassadors will be given
training in public speaking and other
transferable skills. There will also be
group training days and evenings out,
as well as occasional paid work. This
is an ideal opportunity for enthusi-
astic engaged students to meet their
counterparts from other departments
whilst volunteering for the university
in a visible, high-profile role.
Applications can be found online on
the International Office website: www.
imperial.ac.uk/international/students/
rectorsambassadors
Deadline for application is 23 Octo-
ber 2009. Applicants must be free for
the first week of November.
UCL student dies during Freshers’ Week
UCL kicked off their Freshers’ Fort-
night last week with the Freshers Fiesta
at Koko, Camden. Billed as ‘The First
Day of the Rest of Your Life’, the night
was to end in tragedy for fresher Tho-
mas Reid, 19, from Garforth, Leeds.
After complaining about an increased
heart rate at a family meal on Sunday
afternoon, he went on to Koko. Later in
the night he told staff that he was feel-
ing ill and was taken to hospital where
he died of a heart attack at around 3
am. A full inquest will be carried out,
but his death is not being treated as
Charlotte Morris
Charlotte Morris News Reporter suspicious. It’s expected that the coro-
ners will investigate any underlying
heart problems and toxicology reports
hope to rule out the cause of death as
drugs or alcohol related.
Koko and UCLU have been critisised
surrounding the death of this soon-
to-be linguistics student, accusing the
cheap drinks promotions of encour-
aging first year students to drink too
much.
UCLU cancelled their ‘Vodpop’ night
which was to be held the following
night. The Den also cancelled a fresh-
ers event, ‘Skint’ which was to be £15
entry for free drinks all night with the
tagline ‘Drink as much as you dare!’
Imperial look on in a mixture of admiration and boredom as Paxman speaks
“Like the cat? That’s not all I brought”

