8 felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FEATURE
Which FU do you belong to?
A
s a student here at Imperial
College, you are already a
member of several different
communities. These may
include halls, departments or clubs
and societies. Compared with such
prominent familial groupings, Faculty
Unions are sometimes overlooked.
However, they do provide many differ-
ent services and it might help to know
what these are.
The Unions are student run organi-
sations here to represent their peers at
a faculty level within Imperial College.
They are elected officers, students like
yourselves, who will be providing so-
cial opportunities and answering your
questions over the course of your time
at University.
They all have academic and welfare
officers who can provide helpful ad-
vice if required, without having to go
through more formal procedures with
university staff. They also provide a
broad range of services to departmen-
tal societies and help them in their
liaisons with the College to improve
course content based on the needs
of the students. As such they are well
placed to negotiate on behalf of their
members should anything go wrong.
But most of all, they aim to promote
having fun through organising lots
of social events throughout the year.
Whether it be dressing up to the nines
for one of the Faculty Union Freshers’
Balls, downing yards during a tradi-
tional bar night or laughing till you wet
yourself at live comedy nights, Faculty
Unions are the guys who organise spe-
cific events for Scientists, Engineers or
Medics respectively.
Additionally, all the Faculties have
their own clubs and societies and or-
ganise their own inter-departmental
as well as inter-faculty sports leagues.
There are also subject specific socie-
ties such as Surgical Society, Engineers
Without Borders and SSETI (Student
Space Explotation Initiative)
Not found anything to your taste
yet? Get in touch with the teams in-
troduced opposite and tell them what
you think your Faculty Union can do
for you. They always welcome feed-
back and would love to hear new ideas
for future events, better representation
or longer term projects within your
Faculties.
The Royal College of Science Union
The Royal College of Science Union rep-
resents around 4000 students at Impe-
rial College. Anyone who has opted to
study science in its purest form is auto-
matically part of it, no signing up is nec-
essary and there is no membership fee.
So what do we actually do? Well, first
and foremost we are here so that you are
able to speak your mind at the highest lev-
el of the union, making sure that you have
a voice. At an institution as large as Imperi-
al it can be easy to get lost in the crowd, we
make sure that whenever you, as a student
or indeed as a person, need assistance or
have any qualms about your course or the
services on offer to you, there is a way for
you to be heard.
One of our main aims this year espe-
Your Vice-President this year, Jacqueline
Fok, has the level-headed approach
needed to carry out her role. Having
previously held the position of Treasurer,
her experience and financial know-how
make her well suited to carrying out the
task of securing sponsorship and liaising
with external companies so that we can
provide you with career information and
opportunities. She will also be overseeing
the activity of the departmental societies
so if you have any problems in that area
do not hesitate to contact her, she is very
friendly and will provide you with all the
advice you need.
Tim has been actively involved in
student welfare for some time now and
is standing for the position of Welfare
Officer. He has used the summer to
prepare a good welfare infrastructure
within the RCSU. He will be holding
welfare drop-in sessions every week
and will always be available for you to
contact should you need any advice or
help.
In case any of you have forgotten (I
certainly do at times), you are embarking
on a challenging and sometimes difficult
degree. Our academic affairs officer
is committed to ensuring that you are
representedwithinthecollege.Alongwith
your departmental representative he will
be happy to help should you get into any
difficulty with your course or if you need
any advice on how to handle the stresses
of studying here.
Imperial College School of Medicine Student Union
ICSMSU is the Faculty of Medicine
Union and represents all under-
graduate medics, graduate entry
medics, biomedical scientists and
pharmacologists.
Think of ICSMSU as your one-stop
shop for all you need at medical
school; be it clubs and socs, welfare,
social events, love-life counselling,
loft conversions, etc. If we can’t do it,
we know someone who can! We are
based at two main sites; our main of-
fice is on the ground floor of the SAF
Building and the other is the Reynolds
Building at Charing Cross Hospital.
cially is to improve the quality of events
that we offer to you, ensuring that as
well as a variety of club and bar nights
we also cater for those less inclined to
spend every waking hour in a state of
drunken stupor. We will be holding a se-
ries of comedy nights and guest lectures
as well as, of course, our extremely pop-
ular nights of alcohol-fuelled carnage.
We will be holding drop-in welfare clin-
ics,aswellasensuringthattheRCSUoffice
is manned every lunchtime by members of
our committee so that you have a port of
call if you need it. In addition there will be
a day of the week when your departmen-
tal representative will be there so that you
can come and ask questions or talk about
your course.
Richard becomes the ICSM President if I
were forced to take “unfortunate leave”; I
wish he would stop putting those pills in
my tea.
Kat exists to make people happier.
Also known as “The Big D” Dave
organises the quiet, sober non-eventful
nights that the medical school is best
known for…
My name is Anil Chopra, I am the
ICSMSU President. I look after a team
of 16 officers. Here are some in no
particular order:
As President this year, I have an ambitious
vision for the RCSU. We have gone
from strength to strength since our re-
establishment and I sincerely hope that
this trend will continue. The entire RCS
committee are extremely willing and
able individuals with a determination to
bring out the potential of our student's
union so please do not hesitate to get in
contact with myself or anyone else on our
team. First and foremost we are here to
represent you and to instil a sense of pride
in your choice of degree. Make the most of
it because at the end of the day it is you,
the student, who has the power to make
this year a successful one.
President
Kayta-yani Vyas
Vice-President
Jacqueline Fok
Welfare Officer
Tim Barrett (standing)
Academic Affairs
David Chreng
President
Anil Chopra
Deputy President
Richard Hewitt
Welfare Officer
Kathryn Wright
Ents Chair
Dave Smith

