9
felix FRIDAY 09 OCTOBER 2009
FEATURE
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Being one of the most corrupt men on the
planet, Jack is financially responsible for
the Union. He is a very useful person to
get friendly with and knows 12 different
types of fraud.
Rosie makes all the fancy posters that you
see all over facebook, the website and the
walls. She was also responsible for the
Medic Freshers’ Handbook. She takes the
minutesoftheever-funSUExecMeetings!
As clubs and socs officer, Cat truly
represents the heart and sould of the
medical school. BRING ON VARSITY!
Treasurer
Jack Roberts
Secretary
Rosie Richards
Clubs & Socs Officer
Cat Atkin
The City & Guilds College Union
Honorary Secretary
Chris Baker-Brian
Academic Affairs
Ben Stubbens
President
Kirsty Patterson
Vice-President (Activities)
Steve Long
V-P (Finance & Societies)
Rikki Norris
Welfare Officer
Alice Rowlands
Kirsty is a fourth (and final) year Geol-
ogy and Geophysics Student. In a previ-
ous life she was Deputy President (Edu-
cation and Welfare) and in a parallel
dimension has held various positions for
CGCU.
In her spare time Kirsty likes to lie on
her back under vintage vehicles working
out what went where, which bit fell off
and whether the fact that the other bits
are still left over is a problem.
She is looking forward to being CGCU
President this year. Not just because
Welcome to the City & Guilds College
Union! As an engineer you are auto-
matically a member. Each Department
has a Departmental Society and a team
of Representatives, elected by you to
make your university life more enjoya-
ble. First and foremost the Union exists
to represent your academic and welfare
needs to the College, through regular
staff liaison and committee meetings
and opportunities to present new ideas
at various levels in the Faculty. How-
ever, we are also here to make sure you
have fun, get a chance to let your hair
down and to meet other like-minded
people.
We hope you made it to the Barbeque
in Freshers’ Week and got your free
bags and term planners from the Fresh-
ers’ Fair. If not feel free to pop by our
office: 340 Mechanical Engineering, at
any time! Tickets are selling fast for our
Masquerade Ball on the 23rd October
as, with a fantastic evening lined-up, it
is proving popular amongst engineers
and non-engineers alike. There is bound
to be something for everyone over the
coming term from a beer festival and
hog roast to careers talks and engineer-
ing related speaker events, club nights,
bar nights and comedy nights. There
will be crazy antics for charity such as a
Fire Engine Pull, Slave Auction and Hit
Squad in later terms too.
Through our links with the Alumni
Association for the Faculty of Engi-
neering, the City and Guilds College
Association, we can also put you on
the right track for hardship funds when
the money gets tight. As an incentive,
CGCA also provides activity awards for
students who make a difference to the
life of the union, so don’t be afraid to
get stuck right in!
Steve is your man for all extra-curricular
activities, be they under a car getting
greasy, under a blue sky getting fed or un-
der a table getting drunk. We’re counting
on him to get some fun on the go! He was
a Wilson Hall Senior last year, so he knows
how the good times should roll. At college
he studies Mechanical Engineering, he
has made it half-way there now; it was a
close call but he should be alright. He has
insane plans on being a railway engineer,
and spent a year working on the London
Underground. He consequently can tell
you useless trivia such as apparently the
longest escalator is at Angel….
AtplaytimeStevelikestosingsongsand
play random instruments, drink wine, play
Trivial Pursuit and ride his beautiful 1971
Raleigh Wayfarer in blue with a wicker
basket. Baaaaaaaadass.
Rikki is a third year Chemical Engineer.
When he isn’t putting in an appearance in
his department, he can usually be found
working in the Student Activities Centre
in the Central Union. Here he enjoys tell-
ing people that they can’t book their room
because they need to give him more than
five minutes notice, to stay away from the
printer because they don’t know what
they’re doing and only clog it up and driv-
ing minibuses like a chav. After a hard
days work, he is almost always found
propping up the bar with a pint or seven.
Rikki hopes he can get away from the
image of being the boring finance man
who just says “no” to everything. He has
already spent a lot of time with the Presi-
dent sorting out some great stuff for you
all when you get here!
she likes collecting important sounding
titles and telling other people what to
do (although admittedly it is a benefit).
It’s mostly because she likes nothing bet-
ter than throwing a good party. She has
spent the entire summer organising some
pretty mega events in the vain hope that
engineers will join her in discarding their
Chris is a sports mad 4th year Electronic
and Electrical Engineer who will be the
Guilds Honorary Secretary for the upcom-
ing academic year. He has previously been
the Imperial College Hockey Club Captain,
as well as being heavily involved with
hockey in the University of London. When
he’s not playing hockey (which is not very
often!), he can be found trying his hand at
a variety of other sports and has just been
to Rwanda with a C&G club to help install
solar panels in a remote village.
This year, Chris plans to help build a
hydrogen fuel cell powered racing car as
part of Imperial Racing Green and in ad-
dition, he will be captaining the Men’s 1st
XI hockey team to what he hopes will be
some exciting victories. If he doesn’t blow
up from exhaustion before term starts,
he’ll be looking forward to some fantastic
events and a great year for Guilds!
Ben is a fourth year Aeronautics student
who has made it up the ranks from Year
Rep to Departmental Representative and
finally to Academic Affairs Officer this
year. He enjoys the fine art of arguing
with people without getting their backs
up. Whether he is actually any good at it
remains to be seen!
He has also (mainly unsuccessfully)
been a member of the Polish, Gliding,
Dancing, Photography and Aeronauti-
cal Societies. He says “unsuccessfully”, as
he is not and does not speak Polish, has
never been gliding and cannot dance!
Alice is a third year mechanical engi-
neering student - having taken a year in
industry, during which she played with
very fast cars. Last year Alice was RAG
co-ordinator for CGCU, held a position
on the Mech Soc committee and edited
various sections of this very newspaper,
felix. This year, Alice will mainly be at-
tending meetings, but hopes to find time
to play for her beloved hockey team- the
ICHC Ladies 2’s, help out the RAG team
and the Felix editor, tinker with the RSM
truck and take to the seas with the Lon-
don University Royal Naval Unit.
As Welfare Officer, Alice will be work
to improve the every-day experience of
students within CGCU and help indi-
viduals with more serious issues as they
arise. Alice will also be helping the Dep-
uty President (Welfare) to run various
welfare campaigns throughout the year.
However, she feels “S.H.A.G” (Sexual
Health And Guidance Week) is a rather
crude term and spent the summer trying
to find a catchy phrase to kick start the
“R.U.M.P.Y - P.U.M.P.Y” campaign.

