ACT UP beaten up
Yesterday lunchtime saw the first
demonstration by the group A C T U P
L O N D O N (The A I D S Coalition To
Unleash Power). The group has been
formed to protest at social and political
discrimination against sufferers of
A I D S .
Some 40 protesters gathered on
Whitehall outside Richmond House, the
headquarters of the DSS. The majority
of the protesters were young
homosexuals and other high risk
individuals worried about their future
in society should they contract the
disease. The main thrust of the protest
was against the reforms to the Social
security benefits, which severely
disadvantage sufferers of terminal
illnesses. Since the reforms those
unable to work through long term
illness are only entitled to income
support of £24 per week. Independent
medical advice recomends a diet for
AIDS sufferers costing £30 per week.
Despite a heavy Police presence,
including 8 mounted officers, the
demonstration was peaceful. A
spokesman for A C T U P told F E L I X
"The demo was very sucessful but the
Police acted like shits as usual." The
only trouble occurred early in the
ti
protest when traffic by the Cenotaph
was blocked. Following this incident 3
protesters lay down on the pavement to
cause an obstruction. They were
removed to Bow Street Police station
pending charges. Witnesses reported
that the Police had been extremely
violent in removing the protesters. One
man was kicked in the groin and a girl
had her face ground into the pavement.
One protester told F E L I X afterwards
that when he complained to a W P C
involved that she didn't need to treat
them like animals she replied 'Animals
don't take it up the arse, do they?'
The meeting broke up peacefully by
about 2pm and the protesters dispersed
to avoid aggravating the Police. More
action is planned by the group in the
future including a picket of the
Australian embassy to protest at the
country's introduction of random H I V
testing.
Union to protest on loans
Imperal College Union (ICU) will hold
an Extraordinary General Meeting on
Tuesday 17th October at 1pm in the
Junior Common Room.
The meeting is to discuss action
concerning student loans. The House of
Commons is to discuss the bill on
Friday 20th October. Union President,
Neil McCluskey, intends to ask students
to contact their own MPs and to make
appointments to see them to argue
against the introduction of such loans.
IC Union hopes to arrange a lobby
of Parliament next Thursday with the
London branch of the National Union
of Students (NUS) sending a delegation
of students on Friday to talk to M P s .
The University of London Union
(ULU) will not be taking part as a
whole, though members will be
involved.
The N U S will be taking buses of
students up to Manchester to support
demonstrations there, under the title
'Fight for the Right to Study' on 18th
October. O n October 19th N U S
(National) will be presenting a petition
to MPs at Westminster. A 'Loans Week
of Action' will be organised for
November 6th until November 10th.
N U S hope to set up an 'Education
Shutdown' on November 16th after
negotiating with trade unions.
On November 29th the N U S aim to
organise a march through central
London, from the U L U building in
Malet Street to the Imperial War
Museum. The march is still subject to
Police approval.
Most London colleges are supporting
the N U S lobby on the 19th. Carol
Hinbest, Vice President for Welfare at
Queen Mary's College, said she would
write to academics at her college asking
them to write to their MPs opposing the
loans. The principal of Queen Mary's
is to write a letter opposing loans to
students' parents.
The Polytechnic of Central London
is mounting a 'Loan Busters' campaign
to gain media attention.
City University is supporting the
NUS (London) lobby of Parliament on
the 19th. They may support the N U S
national demonstration on November
29th if it goes ahead. The N U S is in the
process of deciding whether to hold a
strike at further education colleges in
the future. Pickets of colleges may be
a possibility, said a spokesman. The
NUS will hold demonstrations and
marches near the time of the Queen's
Speech in November, when the Queen
will state the Government's legislation
diary for the next Parliamentary
session, which will include the Student
Loans Bill.
The Rector of Imperial College,
Professor Eric Ash, told F E L I X that he
felt grants 'wholly paid for by the State
are no longer tenable' and that the
'erosion of that idea was inevitable'. He
went on to say that details on student
loans were not known and that he could
not 'shoot at a vague target'. He added
that the loans proposal 'helped too
little'.
On being asked whether he would
take action similar to the principal of
Queen Mary's College Professor Ash
said he had 'not so far thought of that;
I think the greater attack on the
educational system is that of fees'. The
Committee of Vice Chancellors and
Principals eventually approved the idea
of introducing student fees in the future,
though Professor Ash voted against this
saying this idea was 'diverging from
Europe.' Education in this country
would become too expensive for
students because of their having to pay
their own fees, and they would, for
instance, choose to 'study in Paris', he
added.
("D
Issue 845
Friday 13th

