Lawn Tennis
So many of you have enquired about what
membership of the club entitles you to, so here are
the main details you need to know.
Membership of the club allows play on the two
tennis courts adjacent to Prince's Gardens. The
availability of these courts is controlled by weekly
booking sheets to be found in the Sports Centre,
which are posted every Monday. To book a court,
enter your name and membership number in the
desired time slot on the sheet. No more than two
consecutive hours may be booked. Any booking
without a membership number will be scrapped as of
next week-so do not say you have not been warned!
Team practice is on Sundays at 1pm, so if you
haven't been to a trial yet, this Sunday is your last
chance. We have club afternoons on Wednesdays -
this is for social rather than competitive play.
We are arranging coaching for beginners
commencing in about ten days time. If you are
interested, please contact me as soon as possible as
we can only accommodate the first fifteen people who
apply for the first coaching session.
To join the club find us on the courts on
Wednesdays or Sundays, or send your name and
department with a cheque for £5.00 made out to
'ICUACC to Samia Saad, Biochem 3, via the
departmental pigeonholes. A receipt and membership
card will be returned as soon as possible.
The club also has six grass courts at Harlington and
club members will be notified in the summer term
about when these are available.
See you on the courts!
Scuba
Diving appeals to everyone wanting that little bit more
out of life than the ordinary everyday existance. Not
only does diving provide adventure, but it gives a
purpose to holidays which others, less fortunate, have
to spend just lying on a beach.
Diving is exciting, it's different and it's not difficult.
Modern diving equipment is light, comfortable to wear
and easy to use. But you must know what to do, so
come along to the Underwater Club. We will provide
free training so you can dive safely. Come along to
an introductory meeting on Tuesday 10th October in
Biology room W2 (just through Beit Arch on your left)
and to the 'Try an Aqualung' session on Thursday
12th October to see if you really like it.
Alternatively contact either David Roberts, Physics
3 or James Derry, Chem Eng 2 via the pigeonholes.
Gliding
For a week at the end of August glider pilots
representing Universities and Polytechnics from all
over the country come together to compete in a battle
of wits and skill at the 1989 Inter-University Task
Week. Imperial College Gliding Club (ICGC) co-hosted
this year's event with Surrey University Gliding Club
at our mutual base, Larham Airfield.
Larham, a tiny village nestled in the unsuspecting
Hampshire countryside, is the site for one of the
largest gliding airfields in the country. ICGC rents a
Octopush
The game of Octopush bares some distant
resemblance to ice hockey but is played in a
swimming pool. The goals (Gulls) are troughs placed
on the pool bottom at each end of the playing area.
The puck (Squid) is an 80mm dia x 30mm thick disc
of lead. The stick (Pusher) is quite short (250-340mm
long).
The game commences by placing the puck in the
centre of the playing area. The two teams then
converge from opposite ends of the playing area and
try to propell the squid using only their pushers (not
their hands or heads etc!) into the other team's gull.
There is an official book of rules (even though many
players do not appear to have even looked at the first
page) which basically outlaws al! those rugby tackles,
adjustments of other players' equipment during play
etc.
The sport of Octopush, also known as Underwater
Hockey, originated in the UK in 1954 by Southsea
BSAC (British Sub Aqua Club), as a 'fun exercise in
the winter'. The first rules were issued in 1967 and
the British Octopush Association evolved in 1976.
The game is now international with 2,500 males and
females alone playing in the UK.
Once a goal is scored each team returns to its own
end of the pool and the game is restarted as before.
Play continues for 15 minutes, there is then a break
at half time and then play is restarted for the second
half. If the bar is already open the duration of play may
be shortened to allow more drinking time.
If you would like to have a go turn up on a Tuesday
or Thursday at 8pm at the Sports Centre pool with
a mask, snorkel and fins (if you have them). Beginners
are welcome as long as you can swim.
bunk-house on the airfield and this was to be home
to nine pilots during the week; the rest of the
competitors slept in tents or caravans.
The weather was good enough to allow competitive
flying nearly all week and several remarkable flights
were made. In particular the Imperial College team
entry, with Martin Jadkins in command, achieved a
handicapped distance of nearly 300 kilometres in a
two-seater training glider. This flight was to lead
directly to their victory in the wooden glider class.
Imperial College was represented in the glass-fibre
glider class by Nick Law, the ICGC captain. Although
he did not win he distinguished himself by reaching
some of the more inaccessible parts of the country
and then landing there.
As well as the flying there was a treasure hunt car
rally and plenty of evenings in the bar recounting the
day's adventures. Gliding appears to share some of
the characteristics of fishing in this respect: as the
beer flows events become more and more dramatic.
If you would like to compete in next year's Task
Week, or just find out what a glider is, come along
to one of our regular meetings on Thursday at 5.30pm
in Aero 254. See you there.
Water Polo
Well you've blown it now (as the actress said to the
Bishop). Both free introductory swimming and water
polo sessions are over.
But don't despair, if you haven't come along yet and
want to swim or play polo you can still join in. The
club will still give you one free training session,
although the Sports Centre swimming charge will now
apply.
The club is open to everyone; students, staff, union
life-time members, AIFS etc. Membership is £5 for
students and AIFS and £10 for everyone else.
The club is also operating a discounted Speedo
swimwear service, so if you want any equipment
contact us asap via departmental pigeonholes: Malena
Zubcov, Chem 2 or Chris Cox, Mech Eng 3.
PS. All ladies-due to response we are trying to
organise a women only water polo session on
Wednesday evenings, between 6.30 and 7.30pm.
Anyone interested should contact Malena Zubcov,
Chem 2.
Page 11

