We present a completely unbiased and accurate view ofrecent
events, as seen through the worm's eye offiveyear FELIXhack
Andy Bannister, who isn't really afraid oflibel actions, slander
suits, or having knots tied in his extremeties by the Rector's
heavy mob...
ACID
We all know that Imperial College is built on a network
of tunnels, right? And we all know that where you find
tunnels, you find cockroaches, right? In fact the
tunnels we live on top of are crawling with the things;
movement down there involves large scale crunching
noises and retching by the faint of heart. So, logically,
we could do a brisk business with life science
departments up and down the country. Right? Right.
In view of this, the Biology Department, who are
currently paying £60 for seventy of someone elses
adult roaches, must either be brilliant lateral thinkers,
or real dickheads. Right? It isn't as if they would have
to go far to find them; A visit to Rob Northey's
kitchens in Sherfield would set them up for years. In
fact, we might suggest that Rob should consider
opening a new trading outlet.... So, if you have any
spare cockroaches in your flat, hall, garret or slum;
send them through the internal mail to Professor Roy
Anderson, Department of Biology. Assuming they
don't get nicked in the mail, he should be delighted.
Four cheers for the Imperial College (Not Union)
Conservative Society, for their performance of a
remarkable act of lip-buttoning, and their
demonstration of a real sense of humour which we
didn't think they possessed. This is the only possible
explanation of the fact that they haven't attempted
to wring someones neck, since we cannot believe that
they are so unobservant as to have failed to notice.
Notice what? Oh, well if you look at the front of about
one third of the booklets the little darlings gave out
to the poor unsuspecting Freshers, you will find that
some naughty person has added the word 'Fascisti'
to the Imperial College Crest. Who it was, we have
no idea, but we would like to reassure our readers that
the Imperial College (Not Union) Print Unit has
undertaken a full and far-reaching internal
investigation, during which we found forty-three
cockroaches and two pairs of scissors. If we find the
culprit, we faithfully promise to be quite unkind to
them for at least five minutes.
And at least five cheers for the hardworking
members of the Exec, who are working their fingers
to the bone on everyones behalf. Out of those, Dave
Williams deserves three or more for his selfless
devotion to duty. The latest example of this is his
tremendous efforts in the bar. We have heard of many
incidents, the most outstanding of which occurred
during the RCS barnight on the Sunday before
Freshers' Week, when Mr Williams gave so much of
himself for such a large part of the evening that he
actually collapsed in Beit Quadrangle after leaving the
bar. Despite the heroic efforts of nearby RCS
members, who attempted to put him into the
'recovery position', but due to their own extreme state
of exhaustion kept dropping him, he remained
comatose, and was only able to move the next day
in a sort of lurch: He looked extremely ill. Speaking
as members of the Union, we don't want to see
people making themselves ill by overworking on our
behalf. Of course, it might just be that Dave's problem
is that he is a total pisshead of the first order, mightn't
it?
Dear, sweet, gentlemanly old John Smith, that most
mild mannered and diplomatic of college secrataries,
has been about to leave Imperial College for so long
that few of us really believe he will ever go.
Nonetheless, one day soon he will, and a number of
Sherfield officios (and fascisti?) will find their lives
suddenly become quite exciting. It is a known and
unspoken fact that Mr Smith is a form of job-security
for quite a few admin bods who don't exactly get on
too well with the Rector. In short, when he leaves,
heads will roll. This may lead some of them to have
a go at beating Eric Ash to the draw, which brings us
to the Registrar, Peter Mee. Rumour has it that he
intends to leave with Mr Smith. As for the possibility
that if he didn't, he'd get the sack at Mach four, we
can neither confirm or deny.
We can confirm, in the interest of ending with a
touch of humour, that the esteemed Rob Northey,
doubtless bored with his burger and cockroach
outlets, applied for John Smith's job! Unfortunately
we don't know what the Rector said when he heard,
but we do know that Rob didn't get the job, which
probably bodes well for the future of the College, and
may indicate that the Honourable Rector is learning
sense. Either that, or he recognizes a climber when
he sees one, and fears for his own position? Now that
would be something....
Andy Bannister.
Thefirstcorrect entry out of the Editor's hat will win a crisp £5 note
Double your grant—win a fiver
In a parallel universe not so very far away, the freshers
are arriving at the Metric College.
By an amazing coincidence, a copy of Metric's
student magazine Mickey has fallen through a hole in
the Space-Time continuum (left after maintenance
repaired the roof) and landed in the FELIX Office.
We were surprised to learn that their sabbaticals are
also called Neil, Di, Fiona and Dave.
We were more surprised to learn that their
surnames were McCluskey, Williams, Nicholas and
Smedley and we were positively flabbergasted to
learn that, like our own sabs, one was fond of a bit
of dance, one was female, one was Welsh and one
smoked like a chimney.
By carefully reading between the lines (it's a side-
effect of using parallel printing presses) we found that;
1. Their Fiona is President and widely believed to
be female.
2. Their DP has been seen doing the two-step.
3. Di McCluskey is in fact Irish.
4. Neither Williams or the Hon Sec smoke.
5. Neither Mr Williams or Mr Nicholas is editor of
the magazine
6. Dave and their DP are the best of friends.
But who are Metric College Union's President, Deputy
President, Honorary Secretary and Mickey Editor and
what are thier quirks?
A diagram like this may help:
— C > <
" c
<
D O <
o 2
? D- O
z a u_ o a. o ^
E
CO
McC
Williams
Nicholas
Smedley
Dancer
Welsh
Female
Smokes
President
DP
Hon Sec
Editor
Entries to
FELIX Office
by Wednesday
Entries to
FELIX Office
by Wednesday
Entries to
FELIX Office
by Wednesday
Royal College of Science Union
CAREERS FORUM
6.30pm,
Tuesday 24th October
Senior Common Room
Sherfield
An ideal opportunity to meet people from
a broad spectrum of the industrial,
commercial and managerial world, able
to offer objective advice regarding jobs,
careers and prospects in your particular
field.
An informal buffet supper will be served,
at a cost of £2.50 and a cash bar will be
available.
Bookings should be made at the Old
Students' Association Office, Room
303, Sherfield, by Friday 20th October.
Pane 12

