Apologies
please
Dear Mr Smedley,
I am writing to ask that you publish an apology in
the next issue of FELIX to Dr Jan Bradley, the previous
warden of Willis Jackson House. In the article that
appeared on the back page of your recent issue, your
paper misquotes my recent telephone conversation
with one of your reporters and hence imparts part of
the blame for the overspend of our amenities account
on Jan Bradley. In the telephone conversation I recall,
I stated that the overspend was not as high as £750,
but more like £550, owing to the fact that the
accounts department had mixed up account numbers
between Linstead (Jan's new tenure) and Willis
Jackson, and some of their expenditure had been
charged to our account. I have now recouped this
'lost' income. As a point of fact, which you may quote
me on, Jan left the Willis Jackson amenities account
in good shape with a small surplus. I do sincerely hope
you will recognise the anxiety caused to Jan by your
misinterpretation of facts and redress the slur to her
excellent stewardship of Willis Jackson House as soon
as possible.
Yours sincerely,
Joe Cartwright.
I have spoken to the reporter in question, who
assures me that you did say the Willis Jackson
account was in debt. I feel that you owe Jan
Bradley an apology. FELIX did not misquote you;
you have entirely altered what you said with the
benefit of hindsight.
I must also assume that you admit to my
accusations of your creaming it off the students
in your care, since you have failed to raise this
point in your letter.
Ed.
Malcolm
denies
all
Dear Dave,
Olave House
I fear that your front page article gives a very
misleading impression about the College's proposals
for the management of Olave House. The editorial
makes matters worse. (FELIX 844, Friday 6th
October.)
The College will honour its promise and the Rector
has specifically asked me to say that he has personally
always insisted that Olave House be kept entirely
separate from other residences. The purchase of
Olave House will not result in rent increases for other
residences. I thought I had made this clear when you
interviewed me last week.
The Olave House accounts are maintained in a
watertight compartment, preventing cross subsidy by
other residences. The effectiveness of these
arrangements will be plainly visible to the elected
student representatives on the Students Residence
Committee, just as it is at present for Wilson House.
It is most important that your readers-and their
elected representatives-appreciate that there is
much more to the Students Residence Committee
than determination of rents. There are many issues
of general management and because the same
organisation is used to manage Olave House, head
tenancies and Wilson House as College halls and
houses obviously there are some issues which affect
them all.
Yours sincerely,
Malcolm Aldridge,
Rector
replies
Dear Dave,
I had missed your comment on the students from
China in the Freshers' edition. It was only when, in
the last issue, I read your apology (for which of course
I am grateful), for having called me a 'conniving git',
that I looked back and found it.
The impression you have of the economics of
recruiting overseas students is widely held-but
factually wrong. In the case of an overseas student
the financial contribution comes in the form of fees.
It is important to appreciate that these cover only
about 75% of the actual cost, the rest being
contributed by the UK taxpayer. In the case of UK
students only a small part of the financial contribution
is in the form of fees-the remainder is paid as a
component of the block grant which we receive from
the UFC. The situation is complicated, not least due
to the fact that our UFC block grant is devised on a
formula which is not revealed. However we know
enough. Looked at purely as a financial proposition,
the College is no better off by recruiting one additional
person from Beijing than from Brighton.
Our aspirations in recruiting students are simple to
state: we want the best
Yours sincerely,
With kind regards,
Eric Ash.
Common
sense
Dear Dave,
I am writing to you to highlight what I feel is a
growing and disturbing trend at IC, namely the
growing extremism of the various political groups. It's
hard to know who to start with but it's certainly
easiest to start with the Imperial College Conservative
Society. They obviously feel that to use the word
'Union' in their title (or in their handbook, or on the
disclaimer for the above 'fascisti' organ from Imperial
College Union Publications) would taint their bluer
than blue, "We love the PM" image. This is despite
the fact that they are part of the Union and their
operations are funded by the Union.
It is interesting to note that the Government which
they so adore has recently commissioned a survey to
investigate student unions' spending on political
activities. Unfortunately this survey found that
student unions only spend around 0.5% of their
turnover on political activities, so the DES buried the
idea. Either way, Consoc are spending the Union's
money promoting their own political garbage, money
which could be better spent elsewhere. They are not
the only culprits; Socialist Workers Student Society
are just as bad, only they try to paint the world a
different colour.
There is a lot currently happening in the student
world, and we will all be worse off if either of these
groups (or any like them) attempt to hijack things on
the external front. One suggestion is to round them
all into a field and nuke the bastards, but this is not
the way of moderation. It is my belief that a student
union should have no set political affiliation (IC
Conservative Society believe in a national body of
students but not the NUS, maybe because the NUS
support the Labour party and not the glorious blues)
but should decide its political stance as and when
student issues occur, and represent the feelings of the
students at that time. This is particularly relevant now,
as we are having a refurendum on the NUS this year,
which both factions will try to bully in on, and, as they
are not that keen to recognise their membership of the
union, kicking their societies out of it would probably
do everyone a favour, so that everyone else can get
on with some sensible (and legal) campaigning on
issues such as financial support and welfare for
students. As you may have gathered, I am neither a
'leftie' or a 'Thatcherite' but rather someone with a
bit of common sense and, while I would be the first
to agree that there can be no way that our union can
be 'apolitical' and stick its head in the sand, common
sense should prevail.
Yours sincerely,
Hal Calamvokis.
O L D C E N T R A L I A N S
invite you to a
C a r e e r s R e c e p t i o n
for Graduating Students
6.00-8.30pm, Thursday 19 October
Senior Common Room, Sherfield
This is an ideal opportunity to discuss career
prospects in most engineering disciplines and
management, with OCs and their guests.
Wine and light refreshment will be served.
Tickets are free to members and £1 for non-
members, and should be obtained from the Old
Students' Association Office (Room 303,
Sherfield) by Tuesday 17th October)
A concert to
help Chinese
people...
TICKETS ON SALE NOW!
In aid of The Chinese Students
Relief Association
7.30pm
Sunday October 15th 1989
Great Hall, Imperial College
£5.00 (£2.50 for students)
Fa-Fa Jin conducts
a selection of music by
Tchaikovsky, Vaughan-Williams,
Chopin, Shostakovich, A'Bing
You can obtain tickets by sending a cheque (payable
to CSRA) and a SAE to 24 Couttside, Dartmouth
Road, London SE26 4RE. Tickets are also available
from the Union Office, Beit Quad, the Hub Office
in Sherfield and IC Union Book Store.
Page 13

