F e l i X
Student Loans
Next week is a black week for students. The
Government's plans for 'Top up loans for students'
will be discussed in the House of Commons on
Thursday. This will be the beginning of the end of
higher education as we now know it. Since last year's
student demonstrations, the press has defiantly
ignored the issue and will continue to until it can
pounce on a student versus police 'bloodbath' story.
What disgusts me most is the bandwagon approach
which is being taken up by some magazines. I received
a 'Time Out' press release this week, which dutifully
informed me of how outspoken the student special
had been on the subject of student loans. Of course
it was; Time Out was all too happy to make an
attempt at a 'one of the students,' approach in order
to increase its student readership. But how much do
the taxpaying top dogs at Time Out care? Damn all,
I would say. I predict that they will give little coverage
to the matter from now on. Don't forget that the Time
Out student special which we all received was not on
general circulation: it was preaching to the converted
with no danger of offending a regular readership.
Come on Time Out; give us more coverage in regular
issues if you want us to buy you.
With the subject of student loans and preaching to
the converted I should like to make a plea to
everybody. Don't just sit on your backside in the vain
hope that you won't have to take out a student loan;
many of you will. The scheme is expected to start in
1990/91. Its effects include a halt in the inflationary
increase in the student grant and the abolition of
benefits for students. This means that you, yes YOU,
will see your grant rapidly devaluing with an instant
loss of Housing Benefit during term time and income
support during the summer. If you don't want to see
yourself and your predecessors in debt to the
government for years to come, write to your MP, and
above all tell your parents and their friends how
serious the situation is. The first step you can take
is to attend next Tuesday's emergency general
meeting in the JCR and discuss the Union's action on
loans for this year.
As a final comment on the matter I suppose I ought
to add the solution to 'active or passive student
resistance,' to loans, which Price Waterhouse suggest
in their feasibility study: 'careful marketing.'
Life Science department
Closer to home, I would like to know what the Life
Science department thinks it is playing at with
undergraduate timetables. Almost every Life Scientist
I know has complained to me of the incompetence of
the department in this area (other areas will be
mentioned next week.) Yet again they have
timetabled work during Wednesday afternoons, and
the rest of the week is just one huge guessing game.
Students are being expected to come into College
with no idea of when or where their lectures are likely
to be and to happily trot around at the beck and call
of academic staff. This is not good enough. The
department will inevitably claim that this is just a one
off occasion, but it is not. They have messed their
students around for the three years I have been here
and I have yet to hear anything other than a pile of
feeble excuses and a heap of bureaucratic crap at the
College's Board of Studies. If I had to blame one
person it would have to be Professor Anderson. This
man receives this weeks 'conniving git,' award for
long term conniving and shear officiousness. Most of
the students in the Life Sciences division will not have
met him, since he does not deign to speak to mere
mortals. In the past he has been a large part of the
drive to eat away at the student union areas for his
department (well its research actually) and has
refused to meet with Union Presidents over the
matter. He has little thought for the students in his
department and is the prime candidate for the 'still in
his job because he's been here so long,' award. I look
forward to his retirement.
Weeks Hall lift
At last we have the name of one of those elusive men
in the heavens of the College's estates section: Mr
P Burridge. He was the man responsible for everybody
who had to carry all of their belongings up the stairs
in Weeks Hall during Freshers week. Having hired
Sundance and Co. (yes they have returned), he was
obviously quite happy to let them take their time over
installing the lift in Weeks. Maybe he should have been
in Weeks hall to help everbody carry their suitcases
up to the top floor, instead of sitting on his backside
in Sherfield whilst the boys from the magnolia stuff
drank tea and searched for the bit they had lost from
the lift.
Meeting
There will be a meeting at 1pm today and a cheese
and wine this evening at 7.30pm in the office. If you
fancy getting involved, please come along.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS OFFERED A WORLD
OF OPPORTONITTES WITH ICI OVER CHRISTMAS
The career opportunities for graduates in the 1990's
seem to be becoming increasingly diverse. As aresult, more
and more students are looking for their first job vnthin
organisations that are international, flexible, competitive
and world leaders in technical innovation.
Withso muchto lookfor, it is an advantage to get an
early introduction to such an organisation and meet the
people within it.
Id's engineering Christmas courses provide the ideal
opportunity to find out more about the people and careers
in Chemical, Mechanical and Control/Electrical engineering.
Come along to ourpresentation on Monday 16th October at 6pm in the Sherfield Building
Ante Room, where you can meet ICI engineers and get an insight to the Christmas courses and the
careers they describe.
The presentation will also be ofinterest to anyone unable to attend a Christmas course, but still
interested in a career in ICI, one of the world's most successful international businesses.
Buffet and drinks will be provided.

