U L U sabbaticals in staff-strife
There are indications of friction between elected
sabbatical officers and members of permanent staff
at the University of London Union ( U L U ) over
room bookings within the U L U Building.
Imperial College Union (ICU) sabbaticals were
led to believe that a 'get together' held last
Wednesday night in Palms Wine Bar in the U L U
Building was 'a protest to demonstrate solidarity
between London sabbaticals'. They were not
aware until they reached the party that it was to
celebrate the 21st birthday of a sabbatical from
the London School of Economics.
Members of the Union were told by I C U Deputy
President Dave Williams on the way to the party
that it's a case of when a club tries to book a room
they are told that if they turn up on the night and
the room is free they can use it, but that they won't
guarantee not to let it if an outside booking comes
along.
The ruling on room bookings within the U L U
building, according to Rachel Wilson, U L U
Conference Booking Officer, who is responsible
for arranging room bookings, is that ' a l l
recognised U L U societies get one room in the
building per week for their meetings. If they want
more and I can fit them in they can have that.'
She said that she had had 'no negative feed back
from any student' and that her 'priority was to
accommodate students'. She added that she was
'not aware of any conflict' and that U L U President
Marvs hosts C a r
P a r k c o s t l
y
i - " J L t * M 1 VJ J L 1 V / k J I ' k J The brick re-surfacing of Imperial College
w ic fn post nvpr f 10S OflO fstr hri^Vc F I Q V A
St Mary's Hospital Medical School is to play host
to the first Council of the recently formed National
Association of Medical Schools (NAMS) on
November 25th.
The inaugral conference of N A M S was held on
September 22nd-24th at which 26 out of the 29
British medical schools were represented. Up until
now medical schools have avoided political
connections. Rhydian Hapgood, President of St
Mary's Student Union, said 'we hope it will
resolve a lot of issues'. He explained that N A M S
intends to act through lobbying and through
students' parents.
The executive of N A M S includes Nick Stafford,
Accommodation Officer of St Mary's last year.
Tiddlywinks
Tiddlywinking down Oxford Street raised £2,100
for Action A i d last Saturday. Carol Luscombe,
President of the Royal College of Science Union
(RCSU), claimed that the R C S had raised £971
of the total.
Hal Calamvokis said that collecting was harder
than last year and there were less shoppers about.
Last year participants raised £2,500.
'It was a bit of a disorganised shambles which
was my fault,' he added, 'This Saturday will be
much better'.
A giant Monopoly game will be played over the
whole of London this Saturday.
Rugby theft
Members of Imperial College's 1st and 2nd Rugby
teams returned from their first training session on
Tuesday to find that about £2,000 worth of
personal belongings had been stolen.
The items stolen included watches, cash and
credit cards which were put in a locker in the
changing room in the Union Building. There were
signs that an implement similar to a screwdriver
had been used to force a locker.
Team members commented that at least two
non-rugby players were in the changing rooms at
the same time that they had changed.
The brick re-surfacing of Imperial College Road
is to cost over £105,000. So far bricks have been
laid between the Biochemistry building and the
Lyon Playfair library.
M r P Burridge, Contracts Manager, said this
was 'part of the project to gently improve
roadways in the College'. He explained that the
price 'compared favourably' to the cost of laying
the bricks around the C i v i l Engineering
department.
Week lift
The delayed installation of a new lift in Weeks
Hall inconvenienced students moving in at the
beginning of this term. The old lift was removed
in July, and the new lift should have been in place
by the end of September. The lift is not in full
working order yet.
M r Simon Walker, warden of Weeks Hall noted
that 'of course when the students came in with
their luggage we had middle-aged parents slaving
like sherpas up eight floors'. He also commented
that the lift has been getting steadily more decrepit
for twenty years and the work could have been
started earlier in the summer.
M r P Burridge, Contacts Manager, who was
responsible in part for hiring ERS (Elevator Repair
Services) to do the work explained that there had
been problems installing the lift as a missing part
had to be found. He said the lift had been available
for carrying up baggage since the start of term and
would be fully operational 'by the beginning of
next week'.
Credits
A huge thanks must go first to Andy Thompson,
the F E L I X printer, who performed a miracle of
printing technology by printing this term's
calendar and worked very late for several nights
this week; many thanks to Steve Meyfroidt for
designing it. Thanks also to Adam Harrington for
news; Ramin Nakisa for slaving away at the
advertising mailshot; Jason Lander for science;
Neil Lavitt for music; Simon for some excellent
pasting up; Stef Smith for managing the business;
Caveh, Chris Stapleton and Doug for pics; Rose
for typesetting; Paul Shanley, Liz Warren, Wendy
Kite, Jackie Scott, Sydney, Ashley Union-itt, Frog
for the film review, Andy Bannister, Pippa
Salmon, Dave and Simon Turner for sports,
Rufus, The Rector, Malcolm Aldridge and Jo
Cartwright, James Connolly, Danny Shiu, and all
the collators.
Chris Massey 'hadn't talked to her about it'.
M r Massey was unavailable for comment. U L U
Vice President (Services), Steve Hopwood claimed
that the party was simply to 'celebrate the L S E
sabbatical's birthday' and that it had 'no ulterior
motive'. He said that any stories of staff problems
were 'gross misrepresentation' and added that he
'didn't feel U L U had any problems whatsoever'
with its permanent staff.
U L U have a staff protocol that forbids
discussion of staff matters without the presence
of the member of staff concerned. M r Hopwood
rang M r Williams yesterday to remind him of the
protocol. M r Williams later refused to deny his
remarks on the matter to F E L I X .
Thanks to all the ladies who turned up for the
trials. Missed them? Well there's still a chance
to play. Leave a note of your name and department
on the Hockey Club noticeboard, between the
Union Bar and the Union Snack Bar.
The ladies sevens turned out twenty of our finest
players, unfortunately all with hangovers! A l l
three teams produced some good hockey and it's
impossible to single out any individuals. The ' A '
team were one point short of the quarter finals.
The 'B' team were unable to score or win a match,
but played some of the best hockey of the day.
The ' C team also produced some solid hockey.
It looks like a good season ahead for all.
S P O R T S R E S U L T S
RUGBY
IC 1st XV—62
IC 2nd XV—39
UCL l s t - 4
UCL 2nd-0
FOOTBALL
FRIENDLY MATCHES
IC III—1 RSM—2
IC V I - 3 RSM II—2
LADIES FOOTBALL (FRIENDLY)
U C L - 9 IC—2
HOCKEY
11th OCTOBER
Mens 1st XI—0 UCL—0
Mens 2nd XI—6 UCL—0
Mens 3rd X I - 5 UCL—1
Ladies 1st X I - 2 UCL—0
Ladies 2nd XI—3 U C L - 0

