Armageddon days are here
Mind Bomb is the third offering from The The in little
less than a decade. For this album Matt Johnsone has
chosen to go for the more traditional, band image with
ex-Smiths guitarist Johnny Marr joining the band.
For anybody who is familiar with the previous
albums, Soul Mining and Infected, the musical style
is unmistakeable. The most noticeable thing is the fact
that the album is listenable and truly easy on the ears.
Many of the tracks are cleverly mixed so that they
follow well, clearly a great deal of work has been put
into sound engineering.
If any one track were to stand on its own it would
be Armageddon Days are Here Again which is the
latest single release. Written a week before the
Salman Rushdie affair, the track is true prophecy
indeed. A definite anti-religious stab is felt from this
song, which is, without doubt, a lyrical masterpiece.
The other tracks hold their own with some
extremely clever use of instruments especially the
piano on Kingdom of Rain and August and September.
The album ends in typical Matt Johnsone fashion
with a heart felt piece called Beyond Love where some
very clever guitar work, similar in style to Marillion's
Steve Rothery, combines with powerful vocals to
remind us that all is not well in the human jungle.
Essential listening for all The The fans and anybody
who appreciates innovative rhythms and powerful
lyrics. The thinking man and woman's pop.
N.E.M.L.
Delicate sound of depression
The last few months have seen the release of two
videos from those ageing hippies of the 70's Pink
Floyd.
The Delicate Sound of Thunder is the visual follow-
up to the album of the same title released last year.
Not surprisingly the soundtrack, if not slightly
tampered with, is virtually identical.
Several tracks on this video are not present on the
album and this will serve to encourage all Floyd fans
searching for the definitive live Floyd collection to buy.
The quality of this video is excellent. Shot on 35mm
film and recorded on 48 track digital stereo, the film
sadly loses something in the transfer to video format.
Despite this, there is a troublesome lack of interaction
between the band and the crowd. What is more
worrying is the real lack of true representation of the
stunning light show. The band was quoted as saying
"The fans come to see the light show not us", so why
are we subjected to overlays of Dave Gilmore's ugly
mug upon the megawatt lighting show?
Despite this there is no mistaking the true quality
of this product. At £11.99 this is a bargain buy for
any Floyd fan. It would have been nice though if the
true atmosphere of the gig had been extracted
especially as 200+ cameras were used.
Released last month on the Channel Five label is the
long awaited budget video release of Alan Parker's
film adaptation of Pink Floyd's The Wall.
This film is, to say the least, shocking! We are
treated to 100 minutes of visually nightmarish and
gruesome scenes coupled with the powerful and, at
times suicidal, music of Floyd.
In many ways autobiographical of Roger Waters'
life, the central character is Pink played by Bob
Geldoff. Sitting in an armchair watching the war film
Dam Busters, our hero reflects on his life: losing his
father in the war, being overprotected by his mother,
losing his wife to a CND activist and finally his total
hatred of the rock business and all that it stands for.
He then loses himself down a spiral stairway to
insanity becoming the leader of a totalitarian state
disturbingly similar to George Orwell's 1984 and Nazi
Germany, with two hammers crossed in defiance
replacing the swastica.
The final scenes see Pink having to face himself at
a trial charged with showing human emotions, where
spectres of his past teacher, wife and mother try him.
The animation is directed by Gerald Scarfe. Since
gruesome is the best word to describe this film it is
not for the faint hearted and should be watched at
your own peril. Essential viewing for all drug addicts
and anybody who likes being depressed to the limits
of human emotion.
N.E.M.L
Page 3

