The
Abyss
Question : What do you get if you cross Alien, The
Poseidon Adventure and Close Encounters Of The
Third Kind ? Answer: The Abyss
Produced by Gale Anne Hurd (also responsible for
The Terminator,Alien and Aliens), the story begins
with a team of civilian divers working in an underwater
oil-drilling habitat. They are pressed into service by
the U.S. Navy to rescue a stricken nuclear submarine.
Sounds promising, but beware of any film which
describes itself as epic. The Abyss is an epic
adventure which in plain English means that it was
very expensive to make and much of the plot is
O.T.T.. Strangely, these are two of the film's better
qualities.
The special effects are pretty neat; the alien is
especially stunning (it's E.T. with wings, honestly!).
It's very difficult to spot the models from the real thing
as most of the filming was actually carried out in
massive water tanks in Los Angeles.
E.T. isn't the only thing which has been recycled.
The sets of the deep sea station look uncannily like
something from Alien; these, combined with some
very nifty camera-work, result in a real feeling of
claustrophobia. Luckily the crew of the station don't
seem to mind. They're a fearless lot who even manage
a nap after watching all the extras drown, the station
flood and discovering that they have less than twelve
hours to live. I should imagine that it would tire out
even Rambo. The script writer (James Cameron)
doesn't seem to mind these little inconsistencies and,
indeed, manages even greater degrees of bull.
Lindsey, the queen bitch of the station, sacrifices
herself by drowning only to be revived in true
cinematic style (i.e. the kiss of life and a couple of
electrodes) so that a couple of hours later she is
operating like a computer. What a recovery!
But the most amazing recovery must be that of her
marriage with estranged husband, Bud, who is also
on the station. If they can get back together after all
the Abyss throws at them then I would be interested
to know why their marriage failed in the first place.
If you can excuse these incongruities the action is
fast-paced and never dulls until the very end; it should
be enjoyed particularly by fans of Gale Anne Hurd's
previous films (also by those who like the plink-plink
sound of submarine sonar). It'll go down well at Hall
video nights in six months' time when it reaches the
shops.
Like Bud said, "It's got a sphincter rating of 9.5".
I would say it was nearer eight.
James Connolly gives a brief insight into the atmosphere of the Town and Country Club and Wedne
Carmel concert.
C a r m e l
TOWN AND COUNTRY CLUB
The vast and stately Town and Country Club (Kentish
Town tube) is well worth a visit. It's soaring roof, wide
balcony covered with tables and chairs which
overshadow the twin bars below, and generally
ancient decor lend an air of faded grandeur which
reminds you of the fleapits of the thirties. The B-
movies have been supplanted by a pageant of bands,
including Carmel, the reclusive band who are on a
small tour to publicise the release of a fourth album
Set Me Free.
Carmel set out some years ago with songs ranging
from Sally, a vivaciously somber mixture of jazz, R&B
and social comment. It is more experimental songs
such as St Denis, where rythm reigns and everything
underlines a bare basic beat.
With Sef Me Free, Carmel is essentially unchanged.
The jazz is still there but seems to be regressing
towards soul and gospel. The innovative edge is still
present with new African influences in parts and
interesting rythms such as those in Life is Hard and
Waterfall, where a controlled, bleak atmosphere
comes across.
On stage, they are entertainers as much as
musicians and Carmel sings the grimmest songs with
a wide grin across her face, and the result is elegant
and restrained.
James Connolly.

