Rufus Isaacs, reviews Freshers week
That was the week that was
They came, they listened and they all jumped about
like crazy wild things. Another Freshers' Week over,
and what a week! Whether you are an indie fan,
Zimbabwean brother, rock 'n' roller, jump-jiver, disco
king, acid man, gambler or just enjoy a rib-tickling
chortle, it was all there. Monday's New Year Party
saw the Katydids and the Sandkings in the Lounge
overcoming the technical problems to give two well
received sets, and a great rendition of Pump it Up as
the Katydids encore. Upstairs the Wood Children were
'listened to' by the crowd but with the arrival of The
Four Brothers on stage, the rhythm flowed and the
soaring guitar melodies soon had people dancing.
Those who went to the Comedy Night on
Wednesday were treated to three acts, with Ivor
Dembina as as compere. Felix had some excellent
views on sex, drink and Stoke City F.C., followed by
the Crisis Twins who embarrassed each other using
photographs of their childhood {he did look like John
Craven). The final act, Sean Hughes was definitely the
highlight with his Protest Blues Song and his futile
attempts to stop the heckles. The show ended in
chaos with a 'one-liner' shoot out between the
compere and Jeremy (the people's poet), who
somehow got a fiver from the Crisis Twins for his
efforts.
And so to the pinnacle of the week, the Freshers'
Ball, where all three bands gave us double helpings
of 'get up on yer feet and boogie' music. First off were
Dave Puppy & The Happy Dogs who soon had arms
and legs flailing in front of the stage, followed by the
Jivin' Instructors in the Concert Hall. A jumpin' band
with a fine horn saxion, blasting out a string of old
favourites and even getting the crowd on their knees
to pray for forgiveness. At last the time had come for
"liSHiiP^
:
i
the week's finale. Let's hear it for the Big Town
Playboys] What a band! What a quiff! And we just love
that boogie-woogie piano! The perfect party band,
they steamed through an hour of rock 'n' roll, and
whipped the concert hall into a sea of twisting,
pulsing, jitterbugging bodies.
The new-improved, even more spectacular than
they used to be Ents Discos kept many feet groovin'
when the brain was long past caring (many thanks to
the Rugby cocktails) and the films and casino kept
others awake.
Yet another sold out Freshers' Week over, and the
Ents Crew are off for a week's rest on their Caribbean
island, but don't despair! We return next Wednesday
for the regular free disco in The Lounge Nightclub,
followed next Friday (20th) by The Muscle Shoal, live
on stage in The Lounge. A gig not to be missed. Look
out for the posters next week.
Finally, a big thank you to all those people who
helped out last week, too numerous to mention (I
can't remember all your names).

