While the European Space Agency continues to build larger multi-stage
rockets to lob 13 tonne satellites into space, an alternative is being used
for projects that do not need the sheer tonnage of a communications
satellite. Liz Warren investigates the lure oflow-cost mini-satellites, and
the legal nightmare of a space bonanza.
Cheap space
There are three main approaches to launching small
satellites. The first of these includes systems such as
Scout and LittLEO, which rely on tried and tested
solid-rocket boosters. General Technology Systems,
which is about to start the design and development
phase of the LittLEO system, estimates that it will
initially be lifting up to 750kg into low earth orbit and
could possibly lift up to 1250kg.
The second type of launcher aims to launch
satellites from beneath the wings of a conventional
aeroplane. Orbital Sciences is the chief developer of
the Pegasus system, which will be launched initially,
from a NASA B52 bomber. The company claims that
launching from high altitudes will allow Pegasus to lift
twice the payload of a ground-based system and that
launches will be possible from any airport capable of
accommodating the launch plane. The first
commercial venture is scheduled for early Autumn this
year when it will launch satellites for the US Defence
Advanced Research Project Agency (DAR-PA) and
NASA.
A third alternative for microsatellites, those under
150kg, is 'piggybacking' as auxiliary payloads on large
commercial launchers such as American Atlas and
European Ariane rockets. Most large rocket launchers,
which can now lift three or four tons, have some spare
capacity which is normally made up by ballast
material. Ariane has developed an ASAP \Ariane
structure for auxiliary payloads) platform which is
capable of carrying six 'extra' minisatellites with the
main payload.
Other aspects of cheap access to space are being
investigated by Surrey University. It has set up a
commercial company, Surrey Satellites, which is
looking for ways to make not only the launch but the
satellite itself cheaper, for example by investigating
the use of off-the-shelf components in preference to
more expensive high specification components.
The main issue is whether the launch systems can
really deliver the performance being touted by
company marketing divisions. Piggyback launchers
have already proved their ability to handle
microsatellites and Arianespace envisage up to three
launch opportunities a year for small payloads. Small
dedicated launchers have shown, through Scout for
example, that they can lift microsatellites into suitable
orbits. The use of conventional techniques in the
larger LittLEO systems or the planned Scout 2 should
ensure that launches are successful.
There are doubts from all sides of the industry
however about Orbital Sciences' claims for Pegasus.
Dr Geoff Pardoe, Chairman of General Technology
Systems reckons: 'Claims for an easy launch
capability look good on paper...but it's not that simple
to just take up and launch.'
Pegasus also claims that it will be able 'to deliver
approximately twice the payload to orbit of an
equivalent ground-launched vehicle.' As Pegasus
offers up to 400kg into low earth orbit, it will soon
be outstripped by the planned capability of LittLEO
and Scout. Pegasus also offers up to 650kg on high
speed suborbital flights which has led to speculation
that one of their largest customers may prove to be
the US Department of Defense.
Other problems that may arise with Pegasus
particularly, and other launchers to a lesser extent,
concern the legal responsibility for the satellites and
launchers. Legal responsibility is enshrined in what is
usually called the United Nations Outer Space Treaty.
This states that 'there shall be free access to all areas
of celestial bodies' and that 'there shall be freedom
of scientific investigation in outer space'.
Despite this, only three nations, the USA, the UK
and Sweden, have acted on any national legislation
governing space. The increase in commercial ventures
involving more than one state, particularly with
projects like Pegasus which Orbital Sciences hope to
be able to launch from any country, means that the
present legal framework will become inadequate
unless the law is sorted out.
Are these launch systems competitive? Principal
backers, General Technology, estimate that LittLEO
will cost less than £10 million per launch and Pegasus
is quoted at $68 million per launch. These figures are
considerably lower than using a conventional launch
vehicle: it is estimated that NASA will save more than
$10 million by launching their experiments on the
Scout small launcher. The presence of new small
launchers should also alleviate the backlog and delays
caused by the Space Shuttle crash.
The advent of a space plane could lead to even
cheaper satellite launches and affect the market for
these systems, but that is considered a long term
change. General Technology estimates that it will
have launched between one and two hundred LittLEO
rockets by the time a space plane becomes viable and
does not see it as a commercial threat.
The interest that the companies involved with the
launchers have received shows that there is a clear
market for small, cheap satellite launchers, particularly
in the scientific field. All the companies involved in
small satellite launches feel confident that they can
achieve commercial success. Describing the LittLEO
system, Geoff Pardoe at General Technology Systems
said, 'it will be the space van of the future, and we
all know what a success Ford made of their transit
van.'
This
yjeek
• Animal rights campaigners have welcomed the
latest manoeuverings of the Brussels's Eurocrats. The
European Commission is to announce that it no longer
requires the use of the controversial LD50 test for
dangerous chemicals. The test, LD literally meaning
Lethal.Dose, involves exposing animal subjects to the
chemical until half of them die. An alternative fixed
dose test will be used in future.
Both the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals and the British Union for the Abolition of
Vivisection claim that this is an important step forward
although there are no signs of an immediate end to
animal experimentation.
• Can women working at video terminals seriously
damage the health of their unborn children? It has long
been suspected that the radiation emitted by such
displays can damage foetuses but, as yet, there has
been no conclusive evidence. The evidence may come
from New York's Mount Sinai School of Medicine
which has set up a £2 million study of some 8000
women who regularly use computers. 800 of these
will be studied closely for a year during which time,
the researchers hope, at least some will become
pregnant.
• Environmentalists have filed a lawsuit against the
American Space Agency NASA over its Galileo probe
to Jupiter. The probe, due to be launched from the
Space Shuttle, contains 100kg of a Plutonium Oxide
fuel which could be released into the environment in
the event of a second Challenger disaster. The
protestors refuse to accept NASA claims that the
probability of another such accident is very low
indeed.
Meanwhile in Europe, the European Space Agency's
spaceplane, Hermes, has hit more conventional
difficulties. It has had to be redesigned and should
now be launched in 1998, three years later than
originally planned. ESA is also planning a second star-
mapping Hipparcus satellite to replace the one
currently going around the Earth in completely the
wrong orbit after its engine failed. Researchers believe
Hipparcus I is still usable but with a much lower
resolution.
• The LEP, the latest addition to the collection of
particle colliders at CERN has produced over 4000
short-lived Z° particles since it was started two
weeks ago. In pre-LEP times only 700 such particles
had been detected in all the other colliders in the
World.
• A car powered by Hydrogen gas has been revealed
in Washington. The car, which is actually a modified
Mercedes designed and built in Germany, was being
used by the World Resources Institute to publicise a
report advocating the use of Hydrogen as a fuel.
The car stores its fuel in specially designed
absorbing cells and can reach a top speed of 105mph.
However in the great alternative transport tradition
pioneered by the Sinclair C5, it has a working range
of only 75 miles.
Page 6

