Ashley Unitt argues that ICU should stick to helping students, not playing at politics and says tha
a lot to lose if our college reaffiliates to the National Union of Students.
NUS-no thanks
Imperial is one of only a handful of lucky colleges in
this country that is not affiliated to the National Union
of Students. However, this could change this year
when Imperial College Union holds its planned ballot
on NUS reaffiliation. I and many others believe that
Imperial should not affiliate to the NUS and I'd like to
tell you some of the reasons why.
If we decide to reaffiliate to the NUS, in exchange
for a large slice of Imperial College Union funds every
member of ICU will become a member of NUS
(whether they want to or not] and will receive certain
'benefits' in return.
Up until December 1984 NUS operated a system
of individual membership for students at non-affiliated
colleges, but so few students joined that this became
a great embarrassment to the NUS and was stopped.
It is very difficult to leave NUS once you are a
member, many students' unions require a two-thirds
majority to disaffiliate from NUS and this is very
difficult to achieve when most students are quite
rightly more interested in enjoying themselves and
getting a good degree than getting involved in Union
affairs. Why shoud the activist minority be allowed
to speak for and spend the money of the silent
majority?
The normal NUS argument is "if you don't like NUS,
join us and change it from the inside". Normal
membership of NUS lasts for three years for most
students so it is hard for them to change things, yet
it is run by extreme left-wing professional 'students'.
Twenty-eight year old Maeve Sherlock graduated in
1984 and yet is enabled by NUS regulations to
continue being president up until 1990, and her
predecessor, Vicky Phillips graduated in 1983 and
was NUS president for five years.
What will NUS spend your money on? A hefty
proportion goes on conferences. "Every conference
there is intimidation and violence...Too many of the
left groups use violence and agression as a tool. These
groups are grossly over-represented...The ability of
ordinary delegates to participate is difficult. This
emanates from the structure of debate but also from
the intimidating atmosphere of Conference floor."-
SDP Students. NUS shows great contempt for free
speech and NUS conferences are not a safe place to
be if you do not hold the 'correct' political views. Over
half the delegates who attend NUS conferences are
from colleges of further education and do not need
to be elected, hardly 'democratic'. There are also
donations to such worthy causes as miners' strike
funds and the National Abortion Campaign and
support for such organisations as CND and the
National Lesbian Custody Campaign. NUS also
refuses to condemn the IRA, however it has sent
public condolences to Mairead Farrell, one of the IRA
terrorists shot in Gibraltar by the SAS, and the NUS
President Maeve Sherlock, is on the Editorial Board
of 'Labour and Ireland' the journal of a group that
supports Sinn Fein and is also a patron of the 'Time
to Go' movement.
What 'benefits' will the average student get from
NUS? Well there's the National Student Magazine,
which has published such well balanced and
informative articles as "Thatcherism, Vote-Catching
Blood-Lust in the South Atlantic", or its forerunner
National Student which in December 1986 published
a detailed recipe for making crack which it described
as "staggeringly pleasurable". NUS provide ISIC
(International Student Identity Cards) which they
forget to mention are available to anyuone over the
'Most students are quite rightly more interested in enjoying themselves....than getting involved in Union affairs.
'Every conference is intimidation and violence....'
age of fourteen. They also claim to provide welfare
services, when in fact all they do is contact an agency
or charity operating in the relevant field (eg Shelter
or the Citizens' Advice Bureau), these services could
be obtained independently by any students' union for
only a couple of hundred pounds. They provide
training for sabbatical officers for an extra cost above
the standard affiliation fee, these services are widely
criticised as being expensive and unprofessional,
indeed Liverpool University withheld half its 1985/86
affiliation fee because of this complaint. NUS Travel
went bankrupt in 1976 with debts of £50,000 and
in the same year NUS sold Endsleigh Insurance to
Gouda of Holland. Discounts at shops, theatres,
cinemas and so forth are available to all students, not
just NUS members. Finally we have the claim that
NUS represents students at a national level, however
their demands are so outrageous and they have so
little credibility that nobody listens to them, since
1962 there has been a 35% decrease in the real level
of student grants under governments of both political
persuasions, hardly a successful record.
Things are different at Imperial College, and we
want them to stay that way. We have an excellent
welfare service, our sabbatical officers are on the
whole very professional and actually care about the
students instead of caring about their own political
careers, we get all the discounts on offer to other
students in London and we don't get extremist politics
rammed down our throat. I have had friends from
other London colleges who have visited Imperial and
are amazed by the wealth of clubs and societies we
have and the lack of left-wing propoganda.
We will have to fight this year to prevent ICU
affiliating to the NUS, and as with all NUS disaffiliation
and reaffiliation campaigns it is going to be dirty and
it is going to be hard for us to compete against the
large and professional propaganda machine. We have
a lot to lose if our college reaffiliates to NUS, indeed
Nigel Baker (Imperial College Union President
1988/90) has called the prospect of NUS reaffiliation
'financial suicide'. The budgets of many ICU clubs and
societies have been savagely cut this year, but this
is nothing to the cuts that will be necessary if we have
to pay NUS affiliation fees as well.
ICU should stick to helping students, not playing at
politics, and Imperial College students should have
their money spent on them, not on financing the
political careers of left-wing extremists.
7

