How to be a stude (note the trendy abbreviation)
1. Stude Food
Yes indeed, apart from poverty, depression and
Neighbours the thing which unites all studes is food.
Unless you are an Oxford/Cambridge non-stude, then
once you've finished the brown paper bag of
sandwiches mummy made for your train journey to
College, you are left with the realisation:
"Bugger me! No one's made my dinner" and you
head for a stude kitchen. The most remarkable point
of a stude kitchen is the stude fridge. No one has
experienced a true anarchist state until they have
shared a fridge. Many do not realise that on writing
'John Bloggs' on the side of a milk carton and putting
a mark at the level of the milk, they are not saying
'This is my milk' but 'It is I who contributed this to
the communal milk collection'. Anyone who puts £30
worth of goodies in a fridge not fitted with a padlock,
alarm, rottweiler guard dogs and embedded in
concrete is doomed to wander the kitchen for the next
week saying 'Isn't that my pie/egg/butter/stuffed
quail?' to which the answer is invariably 'No'.
Those experienced studes who leave hall to share
flats often have equally naive ideas. Picture this: Day
1 in flat, the speaker an altruistic busy-body: '
I say
chaps let's organise a cooking/washing-up rota.'
Everyone else: 'Yes, yes the work will be easier if we
divide it.'
A fortnight later: 'I'm not cooking tonight, I cook
chicken cordon bleu, veal cutlets and nightingale's
tongues, and all you bastards do is hamburgers.'
'f * * * you! You always have bugger all washing up.
I get tons because you all drink twice as much coffee
on my days'
'f * * * both of you, the kitchen is in a state anyway,
I'm off to MacDonalds.'
Let's look at a standard day's food:
Breakfast: This is a piece of piss. Despite extensive
stude research, it is impossible to balls up a bowl of
frosties and a coffee. (Unless you guard your milk so
well that you keep it long enough to become cheese.)
Lunch: Also a piece of piss. Ask yourself if you want
to walk over to the flat/hall, slave too long over the
stove, wolf it down, leave the washing-up until
evening and still be late for your next lecture. Unless
you are an obstreperous wanker the answer is no. You
head for QT and have a lunch with such minimal effort
that your forget that you had it.
Dinner: After a couple of weeks' grand plans of
lasagne, home-baked pies and sole a I'hollandaise you
realise a) it's all too much effort and b) the more
stages there are, more can go wrong and more
diseases can be caught off the worksurface. Most
people either go to Southside for a pint and a pizza
or try a bung-it-all-in-the-pot recipe like chilli. The great
thing about chilli is it's a 'left-overs dish'. Many people
don't realise black puddings, orange juice, coleslaw
and nuclear waste can all be put unnoticed in a chilli,
because no one except a girly-poof puts less than half
a jar of chilli powder in it.
Well, I've got to go and make my free-union-card-
pot-noodle now (are they deliberately trying to kill us?)
so I'll sign off.
The Careless.
ULU TRAVEL
•k L o w c o s t w o r l d w i d e flights • S p e c i a l fares for students
• Expert a d v i c e for independent travellers
• Tours, short breaks & s k i holidays * Group b o o k i n g s
• Over 70 offices w o r l d w i d e
From
ULU Travel
Sherfield Building
Imperial College
London SW7 2 1E3
01-581 1022 Intercontinental
01-581 8233 European
IABTA
79525
ULU TRAVEL
Trevor Crocker & Partners
Consulting Engineers
ABOUT US
• Over 200 staff and expanding.
• Going for nearly thirty years.
• Offices in Reigate, Birmingham, Bristol, Cardiff,
London (Docklands), Middle East.
• Expertise in many areas of engineering: eg. civil,
structural, geotechnical, transportation, landscape
architecture.
t Prestigious client base, exciting projects.
• State-of-the-art computer design.
ABOUT CIVIL ENGINEERING GRADUATES
• We recruit some every year.
• ICE approved training scheme.
• Ongoing training courses.
• Immediate placement in design team.
• Attractive salaries.
• Bonus and share-option schemes.
Join us at 5.30pm on Tuesday 17th October at
Imperial College for our presentation to students
(Room 601 Civ Eng Dept)
or write direct to Geoffrey Magson (Technical Director)
at:
Trevor Crocker & Partners
Priory House
45/51 High Street
Reigate
Surrey RH2 9RU
Page 8

