The Delator Column by Paul Shanley
Alarm
Call
I was proceeding in an orderly direction down
Wimbledon Broadway last Monday lunchtime. It
struck me that there was a distinct lack of policemen
on the beat. During my hour darling in and out of
pedestrian traffic, I spotted one Bobby. One. In an
hour. Not much cop is it?
Perhaps, I surmised, this was due to a large bank
blag being perpetrated in Wimbledon Village. Perhaps,
I pondered, this was due to large amounts of
paperwork being attended to. Perhaps, I've been
watching too much of The Bill lately...
Later, I sat down to write this week's column. Five
minutes into my labours, I heard a burglar alarm go
off, not far away. Pen and paper in hand, I head off
to investigate. Now this has happened before-same
burglar alarm, you understand ll've got such
thoughtful neighbours). The last time, I reached for
the telephone to ring Inspector Plod. (I'm reminded at
this point by a standard letter I received from
Wimbledon CID last time my car got broken into. The
letter ends —"If you require the police in an
emergency, dial 999". The author of this amazing
piece of text was presumably on secondment from
Viz, but I digress). On ringing the emergency services
last time, they informed me that unless the alarm had
just gone off, they couldn't do anything and in any
case, I should contact my local Police station.
This time, I pre-empted them by ringing Wimbledon
nick first. I was placed in a call queueing system
similar to that used by the standard role model of
efficiency, British Rail. My time in the queue was
interrupted at two minute intervals by a very bored
voice-"Sorry to keep you". After the seventh one
of these, I decided I had been kept long enough and
hung up. Time for Plan B—Ring the big boys. My 999
request was met with—"We'll send someone round
straight away." The alarm went off at 2.50. The 999
call was logged at 3.06. One policeman arrived,
mercifully not on his pushbike, at ten past four.
Now I'm not Agatha Christie. I don't even possess
a doctorate in criminology. But I do know this. Any
intruder breaking in to that property could have
ransacked the house, made himself a cup of tea,
watched The Young Doctors and still madQ it over the
back fence before the Boys in Blue arrived.
So, why the delay in responding to what is
potentially a call requiring a rapid response? The Police
and Criminal Evidence Bill (PACE), amongst its many
features calls for the prioritising of crimes. This means
that, rightly or wrongly, bank robberies are considered
a higher priority crime than an old lady having her
house burgled. Maybe this section of PACE has now
been extended to cover not only the allocation of
precedence to clearing-up crimes but also to response
speed of reported incidents. I hope I'm wrong.
Meanwhile, the alarm bells keep ringing.
Eyes down
Private Eye appears to have taken a step nearer its
attempt to quash the record damages set against it
in the high court several months ago. The apparent
back-down of Mrs Sonia Sutcliffe, wife of 'The
Yorkshire Ripper', in last week's appeal action seems
to have added more weight to their request for a
retrial.
There are clearly two issues at stake here-one on
each side. The damages awarded to Mrs Sutcliffe are
artifically high. They are damages that have been set
by a jury influenced by awards made to Jeffrey
Archer, Elton John and other victims of the tabloid
press. The Private Eye libel, if indeed there was one,
differs in that it has not wrecked someone's marriage
or career. The harm done to Mrs Sutcliffe's reputation
has arguably not been caused by the libel, it has been
caused by the publicity surrounding her decision to
take the matter to court.
The damages are way out of proportion with what
the paper can reasonably be expected to afford. When
The Sun commits a defamatory act it can afford to
pay the cost because it has a readership of 5 million
daily. The Eye , on the other hand, has a circulation
of 100,000 per fortnight. Quite a contrast.
In addition to what the paper can afford,.there is
also a moral issue when comparing the high court
award with the amount of compensation given to the
rape victims of her imprisoned husband.
That concludes the case for the defence. However,
there's another side to the coin. Private Eye has
always sailed pretty close to the wind. That is how
it has made its name. It is guilty this time of gross
naivity in repeating the allegations despite being
aware of the legal action pending for the original
article.
On a commercial level, it is guilty on a further count
of stubborness. Former editor Richard Ingrams, and
Peter Cook-both major shareholders-refuse to
relinquish control of The Eye by floating a percentage
of shares on the Stock Exchange. This would recoup
this, and any future, libel damages in one fell swoop.
It seems that Lord Gnome and his faithful team would
rather see the organ fold than abnegate their
proprietorship. If that makes sound financial sense,
then I'm a banana.
Open secret Easy rider
I had to admit to a wry smile last week on hearing that
a senior Sherfield official had been telephoned by
Special Branch to aid in the vetting of a sabbatical
officer. This, it would transpire, is not uncommon. MI5
headquarters at Curzon Street hold the details of
about a million individuals in their database. All
sabbatical officers are entered on such files, as a
matter of course. That's not the funny part. What
amuses me is that even though the story was relayed
to me first hand, I've since spoken to half a dozen
other people who had also heard it. It's refreshing to
know that even in these post-Spycatcher days, the
security organisations of the country, as well as those
at Imperial, are still keeping up their high standards
of secrecy.
News reaches my ears that Union Manager, Dave
Peacock is practising for a new career as a National
Hunt jockey. 'Peaky', as he is known to his friends,
was riding through Hyde Park recently admiring all The
Queen's horses (and all the Queen's men). Unable to
contain himself any longer, Peaky's normally sober
steed broke into full gallop. Luckily, a nearby
policeman was on hand to pull him to one side and
issue a stiff caution. Rumours that the Union
Bookstore is to start a new line in sugar cubes, blinkers
and horseshoes are said to be completely unfounded.
Jen Hardy-Smith is 94.
Page 9

