The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Nol026 28APR95
Smash and Carry
DoC hit four times since Christmas
BY A N D R E W S M I T H
W i t h the paint not yet dry on
repairs made after a previous
attack, Imperial College's Depart-
ment of Computing was stunned
by two further organised raids on
the Huxley Building over Easter.
F o l l o w i n g the p l u n d e r i n g of
Computing in the early hours of
Wednesday the 5th April, a man
was arrested on Exhibition Road
and is currently out on bail. In
the other raid on Sunday the 9th
April, one of the criminals was
pursued by a female security
guard and a P h D student, but
managed to escape after breaking
down a door.
The damage has been
estimated at around £70,000 for
the first and more serious raid, in
which at least two male suspects
gained entry to the b u i l d i n g
through the maintenance area on
the ground floor. Twenty four
doors on the fourth floor in the
Huxley Building were broken,
many only having been fully
repaired the previous day by
workmen.
The apparent coincidence of
repair work completing on one
day and a comprehensive p i l l -
aging taking place immediately
afterwards has prompted some to
point to an 'inside job'. T h i s
theory has been discounted by
both Terry Briley, Deputy Head
of Security, and J i m M u r p h y ,
Head of the Computing Support
Group.
M r Murphy suggested that
while the thieves were 'clearly
well informed', their damage
throughout the floor indicated
that 'no selectivity' was involved.
The thieves got away with a total
of eleven systems, i n c l u d i n g
eight h i g h l y valuable Power
Mackintoshes. Six had been
replaced only two weeks before.
The previous raid was by a gang
well known to police to target a
number of London Colleges.
It is estimated that almost
£250,000 worth of computer
equipment has been stolen
recently from L o n d o n edu-
cational institutions including
Birkbeck and King's Colleges,
City University and the London
School of Economics. With many
of London's Computing Depart-
ments sharing a common
insurance policy, Imperial
College's Computer Department
is about to spend up to £30,000 to
boost the security on Level 4 of
their building.
F E L I X has learnt that the
department is considering the
use of so-called Fibre Loops as
well as passive Infra Red
Detectors, Microwave Detectors
and Video Cameras in an attempt
to secure every office on Level 4
and to keep both their insurers
and College happy. The funding
needed for this is expected to be
spread over two year's budgets,
with money likely to come from
the department's own Security,
Contingency and Refurbishment
Budgets as well as Imperial
College's Contingency Budget.
W i t h the department's
insurance covering the loss of
equipment it appears unlikely
that procurement plans for future
Bill Goodwin, former F E L I X editor and now freelance journalist, is
challenging English Law in the European Court of Human Rights this we
writes Andy Sinharay. His is a test case which may force the British
Government to change the law to give journalists' sources greater prot
Bill had been a trainee with the trade paper 'The Engineer', when h
received classified information regarding the alleged financial problem
Tetra Ltd, a private company. Tetra then asked him to identify his sour
order to sue for breach of confidence, but Mr Goodwin refused. He was fo
guilty of contempt of court and fined £5000, telling F E L I X that he ha
escaped a possible jailing 'because of the publicity'. Now backed by th
National Union of Journalists and other organisations, Mr Goodwin ha
brought a case to the European Court. He argues that English Law vio
the European Human Rights Convention by threatening Journalists wi
fines and imprisonment for keeping their sources secret. Representin
Goodwin, Geoffrey Robertson QC argued that this was "obnoxious
society". As F E L I X was going to press no judgement had been given.
equipment w i l l be affected by
these latest raids. Increasing
levels of security may however
threaten to student access to
facilities. M r M u r p h y emph-
asised that a balance between
defence against criminals and
computer availability for
students has always been striven
for.
The present 24 hour access
for postgraduate students is 'kept
under review' but at this point
the department would like to
keep entry 'as is'. Student access
may have to be looked at again in
future i f suggestions that ram
raids and the use of power drills
to assault college buildings prove
correct.
In the second of the raids the
intruders might have wrought
equally serious damage but for
the vigilance of a postgraduate
student who was working in the
building at the time. Following
reports of people wandering
(Continues on page 2)
13 news one&two&three • editorial&credits three • incoming five • s-files: space filler seven •
clued up eight • feature: self immolation and IC's arts magazine nine • feature: The Bryan
Appleyard Interview ten&eleven • xtra curricular: twelve&thirteen • standby sixteen&seventeen •
eight day guide eighteen&nineteen • sport: where are the boys (and girls) of summer? twenty E
3

