Feature
A Culture Vulture and
the Meat of Science
Following the
publication of his book
'Understanding the
Present' three years ago,
Bryan Appleyard has
become something of a
cause celebre among
scientists; the man they
love to hate. Jon Jordan
met him at his
Blackheath home, and
found a man whose
criticisms of science are
systematic of what he
sees as a deeper malaise
- the possible death of
western culture itself...
By his own admission Bryan Appleyard is a
writer without a genre. "I'm always criticised
for being an interloper," he says when I ask
about his newest foray, a novel called 'First
Church of the New Millennium'. "I'm in the
wrong genre again, but I'm always i n the
wrong genre."
Of course that could be considered par
for the course when you make your living as a
newspaper feature writer (the Sunday Times)
and weekly columnist (the Independent). The
paradox of this situation, writing about things
you only know about because you supposed to
be writing about them, is something he freely
acknowledges. "I mean in some respects if I
wasn't a journalist maybe I wouldn't think
about these things but because I spend my
time having to write comment ... I've got to
actually think about what I write."
So when he ventured into that most
dangerous of fields, popular science writing,
for his book 'Understanding the Present -
science and the soul of modern man' he was
out on a limb again. In the book he aimed to
expose the damage he felt science was doing
to Western society, but i n actuality he
unearthed a seething mass of vitriolic
scientists. Appleyard laughs. "I remember
saying to the publishers when they bought it
for a surprisingly large sum: 'I'm delighted
you bought it, but you're mad, it won't even
get reviewed'."
However the book's publication also
coincided with a BBC series called 'Pandora's
Box' and a book by the Newcastle University
philosopher Mary Midgely; both of which
were strongly critical of aspects of modern
science. Scientists were particularly sensitive
to such attacks as the Government were just
starting consultations for a white paper on
science funding. "It was said, quite seriously
that I was an agent of the Tory Government
aiming to cut science funding," says
Appleyard incredulously. "It was actually
seriously said."
Another aspect of the reaction which he
found surprising was the extent to which
scientists worked as a coherent social and
professional group. "I kind of assumed that
scientists were all discrete units and locked
away," he says. "I wasn't really talking about
them. I was talking about the idea of science.
But it turned out that they all talked to each
other ... certainly the ones who get the
microphone and publicity". Later he found
out that BBC producer of'Pandora's Box' had
been blacklisted, with scientists telling each
other not to appear on the programme.
"I was amazed," Appleyard recalls. "I
thought, journalists get trashed like this all
the time, lawyers get trashed like this all the
time and teachers get trashed like this all the
time. You know every institution is exposed
to public trashing now and then. Scientists
can't take it - what's the problem?"
This situation was made even more
interesting because at that time science had
never been more popular. Despite the fact
that no-one could read past the forty second
page, Stephen Hawkin's ' A Brief History of
Time' had become the intellectual status
symbol to have on your shelf. Its best-selling
exploits had also opened the way for the
complexity of modern cosmology, the
indeterminancies of quantum theory and the
flashing patterns of chaos to be 'explained' to
the general public. You would have thought
that scientists would have felt securer.
f F E L I X 2
8
H
P
R
3
B
Feature
Ironically, the i n s p i r a t i o n for
'Understanding the Present' was sparked
when Bryan Appleyard spent a day inter-
viewing Stephen Hawking, just before ' A
Brief History' was published.
"He was unnecessarily impatient about
certain questions," says Appleyard "and it
seemed to me that he was taking a highly
facile view of the philosophy of science. In
fact he [Hawkin] says disgracefully in his
second book that all philosophers of science
are failed scientists". A few days later he
returned to interview Hawkin's now ex-wife
who is also a devote Anglican. Bryan was
amazed to hear her say that she thought her
husband was doing things that he wasn't
qualified to do. " W i t h o u t adopting her
religious perspective I sort of agreed," he
recalls. "Later I thought 'well he is doing
things he isn't qualified to'.
This scientific over-reaching partly
resulted from such statements as the infamous
'knowing the mind of God' and, when linked
with talk of 'Unified Theories', gave the
impression that science was not the only truth
in theory but would soon become the
complete truth in practice.
As Appleyard explains: "I just wanted
to write a history which pointed out that
there was an alternative history, not a
triumphalistic history of science that had
always been written, but this history of
science which was a threat to people. Martin
A m i s called it a 'history of increasing
humiliation' and in some senses it is."
So is he pessimistic about our
technologically driven future? "It's much
easier to be pessimistic if you're a journalist
cos it's more fun," he starts. "But I am
temperately pessimistic". As readers of his
column i n the Independent w i l l be aware,
Appleyard has switched his attention from
'pure' science to the impact of things like
Information Technology. Recently he's
interviewed Bill Gates of Microsoft and has
written about the U K launch of the internet
magazine 'Wired'.
He talks about a techno-hippy he met
from Microsoft's Advanced Consumer
Products Department, who was convinced
that their new handheld computer would
result in an evolutionary jump for mankind.
Whilst Appleyard admits that the arguments
of Gates' techno-priests are seductive, he still
is concerned that our obsession with the new
age of technology is out of control.
M u c h of his unease is specifically
concentrated on the current ahistorical
thinking which has become associated with
these technologies. "I wrote about 'Wired'
magazine - and those guys are mad" he says.
T h e n he stops. " N o , those guys are very
nice!" he laughs before continuing, "These
guys are P o l Pot and Year Zero. They're
saying there's too much history in the world;
we want to start again. Starting again has a
very bad reputation, it used to result in a lot
of dead bodies."
Most importantly at the core of all
Appleyard's arguments is the view that
Western civilisation and culture are
something worthy of being defended.
"Although I'm dubious about the West's
capacity to cope with technological
development, I'm not anti the western
tradition", he remarks. "I'm very much pro
the western tradition."
As he writes at the end of the column
concerning 'Wired' magazine: "The danger of
the technocrat's Year Zero is the same as
every other. It lies in the hubristic belief that
history is a mess and ought to be forgotten.
But however bad the machine-age world is, it
is not as bad as it might be, precisely because
we remembered history." Q
Titbits
Cinema Violence
"Hilariously, the British censors have
been in such a quandary about this
film [Natural Born Killers] that they
have invited Stone over to London to
justify his work. Perhaps they should
also stipulate that he should turn up
at every performance to explain his
higher motives in case audiences
leave the cinema labouring under the
Philistine misconception that his film
was just bloody good fun."
Western Idealism
"It's like the argument that we ran
the slave trade. Actually the Africans
and the Arabs ran the slave trade, we
stopped it. I don't want the anti-
science view to be taken as an anti-
Western view."
Prince Charles
Instead of trying to build tacky
pseudo-villages he should train as an
architect. Instead of visiting Bengalis
in the East End, he should be running
their textile factories. Instead of
handing out money 'to the
community' he should be finding out
how it is made in the City, in Tyneside
or, after learning Japanese, in Tokyo.
Why not? He has nothing else to do.
The supposedly 'hectic' life of royalty
is a comfortable lie..."
the Origins of
Environmentalism
"[In the Sixties] Environmentalism
filled the psychological vacuum
created by the twin feelings of
impotence and mistrust. It gave
people something to do and a way of
thinking that would express their
disappointment and fear. At its worst
it emerged as sanctimoniously radical
politics; at its best it freed people of
the dangerous illusion that they could
do what they liked"
2
8
A
P
B
9
S F E L I X 1

