A trip to Harlington
Keys: Fast, Furious, Fluid
Thursday 2nd March was a day of learning.
Learning that just because a hovercraft part
has been working well for so long that you
forget what it looks like, it doesn't mean that
it won't break/go wrong/collapse exactly
when you don't want it to. Of course, if you
are going to have one problem, why not have
them all?
Well the hovercraft (god bless it) bore
this in mind on that day, and even managed
to swing it so that the weather turned from
sun to sleet by the end of the day.
Unperturbed by this lack of co-operation
from the craft, the die hard hoverclubbers
invested i n their loss and returned to
Harlington sports ground one week later with
a vaguely modified craft, a large toolbox and
prayer mats. This outing was a different story
though. The hover behaved impeccably and
allowed four hours of trouble free flying.
The afternoon started with the novice
pilots taking the craft out for a spin around
the thankfully huge expanse of the sports
ground and when a bit of confidence and a
marginal idea of control had been built up, a
slalom course was next on the agenda. In turn
this was followed by two times' laps of a
figure of eight circuit. As the red mist
descended on the drivers during the last
event, the cones were shown no mercy. Some
went over, some went under and a few even
stayed standing.
Throughout the day, the hover seemed
easily capable of its 40 mph top speed which
may not sound so fast, but when you are
skimming along at about 20cm above the
ground with a brutally modified motorbike
f F E L I X 2
8
R
P
R
9
B
engine screaming its tits off behind you, no
balanced person would say it was slow.
I could make claims that hover crafting
will enrich your life, will help you pass your
exams and could well contribute to world
harmony through the great spirit associated
with it, but all of those would be lies. The
truth is that it is excellent fun and a great way
to spend an afternoon.
Hoverclub meets every Wednesday in Old
Chemistry (through the grey doors as though you
were going to the lecture theatre, it's straight in
front ofyou).
©Q(g
Changing of the Guard
Keys: Election, 37%, Committee
The annual Overseas Students' Committee
elections are going to take place on
Wednesday, 3rd of May in the Union Lounge
(ground floor union building) at 13:00pm.
The elected officers will be running the OSC
for the academic year 1995/6. The OSC is a
major Subcommittee of Imperial College
Union and deals with the 37% of the student
population that is of non-British origin. The
job of the OSC is to protect and promote the
interests of all the international students, to
coordinate the running of the individual
societies and to represent the students to the
decision-making bodies of the College and
Union. The goals of the OSC are achieved in
a variety of ways w h i c h include the
organisation of social events such as the
International Night. The overseas students of
IC are directly affected by the decisions of the
OSC so it is in your interests to come and
vote this Wednesday. If you are interested in
running for any of the posts listed below you
can sign up on the candidate papers which
are up on the O S C notice board on the
Sherfield Walkway. Y o u can contact the
people that have been doing the jobs this year
and they will be more than happy to explain
their duties to you. The posts are:
1) Chairman; T h e chairman has the
ultimate responsibility of representing the
international students of IC to the Union and
the College. This is achieved by sitting on
various College committees and most of the
Union decision making bodies and liaising
with the Union Sabbaticals and College Staff
i n c l u d i n g the Rector, Pro-Rector and
Registrar. The chairman also has the control
of the OSC executive committee, runs the
meetings and delegates jobs to the O S C
officers. There's more to this post than is
possible to describe here so do come and have
a chat with us about it; current chairman is
Andreas Mershin, Physics 2.
2) Vice Chairman: helps the chair and
provides the link between the chair and the
rest of the O S C members. The duties are
highly flexible and include the organisation
of events and others; current vice-chair is
Rahul Dua ChemEng 2.
3: Honourary Secretary: organises all
meetings, is in charge of passing information
to and from the overseas societies, event
organising, minute keeping and other duties;
current honourary secretary is Aysha Mian
Physics 2.
4) Honourary Junior Secretary: financial
control of the O S C , budgeting of events,
budgets of the overseas societies, advice to the
chair; current honourary junior secretary is
Yasmine Diljore, Computing 2.
5) Events Officers (3 places): they have the
prime duty of organising the events of the
OSC i n c l u d i n g International night,
contacting sponsoring firms, attending
rehearsals and much more; current officers
are Susan Dalla, Adrain Benedict, Duncan
Samarasingle.
6) Publicity Officer: designing and
printing high quality posters and advertising
material, contacting sponsoring firms, in
charge of OSC publicity in general; current
publicity officer is Civ, ChemEng 2.
7) Welfare Officer: everything to do with
student welfare, K C F O S and more.
8) Sports Officer: sports, tournaments and
more; current sports officer is Gulio
Contaldi.
9) External Affairs Officer: dealing with
organisations outside IC such as the N U S ,
BEST and more; current officer John Siner.
The above duties are flexible and all of
the people in the executive committee share
jobs and co-operate. A l l of the officers are also
highly involved in the organisation of the
biggest event in the College Calendar, the
International N i g h t , that takes place i n
March. If you want to know more contact us
via the Union Office and we will be glad to
inform you in detail.

