Yeomen of the Guard
Keys: Music, Theatre, Summer
Those Opsoc people are at it again... every
year they disappear to Devon without leaving
so much as a note. This year the show is
Gilbert & Sullivans' 'Yeomen of the Guard'
and a cracking show it promises to be as well.
Following the recent success of the college
production 'Cabaret', it is hoped that all
familiar faces, along with a lot of new ones,
w i l l be around once more. E l l i s Pike
(Director) is an old hand and has worked
professionally in the theatre world for some
years, so we're in safe hands.
The show runs for ten performances
staged i n Budleight Salterton, D e v o n .
Budleigh is a sleepy seaside town for most of
the year but wakes up (funny old thing) when
the Imperial crowd hit town. W i t h one
performance a day it becomes a fun holiday
with friends rather than the ordeal that
running a fringe venue in Edinburgh for the
summer can be. There's plenty of time for
picnics, horseriding, d r i n k i n g , beach
barbecues, drinking, watersports and more
(drinking, say).
So if you want to 'do some theatre' this
summer, and no-one else can help... get
yourself down to the sing-through of audition
pieces on Monday 1st M a y i n the U n i o n
Concert H a l l from 7.30pm. The auditions
themselves will be held during the following
Sunday (the 7th) again in the Concert Hall.
For more information contact Darren
Holmes, Chemistry or email d.holmes@ic.ac.uk.
3.DQ.Q8
No play makes for a dull life
Keys: Play, Play, Play
So, here we are i n the final term. This is
probably the only time I can guarantee that
anyone actually reads this bit! I remember
those days when anything was better than
revising. But it's a necessary evil I suppose.
Anyway, here's our little Ents' bit for those of
you who believe all work and no play makes
for a dull life...
Monday: As the season gets to that nail-
biting stage (especially for Palace and
Hammers fans) it's kick off. A night of
premiership football live on DaVincis' big
screen.
Tuesday: The first of our three special
trivia nights with £50 cash as first prize and
totally free entry. Starts 8pm.
Wednesday: Proving that a little bit of
what you fancy can do you good - the return
of Club Spanque, if in a slightly truncated
form - for this term we'll be running 8-
midnight only. But it's still four hours of top
fun and it's free!
Thursday: Elegance and sophistication
in Da Vinci's as we keep on keeping on with
our ever popular Cocktail nights.
Friday: With the help of those very nice
people at Beatwax we're proud to present the
first of our three special promotional events
this term. So get on your sharp suits for the
Pulp F i c t i o n Promotion night. W e ' l l be
giving away T-shirts, copies of the
screenplay, posters etc and we'll be following
this with our usual Friday disco 'til 2pm (bar
lam). The Pulp Fiction giveaways start at
8pm, admission is free before 9pm, £1 after.
So that's this week, but here's an early
plug for those special events for the term, so
watch out for; Friday May 12th, Elixir - a
night dedicated purely to pumping house
and banging techno with special Ministry of
Sounds freebies. Friday May 19th; Bust-a-
Gut comedy - the Winners of the Southern
Open M i c competitions battle it out for a
place in comedy's hall of fame with a very
special guest compere.
And on Friday June 16th: A midsummer
nights' carnival. You've seen the posters, now
here's the full rundown. A mammoth way to
end the academic year, with the whole of the
U n i o n Building tuned into an Ibiza style
vibe. We're giving the Concert Hall over to
Whirl-Y-Gig (thanks to the cooperation of
Dramsoc), the U D H is going to become a
cocktail bar, with a selection of chilled out
DJ's playing ambient, dub, trip hop and
generally mellow tunes, the Ents Lounge is
going to be a foam-filled handbag & party
heaven. There'll be circus acts in the Quad, a
surf machine (with full-sized surfboard to
win), free candyfloss for the first 1000 in, free
Bizz soft drinks, a steel band and special
giveaways to everyone who turns up i n
beachwear. Watch out for posters, as more
attractions are still to be confirmed. Tickets
are limited, priced £5 and available now from
the Union office. Don't miss this one.
Activities this term
Keys: Remember, Events
This Sunday is Y o m Hashoah, the day in the
Jewish calendar set aside each year to
remember the victims of Hitler's Holocaust,
when 6 m i l l i o n Jews among others were
killed. A l l there is in Britain to remember
these victims is a memorial stone in Hyde
Park, where on Sunday at 10am there is the
annual commemoration ceremony. Everyone
is welcome.
On Wednesday is Y o m Hazikaron, the
day on which Israel remembers those soldiers
killed i n fighting for her independence.
Thursday is Y o m Ha'atzmaut, Israel
Independence day, the day on which in 1948
the State of Israel was declared.
On Wednesday night, at 6pm, in Hendon
Synagogue, Raleigh Close, there is a
memorial ceremony,with the Chief Rabbi,
D r . Jonathan Sacks, and the Israeli
Ambassador to Great Britain, M r . Moshe
Raviv present. After the memorial ceremony
there is a band and dancing to celebrate
Independence Day in Hendon Synagogue
Community Centre.
Entry to all of these events is free.
Next Friday is the third annual Shabbat
Olamit. This is an opportunity taken once a
year for students around the world to
participate i n the same ceremony i n
sanctifying the Sabbath, and to sing the same
songs and be linked in a way to all the other
students sharing the same belief.
There is a Friday night meal and service
in Hillel House, Endsleigh Street, starting at
7.30pm, and costing £2.50 for the meal, or £4
if you wish to stay over.
For more details on any of these events, e
mail the J-soc at jsoc@ic.ac.uk or check our We
page at lwww.su.ic.ac.uk IclubsIsocietiesI
sccljsoc.htm. Alternatively drop us a note in th
SCC F-K pigeonhole in the Union Office.
2
8
A
P
R
9
5 F E L I X WM

