Phoenix BHH
The Joys of SelfImmolation
(BLACK EYE
LINER)
You are watching the way he dances, the
way he moves on the floor. At a glance he
could be like any other, but there is
something that makes h i m stand out.
Maybe the purity of his movements,
maybe the pale, taut skin that is stretched
too tightly across his face, or the lank hair
that he sweeps back repeatedly to remove
it from his forehead. Mostly though it is
his eyes. They are staring too fixedly
ahead, not registering anything apart from
the lights, and that demented brain in the
corner. They are a pale blue, bright, and
underscored by a thick black eyeliner
pencil. He is moving, shifting to the heavy
pulse of the music i n an unnervingly
prefect manner. Sweeping his sweaty hair
from his underlined eyes, his movement
becomes part of the dance.
(THE RAVE
ETHOS)
Rave music is a spiritual thing. Those sad
crowds who judder and sway on ecstacy
and bad acid, loving and claiming to live,
know nothing about it. The dance is a
sacrament. They knew that back in the
decade before the E-heads appropriated
the music and debased it. Their clouded
thoughts are nothing, worthless words.
The r h y t h m is all important, the
repetition is the tool for ascension. When
you start to dance, you start to move, your
body is focussing on the basic rhythm, the
thump-thump-thump of the bass. This is
the bottom line, h o l d i n g everything
together. As you get with it, your mind
tunes into the higher layers, the snares
and high hats, and then the bleep riffs.
Each layer of music makes the dance more
complex, and the focus of the mind rises
higher. This happens with all music, but
the beauty of rave music is that there is
nothing at the top. No lyrics, no melody.
No focus. So when you reach the highest
point in the music, you leave. This is the
moment of transcendence. There is no
music, no body, no mind. That is what it's
all about, that pure spiritual high. O f
course, there are those fuck-off blinding
strobes as well, but they're a different
story.
(STARING AT
THE BRAIN)
Y o u watch h i m staring at that insane
brain in the corner of the room. A huge
plastic thing, translucent and packed
chock full of strobe lights. The whole
thing throbs epileptically above the floor,
a giant neural spasm. He can feel the
r h y t h m shaking through his body,
drumming against his limbs and driving
him faster. A l l he can see is that brain, and
all he can feel is the endless twitch of his
muscles as they echo the sounds in his
head. There is nothing there for h i m
except the beat, and it is dragging h i m
faster into itself. He jerks his arms faster
and pumps his legs, moving 'cos that's all
that he has left. The sweat is streaming
down his face. He keeps wiping the sweat
away, but it is pouring out of his body. He
scrapes his hand across his forehead as he
dances, but something makes him hold it
steady. The colour.
(BLEEDING
HEARTS)
He thinks momentarily, thinking that his
eyeliner is dripping. In the flash of the
strobe his hand, dripping with sticky
sweat, looks red, deep scarlet. He keeps
dancing, just dancing, and looking at his
hand in the flicker of the strobes. It is
blood, he sees, blood flooding out through
the skin. Leaking from the pores. The
rhythm hits h i m even louder, and he
pushes his body hard. The ruby flow
streams down his cheeks, through his pale
lips. T h e blood glows i n the harsh
chemical glare. Beneath his clothes he can
feel the clinging stickiness, the heat of the
fluid seeping out. It drips into his eyes,
and those strobes glow pink. The music is
there, and he moves.
(BURNOUT)
It is too hot, the floor is beginning to
roast, but he keeps on moving. The beat is
always there, relentless. The epileptic
brain is flashing brighter, dazzling him,
the strobes taking over his blood-leaked
visual field. It is pounding him, blinding
his eyes with sun borne heat. He shuts
them b l i n d , feeling the b u r n i n g
temperature behind his lids. Raising his
hands with the sub-bass, the flames arch
out. His black eyeliner is scorched in the
flow. A sudden ball of fire envelopes his
body, and then dies. The crowd forms a
circle around the flames as they subside,
watching a curl of black ash dance in the
light of the demented brain
p h o e n i x . .
PHOENIX, the college's annual arts magazine, is
bursting into life once more with an issue
scheduled for the end of this term. In order to
make this happen we need contributions:
poetry prose artwork fiction imagery concepts photography
Please send your words, images and concepts to the F E L I X office.
The deadline for submissions is 25 MAY 1995.
Editor: Marcus Alexander, mech eng UG (m.alexander@ic.ac.uk)
r28HPR95 F E L I X MM

