NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
M o 3 4 0
DEPUTY
PRESIDENT
RESIGNS
U G A ' S
The presentation of the Union General!
awards for 1973 - 74 took place
at the AGM last week, Four were
presented this year, not including
the president's which is ex-officio.
Professor Knill was chairman of
the Union Bookshop Committee for
fifteen years which covers its period
when it moved from the Union build-
ing to its present premises!'
Dr Peter Dennis has been associated
with the college entertainment for
six years in which time he has
been chairman, secretary and treasurer]
John Lane has been associated with
the union flats during a time when
they have expanded from a couple of
flats to a capacity to hold about
130 students in all'.'
Paul Wadsworth has been Union Hon','
Secretary for this year and editor
of Felix since Xmas when the
previous editor resigned'.'
Those who were present at the Annual General Meeting last week were
amazed to hear Mr David Sinclair, the Union Deputy President, tender his
resignation, as from the close of Joint Council on Monday evening.
In a long annual report, Mr Sinclair detailed the work he had done over the
last year ranging over bars, mascotry, furniture, discipline. He then came
to a section whereby he informed the meeting that the president, Mr Sayles,
had decided not to give Mr Sinclair a Union General Award. Hence Mr
Sinclair has tendered his resignation. This was accepted by the meeting.
For the first time for a considerable number of months, MIKE, the Union
mascot, was present at the meeting having been restored to some-
thing like its original condition, by some helpful Guildsmen.
The ballot for the selection of rag charities was also held at the
meeting. Ten charities were represented, and as a result of the ballot the
charities for next year will be Guide Dogs for the Blind, the British Polio
Fellowship and the Leukemia Research Fund.
As usual at the Annual General Meeting, there was the official hand.over
between the old and the new executives. This was executed in the usual
light-hearted manner. Mr Phillips, the incoming president, had his position
challenged before he had even had a chance to say anything. The challenge
was defeated on a vote.
Before the meeting closed the new executive attempted to lift MIKE to
shoulder height and sing s Hey Vivo (the college chant for those that don't
know). T here failure at one was equally as bad as theirfailure at the other.
Mr Phillips nearly suceeded in closing the meeting due to lack of business
however, a timely call of "OuorumJJ stopped that idea.
For further details on Mr Sinclairs resignation see the deputy president's
report inside.

