SHAW T H E A T R E
•
FREE THEATRE TICKETS
The Shaw Theatre at 100 Euston
Road, (tube to Euston or Kings X),
are offering free seats to the f i r s t
100 IC Students who wish to see
U
N
D
E
R MILK W
O
O
D
BY
DYLAN THOMAS
ON 20TH, 21ST AND 22ND JUNE 1974
The f i r s t hundred Imperial College Students
to show their registration cards at the box-
office w i l l be allowed free entry.
SHOWS START AT 8.00
THe play w i l l run u n t i l 3rd August (at least)
with performances starting at 8.00 daily.
During the period 23rd June to 3rd August the
Shaw Theatre's usual excellent discount rate of
50p per ticket for a l l students w i l l apply.
For the information of all I.C. students the college's sports
ground at Sipson Lane, Harlington near Heathrow airport has
recently undergone various improvements to the facilities. In
the season 1972 - 73 which was affected by the extensions the
following facts and figures will give you some idea of the usage
of our sports ground. There were 51 acres which used to accom-
odate 5 rugby pitches, 8 football pitches, 4 hockey pitches
1 lacrosse pitch, 4 cricket squares and 9 tennis courts. During
the '72 - 73 season these were used by 137 rugby teams, 217
football teams, 103 hockey teams, 11 lacrosse teams, 55
cricket teams and 15 tennis teams. These teams had 26
changing rooms plus 2 for ladies.
Harlington has now been extended by 9 acres for several
reasons such as to allow for better spacing of the various
pitches which tended to be rather cramped, and larger pitches
where necessary. There has been an increased use of the
sports ground by teams otherthan I.C. sides, although many
of these have been from within the college e.g. stucfent house,
sides, P.G. teams. This has necessitated the expansion of the
pavi I lion itself. An additional 12 changing rooms have been
built. The tea-room areahas been doubled by the removal
of two balconies which were rarely used. The kitchen has been
extended and new equipment introduced. The extensions to
Harlington cost about £30,000, the majority of the money coming
from Queens Gate Trust (for which we are very grateful)
F inally a word of thanks to the numerous teams that have used
Harlington and put up with the inconvenience which the
extensions have caused. Also a special mention to Mr. (Arthur
to all sportsmen) and Mrs Loveday, without whom Harlington
would not be the same.
Soviet Railways
40% DISCOUNT
on rail feres to Moscow
(forgroups of 10students or more)
Here's a special bargain rate! A real chance to visit the
historical capital of the Soviet Union and its friendly people. This
reduction applies to students travelling in groups of 10 or more.
Organised groups other than students are entitled to a discount of
39%. These reductions are far greater than those offered by other
rail companies operating from Hook of Holland.
This substantial discount amounting to £40 or more gives you
the opportunity to have a memorable holiday. Remember too that
inexpensive and comfortable accomodation is available at student
hostels in Moscow, Leningrad and other cities.
Normal fares for ship and rail travel are approximately as
follows.
LONDON TO MOSCOW 2nd class £100-26
VIA HOOK OF HOLLAND 1st class £139-42
LONDON TO M
O
S
C
O
W 2nd class £103-76
VIA 0STEND 1st class £145-58
Ask your travel agent for details, or book direct with Thomas
Cook and Sons Ltd.
Soviet Railways
F LIX BO
R
O
U
C
H
As a result of recent disastrous events such as the explosion
and fire at the Nypro chemical plant at Flixborough, and the
continuing introduction of new technologies, the rector. Sir
Brian Flowers, has established a Working Party to examine
the content of undergraduate and postgraduate courses within
the college and to determine whether adequate attention is paid
to education in the design and operation of plant and install-
ations of all kinds with a view to reducing the incidence and
scale of the hazards involved, and to the assesment of adverse
consequences on the enviroment which may result from the
introduction of new technologies. The Working Party has been
asked to make its recomendations within three months.
The Chairman will be Professor Ubbelhode, head of the
chemical engineering department. Other members are Professor
Grootenhuis, Dr. Napier, Professor Harris and Professor Pryor.
This is not a new move for the college as it has in the past
played a considerable part in investigations into matter of
safety and design, including the testing of box girder bridges
This is not a new move for the college as it has in the past
played a considerable part in unvestigations into matters of
safety and design, including the testing of box girder bridges
and provides a number of industry-orientated post experience
courses covering industrial safety including, last month, a
course on 'Aspects of Design Relating to Fire and Explosion
in the Chemical Industry',

