E S S E X
Lord Annan, provost of University
College, London, has started his enquiry
into the troubles at Essex University
Officially, the students' union is boy-
cotting the inquiry. Many students,
however, are ignoring the boycott and
Lord Annan has received "an enormous
correspondence from students" as he
stated last week. Lord Annan has had
notes distributed around the university
inviting students to submit written
evidence.
He has already seen trade union officials
and chairmen of some of the depart-
ments. A meeting withh the university
senate has also been arranged.
The report will probably be published
during the summer vacation.
S Q U A T !
Students were urged to squat in empty
houses awaiting demolition by John
Randall, president of the National Union
of Students last week, to alleviate the
housing crisis that would start at the
beginning of the academic year next
September.
He was speaking at a conference in
London on housing for overseas students
organised by the United Kingdom
Council for Overseas Students Affairs.
He advised students to lokk around now
to find empty houses in the path of
proposed road schemes or waiting
redevelopment. They should offer to
re-wire and re-plumb homes that had been
declared unfit by local authorities.
An expenditure of about £200 on such
property could provide a home for five
or six students for up to three years, he
said. This had been done in Portsmouth
and Southampton. The authority received-
rates and students unions would provide
the initial capital to repair and renovate.
Mr Randall called for a single mimistry
for housing to end the split responsibil-
ity between the Department of the Envir-
oment and the Department of Education,
which is concerned with student
residences.
Mr William Roe, director of accomodation
at Edinburgh University, said it was
irresponsible for universities to accept
overseas students on a course and not
accept the responsibility for finding
them somewhere to live.
Next year (1974 - 75 session) there will
be a darts competition sponsored by
Arthur Guiness & Sons, lie whole of IC
is eligible being split into the following
groups:-
C&G, RCS, RSM, Administration,
Holland Club, Technical & Apprentices,
Maintenance, Refectory Staff, NatWest
Personel, Union Bar, South-Side Bar,
Academic Staff, M.E.T.S.
If you think an extra group(s) should be
eligible please contact the people
mentioned below.
The competition consists of a knock-out
system. Each group finds its best side
to put forward into the grand final.
Thus we urgently require people from
the above groups to act as administrator
for that group. If no-one comes forward
from a particular group then they are
ineligible to take part in the final.
If you are interested please contact
M. Carey, room 133 Falmouth or Stan in
the South-Side bar for further details and
a copy of the rules.
C U T S IN
S T U D E N T
NUMBERS
Severe cuts in the expansion programme
for polytechnics, which will keep the
projected number of students in British
higher education below 700,000 by 1981,
are envisaged by the DES.
This has come to light from a letter sent
by the DES to Dr Eric Briault, education
officer of the Inner London Education
Authority. The letter warns that the
number of teacher training places in
London must be more than halved by
1981.
These proposals greatly affect a number
of colleges with which IC has associa-
tions. Namely Southlands, Whitelands,
Digby Stuart, Froebel, and, nearest
to us, Maria Assumpta College.
It is proposed to completely close down
Maria Assumpta by amalgamating the
college with St Mary's, Twickenham.
The valuable site would then be
redeveloped.
P A R K I N G
Information was given in the last issua
of Felix on tha arranjaments regarding
car-parking in the student areas during
the vacation.
The majo-ity of tha information was
correct, however, thare is an important
additional piece of information.
STUDENTS WISHiN«3 TO PARK <
N
THE STUDENT AREAS DURING THE
VACATION MUST CONTACT THE
TRAFFIC WARDEN FIRST AND LEAVE
CONTACT DETAILS WITH HIM
It is most important that students leave
details of where yhey may be contacted
at short notice. It is occaisionally
neccessary to move a car in case of an
emergency. The traffic wardens will also
have up-to-date knowledge on the
availability of spaces.
•
At last it's arrived! A Felix printed in
the college itself. However, it was done
on the col lege, litho unit as ours is not
in operation yet. It has arrived, however,
and is, along with other items of the
printing unit, making life almost unbear-
able in the office by taking up most of
the available room. Talk about swinging
ths proverbial cat, you couldn't swing
a proverbial Moonay cockroach in the
space.
I apologise for the lack of pictures in
this issue. It needs a special piece of
equipment which we don't possess yet.
It is on order, however, and should
arrive in time for the next Felix.
It is rather difficult to compare this
lithoed Felix with the product which
will emerge from our own press. There
is the lack of pictures to start with. Also
instead of being stapled, as in this copy,
Felix will be produced on a sheet just
larger than twice this sheet. It will
then be folded to provide a tabloid type
format. Headings will be done with a
spacial headlining machine instead of
by iettrasettand electric type-writer.
Another improvement will ba a trained
typist!!
There's not much else to say in this
editrial other than to wish everybody
the best of luck in whatever you"I be
doing next year.
Goodbye, P.A.W.

