C O L O U R S
The foilowinf people have been awarded
Imperial College Colours for their work
withe the various athletic clubs.
Association Football - Full - I.Bell,
I.Postlethwaite, A.Wilkinson, R.Young,
Half - A.Peterson. N.Bakewell. S.Bates,
D.Cash,M.Hasting, C.Highman, I.Hyslop,
D.Saunderson Social - R.Barley
Badminton - Full - D.Ward, H.Fei
Half - P .B lennerhassett, P .L ee, K J hom-
pson, J.Gowlett;Cross-Country Full -
R.Allison Half - I.Ellis, R.Gamett.
J.Kaliray; Hockey - Full - M.Downs,
R.Evans Half - T.Hanson, I.Read,
M.Hatcher, R .Cameron. A.Brown,
Social - R.Cameron, TIHanson; Lawn
Tennis Full - dCPrice, A.Considine,
Half - B.Finney, M.Kenyon, D.Price,
D.Turner; Rugby Football Full -
C.Flanagan, B.Bradley, J.Hughes,
R.Hughes. D.Osbome Half - S.Booth,
G.CIemment, M.Cotter, R.Creswell,
D.Hart, K.Lipscombe, D.Rimmer,
D.Shakesheff, R.Stem, P.Tesbrugge,
A.Walton Social - L.Adams, S.Chudy,
R.Jones, A.Williams, C.Wrigley; Sailing
Full - S.Briscoe, P.Barret, S.MacQueen,
CMills, M.Roskell, R.Woods,Social
B.Rogers; Squash - Full - M.Kenyon,
K.Daly Half . B.Hutchinson, A.Khan,
S.McCombie, I.Menzies, R.Smith Social
G.Dickson, J.Lloyd; Swimming and water
Polo - Full - P.Taylor, P.Hindle,
M.McCartney, ASmith Half - P.Frieze,
D.llic, D.Sasson; ICWSC Full - Mss.
H.Yates, G.Epstein, K.Nicholson,,
G.Bowden, S.Arnold Half - Mss S.Fair-
weather, M.King, J.Purvis, M.Jones,
E.Barter, J.Dawson, M.Symmonds,
CP innings, A.Hicking, J.Hnrris,
F.Shreeve, A.Tellam Social - Mss
J.Jones, P .Sheppard, H.Nattrass, A.Heap
Basket-Bali Full - A.Brown. C.Highman,
Half - G.Corbin, George, P.Grossjean,
J.Heffer, R.Thomton; Fencing Full
J.Tyson, S.M.Thompson, L.Boyd,
Half - R.Annett, A.Barbutt, J.Grut.
J.Harris, Social - C.Murray; Golf Full
N.Foster, W.Calderwood Half J.Dan,
A.Evans, J.Mendonca, M.Strickland,
Lacrosse Full - A.Hallet. Half -
P.Jepson, N.Gash; Rifle and Pistol
Full - G.M.CIark, S.B.Hellyer Half
A.H.Carus, J.Emerson, G.Kolbe.
V.Phillips. C.Waldron. M.Williams
The fortunes of the cricket club have
been rather mixedthis season. At the
start of the season, three teams were
run every Wednesday and Saturday, but
towards the end of the term, examina-
tions and apathy reduced our numbers
until it has been a struggle to raise one
team. Surely in a college of 4000
students, more than 33 people can afford
the time to play cricket!
The first eleven has suffered from
rather variable opposition. They have
to date, played 13 matches, winning 5
and drawing 6. Only Hurlingham Odd-
fellows, whom the first's have played
with monotonous regularity, have beaten
them, thanks to one batsman who has
scored centuries in two of the three
encounters. The sides from other college
have generally been weak - its nice to
know that we are not the only college
having trouble maintaining standards.
For example, L.S.E., once a cricket
stronghold, could not even field a team
wearing whites!
This season has seen our first attempts
at league cricket, with our inclusion
in the third division of the South West
London League. Our record so far has
not been encouraging, having drawn two
matches with a third rained off. The
competition runs to the end of July so
hopefully we will have time to improve
our standing.
The first eleven, though exceptionally
strong in batting, has generally not
shown its full capabilities. Our
captain's inability to win the toss more
than once a month has put the pressure
on the batting to make difficult totals
batting last, often with time running out.
Ron Gibbs has made the only century
this season ( v LSE ) though Russ Smith
came close with 98 against Wembley
Tradesmen. Gerwyn Edwards, Geoff Tate
Andrew Hall and Max Taylor have all
played useful innings. The lack of quick
and penetrating opening bowlers has
often been felt, though Gerwyn Edwards
has frequently bowled well with perform-
ances 6 for 21 ( v LSE - including a
hat-trick) and 7 for 33 ( v Hook &
Newham). Spin bowling has been more
consistent with the captain, Ian Menzies,
Russ Smith and Geoff Tate sharing the
honours. Even our vice-captain, Rob
Young, is showing promise as a potential
match-loser in this department of the
game. Rob Young and Max Taylor have
kept wicket with great efficiency.
The Sunday eleven has had similar
fortunes, winning three of its seven
matches so far, without a defeat. The
bowling has usually been dependable
thanks largely to the evergreen Roger
Marriot, whose feat of bowling through-
out the innings of theH artsbury match
for figures of 6 for 46 deserves mention.
John Kelly has also performed well with
bat and ball until injury and work
overtook him.
The Second eleven has usually been
very disappointing. None of the ten
matches have been won, and five have
been lost. The bowling has been gener-
ally steady, with Ian Simpson being
the main workhorse, but the batting, «
'
though potentially strong, has always
contrived to make few runs. The (captain,
Brian Callender, with 56 v Air India,
Andrew Hall withh 86 v Arnold and Nalin
Kulatilaka with 61 v Kings II made the
only major innings. If this side is to
improve, a great deal more application
and solidarity must be shown by the
batsmen. With the loss of Nic Treen to
the first 11, the bowling often lacked
penetration. The last few matches were
ruined by poor turnout of players, the
last game againsKenton Traders being
played with only 7 men.
During their few matches, the third
eleven played some excelent cricket
winning 4 of its 6 matches and remaining
undefeated. The batting was strong with «
John Andrews showing us some attacking
shots that those of us who have played
with him over the past ??? years never
thought him capable. Paul Newell and
Dave Faldon bowled well with little
success. Max Taylor celebrated being
dropped from the firsts by hitting the
side's top score of 63. Geoff Thompson
and T im Hurst also put in good perform-
ances. Generally the all-round perform-
ance of the captain Graham Webb, proved
a fine example to the rest of the side.
I should like to thank the captains of
the sides for putting in so much effort,
often for little reward, especially the
club captain. Ian Menzies without whose
enthusiasm, effort and car, we would
never have acheived the results we have.
Pete{for-heavens'-sake-spel I-my-surname
-correctly) TotterdeU.

