Page Two F E L I X 22nd October, 1970
Wellsoc success
Speaking to a packed
Great Hall on Monday, 12th
October, Sir Barnes Wallis,
CBE, F R S , opened the 7th
season of Wellsoc meetings
with his Presidential A d -
dress. 'Transport—Past, Pre-
sent and Future". After a
passing (historical reference to
Britain's sea trade, Sir Barn-
es went on to consider air-
travel in the shape of bal-
loons(!), particularly his own
'brainchild', the R100. Whilst
designing this balloon he
reached the momentous con-
clusion that it was better to
know nothing about every-
thing than everything about
nothing! This massive craft
—once described by a visit-
ing Admiral as a 'blasted
waste of space'—required
such precision in construc-
tion and so large a hangar
to house it that Sir Barnes
confidently ruled out any
modern revival of the rigid
balloon.
S W I N G W I N G
Sir Barnes then continued
to describe his design for a
hypersonic variable-geometry
(swing-wing to the uniniated)
jet, having first amply de-
monstrated on a map that
England really was the cen-
tre of the world air- and sea-
routes. This aircraft, he
claimed, could travel at
Mach 5, at a height of some
150,000 feet, and fly 10,000
miles nonstop, using only
conventional alloys for the
fuselage. Higher speed might
need some cooling, he added,
if only to preserve the rub-
ber tyres, or the passengers.
He developed a fully working
model despite insufficient
radio wavelengths to control
it, but regrettably finance
was withdrawn. Undismayed,
Sir Barnes hawked his idea
around until the U.S. decid-
ed to 'buy' it. The result was
the American designed and,
— Sir Barnes Wallis
by now, (in)famous F i l l , the
failure of which still gives
Sir Barnes considerable
amusement.
m o o
Despite the financial set-
back, Sir Barnes has turned
his attention to the theory of
slender bodied flight. His
latest design is little more
than a flying wedge—no
longer the conventional
fuselage, no external engines,
and no wings as such! The
rectangular cross-section
makes use of his vast know-
ledge and experience of light
rigid structures, gained from
the R100; this specialised in-
formation being, he said, the
major factor influencing the
design, or rather its absence
until now.
GAS T O ICE
Although advanced in
years (Sir Barnes was 83 in
September), he has far from
exhausted his fund of new
ideas as this design shows
Turning his attention to the
sea, he suggested that a sub-
marine merchant navy might
be a wise investment, par-
ticularly as the polar routes
are navigable, without the un-
due expense of nuclear
power. With a touch of
Wellsian invention, he pro-
posed that the exhaust gases
df a turbine engine be re-
cycled to boost power output.
And the excess cafbon di-
oxide? Compress and store
it, and at the end of a round
trip of the world, sell it as
dry-ice to the Walls ice cream
company!
And on that whimsical
note, Sir Barnes Wallis ended
his brilliant lecture, which
will be remembered as one
of the most fascinating and
best attended in the history
of the Society.
ROSS HOWIE
STOIC STARS
On Wednesday, 14th October, the Student Television of
Imperial College, S.T.O.I.C., showed some of the documen-
tary, feature and news programmes they have made over the
past year. Sinclair Goodlad, introducing the organisation,
told us that their main problem is money, but bravely fore-
cast that S.T.O.LC. would be screening regular programmes
in the College Block early in 1971, via a video link from
Elec. Eng. There has been some disagreement about the cost
of providing such a link, and who should pay. The pro-Rector
was attending the meeting.
It is indeed surprising that with such restricted funds
they have done so well. Their film of the Queen's opening of
the College Block last November was excellently compiled
and photographed, and should be more widely seen through-
out the College. Also shown was part of a news programme
with interviews of Union presidential candidates, and a
view of the car of a Yugoslavian dignitary departing after
a visit to the College. Apparently they knew nothing of his
visit before assembling outside to record the introduction
of the programme. And their longest programme to date is
about pirate radio stations, and largely comprises an inter-
view with Mike Raven, of which we saw part.
Sir Barnes lectures
Carnival kicks off
Carnival—pronounced C-A-R-N-l-V-A-L, is an elegant
and inadequate word used to describe this college's efforts
to make money for charity. For freshers' benefit with your
as yet limited vocabulary, it's just a post name for 'rag';
beware of cheap imitations such as Guilds or RCS Carnivals
which are all night raves run on striot non-profit or total
loss basis.
Well, 'things' happen throughout the year intentionally
or otherwise, but the bulk of the street collecting, fuzz
baiting, blackmailing, etc., is hopefully done in the first term.
For example, a sponsored walk, raffle, fete, tiddley-winks
race (Oxford Street), and removal of the Albert Hall are
all traditional events guaranteed to bring a smile to the
hardiest riot squad.
The planning and co-ordination is entrusted to a Carnival
Committee complete with its very own Chairman/Carnival
Co-ordinator, who this year is the ever present Dennis Taylor.
With commendable diplomacy he has already engaged(!)
the services of Maria Assumpta and French Institute Col-
leges in Carnival and hopes such a joint venture will be to
everyone's mutual advantage, even including the WCSS—
which brings us to . . . this year's charity (democratically
elected at the last UGM!)—the Westminster Council of
Social Service. This is a so-called 'umbrella charity' em-
bracing the many problems encountered in today's central
urban areas. The above council concerns itself with the Pad-
dington area which contains much bad and overcrowded
housing, and one of the consequences of this is the lack
of amenities for children, especially in North Paddington.
Money is desperately needed to run an already heavily used
summer playground at Christmas and Easter, to perhaps
obtain a site for a proposed Youth Club, and to provide
at least one all purpose advice centre which could offer legal
and housing advice, welfare rights, rent rebates and help in
numerous other hassles. That's what it's all about and a
good effort this year should hopefully realise enough money
for I.C. to be associated with a specific project under the
direction of the Council.
The first committee meeting is on Tuesday, 20th October,
at 1.0 p.m. in Committee Room A (Union Lounge). Anyone
with ideas/gorillas/vans/tanks/blank cheques etc. is especially
welcome, or invited to get in touch (careful) with Dennis
Taylor, via Union rack in I C U offices, Guilds Union Office
or Linstead 416.
1
Queen of Jez
Students:
A BarclaysCheque
Account is
freetoyou.
Andso isall this...
As a student with a
Barclays cheque account, you
get all these:
Afree-of-charge cheque
account.
Free Advice on all
financial matters.
Free lecture-note
clipboard, ballpoint pen, diary,
statement holder, cheque
book wallet, smart zip case.
Call in at our nearest
branch and open youraccount
as soon as you can.
The Student Kit offer
closes on 31st March 1971.
And a final note from Dave Hobman, last year's Co-
ordinator, who maintains that if last year's total of £3700 is
exceeded, he'll buy anyone a pint who cares to ask him—
and we've got it in writing!
BARCLAYS STUDENT ACCOUNTS
-we have ways to help you manage money better.

