22nd October, 1970 F E L I X Page Three
E D I T O R I A L
So C.E.F.E. once again rears its ugly head to level
criticism at FELIX. Under a piece entitled "FELIX CON-
DONES APARTHEID", the anonymous publishers accuse
the staff of "callous disregard for basic human rights" Their
justification for this accusation, is the fact that we published
a Barclays Bank advert, in the last issue; C.E.F.E. might
note that there is one in this issue as well.
In fact, the "trivial financial inducement" that they men-
tion, is simply untrue. In this issue, the Barclays Bank
advert, alone makes up nearly 80 per cent of our external
printed advertising and provides about half of our external
income, without which incidentally, FELIX couldn't con-
tinue. If I felt that FELIX could afford to survive without
such classes of adverising, then I would agree to solidarity
with N.U.S. on this issue, but at present, it is simply a matter
of economics.
Naked Women
Which leads me on to the advertising situation in general.
Big firms are beginning to deliberately neglect advertising
in student newspapers for a number of reasons. One is that
they have rediscovered the relative worth of national adver-
tising but another is due to bad feeling towards students
in general. Hence this short eight-page issue of FELIX,
and the meagre 18 column inches of external advertising it
contains.
Freshers attending last Thursday's union meeting couldn't
have been very impressed with what they saw. By last year's
standards, the meeting was slow and uneventful—motions
appeared petty and people began walking out before time.
Why this should happen at the first Union meeting of the
term is difficult to explain. In point of fact, very few freshers
attended the meeting anyway. Perhaps I.C. is entering a
new dimension of apathy—total non-participation. But seri-
ously, I.C. needs the variety and experience that a full
Union meeting provides—and in the same way, FELIX
needs the headlines.
FELIX
As a final point in this rather hasty editorial, it must be
emphasized that FELIX welcomes all letters, feature articles,
news reports and photos of general interest to students. No
particular literary talent is required to write copy, which
is topical or expresses an opinion. However FELIX does
have an early copy date and features for the next issue
should be in this coming Saturday. For further details,
come to a press meeting, Tuesday or Thursday lunchtime in
the press room.
Letters to the E d i t o r
United
we kneel
Dear Sir,
I would like to complete
the picture portrayed in
rather an off-beat fashion by
one of my publicity secre-
taries in his article entitled
'Let's be positive'. The fact
is that the Christian Union
is a group of serious-minded
students who are united by
their common faith. Admit-
tedly one of our aims is to
present the truths that we
have discovered about Jesus
Christ to the College as a
whole. We do this because
we feel they contain a mes-
sage which can be of bene-
fit to all who are prepared
to consider them, hence our
series 'One Way'. On the
other hand the C.U. aims to
help its members to stren-
gthen and grow in their
Christian lives. I trust that
we present an overall pic-
ture of sincere people, con-
cerned for the whole College,
to all who come in contact
with us.
Yours faithfully,
David Goodall,
(President, I.C.C.U.)
COMMEMORATION DAY
Thursday 22 October 1970
Presentation of the Associates, Diplomats
and Fellows of the College at 14.30 in the
Royal Albert Hall
Special Visitor
Mr. Andrew Shonfield
Chairman, Social Science
Research Council
Entrance to students at door 6 without tickets.
Interdenominational Service at 12.00 in Holy Trinity
Church, Prince Consort Road. Preacher: the Bishop
of Southwark.
The work and buildings of City & Guilds College open
to visitors, 1 1.00 to 19.00.
Tea, for which tickets are available for all in the Union
Office, will be served in the College buildings.
Her critics
Imperial College,
Dear Sir, Prince Consort Road.
As you and your readers will no doubt have seen, Miss
Judith Walker, President of I.C.U., has been trying to impress
her personal views on Freshers.
This she has done by deciding what they may or may
not be exposed to; I refer, of course, to her letter published
in Sennet written under the auspices of President of I.C.
Union, in which she refuses to allow the O T C and U L U A i r
Squadron to be present at the Freshers Fair.
The views expressed are purely personal and we and
many others at I.C. feel that in a supposedly free society
decisions of this nature should be taken by the Union as a
whole and not by one individual.
We would very much have welcomed the presence of these
two bodies and hope that they will be present next year.
Yours faithfully,
T. J. Stephenson, President, Royal School of Mines Union
Stephen Cooke, President, Royal College of Science Union
S. A. C. Bates, President, City & Guilds Union
L. Benyon, President, IC Women's Association
W. Beauford, Athletics Clubs Committee Chairman
C. C. Holden, Recreational Clubs Committee Chairman
D. Hobman, External Affairs Officer
G. Assimakis, Welfare Officer
OSS Plug
Dear Sir,
I would like to bring to the notice of F E L I X readers
various aspects of the valuable work done by the Organisa-
tion for Social Service in I.C. If anyone feels they would
like to serve the community in a social sphere we organise
activities ranging from regular tutoring of West Indian
children to improve their English, reading to blind students,
tape-recording books for the blind, to soup runs at night
in the East End (in conjunction with the St. Mungo Com-
munity) and weekend work parties decorating for old people,
which do not require a regular weekly commitment. We
also organise an emergency blood doning service amongst
hall residents, and there are general blood doning sessions
in 'the Union in November and May.
Social work is usually great fun, and helps widen one's
outlook and prevents becoming too college-orientated.
Anyone interested in doing any of this work should contact
Pat Ryall, Physics III, Andrew Dean, Chem Eng II or
myself.
" Yours faithfully,
Lesley Pattinson
92 Beit Hall
Int. 2799
Dear Sir,
This letter is prompted by
the refusal of Miss Judith
Walker, on behalf of I.C.
Union, to permit recruiting
facilities to the University of
London O.T.C. and A i r
Squadron at the Freshers
Day Fair.
Does Miss Walker really
think that the students of
this college are so badly
educated, that they are in-
capable of seeing the full im-
plications of membership of
these two military sponsored
societies?
Is she prepared to believe
that the "lures" of free fly-
ing and bounties, offered by
the Air Squadron and
O.T.C., are sufficient to blind
the intellectual elite — be
they freshers or not — to the
deep commitments invol-
ved?
Surely in a free academic
society the right of. choice
lies with the individual.
Once any part of the Univer-
sity is prevented access to
functions, on the moral be-
liefs of a minority, freedom
of choice is denied.
Yours faithfully,
Kris Robinson
Elec. Eng. 3
Welcome back.
Where are you
going for Christmas?
D
u
b
l
i
n £6
3
;INS£5.25 to R."iSf;l £ 9
i Switrorkind from £ 3 5
Get FREE details today.
At these prices,
m you can't afford not
to go somewhere.
BRITISH STUDENT TRAVEL CENTRE
231 Tottenham Court Road, London Wl E 427.
Telephone: 01-637 1241
The Editor reserves the right
to edit or omit any letters
submitted for publication.
Unrepeatable Bargain Offers
Dear Sir,
As the Imperial College Bookshop has suddenly taken on an appearance of the kind
one expects to witness when purchasing cut price food or general purpose household
goods, couldn't the bookshop committee bring the college bookshop completely into line
with the supermarket image, that they seem keen to adopt, and sell cut price books.
THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
Editor: Tony Sims
Assistant Editor: Mike Yates
All the other Assistant Editors: Colin Harvey,
Dave Sugden, Oliver Cromwell Road.
Typing: (see Assistant Editors)
Photos: Malcolm Bailey, Steve Heap, Pete Johnson,
Soss Roberts
Circulation: Pete Morgans, Arnold Darby
Sports: Mike Adams, Alt' Romsey
Business: Ian Quarrinton
And grateful thanks to: Suzanne Hardy, Soss Roberts,
Susan Parry, Tom Jaffray, Tony Kirkham, Roger Lind-
say, John Ackers, Mary Lewis, Kitty McVey, Piers Cor-
byn, Judith Walker, Colcutt.
Printed by F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, Gloucestershire.
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 107/111
Fleet Street, E.C.4. Tel. 01-353-3712.
Published by the Editor on behalf of I.C.U. Publications
Board, Imperial College Union, London, S.W.7.
The sizeable profit shown
by the college bookshop last
year must surely be expected
to increase during the com-
ing year by virtue of the new
streamline selling techniques.
It is certainly no secret that
at present the college book-
shop prices are not in the
least competitive even with
other local bookshops so in
future let's see the students
who are good enough to pat-
ronise the college bookshop
(whatever their motives) suit-
ably rewarded with a share of
the profits.
Yours faithfully,
A R N O L D N E A S D E N .

