A
Hi-Fi Serious
Out this Monday on London records
Big guitars tuned as low as they can go,
playing a viciously heavy riff - something
we hear a bit too often in these nu-metal-
heavy times. It usually means that we're
about to hear some spoilt American brat
whining on about why his trousers don't
fit properly or something. But not this
time, baby: today is brought to you by
the letter A and the (album) number 3.
Anyone not familiar with the work of A
ought to be ashamed of themselves. This
London-based band are living proof that
it is possible to play great tunes, have
fun and rock stupidly hard without pan-
dering to the self-centred, nihilistic ten-
dencies of a hormonally imbalanced
Slipknot fan.
Your average A song involves finding a
blissful melody, adding some lyrics
(about how cool they are/catching the
tube/why Starbucks are shit), lacing the
whole thing with comedy sound effects
and then playing it like a seriously tal-
ented Van Halen cover band.
Those of you already associated with A
probably want to know if this new plat-
ter is much cop. Well yeah, it is. The
tunes may be a little more sedate, with
less hardcore outbursts than before, and
the lyrics slightly less juvenile (which is
a shame). But the hooks bury deeper and
faster than before, the standout tracks
such as Nothing and Starbucks are cer-
tainly the best things they have ever
done, and I have a nagging suspicion
that most of the songs will be taken to a
new dimension in a live setting, where
this band really shine.
[See page 18 for an interview with lead
singer Jason Perry.]
Ben
Timo Maas
Loud
Out this Monday on Perfecto records
This album came with an impressive
DVD case and stickers, so of course I
instantly agreed to review it. Though I
had been impressed with Timo's music
before, notably his wicked remix of
Azzido Da Bass' Doom's Night, I wasn't
sure what I would get from this album. I
shouldn't have worried.
Unsure as to which dance category
this album falls into, I checked the biog-
raphy - apparently it's "wet and hard!"
I'd say it's got a bit of trance, house, pro-
gressive and breakbeat - so, basically,
this is for anyone who likes dance.
The two big collaborations on this
album are with Kelis and Finley Quaye.
OK, so Finley might not have released
anything for a very long time, but he's
still out on the scene. His track Caravan
is very spiritual, with his usual soothing
vocals. The Kelis track Help Me has a
mysterious beat in the background and a
general ghostly feel to it.
The new single To Get Down will be a
floor-filler, with its funky beats and
wicked guitar riff. Another highlight is
That's How I've Been Dancin', which has
great vocals and an awesome beat.
I definitely prefer the real house tracks
on the album - the slower beats just drag
on a little bit too long. The only other crit-
icism I have is of the track arrangement -
the tempo of adjacent tracks seems to
differ dramatically, and perhaps a slow
progression would have been better.
Overall, a great album with funky
beats and not a single song that I dislike.
Loud will definitely enhance Timo Maas'
status as an artist, and I hope to hear
some of these tracks when out clubbing.
Oscar
music reviews
...Trail Of Dead
Source Tags and Codes
Out this Monday on Interscope records
The third album from Texan rock misfits
...And You Will Know Us By The Trail Of
Dead has the same underground rock
ethic as their previous releases, the
eponymous .. .AYWKUBTTOD and
Madonna.
Listening to this kind of music makes
me feel like I've lost something. I'm not
sure what, but as all those guitar chords,
impassioned vocals and frantic drums
come at me, I feel strangely disconnect-
ed, as though I should be having a mov-
ing experience, but I'm actually not. Or
maybe the sheer intensity of a band like
...Trail of Dead requires more than just a
brief listen - perhaps you have to really
feel the music before you can appreciate
it fully. Or maybe they're just not as good
as other rock bands.
This album certainly grows on you.
The first listen just flows over me, and it
takes a while to get into the whole thing.
I think the people who would get the
most out of this are those who really live
and breathe rock and guitars - essential-
ly, it's one for the fans. Because this is
quite hardcore. Not in an overwhelming-
ly heavy Mudvayne/Carcass kind of way,
but in a strangely disjointed manner.
You'll be listening to psychotic power
chords, and then some French folk music
will pop up.
Occasionally loud, occasionally sensi-
tive, often anthemic and sometimes
tending towards the self-indulgent, this
album is full of surprises and never con-
ventional. Not for all tastes, but if you like
rock and you like something a bit differ-
ent (you know who you are), then I would
recommend .. .Trail of Dead.
TomX

