reviews music
Air
Everybody Hertz
Out now on Source records
Air's "new" offering does not consist
solely of new music, but is a compilation
of edits, remixes, alternative versions
and one new song.
There are four different versions of
Don't Be Light, which range from upbeat
to R&B to a slow, electronic mix. There
are two takes on How Does It Make You
Feel, both slow, w i t h a chorus that
sounds like UB40.
Modjo really incorporate their own dis-
tinctive style in their remix of People In
The City. The other mix of this track is by
Jack Lahana, who turns the tune com-
pletely on its head, rapping the chorus.
I'm not going to waste much space
describing my views on these remixes -
they're pants. The only saving grace on
this record is The Way You Look Tonight,
a chilled-out, soft, delicate song resem-
bling tracks from Moon Safari.
The CD comes with an enhanced video
of People In The City. But there's nothing
"enhanced" about it - just a bit of zoom-
ing around a city followed by footage of
the band at the Mayan Theatre.
This is nothing special, and I only hope
that Air release something new soon.
Aqua Bassino
Beats N Bobs LP
Out this Monday on F Communications
After the likes of Llorca led the way with
modern jazz last year, now comes Aqua
Bassino, also known as Jason Robertson,
giving us a tasteful selection of nu jazz
mixed in with a twist of deep house.
The album begins with a lovely song
combining a soulful acoustic guitar, a
deep house beat and a soprano saxo-
phone with some vague water sounds
that set you drifting away. You then glide
on towards Love Is Here To Stay, which,
like most of the tracks, features the vocal
talents of Nikki King.
Aqua Bassino then steps up a gear
with Baby C'mon, a chilled-out tune with
a sample from Sweet Home Chicago and
a vibrant deep house beat.
Other artists, such as Colin Steele, are
also introduced, playing over the general
vibe created by Robertson.
Although very well made, the album
never has a real sense of direction and
seems monotonous. In this post-St.
Germain era, too many have jumped onto
the nu jazz bandwagon, and as a result,
the sound is becoming repetitive. More
new ideas and creative touches are
required.
TobyB TobyB
ALICIA KEYS COMPETITION
Alicia Keys' debut album Songs In A Minor
was one of the major success stories of
2001. Her new single A Woman's Worth is
released on 18 March. To w i n a copy of
both, just tell us how many Brit Awards
Alicia Keys was nominated for.
Please email your answer, along with
your name, year and department, to
music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 7 March.
- « / , • # . a r t * / /
Wmmk
Various
Long Time Dead
Original Soundtrack
Out now on Talkin Loud records
Though I can appreciate that this CD has
more than a little to do with the film Long
Time Dead, I think it would be better just
to sell it as a Best Of Breakbeat And
Garage compilation. I understand that
some people who saw the film may now
be drooling at the thought of getting
their hands on the soundtrack, but since
the film itself got such a frosty reception,
this superb and diverse collection of
tunes really needs to be sold on its own
terms.
With a driving mixture of breakbeat,
funk and drum 'n' bass, this is a great
soundtrack for a warm, moody evening.
Neil Barnes' opener is truly dark and
utterly impossible to dance to, but it's
just about OK for some slightly scared
head-nodding. The standout track is
Colonel Red's beautiful soul/hip-hop mix-
ture, and things actually approach the
"quite nice" category w i t h Zero 7's
Waiting Line (pic above) - a gorgeous
blend of Portishead trip-hop and Air key-
boards, all caressed with a pleasant,
dreamy vocal.
More surprisingly, however, there's
some good garage here too. I find garage
hard to appreciate at the best of times,
and there are a couple of average exam-
ples on here, but they're rescued by the
ever-reliable M J Cole. Nextisms is full of
offbeat rhythms, featuring strings neatly
juxtaposed with a surging bass line.
With Roni Size and Krust charging in to
finish off the album, this is a great ride
through much of what is good about the
UK dance scene today. Forget about the
film. Buy this for the music.
ID Derek

