LIVE: Cornershop
@ Scala
The venue was packed for Cornershop's first UK gig in four
years, and we were treated to new material from their forth-
coming album Handcream For A Generation, due for release on
April 1 through Wiiija. There was no support band, and the only
pre-Cornershop entertainment came from a sixties-style D J set
and a patched-up video of the idiotic adventures of Peter
Sellers.
Cornershop's set started in a pretty strange way: nobody on
stage, a brass sample, and then the bass guitarist came on and
played in a funky style. Then, the drummer, two guitarists and
a sitar player entered, and a really lively sound filled the venue.
Finally, a percussionist arrived with the singer, Tjinder Singh.
His vocals, added to the sitar and the percussion, produced the
distinctive Cornershop sound, typified by most of the tracks on
their previous album When I Was Born For The 7th Time. Then
some pictures and videos were shown with some kitsch
Cornershop logos, and w e knew that the funky days were back
again!
The first three tracks, taken from the new album, lacked fresh-
ness and fluidity. Tjinder seemed to have difficulty smiling, and
seemed more interested in his technicians than in the audience.
The band were not very subtle when the three guitarists all
played at once; I preferred it when other instruments became
involved, such as keyboards or an Indian bass. Then, we heard
six songs from When I Was Born For The 7th Time, including the
singles Good Shit, Sleep On the Left Side and the famous Brimful
Of Asha. These suddenly gave me a compelling desire to listen
again to their last record.
Their fifty-minute set finished with the new single Lessons
Learned From Rocky I To Rocky III, which sounded great in a
sort of pop-rock style and was almost conventional. Thankfully,
they came back for an epic fifteen-minute track (Spectral
Mornings, taken from the forthcoming album), which managed
to make the crowd dance thanks to a mixture of pop-rock and
traditional Indian sounds.
A pretty good gig, but definitely too short.
music reviews
INTERVIEW with
Jason Perry from A
Felix caught up with the motor-mouth of rock to discuss snow-
boarding tips, plans for global domination and the release of
their third studio album (see review, page 16).
FELIX: H o w was the recording of the n e w album?
JASON: It was great to get back into the studio. We'd been tour-
ing and promoting the last album [1999's A vs Monkey Kong] for
three years because we staggered the release - it came out first
in the UK, then across Europe, and in the States a year later. The
touring was getting to us and if we hadn't called a stop to it and
got into the studio, it would have all gone a bit pear-shaped.
So now that the recording's over, what are the tour plans?
I'm gagging to get back out on the road. We'll be touring here in
Britain over the next couple of weeks, playing the Astoria in
London, and then going over to Europe for a couple of weeks.
We'll be hitting the States for the summer, then on to Japan and
the rest of Asia for the end of the year.
Are you on the Warped Tour i n the States this year?
We've done the Warped Tour before, and it was ace. You get to
see loads of wicked bands night after night, like Pennywise -
those guys are amazing live. You get to hang out with great peo-
ple and just do cool shit for the whole tour. Plus, you get to play
in some crazy places, like this one time we played a Warped
Tour date in a bullring in Spam.
The n e w album seems to be a little more serious, and there
are none of the short hardcore songs. W h y is that?
To be honest, I don't think we did the hardcore punk stuff very
well - it was a bit of pissing around, and not really what A was
about at all. We take the whole "making music" thing really
seriously. Anyone who takes the business side of music is crazy,
but the one area we're really concerned about is the music mak-
ing. That's it. I think this is the first time we've been allowed to
make the music we've really wanted to make, so this is the true
sound of A.
A n y chance of some piss-take B-sides, like the Owner Of A
Lonely Heart cover?
Oh yeah, B-sides, we may well do some piss-takes there.
What about the live show shenanigans? Will the snow
machine be travelling w i t h you this time?
You know what that snow machine smells like? You can just
imagine some fourteen-year-old getting back from the gig cov-
ered in that stuff, and his parents going "What the hell was
going on?!" and never letting him go to a rock gig again! Yeah,
we should be taking that out with us again.
Speaking of snow, have you managed to get out to Tahoe this
season?
We haven't had the time. We were going to try and get out to
Mammoth whilst we were recording in L A , but we ended up
just chilling with some mates and shopping instead. We're look-
ing into maybe recording the next album in Tahoe next winter
though, which would be great. Recording and boarding con-
stantly for a couple of months - nothing could be better!
Frangois Ben

