clubbing reviews
The Gallery
@ Turnmills
It's the day after Bedrock's first night of
the year, and I'm strung out. But I'm at
The Gallery, so it doesn't matter any
more. A n up-for-partying crowd almost
fill the floor even when it hasn't really
kicked off yet. There aren't any glow-
sticks here, but everyone wears bright
enough clothing to get picked out artisti-
cally by the lasers.
What is really noticeable is the scary
lack of attitude at this place, even when
drinks are spilt over people or they bump
into each other.
One o'clock: M a x Graham transports
the crowd to Planet Turnmills, a place
where premium bangin', funky, trippy
house is dropped and where the D J
makes us dance like we're on the points
of his Technics needles. I carry on danc-
ing and jumping and yelling and whoop-
ing and cheering and throwing down
moves I never knew I had. It's like I'm on
coke and not caffeine. Amongst the sonic
chaos, I recognise the new Trisco track
and soon we have waves upon waves of
tough-nut, sledgehammer beats to shake
the kidneys and intestines of the Gallery
massive some more. This is a stonking
dance marathon to shake off the working
week - or whatever your problems are.
The synth bass starts to shake the
room (and my ears), but I'm in the zone
now. The pounding high-impact key-
board slab-stabs take me to that place in
my mind where I'm thinking of perpetual
explosions of light (greatly aided by M r
Newman's kickass laser light show; he's
even having problems keeping up with
the music). Right to the very end, the
Gallery crowd are screaming, yelling and
cheering, and I walk away thinking "that
was a top night out".
INTERVIEW
with Max Graham
FELIX: Coming from nowhere to rank
at No 23 i n the D J Magazine chart is
great, but h o w did you get there?
M A X : Most votes came from the US, and
I'm very happy with that, but I'm aware
that down-to-earth grass roots promo-
tion is what helped my earlier career
more. I used to send out charts of tunes I
thought were hot to Hope Records regu-
larly, so they knew my name, and that
way I established a relationship in order
to access new promos for the progressive
sound which hadn't really taken off in
Canada at the time. In the end, they were
like "the Canadian guy's on the phone
about the charts", because I bugged
them so much, but when I needed the
records I got them and when I started
sending my own demos around, I was
already known thanks to my legwork,
and that's really paid off for me.
Transport 4 [a double C D mixed by
Graham] was named as one of the com-
pilations of the year by M 8 magazine,
but the first review from D J magazine
criticised its lack of emotion compared
to other m i x CDs a n d the fact that it
banged it out from start to finish. Your
feelings on that, Max?
That's how I play. You can't be anyone
other than yourself when you're mixing;
if it's not you then it won't be any good. I
had to be myself rather than fit the brand
too closely or sound like some other DJ.
In general, trying to permanently change
your sound too quickly according to what
you think is the next big thing just makes
you sound terrible, because it's just not
you.
You've been DJing, m a k i n g tunes a n d
remixing i n stacks since y o u broke
through w i t h B a r None i n the U K .
What's i n store for the future?
I'm 90% DJing and 10% producing at the
moment. I only started producing to fur-
ther my DJing career - ideally I'd D J
rather than produce. I love all that. M y
newest tune, Crank, is signed and out in
the spring. The next mix CD, the follow-
up to Transport, is also slated for around
the same time, and in the meantime it's
more DJing and also a couple of collabo-
rations with other artists and DJs who I
really respect.
Canada's your home, b u t h o w do
crowds react differently across the
world, a n d i n Ibiza are they really just
one big melting pot?
Israel goes off, Tokyo goes off, N e w York
goes off, London goes off - but y'know
what? Every club and every crowd even-
tually becomes the same.
This is your second Turnmills gig at
The Gallery, so what attracted you here
in the first place, a n d what drew you
back?
Timo Maas, actually. He was lined up to
play and said to the management, "I'll do
it, but this other D J I know needs to play
here as well", and he got me the gig. I
loved it. After six weeks off [from N e w
Year 2002], I was really itching to get
back here and play again. It's really just
the crazy party vibe of the place that
brought me back - the crowd here always
appreciate you.
Ken Ken

