reviews clubbing
21st Century Body Rockers
@ Cynthia's Robot Bar
This was the first 21st Century Body
Rockers night, organised by Cool Delta,
and as such my expectations were high.
Cool Delta, in their own words, spe-
cialise "in only cool, credible releases",
these cool, credible people being the
likes of Aphex Twin, The Strokes, FC
Kahuna, Seafood, E d Harcourt,
Cornelius, Squarepusher, Sigur Ros, Mull
Historical Society, A d a m Freeland,
Preston School Of Industry and Felix Da
Housecat to name but a few. A l l in all,
you'd be forgiven for expecting an eclec-
tic mix of leftfield, ambient, moody, alt-
rock, no-wave, post-rock, lo-fi under-
ground beats, breaks, harmonies and
soundscapes...
The venue itself suggests something
slightly to the left of the avant-garde.
Cynthia's Robot Bar is nestled away
under the arches at London Bridge, and
as such it comprises a maze of routes
through retro-futuristic decorated rooms.
Everything is shiny metal and flashing
red lights. Seats light up when you sit on
them. A robot serves you drinks (well,
actually it was a large, clunky contrap-
tion that was malfunctioning and just
replied "PANIC" to the request for a
vodka and cranberry). And, of course, all
the people look "cool and credible".
So much for my expectations. The DJs
from City Rockers proceeded to play
what can only be described as "tech-
house" all night. In all the rooms.
Without any variation or innovation. It
never even made it to techno proper, or
to hard house, or to a decent four-to-the-
floor. Any hint of the avant-garde had
been ruthlessly removed, leaving me
wondering if I'd come to the right club.
Every Saturday. Doors open at 11pm.
There
@ Heaven
You've all heard of it, you all know where
it is, but how many of you have actually
been? Heaven has been described as
"probably London's best-kept clubbing
secret". Well, it's not exactly a secret that
there are three huge floors, each with dif-
ferent music policies. It's no secret that
the crowd in attendance aren't exactly
shy - "no holds barred" begins to have
more interesting connotations. It's hardly
a high-level, confidential and politically
sensitive datum that the dancefloors and
bars are packed with beautiful boys and
girls of all orientations proceeding to first
glow, then perspire and finally sweat. So,
whither the mystique and aura? Go down
and find out.
Let us begin our tour of this delectable,
decadent and degraded diversion in the
main room, where the heaving crowd are
kept smiling and raving to hard house
and high energy trance. There's plenty of
action from the DJs to keep our sweaty
mob happy for a while. Let us leave this
crazy, loveable bunch and head towards
the Star Bar. Tonight is a special night, for
no less a star than Kenny Carpenter (of
New York's Studio 54 fame) is DJing. We
may not have asked for house, but that's
what we've got - the finest in US house to
writhe rhythmically to. Or maybe you can
keep in time to the shakes of the other
guests, such as Joey Negro.
Perhaps you fancy something different.
Why not mosey on into the Dakota Bar, for
some urban beats and alternative flavas?
You are now in the office party to end all
office parties, the speakers are pumping
out Kylie and the Chemicals, and some-
one's nicked the fax machine. You no
longer care.
Every Friday. Doors open at 10pm.
Going Clubbing
On The Cheap
Word up peeps.
If you read this on Friday and you're
not going out tonight, then shame on
you. However, if you'd like to join the
elite ranks of Felix clubbing reviewers,
and blag your way into some quality
(and, alas, kwality) clubs, then simply
read on...
I am looking for people who are inter-
ested in clubbing (or just scoring a free
night out for themselves) to write to me
at clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk, leaving contact
details. Telling me what sort of music
you like would also be helpful.
Continuing the blagging theme, we
now have a word from our sponsors...
Are you having the time of your life?
No?
We at Mixmag are putting together a
team of chancers, blaggers and nutbags
to work with us on our club promotions
street team.
Impress your friends by earning
money, getting in free to London's best
clubs and gaining experience in club pro-
motions.
Up for it?
Send us your photograph, list your
favourite clubs and music, and tell us
how you get your mates to go on a big
night out. Email all this to:
mandy@mixmag.net
or write to:
Mandy McGarvey,
Mixmag,
Mappin House,
4 Winsley Street,
London, W1W 8HF
Robert Robert Patrick

