film reviews
The Mothman Prophecies
Released 1st March
A two hour episode of the X-files featuring Richard Gere cer-
tainly won't be to everyone's liking, and I didn't really expect
it to be to mine, especially given the B-movie title.
Ever since my first encounter with the Gere oeurve, Pretty
Woman, a lovely, romantic tale about a businessman and his
hooker, I have found it hard to understand his enduring suc-
cess as a lead actor. But I was able to enjoy this movie despite
his presence. His performance is not too painful at all and
things are helped by Mark Pellington's direction (basically,
don't ask too much of him).
After a split-second vision causes his wife to crash their
car, John Klein (Gere) walks away but his wife later dies in
hospital. In her final hours she produces reams of odd sketch-
ings of what she supposedly saw. Then, two years later, on a
foggy overnight drive to Richmond, John's car breaks down.
He tries to get help at the first door he comes across, but
there he is greeted by a gun pointed at his face and a voice
telling him he has been expected. The puzzled journalist from
the Washington Post has found himself hundreds of miles
from where he thought he was, in the town of Point Pleasant,
Virginia. The town has borne witness to eerie apparitions and
eye witnesses describe the figure depicted in his wife's draw-
ings. John is intrigued and sacrifices his work assignment to
investigate. More sightings occur and many of those who
come into contact w i t h the Mothman become able to correct-
ly predict global tragedies. It is left up to John the journalist
to explain what is going on.
With almost no appearance from the Mothman himself, the
film takes a much more psychological, human approach to the
unexplainable phenomena that surround the main character,
John Klein - but, nonetheless, there is really very little point
to this film. We don't learn about John's grief at the death of
his wife, nothing much is made about the possibility of being
able to glimpse the future nor the accepted dismissal of wit-
nesses as crazies. There is not much to ponder on beyond the
leaving of the cinema - but, having said that, I enjoyed it
while it lasted.
Adam Joyce
Richard Gere
PROFILE
The star of The Mothman Prophecies has been a Buddhist for
over a decade and is just as famous for being a humanitarian as
an actor - although I have only just been told he does acting...
Gere has been one of the foremost and most radical support-
ers of the Tibetan independence movement. He has even been
banned from the Oscars after making anti-China comments on
air at the 1993 ceremony. In fact, Jackie Chan threatened to
"bosch him up" after the ceremony if he did not "keep his opin-
ions to himself" in the future. Chan vs. Gere... China owns Tibet.
Richard Gere was born in 1949 in Philadelphia. His father was
called Homer, an insurance salesman. He dropped out of uni-
versity to pursue a 'career' in acting. Initially, gaining notoriety
as an actor in Looking for Mr. Goodbar (1977), his big hit was
Pretty Woman (1990). After that, his movie career has been a
scramble up the slippery slope of anonymity. He has kept him-
self afloat with such armbands as First Knight (1995), The
Jackal (1997), and Runaway Bride (1999) - which means The
Mothman Prophecies is his first decent movie in living memory.
M O T H M A N
H l O f i l ECS ES
M O T H M A N COMPETITION
This week's competition gives you a
chance to WIN! WIN! WIN! (or lose) a
whole lot of official Mothman
Prophecies merchandise and promo
gere. Bosch. Answer the question and
you could win a Mothman Rucksack, a
Mothman T-shirt, another Mothman T-
Shirt and Special Vison Distortion
Specs (SVDS). So...
In which chilling 1996 movie did
E d w a r d Norton star alongside
Richard Gere?
a) American History X
b) Primal Fear
c) Red Corner
Answers to film.felix@ic.ac.uk. The
Taxi2 comp winner was Giles Ross, a
2nd Year Biologist.

