interview film 23
Richard Gere
Q&A
You haven't made a supernatural thriller before, is that w h y
you wanted to do this?
No, it was the script itself. I didn't say, 'I want to make a scary
movie'. The script came and I could see the possibilities,
although it went through a lot of drafts to find the balance
between a scary movie and a smart movie.
What did you like about the script?
The emotional stuff was rich. In the beginning, my character's
in the perfect job, he has a beautiful wife, they're talking about
babies, they're buying a house, everything's great and then lit-
erally in the middle of laughing, there's a car accident and she's
gone. Now if you put that on top of the metaphysical story of 'Is
there anything out there?', then you have something that has a
lot of power.
You wanted to avoid the cliches of the genres, is that w h y we
don't see the mothman?
That's the B-movie version of this. The assumption is that this
is a metaphysical story, not a ghost story, meaning that we're
making the adult's thinking version. So the trick and brilliance
of director Mark Pellington was finding a visual vocabulary that
would suggest a presence and give you the kind of chilling feel-
ing that was much deeper and larger than 'Don't open that
door!'. This was more like a dream and dreams aren't usually
'there's something behind the door', they're more a feeling that
seems to take over everything.
You normally play characters who are i n control but your
character in this, J o h n Klein, thinks he's going mad....
I don't think the people I play are in control. I think the charac-
ters always strive for control and it's the fact that they can't
have it that makes drama. They have the illusion of control but
the universe never gives any of us control, otherwise there'd be
no drama at all. You know, people think they're on balance, life
puts them off-balance and they have to find someway to re-
establish balance.
Do you think your efforts on behalf of the Tibetans and your
criticism of China have ever had a negative effect on your
career?
No, no effect at all. I never really think about it. You know, you
say something that wasn't popular but I'm not aware of it when
I'm doing it and then, quite often, I get these letters from my co-
workers, other actors or musicians, thanking me for saying
what ever I said.
When you were a teenager, did you think that at 52 you'd be
a major star?
Oh, I never saw past 25. How can you project that far ahead? I
had no idea. I mean, it's like asking a rock star if they think
they'll still be prancing around at 55. It's like no, you think
you're going to be dead at 26.
Since the success of The Sixth Sense there seem to be more
and more movies w i t h supernatural themes. W h y are we so
fascinated by it?
I don't think it ever goes away. It's part of our collective uncon-
scious, whether we're tribal people or we're urban people. I
think it's genetically-coded in us and, in a way, that belief is
more powerful in urban people who are continually having it cut
out of their lives. So that need to express it is always there.
What's your favourite scary movie?
Well the scariest movie I ever saw had no ghost in it and that
was "The Servant". It was a Joseph Losey film from a Harold
Pinter screenplay and it was the same kind of terror that
"Mothman" deals with: it calls into question the nature of iden-
tity. I think that's scary to everyone.
Do you believe in psychic phenomena, and have you had any
personal experience of ghosts?
I have no interest at all in that, although if someone came up
with the Loch Ness Monster I'd be interested. As for ghosts,
there's been nothing that shook me to my marrow.
Your co-star is Laura Linney, who you worked w i t h on 1996's
Primal Fear w h e n she was still u n k n o w n . Was it fun working
w i t h her again?
I was delighted because she helps elevate the film to the right
level. We're very good friends and now, after You Can Count On
Me, everyone realises how good she is.
You don't seem to dominate co-stars like some big movie
stars..?
No, I like the collaborative process. I like people working
together and what the project says and does is equally impor-
tant to me as what I do. Do I have ideas about it? Of course I do
and I've been around long enough now for people to listen to
me, for better or worse. But the satisfying thing about doing this
movie was working with all these extremely talented, hyper-
creative people who were also very trusting and open, which
was important because this had to come together quickly; we
didn't have six weeks of rehearsal time.
You started out doing stage musicals like Grease and now
you're making the film of Chicago. Is that fun?
It's a total delight and it's something I haven't done since I was
a kid. Even then, I was working in musicals, but they were
never this kind of Broadway show. I get to sing and dance with
beautiful girls and I have a big tap-dancing number at the end.
You're a New Yorker, so how did you react to the events of
September 11th?
It was so shocking that it kind of calls into question the nature
of identity on many levels. The skyline of New York changed in
one hour. Just mind-boggling. To imagine that it's gone; some-
thing that we thought was going to be there as a monument for-
ever. A n d the identity we had as a country totally changed and
so did the people. As the anger and vengeance came up, that
shocked our identity as well. You know, we're Christians, we're
Buddhists, we're not supposed to feel this way.

