books reviews
The Shape of Snakes
Minette Walters
On a rainy night in a lower class London suburb, Mrs
Ranelagh unexpectedly stumbles across an old black woman,
Annie Butts, lying at the side of the road. M a d Annie is the
neighbourhood enigma, the local cat lady, who often seems
drunk and disoriented, and who is fiercely paranoid. A s she
looks at Annie's bruised body and into her eyes, she is con-
vinced that Annie has been murdered. The police and the rest
of the neighbourhood, including Ranelagh's husband and her
best friend, insist Annie was simply the victim of a hit and
run driver. However Mrs Ranelagh, who is already struggling
with a troubled marriage, vows to prove otherwise. She
wants justice. Or does she merely want revenge?
In this dark novel, the true stories of Annie and Mrs
Ranelagh, finally surface. For example, the misunderstood
Annie was a victim of Tourette's Syndrome, harassment, and
probably racism. Her possessions have been stolen, her cats
threatened. In her painstaking twenty year investigation of
Annie's death, Ranelagh uncovers layer upon layer of decep-
tions - wife and husband abuse, vicious assault and rape,
marital indifference and infidelity, and thoughtless cruelty to
animals and children. In this novel, no one, including best
friends, husbands, and seemingly good Samaritans, are quite
what they seem.
However, Walters does not merely create and solve an
intriguing mystery. A s each revelation in the solution of
Annie's murder occurs, the perceptive reader comes to ques-
tion anyone's ability to easily recognise or prevent evil. A s
Walters says, like the shape of snake's heads, evil too comes
in many subtle forms. Through her skilled, thoughtful writing,
Walters breathes life into many difficult, ethical questions,
such as: Why do people hate so illogically anything which is
different? How do violence, cruelty, and racism become an
integral part of a child's life? Are only parents to blame?
Fortunately Miss Walters offers hope; some good people do
care; and some adults overcome part of the horrors of their
past. Without a doubt, this complex, mesmerising, and often
disturbing novel is one of Minette Walters' best.
DIALOGUES
OF THE D E A D
Dialogues of the Dead
Reginald Hill
A short-story contest for the local newspaper brings more
contestants than anyone had expected. One of them submits
the distasteful "The First Dialogue," which recounts the death
by drowning of a nice man while the writer looks on and
doesn't help. A day or so later a news item appears in the
paper describing the incident in detail. The readers dismiss it
until "The Second Dialogue" appears in their mail sack and a
similar news item is found in the newspaper. By the time of
"The Third Dialogue" the police are involved with a murder
investigation. The writer of the Dialogues is dubbed the
"Wordman" and the chase is on. The only problem is that the
Wordman is an extremely cunning killer as well as a word-
smith without equal - and in all that he does he seems to by
toying with the police and media. The text of both the
"Dialogues" and the novel are rife with wordplay and obscure
words. Have an unabridged dictionary (preferably the Oxford
English Dictionary if possible - it plays a role in the book)
handy if you are the type that feels compelled to look up
unknown words.
Although Dalziel, Pascoe and Wield play prominent roles,
the spotlight is taken by the rookie DC Bowler (known as
"Hat" - another of the myriad of wordplays in the novel) and
the librarian Rye Pomona. Much of the story and investigation
are told through their eyes, and a more likeable and interest-
ing pair you'll be hard pressed to find in Hill's oeuvre.
Hill keeps the reader's interest at a high peak wondering
who the next victim of the Wordman will be. This is a fine
book, well written and witty. It isn't as emotional as On
Beulah Height or The Wood Beyond, but it does show
Reginald Hill teasing and entertaining the reader, demon-
strating his literary skills and knowledge without patronising
his audience. Anyone who likes Hill's work will enjoy this
book; anyone who has ambitions to move beyond convention-
al detective fiction will find this an entry into a new world;
and those who regard serial novels and detective fiction as an
unimportant genre will discover how the constraints of form
can be used to hold together an impressive piece of work.

