reviews books
m ^
About the Author
John Colapinto
Cal Cunningham calls himself a writer, but he's too busy to sit
down and actually write anything. He spends his days work-
ing as a bookstore stock boy and his nights and weekends in
the bars of Manhattan chasing women. On Sunday mornings,
he spins tales about his conquests to his roommate, a reclu-
sive, hard-working Columbia law student named Stewart
Church in their small flat in Washington Heights. When
Stewart is killed in a bicycle accident, Cal finds a novel - a
brilliant novel - based on Cal's own exploits hidden in
Stewart's desk. Cal is appaled, and then inspired. He sends
the novel off to one of New York's leading literary agents,
claiming it is his own, and work begins on turning Cal into
the next literary giant.
Cal is horrified when, whilst looking through Stewart's
work for a short-story for a magazine piece, he finds evidence
that the manuscript of Stewart's novel was sent to a woman.
He intercepts this copy and immediately falls in love with
Stewart's ex-girlfriend Janet, and soon ends up marrying her.
The book is a smash hit, and as he claims the rewards of lit-
erary lionisation, Cal convinces himself that he is, really, at
bottom, responsible for the writing of the book, if not exactly
its author.
The novel convincingly portrays Cal's determined delusion
that everything has worked out just as it was meant to be. A s
he begins his new life w i t h Janet in Vermont, he thinks how
"Stewart's ghost had turned out to be a benevolent spectre
after all, his spirit helping to shape my destiny, to guide both
Janet and me to this moment." Which is all well and good,
until Cal discovers that someone else is in possession of a
copy of the original manuscript.
This novel is very much in the style of the Thomas Ripley
novels by Patricia Highsmith, with its very dark, almost noir
feel. The sense of desperation that Cal Cunningham feels
when his life is at stake from his blackmailer is very gripping.
This is John Colapinto's first novel and is one of the best that
I have read in a long while, with an excellent prose style and
a really satisfying ending.
mm
Bitterroot
James Lee Burke
Billy Bob Holland, ex-Texas Ranger and now an attorney, goes
to Montana to visit his friend Doc Voss. However, the visit
turns into a working vacation when Voss is arrested for the
murder of a biker who participated in the gang rape of his
young daughter. Voss has been active in speaking out against
a company dumping cyanide into the river of the Bitterroot
Valley, as well as antagonising the local right-wing militia. He
also had a confrontation with the biker prior to his murder.
Voss is not the only one with a problem, though. There is a
killer in Montana, newly released from prison, who is tracking
Holland. He holds the attorney responsible for his sister's
death and intends to make Holland pay for it. The FBI is also
planting informants in some of these anti-social groups in an
effort to determine if it can learn more about the Oklahoma
City bombing, and Holland works to play these groups off
against each other. Throw in some mob-connected villains and
the author has indeed created a dangerous mixture for all con-
cerned.
Burke is perhaps the most poetic crime writer currently
working in America. His ability to paint a portrait with words
is unsurpassed, offering the reader a true visual feel for the
settings and the characters. While all those in the novel are
well drawn, the standout is Billy Bob himself. Haunted with
guilt over the accidental shooting of his partner, Holland sees
his ghost everywhere - in fact, he actually looks for the spirit
to appear so he can discuss his life, as well as the case, with
him. Further, the author has constructed an engrossing tale of
mystery that is not for the faint of heart.
The Shape of Snakes is published by Pan, £6.99
Dialogues of the Dead is published by Collins, £6.99
About the Author is published by 4th Estate, £10
Bitterroot is published by Orion, £12.99
All these books are out now and would make excellent read-
ing during the coming Easter break - not as a substitute for
revision but as a wonderful supplement to it.

