Stones in his Pockets
Duke of York's Theatre
Until the 29th of June you have a chance of seeing one of the
funniest plays in the West End. Stones in his Pockets, written by
Marie Jones is based in Ireland and follows the goings-on of
two Irishmen, Charlie Conlon and Jake Quinn as extras in a
movie - shot in a small Irish town - wanting to make it big. Their
bid for fame is helped by meeting the lead of the movie, Caroline
Giovanni in the local pub, who takes a fancy to Jake. With
twists and turns to follow, the story thickens with the suicidal
drowning of Sean, which opens Jakes eyes to the hostile,
obnoxious film business.
The acting throughout the show is brilliant, Lloyd
Hutchinson, who plays Charlie and Kieran Lagan who plays
Jake, also play every other role in the show. With over 15 char-
acters it may sound as if it's easy to lose the plot, but that never
happens. Both actors do a fantastic job at putting on different
styles for each character, using different postures, accents and
attitudes to distinguish all apart: you'll be gasping for air
through laughing at the characters quirks and habits. The
switching from one character to another is well done, directed
by Ian McElhinney, who uses the changes in posture, sudden
movements across the stage and other little tricks to convert
Lloyd Hutchinson and Kieran Lagan into their alternate charac-
ters. One wonders how they'll even leave stage or do the switch
to change characters as it is done in so many ways.
Lloyd Hutchinson is a delight to watch as the Director in the
play and Kieran Lagan is superb as Mickey, the only surviving
extra from the last film to be shot at Co Kerry, "The Great Man".
The first act is full of laughs, while the second becomes more
sombre after the drowning, but somehow is able to tie in
humour around the situation. You end up one moment com-
pletely enthralled by the plot, and then the unable to concen-
trate due to the ferocity of your laughing.
Overall this play has to be seen: it doesn't get loads of amaz-
ing reviews and nominations for awards for nothing, and I can
honestly say it is worth spending your pennies on. Tickets start
from £16.60 and the nearest tube stop is Leicester Square.
Toby
arts reviews
lolanthe
Savoy Theatre
'Iolanthe' is a story of thwarted love, and its eventual consum-
mation. In an absurd fairy world, Iolanthe, the fairy of the title
is disgraced for marrying a mortal, and is banished to live at the
bottom of a stream. So beloved was she by her Queen and the
other fairies, however, that 25 years into this sentence she is
pardoned.
It transpires that the distasteful stream was her choice of
abode in banishment to be close to her son. A son! Half fairy,
half mortal (from the waist down), and one who is deeply in love
with a mortal - a mortal who is a ward of Chancery. Here Gilbert
and Sullivan's plot contrivances become manifestly clear. Of
course, the Chancellor will thwart Strephon's (the son's) desire
to marry Phyllis (his loved one) and the production will end
inevitably with their eventual reunion. A n d Phyllis, you've
guessed it, was once married to the Chancellor.
The few features in its favour - the gloriously ungraceful,
bawdy fairies, or the well-observed scenes amongst the peers
and Lord Chancellor - did not redeem it. It was difficult to
engage with the story or the personalities. Perhaps this was
because of the medium - the libretto was often difficult to hear,
despite the cast's impressive attempts to enunciate clearly.
That, or an essential difference with Messieurs Gilbert and
Sullivan about what constituted an entertaining story. In any
case, all that one could feel towards the resolution of Strephon
and Phyllis' plight was complete indifference.
The story line thus dealt with leaves the production itself.
Declaring itself an opera, one might be forgiven for expecting
something rather more accomplished and visionary than what
one got. Whereas, at least the cast members of musicals can
sing, dance and act, the cast of Iolanthe failed to satisfactorily
do any of these things. Even allowing for a certain amount of
parody, we were still in bad pantomime land.
It might be that Iolanthe was simply not to our taste, or oper-
atic ignorance rendered its charm to be invisible. The Savoy
itself, however, was a delight. It was plush, comfortable and a
fitting setting for much worthier things.
Libby

