break coffee
GFQQ - The Great Felix Quote Quiz
by Bobby Cyclops & Dr. Hot Fudge
1. "I'm the antichrist, and you've got me in a vendetta kind of
mood. You tell the angels in heaven you've never seen evil so
singularly personified as in the face of the man who killed you."
2. "I have no idea to this day what them two Italian ladies were
singin' about. Truth is, I don't want to know. Some things are
best left unsaid. I like to think they were singin' about some-
thing so beautiful it can't be expressed in words, and makes
your heart ache because of it"
3. "No questions. No answers. That's the job we've chosen. You just
accept it and move on."
4. "I work for Dick Jones... DICK JONES!"
5. "10 million, 10 million, 10 million dollars! 10 million, 10 million,
10 million dollars!"
Bonus Question. Name the predators of the Oompa Loompa world
Number of players: 65
The Leader Board - top 15
Name Score
Daniel Sauder 127.5
Christopher Dent 125
Chris Ince 124.5
Simon North 122
Anthony Rodriques 116
Andrew Ince 113.5
John Anderson 112
Michael Simonds 97.5
Fred Marquis 93.5
Chris Toffis 71
Rebekah Hymas 62.5
Arosha Bandara 61
Gregory M a n n 59.5
Geoff Lay 58
Kim Randell 58
Answers to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk or
to the Felix Office
Basement, Beit Quad.
West Wing
Answers to last week's quotes:
1. John Rhys-Davies/Gimli - Lord of the Rings
2. Robert Duvall/Col. Max Radl - The Eagle Has Landed
3. Frank Oz (voice)/Yoda - SW: The Empire Strikes Back
4. Willem Defoe/Caravaggio - The English Patient
5. John Cusack/Martin Q. - Gross Pointe Blank
6. Michael Biehn/Kyle Reese - Terminator
Now Fudglings, when we talked about your feedback for prize
ideas, we expected answers along the lines of "as many DVDs as I
can buy" or "the best games console on the market" or even "music
vouchers". However, when we get suggestions of " a remote con-
trolled tank with working gun", frankly we don't know how to
respond. We'll give you a little more time for your feedback, but
remember that there are three-hundred notes up for grabs!
I hoped you liked the joke last week, and as I have a large collec-
tion, I thought you might like to hear another. OK, here it is....
I was walking along the street the other day when a haggard old
man, covered in dirt and wearing nothing but a 'Megadeth' t-shirt
stopped me and beckoned towards my trousers. Thinking that he
wanted them (as he was wearing none himself) I began to back off.
Then he grabbed a hold of them and gestured quite obscenely to
the bottom of my trousers. Again, I tried to back away but he
reached into his rucksack and pulled out a pair of sheep-sheers.
Quite puzzled now, I asked him what he though he was doing. In a
gruff, animal tone he grumbled "I'm going to cut off the bottom of
your trousers and send them to the library!". I paused for a while,
stunned. After a while I realised - that was a turn-up for the books.
If you're lucky I will delve deeper into my collection next week!
Bobby Cyclops

