feature politics
NUS - Your Choice
On the 14th and 15th of March, the stu-
dents of Imperial College will be asked the
question whether they want to join the
National Union of Students. To make an
informed choice it is important to under-
stand the NUS and how it works.
What is the NUS?
NUS is a membership organisation com-
prising a confederation of local student
representative organisations i n colleges
and universities throughout the United
Kingdom and Northern Ireland which have
chosen to affiliate and which pay a mem-
bership fee.
NUS represents the interests of about
three million students in further and high-
er education throughout the United
Kingdom. NUS aims to provide research,
representation, training and advice for
individual students and students' unions.
Annual Conference
The sovereign body of the National Union
of Students is Annual Conference which
takes place each spring. Every students'
union is represented at the Conference.
Annual Conference determines the policy
of the National Union and sets the cam-
paigning agenda for the next year b y
determining key policy areas. Conference
has a number of sub committees including
Elections Committee, Steering Committee
and National Executive Committee.
National Council
National Council, along with Regional
Conferences aims to hold the N E C
accountable for their work and responsibil-
ities. The Council meets at least three
times a year a n d reports to Annual
Conference.
National Council directs the work of the
N E C within union policy; makes recom-
mendations to Conference regarding the
accounts and estimates. National Council
guides and generates ideas for the N E C on
their campaigns. National Council may
also pass policy, i n exceptional circum-
stances.
Regional Conferences
The eight English regions are known as
'Ordinary Regions'. Each ordinary region
holds a Regional Conference to which each
college is entitled to send the same num-
ber of delegates as they did to the previous
Annual Conference. Regional Conferences
take place twice annually, once in each of
the first two academic terms.
NUS Affiliation
Every Constituent Member union of NUS
pays an annual subscription fee. This is
calculated by a number of means, depend-
ing on the number of full and part time
students who are members of the union
and the amount of money the union
receives from their college. The funds
raised from fees are used to fund the cam-
paigns, activities and administration of the
National Union. The affiliation fee for
Imperial College Union will be £35,000 per
year, with a reduced fee for the first year.
NUS Services Limited (NUSSL)
Being a member of the NUS allows you to
join NUSSL (although you do not have to
join it). NUSSL is a limited company oper-
ating as a purchasing consortium that pro-
cures deals for commercial services
(including beer, stationery etc). Imperial
College Union is already a member of a dif-
ferent consortium and it is vital to compare
the relative prices offered by both consor-
tiums to assess the value in joining NUSSL.
Find out more
For more about the advantages and disad-
vantages of joining the NUS, go to
www.union.ic.ac.uk/nus.
The ICU Islamic Society
Presents
:m11e4 c:oIoat% bt l i l t *
4th,5th,6th,7th &
8th March 2002
Keep your Eyes
Open
IT'S I N
Y O U R
H A N D S
"SUSTAINABLE FUTURES'
I C U E N V I R O N M E N T A L S O C I E T Y
2 N D A L T E R N A T I V E C A R E E R S F A I R
DATE: 6 MARCH
VENUE: CIVIL ENG (LVL 2) 201 & 207
TIME: 1230-1700
Htt|K//union.ic.ac.uk/esoc/acf2002.html •" imperial
e-mail: thomas.tibbits'aiic.ac.uk u n m n

