caving feature
The Caves Of Morocco
In the early eighties a French team explored
a high plateau near Jbel Ghat, (Jbel *»
Mountain, Ghat. The 'Gh' is pronounced as
a throaty R sound). The plateau is sur-
rounded by a horseshoe shaped ridge, the
peak of which is just below 4000m. The
report documented many caves, mostly ver-
tical shafts, in several different areas of the
plateau. The French expedition had only
covered a tiny proportion of area of the
plateau and we were intrigued enough to
want to take a look for ourselves.
from the airport and headed for the stun-
ning Bougoumez valley.
The most amazing thing about
Bougoumez valley is the colour - it's green.
For the entire drive from Marrakech,
through the plains west of the mountains,
to the foothills of the Atlas, an arid, dusty,
rocky brown terrain was normal. As we
rounded the final corner into the valley, we
could not help but be amazed by the fertile
green fields laid out before us. This is quite
an achievement since it's such an enor-
It was decided that a team of 5 (Tim
Wight, Hugh Penney, Jan Everts, Colm
Carroll and E d Austin) would spend 2Vz
weeks on the plateau. September is the
best time to visit the Atlas since the heat of
the summer is over, but winter has not yet
set in. Since we would be staying in one
place, no driver would be needed. So we
contacted the owner of a local guide,
Mohammed Achahri and he sorted out all
the logistics.
On August 28th, we flew to Marrakech.
We had two days to doss and sort out some
supplies, which we decided were better to
get out there. The most significant of which
was carbide. For those who don't know, car-
bide is a rock like substance that when
mixed with water fizzes to give off acety-
lene gas. This is burned to provide light in
the caves. In less developed countries it is
normally found quite easily since it is used
for lighting and welding, but we were not
so lucky, and had to engage in some very
shady dealings before we were supplied
with what we needed. It felt like we were
buying crack.
The other supplies, however, were easy
to get from various stalls, and on Saturday
we met our driver, Lassan, picked up Jan
mous valley, supporting a population of
many thousands, but with a single large
stream as the only water supply.
The next morning we travelled by lan-
drover to Abachkou where we swapped
four wheels for four legs. By the time we
reached Abachkou, it was 3:00pm, so we
would not be able to reach our destination
that day.
All the kit for six people for 2V4 weeks
was loaded onto just four mules, a sight
that has to be seen to be believed. We
walked carrying only water and cameras
for about three hours, following a small
track along the river and passing small vil-
lages made up of mud huts. The only way
we knew we were in the 20th century was
the occasional solar panel, or satellite dish
peeking from a window. This really was
very isolated, so enchanting - we loved it.
Eventually the source of the river was
reached, a bubbling spring emerging from
the stones. The dry riverbed stretched off
into the distance. The muleteers had never
been here before, and did not know where
to find water further on - so this was the
camping spot for the evening. H i e plateau
was still another 8km. (and 1200m higher).
That evening, the massive communal
tent was put up. The chef and muleteers
made us dinner while we relaxed, studied
the maps and explored a little. It was per-
fect, until the next morning at least.
The first thing I did that day was the only
thing I was capable of: I was sick. I got up,
tried to take some paracetamol and a bit of
water - but my stomach was having none of
it. At 9:30am, the sun was rising fast and I
found somewhere to rest in the shade while
everyone packed the kit onto the mules.
When we set off I was less than enthusias-
tic, after an hour I was able to go no further.
I found a rock and hid from the blazing sun.
Jan kindly offered to stop with me for 24
hours so I could recover. Everyone one else
continued up the mountain. The mules
were to descend the next day to return to
Bougoumez, and Colm would come with
them to guide us up the mountain.
Jan and I were quite exhausted having
had a rough night's sleep and little food. We
slogged up the final steep ascent to our
new home. As we rose out of the valley, we
left behind all the green, and entered a des-
olate moonscape. The only vegetation was
'hedgehog' bushes (small spiky shrubs).
The camp was at the head of hanging val-
ley, above the main wadi. The plateau,
where the caves were to be found was over
the western ridge of the valley. The main
tent was erected, and Hassan set up the
cooking area inside. The rest of us tried hard
to find some vaguely flat, non-spiky ground
to pitch tents on. The water supply was a
small dribble that filled a series of cascad-
ing pools, about 5 minutes from the camp.
It quickly became apparent that we were
not alone. In the evening, we saw several
fires. A population of shepherds was living
in the valley with us. The next morning we
met one of them as he beat us to the water
supply. His sheep drank all the water, so we
had to wait hours for the pools to re-fill.
We split the caving area into several
zones. The nearest (zone A) was the area
just above the ridge. Zone B was the central
region of the plateau. The farthest area from
the camp, zone N was where the French
expedition found the most caves.
In order to orientate ourselves, we split
into two teams. Myself, Hugh and Jan
decided to visit zone A, and follow the ridge
down to the lowest part of the plateau,
where an enormous dry riverbed, followed
by a narrow gorge plunged down a 200m

