feature caving
drop to the main valley below. Colm and E d
went to zone B, spending time walking
round the plateau to get a feel from the
place. A dump of kit was assembled at the
top of the ridge, above the camp to save us
having to carry heavy caving equipment up
the steep and rocky climb every morning.
Walking round the plateau, it also
became apparent quite how many people
lived on the plateau. A population of over 10
shepherds lived in small rock shelters. They
collected water from the few small springs
that could be found on the plateau. Their
shelters we made homely with a few rugs
and cushions to sit on. They had a supply of
flour and oil, to make bread and tinned fish
for sustenance. You could not help but be
stunned by how these people lived. Our
chef, Hassan told us that they were being
paid to look after sheep from the valleys
during the summer.
So far, we had not found anything of
major interest, so we decided to focus our
efforts on the farthest part of the plateau
(zone N). This area looked to have the best
potential and many small caves had been
found by the French expedition in the last
days of their expedition. While most of us
stayed at camp to allow Hassan to descend
to the souk, Jan set off for an exploratory
walk around this zone. His plan was to fig-
ure out a good route to get there, walk
through the area, and take photographs. It
was a mammoth trip, and when he returned
he was rewarded with chocolate cake,
baked in our new camping oven. Hassan,
returned from the souk with more supplies,
including some meat! That evening we had
a massive feast, washed down with a little
whisky and vodka.
The next day, a team set to take a closer
look at the area, We stopped for lunch in the
shade of an overhanging cliff. We had a
good view of zone B, and studied the maps
to try and find out where we had been the
previous week. As we relaxed, a shepherd
appeared. Communication was difficult but
with rudimentary Arabic and Berber we
managed (just about). He was asking for
something, which we eventually discov-
ered was a lighter. We gave him a spare
one, and after that all the shepherds were
asking for them!
We explained to him we were looking for
caves. He seemed to indicate he knew
where there was one, so we decided to fol-
August 2001
low him. He headed straight up the other
side of the dry valley back towards zone B.
We could not believe how quickly he could
move around the landscape. He was wear-
ing a pair of very old and knackered shoes,
and even with our walking boots, we were
still not able to keep up. After about an
hour, walking past several surface shafts he
took us to an innocuous looking pile of
rocks. He disappeared under them, and we
followed him in. Inside was a small spring,
one of the few hidden springs on the other-
wise dry plateau. Just to the side of the
spring was a shaft which looked to be
about 5m deep. A small back hole could be
made out at the bottom to one side. He
watched with interest as Jan tied a rope
round one the boulders and I descended
down. At the bottom, I followed the small
hole, for the first time getting totally out of
daylight! I sat on a small ledge and threw a
rock down into the darkness below me. It
rattled for about 10 seconds, and then hit
the ground. This looked very promising. We
did not have enough rope to go any further,
so I retreated back to the surface. We
thanked the shepherd, and gave him some
tinned fish and bread in return for showing
us the cave. He disappeared off, presum-
ably to find his sheep.
Leaving the kit at the cave, we returned
to the camp. The next day we would return
with more rope. We celebrated the first real
discovery that night. We asked Hassan if he
would like to join us the next day to see
what we had found. He was entirely baffled
as to why we wanted to visit this desolate
location, but agreed to come with us.
The next day, Hugh stayed behind to
guard the camp, and Hassan, Jan and I
returned to the cave. Colm and Ed went
over to zone N, to try and do what we were
supposed to do the previous day!
It took us about 3 hours to get back to the
cave, it was not easy to find! Armed with
more rope, Jan descended first, and contin-
ued down the main shaft. I followed him,
while Hassan stayed safely on the surface.
As Jan descended, we used a tape meas-
ure, compass and clinometer to make a
detailed survey of the cave. When Jan
reached the bottom, he had a look around,
but it went nowhere. We had found another
cave with a flat floor - very tedious.
Colm and Ed had had a better day. They
had found an area with loads of stuff to look
at. They had also managed to find a good
route there; a return trip could be done in
less than three hours (we were all pretty fit
by this stage, and had acclimatised to the
heat and altitude).
We spent a couple more days exploring
zone N, walking and taking in the splendid
isolation. On Tuesday, the muleteers arrive
to take us home.
The descent back to Bougoumez was
easy. We rested at Abachkou, waiting for
the landrover to take us the final few kilo-
metres, while the mules continued their
•
journey home. We were greeted by
Mohammed in the gite that evening with
soft beds, good food and hot showers ready
to go! The fecund valley of Bougoumez
seemed like paradise compared to where
we had been. After a good feed and a few
drinks we slept like babies, ready for the
final journey to Marrakech the next day.
Tim Wright
If you 're interested in joining the caving club
on their expedition to Slovenia this summer,
contact caving@ic.ac. uk or look at our web-
site: http://www.su.ic.ac.uk/caving

