felix talk
IC Radio
ICR has shat on the grave of rock'n'roll
At last year's Student Radio conference
we were given a bollocking by Sony's
Sumit Bothra. Student Radio, he said,
used to lead where now it was content to
follow. Too many Heads of Music were
Xeroxing the Radio One playlist. H o w was
he supposed to plug new up and coming
bands when all we played was Hear'Say.
Then he started singing the praises of
Toploader and robbed his argument of
credence, somewhat... He also stole our
pizza. What a bastard!
He had a point, though. Student Radio
has changed; that's because students
have changed. But is there really any
point in giving heavy rotation to stuff that
Radio 1, Capital, Xfm and, G o d help us,
Radio 2 are already playing? I would
argue not: If you're not offering anything
different, then you're probably gonna lose
your listeners to the more professional
station with the bigger rep and the bigger
profile. The level of promotion college
radio can offer is inconsequential to the
likes of Hear'Say, so why not support
someone equally (more?) worthy who
actually needs it?
Of course, you can't be a complete indie
snob. Well, you could, but you'd be a dick-
head. Britney Spears has done some good
tunes. S Club 7 have done some good
tunes. But, like I said, they're tunes which
are forced onto the public in a constant
barrage of promo and publicity and
which, to be blunt, appeal to the lowest
common denominator so are bound to
sell. Besides, right now is one of the most
exciting periods for music in ages. There
are bands and artists of all shapes and
sizes bringing a range of styles and
sounds that's as wide as the ocean.
There's something to suit everyone: Fun
for all the family. It would be criminal to
ignore a vast swathe of it, just because
we were afraid of leaving the shallow end
of the, er, musical swimming pool, as it
were. A n d let's face it, Radio l's crap, X is
OK, but not great and Capital, Virgin,
Heart, Magic and all those other station
with made up sounding names are barely
worth mentioning. So what if student
radio can't compete with commercial
radio? We shouldn't even try: Who wants
to be like Chris Tarrant? We are in posi-
tion of enormous privilege in that we're
not cow-towed to sponsors insisting on
control over output, demanding certain
concessions in playlist policy.
We get to play pretty much what we
want. So let's pick up the ball and run
with it. If it's a good record let's play it,
whoever it's by. It's a big beautiful world
out there, so open up the window and
take a great big sniff...
icradio P*
www.icradio.com
Why I am voting
7
NATIONAL U N I O N O F STUDENTS
A n o t e b y D a v i d F r a n c i s , S t u d e n t ,
I m p e r i a l C o l l e g e
I he NUS represents, and wins, for students. I here are numerous
examples of this plotted throughout history, in particular I would like to
highlight the beneficial relationship struck up between the NUS and Ul U
which has produced outstanding concessions for students such as the
Student Railcard and the I ondon Transport Card. Rut representation is all
about getting information in, analysing it, and producing significant
results because of it. At the moment, students at Imperial can not mflu
ence the direction the NUS takes Imagine a scenario, for a second:
I ngland is governed by Parliament, but the people of i ondon could not
vote in the Llections for the members or indeed the leaders of that
Parliament. I low can the Parliament ever hope to listen to the concerns of
I ondoners when it removes even the most rudimentary rights7
I he argument that Imperial's students aren't political (either with a capital
or a small "p") holds no weight with me. If you went around Imperial's
many campuses, and asked the students how much they think they should
be paying in tuition fees, or whether cr not they should have a market rate
loan as opposed to an interest rate free one, or whether they think they
deserve a grant; I can guarantee that each and every one would have an
opinion. In the current set up, 11,000 students can't tell the NUS what
they want. I believe that ICU is robbing those students of a right that many
other students at other Unions have. I he government speaks to the NUS.
I he Research Councils speak to the NUS. I he Student loans Company
speaks to the NUS. Who speaks to ICU?
I he NUS card gets you discounts and saves you money. Now, Imperial
College Union can push its subvention (the money it gets from College)
through many different hoops and around various circles, but by affiliating
to the NUS, students here will be able to see actual, tangible benefits
manifested through there being more money left in their wallets. It's as
simple as that.
Joining the NUS also gives the option of subscribing to NUSSI, the buy
ing consortium that gets cheap beer, stationary etc. Initial figures show
that Imperial College Union could save up to L?(),()()(.) by doing so. Nice.
So there we go, it's simple really. Shouldn't the question really
be "why wouldn't we affiliate to the NUS"? Check out the web-
site for more details.
If you are interested in supporting the Imperial Students say
Y E S to N U S c a m p a i g n visit www.nusatimperial.co.uk ma

