Create a new reporting system for minibus damage. Expand the minibus fleet. Carry out a storage review, looking
to maximise the amount/efficiency of space used. Review the Union’s room booking system. Begin to establish a
new electronic room booking system. Introduce a warning system for those using rooms to prevent misuse. Provide
clubs with access to more money than ever before, through new ways of getting money for clubs. Establish a new
process for starting clubs, providing students with more support. Make it easier for students to pay for needed things
with club money. Ensure that Union jobs/roles have clear descriptions, so people know who to go to for help. Host
UnionsessionsoutsidetheSouthKensingtoncampus.Revampthetrainingsystem,combiningsessionstogetherinto
specific packages for specific roles, and ensuring the training is tailored. Increase the openness of the information
provided by the College, Union, and Sport Imperial, making it easier for students to see where the money is going.
Use information from the sponsorship review to generate recommendations for sponsorship costs based on club
size. Continue work in frontline mental health training. Improve the development of College services, and ensure
that the counselling service is supported. Develop the Welfare Roadmap and ensure that students know how to get
help in and out of Imperial. Continue the ‘Under Pressure’ campaign. Develop training for hall seniors and wardens.
Support the new role of the MH liberation officer, and provide better support and training to other LOs. Review
campaignsupporttomakeiteasierforstudentstomakechanges.Establishactivebystandertraining.Developmore
comprehensive sexual violence disclosure guidelines. Develop the support systems available for sexual violence
and sexual consent training. Introduce sexual violence liaison officers. Develop and push forward a review of the
personal tutor system, ensuring that it is not a “lucky dip” and that all tutors are trained, engaging students on this
topic.Create a better and more positive environment in the College. Provide adequate support for students taking
an interruption of studies. Increase the ease of completing and reviewing sponsorship contracts. Increase external
income to the union, including centralised sponsorship. Life membership funds go directly to CSPs. Union minibuses
to be available during holidays. No above-inflation drink price rises. Improve non-SK campus facilities. Bring in pre-
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College London
FRIDAY, 9TH
FEBRUARY, 2018 ISSUE 1684
– Keep the Cat Free –
Felix
Sabb-otage: what have the Officer Trustees
done in six months?
NEWS
Fred Fyles
Editor-in-Chief
E
very year it’s
the same:
around January
and February,
students will start
getting advertisements
telling them that the
elections are coming up,
and that they should put
themselves forward for
a position.
After a few weeks of
speculation, the nominees
are announced, and the
candidates get down to
business – posters are
printed, the Sherfield
Walkway is flypostered
with leaflets, and ICTV
put together a live broad-
cast where students are
grilled about their mani-
festo points.
And then the winner is
announced, and everyone
moves on.
But during all this cam-
paigning, those running
make a series of pledges
within their manifesto.
They put their name by
a series of promises, and
voters make their choice
with the expectation that
these promises will be
met over the next year.
But how many of them
are met?
Part of Felix’s remit
is to hold our elected
officials to account, and
there are none with more
clout and responsibility
than the Officer Trustees
– the Union President,
Deputy President
(Welfare), Deputy Presi-
dent (Education), Deputy
President (Clubs & Socs),
and Deputy President
(Finance & Services).
Since we’re now six
months into their year-
long tenure, we thought
it would be a good idea
to look at what they
promised they would do,
and what the progress has
been on this.
This isn’t the be all and
end all for the officer trus-
tees. They will continue to
be held to account, and at
the end of the year we’ll
have another look at what
they’ve gotten up to (and
where the Union’s money
has gone). But for now
feel free to have a look
inside, and see how things
have been going so far.
This article is an
abridged version. Due to
space constraints we were
unable to go through all
the manifesto promises.
Keep an eye out on our
website for a more com-
prehensive look at how
the sabbs are doing.
Cont. pg 4
NEWS
Imperial among
bottom for state
school students
PAGE 3
COMMENT
What are
the roots of
inequality at
Imperial?
PAGE 9
ARTS
Philip Glass'
masterpiece
comes to the
ENO
PAGE 20
SPORT
Find out all
about futsal…
PAGE 48
Our Officer Trustees // Indira Mallik

