ISSUE 1684
FELIX
BOOKS
FRIDAY, 9TH
FEBRUARY, 2018 FELIX
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk BOOKS books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 31
I
nfatuation teeters into obsession and
destruction in Richard Siken’s appropriately
titled poetry collection Crush. The collection
which won Siken theYaleYounger Poet’s Prize
in 2004 was lauded by the competition judge
Louise Gluck as the kind of book that“restored to
poetry that sense of crucial moment and crucial
utterance which may indeed be the great genius
of the form”. From vivid, visceral imagery rooted
in fast motorbikes, handguns, pills and violence,
Siken crafts a series of poems that explore
tenderness and gayness in a world of murderous,
Felix recommends Valentine's reads…
Three suggestions for books to set the tone for the holiday through their depictions of romantic love in its many
forms.
T
he first question is, who is the narrator?
She or he is never named, and their
gender never revealed. "Why is the
measure of love loss?" asks the opening
sentence, and throughout the book we are taken
through the narrator’s clandestine relationship
with a married woman, a passionate, convention-
defying love affair. As might be expected, their
lover’s husband, a doctor, comes in the way,
and reveals to the narrator that their lover has
leukaemia, a fact that she has been concealing
from the narrator. Using his status as a doctor,
he forces the narrator to leave his wife by saying
that he cannot have them around while he
supervises her treatment. The narrator leaves,
and we are taken through the whirlwind of her
grief and ways to cope, with the text interspersed
with narrative descriptions of anatomical body
parts as an extended metaphor for love and
loss: "Shuttered like a fan no-one suspects your
shoulder blade of wings." Written on the Body is
a (sometimes excessive) lyrical journey through
the anatomy of passion, love and loss. – Jingjie
Cheng
W
ritten when he was 21, Alain de
Botton’sclassicmusingonromance
and relationships is an insightful
dissection of the anatomy of a
romantic relationship. The story follows the
unnamed narrator and his relationship with
Chloe, from the point where they met sitting
next to each other on a plane to infatuation,
to the gradual decline and breakdown of their
relationship.Ontheway,thenarratormusesabout
various aspects and theories behind romantic
love and its associated pitfalls, illustrated with
specific events that appear insignificant but are
ultimately telling and uncomfortably familiar to
anyone who has been in a relationship before.
For example, the narrator writes about the ‘Jesus
complex’ - the tendency for one to feel virtuous
in the face of suffering, the feeling of superiority
over one’s oppressors. It is with this attitude that
he faces Chloe’s eventual rejection, as a way to
move beyond his helpless, needy state before.
Thisisabookthatmaybeuncannytopeoplewho
have experienced relationships, but therefore
also incredibly enlightening. – Jingjie Cheng
Written on the Body by Jeanette Winterson
suicidal homophobia and toxic masculinity -
“You’re in a car with a beautiful boy...And you
feel like you’ve done something terrible, like
...shoveled yourself a grave in the dirt...and you’re
trying not to tell him that you love him...but he
reaches over and he touches you, like a prayer
for which no words exist, and you feel your heart
taking root in your body”. Alternating between
the first and second person, Siken’s writing is
ferocious with a vital force; these are poems that
linger in the mind long after you’ve turned the
last page. – Indira Mallik
CrushbyRichardSiken
Essays in Love by Alain de Botton
/
/
P
i
c
a
dor
/
/
V
i
n
t
age
//Yale University Press
…or the books to help you to forget about romance
For those who are content with their own company, or just want to avoid all the sentimental nonsense on the 14th
this year.
T
his recommendation is a shout-
out to the folks out there who have
normalised their loneliness, those
who on Valentine’s day are no longer
bitter about their relationship status, but are
just having a quiet evening by themselves.
Unpublished at the time of his death, Jean Jaques
Rousseau, through a series of ten ‘walks’ (both
physically and contemplatively), documents
his musings and introspection during his last
days of life, attempting to derive some catharsis
from his perceived ill-treatment and disregard
E
veryone gets lonely sometimes, and
holiday periods with their ubiquitous,
aggressive marketing geared towards
couples, or families can feel isolating for
many. Part memoir, part thesis, Laing wrote The
Lonely City after a break-up. She travelled to New
York alone to seek solace in the work of artists
whose work to different degrees have been
defined by the particular brand of loneliness
that arises in metropolitan cities, where despite
physical proximity to millions, one can easily go
days without having a conversation - let alone
one that is truly meaningful or fosters kinship.
In this lyrical, life-affirming book Laing explores
the complex factors that lead to urban loneliness
using the work of Edward Hopper, Andy Warhol,
and David Wojnarowicz amongst others as a
foundation - it is an ode to their art, and a call to
arms to forge a more connected world. Laing is an
empathetic, thoughtful author with a talent for
crafting perfect, deceptively simple sentences.
Not only does The Lonely City deal with important
issues, it is a joy to read - it should be required
reading. – Indira Mallik
T
here is romance in A Thousand Splendid
Suns and it is both heart-warming and
gut-wrenching, but nowhere near as
powerful as the friendship of the two
female protagonists. Mariam and Laila start their
lives in different families, both of which are lost to
the girls at an early age. When Mariam’s abusive
husband takes Laila as his second wife, it seems
their situations may never improve. As if matters
couldn’t be any worse, they live in war-torn
Afghanistan. The plot sometimes seems like a
never-ending barrage of hardship and pain. Still,
the joyful moments would not be so momentous
without the suffering. Even when they seem
broken, any love-life unobtainable, equality a
myth, the women help each other to persist
through their mutual love of Laila’s children and
each other. Without Mariam, the novel would be
a normal romance or lost love and longing. But
MariamexistsandcannotberemovedfromLaila’s
being. She is a reminder that true love need not
be romantic and that great strength can be found
through friendship; her character has stayed with
me for many years. – Alice Peberdy
The Lonely City by Olivia Laing
from others. We start with a bitter and lonely
Rousseau, expressing his despair at the way his
work and person was perceived by his fellow
men. This morphs into an elegant review of
himself (introspection) and of society at large
(nature of people) and the tension between
the joy and sorrow of isolation. Whilst it can be
painful to vicariously engage with these reveries,
it sheds light on how Rousseau and by extension
the reader engage with the nexus between
actions or inactions and our inner thoughts and
unhappiness. – Pavan Inguva
Reveries of a Solitary Walker by Jean Jacques Rousseau
A Thousand Splendid Suns by Khaled Hosseini
/
/
B
l
o
o
m
s
b
ury
/
/
P
i
c
a
dor
//Penguin Classics

