Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 9 February
Student Volunteering Week
Be a Liberation & Community Officer
Spring Carnival
Get ready to stretch your volunteering muscle and make a difference
in the lives of others with Student Volunteering Week 2018! Student
Volunteering Week runs from 19 - 23 February and features a range of
activities to celebrate Imperial student volunteers, as well as provide
opportunities for even more students to get involved. There’ll be stalls,
training sessions and more.
Find out more and sign up for events and activities when the schedule
goes live at imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering or send us an email
at volunteering@imperial.ac.uk to find out more.
We’re still feeling the chill, but with spring just round the corner, it’s the
perfecttimetogetyourticketsforSpringCarnival2018.TheSpringCarnival
is a great way to spend your last evening of term, and say goodbye to
both winter and Imperial before you set sail for the Easter break!
This year’s event is sea themed and will take place at The Union
on 23 March. Tickets go on sale from today, 9 February at 12:00 at
imperialcollegeunion.org/springcarnival18.
They’ll be sold in tiers, so buy early to get the best priced tickets!
Liberation & Community Officers play a special role at Imperial.They help
ensurethevoicesofunder-representedstudentsareheardandcelebrated,
and that their needs are factored into decision making at College and the
Union. There are eight positions in this category, each representing a
different group of students, but they all work together, along with their
members, and the Deputy President (Welfare), to improve and enrich the
student experience. Stand for any of the following positions:
LGBT+ Officer
BME Officer
Mental Health Officer
Gender Equality Officer
Ifyou’dliketohaveachatabouttheseroles,youcanfindcontactinformation
for current postholders at imperialcollegeunion.org/liberation.
Timetable
Nominations close: 23:59, Sunday 25 February
Candidates meeting: Noon, Monday 26 February
Training for candidates: 26 February - 2 March
Manifesto deadline: 17:00,Thursday 1 March
Candidates revealed and campaigning begins: Noon, Friday 2 March
Voting opens: Friday 2 March
Voting closes: Friday 9 March
Results Party: Evening, Friday 9 March
Stand for a position now at imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
International Officer
Disabled Officer
Ethics & Environment Officer
Interfaith Officer

