FRIDAY, 9TH
FEBRUARY, 2018 FELIX
4 5
ISSUE 1684
NEWS
FELIX
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Officer Trustees – What have they done? Have they done things? Let's find out!
Six months in – checking up on the Officer Trustees
//Nate
Macabuag
//Nate
Macabuag
Fintan O'Connor
Deputy President (Welfare)
2Continue work in frontline mental health
training – WAITING ON COLLEGE
Mental health has been a long-running issue at
Imperial. The 2015 Mentality survey revealed that
only 15% of those surveyed had never suffered from a
mental health condition or experienced mental stress.
More than two years later, the topic of mental health
training is still on the table: in the Union’s response
to the National Student Survey results they made the
recommendation that appropriate mental health first aid
training is provided to student-facing staff – they are
continuing to lobby the College on this.
1Continue the Under Pressure campaign –
SUCCESS
The Under Pressure campaign, which runs each
year, aims to “give students strategies for coping
during periods of heightened stress.” This year the
campaign ran at the beginning of December, during
which time Union staff spoke to over 400 students
about how they can cope with stress, and distributed
information about dealing with course stresses.
3Improve the development of College
services, ensuring the welfare services are
supported – IN PROGRESS
In 2016, Felix revealed that the number of students
seeking counselling services had soared by 38% over
three years, despite only a 5% increase in students. It
has attracted criticism in recent years over long wait-
times and lack of room to expand. This year the DPW
has been working with the College on a Wellbeing
Strategy, which aims to “bring together the wellbeing
work…hold College to account on improving the well-
being support and culture at Imperial…[and] secure
funding for wellbeing at Imperial”, covering all aspects
of wellbeing.
4Develop support systems available
for sexual violence and sexual consent
training - WAITING ON COLLEGE
Last year the Union, working with the College,
secured funding from the Higher Education Funding
Council for England’s (HEFCE) ‘Catalyst Fund’,
which was funding projects addressing sexual har-
assment on campus. This funding was supposed to
be used in the training of Sexual Violence Liaison
Officers (SVLOs), who would form part of the Union
and College’s new systems for disclosure of sexual
violence. As of November, Fintan reported that the
support policies “continue to develop”, and that the
“new staff roles of SVLOs to launch in the coming
weeks”. The SVLOs are currently waiting to be
deployed.
5Develop the Welfare Roadmap
and ensure that students know
how to get help in and out of Imperial
– GOAL SHIFTED
Last year’s DPW promised to deliver a ‘Welfare
Roadmap’, which would function as a way of sign-
posting the support services on offer. Fintan initially
promised to continue working towards this aim, but
the Union has since shifted focus to the Wellbeing
Representation Network (WBRN).
1Implement student “teaching
consultants” who will be paid to work
with lecturers and improve performance –
IN PROGRESS
While students at Imperial have a number of
ways of making their views on their teaching known
– speaking to their academic reps is one way, as is
finally filling out that SOLE feedback you’ve been
putting off for weeks – but this year has seen the be-
ginning of a new development. Called StudentShap-
ers, and similar to the UCL Changemakers scheme
the project will be a partnership between College and
the Union, aimed at allowing students to help shape
education at Imperial. A director has already been
recruited – on a salary of around £60,000 – and the
scheme is scheduled to launch next year.
2Extend the undergraduate teaching as-
sistant role outside the Physics Depart-
ment – SUCCESS
Undergraduate Teaching Assistants (UTAs) are
those helpers you might have seen in your labs,
eagerly giving you advice on why your experiments
aren’t working, or – in some cases – desperately
fighting off a hangover. This year has seen the UTAs
rolled out to a couple of other departments: EEE and
Bioengineering students can now look forward to
seeing them in their labs.
3Ensure coursework is returned within a ten
working day period – IN PROGRESS
This year’s NSS results highlighted a number of
problems with assessment and feedback at Imperial.
The most common benchmark at Imperial for getting
marks back for coursework is ten working days, but it
is not clear how often this has been met. Since October,
Nick has been running an audit on all Year 1 assessed
work, seeing when feedback was supposed to be
received, and when it was actually received. The report
from this is scheduled to be presented this month.
4Ensure that students are consulted
during the design, implementation, and
evaluation of major changes to education –
IN PROGRESS
At the end of the last academic year, the College
launched their new Learning and Teaching Strategy,
led by Professor Simone Buitendijk, Vice Provost
(Education). The Strategy will prioritise “the review
and redesign of our curricula”, and, as such, restruc-
turing education will take a top priority this year. It
is vital, therefore, that students are consulted on this.
Since coming into office, Nick has been working with
Departmental Reps and Academic Affairs Officers to
draft a framework for how students should be consulted
during this review, which is scheduled to be presented
to College this term.
5Improve communication between
departments and academic reps through
existing channels – SUCCESS
This year, attendance at ERB (Education and
Representation Board, for those of you not knee-deep
in Union hackery) has sharply increased from 30
attendees to 49, with three meetings remaining in the
year. Nick might argue it’s because of his sparkling
personality, but attendance of senior members of
the College, including the Vice Provost (Education),
might have something to do with it…
Nick Burstow
Deputy President (Education)
//Nate
Macabuag
//Nate
Macabuag
//Nate
Macabuag
1Review the Union's room booking
system – IN PROGRESS
Tom Bacarese-Hamilton
Deputy President (Clubs & Socs)
Anyone trying to navigate the system through
which Imperial deals with room requests, will
have faced familiar problems. Reforming the
room booking system has been on a priority for a
number of DPCS, stretching back to at least 2014.
Tom has been meeting with the College, who
are also looking at reforming the room booking
system. A pilot group for the new system is due to
be launched later this year.
2Ensure that Union jobs and roles have
clear descriptions – STILL WAITING
Openness was one of Tom’s big manifesto
areas, and while the Union has done work towards
becoming a more open organisation – the new
section of the website for the elections is an
example – there can still be confusion about who
everyone is. Going on the ‘Contact Us’ webpage
still results in a list of names and roles, leaving
you to figure out the difference between Student
Activities and Student Development. This will be
on Tom’s to-do list for later this year.
3Generate recommendations for
sponsorship costs based on size – IN
PROGRESS
How much is your time worth? What about the
back of your club hoody? Your email signature?
From the sponsorship review that has been com-
pleted, Tom and the Student Activities team plan
to develop a system so that clubs know exactly
how much they should be charging KPMG et al.
when they hit them up for sponsorship. A report
has been produced, but we’re waiting on it to be
incorporated into a new training package.
4Create a new reporting system for
minibus damage –STILL WAITING
The Union’s fleet of minibuses are an invalua-
ble resource for clubs who need to shuttle around
London (and beyond) – heading to matches, going
on camping trips, and even delivering issues of
Felix! Tom’s plans for a reporting system have
not got off the ground yet, but he is looking into
possible options for delivering it.
Matt Blackett
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
1Bring in pre-poured pints to ACC nights
– GOAL SHIFTED
Pre-poured pints have become something of a
Union legend, as people envision an ACC night
free of queues, but full of lager. Matt trialled pre-
poured pints at the first ACC night of the year, but
it didn’t work for a number of reasons – staffing
issues, problems with drink choice. He is now
looking into other ways of speeding things up as
part of the tender process.
2Establish a coach service to Heston and
Harlington – IN PROGRESS
Matt was one of the three OTs who promised to
look into establishing a Heston coach service, and
the task has now fallen to him. He has spent last
term looking into usage of minibuses, and running
a trial service on Monday evenings. The rest of
this year will be spent reviewing the proposal, and
coordinating the service with pitch bookings for
next year. It will feed into an overall examination
of the minibus system, as the coach service takes
pressure of minibuses.
3Improve range and quality of food on
offer – STILL WAITING
For those who think curly fries and beef burgers
aren’t enough, prepare to be disappointed… there
have been no substantial menu changes as of yet
this year, and the ongoing tender process is looking
at beverages on offer only.
4Increase external income to the Union,
including centralised sponsorship – IN
PROGRESS
As part of his remit as DPFS, Matt is respon-
sible for looking at the cash flows in and out of
the Union, including income from external sources
– sponsorship and investments, namely. He has
been working with Rhidian Thomas, the Union’s
Ethics and Environment Officer, to ensure the
Union begins to divest from fossil fuels, while also
maintaining returns on investments. Plans for cen-
tralised sponsorship got off to a rocky start, after
delays to the recruitment of a new Sales and Spon-
sorship Manager, but someone should be coming
into the role shortly. There’s also the money they
got from including Bud Light in the bars…
Alex 'Chippy' Compton
Union President
1Commit to establishing staff and
OT time at non-South Kensington
campuses – SUCCESS
The majority of this year’s OT team are medical
students, so you might think they need no incentive
to head over to Charing Cross, or other campuses.
This year student-facing Union staff and OTs have
been spending more time at other campuses, with
an estimated 7-8 trips out to Reynolds, and more
scheduled for the rest of the term.
2Create a buddy scheme for students
returning from Interruption of Studies
(IoS) – IN PROGRESS
In October, it was announced that a scheme
had been launched parallel to Mums and Dads,
which would pair students returning from IoS with
a parent from their new cohort to facilitate the
return to study, which can often be daunting. The
scheme has thus far been quite small, but Chippy
is planning on developing it further, and launching
it at the start of the next academic year.
3Ensure counselling triage
appointments are available within ten
College days – IN PROGRESS
As previously mentioned, the College coun-
selling service has long been a sticking point for
students at Imperial, who are highly likely to
report mental stresses and mental health problems.
While counselling isn’t the only solution, improv-
ing resources to the counselling service is a must
in the coming years. While it is College procedure
to have an appointment within ten working days,
this still isn’t being met. The ongoing wellbeing
strategy will aim to address this.
4Protected lunchtimes when timetabled
across two sites – IN PROGRESS
It’s a familiar problem for some students: how
can you go from one campus to another, while still
having enough time to queue up for Tanpopo in
the JCR? A classic dilemma. Students should have
at least an hour of lunch, which is kept separate
from time needed for travel. The curriculum
review, which is part of the Learning and Teaching
strategy, should address this issue with timings.

