• CURRENT FELIX HEART-
THROB, 'cute' Rob Gee is this
year's Imperial College Union
Athletics Clubs Committee Chairman
and Captain of the highly successful
Boat Club
Chris Martin star rating—* • • * *
• I N T E R E S T I N G DEVELOP-
M E N T S from the few students at IC
that are interested in politics.
Conservative Society were bold
enough to send a 'spy' to the first
Socialist Society meeting of term.
This spy was even cheeky enough to
ask for a receipt for his membership
fee—so he could claim it back from
ConSoc funds. He did make rather a
large blunder, however, when he
admitted that half the speakers
announced on the back of the ConSoc
handbook, including Edwina Currie
and Douglas Hurd, were only there
for publicity reasons and there was no
hope of them actually coming.
"Don't worry Bill, I've still got 20
crates of the stuff in my office."
T H E B A R O N
E p i s o d e T w o
"I'm not going", said Whygate,
" a n d that's all there is to it".
Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks and Alan
Ego looked at each other and
sighed. "But Whygate, dearie, you
must g o " , said Mrs Jolly Hockey
Sticks. "It's the first citizens'
committee meeting of the new year
tonight and we can't possibly have
it without the head citizen. There
would be nobody to pour the
sherry".
"I don't care", said Whygate. "I
can't possibly go to the committee
meeting unless my new dress is ready. I want to look my best when I
storm out half way through".
Whygate took his image very seriously. He knew exactly when he was
going to run out of the committee meeting; he would do it during the first
argument he had with Cwis Media, his least favourite Union officer. He
had rehearsed the purposeful walk from his chair to the committee room
door and was sure that he was going to look strong and powerful as he
slammed the door behind him. There was only one problem: although she
had been working on nothing else for several days, Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks
had not yet finished sowing all the sequins onto his new dress.
Ego had one last attempt at persuading Whygate to go to the committee
meeting. " Y o u must come to the meeting tonight, Whygate", he said.
"There's no point in having it if you're not there, and all the other important
citizens will be arriving soon. We can't cancel it now, it would be wasting
all the citizens' time".
"There's no alterntive", screamed Whygate, " w e must call off the
meeting. I think it's very cruel of you to expect me to go under the
circumstances, E g o " .
Ego and Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks groaned. It looked as if they had no
choice but to cancel the citizens' committee. Ego looked at his watch;
it was 3 o'clock and there were only four hours before the meeting was
due to begin. He went to get Chas Takeiteasy out of bed so that he could
print a notice saying that the citizens' committee was cancelled.
In the rest of Cheapskate things were carrying on much the same as
usual. The Baron's wife, Mad Dash, was very busy, bullying people into
helping her with her latest scheme, the Cheapskate Wl. Mad Dash thought
that it was a very good thing to have a Wl group for Cheapskate; she
enjoyed baking cakes, making the tea and listening to talks about stamp
collecting, and she was sure that all the other women in Cheapskate would
enjoy all this too. At the moment she was busy writing a report of the
first Wl meeting for the Baron's new comic, 'WetNerk'. It had been a very
exciting meeting, but she could not remember what flavour cake John
Secretary's wife had baked. She thought about this for half an hour, and
then decided to say that it had been a 'very nice' cake.
While all these exciting things were taking place, there was a big
argument going on in the PHALIX office. Willhebe Goodforacolumninch
had been dragged out of retirement to take up his old job as editor of the
fairy stories. Judith Largeamounts, the PHALIX Editor, was very cross
with Willhebe for writing a long story about why Whygate was a wonderful
person. Whygate had given Willhebe an 'exclusive' on how he had done
months of research into who owned the Gravlington rocks. Everyone who
had been at Cheapskate for more than a year knew that the citizens owned
the rocks, but Whygate had convinced Willhebe that it was a new
discovery. Willhebe thought that his story had been very good, so he
decided to go and write a follow up. The new story was going to be called
'Whygate: how I conquered Everest'
Will Largeamounts allow Willhebe to write the story?
What flavour will the next cake be?
How many sequins are there on Whygate's dress?
Find out in the next episode of 'The Baron'
• MILES HENDERSON, Dramsoc,
Norman's and bar worker is currently
a homeless person. A l l week his
current landlord, a fellow physicist,
tired of Miles' presence in his flat, has
been creeping around trying to get
shot of the erstwhile M r Henderson.
Having failed to smuggle him into an
all female flat in Hamlet, he then tried
to squeeze him into the domicile of
another physicist. The physicist
referred the gentleman to his flat
mates, who have made it perfectly
well known that Miles is about as
welcome as a fart in a space suit.
Miles' predicament is now in the
hands of the wardens in Hamlet. Will
anyone take this man?
• UNION PRESIDENT Ian
Howgate, was this week victim of a
carefully planned plot to place him in
exile at the Harlington Sports Ground.
The hockey team 'forgot' to bring Ian
back from Harlington. There
followed deserpate telephone pleas to
Chas 'Colonel Rambuka' Jackson in
the Holland Club. Conveniently,
there was no one in a fit state to bring
him back, as Chas was just off to the
Chem Eng buffet. Ian finally made it
back, thus averting the planned coup.
• ALAN HEPPER, Guild's Hon
Sec, has decided that, rather than put
up with Guilds supremo Captain
Braincell, he'll join the R C S . The
R C S barnight on Sunday night saw
M r Hepper, clad in RCS Motor Club
sweatshirt enthusiastically, joining in
with the Kangela.
Following suit, ex-Guilds hack and
bar manager Jelly Johnson, decided
he'd get the 3H Pot out on Saturday
night and pass it around the assembled
Guildsmen. Monday night saw the
Guilds barnight outside the U D H .
Heading the way into yet more abuse,
Captain Braincell. Clearly Guilds is
losing its popularity.
*Star
Letter
Dear Aunty Judith,
Oh dear, wrong again—red faces all
round in the Baron's column, I fear.
Neither I nor M r Whygate recollect
the conversation reported last week,
but I feel confident that my question
would not have been "where does
Whygate get his dope?" but "how
can Whygate be such a dope?".
Triflingly yours,
Custard.
FELIX Friday October 16th 1987 5

