U N D E R T H E
MICROgjSCOPE
by Steve Black
Atom smashers
The Fermi National Accelerator
Laboratory (the Chicago site that
houses the world's biggest atom
smasher) is finally doing two things
that the average person can
appreciate: conserving rare animals
and making cheese.
Apparently, the 400 acres inside the
ring of the large particle accelerator,
now contains one of the last remaining
tracts of unspoilt natural (wholemeal,
no artificial preservatives or
colourings) prairie. This is because
the first director of Fermilab had a
team of conservationists start to plant
the land with a mix of authentic plants
that recreated the old pre-white-man
environment. The land now also
contains a large herd of buffalo,
which is breeding so successfully that
they have to sell off the surplus.
The cheese comes from the buffalo;
they are apparently the only true
source of gourmet mozzarella cheese,
a much prized substance in posh
hotels. Fermilab are trying to get
money from the National Science
Foundation (a sort of American
SERC) to further the programme.
Considering how much money goes
into the particle accelerator just to
bang very small things together more
violently than anyone else, it is
probably a good investment. (The
Independent 28/9/87.)
A younger universe
Astronomy is a difficult science; it is
short of facts and overburdened with
theories. Take, for example, the age
of the universe. It is impossible to
measure it directly, so it has to be
guessed from other observations such
as guessing how long different types
of star last, given theories of how
stars evolve. So it is always great fun
for astronomers to invent a new way
of guessing the age of things.
A Dutch astronomer has recently
done just that, by comparing the ratios.
of two elements in stars. The elements
are thorium-232, which is radioactive
with a half life of 15 billion years, and
neodymium-142, which is stable. His
results suggest that the galaxy is
considerably younger than the recent
concenus. This is causing the sort of
considerable controversy that
astronomers just love to have, so that
they can relieve the monotony of
actually having to make observations.
The theory behind the new
measurement is this. The two
elements have spectral lines that are
conveniently close so they can both •
be observed at once and there are no
messy corrections for environmental
effects or differing sensitivities to
different spectral areas. The thorium
decays and so the ratio of the two
elements should change with the age
of the star: older stars should have
less thorium. The observations
suggest very little difference between
the old and young stars that were
looked at: this implies a maximum
age for the universe of about 11
billion years (ie up to 8 billion less
than previously thought).
Some people agree with the new
age, but many disagree. There are
some reasons for scepticism: the
spectral lines are very weak (making
observations prone to error), there is
more than one way to make
neodymium in stars (this could throw
the ratio off beam), meteorite isotopic
abundances may contradict the data
and anyway, arguments are good fun.
It is impossible to come to a
conclusion about the new
information: in astronomy there are
always more opinions than
astronomers. But the more new ways
of measuring the data of creation we
think up, the more likely we will be
to get it right in the end. If we are
lucky, we will get a public holiday on
the aniversary. (Science 237 p361,
Nature 328 pi27.)
This page of FELIX is not just here to contain boring new stories plagiarised
from New Scientist: who would want to read that? It will (if enough people
contribute to it; contain long features (explaining interesting specialist things
that most people do not know about), interesting short reports on topical
subjects, and comment (where individuals get the chance to rant about sonic
scientific issue they mink is important).
We need two kinds of input from readers: suggestions about what you want
to read and informed comment on things you know about. Anyone is welcome
to contribute either short or long pieces, but people who know about life
sciences, earth sciences or engineering will be most welcome because they
usually seem to gel left out.
Who pays?
The Government has repeatedly stated
its desire for universities to get more
money from industry for research.
This is supposed to give a moribund
institution a shot of free-market
adrenalin.
This makes me worry a great deal
about the future of Britain's higher
education. It is not that getting money
from the real world is particularly bad
in itself (but basic pure research needs
to be supported and industry cannot
be expected to pay for research when
there are no products in sight) but
history shows that most of British
industry has not wanted to pay for any
research, even in-house research and
development.
A statistical analysis by the Science
Policy Research Unit at Sussex
University (New Scientist 10/9/87}
shows that one of the prime reasons
for the failure of our industry in world
markets is its failure to invest past
profits in R & D . Those (few) areas of
industry who plough large amounts of
their profits back into research have
done rather well in world terms
(chemicals and drugs are the main
success stories). The rest have
preferred to withdraw from profitable
but risky areas to safe fields, such as
defence, where they can get someone
else to pay for the research.
Aside from the dubious morality of
this when it encourages the arms race,
in the long term it is a recipe for
industrial decline: fewer and fewer
countries can afford to buy the
increasingly baroque products of high
technology military madness. Also,
cosy agreements with governments
tend to produce poor products that no
one else wants to buy (system X and
nimrod are good examples).
Our world competitors spend far
more than us on both basic and
applied science. For example, in the
sixties, when the German car industry
was investing heavily in new ideas,
the British car industry was living off
its past and spending nothing for the
future. The whole country later
suffered for this neglect.
Attitudes have not changed over the
years: the soon-to-finish-in-chaos
Alvey programme provides more
meat for my argument. It started as
a commendable effort by Government
(industry wasn't going to pay for
itself) to encourage information
technology. Universities have done a
lot of good work with Alvey money,
though much of it is now in jeapordy
because of the stupidity of tne way the
Government manages research.
In what appears to be an effort to
prove that governments are
incompetent in their handling of
public funds, the cabinet has been
putting off a decision on the future of
Alvey (The Guardian 8/10/87).
There is still no sign of a decision,
even though the original grants are
now running out. The uncertainty is
disastrous; it would have been better
to have announced last year that there
would be no more money, then there
would have been time to drastically
re-think existing plans. By repeatedly
promising more money and then
delaying the actual decision, the
Government has caused chaos; a lot
of the good from Alvey will now go
down the drain.
Money went to the electronics
industry as well, on an "industry
pound for a Government pound"
basis. The trouble was that the
companies who got the most money
were the very ones who have been
milking the Government of money for
years and never spending any of their
own. Small innovative companies
with real commitment to research, but
with limited resources to do it, were
squeezed out of the race. Companies
like G E C (which had and has more
money in the bank than the
Government spent on the whole
Alvey programme) received the
money, did research and are dropping
the research now that the easy money
has dried up.
These are the same people who
have, in pursuit of safe profits,
thrown the country's money down the
bottomless pit of defence research and
cosy deals with public monopolies.
These are the people the Government
wants to pay for university research.
(The Government reckons that the
state cannot afford it now that the
chancellor has given all the money
away in income tax cuts.) Perhaps
they just want to blame the decline in
British education on the same people
who caused the decline in British
industry.
The universities have been blamed
for not producing enough useful
science. This ignores how many good
ideas have been produced by
universities and ignored by industry.
It is British industry and
Government that need a kick up the
arse, not the universities.
8 Friday October 16th 1987 F E L I X

