The Slow Moving Snail wishes you were here then...
Such, Such W e r e the J o y s
mm
Over the years Imperial College and its
constituents have celebrated numerous
anniversaries. W i t h all the name changes
that have gone on during its history
every year becomes an opportunity to
celebrate, or milk it for fund-raising
publicity. Luckily, for us, they have also
been used to publish historical accounts
of the college.
A s a young undergraduate I walked to
lectures, across Princes Gardens, with a
feeling of being a part of an exciting
history. This was the planned centre of
scientific excellence promoted by the
Prince Consort, a place where great men
and w o m e n had studied a n d taught. I felt
proud to be here, in a small way
becoming a part of this tradition.
There are at least five books, available
in college, that describe the birth and
development of Imperial. The best for the
price, pictorial and language style, is the
award-winning publication, Imperial
College by Imperial College Archives.
This is a small, high quality colour
booklet, aptly suitable for parental coffee
tables offering one-upmanship on filial
success, and for quoting snippets to those
poor friends at less historical places. It
gives an invaluable summary of the
people and events behind our history. If
y o u want somewhere to start learning a
bit about what this college represents
there is no better place.
A more comprehensive study, Science
for Industry, is provided by A. Rupert
Hall, once Professor of the History of
Science here. It is disappointing in that,
though it fills the details i n , it does not
provide enough explanation about the
relationship of the college to wider
changes in education and science. M u c h
is assumed, for instance the 1870 Forster
Education Act launched state education in
this country, though this is not explained.
Also there is a lack of an index. His
Preface states that this is the first attempt
at an overview of the history since 1907.
A s such it is worth a read. If only he had
written about the 'history of the student
as social phenomena' and filled the gap
he acknowledged existed in the history of
colleges.
A book, Breaking the Shackles,
published by an IC student, does look
more at what it was like to be a student
here one hundred years ago. The author
uses quotes from H.G.Wells' novels and
short stories to compare Wells' life as a
student here with his o w n experiences. It
provides an enlightening and
controversial picture of learning, within
the wider frame of the present debates
about national curriculum and education
standards.
These are all inexpensive good reads.
T w o further volumes are large and
expensive, suitable for the study shelf
rather than the coffee stained table tops.
A Hundred Years of Civil Engineering at
South Kensington edited by Joyce B r o w n
and City and Guilds College - A
Centenary History are books I will
reserve a week to read.
A fascinating look at the relationship
between politics and science, The Visible
College by Gary Werskey, describes the
lives of British Scientists who linked their
science to their socialism. H y m e n Levy,
Dean of the Royal College of Science
(1947-52), receives a comprehensive
coverage. He was a famous populariser of
science - writing and appearing on
television and radio. For those who think
this place is non-political this will be an
educational book.
Most of these books are available from
the ICU Bookstore. The Archives booklet
costs £2:75 from Archives (Level 4
Sherfield). The Visible College can be
ordered from any good bookshop
(published by Free Association Books,
ISBN 1- 85343-014-5).
k K S o n e r s
Poisoning
the World
in Steps
Second Stride is an award-winning dance
group who have successfully
experimented with movement, music, the
spoken and sang word as means of
exploring the motives, emotions and ideas
behind four poisoners. Lives of the Great
Poisoners portrays Dr Crippen, Medea
and Marquise de Brinvilliers.
The fourth character is one who gives
this highly exhilarating piece a wider
moral view. Thomas Midgley was a
brilliant scientist who discovered the anti-
knock properties of lead compounds in
petrol and found the first practical
application of CFCs. His w o r k has
therefore contributed to the present
environmental threats to our communities
and planet. A s a scientist he was highly
dramatic, presenting his findings in a
theatrical style on a stage. To show the
harmless nature of CFCs he breathed in
the gas and blew out a candle with it.
The tragic irony of his early death (he
was strangled by a system of pulleys he
had designed to m o v e his disabled body
around his house) appears as a powerful
image of the unseen circumstances of our
science and technology.
A l l scientists should go to see how this
'outstanding array of creative talents'
have portrayed the values of their
subject. The production runs from
Tuesday 12 to Saturday 16th March, 7:30
p m at the Riverside Studios, Crisp Road,
Hammersmith (near the tube). B o x Office
081 748 3354. Ticket prices S7.50/&5.50
reductions.
10

