Yasmin Saudi gives her opinion on the recent Jewish Society exhibition.
Facts and Figures? O P I N I O N
The Middle East...it's a long but
uncomplete story.
Comments on the main titles of the
Jewish Soceity Exhibition
At the beginning of the twentieth
century, the Middle East was a single unit
containing many contrasting people. Such
disparity caused the unit to crumble.
At the beginning of the twentieth
century the Middle East consisted of the
Ottoman Empire, Egypt, O m a n and A d e n
which was directly under the British
empire. The A r a b world is fairly
homogeneous in its values, traditions,
culture, history and language.
'Contrasting' is non-descriptive of the
Arab people. The division of the eastern
Arab world into many states followed the
Sykes-Picot agreement in 1916 and the
implementation of British and French
mandates in the region. The exhibition
implied that Israel came into existence in
the same way as the A r a b states did. It
should be clarified that while the Arab
states gained their independence from the
British and the French mandates, the U N
General Assembly set a partition plan for
Palestine in October 1947, to create two
states, one for the Jews and one for the
Arabs, and to allot the Jewish state 56.6
per cent of the land of Palestine of w h i c h
90 per cent was Arab owned and 50 per
cent Palestinian Arab populated. The
creation of Israel was accompanied by
the expulsion of two thirds of the
Palestinians living in the area* The
independence of Israel was not the
independence of the indigenous people of
Palestine.
Under the title 'Use Your Democratic
Rights', the exhibition conveyed the idea
of the absence of democracy from the
Middle East apart from Israel.
While democracy does not constitute an
integral part of most Arab regimes, it is
not absent. Egypt has licensed parties and
there is a fair degree of freedom of the
press. In Jordan, democratic elections
took place recently and the press is
relatively open. Y e m e n and Algeria are
preparing for democratic elections. In the
declaration of Independence of May 1948,
the principle of equality between Jews
and Arabs in the new state of Israel was
proclaimed. In practice, Israel has yet to
abolish discrimination and inequality
between the two political and social
rights (eg the Absentee Property Law of
1950, Law of Return, discrimination in
municipal finance and job hire).
They supported international terrorism
and sent their own people to murder
worldwide.
'They' above refers to the Arab states. It
should have been specified that the only
states that are linked to terrorism are
Syria, Libya and Iraq.
So appalling violence has prevailed
irrespective of Israel's existence.
Violence and upheaval have been
worsened by the impact of Israel, whose
defeat of the A r a b states in 1948 and
1967 undermined their governments.
Israel has meddled in Lebanon since the
1950s.
The only movement whose very
existence revolved around the destruction
of Israel was the PLO. Its aims are
enshrined in its constitution, it has never
been changed. In fact the articles that
followed were taken from the Palestinian
National Charter which is not the same as
the constitution.
The Charter has gone through three
phases, w h i c h are as follows:
Stage One: The 'total liberation' phase
from 64 through to 68. The National
Charters in that phase were characterised
by the enormous sense of loss and not by
the 'destruction of Israel'. Article 15 of
the Palestine National Charter of 1968
states that 'The liberation of
Palestine...aims at the elimination of
Zionism in Palestine' and not the people
of Israel. There is no mention of
destroying Israel, in the sense of killing
its people.
Stage two: The secular democratic state
phase from 69 to 73. The liberated
Palestine envisaged in the Charter as
amended in 1968 and supplemented by
the Palestine National Council resolutions
was that of a secular democratic states,
all of whose citizens, regardless of
religion or race, would have equal rights
and opportunities.
Stage Three: The two state solution
phase, w h i c h evolved into an explicit
spelled-out acceptance of a Palestinian
state alongside Israel not as a transitional
stage but as a final one.
The evolution of the PLO's peace
strategy was finalised at the adoption of
The Political Program and the Declaration
of Independence by the 19th Palestinian
National Council in 1988, together with
Arafat's statement in Geneva a month
later. These set the U N Security Council
Resolutions 242 and 338 as the basis for
convening an international peace
conference in the Middle East and
negotiations w i t h Israel within the
framework of the International
Conference. Israel is clearly recognised as
a legitimate state in the PNC's
endorsement of the U N General Assembly
partition resolution as it relates to the
establishment of two states in what was
mandatory Palestine. Diplomacy and
peaceful settlement are chosen to achieve
Palestinian goals. Terrorism in all its
forms—individual, group and state is
emphatically rejected.
Hence it is evident that after the
nineteenth P N C in November 1988 in
Algiers, the National Charter was to all
intents and purposes, thought not in
specific terms, rescinded, since the basic
premises of the Declaration of
Independence (eg the partition of
Palestine as the objective and peaceful
negotiation as the means of achieving it)
and the basic premises of the National
Charter (eg the total liberation of
Palestine as the objective a n d armed
struggle as the exclusive means of
achieving it) are fundamentally opposed.
Arafat was correct when during his visit
to Paris in M a y 1989, he pronounced the
National Charter 'caduc' or 'lapsed',
though in the formal sense it is still
operative.
But note the PLO was established in 64.
Its desire to annihilate Israel had nothing
to do with the West Bank and Gaza.
See above. The P L O is an overall body
concerned not only in the political side of
the Palestinian life but also in supporting
education, health services and Palestinian
art and culture. It has always sought to
rebuild Palestinian society and to promote
the welfare of the Palestinians. This is
what has made it change its goals from
those set out in 1964: it now seems a
realistic compromise.
Yasmin Saudi.
*See the U N General Assembly/Official
Record, 6th session, supplement no 16A,
1951. The U N Economic survey Missions
Report, 1949.
Deadlines
O n c e a g a i n , the d e a d l i n e s f o r s u b m i s s i o n s to F e l i x
a r e
Unarranged material—Monday Lunchtime
Prearranged material—Tuesday Lunchtime
Y o u h a v e b e e n w a r n e d !

