Alien Sex Fiend and Pendragon meet Dan Abnett, co-writer of one of their favourite comics and ask him about...
Magic and Dolphins, Heroes and Rainforests...
Dan Abnett is the co-writer (with John
Tomlinson) of 'The Knights of Pendragon'
(KOP), a monthly comic published by
Marvel UK. He has also w o r k e d on
several other titles for M a r v e l U K ,
including being the editor of 'Strip' up
until its recent demise. He has recently
left Marvel U K , and now works as an
editor for 'Apocalypse', a new British
company formed by some of the cream
of the comics industry in this country. He
is continuing to write K O P o n a freelance
basis.
'The Knights of Pendragon' is set in
Britain, and has a heavy ecological
theme, set against the rich tapestry of
Celtic and Arthurian myths w h i c h abound
in our country. Its main characters are
people chosen as champions by the
ancient forces of these Isles, to fight
against the damage being done to Nature.
It is one of the best monthly comics
around at the moment, and by far one of
the best things ever done by Marvel. The
writing, plots, characterisation, art and
m o o d of the strip are all excellent. A s
you may of guessed, we like it.
Thus we were more than happy w h e n
it turned out that Dan Abnett was to be
one of the guests at last weeks PicoCon.
After his excellent talk about the comics
field, Dan was grabbed a n d forced to sit
in front of a tape deck while we
interviewed him. Throughout both the
interview and the rest of the day M r
Abnett was pleasant, humorous,
informative and interesting. W e only wish
we'd had more time in w h i c h to talk to
him.
How long have you been working in
the comics field?
Nearly four years.
How did you get into the field, and
were you an avid reader before that?
No. I came into it because I didn't know
what I wanted to do. I used to read
comics, when I was very young... 'It all
started' (silly voice, laughs) ...I went to a
new school and made a n e w friend, w h o
also enjoyed drawing.
One day I went around to his house,
and he showed me these things he was
drawing, and they were comics. I thought
'Oooh, that's a good idea', and he showed
me all these comics. He had huge great
piles of them, because he collected all the
British weeklies as they came out.
It was one of those twists of fate that
happen in life: He had too m a n y comics
to fit into the cupboard he kept them in,
and his mother had told h i m he was
going to throw them away unless hefound
a home for them. So he said to me
'would you like the comics ?'. So, I took
away a pile of comics, a big pile about
this high (glances at tape deck and says
'about a foot high' and laughs). I had
never read things like this before. There
were all the old Hulk stories, Barry
Windsor-Smith's original C o n a n stuff, D o n
Heck's early Avengers, all that kind of
stuff.
A n y w a y , I just went 'Wow, this is
brilliant!', because it immediately
answered the question ' H o w can I do the
two things I like most...', w h i c h were
writing and drawing, '...at the same
time?'. So I started drawing m y own
doing, working for the college magazine,
although it was m u c h more studenty and
cartoony than this (Felix), and I didn't
have m u c h spare time.
At the end of it everyone was kind of
going off to this job or that job, and I had
no idea of what I wanted to do. Someone
suggested that I actually try to get a job
in comics, so I wrote to Marvel, as it was
the name that I associated the most with
the comics I read, and they asked me to
go for an interview, so I thought 'good'
(laughs), and I went along. It turned out
that they'd been advertising for some
comics. I started reading 2000 A D , I
started reading some US comics, but then
I got side- tracked: I was too busy, what
with 'A' levels and stuff to w o r r y about.
So, I went to University, a n d took
English. The thing was that both of m y
parents were art teachers and it was
always m y strong subject: It was always
accepted that I would go to art college.
But it turned out that I was also quite
good at English, and comparatively I was
better at English than I was at Art. So,
m y English teacher said to m e 'I think
you should do English at University', and
put me in for Oxbridge, where I
eventually went to read English, w h i c h I'd
never intended to do.
It was during that period that I started
to read comics again. There's a great
comic shop in Oxford called 'Rainbows
End'. That was when I read 'The Dark
Knight Returns' for the first time, and
again, it's like one of those crucial
moments, and I thought 'This is really
good'. However, at the time I was doing
a lot of the kind of thing that you're
editorial positions, and thought I'd applied
due to that. But it became apparent that I
was just interested, and I got one of the
jobs.
What was it like starting as an editor
at Marvel? What did you do?
Well, as an editor in training at Marvel I
spent the first while w o r k i n g in the
colour separation department. Then I
became an assistant editor, just doing the
basic paste-up, and then you start to
write a bit of copy, and you just learn
each stage as y o u go along, and work
your way through. They always, I think,
like you to write a script, because how
can you possibly criticise somebody else's
scripting, unless y o u can do it? Maybe not
as well as them, but as long as you
understand the principles.
Really, it's on the job training whatever
you do, because comics are such a funny
thing, and a lot of the things you
probably think y o u k n o w about comics
are probably completely wrong. A lot of
the things I thought I knew about them
were completely wrong.
It's great though. I mean I really, really
enjoy writing. There's nothing better than
sitting d o w n and thinking 'I've got a
whole issue of Pendragon to write! God!'
How did you come up with the
original idea for KOP?
It came about v i a myself and Steve
White. Steve as an editor had a slot for a
new comic, and we tend to collaborate
on stuff, so we were talking about things,
use Dai Thomas, who was attached to
Captain Britain, and make him the link
across, and the main character for the
initial stretch.
How much research did you do on the
Celtic and Arthurian background that
is central to the story? It seems very
comprehensive.
W e certainly have read several books on
the subject, put it that way. Part of m y
English course at university was Middle
English and Mallory. The Arthurian
as it was obvious that he was going to
edit it. He was talking to me not
necessarily as the writer, but just for
ideas. W e talked about the idea of doing
an ecologically orientated comic, with the
aim of increasing peoples awareness. It
was sort of naff, but it seemed
appropriate.
We had this idea, w h i c h we thought
was very strong, about a guy w h o is
motivated by forces that he doesn't
understand to go out and do' something
about it, and maybe develop that in a
more supernatural way. Simultaneously
the Americans suggested the possibility of
us using Captain Britain, because he was
becoming very popular in Excalibur at
the time. A n y w a y , in the process of
talking, the two ideas fused.
W e realised that Captain Britain
couldn't be the character it happens to,
because that w o u l d be far too m u c h on
his shoulders, so we had this other
character, who would get involved with
Captain Britain, and he w o u l d be the guy
that changed. The obvious thing was to
Legend is one of m y favourite stories,
and so I'm quite glad that we've found a
new way to look at it. In the end we just
picked one version and stuck to it.
After we fused the two ideas I was
there because of m y knowledge of the
Arthurian Stuff, and Steve has a very
strong ecological background, and John
was assistant editor on Captain Britain
and knows a lot of that background. In
fact, it's amusing to reflect, at this
juncture, that the brains behind K O P are
Steve White, who's the senior Marvel
editor, Me, who's n o w (laughs) a senior
Apocalypse person, and John Tomlinson,
who most weeks is the mighty Tharg (the
editor of 2000 AD), so there's an
interesting combination (laughs)
Several Marvel titles seem to be
getting much darker, K O P also seems
to be a part of this more mature
approach...
Yes, it's something I've been working
towards for a long time, along with (but
independantly of) several other writers.
Another one of the strengths of K O P
is the humour...
I think humour is extremely important in
comics, I hate those totally serious ones.
W e like to put in some on-liners every
now and then.
Well, they're excellent. We're also
impressed that one of the characters
lives on Gloucester Road! It adds to
the realism of the story when you use
real places.
Yes. W e based it all on real places. I live
in Kent, so that waswhere the Kent link
came in, Gary Erskine is a Scottish artist,
so the Scottish link is there. Gloucester
Road seemed like a likely place for Kate
to live. The only times we do take
liberties by actually inventing places tend
to be like the Orkney Islands bit: There
isn't actually a place called that, because
we didn't want to say 'This place is full of
murderers', it was just the concept.
Similarly the Spanish town, although, n o w
I come to say it, that was John's idea, so
maybe it is real!
Certainly the myths t h a t connect to the
story are real ones. W e either use real
names and places, or transpose real
places to different locations. W e only
invent a name when we think that using
the real name would be too pointed or
damaging to the place concerned.
I do like the way Captain Britain has
been portrayed in KOP, especially his
relationship with Union Jack.
Yes, we really wanted to contrast the two
characters. Captain Britain is so m u c h like
Captain A m e r i c a , you know, he's so
honorable it's annoying, and Union Jack
is m u c h more the sort of DareDevil or
Spiderman Character, anything for a
quick laugh, but deep d o w n motivated by
exactly the same sense of justice.
But we did get into a lot of trouble with
the things that Captain Britain does in the
strip. A l a n Davis said that Captain Britain
would never have killed Dai. W e have
since made a gentleman's agreement,
whereby we agreed that b y that stage
Dai Thomas IS Sir Gawain anyway, and
he's fulfilling a role, and w h e n Captain
Britain arrives he's fulfilling a role as
well, and becomes the character of
Lancelot in the original story.
At this point Mr Abnett was grabbed by
the PicoCon organisers, a n d shortly
afterwards had to leave. Felix would like
to thank him for this interview, and the
openness and geniality he showed
throughout.
12 13

