Dinosaur J r
—Green Mind LP
Codeine
—Frigid Stars LP
Uncharacteristic, yes, but think nothing
about it. This is perhaps the first mellow
record out of Sub-Pop's noise factory.
Maybe it's because Codeine stem from
New York, about as far away from the
Seatle scene as you can get.
Don't be deceived by generalisations.
The record is mellow but only as mellow
as a guitar orientated rock 'n' roll band
can get. At most a sort of Spacemen
Three trip without the repetitiveness. The
music ebbs and flows building from
climax to climax. Vocals w a x i n g with the
music.
Not quite the usual hyper fuzzed, over
thrashed, 60s revamp we've all come to
expect from the crew, in fact it's one of
the smoothest sounds I've heard recently
without sounding too mellow. Guitars
slide by on a 20mph cruise control
nothing hectic, but not too predictable
either. Vocals roll on and off when the
mood is good (or bad). Lyrics adding to
the air of general depression, relating
stories of unrequited love and deception.
I don't think that technically they are
musical geniuses. They get by with a few
minor chords strummed occasionally.
Drums merely hold the rhythm, and
provide a stable base on w h i c h they
build. It's the lazy vocals and the general
air or depression which follows that sets
it apart, a sort of musical Lou Reed.
Parallels with Bitch Magnet's mellower
sound are easiliy drawn—especially with
the reference to lead singer Sooyoung
Park on the thanks list. The dark sound is
the same but the different vocal style sets
it apart.
searaw Seb
14
'Hey, Hey, M y , M y R o c k ' n ' Roll will never
die', said the great Neil Y o u n g in 1979.
Well it sure ain't dead yet and as long as
Dinosaur Jr are here and kickin' it, Neil's
prophesy will remain fulfilled. Neil Y o u n g
is also a good starting point to get where
Dinosaur Jr are at but leaving quicker
and quicker (if you see what I mean).
Their first album since 1988's Bug (which
transcended nerly everything else that
year for sheer laid-back guitar coolness
and for containing the immortal Freak
Scene) shows just how their sound's
progressing.
F r o m the storming opener The Wagon
the listener is drawn onwards as the
album rolls on and on never failing to
enthrall and captivate. W h e n the guitars
are flowing fast they sound like the
pinnacle of an aural ecstacy buzz pulling
your ears apart, rearranging and turning
your sensory neurones up to 11. The
mock-confessional tones of the quieter
laid-back songs uplift you as the urgency
of the guitars is still there, but it's never
threatening or down-beat, constantly
soothing and carressing. J Mascis'
legendary slothful lethargy always
pervades his voice, giving the impression
that no matter how urgent the song, he
really can't be bothered w i t h any hassle
that life's twists may throw at him.
Water, Thumb and Poke and Cry show
this laid-back splendour at its best;
The Shamen
—Hyperreal 12"
W i t h Hyperreal, The Shamen release
another typically energetic dance track. If
they were anyone else monotony may
have set in but these boys just seem to
get better and better. They really have
mastered the art of dancefloor energy. It's
a real roller-coaster of a track, with a
sparse (semi-existent) vocal set over a
deep terror-synth, and a clackety rhythm
throwing out a dark funk ridden, arse
wriggling beat. (Am 1 being a tad
pretentious?) It's precision led and totally
efficient. This is so sexy I'm surprised that
it doesn't come with its own dry ice.
H a r r y C r o s s .
Thumb with its flute (!!) w h i c h by rights
should be a real downer but evokes^
happy memories from the recesses of the
mind; Water is a song w h i c h is really
going somewhere but, like hey! after a
kip, some TV, a smoke; w h o cares?
Dinosaur Jr are back with a stormer and
are showing the pretenders to their
throne just where to get off on the
express to melodic guitar meltdown city
and then laugh as these poor creatures
are left to wander the forest of
mediocrity looking for an escape. A n d
w h y not?
D o m i n i c
K i t c h e n s o f D i s t i n c t i o n
—Drive That Fast EP
Melody Maker's single of the week, no
less. That review also provides us with
the reason for the lack of a band photo
on the cover (replaced instead by a
beautiful picture of err...a flower): these
guys are ugly, they smile less than
Depeche Mode.
The title track opens the EP with
swirling guitars, and it all sounds good,
but unfortunately, the lead singer can't
sing for toffee. H e ruins a promising song.
Secondly, onto These Drinkers. He's
given up trying to sing, and just dictates
the lyrics, resulting in a much better
song, but it's cut tragically short just as I
was getting into it.
On the other side, Elephantiny features
the lead singer back on terrible form,
singing about, wait for it, elephants. The
worst song on the EP by far.
Finally, onto Three to Beam Up. The
band have finally chucked the singer, and
the result: a glorious instrumental makes
the E P a worthy purchase o n its own.
Sounding vaguely remote, it fades out
slowly, and it's so good!
Hey, these guys look like Depeche
Mode as well.
L i s e Y a t e s .

