Boss H o g
This was not a gig for the faint hearted,
nor was it for music lovers. God saw to
that. Even Gallon Drunk had a strange
quirk. They emerged quaint rockabilly
types but soon proved that first
impressions can be very deceptive. The
rythm section were quite normal,
including the maracas. They played notes,
Ocean
Colour Scene
—The Venue 1.3.91
Not being very well up on the
'Manchester' scene, I assumed that Ocean
Colour Scene were catching a free ride
on its sodden coat tails. Seeing the
occasional fan in the annoyingly designed
T-shirts didn't help m u c h either. So when
they modestly took to the stage and
plugged in I was taken aback. First off,
they aren't an archetypal northern band.
Secondly, the lead singer IS the new Mick
Jagger. He doesn't sound like him
particularly, but yes, he has the sneer,
the arrogant look and the silly epileptic
dance. They don't stop there either. It
doesn't take long to see they are under
the Beatle's influence - in fact its more
along the lines of inebriation. Still,
following in these well w o r n footsteps has
paid off well. They've brought the
combination bang up to date and produce
some excitingly fresh and sparklingly ,
shiny songs. Just watching from the
balcony, I could see this band have the
undefinable magic quality that could see
them heading in a upward direction.
Definitely ones to watch. This gig was
filmed and Ocean Colour Scene can be
seen on Snub T V on Monday.
Harry Cross.
—Marquee
even in time w i t h each other. It became
interesting w h e n the lead singer dropped
the guitar (literally) and began playing
keyboards as well as singing. Juggling the
vocals, the guitar and the keyboard
proved difficult and some anarchic results
occurred. G o o d for a laugh.
God were different; any band with two
drummers, two bassists and two guitarists
(let alone two saxophonists) was to be
different. The ensuing noise carnage was
inspiring. The only clear effects were a
driving beat (a well cool one at that) and
a non-stop wall of sound. Vocals
screamed over the top, repetitive to the
extreme. The first song had one w o r d —
'God'—it lasted fifteen minutes. After two
or three more pure noise sessions the
Marquee was lost in the haze, y o u could
only sit back and take it.
The gold lame shirt and Ching guitar
signified the arrival of the Pussy Galore
inspired Boss Hog experience. After an
indeterminable time the 'Goddess of
latterday noise rock arrived on stage,
inspiring a new wave of audience
participation—positive this time. The
lurching romping and grinding roll began
as Boss Hog cruised through the back
catalogue of sleazed rockabilly-inspired
thrash.
Like a bass hungry Pussy Galore, Boss
Hog, spewed out their strange brew.
Good drinking it was.
Seb.
Jesus Jones
Just fifteen months ago, London-based
'techno-terrorists' Jesus Jones released
their first album, Liquidiser, on the back
of the swift rise of the 'Indie' music scene.
Only fifteen months later, the Jones'
played two dates at Kentish Town's T & C ,
accompanied by such publicity (hype?)
that touts were looking for £35 per ticket
(£7 face value) on the night of the gig.
Starting the show for Jesus Jones were
Soho, a former club act currently
enjoying the success of Hippychick (spot
the Smith's How Soon is Now guitar
sample) and promoting their second
album, Goddess, before a tour including a
date at the Astoria (24.5). They were
enjoyable enough for a support band, but
gave too stilted a performance to be
satisfying, only relaxing into their simple,
catchy tunes towards the end of their set.
They didn't go down too w e l l with the JJ
fans, though.
Lights go out, and down come the
backcloths for JJ's set, depicting the
clowns heads w h i c h are the theme of the
Doubt tour: the crowd go manic. That
Levitation
& Catherine Wheel
—Underworld 2.3.91
These two bands are booked to play I.C
at the end of term, so I decided to get
myself over to Camden and see what's in
store for you lucky boys and girls. Just
before I review the gig, it must be said
full marks to those lovely Underworld
people - the beer came in glasses! H a ha,
I was armed and waiting. So were
Catherine Wheel. Ride comparisons
abound and so did I as the lead singer
(strangely wearing the same top as the
previous nights O.C.S singer) launched
into some acutely devastating guitar
songs. Treading through an almost classic
pop genre they played a wonderfully fluid
set with ease and confidence.
The headlining act went to Levitation.
Were they some kind of Spacemen 31
Had Bickers gone bonkers? Nobody
seemed to know. A s the band came on, a
cautious audience moved toward the
stage. Nobody pushed, rushed or shouted.
V e r y odd. House of L o v e they were not.
So what were they ? In essence they
lacked focus - were they pop or sub-pop?
I don't think they knew themselves.
Bickers seemed to have a great time with
his guitar and pedals, and he was
oblivious to the stilted response from the
crowd. This was a gig where it was
obviously more fun on the stage than off.
Harry Cross
& Soho
-T&C
mania continues through the one hour
and ten minute set, opening with the
marginally 'baggy' style including Right
Here, Right Now, International Bright
Young Thing and Real, Real.
'People say we're just a pop band' say
the band after IBYT, and launch into
their more familiar stuttering wall of
sound with Trust Me, Stipped and Two
and Two. Mike Edwards' guitar sound,
drenched with echo and ADT, drove the
c r o w d into a frenzy, breaking only with
the quiet deadpan rap vocal and low-key
moody backdrop of the likes of Nothing
to Hold Me.
As an encore, Jesus proclaimed 'We're
going out of here the same way y o u will
be!' and hit an exhausted crowd with the
anthemic Pissed. Pissed, exhausted and
exhilarated, we made our w a y home after
one of a very enjoyable gig. Just over
one hour may seem short for a set, but
with Jesus Jones, it's density that counts
and not length.
Graeme H.
15

