Clubs
Football
IC II—6 S O P - 2
IC resumed their season after the recent
weather interuptions with an easy victory
over poor opposition. Hattrick hero A
Jalan, C Gilmour the canny Scot and the
inevitable S Barry gave IC a five goal
half-time lead. A n early 2nd half goal by
the ' M A B D O ' made it six. By then the
result wasn't in doubt. The main question
was whether N Leonard the IC Captain
would win an early bath a w a r d from the
Ref.
IC V - 7 IC I V - 1
On a typically w i n d y day at Harlington
the fifth team dealt out a lesson in the
finer arts of football that the fourths will
never forget. Deciding to battle against
the elements in the first half the fifths
played at a lightening pace with
Hendrickson opening the scoring five
minutes from the off. Reece added the
second shortly after and the fourths fell
to pieces. Stevens added a third and
Fenton with a fine individual effort made
it 4-0 at half time.
After conceding a goal after the interval
Hendrickson and A w a l e proved there's
more than one way to skin a fullback as
the lumbering D a m o n Thomas and
colleagues were left for dead time and
again. Collison also scored as the fourth
team were left as spectators at their o w n
funeral of football inadequacy. In a
season of ups and downs for the fifths,
this magnificent seven must be the
sweetest victory of all.
Ladies Football
Dribblers—11 U C L - 0
Sunday saw the Dribbler's first game for
three weeks and their first game under
new coach Neil Leonard. It was a nervous
morning for the Captain. A 9 o'clock
meet had been scheduled but a drunken
Debbie Williams had been misinforming
naive dribblers as to where and w h e n we
would meet. After an hour, with a team
finally assembled, the Dribbler's set off to
the Chisslehurst Grounds. The Dribblers
were keen to put Neil's n e w tactics into
practice but no one could have dreamed
how successful they would be. The team
passed to each other, Ethel ran around,
Permi didn't fall over and Nina, yes Nina,
scored a goal! Hope, finding herself
marked by everyone bar the goalie,
played a brilliant game throughout,
scoring a hattrick in the process. The
remaining golas came from Permi (5), Jo
(1) and a U C L defender w h o , having
realised that scoring past E m m a Simpson
was out of the question, slotted one past
her o w n goalie. Even the defender tried
to get in on the act with Ethel and
Rachel going on several good runs (yes
Ethel does r u n occasionally) up the pitch
into previously u n k n o w n territory for the
Dribbler's defence.
A l l in all, a great game for the
Dribblers and, alas, the final game for
Nina Gascoigne. Nina, well k n o w n star
Dribbler is crap and has been dropped, I
mean she will be away for the remaining
games.
Rag
Comic Relief is but a week away. What
are y o u planning to do? IC Rag is holding
a B a c k g a m m o n Marathon in the J C R and
also a Circle Line pub crawl, the rest of
term has collections planned for Guildford
(13 March), Covent Garden Panda
Collection (16 March) and finally
Windstart Maidenhead (20 March). So
come along for a fun day out and help
improve on the £2,600 already raised.
Amnesty
F r o m Tuesday to Thursday of next week,
there will be a display in the J C R
prepared by the Imperial College Group.
Four main topics will be covered,
highlighting the work of A m n e s t y
International and particularly the college
group.
O n Tuesday and Thursday lunchtimes,
there will be the chance to talk to group
members, w h o will try and answer any
questions about the group, Amnesty's
position on such issues as the Gulf crisis
or its concerns in other areas of the
world.
As well as the usual letter writing stall
where y o u are invited to sign pre-written
letters, there w i l l be a range of Amnesty
goods on sale including t-shirts, badges,
keyrings etc. The sale of mechandise is
an important source of revenue for
Amnesty International so w e hope y o u
will come along and support this human
rights charity.
Cross Country
With cold, calculated precision the
warriors of d o o m completed their
extended demolition of the London
colleges league in predictably flamboyant
fashion last Wednesday. A n d yet, could a
hint of emotion be detected as 10 of our
12 representatives marked their final
league race for the college? Nay, twas a
mere w h i m of fancy, for the T o r c h of
Harrier Spirit has passed to the safe
hands of Paul, defying medical science in
the name of team honour to hobble
round in 6th place despite crippling
injuries. The 3-lap road race of 10km saw
a prominent phalanx of IC vests
throughout, with the ailing Paul initially
leading a group of Alex, Lazza, Bill and
Frank. A s the distance took its harsh toll,
it was Frank w h o stonked through all the
way up to third, marking his farewell
appearance with his highest ever placing.
The Cult of A l e x had detached itself from
his youthful pursuers to m a k e 8th even
yet again, while in their effort to defeat
the bane of the league, Bill and Lazza
produced a spectacular and vernacular
finale to claim 13th and 14th. But the
best was yet to come. Master grunter
Edwards had opted to start in last place,
choosing to grimace it up the home
straight to lead the B-team charge. Carl,
Dan, Ian and Dave packed it in between
41 and 49 to reaffirm our depth of
insanity, with Ho Y i n also m a k i n g
noticable improvement. In the two-lap
womens race it seemed a formality for
Edwige to finish a clear second, while
Helen produced her o w n brand of heroics
by failing over at halfway, spraining her
ankle, and then equalling her season's
best of ninth. The season's end sees Paul
the individual champion by just one
point, Edwige second, Frank 3rd and Bill
5th, with the first team running away
with the honours to mark the passing of
an era.
16

