and Societies
Splot Soc
Saturday February 23 saw the inaugural
Universities tournament at ProSport, near
Effingham Junction. The Imperial team,
k n o w n loosely as Emulsion Propulsion,
Xenomorphs, Eggshell-Finished Death
(and a multitude of other, more insulting
names) entered their first own-guns
tourney.
Hot favourites to win were Kingston
Poly (the Black Legion, apparently) and
the Anchovies (from Essex Uni). Other
participants included Reading, South Bank
Poly and U C L (more about them later).
The format was a round-robin, with the
top four teams playing off in semi- and
final games to deterine the placings, with
the bottom two teams playing to avoid
being laughed at.
First up against us were the Black
Legion, having first complained about the
paint (purple, toxic and it hurts—just the
way we planned it...) we were throwing.
Both sides were unduly cautious, the
result ending in a draw. H a v i n g sorted
out our tactics (a cocktail of blitzkrieg,
New Y o r k Giant-style offensive play, blind
luck and lots of shouting t h r o w n in), we
proceeded to shred the remaining
opposition in grand style. A hugely
honourable mention goes to Reading who
put up a good fight with only ten men,
and not-so-honourable rrrention to South
"Bank Poly, who lasted a magnificent four
and a half minutes.
Penalties flew thick and fast, with
points deducted for anything from hot
guns to interesting language. The result of
the round-robin phase saw Emulsion
Propulsion in first place, playing off
against Reading in the first semi-final. The
other semi-final saw the much-vaunted
(and now deep purple) Black Legion
against U C L .
Kingston suffered a shcok loss to U C L ,
while Imperial pulled off another
comprehensive victory against Reading.
W e therefore faced U C L for the trophy (a
case of Tennants). Managing to snatch a
defeat from the jaws of victory, Imperial
suffered their first loss of the day in a
blaze of glory, smoke (ours) and suicidal
tactics. A l l credit to a canny U C L team
who sat back and watched us shred
ourselves—at least, Kingston didn't win
(boy, were they pissed off), and the
Universities of L o n d o n carried off the top
two places.
Film Soc
The final presentation of the term by
FilmSoc is another classic. The film is by
the supreme master of suspense—Alfred
Hitchcock. It starts the irrepressible James
Stewart and the stunningly beautiful
Grace Kelly. Stewart has been consigned
to his room due to a broken leg, and to
alleviate the boredom he resorts to
observing the day to day life of the
residents in the block of flats opposite his
bedroom window. One night he becomes
the sole witness to a murder (or does
he?). No one else of course believes him,
except his girlfriend, and so the two
attempt to resolve the mystery by
themselves. The performances are
immaculate a n d the direction faultless.
The show starts at 7.30pm in M e c h Eng
220, Thursday M a r c h 14.
OSC
International Night
After a very successful event and before
returning to m y piling-up coursework, I
feel I should write a few impressions
about the International Night '91. The
massive effort of countless students and
most national societies was well justified
in probably the colourful event of the
year.
F r o m the organisational point of view it
all went quite well. The main problem
was the huge c r o w d queueing outside the
entrance and trying to get into the
already full J C R and Great Hall without
having tickets. Fortunately we finally
managed to cope with it. To our
disappointed visitors I can only suggest
that they buy their tickets earlier next
time (maybe next year's O S C will
consider using the Albert Hall!).
Otherwise, we had few unexpected
problems and even fewer complaints,
many of w h i c h were unjustified. The vast
majority of people had a wonderful time.
Newspapers in Haldane Library
After popular demand, in the beginning
of this year we negotiated with the
Haldane Library and we arranged the
display of foreign newspapers for the
benefit of the overseas students. W e
compiled a list of twenty or so
newspapers that societies were interested
to subscribe to. However, only a few
newspapers are displayed in the Haldane
Library. This is very embarrassing
because we insisted that papers should be
displayed, and the library staff kindly
accepted them despite the trouble that
they had had in the past. What
happened? Didn't the societies bother
subscribing? I suggest that overseas
students start hassling their societies
about that.
Sabbatical Elections
I believe that overseas students can get
much more out of the U n i o n and its
sabbaticals in the following years by
voting in the elections. There are at least
1,200 overseas students with a right to
vote in this college; this number can
significantly influence the outcome of
these elections. In this way, the overseas
students can get commitments from the
competing candidates to promote their
collective interest.
A G M
The A n n u a l General Meeting of the
Overseas Students Committee is going to
take place on Thursday M a r c h 14 at
12.30pm in r o o m 342 M e c h Eng. In this
meeting, we will have elections for the
following positions: Chairman, Vice
Chairman, Junior Treasurer, Honorary
Secretary, Events Officer, Publicity
Officer, Sports Officer, Welfare Officer,
Liaison Officer and seven Ordinary
Members. A n y o n e who wishes to stand
for these positions can sign up at the OSC
noticeboard (no 15) in the main walkway.
The job descriptions will be displayed at
this board.
For those w h o don't already know, the
OSC is a major subcommittee of the
Students' U n i o n with the following
activities: it represents overseas students
in Union committees, the U n i o n Council,
some College committees and other
bodies. It provides a forum for discussion
of problems and other issues concerning
overseas students. It coordinates the
function of national societies. It acts as a
buffer between these societies and the
Students' Union. It organises events.
Generally the OSC keeps a low-profile
among students. If anyone wants more
information, please contact me, Andreas
Massouras, through m y union pigeonhole.
17

