Access Rent Scandal
Students should start receiving money
from the Access Fund soon. The fund
stands at over a quarter of a million
pounds. Mr Cullen, in overall charge of
money distribution, has processed all
applications from undergraduates living in
hall or in college accommodation.
Tomorrow he will make the first request
for appropriate cheques to be issued by
the college finance section.
Mr Cullen intends to process the
remaining applications, two thirds of the
five hundred total, by the end of term.
The first cheques, according to Mr Cullen,
will be issued within the week.
Garden
Fire
The Fire Brigade were called out to
Garden Hall, last Monday, w h e n a fire
was reported in one of the kitchen areas.
At about 10.30am, a microwave, which
was not being used at the time, burst into
flames.
The housekeeper, Margaret Gaskin,
immediately left her office in Weeks Hall
and extinguished the fire. Soon
afterwards, three fire engines arrived, but
were not required. Despite alarms, the
hall was not completely evacuated.
The recently refitted kitchen will now
have to be redecorated again. The
assistant Warden, Dr. Ian Metcalfe, said
that there had been a 'fair amount of
damage'.
Anti-War
Jeremy Corben, Labour M P , spoke at an
anti-war meeting at Imperial on Tuesday.
The meeting was organised by Imperial
College Anti-War Society.
Forty students listened to Mr Corben as
he outlined both his thoughts' on the Gulf
W a r and the recent cease-fire. Mr Corben
felt that it was likely the peace
movement w o u l d be fighting for the
withdrawal of troops a year from now.
Mr Corben answered students' questions
including w h y he remained a Labour
member since he was diametrically
opposed to his leadership's stance on the
Gulf. Mr Corben replied that if'he
resigned it would reduce yet further
Parliamentary 'opposition' to the war.
A student w h o attended the meeting
described the ensuing discussion on many
aspects of the conflict as 'constructive'.
Residents of m a n y of the college halls will
have to pay full rent over the Easter
vacation, or empty their rooms. Last year
students were charged only a week's rent
to be able to leave belongings in their
rooms. Halls affected are Southside,
Linstead, Beit , Garden, Weeks and
Evelyn Gardens.
The wardens were not consulted or
forewarned about this dramatic change in
college accommodation policy. Whether
the decision was taken by the college
accommodation or by a separate college
department is unclear at the moment.
Spanner and Bolt, the City and Guilds
College Union mascots, have been taken
by two members of the Royal College Of
Science Union. The mascots were present
for the C & G U 40th A n n u a l Engineers' Ball
at the Park Lane Hotel.
Guilds mascot bearers, T i m Newton-
Smith and Karl Edwin, had left Spanner
and Bolt with Hotel Staff under the
assurance that they would be totally safe.
With an unusual display of cunning, two
members of RCS Mascotry approached
the security desk at the Park Lane Hotel,
and claimed that they were Guilds, and
wanted to pick up their mascots.
After receiving the mascots they were
able to leave the hotel seemingly
unchallenged.
The college authorities have made the
Linstead basement available for storage of
students possessions. The pre-paid
insurance only covers loss up to £150 and
for increased cover students would have
to pay their o w n premium.
One Linstead resident said 'I don't think
I should be penalised for the sake of
college making a fast buck'. Union
President, Paul Shanley, advised students
'not to make arrangements to move out
until the situation has been clarified by
officials within the accommodation
sector.'
Spurred on by their recent success the
Royal College Of Science Union mascotry
team yesterday acquired the U C L mascot,
'Phineas MacLino', a six foot tall,
unattractive, Highlander. M a n y people
were involved, mainly due to the interest
generated by the events of the previous
weekend.
C & G U were philosophical about their loss.
'It has got its plus sides; it is potentially a
good opportunity to raise money and to
get more Freshers involved'. U C L were
unamused by yesterday's incident; one
U C L student stated that there had been
no mascotry activity at U C L for the last
twenty years. U C L are rumoured to have
informed the Police.
RCS Increases Scrap-
Metal Stockpile
m
3

