J a c k & H a r r y &
Their Best Friend A v a l o n
Y o u could tell that y o u were in a
comedy pub. The barman cracked a
joke w h e n 1 ordered a
soft drink. He didn't stop all evening.
Look, I was on medication, O K ?
Meanwhile, after an intro stand-up
comedian gave us a little tirade on the
London Underground and Saddam
Hussein ('Prepare to face the mother of
all gaps, infidel swine...'), Jack and Harry
finally made it on stage. D o you
remember the days when your parents
watched 'buddy, buddy' comedians, who
were so excruciatingly bad, you ended up
going away to do something (anything)
else? These two are supposedly 'failed'
members of this community, brought out
of retirement, a n d they 'might be doing
some new material, a little bit later on'.
It's rather a good parody, but for one
slight slip up. They're funny. Both their
jibes at these old-times variety acts, and
more modern day issues hit the mark
G r e a s e
Most people remember the film
version of this play, w h i c h started a
minor craze in the 70s. The original
stage play had a harder edge, w h i c h has
been successfully transfered to stage.
Choreographed by a professional actress,
it carries the audience along in a wave of
sheer enthusiasm.
The amateur cast rose to the challenge
superbly in most cases, and the 'Teen
Angel' dream sequence is a comic
masterpiece. Surely the cheapest musical
in London at the moment.
Grease is playing at Q M W ' s Great Hall,
Mile E n d Road today at 4.00pm and
8.00pm and tickets cost £2.50 on the
door. A wop bop a loo w o p a wop bam
boom!
Penny.
G l a s s e s
A night out watching poetry is not
many people's idea of a good time.
But when the poet is John Hegley,
it's a different story.
After making his name on the comedy
circuit, John Hegley appears on ITV's
Friday late night poetry programme and
regularly in the national press. He is n o w
on tour with guitarist 'Nigel'.
His performance was short and sharp,
concentrating on mundane aspects of life,
at the same time as keeping his audience
in hysterics. The material was delivered
in the slow, deadpan manner of a suicidal
depressive interspaced with bursts of
energy and emotion in the middle of a
poem. This, along with verbal attacks on
the audience, reduced most people to
more often than not.
The atmosphere of the venue certainly
helped, situated, as it was, above The Old
Coffee House (a pub). The compactness of
the audience, and the regular alcohol
breaks (except for me, as I was on
pepsi...) really helped the evening flow.
Did the audience enjoy themselves, m y
lovies? They did. As for the friend (who
does an extended set), he was funny, but
he's a different person each week (if you
see what I mean), so there's not really
much point reviewing him, is there? Mind
you, for his purposes, we were a lousy
audience...
For an intimate, cheap and good
evening's comedy, you could do a lot
worse than this. Oranje Boom Boom is
found at 49 Beak St, W l . Jack and Harry
etc, is on every Tuesday, w i t h Doors
opening at 8.30. Student tickets cost
£2.50. Take your Union card!
Pendragon
giggles.
He said later you can always add to
something by putting humour in. Most of
his poems were written on this basis,
they attacked his subjects, in particular
his macho brother-in-law w h o believed
men don't drink half pints.
The only poem w h i c h contained no
humour at all was about his father's
death. After having made us laugh at the
way his father used to beat him, w h i c h
left marks called 'supersunburn', John
Hegley tried to make amends by
describing his father's last hours in a
hospital bed. Seeming embarrassed after
this he quickly moved on, ignoring a
poignant moment in the midst of the
laughter.
Sam Krichinsky carne to A m e r i c a in
1914. T h e n he came to Baltimore.
It was the most beautiful place he
had seen in his entire life. H e obviously
hadn't been around much, had he?
He joins his brothers. They start a
family. The family has its ups and downs.
He dies. This has been done before. This
has been done better. For example:
Parenthood was funnier, Hope and Glory
had more c h a r m and this has
sentimentality.
To give the film its due, it's beautifully
acted, the cinematography is stunning on
occasions, and some of the subplots are
fairly interesting. Barry Levison, the
director, has described it as being derived
from memories of stories told by his
grandfather, and it shows. Too m u c h of it
comes across as a disjointed series of
vaguely related incidents. His own
feelings seem to have leaked into the
very substance of the film, leaving it
awash with sentimentality, but with very
little of any real substance. This is not a
great film.
Pendragon.
Improvisation in the style of Whose
Line is it Anyway was tried, with the
audience calling out subjects as cheese,
fish and eggs to inspire poetry. Not much
humour there I'm afraid.
This was certainaly not a standard
poetry reading, but at £2 for students it
can be an entertaining and original
evening's entertainment.
The Poetry Society meets at 21 Earl's
Court Road (Earl's Court tube) on
Tuesdays and Thursdays. Speakers in the
next weeks include: Gavin Ewart who has
spoken at Imperial College, Les Murray
well k n o w n Australian poet and Frank
Delaney.
Jonty.
6

