The Godfather part III
This is a very depressing film. It is
depressingly bad. That's a little
harsh perhaps—what should be said
is that this part never matches the power
of the two previous Godfathers.
Michael Corleone (The Godfather) is
now old and slightly haggard, he is a
very different man from the confident
and increasingly ruthless megalomaniac
of the past. The plot is still concerned
with the legitimising of the family
business, as in the second film. Somehow
Michael must drag the family and, more
importantly, himself, out of the mire of
violence, crime and corruption that is
their past. Whereas in the second film
Michael is unable to stop the destruction
of his personal world through his own
actions, he is at last able to understand
the chaos he has created around himself.
The question Coppola (the director)
presumably wants the audience to ask
themselves is whether Michael Corleone
will do it? Can Michael escape from his
own history, to carve out a new
existence? Michael's redemption (this is a
man, remember, who went so far that
even the murder of his o w n brother,
poor, pitiful Fredo, seemed like a natural
progression) lies in his ability to
acknowledge his past and then 'sin no
more'. 'What betrayed me? M y mind, or
m y heart?' he asks in desperation.
A l Pacino leads the role of Michael
Corleone. His part lacks the beautiful
serenity that characterised his roles in the
previous films, and has developed a
Brandoesque hoarseness in his voice
Pacific Heights
Pacific Heights, a desirable area of
Victorian residencies in San
Francisco, gains two new residents,
these being Patty Palmer (Melanie
Griffith) and Drake Goodman (Matthew
Modine), who renovate their home and
wish to rent out various rooms to possible
tenants. The scene is set for John
Schlesinger's new psychological thriller. In
comes Carter Hayes (Michael Keaton) as a
smooth and apparently rich prospective
rentee, who appears to be every
landlord's dream (and the first nail is
driven in). Before you can say 'But he
was such a nice bloke in Batman' he's in
the room w i t h all the locks changed and
not budging for neither love nor money.
What's to do? He's signed no papers or
paid money but has tenant's rights just
for being in the house. A n eviction order
takes time and they just don't k n o w what
he's up to (plenty of sawing a n d banging).
Keaton lays out subtle ploys and legal
traps that Modine springs with an
ignorant persistence that grates. Only the
smarter Griffith seems able to see what
the very naughty resident is up to, but
she always seems at most risk from: his
lurking.
The battle for the house is an addictive
base for a story that grows at an
exponential rate that you k n o w will end
in tears for one party or the other. A s a
psychological thriller it fails to give any
real unnerving qualities (with the
exception of an excellent scene where
Keaton watches static on the T.V. and
plays alternatively with a Cockroach,
razor-blade and pussy-cat). Keaton's
performance is the most outstanding point
of the film, portraying a character who
may be suave, deadly, calculated or
murderous. A nice point is Tippi Hedren,
Melanie Griffith's mother, turning up as
the rich Florence Peters w h o Keaton
attempts to con.
Keaton is an evil git, Griffith is a smart
git and Modine is just a plain git. A little
too mainstream to get any real
psychological tension but a good attempt.
A good film that could do for renting
what Fatal Attraction did for shagging
Glen Close.
Yours, The Amazing McHine
(presumably to give the Godfather some
stature). There seems to have been m u c h
criticism of Coppola's decision to cast his
daughter, Sofia, in the part of Michael's
daughter, Mary. However she seems to
lend some c h a r m to the film with her
skew smile and 'unconventional'
(Hollywood parlance for non-model)
looks. A n d y Garcia plays the bastard
nephew, who is only too keen to carry
the torch of violence on Michael's behalf.
Coppola also leads an attack on the
Vatican, implicating the church with the
business world of the mafia. At times the
point is a little laboured, and the crude
skulduggery rather hard to swallow—the
Vatican has m u c h more subtle means of
'persuasion'.
Francis F o r d Coppola seems to have
lost his creative juices in the making of
this film. Somehow he pulled it off
brilliantly in Part II, but one feels that he
rached his limit in the first sequel and
that there wasn't really a story for the
third—this film relies on the success of
the past, without itself being creative.
This will very likely be a profound
disappointment for most viewers.
I.H.
Duck Tales
— T h e M o v i e
It's Donald's mean old Uncle
Scrooge with his band of
resourceful nephews a n d singularly
cute niece out to accumulate themselves
a tidy bundle of treasure and dosh. This
takes them out into the desert in search
of the trez of Colly Baba w h i c h Scrooge
has been after for forty years. Throw in a
magic lamp w i t h a free genie in issue one
add a soupcon of big bad wizard who can
change into any animal that looks mean
and has a bad rep among children, and
that Walt Disney butt kicking action is
ready to roll. The genie is quite naturally
a nice little kid who gets up to wacky
japes and only wants to be real and he
makes friends with the kidderoos. It's
mind numbingly obvious what happens,
which makes it damn good fun. The
treasure bits are taken straight from
Raiders of the Lost Ark and the rest from
the Radion advert.
In the good old days (relative
chronography as opposed to B B C music
hall prog) the misers always got theirs in
the end but in todays enlightened
capitalist state they can keep the cash
and get a bit more provided they give a
painful enough moral nugget for the kids
to barf on. Nice to see Donald's speech
impediment isn't genetic and the lack of a
zany pelican chasing the duck family
came as a relief. Disney fun for the fluffy
stonkers amongst you.
The 'Mazin' Mac'

