Last term Audio Soc's obscurity came to an end and they became.
FEATURES
Hi-Fi Hipsters
Somewhere in the deep and distant past
that was last term a light flickered at the
end of Audiosoc's tunnel of obscurity. It
was nothing less than a call from a soon-
to-be-quit e-famous-indeed (we hope!)
magazine calling itself 'Hi-Fi World'.
Feeling that their magazine needed
something just short of sensational for its
first issue they had decided to contact
ICU AudioSoc in the hope that we could
find one day in our busy and hectic (?)
lives to help in the writing of an article
on 'student hi-fi systems'. The idea was to
choose some cool and trendy students
(then w h y choose IC?) to give the article
some real street-cred.
O n hearing this momentous news
Malcolm (Chairman and the main hero of
our story) along with Richard (creative
accountant c u m treasurer and somewhat
less of a hero) went into the Union to
quaff an ale or three (between them of
course) to celebrate the fact that they
would soon be megastars before realising
that most people wouldn't give a toss.
The deputy editor had asked for five
people including a girl (!?) to help with
the article. Needless to say this was the
source of m u c h amusement for our two
heroes. However, as luck would have it,
Richard managed to persuade a first year
mathematician to join at Freshers' Fair.
Y o u would have too if he'd threatened
y o u with a conversation on how the
turbo-charged tractors on his farm are
used for target practice by A-10
tankbusters.
Meanwhile, back at the plot, the team
was completed by the addition of Mike
and Darren. So, one cold and wet
December morning our heroes and the
other three met in a cul-de-sac in Maida
Vale, where they found the offices of said
magazine (actually the editor's house).
They were all ushered into the living
room, or in hi-fi jargon the 'listening
room'. The five were given a pen and
paper each and asked to write down their
opinions on the five systems placed
before them.
Little did our friendly hi-fi journalist
know but no one had a clue of what
fancy reviewing terms such as 'midband
colouration' or 'top-end smearing' meant.
Fortunately, they were not found out, but
Rich nearly blew it by expressing his
opinion had a 'logarithmic' bass frequency
rolloff (trust a physicist!). However, far
from becoming suspicious, the hi-fi
journalist was deeply impressed with such
succinct reviewing, which just goes to
show what a good bullshitter he is (yep,
definitely a physicist). Despite this, the
five were v e r y impressed with sound
quality of all the systems presented to
them.
After the reviewing was over it was
photo time, where everyone was asked to
strike a unique (read silly) pose with their
system. After suitably embarrassing
themselves (see piccy) they all went home
to await the results.
Well, the magazine is now out, it's the
March edition, costs £2.80 and includes a
free C D .
W h e n the magazine warned they would
use some 'journalistic licence' in writing
the article they weren't wrong, but at
least its not libellous!
Meanwhile AudioSoc carries on,
offering cheap records, tapes and CDs to
its members (some catalogues are in the
Haldane Library provided no one has
nicked them) as well as discounts on all
the hi-fi you can buy from those oh-so-
nice people at the Cornflake Shop, which
is situated in Windmill Street, just off
Tottenham Court Road. It's run by two
ex-IC students who open their doors to
the public at 10am Monday to Saturday
as they still haven't got out of the habit
of missing every 9.30am start. W h y did
they name it after a breakfast cereal?
Er...
AudioSoc also organises trips and
demos by manufacturers. Forthcoming
attractions include a trip to A r c a m on
March 13, a trip to Roksan on Wednesday
March 20, and a possible demo by Linn
supremo Ivor Tietenbrum in the near
future. Meetings are every Tuesday,
12.30pm in the Union SCR or contact
Malcolm Myers (Elec Eng 3) or Richard
Jones (Physics 3). Membership is £2.50
which pays for itself (and more) with your
first record order or your first purchase
from the Cornflake Shop.
P A R T Y
T O N I G H T
March 8th
8pm
• B A N D S
•DISCO
•BAR-B-Q
• B A R EXTENSION
A T LINSTEAD H A L L ' S 23rd
B I R T H D A Y PARTY, EX-
LINSTEAD A N D GUESTS
W E L C O M E

