Intellectual property rights have caused quite a stir over the years...
Thought = Money?
The Beatles, IBM, Kodak, Carlton
Communications, The Soviet Government.
What do all these have in common? If
you had been present at last week's
Physics Department Colloquium then you
would have learnt the answer.
A l l of the above are examples of people
involved in court actions over intellectual
property rights, the subject of the talk
given by Mr Clifford Miller, a former IC
Physics student.
'Intellectual property rights' is a broad
term covering patents, copyrights,
trademarks, designs, brand names,
servicemarks and a whole host of
different things. It can cover anything
from the design of a chocolate bar to a
silicon chip.
The importance of intellectual property
is quite plain; even if y o u devise similar
technology as another company, as long
as they hold rights for the use of that
technique y o u cannot compete in the
market.
Thus it is necessary to take steps to
protect any technology and development
before anyone else does.
Firstly, intellectual property could be
guarded by patents, the most complex
method available. To patent an invention
it must usually be new, or have some
new aspect to it. Interesting patents
include that held for the process of
making an 'Aero' chocolate bar, the
process used in Polaroid 'instant' cameras,
and one held by the British Railways
Board for a Nuclear Powered spaceship.
A patent affords your invention a twenty
year monopoly, giving protection to
essential features. If a product is made
using all of the main parts then it is
infringing the patent.
There are two systems for filing an
application for a patent. Most countries,
including the United Kingdom, use a 'first
to file' method: whoever gets there first
has the patent. Thus it is very important
to keep an invention's details completely
confidential until the application has been
made. In the United States, a first-to-
invent system operates: people tend to
publish details first to show they invented
it, and then lose their rights in other
countries.
Applications can be a large source of
information o n what has already been
done- the application must completely
disclose the methods and details.
Patent applications can be costly, and
after four years have elapsed the patent
must be renewed annually until the
twentieth year. This can cost from £100,
up to £350 for a patent in its final year.
Failure to renew can lead to the lapse of
the patent: though a lapse of a patent
cannot be relied upon to allow an
infringement.
Another, simple, method of protecting
your interests is the law of confidentiality.
If y o u tell someone a piece of information
then, as long as you oblige them to
maintain its confidentiality, any discussion
with someone else breaks the law.
W e l l k n o w n examples include the
formula for Coca-Cola, and the recipe for
'Kentucky Fried Chicken'. This method is,
however,limited if someone else can take
the product apart and analyse it: you
have then lost your secrecy.
Using design protection can also be a
way to maintain revenues. In the UK,
copyright, design rights, and registered
designs are available to the inventor or
designer. They protect the look of a
product.
If someone makes use of the effort you
put into your design then they could be
impinging upon your rights.
A final option for your product is the
protection of company names, logos,
packaging, and the general marks for
your product. If a trademark (whether
registered, or not) is used for any other
product, where there might be confusion
over its identity, then they are guilty of
'passing off. U K law protects a user
against passing off.
It is very important, therefore, to
ensure that your new product looks
totally different from any other already in
the market. This explains the use, by
Lever Bros., of bright orange for the
packaging of their 'Radion' washing
powder.
If y o u have an idea w h i c h y o u think is
a winner, I urge y o u to follow the advice
given by M r Miller:
'Tell no-one about it if you can avoid
it.'
'If the idea is for a patentable invention...
do not lose y o u r rights... b y failing to
make at least the first patent application.'
'If you have enough money, fund the
product all the way... yourself.'
This article is just a brief, a n d simple,
introduction to intellectual property
rights. For more information consult the
book 'Commercial Exploitation of
Intellectual Property' by Hilary Pearson
and Clifford Miller. It covers the whole
subject at great depth and is well indexed
for referral to most things you could
possibly want to know.
9

