HOTioN.rjNi Limmim HOURS
Proposed by Andrew Palmer
Seconded by Eleanor Malcolm
1. 1CU has no policy at present or. the subject of drinking hours.
Z. The present reetrictive practice in England and Males of mandatory
pub closing.
3. The more liberal licensing situation in Scotland, where pubs
may open according to local demand,
ft. The current consideration given by the Government to
liberalising Sunday trading.
5. That the government i s being subjected to pressure from
traditionalist elements among i t s supporters with tegard to
such deregulation. •
ICU Bellevaa;
1. The licensing situation in Scotland to be rrara satisfactory.
2. That in line with the Goverrswsnt'a attitude towards free competition,
they should similarly deregulate English pubs.
ICU Inatructai
1. The Executive to communicate the Union's views to the Minister of State
responsible for licensing, and to the Prime Minister,
2. The Executive to press for an experimental measure to free licensing
restrictions in the area surrounding and including College, by means
of a petition and any other method deeteed f i t .
1. A l l members of the Union to make known the view of the Union to
their MP, and to support the Union in i t s campaign.
s?fioN« wis:
ICU Notaai
1. That though WISE year was 19B4 the position of women in science an }
engineering has not been greatly improved.
2. That the low number of women currently involved in science and
engineering represents a significant loas to the innovative capaci1
.
of this countryl. I
ICU Bellevaai I
1. That there i s a deep-seated sexism i n schools and colleges vhich j
hinders women from progressing in science and engineering.
2. That positive discrimination in selsction for some science coursaB i
(giving women lower offers), has not resulted in a lowering of sts ,,irda
on these courses, but that though this i s a positive step it does \t
get to the cause of the problem. k
3. That many g i r l s arc discouraged from taking 0 and A levels in scie )
subjects, both by disapproval from subject tutors and by the tacit
disapproval of society as a whole.
ft. That women, (and men), with mixed A levels (science and arts) are
often not informed that they can take science degrees, even whan i t
may relatively easy for them to do ao.
5. That many members of the s c i e n t i f i c establishment* including many
involved in teaching, believe that women are not capable of
contributing to s c i e n t i f i c advancement, and that the WISE campaign
has received l i t t l e support from these people.
6. That the Government has not done enough to promote WISE, and that
most projects i t has initiated have been aoperficial publicity s t i l t s
aimed at urmucceaafully removing the sexist image of the Conaervat ,e
party.
7. That most members of the Conservative Gnverrwwsnt, even Margaret Thatcher
appear to hypocritically believe that a woman's place i a in the h
e .,
8. That, considering the apathy of the Government and the various
teaching establishments, i t i s the duty of students, through thei:
student unions, to try to rectify this situation by intervening at
schools level and within their own colleges.
9. That a useful f i r s t step would be for each college in the liniveraity
of London to adopt a London Borough and encourage able schoolgirls i n
that borough to study science and engineering.
ICU Reaolveat
1. To campaign within the Univeraity of London to adopt the above aenaaa).
2. Until such tine as the above suggestion becomes policy, to encourage
student unions to adopt their own borough and, by distributing
publicity within that borough and holding 'open daya' within theit
colleges, to encourage g i r l s and women within the borough to take sn
interest in science and engineering.
3. To publicise the continuation of the WISE campaign both in3ide anc'
outside the University in order to put more pressure on the University
of London and on the individual colleges, and externally to write to
newspapers explaining why WISE i s s t i l l a priority, and campaign
within the media, e t c . , on the above points.
Proposed by Carl Surges
Seconded by Cut Oelegat >
i

