Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
We are looking to recruit a team of volunteers with a passion and
enthusiasm for creating positive, social change.
National Student Volunteering Week (SVW) returns 20 – 26 February
2017
, to celebrate the successes of student volunteers and to inspire
others to join the movement.
We want YOU to join our team to help create a week-long programme
of events throughout the local community that will empower Imperial
students to make a difference to the lives of others and to recognise and
celebrate the efforts already being made.
For more information, visit
imperialcollegeunion.org/student-volunteering-week
Our Autumn funding round for student social entrepreneurs is now open!
Apply for up to £300 to support your social enterprise, no matter what
stage you’re at! Whether you’re at the beginning of your enterprise
journey, or further down the line, our student social enterprise support
fund will give you’re project a funding boost. Deadline for all applications
is midnight Sunday 4 December.
Your enterprise should be tackling an identified social problem on either
a local, national or global scale. If you have any questions please do not
hesitate to get in touch with elanor.henry@imperial.ac.uk.
Information on our definition of a social enterprise and to apply for Social Enterprise funding can be found on online - apply now!
imperialcollegeunion.org/social-enterprise-funding
Pick the Headliner & Showcase sport for VarsityFest 2017
Imperial College Union and Sport Imperial are again working together to
deliverVarsityFest and we want to you to help us shape the event. Earlier
in the year we asked all sports clubs to send in applications to be the
headline match of the year.
We recieved great applications from Men’s Football, Men’s Rugby,
Women’s Rugby and Netball and now it’s up to you to decide on which
sport you want to see played as the main VarsityFest match 2017!
You will need to login to our website to cast your vote for the sports
club you want be headline match of the year. Voting is open until Friday
2 December 2016. The second placed sport will be selected as the
Showcase Sport and will play their 1st game before the Headliner.
To read the applications by each team and cast your vote go to
imperialcollegeunion.org/varsityfest2017
Support your social enterprise - apply for up to £300 of funding
Help us run Student Volunteering Week 2017

