felix
C U L T U R E
Friday 25 November 2016 15
felixonline.co.uk/culture culture.felix@ic.ac.uk
G.L.O.S.S – G.L.O.S.S (We’re from the Future)
Hardcore punk music has always been chronically male dominated
and well known for its macho culture. G.L.O.S.S (Girls Living Outside
Society’s Shit) used their sole release to rail against the sexism and
homophobia people face in this scene, discussing issues such as
gender identity and sexism.
\\ Sabotage Records
Alternative Tentacles \\
Punk music, and its offshoots, has always retained a continuing theme of protest against society’s
wrongs. Here are some of my favourites.
Punk has a long standing tradition of bands taking a stance on
animal rights, Left For Dead’s Skin Graft being a prime example.
This song is 45 seconds of violent attack on animal testing and
wearing of fur, suggesting those whom endorse such acts deserve
even worse treatment than the critters involved. The searing
guitar and pummelling beats complete this intense experience.
Left For Dead – Skin Graft
Fugazi – The Argument Dead Kennedys – Holiday in Cambodia
The title track from Fugazi’s final album is a strong departure from
their raucous earlier work. It instead presents a resigned statement
on the Iraq war. Rather than fiery rhetoric, The Argument presents a
mature view. This track is a beaten protest about how the same argu-
ments always come up and always win. The stripped back nature of
this song makes it a wonderful piece of art.
The Clash and Dead Kennedys present a similar, highly political
outlook, however they couldn’t be further apart. Eschewing the
intelligent, prudish style of The Clash and replacing it with a
crass, sarcastic voice, this track sardonically imagines how those
who would go on holiday in Cambodia would appreciate being
dropped into one of Pol Pot’s gulags.
Doom – Police Bastard
The title of this song speaks for itself. Authority is held in such
disdain in punk circles that it is of no surprise that this contempt
extends to its enforcers. The whole of the Police Bastard EP sounds
like it was recorded in a metal bin – with tinny d-beat drums com-
peting with thin, dirty guitars – adding to the vitriol and rage in the
EP’s title track.
\\ Discarded Records
Startracks Records \\
Their contribution to modern music as a whole needing little
introduction, The Clash’s use of reggae influences and keen
political lyrics have shaped and inspired many. For me, this is the
best example of their signature style, reporting the defiance of
communities in the face of racism and police brutality.
The Clash – The Guns Of Brixton
Refused – Rather Be Dead
Earth Crisis – Firestorm
Refused have always been a political band with strong anarchist
leanings. At least, they were until they played Coachella for
money reasons. Rather Be Dead itself is an angry tirade against
all forms of authority and a firm pledge that Refused are prepared
to fight the power. This all takes place over tense chugging, palm
muted guitars
It would be hard to justify not including this track. Firestorm
describes a drug epidemic hitting the narrator’s city. Earth Crisis
issues a call for punks to militarise with straight-edgers, taking the
fight to those who use drugs. The views in this song are ignorant
and inflexible, much like many 90’s hardcore songs. This makes
Firestorm a great look into a highly political, aggressive scene
teetering on the edge of self parody.
Garside’s window-smashing soundtrack
Rob Garside

