felix
C U L T U R E
Friday 25 November 2016 21
felixonline.co.uk/culture culture.felix@ic.ac.uk
Revolutionary viewing
One of AMC’s suite of dramas it hoped would take the reigns from Mad Men,
TURN takes viewers to the American Revolutionary War. The show follows the
Culper Ring, an unlikely group of farmers who banded together to help George
Washington win the war. Be warned though, it is heavily dramatized, so if
you’re looking for a historically accurate chronicle of the minutia of revolution,
this ain’t it. On the other hand, if you want a fast-paced drama about some peas-
ants whining about tea and taxes, give this a try.
TURN: Washington’s Spies
Halt and Catch Fire
Another underrated AMC gem (I promise I’m not shilling for them), Halt and
Catch Fire follows a group of maverick engineers in the early days of the Per-
sonal Computer Era. Joe MacMillan, a mysterious engineer who disappeared
from IBM, shows up at a small scale PC company in Texas with a dangerous
proposition for unsuspecting engineer Gordon Clark. Together with uncon-
ventional student Cameron, they set out to reverse engineer an IBM PC and
revolutionize the home computing game.
Keeping up with the theme of Computing, Mr. Robot follows modern day
cyber-vigilante Elliot Alderson, played by the always excellent Rami Malek.
Elliot, initially a security engineer struggling with depression and anxiety,
is recruited into the hacktivism collective known only as ‘Mr. Robot’. What
follows is a thrilling examination of the modern day security industry, as well
as Alderson’s own mental state.
Mr. Robot
Underground
It’s unlikely that you’ve heard of Underground, but if you’re interested in
historical fiction or an examination of slavery, this is something you need to pay
attention to. Underground opts to present a very focused story by centering on
one group of escaped slaves rather than addressing the injustice as a whole. In
doing so, it manages to preserve the humanity of the tragedy and keeps a tight
pace. The show manages to present enthralling and engaging action, whilst still
managing to respectfully address the subject matter.
Protest can be tiring, so of course you need some downtime. Fear not, however, your rebellion
doesn’thavetostopwhenyourbodydoes.Herearefourrebelstostudywhileyouputyourfeetup.
\\Don Graham
\\Gage Skidmore
\\Luke Jones
\\Gustavo La Rotta Amaya
Anurag Deshpande

