Whatdo I.C
when they leave college?
T O H N SEARS
Mechanical Engineering 1988 -1992
Having spent a year travelling the world, I joined Van
den Bergh Foods as a technical trainee - making
margarine!! My first one and a half years were
essentially training posts, allowing me to finish my
MPDS and gain Chartered Status with the IMechE.
Jobs ranged from project engineer in a refinery
(edible oil), to Quality Engineer in a margarine factory
in Germany, to Commissioning Engineer installing a
£2.2m packing line in the main factory.
My first management position was in Worksop, as
the Project Support Manager for setting up the
Chicken Tonight factory. This was a £4m project which
we had 7 months to install and commission a brand
new factory, recruit and train a workforce to run the
factory and get the product to the shelves. My next
post was as Process Development Manager - a natural
progression from the previous job, enabling me to
help sort out any problems incurred on the Chicken
Tonight Line.
I am now the Internal Logistics Manager for the
Margarine factory (where I started out). I control all
goods leaving and entering the site and the palletising
of the cases of margarine onto pallets. I have 30
people who work for me, dispatch approximately
1,000,000 tubs of margarine a day, and receive the
materials to make that each day. I am responsible
for ongoing improvements within my area including
many large projects such as Automatic Guided Vehicle
implementation and installation of computer systems
such as SAP. The factory where I work was voted the
best factory in the UK last year - not bad for a food
factory.
So, I have been with Unilever for 5 years, had 6
different jobs, worked on 3 different sites and have
doubled my starting salary. What next? I joined
Unilever to go abroad and expect my next posting
to be in a technical function
outside the UK.
N A T A S H A DEWAR.
Chemical Engineering 1992 -1996
After the milkround I joined the Unilever Corporate
Manufacturing and Engineering Group (CMEG)
based in Port Sunlight, near Liverpool. In my first ten
months I was responsible for the movement of a new
Integrated Process Design software tool from
development into production use at our offices in Port
Sunlight and Holland. As part of my training, I also
attended Hazard and Operability studies of toothpaste
plants, and visited fabricators.
I then moved to Birds Eye Wall's in Lowestoft, East
Anglia. I spent 6 months in their technical support
centre, doing glamorous site projects including
designing a new leading edge effluent treatment
plant, utilities targeting and monitoring, and pea
freezer development. I moved into the beefburger
factory for 4 months and was a Shift Manager,
responsible for 3 operating lines and 40 people,
doing 12 hour day and night shifts. It was a change
of lifestyle but great fun and I learnt loads.
I then spent a 4 month placement working as the
Assistant Brand Manager for Vaseline Intensive Care
and Dove deodorant at Elida Faberge in Kingston,
London. I looked at multilingual packs for Europe,
was responsible for the promotion of Vaseline deo,
and was involved in advert production which included
going to the shoot at Pinewood studios! This was my
first taste of a non-technical role and it was very
different to what I was used to, great fun and lots of
showbiz parties. At the end of last year I returned to
the Unilever Corporate Manufacturing and Supply
Chain Technolgy (MAST) Group in Port Sunlight in
my first management position, working on shampoo
and ice-cream projects for Unilever's emerging
markets all over the world and value engineering
studies in many operating companies.
The variety of experiences that Unilever has offered
me have been very enjoyable as well as challenging.
All the people I have met along the way have
been very supportive and I think the company
offers exciting future opportunities.
Grads do...
S l / l O t i CsAgTER. KARL X>Wki\£
Chemical Engineering 1979 -1983
My "gut feel" was that I would fit in with Unilever's
culture: so I accepted their offer of a place on the Wirral,
with Van den Bergh Foods, on their management trainee
scheme which I undertook for 1 year. After a further 2
years as a Shift Manufacturing Manager responsible for
98 employees operating 20 production lines in the
Margarine factory, I was transferred to a sister factory at
Purfleet, near London. Here my initial responsibilities
included being a member of the project team that
reconfigured the edible fat spreads manufacturing
capabilities to meet the changing needs of the business.
The task took 3.5 years and £16m to complete and
consisted of the specification, design, and commissioning
of new plant and equipment together with the
associated PLC and Management Information systems.
On completion the site was (and remains) Unilever's
largest edible fats factory in the world. Then I became
one of the two Plant Managers running the day to day
operation of the factory which was operating 7 days per
week, throughout the year, with 220 people in their area
of responsibility.
In 19921 transferred to The Netherlands to work in a
group responsible for the identification of Best Practice in
edible fats manufacture and the transfer of this
knowledge world-wide to all relevant Unilever operating
companies. In 19961 returned to Port Sunlight in the UK
and now run the Supply Chain Strategy Team within
Unilever's corporate supply chain group. The group's
mission is to transfer Leading Practice in Manufacturing
and Supply Chain to Unilever's businesses.
Graduates joining Unilever to work within the supply
chain will have a key role to play in realising the
significant potential for value creation that exists within
this area. Efficient design and operation of the supply
chain has a major impact on the meeting of customer
and consumer needs and therefore
on business performance. The ^^^^^^^^^^
Mechanical Engineering 1991 -1995
I had never thought that 'company culture'
mattered that much to me until I really had to make
a decision. That was how I came to join Unilever
through the Milk Round and started working for
Birds Eye Wall's in 1995 as a technical trainee.
My first job was as a Project Manager in a
Beefburger factory, and this role soon progressed
to Shift Manager. At this point, the BSE scare
destroyed the Beefburger market and
management of the factory became a very day-to-
day role. Some of my focus was to commission
the 'Birds Eye Meatfree' production line which I
continued to run - operationally co-ordinating a
team of 5 Shift Managers.
After 1 year, I moved to a Sales role in Head Office,
followed by a Logistics job, re-engineering a
business process and developing a materials
requirement planning tool for Ice Cream
packaging. After 4 months I moved to my current
role in Ice Cream Manufacturing at Gloucester,
where I am the Operations Projects Manager for
Europe's largest Ice Cream factory. I have mostly
been involved with implementing an annualised
hours system, engineering improvement work and
Total Productivity Management. I am now
responsible for the installation and commissioning
of £6 million worth of new production line.
One of the best things I find about Unilever is the
people, at all levels. The people I work with in the
factory are all excellent, and a complete cross
section of society. The senior members of the
business are very genuine and great to work for.
My peer group are all great friends stretching
across all the Unilever companies, which facilitates
an excellent social life. I spent my summer holiday
this year visiting a friend who works
for Unilever Vietnam, which was
fantastic! . ^

