IC Radio
E
L
E
C
T
I
O
N I
N
T
E
R
V
I
E
W
S
A summary of interviews conducted by IC Radio last Tuesday...
President
Interviewer: Paul Dias (Ex IC
Radio News Editor)
Miles Ambler
Miles was first questioned about his proposed
communications meetings. Reminded of
previous failures to implement such a strategy
and the disinterest that led to the end of
UGMs, he retorted that was "down to the fact
that people didn't know about the issues". He
claimed use of the college media would
alleviate this. He later said that if elected, he
intended to write weekly columns in F E L I X
to keep students informed.
M r A m b l e r asked about his stated
intention to visit all first year lectures in the
first weeks of term. It was pointed out that the
current president had said a similar thing but
found her first week was over '100 hours' and
therefore she abandoned the plan. Miles
reiterated his commitment, saying that he
would be prepared to work on Saturdays if
necessary and that he didn't consider ten
minutes per lecture an impossible task.
He stated his intention to set up a
network of departmental Ents reps to help
improve the entertainments provided by the
Union and his commitment to the CCUs. The
interview finished with Miles saying that as
President it would be "the student's views that
he would be listening to".
Kevin Ward
M r Ward was first questioned about the
weekly meetings which he had promised to
hold. He responded with a reiteration - that
he, or a representative, would be present at the
appointed time to hear students views, or else
he would tender his resignation. It was
suggested that if no-one turned up, Kevin
would be sitting around doing nothing. Ward
combated this by saying that two hours spent
alone i n the bar could still be used
constructively, possibly " t h i n k i n g about
further meetings"to be held later in the week.
His promise to improve Da Vinci's was
discussed, with M r Ward suggesting that an
improved Union catering service would force
college catering to improve (although he
accepted that Da Vinci's was not capable of
serving 7000 people). He said in his first year,
MM F E L I X 03mflR95
food in Da Vinci's was "substantially better"
and seemed better value for money too.
He claimed that he was an 'informed'
outsider to the Union, and that he would
therefore not bring preconceived ideas to the
job. This, he said, would help him make the
Union more accountable to the students. He
was heavily questioned about his intention to
improve security at U n i o n events. W h e n
asked if the problem was really so serious, M r
Ward said that he wanted to "nip it in the
bud" and that any violence was too much. It
was put to him that it might cost in the region
of £30,000 to implement his plan to replace
stewards with professional staff, which M r
Ward admitted would be too much to pay, but
he disputed this was the real cost.
Mr Ward ended up by saying he was the
best candidate because he had: "a wide
ranging point of view, with varied experience
both in and out of college".
Sarah White
It was first put to Miss White that she had
shied away from mentioning many issues in
her manifesto. She responded by pointing out
that "the issues will be the same for all of us,
it's how we deal with them that's important."
On the popular subject of regular open
forums, she said she 'couldn't really ask the
Union to pay for her to spend an hour sitting
in the bar' but that she would have a set hour
in the week where she would be guaranteed to
be available in her office. She said that she
herself had had no problems accessing the
Union representatives.
Communication would be best
improved by using existing structures more
fully, she said, citing i n particular the
Departmental Reps as an important link. The
U n i o n as a whole was not "quick and
efficient" at communicating. She said that the
President could try to do this i n his/her
position as a leader - "to draw everyone
together".
She said that the President should be
able to communicate also with staff, as well as
students. Sarah said that the two audiences
were different: "a lot of the time they [staff]
don't accept that there is a problem". She
cited her experience as a Geology Rep as
important in giving her those skills. When
asked if there was anything in particular that
voters should bear in mind, she said that she
intended to "talk to college hierarchy about
particular Welfare issues, such as student
hardship and accommodation issues ... which
affect us every day of every year".
Deputy President
(Finance and
Services)
Interviewer: Andrew Tseng
( F E L I X News Editor)
Matt Crompton
Matt was first asked whether his lack of
experience in Union affairs was an issue. He
responded by saying that for this post a great
deal of experience in Union business was not
important, although he added that he does
have experience in business matters. He was
then asked if his experience of running a shop
was really equivalent to that required to
manage the far larger interests of the Union.
He said that it was relevant as the Union post
also involved handling of money and solving
day-to-day problems and queried whether any
student would have experience of running a
"£2M turnover institution".
Asked to clarify his opposition to the
Union move to Sherfield, he said that it was
the current plans he opposed - he'd back the
move if the new facilities were good enough.
He said he opposed losing tradition for a
"faceless modern building like the Sherfield".
He was asked about his commitment to
the C C U s and said that their role was
primarily to "provide the first step i n
communications between most of the students
and the Union [and to] provide some extra
history as well". Asked if they should be
abolished, M r Crompton said that he believed
they shouldn't, citing i n t e r - C C U sports
matches as an example of a beneficial
increased rivalry. He said as D P (F&S) he
would look at their money needs and make
sure they are spending money properly.
Asked what he offered above other
candidates, M r Crompton said that he could
offer: "efficiency and dedication ... experience
in money and communication as well."
Annie Mathewman
Did not attend the interview programme.

