Deputy President
(Clubs and
Societies)
Interviewer: Andrew Tseng
( F E L I X News Editor)
Luke Gietzen
As the main issue of the campaign so far
seems to be that of sport, Luke was initially
asked what his views were on the subject. He
acknowledged its importance to the job but "I
don't think it should rule it" he said. " A l l the
other societies ... should have a look in as
well".
Next Luke was asked if his proposal to
help clubs organise joint meetings would
merely add another level of committees. Luke
disagreed, saying that at present such inter-
clubs concerns rarely come up in Council.
It was put to Luke that his manifesto
was short on new ideas and seemed to be just
'more of the same'. "I think that the ideas in
there are all encompassing," he replied. When
pressed to explain exactly how he was going to
improve communications and get more
student interest, Luke said he would hold
more informal meetings with the Major Sub-
Committee chairs and also "hype" the
Union's Events and Marketing Manager.
Moving onto the Events and Marketing
Manager, Luke thought that there was scope
to improve his services to clubs and societies;
events such as Third World First's Brazilian
night, which involved a Sol beer promotion,
were put forward as examples of past success
in this area.
In closing, when asked what he could
offer above everyone else, Luke replied "I
think that my policies apply equally to all
clubs and societies, I'm not just pandering to
all the sports people".
Tim Townend
The immediate question for T i m was did he
have any other policies than his sporting
ones? He replied that his captaincy of the
rugby club aside, he was also treasurer of the
Exploration Society and in previous years had
interests i n the Debating Society. H e did
agree however, that the prominence of sport
in his campaign was because it was
"incredibly important". Yet he emphasised
that the 'art side' came first in his manifesto;
"we have to get together and make sure that
the arts does better" he said.
Concerning the Constituent College
Unions, T i m said that their traditions were
important. "You can't cut any of them", he
declared. " A l l of them are integral to all the
students there."
When asked about his husting
statement that 'without sport you lose the
social aspect of college', T i m reaffirmed it;
"80% of the people who go out have
something to do with sport". He then went on
to say that this was the reason that the art
societies needed better promotion. "We need
to get high class societies" he said. One
example of this proposal T i m was for a joint
Dramsoc and Opsoc production. Another was
for art societies going on tour to visit overseas
alumni, in the manner of the sports teams.
In summary T i m said that he felt that
he was in a position to do a good job. "I want
to sort this college out before I leave", he
ended.
Maryam Yahyavi
Did not attend the interview.
FELIX Editor and
Print Unit Manager
Interviewer: Joe McFadden
Rachel Walters
It was initially suggested to Rachel that
although she seemed sincere about the
direction she wished to take FELIX, she was a
'bit short on detail'. She said she saw the
newspaper spilt into two parts: news and the
rest. News, she said, should reach beyond
South Kensington, although she accepted that
it was primarily to be concerned with its
unique Imperial College role.
She stressed that although ideas had
been tried before, they could still be tried
again and cited in particular the St Mary's
situation. She said this was now vital as
medical students would soon be here. She said
the Editor should not attempt to do every-
thing in FELIX, rather s/he should establish a
'broad ranging team' who would 'nip back and
forth across Hyde Park' as required.
Questioned about her desire to make
F E L I X more light-hearted, Rachel was asked
to tell a joke. She failed. She did say that she
felt it was unhelpful to pin herself down to
any particular example publication, and
stressed that a mixture of content was the
most desirable. She said she felt she was 'a
breath of fresh air' due to the relatively short
time she has spent in FELIX.
NEW ELECTION IS ALSO
STANDING FOR ALL POSTS
Don't forget you need to use your swipe
card to vote in ail departments. See the
advertisement on page 9 for exact details. See
Lucy Chothia in ICU for details of how to vote if
you haven't got one.
Also note that only number count as votes
EVEN IF YOU ONLY VOTE FOR ONE
CANDIDATE. Do not use ticks or crosses on the
ballot paper.
Elections
How to Vote
The Single Transferable Vote (STV) system used
in the sabbatical elections is designed to make
the voting system fairer. Unfortunately, it also
seems to make things more confused for the
voters! In the interests of a general soothing of
brains, we outline the procedure below.
To win a position under STV, you need to get
more than 50% of the vote. If no candidate
achieves this on the first count, then the
candidate with the least number of votes is
eliminated. Their votes are then distributed
amongst the remaining candidates, in
accordance with the voters second choices.
Second choice of candidate? Yes, under STV
you can vote for more than one candidate in
order of preference on the ballot paper. So for
your favourite candidate, place a "T against the
candidates name, for the second a '2' and so
on. If you only want to vote for one candidate,
then fine. Remember though, that giving a
second choice does not affect the chances of
the first winning. The second (and third and...)
choices are only used if that candidate has
been eliminated from the race.
An Easy to Cook Example
You are given a ballot paper for President.
There are four candidates: Quentin Tarantino,
Oliver Stone, Johnny Wu and New Election. (If
New Election wins then the election is re-run).
Suppose you like Tarantino the best. Stone
and Wu just don't cut the mustard and so you
decide to vote like this:
Oliver Stone 3
Quentin Tarantino 1
New Election 2
Johnny Wu 4
All the votes come in and are counted. They
poll as follows:
Johnny Wu 230
Oliver Stone 270
New Election 290
Ouentin Tarantino 400
A total of 1200 people have voted. But the
winning line is 601 and nobody got that far. So
it's time to look at second preferences. Wu is
eliminated as the candidate with the least
number of votes and all his '2's are counted. Of
those 230 votes, 1 75 voters put Tarantino as
number '2', 25 go to New Election, 15 go to
Stone and 15 had no preference and so are
discarded. These new votes are added and the
situation hots up.
Oliver Stone 285
New Election 375
Quentin Tarantino 585
Non Transferable 15
This still adds up to 1,200 but now the winning
line is 593 (half of 1,200-15+1). Still no-one
has a winning quota, so Stone's votes are
passed around as before. If any of Stone's votes
went to Wu, his votes are now passed out
according to third preferences. Looking at
Stone's votes, 200 go to Tarantino, 35 got to
New Election and 50 are non-transferable
(there were no further preferences). A quick
piece of number-crunching gives:
New Election 350
Quentin Tarantino 785
Non Transferable 65
We have a winner! Surprise surprise, Tarantino
scoops another award and an ICU Presidency
awaits him.
0
3
I
D
A
R
9
5 F E L I X HI

