Backchat
a Cosmopolitan w o m a n
E
ven in these days of equal
opportunities, few wo-
men gain access to the
men's club of physics.
But among the cast of Imperial
A l u m n i stands one woman who
has made it into the higher
echelons of this exclusive world. I
took the train down to Brighton to
speak to my old personal tutor, D r
Sandra Chapman.
I arrive in the middle of a
tutorial. Dr Chapman sits with an
intense project student in front of
swirling images on a computer
screen, and waves me i n the
general direction of the one chair
that isn't littered with paper. Two
dusty cactus plants sit by the
window overlooking a greenly
dripping campus (it's been raining
for days) and the whiteboard is
covered i n the k i n d of m u l t i -
tudinous mathematical scrawl we
expect of scientists. A variety of dog pictures
adorn her office walls; "Huskies?" I wonder
out loud. No, they turn out to be wolves. The
anxious student leaves, mildly reassured, and
I switch on the tape-recorder.
Physics
As a young woman, Sandra Chapman had a
lot of people telling her that physics was not
what she should be aiming for as a career. But
being the sort of person who "had her own
telescope at the age of fourteen", she won a
scholarship to Imperial and went on to carve
out a glittering career as a physicist. She is
now head of the highly respected Space
Science Centre at the University of Sussex,
carrying out research on particle dynamics in
the earth's magnetotail, simulations of space
plasma collisions and analysing spacecraft
data. At 33, she's young to be where she is
and says wryly that "a few people died" in her
research group not long after she arrived -
the legacy perhaps of a faculty that was
created in the late 60s from young blood and
has been steadily edging towards retirement
age ever since.
Last year D r Chapman won the
prestigious Zeldovitch medal for her work on
plasma dynamics of the earth's magnetotail.
She is unmistakably proud, and her voice is
animated as she describes her work:
"The earth's magnetosphere is basically
an unstable system. You're feeding energy in
from the front end, from the solar wind, and
it's stored in the back end, which is the
magnetotail. It's a bit like the way you store
energy when you stretch a rubber band.
Something, w h i c h we do not quite
understand yet, causes the 'rubber band' to
snap, and collapse back down towards the
earth. That injects a lot of energy into the
near earth system. It causes damage to
satellites, and disrupts radio
communications. One of the things we're
trying to do is predict when this will happen
- it may happen by sudden changes i n
particle dynamics. The breakthrough that we
made was in being able to set up a problem
that is time-dependent for the first time. I
was working on this problem and so was a
group i n Russia - we were i n direct
competition, and I beat them to it!"
Sexism
The medal is not her only accolade. In 1990
Cosmopolitan magazine honoured her with
their award for 'Woman of Tomorrow' under
the science and technology umbrella. Her
photo sits alongside those of a group of young
and talented female rising stars in the pages
of the magazine, and each year she's invited
to the 'Women of the Year' luncheon. "It's a
good opportunity to set up contacts for my
students" she says dryly.
Her tone belies the fact that besides
being a passionate researcher, D r Chapman is
also an active and dedicated teacher. As an
undergraduate, I had the dubious pleasure of
sitting through one of her lecture courses,
and the even more dubious pleasure of her
fierce tutorials - she was not someone who
had much time for students with an attitude
problem (I wasn't in love with physics). Since
then she has taken a little pity on floundering
first years, and has installed in the library a
series of backup videos of her classes. Her
pioneering method might be popular with
students, but so far it doesn't seem to have
caught on with the rest of the
faculty - the men seem to be
rather shy about being on
record for all eternity.
But how easy is it to be a
woman in a field that is almost
exclusively male? "There are
certain individuals who do find it
a problem. It's very easy for them
to cope with women at a lower
level - students - but they find it
difficult to accept that women
can take on management roles.
However, they are a minority,
and there are a lot of men who
are supportive of women who are
moving up the ladder too.
" T h e one example of
sexism I can actually think of is
British Antarctic Survey (BAS),
who until this year have refused
to allow women to winter on
their camp i n Halley Bay. For
years and years all the other
countries would allow their women to
overwinter, and there were excuses [from
B A S ] that they couldn't have separate
facilities and all this kind of stuff. This year
they're allowing women - but only in pairs.
A n d of course you can't find two women
who're available to go down at the same time!
So there are still no women who've
overwintered with BAS. That's where this
macho thing comes in, in this rugged, 'let's
sit on the polar ice cap for two years' type of
stuff."
However, there are problems. "In order
to progress you have to go through this
period where you are working on contract,
and every two or three years you are moving
around. It would be very difficult to train as a
physicist if you did not do that, and so you
end up moving all over the world. It's very
difficult to organise that with a partner. It's
interesting to note that all the male faculty
members I know have wives who are in the
kinds of jobs where they follow them. So you
find that the man has the lectureship and the
woman has the job as a teacher: she's the one
who has the hours which suit the kids, she's
the one who can move from one end of the
country to the other, and she's the one who
can have the career break. I do know some
couples where they're both scientists - the
woman has gone off and taken a very short
career break, immediately come back to work,
and they've paid a lot for the child care. I do
not know of anybody who's taken two years
off, and then come back to science."
A n d so, like most women in science,
Sandra Chapman is herself caught by the
inherent unfairness of this system and is
facing a tough decision.
E M F E L I X 0
3
U
1
H
R
9
5

