B a c k C h a t
Babies
"The time when the biological clock is just
starting to tick away is the same time when
you're coming to the end of this phase where
you're on contracts and fellowships and are
looking for the permanent job. A n d so it is
the time when you just cannot afford to take
two years off. I think some women may be
pushed out of academia and into jobs i n
industry which then cease to be science jobs -
they become management jobs. In this
country it's worse, too (I'm thinking of the
numbers of women that I know who have
children and are renowned scientists, and
there are more of them in France and in the
States - 1 know of very few in this country).
"I'm now 33 and childless, and I think
I've more or less decided that I'm not going to
have children. That's because I'm not the sort
of person who would take a month or two off
and then go right back to work. If I had
children I'd want to take a few years off and
really experience it to the full. But I work
very long hours, and I like to travel around
and work with different scientists for long
periods of time: I just can't see that I'm going
to be able to do that, and so I probably won't
be having children."
Politics
Dr Chapman is a physicist with strong views
on the role that she and her colleagues should
play when it comes to controversial research.
She spent some time with the women
demonstrating against nuclear weapons at
Greenham common and had this to say:
"As a physicist you actually know what
is going to happen i f there's going to be a
nuclear war - you can calculate what the
damage is going to be like. I found it very
difficult [at Greenham] because... there is a
whole group of feminists who feel that women
should not be involved in what they see as an
area which has been mismanaged by men and
is fundamentally flawed in its philosophy (in
that physics produces weapons of mass
destruction). They tend to see you as someone
who has suspect morals because they don't do
physics and don't know what it's like."
So she found herself getting into some
interesting discussions as she tried to explain
what physics is really about, and why it was
important for her to be at Greenham.
"To say 'scientists shouldn't work on
so-and-so because so-and-so is bad' will fail,
because scientists don't know what they're
going to be working on from one year to the
n d r a
h a p m a n
talks to
Tamar Khan
next. Y o u are never going to stop scientists
producing bombs I ' m afraid - they w i l l
produce them by accident i f not on purpose.
You can, however, control what government
spends its money on when it funds science.
That would be the way to stop scientists
perfecting the bomb; once they've got the
principle on paper they don't need to go and
build the thing."
Media
As a scientist with a strong social conscience,
D r Chapman is intensely irritated by the
ever-persistent cold war image of the mad
scientist toiling away i n a bubbling and
hissing laboratory. She blames the
broadcasters. "It's something invented by the
media. I have hard evidence for this because
I've had dealings with them, and when I turn
up for things they get very disappointed [and
say] 'Why aren't you old?', or 'Where's the
hair sticking out of your head? You look too
normal'. I think this is a problem specifically
in this country. If you go to Germany you will
see science being presented on the T V by cool
trendy young Germans. In this country you
have to look like Magnus Pike before they'll
let you on the T V . " 13
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N •
the best student offer in london!
C U T &
B L O W D R Y
£14 LADIES
£12 M E N
^*S^1 Normal price: £28!
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Station!1
.
C a l l : 0 7 1 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3 ES

