Xtra Curricular Feature
[jfeoQISgl yiity j j j ' ^ i l j 1
^
Advanee Course Students andI their p r o b l e m s -
Keys: Hazards, Vulnerable, Demanding, Finance, Obligations
Pressure: Filtering your five-thousandth suspension could get you down
Besides the normal life hazards to which all
students are exposed, advanced course and
research students can experience difficulties
which are more or less peculiar to them.
Advanced Course Students
Advanced course students are seen from my
point of view as a rather special population -
special in the sense that they are more imme-
diately at risk when things go wrong than
other student populations. Why is this? What
are the factors that make the one-year
advanced course student potentially vulnera-
ble?
• A common pattern of MSc courses (with a
few exceptions) is two terms of intensive
teaching culminating in a set of examinations
followed by a major piece of project work.
Clearly any disturbing life-event coinciding
with the heavy teaching component of the
course can have a quite disproportionate
impact on a student's academic progress. A n
undergraduate or a research student dealing
with exactly the same sort of problems may
well, other things being equal, be able to
absorb a period of academic under-perfor-
mance, simply because there is more time
available.
• M a n y masters degree students have
returned to university after an extended
break from academic study, usually after a
period of employment. It is not uncommon
for people who have previously had a success-
ful and buoyant academic experience at A -
level and at first-degree level to be very sur-
prised at the extent to which they have
slipped out of the academic mode, and to find
that the necessary adaptation is a good deal
more demanding than they had expected.
• A high proportion of advanced course
students are self-financing, and have taken on
quite large debt commitments to pay college
fees and their living expenses for a full 12
months. Occasionally students take on these
extra debts before they have had the opportu-
nity of clearing debts incurred while they
were undergraduates. Older students, some-
times with onerous family obligations, have
often given up well-paid work to come back
to college, but find that state provision for the
family is inadequate.
• Students sometimes use masters degree
courses to vindicate something in their past.
For example, someone who achieved a class
of first degree lower than he/she had expect-
ed, or who had been disappointed at not
obtaining admission to the university of
choice after A-levels may well have, as a per-
fectly valid component of motive, a powerful
need to prove something to him or herself.
In these circumstances the prestige and
standing of Imperial College can be highly
seductive, and conversely the fear of failure
can be very disturbing.
• For a significant number of students
returning to university after a protracted
interval, a masters course coincides with
other major upheavals in life, and may indeed
effectively be a vehicle for hopes and ambi-
tions for the future which go well beyond the
conventional notion of acquiring an extra
qualification. This 'fresh-start' component of
motive is entirely valid and healthy in itself,
but does imply that any worry about complet-
ing the course successfully carries extra anxi-
ety.
• Students on a masters degree course are
likely to be far less homogeneous than an
average departmental undergraduate intake.
People are of different ages and backgrounds,
from different countries, different disciplines,
and different universities. This sometimes
means that peer-group support, or indeed the
normal opportunities for friendship, are not
so assured. This, and the pressure of work,
may effectively exclude the student from a
balanced social life.
This coincidence of short, highly inten-
sive courses, and a fair proportion of students
with complex personal and family obligations
(as well as complex motives), seems to me to
give a certain urgency to dealing with prob-
lems if they arise. Masters degree students
need to feel secure in the choices they have
made, to feel an underlying confidence that
the course is what they wanted when they
enrolled, and that they will be successful in it.
Seeking help
It is, I think, normal to feel a certain reti-
cence about 'asking for help'. Postgraduate
students, almost by definition, are coping,
competent and successful people, and it cer-
tainly goes against the grain to have to
acknowledge that one is having difficulty.
But once that barrier of pride is overcome
and there has been a proper dialogue with the
right people, the rewards can be immediate
and considerable. If, for example, one particu-
lar part of a course is proving worryingly dif-
ficult, there is a real danger that the anxiety
will halo over on to other parts of the course
unless the matter is properly discussed with
academic staff. Similarly, research students
should not underestimate the importance of
talking to their supervisors properly if they
have become unhappy about their progress.
Things can sometimes be changed very easi-
ly, once a problem has been identified.
Students often perceive academic staff as
being overwhelming busy - which may be
objectively true - but it is also quite often a
rationalisation for a fundamental reluctance
to face up to potential trouble. So far as acad-
emic worries are concerned, the key people
are the student's own teachers or supervisors.
Every department in college also has a desig-
nated Postgraduate Tutor, who has an over-
riding responsibility for the pastoral care of
graduate students, in just the same way that
the Senior Tutor has for undergraduates. The
College Tutors - D r Gareth Jones in Physics
and D r Margaret Goodgame in Chemistry -
have a college-wide responsibility of the same
kind and may be approached directly.
However, there are other people in col-
lege on whom you can make demands - and I
am one of those. M y work is entirely confi-
dential. I can see people quickly - usually on
the same day - and I am paid to do nothing
else but talk to students. I strongly believe
that talking is very important in a crisis. It is
a relief in itself to talk through one's anxieties
- to share the worry if you like - in a safe
place. It is a way of identifying problems
clearly, and it sometimes throws up new ideas
for dealing with difficulties. My office is at IS
Princes Gardens, and my telephone number
(direct dialling) is 071 594 9430.
O B f l W F E L I X WM

