©WQffQQQQ
International Night 1995
Keys: Culture, Music, Food
It's that time of the year again, when IC stu-
dents from all over the world perform what
has often been the largest and most popular
student-organised event i n the Imperial
College calendar. International Night is
organised by the Overseas Students'
Committee (OSC) and it involves most of the
twenty-four overseas societies that are func-
tional at the moment w i t h i n IC U n i o n .
Imperial College has a huge diversity of cul-
tures and ethnic groups. It is known as one of
the most multi-cultural academic institutions
in the world with nearly one third of its stu-
dents being of non-British origin.
International N i g h t consists of a
'Cultural Show' where societies will be per-
forming traditional music, songs, dances
from their home countries. Some have chosen
to stage a martial-arts demonstration and oth-
ers will have a fashion show where tradition-
al, original costume and more contemporary
clothes will be on display. The Jazz-Dance
club will also be performing.
The Cultural Show of International
Night '95 is going to be a huge success as
most of the tickets have already been sold,
and the great enthusiasm and ability of the
performers are bound to have you singing
and dancing along. The more material (and
some say more filling) counterpart of the
Cultural Show is of course the famous Food
Fair where one can sample, taste or even get
stuffed with traditional food of countries
from all over the world. People tend to go for
the food first, so you'd better get there early.
In order to make International Night a killer
night out, there will also be live bands play-
ing until midnight and the ever so popular
International Night Disco will go on until
2am - the bar staying open until the same
time.
International Night happens today, all
over the Sherfield Building. Doors open at
6.30pm. The Food Fair is in the Main Dining
H a l l ( M D H ) until 7.30pm. The Cultural
Show starts at 8.00pm in the Great Hall, fin-
ishing approximately two hours later. Live
Latin American and other bands are playing
in the Senior Common Room (SCR) from
10.00pm. The Disco will be in the Junior
Common Room (JCR) from 8.00pm onwards.
A l l sorts of alcoholic and non-alcoholic
drinks, light snacks and so on will be avail-
able throughout the night at the two Bars in
the JCR and SCR.
There are two kinds of tickets available:
£8.50 (£9.50 for non-IC students) which
includes everything; 2 food coupons for the
Food Fair, entrance to the Great Hall, Live
Bands and Disco with bar extension. You can
also go for the food, bands, disco and late bar
for just £5 (£6 for non-IC students).
Tickets are available at the Union Office
throughout the day and in the unlikely case
that there are some left over, they will be
available on the door. You must present IC
student identification to get IC Student
prices.
Keys: Phantom, Grease, Saigon
Nearly 200 members of ArtSoc have had an
enjoyable and busy year. Curtains opened
with a visit to the loud and colourful Grease
and the bangs continued at the Albert Hall
when the Royal Philharmonic let off a few
cannons and played a few classical tunes on
Guy Fawke's night. Everybody has enjoyed
the old favourites: Les Miserables, Phantom,
Miss Saigon; we've bopped with Buddy, and
been stunned by Starlight Express, i n its
revamped form. As for plays we were thrilled
by Agatha Christie's long-running Mousetrap
and amused, not a little, by Tony Slattery in
the lost-on-an-island comedy Neville's Island.
The Queen and I was good - but the book was
much better! Before Christmas we saw an
indescribably amazing production of The
Nutcracker at Saddles Wells. This interpreta-
tion was fun but the traditional classics beck-
oned. The enchanting tale of the swan and
the prince charmed all who saw Swan Lake at
the Royal Opera House. O n a cultural high
we returned to Covent Garden to see Cosi Fan
Tutte: Armani's unshapely costumes featuring
in Mozart's opera. Hamlet at the newly
named Gielgud theatre was wonderful; it
managed to keep us enthralled for four hours.
Amongst our trips to look forward to are
Oliver, Starlight and Phantom - if you've got
anything you want to see come along to our
Monday lunchtime meetings (Union Dining
Hall). Thank you to all our many members
who are making this such a successful year.
ArtSoc elections will be held on Monday
13th March so if you'd like to help run the
club next year, come along! For our members
there will be an excellent (and free) buffet
lunch.
qjjjjb M 0 i
Artificial Life
Keys: A-Life, Robots, Stupidity
O n Wednesday M a r c h 8, 1995, the I E E E
Imperial College Student Branch is holding a
seminar on Artificial Life. The event will
take place in the Clore Lecture Theatre,
Huxley Building and will run from 1.30pm
until 5pm, with a break for refreshments.
Examples of A-Life, man-made systems
that behave similarly to living creatures or
groups, are being used in many disciplines
and are proving effective on traditionally
impossible problems. A - L i f e is a rapidly
evolving area of study in both industry and
academia with a long future ahead of it; the
seminar will be a snapshot of the state-of-the-
art.
We are aiming the talks at a wide audi-
ence because A-Life is such a broad field,
with applications i n environmental and
financial modelling, network communica-
tions and many other useful areas. The audi-
ence will be presented with widely differing
views from speakers whose backgrounds
range from academic research and industrial
development to philosophy.
Prof. Igor Aleksander will open the semi-
MM F E L I X 03mRR95

