Xtra Curricular
nar, D r K e a t i n g from the Cybernetics
Department of Reading University will be
talking about Artificial Stupidity (and small
robots) and, before the tea-break, D r Bruten
from the Communications department of
Hewlett Packard Laboratories will present
some of the work being done i n industry.
After the break D r Dmitry Gryaznov from
S&S International Virus Laboratory will be
discussing the dark side of A-Life and finally
Dr Michael Wheeler, a philosopher from the
department of Cognitive and Computing
Sciences at Sussex University, will be ponder-
ing the imponderables of man-made life...
Everyone is welcome and no prior
knowledge of Artificial Life will be needed.
For further details contact: Marie Austenaa,
Computing 4, email ema@doc.ic.ac.uk.
J i i l i J
Rag Raid Collections
Keys: Champagne, Holidays
Since this article was written before the Rag
Tour set off, unfortunately I couldn't include
any tales of what happened while we were
away. However, I hope that everyone who
went enjoyed themselves and are now fully
recovered! Now we're all back from our tour
we are ready to take London by storm once
again and are starting today with some B R
station collections for Cystic Fibrosis and
SCOPE. If you fancy going out and boosting
your Rag total then come up to the Office
today and we w i l l give you a collecting
can/bucket and a permit. The stations you
can collect at include Liverpool St, Euston
and Kings Cross. There is of course the
added incentive of winning some champagne
if you're one of more than eight collectors
going out today!
Should you wish to travel further afield,
there is a Rag Raid to Oxford happening
tomorrow. We will probably be travelling by
coach rather than minibus so bring your stu-
dent cards with you, expenses will be paid by
Rag so it will still be a free trip. Those going
should meet up at Marble A r c h at 10am
tomorrow morning. In Oxford we should
meet up with some other students as Rags
from all over the country are taking part in
this collection for Oxfam. To join in the fun
all you have to do is sign up at the meeting
today (1.10pm in the Ents Lounge).
Next Saturday (11th March) is the big
prize event! The Royal Hospital and Home,
Putney have permits to collect in and around
Putney, perhaps including Supermarkets
which are always good places to get loads of
money! Taking part in this event means you
could be going on an Inter-railing holiday
around any part of Europe for three months.
To make the competition completely fair we
have decided to raffle the prize. Each collec-
tor will be given a raffle ticket and then addi-
tional tickets will be given for each £5-£10
collected. A grand draw will then be held
after the second collection for the same cause
on Friday 17th March. You will gain an extra
ticket if you do this City collection as well.
The winner will be announced at the follow-
ing meeting and in F E L I X .
We have even more fantastic events com-
ing up later in March and next term so watch
this space! Also next week's edition of F E L I X
should contain details of the happenings on
Rag Tour!
Finally, don't miss out on your chance to
be part of the Rag Committee next year.
Come and talk to members of the present
committee if you would like to stand for a
post. We can usually be found in the Office,
at the meetings on Fridays or just in the bar.
Alternatively phone the Office on ext. 58099.
The posts available are: Rag Chair,
Secretary, Treasurer, Hall Rep Co-ordinator,
Sponsored Events, Publicity, Internal Affairs
and Stores Officers and Rag Raid Co-ordina-
tor. We also need someone to organise the
Rag Fete. This post will be elected before the
end of term.
For more details of any of the goings on
in Rag then contact the Rag Office or come to
our meetings (Fridays, 1.10pm in the Ents
Lounge).
Jjikj
That's Entertainment
Keys: Comedy, Disco, Star Trek
Another Friday morning, another weeks
worth of Ents listings - such enthusiasm! But
you know you'll love every single minute of
it...
Friday - Star Trek, Bust-a-Gut
A night of er, contrast. In Da Vinci's, a night
for Trekkers or Trekkies (I don't understand
any of this you know, I just write it down!) as
we promote the new 'Star Trek -
Generations' film. Check out the special
promo video, and try to win limited edition
posters, C D s , records and t-shirts. Beam
down at 7.30pm.
For those of you with other interests,
there's Bust-a-Gut comedy with the superla-
tive Sean Lock and Helen Austin, plus open
mic spot. £2.50 (£1.50 with EntsCard)
entrance with a free can of Newcastle Brown
to the first 50 in. If you just want to drink
and dance it's £1 from 9pm.
Monday - Live Football
Monday Madness, Live Football and special
drink promotion (while stock last). D a
Vinci's 5pm-10.30pm.
Tuesday - Bar Trivia
Dan's penultimate trip into the world of the
trivial, with £50 cash prize courtesy of STA
Travel. 8pm Da Vinci's.
Wednesday - Club Spanque
Don cha just love it? Club Spanque, 9pm-
lam, free.
Thursday - Cocktail Night
Silly names, odd colours - and that's just the
staff. ICU Cocktail night, Da Vinci's.
Friday - Atmosphere, Live Band
A brief sortie into the world of live music, as
a group of ex-Imperial students (and no, it's
not Brian 'Poodle-Perm' May) bring their up
and coming indie sounds to the ents lounge.
So check out 'Indochine' for free. 8pm.
Then Dance and do some good with a
special Rag Comic Relief type 'Atmosphere'.
Watch out for more details.
A n advance warning - March 17th is St
Patrick's night - and it's dead, dead busy.
Comedy, a live ceilidh band and a very spe-
cial drink promotion - so don't miss out!
G
Q
9
t
f £>:] JJ 2 J
Guilds to take over college
Keys: Mask, Comic Relief
Next Friday sees the return of Rag activities
on campus, as the Guilds H i t Squad takes to
the lecture theatres again. Once more,
masked Hit men will be running around with
plates of shaving foam. The event, which
heralds an early out-break of comic relief, will
be taking place next Friday (10th March) for
the one day only. The Hit Squad can be hired
by any student, not just by those from Guilds
courses and likewise, hits w i l l be made
throughout campus, or even i n Halls i f
required.
This year, the contract price is a mere
£2.00 for a normal hit, although hits on lec-
turers are priced nearer to £5.00. Bulk dis-
counts on groups of victims, such as the row
of anoraks at the front of your lectures may
be negotiated; ask to speak to the General for
prices. Hits can be booked any lunch time in
the City & Guilds College Union Office, or in
the JCR on Tuesday and Thursday between
12.30pm and 1.30pm.
JoJjJiJll 30(3
Apology
Keys: Sorry, Food, Planning
We, IC Japan Society, will not be able to pro-
vide any performance nor any food for the
food fair at the International N i g h t '95
tonight. We have been planing for this event
but unfortunately we had some difficulties
with the organisation body who we think
lacks some organisation.
We are very sorry for those who might
have been planing to see us there and special-
ly for those who were looking forward to our
food, and many thanks to all those showed
interest in participating in this event.
However we will be back next year with
lots more events and fun.
D3mHR95 F E L I X H Q

