Standby
trivia
Perhaps Oliver Stone should take
time out, hold his breath, count to
fifty and then sit down to watch
quiz show. He might learn a thing
or two. The point is that you don't
need to overblow the media to
send it up; they do it for you and
have done so ever since the first
black and white pictures flickered
across the bakelite box.
The heart of Quiz Show's
message is that America lost its
innocence long before Jack
Kennedy lost the back of his head.
In the 1950s, when technology
always got better and all children
were above average, over half the
viewing public watched quiz shows.
They were all american, clean
shaven and educational too. Hence
there was more than just a little
disquiet when it was revealed that
the show, 'Twenty-One', had
coached its participants with the
answers beforehand.
Director Robert Redford
captures many aspects of the affair;
from the rejection of the show's old
champion, a working class Jew, for
an Ivy League lecturer (impressively
played by Ralph Fiennes), to the
thrill of the congressional
investigation that finally brought
the story to light.
It's been nominated for four
oscars and is one of the most
intelligent and witty films to have
been released this year. As the
trailer says; "the media made them
superstars" ... satire anyone?
Postcards from america is
based on the autobiographical
writings of David Wajnarowicz and
so the film is a reflection on his
homosexual life; a childhood spent
with an abusive father, his teens as
a hustler in New York and his adult
life on the open road. Although this
means that the film has a tendency
to switch backwards and forwards
to different stages in David's life,
giving one more of an impression
of a series of unrelated events
rather than a conventional plot.
The substory which deals with
David's teenage years is perhaps
the most interesting since it is here
where the film offers some much
welcomed comic relief. A rather
amusing scene is when David and
his friend attempt to mug a man
whom they meet on the street. The
two young teenagers call out to the
man, encouraging him to
approach, while concealing a knife
behind their backs. The man takes
off his glasses and starts talking to
postcards from amer/ca
Wm®mm
mm
the teenagers. As the conversation
progresses, it becomes clear that a
mutual attraction is developing.
However, just when David and his
friend are about to follow the man
into his apartment, the knife slides
down the trouser leg of his friend
onto the floor. The man becomes
so panic-stricken that he refuses to
let the two young teenagers into his
house.
Postcards From America is a
powerful film in the frankness with
which it deals with its subject
matter. The film contains scenes
which stick in the mind long after
one has left the cinema. The rape
scenes and the events surrounding
David's childhood abuse by his
father are disturbing, whilst some
scenes are erotic and others simply
leave you frowning with
puzzlement.
Although it cannot be
classified as light entertainment,
Postcards From America is a worthy
film which deals with the topic of
homosexuality in a compassionate
way.
First we had Bram Stoker's
Dracula. Then it was Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein. Now, continuing the
film industry's cool plan to make
more money from book tie-ins, we
have r u d y a r d k i p l i n g ' s the
jungle book. Actually in this case
the name is misleading, as this live
action version of the much loved
story of young Mowgli, raised by
wolves in the Indian jungle, is
absolutely nothing like the Kipling
version. As I recall his hero was a
boy of about seven, not a strapping
26 year old Chinese-American
tipped for super stud status,
showing off his pecs at every
available opportunity and playing
tonsil hockey with the daughter of
the local British commander. Nor
indeed in the original was there a
mad schoolteacher, here played
brilliantly by John C/eese, who
teaches Mowgli how to be an
English gentleman. This presum-
ably entails not covering yourself in
baby oil and slipping into a posing
pouch. These pretty serious plot
disparities apart, the film is quite
enjoyable, and is a triumph for
Jason Scott Lee, last seen in
Dragon: the Bruce Lee Story. This
guy is serious heartthrob material
and is set to be a huge star so
check him out while you can. Q
bag-ladies and mr men
"There is a growing desire to be individualistic and make one's own
fashion statement." (Verdict's report in 'clothing retailers'). Hence the
constant evolution of ever more extravagant fashion themes, the
success of the designer and the bankruptcy of the dedicated leader of
fashion. To avoid this last option, remember that accessories will
always be the key to catching the eye of the beholder while
maintaining your own individual style.
Hot on the heels of the post-war revival, the season's essential is
available in every playschool dressing-up box - the clutch b a g .
Westwood's are outsized and shiny, Versace's come in discrete pairs of
delicate pastel hue. The keys to individuality are extremes of colour,
size and materials: palest pastel or vibrant brights; outsized or tiny;
patent, satin or fur. Anything remotely reflecting the original notions of
conser-vative discretion gets a big thumbs down. Best buys in the
outlandish are at Wilson's in Camden Road or porfobe//o rd market.
While wandering the latter, look out for a wealth of big bargains
in Summer fashion. For a 40's edge buy floral print, dog's tooth check
and pastel tones. Skirt lengths remain at the knee, but any attempt to
look stylish requires the tightly fitted variety - leave the flowing cottons
for the frumpish and the indie-kids. For casual week-night clubbing
pick up old-style sports tops and team them up with little skirts and
knee highs. Alternatively, a talkative promoter somewhere is
convincing the world that Johnson's baby powder is done with and Mr
Men are now the thing. Buy your woolly hats and lycra T-shirts (£15) at
miss selfridge on High St Ken. I suggest Little Miss Naughty for the
Vixens, and for the rugby club, that really irritating long-armed orange
one whose hands get everywhere. 0
0
3
(
1
1
1
)
1
1
9
5 F E L I X WM

