The S-Files
Gutter Level is the Only Level
©Fractured Images iflp
9'
0
14
TEXTBITES FOR THE BIT GENERATION HE!%
•Si
%
•Si
A NEW KIND OF NEON?
ofMuhan
Was Light
MAN BEHIND MESSAGE
Now it's a cliche. 'The medium is the message' trot out the galaxy of
media commentators who have sprung up in ©IMuhan's wake.
Unfortunately they appear to have little understanding of what it
means.
Perhaps in some glib sense they might realise that this means that
there is a qualitative difference between literary (the novel) and televisual forms (the
mini-series) but the massive implications of the statement go much further than
what concern traditional media. UlcLlltldll is not limited to the issues that our grand-
parents can't understand the content of the modern electronic media because it is
not a linear, single view point system. Oh no. On a far wider level IDcLllhSTI cuts into
the whole decaying edifice of technology critiques.
The full force of the statement 'the medium is the message' is that the mes-
sage (or content) of a technology is inherently tied to that medium (or technology).
An example IDcluhaDgives in Understanding Media (1964):
An electric light bulb is a medium, but one inherently without a message. The
only way you can make this medium carry a message is to invoke another medium,
ie using it for morse code signaling invokes the medium of morse code and all its
associated syntax. Hence the light bulb's message is determined by the characteris-
tics of its medium. Of course some might reply that the message of the light bulb is
demonstrated by the scenes it enlightens. But IDcLllhan retorts that it doesn't matter
whether the light is used for brain surgery or baseball practice, as it is the medium
of the light bulb (the fact that it provide light) which determines the human uses it
can be put to, not any particular message or content of the light bulb.
divide of:
(Muhan's concepts...
Heart
Reason Imagination
abstract logic Imaginative
intuition
Renaissance • • • •
perspective •upectsv:
with a single depicted with
point of view out lunie
Linear sequen- Metaphorical
tial thought Vsimii'
spnsteiti
Science with Religion with
knowledge as
The person who boosts "Personally I pay no
attention to ads" has already proved himself
a liar.
The effects on technology do not occur at the level of
opinions or concepts, but alter the sense ratios or pat-
terns of perceptions steadily and without any resistance
The content of a movie is a novel or a play or an opera
the effect of the movie form is not related to its progran
content.
By continuously embracing technologies we re!
selves to them as servomechanism. That is why
to use them at all, serve these objects, these ext
ourselves, as gods or minor religions.
For those of you interested in the philosophy and
ethics of science, this happy chappy is here to
remind you that on the 18th of March, there's a day
conference in College. Tickets and further details are
available from David Cohen [dyc(r< doc.ic.ac.uk], the
humanities office [Mech Rm 313C] and F E L I X .
demonstrating fragmented art, one modern
message and media:jon. image and icons: tmtin. a bit of dtp: dias.
© D i s i o n a r y :
Marshall fMuhan
B o r n A l b e r t a in the
Western Provinces of
Canada in 1911, IMtlhan's
early influences were an
interesting mix of
Catholicism and radical
agrarian politics. The
former lead to his disgust
at the godless rationalism
of science, whilst the lat-
ter demonstrated to him
the effects of large tech-
nological systems on the
individual.
In the 1930's IMuhan
travelled to Cambridge,
where he was strength-
ened in his agrarian ten-
dencies by the (in)
famous figure of F . R .
Leavis. It was from such
a b a c k g r o u n d that his
criticism of the Indus-
trial, Yankee, Northern
American states, in con-
trast to the genteel
Southern states, came
about.
However [Mllhan's
reputation was made
with his studies of mod-
ern mass media. Such
books as The Gutenberg
Galaxy (1962) and
Understanding Media
(1964) became h i g h l y
popular.
Soundbites like 'the
medium is the message'
and 'the global village'
only go to prove how
right fTtcLuhan was in his
assessment of the mass
media. Today teleview-
er's have an attention
span of five seconds;
messages are contentless.
F E L I X

