feature
B i l e a n d t h e Ideal D o r k
The icsf guide to dorkdom... [ cathedral of icsf
from the
DORKS, DWEEBS, GEEKS AND NERDS - THERE'S A
LOT OF T H E M ABOUT. B u t how are we to tell the
important, nay vital differences between this veritable
onslaught of sad, anoraked, bespectacled bunch of feebs?
Fear not humble reader for, as your invitation into the
dull and uninspiring world of the lowly anorak, Imperial
College Science Fiction Society (icsf to the quisling Kevins
amongst you) presents its Dorkspotters Guide. (In reality it's a
base plug for our upcoming one-day convention 'Picocon' at
which Iain Banks will be the guest of honour) Iain M. Banks
- extraordinarily renowned Scottish author who wrote 'The
Wasp Factory', 'The Crow Road', 'Use of Weapons', and most
recently 'Complicity' and 'Against a Dark Background'. Iain
Menzies Banks - who appears on lots of bestsellers lists, is
coming here to talk to you. So pay attention to what follows
and dress appropriately on the day unless you want to become
an object of ridicule and derision to the assembled hordes of
fanboy nerds and get followed down the street by small
children pointing and jeering and saying "Mummy, mummy, l
o
o
k n iht_
The Comon or Garden
Trainspotter
Collective noun: an Armpit
You know the ones. They huddle i n
their i l l fitting yellow anoraks on
station platforms everywhere, with
their acne-ridden pinched faces
squinting out through fishbowl
lenses (with optional elastoplast for
diehards). They coo softly at
incoming trains and seem to exist
only to give your average Physics
student more self esteem. In fact, the
Tupperware or 'Star Wars' (they're
quite rare and collectable these days
you know) lunchbox filled with
mother-made sandwiches and the
grating nasal whine have often led to
confusion with the said students. It's
only the tattered copy of an A to Z
crammed into the duffel-pegged
pocket which gives them away. Said
students navigate using Earth's
magnetic field.
l a i n { M . } B a n k s , t h e s t a r o f i c s f s
o n e - d a y c o n v e n t i o n , P i c o c o n .
The Fantasy Fan
Collective noun: a Thong
Usually to be seen bearing armloads of shite fantasy trilogies.
These are the books with the buxom wenches i n skimpy
chainmail two-piece numbers being menaced by big hairy
monsters and/or swooning in the general direction of mighty-
thewed monosyllable barbarians (who in their dreams they
become). These barbarians obviously like scar material on
their mates. The books often have folded over corners (you
know, for xhegood bits). Spottable a mile off.
The Goth Wannabee Horror Fan
Collective noun: an Infestation
Probably likes Shaun Huston and Iron Maiden, and hence
hard to spot in the dark. Fat grebo scuzzes i n Russian army
greatcoats and baggy black jeans with white trainers, who will
enthuse at great length over the bit i n 'Orgy of the Blood
Parasites' where the flayed face gets pushed through the floor
and is still screaming and just will not take the hint and sod off.
They nurse their snakebite (black) with their cluster of like-
minded lank-haired sweaty mates and are to be avoided.
The Dust Cover
Collective noun: a Heap
If you want to find one at university, they will more likely be
found more among the staff than the student population. The
epitome of sauveness in their tweed jackets with brown elbow
patches and pressed trousers, these are the people who
stopped reading new stuff 20 years ago, because everyone
knows that no-one can better Asimov and Clarke. Don't they?
Favourite haunts are basements of second hand bookshops
looking for copies of books long out of
print. If you try to talk to them - be
warned. They will prove to you that
every idea you thought was cool is
actually at least 30 years o l d .
Depressing.
The Cyberpunk
Collective noun: a Goggle
Since their staple diet is all set in a real
low down gritty high tech near future,
they dress accordingly. Watch out for
the leather, denim, personal organiser
and the latest Reeboks which have heels
that light up as y o u walk. (Real
environment unfriendly, but the future
is bleak so who cares?) N o t often
sighted on the streets apart from when it
is raining - more than likely sitting
jacketed i n front of a screen trying to
write a piece of really cool code that will
make them richer than Gates. Not hard
to avoid since they seem to have lost a lot of their
communication skills - unless the person they are talking to is
a machine.
The Teenage Retrograde
Collective noun: a Swarm
Often mistaken for other categories, these sad children have
not grasped that words consist of more than three syllables.
Favourite dress is denim jacket - the one which was so cool in
the sixth form - and the reason for their sad lack of literary
skills lies i n not being adventurous enough to wean
liliW F E L I X 0
3
0
1
H
R
9
B

