Feature
themselves off the drivel that they should have given up
reading when they went through puberty. Most easily
spottable by the fact they are not at all embarrassed
about reading D r . Who and Dragonlance,
and will even tell you how the story is just so
great, and they can't wait until the next in
the series comes out. Avoid unless drunk, at
which point monosyllabic talk is not so
painful.
The Rest of Us
Collective noun: a Trek
Oh, then there's the Trekkies (how could
we forget!), and though some prefer to be
referred to as Trekkers, neither faction
particularly enjoys the label
'Goawayyouspoddygit', but it's good for a
laugh. Know them by their 'Generations'
T-shirts and general hilarity about
"Captain's Logs" (I got that one off the
computer as soon as I could) and "Circling
Uranus for Kingons" jokes.
So, i f you find yourself amidst this
cavalcade of tank tops in just nine days
from now, just remember as you cough
phthysically into your drink that Iain
Banks (who is just like the rest of them
deep down inside with his big spaceships
with their big guns and miniature droids) is coming to
give a talk (and we are sure he will sign all of your
books). We will also have Simon Ings, another author,
we will be showing a video of a short film he collaborated
on, and Arley Anderson, who will giving more of a
factual science talk. A l l three of these guests
are on the main panel which takes the
theme of 'When to break the laws of Science
for the sake of Fiction', and we want all of
you along to put your little oar in. We also
have a panel on Babylon 5 (about it, not
physically on it), videos, some computer fan
database stuff, a film in the I C U Cinema, a
bring and buy book sale and a tombola. Fun
for all the family!
The basic information is that the
whole day, Sunday 12 M a r c h , with
registration starting at 10am, is a snich at £3
for I C U members or any student with a
i valid ID. icsf members get in for £1. So put
it in your diary now!
For all those, who after reading this
article still have no interest, this category is
for you.
The Rest of You
Collective noun: Illiterates
Although the above categories of reading
(and otherwise) tastes may a l l seem
dweebishly amusing, and they are, just
remember that all too many of you don't read anything, so
making you shmuks sadder than the sum of all the above.
How To Vote
You will be given a ballot paper on production of a valid swipe card; your ballot paper will have the
names of the candidate(s) and new election. If you think the candidate(s) are unsuitable for the job
you should vote New Election. To vote you place a T beside the candidate you think is most suitable
for the post. Place a T by the next most suitable candidate and so on until all the boxes are filled,
or until there are no more candidates you feel are suitable for the post. If you have lost your swipe
card you may vote with an ICU card at the Union.
When and where you can vote
The Union 6th & 7th March Elec Eng 6th March
JCR 6th & 7th March Mines 7th March
Chem/BioChem 6th & 7th March Civ Eng 6th March
Huxley 6th & 7th March Mech Eng 7th March
Chem Eng 6th & 7th March
03mfiR95 F E L I X MM

