2 NEWS STOP PRESS: C O N G R A T U L A T I O N S T O E L E C E N G : 2 4 / 2 4 ! - FULL STORY NEXT WEEK F E L I X F R I D A Y 1 4 T H F E B R U A R Y
First medical open day
P H O T O : W A N L I N G L I
Visitors examine the winners of the 1997 Hunting Art Prizes, works by
new British artists on display at the Royal College of Art until Sunday.
Surprise candidates
enliven Sabbatical race
continued from front page
Head talked the prospective medical
students through two admission
interview case-studies, in an attempt
to demystify this most dreaded part
of the selection procedure.
Finally, brief presentations were
given by Eric Allsop, Sami Ansari,
and Nitesha Singh, Student Union
presidents of Imperial College, St
Mary's Hospital Medical School,
and Charing Cross and Westminster
Medical School respectively.
Together, they emphasised the exten-
sive recreational facilities provided
for students by the College and drew
attention to the sports teams, clubs
and societies that the medics could
enjoy within their own Constituent
College Union.
Dr Shaw then fielded a brief ques-
tion and answer session concerning
the new curriculum. Questions relat-
ed to other aspects of the course, par-
ticularly those pertaining to present
medical students, were answered
during the rest of the day while
prospective students were taken on a
tour of the South Kensington cam-
pus. This was followed by a visit to
the two main teaching hospitals, St
Mary's and Charing Cross. At St
Mary's Hospital, the large party of
sixth-formers learned of the proud
tradition of the hospital and its med-
ical school in sporting achievements
and other activities during a talk by
Mr Robin Touquet, a consultant sur-
geon in accident and emergency.
The open day was jointly organ-
ised by the ICSM and the Student
Unions of Imperial College, St
Mary's Hospital Medical School and
Charing Cross and Westminster
Medical School. Some preparations
on the South Kensington campus
were a little improvised, the ICU
executive having been informed of
the event only the night before.
However, most of the visitors,
including the tutors who accompa-
nied their students on the open day,
made the most of the the opportunity
to chat to the medics. The principal
concern expressed by the prospective
students was that their less than out-
standing GCSE grades would jeopar-
dise their chance of winning a place
at the medical school, and that they
might not have chosen the correct
subjects at A-level to study medi-
cine.
N E W S T E A M
The final week of nominations for
the 1997 Sabbatical Elections has
seen unprecedented activity amongst
potential candidates jockeying for
prominence. A number of submitted
and then withdrawn candidatures
have further confused the election
race. Today, the cieadline passes lor
members of Imperial College Union
wishing to run for election to a sab-
batical position to sign their names
on the nomination papers. Last
minute nominations are expected as
several rumours of eleventh hour
candidates, possibly including a
medical student, abound.
At the time of going to press, six
fully proposed and seconded candi-
dates are standing for the four
Sabbatical posts. Two candidates
have stood for the posts of Deputy
President (Finance and Services) and
Deputy President (Clubs and
Societies, whilst there remains a sin-
gle candidate each for the posts of
Felix Editor and President. New
Election, the option for voters
unconvinced that the candidates arc
suitable for the job, is also standing
for every post.
This second week of nominations
has seen some surprise candidates
come forth and secure the full com-
pliment of twenty seconders and a
proposer. Samantha Baker, a third
year chemist, is currently unopposed
for the position of President after
Johnathan Austin, a fourth year
physicist, and Andrew Guilder, a
third year mechanical engineering
student withdrew their candidatures.
In an unsual turn of events. Mr
Guilder withdrew his candidature by
scrawling "No thank you. Cheers for
the support" across his paper early
on Thursday morning despite his
securing of seventeen seconders.
Elsewhere, fourth year civil engi-
neering student Duncan Tindall is
vying with chemical engineer John
Savery, also in his fourth year, for
the post of DP (F&S). Smita
Chaturvedi, biochemistry II, and
Sarah Thomas, chemical engineering
IV, are competing for the post of
DP(C&S). Jeremy Thomson, a third
year physicist is sole candidate for
the post of Felix Editor.
With nominations closing at 6 pm
this evening, there is still opportuni-
ty for last minute candidates to come
forward. Rumours persist that two
'heavyweight' candidates will sign
up for the top post of President, with
some suggestions of a stage-man-
aged nomination just before the
deadline.
HUMANITIES PROGRAMME 1997 - 1998
Would you like some help with selecting your Humanities Option for
the next academic year? Come and sit in on one or more of the
current lectures held on Monday and Friday lunchtimes before the end
of the Spring term (there will be no lectures in the last week of term).
The times and venues are displayed outside the Humanities General
Office, Room 313C Mechanical Engineering Building.
Detailed course notes will be available during the summer. Synopses
will be available shortly. Please fill in the form below if you would
like further information. P L E A S E U S E B L O C K C A P I T A L S .
Name:
Department and current year of study:
I would like to receive synopses of Humanities courses:
I would like to receive a detailed set of course notes (see below):
•
Course required: Art and Nature; Communication of Scientific
Ideas: practical course; Science, Communication, and Society;
European History; History of Medicine; History of Science;
History of Technology; Modern Literature and Drama; Music
and Ideas in the 19th Century; Politics; Philosophy I;
Philosophy II; Philosophy of Science; Ethics of Science and
Technology - please ring course required.
Please return to: Humanities General Office, Room 313C Mech.Eng.

