NEWS FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 14TH FEBRUARY FELIX FRIDAY 14TH FEBRUARY NEWS FEATURE 9
In Britain, our human rights are being eroded.
The Home Secretary interferes with the courts
in a way that's not only unethical, but down-
right illegal. Our very freedom is in jeopardy
as cynical vote-grabbing 'law and order' bills
outlaw cultural choices; the Police State is a
reality. We have no constitution
You may not agree with these statements,
but millions do, and these are hardly problems
that will be solved by writing to an M P or The
Times. When society's problems become sys-
temic, only radical protest will get the mes-
sage through. 10,000 placard-bearing activists
and any liberty we have is enjoyed
solely at the failing benevolence of
our rulers. Profit driven policy and party pol-
itics are leading to a gaping poverty gap and
untold environmental destruction.
Protest Culture? Absolutely
democratic method that is illegal and often
violent. Shouldn't people use our time-hon-
oured democratic system to express their
views? Perhaps we are over-tolerant of
activists who seem to wander around the
country causing disruption for their own
entertainment.
marching through the capital simply can't be
ignored or concealed.
Is it right to protest? After all, civil action,
particularly direct action is a brute-force non-
Bollocks. The law is broken
because the law has failed. We
don't have a democracy, we have a stagnant,
gnarly puppet-show that seems to resent its
citizens, not serve and protect them. D I Y cul-
ture is here. If we want change, we need to act
- independently, directly.
It is often forgotten by groups of protesters
that there are far more effective methods of
registering your distaste of a building project,
commercial activity or proposed law than
lying in front of a bulldozer. These groups,
frustrated by their own inaction in opposing
their chosen bugbear, resort to ille-
gal actions in a last ditch, and usu-
ally futile, attempt to influence
opinion. Unfortunately for them,
and fortunately for the due and
correct process of democracy and account-
ability, they normally fail to succeed in their
plans. The proper democratic channels are
always open for anyone to object, but it is bla-
tantly obvious that these channels are deliber-
ately ignored by the cadre of 'professional'
protesters who revel in the media attention
and their fifteen minutes of fame. It is they
who put our society and its structures at risk
Protest Culture?
Not to be tolerated
for their own personal gratification. It is right
that these so-called 'legitimate' protests are
dispersed by authorities acting under the aus-
pices of the law. Right-thinking and law-
abiding people, who are often put at some risk
by protesters actions (witness the two deaths
at last year's demonstration in opposition to
the export of calves), do not deserve to be
exposed to this sort of mass law breaking.
More fundamentally though, two (or
more), wrongs do not make a right;
there should never be a situation
where breaking the law of the land
is a legitimate method of expressing
an opinion. The more common
forms of protest such as vandalism, libelling
someone or an organisation and trespassing
on private land should recognised for what
they are: illegal.
Survey Results
Bypasses, live animal exports, strikes - all have one thing in com
mon. Nearby you will find people of all ages and stages protesting
and shouting out their views for all the media to see. Protesters have
been in the public eye recently, with Brent Spar and Newbury
among the most famous examples. The Criminal Justice and Public
Order Act outlawed; many forms of protest, creating the new
offence of 'aggravated trespass' as well as outlawing some raves
and certain demonstrations without permission. Should demonstra-
tors break the law if that is the only way of changing it? Or should
the police clamp down on those who trespass and destroy property
to publicise their own views? We have a conducted a small survey
among students (questions below, results left), and have supplied
two opposing viewpoints. Feel free to write and tell us your views.
Survey questions:
1. Have you ever been involved in a protest?
2. Do you think that peacefull protest works?
3. Do you think violent or illegal protest works?
4. Is the right to protest an important part of a modern democracy?

