Feature
21 May 1993 Felix 967
Going Up ?
A Collegewide survey of elevatorsconducted by HarryEstleun
(3rd cousin, twice removed of Mario De Malevolant, half-brother of Donny 'O Nonchalent)
Lift appreciation you might think,
is down there with train spotting.
But you'd be wrong in thinking this.
Over the past decade or so, because
of the advances of lift-technology,
more people enjoy travelling lifts,
although only a small proportion
will admit to it. The experience can
produce a variety of effects:
Increase in heart rate, and breathing
rate, release of excitatory
hormones, and one woman (going
up 55 floors in an office block)
experienced, and I quote: 'a
numbness in my upper legs and
surrounding area for the duration of
the ride...'
This guide is for all lift-
lovers out there, and anyone who
is simply curious as what the best
life in college is. Any unusual lift
experiences you have, please notify
me (Harry Estleun c/o Donny
O'Nonchalent, Felix Office, Beit
Quad, Prince Consort Road, SW7
2BB). Give details when making
submissions. All Letters will not be
in the strictest of confidence.
C h e m i s t r y / B i o C h e m i s t r y
These shake uncontrollably; was I in a lift or a giant
cocktail shaker? The panels are crude, the lighting is not
as bright as it should be and they are relatively small.
But they have mirrors on the back wall! Could be better.
C o m p u t i n g
H
E
Z
J
B
^
J ^wo
°^mese m
^ m e
P a n e
l s a r e
shit! Really shit! I hate
them! They are big though, have good lighting and are
quite quick. They have a distinctive quality unmatched
by any other lift I tested, a quality that may appeal to some
people: they smell of rubber. It's unmistakeable. The
moment the doors close, it hits you; the waft of rubber.
The combination of this and the mild shaking of the lifts,
provides what might be for some, the ultimate turn on.
Biology (East Wing)
j^/j Don't ask how I got past the security system! This one
isn't much of an improvement when compared to the
Union lift. It's clean (apart from the illegible signature
on one side) and the button panel is relatively idiot proof.
But there is hardly enough room to swing a genetically
engineered dwarfed gerbil in here, and it's so slow. Come
Biology Dept., you can do better.
Biology (West Wing)
1 l i k e m e
y u
P P i e flat s t v l e
sliding door but the dirty look
I got from Postgrad's who suspected that I was an
Undergrad put me off this lift. Sorry, this one gets a lousy
rating (blame the Postgrad's).
Sherfield
I
^
H
^
1
^ Choice of two again. These lifts are spacious, clean, well
lit and quite quick. But the 'carpet' is really horrible: It
is! A gross pattern that is hopefully no longer available,
worn down and slightly darker towards the centre. The
panel is almost out of date, the display is basic but it has
a guide as to what on's each floor, useful for infrequent
users. Better than some by far.
Civil E n g
These pair of lifts are small-ish, badly lit and have no
apparent floor indicator (may be I was looking in the
wrong place). This was catered for blind people I think:
they have poor light (why would blind people need light)
and BIG buttons. If my memory serves me correctly,
they do have mirrors on the back wall though (I'm not
certain, be warned). Not my favourite but not the worst.
G e o l o g y / M a t e r i a l s
X ~X Crude, quite quick, shite panel and gross colours,
said.
'nuf
M e c h a n i c a l E n g
Four to choose from! That's right, four. A l l of these lifts [V]
are massive and with good lighting. The panel is a similar
style to that of the Sherfield lifts. But there is a down side.
They are slow; slow to take you up and down and also
slow for the doors to close. The doors are also extremely,
but not completely, unresponsive to anything that touches
their edges once they have started to close. I would have
liked to rate it higher, but alas I can't.
P h y s i c s
both identical. Each has a |^/]|V'|[VJ[V'|
Choice of two in Physics
mirror on the back face which I thought was quite kinky
Coupled with the satiny lighting effects this turned out jV||y]|V'j
to be an enjoyable ride. But it was all over to quickly!
What have the Physicists done to these lifts? They have
bloody turbo charge! Travelling 8 floors takes as quickly
as travelling 2 floors in Biology. This is good for getting
to lectures quickly (why anyone would want to do this
is a question that has puzzled me for hours), but bad for
appreciating the lifts. They also have a high tech level
indicator and posh panels to boot. Also, like the
Aeronautics/Chem Eng lift, they have no smell. But unlike
it, the doors close in the blink of an eye; a bit of a danger
for slow coaches. This has to be the best.
Electrical E n g
A twin set of lifts with mirrors that shake quite violently ^[y^l^/j
when reaching the top floor; electrical engineers are kinky
devils, aren't they! These are quick, clean, but not that
well lit, mind. They have a clompy style decor which is
stomach churning. Nice overhead panel and they were
very silent when going down. A good pair.
U n i o n Building
This sad excuse of a lift is small, dirty, slow, smells ,7^||?^|[^||^
characteristically of uncleaned public toilets and has barely ~
enough light for you to see the green splodge of graffiti
that is spread across two sides, (I think it could be the
product of a hay fever sufferer, but I wasn't prepared to
examine it). The only sensation I got was a sudden desire
to empty my stomach. Avoid at all costs. (But praise the
lord because Andrew Wensley has promised (in his
manifesto) to make the Union a nicer place to work. Let's
hope he starts with the lift).
A e r o n a u t i c s / C h e m E n g
SISIKIIE]
This was bigger than the Biology lifts and a hell of a lot V - /
cleaner, but strangely enough, it had no smell. No urine,
no polish, nothing was detected by my nose. It was
quicker than the Biology lifts and the buttons were
straightforward. Not a bad lift.
Thanks to Cub, the student newspaper/magazine of Queen Mary & Westfield, for the idea of this feature.
Page 8

