ers
Small Ads
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Anyone interested in
refereeing a few football
matches this term? No
experience required, all expenses
paid. Contact Sam: 6455 or
room B421 Mines.
• Guilds Motor Club are
organising a trip to the Castle
Coombe racing school on May
6. Any interested members
should sign up on Mech Eng
Level 3.
• Are you interested in going to
Amsterdam in March for only
£40? Contact Martyn Peck via
Chem 1, FELIX or IC Radio.
•"Would the pe/son who has
the Ham Soc wavemeter please
return it. Chris Read gave you it
temporarily.
• Be there or be.an asparagus
tip! Tonight, Union Lounge.
• ...And if you've any requests
bring the records! Tonight Union
Lounge.
ACCOMMODATION
• Spaces available in shared
rooms in both Student Houses
and Head Tenancies.
• Room in shared house in
Wimbledon. £36pw (£12pw
rebate) plus bills. Phone 947
5207.
• Shared room for male
student in shared room in
Lexham Gardens. £36 pw.
Contact T Jackson (Physics 3).
FOR SALE
• Dahaitsu Charade XG, 1979,
left hand drive, 75,000 miles,
good condition, MOT, tax, new
tyres, new battery, sunroof
stereo—£550. Contact Paul:
387 7050 ext 3586 (daytime),
or 385 7477 (evenings).
• One pair Salomon SX90 ski
boots, size 11/12. £20 ono.
Contact J Biddle (Biochem 2),
371 0249.
• Colour TV £60. Contact T
Irons or L J Davers (Physics 3)
via pigeonholes.
PERSONAL
• Cosmic—sign of a misplaced
gestation.
• Want cos busted? See most
of RCS.
• Face of Cosmic—fate worse
than death.
• Cosmic ferrets can be
cured...anyone got a shotgun?
A gauntlet
with relish
\Dear Judith,
No doubt you are aware of the recent events regarding
yellow rubber washing-up gloves and the infamous
'Gauntlet Club'. Will Evelyn Gardens ever be rid of this
terror?
Apparently Mark Lee and the 'Magnificent Seven' (the
housing tribunal), think so. 'MI7' recently attempted to
prosecute Ben Hodgson and Chris Stapleton for a string
of raids. These raids were in fact conducted mainly by
the VP and myself alone, including that terrible night of
the hanging basket!
The executive of the (most exclusive) Gauntlet Club have
previously considered both Ben and Chris for memberhip,
but although they show potential, an invitation to join was
never extended.
Perhaps the aim of the Club should be clarified. We try
to practice a nov.el non destructive fotm of mascotry,
borrowing things and giving them back mainly intact a
few days later, having left a gauntlet in place of the
removed object.
Up to now our dealings have been restrained'to Evelyn,
but beware! Even grander plans regarding Keogh Hall are
currently in the 'operation planning' stage.
I think it's sad some people find it so difficult to have
fun. Don't forget—everyone knows where Holbein House
is, and they can always come and have a go at us one night.
You could even say we are 'laying down the gauntlet' in
an official challenge.
However, despite the joviality I shall end on a more
serious note. The threat of eviction of fellow students from
College residences must surely be a subject concerning
us all. Indeed it would appeal innocence is no protection
against the wrath of MI7.
Hope everyone (including M r Lee) had a great Xmas,
and long live FELIX's lack of censorship.
Yours sincerely,
committed to their music.
2. The name Baby Delta left long before I did and at
my urgent and frantic prompting.
3. The name Baby Delta was not associated with me
personally, the whole band chose it and must share the
blame for its awfulness and absurdity.
Also, out of the kindness of my heart, I played a gig
with the band at the Holland Club, although (according
to Mr Hartley) I had been unceremoniously kicked out
weeks before. I also allowed them to use my own personal
drumkit (which is mine) in order to audition my
replacement. Mr Hartley should stick this up his bottom
and see which way the wind of fortune blows.
Yours sincerely,
Andy McMahon,
ex-Imperial,
ex-Stagefright,
ex-etc.
Liberally
slurring
Dear Judith,
I am writing regarding Matthew Huntback's letter about
my article in FELIX 788.1 won't bore people by talking
about my own political persuasions (although I am in fact
a long-time Liberal supporter and have done my own share
of campaigning—usually in the rain). I only hope that at
least some of the readers of my article realised that it was
meant to be a lighthearted collection of quotes and
stories—nor a malicious slur against the Liberal Party!
Yours incredulously,
James P.apa, ME2
PS. Did you actually read "my article Mr Huntback?
Smalltown
Frightful
errors
Dear Judith,
Regarding the Stage/right interview in the Christmas
FELIX. Pete Hartley is quoted as saying 'when we got
rid of Andy, we got rid of the name (Baby Delta) as well'.
This sentence (no doubt flowing from the lips of the great
man in all innocence) contains (or implies) the following
errors:
1.1 was not 'got rid of in the cruel and heartless manner
suggested. I left amicably and by mutual agreement, so
that the band could find a drummer who would be more
boy
Dear Judith,
Having just read this week's copy of FELIX I was
deeply disturbed to find that my home town of Wilmslow
had been branded a NAFF place.
I presume that this condemnation was the result of one
of your intrepid reporters actually going to the place and
can therefore be backed up with some hard line facts.
Furthermore I am surprised that you have even bothered
to publish such a worthless piece of information, since
a large majority of your readers wofl't even know where
Wilmslow is.
Finally since you have had the nerve to slag off this
quiet town surrounded by the beautiful Cheshire
countryside I would have at least expected you to spell
it correctly, 'WIMSLOW', I ask you, there's another ' L '
you know.
Yours sincerely,
Graham Messenger (Civ Eng).
FELIX Friday January 22nd 1988 19

