|
N
J ews
Excuse m e , I thought
this was the lift
The offices of STOIC, the College
television service, were broken into
early on Wednesday morning.
Charles Robin, Secretary of STOIC,
was asleep in the editing room, having
worked late the previous evening. Mr
Robin was woken around 4.30am by
the sound of a filing cabinet being
moved up to the door outside. A small
window about eight feet above the
floor, between the corridor and thei
main STOIC Office, was broken and
an intruder climbed through it and I
opened the door from the inside to;
admit his two accomplices. The first
intruder then went to a filing cabinet
where STOIC used to keep its petty
cash. Mr Robin came into the office
to investigate and pushed past the two
men at the door to reach the mains |
isolator switch, turning the lights on.
The intruders then fled and Mr Robin
attempted to give chase, but was
hampered by the broken glass on the
floor. The intruders made their way
out down the main stairs.
Mr Robin dressed and attempted to
report the break-in to College
security. The security officer on duty
•was on his rounds and the incident
was only reported at 4.50am.
Mr Robin feels that 'they could at
least have taken STOIC's defunct
camera', as this is proving impossible
to sell. Mark Salisbury, Chair of
STOIC feels that the thieves must
have had some limited knowledge of
STOIC as they went straight to where
the petty cash used to be kept.
Union Deputy Presdient Alan Rose
was reluctant to comment as the
incident may still be investigated by
the police. He did, however,
comment that as the Union Building
was locked by Security at midnight,
the methods of entry available to the
intruders were: via one of three fire
escapes, by forcing a window, by
having a key to the building or by
hiding in the building from before
midnight until around 4.30am.
Mr T Briley, Deputy Chief Security
Officer for the,College, agreed that
'every theft on College property must
be looked into and all College security
is being reviewed at the moment'.
The current spate of thefts from
College property includes the theft of
Micro Computer Society equipment,
thefts from Hamlet Gardens and from
Southwell, Mining and Willis Jackson
Houses in Evelyn Gardens during the
Christmas holiday. The total value of
possessions stolen from residences
was more than £1700 including more
than £700 from one individual. The
cost of repairs to walls, doors and
door frames, which were damaged
during the thefts, is expected to be
between £600 and £700.
The staff of Central Stores have stepped up their campaign against closure
this week. They have been distributing leaflets (see above) and collecting
signatures for a petition which they intend to present to College
administration.
continuedfromfrontpage
had been made regarding rent or bar
increases and that it would be at least
three months before a final decision
was made. However, it has been
made quite clear to the Union that
debts can only be repaid by either a
15% increase in bar prices or a 5%
increase in College rents. 'The root
cause of our problems is that we have
gone in for a major capital
expenditure programme. We have 25
year mortgages on Evelyn Gardens
and Montpelier Hall and refectories
to refurbish,' said Mr Aldridge.
Mr Howgate is in a defiant mood.
He believes that the refectory
refurbishment programme should
have been carried out over a longer
period of time and that students had
been misled by College when they
accepted the new Evelyn Gardens
proposals last year. 'I've been Mr
Nice-Guy for too damn long', he said
yesterday. He told FELIX in no
uncertain terms that he would not
hesitate in calling a rent strike if
students were forced to accept even
more rent increases to cover College's
inefficency.
College Assistant Secretary
Michael Arthur was seen quaking in
his boots late last night.
B R plays
C u p i d
Railcard holders will be able to
benefit from a bargain fare after next
month. Saver fares usually costing
over £25 will be reduced to £10
during February, while those under
£25 will cost only £5.
'With February being the month of
St Valentine, this is a good chance for
young romantics to visit their absent
_ vsd ones and deliver their wishes
in person', said Ross Furby, BR's
Director, Passenger Marketing
Services, explaining this generous
offer.
Young Persons' Railcards cost £12
and are available to anyone who is
aged 16 to 23 or is a member of
Imperial College Union.
The ICU Rag Committee has two
new twosome, David 'Dai' Williams
they want to create a revolutionary
new Rag Mag that is magazine-
sized and sold through newsagents
country-wide.
new Rag Mag Editors for 1988. The
and Gail Turner have announced that
W a c k y idea
A new solution has been suggested by
College administration to the Music
Room problem. They want to put a'
new Music Building on the site
underneath the Old Holland Club,
Huxley Building. At a meeting of the
Rector, Head of the Management
School, administrators and Union
Music Society representatives, it was
suggested that the money needed for
the project could be raised by
company sponsorship.
Meanwhile the Queensgate Trust,
set up to fund student activities, has
agreed to give £20,000 for a new
piano to be put in Terminal Room A
in the Department of Computing. This
is seen as an immediate solution to the
lack of a proper Music Room caused
by the loss of 53 Princes Gate.
Editorial Note: Chris Griffin, new warden of Hamlet Gardens, has
denied that the article we printed concerning one of his student
managers on the Libel page last week was true.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright FELIX 1988 ISSN 1040-0711.
20 Friday January 22nd 1988 FELIX

