UNDER THE
M I C R O S C O P E
by Steve Black
B i r d s a r e
b a s t a r d s t o o !
Recent evidence (Nature 331 pl9 and
p66) has shown that some birds are
rather less 'moral' than we used to
think. They transfer their own eggs
into the nests of other members of the
same species, to save them the effort
of having to look after such a large
brood themselves. (Cuckoos do the
same sort of thing but at least have
the courtesy to parasitize other
species.) To understand why this is
an interesting observation we have to
niake a rather long detour into a
highly controversial area of
evolutionary theory. But first a look
at why it is controversial.
Animals and morality
An opponent of mine at a debating
competition, attacking sentimental
notions of animal rights, started his
speech thus ' A l l animals are
bastards'. This attracted everyone's
attention, but before he was accused
of being unnecessarily crude, he
continued: 'Because none of their
parents are married'.
Apart from being a good way to
win a debate, the statement contains
profound truths about animal and
human nature. We should not judge
animals when they behave in an
immoral way, because they are
incapable of moral reasoning.
Equally, we should not read too much
into examples of supposedly good
behaviour in them, because their
behaviour is unlikely to be controlled
by the sort of conscious motivations
that make morality possible.
However, many people are
unrepentantly sentimental when it
comes to ascribing human motives to
animal behaviour. Altruistic
behaviour in animals is a particularly
dangerous area. There are many
examples of animals behaving in ways
which appear to be detrimental to
themselves but to the benefit of other
members of the same species. For
example, birds will often pretend to
be injured to distract predators away
from their chick-containing nests.
Many people (some of them even
professional biologists) ascribe
human-like motives to such altruistic
displays. Supposedly, the birds are
taking a considerablepersonal risk for
the good of others (or the species as
a whole). Therefore, they are
behaving in a way that would merit
a human bravery medal.
Strangely, many people get very
uneasy when biologists debunk such
anthropomorphic illusions. Perhaps it
is because altruism is such an
important aspect of human behaviour,
and people are worried that we can
'explain it away'. People are always
very anxious not to be regarded as
mere animals. Books such as The
Selfish Gene have caused considerable
unease by attempting to explain all
altruistic behaviour in terms of
genetically programmed self interest.
It is worth looking at the selfish-
gene hypothesis in some detail, as it
gives a good illustration of modern
evolutionary thinking.
Selfish genes and behaviour
The basic idea of the theory is that
natural selection works more on the
level of individual genes than on the
level of species or organisms. This
implies that the game of evolution is
much more subtle than most people
tend to think. Natural selection ceases
to be about individual animals
struggling to survive, but becomes
about bits of DNA struggling to
perpetuate themselves. This is often
seen as disturbing, because it seems
to degrade individuals into robots
blindly programmed to reproduce
their genes. This is apparently more
difficult to cope with than the idea of
individuals struggling to stay alive.
The theory makes a lot of sense
when stripped of anthropomorphic
language. Genes do not consciously
manipulate animals in order to
reproduce, but genes which code for
successful stragegies will spread in a
population.
The theory has no trouble
explaining apparently altruistic
behaviour. It can be beneficial to a
gene for a parent to sacrifice itself for
the sake of its children, because the
children contain copies of the same
DNA. So behaviour which appears to
be altruistic is actually caused by the
selfishness of some bit of DNA.
Presumably this is why so many
people get hot under the collar at the
selfish-gene theory: it appears to
dubunk the possibility of truly selfless
behaviour. I will come back to this
later. But first it pays to look at the
actual theory stripped of all its
humanized language. All it says about
altruism is this: if a gene exists that
causes parents to sacrifice themselves,
in some circumstances, for the sake
of their young, then such a gene will
spread because more copies of it will
be passed on. This applies, of course,
only if the sacrifice is worthwhile, but
the necessary conditions can be
expressed mathematically enabling us
to see what sorts of strategy are
worthwhile.
When the numbers are worked out,
the selfish gene theory can explain a
lot of animal behaviour. Certain
strategies are not stable: for example,
blind altruism. This will survive as
long as everybody else in a population
contains blind altruistic genes, but as
soon as an exploiting gene arrives it
will rapidly multiply. It saves effort
by being a bastard, while everybody
else is wasting their time and effort
being nice. However, blind
exploitation is rarely a stable strategy
either (not caring at all for your
children is no way to pass on your
genes). Intermediate strategies or
mixtures of strategies are the things
which work best. Exploiting
strategies can be stable if they are not
too common in a population, just as
altuism works well if it is not too
4 Friday January 22nd 1988 FELIX

