pip**
generous. Actual predictions of the
ratios of various strategies can be
made given particular circumstances.
One puzzle for the theory is why
brood-parasitism (that is, trying to get
someone else to bring up your
children) is not common within single
species. Cuckoos do it to other
species, but it wasn't thought to
happen much between members of the
same species.
Recent observations on some bird
colonies have shown the fault is with
the observations not the theory: to see
brood parasitism you need to mark
eggs (otherwise they all look the
same) and trace them between nests.
In some colonies of cliff swallows, up
to 6% of the eggs were not laid by
the owner of the nest they were in.
This is a literal case of not putting all
your eggs in one basket. The survival
rate of transferred eggs is higher than
for unmoved ones, presumably
because the swallows can select the
best neighbours to move their children
to.
The amount of exploitation going
on is about what would be predicted
as stable by the selfish gene theory.
So cuckoos are not the only exploiters
in the world of birds.
Selfish genes and people
So what?
People are worried about being
reduced to robots run by their genes.
The theory is threatening because it
appears to explain all our behaviour
in terms of genetic programming, and
this contradicts our notions of free
will.
However, it's worth noting that
most human behaviour is learned
behaviour, not programmed. Also,
we are the first species on the planet
intelligent enough to look at the
process of evolution and see how it
works: we should be able to transcend
any genetic programming we may
have. So don't believe anyone who
fatalistically believes we are
completely run by our DNA. People
are different from animals: selfish
genes can only work if we are not
aware of them.
It is important for us to realise this.
Morality, altruism, and being nice to
people other than your relatives, is
something we have to teach. The
future of the human race may require
the sort of huge acts of altruism that
only sentient moral beings are capable
of. We now have sufficient power to
destroy ourselves if we leave our
decisions to our blind instincts.
This is a very superficial description
of the whole subject. For those who
want to learn more the key book is
'The Selfish Gene', Richard Duwkins,
Oxford University Press, 1976.
I was quite amazed by the response
to my first column last week. The
amount of people in my own
department who rushed up and told
me what a pillock I was was
unbelievable.
As you may have guessed from the
tone of this introduction, not a soul
mentioned my new journey into the
world of journalistic garbage. I could
have understood it if it was just a
matter of casual departmental
acquaintances but I have managed to
attend several meetings and two
society dinners since last Friday and
not even close friends cared to bring
it up in conversation. It would have
made the dinners much more
interesting than having to listen to the
bellicose chitter-chatter of ancient
club members recalling their own
student days and why the club wasn't
the same anymore.
I go to such dinners to meet old
friends who have gone in their own,
very different directions after leaving
Imperial. They provide the only
opportunity to catch up on the gossip,
plan future meetings and dinner
parties, and lightly flirt with the new
wives of old enemies.
It was this weekend that I found
myself at another College dinner.
Everytime I go to one, I vow never
to let myself do it again. It's a bit like
getting ratted. I always end up doing
it occasionally, after the memory has
been numbed from a suitably long
interval. It's always an unpleasant
experience. I hate the way they
brazenly serve up packet soup for
starters. My idea of an ideal dinner
is not a mouthful of monosodium
glutamate. Why can't they provide
soup from a tin, at least? I keep
finding lumps of dehydrated chicken
floating idly around my bowl which
give me no end of pleasure trying to
rehydrate and ediblise.
In my time at Imperial I must have
tried all the set meals that the
Refectories have concocted. The roast
duck with more fat than meat; the
rubber sweetcorn; the soggy broccoli;
and the Boeuf en Croute which was
all croute and no boeuf.
I can just about take the awfulness
of the food—I'm only a student after
all—but the service is unbelievable.
One dinner I attended not so long ago
was outrageously expensive, the food
was poor and it took the two geriatrics
who were serving us nearly fifteen
minutes to serve up the main course.
They put the meat out first which was
stone-cold by the time the potatoes
finally made their appearance.
And why should I be spoken to so
rudely when I ask for a knife that is
clean and not smattered with
yesterday's food? The waitresses look
daggers at you if you even suggest
that your neighbour has one more
j slice of meat than you have received.
They tip gravy down your best suit
and mumble apologies under their
breaths. They call you 'dearie' not
'sir': 'Mind out, dearie!' they screech
if you dare to talk to your neighbour
while they are trying to serve you.
What ever happened to 'Excuse me,
please'?
The sweet is usually a Sainsbury's
lemon tart or, if you're really lucky,
a partially thawed piece of Black
Forest Gateau with the option of
cream!
The best dinner I ever went to at
College was a simple buffet-type
meal. There were no waitresses to
deal with, no lack of food on my plate
and a pleasant evening was had by all.
Even the veggies in the party had no
complaints about the evening.
I will, no doubt, find myself at
another College dinner in the future.
I will not be there for the food, nor
the service. I will be there because I
want to meet old friends and because
the person organising the dinner
didn't want the bother of going
'outside' for the meal. I can only hope
that things may have improved by this
time. But we are only students, after
all.
INTERESTED IN AN
ENGINEERING CAREER IN
THE UNITED STATES?
LUTRON is the leader in the lighting control field and has
opportunities for Electrical and Mechanical Engineers to
develop new products. Positions are also available in
Sales and Marketing.
• Lutron is located in northeastern United States (90
miles west of New York City).
• Enjoy competitive American salaries with
comprehensive benefits, including medical insurance.
• A presentation will be held on Monday evening, 22
February 1988, at Imperial College, with interviews
scheduled for Monday, 22 February 1988 (vacation and
summer) and Tuesday, 23 February 1988 (full time).
• See the Careers Office for a standard application form
and forward it to arrive at our US office no later than 10
February 1988. Please mail to:
Mr Ray Shull
Lutron Electronics Co., Inc.
205 Suter Road,
Coopersburg, PA 18036, U.S.A.
Telephone: 215/282-3800
FELIX Friday January 22nd 1988 5

