• IS N U T T Y Union boss Ian
Howgate about to abdicate? Rumour
has it he is having a secret affair with
SRC chairperson Gillian Cutler. Eye
witnesses report kinky chase-me
games in the Union Office after sordid
SRC meetings.
• THE CHAIRMAN of Ham Radio
Soc was so keen to complete a
questionnaire about his lecturers that
he turned Physics Theatre One into
his personal assault course last week.
Phil 'Rambo' Pavelin scaled 4
benches, sprinted across the front of
the room only to find the papers to
have been removed by the ACC reps.
He crept back to his row and steathily
crawled on all fours along the bench
to his seat. His next escapade is
rumoured to be a death slide from the
top of the Queen's Tower.
• BRENDAN 'SLAPHEAD' Spud
has denied being the youngest wearer
of a toupe at College. The balding
physicist said, 'at least I don't scrape
it across the top of my head in a
Bobby Charlton style, like some of
my lecturers'.
• BRIBES A R E still being offered
for news on the goings on of IC Radio
Station Manager Steve Gutteridge and
ex, John Allen.
• SEXY, POUTING FELIX Editor
Judith Hackney has a skeleton in her
closet, she has admitted to being a
member of the Marillion fan club.
Rumour has it that she was spotted
this week at a concert of her fave band
but has rejected suggestions that she
caught a pair of Fish's underpants in
her teeth when they were thrown into
the audience by the singer.
• FIASCO OF THE WEEK was the
IC Radio Annual Dinner last
Saturday. The event was marred by
a mix-up concerning the cost. It was
£4 more per head than everybody
expected. Valiant ex-Secretary and
dinner organiser Simon Bradshaw (ex
because he resigned just before the
dinner!) dramatically announced that
he would pay the excess. However,
my spies inform me that the money
will come from IC Radio's special
fund made up from profits from the
soft drinks they sell to members.
John Secretary put the top back on his
marker and looked at the poster he
had just drawn. 'Coming Soon—the
Cheapskate Supermarket closing
down sale—everything must go!'
This was John's latest idea to save
some of the Baron's money, and
would also mean that he could stop
issuing those annoying trolley
licences. The Cheapskate
supermarket would be closed and all
the little corner shops in the 16
different schools expanded to sell
more things. The little elves who
worked in the supermarket were not
at all pleased with John Secretary's
plan as they feared that the first thing
to be sold would be their jobs.
John Secretary had got his wonderful idea from talking to the
Kommandant of the Thinbread dormitory about a jumble sale he had
organised. Fed up with all the citizens who had left their rubbish in
his wine cellar, he and the dormitory club decided to sell it all and
use the money to buy some decent wine for a big booze up they were
planning to celebrate that the dormitory was 20 years old and it still
hadn't fallen down. Unfortunately, some of the things they sold were
not rubbish but belonged to citizens from far away lands who had
left them there for safe keeping. When they found out, the citizens
were very angry because some of them had left very expensive toys
down there. One female citizen even claimed to have lost skiing
equipment worth 3 times as much as ALL the rubbish was sold for...
The citizen's leader, Ian Whygate, didn't have much to say (for a
change) because he was looking after the newest slave in the citizens'
office. Reggie Blenheimpalace was the new counter of all the citizens'
money, but when he arrived he couldn't even count himself lucky
enough to have a desk. 'Never mind' thought Reggie, 'I'll go for a
wander around'. He soon found himself in the Phallix office where
he was accosted by Largeamounts who wanted to 'take some photos
for the files'. They then disappeared down towards the Jacques
Cousteau Club's bottle store...
Meanwhile, things were happening in the many sections of the
Cheapskate media.
Thrilled by the success (?) of the combined Lumpofmetal-
worshippers/Fundamentallawsofnaturetesters radio show, Dave
Braincell and Clare MacUseless had decided to go one better. They
would now be doing a show for the Citizens' Television of Cheapskate.
This was an abrupt change of opinion by Braincell. At the last citizens'
committee meeting he was complaining that the TV station was a
waste of money and should be closed. Director General Mark
Winchester was certainly having the last laugh...
(Clare MacUseless had also taken a leaf out of Whygate's book by
having a new hairstyle so that no one would recognise her.)
Over at Radio Cheapskate, controller Steve Garbage was having
troubles of his own. If the equipment wasn't breaking down, then
his credibility was. Rumours were flying about him and a former citizen
but all the Cheapskate disc jockeys were keeping very quiet (for a
change).
It was easy to tell that the Cheapskate general elections were
coming up just by reading Phallix. Last week's prize for the 'most
publicity in a single issue' goes to the diminutive citizen who managed
no less than 10 name checks and a photo...
Someone else keen to appear in Phallix was one of the Baron's new
slaves from the 'sending documents down the telephone' office in
the Surefield forties?. Hip Eddy was very hip apart from one
unfortunate thing. His favourite football team was that boring bunch
of North Londoners from Highbury, Arsehole.
Why are boring Arsehole live on TV on Sunday?
I Will Dave BraincelTs live Subbuteo match on Cheapskate TV be
j more exciting?
Find out in the next episode of The Baron of Cheapskate
• SABBATICAL ELECTIONS are
on the way. It's easy to tell this
because many of the hopefuls have
been seen entering the FELIX Office
in order to secure some early and free
publicity from Editor Judith Hackney.
Many suggest a small mention in the
Baron would be ideal. Others are all
too free in imparting gossip about
themselves, in the hope of getting into
this very libel column. Tough luck,
kids. I didn't take the bait!
• I T SEEMS THAT many of the
College elections have already been
sewn up. A little bird told me
yesterday that Dramsoc have next
year's committee already sorted out,
or Adrian Hicks seems to think they
do anyway. Naturally Adrian is
putting himself forward for
Dramsoc's President.
• MEANWHILE IT'S a safe bet that
Rag Chairman Nigel Baker will win
the ICU presidential election this year
according to his newly formed
election team. A certain other Union
Officer, who was originally planning
to stand for the big 'P', has decided
it's not worth it now and has joined
the Baker camp with the intention of
running as Deputy.
• A NEW ' C A M P ' has announced
its intention to run in the ICU
elections. Women's Officer Linzi
Wishart and Lesbian & Gay Welfare
Officer James Papa are planning to
stand for President and Deputy
President respectively.
• H O L B E I N HOUSE had a porno
night this Monday attended by not
only the Warden but also the two
Subwardens after a night of heavy
drinking. Two residents were unable
to contain themselves while watching
one film and ended up prancing naked
around the TV room. My spy tells me
that they broke all-known house
records and managed a 5-in-a-shower
orgy including one female wearing
nothing but an enormous grin.
• R O S E A T K I N S photogenic
typesetter operator, was recently
overheard complaining about the fact
that she had not been given a double
page feature interview when starting
work for FELIX this time last year
and was upset at the fact that Chris
Martin did not ask Reggie
Blennerhassett, the new Finance
Officer, what he thought of the Snack
Bar food as she would have had a very
good answer to this question had she
been asked.
I Chris Jones
FELIX Friday January 22nd 1988 7

