SCIENCE
FELIX
10
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How Risky Is It Really?
by David Ropeik
And a few suggestions...
You won’t believe it...
They say you can’t teach an old dog new tricks, but
doctors from Japan have managed to train labradors
to sniff out bowel cancer. The dogs could detect
traces of the disease in breath and stool samples
with almost 100% accuracy. Surprisingly, they were
most succesful at detecting the cancer in its earlier
stages. The study shows that cancer specific chemi-
cals are present in the gut. And while using dogs
may be impractical in the real world, it could lead to
new methods of early detection.
David Ropeik tackles a subject that both fascinates
and bewilders us, taking apart the human psyche to
try and explain why it is that we fear the things we
do, however irrational those fears are. He separates
the risks associated with common fears such as
snakes from long-term risks which in the end are the
ones that we are not instinctively able to deal with.
Ropeik explains both the mental process that has
made fear a fundamental part of our evolution and
the rational approach we have developed in dealing
with risks over time.
There is a distinct comparison that Ropeik seems
to be trying to make between the modern iPhone
wielding man and his cave-dwelling ancestors; he is
willing us to reassess what we are actually afraid of
and the quantitative risks involved. This is an inter-
esting and well written book, although not as excit-
ing as I had hoped, it was a refreshing outlook on
modern life.
Katya-yani Vyas
Drug-resistant bacteria mapped
Charlie Harvey
The genomes of hundreds of bacterial strains
that cause pneumonia have been sequenced and
may lead to new antibiotics and vaccines.
240 lineages of multidrug resistant Strep-
tococcus pneumoniae were collected from
around the world and their genomes sequenced
in order to understand how the bacteria came to
be so virulent.
The research, published in the journal Sci-
ence this week, compared the genetic se-
quences with the geographic locations of each
specimen to produce a map of the major evolu-
tionary events that have led to the diversity we
see today. The team of scientists also pinpoint-
ed Europe as the probable birthplace of the first
multidrug resistant individual.
The researchers also identified recombination
as the dominant mechanism the bacteria have
used to evolve resistance to antibiotic drugs.
Recombination involves individual pieces of
DNA moving around the bacterial genome, and
in doing so creates new genes. Some of these
recombinations will result in the bacteria be-
coming resistant. Many of these drug resistant
genes can pass horizontally, from bacteria to
bacteria, and could explain how drug resistance
has spread so quickly across the globe.
Four million cases of fatal pneumococcal dis-
ease are reported each year, and, according to
the World Health Organisation, is responsible
for an estimated 18% of all deaths of children
under the age of 5.
The research was created thanks to a part-
nership between the Sanger Institute, a world
leader in genomic analysis, and scientists from
Rockafeller University studying the patterns
of illness around the world. Alexander Tomaz,
co-author of the paper, praised the unusual col-
laboration. “Such an alliance between molecu-
lar biology and epidemiology promises further
interesting insights into the mechanism of bac-
terial evolution”.
Professor Brian Spratt, a molecular epidemi-
ologist at Imperial highlighted the importance
of this research, saying: “how bacteria diver-
sify over the very short time scales [...] are of
crucial importance for understanding and pre-
dicting the response of pathogens to new anti-
biotics and vaccines.”
Kelly Oakes
This is not the galaxy you’re looking for (the real galaxy wasn’t as photogenic as this)
In a galaxy far, far away...
There haven’t always been stars and galaxies
in the universe, and the time when they began
to form — known as the reionisation epoch —
is the subject of much interest in astrophysics.
A paper published in Nature last week details
a discovery that could tell us more about this
mysterious time.
In the paper, Rychard Bouwens and col-
leagues say they have detected the most distant
galaxy ever seen; the light from the galaxy was
emitted only 500 million years after the Big
Bang. This age puts it well within the epoch of
reionisation.
The galaxy has the highest redshift ever ob-
served; it was from this that the team were able
to calculate the galaxy’s age.
Cosmological redshift is a measure of how
fast an object is moving away from the Earth
and is a consequence of the expanding Uni-
verse. Objects with higher redshift are moving
away from the Earth faster than those with low-
er redshifts, which means they are further away
from Earth and also further back in time. To
put it simply, the higher the redshift the older
the galaxy.
Bouwens and colleagues used something
known as the Lyman-break technique to iden-
tify the galaxy. This technique relies on a sharp
drop in the spectrum of a galaxy that is due to
the absorption of energetic photons by neutral
gas that surrounds galaxy forming regions. The
discovery can then be confirmed by looking at
optical images.
For a long time the observations required to
study the reionisation epoch were out of reach,
but recent images from Hubble are making the
detection and study of far away galaxies pos-
sible for the first time. The new galaxy was
discovered in images taken by Hubble’s Wide
Field Camera 3.
Bouwens and colleagues also looked into the
rate of star formation at the time just after the
newly discovered galaxy. They discovered that
in just 200 million years the rate of star forma-
tion increased tenfold. This confirms that the
newly discovered galaxy is right in the heart
of the reionisation epoch, and sheds new light
on how the stars and galaxies we see today
formed.
“We’re seeing huge changes in the rate of star
birth that tell us that if we go a little further back
in time we’re going to see even more dramatic
changes,” said Garth Illingworth, a co-author of
the paper from the University of California at
Santa Cruz. “We’re moving into a regime where
there are big changes afoot. Another couple of
hundred million years back towards the Big
Bang, and that will be the time when the first
galaxies really are starting to build up.”
Streptococcus pneumoniae cause millions of deaths each year and looks horrible
Friday 04 february 2011

