FELIX 11
SCIENCE
Sci-Fi Column
You might remember my review of
Arthur C. Clarke’s Childhood’s End
last term in the Arts section in which I
announced it to be my favourite book.
Since then I’ve had a chance to read
some more of his work, which has ce-
mented my opinion of him as one of his-
tory’s finest science fiction authors. This
week I’d like to review, The Fountains
of Paradise, the latest of his novels I’ve
had the pleasure of reading.
Probably one of the most ‘hard SF’ of
Clarke’s novels, it is set in the 22nd cen-
tury and follows the attempts of Dr Van-
nevar Morgan to build the world’s first
space elevator on the island of Tapro-
bane, a fictionalised Sri Lanka. Clarke
lived more than half his life in the coun-
try and his passion for it shines through
the text. He has kept much of the is-
land’s fascinating history unchanged,
one of the highlights of the novel.
That is not to say that the main thrust
of the story, the political and technical
difficulties of constructing the elevator,
are any less interesting. They are pre-
sented to the reader in Clarke’s usual
clear, engaging style and each one has
satisfying and believable solutions.
The book is very story driven. Indeed,
I have read critics complaining about
Clarke’s poor character development.
While I did once spend half of a Clarke
novel thinking that a male character was
a woman I still have to take issue with
this complaint. Clarke’s genius is in
coming up with engaging stories and the
only purpose of his characters is to drive
them forward. If these characters were
any more developed they would simply
be a distraction and the very direct writ-
ing often still allows us to become emo-
tionally attached to them.
The Fountains of Paradise shares a
remarkable optimism about the future
which can be found in many of his
works, with humanity overcoming its
differences and coming together for a
common goal. This does lead to paucity
of interpersonal conflict and traditional
‘action’scenes. I find this vastly refresh-
ing and an interesting contrast with most
modern fiction.
This novel is certainly more consistent
than Childhood’s End. While the latter’s
ending was somewhat spoiled by its un-
necessary description of an alien planet,
which almost strayed into fantasy, here
it was brilliantly executed: managing
to be a poignant account of both the
great triumph and failure of Dr Morgan.
Whether because of its truly intriguing
mystery, or because it was my introduc-
tion to Clarke, I still consider Child-
hood’s End to be the better book and
the best he has written. However, this
does not take anything away from the
brilliance of The Fountains of Paradise
and it remains, along with the majority
of Clarke’s work, far superior to most
other science fiction.
Improve your memory by nodding off
Research has revealed how the replaying
of memories while we are awake leaves
them vulnerable to interference and dis-
tortion. The study, published in the jour-
nal Nature Neuroscience, showed that
by reactivating these memories during
our sleep, they are protected from this
manipulation, particularly during slow
wave sleep (SWS). SWS occurs in stages
3 and 4 of non-REM sleep, and we will
normally SWS in periods of longer than
20 minutes, or extended power naps.
In this study, volunteers were required
to remember the locations of pairs of
cards, officially referred to as a concen-
tration-type game. Whilst playing, the
volunteers were exposed to an unspeci-
fied unpleasant smell. After this admit-
tedly tiring game, half of the volunteers
spent 40 minutes awake whilst the
others curled up and took a 40-minute
nap. Some volunteers, both awake and
asleep, were again exposed to the smell
in an attempt to reactivate their memory
of the card game. After the 40 minutes
were up all of the volunteers played the
game one more time and then their abil-
ity to recall the original pairs of cards
from the first game was tested.
Those volunteers who hadn’t had their
memory jogged by the odour, whether
awake or asleep, were able to remember
around 60% of the original card pairs.
An interesting result came from those
volunteers whose memories had been
reactivated with the smell. Those who
had foregone the nap and stayed awake
for 40 minutes were only able to remem-
ber around 41% of the card pairs. Their
memories, having been reactivated
whilst they were awake, were vulnerable
to interference probably from the second
game of ‘pairs’. Those volunteers whose
memories had been jogged during their
sleep successfully recalled the location
of 84% of the original pairs. Brain scans
taken during the research revealed how
memory replay during SWS involves
much stronger activity in the hippocam-
pus (a structure in the brain strongly as-
sociated with memory formation) where
short term memories are transferred
to be stored as long term memories in
the cortex. Replaying memories during
these periods may speed up the transfer
from long to short-term memory, stabi-
lising it.
The research scientists, from various
German and Swiss universities, be-
lieve their findings may have important
clinical implications, namely those of
improving psychotherapy techniques.
It is suggested that these results mean
that contextual cues presented during
Although dogs are surely the first ani-
mals to be domesticated, the history and
location of wolf-to-dog evolution has
been controversial. Yet recent genetic
evidence points to the Middle East. Most
farmyard animals and the house cat were
domesticated in the Middle Eastern area
known as the Fertile Crescent, as a result
of that area being witness to the first sed-
entary, agricultural human settlements.
It has been thought that wolf domes-
tication was an exception, considering
that they are highly mobile predators
who scavenged kills left by game-hunt-
ing nomads since the Palaeolithic. The
hypothesis was that wolves became
accustomed to human contact and that
gradually a domesticated dog evolved.
A recent study, however, compared
archaeological with genetic data, in-
dicating that the emergence of small
canids did occur in the Middle East
with the wolf-dog barrier crossed at
the time of first human settlement. The
authors identified a genetic variant in
dog chromosome 15, found in all small
dogs but absent in larger and wild dogs.
This small-dog haplotype was found
to be most closely related to the one in
Middle Eastern wolves which indeed
suggests this was the area of domesti-
cation.
The earliest archaeological dog re-
mains were also found in the Fertile
Crescent, which has led to a general
speculation that domestication occurred
between 13,000 and 17,000 years ago.
This correlates with a social shift in the
local human population, the Natufians,
from being Palaeolithic nomadic hunt-
er-gatherers to developing relatively
settled agro-economies in the Neolithic,
suggesting human settlement played a
major role in dog evolution.
Domestication is the product of both
biological and cultural processes. The
initial contact between humans and
wolves was likely initiated by the scav-
enging wolves, although there must
have been a tolerance of wolves among
humans, followed by the settled hu-
man civilisation keeping proto-dogs
who would scavenge the local rubbish
dumps. In addition, it is known that
modern tundra wolves do not interbreed
with their boreal cousins although they
overlap geographically. It is thought that
their differing lifestyles promote this re-
productive isolation, which is perhaps
precisely what happened when proto-
dogs and wolves diverged.
These small garbage-scavenging
wolves may even have been protected
by humans for their beneficial service
by barking at the approach of larger wild
wolves, alerting the villagers of poten-
tial dangers. These behavioural diver-
gences may have further divided the two
populations genetically. And why did
domestication favour shrinking in size?
Smaller body-size has the advantage of
reducing energy demands, and probably
enabled individuals to ‘fit in’ better with
their human companions.
Subsequently, humans encouraged
match-making of the small dogs, pre-
serving their cuddliness, and later on
exploiting their pint-sized functionality,
such as for ratting or entering burrows.
Also, the ‘shrinking’ evolutionary pro-
cess would be maladaptive in the wild
considering the disadvantage it poses
against the larger wild counterparts, and
was thus probably selected under human
influence. Early human communities
must thus have been stable over many
generations to enable this development
of small dogs.
Lastly, wealth can be material, social
or knowledge-based, but material wealth
is the most transmissible form, hence a
promoter of social inequality. The ar-
chaeological presence of domesticates
can be an important indicator of when
inequality of societal wealth began, es-
pecially considering that dog ownership
was perhaps the first ‘living capital’.
Humans would exploit their predatory
abilities and territorial proclivities to
increase their hunting success, but dogs
also probably became a status symbol
as well as being useful. The tamed dog
could have perhaps been at the fore-
front of the innovations that gave rise to
community structure and gradually the
spread of urban life.
From wild wolves to top dogs
Nathan Wren
Victoria Bignet
Maciej Matuszewski
wakefulness may be able to reactivate
unwanted or maladaptive memories
during psychotherapy, in patients with
post-traumatic stress or panic disorder.
Being able to reactivate these unwanted
memories before therapy may allow
traumatic memories to be ‘unlearnt’ and
replaced with ‘new’ memories. Reacti-
vation of these new memories during
periods of SWS could then stabilise
these new therapeutic memories within
the brain of the patient.
I wonder if this lady will remember to pick up next week’s issue of Felix...
Evidence suggests baby wolves used to be just as cute 13,000 years ago
Friday 04 february 2011

