felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Last week, media outlets and industry pro-
fessionals began receiving invites for Sony’s
“PlayStation Meeting”, to be held in Tokyo
on the 27th of January. Though the company
kept tight-lipped as to what exactly the event
was for, not a single person from journalist to
feverish Internet forum-goer was in any doubt
that this was to be the day of the official an-
nouncement of the oft-rumoured successor to
the PlayStation Portable (PSP).
The device, along with its official codename
“NGP” (Next Generation Portable) was an-
nounced as expected, and while prior leaks en-
sured that there were few real surprises to be
had, gaming and technology circles have been
ablaze with discussion since the announcement.
Drawing particular attention has been the
system’s impressive technical specifications.
The NGP sports a quad-core ARM Cortex-A9
CPU backed with a powerful graphics process-
ing unit, which together are capable of produc-
ing ‘near PlayStation 3’ quality graphics in
real-time, lovingly displayed on the system’s
sizeable 5-inch, multi-touch OLED screen.
Indeed, several demos which were shown
during the conference and made available
for subsequent hands-on play demonstrated
the system’s technical prowess and charmed
conference-goers.
Design-wise, the system is a refinement,
rather than a complete transformation of its
predecessor’s sleek curves and black finish.
The system is larger, largely due to the afore-
mentioned screen. Answering fans’ prayers,
Sony has replaced the PSP’s much maligned
analogue ‘nub’ with two identical bona fide
control sticks. This, it is hoped, will alleviate
many of the awkward control compromises
that were necessitated by many games on the
PSP, where developers had to find ways of pro-
viding control for both player movement and a
3D camera. Sony hopes that the rounded shape
of the NGP will fit more comfortably into its
players’ hands.
Free App of the Week
iOS - HeyTell for iPhone
Ever wanted a walkie talkie type app for your iPhone?
HeyTell allows you to do just that by sending small
voice messages to other users instantly.
HeyTell isn’t limited to iOS -- Android’s got its own
HeyTell app too. Send messages to friends whatever
smartphone they own. Roger-roger, over and out.
Android - HeyTell for Android
Sony unveils PSP successor
Louis Constant
In the backdrop of the dramatic demonstrations
sweeping Egypt, another battle is being fought
for the control of internet and communication
lines in the country as the government tries to
prevent protesters from organising and the lo-
cal media from distributing images and videos
of the events to an eager international audience.
In an unprecendented step, the government has
gone as far as ordering ISPs to completely halt
routing of all traffic, a move that draws Egypt
into an exclusive club of censorship along with
the likes of North Korea and Burma.
The communications crackdown seems to
be a case of too little too late, however, as the
government seemed unprepared to deal with
protests largely organised and planned online.
Egypt in complete internet blackout
Feroz Salam
Unremarkably, all models of the NGP will
come with Wi-Fi built-in. More noteworthy
however, is the news that a (presumably more
expensive) 3G-enabled version of the NGP will
also be produced. No information on data plans
have been provided yet, but it is unfortunate to
note that speeds offered by 3G will not be ad-
equate to support online gaming from wherever
the user happens to be.
Perhaps the most unusual feature of the NGP
is a multi-touch panel which has been added
to the rear of the device, of the same size and
alignment as the front-facing screen. Some
speculation has been paid to the prospect of
this panel being used to simulate extra buttons
or rear triggers, which the NGP lacks. Other
additions include both front and rear-facing
cameras, and a “six-axis” motion detection
system, consisting of a gyroscope and an accel-
erometer. Software applications making use of
either of the cameras were unforthcoming, but
motion control was demonstrated in several of
the game demos on show.
No pricing details were announced, but it
was officially stated that the system is to be re-
leased in at least one territory before the end
of this year. It is slightly surprising that Sony
appears to be following a similar strategy to
that which it pursued with the original PSP.
With over 60 million units sold worldwide,
the PSP has by no means been a failure. Yet
it failed to match the dizzyingly high sales of
rival Nintendo’s DS system, which has sold ap-
proximately twice this amount in a similar time
frame. While the abundance of technology in
this device is sure to please hardcore gamers, it
will also serve to inflate the RRP relative to its
competitor’s, and if the industry’s history is any
indication, technical superiority is by no means
a recipe for sure fire market success. In any
case, the next few years are certainly shaping
up to play host to a rerun of the infamous DS
vs. PSP “console wars”. Which Japanese giant
will reign supreme this time?
Check out the Games section next week
for more on the device, including the
revolutionary PlayStation Suite
The ban was enforced merely 12 hours prior
to the bloody Friday protests, and since then
most media organisations have found some
way of getting around jammed phone networks
and blocked cables, whether it be relying on
satellite connections or old-fashioned dial-up
through the western world.
The heavy-handed Egyptian response to
technology savvy citizens using the internet
to plan demonstrations is a theme familiar to
many Middle Eastern states; most countries in
the region have highly filtered, slow and cen-
tralised services that are closely monitored by
internal security services.
The knock-on effect of the Tunisian and
Egyptian riots has caused governments in the
area to tighten their own regulations, raising
concerns of more blackouts to come.
The crackdown has cast serious questions
over the Middle East’s ability to position itself
as a credible and growing economic power.
Purely from an economic perspective, a gov-
ernment which cannot maintain reliable com-
munications networks will find it hard to sell
their country to foreign investors, whatever
their reasons may be.
From a human rights standpoint, the blackout
has had surprisingly little effect on the spirit
of the Egyptian people. Their presence in the
streets more than a week after the turmoil be-
gan indicates that the information revolution
has matured to the point where the power is
now really in the hands of the people, whether
they are reporters pushing photos to us via sat-
ellite or protesters struggling on dialup to get
their stories told.
“Design-wise, the
system is a refinement,
rather than a complete
transformation”
Sure, it’s technically impressive. But can you eat it? No? Sorry, I’m out...
Friday 04 february 2011
12

