POLITICS
FELIX
14
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Pakistan
A federal judge in Florida has tossed out the sweep-
ing health care reform law championed by Presi-
dent Barack Obama, setting up what is likely to be
a contentious Supreme Court challenge over the leg-
islation in coming months. Judge Vinson ruled that
“Obamacare” violated the rights of an individual by
making it mandatory to buy health insurance on the
pain of a fine. The United States Justice Depart-
ment has said that it strongly disagreed with the
ruling and would appeal against the decision which
was praised by House Republicans. The Republican
controlled House of Representatives have already
repealed Obama’s Healthcare reform but the repeal
is unlikely to clear the American Senate.
United States
A court in Pakistan has blocked the release of
American Raymond Davis who was arrested for
killing two men in Lahore last week. Mr Davis has
admitted killing the men but stressed that he was
acting in self defence when confronted by the two
armed men. The American embassy has called for
the release of Mr Davis, saying that he was a con-
sular official with diplomatic immunity and hence im-
mune to prosecution in Pakistan. This was disputed
by Pakistani authorities who said that Mr Davis was a
private security contractor.
Burma
Burma’s long-standing leader Than Shwe is not
on the list of five Presidential nominees put forth
by the newly convened Parliament of Burma. This
suggests that General Than Shwe would no longer
be the official leader of Burma but analysts believe
that he is unlikely to relinquish all power and is ex-
pected to remain as head of the military. Burma’s
Parliament convened for the first time in twenty
years on Monday as part of Burma’s ‘roadmap to
democracy’. The Burma military, however, still plays
an important role in the nation’s politics with ¼ of
all seats reserved for members of the military.
While Ireland’s media reports on the in-fight-
ing and dithering of its main parties, the Irish
people remain focused on the forthcoming gen-
eral election - a long-awaited opportunity to
choose the politicians they believe to be most
capable of managing the greatest crisis in the
state’s short history.
Prime Minister Brian Cowen, who recently
resigned as leader of the majority coalition
partner Fianna Fáil, remains in charge of a
country baying for his political blood and of
a cabinet which, following a spate of resigna-
tions last month, is stumbling into the election
with less than half of its usual compliment of
ministers. Cowen, it seems, has been deemed
competent enough to lead Ireland, but not
competent enough to lead Fianna Fáil. This
is yet another example of the vast disconnect
which has developed between the ruling party
and the Irish public, one which by now would
be almost a laughing matter were it not for the
economic tragedy that the former has inflicted
upon the latter.
In truth, however, it is an astonishing achieve-
ment on Cowen’s part to have held onto power
while presiding over an economic downturn of
such unprecedented magnitude - brewed dur-
ing his time as Minister for Finance from 2004
until 2008 and poured ice-cold during his sub-
sequent tenure as Taoiseach.
After a failed leadership heave against him
in mid-January, it appeared that ‘Biffo’ (Big
Ignorant F****r From Offaly) would lead his
deeply unpopular party into an election on
March 11th from which it would do well to re-
turn half of its 72 sitting members of the Irish
parliament, Dáil Éireann. However, a botched
attempt to fill vacant cabinet positions without
consulting the Green party - the coalition’s ju-
nior partner – was a PR disaster for Cowen and,
following his resignation several days later, the
Greens announced their immediate withdrawal
from government. An agreement was reached
between government and opposition which
saw the election date brought forward and the
legislation enacting December’s budget rushed
through both houses of parliament.
Much like the now-extinct Progressive
Democrats before them, the Green party ap-
pear destined to pay a heavy political price
for their decision to enter coalition with Fi-
anna Fáil in 2007. In the press conference an-
nouncing their withdrawal from government,
Minister for the Environment John Gormley
pointed to a number of the party’s achieve-
ments during their time in office, including
legislation on same-sex civil partnerships and
hunting. These, however, are mere footnotes
in the legacy of this government in light of Ire-
land’s fiscal position. The Greens’ image has
been damaged irreparably by their relationship
with the toxic Fianna Fáil brand, and any re-
sult other than complete annihilation would be
an achievement in itself.
There is undoubtedly a desire among the
Irish public for a change in government. And
Cowen fecks off
Hugh McDowell
although the two parties likely to form the next
coalition – the centre-right Fine Gael and the
centre-left Labour party – will make significant
gains in Dáil seats, they have thus far struggled
to inspire or capture the imagination of the
electorate. Fine Gael leader and presumptive
Taoiseach Enda Kenny continues to be dogged
by his uncharismatic and uninspiring media
presence, and his attempts to include the lead-
ers of smaller parties in an upcoming series of
televised debates is seen by many commenta-
tors as an attempt to minimize his own time
under the glare of the spotlight. Meanwhile,
the Nick Clegg to Kenny’s David Cameron,
Labour leader Eamon Gilmore, is by a country
mile the most popular leader in the country. Al-
though Gilmore is reaping the rewards for sev-
eral years of steady leadership and assured per-
formances in the Dáil, his unwillingness to take
on the powerful and well-remunerated public
service employees remains a worrying pros-
pect for certain sections of the voting public.
In truth, both Fine Gael and Labour will be
glad to allow the outgoing government to as-
sociate themselves with the austerity measures
contained in the last budget. In the same man-
ner as the UK’s Conservatives have done over
the last 8 months, the next government will
attempt to blame any piece of bad economic
news on their predecessors. The two parties
should win a substantial majority in the elec-
tion and form a coalition, the ministerial make-
up of which will be dependant on the respective
number of seats each wins. Despite Gilmore’s
popularity, it is unlikely that Labour will be the
larger of the partners and he will settle for a
position for the role of Tánaiste (Deputy Prime
Minister) while a number of his senior fellow
party members are offered ministries.
Their opposition will most likely be com-
prised of a decimated Fianna Fáil, a resurgent
Sinn Féin (buoyed by the probable election
of their leader, former MP Gerry Adams) and
a swathe of independents from either end of
the political spectrum. Although a number of
economists and high-profile personalities have
announced their intention to run on indepen-
dent platforms, the absence of any major new
political movement taking part in the election
has disappointed voters and exacerbated the
growing sense of frustration with the political
system.
A major failing of said political system is
the dissatisfaction that the Irish people feel
with their electoral mechanism, Proportional
Representation. PR differs from the Alter-
native Vote system proposed by the current
British government only in that it has multi-
seat, rather than single-seat, constituencies.
Consequently, politicians from the same con-
stituency, and even from the same party, are
in constant competition with one another on a
local level to curry favour with voters, often
to the detriment of the quality and quantity of
legislation passed through the Dáil.
Furthermore, parties are likely to remain as
‘vanilla’as possible around election time in or-
der to get transfers from the voters of other par-
ties. This has caused a scramble to the centre
in Irish politics and narrowing in the breadth of
opinions expressed in political debate. Given
that this consensus approach to politics has
brought Ireland to its current condition, it is a
system which is worthy of reconsideration.
He’s either grimacing because Ireland is completely screwed or because he’s gassy.
We’re going with gassy on this one...
Cameron could learn from Irish PM’s collapsed coalition
Friday 04 february 2011

