David Cameron has said “fundamental
changes” are needed in the NHS. De-
fending reforms for England, he told
the BBC it was right to start now and
change was being done “steadily” -
amid criticism it is being done too fast.
The heads of six health unions, includ-
ing the BMA, have warned of their “ex-
treme concerns” about greater commer-
cial competition between the NHS and
private companies.
What we are witnessing is a ma-
jor shift of how the NHS system runs.
When it was created in 1948 it was cen-
trally controlled. Now the government
wants most of the responsibility to be
shifted to consortiums of GPs. The idea
is to restructure the NHS so that it will
be much like how the telecoms industry
was broken up. In the near future GPs
will be buying services from providers
for their patients. The government and
other bodies agree that many of these
service providers will be closed down
and conglomerated with others.
The NHS also needs to have 15-20
billion pounds of ‘efficiency savings’
all before the next general election. The
government also want to drastically im-
prove public health so that local gov-
ernment and communities can provide
innovative, dynamic methods to solve
lifestyle-driven diseases. The food in-
dustry is also helping to re-write how
the policies are made for advertising
and promoting healthier foods; many
of whom are the producers of foods that
are very detrimental to our health. They
will also provide food coupons as an in-
POLITICS
FELIX 15
NHS reforms: too fast, too furious?
key element here - Personal responsibil-
ity. Where has it gone?
Perhaps it’s time for the public to re-
alise that the NHS or for any public ser-
vice, that it is not free to run and that it
is all paid for by every tax payer in this
country. Perhaps if we realised that more
often and appreciated the benefits, more
of us would be voicing our opinions on
why our culture of binge drinking, un-
protected sex and obesity is so promi-
nent in this country.
It is not fair to see patients whose
whole life has been unpleasant and are
on the organ transplant waiting list, to
witness a healthy, irresponsible patient
acquiring an organ because they over-
dosed while enjoying themselves, leav-
ing the NHS to foot the bill to rectify the
damage.
There is a famous phrase: Prevention
is better than a cure. I believe research
is still vital for possible remedies, but
perhaps we should try understand-
ing more why the public do make the
choice of abusing their health and try
rectifying the situation before it is too
late.
All I can say is that perhaps if we are
to change the system so much, more
time needs to be implemented to allow
everything to be more closely scruti-
nised to make sure of its importance.
Perhaps we could get a little lesson from
other countries such as Sweden.
In the meantime, public perception is
paramount to being altered. All medical
professionals advise us to look after our
own body; by doing that we will respect
others. Perhaps it may even remedy oth-
er social issues such as crime caused by
centive for those who are least likely to
change their habit.
What is intriguing is that the major-
ity of the health bodies still support the
planned changes mainly to the NHS.
However they do believe that the time-
line set for 2013 is far too concise for a
major overhaul.
Recently the head of the Royal Col-
lege of GPs and the Head of the BMA
said that this whole re-structuring was
unnecessary. Simple tweaks like the
number of clinicians representing the
Primary Care Trust board would pave
the way for the NHS to be what the gov-
ernment aims. Unfortunately the gov-
ernment dismisses it replying it would
only create more bureaucracy. In the end
who do we trust?
I believe that re-structuring the NHS
is ideal if and only if the majority of
the medical profession believe that with
given time what is planned out actually
can make a difference.
In 2002, the Wanless report stated that
we had to invest more money into the
NHS and we did under Labour. But there
was a critical point. It had to be spent
wisely and have constant up-to-date
reports on its improvement especially
productivity. If it went well, then after
2020 for every 10 pounds we have in our
pocket, 1 will go to the NHS. If however
it went wrong, it will be in every 8 quid.
After spending had arisen productivity
was actually falling, as stringent checks
became fewer. It seems this restructure
could be ideal.
What I am concerned about is, with
so many government alterations, I can’t
help but wonder if we are missing the
The suicide of a young Tunisian sales-
man last month could well change the
world’s political scene. In much the
same way that Paris sneezed and Europe
caught a cold, which lead to (admittedly
slow) liberal reform in the nineteenth
century, Mass political protest in Tu-
nisia has triggered popular movements
throughout North Africa and the Near
East, much of it planned on Facebook,
Twitter and Internet forums.
The reactions were relatively posi-
tive. While some attempts at controlling
the populace through the usual despotic
methods were made (including “turning
off” the internet in Egypt’s case), most of
the affected leaders realise this will not
work, having seen Tunisian president
Ben Ali flee the country. Instead, Egyp-
tian president Mubarak has promised to
to the events of 1978 in Iran, which
lead to the fall of the Shah. The corrupt
and oppressive regime was replaced
with a “republic”, but on an Islamic
rather than liberal model. This system
of government may provide a slightly
higher standard of living and greater
rights to its citizens than the totalitar-
ians. However, its people are far from
free and its views are so at odds with
the liberal model that it can cause great-
er international instability; at the most
extreme leading to a ‘clash of civilisa-
tions’ or perhaps a new cold war. Iran
and Israel have already expressed their
respective hopes and concerns that any
countries which do collapse will adopt
this system.
The evidence so far would suggest this
is not an overreaction, particularly in the
case of Egypt. Like the Shah, Mubarak’s
critics accuse him not only of corrup-
not seek re-election and King Abdullah
II of Jordan dismissed his entire cabinet
and brought in former Prime Minister
Maruf Bakhit to introduce real political
reform. Other leaders in the region have
been preparing similar moves and, in the
case of Sudan’s Omar al-Bashir, empha-
sising democratic credentials.
The calls for the right to determine
their leaders and less corruption seem
promising. In European minds, it is per-
haps reminiscent to the Polish Solidarity
movement which successfully pushed
for the collapse of Soviet –style totali-
tarian Communism in Eastern Europe.
This is however a dangerous com-
parison to make. Calls for democracy
are not the same as calls for liberty;
as demonstrated by the need to have
broad constitutions and supreme courts
in modern republics. The protests in the
region instead have worrying parallels
The Arab world shakes, the West shifts nervously
Rajat Jain
Mukur Ghosh
tion, but of being a Western puppet; he
is seen as having promoted strong links
to Israel and Obama described him as a
“friend”. The main opposition move-
ment in Jordan is an Islamic one, pro-
moting the holistic model of Islam in-
stituted by Ayatollah Khomeini in Iran
some thirty years ago.
However, this is not to say that all is
lost for the liberal West. The protests in
many countries are still at a very early
stage. As shown by the protests in Iran
last year, they may come to nothing and
pro-Mubarak supporters in Egypt have
staged equally powerful and violent
“It is reminiscint of
the Polish Solidarity
movement”
counter-demonstrations. Many of the
protests are not necessarily calling for
the collapse of the government but, like
in the case of Jordan and Syria (Iran’s
closest ideological ally), the introduc-
tion of greater reform and greater po-
litical freedom. Nevertheless, the issue
does still remain; all it takes is the intro-
duction of a single new radical Islamic
regime in any of these countries, and in-
ternational stability will decline.
There is a clear lesson here for Lib-
eral governments; they should not only
take concern with those countries that
directly threaten them but also be wary
of those which oppress their own peo-
ple, regardless of how great a strategic
ally they may be to the West. Otherwise,
when those oppressed people finally
fight back, the West will be unable to
take the moral high ground and will face
even greater threats.
anti-social behaviour.
Maybe it’s all too idealistic and we
have to continue to work against a tsu-
nami of what people desire.
I just hope that we all can in times of
dire need look forward to basic high-
quality healthcare that we take so much
for granted.
Doctors will be given more powers. Ok, not ‘doctors’, technically GPs
but it doesn’t... Listen, stop ruining this caption ok?
Friday 04 february 2011

