BUSINESS
FELIX
16
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The brand spanking new
Bloomberg Assessment Test
News Summary
Oil above $100 on Egypt
The price of crude oil has broken the psychological
landmark of $100 per barrel on the back of Egyptian
worries. The barrier has not been broken since 2008.
Egypt is not close to being amongst the top export-
ers in the region, so its inability to distribute its own
output is not disconcerting. Trouble does arise how-
ever due to fears of the Suez Canal closing.
The artificial channel is operated and maintained
by the government of Egypt and is one of the main
forms of transportation from Asia into Europe. Its
closure would mean an extremely unfavourable de-
tour by navigating around Africa, adding on average
6,000 miles to a journey. This would undoubtedly
somewhat stem the transportation of oil to Europe.
Perhaps of more important is the precedent being
setbytheEgyptianprotests.Wavesofanti-government
sentimentarebeingfeltinotherMiddle-Easternstates
such as Algeria and Yemen. There is concern that this
domino-like effect will be the source of contagion to
the oil-rich nation of Saudi Arabia. Should the future
prove this concern to be true, then the price of oil is
sure to spike much higher levels.
Dow Jones Industrial Average back
up over 12,000
The DJIA, the index that tracks 30 of the largest cor-
porations in America, including Microsoft, Coca-Cola
and 3M, has closed at 12,040 on Tuesday – its high-
est level since 2008. This is a significant achieve-
ment and was brought about by several firms beat-
ing analysts’ estimates of earnings, among which
was UPS. Some analysts suggest that we are en-
tering a period of sustained growth in the markets
after US manufacturing figures show the highest
pace increase in January compared to the previous
six years.
The other day, you might have received an
email from the Careers Advisory Service in-
forming you that Imperial is one of the lucky
universities selected to test-drive a new Bloom-
berg Assessment Test (BAT) for free. “Hurry
now! In the future, there will be a fee for tak-
ing this test,” it said. First thoughts: “What the
…?” So employers now want students to pay
for taking a recruitment test? What’s next?
Paying for interviews? And why introduce a
further barrier to entry for those from less well-
off backgrounds? Felix caught up with Gerald
Walker, Managing Director Europe at Bloom-
berg Ventures, to seek clarification.
Aptitude tests are nothing new; most graduate
recruiters in the UK already use numerical and
verbal reasoning tests provided by companies
such as the SHL Group or Kenexa. However,
Walker explained that the BAT is specifically
designed to test skills and knowledge relevant
to careers in the financial services sector. It’s a
3-hour, multiple-choice test consisting of 150
questions in 12 sections covering everything
from numerical and verbal reasoning, through
to ethics and specific areas of finance and eco-
nomics. The questions are designed to be prac-
tical rather than theoretical. Candidates are giv-
en comprehensive feedback and can compare
themselves against their peers from across the
globe. Students from Imperial will be able to
see how they rank compared to their peers from
top universities in places like Singapore or the
US. Comparisons are done by subject area, so
that those who are not studying finance are not
disadvantaged.
The test scores are also put into an anonymous
database for employers, who will be able to sift
through the records based on different criteria
(e.g. test scores, language skills, degree subject)
and express interest in candidates to whom they
would like to be introduced.The candidate then
receives an email along the lines of “Would you
be interested in applying to Deutsche Bank?”.
Bloomberg will charge employers a fee of ap-
proximately £60 per introduction, and this is
where they are looking to derive the majority of
revenue from this venture.
On the subject of charging students, Walker
explained, “Of course, students are not brim-
ming with cash these days, we know that. Right
now the BAT is free, so students have nothing
to lose, apart from spending 3 hours less down
the pub. We reserve the right to charge in the
future, but that is mostly to cover administra-
tion costs and to prevent people from signing
up for the test and then not turning up.” The
likely fee is going to be in the region of £30-60.
“Will students still be able to apply for a job at
Bloomberg without taking this test?” we asked.
“Yes, it’s entirely voluntary,” Walker reassured
us. Although Bloomberg themselves will be us-
ing BAT for their recruitment, the test is being
introduced more as a revenue-generating ven-
ture rather than solely for internal purposes. “It
may well be that in the future, the BAT score
will become something that people will want to
advertise on their CVs,” Walker added.
On their website, Bloomberg claims that can-
didates will be able to advertise their BAT score
to 20,000 companies through their database. At
first glance, this seems like bragging. How-
ever, Bloomberg does have a vast client base
within the financial industry, built up over the
years through their existing service offerings. It
is these companies that Bloomberg will reach
out to. This will enable smaller employers (e.g.
hedge funds) to tap into a global pool of tal-
ent more easily. Right now, these companies
find it more difficult to do campus recruitment,
as they don’t have easily recognisable brands.
The BAT score will also enable bright students
from less acclaimed universities to advertise
their qualities to big employers who might at
the moment be concentrating their campus re-
cruitment efforts on a few top institutions. The
BAT tests will be run on university campuses
and Bloomberg is open-minded about the types
of universities they approach; it’s not just for
the elite. Of course, it is likely that success rates
will be higher at top institutions.
What if you do badly on the test? Will 20,000
companies then think you are not employ-
able? “Candidates will have complete control
over their data. If they had a bad day, they can
always retake the test, or they can have their
score removed from the database, so they will
not forever be stuck with a bad score,” Walker
explained.
What does this all mean for students who are
looking to bag themselves a well-paid City job?
The brightest of the bright will welcome the sim-
plification: take one test, reach many employers.
The rest of us might feel a little intimidated
about the prospect of being ranked and com-
pared to thousands of graduates across the globe.
A complete rip-off or a shortcut to your dream job?
Will we ever see people advertising their BAT scores on CVs as a standard? Some studens may feel helpless among the competition
Lucie Jichova
Protesters making themselves heard across Egypt
“Comparisons are done
by subject area, so
that those who are not
studying finance are not
disadvantaged.”
Asian inflationary pressures
Manufacturing data from a multitude of Asian na-
tions has refreshed fears of increased inflationary
environments in those countries. This has prompted
expectation that india will increase rates by as much
as 25 basis points in March.
Some analysts expect this trend of increased in-
flation to continue markedly in the near future as
prices of commodities, materials and food show lit-
tle sign of a slow down.
Friday 04 february 2011

