18
COM M ENT
felix
I
was, as usual, fighting a losing
battle.
“You see, Cambridge is far, far
superior in simply every way, old
chum,” said my old schoolmate,
on the other, absurdly richer, side of the
webcam.
“Consider, if you will, the countless
events of vast social importance. Night-
ly, we dine in the presence of giants.” He
leant back in his plush leather armchair,
quaffing a glass of port with one hand
and raising a cigar with the other.
“Now tell me, what is it you do at your
precious institution? Sit in your labs all
day and complain?”
He paused momentarily, while care-
fully adjusting his top hat, yet before I
could respond, he swept on towards his
grand conclusion. “You might well think
that you enjoy Imperial, my friend, but
we,” he said, imperiously gesturing with
what I could only assume was his serf-
beating cane, “are the elite.”
He was wrong, of course. Even though
Oxbridge might be the “elite” darlings
of league tables and Hollywood writers
needing a back story for their British ac-
cented characters, what my friend failed
to realise was that it’s not any kind of
university prestige that defines us, it’s
the overall experience that we make
of our time here. Centuries of tradition
don’t matter one iota when students and
staff band together to make not only Im-
perial, but universities all over the coun-
try a better place to learn, study and have
a great time.
People like my friend shouldn’t be
lording it over what they consider to be
lesser universities, because, in the end,
what defines lesser? Not being bound
by archaic drinking rules? Similarly we
shouldn’t look down upon those lower
down the league table just because we
might have bigger lasers. We’ve all got
the same thing to offer, and that’s the
student experience.
But on the other hand, I hear a lot of
people complain about Imperial. From
the chap last week about the human-
rights-opposing sex ratio, or the col-
league next to me shouting about how he
can’t do his “damn proof by induction,
and why are they setting us this much
work?” The more I hear this, the more I
feel it makes us sound as if we’re all un-
hinged maniacs with the only clubbing
going on being that of the seal variety.
It’s just wrong.
Equally, there’s so much more to Im-
perial than relentless deadlines. If you
think you’re regretting choosing to
come here – perhaps because on Face-
book Mr. X devotes every passing night
to posting banterous photos of the latest
union rave at Loughborough, or Miss. Y
updates her statuses all the time about
how she’s “totally in love with South-
ampton” – just take a step back and
consider the breadth of what’s going on
around campus right now.
Even easier, just hop on over to the
news section of this very paper. “Oh I
see,” you more than likely aren’t think-
ing at the moment, “Mr. Co–News Edi-
tor has just written this so he can big up
his section.”
Well, that’s only half true. I’m also
currently typing this at gunpoint.
Joking aside, (send help urgently) go
ahead and take a look. People voicing
their opinions with what’s happening on
campus and what should be happening
in response – this is what it means to be
at Imperial. This is why I love the events
of December’s Life Sciences protests.
Students and staff joined together to
make a real difference. They want to
Cambridge punts
make a change for the better, which re-
ally does transcend the stereotypes that
so often beleaguer Imperial.
The opinion that this university is
full to the brim of awkward nerds is as
wrong as the opinion that Cambridge is
made up entirely of Tory voting toffs;
sure you’ll find some, but ultimately,
in this day and age, as more and more
students from all walks of life find them-
selves reaching the higher levels of edu-
cation, such trivialisations fall flat. Ste-
reotypes are just a punchline. You’re at
university, with a wealth of education at
your fingertips, and that’s what matters.
Sure, we can big ourselves up when
we want, we’re good at science. But hey,
I hear LSE are pretty sick at economics,
and UCL are probably amazing at…
drinking? Yeah, that works.
I’m proud to be at Imperial, and I
hope you are to. For once, ignore the
stereotypes and just take a minute to
find something positive. You’re part of
the student experience, and that makes
this place, like others the world over, an
amazing community.
Apart from Sheffield – bloody hipsters
on unicycles.
Or why the size of your laser doesn’t determine the
quality of your university experience
This week our Media basement neighbours,
IC Radio, found themselves on the wrong
side of the Union’s broadcasting guidelines.
A guest on one of their music shows used
the derogatory term “paki” when referring to
one of his and the host’s mutual friends. Re-
gardless of whether offense was intended
or not, at least one of the show’s seven lis-
teners was sufficiently affected to complain.
The danger in these situations arises when
the public cannot reasonably identify the
motivations behind a comment. That is why
the environment and the context of such re-
marks are so important. ‘Banter’ that would
be perfectly acceptable with old friends in
the local pub is much less acceptable in
the workplace or indeed in a broadcast.
The listener or reader’s confidence must be
earned; jokes can easily be misconstrued if
your audience isn’t expecting comedy.
Any regular reader of these pages will
know that Felix itself is by no means an
offense-free zone. Many people’s sense of
humour are aroused by vitriol and abuse,
and given the right context there is nothing
wrong with indulging them. The type of hu-
mour that you will find on Pages 38 and 39
– the type of humour that Hangman revels
in – occurs in a clearly quarantined area. It
is a properly defined space, where the read-
er is under no illusions as to what to expect.
Anybody can write an article in Felix. Any-
body can start a show on IC Radio. These
things seem so obviously desirable, natural
and easy that one can easily forget there is
anyone on the other side. Those of us work-
ing in student media must never forget that
we speak for the students and to all stu-
dents of Imperial College. The magnitude of
this responsibility is not diminished by the
ease with which it can be acquired. IC Radio,
recognising this responsibility, have com-
plied fully with the Union’s demands. Apolo-
gies have been made and steps have been
taken to prevent a recurrence. Now that the
dust has settled, questions should be raised
as to whether the Union’s decision to take
them off the air was entirely appropriate.
Taking the entire station offline is akin
to closing the wrong stable door after the
horse has bolted. A similar incident last year
at the University of Glasgow saw their radio
station embarrassed after two presenters
used “numerous swear words and explicitly
discussed sexual activities” on air. Their Un-
ion’s response was to take down the offend-
ing show pending a further investigation.
This is clearly a more measured step.
Alex Kendall has since admitted that the
severity of the Union’s reaction was in-
tended to make a point. The point has been
heard loud and clear in the Media base-
ment – but it too has caused offence.
FELIX
Matt Colvin
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Speak responsibly,even if
no-one is listening
Take that Imperial! Not only do I have port and a top hat, I also live in a vortex! Mwhahaha...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“
“
p ,
”
I hear LSE are pretty sick
at economics, and UCL
are probably amazing at…
drinking? Yeah, that works.
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
Ben Kennedy
Friday 04 february 2011

