HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Lolcat of teh week
Sub-warden Vacancies
On campus
Our Changing Climate
Professor Brian Hoskins,
Director of the Grantham
Institute for Climate
Change, will be discuss-
ing what we understand
about climate change,
the likely impact of glob-
al warming and possible
responses. Register in
advance. Contact Si-
mon Bailey – s.bailey@
imperial.ac.uk – for more
information
Rt Hon Andrew Lansley
The Rt Hon Andrew Lansley, the Secretary of State
for Health, will be making a keynote speech at the
launch of Imperial’s new School of Public Health.
Other speakers include Vivienne Parry, journalist
and broadcaster. The programme for the evening in-
cludes panel discussions on chronic and infectious
diseases with speakers from Harvard, Cambridge,
the WHO and Imperial. Registration in advance. Con-
tact events@imperial.ac.uk for more information.
Sherfield Building, Great Hall
14 February 16:00-18:30
Huxley Building, LT311
09 February 18:30-20:30
Global Poverty Project
Engineers without Borders host a thought-provoking
presentation about extreme poverty and how we can
help to tackle it by making simple lifestyle changes.
The Global Poverty Project’s 1.4 Billion Reasons
presentation is open to all. Registration in advance
at globalpovertyproject.com. Contact Pedro Rivotti –
p.rivotti@imperial.ac.uk – for more information.
Huxley Building, Clore Theatre
08 February 18:00-19:30
Union Notice
Sabbatical Elections!
Are you getting excited? We’re getting excited. The big
day draws every closer. The day when would-be candi-
dates for sabbatical positions begin to declare them-
selves. Yes, the Sabbatical and Trustee elections for
Imperial College Union kick off on the 15th of February
when nominations open. The positions up for grabs in-
clude Deputy Presidents for Finance & Services, Clubs &
Societies, Welfare and Education as well as Felix Editor
and finally, President. Do you have the dedication and
enthusiasm required to serve Imperial students?
See Page 8 for interviews with Deputy President (Educa-
tion) Alex Dahinten and Deputy President (Welfare) Char-
lotte Ivison.
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine
Bettany Charles Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Layout/Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports
Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat
Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editor Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley
Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editor Dana Li Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon
Worthington Clubs & Societies Editor Roland Sookias Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles
Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya
Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Joe Marinelli Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Special Thanks Nuno Falcao E Cunha Justus Schmidt
Part of the job may include helping fresh faces move into halls. Or, as
shown in this photo, standing around pretending to...
Nominations open 15th February
The sub-warden posi-
tion at Beit is from
May this year and the
deadline for applica-
tions is 18:00 on the
4th of March. For fur-
ther information go to
union.ic.ac.uk/halls/
beit or contact Dr Sav-
vas Saouros at sav-
vas.saouros@impe-
rial.ac.uk
Beit Hall Bernand
Sunley
Clayponds
Are you feeling nostalgic for your Fresher years in halls and also passion-
ate about helping 1st years settle in and enjoy their time at Imperial? Well,
have we got the job for you! Sub-wardens are primarily there to care for
students in halls – those 3am calls have got to be answered by somebody.
But the position is also about creating a friendly, fun and responsible at-
mosphere in your hall.
Postgraduate students are more commonly suited to sub-wardening,
perhaps with 2 or more years until the end of your degree, but the posi-
tion is open to all members of the College. Be aware that taking up a sub-
warden position is a medium to long-term commitment; also, don’t expect
to be taking long holidays during term time.
It’s a challenging but rewarding job, and you get to live for cheap! Go to
halls.imperial.ac.uk/vacancies for application forms and more information.
Friday 04 february 2011
The sub-warden posi-
tion at Bernand Sun-
ley is from March this
year and the dead-
line for applications
is 22:00 on the 19th
of February. For fur-
ther information go to
halls.imperial.ac.uk/
bsh or contact Jude
Grime at jude@impe-
rial.ac.uk
The sub-warden posi-
tion at Clayponds is
from April this year
and the deadline for
applications is 17:00
on the 16th of Febru-
ary. For further infor-
mation go to halls.
imperial.ac.uk/vacan-
cies or contact Paul
Green on p.green@
imperial.ac.uk

