DOES WATCHING TV RUIN
YOUR SOCIAL
LIFE?
I
find going out on a Sat-
urday night in London an
odd thing. I’ve usually had
a rough week, I’m tired,
fed-up with humanity, feel-
ing miserable and in a pretty foul
mood. I feel the onset of a cold
thanks to a vitamin D deficiency
that the city’s winter brings. I
would quite like to stay at home
and lie on my backside all even-
ing watching TV, but I know deep
down that would only make me feel like a sad–arse friendless weirdo.
Needless to say, I would get mixed feelings.
Indeed, I used to pooh-pooh the idea of spending an evening in Tramp,
the supposedly trendy Mayfair club. If invited, I would decline by offer-
ing some pompous rhetoric about its awful clientele of pathetic, insecure
males with more money than sense who would spend their nights buying
the attentions of broads best labeled as gold digging whores. You either
have to spend the evening inside the club, sitting next to some trust fund
baby, or standing outside in the cold having a fag with one of the Harry
Potter nitwits. Classy it isn’t.
But one day I accepted the invite. And having brought along a couple
of friends, I spent a very merry evening tossing down martinis. Each
cocktail made the place lighter, less stuffy, and more fun. What started
out as a cynic looking for something to moan about turned out to be the
best bloody evening in ages. We roared with laughter, thumping the bar
table and cracking lame jokes. The point being that wherever you go out,
there’s always bound to be a story to tell – good or bad – and you will be
richer for the experience.
Yes, it was stupidly expensive, yes it was full of vulgar people, and yes
I will probably never go back, but I am happy I went – what else would
I have done? Watched some crap would-be singer be told his version of
My Way was better than Frank-“The Voice”-Sinatra’s by a prick with
man breasts and a silly haircut?
Since that night I’ve been rationing my TV usage. TV, as the alterna-
tive option, is no more than a drowsy sedative. It’s less likely to get you
excited than Valium. The whole thing is bollocks – Big Brother, Britain’s
Got Talent (if you count Amanda Holden’s fake breasts that is), even the
BBC 10 O’clock News.
Put simply, it’s much more fun to watch people spray cream on each
other’s nipples in real life than it is on TV (just ask a Daily Mail journal-
ist), in the same way it’s far more enjoyable to create the news than listen
to it (even if Mr. Woollard of fire extinguisher fame would disagree).
20 felix
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
M
y right honour-
able friend, de-
spite having a
novel immune
system that is
somehow dependant on vitamin D
instead of the usual vitamin C, con-
vincingly raises the argument that
watching television makes one a
“sad-arse friendless weirdo”.
I spend a colossal amount of time
watching television; and if you
were to ask any of my Twitter followers or Youtube subscribers, they
would doubtless testify to my erudite wit and charm. Scathing, self-de-
preciating irony aside, while I’m not out snorting cocaine off the tits of
“third Hufflepuff on the left” on a Saturday, watching television isn’t the
death of my social life.
While, granted, I do mindlessly bask in such shows as Hole in the Wall,
Come Dine with Me, not all TV is of the vapid variety. Popular televi-
sion also has the advantage of being just that, popular. It is brilliant for
facilitating conversation.
In an office or around a table, television is second only to sport as a
sure fire conversation starter. In fact at Western Europe’s premier nerd
emporium, I am probably safer trying to start a conversation about the
factual inaccuracies in an episode of The Big Bang Theory than why
Arsenal will fail to get any silverware this season.
It is common amongst those in our generation, while taking sips from
their organic fair trade tea, to exclaim in a tone somewhere between
mild derision and self importance “why, I don’t even own a television”
with the commonly cited other diversions being “reading” and “actually
talking to people”.I can debate, at length, on topics such as how Evelyn
Waugh’s repeated characterisation of women as treacherous changed in
type from intentionally malevolent to accidental by–products of emo-
tional insecurity as he grew older, as well as why I’d like to kick X Fac-
tor’s Cher Lloyd in the head. Loving television doesn’t make you stupid.
When pushed, the average “oh, I just find I’ve started reading more”
person is usually dribbling into Steig Larsson on their kindle and watch-
ing torrented episodes of Glee anyway.
All this conveniently brings me onto my final point. With online stream-
ing and my “first thing I’d save in a house fire” Sky + box, you can be
selective about what you watch. Television is a shared cultural experience
which is by far the easiest to partake in. The fact that it can be used as the
offal filler that bulks out the Sainsbury’s Basics sausage that represents
your day in no way prevents it from also providing beautiful haggis.
“It’s more fun to
watch people spray
cream on each
others’ nipples in
real life”
Charles Betts Matt Allinson
The average Briton watches nearly four hours
of TV a day – the average student probably
watches a lot more.The question is...
TheArtus Break
The focus of my Fridays is the customary phi-
losophy hour lunch break from my lectures.
That’s when a bunch of Philosophy enthusi-
asts (read: Greg Artus fans) gather around in
the enclosed space once named the Pippard
lecture theatre for their weekly dose of argu-
ments and a fine prescription of debating.
The reason most of us like Greg’s lectures
is that he is quite the debater. Sort of like
the living version of Al Pacino in Devil’s Advo-
cate...or was it Keanu Reeves? Maybe he’s
a mixture of both? One of my friends put it
quite suitably: “Greg is an enigmatic figure
that flies into lectures, says what he has to
say, leaves all of our heads buzzing like no
other lecturer does and then disappears in
a puff of smoke.” Funny thing is, no matter
what course we are doing, we all find his
words a refreshing alternative to the mono-
tone science courses we chose to come to
study at Imperial in the first place. Oddly, the
Humanities Department suffered from cuts
recently – anyone see a parallel today1
?
Funny thing is, no matter what subject we
do, we all find his words a refreshing alter-
native to the monotone science courses we
chose to study in the first place.
Today, Hobbes’ Leviathan was discussed
along with his arguments for human nature
being inherently flawed. This is backed up
by the usual materialist psychology which
claims that humans are driven by self–in-
terest and do not have a natural inclination
towards others. Our desires and needs are
what drive us and once we acquire some
of our material needs, we are constantly
vigilant and ready to fight in order to protect
them – ‘the War of All against All’.
This seems like a pessimistic view of hu-
mans, I thought, as I took a bite of my spin-
ach–feta roll, but what would that mean?
What does it mean to be self–interested?
Is it different from being selfish? Do we all
act on immediate desires and do we only
postpone these when we are in pursuit of
another, further desire? How could we al-
ways know what our best self-interests are
and where does this leave altruism? Moreo-
ver, where does this leave love and the least
self–interested of acts – dying for another
human being?
Apparently, humans are more inclined to
die for a close friend than a relative. Would
you die for a friend or a sibling? No matter
what your answer might’ve been, the truth is
that you don’t know what you would do until
you were put into the situation and forced to
choose. Your actions speak for themselves
and they are undeniable proof of the never-
ending adventure of discovering and getting
to know oneself. One could argue that we’re
all quasi-patriots, selfish people, brutes
and cowards until we prove with our actions
that we are patriots, unselfish and generous
people, civilized human beings and heroes.
Unpretentiously put, we are neither – simply
because we haven’t lived enough to be able
to tell the tale that proves either extreme.
What to do then? How about you jump off
a cliff mate, and find out?
1
*Cough*, Life Sciences, *cough*.
N
aida Dzigal
“Not all TV is of
the vapid variety.
It is brilliant
for facilitating
conversation”
Friday 04 february 2011

