A R T S
FELIX
22
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil is a wel-
come exception to my reading habits. It is not a
work of fiction, but rather the enthralling true sto-
ry of a murder and the events surrounding it. It
is doubtlessly one of the finest works of modern
American literature. It maintained a place on the
New York Times’ Bestsellers list for over 200 con-
secutive weeks after the initial publication.
Set in what is arguably one of the weirdest, yet
most beautiful cities in the United States – Sa-
vannah, Georgia – the story unravels at a typically
Southern pace. Rightly slow, and oddly soothing.
While reading it, I can almost feel the warmth of a
perfect Savannah summer night, with the sounds of
a moody, dark piano jazz being played a few houses
down.
The story, interesting as it is, is not the focus of
the book. Rather, John Berendt lets the city and
its eccentric characters take centre stage. The
author really captures what it is about each of the
characters that makes them so interestingly real;
from the crazy old man who walks a leash without
a dog through Oglethorpe Square to Jim Williams,
the wannabe aristocrat around whom the story re-
volves.
It isn’t every day that one finds a work of non-
fiction that is as linguistically ornate as a work of
fiction. Berendt’s language, while not overwhelm-
ingly similar, does have undertones that remind
me of early Nabokov, yet it captures something
that is incongruently worthy of Harper Lee. An el-
ement of subdued, distorted reality is prevalent
throughout the book and is especially prevalent in
the cemetery scenes, set in the heart of South-
ern voodoo country. The writing is luxuriant, much
like the people and the city. It is near perfection.
Berendt captures the essence of this picturesque,
yet oddly disconnected place in deepest, darkest
Georgia.
While there is an eponymous motion picture
somewhat based on the book, it could never do
the ‘novel’ justice, despite an outstanding perfor-
mance by Kevin Spacey and an appearance by a
very young Jude Law. If you have not had the for-
tune of visiting Savannah, upon reading the book
you will want nothing more than getting on to the
next fight to Atlanta and catching the Greyhound
that gets you as close to Mercer House as human-
ly possible.
If you read nothing else
this week...
Afonso Campos extoles the virtues
of one of America’s finest pieces of
modern literature
Midnight in
the Garden of
Good and Evil by John Berendt
Get a review in Felix and spread the word about that
life-changing book you’ve read – Send 400 words to
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Eat meat, think twice
The book that will make you a conscientious omnivore
Eating Animals is not a simple argument
for vegetarianism, but an intelligent in-
sight into the culture, economy, business
and impacts of meat production. Safran
Foer makes a plea for more ‘conscien-
tious omnivores’, making meal-by-meal
decisions. We should all think about the
issues and where we stand, particularly
in regards to resource use, as a topic that
effects everyone on the planet
The book describes how the ever
cheaper production methods used by
factory farms are not only the leading
cause of global resource exploitation,
habitat loss and the biggest producer of
CO2 emissions, it discusses how these
same companies continue to promote
unhealthy and unsustainable dietary
choices at the expense of individual
health, animal welfare and the control of
cross-species viruses such as H1N1.
After two award winning works of
fiction (Extremely Loud and Incredibly
Close and Everything Is Illuminated),
Eating Animals is Jonathan Safran Fo-
er’s first work of non-fiction, turning
his pen with shocking effect to the very
real issues surrounding what it means to
eat meat. What is refreshing about Eat-
ing Animals is that Safran Foer is not a
conservationist, nor is he an animal or
environmental activist, he is a novelist.
His typographic techniques are quirky
and visually creative and his storytell-
ing sensibility is present from the first
chapter. The book is both a narrative
about family values and our cultural
links to food, and hard research into the
subject of eating meat. At a talk given at
the RSA earlier this month he described
how his initial investigations into meat
production were not intended for the
purposes of writing a book, but to find
out for himself and his young family
‘what meat is’ and whether its good to
eat it.
Safran Foer has managed to tackle
the issues surrounding eating meat in a
truly comprehensive manner (perhaps
he would have included more of the in-
dustry perspective on the topic if they
had ever replied to his requests for in-
formation). From investigating the true
meaning of words such as ‘bycatch’
and ‘free-range’ within the industry, to
interviewing factory workers and vegan
slaughterhouse builders, his wilful pur-
suit for understanding led him at one
point, and against his own conviction, to
join an activist breaking into a chicken
farm to see for himself what was being
so vehemently hidden behind the locked
barn doors. His genuine shock and an-
ger at the realities he uncovers are re-
layed with fervour, often humorous and
always thoughtful and well researched.
His arguments for re-thinking factory
farming from the perspective of cross-
species viruses, such as H1N1 (swine
flu) are strong enough when consider-
ing global health. A pig farm in North
Carolina was where bird, swine and hu-
man viruses combined in sickly, drug
resistant animals to form this lethal, po-
tentially pandemic virus and six of the
eight genetic segments of the (currently)
most feared virus in the world have been
linked directly to US factory farms.
During the RSA talk, Safran Foer
mentioned a statistic that any environ-
mentally aware individual or car owner
should hear: ‘If every American reduced
their meat consumption by one meal a
Watch or
listen to Safran
Foer’s talk with
Bibi van der
Zee at the RSA
on the RSA
website
Sarah Wilson
Jonathan Safran Foer in front of a happy, ethical brick wall. Nice wall, nice guy, probably...
“Relayed with
fervour, often
humorous and always
thoughtful”
week it would be equivalent to taking 5
million cars off the road’.
As a recent convert to a fully vegetar-
ian diet, I would be a massive liar if I
said the aroma of bacon and eggs waft-
ing from a road side café doesn’t send
my saliva glands into a frenzy, but after
reading Eating Animals I realized that
to call myself a conservationist and eat
meat, when I am lucky enough to have
the choice not to, is total hypocrisy. My
wanting a steak is far outweighed by the
need to change an industry which has
taken over one third of land on planet
earth and has genetically modified ani-
mals to the point they can no longer re-
produce naturally.
Safran Foer’s aim is not to preach
but to inform and inspire people to ask
themselves questions about their food
choices, and Eating Animals fulfils
that aim with style. We must all draw
our own lines in the sand, whether that
means becoming a vegan, vegetarian or
just cutting out one meat dish a week.
We must decide for ourselves, as said by
Safran Foer’s Grandmother at the start
of the book, “If nothing matters, there is
nothing to save”.
Peter Rigaud
Friday 04 february 2011

