FELIX 23
ARTS
Twisted, but is it
twisted enough?
A seemingly endless tapestry of post-
cards greets visitors to the latest Gilbert
& George exhibition at White Cube. The
aesthetic quality of the show is tangible
from the start, even when one is not
quite sure of the content of the pictures.
The overall effect is that of giant, mul-
ticoloured quilts that cover the walls of
two rooms. And then you get closer to
the pictures; and each one is a surprise.
Each picture is comprised of thirteen
identical postcards arranged in the shape
of a square urethra. The creation of the
‘Urethra Postcard Pictures’ was an au-
tomated process. Once thirteen identical
flyers or postcards had been collected,
they were simply arranged and the title
was taken from something within the
postcard to describe the picture. The
titles of the pictures are works of art on
their own and sound like poetry. Their
beauty lies in their simplicity and their
usefulness in describing each work as
fully as possible.
The urethra symbol was not randomly
chosen as a scandalous geometric ar-
rangement for postcards. It is a sexual
symbol and a representation of libertari-
anism – very simply put, the freedom of
expression, ideas and actions. The ure-
thra appears to free the meanings held
within the ordinary postcard.
Some of the postcards are taken from
flyers found mainly in London tele-
phone boxes. The flyers advertise sexual
services from rent-boys, prostitutes and
‘masseurs’ as well as performance en-
hancing drugs and sexual education. You
would probably not blink twice at them
in a normal situation. Arranged in the
urethra symbol, the postcards are freed
from the constraints of seediness and the
mundane. The flyers become something
– shocking, sad, wistful, sometimes fun-
ny – whatever you imagine really; but a
distinct connection to the reality of the
London underworld.
The ‘Union Flag Picture Postcard
Roald Dahl. Aside from traumatic expe-
riences in chocolate factories and child
eating giants, surely that kindly figure
looking out from the back of his books
was as child friendly as they get? Short
answer: he wasn’t. There was another
side that many are less aware of, his
anthologies of short stories directed to-
wards a far more adult audience. Some
of these stories have now been adapted
for the stage in Roald Dahl’s Twisted
Tales. Gone are the Oompa-Loompas,
and all that’s left are tales of revenge and
a disembodied optic nerve.
Adapted by Jeremy Dyson, mem-
ber of comedy group The League of
Gentlemen and self proclaimed fan of
the works of Roald Dahl, Twisted Tales
presents five of Dahl’s short stories and
provides an overarching narrative link-
ing them, leaving a more than able cast
to portray a real bevy of characters, cap-
turing all manners of grotesqueries.
Set in the 1950s, the play takes the
form of a story read by a child, about a
train of stoic commuters whose lives are
affected by an enigmatic stranger who
delights in entering day after day and
imparting a range of tales, all of which
unfold before our eyes.
The decision to present separate sto-
ries may have perhaps worked better
had the tone of them been more consis-
tent. Although all five tales provide a
showcase of human cruelty, the stories
themselves vary dramatically from hu-
morous to darkly sinister. Indeed with
Dahl’s penchant for dark humour, I was
hoping that this would be more akin to
Dyson’s recent all-out scarefest Ghost
Stories, which he co-wrote and directed.
That isn’t to say that the play isn’t
frightening, indeed, when it reaches the
right balance of unsettling terror and
humour towards the end, it’s thrilling.
One Jamaican set tale details a wager
between a brash young American and a
sinister Spaniard involving a lighter, a
cleaver and a little finger. The audience
gasped collectively throughout. Spine
chilling stuff – I loved it.
The set design does an excellent job
of dealing with the ever changing narra-
tive, with a revolving stage ushering in
new environments and characters quick-
ly and ensuring that the pace is kept
high. At 80 minutes, it definitely doesn’t
overstay its welcome, especially with
some terrific payoff towards the climax.
You can tell that there is both a great
deal of appreciation for Dahl’s tales in
all aspects of the production, and after a
shaky start they are really done justice,
leading to one distinctly child unfriendly
story that goes out on a high.
Lyric, Hammersmith until 26th Feb
Pictures’ are produced using tourist
postcards of quintessentially British
and eternally recognisable subjects. The
buildings and symbols of London are
thrust out of the pictures and almost lit-
erally into our faces. The commonplace
postcard turns into a representation of
London from the outside. There is none
of the grime of the ‘Flyer Pictures’ and
the ‘London Telephone Box Card Pic-
tures’in these, but perhaps more of what
is artificial and yet on display for every-
one to see.
Cindy Sherman’s current photo instal-
lation at the Sprüth Magers gallery is an
excellent and thought provoking com-
panion to the Gilbert & George show.
Sherman gives us larger than life pho-
tographs of herself in fairytale costumes
against the slightly macabre backdrop of
a 19th Century Central Park. As much
as the ‘Urethra Postcard Pictures’ regur-
gitate London’s hidden identities, Sher-
man’s work is equally about American
identity and some of its apparently sin-
Gilbert & George wish you were here
Matt Colvin
Eva Rosenthal Mena
Weird imaginings of Roald Dahl mashed up with the equally weird ones of Jeremy Dyson, what could go wrong?
Alastar Muir
ister sexual undercurrents. The artwork
itself, without going into any deep or
convoluted meaning, is very weird,
wonderful and definitely something to
see in itself.
White Cube gallery until 19th Feb
Friday 04 february 2011

