MUSIC
FELIX
26
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
To be honest, you know what you’re go-
ing to get with a Madness gig. Middle-aged
skinheads in pork-pie hats and turn-up jeans,
skanking wildly to a bunch of tunes that found
a recipe that worked in 1980 and have found no
reason to change it since. Madness release a
new album every couple of years, just to show
willing, but you’re there to see “Baggy Trou-
sers” and “It Must Be Love” and Suggs and Co.
are well aware of it.
The set (and the skanking) kicked off with the
well-worn “One Step Beyond”, driving 15,000
pot-bellies into raptures of excitement and air-
borne beer skiffs. A brief attempt was made
to introduce an element of sophistication, with
the arrival of an elegant, ballgown-clad string
quartet, but this was immediately subverted
by a lecherous saxophonist and business was
resumed as normal. The set was capped by a
thunderous encore, finishing with “Night Boat
to Cairo” rolling straight into Monty Python
“The Bright Side of Life” as the band’s friends
and family took to the stage for one last dance
before the end of the long tour.
In short, it wasn’t big, it wasn’t clever, but
it was impossible to leave without a big dumb
smile on your face. It was perfect.
Album of The Week
Bright Eyes
The People’s Key
Saddle Creek
2011
★★★★✩
A while back, Conor Oberst told that he would cre-
ate one more album under the name Bright Eyes
before retiring it, it appears the album has come
in the form of ‘The People’s Key’. This album really
grows on you, like many of the Bright Eyes songs,
and you will find yourself needing the songs to get
yourself through a wintery day, or to get over a past
demon. They’re songs that help you overcome the
challenges of life in an unconventional way, often
depressing but with a feeling of everyone being in
it together. Moving away from the established folk
sound that the band had conquered so well, Bright
Eyes performs to his more indie-rock self, blending
marching percussions with the rocks twangs and
force. The unforgettable ‘Shell Games’ is out as a
free download and the rest of the album is set to be
released on Conor’s birthday, 15th February!
Luke Turner
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Grandmaster Flash!
Scala, King’s Cross
Tonight! (4th February) @ 19.00
Unquestionably the ambassador of hip-hop since
the 1970’s, Grandmaster Flash is a living legend in
the industry. Coming from The Bronx, New York, he
is the creator of many DJ styles including backspin
technique, punch phrasing and although he didn’t
invent it, he is the true master of scratching. Origi-
nally being a part of Grandmaster Flash & The Fu-
rious Five, masterpiecing such hits as ‘Freedeom’
and ‘The Message’ in the early 1980’s, he has since
toured solo spreading his uncomparable knowledge
of the decks far and wide. He now decides to grace
the ever-friendly streets of London and will play at
Scala in King’s Cross on Thursday. This night will be
a demonstration of brilliance at his trade, and that
would be the trade of tearing shit up on the stage,
the mic and most of all the decks. Luke Turner
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. James Blake
2. Kanye West
3. Muse
4. Arcade Fire
5. Radiohead
6. Daft Punk
7. Bloc Party
8. Gorillaz
9. The xx
10. Rihanna
La Sera
Devils Hearts Grow Gold
Hardly Art
★★★✩✩
This dreamy and detached number from La
Sera owes a lot to the hippy-pop of the 1970’s,
the kind of stuff that your parents have in their
7” collection that they only listen to when
they’re feeling nostalgic. It’s not unpleasant
by any means, but it’s the kind of inoffensive
ambient music that seems inevitably destined
to be the backing for an advert, and probably
for a mobile phone network. It would prob-
ably make a decent addition to your sex mix
playlist, but even for that at a paltry 2min 30s
it’s only any use if you’re really in a hurry.
Casey Duncan
Skepta vs N-Dubz
So Alive
Boy Better Know
★✩✩✩✩
Skepta releases a token anti-sellout song that
somehow manages to include the lyric “I feel
like I’m looking through Michael Jackson’s
eyes”. N-Dubz also get involved, bragging
about money and dissing “haters”, and end up
sounding like the 14-year-olds they cater their
music to, with Dappy deciding to compare
himself to Elvis. The beat attempts a back-
to-basics minimal approach, but just sounds
weak. Skepta should leave these poor cross-
over attempts well alone. As for N-Dubz, they
should instead stick to what they do best: ruin-
ing Mr Hudson’s career. Jamie Fraser
Gonzales
You Can Dance
Ex-Mercury
★★★★✩
Although this is the fourth single released
from Gonzales’ 2010 album-cum-soundtrack,
Ivory Tower, there is no sense of any barrel
beginning to be scraped. You Can Dance is
a fun and unashamedly cheesy disco num-
ber complete with handclaps, bouncing bass
lines and Gonzales’ trademark piano strokes.
With production coming from Boys Noize,
you know there’s no danger of not wanting to
dance to this. The single is released on 22nd
February with a handful of remixes; the pick
of the bunch for me being Edwin Van Cleef’s
effort. Simon Hunter
Bye, bye, White Stripes
Madness
Earls Court
★★★★★
Duncan Casey
S
ad news for rock fans across the
world: The White Stripes are no
more.
I remember hearing “Fell In Love
With A Girl” for the first time like
it was yesterday. The year was 2002, nu-metal
was in its dying days and like many other teen-
agers back then my reference points were more
“Hybrid Theory” and “Take Off Your Pants and
Jacket” than “proper” rock n’ roll (judge not!).
When I heard the raw intensity of Jack White’s
guitar licks and distorted vocals over Meg
White’s no-nonsense drumbeats, it was like a
doorway onto a whole new world of music.
Whereas The Strokes – another revelation
from that period – took their cues from The
Rolling Stones and The Velvet Underground,
The White Stripes were drawing their inspira-
tion from far-out, radical artists like Son House,
that I had never even heard of.
On one level they were combining their love
of the Blues and its emotional transcendence
with a knack for writing catchy sing-along
choruses. On another level they were playing
familiar music in a completely novel way, em-
ploying the kinds of unique instruments usu-
ally kept to World music, and far away from
rock n’ roll.
Their music always had a clearly individual
feel to it that distinguished it from any other
blues-rock out there, even to this day. As they
themselves surmise in their final press state-
ment, their music will live on forever through
their rich discography and through the entire
generation of musicians and fans they inspired.
Though I am sure there will still be heaps
of great Jack White-penned tunes coming our
way in the future, courtesy of Third Man Re-
cords, I still could not help but feel a wave of
bittersweet nostalgia overcoming me as I read
The White Stripes’ beautiful final message to
the world:
“The White Stripes do not belong to Meg
and Jack anymore. The White Stripes belong to
you now and you can do with it whatever you
want. The beauty of art and music is that it can
last forever if people want it to. Thank you for
sharing this experience. Your involvement will
never be lost on us and we are truly grateful.”
Greg Power
Add the White Stripes’ breakup to the violence in Egypt and there’s only one conclu-
sion that can be arrived at: there’s nothing good in this world anymore...
Friday 04 february 2011

