F
I
L
M
Exemplary acting
in Rabbit Hole
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director John Cameron Mitchell
Screenwriter David Lindsay-Abaire
(adapted from stage)
Cast Nicole Kidman, Aaron Eckhart,
Sandra Oh, Dianne Wiest
Rabbit Hole
John Park
Kidman wastes whole days wondering if Tom Cruise had always been that mental
FELIX
28
iCU Cinema - Made in Dagenham
£3/£4 for members/non-members
Tue 8st Feb 6.30pm
Thu 10th Feb 9:00pm.
Union Concert Hall
EVENTS
distance growing between Howie and his wife,
the film turns towards the question of infidel-
ity whilst Becca continues to struggle with her
relationships with her husband, sister, mother
and even family dog.
Kidman and Eckhart are outstanding in the
lead roles as the quietly grieving parents. What
the two of them don’t say to each other is just
as damaging to the pair’s marriage as what
they have to say to one another in a rare argu-
ment. And there is a memorable fiery scene in
which a lot of the film’s issues and the troubles
are summed up – a beautifully written scene,
brought to life by two hugely talented actors.
Kidman has shown intensity before, so the real
surprise here is Eckhart, who brings the perfor-
mance of his career.
An odd relationship between Becca and the
teenage driver who accidentally killed her son
also develops: an interesting plot choice for
this film. Their exchange is awkward and un-
comfortable to watch at first, and you wonder
whether a thing like this is ever possible in
real-life, but as Becca spends more time with
Jason (Miles Teller), it feels poignant and un-
forced, something achieved in part by the tal-
ents of Kidman and the newcomer Teller.
Surprisingly, given the heavy themes it deals
with, Rabbit Hole can be amusing at times. This
is never inappropriately handled – not a dark
or twisted humour – but there are still several
Losing a child is one of the most emotive sub-
jects a film can take, and can deliver some of
the finest performances from its actors, or else
fall flat. Rabbit Hole follows the lives of Becca
(Nicole Kidman) and Howie (Aaron Eckhart)
in the aftermath of their four-year-old son’s ac-
cidental death, hit by a car whilst playing with
his dog. Eight months on, and both Becca and
Howie are struggling to move on. Everything in
the house reminds them of him; the pictures on
the fridge, the clothes in his room, the home-vid-
eos, and even the fingerprints on the door-knobs.
Group grief counseling is the most obvious
first step, but something Becca can’t get used
to, especially when someone brings up the idea
of God. “God needed another angel.” It’s a nice
theory one of the mothers comes up with. Bec-
ca’s response? “He’s God. Why didn’t he just
make another angel?” Good point Becca, it’s
time to leave the group. Howie makes an effort
and finds a sympathetic ear in a fellow grief
therapy member Gaby (Sandra Oh). With the
lighter moments involving the solid supporting
cast. Wiest plays the role of Becca’s mother
to perfect, Oscar-worthy precision, providing
some off-beat humour as well as carefully in-
teracting with Kidman’s character to stir up ef-
fective sympathy. Oh, who is exceptional in all
the roles she takes on is once again exemplary
as a straight-talking, charismatic character who
makes a lasting impression.
There are many familiar elements on display
here: the classic grieving music score of sim-
ple guitar plucking accompanied by the occa-
sional piano playing dominates the soundtrack
and there is the inevitable flashback scene that
shows us in slow-motion the accident that
started this chain of events. But a lot of this
is tastefully handled without trying to squeeze
out as many tears as possible. The flashback
scene in particular is a focus entirely on Kid-
man at odd angles and zooms that immediately
paints the chaotic atmosphere.
Rabbit Hole involves an incredibly tough
subject matter, and something that cannot be
handled lightly. But, despite the difficult tone,
it manages to still be a pleasant watch and the
film’s perceptive look at a range of characters
is impressive. Combined with stellar perfor-
mances to back up such good material, Rabbit
Hole fully engrosses its audience and the qual-
ity shines through each of its well-sculpted, in-
volving characters.
Classic Cinema
Mean Streets
On the surface, New York City appears to be the
physical embodiment of the American Dream. The
wide, leafy spaces of Central Park nestled amongst
the glittering spires of the skyscrapers that house
the largest financial district in the world project a
symbol of prosperity and success across the Atlan-
tic. However every city has an underbelly and the
seedy alley’s beneath the behemoths of capitalist
wealth and highrise apartments have proved irresist-
ible for scores of directors since John Schlesinger’s
Academy Award winning classic Midnight Cowboy.
John Voight’s iconic portrayal of a hustler slumming
it with Dustin Hoffman’s crippled conman introduced
American audiences to a new brave style of filmmak-
ing, far from the glitzy optimism of the classic Hol-
lywood aesthetics, and soon a young upstart director
was ready to stamp his own impression of this city of
contradictions on celluloid.
Martin Scorsese’s most personal film Mean
Streets launched his career and sent him on a diz-
zying ascent to the top of the film world. As Robert
de Niro’s unhinged character Johnny Boy swaggers
down a bar with a girl on each arm, accompanied
by the Rolling Stones’ Jumping Jack Flash, all the
elements which would make his style so iconic are
present: the tracking shots, camera angles, snappy
editing and soundtrack. A more masculine Harvey
Keitel stands in for Scorsese, dealing with Catholic
guilt and the pressures of balancing a liberal Ameri-
can lifestyle with traditional Sicilian values. The
plot is uncomplicated, with Charlie (Keitel) spend-
ing his time picking up protection money for his
Mafioso uncle whilst desperately trying to keep his
out-of-control best friend Johnny Boy from a path of
self-destruction.
Although the ending of Mean Streets seems a bit
unfinished, with De Niro Scorsese found a soulmate
and they will collaborate on further classics includ-
ing Taxi Driver and Raging Bull.
Ed Knock
His name is Bobby, Oooh Ooh, Bobby de Niro,
Aaah Ah
Friday 04 february 2011

