FILM
Why are we still accepting bad films?
A
wards season is here,
and whether you take an
interest or not, it gener-
ally means the time of
year when the cinemas
are packed with impressive, intelligent
films. Though a few of the leading films
in this year’s nominees, such as The So-
cial Network or Toy Story 3 were out a
few months ago, the majority of the ones
generating buzz have only emerged very
recently (Black Swan, 127 Hours, True
Grit, The King’s Speech). Now is a time
when film aficionados will actually rel-
ish going to the cinema, a time when
they may not actually resent the huge
dents in their bank accounts most ticket
prices leave.
But this isn’t necessarily a thing to feel
so grateful for. What it highlights most
of all is the distinct lack of quality we’ve
gotten so used to in most of the films we
pay to see. Let’s look at the line-up we
were treated to in the summer – Zac
Efron starring in bland drama/romance
Charlie St. Cloud, a predictable romcom
with Jason Bateman and Jennifer Anis-
ton (The Switch – if that means anything
to you), and, of course, Step Up: 3D.
These films are, at best, good for taking
the piss out of, but considering the fact
that Step Up: 3D alone had an estimated
budget of US$30 million, it stops being
funny pretty quickly.
In context, $30 million is the entire
cost of a HIV/AIDS Prevention and
Control Programme in the Dominican
Republic. The budget for that other sum-
mer smash hit, Cats and Dogs: The Re-
venge of Kitty Galore, was around $85
million. This is the equivalent amount
the US government pledged to fund re-
newable energy in 2009.
This isn’t an argument saying that
Hollywood should be curing cancer
and saving the world instead of releas-
ing awful films; I realise that it isn’t as
clear-cut as that (though I am sure that
if you gave an AIDS sufferer in the Do-
minican Republic a copy of Step Up: 3D
instead of antiretroviral medicine, you’d
get punched in the throat. And rightly
so.). These films do have their place and
the freedom for the arts to be able to op-
erate without restriction is an invaluable
thing. But the ever-inflated cost of films
is unnecessary and, more often than not,
FELIX 29
only serves to churn out yet another for-
gettable film.
The film industry sees a relatively cy-
clical stream of funding, with even a lot
of “bad” films managing to drum up a
decent enough attendance at the box of-
fice to avoid catastrophic losses. At the
same time, for the amount of money that
ends up being committed to these films,
we should be expecting something
more. It’s not just a case of creating low-
The late, great John Barry remembered
Ed Knock
It’s the most famous title sequence in
cinema; A white circle bobs across the
screen, the camera reveals we’re look-
ing down a gun barrel before 007 strides
across the frame shooting the unfortu-
nate owner and as the blood drips down
the screen, those famous swinging or-
chestral chords blast out rising to a stac-
ato climax – ‘Dun! Dun! Duhhh! Dun!
Dun! Duhhh!’.
The music is arguably as iconic as
the man in the Tuxedo himself and the
‘James Bond Theme’ would be used
in every film until Casino Royale.
However the theme was only meant
to be used for Dr. No and it was only
considered to be used again for From
Russia With Love at the last moment,
fortunately for the many generations of
James Bond fans.
John Barry was born in York (where,
incidentally, James Bond star Dame
Judy Dench is from as well) in 1933.
Immersed in films from a young age by
his father who owned eight cinemas in
the city, Barry was classically trained in
the piano and trumpet. He formed his
own big band the ‘John Barry Seven’
in 1957 and managed to produce some
hit records, but as rock’n’roll started to
invade the airwaves he found himself
scoring for film and television instead.
After the success of James Bond,
John Barry was soon in high demand
from film producers. He eventually
bagged five Academy Awards for Born
Free, The Lion in Winter, Out of Africa
and Dances with Wolves. His scores
were typified by grand, soaring strings
and heavy use of brass inspired by the
bands of his native Yorkshire.
Although being influenced by the
composers of the classical era such as
Bernard Herrmann, John Barry was si-
multaneously an innovator, being one
of the first to incorporate synthesizers
into his scores, and he also regularly
included pop songs best exampled by
the use of Harry Nilsson’s ‘Everybody
Talking’ in Midnight Cowboy.
John Barry died of a heart attack last
Sunday in New York, a city that fit-
tingly owed it’s namesake to his home
town.
Two of the worst offenders: Are Jolie’s humanitarian efforts undone by The Tourist, a $100 million flop?
Jade Hoffman on Hollywood’s extortionate spending on last year’s worst films
budget cult classic like Clerks or The
Blair Witch Project which can gener-
ate impressive amounts of interest and
respect on the bare minimum, but more
to do with the cast and crew investing a
worthy amount of time and thought in
what they create. One of the most cele-
brated films of last year, Inception, took
director Christopher Nolan around eight
years to complete and, whilst it isn’t a
perfect film, it certainly lives up to its
$160 million investment. The flood of
critical acclaim that trailed Nolan, and
still does, after this film is not exactly
excessive – the man deserves apprecia-
tion for his work – but this level of effort
should be going into all films that Hol-
lywood rolls out.
Only last December, unexpected
blockbuster Monsters shot to fame for
being made for $800,000 – a near un-
heard-of feat at the cinema – and eas-
ily generated a substantial profit at the
box office. By contrast, Jack Black’s
latest Gulliver’s Travels didn’t even
make back half of its $112 million costs
and was lucky to get 2-star ratings from
most critics. Cost is not equal to qual-
ity – a lesson that Hollywood has still
not seemed to learn. Some of the most
expensive films made to date have been
shoddy sequels to lucrative franchises
(Pirates of the Caribbean: At World’s
End or X-Men: The Last Stand for ex-
ample) and, whilst they manage to still
cash-in fairly well, accepting a second-
rate production from a franchise that can
and has provided better shouldn’t be so
commonplace.
With the BAFTAs and Academy
Awards just weeks away, it’s a good
time to take advantage of the decent
films gracing our screens for what feels
like a limited amount of time, but con-
sidering the cost, it’s about time we de-
manded a higher standard.
“The ever-inflated
cost of films is
unnecessary and
only serves to churn
out yet another
forgettable film.”
Friday 04 february 2011

