NEWS
FELIX 3
Angry students told to
hop off ‘Hopper Bus’
No prior warning given, says Medic President
SELKIRK RULES!
...and regulations
Disgruntled students have this week
found themselves unable to use the NHS
Trust ‘Hopper Bus’ service, a shuttle ser-
vice that runs between NHS Trust sites.
The service, piloted in April 2009, had
until recently been a useful form of free
transport for Imperial students, most
notably medical students, to and from
NHS Trust Sites (Charing Cross, St
Marys and Hammersmith hospitals) and
the South Kensington campus. Two bus-
es used to run in a loop between these
sites, providing the means for students
and staff to get to teaching, meetings
and club and society events. However,
recent changes have angered students.
The buses are smaller, no longer go to
the South Kensington campus and run
for fewer hours – changes that David
Smith, ICSMSU President, highlighted
were not made clear to the student body
prior to their enforcement.
“ICSMSU has not been given any
information about the change, but we
understand that there is a new timetable
which runs roughly from 8 to 6, rather
than from 7 to 9:30. The Single Decker
has become a minibus so there is less
space but it seems adequate. [The buses]
now only operate between individual
sites (i.e. Charing Cross to St Marys
Hospital or Hammersmith Hospital to
St Marys Hospital etc) rather than go-
ing in a big circle. But this saves time
as students no longer have to go through
hospital sites on the way to their final
destination.”
Joanna Kefas, a second year medic,
expressed anger over the changes: “The
hopper bus meant that I could get to
Imperial [South Kensington campus]
quickly and for free. During [clinical]
firms it was the only way I even consid-
ered getting to St. Marys because the
Hopper took 15 minutes, whereas the
public bus took an hour. I also use it
to get to society meetings and rehears-
als – I could jump on the Hopper bus
and know that I’d actually get there on
time.”
An NHS Trust spokesperson coun-
tered that there are now three buses run-
ning rather than two, and that the service
is now more frequent and faster.
However, a PhD student, Loretta Platt,
said that the loss of the Charing Cross to
South Kensington route, “the route we
use most,” outweighed improvements
on other routes.
The service was never intended to
be used by non-clinical students. The
online timetable clearly states that the
service is for the use of Imperial Col-
lege Healthcare NHS Trust staff only,
for “official use in getting to or from
Trust sites and meetings”.
Dave Smith confirmed that he would
be raising the issue at the next Faculty
of Medicine Medical Studies Commit-
tee, but sought to reassure students on
clinical firms that they should not be af-
fected by the changes: “Clinical students
who are on placements on one of the
hospitals should still be able to use the
service if they have been issued with an
NHS card at the beginning of their firm,
although strictly it is only for staff.”
Whilst it is clear that non-clinical stu-
dents were never supposed to use the
Hopper bus service in the first place, it
was of undeniable benefit to many Im-
perial students. With rising costs of liv-
ing, students have less and less money
to spend on transport between campus-
es. The Hopper bus fulfilled a need for
many students, created by a lack of an
affordable and reliable alternative form
of transport between Trust sites.
After several recent incidents in Selkirk
Halls – mainly involving alcohol – the
Wardens have decided to implement
a series of rules regarding ‘gatherings’
and noise levels late at night. These reg-
ulations request that students inform the
wardens about gatherings so that they
can be ‘approved’ and have provoked
consternation amongst students there.
Students have been warned that if gath-
erings are not reported to Wardens, after
repeat offences, they may get fined.
Several students who live in Selkirk
(Selkirkians) have been charged with
community service and fines from the
College Tribunal for the damage caused
after recent parties.
The Selkirkians who were given pun-
ishments were indignant; they felt that
they had no warning as no one had tried
coming to talk to them before. Some
students feel patronised in regards to
the rule about staying quiet after 11pm.
One said, “it literally felt as if I was nine
years old again.”
However, sub-wardens do not believe
that any of the rules introduced are new.
Sub-warden James Farley-Nicholls said
that they were a “re-emphasis of the
pre-existing requirements for living in
halls.” These requirements were set for
all halls at the beginning of term and are
simply being re-enforced more rigor-
ously he argues.
However, many Selkirkians remain
disgruntled if not confused by these
regulations. Many students are puzzled
by the idea of having to report “gather-
ings” to their wardens, mainly because
they have no idea what a gathering is.
Even though the wardens have approved
time spent in the kitchen, none of the
residents are sure as to when they would
notify the wardens. Most students stated
simply that “they wouldn’t think twice”
about sending an email, as gatherings
aren’t planned: “They just happen”,
commented one resident.
However, it seems that wardens are
more concerned about large parties,
mainly involving alcohol,that would
leave a large mess in the kitchens and
that the rules were only set due to com-
plaints from residents and cleaners.
They only wished to be informed so
that they can ensure that any messes are
tidied up after and that excessive noise
will be controlled.
Some Selkirk residents that are not
usually involved in such parties and
incidents did feel that these new regu-
lations did not affect them as the rules
were “only directed at certain people”.
But some do believe that the rules have
created a “culture of fear, that a warden
will walk in any time” making it harder
to just hang out in halls.
One of the most important questions
has to be: why only Selkirk? It seems
that only Selkirk has had their regula-
tions reinforced, where one student was
‘shocked’ that it was only their halls.
But then again, it seems that only Sel-
kirk have people throwing up in their
common room, people breaking restric-
tors on windows and wandering on fifth
floor balconies, spilling oil on the fourth
floor and inviting people who aren’t
from their halls, because no other hall
does that, right?
To keep the peace, it seems that Sel-
kirkans should be more considerate of
other residents around them, whilst the
Sub-wardens should be more lenient
on “gatherings” within the halls. On a
positive note, the Sub-wardens have
promised,“if things improve then the
requirements will be relaxed.” But for
now, it seems its ‘bed time, lights out’
for Selkirk.
Katherine Bettany
Aemun Reza
Oh yeah, that’s right. A photo of the hall in question AND a famous land-
mark in the background. You’re welcome Felix reader
Let’s be honest, Imperial, this photo really doesn’t require a caption
Katherine Bettany
Friday 04 february 2011
Miles Robertson
Jeez, get a room...
Katherine Bettany

