31
felix
TELEVISION
The most adorable psycopaths in televsion history. Although we’re using the term ‘adorable’ rather loosely
behind.
The mixture of drama, black humour
and sheer tragedy this show balanced
rarely faltered and makes the show
one of the most consistent I have ever
seen over 5 seasons. This is mostly due
to the wonderful cast rarely putting a
foot wrong, with a great script to back
them up. Surprising I have managed to
get this far without mentioning one of
the most complex female characters to
have appeared on TV, played by the tal-
ented Rachel Griffiths (presently stuck
in the mire that is Brothers and Sisters)
whose Brenda was often the highlight
of the show. I cannot emphasize how
much I would recommend watching
this show if you didn’t have a chance
the first time around (I suspect for
many of you, you would have been in
single digits). With one of the best fina-
les of all time this is a show rich with
layered characters who are unafraid to
be selfish and cruel to each other while
still being engaging and ultimately
sympathetic.
Our HBO-fest continues
Continuing our series on Sky Atlantic, Vicky Jeyaprakash and Navid Nabijou
dice with death with two of the edgiest shows in recent years
T
he genius of Alan Ball knows
no bounds, writes Vicky
Jeyaprakash, and Six Feet Un-
der is a perfect example. It was the story
of a dysfunctional family of undertakers
whose lives unfold while dealing with
the day-to-day reality of death. The se-
ries normalised the grim reality of death
in their lives while the characters railed
against it by embracing life. In doing so
they indulged in various forms of sex,
drugs and human pettiness. The intel-
ligence of the writing however never
let this slip into gratuitousness and was
dealt with, with such a deft hand and sly
humour that it was a thing of beauty (un-
like the kickass True Blood).
The excellence of the cast cannot be
downplayed with the incredible Mi-
chael C Hall (Dexter) and Peter Krause
(Sports Night) playing the two brothers
who ran the Fischer funeral home after
the death of their father, with Francis
Conroy playing their highly strung ma-
triarch who was trying to keep the fam-
ily together. With a confused younger
sister and warring business partner
to battle, the series was never shy of
drama, with each week beginning with
the death of a person, which was some-
times brutal but often amusingly ordi-
nary. In fact, death frequently took on a
surreal element with corpses speaking
and ghosts of past characters haunting
the family. This conceit was oddly not
generally played for scares but for grim
humour with the characters who now
knew all mocking those that were left
“It was the story of
dysfunctional family
of undertakers
whose lives unfold
while dealing with
the day-to-day
reality of death.”
P
erhaps no other series to date has
had a greater impact on television
as The Sopranos, writes Navid
Nabijou. Exploding onto the airwaves in
1999, it came as a massive shock; never
before had a show of such consistently
high quality been witnessed. In that
sense, it set the precedent for all that fol-
lowed. Mad Men, Six Feet Under, The
Wire; all can trace their heritage back to
The Sopranos.
Leading the ensemble cast is Tony
Soprano, family man and professional
mobster. His life is spent juggling the
often-conflicting demands and pressures
of his two “families”. On the one hand,
there is his wife, Carmela, and their
two teenage children, along with all the
complications, tensions and arguments
that inevitably arise. On the other hand,
there is the New Jersey crime syndicate;
a powerful and sinister organisation,
which still in a certain sense operates like
a very large, very dysfunctional family.
The series has been showered with
critical acclaim, and for a very good rea-
son. The Sopranos is a truly monumen-
tal work of fiction; an all-encompassing
event, that weaves together all of the
themes central to the human condition:
morality, religion, sex, money, death.
Every episode constitutes a virtuosic
psychological and philosophical explo-
ration; a concentrated dissection of the
deepest and darkest elements of man.
Far more important, though, than what
is said, is what is not. In The Sopranos,
subtext is everything. It’s like a really
well-written novel; you have to read be-
tween the lines. As in reality, the inner
lives of the characters are evoked not in
soppy, gushing monologues, but rather
through those little nuances of speech,
those slight glances, those subtle shifts
of body language that give everything
away. Dream sequences are employed
masterfully, carrying a wealth of bewil-
dering symbols and hidden messages
that cry out for interpretation (a far more
mature and realistic representation of
Here lie the chances of IC Radio winning the Union President’s prize
Six Feet Under
If you’re interested in writing about
a TV series, either new or classic, or
reviewing everything you’ve watched
during the week, then don’t hestitate
to email us at tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Sopranos
“A rich exploration
of the paradoxes of
modern life that will
leave an impression
on all who give it a
chance.”
dreams than is usually found). And to
top it all off, there are Tony’s therapy
sessions: here, if anywhere, one might
have hoped for some clarity; and yet
these scenes tend to be the ones most
fraught with subtle undertones and dan-
gerous mind games.
And yet for all its weight, The Sopra-
nos is eminently enjoyable and also very
funny: indeed, humour is often used as
a device for conveying incredibly pro-
found (and sometimes tragic) messages.
Above all, it’s a series that knows how
to enjoy itself; a series which realises
that wisdom is not always equivalent to
seriousness.
The Sopranos is important. It is a rich,
impassioned and truly unique explora-
tion of the paradoxes of modern life. Its
sheer force will leave a permanent im-
pression on all who give it the chance. In
my view – and not just in my view – this
show completely outstrips the competi-
tion, taking pride of place as the greatest
television series of all time.
Friday 04 february 2011

