“ ”
GAMES
FELIX
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
n the immortal words of John McClane:
“How can the same shit happen to the
same guy twice?” In this case the ‘shit’
is another alien infection and the ‘guy’
is everyone’s favourite space engineer,
Isaac Clarke (lose a thousand nerd points if you
miss the reference).
Yes, dear old Isaac is back once more to fight
off another horde of mutated undead in Visceral
Games’ latest title Dead Space 2, a sequel to
their previous title that shares the same name;
minus a ‘2’, of course.
Regular readers of my other articles – yes, all
three of you – will remember that many moons
ago I wrote an article about another game, Am-
nesia: The Dark Descent, and mentioned the
fact that Dead Space was scary in the same way
that I’m good with girls, i.e. not at all. So, did
Dead Space 2 do any better on that front?
Well... sort of. Before I go on like an embit-
tered O.A.P. let me make it clear to you that
the Dead Space series is in no way bad – after
all, I played the original at least five times over
and I can bet my left nut that I’ll be doing the
same thing with its newest sibling. The weap-
ons are fun to use and dismembering enemies
to kill them is still a reasonably fresh concept.
Many smaller changes from the original make
life much more enjoyable, such as the mobility
control in zero-G environments and the self-
charging stasis module, but others less so. You
often have to stomp on fallen Necromorphs to
get the goods they drop, which becomes quite
frustrating in larger battles when you have to
scavenge ammo from dead foes whilst trying
to avoid being ripped apart by their surviving
brethren.
There are a couple of new Necromorphs that
go out of their way to slaughter you and whilst
there have only been a few new additions, I was
very impressed to find that they all filled niches
not occupied by the original Dead Space line-
up. There’s a long range attacker that spews
corrosive acid, organic proximity mines and
crawling bombs, a pack attacker and, my per-
sonal favourite, a new Necromorph that hunts
intelligently, aptly named ‘Stalkers’. These
bastards will drive you mad. Fast and danger-
ous, they’ll lure you into attacking one of their
numbers whilst another sneaks up to charge
into one of your blind sides. Unlike most Nec-
romorphs you have to plan and time your at-
tacks against these guys to avoid being gored;
battles with them were invariably the tensest.
Isaac also dropped the Gordon Freeman ap-
proach to survival and actually speaks now and
then, mostly in response to the NPCs guiding
him along. I suppose I like this change, turning
Isaac from a human puppet to more of an actual
person, but at the same time I couldn’t help but
think he sounded an awful lot like Tom Cruise.
Very off-putting.
There’s also the new multiplayer component,
but it’s nothing spectacular. You play either as
a security officer or a Necromorph in teams of
four, with the security team trying to get shit
done whilst the Necromorphs attempt to screw
their shit up. Unless Visceral continually up-
date this mode I can’t see it becoming popular.
That said, it is a nice little extra that’ll add, at
the very least, a few more hours to playtime.
OK, rant time. First, people really need to
stop calling Dead Space a survival horror. It
is not a survival horror, it is an action shooter.
Now that’s fine with me, but stop calling it a
horror game! Dead Space 2 will shock you and
make you curse now and then, but ‘shocking’
is not the same thing as ‘scaring’. ‘Shocking’
is when someone walks up behind me unan-
nounced and explodes a paper bag right next to
my ear. ‘Scaring’ is when my asthmatic house-
breather and relax. These only serve to height-
en the experiences felt from the high areas,
where most of the action takes place. High,
low, high, low; that’s how it’s meant to go (I
intended that to rhyme). Mentioned earlier,
Amnesia is a good example of this – you have a
calm central hub from which you move to high
tension areas.
The effect of a game with little to no pac-
ing can be seen in Dead Space 2. It leaves you
mentally drained, and you become exhausted
from the near-constant action. Long lift jour-
neys need to be left peaceful. Cut-scenes need
to be that little bit longer. Puzzles should not be
interrupted by Necromorphs leaping out to give
you a big hug and a slobbery kiss. In short, the
game needs to let you relax now and then.
On saying all of this you may think that I
dislike Dead Space 2, which simply isn’t true.
Aside from the pacing issues and a poor idea of
what scary is, Dead Space 2 is still a pretty de-
cent game. It has many shining moments, such
as one where you return to the Ishimura, the
ship that the original game was set in. At the
start of the level I assumed that it’d just be a
cut and paste job, and hence feel pretty unorigi-
nal. Ironically, it turned out to be my favourite
level. I got a very strange feeling of nostalgia,
and memories of the original game came flood-
ing back as I traversed some of the old levels.
It was also the only level in the game that I felt
made decent use of the aforementioned pacing.
So would I advise you to fork out a wad of
cash and purchase this sequel? Chances are if
you’re a fan you’ve already bought it and wast-
ed your whole weekend playing it like I did
(just ask my housemates), so this review will
have been a waste of time (sorry about that).
On the other hand, if you’re new to the series
I’d say pick up the original game cheaply be-
fore moving to its shinier bro.
Dead Space 2 is available now from
Visceral Games on PS3, Xbox 360 and PC.
New aliens, same ol’ frights
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
DuBlox
hoodamath.com/games/dublox.php
Have you ever tried to pick up tofu with chopsticks?
If so, you will probably already be a master of the
complex logic behind this geometrical puzzler. As the
four yellow cubes flop around the stage flipping and
rolling, much like tofu cubes in the hands of a chop-
stick amateur, your brain will go in meltdown trying to
comprehend where to lie them flat, where to stand
them up and, ultimately, how to get them to the red
goal zone.
You may think this is just another of those block
games you can solve by trial and error, but that’s
where you’re wrong. To get through this one you
might actually have to (shock horror) think. Later lev-
els are real stumpers. Visuals are pretty awesome,
especially on the animation.
In this nautical shooter, you control a torpedo-shoot-
ing submarine tasked with one simple instruction:
destroy all enemy ships! Cruisers sail the waves
above you while other subs stalk the seabed below
you, all firing a multitude of missiles your way.
As the action starts to get going, the sheer num-
ber of missiles in the waters require some extreme
concentration to dodge, all while trying to position
the sub in the right place. Not even the upgrades can
help when things start getting messy. A fun little ac-
tion game that you’ll keep coming back to.
Torpedos Armed
tinyurl.com/torpedosarmed
“Dead Space 2 leaves
you exhausted from the
near-constant action.”
32
Dead Space 2 can’t scare me, claims Laurence Pope
mate is out at a party and I can hear heavy la-
boured breathing in the kitchen at 2 a.m. Noth-
ing really emphasised this point better than one
encounter near the start of the game.
You begin Dead Space 2 with no ability to
defend yourself, and you have to run past a load
of Necromorphs to escape the area you start in,
which is admittedly a pretty bad-ass way to
open. Running down a set of stairs with three
slashers trying to tear me apart whilst I desper-
ately navigated blockades was genuinely scary
and tense. However, the very second I got my
hands on the plasma cutter all tension evapo-
rated in an instant. You’re armed, and if you’re
not a blind paraplegic you can aim and kill with
it. Enemies ceased to be a threat, and all you
have to do from there on in is to keep some
ammo handy and you’re golden. It’s fun, yes,
but it’s not scary.
And here’s another thing – pacing. If you’re
unfamiliar with the concept, pacing revolves
around the idea of highs and lows in a game.
The lows are calm areas, places you can take a
This is why I’ll never live in Griffon Studios in Clapham...
Friday 04 february 2011

