GAMES
“ ”
FELIX 33
Create Chains reward players for doing cer-
tain things in certain places in a scene, like put-
ting textures in a specific area or filling a specif-
ic place with objects. While this certainly helps
to guide players along the process of custom-
ising a scene from start to finish, the requests
tend to end up saying ‘I suggest you place this
object here’, further limiting the imagination.
For example, when the chain says “place down
some objects” and it picks an area that’s just
been decorated as runway, no-one’s going to
slap a 1920s steam engine down on the gleam-
ing tarmac. Once you’ve done what the game
asks you’re whisked away to somewhere dif-
ferent, which is in itself annoying as it doesn’t
give time to properly rotate or scale the last ob-
ject before being dragged away from it.
Although players might not be able to be
that creative, the game artists certainly were.
Graphics are a strong point in Create and the
game looks great from start to finish, even on
a low-end system. The huge backgrounds are
high-resolution and detailed, and breathe co-
lour and life into the scene, and the visual ef-
fects, like the confetti that can be made to fall
from the sky, manage to remain visually inter-
esting whilst not getting in the way. The user
interface has some usability flaws, but again it
still looks nice while it blocks the view.
“Surely when providing
creative tools the utmost
should be done to not
limit the creativity?”
W
hen Create was first an-
nounced, it was a dream
come true. Electronic Arts,
creators of The Sims series,
were making a new kind
of creation-simulation game. No mention of
houses or families – yes, they were finally mak-
ing The Sims without the Sims! At last, players
could build a house (or anything!) and not have
to deal with the monotonously boring lives of
the simulated little people afterwards; just pure,
unbridled creativity.
And yet, despite promising all this, even the
most determined of gamers could be forgiven
for failing to like the finished product. Create is
a far cry from the quality of The Sims 4, instead
it’s a mix of creative tools and gameplay ele-
ments that don’t really work well together. So
why does a game that seemed to have so much
promise, turn out so unashamedly mediocre?
Create should certainly be lauded for its sim-
plicity – the purpose of the game is exactly what
would be imagined. Create presents the player
with an empty ‘scene’ – a set of platforms,
walls and rocky outcrops – and then hands
over the tools to decorate it and fill it with stuff,
ranging from grass and flowers to rollercoast-
ers and jumbo jets. Objects can be rotated and
scaled up, graffiti can be placed on walls and
scenes can be moved from Himalayan Moun-
tains to bustling cityscapes with a short click
of the mouse. Initially the choice is limited but
new items are unlocked by completing special
puzzle challenges or ‘Create Chains’, special
sequences where players decorate certain plac-
es using certain tools.
However, oddly for a game based on creativ-
ity, Create also stifles the users creative im-
pulses. Although there’s free reign over where
objects are placed, the architectural elements
and theme of a scene are not modifiable; play-
ers are limited to creating scenes based around
certain topics, such as ‘theme park’, ‘transport’
or ‘Halloween’. This seems counter to the
premise of Create. Surely the utmost should
be done to not the limit the player’s options?
Players want to choose where the natural rocks,
walls and tunnels go, not have some schmuck
pick them out and leave the player to fill in the
rest. The whole ‘scene’ concept is silly too:
rather than being an empty landscape to fill up
as desired it’s more like a tableau of objects
and textures pasted onto random pedestals and
ramps. It’s impossible to make anything re-
motely credible and this totally ruins the whole
‘make-what-you-like’ concept.
Having to unlock things is a nice idea and
it certainly gives the game more of a purpose,
but it’s a massive disappointment for people
who actually do want to decorate the scenes.
For some weirdo who says, ”Ah man, I’ve got
this sweet idea for a graveyard scene,” actually
reaching the appropriate Halloween level and
unlocking all the right objects takes a trudge
through 10-20 hours of creating other stuff first.
This is really annoying for anyone who genu-
inely wants to use the tools on a scene of their
choice; creativity is no fun when it’s forced.
EA’s creatively challenged
Despite being nothing new in the world of
gaming, the puzzles are actually Create’s re-
deeming feature. Each level comes with eight
or so challenges that require players to use a
selection of interactive objects to fulfil a goal,
often moving an object from one place on the
stage to the other. The puzzles vary in complex-
ity from the (deceptively) simple ‘knock over a
firework with a basketball’ to the slightly more
complex ‘build a robot T-Rex out of candy
sticks and chewing gum’. Having an epiphany
and watching it turn into a correct solution is
fun and satisfying. The challenges start out
easy but get more interesting later on, and for
the serious puzzle fiend more user-created lev-
els can be downloaded from the online gallery.
The “Contraption-o-matic” puzzles – where
basic building blocks like rods and wheels are
used to build some kind of vehicle – also de-
serve a special mention for keeping the experi-
ence fresh.
But the challenges also fall foul to one fatal
flaw that blights so many puzzle games: they
are just too finicky. With puzzles, the fun is in
the solving – working out what needs to happen
and then watching it work. The most frustrating
thing to encounter in a puzzle game is a situa-
tion where you know what you need to do but
simply can’t get the game to let you do it. Hav-
ing to position a basketball at a very specific
point above a very specifically placed ramp so
that it bounces and hits a very specific place on
a rocket makes the simple ‘firework-basketball’
puzzle mentioned above a nightmare to actu-
ally complete. Any enjoyment taken from the
challenge drains fast when met with frustrating,
chaotic physics that stop a solution working
due to sheer arbitrariness, and unfortunately it
happens just that little bit too often in Create.
Unfortunately, I could go on. The challenges
and the scene are completely disconnected,
with challenges taking place on a small stage
at the front of each level, so much so the two
could almost be separate games without the
other noticing. The puzzles are also wholly in
2D (or 2.5D, if you want include 3D graphics)
and, when you boil it down, actually provide a
similar experience to many online Flash games
(although Create looks much better, of course).
What this all adds up to is a game that doesn’t
really know what to do with itself. Creativity
should be the order of the day (it’s in the freak-
ing title), but through Create’s critical design
mistakes the imagination is dragged down to
the level of a glorified colouring book. Chal-
lenges can be fun but too often are difficult in
entirely the wrong way. Unlocks are the final
nail in the coffin, and spoil the game for any-
one who does want to decorate the scenes. It’s
a shame, because the concept behind Create is
still sound, The Sims without the Sims is still
a good idea. This time, though, EA have gone
in the wrong direction, limiting the creativity
instead of unleashing it.
Create is available now from EA and Bright
Light Studios for PC, Mac, PS3, Xbox 360,
and Wii.
Simon Worthington places, pastes and paints to his heart’s content in EA’s Create
Friday 04 february 2011

