FOOD
FELIX
34
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Spend your moolah on Mooli’s
Gastronomical Musings
Vicky says:
Every so often I open the fridge and get a good look
at the bulb in the back. The fridge is empty. The
cupboard is bare. I’m pretty sure there’s some nurs-
ery rhyme to that effect. Then you spot a weirdly
shaped clingfilmy entity living behind that jar of jala-
penos from that Mexican night that you don’t quite
remember. Mmm Cheese. Mouldy five-month old
cheese. Possibly Cheddar... maybe Parmesan; it’s
hard to tell. Can one change into another? But yes,
food. Mmm... but wait, is this weird? Scrapping the
blue-ish hue off with a knife, I wonder if I should be
feeling guilty and worry about any freaky diseases
I might contract from the cheese on the toast I’m
about to have have. And for that matter the bread’s
looking a bit dodgy too. Ahh well. It’s not so bad
as the chicken I cooked last week and ate yester-
day. All in all I think I’m helping my immune system.
I mean, what’s life without a challenge once in a
while? Don’t you just love the 30 second rule?
Situated just off Shaftsbury Avenue in the
heart of the West End, a district known for its
wide variety of theatres and eateries, Mooli’s
is a small, minimalistic and trendy restaurant
which stands out from the crowd by serving
food that’s a little bit different. Fed up with the
cuisine wrongly assumed to be ‘Indian’ in Lon-
don, *cough* Brick Lane, Mooli’s is the brain-
child of two former bankers who saw a gap in
the market for cheap authentic Indian food on-
the-go. For this reason you won’t find a tikka
masala or anything of that sort at Mooli’s!
Instead Mooli’s speciality are the wraps they
offer in five flavours, which the owners claim
were inspired by travelling the length and
breadth of India, from Delhi to Goa in search
of the best street food on offer. This is shown in
the menu which contains flavours from all over
India, replicated at their Frith street address by
a chef, or mooli-master as he’s known, whose
CV includes stints in various 5-star hotels and
even a Michelin-starred restaurant. Each roll is
technically a Rumali roti a kind of Indian bread,
which translated into English literally means
handkerchief bread due to its extreme thin-
ness. Each roll is made from specially mixed
flour, made on a wedge press machine exported
all the way from Texas which was originally
intended for the mass production of tortillas.
As someone who used ‘make-your-own’ fajita
kits, with their tough, chewy and rough tex-
tured wraps, I could immediately taste that this
bread was something new and different.
I first ordered the Keralan Beef Mooli. The
soft thin freshly-made wholewheat bread sur-
rounded tender chunks of coconut and Malabar
spice marinated beef and seemed to melt in my
mouth. If a Mooli wrap could be compared to
anything it would probably be a shawarma roll.
However, unlike a shawarma roll where the
meat is the main attraction, the salad just fills
space and the bread usually has the texture of
cardboard, what puts a Mooli far ahead in the
fast food stakes is the way that all the different
components in the wrap contribute to the eating
experience. In the beef wrap, for example, the
beef was joined in the wrap by a fresh cucumber
raita and a tomato and onion salad. The combi-
nation of the black pepper and other spices in
the sauce, the soothing effect of the yoghurty
raita and the juicy salad results in a meal perfect
for warming you up on cold winter’s night.
Feeling up for something a bit different, I was
recommended the Goat Mooli by the friendly
staff. This wrap contained pieces of goat cur-
ried in a traditional Punjabi way with a tomato
onion mix and a hint of lime juice. For those
who have never tried goat before it is very
similar to lamb or mutton, with a stronger more
musky taste. The meat was once again perfect-
ly tender and piping hot, having been freshly
cooked just before, the sauce however was
spicier than the beef.
For the vegetarians out there, Mooli’s offer
two wraps: chickpea or paneer. I tried the latter,
Hello little pomegranate, come into my tummy...
When the hooplah over Brick Lane just gets too much
which contained a light shredded Indian cheese,
spiced with a panch phoran 5 spice blend typi-
cal of eastern India, grated carrots and a crunch
of mixed leaf salad. This wasn’t personally to
my taste as I’m a firm believer that a wrap has
to have some sort of meat in it but I did fall
in love with the deliciously refreshing mango
lassi with a subtle hint of ginger that I washed
it all down with.
So you’re probably thinking that Mooli’s,
with its Central London location, insistence
on quality ingredients, professional chef and a
painstaking attention to detail when it comes to
their food and flavours, would be out of range
of a student’s budget and exorbitantly higher
than a run of the mill fast-food joint. But that’s
where you’re wrong. Possibly the most surpris-
ing thing about Mooli’s is how cheap the food
is. For under a fiver you can purchase a Mooli
which would easily fill you up, but if you’re
working to a budget I thoroughly recommend
the Mini Moolis which are in the region of £3.
So if you ever find yourself in Soho, hungry,
fed up with Chinatown and trying to avoid
the tourists, take your copy of Felix along and
claim a free mango lassi with your meal.
Mooli’s 50 Frith Street, Soho. W1D 4SQ
www.moolis.com
Alexander Joseph
Look for this voucher every week to enjoy kickass
waffles at Wafflemeister for the next month and a
half – you know you want to...
I don’t know a lot about you and to be hon-
est I don’t really care (only kidding…no really,
I don’t care). but I was fortunate enough to
spend Christmas in Les Alpes. Personally, and
unsurprisingly (being a wannabe food critic)
my favorite part was the food. So again I have
another gem of a recipe to share!
Tartiflette
For those of you that ski, I’m sure you are
familiar with this. Really, is there anything
much better than coming after a long day on
the slopes, grabbing a pint and a decent bit of
tartiflette? No, didn’t think so.
It’s very simple, to make this for at least four
people all you need is a bag of potatoes (1.5 kg)
an onion, a knob of butter, some bacon (about
3-4 rashers) and a whole Reblechon. This is a
French round cheese available in most super-
markets. (If you can’t find Reblechon, then
Gruyere or Emmenthal can work just as well
too).
Preheat the oven to gas 5 or around 200°C.
Now wash the potatoes and slice into 1 cm
strips. Boil for about 5-10 minutes in boiling
water with a pinch of salt.
Next, dice the onion finely and chop the ba-
con into lardons before frying these together
with a nice knob of butter in an ovenproof me-
dium depth frying pan. Once the onion and ba-
con is suitably fried (not ‘caramelized’), layer
the potatoes on top so the whole of the pan is
covered. Season well.
Get your Reblechon and cut the whole thing
into strips, but remember to leave the rind on.
Put the strips of cheese over the potatoes and
put in the oven for 20 minutes so it melts com-
pletely. It’s done!
Serve with a fresh green salad topped with
French vinaigrette with a buttered chunk of a
rustic baguette. Perfect.
There you go, you have a creamy, gooey and
very filling meal that will make you want to hit
the slopes. Guaranteed. Not long until Decem-
ber then. Enjoy!
SKI FOOD
by George McIntyre
“Fed up with the cuisine
wrongly assumed to
be ‘Indian’ in London
*cough* Brick Lane...”
Aubrey Sun/flickr
Smelly cheese, smelly cheese...
Friday 04 february 2011

