FOOD
FELIX 35
R
ecently I went for lunch at
FiveSixEight in Beit Quad
and was very surprised
to find oven-baked Blue
Shark Fillet available on
the menu at a very affordable £5.50.
I wanted to double check if it really
was shark fillet, so I e-mailed the com-
mercial services manager, who con-
firmed that yes indeed they were serv-
ing real shark on the menu. I decided to
reply and ask very politely if they would
consider taking shark off the menu for
the following three reasons:
1. Blue Shark (Prionace glauca), is
listed in the 2010 IUCN Red List
assessment as threatened and the
continued sale of shark fillets con-
tributes to the decline of shark
populations globally. Blue Sharks
are among the most heavily fished
sharks in the world.
2. Sharks have been on the planet
for around 400 million years, and
as top predators they play an im-
portant role in marine ecosystems.
Sharks are slow-growing, late to
mature, and do not reproduce often
– this means that shark populations
are particularly vulnerable to over-
fishing and recover slowly, if at all.
3. This university is one of the world’s
best higher education institutions
and we have a large international
student and staff population. I think
it would send out a very positive
message if we refuse to serve shark
on our menus.
I tried to be really positive and engage
openly with the authorities as I think this
is probably the best way to try and nego-
tiate change. I have had a response to my
e-mail and it’s actually very interesting
although not very satisfying.
They said that the role of the catering
establishment is primarily commercial
and “the sales of shark fillets are cur-
rently representing a huge success”.
They asked me to be reassured that the
shark fillets they currently sell are in line
with the university sustainability policy,
and that the company they use to source
their food “supply only products which
are certified by the EU Food Standard
Agency under licence to be acceptable
in Welfare, Hygiene and Conservation”.
A Shark’s Tale ends
in FiveSixEight
Kate Turner wants to start a fish fight with you
Unfortunately this does not reassure me
and I am looking into this further and
trying to find out from the supplier their:
- catch method
- area of catch
- landing port
- and, target species.
It seems to me that a more efficent
route to remove shark from the menu
would be if it doesn’t sell well. Hit
them where it hurts, in the pocket. So
I guess there is work to be done to
educate students and staff to be aware
of the environmental impact of eating
shark and other unsustainable fish has.
This is why I am writing to you. I have
some ideas for raising awareness and
am discussing the issue with Biteback
(a radical animal rights movement), so
expect more about this in the next in-
stalment of what could develop into an
epic battle between good and evil – or
me just dressed up in a shark suit during
my lunch breaks handing out leaflets
outside the bar.
But seriously, it would be fantastic if
we could convince them to take shark
off the menu, it is such a wonderful
ukaaa/flickr The Food Pornographer/flickr
opportunity to send a positive message
to our students and staff. Sustainable
fish and fishing methods have been in
the news a lot lately, thanks to Hugh
Fearnley-Whittingstall’s Fish Fight se-
ries on Channel 4 (http://www.fishfight.
net). This series covered some of the
major issues facing the oceans and in-
vestigated how fish gets onto our plates.
Controversial issues such as shark fin
soup, by catch, tuna fishing and salmon
farming were examined and all of the
programmes encouraged people to think
about the impact we have, and to con-
sider alternatives. Whilst serving shark
fillet is very different from serving shark
“Blue Sharks are
among the most
heavily fished
sharks in the world”
fin, it still encourages the consumption
of an endangered species. While other
universities have been embracing the
Fish Fight, for example, the University
of Portsmouth Catering Dept have been
selling mackerel baps in the student
union, we at Imperial are selling shark
fillets. Frankly, it’s just embarrassing
and shows a lack of awareness of these
important issues.
I wonder if we can begin a fish fight of
our own here at Imperial – we can begin
by getting shark off the FiveSixEight
menu. The Marine Conservation Society
publishes its ‘Good Fish Bad Fish’guide
(www.fishonline.org) - shark is rated as
a fish to avoid (Red 5), and yet we are
serving this up to our students in the
union bar. As a science based institution
surely we can do better than this! Take a
stand and don’t order the shark. The fu-
ture of the shark and its habitat can only
be preserved if we take action, or in this
case, order a burger.
After receiving student feedback the
Union has already ceased serving
shark.
Have a little fishy, on a little dishy... not exactly the best approach to eating shark if you ever want to see one in the wild again
Friday 04 february 2011

