FELIX
Good evening peaty goodness, fancy having a drink with me tonight?
N
ot everybody may agree
with me, but is there a
more satisfying tipple
than a whisky? The aro-
mas, the warmth, the fla-
vour, come to think of it, there are few
drinks I would rate more than a good
scotch. Whilst its taste is acquired and
occasionally referred to as a kin to petrol
by philistines, this makes it even more
rewarding when you begin to appreciate
it, yet despite these points, perhaps the
best feature of whisky is its versatil-
ity. Whisky is great for mixing as well
drinking neat, bourbon and coke, has a
far more complex and enjoyable taste
than its vodka alternative and any kind
of whisky (preferably nothing too ex-
pensive) with ginger ale is also highly
agreeable. On top of that, the drink is
fairly good value compared to its distant
cousin brandy for equivalent qualities.
So where to begin? Well, there are
three main groups of whisky: Scotch,
from Scotland of course, Irish and
American, mainly in the form of bour-
bon. Irish and Scotch whiskies tend to
be malt based, where as bourbons are
made from rye and must be distilled in
Kentucky (surprisingly, despite the com-
mon misconception, Jack Daniel’s is not
a Bourbon) and whilst Scotches are usu-
ally the most subtle in flavour, Bourbons
have a far more intense taste due to the
rye, making it more suitable for mixing.
Then there’s the whole blended/single
malt distinction to deal with. In short, a
single malt is made from a single dis-
tillate, where as a blended whisky is
a combination of two or more single
malts. Blended whiskies are cheaper to
make than single malts when produc-
ing a drinkable whisky and are usually
cheaper as well in the shops, though
some of the dearest drams around are
also blended too, e.g. Chivas Regal and
Johnny Walker Blue Label. There isn’t
any single bourbon as they are too fiery
by themselves.
What makes a good whisky? I’m not
a connoisseur, so I’m probably not the
best person to ask. Personally, the sin-
gle most important thing I look for in a
whisky is how smooth it is, i.e. lack of
burning when tasted, ease of drinking
etc, this is one thing that cheap whiskies
tend not to do that well. Another quality
to have is a long finish (not aftertaste;
that gives the wrong connotations),
where one can still taste the whisky after
drinking as if it were still in their mouth.
This isn’t the most important feature of
a whisky though; Maker’s Mark, a nice,
smooth bourbon, has a remarkably short
finish. A good thing to remember is that
if you’re lumbered with a bottle of whis-
ky you’re not too keen on, you can use it
for mixing, though to do this to a single
malt is seen as sacrilege.
Teacher’s Highland Cream:
Cheap and nasty. On the rare and de-
praved occasion when I have drunk this,
I could not clear my mind of the image
of an overweight Glaswegian wearing
a soiled and frayed wife beater’s vest
stirring a massive steaming cauldron of
the devil’s sweat. With a rough and foul
taste, my humble advice is to resist the
temptation of a cheap drink and avoid.
Down in one? I think not...
Christian Franke advises you on how to expand your drinking horizons
Johnnie Walker Black:
Whilst at the bottom of the Johnnie
Walker family tree, this is a perfectly
acceptable blended scotch. Highly in-
tense and a tad fiery, it’s probably best
to add a dash of soft mineral water to
dilute and bring out the flavours more
so. Look out for the red label; it’s made
especially for mixing by having high
rye content.
Glenfiddich 12 years old Single Malt:
In short, it’s the commercial single malt.
Smooth with a nice, easy drinking taste.
Perhaps not the most distinct of scotches
in flavour, but it’s still enjoyable to have
and is sold at just at about every outlet
with usually the lowest price tag of the
single malts. The adverts are too simi-
lar to Marlboro Man ones for my liking
though.
Glen Moray Single Malt:
A very mysterious scotch, mainly in that
there’s no sign of its age on the bottle,
yet despite this, I’d still recommend it. It
could be marginally smoother, though it
does have a pleasant and light flavour. If
you feel like treating yourself, you can
buy a bottle of this stuff in Oddbin’s for
£18, which is very good value.
Laphroaig 10 year old Single Malt:
Very nice. In fact very, very, very. nice.
Joking aside, this scotch has a very dis-
tinct, rich flavour with an incredibly
long finish and is extremely smooth.
Quite simply, it’s brilliant. Apparently
it’s also Prince Charles’ favourite dram
too.
earlycj5/flickr
Meat. That quintessential ingredient
of all meals. The point of any fare. Or
so I’ve been told. I love food; lunch,
brunch, pudding, tea, tapas and amuse-
bouche are all held in fond regard. I
could however easily forgo meat. I’m
not a vegetarian. I would definitely
not want to be part of that fringe group,
though they have my sympathies. Hav-
ing seen the abuse my sister puts up with
from all you rabid animals, I wouldn’t
tarnish myself with that brush.
I love a good roast chicken and apple
and pork sausages are a favourite but
red meat generally holds no candle to
the allure of an aubergine melanzane or
a good cheese board. This I often find is
hard for people (and when I say people,
I mean boys) to appreciate. Resisting the
smell of bacon or the juiciness of a me-
dium rare steak was never hard.
Weirdly I do find people enjoying
their carnivorous meal fascinating
though. The choice of cuts, how it’s
cooked, and the sauces are endless
seem to add to the theatre a good meal
should have. The sheer enthusiasm of
people who love meat is overwhelming
and the ability to appreciate the won-
ders of flesh has never seemed so im-
portant than at Rodizco Rico in West-
bourne Grove.
Brazilians adore their meat and if you
ever get a chance to visit, you can or-
der your meat by the kilo in restaurants.
This place is as close as you can get
around these parts. It’s not cheap at £23
a head but it is an all-you-can-eat meat
feast and I have never seen a group of
guys quite so enthusiastic about forking
out so much money for food. The basis
of the meal is barbecued meat where
the meat is rotated on giant skewers and
servers walk around the room cutting off
pieces to serve to customers. The sheer
drama of waving around metal stakes
is thrilling and though not somewhere
I would encourage non-meat eaters to
visit and for those of us who enjoy a bit
of drama, it’s fun to watch.
For the rest of you who love meat it
is the best value for money you could
imagine. Rump steak, fillet steak, sau-
sage, chorizo, chicken wings, chicken
hearts, lamb shank; the choice is crazy
and this doesn’t even allow for the fact
that the meat is tender, soft and never-
ending. There is no gimmick at work
here and a friend who rocked up with
only 15 minutes to spare at the end of
our two hour table reservation was
served with a towering pillar of meat
that reminded me of some kind of re-
naissance feast. Definitely for all you
cavemen out there.
Rodizco Rico, 111 Westbourne
Grove, W2 4UW.
Vicky Jeyaprakash
So you think you can eat? Meet the meat challenge
The sheer drama of
waving around metal
stakes is thrilling...
FOOD
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 Friday 04 february 2011

