FELIX 37
Following a somewhat manic debut in Brazil, Priya Garg finds time to
unwind and uncovers some of Rio de Janeiro’s hidden treasures
Finding tranquility in chaos
O
ur second day in Rio de
Janeiro had arrived and
we wanted to see the ac-
claimed towering figure
that stands guard atop
Mount Corcovado, Christ the Redeemer.
From nearly every vantage point in Rio
– whether roaming down the random
´Rues´ in Botefugo or actually climbing
the winding road past Santa Teresa to
the foot of Christ – the statue is always
observing you on your way. Despite
our dichotomous religious beliefs – one
atheist and one believer – in a strange
manner we both felt protected by the
omnipresence of something so sacred.
On our way up through Santa Teresa,
our passage was halted by the view of
a giant stairway covered with multi-
coloured painted tiles in the midst of
the favelas (Brazilian slums). A local
informed us that we could venture to the
top step of this masterpiece but not be-
yond, to prevent ignorantly strolling into
the ‘City of God’ – gangland territory.
Being careful not to underestimate the
very real violent crime of Rio, we de-
cided to maintain our distance.
The staircase had been the life work
of artist Jorge Selaron, the original back-
packer who visited more than fifty coun-
tries before settling in Rio and creating
this enormous tribute to the people of
Brazil. Each richly-decorated glazed tile
would have otherwise been untouched
by foreigners.
When we reached the summit of
Corcovado, it was, as expected, bustling
with tourists, snapping pictures of them-
selves with arms spread before Christ.
A white mist of cloud hung over the
edges of the statue obscuring our view,
yet gazing across what we could see of
Rio’s hilly panorama, there was a tangi-
ble sense of peace garnered by lingering
at the hem of Christ´s robes.
In pursuit of inner calm we took the
opportunity to visit the Jardin Botanico,
the house through a carved stone arch-
way, we were presented with a square
swimming pool surrounded by a spa-
cious open courtyard dotted with luxu-
rious Victorian furniture, roughly tied
bunches of bright flowers and Brazilians
sipping coffee and dipping their brushes
into pots of paint. In the background we
saw the rising presence of Corcovado,
with Christ gazing downward.
As we sat on steps in the tiered gar-
dens of the Parque, light quickly faded
and we were able to view Rio in its
evening splendour. We observed the
lagoon in the core of Rio, surrounded
by a crescent of hills: a sea of tumbling
favelas, sky rise tower blocks, people
hurrying by, beeping vehicles, swathes
of graffiti. Finally we turned to the
shadow of the silent mansion, fountains
and forests. We felt at peace, removed
from the hubbub in the distance. We sat
for a while, discussing the importance
of finding such a place, even in a huge
city of noise, sounds and excitement: it
doesn´t need to be far away, it just needs
to be somewhere where you can escape
everything for a moment, and feel calm.
a large landscaped garden stretching
acres across the centre of the city. An oa-
sis of tranquility in the middle of all the
hustle and bustle, it felt as if time paused
as we walked past gigantic redwoods,
crimson roses, gushing fountains, pour-
ing waterfalls, canopies of thatched
bamboo, miniature bonsais, placid lakes
and floating green lily-pads.
Struggling out of a stupor imposed
by the lull of the gardens, we further
climbed to the Parque Lage, the grounds
of a dilapidated mansion housing art
classes for the creative masses. Entering
There he stands, just chilling all day long. Not using his magical powers and fire breath to end crime and injustice, just watching with a grin and Mojito
TRAVEL
is representative of either a country that
Selaron himself visited, or of historic
events in Brazilian history that captured
his imagination.
An impoverished visionary, he sold
all of his possessions to purchase the
necessities to allow him to continue
plastering ceramic squares across this
stone staircase. His unwavering devo-
tion led to the work being featured in a
Coca-Cola advertisement, a U2 video
and, for the eagle-eyed amongst you, the
background of a scene from the ´The In-
credible Hulk´. Despite his commercial
success, Selaron remains a penniless art-
ist creating his sculpture in a dirty area
of downtown bohemia, on a street that
“There was a
tangible sense of
peace garnered by
lingering at the hem
of Christ´s robes”
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
Is it a bird? Is it a plane? No, it’s Jesus! And he’s watching you. Again HI JESU-... oh, it’s Priya, Imperial’s infamous South American adventurer
Friday 04 february 2011

