NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 04 february 2011
Complaint to Rector
leads to radio shutdown
Kadhim Shubber
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
Major flooding
shuts Biochem
The Biochemistry building has been hit
with two serious floods this past week. A
failure of a pipe connection to a rooftop
water tank is believed to have caused the
flood on Thursday morning while a sus-
pected valve failure, or pump malfunc-
tion, caused a 6ft flood of water in the
sub-basement during the weekend.
It is not yet known whether the two
events are linked but Director of Fa-
cilities and Property Management Nick
Roalfe told Felix that it was possible
that the interrupted flow of water from
the weekend flood had applied extra
strain on the pipe connection. However,
he emphasized that they could not be
certain until the cause had been prop-
erly investigated. The Biochemistry
building was closed on Thursday but
the majority of the building is hoped to
be re-opened by the morning of Friday
the 4th.
Thursday’s flood is believed to have
sent hundreds of gallons of water cas-
cading down into the Biochemistry
building leaving the top four floors of
the building most badly affected and
several centimetres of standing water in
parts of the building.
Students were first alerted via the Im-
perial website at approximately 9am.
In an email to Department of Life Sci-
ences staff and Postgraduate Research
students, Professor Paul Freemont said
that some instrument rooms had been hit
badly but that it appeared “most of the
very expensive pieces of kit” had been
spared. He said that the flood was a “ma-
jor blow” but praised Estates for doing a
“great job”.
The flooding disrupted the fire alarm
systems in both the Chemistry and Bio-
chemistry building, forcing Mr Roalfe to
close down both buildings due to safety
concerns. The Chemistry building was
reopened by approximately 9am after
the fire alarm system was restored there.
At the beginning of the week the Bio-
chemistry and Chemistry buildings were
left with reduced water supplies earlier
this week after another flood during the
weekend left damage to the Biochemis-
try basement.
A 6ft flood of water in a Plant Room
in the Biochemistry basement forced
Facilities management to shut down the
water supply to the Biochemistry build-
ing as well as the neighbouring Chemis-
Pipe connection failure sends
water gushing down through
Biochemistry building
Matt Colvin try Department.
Although the water was quickly
pumped out, further disruption was
caused by damage to electrical control
panels in the affected Biochemistry
Plant Room, leaving hot water unavail-
able in the Biochemistry building and
no water for toilets and laboratories in
buildings C1 and C2 of the Chemistry
Department until Tuesday.
The lack of water led the Depart-
ment of Chemistry to shut all labs and
forcing the cancellation of laboratory
classes and the suspension of research
activities on Monday. Head of the De-
partment of Chemistry Professor Tom
Welton explained to Felix that the labs
were shut because some experiments
require water to run but also due to
safety reasons; a ready supply of water
is needed in case of spillages and other
emergencies.
Out of the five pumps previously
operating in the Biochemistry Plant
Room, only one was working on Tues-
day. The overall extent of the damage
has not been revealed, however, Build-
ings Manager Anna McDadd admitted
in an email to staff that it “may be a
while before the extent of the damage
to pumps, motors and other plant is re-
alised.”
With regards to impaired student
work resulting from the closed labo-
ratories, Professor Welton confirmed
to Felix that anyone whose work has
been affected will have this taken into
account, stating as an example that
marks for undergraduate labs sessions
will be adjusted accordingly if neces-
sary. Discussing the aid received during
and after the flood, he praised the work
of the Facilities Management team, re-
marking that they responded quickly to
address the problems and “have been
nothing but helpful”.
Nick Roalfe admitted that it had been
a very difficult week and said that he
was determined to have the build-
ings reopened and fully operational as
quickly as possible. He thanked De-
partmental staff for their support and
added that on Monday and Tuesday he
and his team would having a full review
of the floods and their responses to the
flooding. He was particularly keen to
investigate how they could communi-
cate more quickly and efficiently with
students to let them know about pos-
sible disruption to their schedules.
Imperial College Radio (IC Radio) was
shut down by the Union last Tuesday
evening after a “member of the public”
complained to the Rector about the use
of racially offensive language during a
broadcast. A non-Imperial guest on an
IC Radio show referred to a close friend
as a “Paki”, which the College and
Union say breaks Imperial’s regulations
governing media content.
A complaint was received by the Rec-
tor’s office sometime on Tuesday and
was later forwarded to Union President
Alex Kendall at approximately 17:30.
It alerted him to the complaint and told
him that, because of the seriousness of
the complaint, they expected him to take
action on the situation immediately.
Kendall said that it was impossible
for him to avoid taking serious action,
“it broke College policy and it broke the
Union’s policy, so we had to do some-
thing.” In the Imperial College Union
Code of Practice, which is agreed on
with the College, it says that “prejudicial
or pejorative reference to an individual’s
race” must be avoided.
The email from the Rector’s office
also referred Kendall to relevant sec-
tions of the Ofcom Broadcasting Code,
which, however, do not apply to IC Ra-
dio as it transmits online only.
Station Manager Dan Fowler apolo-
gised for the language used, but said
that it was clear that the word was used
without malice in reference to a close
friend. However, he accepted that its
use was inappropriate and reminded
IC Radio members, in an email on
Wednesday, that “things that may seem
like ‘banter’ between friends may be
taken another way by someone else that
is listening in.”
Kendall, along with Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies) Heather Jones lis-
tened to the relevant parts of the show
before taking action and had decided
that the word was used “inappropriate-
ly.” Kendall said that they understood
the context the word was used in but
added that “we can’t condone the use of
a racist comment.”
Attempts were made to contact se-
nior members of IC Radio as the web-
site was being shutdown but they were
unable to reach them. The Union were
able to shutdown the website as it is
hosted on a Union server, an arrange-
ment required of all Clubs & Societies
in the Union’s Web Policy, recently
passed in November last term. The
Web Policy also permits the President
to “suspend indefinitely” a club or so-
ciety’s website. The policy notes that
the Union is “ultimately liable” both le-
gally and to the College for the content
on Clubs & Societies’ websites, which
Kendall said makes it necessary for the
Union to be able to remove potentially
offensive content.
When asked why the Union did not re-
move the recording of the radio show in
question, instead of bringing down the
whole site, he said that he wanted to be
reassured that there wasn’t further of-
fensive content on the site. At a meeting
with Dan Fowler on Wednesday he says
he was reassured of this and the website
was allowed to come back online.
In March 2010 a student radio pro-
gramme at the University of Glasgow
was taken off the air after the present-
ers “used numerous swear words and
explicitly discussed sexual activities.”
The entire website, however, was not
shut down.
Kendall also added that shutting down
the entire website was a strong gesture
that signaled “how seriously [the Union]
considers racially offensive language.”
The Station Manager Dan Fowler, as
well as the person who made the com-
ment and the host of the radio show in
question, have personally written to the
Rector to apologise for the comments
made on air and have asked for those
apologies to be passed on to the person
who made the complaint.
IC Radio is implementing a new sys-
tem to ensure that offensive content is
not uploaded to the website. Radio hosts
will be asked to manually upload their
shows, currently it is automatic, and to
confirm before doing so that it doesn’t
contain anything “dodgy”. Fowler re-
minded IC Radio members to use their
“common sense” when broadcasting.
No further disciplinary action is being
taken. IC Radio’s listening figures are
not believed to have been affected by
the shutdown...
Editorial: Page 18
Union IC Radio offline after “member of public”
complains about racially offensive term
Website back online
following day

