CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
44
What’s On
One Priest’s Journey to Find The
Truth – Idris Tawfiq lecture
As part of pre-Islamic Awareness Fortnight, Impe-
rial College Islamic Society has invited Idris Tawfiq
to deliver his moving lecture on Monday 7th Febru-
ary in the Huxley Building, room 340 from 6:00pm-
7:30pm. Originally a Roman Catholic Priest, Idris
Tawfiq is a British journalist and has written several
books on his conversion to Islam back in 2001. He
is known worldwide for his inspiring talks describing
the events that led him to becoming a Muslim.
His talk, entitled ‘One Priest’s Journey To Find The
Truth’ is a story of his path from being a Roman Cath-
olic Priest in Vatican City to a Muslim convert. He
is well-known for his style of speaking which is both
simple and very gentle, touching hearts, but also
thought-provoking. Idris Tawfiq is well experienced
in explaining Islam and his conversion to Islam in
an unbiased and simple way. His vast knowledge
of other religions (from being a Head of Religious
Studies teacher at different schools) allows him to
explain Islam to people of all faiths.
In addition to the talk, there is also an Exhibition
on Thursday 10th February in the Sir Alexander
Fleming Building presenting Islam to people of all
religious backgrounds, so to find out more about
Islam, come down at lunch time and have a look
around. Aemun Reza
So what is ‘iConnect’?
iConnect is a project started by the Innovation
Society. It was initially started as an online
marketplace but now we’re launching the “Big
Plan” – Group Buying for Imperial College at
iConnectImperial.com. The idea is simple: if
there are enough people willing to purchase the
same product, it can be much much cheaper.
It’s basically the Groupon model. The plan is to
maximize students’ and staff’s benefit through
providing discounts, while also giving the op-
portunity for local businesses to reach out to
the Imperial community. With student finance
getting ever-tighter, we want to help students
get the best deal. We also aim to raise aware-
ness and money for the Prince’s Trust charity;
all of our profits go to them.
Tell us more about the Innovation Society.
The Innovation Society is about fostering inno-
vation within Imperial College through advice
from us and relevant contacts within the uni-
versity. It’s a young society – only three years
old. We believe that all Imperial students have
the potential to be the next Bill Gates or Steve
Jobs, but someone must first stand up and cre-
ate the atmosphere where students dare to think
creatively and turn their ideas into reality. …
the process of innovation is painful and risky,
but it’s worth trying because we have faith in
our students!
So what sort of deals can I get with iConnect?
At the moment we’re getting around 20-50%
discounts with various businesses, mostly res-
taurants and cafés around South Ken. For ex-
ample, we have 33% off Oddonno’s ice cream,
50% off Circle Club membership and other
deals with theatres, takeaways and sit-down
restaurants. We’re also getting extra money
for charity: Kensington Crêperie have agreed
to give 25p to the Prince’s Trust for every pur-
chase from Imperial students and staff and the
chance to win a meal for two worth £30 – sim-
ply quote iConnectImperial.
How does it work?
What you do is go to the website and pick a
deal. The deals are open for four or five days,
so you have time to talk to your mates and
decide. Then put down your card details and
buy it. If enough people buy the deal, then you
get a money-off coupon. If not, you keep your
money anyway.
And this benefits charity?
All profits go to the Prince’s Trust, alongside
the donations from Kensington Crêperie. The
Trust’s motto is “helping change young lives”,
and it helps young people in difficult situations,
for example who got into prison for the wrong
reasons, to rebuild meaningful lives. So the stu-
dents get good deals, the businesses get more
custom and the Prince’s Trust gets more money
to help young people.
What else does the Innovation Society do?
We also run an online marketplace on the
website which allows you to sell second hand
items and search for accommodation from
Craigslist and Nestoria. We also regularly
enter business and innovation competitions.
We entered a ‘Dragon’s Den’ style competi-
tion called “Profitunity” where we were in the
national final, turning £500 to £2,500 in three
months.
Can students get involved?
We’re always extremely keen for people to
be involved – you can do things from running
the website to developing your new ideas. Just
email us at innosoc@imperial.ac.uk. I’ve learnt
a tremendous amount about running a business
and developing ideas from the Innovation So-
ciety. I have regular meetings with a business
mentor still thanks to Profitunity. One also
learns a lot about people and different styles of
working. The original President WenQian was
more of an ‘ideas man’ and I’m more a prob-
lem solver – I learnt both types of person are
invaluable. There’s lots of potential for posts
of responsibility in the committee too, helping
people in turn grow their ideas. All great for the
CV and later life.
What’s next and where’s it going?
We’re working with Felix to coordinate our
marketplace with their new classified page.
You can get your ad in two places without
messing up the notice boards. We’re also get-
ting loads more amazing deals for staff and
students, so keep checking the site – you can
save money and contribute to the Price’s Trust
at the same time. We want at least 5% of stu-
dents and staff to benefit from deals, so 1,000
regular users. We also much appreciate any
feedback via forum or email to make the site
even better.
SHAG Week – Round 2!
That’s right, SHAG Week is back again to help you
keep it safe and sexy! February 7th – 12th.
Monday sees Txtm8 coming in to give out freebies
and raise awareness about their confidential sexual
health advice via text service (Sherfield, 12-2pm)
On Tuesday staff from the John Hunter Clinic will
be talking about why sexual health screening is im-
portant and straightforward.(Sherfield, 12-2pm) In
addition Tender, a leading young person’s domes-
tic violence charity, will be signing volunteers up for
the workshops they do in schools to prevent abuse
before it starts as well as a workshop to make your
relationships healthier and teach you how to spot
when your friends might be experiencing abuse.
(Meeting Room 1, 1-2pm)
On Wednesday the Terence Higgins Trust are run-
ning completely confidential HIV Testing – get your
status in 20 mins. (Skempton 60A/62, 12-4pm)
On Thursday Everynation Christian Society will be
hosting a discussion on ‘Understanding the Oppo-
site Sex’ from 6.30pm in the EEE Cafe.
From Thursday to Saturday there are performanc-
es of Eve Ensler’s The Vagina Monologues. (Union
Concert Hall, 7-9pm. Tickets £4/£6 for students/
non-students. Available on the door)
iConnect: Eat for cheap!
Roland Sookias chats to Innovation Society President
Nigel Zheng about their latest project
They’re launching a business AND donating the profits to the Prince’s Trust? Damn their CVs must look good...
Miles Robertson
Friday 04 february 2011

