45
felix
SPORT
Fe ncing BUCS
rampage
...Continued from Back Page
foil team (Hannah Bryars, Outi Sup-
ponen, Alice Mitchell) confirmed their
reputation by going through all matches
in fast forward, finishing with an average
win by 29 hits. With most of the day left,
everyone from IC gathered next to the
guys’ piste where they were now fenc-
ing Oxford University. There were about
20 people in the audience, consisting
of both the women’s and men’s teams,
other club members, coaches, alumni
and friends, everyone trying to make as
much noise as possible to throw the op-
ponents off guard. This helped the sab-
reurs to another easy victory, followed
by two very even matches in both foil
and epee. The previous lost their match
by no less than 3 hits, and epee was even
closer with the annoyingly thrilling re-
sult 44-45. Despite these annoying de-
feats, the overall match was won thanks
to the points margin from the sabreuers.
Meaning 2 victories out of 2 for the Men
and 3 out of 3 for the Women, a very
promising first day.
Men’s Fencing
IC 1st 119-87 ULU
IC 1st 118-100 Oxford
IC 1st 130-91 Bristol
IC 1st 107-103 Cambridge
Women’s Fencing
IC 1st 130-80 Cambridge
IC 1st 135-74 Oxford
IC 1st 135-70 Bristol
IC 1st w/o against King’s
On Sunday, the men had a late start,
whilst women’s sabre team (Clare Hard-
ing, Zoe Robinson, Hannah Bryars) con-
quered the Ethos Energia Studio. The
small hall on the second floor barely had
time to realise what was going on before
all matches were done, which meant
that those who had teams downstairs
had time to watch parts of their progress
and support. With only epee to go, the
women had already won the league. The
sabreurs index together with the foilists
performance the day before summed up
to victory against all other universities
regardless of the result of epee.
The men still have not started their
matches for the day, so most IC support-
ers, began supporting UL as they fenced
University of Cambridge. Not only Lon-
don solidarity but also a vested interest
in the result increased the volume of the
IC cheering. As depending on the result
of the match, the men could, just as the
women, secure the victory before lunch-
time. As UL reached the score necessary
to win the match, IC were smiling just
as much, if not more. From that mo-
ment, every victory would only be for
the pride of our university and the club.
The guys started their Sunday well
by beating University of Bristol with
reassuring performances in both sabre
and epee. As they finished their match,
the women’s epee team (Emily Bottle,
Charlotte Levin, Hannah Bryars) were
brought back to earth as Cambridge
beat them, 40-45. But the matches that
followed were all won with convincing
margins of 10 points or more.
All that was left the men’s match
against Cambridge. The captains of the
two teams, Ed G for IC and Valentin
Dalibard for Cambridge, had agreed
upon changing the order from the stan-
dard sabre-foil-epee to epee-sabre foil.
This meant that sabre this time would
not be able to set an early lead for the
other weapons to fence against, but that
they would first have to cover up a pos-
sible loss from epee and then get enough
hits to give the foilists an advantage.
The epeeists had to bite the bullet, find-
ing the Cambridge opponents slightly
stronger than themselves, but the sab-
reurs returned the advantage to IC. As
it stood the foilists had to reach 27 hits
in order to win the match overall, which
was not to be taken for granted but far
from impossible.
Everyone’s nerves were uptight, fenc-
ers as well as audience, well aware of
what lay ahead. The fact that the league
was already won barely crossed people’s
mind, the only thing that mattered was
to win the match. Cambridge immedi-
ately took an early lead and steadily in-
creased their score in every bout. This
threw the IC guys off balance, and they
struggled to approach the magic number
of 27. When the match reached its last
period, the score stood at 25-40 and ev-
eryone was becoming slightly worried.
Cambridge only needed 5 more hits to
finish off, and IC still needed a two more
to win overall. For every point Rob S,
who fenced the last match, managed to
gain, the crowd cheered more and more.
The moment he scored the magical hit,
the cheer lifted the roof, and he turned to
the crowed, took his mask off for a mo-
ment, and sighed with relief. The match
was won, so was the league, and both
teams stood undefeated.
Friday 04 february 2011

