FELIX 5
NEWS
Student visa plans attacked
Government’s visa proposals like “using a slegehammer to crack a nut.” By Ian Wei
L
isten carefully. Do you hear
that? That is the sound of
the seismic shift in gov-
ernment policy which will
define the higher education
sector for the next decade. And, worry-
ingly, it does not sound good.
The 31st of January marked the end
of the consultation period for the review
of the student immigration system. The
proposals outlined by the home secre-
tary Theresa May have been described
as “radical”, “dangerous” and “damag-
ing” to the university sector, and such
changes are expected to have a huge
effect on the international student body.
Major proposals include raising the
English language requirement, removal
or reduction of the post study visa and
a radical overhaul of the dependence
system.
One of the major frustrations for uni-
versities is that under these plans is the
apparent assumption that all degree
courses and all students will require the
same level of mastery of English.
Under the new proposals, students
would be expected to achieve a B2
grade under CEFR, Common European
Framework for Languages, in English,
rather than the previous requirement of a
B1 grade, roughly comparable to a jump
from GCSE to A-level English. Not
only will it be compulsory that overseas
students who are over seventeen dem-
onstrate a higher level of proficiency
in English than many university under-
graduates have done, they will also need
to do it in a particular ‘secure’ exam yet
to be announced by the government.
The change will severely affect poten-
tial students who intend to study in the
UK for a few years before applying to
university here, such as doing A-levels
or pre-university foundation courses.
Tom Millns, Chief Executive of English
UK, believes that this is invaluable to
the students. He explains that “they do
three things: subject top-up”, “improve
a student’s English language skills” and
they also give students the skills to be
independent learners. English UK esti-
mates that around 70-80% of students
that are currently on such courses would
not be able to satisfy the language re-
quirement. At Imperial, around 53% of
overseas students have studied in the
UK before applying to university.
For current students, the major concern
is the removal or reduction of the post-
study work visa. The two year period on
the post study visa is often used to gain
valuable work experience and enhance
the CV. Dominic Scott Chief Executive
of UKCISA, UK Council for Interna-
tional Student Affairs, emphasizes how
important the work experience is and
argues that it demonstrates to potential
overseas employers “that their degree
has real currency in the labour market”.
The proposals will not be welcome
news to postgraduate students either. If
the plans go ahead in the current form,
all students under the tier four visas
will either not be allowed to bring a de-
pendant if the period of study is under
12 months, or if the period is over 12
months that dependant will be unable to
work. Dominic dismisses the notion as
“ridiculous” and believes that it could
“entirely undermine our research base”.
The main reasons behind the propos-
als are the perceived abuse of the student
visa system and the unsustainable mass
migration to the UK.
As the government tries to fulfil its
pledge to halve net migration by 2015,
it is easy to see why the government is
so keen to tighten student immigration
laws. The document outlining the pro-
posal quotes a figure of 139,000 of mi-
grants to the UK including dependents
using the student route out of 184,000,
around 76% of total net migration.
Speaking to the Guardian on the 1st of
February, immigration minister Damian
Green, argued “too many [students]
come to do courses below degree level
as a cover for staying and working” and
believes that the proposals outlined are
vital to stop abuse of the student immi-
gration system.
However, students do not stay in the
UK forever and the figure of 139,000
includes any person who is planning
to stay for more than 12 months. A sur-
vey of around 1500 students conducted
by the International Student Barometer
showed that just 3% of students were
intending to eventually settle in the UK
after their studies.
Dr Sharon Bolton, Head of Internation-
al Student Support at Imperial, likens the
government response to “using a sledge-
hammer to crack a nut”. She believes that
a much fairer system would discriminate
between sponsors, institutions which
Friday 04 february 2011
can issue a certificate which is necessary
when applying for a visa via the student
route. Sharon argues that since the gov-
ernment already has a ranking system
of trustworthiness of the sponsors in
place , the new immigration laws should
not penalise those institutions where no
evidence of immigration abuse has been
foundThere is no exact date for the pro-
posals to be finalised and implemented.
However, the much criticised highly
skilled worker cap took just 6 months to
become part of the system. As Professor
Edward Acton, Vice Chancellor of the
University of East Anglia so dryly ob-
serves, if the proposals are not changed,
“the catastrophic effects on universities,
will for a period, actually make the home
fees matter slightly fade from centre, so
grave will it be.” Comforting.
Immigration Minister Damian Green (right, obviously...) I can’t wait to be
a ministerial aide, I’m going to protect them from rain “LIKE A BOSS!”
“Proposals include
raising the English
language require-
ment, removal or
reduction of the post
study visa and a radi-
cal overhaul of the
dependence system.”

