NEWS
FELIX
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Higher Fees
Student protests pass peacefully
Thousands of student protestors marched on to the
streets of London and Manchester once again this
past weekend, to demonstrate their anger and dis-
approval of the government’s plans to impose high-
er tuition fees and introduce public spending cuts.
The government has refused to change course on
tuition fee increases, despite the rising number of
protests across the country, and continues to argue
that increasing tuition fees is absolutely critical to
secure the future of the universities. Students, how-
ever, are well aware of the enormous challenge that
they face and were full of optimism during the pro-
test as Aisha, a foreign exchange student from Cam-
den was quoted to have said, “This is only the begin-
ning. I’ve been to all demonstrations so far and am
well aware of the mountain climb that lies ahead. It
is going to be a long fight against this government.”
Accompanied by heavy police, the protest in Lon-
don remained relatively peaceful in comparison with
recent tuition fee marches. However, an aggressive
attempt was made to force through police lines
and reach the Tory party head quarters in Millbank,
which resulted in six people being detained. Emo-
tions were at its climax in the three hour long march
through central London to the Parliament, as protes-
tors used drums to amplify the noise and shouted in
unison, slogans which included: “No ifs, no buts…
No education cuts!”
Considering the recent political events in Tunisia
and Egypt, an interesting analogy was drawn by a
protestor when he drew up a placard bearing the
words: “Ben Ali, Mubarak...Cameron, you are next.”
The march in Manchester turned more violent as a
mob consisting of 150 protestors broke away from
the crowd and surrounded Aaron Porter, the Presi-
dent of the National Union of Students, who then
had to be escorted away by the police. Personal
attacks which involved throwing eggs and oranges
were also made on Shane Chowen, the Vice presi-
dent of NUS, when he tried to address and calm
down the crowd.
Assistant Chief Constable Neil Wain of Greater
Manchester Police gave the following official state-
ment to the BBC, when questioned about the distur-
bances in the Manchester rally: “In total, we made
16 arrests and have had reports that two officers
suffered minor injuries. We also have intelligence to
suggest a number were armed with chef’s knives
and one of those arrested was found with a number
of razor blades.”
It is pretty evident that the situation continues
to be really sensitive, and with social networking
sites becoming increasingly effective with regards
to publicity, including developments such as a mo-
bile phone application which allows the user to avoid
police-blocked routes, the protests can only be ex-
pected to increase and become more compelling in
nature. Umair Aasem
of high teaching costs.
Aaron Porter has also claimed this week
that up to 70% of universities will charge this
maximum amount. He argues that “universities
believe that the price they set will be a sign of
quality – and they will charge whatever they
can get away with”.
However, Nicola Dandridge from University
UK rejects this assumption, saying that univer-
sities have not yet made pricing decisions and
so there is no way of knowing the levels of fees
that will be charged.
Alex Kendall is also keen to stress that “most
of the work the group [at Imperial] can do at
the moment can only be speculation” until fur-
ther details from the government are revealed.
However, in his latest blog he has hinted that
the working group, of which he is part of, is
investigating both financial models of £6000
and £9000 fees.
Imperial currently spends around £4 million
on financial aid to students whose household
income is below a certain level. A maximum
bursary of £3500 per year is available for stu-
dents whose income is less than £25,000, and
a staggered system of reduced bursaries caters
for those earning over £25,000. Of the £4 mil-
lion, £3.5 million comes from fees which are
redirected to form bursaries with the other £0.5
million coming from the endowment. Alex
Kendall warns that “with the cut in govern-
ment funding the university may not be able to
afford the £3.5 million given in bursaries un-
less the government demands it and/or Imperial
charges higher fees”.
Kendall highlights the dilemma that the
working group are facing between charging
“a £6000/year fee for everyone, knowing that
this will drastically reduce the amount of fi-
nancial aid, and a £9000 fee so that those with
a large household income pay and everyone
whose family earns below £60,000 gets some
form of subsidy”. He states that the £9000/year
fee “with a far greater redistributive system to
poorer students seems far more preferable than
a system of total equality under £6000/year”.
Kendall has also spoken of discussions that
have taken place within the working group re-
garding how the bursaries will be given out.
One option is to continue paying bursary mon-
ey straight into a student’s bank account, so the
student has freedom to choose how it is spent,
either for paying fees or for living costs. How-
ever, the idea of a fee remission has also arisen,
whereby students cannot use the bursary for
living expenses, an option Kendall argues
would be undesirable. “For a London univer-
sity, we know that the living costs are the most
expensive factor at university and the current
loan and grant only just covers this. Preventing
[students] from using the bursary to top this up
is a mistake.” However, there may not be an
option; Imperial thinks the government may
demand the latter, and therefore modeling how
this would work at Imperial is now crucial.
However, just when help seems to be on its
way to poorer students, the think-tank Million+
£9,000 fees allows more distribution to
poorer students says Union President
has claimed this week that “adding another
level of complexity” to an already complicated
system of student bursaries and grants is un-
likely to help those most deprived.
They are referring to a £150 million National
Scholarships Programme announced by the co-
alition whereby students would have their first
year of university paid for by the state if they
had been entitled to free school meals. Univer-
sities that charge more than £6000/year could
also be forced to pay the students’ fees for a
second year.
Critics argue that this plan would hit univer-
sities that take a high proportion of students
from disadvantaged backgrounds and act as a
disincentive for elite universities such as Impe-
rial to take such students.
The think-tank also argues that EU legisla-
tion makes it impossible for the government
and universities to pay the tuition fees of only
UK students. Eligible EU students would also
have to have their fees paid for too. The NUS,
which is involved in consultations on this is-
sue, have suggested the government might now
drop this plan.
Therefore, both the government and the Stu-
dent Fees and Financial Aid Working Group at
Imperial have many considerations to take into
account to ensure the new system is “fairer and
more progressive” as promised by the coali-
tion. The financial aid package will have to be
submitted to and agreed by the Office for Fair
Access and Dr. Rodney Eastwood admits that
“it is unlikely than an announcement on details
from Imperial will be made before the sum-
mer”. Finally, students should not be hesitant
to express their views to Alex Kendall, a mem-
ber of the working group. Eastwood insists
that “student views are welcome, especially
on the forms of financial aid that would help
to attract the most able, but needy, students to
the College.”
Sophia David
Miles Robertson
The “Student Fees and Financial Aid Working Group” in College is discussing Imperial’s
future fee structure and how to make the Queen’s Tower more interesting visually...
Friday 04 february 2011
...Continued from Front Page
“Universities believe that
the price they set will be
a sign of quality – and
they will charge whatever
they can get away with”
Aaron Porter,
NUS President

