FELIX
8
ELECTIONS
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Charlotte Ivison
Deputy President
(Welfare)
W
hat has been your biggest
challenge as Deputy Presi-
dent (Welfare)?
Engaging students in welfare
issues. Students at times don’t
take their own welfare very seriously. Often when
they do need help they either don’t know where
to go or they choose to suffer in silence because
of social perceptions. I think it’s very easy at Im-
perial to prioritise academia. Admittedly when I
was a fresher I didn’t take part in campaign weeks
and I’m still not sure if we’re involving students
enough through campaign weeks. But they are
very important and the issues that they highlight,
like sexual health in SHAG Week, will always be
vital to student wellbeing.
What’s an average day like?
I start the day at 10am, usually with checking and
replying to emails that I’ve received. They’re usu-
ally on a range of things from papers for College
meetings to student issues. I’ll then spend some
time organising whatever campaign week I’m
working on, which usually involves contacting ap-
propriate charities and clubs to get involved, room
bookings and ordering publicity materials. I’ll usu-
ally do this with the appropriate welfare officer. In
the afternoon I may have a College committee, a
meeting with individual staff, a student consulta-
tion group that I’ve organised or meet with an indi-
vidual student who needs some help.
What do you enjoy most about your job?
I really enjoy being able to help students, both on
a representative level and individually when they
have a specific problem. It’s very rewarding to feel
like you’ve made a student’s life better. Particularly
in individual cases, you’re working directly with a
student and helping them through whatever issues
have come up, which are usually quite serious and
have large, life-changing consequences.
But also representing students on College com-
mittees and putting across their concerns and views
is rewarding. The College do take student views on
board; they really do take welfare very seriously.
Admittedly the committees that I sit on are less
combative and less ‘political’ than the other sab-
baticals have to sit on, but nonetheless it is great to
feel like the student view is being fed upwards and
making real changes.
What do you enjoy least?
Committee meetings can, at times, be a little te-
dious. Sometimes you find yourself at a very long,
very unproductive meeting and you don’t feel like
you’re using your time to the benefit of students or
delivering them value-for-money. But it is essential
to maintain student representation in all areas of
College, the odd tedious meeting every now and
again is a small price to pay for that.
Do you have any regrets about your time as
Deputy President (Welfare)?
I think at the beginning I shied away from tackling
certain problems head-on. When I first started the
role, I didn’t have much experience in operating
Union finances and so I shied away from handling
the finances for the campaign weeks entirely my-
self. Now that I’ve gained more experience I’ve
started to do that and the result is that things run
more smoothly. So my only regret is not being
more confident in myself at the beginning.
Do you have any advice for anyone considering
running for Deputy President (Welfare)?
Make sure that you actually care about student
welfare or you’ll end up being bored. Not everyone
has that passion and concern for other people so
be sure that you do. Be prepared to take an active
role in defining your role and responsibilities. It’s
a very young position, it’s only two years old and
so it’s much less defined than say Deputy Presi-
dent (Clubs & Societies); the job description is still
evolving. You’ll have to make a decision about
what direction to take the role in.
Also be prepared for the impact on your life of
the position. The way you work changes, it’s much
different to your course. It’s more rigid but also re-
quires you to be more flexible. You have set office
hours, which, unlike those lectures that you find
boring, are definitely not optional. But you also
need to be more flexible because if there’s some-
thing urgent, you have to be answerable; there are
some things that you can’t put off until the week-
end. Expect your social life to change too; you’ll
start spending time with different people. It’s a big
commitment.
F
or other people who are thinking
about running, what’s the one thing
you wish you’d known before you
started?
How many meetings you attend! There
have been days, honestly, when I have sat in five
or six meetings; I also have three-hour meetings
once in a while. Most people come into the posi-
tion come from an undergraduate perspective, you
don’t really get postgraduates applying for these
jobs, but you have to deal with both undergraduate
and postgraduate issues, even if you’re a postgrad-
uate coming in you have to deal with undergradu-
ate issues. And I underestimated that at first, but
you have a support team, and the GSA, and you
just use your resources.
Has it ever been a problem representing two
different groups of students with different
needs?
Yes, because undergraduate needs are very differ-
ent from those of postgraduate students. It’s very
difficult getting used to that. But that’s why you
have the handover period [in July], to acclimatise
to the different worlds.
Is there any unfinished business that you really
want to get done by the end of the year?
That has to be the Feedback Policy, it has to suc-
ceed in creating a different mindset around feed-
back and coursework. The two go hand in hand so
we need to move away from the mindset: “We’re
just going to test the students”. We need to create
more of a dynamic learning environment that ties
the coursework closely with the feedback. In a
way, it’s kind of an agreement between the lectur-
ers and the students.
What’s a typical day as a DPE?
So I normally get in at 10am, make myself a nice
large cup of coffee, sit in front of the computer and
check my emails. Come midday-ish, that’s usually
when the committees usually start and I usually sit
on one or two a day.
That’s a lot of committees
Yeah! Especially round November time, it’s hor-
rible. There’s more like three or four a day. I’m
not making this sound very appealing am I? But
at the same time the position and Deputy Presi-
dent (Welfare) are quite new. It’s only the second
year that they’ve existed separately, so we’re still
forming the positions in a way. So what I’ve tried
to do is have a lot more contact with my Reps.
So I meet Departmental Representatives and my
Academic Affairs Officers constantly; we’re try-
ing to get more representatives input into what I
do, so that the policies that I’m creating are re-
sponsive to student needs. I create a document
and send it out to everyone and say, “what do you
think?” I’ve tried to get that dynamic going. It’s
working well but it needs to be continued and im-
proved next year.
What’s your take, as DPE on the Life Sciences
cuts?
Although there are problems in the Department, the
way that both College and Departmental manage-
ment went about doing this was completely wrong.
We showed them data on how their decisions are
flawed, on how their data was flawed, and we were
basically shut down. So the situation right now is
that we have to support their teaching review. We
don’t want to be in the position where we just say,
“I told you so”, so we’re making sure they go about
it right. Bottom line is, I’m not happy and it was a
bad way of going about it.
What sort of person should run – what do you
need to be a good DPE?
Although the position doesn’t sound very interest-
ing – it’s always the one that is applied for least
– you do need to be a dynamic person. Since it’s
so new, you need to want to shape the position.
We have a new staff member, Andrew Keenan
who is Representative Coordinator. His position
still needs to be integrated into the whole system.
You need to integrate the Departmental Reps. It’s
become a lot more student friendly than people
perceive it to be. It was a position where you just
dealt with College, but we’re making it so that
you’re not shying away from meeting up with stu-
dents and talking to them. But you also need a lot
of stamina to sit through the meetings; you need to
be prepared to go to a lot of boring meetings. But
you work with wonderful people, in the Union and
in the College.
Alex Dahinten
Deputy President
(Education)
“Make sure that you
actually care about student
welfare or you’ll end up
being bored”
Rewarding and fun, if you’re committed
With elections looming closer, Felix talks to current Sabbs about their experiences
Friday 04 february 2011
“You do need to be a
dynamic person. Since it’s
so new, you need to want
to shape the position”
*cough, turn to the Centrefold *cough. Go
on, we’ll wait for you to get back
Look at how happy he looks, he must have
just seen the Centrefold...
Interview by Kadhim Shubber Interview by Anna Perman

