£2
A million lost by sports clubs as Astroturf plans fail
Students turfed out
Imperial College students may lose out to
the tune of £ % million if a proposal from
the Rector, Sir Eric Ash, goes ahead. The
money would be taken from the
Harlington Gravel Trust Fund and would
finance a new hall of residence. The
proposal may also break the terms under
which the trust has been set up.
Sir Eric hopes to match a proposed
donation by St Mary's Hospital Medical
School (SMHMS) of Vh million towards
the Imperial College/St Mary's Merger
Appeal which was created to raise money
for new student accommodation. The St
Mary's donation is likely to be financed
by the sale of some land at their sports
grounds in Teddington.
Sir Eric made his proposal in a letter to
Union President Neil McCluskey, who is
one of the trustees of the Harlington Fund.
The letter was copied to Harry Knutton,
a College Governor and Chairman of the
College Athletics committee, who is
chairman of the Harlington Trustees. The
third trustee, Steven Goulder, an ex-ICU
President, was not aware of the proposal
until contacted by Mr McCluskey.
Mr McCluskey said that the trustees of
the Harlington Fund had agreed in
December that the fund should be spent
to 'finance new or improved sporting
facilities'. These guidelines are being put
to the College Finance and Executive
Committee, which takes decisions on
major College expenditure, today. Mr
McCluskey said that he had heard that
concern had been voiced by some of the
senior College administration that these
terms of reference were too narrow. He
is trying to organise a meeting of the
trustees to discuss the issue as soon as
possible. He said that his view was that
money from the fund 'should only be spent
on non-athletics projects when the athletics
facilities were up to standard'.
Mr Knutton said that he was not going
to decide anything until he had met the
other trustees. He said that he felt the
money should be 'devoted to capital
projects for the benefit of students' and
that this should be primarily sporting and
athletics facilities.
Mr Goulder said that he saw 'no
problem with making access to the fund
wider than athletics and sports, for
example bursaries for overseas travel' but
added that he felt 'the Trust is there to
establish a fund for student amenities and
it is not in our interest to use it for capital
development more suited to other methods
of funding'.
Mr Goulder said he was 'disappointed
that the Rector hasn't felt able to discuss
the matter with the trustees before making
the decision'. He said that the Rector was
'undermining the nature of the trustees'.
He added that he was worried that College
would 'get into thinking that this is a
windfall and they can use it to bale them
out of short term difficulties'.
Angus Fraser, College's Managing
Director, claimed that the proposal to use
funds from the Harlington Trust was 'put
forward on the basis that the funds are
intended to be used for the benefit of
students'. He said that the terms of the
Trust had been interpreted in the past by
Governing Body, the College's highest
decision making commitee, as including
accommodation as well as sporting
facilities.
He said he was aware of the
recommendations of the trustees, but he
felt that they implied a change from the
original understanding by Governing Body
of the Trust's purpose and were 'more
focused and restricted'. He insisted that
it was important to clarify the original
understanding so that Governing Body
would be in a position to endorse or
discard the recommendations of the
trustees.
The Rector was unavailable for
comment. His letter to Mr McCluskey and
Mr Knutton indicates that the donation
from St Mary's was proposed by the Dean
of St Mary's, Professor Peter Richards,
who was also unavailable for comment.
Rhydian Hapgood, the SMHMS Union
President, said that although the students
had no control of the money, the Union
felt that if the money 'was coming out of
Teddington, it ought to go back into sports
facilities at Teddington'.
He said that Professor Richards had
discussed the proposal with the St Mary's
Union Executive and that they were 'not
averse to the money going towards
residences', but that 'IC has not got
enough money to support the residences
it's got'. He said that it was 'pointless
putting the money into accommodation if
it's going to make the problem worse'.
A row has also broken out over the
Astroturf pitch which was to be built at
Harlington. The pitch may not be ready
before the start of next year's hockey
season. The ICU Hockey Club, who have
been playing on hired Astroturf whilst the
Harlington Ground is under excavation,
will be left without any home pitches "for
next season.
The scheme has been delayed because
some of the senior College administration
feel that the quotes obtained for laying the
pitch are too high. Angus Fraser, College
Managing Director, said that 'the
proposed solution as put forward is
considerably more expensive than
originally estimated'."He said that the
proposal was not going to be taken to
today's Finance and Executive (F&E)
meeting as originally intended because he
felt that F & E should be able to 'endorse
it with full confidence that the money is
being spent in the best possible way' and
that this was not possible until 'some
points were clarified*.
Benjamin Turner, ICU Athletics Clubs
Committee Chairman, said that 'it's
important we don't allow the Astroturf to
fall so far behind schedule that we do not
have a pitch available for next season'. He
said that the Hockey Club would have
severe difficulties finding pitches for next
year at this stage.
continued on back page

