FELIX on food
Compiled and photographed by Roland Flowerdew and Richard E\ers.
Introduction
In response to an ad in FELIX (2nd Feb), two first year
students, Colin and Liz from Mech Eng, reviewed five
IC food outlets last week. They had no previous
association with FELIX or the Union.
They were given £2 each per day, and separately
visited one outlet, chosen at random, each day. They
were asked to comment on the appearance of the
place they visited, how long they had to wait, what
they bought and how much it came to. The only
restriction on what they chose was that the total
should be less than £2, and they should not choose
the same as each other at a particular outlet.
Regarding the food itself, they were asked to
comment on quantity and quality, and finally on value
for money. The aim throughout has been to provide
constructive and objective criticism on an impartial
basis. Colin and Liz were trailed by FELIX
photographers, but did not make contact with them
until the food had been bought, and so should have
been treated as normal students. Finally, the
managers were invited to comment upon the reviews.
Main dining hall QT
Appearance
The MDR was reasonably clean, although dirty plates
were left on the tables. The kitchen looked clean, food
being prepared on plates in advance. The atmosphere
was rather like a canteen, and the staff appeared
interested in what they were doing. Colin said the
place 'was very busy, and I only just got a seat'. Liz
said it was 'not used by many students when I was
in'.
The main criticism was that the cutlery appeared
dirty.
Food
Liz bought (without having to wait), bacon, sausage,
tomato and chips, and a can of Coke, for £1.60.
'Some of the food looked as though it had been sitting
around for ages, and it wasn't particularly hot,' this
was at 1,30pm. Of the food she said; 'the portion of
chips given was fairly large, but the rest wasn't very
big. It was all a bit greasy.'
Colin also did not have to wait, and he chose chilli,
rice and chips, and Angel Delight dessert, costing
£1.99. He said the chips were 'very good', the rice
was 'OK', but the chilli was 'a little mushy,' the
individual portions were 'generous,' but the selection
was small.
Value
Colin said 'quite good, especially if prepared to spend.
It is no good for snacks.' Liz thought the value was
only reasonable.
Appearance
QT was kept very clean, and was constantly being
tidied. The kitchen seemed clean. QT is situated in a
large room, with plenty of seats, the availability of
which depends very much on the time you go. Colin
said 'the seats are very nice to sit in over a lunchtime.'
The staff in general were not friendly or
communicative, and the appearance of a
photographer gave rise to a lot of dirty looks. Colin
said the staff 'don't say anything', and the cashier
'just put his hand out expecting money to be put into
it.' Liz said it was a 'very help yourself atmosphere.
They both said that prices were not clearly marked
and it was difficult to choose within a budget.
Food
Liz chose crisps, diet Pepsi, ham roll and a walnut
slice, the total came to £1.60. She said 'the roll was
stodgy, but the walnut slice was nice and gooey.' She
complained about the roll, taking it back. The staff
were polite but passed her around; eventually the roll
was exchanged. She queued for five minutes.
Colin chose an Imperial burger, a can and hot apple
pie, which came to £1.85. He waited about two
minutes. He was particularly critical of QT's own food:
'the burger was horrible, the salad was all droopy, the
mayonnaise was tasteless, and the actual meat was
not cooked properly. The apple pie was the same as
the McDonalds/Wimpy sort, and although small,
tasted nice.'
Value
Liz thought it was 'quite good value for money, and
you could get a reasonable quantity for £ 2 ' .
Colin was unimpressed-'this definitely wasn't
good value at all.'
From these comments it seems that the pre-packed
food is much better than QT's own.

