Gardens Belushis
Appearance
The outlet was clean and light, and had a generally
pleasant atmosphere. The kitchen seemed clean, but
the staff were abrupt and uncommunicative. The
clientele appeared to be mainly College staff rather
than students. Again, there was no problem with the
seating, but the seats were awkward because 'you
have to clamber over to get into them'.
Food
Colin bought spare ribs, chips and veg, costing £1.94.
He had to wait 5 minutes. The food was 'OK—edible',
and the portion he got was reasonable, although the
spare ribs turned out to be mostly bone. 'You cannot
buy a dessert as well without spending more than £2.'
It was not apparent whether smoking is allowed.
Liz bought fish in cheese sauce, potatoes and
sweetcorn, with orange juice, totalling £1.97. She
said 'the food was nice although the vegetables were
a bit overdone and soggy. All the food looked good,
with a choice of about five different things and with
a selection of vegetables and puddings. I didn't have
to wait at all.'
Value
Colin said there was 'not enough food for the money,'
and he was still hungry. Liz said it was 'a bit pricy'.
We felt that you could get a good meal from here, for
under £3.
Liz tries a pizza in Belushis
Union snack bar
Appearance
Liz and Colin both said that the Snack Bar was 'messy,
rubbish and trays were left on the tables, but the
kitchen area appeared to be clean.' The staff (mainly
students) were friendly and helpful. Despite the no
smoking signs, lots of people in the Snack Bar were
smoking. Seating was in short supply except towards
1.30pm.
Food
Liz had to wait 25 minutes before getting a roll with
cottage cheese and salad, a doughnut and a can of
coke, £1.55. No diet drinks were available. She said
that 'the roll was nice and tasted fresh, being made
up while you wait. There was plenty of filling, but the
doughnut was small for 35p.'
Colin also had to wait, this time for 20 minutes. He
bought a veggie burger in a bun and chips, treacle roll
and custard, and a can of Coke, £1.95. He thought
'the chips weren't cooked enough and were a bit
greasy, and the veggie-burger didn't taste particularly
nice. The treacle roll was solid, but the custard was
good.' He added that 'the portions were a reasonable
size'.
Value
Liz thought that the value was good and, although
making sandwiches up to order takes more time, it
is a good idea because you can choose exactly which
filling you want. However, she said that the system
of paying was silly (one till for sandwiches and one
for others) because 'if you want a roll and something
else it completely throws the staff.
Colin said 'if the food was good, it would have been
good value.'
Appearance
Belushis seemed to be slightly run down and scruffy,
but the general atmosphere was good. The staff were
mainly students and were friendly. Hygiene was
reasonable, although one staff member was seen
stirring topping around with his fingers. There was no
problem with seating.
Food
Colin bought a baked potato and a roll: total £1.87,
after waiting 15 minutes. The potato was slightly
overdone, but the salad and cheese were fresh.
Liz bought a 6V2" pizza with three toppings for
£1.80, waiting 15 minutes. She was unable to buy
a drink as well with her £2. 'Very tasty although a little
greasy, but the plastic knife and fork are inadequate
if used. The pizza was small for its price and no
desserts were available.'
Value
Colin: Good value for money, mainly due to the
quantity available.
Liz: Reasonable.
MANAGERS' COMMENTS
We asked Rob Northey (Catering and Conference
Manager) to comment on this review. He thought that
it was 'not as bad as it could have been', and that the
review was 'fair and objective'. He said that the main
problem with QT is that it handles far more business
than it was designed for (averaging 2,500
transactions on a busy day), and because of this
volume, food has to be made in advance and
inevitably the quality suffers. Of the MDH, he said that
if staff were employed to clear plates then prices
would have to rise to pay them: the system is
supposed to be self-clearing. He also said that
compared with prices outside, the College catering
costs were very reasonable, partly because term-time
catering is subsidised by conferences.
Mr Dave Williams (IC Union Deputy President) said
that last week was the introduction of the new system
in the Union Snack Bar, and that they were surpised
by the number of people buying from them. 'I'm
pleased that people thought that overall it was good
value,' he said. The paying system has been revised
(Liz's comment), and drinks can be bought from the
vending machine outside. He suggested that people
buy freshly made rolls during the morning, and take
them away for later consumption, thus avoiding the
lunch-time rush.
CONCLUSION
As can be seen from Liz and Colin's comments, the
quality of food available from these five outlets is
variable and none of them are good in all respects. It
seems that places predominantly staffed by students
have a friendlier atmosphere, and treat their
customers as people rather than automatons. They
also tend to be cheaper, but not as efficient at keeping
the eating area free of dirty plates and litter. Places
with non-student staff tend to be more expensive, but
provide better food.
Because these outlets aim to meet different
requirements, it would be unfair to place them in any
order, so we have listed the places we would choose
if we wanted:
Cheap and filling lunch: Belushis, Snack Bar
Rolls: Snack Bar
Dinner (budget) Main Dining Room
Dinner: The Gardens
Take-away: QT prepacked
'Healthy option': Snack Bar
Page 11

