Clare Davis describes the Government's new road improvement scheme and its effect on homes and the
environment.
Roads to nowhere
It seems as though no part of London will be safe from
Mr Parkinson's newest baby-the Red Routes road
'improvement' scheme.
Speaking at a recent Envirosoc lecture, John
Stewart from Capital Transport Campaign described
why the scheme will do nothing to tackle congestion
in London.
The tactics of the Transport Minister have been odd
to say the least. His Commons speech on the issue
mainly dealt with minor plans for Public Transport,
with the scheme's true scale and impact being played
down. Equally confusing is the booklet detailing the
plans, produced by Sir William Halcrow, amongst
others. This attempt at glossing over the issue is
hardly surprising, however, when what is really being
proposed is the most massive road building scheme
since the Second World War.
Facts given by Mr Parkinson are that spending on
road construction will be up by 40% next year and
over the next three years a total of around £12 billion
is to be spent on roads locally and nationally.
For London the scale of the plans is frightening. The
major schemes include widening the south circular
between Kew and Clapham or a tunnel link between
Chiswick and Wandsworth; the amusingly named
Western Environmental Improvement Road (WEIR)
from Shepherds Bush to Wandsworth; major
demolition of property between Clapham and Eltham
to widen the existing South Circular, and more
demolition between Kings Cross and Aldgate to name
but a few of the potentially affected areas.
Effects on local communities will be far reaching.
A foretaste of what is to come for people as far apart
as Chiswick and Kings Cross is the present situation
in Leytonstone. Hundreds of people here may lose
their homes in the construction of the new M11 link
from Wanstead to Hackney Wick, but the public
inquiry may only be given three weeks.
The road plans, of which the Red Routes scheme
is just a part, have followed a consultation period of
just two months. They seem out of date at a time
when our European competitors, ie France and
Germany, have realised that the more roads you build
the more traffic jams result, as people who previously
would have left their cars at home for the journey to
work, now race to clog up the latest A-road or
motorway.
A recent Gallup survey shows that 82% of
Londoners favour some kind of traffic restraint
measures and 79% of drivers feel the same. So why,
in the light of all this unpopularity is the roads option
being pushed so hard? Two of the most probable
driving forces behind the decision are the Roads Lobby
and 1992. Hardly a week goes by without MPs
receiving mail from bodies with an interest in road
transport. They are undoubtedly a very powerful
campaigning force, including not only construction
companies but motor manufacturers, road freight
services, the AA and RAC etc. The approach of 1992
has sparked many rows over freight and passenger
transport links with Europe, but all of them whether
rail or road, will require fast passage across London.
Capital Transport Campaign believe that London is to
be boxed in by 'fast' roads in preparation for this. If
this is true then the Government's logic must be
questioned because roads are the most expensive
option Mr Parkinson could have chosen; the estimated
cost of building a new road in London is about £40
million per mile.
For the local communities of South London a much
better alternative would be to reinstate the myriad of
disused rail lines in existence South of the river which
could be done at a fraction of the cost of the South
Circular 'improvements'. However forty years of
disinvestment has left British Rail and London Regional
Transport unwilling to take imaginative risks such as
these, especially when proposals for desperately
needed, major cross-London rail links are brushed
aside in favour of Mr Parkinson's expensive, polluting
brain-child.
So, apart from the orbital rail links already
mentioned, what does the Capital Transport
Campaign propose instead? To coin a cliche, there are
four 'green' ways to travel; walking, cycling, bus and
train. Walking is the universal mode of transport and
cycling is nothing new to most students and plenty
of commuters too, but at the moment it is either
frustrating, hair-raising, or both.
It goes without saying that more cycle lanes are
needed, but the problem is such items such as cycle
lanes, widening pavements, improving junctions for
pedestrians and planting trees etc is the responsibility
of the local councils. No extra cash is made available
after a spree of road building, so the councils rarely
provide these 'traffic calming' measures.
A better bus service could help immensely. In 1960
46% of Londoners travelled to work by bus compared
with 15% today. Most bus routes haven't changed
since the 1960's and are very much out of date in
today's city. A comprehensive system of bus lanes
(possible as most buses travel on wide roads), and a
system by which buses could change traffic lights to
green as they approach them, have also been
suggested.
More controversial ideas have tackled clamping and
company cars. Around 80% of rush hour traffic is
made up of company cars. CTC believe companies
should be encouraged to buy travel season tickets
instead, but of course this suggestion has not proved
popular as it does not provide freedom of travel for
families at weekends.
It is obvious that something has to be done soon
to ease the traffic chaos in London. The Utopian post-
war dream of every adult in the country owning a car
can never happen. We have to change our ideas about
how often we use a car, not necessarily give them
up, but first we need a reliable alternative-spending
billions on roads won't solve anything except, perhaps
to line the pockets of big investors.
If you want to do something positive then give up
five minutes of your time on Thursday 22 February
(at the Caterpillar Cafe) or Friday 23 (JCR) to sign a
letter, or write your own. Addresses to send them to
are:
Department of Transport,
East London Assessment Study,
PO Box 2BX, London W1A 2BX
Department of Transport,
South Circular Assessment Study,
PO Box 29, London WC2E 9SJ.
Department of Transport,
West London Assessment Study,
PO Box 1465, London W6 7HN.
Department of Transport,
South London Assessment Study,
PO Box 309, Croydon CR9 2XW.
In any letter to the above state that you are making
a formal objection to the road building and widening
schemes proposed, and would like to see resources
diverted into public transport improvements-don't
forget to mention reasons such as air pollution,
destruction of homes and the green belt. Ask to be
kept informed of future developments. GOOD LUCK.
Clare Davis, Geol 3.
Imperial College Union's Environment Week this year is between 19th •
23rd February. Run by ENVIROSOC, this event hopes to educate and
inform students of Environmental issues, both at home and worldwide.
Lectures
MONDAY
No Growth Economics
Ben Schoendorff from the Green Party will
be speaking on 'From Growth Economics
to Green Economics'
WEDNESDAY
Cycling in London
Elizabeth Pitman, from the London Cycling
Campaign, taking a wry look at cycling in
London, the Department of Transport's
attitude to it, and what the LCC does to help.
Copies to the Cyclists Handbook 'Cycling in
London' will be available at the lecture.
All lectures are FREE and start
at 12.45pm in MECH ENG 542
Letter Writing
THURSDAY - Caterpillar Cafe
F R I D A Y - J C R
The Government is planning a
major road building scheme, write
in and register your opinion, before
your house is demolished too for a
new road! Between 12-2pm
Video Night
T U E S D A Y IN Union Dining Hall 50p
MOSQUITO COAST at 7pm
Harrison Ford rebels & turns to nature,
SILENT RUNNING at 9pm
SF: One man tries to save the flora!
Page 12

