Dance in Florida
Imperial College Dance Club's trip to Florida in January
was great fun. About twenty universities were
competing, some British, but mostly American. Teams
of four couples were required. Since we,only had
seven, Oxford kindly lent us one of their worst couples
who consistently failed to get past the first rounds.
Nevertheless, Imperial College waltzed away with 56
out of a maximum of 120 possible trophies (these
were awarded for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd places only).
One of the American universities had many couples,
all with the same routines and amused us by swapping
partners for different competitions. It was just as well
that our coach Victoria Conniffe had taken the trouble
to tailor our routines to each individual couple because
it would have been really embarrassing for the 6th
couple to do an unknown formation dance when we
had five out of six couples in one Jive final.
It must be conceded that Brigham Young university
were notable for their absence. Some of their students
do degrees in dance. Their reputation as relayed to us
by Oxford coach at Heathrow airport had caused
some alarm, but after the first competition which
Oxford surprisingly won, we discovered that Brigham
Young were not in fact present. Following this dirty
trick from Oxford, Imperial rapidly regained composure
and came top in all subsequent team competitions.
Next time, friendly advice from Oxford will be treated
with the disdain it deserves.
Some of us believe that Cambridge's mysterious
absence was also due to Oxfords desire to win, but
some of us do not rate Oxford so highly. Since
Cambridge's coach was in fact spotted in Florida, the
discerning reader might deduce that Cambridge
needed a touch of Vicky's choreography.
(Cambrdige's inadequacy was amply demonstrated in
Sheffield last weekend when Imperial slaughtered
them 46 points to 45 in the first team competitions
of this year.)
The programme laid on for us was exhausting, but
for those of us who have a fetish for pancakes
drowned in maple syrup their generous supply at
breakfast times made the whole trip worthwhile.
It is two years before the Americans are likely to
be holding this event again. It is obviously an
advantage to have a left foot and a right foot, but
Vicky has the ability to get beginners into the winning
streak and so you too could find yourself dancing
away to Florida (some of the Imperial team couples
were beginners in October).
If our lifestyle appeals to you (going to America
during term-time enjoying subsidised travel, and
Good value
Champagne
This Tuesday's tasting was even more romantic than
anticipated as our Valentine's Eve Champagne and
Sparkling Wine special was interrupted by the Guild's
Valentine squad serenading one of the attendees.
Hilary Mason of Wizard Wine, who has a confessed
weakness for Champagne, returned to Imperial to give
her second terrific tasting, Hilary shared with us
Champagne anecdotes and some of her considerable
knowledge and experience of wine. She also painted
evocative scenes of wizened experts in deep chalk
caves (of constant temperature and humidity) deftly
twisting bottle upon bottle of fermenting champagne.
We started the tasting with a modest but tasty
Sarda Cava Brut for £3.99; a Champagne-method
wine from Penedes, Spain and ended with a
superlative Asti Spumante from Fontanafredda for
£5.59 to demonstrate that this style doesn't only
produce sickly-sweet fizzy wines. The favourite wine
of the evening was one of the Champagnes: the
Taittinger non-vintage Brut (£13.95) which had a
fresh and honeyed flavour and great bubbles. This was
closely followed in popularity by the more expensive
Moet and Chandon '83 vintage 'Brut Imperial' at
£17.95—a very classy Champagne. All in all a very
good tasting, many thanks to Hilary and Wizard Wine.
For our next tasting we are lucky to have Moreno
Wines, a high-quality independent importer of Spanish
wines, to come and give us a tasting. Other dates for
your diary shold include the Australian wine tasting
(27 Feb), the coffee tasting (1 March) and the Sherry
tasting (6 March).
SANTE
P.S. Only a few places remain on the 21 March booze
cruise so get in touch with Lynda Matthews if you
want to come along.
Disneyworld first hand), why not try out for the team
in the trials next year. The Dance Club is really on the
ball regarding social dancing too, so if you don't fancy
yourself in the team, how about some Lambada?
Many thanks to the Rector, the Union, the American
universities for financial support. Also to our
accommodating lecturers and to our self-sacrificing
president, Mandy, who made many of the
arrangements but was unfortunately unable to come
with us. We also appreciate the spadework put in by
the team members and of course our team coach who
did more than we could give her credit for.
Opera
On Tuesday March 20 Imperial College Operatic
Society presents: An evening of music by Cole Porter.
The show contains some of the best songs of the
'musical' genre such as / Get a Kick out of You, Night
and Day, You're the Tops, I've Got you Under my
Skin, Be a Clown, Who Wants to be a Millionnaire?
from shows like Anything Goes, Kiss me Kate and
Can-Can. This should be a really good show, so why
not be in it? You don't have to have the world's
greatest voice, we can make anyone sing! There are
plenty of chorus numbers in the show and we don't
ask people to audition for the chorus but if you feel
that you might like to step into the spotlight we shall
be auditioning on Sunday February 25 in the Union
Concert Hall from 2pm onwards, otherwise we hope
to see you for our first rehearsal in the Read Lecture
Theatre (5th Floor, Sherfield) at 7.30pm on Tuesday
February 7.
Student theatre and music-making of all types is
one of the most enjoyable and rewarding parts of
one's university career, don't miss out on it.
For further information phone Sue Foister on
extension 7406.
Page 13

