Neil's not happy
about Harlington
Belated Valentine's greeting to everyone. Hope
everyone had a good time on Wednesday night.
Accommodation and Harlington Gravel Monies
You may wonder why I've put these two issues
together. Last week a letter landed on my desk stating
that St Mary's were involved in a deal involving their
tennis courts which could result in them having Vh
million surplus to allocate. Reportedly the students of
St Mary's are willing to donate this to the St
Mary's/Imperial Merger Appeal if students of IC
donate a comparable sum. Sir Eric Ash has suggested
£ % million would be appropriate and that the money
should come from the gravel extraction down at
Harlington. Many of you will not know the history of
Harlington, a feature article on Harlington in next
week's FELIX will, however, explain all.
Firstly, I have yet to find out whether it was actually
the students at St Mary's who requested this or
whether that was a story concocted by the Rector as
an attempted emotional blackmail. Secondly, I think
it is wrong of the Rector to try and use monies to buy
a residence when it is the athletics facilities that are
suffering as a result. As a trustee of the Harlington
Gravel money I will be dead set against buying a new
hall of residence with the monies on a number of
grounds:
1. The extraction of the gravel has seriously reduced
the athletics facilities at Harlington and will do so until
the extraction is finished (another two years).
2. The extraction of the gravel has deteriorated the
quality of the playing surfaces at Harlington.
3. Imperial College is severely under-resourced
when it comes to sports and athletics facilities.
4. Imperial College does not maintain its present
stock of housing adequately enough already. What
hope has it with increased stocks?
5. Is it a hall of residence the students want? First
years may want halls of residence, it is more likely that
second, third, fourth year undergraduates and
postgraduates would prefer either assistance with
their housing costs or cheaper facilities/services at
College so that they can afford the private housing.
Alternative Prospectus (AP)
As Dave Smedley said in last week's FELIX we are
hoping to compile and distribute this over Easter. A
number of enquiries from prospective students have
included requests for details on living costs in London.
The full Alternative Prospectus of last year
concentrated on departments, the AP update will
concentrate on services and living costs. Anybody
wishing to comment on any issue such as
accommodation, nightlife, welfare services, refectory
services, athletics facilities, etc please write to myself
or David Smedley. All contributions will be kept
anonymous. I hope the Rector gets his act together
and decides the rents for the halls as these will be one
part of the AP update.
Transport
The deadline for Easter vacation van applications is
Friday 23 Feb 1990. Please get them in on time
especially those who wish to go abroad.
External Affairs
Loans: The loans bill will have come up for discussion
yesterday. I will not have attended the NUS march but
I will have been to the House of Commons to listen
to the debate. More next week.
Poll Tax: Watch out for feature articles in FELIX on
the Poll Tax. This week facts and figures, next week
'why to evade it and how to evade it'. This is coupled
with a two day campaign next Thursday and Friday
in the JCR. 11.30am to 2.00pm.
Union General Meetings
There will be an EGM on Thursday 22 February, at
1pm in the JCR to discuss ICU transport subsidy
policy.
Rag Week II
Following on with the 'if it's a good idea do it again'
theory, the next two biggest Rag events are the
Hypnosis Lecture tonight and Monopoly all around
London tomorrow. Doors will open at 7.00pm tonight
for the Hypnosis Lecture which will be Martin Taylor's
fascinating combination of talk and demonstration on
hypnotism-an evening's entertainment for only
£2.50 so not to be missed.
Rag are very happy to present a day of fun and
hilarity absolutely FREE we will be playing Monopoly
all over London, in teams of 4-6, fancy dress is almost
essential if you want to stand a chance of winning
some of the fabulously alcoholic prizes on offer.
Monopoly wil be in aid of the British Institute for Brain
Injured Children which is one of our chosen charities
this year.
Hon Sec
Sabbatical Elections
Papers are now up for sabbatical elections; President,
Deputy President, FELIX Editor and Honorary
Secretary (Events). Candidates must have a proposer
and 20 seconders by 5.30pm on Friday February 23
when papers come down. Anyone wanting to sign up
should do so on the Union noticeboard (just below the
Union Office). Please come and see me for job
descriptions, publicity and election rules and other
papers.
Other Elections
On February 22 papers go up for the following posts:
• Academic Affairs Officer
• External Affairs Officer
• Welfare Officer
• Internal Services Officer
• Rag Chairman
• Ents Chairman
• ICCAG Chairman
• UGM Chairman
Elections for these will take place at the UGM on
March 8.
Good luck to everyone!
Fiona.
THE UNION
WILL PAY YOU
£2.50 per hour
for sitting next to the
ballot boxes on
March 5th and 6th
S
e
e J
e
n i
n t
h
e U
n
i
o
n O
f
f
i
c
e
MANIFESTOS
Candidates must hand in their manifestos by
9.30am Monday 26th Feb. There is a maximum
of 300 words. Any manifesto longer than this
will be cut at the 300th word. Candidates should
also submit a photograph of themself (any size
of photo will be accepted). Manifestos will be
printed as submitted including any spelling
mistakes etc. Any material submitted after this
deadline will be burnt in front of the candidate
in question.

