Hockey
After an excellent quarter final with Sheffield, IC 3rd
Hockey team moved into the unknown territory of the
semi-finals, a clash with Bristol beckoned.
The first half began with Bristol's strong possession
play holding IC's quick breaking style at bay. The first
half remained goalless with both sides having chances
to go ahead.
With the effort increased and the legs tiring, gaps
opened and so did the play. Short corners on both
sides were not capitalised on but Bristol, after ten
minutes of sustained pressure, broke the deadlock
with a powerful short corner. Literally minutes later
Bristol broke again and scored with IC still stunned
from the previous goal.
With the score at 2-0, IC increased the pressure for
an opening and in the last minute received a penalty
flick, which Ian McGovern slotted home.
The final score of 2-1 left IC in no way disgraced
as the first team in IC history to reach a team UAU
semi-final. It is a shame that the powers-that-be ignore
sport in general at this College when the participants
gain so much benefit from it.
Guilds rugby
Preparations for the 1990 City and Guilds RFC tour
to Paris began in earnest on the evening of February
2. Team members met in the Queens Arms for the
compulsory consumption of the elixir that was to
sustain us throughout the forthcoming ordeal.
Adjourning to the charming surround of the Union
Snack Bar we were introduced to Nelson, our
enigmatic and cuddly tour mascot. Could it be that
his permanent grimace foretold of the riotous
weekend that he was about to witness?
Could it also have been that Providence was trying
His best to prevent Imperial's single handed attempt
to hinder the already precarious road towards a single
Europe? But, alas to no avail. The hurricanes and ferry
cancellations couldn't prevent the team leaving
Victoria, somewhat belatedly, and arriving at Dover
to connect with the packed ferry. The unlucky
passengers of the ferry were confronted with hoards
of rugby supporters singing in unison. Needless to say
most people were unable to sleep during the short
crossing.
Similarly, on the train from Calais to Paris, sleep was
foresaken for song: most of our new found friends
Cross country
joining in. On arrival the weary team was whisked
away by our hosts, L'Ecole Polytechnique, to their
spacious campus at Palaiseau. Using an old tactic
designed to tire and demoralise, our opponents led us
around aimlessly whilst we still carried our luggage
and then hastily served us breakfast out of a
cardboard box. Within 30 minutes we were on the
field playing.
Guilds emerged winners after a hard fought battle.
The final score, 4-0, didn't do justice to an exciting
and well played game. Our only score came from Andy
Godbhere's opportunist kick and follow through. The
high winds made goal kicking almost impossible,
especially so in the second half. Towards the end of
the match team members were starting to show signs
of fatigue, a factor that will be very important if Guilds
want to win this year's Sparks Cup.
Polytechnique, with their usual hospitality, provided
us with a magnificent lunch, which lead us up nicely
to watch the England versus France match live in their
Union. England's convincing victory over the French
crowned the tour perfectly well, for us anyway.
Pistol
The rain drove down, the gales roared. Hurricane
conditions forced the cancellation of many a sporting
contest, Feb 7, but it takes more than this to repress
the unswerving dedication of the true Harrier. The
beleaguered IC Cross Country Team took up the
challenge of Richmond Park, as its fated quest for the
London Colleges League Title reached the penultimate
stage.
With the established vanguard of the Club executive
reduced to a purely spectating role, it was down to
the fresh blood of the first years to ensure the
continuing survival of the flagging IC challenge. Once
again Paul Northrop stormed around to achieve a third
place in the race and retain his leadership of the overall
individuals table. Dave Knight, in his last cross country
race for the College, finally made the top twenty, with
a characteristic surging second lap. Solid support was
provided by Laurence Fowkes, Bill Skailes and Jim
Watson, all of whom ran to form. At this stage of the
season, every point scored counts, and the sight of
Skailes overtaking five men in the last fifty metres was
a sight for sore eyes. A similar performance at the last
league race will ensure medals for the boys,
meanwhile we must take responsibility for the large
numbers of athletic bodies which will be populating
IC this weekend, as the 42nd Hyde Park Relay gets
underway.
IC—713 Cambridge-720
After a closely fought match, IC lost by a margin of
7 points. Special mention must be made of James
Hurr who shot an incredibly bad score of 227/300.
This has been explained by the fact that he has no
shooting ability whatsover. Simon Taylor, who had
never shot in a pistol match before, achieved
233/300. Tim Griffiths scored 250/300, the highest
score of the match.
Our next match is on Sunday, when we will quite
definitely beat Cambridge and Leeds. As Nigel Lawson
would say 'The last match was only a blip'.
Page 15

