The Calumny
Column
Southside Bar is a marvellous place to pick up gossip.
Last Monday night, early evening drinkers were
delighted to hear the life story of one Cathy Harrison,
a third year Chemist. All the staff on the Calumny
Column wish Ms Harrison, 21, much happiness in her
impending marriage on July 11 to Adam. We are also
relieved to find that Cathy is not waiting until after
her wedding to experience the wonders of human
lovemaking. The physical knot was tied between Ms
Harrison and her fiance four weeks after they met. The
marriage, in Ireland is expected to be a large family
affair.
News from the recent Eric Clapton concert at the
Albert Hall. The support band were wetting
themselves in merriment when told of two attendees
who got rather excited. A couple were thrown out
after being caught in fragrante delicto. One lady
complained about the man and woman next to her
who were performing an act which is popularly known
as a 'blow-job'.
Southside Bar casual Robin Keyte was seen carrying
out his duties on Monday night with a sign festooned
on his back. It read 'Smooth and Slippery'. Whatever
can this mean? The usual fiver for information.
Quote from the Union Bar last week: On entering
and spying the bar full of RCS hacks, the observer was
heard to say, "This is a real gynaecological lesson.
Obviously cunts come in all shapes and sizes".
Felix printer and part-time chanteur, Andrew
McThompson has obviously had a lot on his mind
lately. In his tedious little life, even the slightest bit
of excitement is called for. Two weeks ago, he hurried
home from the Union Bar to interview a 'shit-hot
drumming moonlighting taxi driver'. He never showed
up. Last week he hurried home to meet some
members of his band. They were all rat-arsed when
he got there. This week, he couldn't come into work
because he had locked himself into his flat. He ended
up climbing onto the roof to get in. Felix staff eagerly
await what next week holds in store for him.
The annual RSM Camborne trek came round again
last weekend. Two events are worthy of mention.
Firstly, on being smashed 6-4 in the rugby, team
captain Eddie Gadd took his side's loss to heart.
Suffering from halucinations, he telephoned the local
by Carolyn Toxnbee
press to inform them that, in fact, Imperial had won
13-8. The boys from the Camborne Press were later
told the correct score. Secondly, spare a thought for
the poor member of the football team who does not
know the difference between a lavatory and a Jacuzzi.
Makes a change from crapping in the bidet I suppose...
Mr Ulric Davies was gainfully employed over the
Summer as a cleaner. After one hour in work, Mr
Davies become rather disgruntled and left. His pay
packet contained a hard one hour's toil and he
promptly left the college employment. All was quiet
until Union President Neil McCluskey allocated the
bonuses for staff. Included in the list was one Ulric
Davies. The bonus? £30. Unluckily for Mr Davies, Pat
Baker, the eagle-eyed union typist, weeded out the
rogue payment in time.
Neil McCluskey obviously doesn't like St Mary's
anymore. On Monday, acting as chauffeur for their
exec, he seemed very unsure of the way from ULU
in Malet Street to Wilson House in Paddington. Such
was his uncertainty that he mounted the pavement
in a union minibus and attempted to ram a lamp-post.
The medical students, troubled by this apparent
murder attempt, protested vehemently but their cries
went unheard.
Rumours are still spreading on the question of the
Beit Arch nightsafe. The safe was removed last year
when security staff complained that its presence
endangered the staff manning Beit Arch. The word is
that the safe is now part of the foundations of the new
carpark outside the Biochemistry building. Nobody is
sure of the contents, but....
The phantom TV thrower of Beit Hall is nearing his
end. The nutter who threw a television and a shopping
trolley from the roof of Beit Hall is rumoured to have
videoed the while episode. It can't be too difficult to
locate a resident with a video camera and two video
recorders in his room. The one hitch is that the
offending tape is lodged amonst a collection of 200
such tapes.
Finally just a hunch that the activities of two
college-based companies, namely Doghouse Leisure
and Imperial Activities may be brought more into the
public domain in the next few weeks...
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Jewish Society will be meeting on Tuesday 20
Feb at 1.30pm in the Clubs Committee Room (top
floor, Union Building). Rabbi Gershon Overlander
will be speaking about 'Intermarriage'. Everyone
welcome. Contact Andrew Preston (Maths 1) for
details.
• Postgraduate women: Do you ever wonder
where all the PG women at Imperial are? Find out
over lunch on Fridays at 12.30pm in the Clubs
Committee Room, 3rd Floor Union Building. Bring
your sandwiches.
• Want to have your tennis racquet cheaply re-
s t r u n g - £ 6 for normal synthetic strings? Contact
Carl Edwards on internal ext 6418.
• Rag Raid to Bedford on Sat 24 Feb. Meet
10am in Beit Quad. Sign up in Union Office or at
Rag Meeting (Fridays 12.30pm Union Lounge).
FOR SALE
• Honda CG125, V reg, good condition, taxed
and tested. Very reliable. A bargain at £195.
Phone Pete on 563 0261 (flat 137) Hammersmith.
PERSONAL
• To My film stars: Come and watch my strut in
action, Friday Nite and maybe I'll give you a show
to remember, later in my birthday suit! All my love
Ajay (Physics 3).
• To the man who acquired a brown wallet from
a black leather jacket on Friday from the 6th Floor
of concrete labs in RSM. Please return
anonymously via internal mail to the labs. The
wallet is full of sentimental values. Thank you.
• Phallixword: Bank! (Manic Swivel)-The Last
Main Block.
• Crave!
• Phallixword: The Last Main Block will diverge
to ride Jim's prescient comet the way junkies
crave. Remember Joanie revenge is sweet. TLMB.
• Phallixword: Solving the crytogoth has a
derisive appeal. TLMB.
• Bacon Rasha? Naah, just an old cow.
• Congratulations on saving the world single-
heartedly Tanveer-our hero! Love-your fans in
Physics 3.
HARLINGTON SCREW-UPS
present
NEW! Graveloturf
Now you too can experience the true sensation of playing on a real gravel
surface. Thoroughly approved by Imperial College, this new surface has
two great advantages. It makes money and, err, it makes money.
Harlington Sports Ground— 'one of the finest areas of gravel
in central London' (quote GBH 1990)
Page 16

