Afro-caribbean reply
Dear Sir,
We, as the Afro-Caribbean Society, are writing in
response to scandalous articles written in FELIX issue
858, dated Friday 9 Feb.
Many comments were made which were either
grossly exaggerated or total falacies. Although FELIX
would like to believe otherwise, no attempt was made
at even contacting any members of Afroc so that a
fair and factual account of events could have been
reported instead of a biased and second-hand version.
Firstly the police did not set foot on the premises
on the night as they were never 'called in'. Secondly
there was no evidence of 'professional drug dealing'.
I don't know about you but I certainly don't call the
trade of a sum of money for plasticine, rubber and
aspirins a professional drug deal. This is not pure
speculation as many students actually complained
about the 'poor quality' of the substances they
solicited. As there is no factual evidence of narcotic
substances being sold we can only assume that none
were present.
Neither the security guards, the doormen or the bar
staff saw anything which was definitely to the
contrary.
What people are prepared to buy from others is their
business and their stupidity.
The event was only stopped due to a security guard
alleging that a student complained about people trying
to sell him drugs. The guard gave me the option of
stopping the event or the police being called in. I took
the former option to keep the matter internal. Thus
it was I who stopped the event and not 'the prompt
action of Bar Manager Mike Smith' as was reported.
I would suggest that much of the trouble caused
on the night was due to hot-heads under the influence
of alcohol looking for a fight after they purchased a
substance they found they couldn't smoke, snort or
inject. (Although I did see a man try to stuff an aspirin
up his nostril, which I quickly retrieved). How I pity
them1
The tendency of all the articles written was towards
sheer sensationalism. The so-called attackers were
described as 'two large black men who probably
weren't students'. Is this a serious attempt at
description or a half-hearted one to impersonate the
gutter press? Do you honestly expect someone to be
able to identify a person 'fitting this description'? If
so then you have at least 1 million suspects to sift
through.
We would be the first to admit that security
arrangements on the night could have been better
organised but to say that we should have checked
Union or ID cards as is common practice at all Union
events is utter nonsense. I can't remember the last
time I went to a Union disco and my student card was
checked, or maybe that's because they try to get as
many people through the gates as possible so the
event wouldn't be a total flop as they often are.
The name of Afroc has been dragged in the mud as
well as the characters of the members. This mightn't
have been so bad if our previous event, which was
on a similar scale and went without hitch, was even
mentioned in FELIX. But what has grossly offended
all Afroc members was the referral to tonight's
International Night as an 'Afro-caribbean drug frenzy'.
This is an inexcusably racist comment that was totally
unjustified and was put in merely for the titilation of
the editor and co. We demand an apology for the
terrible way we have been treated and we don't intend
to let the matter rest. We are considering taking it to
the committee for racial equality and will start the ball
rolling for the speedy resignation of the so-called
editor of this publication.
Our name was slandered in no less than four articles
in FELIX. So the next time you're looking for rubbish
to fill space at least make sure it contains a certain
degree of truth and is reported sensibly.
David Cornwall, Life Sci I, President of Afroc,
writing on behalf of members and supporters.
Miners are chauvinists
Dear Dave,
Last week's edition of the RSM magazine 'PIT' has
pushed me over the point of just ignoring the matter
to a total feeling of anger and dissatisfaction with the
RSM and its attitude concerning women and
sexuality. The degeneration of the males' view of
women and the subsequent acceptance of this by
women is frightening.
First of all let me say that the magazine is not funny
and badly written; but this is not my main criticism.
The magazine featured songs to be sung on the way
to Cambourne; the destination for lots of 'swillin and
shoutin' with some rugby and hockey thrown in to
swill and shout about. The songs are concerned with
screwing girls who are absolutely begging for it;
especially from our lads. The coach party also includes
female supporters-how can they listen to this? How
can they enjoy the company of these people? What
will they do in the real world, outside Imperial, where
this total sexist attitude doesn't exist?
Also included was a picture of a topless woman
sunbathing on a beach, supposedly in Cambourne;
coupled with the headline 'She's waiting for it'. Do
they associate people lying on beaches with people
waiting for sex? Should we all head off to Brighton
right now and rape a few women? According to PIT,
it seems we should think of women as holes, give
them 'what they all want' then shout and drink some
more,
A recent evening lecture with a visiting professor
produced a promotional poster of a seismic trace
depicting a woman, reclining in a sexual position.
When a DLB Officer (the 'active' portion of geology,
organising lectures, fieldwork etc) was asked what he
thought of the posters he said it was nothing to do
with him, but hoped that they would be taken down
before the visiting lecturer arrived. Apparently it's OK
to stick pornography all over our corridors.as long as
people from outside/grown ups don't see them; we
might get our wrists slapped.
What gets me is that nobody complains, nobody
expects anything to change.
The problem doesn't just lie with the men. Often
the women act just as ignorantly. PIT is looked on as
a bit of a laugh, not to be taken too seriously. It's all
harmless fun they say. The said issue featured a fat
woman, paid to take her bra off in front of men.
Photographs were used to compare her with a second
year geologist. She and many of the women in our
group thought this was very amusing; and the subject
was apparently over the moon to be thought of in such
a manner.
This publication is sick and makes me feel so. I'm
worried how these people will turn out; will they ever
consider what effect the RSM environment has on
their attitude?
The RSM stinks and I am ashamed to be associated
with it, I hope Imperial College as a whole is not the
same; but I have my doubts.
Peter Sharp, Geology 2.
Overseas subsidies
Dear Editor,
I have been puzzled for many months by IC and its
treatment of students. It seems to me that the main
objective of the College is to take as much money as
possible with little or no return at all.
Take this for example; being a British citizen from
birth and spending the last 12 years of my life here
the College sees fit to charge full fees which, for
completeness, is £6,000. The 'reason' that they give
is that our family home is in America. How can they
Page 18
in all fairness give the above, which holds no water,
or is this just prefabricated verbal rubbish. No one that
I have spoken to can see the reason behind this or are
in true IC spirit and too apathetic to do or say
anything. Is anybody prepared to give a valid reason?
If not, I recommend that the status be changed before
my funding runs out.
Also, another pathetic attempt to get more blood
from the stone is Fisher Hall. The 'Hall' sees fit that
with so many overseas students, with ample storage
space (?!) that we have to move our belongings
elsewhere so that rooms can be rented. Many cannot
move their things anywhere and with insurance for
full storage at £ 1 5 0 for everything, where is the
justice?
These questions need to be addressed and
answered now before it's too late, or are overseas
students doomed to fund IC forever?
Ian McGovern, Civ Eng 1.

