More
Afroc reply
Dear Dave,
In response to the slanderous comments made
against Afro-Caribbean Society in last week's FELIX,
I would like to comment the following:
Afro-Caribbean Society does not support the
distribution, sale or use of drugs and is in no way
involved in that business. The association made by
FELIX in the What's On column is very unfair to all
members of the Society. It must be said that it simply
is a lie and, a very bad joke.
In your editorial, you are keen to put all the troubles
of the past week under one heading: 'Afro-Caribbean
Disco', instead of 'Violence' or any other alternative.
Do you think you are contributing positively to the
atmosphere at IC? Let me tell you the answer: no, you
are not.
Your further comments accusing Afro-Caribbean
Society as the source of all trouble are also unjust.
The problem that we are faced by is the drug
suppliers of London looking for new markets: this time
they have chosen IC as their target. The party held
on February 2 this year was the second time that
drugs appeared at an IC party. This is a bad
development: we don't want drugs at IC and IC should
not lose its reputation for being clean (forget about
the alcohol for a moment).
Concerning the security at the Afro-Caribbean
Society's event: no one had ever expected this sort
of junk to turn up. Never, in previous years, has there
been a need for such high security measures and Afro-
Caribbean Society cannot solely be blamed for the
ensuing messes. It must be taken as a warning to all
societies to take preventive measures.
I hope this clears up any damned prejudices last
week's FELIX may have imprinted in any reader's
mind.
Yours,
Wouter van Hulten, ICU Overseas Students Officer.
P.S. Are you coming to the International Night
tonight?
Is it live
or digital?
Dear FELIX,
I recently attended a concert in the Royal Festival
Hall costing £10.
Imagine my grief when I discovered that the concert
was not digital, and could have considerably
benefitted from a stereo image (or even megabass).
I feel that students should be told that a cd sounds
more realistic-due to digital sound quality and
left/right stereo images.
Yours,
Brian Ollocks, Acoustic Eng Post Grad.
P.S, Perhaps ICSO should consider incorporating
Dolby noise reduction in their future presentations?
Still a con And there's
more
Dear Dave,
RE: FELIX letter, 9.2.90
It's nice to know that J Tennant-Smith has not seen
the downside of life at IC and I hope he never does.
But the overwhelming probability is that he will. And
he ought to recognise that the sense of loss and
misery that ensues does not come from within. It is
not attributable to any one defect of his personal
life-it is the environment that he is surrounded by.
This affects people in many unpredictable ways, but
the one common denominator in the College it seems
to me is the attitude of our tutors, professors and in
particular the Administration. When you are required
. to work your socks off for eight hours a day, enduring
the most terminally unenlightening lectures only to
read in FELIX that the authorities are tightening the
students' belts even further-it is inevitably going to
affect your resolve. A reminder: during the time I have
been here I have seen rents rise an average of 20%
per annum; I have seen an attempt to remove the JCR
from Union jurisdiction; I have read about the Housing
Manager's comments that 'Students have no rights
to accommodation during the holidays'; I have seen
the College attempt to cut back the Careers Service.
This is wrong. It is no longer a question of belt-
tightening now. The problem has been around too long
for anyone but Professor Eric Ash to be responsible
for the ailment this College is suffering. I am warning
him now-the issue is starting to affect people's lives.
Author of 'Imperial is a Con'.
Name withheld at Editor's discretion.
Mr Zeebub
replies
Dear Mr Smedley,
Thank you for your burnt offering (RE: FELIX 858,
Mr Two slices short of a house brick), but your
contract with Him clearly states the requirement of
three virgins (female, and that's the tricky bit around
here) and your soul. Perhaps you should contact J
Tennant-Smith as far as virgins go; apparently he has
a monopoly on overseas imports. Your soul we took
a while ago, as I believe your editorials show.
I wrote to express the Prince's concern at your
decision to ban all our publicity. These Christian
fellows must be allowed to air their funny views
(clause 2.8 in Mr Kirk's Presidency contract requires
it I believe) otherwise people might get it into their
head that God is a well with-it guy. Let's face it,
Christianity is no longer good business for us down
here. Gone are the days of crusades, burning witches,
orgies in the Vatican and Popes fighting each other.
To this end I have here a few words which might
help Mr Saradakis in his next letter; fornication, incest,
lesbianism, concubinage, whoredom, seraglio, gentile,
genital, satanism. Nothing like getting it out into the
open is there, after all, Jesus was the right hand of
God.
Hope to see you soon.
B L Zeebub, Lord of all things pointy, Physics I.
Dear Editor,
As members of the Afro-Caribbean Society, we feel
that we should give our reaction to the appaling
defamation of our society name, made by three
articles in last week's FELIX.
We feel that it was unfortunate that one or two
muggings took place outside the JCR, regretably well
out of site of the vigilant external security, which we,
Afro-Caribbean Society thoughtfully implemented on
the night. However, it is in no way the Society's
responsibility to enforce the laws of the land, in and
around the College ground. Furthermore, we resent
and object to any portioning of blame to the Society,
since it is entirely and only a police matter.
Moreover, the petty robberies which took place
inside the JCR during the event, were the result of
individual stupidity and lack of basic commonsense,
as the Afro-Caribbean Society had conscientiously
provided for personal belongings to be looked after.
However, a handfull of people did not take advantage
of this facility and, as a result paid, the consequences.
Therefore, the Afro-Caribbean Society cannot accept
any responsibility for the loss of personal belongings,
however much we sympathise.
As Society members, we feel greatly insulted, hurt
and saddened by the misrepresentation of the facts
of what happened at that event, which FELIX
contained last week. Parts of the articles in question
contained fabricated material from completely
unreliable hearsay evidence. In fact certain phrases
used can be described as nothing less than slander
(for example 'Afro-Carib. drug frenzy'), which as it
may be witnessed by anybody present.
Finally, we would like to advise that a more
thoughtful consideration should be taken before
printing any article, specially on us.
Yours faithfully,
A Jegede, Mat Sci 1,
B Brito, Pet Eng I.
RE-APPS
If you want to reapply to live
in Hall next year application
forms are available from the
Student Accommodation
Office, Prince's Gardens.
Deadline is Friday 23 Feb
Imperial College Operatic Society
presents
UTOPIA L I M I T E D
A Comic Operetta
by
W.S. Gilbert and A. Sullivan
20 to 24 February, at 7.30pm
in the Union Concert Hall
Tickets from £ 2 . 5 0 . available from the
Haldane Library, or at lunchtimes
outside the S C R (Sherfield)
or telephone ext. 7406
Page 19

