continued from front page
He said T am disgusted by the irresponsible attitude
shown by the College administration and surprised
that a major scheme like this can be blocked after it
has been discussed at all the relevant Union and
College committees and only requires approval from
the three trustees of the Harlington Fund.' He accused
College of blocking the Astroturf so that they could
use the Harlington Trust to finance other projects,
such as the money to be donated to the Merger
Appeal.
The tenders were obtained by an outside consultant,
recommended by the Hockey Association. He has
been described by a cost estimator for a well-known
Astroturf company as 'very specialised with a very
large tendency to produce a Rolls Royce style hockey
pitch.' The company have said that they believe they
could lay a suitable pitch for £100,000 less than the
tender being recommended by the consultant, which
was £475,000, including the consultant's fees. Other
sources have confirmed that the pitch should not cost
more than £250,000 to lay
Mr Turner said that 'It would be shameful if the
(hockey) club were restricted next year by having no
home ground to play on.'
MSF action
The Imperial College Manufacturing, Science and
Finance Trade Union (MSF) are officially in dispute
with the College over the potential redundancies of
seven College staff, as reported last week.
The MSF have a policy of non-co-operation with
the company to which the staff were formerly
seconded, Imperial Biotechnology Limited (IBT).
They are refusing to maintain the company's facilities
and are not delivering internal mail.
Chris Stringer, IC MSF Chairman, said that he
expected support from the National MSF to be
'forthcoming fairly quickly'. He said that IC MSf
were getting in touch with the Commission Auditor
General concerning possible misappropriation of
College funds to support IBT. He said that they were
also informing the Health and Safety Executive of
unsafe working practices that were occurring since
the staff were dropped. He cited staff working alone
late at night as an example of this.
Mr Stringer said he also wished to express the
MSF's thanks to the Department of Biochemistry
which has provided temporary employment for the
staff during their three months redundancy. He said
that the MSF would be holding a branch meeting next
week at which he would ask for support for more
action.
Imperial College Union's Postgraduate Affairs Officer
(PGAO) Martin Gans resigned on Wednesday
complaining about the lack of interest in the Union
among postgraduates.
Mr Gans explained that although he is nominally
in charge of coordinating the work of the departmental
postgraduate representative groups, there has been
little interest in these groups and he felt that he was
no longer able to do his job properly. Postgraduates
comprise 40% of all students at Imperial College, and
have a budget of £1000 set aside for them by the
Union. If they want anything done from now on, Mr
Gans told FELIX, they 'will have to get off their
backsides'
Vote vote vote
The ICU elections have started slowly, by 5.30pm
Thursday, only one candidate had signed up for each
of the four sabbatical posts. Paul Shanley is standing
for Union President, proposed by Andy Bannister;
Ben Turner is standing for Deputy President,
proposed by Dave Osborne; Murray Williamson is
standing for Honorary Secretary, proposed by Ralph
Greenwell and Chris Stapleton is standing for FELIX
Editor and Print Unit Manager, proposed by Jackie
Scott. All the candidates are fully seconded apart from
Mr Turner.
Papers will remain up until 5.30pm Friday 23rd
February. The IC hustings U G M will be on Thursday
1st March at 6pm in The JCR and the St Mary's
hustings will be held on Monday 26th February at
6.30pm at St Mary's. Voting will be on Monday 5th
and Tuesday 6th March between 10am and 5pm in
Field Cup
The Field Cup, the annual Guilds-inspired competition
during which teams have to scour London for items
ranging from Harrod's bags and traffic cones to
Policemen and the Rector's crutches, was held last
Tuesday. Points are awarded on rarity and
embarassment value.
It was won by a team of Electrical Engineering
First-Years calling themselves the 'Slightly Arseholed
Society'. Trailing behind them in second place were
'The Great Independent Racy Ladies' (GIRL) with
the RCS coming in third. The award for the greatest
alcohol consumption by a single team went to the
thoroughly inebriated 'Captain Paralytic and the
Boys.'
Although City and Guilds officially and strenuously
deny it, it is believed that one team was arrested
climbing the wall of the Jamaican Embassy in search
of a flag which had apparently already been taken
down. An informed source told Felix that at the time,
the team in question were not wearing trousers.
Sources close to the team confirmed that they had been
arrested for being drunk and disorderly but had not
been charged. They were released at half-past-two
that night.
for free
RASP, a new careers magazine written by recent
graduates, was launched this week. The magazine is
independent of major employers and publishing
houses and aims to give a realistic view of life in
employment. Its editor, Emma Mahoney, claims that,
unlike some of the more mainstream publications, the
magazine will be able to carry articles which were
critical of employers or careers.
RASP will be published bimonthly and is available
free from the FELIX Office or with FELIX in
departments.
all departments.
In the Constituent College Union elections,
nominations have closed for the new executive of the
Royal College of Science Union (RCSU).
The candidates are: President: E. D'Sa (Physics
1), S. Hiiemae (Physics 2) and G. Smith (Maths 1);
Vice president: J. Briant (Physics 1) and J. St.Hill;
Honorary Secretary: E. D'Sa and G. Mortley (Maths
1) and Honorary Junior Treasurer: N. Allen (Maths
1) and R. Murray (Physics 1). K. Pilbrook (LSD 2)
is the only candidate for the post of Academic Affairs
Officer, and needs only to be ratified at a Union
General Meeting.
Elections for the other posts will be held during
Monday 19th February and the results will be
announced at a meeting at lunchtime on the following
day.
EGM
An Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) of
Imperial College Union (ICU) is to be held on
Thursday 22nd February at 1pm in the JCR. The
meeting has been called to discuss a motion on travel
subsidy for students representing ICU in competitions.
During the meeting, and providing that there are no
objections from the floor, elections will be held for
the posts of Women's Officer, Handbook Editor,
Phoenix Editor and FELIX Business Manager. The
only contested election is that for ICU Handbook
Editor.
Massey just in
University of London Union President Chris Massey
has survived a motion of no-confidence in his
leadership at General University Council (GUC). The
Council Chairman, Jim Coyle, ruled the motion out
of order, and a report critical of Massey was thrown
out. Massey's opponents are openly critical of the way
in which Coyle conducted the meeting, claiming that
he was biased and acting against Union rules. There
will be another attempt, they say.
OldMac at IC
John MacGregor, the Secretary of State for Education
and Science paid a two-hour visit to Imperial College
on the 7th February. Mr MacGregor had been invited
by the Rector, Professor Sir Eric Ash.
During his brief visit, the Secretary of State met
the administative staff, the Deans of the four
constituent colleges and heard four 'minitalks' from
researchers within the college. He has been invited
back for a longer visit during which he may even meet
some students.
Card check
Union cards will be checked at
tonight's International night
PGAO quits RASP

