Film
The Revolving Doors
Theatre
The Dutch
Courtesan
This is the first in a series of plays staged by The Man
in the Moon Theatre highlighting the work of women
directors. The series is actually called-yes, you've
guessed it -Women in the Moon.
This first play is a cut version of John Marston's
most infamous 'obscene' comedy in which the use
of physical theatre helps translate the play into a satire
of moves and manners. The drama highlights the
hypocritical behaviour of men when the matter of sex
arises.
Set in France in the seventeenth century the play
mainly concerns the loves of two friends, Freevill and
Malheureux. Freevill is the regular patrol of Mistress
Mulligrub's brothel and has a lover there, however he
is about to get married and just give her up.
Malheureux is a very righteous gentleman and would
never dream of frequenting a whorehoue. He also tries
to make his friend see the error of his ways. Freevill
is convinced that that if Malheureux just went to the
brothel once he would see that it was not as sorded
as he thought. Malheureux eventually agrees to
accompany Freevill but only so he can show him how
terrible this thing he is doing is.
When Malheureux is introduced to Freevill's lover
Franchesina he instantly falls in love with her.
However, when Freevill tells Franchesina that he is
going to get married and therefore must leave her, she
gets very upset and vows revenge. Besotted with her
Malheureux she goes to see Franchesina who tells him
that she can only be his lover when he has killed
Freevill and brings back his ring as proof. The plot
thickens...
John Marston wrote many of the most successful
comedies of the seventeenth century either on his
own or in collaboration, often with his good friend Ben
Johnson. This play is written in the Shakespearean
tradition with many subtle plays on words and
rhyming couplets separating scenes. In this production
this is the only means of telling the end of a scene
because the play is really only divided into two acts.
Of course the play was not originally staged like
that—it would be divided into many scenes-but this
production by effective use of very few props and by
using the device of the four prostitutes sometimes
miming as furniture, for example a desk of table, the
play moves along a lot more smoothly and rapidly.
The beginning and end of the play are basically the
same with the prostitutes linking arms in the centre
of the stage to the accompaniment of discordant
music. This lends a feeling of continuity but it really
rather mars the end as, again in Shakespearean
tradiation, the play finishes with all loose ends tied
nicely up with a short verse in the manner of an
epilogue. That is most definitely the end as far as the
play and the audience is concerned and to have this
strange symbolic tableau at the end is rather
disconcerting. A good play on the whole though.
The Dutch Courtesan is running at The Man in the
Moon Theatre Club, 392 King's Road, Chelsea. Once
all three plays have opened they will alternate so that
all three can be seen in any one week. Ring the Box
Office on 01-351 2876 for details. Concessionary
tickets cost £4.
JLW.
Celeste Beaumont is in the autumn of her life, in self-
imposed exile in New York, spending her time doing
what she loves most: playing the piano. At the same
time she sends a diary to her son Blaudelle (who she
barely knows) which tells of the life she has led.
Blaudelle is disturbed by the message, his son
Antoine, intrigued. Through the diary Antione follows
his grandmother's life, from her adolescence, to the
present day, learning the reasons for her
estrangement from her son.
The Revolving Doors {Les Portes Tournates) is a
French-Canadian film, with English subtitles. Directed
by Francis Markiewicz, it has won a couple of awards
and worldwide acclaim before its British release. It is
easy to see why.
The film takes place on two levels-the life of
Celeste in the past, and the reactions of her
descendants as they read about it. Although the two
seen totally disparate initially, connections begin to
emerge-the common piano talent of Celeste and
Antoine and the similarity of the relationships between
Blaudelle and his wife, and Celeste and her husband,
being but two.
The period detail for Celeste's early life in
Cambletown, playing the piano to silent movies, is
painstakingingly recreated and is totally convincing.
It is little details like film posters advertising films of
the time that make all the difference. The detail is
maintained as history marches on-major events also
marking changes in Celeste's life. Through this we see
the two plot-lines merge as the reasons for situations
in the present are made clear by events in the past.
When the two finally merge at the end one is left with
a sense that it is only another beginning-not a true
end.
The cast are uniformly good, with particular credit
going to Gabriel Accard (Blaudelle) who makes a
rather simplistic character into a rounded personality.
Monique Spaziani (Celeste) also turns in a superb
performance, moving away from a straight put upon
heroine portrayal to something more three
dimensional.
A beautifully plotted and imaginatively shot film, it
gives us an enthralling story of a life, and the effects
it has on those who follow, played against a musical
backdrop of the haunting theme You Don't Kill a Piano
Player-composed by Celeste in her youth and
developed throughout her life. Superb.
The Revolving Doors is showing at the Canon
Premiere, Swiss Centre, Leicester Square, from today.
Adam T.
Film
Sea of Love
Occasionally a film leaps off the screen. Sea of Love
is such a film.
Four years ago Al Pacino starred in Revolution, an
historical drama that sunk without trace-an absolute
disaster. Clearly Pacino has been waiting for the right
role to stage his film come back. He has most
definitely found a winner. The plot is a classical
favourite. Pacino is a downtrodden cop investigating
a homocide, who falls in love with the prime suspect.
Whether one thinks it is classic or cliched doesn't
matter, because actors, screenwriters, producers etc
have worked closely to produce a rather succulent
film.
Pacino portrays the cop, one could say again, with
his usual acting prowess. His ability to draw you into
his character is uncanny. I did not see the characters;
I saw them through his eyes. The whole audience was
in total empathy with him. This is a dead cert for an
Oscar nomination, but not the Oscar itself. The film
would be a must if just Pacino was superb, but there
is more.
More comes in the form of John Goodman. You
may not know the name, but you will know him from
his starring role in Roseanne-he plays her portly
hubby. Here he is a cop who is investigating a carbon
copy of Pacino's case, so they decide to team up with
hilarious consequences. This film, however, is not a
comedy; when the tension is building it eats away at
you, but just before it becomes overbearing a joke is
cracked that eases this tension. Some of the humour
consists of one line wise cracks, much of it is set up
situation comedy; however all of it is central to the
plot, it is not just hurled in for the hell of it. Therein
lies the beauty of the movie it is very cohesive and
fits together like a jigsaw.
The film opens dramatically with a man preparing
for sex, who is shot. Sea of Love is playing in the
background. The only other connection is all the
victims are men who placed rhyming ads in a lonely
hearts column. Suspicion soon falls on Helen as does
Pacino. Their sexy, stormy affair then begins. Some
critics find it unlikely that such a stunner would have
to resort to the lonely hearts columns to find a man.
This does not bother me, she's a working girl with
commitments as you will see.
The ending does not fail to please with an
unexpected but convincing twist. As you may have
gathered I liked this film and thoroughly recommend it.
Sea of Love opens on Feb 16.
Charles Tomkins.
Page 3

