Bent
What are the origins of the Pink Triangle? Or for that
matter, what are the origins of the Yellow Star, Green
Triangle (criminals) and Red Triangle (communists)?
The revival of Martin Sherman's celebrated play Bent,
ten years after its premiere (ironically on the day
Margaret Thatcher took office), re-addresses issues
just as poignant whether one is talking about modern
day Britain or Hitler's Germany.
The hero of the piece, Max (Ian McKellen) is quite
the bon viveur. He and his cabaret dancer friend Rudy
live peaceably in a thirties Berlin reminiscent of
Marlene Dietrich. With the advent of Naziism they are
ostracised by so-called friends and, unable to flee the
country, are forced to go into hiding. In a flash they
are arrested and sent to Dachau. In the second act,
without Rudy, Max, in refusing to accept
responsibility for his sexuality, pretends to be Jewish
rather than homosexual so wears a yellow star and
not a pink triangle. This is for the very good reason;
in deathcamps such as Dacau, the homosexuals are
treated even worse than the Jews, believe it or not.
So, Max gets the meat and vegetables from the prison
soup whilst Horst (Michael Cashman-Eastenders'
Colin), another homosexual, just gets the water
skimmed off the top.
Inmates are compelled to needlessly carry rocks
from one site to another and then back again; for
twelve hours a day. Of course the Nazis, by treating
their prisoners like animals, were trying to deprive
them of their humanity and self-respect. So that they
would die wretchedly with no sense of self. For
example, when one man takes his own life, a final act
expressing defiance and freedom, the whole of his
barrack is forced to stand on parade all night as
punishment. Despite this Max manages to maintain
his self respect. After twelve hours of intense physical
effort moving rocks he still does press-ups at night,
thereby reasserting his freedom. Horst remarks that
he has a nice body and Max ironically retorts 'Well I
take care of it, I exercise'.
Max and Horst, over the course of a year's hard
labour together, develop a loving relationship. But as
they are never allowed to touch or even look at each
other the relationship can only ever be spiritual. They
Theatre
can only make love to each other in their imaginations.
The much talked about 'faked orgasm scene' from
When Harry Met Sally is made to look like a far fetched
American Soap Opera in comparison. Through this
Max teaches Horst a sense of defiant self-respect and
Max learns he must take full responsibility for his
sexuality. So, in its attempt to break them, Nazi
Germany paradoxically strengthens them. You could,
if you wanted to, make the connection with Clause
28 and Thatcher's Britain or with any other forms of
oppression for that matter.
The script, however, is not all 'doom and gloom'
and there are many superb one-liners, never detracting
from the power of the piece. The acting is first rate,
Ian McKellen in particular is excellent. We cannot
recommend this production too strongly.
Yet one cannot help thinking that the emotion and
sentiment of the production has not been pitched as
high as it could have been. Remember that the
National Theatre is a Sfafe subsidised theatre and also
that the general aim of Clause 28 is to prevent State
'promotion of homosexuality'. So has this production
been a victim of oppression as well? Perhaps.
The following article from the New York Times (3
December 1989) was included in the programme:
Bartow, Florida, December 2nd: The American Civil
Liberties Union is opposing a County Sheriff's policy
that forces homosexual prisoners to wear pink
bracelets. For 15 years homosexuals at a jail in Polk
County in central Florida have been segregated and
worn pink wristbands. 'All hell would break loose if
homosexuals were allowed to mix with the general
population,' said Sheriff Lawrence Crow Jr.
A Sheriff's Spokeswoman said there was no special
reason for pink. 'It's really an off-red,' she said.
Bent is currently playing at the National Theatre,
Lyttleton to full houses.
Adrian Pagan and Anna Teeman.
Theatre
A Vision of Love Revealed in Sleep
A man, naked save for a piece of cloth draped around
him, stands in the middle of the stage. He tells us of
Mr Simeon Solomon, a painter, a Jew and a
homosexual. He then unfolds for us the tale of
Solomon's life and death in the late 19th and early
20th century. Interspersed with extracts from
Solomon's prose poem 'A Vision of Love Revealed in
Sleep', and other original sections, composed by the
author and main performer Neil Bartlett, he and three
others (Betty 'Bloolips' Bourne, Regina Fong and Robin
Whitmore) explore the themes of homosexuality,
respectablity and love.
The performance is very much one of sections, each
section almost complete in itself and varying from its
neighbours in style and tone, but all developing the
basic thrust of the play.
There are moments of comedy-a pastiche of a tour
around the National Gallery, ridiculing British attitudes
to foreigners and hypocrisy with regard to art, being
a good example, and there are moments of high camp;
'It's frock-time, girls!'.
Certain sections are extremely chilling-the tale of
a gay man walking home through London, suffering
abuse from people and grafitti about AIDS, and then
returning home to phone friends-and finding them
drying of that very disease-is especially frightening.
It could be easy for a heterosexual to sympathise with
this, but then dismiss it as a 'gay problem', but it only
takes a second thought to remind oneself that AIDS
is a threat to all of us, and anyone could soon be
playing out the scene in real life.
It's not all good though -certain sections of the play
are somewhat tedious and have a tendancy to drag,
and the whole production seems a little overlong-
but this does not detract greatly from its overall effect.
The set is minimal-the backdrop is a huge
reproduction of a Simeon Solomon painting. On the
stage itself there are four boxes which act as storage
areas for the props that are used, and which perform
a variety of other functions throughout the show.
Lighting is used cleverly, and to good effect, as is the
music; composed, adapted, arranged and performed
by Nicholas Bloomfield.
A beautiful, moving piece about the nature of love,
told from a homosexual standpoint.
A Vision of Love Revealed in Sleep (Part 3) is playing
at the Drill Hall Arts Centre, Chienes Street, WC1E
until 24 February. The nearest tube is Goodge Street
and a concessionary ticket costs £4. Phone the box
office on 637 8270.
Adam T.

