A Guy Called Gerald
Renegade Soundwave
-Probablv a Robbery 12"
After hearing everyone and their cousin rave about
how on the seventh day God created Manchester, we
finally had the opportunity to see what it was all
about. A Guy Called Gerald, the McDonalds maestro
who rose to semi-stardom on the shoulders of singles
Voodoo Ray, FX and Eyes of Sorrow was set to play
live to a packed and sold out venue. On our arrival we
were immediately struck by the extreme stickiness of
the floor; in fact while not dodging stray airborne cans
of Red Stripe we experienced the sensation of dancing
on flypaper. The venue itself was totally unsuitable
for Gerald's music, it was a university hall and, despite
the effects, it looked and felt like one. There was
absolutely no atmosphere.
Soon our attention was focused on the stage and
the emergence of a long haired 70s leftover pounding
his drums to the sound of Culture House. He was
joined by the less-than-lethal Rap Assassins complete
The Mission
-Carved in Sand LP
Even the cover shows a change of image for The Mish
as they experiment with new styles to embrace a
wider audience. Tracks range from what we expect
from The Mission to Butterfly on a Wheel (which
reached number ten in the Network Charts! to simple
ballads.
The album begins with Amelia, a song against child
abuse. Wayne Hussey's voice sounds strained and
harsh as he takes the part of the abuser. Into the Blue
gives us what the Missionaries have come to know
and love, as do Deliverance and Belief—anthems
which, as the titles suggest, conjure up memories of
the Reading Festival where fans from around the
country raised their voices with one accord to chant
'Give me deliverance'. Ahh-stiring, isn't it?
However, there are surprises, as with Sea of Love.
What's this? The Mission gone to India? It's definitely
different, as are the country pasture backing sounds
to Lovely. That's just Wayne daydreaming about
pastural pleasantries and folklore on an acoustic
guitar, sitting in a meadow with a flautist.
Each song is memorable in its own w a y - a step up
and away from their previous albums and a tribute to
The Mission and producer Tim Palmer. There is
something to please everyone without making
compromises for it. Mission fans will love it, and
they'll probably convert quite a few more.
SJH.
-ULU 9.2.90
with pretend scratching and naff dance steps. After
a brief intermission provided by Mike Pickering (of
'Hacienda' fame) and his unoriginal orbital anthems
we were finally graced with Gerald's presence.
He promptly kicked into an uninspiring set, receiving
the best response with singles FX, Eyes of Sorror and
new single Automatic. Ironically Gerald received the
best response for his cover of 808 State.
Rumoured to be amongst the audience were Mark
Moore of S'Express and some scallie who claimed to
be from The Happy Mondays: they are probably still
stuck to the ULU floor.
While Gerald is a likeable character, he failed to
shiver our timbers and I'd assume many people went
home feeling somewhat shortchanged.
More hype than Batman and Gerald sucks-
Adam & Dan.
Depeche Mode
—Enjoy the Silence 12"
Depeche Mode's later work has not received the
success it perhaps deserves; while they are huge on
the Continent and vast in the USA (the 12" of
Personal Jesus was Warner's best-selling single of
1989 and outstripped both Prince and Madonna for
this placing) they have never repeated their early Top
Ten hits.
This single may or may not change that; like all their
recent singles it looks worthy of a high chart showing
but like them it may not get it. Musically it marks yet
another change in direction, this time to a very simple
melody but an immensely addictive one, layered with
sound to create an aural collage. The packaging is no
surprise-a, by now, traditional Corbijn sleeve and a
battery of nothing-like-the-original remixes.
Maybe not a massive hit but a great single anyway.
Promises good things for the forthcoming hit Violater.
AC Marias
—One of our Girls has gone Missing 12"
This record gives the impression of having been
crafted from air and spiderweb, very much where the
Cocteau Twins could have been today if they'd liked
lyrics more. Rather the sort of thing you listen to when
you don't know what else to listen to, but an intense
experience none the less. The B side is a rather
wonderful verion of Lou Reed's Vicious.
Stone.
Renegade Soundwave serve up possibly the most
ridiculous vocal hook so far this year-Probably A
Robbery..A Bit of Skulduggery but it fits in this heavy
bass tune with startling grace. This one should be a
monster in the clubs and shows signs of charting. The
two 12"s offer you the option of with or without
vocal; in addition last year's flop but this year's
essential Ozone Breakdown, previously available only
on import, appears on the limited 12".
Nitzer Ebb
—Lightning Man 12"
The new single by Nitzer Ebb comes as rather a shock.
After the violent electronic barrage of their earlier
work (with a few brief respites on the Belief album)
this single breaks new ground in adding a tune to the
dynamism in the form of frighteningly funky horns and
catchy riffs. This is not a development I had expected,
but it does nothing to dampen the energy packed into
the song. It almost bursts out at you.
It comes on 'analogue 12" and digital 3"'. The
remix 12" is a lot better than the normal one.
DELS HORNY GIG GUIDE
FRIDAY 16th FEB
They Might be Giants + Trashcan
Sinatras ULU
SUNDAY 18th FEB
Felo-De-Se +
The Meerkats London Marquee
MONDAY 19th FEB
Cut Cut Emma +
Well Loaded Kennington Cricketers
TUESDAY 20th FEB
The Mission Kilburn National
US-UK Camden Palace
WEDNESDAY 21st FEB
The Screaming
Trees Fulham Greyhound
We Are Going to Eat You Marquee
THURS 22nd FEB
Horny Gig of the Week:
The Telescopes + Kitchens of
Distinction + N
e
w Fast Automatic
+ Daffodils + The
Chairs All at ULU
Page 5

