Multiple Sclerosis
research at IC
MYELIN SHEATHS
WHIZZ* ezzmzzz
AXON
OLIGODENDROCYTE
Around one in a thousand people in the UK suffer from
Multiple Sclerosis (MSI. It is a disease of the central
nervous system prevalent in Europe, North America,
Australia and New Zealand, affecting young adults
from 20 to 50 years of age. The reason for the
confinement of MS to these regions is as yet
unknown. Although a virus has often been implicated,
the cause of MS is also a mystery.
In the healthy nervous system insulating fat rich
sheaths of myelin wrap around the processes of nerve
cells (axons). Electrical impulses jump along the nerve
from one gap in this sheath to the next. Without this
insulating cover each axon would need to be a few
millimeters in diameter to carry its signal rapidly. The
squid, for example, has no myelin sheathing and has
a giant axon two millimetres in diameter, the largest
in the animal kingdom.
In MS patients this myelin is stripped off, leaving
large areas of bare axons. In the absense of myelin
impulses cannot reach their destination, resulting in
symptoms ranging from spasticity and paralysis to
blindness and speech difficulties, depending on the
site of myelin loss. A characteristic feature of many
MS cases is the relapsing/remitting course of the
disease. From the onset of the disease complete
recovery may occur during remissions which can last
for many years. As the disease progresses, patients
may be left with some permanent handicap after an
attack and their condition may worsen as periods
between relapses shortens.
Myelin does recover to a certain extent during some
stages of the disease. Lesions, or demyelinated areas,
are thought to be in a constant state of flux,
remyelination competing with demyelination. The
reason for incomplete remyelination in MS is unkown.
The cell type which produces myelin has been noted
in increased numbers around the lesions of MS
patients. This would suggest that the cells are there
to remyelinate the region but for some reason they
Page 6
are unable to.
Research underway in the Department of
Biochemistry (South Kensington site) aims to discover
why remyelination is not effective in MS. By studying
the development of the remyelinating cell in culture,
we hope to better understand the processes which
allow them to produce myelin. It seems that these
'oligodendrocytes' are capable of developing from
their precursors to mature myelinating cells when
cultured in the absence of neurones. This indicates
that chemical signals from neurones may not be
necessary to instruct these cells to begin to produce
myelin. A signal may be needed, however, to ensure
sufficient and correct myelin production. We are at
present trying to find molecules which stimulate
oligodendrocytes to produce myelin which is capable
of wrapping around nerve axons.
It may be the case that oligodendrocytes of MS
sufferers can produce myelin but that for some reason
it does not wrap around the axon. In healthy people
not all types of neurone become myelinated but it is
not clear how the oligodendrocyte knows which types
of axon to myelinate and which types to leave
unmyelinated. It may be that an axon which requires
myelinating will carry special molecules on its surface.
By comparing the effect on oligodendrocytes of
neurones which are not destined to become
myelinated and those which are, information may be
gained as to the mechanisms and molecules involved
in the wrapping of myelin around the nerve axon.
If any fault of the oligodendrocytes present in the
MS lesions can be overcome by adding some growth
factor or other signal, then perhaps remyelination can
be persuaded to conquer over demyelination. Before
this is possible, however, much work must be done
in order to better understand the myelination process,
both during development and in demyelinating
diseases like Multiple Sclerosis.
Rebecca Hardy, Dept Biochemistry.
• A computer system has been developed which
can construct a 3D model of a landscape from two
or more photographs. The system has been developed
jointly by UCL, Thorn-EMI, The Royal Signals Radar
Establishment and Lasercon (a map making
company).
Traditionally, such views have been made manually
which was laborious and prone to human error. The
new technique is far quicker and more versatile. The
film produced by NASA's Jet Propulsion laboratory
showing the surface of the Uranian moon, Miranda,
took several months to make and used equipment
costing $ % million. It is claimed that the new aparatus
could have done this for $10,000 in several days.
A project involving NASA and the Soviet Academy
of Science will use such software to build up a
topographic map of Siberian volcanoes, without the
region having to be visited. Less than 40% of the
Earth's surface is adequately mapped; with this
approach it could be done within a decade.
There are many other uses such as aircraft
simulators with real landscapes and robot vision for
quality control.
• The 'Searching for Extra-Terrestrial
Intelligence' (SETI) project has been approved by
NASA. The $100 million programme, planned over ten
years, will hunt the electromagnetic spectrum
between 1 and 10GHz ( 1 0 9
- 1 0 l o
H z ) for signs of
alien activity. It will revolve around a new radio
receiver, to be built in California, which is reported to
be capable of scanning 14 million channels
simultaneously. This is the largest such scheme so far
and compares to a budget of one to two million dollars
a year during the eighties. The move follows a survey
which calculated that 80-90% of ordinary Americans
believe that alien life exists, mainly on our
neighbouring planet, Mars.
• The cost of altering computer software for the
year 2000 could be billions of pounds. Much of
today's business software still uses a six figure
number for dates with no provision for years after the
turn of the century. The biggest bills are likely to be
incurred by the banks and insurance firms. One major
company recently modified its pension system at an
expense of £120,000. Each charged line of code
costs 10 times as much to alter as it did to write in
the first place.
• The British have now joined two international
teams competing to produce the first cost-effective
solid fuel cells. These cells, which may well prove to
be the power source of the future, utilise a fuel such
as natural gas and an oxidising agent, making a highly
efficient, silent-running power supply with almost no
noxious gas emission.
The two projects are funded by the European
Commission as part of the JOULE (Joint Opportunities
for Unconventional Longterm Energy supply) initiative.
It is hoped that by 1992 an economical 1kW solid
oxide fuel cell will have been developed with the
capability to be scaled up to a 200kW unit sufficient
for a small industrial electricity supply.
Plug: Roger Penrose, the distinguished author of 'The
Emporer's New Mind' is giving a talk entitled
'Concerning Computers, Minds, and the Laws of
Physics'. This will take place in Huxley 213 on
Wednesday 21 February at 1.15pm.

