Poll tax—the facts
by Union Welfare Adviser Yve Posner
In May 1989 I wrote an article for FELIX in which I
tried to cover all aspects of the Community Charge
scheme especially in relation to students. I did point
out that the arrangements for some parts of the
scheme were not yet in place and that it was likely
that there would be some amendments to the
regulations before the first payments were due from
1.4.90.
In this article I shall concentrate on those aspects
of the scheme about which I have received the most
queries over the last few months. Any questions left
unanswered should hopefully be resolved during the
'Poll Tax Welfare Campaign' due to take place on
Thursday 22 and Friday 23 February. Representatives
from Kensington & Chelsea and Hammersmith &
Fulham Community Charge Offices will be coming to
answer any queries. Even if you live in another Local
Authority area, your questions can still be dealt with
as the legislation Is the same regardless of where your
accommodation is situated. On Friday there will be an
Anti-Poll Tax group representative to advise those
interested in opposing the scheme. In the article
however I shall be providing facts only and will not
be concerned with the political and moral issues the
Poll Tax raises.
Registration for the Community Charge
During May 1989, Local Authorities carried out a
canvas of all housholds whereby a 'responsible
person' at each address was asked to complete a
registration form giving details of each occupant aged
18 or over. This 'responsible' person also has a legal
duty to inform the Local Authority of certain changes
in circumstance regarding the occupants eg when a
person aged 18 or over leaves or joins the household.
In the case of students living in College halls of
residence the 'responsible person' is the College
finance department and for those in intercollegiate
halls or student hostels the warden is responsible. If
you are living in private rented accommodation you
cannot assume that the landlord has registered you
for poll tax. Therefore if at this stage you have not
been notified that your name is on the register you
must contact your local community charge office.
The addresses for the offices closest to Imperial
College are listed below. If your office is not included
you should contact your Town Hall for details. You
will either be able to register by sending in a letter
giving details of name, address and date you moved
there or you will be sent a form to complete.
You should register for Community Charge within
28 days of moving to an address. If it is found that
someone has deliberately avoided registration the
community charge registration office has the power
to impose a £ 5 0 penalty. If that person still fails to
register then a £200 fine can be imposed. There is a
right of appeal against the imposition of a fine.
A student who registers late because they thought
the College had, for example, registered them, would
not be penalised. I have checked with the three Local
Authorities closest to Imperial College-Kensington &
Chelsea, Hammersmith & Fulham and Westminster -
and they have all stated that at this stage they are
not imposing any penalties. Their aim at present is to
get as many people as possible registered before
1.4.90.
Page 8
My poll tax is how much?
The Community Charge Register
Once you have been registered you should receive a
copy of your registration entry. This should have
details of your name, address and your full-time
student status. Most students who were registered
before December 1989 will have already received this
notification.
If you find that any of the details given in your
registration entry are incorrect then you should
contact the CCRO in order to have it amended. If the
CCRO decides not to amend the entry, you have a
right of appeal against this decision.
Your Local Authority Area
A person must be registered for the Poll Tax in the
area of their 'sole or main residence'. The law dictates
that in the case of full-time students,-they must
register at their term-time address. It is likely however,
that situations will still arise where it is not completely
clear where a student's 'sole or main residence' is,
and it will therefore be for the CCRO to make a
decision based on all the relevant circumstances of
the case. If you do not agree with the decision as to
where your 'sole or main' residence is you do have
a right of appeal.
If you have a permanent change of address during
term-time then this will be treated as your new 'sole
or main residence'. If by moving you come under the
jurisdiction of a different Local Authority you will then
start paying Poll Tax to them and cease payment to
the Authority covering your old address.
You must not assume that the 'responsible person'
and each of the old and new addresses will notify the
CCRO regarding your move.
If you have a temporary change of address, eg to
attend a field course, this will not affect your
registration. You will still be treated as living at your
usual term-time address.
Amount of Community Charge Payable
There are three different types of Poll Tax:
1. The Personal Charge-payable by adults aged 18
or over in the area of their 'sole or main residence'.
2. The Standard Charge-payable by owners of
properties not held as a sole or main residence eg,
second homes, vacant properties.
3. The Collective Charge-payable by landlords of
properties where there is a high turnover of residents,
eg hotel, short stay hostel.
If your landlord is proposing to charge you for your
Poll Tax in your rent he will be doing so illegaly. A full-
time student will pay the personal community charge.
It is unlikely that many students will also be
responsible for the standard charge as very few own
properties in which they do not live during term-time.
However if you do own a property outside London,
the amount of standard charge payable will be decided
by the Community Charge Office. If the property is
rented out on a commercial basis then the standard
charge will not be payable.
The amount of Poll Tax that a full time student has
to pay is 20% of the Personal Charge for the area in
which he/she lives.
As most of you are aware there has been an
enormous amount of speculation as to how much
each Local Authority will be charging for the Poll Tax.
I have contacted several Community Charge Offices
and none have been able to give me a precise figure.
They have all stated that it is still too soon to say. It
is therefore likely that we will not know how much
the charge is until we receive our bills. However I think
it is safe to assume that the personal charge for most
Imperial College and St Mary's students will be
approximately £ 1 0 0 for the year after the 80%
reduction.

