Payment of the Poll Tax
Bills will be sent at the end of March or beginning of
April. You will have the option of paying the whole
amount at once or in ten instalments. A payment does
not add to the overall cost and avoids the situation
of having to claim money back if you move to another
area part way though the poll tax year which runs
from April 1 to March 31.
Many of you will have been asked whether you
would like to pay your poll tax by direct debit or
standing order. This is NOT advisable because:
1. Money would be taken out of your account at the
same time each month thereby giving you less
flexibility with budgeting your expenditure. You may
prefer to delay payment for a few days because you
are waiting for funds or have other expenses.
Remember: banks make higher charges for
administering standing orders and direct debits if there
are insufficient funds to cover them.
2. In the case of direct debits you would be giving the
Local Authority the power to change the amount of
the payment at any time without your consent.
The best methods by which to make payment are by
cash or cheque through the bank or by post direct to
the community charge office. At present there are no
arrangements to pay at the Post Office.
Certificates
In order to satisfy the CCRO that you are a full-time
student they must have sight of the poll tax certificate
that was issued to you when you registered as a
student with the College. If your certificate has not
been sent to the Local Authority by the time the bills
are prepared you will be billed for the full amount of
personal charge for your area.
Most students have already been asked to send in
their certificates or have presented them of their own
accord. If you have not yet sent in your certificate you
should do one of the following:
1. Find out where your community charge office is and
call in person with the certificate. A member of staff
will either photocopy the certificate or make a note
that it has been seen.
2. Post the certificate to the community charge office
with a letter clearly showing your name and address.
It is most important that your address is attached to
the certificate as otherwise it will not be possible to
link it up with your registration or return the certificate
to you. Some Local Authorities will accept
photocopies, eg Westminster and Kensington &
Chelsea. The other borough in this area,Hammersmith
& Fulham, will only accept the original certificate. If
you are worried about it being lost in the post then
send it Recorded Delivery.
3. If you have not yet registered for Poll Tax in your
area then send in your certificate with your
registration form.
Your certificate is a valuable document and should be
kept throughout your time at College. If, for any
reason, it is lost you should contact the Registry
where a replacement can be obtained.
In most cases the CCRO will accept your certificate
alone as proof that you are a full-time student.
Amount of Poll Tax payable by your
partner/spouse
Unless your partner/spouse can also be treated as a
full-time student they will be liable for 100% of the
personal charge. However if they are not working or
are on a low income they will be able to claim
Community Charge Benefit. This will be claimed in a
similar way to Housing Benefit. Local Authorities have
set up separate Community Charge Benefit Sections
from which claim forms can be obtained. Many people
have already been sent claim forms, if you think you
may qualify for benefit you should obtain a claim form
as soon as possible. The maximum amount of
community charge benefit payable is 80% of the full
charge. For details of how the benefit is calculated see
'Community Charge Benefit'.
NB. Anyone who is a member of a married or
unmarried couple will be jointly liable for their own and
their partner's Poll Tax. So if your partner decides not
to pay you can be pursued for their debt. This rule,
however, does not apply to homosexual couples.
Parents are not responsible for their son's or
daughter's payments even if they are members of the
same household.
Community Charge Benefit
The legislation does not allow full-time students to
claim community charge benefit to help with the 20%
of the personal charge for which they are liable. But
as we have already seen their partners/spouses will
be entitled.
Overseas students and the poll tax
All overseas students aged 18 and over and their
partners/spouses are liable to pay Poll Tax. An
overseas visitor in this country for a short period
would not have to pay the charge. There is as yet still
no definition of what constitutes a short visit although
I have been advised that an overseas visitor in this
country for less than three months would not have
to pay Poll Tax.
All the legislation and administrative arrangements
regarding the community charge apply in exactly the
same way to overseas students as they do to UK
students. If you have recently arrived in the UK you
will need to register for Poll Tax and obtain a
certificate-see sections 'Registration for Community
Charge' and 'Certificates'.
Community Charge Benefit is not classed as public
funds and therefore anyone from abroad liable to pay
Poll Tax can claim this as long as they are not a full-
time student. It therefore follows that if your spouse
is not a full-time student, they will be eligible to apply
for community charge benefit.
Once you have completed your studies and returned
home your liability for poll tax will cease. You should
send your Poll Tax payment book together with an
explanatory note to your local community charge
office. However if you're only going home for a visit
or travelling abroad on holiday you will still be liable
for Poll Tax during that time.
Changes of circumstances
Although the 'responsible person' at each address has
a duty to inform the CCRO of changes regarding
occupants in their household there is also a legal
requirement for each individual Poll Tax payer to report
relevant changes in circumstance. The most likely
changes that you will need to report are:
• Change of address
• Ceasing to be a student
• Leaving the UK
You should report the change in writing as you can
keep a copy of your letter in case of future queries.
If you are not sure whether to report or not, it is best
to contact the CCRO first.
Offices
L B Hammersmith & Fulham
8th Floor
Vencourt House,
255 King Street, London W6 9JU
Tel: Poll Tax Helpline 748 2404
Student Section: 748 3020 ext 1507
R B Kensington & Chelsea
Town Hall
Hornton Street, London W8
Tel: Freephone 0800 289772
L B Westminster
PO Box 250
London SW1V 1TX (for correspondence)
or
Chester Gate House
Vauxhall Bridge Road (for calls in person)
London SW1
Tel: 537 2520/2421
Acknowledgements
Thanks to the following, who provided information for
this article: Kensington & Chelsea, Hammersmith &
Fulham and Westminster Community Charge Offices;
UCKOSA News Adviser's Briefing, February 1990;
Students and the Community Charge, Department of
Environment Practice Note.
S T O P P R E S S
Westminster Borough Council has announced
a Poll Tax of £ 1 9 5 which amounts to £ 3 9 per
annum at the student rate of 2 0 % .
Members of a religious order are exempt from paring poll ta.x
Page 9

