18 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Arts
The high price of living the dream
Katie Clemence stays gripped through Australian playwright Andrew Upton’s darkly comic play, Riflemind
I
t was a long time since I’d been to
the theatre, so I remember feel-
ing slightly wary as I idled in the
foyer of Trafalgar Studios before
the start of what I’d just learned
was to be a play of two and a half hours.
I hadn’t had much sleep, so I hoped the
show would be exciting enough to keep
me awake and gripped.
The show, directed by Phillip Sey-
mour Hoffman, is set in modern times-
it focuses on the relationships between
the members of a once-iconic band
(Riflemind) attempting to get back to-
gether and go on tour. We’ve all seen
how successful reunion tours can be,
but a highly-strung frontman, junkie
bassist and broke drummer lead the
audience to question whether it will
really work this time.
The play revolves around John, the
lead guitarist. Having walked out on
T
he new exhibition at the
NG, Renaissance Faces,
was hailed as “something
good, rather than some-
thing lots of people will
like”, a.k.a. an average variety of excep-
tional paintings. Most things at the NG
are bound to be OK due to the incred-
ible expert knowledge of each curator
about their field, which always leaks
out in either the audio guide or the
blurb by each painting: “To hear our
curator of Northern European Ren-
aissance Female Forms tell you more
about her nipples, press the green
button”. All in all, you always tend to
leave their exhibitions feeling that was
money well spent, even though you
have no idea how you’re going to use
all those shiny, new postcards you just
blew your budget on.
I loathe the space they use for their
paying exhibitions. The crypt-like
Sainsbury Wing basement is suitably
neutral for any use but I really wish
they’d use the main building for these
things, if only for the feel of some natu-
ral light and the elegant walls. Howev-
er, the grey neutrality of the Sainsbury
Wing seems quite suitable for their
Renaissance paintings as it mimics the
blank religious homes most of them
probably occupied in their heyday.
I enter the semi-Blockbuster Ren-
aissance Faces with trepidation but
soon relax into paintings-mode with
the help of the soothing, Welsh tones
of the nice lady talking on my audio
guide. Audio guides are most definitely
worth every penny if you do like learn-
ing about the art and stories behind
the paintings. The blurb is not enough
and they hardly ever blurb about tech-
nique, paint or history in depth. They
cost £3 for students, which works out
as two hours of fun with some Renais-
sance music thrown in, too!
Following the proper etiquette of
exhibitions, Room 1 contains all the
oldest portraits of the Renaissance. In
1400, people suddenly decided that
they wanted to be remembered for
who they were as individuals and not
as generic workshop copies of a face.
The first portrait is a stunning profile
of the daughter of Henry IV. It is in fan-
tastic condition and has clearly been
restored or tidied up for display – the
blue of her dress is rich and the gold
pattern is ornate and pure. She sports
a fashionably Renaissance hairstyle – a
plucked hairline. Yes, girls: a receding
hairline was all the rage!
In the 15th century before the full
frontal portrait became popularised,
a profile was the angle of choice. This
was not to hide the fugly side of your
face, but this angle was said to be the
most memorable view of a person
and showed how virtuous you were.
They were obviously emulating antiq-
uity, like Roman coins etc. However,
they soon realised that was a load of
bollocks and as you walk around the
room, you notice that the portrait are
gradually turning to a full-frontal posi-
tion. Clever curators!
Bellini’s portrait of Doge Leonardo
Loredon really turns your head in this
first room. The Doge radiates power
from his visage. The amazing life-
like features of his head show the ad-
vancement of technique with the use
of paints. I’d like to think I’m a bit of a
paint geek and it’s fascinating to note
the change from tempura-based paint
to oil paints. Oil paints dry much more
slowly than tempura or egg-based
paints so artists realised they could
spend much longer manipulating the
colours and shapes on the canvas or
panel. The resulting naturalistic works
are fine in detail and much more inter-
esting to look at.
I’m afraid to say I fell for a young man
while I was at the gallery. The young
man in question was painted by Bot-
ticelli and he was my favourite in the
whole exhibition. He seems so unre-
markable at first but I ended up gazing
at him for almost 15 minutes and had
to keep coming back to him to see his
self-assuredness and deep eyes. I was
absolutely captivated.
On entering the second room it was
like I was walking into a Renaissance
house where everyone looks up from
their tasks to see who’s just come in. I
felt like I disturbed a couple of people
reading as they glance up angrily from
their books. These portraits seem far
less posed even though they all were
probably sat for.
The faces in this room seem to have
more personality, perhaps due to the
better use of light by painters. We also
start to notice another Renaissance
trait in these paintings – the use of
symbolism in vast quantities. Art His-
torians, have a field day! There is an
unnamed lady in one painting. What is
her name?
Well, Margarita of course! Her dress
is embroidered with daisies, she holds
a string of pearls and a pet dragon – all
of which means Margarita or are syn-
onymous with Saint Margarita. An-
other example of symbolism is shown
obviously with “Man holding skull and
a pansy”. No, he does not want to kill
all the Gays: he is meditating on death.
The skull means death and the pansy
Mine eyes have seen the glory
Rosie Grayburn is engrossed and enamoured at the NG’s new exhibition, Renaissances Faces
(or pensée in French) means thought.
My favourite painting here was the
portrait of Lady Anne Lovell by Hol-
bein, one of my favourite artists. She
looks so modest but the portrait does
show her wealth very discreetly with
her beautiful, expensive ermine hat. I
love Holbien’s elegantly twirling leaves
as a backdrop and the inclusion of her
pet squirrel eating an acorn. The lady
was identified partly because of clever
addition of a starling to her picture.
Starling is a play on words of the lady’s
ancestral seat, East Harling. Clever,
eh?
By this time in the exhibition I have
noticed a lot of these paintings actu-
ally come from ‘The National Gallery
London’. I am disappointed that they
have just been moved downstairs from
their usual spots in the main gallery to
form an exhibition with other works of
a similar genre. Is it just a cheap trick
by the NG or a money-saving scheme
in the midst of the threat of recession?
Eventually I decide to feel proud that
so many of these lovely, lovely portraits
belong to us as a country (Insert Na-
tional Anthem here). Also, I guess they
do make more sense when put into a
context like this exhibition.
Room 3 highlights the use of por-
traiture in marriage negotiations and
courtship in 15th century Europe.
Firstly, we see the Renaissance’s perfect
wife. Boys take note. She has blonde,
lightly curling hair, pure, pale skin and
she holds an orange blossom in her
delicate hand symbolising chastity.
This portrait was obviously sent to the
lady’s hubby-to-be to tantalise his taste
buds. Phwoar.
As we know, Henry VIII also par-
took in these portrait courtships. He
found his 4th wife, Anne of Cleves this
way – just like a Tudor dating agency.
Interestingly he also sought out other
prospective brides before he [wrong-
ly] chose Anne ‘take two’. His court
painter, Holbein, was sent to Brussels
to paint the famously beautiful Chris-
tina of Denmark. At the age of 16 she
had been widowed already and Henry
was interested. In the portrait she is
dressed full length in black and has a
foxy look in her eye. Fortunately for
Christina the marriage negotiations
came to nothing, and Henry took Anne
of Cleves instead.
Room 4 passes quickly although I
enjoy learning about Jan van Eyck, of
whom everyone seems to have heard
but me.
There are several of his well-known
paintings displayed here and you can
appreciate his absurdly good technique
and skill with paint. Right on cue, the
NG pulls their expert on Northern Eu-
ropean Renaissance paint out of the
bag so they can tell us all about him on
the audio guide. I love van Eyck’s self-
portrait – he looks shrewd and cocky.
He knows how good he is and he wants
that to be preserved forever!
You will all recognise ‘The Ugly
Woman’. This timeless portrait may
be a satire on lust or a cruel mocking
of an ugly person in love. She clasps a
rosebud next to her wrinkled cleavage,
offering it to the man in the painting
next door. Funnily enough, she is the
best thing in Room 5, under the theme
‘Love and Beauty’. Everyone else here
is boring and beautiful, modelled on
Michelangelo’s David or the ideal
woman.
The variety of drawings in the next
room keeps us interested as the exhi-
bition draws to a close. There are fine
Holbein sketches, a self portrait by
Pontormo (the 1st Calvin Klein model)
in his underwear and a portrait of a
corpse. This may sound rather sinis-
ter but the artist has actually used his
death sketch to make a portrait of the
man with his doting grandson. The re-
sult brings the man back to life in a col-
ourful and very sweet commemorative
painting. Sniff.
For some reason, the last room of
the exhibition is dedicated to the rul-
ing powers of the Renaissance: that is
the Church and the monarchs. It is a
little demeaning after seeing all those
wonderful portraits to be reminded
about who really was in charge of this
‘rebirth’ of the arts. Ah well, it is a nice
the band, causing the split, he arranges
a reunion for them in his decadent
country house. He has starved himself
of music for 6 years, choosing instead
to lead a life of abstinence with his yo-
ga-obsessed wife, Lynn.
Their delicate equilibrium is shat-
tered, however, by the arrival of the
band; old relationships are rekindled
while John and Lynn are again tempted
by the alcohol and drugs they swore to
never abuse again.
John Hannah shines like a Scottish
beacon in the role of John, the moody,
world-weary protagonist, whilst Susan
Prior emerges as a compelling char-
acter in her role as Lynn, the dutiful
housewife who gave up her days as a
wild child to save her marriage.
Critics described the play as “darkly
comic” and “explosive”, and I would be
inclined to agree with them – the play
boldly explores the dark secrets of hu-
man relationships, using suspense and
intrigue to keep the audience wanting
more.
Overall, if you are looking for a
frightening insight into the moments
of desperation, insecurity and anxiety
that characterise the human race, cou-
pled with awkward and at times bleak
humour, then Riflemind is right up
your alley.
history lesson, and Phillip II of Spain’s
‘swagger portraits’ do fit quite nicely in
the space. Also, this is the first room
where we actually get to see some Ti-
tian portraits. I am unimpressed. Al-
though his technique is clearly innova-
tive, the colours aren’t as rich as I like,
nor are the features as fine. However,
his portrayal of Pope Paul III does get
across his unequivocal power. This guy
is scary and must have been incredibly
formidable in real life. Shiver.
So, in the Renaissance, for the first
time people wanted to be remembered
as the unique person they were. This is
clearly demonstrated in this exhibition
with the huge variety of people on dis-
play – it’s like going to a fabulous party
full of witty, attractive people. There
are Medici bankers, virtuous wives,
bored and rich young men, Emperors
and popes… In my opinion, Renais-
sance Faces is a blockbuster of an exhi-
bition. I learnt so much and it is really
quite magical being able to look into
these 500 year-old faces which are so
wonderfully preserved.
I wonder, in 500 years time when
there is a ‘21st century Faces’ exhibi-
tion at the National Gallery, how will
we be remembered?
Renaissance Faces is on until 18th
January. It costs £10.50 with your
student card and it is well worth
the money. Do it, do it now. What a pretty picture you drew. Bless.
John Hannah, left, as John in Andrew Upton’s new play Riflemind. Did the chap playing the guitar just fart? How terribly rude.
It’s very difficult to decide which is more attractive. I’m not too sure why we’re deciding but I’m going to go for the fruit.. delicious.

