arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
20 felix Friday 24 October 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Arts
A
nyone who thinks they
have never heard of Ed-
ith Piaf will know ex-
actly who she is upon
hearing her distinctively
powerful voice sing just a few lines of
‘Je ne regrette rien’. Regarded as one
of France’s greatest popular singers,
she was able to bring tears to the eyes
of many who could not understand a
word of French.
Standing only 4’10” tall, the “Little
Sparrow” was anything but in char-
acter and energy, living a hectic and
eventful life involving numerous boy-
friends, husbands, car crashes, mor-
phine addiction, being brought up in
a brothel, helping French prisoners
escape Nazi persecution, colossal fame
and extraordinary talent.
Much of her life remains mysterious
despite many written biographies, as
well as the film about her life, La Vie en
Rose, although the legend that she was
born on the pavement of the Rue de
Belleville in Paris is most likely incor-
rect! The Donmar Warehouse’s pro-
duction moves from its home in Cov-
ent Garden to the Vaudeville Theatre
to continue its run of Pat Gem’s Piaf,
thirty years after its birth by the RSC
in 1978.
Lasting ninety minutes with an ab-
sence of an interval, the play’s pace is
fast and was obviously written with the
assumption that audiences had a good
idea of the content of Piaf’s life and
stardom. Details and characters about
the singer’s life, which ebb and flow out
of the story at a startling rate (border-
ing on being rushed) were often easy
to overlook as we struggled to keep
abreast of developments and names.
Further confusion was added as many
of the actors adopted the role of several
persons: was that her boyfriend/agent
from before or a new one?? The chop-
py transitions between scenes were
executed cleanly, morphing seamlessly
between both moods and settings;
Piaf’s costume changes occurring on-
stage as the actors re-dressed her in
and out of her trademark black dress,
the sparrow’s diva streak letting it all
ensue around her.
The stunning talent of Elena Roger –
with all the potency of a large, orotund
opera singer, compacted into a feisty,
female fireball – is the raison d’etre
of the show. Her depiction of Piaf is
stunning, from the start as a loud-
mouth, spitting, sluttish street urchin
and throughout the play as she rises
to fame increasing in self-importance,
still maintaining streaks of her humble
origins and promiscuous ways, until
the end as the singer descends into
frailty, unhappiness and alcoholism as
cancer consumes her.
I had doubts about how French her
accent sounded, thinking it was more
Italian, but given Edith Piaf’s mixed
Italian and French heritage, it seemed
fitting. A superb effort also came from
D
ramsoc’s opening salvo
of the year is Oscar Wil-
de’s The Importance of
Being Earnest, an 1895
comedy which is prob-
ably Wilde’s best-known play.
The play opens with Algernon, an
aristocratic young Londoner, receiv-
ing his friend Ernest Worthing, whilst
waiting for a visit from his aunt, Lady
Bracknell. Ernest then professes his
love for Lady Bracknell’s daughter
Gwendolen and states his desire to
marry her. Due to a cigarette case that
he left in Algernon’s care, it unfolds
that Ernest is actually Jack Worthing,
and has created the Ernest persona so
he can come on jaunts into London
from the country. As he says, ‘I’m Er-
nest in Town and Jack in the country’.
Despite Lady Bracknell’s objections,
Jack proposes to Gwendolen, planning
to kill off the Ernest persona should
she agree. But she blows that notion
out of the water with the line “the mo-
ment Algernon mentioned that he had
a friend called Ernest, I knew I was des-
tined to love him”. She is determined to
marry him, regardless of her mother’s
wishes, as long as his name is Ernest.
At this point the real thrust of the
play kicks in, as a case of mistaken
identity ensues, with Algernon going
to the country pretending to be Ernest,
while Jack starts to spread the news
that Ernest is dead. Algy (or Ernest)
soon meets and falls for Cecily, Jack’s
(or Ernest’s) impressionable young
ward, and wants to marry her. She is
as keen to marry him – as long as his
name is really Ernest. To revive a well-
worn theatrical cliche, hilarity ensues.
The well-rounded cast really get into
their roles and it was obvious everyone
enjoyed putting the play on. Some of
the dialogue zings back and forth and
the cleverness of Wilde’s writing really
comes to the fore.
Thebestlinesoftheplayundoubtedly
fall to Lady Bracknell (Rebecca Jones).
An example of this are the words to
her daughter: “when you do become
engaged, I or your father, should his
health permit, will inform you of the
fact. An engagement should come on a
young girl as a surprise, pleasant or un-
pleasant as the case may be. It is hardly
a matter that she should be allowed to
arrange for herself.”
There is much more in a similar vein
– you could fill a book with the lines
she utters - and indeed, Wilde has.
Brilliantly made to embody all of the
social hypocrisies of the period, Lady
Bracknell is one of those towering
characters that chews up the spotlight
whenever on stage (most memorably
played on screen by the late Dame
Edith Evans, and in the last screen ad-
aptation by Dame Judi Dench. If she
wasn’t on stage for such a short time,
the rest of the characters would live
in her shadow, and the play picks up
considerably when she bursts in for
the first time. Rebecca Jones’ perform-
ance is the most stylised in the play
and the clipped tones that she speaks
in make everyone in the audience feel
as chastised as one of Lady Bracknell’s
subordinates.
The other performances are good,
and a lightness of touch required for
such a romp pervades the whole pro-
duction. Special mention must go to
Gilead Amit who played Jack Wor-
thing, who has the sometimes thank-
less task of being the straight man,
permitting the farce to unfold around
him, especially in relation to Jan Sza-
franski (Algernon) whose performance
“The stunning
talent of
Elena Roger
compacted into
a feisty, female
fireball”
The Little Sparrow takes flight
the hair and make-up team who man-
aged to age Piaf very well with some
convincing wigs.
Lorraine Bruce as Piaf’s “partner
in mischief”, Toine, gave a very funny
performance helped no doubt by her
bulky frame, boisterous mannerisms
and loud cockney accent albeit rather
odd given the Parisien setting. The
Caz Knight keeps warm with some scintillating vocals, courtesy of a new biopic of the great Edith Piaf
sexual chemistry between Rogers and
Philip Browne, who took the part of
boxer Marcel Cerdan - the true love of
Piaf’s life, was electric and stood out
despite a short scene between the two.
Edith and Marlene Dietrich (played by
Katherine Kingsley) share an onstage
kiss which will go down well with any
heterosexual males and girls will be
pleased to see two taut, sculpted, shirt-
less boxers fighting in the ring.
Roger’s voice contains all the force
required to chill the audience in a simi-
lar way that Piaf would have done and
retains the singer’s warbling vibrato
sound which seals the play with the
much loved and anticipated ‘Je ne Re-
grette Rien’, which merited the stand-
ing applause it received.
The show is a real treat and those
who hate musicals need not worry:
this is more of a play-cum-concert
with none of the abhorrent choreo-
graphed dance routines, group singing
and ghastly scores which plague many
West End venues, only beautiful rendi-
tions of Piaf’s music.
DramSoc’s first show of the year
sometimes flies perilously close to car-
icature. The Algernon/Jack interaction
is central to the play working, and the
work of Amit and Szafranski keeps the
play ticking over nicely.
And now for the criticism: the first
act takes a while to get going, and the
cast don’t seem to truly believe the co-
incidences that lead to the inevitably
happy ending. There’s a bit too much
‘nudge, nudge, wink, wink’ going on
here. It’s not giving anything away to
say that a few people get married, but
at some points the casts look embar-
rassed for that to be the case. From a
technical standpoint, good use is made
of the three location set, including an
interval set-change that will leave those
paying attention wondering “How did
they do that?”. Plus there is some set-
dressing that will have you wondering
if there are any plants missing around
college.
As an introduction to Wilde, this
production works really well, and
those who are conversant with the
playwright will be pleasantly surprised.
The most appropriate adjective for this
play is ‘feel-good’. People will leave
with a smile on their faces, and if this
is a taster, it bodes well for the other
productions that Dramsoc has planned
for this year.
Dramsoc’s Production of ‘The Im-
portance of Being Earnest’ has two
more performances, Friday 24th and
Saturday 25th of October. 7pm, Un-
ion Concert Hall.
Tosin Ajayi casts an expert eye over the first performance of DramSoc’s ‘The Importance of Being Earnest’
It’s hard deciding whether to drink with sophistication from the glass or to throw restrain to the wind and chug from the bottle
Director: Kristen Farebrother
Producer: Pietro Franchi
Cast list:
John Worthing, J.P Gilead Amit
Algernon Moncrieff Ziggi
Szafranski
Hon. Gwendolen Fairfax Fran
Buckland
Cecily Cardew Lauren Waterman
Lady Bracknell Rebecca Jones
Miss Prism Robyn Jacobs
Canon Chasuble Mark Manders
Lane, manservant Daniel Naujoks
Merriman, butler Tiberiu Chis
Seconds after one of the shocking revelations made in Act 1 – Oscar Wilde was a homosexual!

