arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
22 felix Friday 24 October 2008
he is adopted into a royal household in
another kingdom. As an adult, things
take a turn for the worse when Oedi-
pus kills an elderly man one night at
a crossroads. This man, unbeknownst
to Oedipus, was his father, the King of
Thebes. Oedipus, still unaware of his
true identity, solves the riddle of the
Sphinx, winning the throne of Thebes
and the hand of the Queen, his bio-
logical mother. With this part of the
destiny fulfilled, the play begins with
the kingdom of Thebes beset with a
“it is a play
charged with
a powerful
and emotional
poignancy”
Warning - not for the faint-hearted
S
opphocles’ Oedipus, the an-
cient Greek masterpiece, is a
play charged with a powerful
and emotional poignancy in
Alex McGuiness’ adaption
at the Olivier theatre, Southbank. It is
the story of ill-fated Oedipus’ frighten-
ing process of realising he has killed
his father, and bedded his mother.
Ralph Fiennes put on a terrific per-
formance, starring as the naive yet
exceptionally arrogant king. My last-
ing memory will be of the exquisite
anguish of the fallen Oedipus, fist
clenched in mouth, then curled up foe-
tally as he struggles with the realisation
of his true identity.
For the uninitiated, I’ll begin with a
brief synopsis of the plot. Oedipus’s
fate is predetermined at birth by Apol-
lo. The prophecy states he is destined
to kill his father and bed his mother. As
a consequence, Oedipus is abandoned
by his parents and left to die with his
ankles bound. Surviving this ordeal,
Catherine Jones goes to the Olivier to see a merciless and gut-wrenching production of Oedipus
plague-like curse. Oedipus the King
comes to the aid of his subjects, setting
out on a mission to bring the murderer
of the dead monarch to justice.
Fiennes played an arrogant Oedipus,
throwing his weight around as the au-
tocratic leader. A good performance
from Fiennes – as you would expect
from an Oscar-nominated actor. My
only qualm was the pre-recorded howls
ofOedipus’sself-mutilatingpain,losing
authenticity when played from an off-
stage amplifier. As for the supporting
roles, Jasper Britton’s Creon had boyish
charm reminiscent of a young Jeremy
Clarkson. Claire Higgins’ Jocasta gave
an interesting performance, highlight-
ing the sexual tension in their sicken-
ing relationship and Teiresias, the old
blind prophet played by Alan Howard,
had gravitas, with a slight Irish twang
to his gravelly accent. Praise also goes
out to an excellent chorus.
The staging was vaguely reminiscent
of a courtroom, aptly framing Oedipus’
detective work. Dramatic shadows
and clever spotlighting added drama
to the bleak and desolate stage. Sharply
dressed in formal suits, a bald Ralph
Fiennes did look every bit the lawyer
when cross-examining Teiresias and
Creon. Perhaps the suits were a bit too
timely, evoking clichéd comparisons to
deflated Wall Street traders.
A discussion of Oedipus is not com-
plete without some kind of reference
to Freud. Freud suggested the Oedipus
myth is poignant because it touches
on something darker in the human
psyche, the Oedipus complex, a sub-
conscious childhood dual desire for in-
cest and patricide. On the surface this
seems a very strange idea, but I think
there may be some truth in this. Adam
Philips, an eminent psychotherapist
and author, puts this idea well in a re-
cent interview in the Times ; “As boys
growing up, most of us play this game
of distancing our mothers and not let-
ting them in, and inviting them in and
being very needy”.
To conclude, this is a very insight-
ful play, and an excellent production.
If forced, I’d give it 8 stars out of 10.
Why only eight? It was difficult to
have the stamina for the intensity of
the production. I left the auditorium
exhausted. I guess Freud might claim
it was the Oedipus complex at work in
my repressed subconscious. I think it
could have something to do with the
omission of an interval break. Hmmm.
Maybe let’s just blame fate...
Oedipus runs until January 4th at
the Olivier theatre.
“I left the
auditorium
exhausted”
Obviously this production of Oedipus contains zombies and is more gory than Saw V. Probably not as gory as Hostel, although nothing is likely to ever be.
Work is well underway on phase two
of the Beit Masterplan, the three phase
project to modernise and make better
use of the space in the Union Building,
Beit Quadrangle. The first phase saw
the installation of a new Disability
Discrimination Act (DDA) compliant lift
as well as a new 2nd floor mezzanine
level chair store, changing room shells
on the 2nd floor mezzanine and 3rd floor
and access improvements from daVinci’s
to the Quad.
The second phase will see the
completion of the new mezzanine level
splitting what was the Union Gym in to
two floors. The new floor created will
be the home of a new Student Activities
Centre (SAC) which will provide a larger
and better-designed space for all of
the Clubs & Societies to use as a base
for their activities. Half of the SAC will
be suspended from the ceiling with
workstations and equipment for Club &
Society use. The main Union Reception
will also be housed in this area providing
the first point of call for all visitors to the
Union. The other half of the SAC will hold
The Advice Centre, providing a more
high profile space for our independent,
impartial and free advice service. When
the whole project is complete the space
below the SAC will be the new Union
Offices where the Sabbaticals and staff
will work. It is hoped that by having the
people that run the Union closer to the
heartbeat of the organisation, the Clubs
& Societies, it will help us stay more
member focused.
The space freed up from where the old
SAC was will be used to create brand
new fully-equipped meeting rooms and
Club & Society stores and in turn the
space where the old meeting rooms
were will be turned in to a state-of-the-
art dance and activity space. This floor
will be fitted with sprung floors, mirrored
walls and brand new
changing rooms offering
a superb space for our
Clubs & Societies to use
throughout the year.
So, where are we now
with all this work?
Our team of builders
have already made
a good start to the
new mezzanine level
on the second floor.
Work is also under way
providing services to the new floors
including networking, electricity and
air conditioning. We are aiming to have
all the work finished by the end of the
Summer Term and will be completing
these works in phases. We will keep you
up-to-date with what is happening in
Felix and on our website and hope that
any disruptions caused by these works
will be kept to a minimum.
The obvious aim of these works is to
make our Union Building much more
inline with what our members, you the
students, want and need from it. Having
been designed and built nearly 100
years ago, with additions made in the
1950s, the demands on it have changed
massively; something that will be
addressed during this project.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Building Redevelopment Update
The Union Building before the additional floors were added
Artists impressions of the new Student Activities Centre
Our new and improved evening menu.
Available from 17:00 - 21:00 across the Union.
Choose from a fantastic selection of snacks, pizzas and main courses, order at the bar
and we will bring the food to your table once it is cooked!
Check our website to see the full menu.
HAVE YOU TRIED?

