music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair, Susan Yu & James Houghton
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Music
Kiley goes Koko... kind of
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor
T
he history of cheese is
a long and tumultuous
one. The first instances of
cheese predate recorded
history, and in our mod-
ern age there are literally thousands
of different varieties, ranging from
organically crafted French farmhouse
masterpieces to inorganically emulsi-
fied mass-produced Americanized
Kraft squares. In English slang, the
word ‘cheesy’, although not etymologi-
cally related to the foodstuff, has come
to be associated with the latter case –
cheaply produced, homogenised, poor
quality, unconvincing kitsch.
When the word is applied to mu-
sic, one of two things can be implied.
The first is a kind of charming golden-
ageism; music which predates the age
of sociological cynicism, when Dion &
the Belmonts played out from the juke-
box into a milkshake-drenched Happy
Days scene. The second is a bastardisa-
tion of the first. It is applied to music
which is kitsch beyond the point of
good-taste, when the so-bad-it’s-good
mentality throws off the chains of sub-
tlety, only to realise that after the ironic
smiles and eye-rolling of the self-con-
sciously jaded are gone, all that’s left is
gluttonous overindulgence.
In recent years, this second defini-
tion has given identity to the quasi-
genre of ‘cheese music’, encompassing
the charts music of one’s early youth
in addition to particularly tasteless
and bizarre examples from the music
of today. It has always been around in
nameless form, albeit subversively - a
few chosen corkers being played at the
end of a party, much to the dismay of
the listeners, and much to the players’
amusement. It was the naming and
classification of this ad-hoc group-
ing which gave it a kind of social ac-
ceptance; admitting to ‘loving’ cheese
music stopped being funny, and was
taken seriously. A falsehood, repeated
enough times, was eventually accepted
as the truth.
Student nights in particular have
been swept up by this changing of the
musical guards. Being a demographic
comprised of such a diverse mix of
people whose tastes mirror this eclec-
ticism means that we are not aligned
to any particular musical scene, and
the organisers of such events, in trying
to find a compromise, often settle for
the music which the majority will not
be offended or confused by. However,
what has started as the safe decision
seems to have become a tyranny of
taste, whereby cheese is often the only
music which it is acceptable to play
at student nights, including many of
those hosted at Imperial College.
This situation has been the case for
many years, and I have not written
anything about it until now because I
have not had any hope that they could
change into something which could
be taken seriously. However with the
recent makeover of Da Vinci’s into
something which looks like a pretty
cool place to be, it is not inconceivable
for Imperial to have some genuinely
good events - all that is needed is for
The Union to stop pretending to be so
ironic and play some music that people
can genuinely enjoy.
So Iceland’s financial situation has ap-
parently become so bad that the entire
nation was recently put up for auc-
tion on ebay.com with a starting bid of
only 99p (Björk, unfortunately, not in-
cluded). Though economic woes have
recently pushed the country into the
headlines, Iceland is of course much
more famous for its vibrant and ec-
centric music scene. Múm, Valgeir
Sigurðsson, Emiliana Torrini, Amiina,
Sigur Rós, The Sugarcubes – the list
goes on and on, making it seem like
every second person in this tiny nation
is either a fisherman or a musician. Ex-
tending that list is composer and pro-
ducer Jóhann Jóhannsson, and while
his music might be more classical and
stately than that of those aforemen-
tioned artists, it is by no means any less
captivating.
‘Fordlandia’s title track starts the al-
bum on a note so gentle that it might
take you a minute to realise the soft
sighsofJóhannsson’sstrings,butthey’re
there and they’re utterly gorgeous and
they sweep out a circular theme that
swells the piece into a thirteen minute-
plus epic. These strings are joined by
brass and other orchestral elements
along with skittering electronic per-
cussion and if Matthew Cooper eased
up on the synthetic arrangements, this
is what Eluvium would probably sound
like.
Supposedly the second in a planned
trilogy based on the influence of tech-
nology and American brands (the first,
‘IBM 1401, A User’s Manual’, was a
eulogy to the computer of the same
name), ‘Fordlandia’s organic heart pul-
sates with the aid of some very clever
and subtle electronic processing. On
‘Fordlandia – Aerial View’, a restrained
and despondent string quartet floats
above muted bass rumbles, an effect
“Out in the streets you won’t survive
with wack-ass beats.” So says the myth-
ical MF Doom, close friend, confidant
and multi-time collaborator of Dwight
Farrell, AKA Count Bass D. With his
latest LP L7, CBD is less concerned
with survival than with evolution, his
self-imposed isolation within the mu-
sic industry proving to be a continued
catalyst for a mental progression of hip-
hop in a direction anti-parallel to the
mainstream of the industry, and even
orthogonal to the sub-genre of under-
ground, ‘left-field’ hip-hop. Count Bass
D is an anomaly - an individual, self
contained musical entity.
Protection of personal freedom
seems to be the source of his isolation-
ism and the theme of a lot of his lyrics.
Freedom from contractual obligations,
freedom from hostile influence both in
hislifeandhismusic.Thisattitudegives
his music a distinctive flavour, which is
entirely of his own creation. This is not
to say his latest record is totally unin-
fluenced by other artists – there would
be no music if there were no musical
influences, rap music in general being
particularly heavy in the throwbacks
with its extensive use and reuse of
samples and beats - but his influences
are all intentional. They come from
the same places as where his passions
lie – gospel, funk, soul (his last.fm pro-
file says he’s listened to Marvin Gaye’s
Here My Dear 77 times). There are ele-
ments of classic jazz in the format of a
lot of the songs which take a very re-
laxed and liberal attitude to structure,
favouring instead a kind of organic
textural development, not quite on the
In the great Gwen Stefani/No Doubt
tradition, Jenny Lewis has ditched her
Rilo Kiley band mates in favour of go-
ing solo. She has also, somewhat alarm-
ingly, ditched their indie rock style for
something a little more country and
western. On her first album, Rabbit
Fur Coat, she was billed alongside The
Watson Twins but her latest effort,
Acid Tongue, is by her alone. I booked
to see Jenny Lewis live before I’d lis-
tened to Acid Tongue – a risky move
given I hadn’t been too impressed by
Rabbit Fur Coat – given that it would
be the next best thing to seeing Rilo
Kiley (who last year cancelled the gig I
had tickets for, damn them!). So I was
pleased by how impressive the new
album was and arrived at KOKO with
much anticipation.
The support act Benji Hughes was
pretty good as support acts go, if you’re
into very hairy fat men with voices so
deep the words slur into one. He also
stumbled on to the stage a few times
during the main set for the occasional
backing vocal contribution. The venue
was filled to capacity even before Benji
took to the stage, with an unexpectedly
high proportion of older music lovers.
Later on, during the main set, I was
bewildered to have two women easily
in their 60s push past to stand in front
of me. Old lady smell is not something
you expect to experience going to a
gig. I can only imagine that the older
crowd were keen country music fans
intrigued by new talent.
Lewis herself succeeded in being
kooky enough to make sense in the
context of KOKO, wearing a circus
master jacket and high-waisted dun-
garees that couldn’t have worked on
OK, technically Jenny Lewis, former front-femme of Rilo Kiley, but I couldn’t resist
the alliteration. felix’s friend Emily Wilson headed to Koko to check her out
anybody else, with a black felt hat on
a long mane of messy hair she appar-
ently hadn’t bothered to comb be-
forehand. She managed to combine a
laid-back dippiness with commanding
stage presence, added to her indescrib-
able vocal talent.
On the whole most of the songs came
from Acid Tongue, but early on a ren-
dition of “The Charging Sky” revealed
that Rabbit Fur Coat was not to be ne-
glected, and did manage to improve
the album in my eyes. The clear high-
light of the night was ‘The Next Mes-
siah’, also arguably the best track on the
new album. If I had to recommend just
one Jenny Lewis track, I’d tell you to
check out this one. It was spectacular
live, and stunned me both with Jenny’s
astounding voice and the also the back-
ing instruments. But also very very
good were ‘Jack Killed Mom’, which I
don’t see how anybody could listen to
and resist the urge to tap a foot at the
very least, even though Jenny Lewis in
no way offers music that is very dance-
able. Also, ‘See Fernando’, which saw
Jenny up on top of her piano. One
song I was less impressed by live was
‘Carpetbaggers’. On the album this is a
duet with Elvis Costello and one of my
favourite tracks, but without Costello
being involved it wasn’t quite as good.
I also didn’t think much of ‘Bad Man’s
World’, which was boring on CD and
not much better in the flesh.
Despite appearing as a solo artist,
this show would have been nothing
without the bunch of talented and im-
“there was
much audience-
muttered debate
as to the gender
of the drummer”
pressively flexible musicians appearing
alongside Lewis. The same musicians
appear on the Acid Tongue recordings,
and include Lewis’s long-haired gui-
tarist boyfriend Jonathan Rice. I noted
there was much audience-muttered de-
bate as to the gender of the drummer,
later introduced as Barbara Gruska.
It’s always a good sign when you go
home and the music is even better to
listen to than it was before. Overall, this
is one of the best gigs I’ve been to this
year - Jenny Lewis managed to sway
not only me, but a whole audience of
people who arrived with a “would rath-
er have seen Rilo Kiley” attitude.
same level as the total structural de-
composition of the post-rock kind, but
certainly as close as hip-hop can get. J
Dilla also, whose name is mentioned in
virtually all discussions on contempo-
rary hip hop, is definitely a source of
inspiration also, him and CBD both
favouring MPC cut-and-slice sampling
techniques. The list of influences is
extensive, but it’s the way they are di-
gested and assimilated by CBD which
that’s akin to being buffeted by high
turbulent winds while making Ford-
landia (Henry Ford’s disastrous Ama-
zonian rubber plantation – thank you
once again, Wikipedia), sound like one
Album Review
Count Bass D
L7
1320 Records
HHHII
Album Review
Jóhann Jóhannsson
Fordlandia
4ad
HHHHH
Music for your mind and music for your soul
An album review duplex from opposite sides of the music spectrum: Jóhann Jóhannsson and Count Bass D
“a restrained
and despondent
string quartet
floats above
muted bass
rumbles”
very bleak, melancholic place. The sad-
ness continues with the organ requiem
of ‘Chimaerica’, a track that becomes
even more funereal as ever loudening,
electronic shuffling threatens to shat-
ter the piece and throw it down a deep,
dark abyss.
It all sounds rather heavy, and the
fact that this is essentially a concept
album means that the threat of preten-
tiousness is always hidden behind the
next ridiculously long track title (‘Me-
lodia (Guidelines For A Propulsion
Device Based On Heim’s Quantum
Theory)’, anyone?). Luckily, Jóhanns-
son largely lets the music do the talk-
ing and all the press release guff about
doomed utopias, dead Greek gods and
crippled German physicists isn’t abso-
lutely necessary to know in order to
enjoy the beauty of these eleven tracks.
Part of why it all works so well is down
to Jóhannsson’s restraint as a com-
poser and even as it sometimes sounds
like an orphaned movie soundtrack,
he never succumbs to Hollywood
sentimentality, nor does he overuse
themes – something which marred the
otherwise elegiac beauty of his debut
Englebörn.
From the quietly propulsive ‘Rocket
Builder (Io Pan!)’, to the Howard Shore-
esque choral work on the ‘The Great
God Pan Is Dead’, Fordlandia remains
intimate and absorbing. Jóhannsson
has yet again succeeded in making an-
other masterful record, one that opens
up and becomes richer the more you
listen to it. I can only hope that dodgy
economics won’t push him out of his
day job.
keeps the sound so unique.
All music with such an overt shun-
ning of contemporary sources risks
inaccessibility, and this album is no
exception, occasionally straying into
abstraction and tracks which, for the
regular listener (as opposed to the hip-
hop connoisseur) can be confusing and
somewhat unpalatable. I don’t think it’s
due to some cocaine-drenched overin-
dulgence on CBD’s part, it’s merely the
inevitable consequence of stubborn-
ness in the face of the predominate
direction of the music industry. His
opinions on the industry as a whole are
made clear on the track ‘Y.B.A Square’,
which features a vocal sample of some-
“...not quite
on the same
level as the
total structural
decomposition
of the post-
rock kind, but
certainly as close
as hip-hop can
get.”
one talking about its total corruption
and money-orientated direction, over
some laid back but complex sample-
work. This sentiment is admirable, and
it is precisely this which will make this
album for some an attention grabbing,
interesting, thought provoking listen-
ing experience, but I think the point
will be all too easily missed by a lot of
listeners.
I’ve had to bite the bullet of realism
and give this album three stars, but it
doesn’t particularly do it justice, and
it is not particularly accurate. For a lot
of listeners this album will be worth
a one, but a sizeable minority, myself
included, would give it four or five –
three is just the average. I personally
found this a great release from one of
hip-hop’s few true innovators, and
would definitely recommend this to
anyone wanting to know hip-hop’s full
potential as a creative, uncommercial-
ised genre.
Count Bass D wearing a keyboard
Jóhannsson is known for spending 18 hours a day in photo booths
Count Bass D surrounded by fucking musical equipment and shit
Jenny Lewis enjoys apples
Jenny Lewis plays live somewhere. I don’t know where, but it’s not Koko. I don’t know when either.
I want that dress and I want a matching quilt too
Emily Wilson
Peter Sinclair
Jorga Costa

