food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
Oriental buffet disappoints
The Sandwich Shop is safe as the MDH’s new venture bombs quite dramatically
I’m sure by now all the Freshers would
have figured out where to feed them-
selves within the campus: the Union,
JCR, SCR (if you’re smart enough to be
a postgraduate) and the various depart-
mental cafés. But good golly – what the
hell have they done to the Main Dining
Hall? Last week, my friend and I found
out about the brand new £5 “Orien-
tal Buffet” there and having just got
through our very first (and very bor-
ing) lecture of the year we thought we
deserved a mini feast, so we walked in.
Considering it was all-you-can-eat
Imperial’s Oriental Buffet
HKKKK
MDH,
Sherfield Building
Best: Unlimited jasmine tea
Worst: The rest...
Go for...: Somewhere complete-
ly different. Oriental Canteen or
Little Japan near the South Ken
tube for similar oriental grub.
Price: £5
Richard Lai
for just £5, we weren’t surprised to see
a fair number of diners there, although
the size of the tables was overkill – on
average only about three to four peo-
ple were sat on each ten-seater table.
If anything, it felt like we were eating
in a prison dining hall. It’s fair enough
that they were trying to bring in the
layout of a typical Chinese restaurant,
but anyone with common sense would
have used tables of different sizes –
preferably a combination of four and
six-seaters. Another immediate let-
down was the fact that there were no
chopsticks – instead they had pairs of
lollipop sticks which you link together
at the top. Even a Chinaman like me
struggled with those vessel-blocking
blades, let alone students from the rest
of world.
I
was getting worried. It was Oc-
tober and the trees were still
green. Bloody global warming, I
thought. Thankfully, this week I
was greeted by tree confetti eve-
rywhere! Yippee, my favourite season
of the year – Autumn. It’s that time
of the year when it’s so cold and dry
your cheeks start to go rosy, and you
finally have an excuse for stuffing your
gob with warming soups, stews and
crumbles.
Speaking of stuffing your face, have
any of you come across the “hot, new
chef” on the tellybox, Valentine Warn-
er? I have fallen in love with his toffish,
spacky face. It’s refreshing to see some-
one getting stuck into piles of good,
hearty food – I got sick of watching
Nigella making eyes at the camera and
having an orgasm at every mouthful of
her creations.
Anyway, I recommend you watch
some of his shows on the BBC iPlayer,
if only for the comedy value of his pub-
lic school tones extolling the virtues
of shooting wild game. Rah-rah-rah.
Brilliant.
Unfortunately for my belly and arter-
ies, this week my boyfriend decided he
wanted to turn from Physicist to Pas-
try Chef and proceeded to run riot in
the kitchen making pasties and tortes
left, right and centre! Consequently I
have included two relatively healthy,
yet filling dinner recipes to ease my
conscience. Please do give them a go.
I know it’s hard getting out of that hole
of Chicken Tonight and frozen pies but
it’s a lot brighter outside.
This week in the Food section, I also
bring an alternative to the overpriced
muck we have here at college. If you
are lucky enough to have your parents
buy your lunch, or if you happen to be
a member of staff, you may be able to
afford lunch at one of the gastropubs in
the surrounding area.
The ever-enthusiastic Lucy Harrold
has battled her way through a plate of
bambi-meat sausages for your delight,
reader. I like to think gastropubs aren’t
the evil, corporate whorehouses that
we often mistake them for. They are
purely trying to put local, hearty, fresh-
ly-cooked meals in front of you… for a
slightly elevated price, sure. If I had the
money, I would love to eat there more
often but you can cook about the same
thing for less than half the price and
double the effort at home. Such is life!
If you do decide you can’t be arsed
stretching your legs to find a decently-
priced lunch outside college, why not
try the Chinese Buffet in the MDH?
To help you make your mind up, read
Richard Lai’s critique on the college’s
latest venture. From reading Richard’s
take on the buffet, I despair further
about the quality of food at IC. Is a
plate of tasty, filling, wholesome food
too much to ask? If the college cares so
much about our welfare, why not start
tackling the problem with the simple
question of nutritious, cheap food?
And don’t get me started on the ques-
tion of water. Imperial College is like a
fucking desert when it comes to pota-
ble H2O. Answers on a postcard.
for some reason) and prawn crack-
ers, which can’t possibly go wrong.
But what confused us was the bowl
of french fries next to the chow mein.
Fine, let it be a small element of the
Chinese/fish-and-chips hybrid takea-
way shop. Further down the aisle they
also served chicken wings in sweet soy
sauce; my childhood favourite.
Things started to look grim when
we moved on to the pool of chicken in
black bean sauce. Frankly what made
it just slightly better than Paper Ti-
ger’s (just down the road near the Tube
station; NOT recommended) was the
greater meat content. Our hope in-
creased as we approached the spring
rolls and the Thai fishcakes, only to be
greatly disappointed. Even the takea-
way shops know that spring rolls are
not made out of mushy vegetables
wrapped in deep fried socks. Seriously,
we really couldn’t find any fish in the
so-called “salmon fishcake”. If Wether-
spoon’s burgers (which are OK) could
make Gordon Ramsay puke, our IC
spring rolls, and fishcakes, could prob-
ably put the great chef into a coma, and
Jamie Oliver would actually murder
someone.
Luckily, the “restaurant” did provide
unlimited jasmine tea along with Chi-
nese teapots and cups, which my poor
friend and I consumed plenty of, to di-
lute the crap inside us.
I don’t know if the buffet is a perma-
nent catering service but, either way,
do take our advice: save the fiver for a
bonsai plant or a lucky bamboo plant
instead – they won’t kill you.
“Thou shall hev a fishy on a little dishy”
Serves 2 fat bastards or 3 skinny cows
Cost: Approximately £6 all together
We should all eat more fish. This stew is the quickest, simplest and
tastiest way to cook it and it’ll keep you warm on these cold London
nights, like a big fishy hug in a bowl. Feel free to adapt the fish/cab-
bage/veg combo as you see fit but please make sure your fish is MCS
(Marine Conservation Standard) certified as it means they come from
sustainable habitats. A happy fish means a happy stew. If you’re not
sure, ask the nice man on the Sainsburys/Asda fish counter.
Ingredients:
1 tbsp oil
1 onion, chopped
1 leek, sliced
2 garlic cloves, crushed
1tsp cumin
1 tsp paprika (add more if you like it hot)
100g squid rings or other seafood (optional)
1x 400g tin tomatoes
½ a tin of chickpeas (use the rest for hummous!)
½ savoy cabbage or 1 head of pak choi with the leaves removed
A large white fish fillet (350g) cut in half for a 2 person serving
Lemon wedges, parsley and chunky bread to serve
Fry the onion, leek and garlic in oil on medium heat until transparent.
Add your seafood, spices and chickpeas. Turn up the heat and cook
for 2 minutes with stirring. Tip in the tin of tomatoes then fill the empty
tin half full with water and put that in too! Bring to the boil then taste
the mixture. Add seasoning appropriately. Stir in the cabbage or pak
choi. Place the fillets of fish on top of the stew and cover the pan. This
will allow the steam from the stew to cook the fish so make sure the
lid fits snugly. Steam for 8-10 minutes. To check the fish is cooked the
flesh should flake away easily from the skin. Dish up into bowls or deep
plates and serve sprinkled with parsley and with a squeeze of lemon...
Daddy dearest, take me to...
...the Prince Regent on Gloucester Road, it serves up top grub
importantly) was next to a radiator!
The pub appeared to be inhabited by
business parties and groups of profes-
sors, including a few of my own lectur-
ers. This prompted a mortifying situa-
tion when you see a teacher outside of
school, you just have to hide anywhere
you can! Oh the shame!
Not only was the menu as advertised
outside, but as it was between 12 and 3,
the lunchtime ‘2 courses for £10’ deal
was also available. Dad opted for this,
choosing chicken livers with bacon
and rocket, whilst Mum and I picked
the venison sausages with sweet potato
mash and redcurrant jus. We had to
wait a little while for the food to arrive,
but the dishes were freshly prepared
in the open kitchen, from which we
could see sporadic bursts of flames
appearing.
The presentation was basic but effec-
tive. I don’t like all this faff that makes
your plate look so huge that you can’t
manage it all. The bambi-meat sau-
sages had an ideal texture and flavour:
not so rough that it feels like sawdust
in your mouth, but not so smooth that
you know there isn’t much meat in
there. The sweet potato mash was light
and creamy and had the flavour of the
redcurrant jus which finished the plate
The Prince Regent HHHHK
25 Gloucester Road
Phone: 020 7589 0905
www.theprinceregentglouces-
terroad.co.uk
Best: Tasty pudding and enor-
mous sausages
Worst: The price - a few pounds
more than the same food at the
Queens Arms
Go for...: The 2 courses for £10
seems like good value but the
portions are a bit small.
Price: £9.50 for mains - some-
where to drag the parents to!
Lucy Harrold
off nicely. I do like ‘jus’ even if it is a lit-
tle pretentious and all you northerners
are going to tell me it’s just gravy! Dad’s
plate of livers, although very tasty, was
rather on the diminutive side. But that
was fine as it meant he could finish off
the huge sausages we couldn’t manage!
After our mains, the nice blonde
waitress then informed us that the pana
cotta advertised on the set menu had
all been eaten. Instead we were offered
sticky toffee pudding; Dad’s face lit up!
The pudding was sat in a sea of deli-
cious butterscotch sauce and topped
with a very posh looking vanilla ice
cream. It was light and not too sweet.
A perfect end to the meal.
The Prince Regent is definitely one of
those places to take the parents when
they say “we’re coming up to London,
let’s do lunch”. Although £10 for two
courses isn’t too pricey, it’s definitely
not student pricing. In addition, the
portion sizes on this deal are miniscule,
compared to the other main courses
offered around the £10 mark. So if
you are after a filling meal but aren’t
too fussed about how many courses it
comes in, just go for a large main.
Serves 2 rugby players or 3 ballet dancers
Cost: Approximately £6 all together
This lovely autumnal salad has seasonal butternut squash in it. Al-
ternatively if you can be arsed peeling and scooping out a pumpkin,
use that instead. I could eat this salad all day long. It’s so moreish
and healthy too! It requires some store cupboard ingredients like bal-
samic vinegar; which is useful to have around, just like emergency
contraception. Remember, the tomatoes are good for your sperm,
boys. Enjoy, my pretties!
Ingredients:
1 butternut squash, peeled, scooped and cubed
1 pack of cherry tomatoes
1 head of lettuce (it’s cheaper than those wanky bags of salad)
2 chicken breasts, chopped (buy it from a butcher for super cheap-
ness – supermarkets rip you off)
2 rashers of bacon, cut into bits
25g sunflower seeds
Dressing:
1 tbsp each of honey, balsamic vinegar and mustard
2 tbsp water
Pre-heat your oven to 200°C. Put your cubed squash onto a baking
tray and bake in the oven. After 15 minutes add all the tomatoes to the
tray and put it all back in the oven for another 10 minutes. When the
tomatoes are in the oven, start cooking the meat. In a large pan, fry the
chicken and bacon for 10 minutes. While that’s cooking, start piling the
salad leaves onto plates. When the bacon has coloured, add the sun-
flower seeds to the pan and stir it all together, so that the seeds pick up
a lovely salty flavour from the bacon. Check the chicken is cooked then
pile the meat mixture on top of the salad leaves. Keep the pan to one
side – you’ll need it for the dressing. Take the veg out of the oven and
pile that on top of the meat too. If you keep piling the salad will eventu-
ally sag a bit, so you can get it all on. To make the warm dressing, put
all the dressing ingredients into the pan used for the meat. Turn up the
heat and boil for a few seconds. Then, pour over your salad. You have
before you a tower of salady, protein-y joy. Salads aren’t for fairies.
Squashed Chicken Salad
Spicy Fish Stew
“Our IC spring
rolls would
probably put
Gordon Ramsay
in a coma!”
Having said that, it’s the food that
ultimately determines how long a res-
taurant can last for. We didn’t have
high expectations from a £5 buffet,
and my friends know that I’m picky
with food most of the time, but even
a regular ‘Chinese take-awayer’ would
cringe at what our so-called catering
team served. On a positive note, we
were welcomed by the familiar chow
mein (placed under a bright red light,
I was going to review the Queens Arms
but alas, being so popular, my compan-
ions (codenamed: Mum and Dad) and I
couldn’t find a spare table and so head-
ed towards Gloucester Road in search
of alternative gastropub-style nour-
ishment. We found ourselves outside
The Prince Regent and entered to find
friendly, slightly over-eager, blonde
staff desperate to show us to which
ever table we wanted.
We finally opted for a nice, well-
proportioned setting overlooking the
very pretty mews behind which (more
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Food
My Imperial your gateway to life at Imperial

.Z*NQFSJBMJTBHBUFXBZUPXFCCBTFETFSWJDFTXIJDIXJMMTVQQPSUBOEFOIBODFZPVSFYQFSJFODFBTBTUVEFOUBU
*NQFSJBM:PVDBOQFSTPOBMJTFUIJTQPSUBMUPBDDFTTZPVSGBWPVSJUFXFCTJUFT MJOLTBOEBQQMJDBUJPOT
my imperial felix banner ad.indd 1 10/9/08 21:11:39
Rosie Grayburn
Food Editor

