film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
A gentlemanly handshake or an intricate psychological act?
The battle of minds
Director Ron Howard proves that politics has something of a
boxing match in it, in the adaptation of Peter Morgan’s play
Intelligence is
Relative
So when I went to see this movie, I had
absolutely no expectations. All we gar-
nered from the trailers was ‘wham’ lots
of famous actors are in it, ‘wham’ it’s
funny and ‘wham’ it’s a Coen Brother’s
film. Which is essentially, all it really
is.
The style of this film is slick, witty
and irreverent. The plot-line itself is
almost devoid of true end-point mate-
rial, but the real genius is in the comic
acting and the delivery.
Francis McDormand plays ‘Linda
Litzke’ a lonely, hapless and some-
what ageing gym employee who is on
a desperate quest for plastic surgery.
Teamed with the hilarious and mo-
ronic Chad Feldheimer (Brad Pitt) they
chance upon a CIA agent’s memoirs in
the ladies’ locker room, and believing it
to be ‘real high-up intelligent spy stuff’
they quickly get themselves whisked
into a world of secrecy, Russians, brib-
ery and disappearing bodies.
John Malkovich is superb as a
grouchy old agent who ‘doesn’t have a
drinking problem!’ and finds himself
unwillingly mixed up in the plot-line
which revolves peculiarly around his
relationship and concurrent divorce
with his ‘cold, stuck-up bitch’ of a wife,
impeccably delivered by Tilda Swin-
ton. George Clooney is brilliant as the
paranoid womanising character Harry,
who dips in and out of all the charac-
ters’ lives with no real purpose, and
the expressions he provides, trust me,
are priceless. This film centres on the
confusion created by nothing leading
to a lot of something. I don’t want to
give any more away, as the surprises
are just so perfect. I would thoroughly
recommend you get yourself down to
see this - for a comedy that is like no
other. It’s not a rom-com, chick-flick,
it’s a laugh-out-loud cleverly made lit-
tle film that will hold your attention for
the 96 minutes and longer.
A beginner’s guide to the cinema brought to you by the Film Cynic Clinic
This week we look at what could be
considered quite simply the most im-
portant part of any film experience. It
is of course the cinema, and this article
will attempt to examine the delicate
interplay of this ancient popcorn-
stenched establishment and the films
we see within it. Nowadays with the
plethora of methods for distributing
and viewing movies, of which 98% are
illegal, it’s important to take a senti-
mental look back on the institute that
started it all.
Thanks to market forces, most cin-
emas now reside on the outskirts
of towns alongside other quality es-
tablishments such as bowling alleys,
fast food outlets, and drug dens. For
those lucky enough to find some-
where vaguely near habitation, your
first experience will be the £2+ park-
ing charge for daring to park nearby.
Some hospitable multiplexes will re-
fund the cost of parking, provided that
you retain your ticket stub, car parking
ticket, have received the appropriate
stamp from the cashier, have arrived
between 3.00-3.05pm and are over 65.
This inevitably lulls the majority of us
into not bothering, upon the simple
and reasonable excuse that life, quite
frankly, is too short.
Assuming that you’ve managed to
find a parking space, far enough away
from those kids who seem to be using
aerosols as flamethrowers, the next
shock is inside. As you glance over the
red information displays, which alter-
nate faster than strobe lighting, you’ll
come across the small sticker by the
ticket desk listing the prices. That can’t
be right! It must be a typo – someone
must have put the decimal point in the
wrong place! Oh no, they haven’t. It’s a
shame that you can’t barter nowadays.
If you could, then there’d be the chance
to offset some of the ticket price by
part-exchanging the car you arrived in.
But it’s okay if you haven’t brought that
briefcase full of cash with you. There’s
always a cashpoint nearby, complete
with a minimum £1.50 charge for us-
Stuart Higgins ing it.
Never mind, there can’t be that many
other opportunities to spend your hard
earned cash (or perhaps a not-so hard
earned student loan) before settling
down to see the film. However as the
sickly sweet scent of despair wafts over
from the food counter you can’t help
but glance at its preservative, conserv-
ative, E-number-rammed goodness. A
cinema is one of those few places where
you can successfully exceed the daily
recommended allowance of salt and fat
four times over with just one hotdog.
Similarly the pick and mix counter is
perhaps one of the more fun elements
of confectionary purchasing, but it’s
worth bearing in mind that in the cur-
rent economic climate, it’s cheaper per
gram to buy gold bullion than a hand-
ful of jelly beans.
Ladled down with popcorn and coke,
both of which seem to be sold by the
tonne, you can eventually struggle
past the attendant into the bowels of
the building itself. There is something
strangely enthralling about watching
someone carefully tear a stack of tick-
ets in half, tell you which screen to go
to, whilst simultaneously texting their
mates. However you’re nearly there.
Once you’ve stumbled up the poorly-lit
steps and found a seat that’s far enough
away from the couple snogging noisily
at the back and those kids in the corner
who seem to be using aerosols in flam-
ethrowers, there’s a chance to relax.
So sit back and enjoy the half hour of
adverts, however tempting they might
be, because after the adventure of get-
ting here, you haven’t got money left to
spend on them anyway.
Comments?
Send to: not_gavin@hotmail.com
Priya Garg
Burn after reading HHHHK
Directors: Ethan & Joel Coen
Writers: Ethan & Joel Coen
Cast: John Malkovich,
Tilda Swinton,
George Clooney,
Brad Pitt
Frost/Nixon HHHHK
Director: Ron Howard
Writer: Peter Morgan
Cast: Frank Langella,
Micheal Sheen,
Kevin Bacon
Just before entering the cinema to
see the newest Ron Howard feature
Frost/Nixon, someone asked me
whether I was interested in American
politics and if I’d seen the original
Nixon interviews conducted by Frost.
As I met the aforementioned person
barely a minute beforehand, I decided
it would be foolish to confess that I
am utterly ignorant about history:
politics in particular.
To keep my pride intact I made up
some excuse, saying that I tried to see
films with a completely open mind,
without previous prejudices and pre-
conceptions and other such hogwash.
It’s nice to see actors having fun the old-fashioned way.
I was also visibly deflated. Had I just
spent 11 quid to sit through a two
hour long opinion-forming, propa-
gandist semi-documentary? Despite
that, I started scouring my brain for
the keyword ‘Nixon’. Success! I found
an entry in my brain’s version of the
Internet Movie Database. Nixon, Wa-
tergate, Redford and, aha, All The
President’s Men - that’s what my
knowlege of the Watergate affair
came down to - a Hollywood block-
buster from the 70s when con-
spiracy theory was ‘cool’. And here
comes my first surprise: you will not
learn any more about that extremely
embarrassing moment in American
democracy from this movie, even
though it’s structured like a historical
documentary.
The director assumes that Ameri-
can political history is part of the core
curriculum in every nation’s educa-
tion system and hence does not waste
valuable film reel to go into any detail
about the political espionage, illegal
break-ins, tax and campaign frauds
and secret hush funds that make up
Watergate, the affair that is responsi-
ble for the ‘-gate’ ending given to every
political scandal ever since 1972 and
the reason for the first and (so far) last
time an American president resigned
his position.
Instead of focusing on rehashing the
drama and excitement of the immedi-
ate aftermath of the affair, the movie
centres on a series of four interviews
with Tricky Dicky (Nixon’s nickname
while in office) which were created
and conducted by an English TV
presenter David Frost a few months
after the frenzy died down. In order
to find his way back to the American
TV scene Frost came up with the idea
of interviewing the ex-president who
had yet to confess to being part of
Watergate.
The movie hinges on these two
wonderfully complex characters for
whom the outcome of the interviews
becomes a matter of winning or fail-
ing at life. Nixon saw the interviews
as an unmissable opportunity to re-
gain the respect he craved. Armed
with his ex-chief of staff Jack Brennan
(Kevin Bacon) and a group of bibli-
ographers and PR sharks he prepares
himself to convince Americans that
his presidency was a success. By the
end of the story, Frost finds that he
has put everything he has - money,
career, reputation - on the line and
he realizes that the only way he can
come out successful is if he prevents
Nixon from redeeming himslef dur-
ing the interviews. What follows is
a truly gripping encounter, a box-
ing match where rethoric replaces
punches, psychological games replace
the footwork and thorough research
of the subject replaces powerful left
and right knock-out hooks.
Joining the rest of the audience
in the applause at the end, the lit-
tle eloquence I possess disappeared
completely and all I was left with
was a very surprised ‘wow’. Can
politics really be this interesting?
Films we love at Imperial
It’s pretty difficult to choose a favourite
film - what makes one film stand out
from the rest and warrant being cham-
pioned? For me, it’s the feeling I get
when I watch it – it’s the film I put on
when I need cheering up, or to regain
my faith in humanity! My favourite
film is ‘Howl’s Moving Castle’.
For those of you who have never
heard of it before, ‘Howl’s Moving
Castle’, or ‘Hauru No Ugoku Shiro’, is
a Japanese anime film directed by the
legend of the anime world, Hayao Mi-
yazaki. The story is set in a magical
land and tells a heartwarming and up-
lifting fairy tale.
To give you just a taste: there’s a cas-
tle which can be in four places at once;
there’sSophie,ayounggirltransformed
into an old woman by an evil witch;
there’s Howl, an extremely handsome,
but very vain wizard, as well as many
more imaginative yet surprisingly hu-
man characters. Classic escapism, and
yes, I love it!
‘Howl’s Moving Castle’ has a very un-
usual (for anime) mix of European and
Japanese styles due to the British novel
it is based on; think a quaint Austrian
town and steam trains with Miyazaki’s
distinct styling. I find the attention to
detail and character animation in the
film extraordinary - the castle alone is
breathtaking. Every frame would stand
alone as a true work of art, showing
traditional animation is anything but a
thing of the past.
In my opinion, anime is best watched
in Japanese (with English subtitles) -
the language it’s created in. However,
in this case, I would recommend the
English dubbing, as the film benefits
from the gorgeous Christian Bale as
Howl, screen legend Lauren Bacall as
old Sophie and Billy Crystal, who is hi-
larious as a fire demon.
Underlying the main story, as with
every Miyazaki movie, is an impor-
tant message. In this case, it is a very
strong anti-war message, along with
undercurrents of the power of love, in-
ner beauty, and self-esteem. All of this,
however, is done without being childish
or clichéd, which can happen so easily
in movies these days. Instead, it draws
you in and is so human, feels so true to
life, that even the most cynical person
(me) will be utterly convinced, despite
the film not having a particulary strong
storyline. Plus, and more importantly,
it gives you the warm and fuzzy feeling
that we all secretly love.
That’s the strangest castle I’ve ever seen. Where’s the moat?
Emma Stokes
Student
Imperial College students, lecturers and staff share their
treasured movies with felix. This week: Howl’s Moving Castle
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
If there’s a film you just can’t
stop talking about, a movie
that inspires you, a feature that
changed your life or one that is
your only remedy for a miser-
able day, we would love you to
write about it and have the guts
to share it with the rest of Impe-
rial, just like Emma.
Send a few hundred words
about the film you love to:
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Most people take for granted the fact
that they live in the ‘developed’ world,
a place where modern medicine,
plumbing and central heating are seen
as a basic human right. But as Gomor-
rah shows, Italy, a ‘developed’ country,
which is classified as one of the ‘Big
Five’ nations of Europe (along with
us), proves that aspects of the ‘devel-
oping’ world, such as complete poverty
and dog-eat-dog violence, can be a lot
closer to home.
Gomorrah tells the story of two ri-
val gangs living in and around a rough
council estate in Naples, Italy. But
these gangs are not how we would view
them. These young men do not sit at
the back of a bus in hoodies and blare
music from their mobile phones, nor
do they have huge ugly dogs to make
them look ‘hard’.
The youths in this film kill each other
for a living, deal drugs and help dump
toxic waste for Mafia crime lords as
part of their normal lives. And if you
want to be a part of the gang, all you
have to do is prove yourself as a man:
by being shot while wearing a bul-
let-proof vest. Although this sounds
shocking, and pretty average fare for a
normal gangster film, it makes the film
all the more disturbing to watch when
you know it is real.
Based on a true story written by Rob-
erto Saviano, Gomorrah begins with an
unexpected and jaw-dropping opening,
setting up a film that you know will be
completely unpredictable for the en-
tire journey, forcing undue tension in
the audience that stays with you for the
duration of the film’s 137 minutes.
The plot of gangland murders and
drug deals is told through the eyes of
several different characters, chopping
and changing abruptly as it jumps from
one life to another. The protagonists
with whom we ‘hang around’ vary
from the likeable Toto, a young boy
who works in a shop for his mother,
and the despicable Boxer and Pitbull,
two teenagers who aspire to be like
their hero Scarface and kill as many
people as they can.
As this is a slow-burning drama, it is
hard to actually explain a specific plot
thread as there are so many, but all of
them are portrayed in such a realis-
tic and terrifying way that you will be
compelled to stay in your seat until the
explosive conclusion.
The cast and director are just a few
of the reasons why Gomorrah is good
on so many different levels, as it also
raises a myriad of profound issues in-
cluding identity, poverty, and most
importantly, how people can live this
lifestyle on a day-to-day basis and con-
sider it ‘normal’.
This is edge-of-your-seat stuff that
is not for the faint of heart. It is, how-
ever, highly recommended for all those
who consider themselves to be ‘film
buffs’, as this is a well-crafted piece of
cinema.
Gomorrah is a film that combines
strong performances with raw realism.
Mix this together with the fact that you
know it all really happened, and you’re
left with a film that will haunt you for
days after watching it.
Raw to the core – Gomorrah
Gomorrah HHHHK
Director: Matteo Garrone
Writers: Various
Cast: Salvatore Abruzzese,
Simone Sacchettino,
Salvatore Ruocco,
Vincenzo Fabricino
Stealing guns from the Mafia can make you do strange things, like forgetting to put your clothes on.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
For those of you who are fans of Bat-
man Begins and the Resident Evil tril-
ogy, this is a film to watch out for, as it
is already causing a stir in film fanatic
circles. “Why?” you may ask.
Well, not only is Mark Wahlberg
starring in this computer game adap-
tation as the title character, a vengeful
policeman searching for retribution
against those responsible for the death
of his wife and child, but the cast also
includes Mila Kunis – who some may
recognise as Jackie in ‘That 70’s Show’
– as a sexy assassin who aids him in his
quest, as well as rapper Ludacris and
new Bond girl Olga Kurylenko.
Include stylish directing, an action-
packed plot and a whole lot of guns,
gore and girls – what more could you
ask for?
Jonathan Dakin
Coming soon:
Mark Wahlberg as Max Payne
Mark Wahlberg looks hot.
Competition
This week we have three DVD cop-
ies of Asylum to give away.
Asylum is a terrifying tale of a
group of undergraduate university
students discovering that their dor-
mitory was formerly an experimen-
tal mental health institution, which
soon reawakens their own buried
personal traumas.
This disturbing horror film will
be just the thing to watch from be-
hind the sofa while ignoring Trick
or Treaters on Halloween night.
If you would like to win Asylum
just in time for Halloween, then all
you have to do is answer the follow-
ing question:
What is the name of the se-
rial killer in the Halloween
movies?
Send your answer to film.felix@
imperial.ac.uk before 29th Octo-
ber. Winners will be announced in
next weeks edition!
© 2007 Mad Scientist Inc. All Rights
Reserved
Prizes courtesy of Entertainment in Video

