nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Catherine Jones (CJ)
“What’s the Matter with you, eh?”
Nightlife Editor CJ, puts the new multi-million pound nightclub at the O2 comes under the spotlight
R
ecently built in what was
oncetheMillenniumDome
in London’s Docklands,
Matter is a huge 2,600
capacity venue. Brought
to you by the co-creators of Fabric, it
hosts mixed gig and club nights, lur-
ing club-goers out of central London
with massive headline acts, such as the
mighty Hot Chip. Matter is a bit of an
out-of-town club superstore.
Much hyped, judging by the Fresh-
er’s week leaflet campaign, the club
launched on September 18th, start-
ing with a series of mixed indie/dance
nights, all falling under the ironic title
of “This is Not London”. Previous at-
tendees range from dance favourites,
Simian Mobile Disco and Armand Van
Helden, to indie’s Reverend and the
Makers and Mystery Jets.
Last Saturday, Matter hosted Moshi
Moshi Records’ 10th birthday party.
Moshi Moshi Records are a London-
based indie label, with a large array of
talent, including Bloc Party, on their
books. The party featured a strong line
up; Hot Chip, Kate Nash, and Florence
and the Machine, amongst others.
It was a successful night overall, at-
tracting a hip indie crowd. Headliners
Hot Chip played a storming live set,
the fantastic sound system doing jus-
tice to their talented percussion sec-
tion. A moshing/dancing combination
was evident on the packed dance floor.
Elsewhere, James Yulli was a particular
favourite in Room Two.
Matter, on first impressions, seemed
stark, sleek and kind-of-cool. Propor-
tioned on an industrial scale, Matter
looks very much like a warehouse. The
interiors: smooth concrete, lit dramati-
cally with coloured neon light. It has a
cinematic quality, evocative of a futur-
istic sci-fi film.
The main room is very impressive
both architecturally and technically.
The sound quality was excellent, with
stunning visual projections on either
side of the stage. Those avoiding the
downstairs can congregate around
the upper floor balconies, still with
an excellent view of the stage. If your
stomach is strong enough, the best
views in the house are on the precari-
ous-looking Indiana Jones style bridge,
suspended 50m above the dance floor.
(This is prime pulling territory).
Overall, the phrase “total design”
springs to mind. The sheer care taken
over design is evident, using innova-
tive technology to enhance the dance
floor. The idea is, by pumping out
certain bass frequencies to your feet
through speakers embedded in the
dance floor, you feel a stronger urge to
dance, as your brain’s perception in-
volves processing vibrational informa-
tion too .
Also worth a mention are the gen-
erous bar and toilet facilities. The bars
and the bar staff were so numerous, you
could just nonchalantly stroll over and
order a drink at your leisure. Drinks
were reasonably priced. £4 for a spirit
and mixer is not too outrageous.
The catch; getting there was by no
means straightforward. Tedious would
be a polite description.
With the tube shut for engineering
work, we chose to travel the fabulous
way, taking the special Thames Clipper
services to the O2. Or so we thought,
forgetting that in London you can nev-
er rely on public transport. Imagine
our dismay on arriving at the pier, on
time, as planned, only to find the only
boat in the vicinity was a party boat.
Karaoke was in full swing, trashed
party guests singing along to the Dirty
Dancing soundtrack. After much con-
fusion, and time wasted, Waterloo pier
prevailed. The Thames clipper journey
was beautiful, as you might expect,
and worth a trip in its own right. As a
transport form though, it’s too extrava-
gant at £5/£6 each way (Oyster is not
accepted).
The most disappointing aspect of
the evening: the cold, quiet 15 minute
walk to the club entrance from the
pier. Perhaps it’d been to take the tube
to Greenwich North. Compared with
the buzz of people and sound in cen-
tral London, this was about as exciting
as walking through a supermarket car
park on a Sunday afternoon. (Which
reminds me; there’s not a single late
night food vendor! )
My verdict: besides Hot Chips’
storming percussive set in the main
room, I did not really take to Matter.
Yes, it was clearly purpose-built, but it
felt too clinical and humourless. Mat-
ter is definitely not a place to go for
those who like nightclubs small and
quirky. Like an out-of-town superstore,
it produces the goods with a top qual-
ity line up, but it could do with more
charm.
Matter
HHHHK
‘This is Not London’ presents
Moshi Moshi Records’ 10th
Birthday Party.
Best: Hot Chip
Worst: Travel issues
Go for...: The impressive head-
line acts.
Price: £17.50
“This is not London” continues this weekend, with Justice on Saturday night. Advance tickets have sold out, but if you want to risk the journey, 300 tickets are available on the door.
Photography by Lucy Sterne
Photography by Lucy Sterne
Photography by Lucy Sterne
Photography by Lucy Sterne
only
£1.50
a pint!
imperialcollegeunion.org/ents
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB
The Union encourages responsible drinking. R.O.A.R. Student I.D. Required.
The best value
Wednesday night in town!
Every Wednesday Night at the Union
20:00 - 01:00
Act. Normal.
(they won’t suspect a thing)
Friday 24 October
20:00-02:00
A new rave indie disco. Dance to D.I.Y disco. Indie
electro punk rock, Old Skool, Hip Hop with a kick
back of Grime plus a flavour of 80s and 90s retro pop.
COLIN MURRAY
Friday 31 October
20:00 - 02:00

