felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Footballers’ frolics in Eastern
Europe
Mustapher Botchway
Imperial College Football Club
T
our started at the union
with Tapeworm (Simon
Kilroy) masquerading in
his Friday night at Fabric
attire, a mankini. Before I
reveal that he was duly twatted in his
nether-regions with a football, a brief
introduction to tour shall be given.
Every year, ICUAFC gallivant to an
overseas country, normally in Eastern
Europe to bring their unorthadox but
celebrated methods of socialising to the
region. In addition, the beautiful game
that is Matchbox is played, alongside
the optional football matches.
Last summer, the destinations were
Prague and Berlin. Tour secretary
Skypesex, less often known as Chris
Parrott packed the 8 days away with a
multitude of activities, the first being a
plane flight.
The year before, the less organised
tour sec made us wing it to Bulgaria.
Upon arrival at Prague and getting
the hostels sorted, IC dined at what
happened to be a “Perfect Restaurant”.
The more cultured among us went to
McDonald’s.
Club Mecca was the first club
ICUAFC graced with their presence.
Disappoint they did not with electro,
sunglasses in the dark, upper half nu-
dity, vodka, stage climbing and “shark-
ing” all taking place. Club Mecca was
also the destination where it was dis-
covered that some Americans which
were present in the union in the spring
term had followed us from said place
to Prague. The claim that they hid in
the baggage area of the aeroplane are
yet to be verified. For more details on
the early morning jaunts ask Vertical
Rat (Alex De Figueiredo).
The next morning (Sunday) had us
practice the unlawful activity of drink
driving. Go karting was eventful with
Chromosone (Alex Childs) managing
to break a kart, the track, his phone
and knob within two laps of the cir-
cuit. Fastest man on the day went
to Michael Hughes, in which he cel-
ebrated by playing table football with
the track owner’s daughter whilst the
rest went back to the hostel - the 5th
floor of a historic building, with no lift,
a floor above a police station - to let the
hangovers have their fun.
In preparation for the first of three
football matches, Moonface (Mitchell
Fern) and others were rewarded for
their carefree, blazé manner by being
accosted by what I can only describe
as a sex salesman. Amongst the stand-
ard patter of offering opportunities
to solicit with barely legal fe/males,
Moonface commended the salesman’s
inclusive nature. He politely declined
attending and/or participating in an
erotic burlesque featuring people of
all creeds, heights, weights and sexu-
al (gender) preferences. Jake Tucker
(Christopher Killin) on the other hand
couldn’t resist.
Roger (Ed Lobb) naturally assumed
the role as the coach Imperial College
Tour Football Club, managing to give a
game to all thirty-something IC foot-
ballers, in their first match against FC
Bankovni Balet. After a spirted display
from 2.7% of the team, Green Card
(Sam Rickards), IC lost 3-1.
The stadium in which the match was
played holds over 100 000 people. The
End.
After the match, IC’s local Prague
guide and some of the home team play-
ers joined IC as they played Matchbox
in a bar. The UEFA European Cup Final
happened to be on in the background.
The evening’s events started at Ba-
talion, a 24 hour pub. Prince Harry
(Frank O’Neill) was on majestic form
with his pint ingesting and sleeping at
the bar abilities.
Monday morning brought the inter-
nal beach football competition, which
S. Analdonkeyjuicelover (Sim Ananda-
jeyarajah), Barack Obama (Yours Tru-
ly) and Prince Charles (Adrian Doyle)
missed due to the inability of the rest
of the touring party to knock on their
room door when it was time to go.
Shite Garo (Michael Donovan) scored
an overhead kick, which did just about
nothing in his attempts to rein in his
ego inflation problem.
The beer crawl given by an unsus-
pecting but extremely helpful Czech
local occupied the evening. After
walking for 45 minutes in search for
the first beer, which set us back 80
shiny pennies and which happened to
be in another football stadium, Prince
Charles decided to make up for miss-
ing the beach football by necking a
glass of vodka with ananas (pineapple)
juice between each watering hole.
Nearing the end of the night he
passed out near a crossroad. There is
widespread debate about the cause
of this sudden loss of consciousness.
Some say the alcohol, some point to the
discussion that took place between Dil-
bert (Scott Mckenzie), Steve Mclaren
(Pete Hunt), Green Card and Burkin-
žralok (Louis Burkinshaw) about who
the best player in the club was.
Rumours that Phalludopoulos
(Michael Pursey) slept on the pave-
ment floor outside the club - a 5 story
building catering for all needs: 1st
floor being a cloak room with cheesy
muic, 2nd floor housing a strip club,
3rd floor being a dance club, 4th floor
a quiet room, full of books and board
games and the 5th floor being home to
a 60s and 70s disco room - IC ended up
in after the crawl have been verified.
FC Predni were the opponents for
the second match of tour. Roger, this
time fortified with a mostly sober team
and a pen and paper, produced a tacti-
cian’s masterclass at halftime when the
scores were locked at nil a piece. Mak-
ing an 11 man substitution, ICUAFC
went on to win 3 - 0.
The second event scheduled by Sky-
pesex was a train ride from Prague to
Berlin the next morning. Drew Peacock
(Ricky Verra) armed with some music
produced perfect conditions for a rave.
Naturally some ambassadors and their
daughters joined in the festivities, with
the club producing their best rendi-
tions of classic jumpen hits.
Shite Garo, Obama and Snout Jimmy
(Adam Gill) had so much fun that they
decided to miss the Berlin train station
and continue to Hamburg.
Back at Berlin the first stop was the
Circus hostel bar, home of the infa-
mous boot challenge. Finish it in under
90 seconds and keep the boot, under
three minutes and you receive the al-
cohol à gratis. Prince Charles devised a
plan to successfully complete the boot
later on that week.
The fascination or beaches didn’t
stop there as the touring party left Cir-
cus hostel bar to a nightclub with said
theme. Geldautomat (Daniel Wilson)
did his tour shirt proud by making
a large withdrawal. The next day IC
found a group of randomers to play a
football match with. Tag-Along (Noah
Stevens), Brokeback (Simon Parker)
and Mountain (Stewart Masters) de-
cided to stage a mini tour Bola Bola
between themselves. The first round
was completed as the final whistle of
the match went.
The next day, Roger, Barack, Moon-
face, Shite Garo, Snout Jimmy and
Beadle (Jeremy Lovett) took part in a
Scrabble tournament. The end.
Rematch (Justin Winehouse) decid-
ed that Erol Alkan wasn’t up to scratch
at the nightclub and mitigated his dis-
pleasure by creating some oragami be-
fore passing out in the beer garden.
The final match arrived on the penul-
timate day of tour and it was a fiercely
contested match against the Berlin
branch of one of ICUAFC’s sponsors,
KPMG. It being Romain’s - whose tour
name is particularly offensive - birth-
day that day he thought it would be
good to score from fifty yards, minutes
after having a glass of gin. So he did.
The final night of tour was shared
with Romain’s birthday, which meant
one thing, kebabs and alcohol. After
the Italian restaurant reneged on IC’s
booking, they decided to have kebabs
before witnessing Prince Charles’ at-
tempt to complete the boot. Romain
got lost on the 100 yard walk from the
kebab shop to Circus hostel bar and
this delayed proceedings for an hour.
Shatters (James Skeen) decided to fly in
from the UK to share our final night on
tour and fail in trying to drink a boot.
Prince Charles successfully finished
the boot which left IC in good spirits
for the tour awards ceremony.
Man of tour went to Chromosone
for his antics which included losing all
of his belongings at the train rave and
dressing up as a phallus on the pub
crawl.
Player of tour went to Roger for man-
aging the 4 matches and producing a
75% win rate.
A special mention goes to Chris Par-
rott for organising what is thought of
as one the best football tours in recent
club history. The time and planning
done was incredible and it showed, as
there wasn’t a day where the club didn’t
have anything to occupy themselves
with, thereby producing an excellent
club event which will be remembered
for many years to come.
Clockwise from bottom left: Footballers atop a Berlin monument; Coach Lobb and squad; Das Boot; The Tour mantra, revealed on the pub crawl

