4 felix Friday 24 October 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
News
Commemoration Day 2008
A
s many students enjoyed
a welcome day off from
lectures,arecordnumber
of graduands congregat-
ed in the austere setting
of the Royal Albert Hall and received
the piece of paper that affirms years of
study. Amidst the pomp and ceremo-
ny, history was being made as roughly
half of the graduands, for the first time
since Imperial broke away from Uni-
versity of London, received Imperial
College London degrees.
Imperial Graduation ceremonies
used to be low-key affairs but after
WWII it was decided to make the
degree ceremony a major event. Of-
ficially known as Commemoration
Day, it dates back to the visit of King
George VI and the Queen Mother in
1945. The graduation ceremony was
organised to coincide with the visit
which commemorated the 100th an-
niversary of the founding of the Royal
College of Chemistry. The ceremony,
which celebrated the oldest of Impe-
rial’s constituent institutions, became a
commemoration of Imperial students
achievements, the first being held in
1948; although it was not held in the
Royal Albert Hall back then.
FromRoyalorigins,Commemoration
day has become an important event in
the calendar and is an opportunity for
the Rector to advance his vision for
the coming year (and perhaps defend
his judgement from the previous. For
Sir Roy Anderson it was the first time
he has come face to face with a large
number of Imperial students (albeit
graduating students) and a chance to
introduce himself to the student body
at large.
Similar to the school assemblies
witnessed in many schools across the
country, the ceremony started with the
procession of various members of the
college, as well as the presidents of the
faculty unions and the main Imperial
College Union [ICU]. Once everyone
was in their seats, ICU President Jenny
Morgan, gave her welcome speech to
all the graduates: a speech which was
changed this year so as to give a better
representation of the students at the
College. Following on from her speech,
it was the turn of the new Rector Sir
Roy Anderson to give his first Com-
felix Editor in Chief, and graduate of the College, Jovan Nedić describes his experience of the day
memoration Day Speech.
There were two main themes to the
Rector’s speech this year: the first was
the “increasing role of science, technol-
ogy, medicine and business studies in
addressing the major issues facing the
world today.” The second was focused
on the “issues facing higher education
and research in the UK, and how Im-
perial is hoping to respond to the chal-
lenges ahead.”
Talking about the first point, Sir An-
derson went on to say that “many be-
lieve – and I am among them – that
the most urgent and pressing need is
for intensive research worldwide to
develop alternative sources of energy.”
With most of today’s funding focus-
ing on defence, the Rector went on to
say that “research that will make cheap
carbon capture a reality, or that will
provide carbon-free energy sources –
such as wind, waves and solar – is not
adequately supported.” In previous
years, universities were the main focal
point of pioneering research, and there
is definitely a need to shift the focus
back on them. Imperial already has a
research programme into novel energy
methods, with the Rector saying that
“this will expand greatly in the coming
few years.”
The clear message seemed to be that
universities, and in particular Impe-
rial, will need to do more in the field
of new energy sources, something that
I am sure many students and even in-
dustries will find welcoming. However,
this then led onto the Rectors second
topic of the day, where he went on to
say that “The UK science budget more
than doubled between 1997 and 2000
and in the same period research and
development [R&D] expenditure in-
creased by more than 20 per cent in
real terms.
However, despite this, we still spend
less in these areas than most of the ma-
jor world economies.” In essence, the
Rector was pointing out the fact that
not enough funding is given to these
areas of research, and that potentially,
the government should do more to in-
crease it if we are to ever get a feasible
solution to the energy problem.
Aside from the theme of research, Sir
Roy Anderson went on to talk about the
achievements of the College, in par-
ticular coming 6th in the world in the
recent Times Higher Education Survey
[THES], as well as the employer satis-
faction with Imperial graduates which
is ranked equal with Harvard, Yale,
Cambridge and Oxford. The Rector
also commented on the high number
of international students, 46% last year,
remarking that this “is enormously to
our benefit.” However this is a view
that many don’t share since although
many view the high number of inter-
national students as an indication of
the world class reputation of Imperial
College, others view it as detrimental
to the UK students who wish to study
at a world class institute. The high
calibre of Imperial students was also
brought up in the speech, as well as the
increasing pressure for providing ac-
commodation for first years students,
with Sir Anderson commenting that
“We cannot continue on this path. We
have therefore started to trial our own
entrance examinations with the intent
of introducing them in 2010.”
With the speeches finished, it was fi-
nally time for the graduands to go on
stage. Owing to the large number of
people graduating, everyone was told
not to applaud, except for the prize
winners. Contrary to popular belief,
graduands didn’t receive any form of
documentation, nor did they shake
the Rector’s hand. Instead every new
graduate of the College went up to
the stage and shook the hand of Lord
Kerr of Kinlochard, the Chairman of
the Court and of the Council, followed
by the Principal of their respective
faculty.
After the long and mundane task of
watching everyone go up on stage, it
was then the turn of the new fellows,
honorary graduates and associates of
the college to get their awards. This was
thenfollowedbythepresentationofthe
new pastoral care awards, who went to
Dr Bob Forsyth from the department
of Physics, Karen MacDonald from
the Centre for Environmental Policy
and finally to Dr Gabrielle Sinnadurai
from the department of Computing.
Dr Gabrielle Sinnadurai unfortunately
passed away before Commemoration
Day, and in honour of her efforts and
achievements through her time at the
College, the awards will in future be
named in her memory.
The ceremony ended with Lord Kerr
of Kinlochard giving a few anecdotes
to the slowly tiring students, as well
as thanking all the parents and staff
who had been there for their students
throughout their time at College.
With the ceremony finally over, the
new graduates went their separate
ways for official photographs, which
could cost as much as £55, followed
by lunch with family and friends. The
night ended with many converging on
the Union for possibly the last time as
a year group. The day was long, the
day was tiring, the day was expensive
(costs ranged between £30 and £175)
but it will certainly be one to remem-
ber for all the students involved.
The procession at the start of the ceremony, with the student officers and academic staff.
Left: Sir Roy Anderson giving his first Commemoration Day speech, whilst a student receives his congratulation from the Chairman on the right
The class of ‘08 talk thrills and spills
While the rest of you enjoyed a day off, felix interviewed graduates about their time at this great institution
Steph Alexopoulos
Biology BSc
What did you think of your course?
My undergrad went by really fast! I really liked my course, and being at
Imperial, enough to stay here to do graduate entry medicine.
What do you miss about being an undergraduate?
Miss being on campus now that she’s based at different hospitals, not
just going and meeting on the Queens lawn for lunch.
Do you have any advice for freshers starting your course?
Try to put things into perspective and make the most of your 1st year,
when you have time to branch out and try different societies
What has changed most about Imperial in your time here?
The most noticeable changes on campus have been superficial- such
as the library redevelopment, I expect there to be bigger changes by
the time I finish my post graduate medicine degree!
Tim Keating
Mechnical Engineering
MEng
Are you happy with your degree?
I’m really happy with my degree and, despite the imperial stigma, I really enjoyed my time here. I think uni-
versity is what you make of it- if you come here with no preconceptions and get involved you’ll have a good
time. The sports and social clubs I’ve been involved in helped me both socially and academically:
Didn’t you spend a lot of your time playing for ULU not Imperial though?
While at Imperial, I played for ULU waterpolo, winning 3 BUSA gold medals and was team captain for a year.
Playing for a ULU team was a great way of meeting people from other colleges and finding out about differ-
ent parts of London.
Do you have any advice for freshers starting your course?
In your first term, do no work, just enjoy yourself!
What are you doing now?
I’m now working full time for Rolls Royce on a graduate training program, I would definitely recommend do-
ing a graduate program, you end up working with lots of people in the same boat.
Looking back, would you do anything differently?
I’m pretty happy with my time at Imperial, possibly I drank a bit too much and should have concentrated
more in second year. Oh, and I’d go to Camden more, and Shoreditch!
Dr Simon Leather, lecturer in applied ecology:
“I enjoy commemoration day, supporting all
the students I have worked with and finding out
what they are doing now”
Alex Dorobantu
Aeronautical
Engineering MEng
Are you happy with your degree?
I didn’t enjoy it too much, I don’t like that Aero has no real pastoral culture, this was especially pronounced as
I came straight from a secondary school with a good pastoral atmosphere. However, I do think the situation
has improved since my first year.
What did you enjoy most about Imperial?
I was part of the mountaineering club, which was really good fun. I definitely recommend getting involved in
some sort of club. Other things I enjoyed were Pembridge hall in 1st year and the felix cryptic crosswords,
we used to take the really big ones away on weekend mountaineering trips with us!
What did you think of the graduation ceremony?
Lord Kerr of Kinlogh’s speech was really funny, he made the ceremony for me! I feel sorry for anyone who
decided not to go.
If you had the chance to go back, what would you do differently?
I’d get an Ace Ventura hair cut. Can you photo-shop my photo to have it?
Helen Sinclair
Katerina Neou-North
Helga Magnussan
Biochemistry BSc
Andrew Sommervile
Physics BSc
How do you feel about your
time at Imperial?
When I was at Imperial, I re-
ally felt that all was learning to
do is how to selectively revise.
Now that I’ve left though, every-
one on the outside world treats
me like a genius [because I did
physics at Imperial], so I must
have done something right!
What will you miss the most?
The Felix office. Actually, I think
that’s the only thing I will miss!
What will you miss most?
Mainly the social life- we had some really good
friends within our course.
What advice would you give to freshers?
Have as much fun as possible in your first year be-
cause 3rd year is a lot of work!
What would you change if you had the chance to
go back and do it again?
Nothing! Seriously, We would put a bit more work
in during second year and make more of an effort to
be sociable in first year.
Are you enjoying graduation?
Yes! It’s really great to see everyone

