comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Comment
8 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
A. Geek enters a world of pain
A. Geek
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
T
here is no such thing as ab-
solute freedom of speech,
expression,beliefetc;there
are always restrictions on
how free you can be (and
that’s self-censorship aside). When it
comes to factually reporting on or fic-
tionally describing celebrities, political
figures, or religious characters, there is
no absolute right or freedom to insult
or denigrate that person.
There is however an appetite, in light
of the status quo, to push the bounda-
ries of expression, within the norms
and the tastes of the “civilized society”.
The civilized society, in this case, is
the Western world, with its values of
‘freedom’, as defined by its norms, its
like and dislikes. It is this ‘freedom’ lov-
ing society that evangelically chooses
to impart its values to the rest of the
world, through coercion and bullying.
It is this ‘freedom’ loving society that
screams from mountaintops, when
anyone dares to question the concept
of ‘freedom’. It is the vanguards of this
society that call people terrorists, for
responding to and being offended by
insults.
Terrorists? Which terrorist groups
does Caz refer to anyway? Clearly it
is not Aum Shinrikyo (Japan), Babbar
Khalsa International (India), the IRA
or even ETA (of Spain). Will anyone
even entertain the idea that these ter-
rorists groups would cause trouble for
the author of the book (the Jewel of
Medina)? Caz quite unashamedly has
used conformist self-censorship, to be
as vague as possible, to not be (seen) as
racist, or Islamophobic, but we know
that it means Muslims. The implicit
advice to Muslims is, if you don’t ac-
cept this book as a work of fiction, but
take offence, then you are a terrorist.
So much for freedom when it comes
to issues that really matter. The BAE
cash-for-contracts scandal, where
there was a genuine public interest to
know the facts, ended with the fraud
investigation being cancelled. Tony
Blair trumped freedom with “issues of
national security”. During Lord Levy’s
cash-for-honours questions, the courts
stopped the BBC from making any ref-
erence to the story. In 2004, George
Galloway won £150k libel damages
from the Daily Telegraph. Justin Tim-
berlake was awarded substantial libel
damages in 2003, when the News of
World wrongly claimed he had cheated
on Cameron Diaz. Papers can’t argue
that it’s their “freedom to make up sto-
ries”. There are many cases of near fac-
tual (not even fictional stories) made
up about businesses and persons; and
there is no Freedom to make such li-
belous statements because they might
cause damage or injury to the said
persons or businesses. If, however, the
subject is a community, or even better
a religious group, then it’s open season
for attacks.
The very author of the book, Sherry
Jones, who is quoted as saying “this is
about the free world, the future of de-
mocracy, and the future of freedom
of speech so I’m not going to abdicate
that responsibility”, highlights the hy-
pocrisy of Freedom of Speech further.
When the University of Texas profes-
sor Denise Spellberg negatively re-
viewed her book, Ms Jones demanded
Ms Spellberg retract her comments,
saying they are “unfair” and “slander-
ous”. Ms Jones is on record saying she
“used the most inflammatory language
[she] could possibly have used. If you
want to incite heated emotions from
any religious group you just use the
word ‘pornography’ in the same sen-
tence as their revered figures”.
The hypocrisy of ‘freedom of speech’
Gilead Amit
I
’m thinking of buying a laptop.
No, don’t get me wrong. I don’t
want your advice. I don’t want
you to even visualise it, just
keep on reading and avoid the
urge to daydream about the decades
of my life you’d waste describing how
PCI Express works. Buying a laptop
is the sort of manly endeavour that
must be undertaken entirely alone, just
you and your chest hair, cutting down
PC World employees with a machete
made of cash.
Like all manly endeavours, the first
step is to convince the woman in your
life to allow you to do it; readers may
recall last year’s hilarious wrist injury,
and the last thing my girlfriend wants
is another fortnight where I have a
legitimate reason to replace washing
up with three hours of left-handed
YouTube browsing.
Since the model I have my eyes on
– the bonsai-style EEE PCs – have a
keyboard squeezed into the surface
area of a church mouse’s pocket watch,
there are concerns that I might trigger
a flare-up if I spent hours at a time tap-
ping away on one.
However, she needn’t worry, because
the odds of me ever purchasing an
Internets In A Box are pretty fucking
slim. Why? Because JUST LOOK AT
THE DEALS WE’VE GOT ON!!!
Yes. I’m standing wedged between an
inane grin and a five hundred pound
waste of silicon, and someone actually
says”This laptop has a huge five hun-
dred gigs hard drive, so you can store
all your music and photos!”
Is… is that an actual line from the
advert? Why yes. Yes it is. I consider
asking him about that but then decide
it would be akin to opening a kettle of
exploding worms, so instead I calmly
point out that I don’t need a laptop that
expensive, I merely need something
to carry around and do a bit of word
processing on.
“This laptop has the Intel Core 2 Duo
processor!”
I’m not entirely sure how that’s ben-
eficial, so I calmly point out the one
that I’ve been looking at. It looks like
something from Battlestar Galactica,
and it even has the metallic-blue finish
for when you really need to look like a
tosser in lectures.
“Okay, sure. We should have one in
stock, I’ll find out for you.”
He disappears.
He doesn’t come back.
Now, I’ve worked in a shop before, so
I know that anything can happen to you
when you’re just walking around and
they generally involve you being given
really terrible jobs to do, like empty-
ing three hundred litres of rotten milk
down a toilet, snorting the dandruff off
the visiting area manager’s shoulder
pads or something obscene involving
a supply cupboard and four hundred
mouldy cucumbers. But it was still a
little bit strange to be left in amidst a
graveyard of display models, waiting
for help that would never come.
Still.
That was fine. I didn’t need help. Why
would I need help? I’m a child of the in-
ternet generation! I can make these de-
cisions autonomously and handle this
socially complex situation with aplomb
and charm. I approach the nearest dis-
ciple of the purple cloth. She looks like
a thirty year-old, but a thirty year-old
who was beaten viciously by her twen-
ties. Using a bat made out of pure Ugly
Tree cutoffs.
“Hi, can I help you?” she offers.
I’m thinking probably not, but she
can at least get me a box with a laptop
in it and a barcode on the front. I ex-
plain the laptop I want and she takes
me over to the exact fucking same “five
hundred gigs” laptop I began the cru-
sade at. Before we go any further I ex-
plain to her that I know what I need to
know about the laptop.
“Okay. Do you know about our offer
on mobile broadband?”
I do not, and yet I’m immediately
struck by the idea that I probably don’t
want to know, so I cunningly tell her I
do, like the smooth operator I am. We
proceed onto the actual laptop.
“Oh, this one.” She says, stopping at
the piece in question. “Yeah, we’re still
doing this, hang on, let me get you
one.”
She disappears. A few minutes pass,
and I get that uneasy feeling that Jere-
my Beadle is haunting me from beyond
the grave, camera in hand. Fortunately,
this time she reappears.
“So, you’ll need a few documents to
sign up with the broadband.”
“Sorry, what?”
“The broadband. The mobile broad-
band? Laptop comes free?”
“No, no, I don’t want the broadband.”
I explain, making hand gestures which
subconsciously become a stabbing
motion.
“Oh. I’m sorry. I don’t think we can
sell it on its own, let me check.”
She goes to check. She doesn’t come
back. A sprightly, balding man comes
over and asks me if I need any help.
I go home and find it on Amazon.
Send your “I Told You So”s in to anan-
grygeek@googlemail.com. Please allow
3-5 days for delivery of responses.
I
s it evening where you are? I
could never handle the writer-
reader timezone difference
properly, you see. I could go
with the assumption that you’re
reading this assiduously in your Friday
morning lectures, but that seems as
unlikely as the assumption that you go
to your Friday morning lectures. It’s far
more likely that you’re reading this on
Monday afternoon, sipping your free
coffee in the SCR, scanning me briefly
on Tuesday morning as you walk into
Beit quad, or lifting your exhausted
eyelids in a departmental common
room late on a Thursday evening. If
that is in fact what you’re doing, try not
to be overly spooked out. Unless your
name is James, you have a mole behind
your left ear and are currently resisting
the urge to do something amusing with
a spoon. Stop that.
Wherever and whenever you are, at-
tempting to cater to all of you is giving
me a pretty bad case of emotional jet-
lag. Because the time of day you read
something has a significant impact on
your ‘relationship with the text’., to use
a pointless A-levelism. To those early
birds among you, good morning. If
I’ve caught you early enough, you’re
still ensconced in your warm, protec-
tive sconces, game for some whimsi-
cal raillerie before the day’s tribula-
tions commence. For those of you at
GMT+5 (noon, Gilead Mean Time),
we’re playing an entirely different ball
game. You’ve got things on your mind,
places to go and deadlines to meet. If
it’s after lunch time then someone has
probably already had the time to annoy
you. You want good old-fashioned in-
vective and a liberal dose of vitriol, ac-
companied with a light cliche sauce to
assure you of the righteousness of your
wrath. Those of you reading this in the
evening, however, are probably looking
for something different.
The dying hours of the day are really
remarkable. In the preceding hours the
mind has been compressed, extended,
jumped on, forced into boxes, forced
to extract itself from boxes, attacked,
teased, threatened, soothed, twisted,
numbed and generally mistreated. It
is, to put it simply, exhausted. The
electronics of the human mind have
been ripped out of their sockets come
sundown, and strange currents and
unusual connections start to appear.
Things make sense in the dark that
never made sense in the daytime and
Too many mornings by the Albert Hall
will never make sense again. Ideas
click, phrases form, theories spring
into being and problems vanish. The
evening is the best time for a writer to
be read at, as one doesn’t have to go out
there to fetch the emotional reactions:
the hearts of the readers come to you.
So I’m hoping it’s evening, your time.
It’s God-knows-what-time on my end -
I started writing this on Tuesday morn-
ing and by the time I’ve reached this
sentence it’s five o’clock on a Wednes-
day afternoon. But let’s not talk about
me. If it is evening where you are, look
up. No no. Stand outside and look up.
And while I realize the inherent stu-
pidity of my giving you instructions
to look up while blatantly forcing you
to look down, genuinely take a look at
the stars. Take a minute. Don’t worry
about me. I’ll wait.
Now when was the last time you did
that? Don’t worry – this isn’t another
panegyric about the rare beauty of the
cosmos or an opportunity to show off
my knowledge of astronomy. The ex-
tent of my understanding is that if you
look very carefully under Orion’s belt,
you may be able to see the Big Dipper.
Or at least, that’s what he calls it.
No, my central theme this week is
a microscopic one. About the size of
Antares in the night sky. All I want to
point out is how easily things can get
out of your control. To take the mun-
dane example that has come to sym-
bolize what I mean, there was a time
quite recently when I saw the stars on
a regular basis. Since I arrived in Lon-
don thirteen months ago, I have only
actively searched for them on five oc-
casions. Five times.
And while there’s nothing wrong
with not looking for the stars, it was a
strange realization to tilt my head up-
wards and see a pinpoint-on-black pat-
tern that had become unfamiliar to me.
There. That’s all I have to say. That was
the centre of this piece: unfortunately
not accompanied by Michael Palin
wearing a dress and carrying a small
sign. Just a small point; blink and you’d
have missed it.
The reason this suddenly struck me
was because, over the past few weeks,
I’ve had the opportunity to see the
Moon from a bewildering array of van-
tage points within throwing distance
of the Albert Hall. No matter how of-
ten you see it, the Moon at 01:30 in
the morning is an ethereally beautiful
sight. It has also pervaded our Roman-
tic mythos to an amazing degree; and
while I am of the Wodehousean belief
that the fact that it rhymes with ‘June’
is largely responsible, there is no get-
ting away from its exhilarating purity.
A seemingly perfect white circle in a
black sky, reflecting all the cyclical pat-
terns of human existence, there is no
mystery over why the Moon is such a
constant feature of love songs, poems,
paintingsandmythologies.Becausethe
Moon is, at the end of the day, the art-
ist’s closest companion. The one face
that unites any creative soul desperate
to catch the midnight wave of inspira-
tion, looking on its blank expression
out of the nearest window. The light
which shines over whatever we do in
the godforsaken hours of the morning
when we can fool ourselves into believ-
ing the world has gone to sleep, and
that we are alone with our talents.
For an object with one-sixth the value
of Earth’s gravity, it exerts an entirely
disproportionate attraction over us.
Anything can be fixed/built with foam
JellyBean
I
f you’re a fresher you might not
yet realize the magnitude of the
ridiculous debacle that is deal-
ing with landlords. Indeed you
might well visit a flat later in the
year and be shocked at the mess some
students live in; (don’t worry: it wears
off). But student accommodation, my
friends, is a beautiful, beautiful thing.
My personal sty has such features as:
multiple cupboard doors attached
upside-down (you’d better hope that
attaching doors was a fairly simple
process, or at least that having made
one mistake you’d not make another)
a train and traffic powered earthquake
simulation feature that triggers every
five minutes and beds that collapse
spontaneously alongside yellowing
kitchen lino and dodgy plumbing (i.e.
toilets that flush upward).
Great! It is nice too to see the attempt
to create a more homely feel with the
addition of framed pictures on the wall,
though the effect is rather lost when
you notice the Victorian rural black-
smith scene is repeated three times
in one room. (Actually an artsy-type
friend of mine pointed out that this
was very Campbell and was perhaps
an inadvertent work of artistic gen-
ius). My friend in the flat downstairs
still has a chandelier adorning the high
ornamented ceiling of his two-’bed’
open-plan kitchen left over from who-
knows-when. It glares down disap-
provingly, dripping with contempt and
cut-glass globules, powerless to oust
the hygiene-oblivious plebeians that
now live there.
After you get over the fact that your
Italian landlords accept rent in cash
only and count it in French whilst clear-
ly having connections to some form of
mafia group from back home, the only
real issue is maintenance, (assuming of
course that you managed to persuade
them to get you a fridge before the
Christmas break). Most of the handy-
men that I have known to visit stu-
dent accommodation, I suspect, don’t
actually have opposable thumbs (and
therefore probably don’t deserve the
title). One came to mend my window
frame and a chest of drawers. When
he left, there was lots of mess, he had
hammered things and removed most
of the crinkly old paint but I swear he
actually changed nothing. But this was
nothing compared to what my friend
experienced.
There are mice in the kitchen, the
stairs are a bit wonky and smoke keeps
coming up from the basement flat.
What do you expect the ‘handy-man’
to arrive with? A few tubes of expand-
ing foam. Apparently, any problem can
be solved by a Pole with expanding
foam. With it you can fill up gaps in
the kitchen skirting board and prevent
the entry of mice. Fair enough, but the
thing was that, rather than moving
the fridge to access the wall behind he
simply placed a couple of blobs either
side of it (coming dangerously near to
sealing the freezer door closed); as if
mice can’t climb over three inches of
the stuff.
You can also place vast quantities
around the door frame adjoining the
basement and use up the excess on the
staircase. Of course, you must be hon-
est about the material in use, so avoid
tidying up the overflow with anything
more than a half-hearted hack with a
Stanley knife.
This got me thinking, is there any
DIY problem that can’t be solved with
expanding foam? I figured if you can
make furniture from nothing but the
stuff, you can pretty much mend any-
thing, right? So in the interest of push-
ing the boundaries of Material Science
I gave it a go. A tube can set you back a
small fortune but I was encouraged by
the claim that it would produce ‘up to
fifty times’ the volume of the contents
and I had grand ideas of a sofa, or per-
haps some form of stylish coffee table
for a fraction of Ikea prices. Unfortu-
nately it ran out in no time and took
about 24 hours to set. I was worried
after the promised one-hour that I had
got the wrong stuff because though a
skin had formed, the two components
of my table were about as structurally
sounds as a half-filled bean bag. Still,
with a little patience the project turned
out to be a run-away success; I own a
coffee table to die for made of noth-
ing but expanding foam and a couple
of sheets of an old felix. It’s art and de-
sign at its finest. (I think I’ll neglect to
mention the fact that a couple of sec-
onds after the photo was taken a train
activated the earthquake simulation
feature, which upset the careful bal-
ance between the pint of apple squash
and the book and I didn’t really have
enough hands to save the library book,
the table itself, my camera and the
carpet at the same time.) So there you
have it, forget bits of wood, hammers,
nails, screwdrivers and core plugs, just
get yourself some expanding foam and
you’re in business.
Abdul Hannan
After owning one of these, you’ll never shop at Ikea again It’s not easy to appreciate the beauty of the Hall when it’s 9am and you’re tired. So take a moment now

