science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Science
Before I begin, a disclaimer: I’m not
a big astronomy fan, but I thought I’d
give it a go this week, if only to get it
out the way once and for all. So I ap-
proached our first offering with an
open mind.
I tried not to let the naff acoustic-
muzak at the beginning put me off. I
really tried.
And then a nasally American lady
told me to “Sit back and relax”... well,
frankly she wasn’t helping. I’m afraid
it went downhill from there. October
might be a great month for astronomy,
but I wasn’t persuaded to go out and
squint up at the sky.
I fear any of you with such delusions
will be scuppered by London’s ambient
light pollution anyway. Back to nasal-
lady: “Take a look at the moon!” she
says.
Ok. There it is. The moon. Doing its
thing, waxing and waning. Full moon,
half moon... Does she do this every
month?
On to astronomical highlights...oh
God, I can’t take another 46 minutes.
Skip to the end... some telescope tips,
the shipping forecast for space heads,
and some jazz-funk to finish. Go away.
http://astronomy.libsyn.com
Podview:
Mićo Tatalović
Science Editor
Wildlife Photographer of the
Year 2008
An article in Nature by Cambridge
neuro-psychologist Professor Sahak-
ian showed that 17% of students use
drugs to increase their cognitive and
brain function. These drugs are usu-
ally used to treat mental illnesses. An
example would be the drug ‘Ritalin’
which treats children with Hyper-
active Attention Deficit Disorder
(ADHD). Nature journal also con-
ducted a survey in order to discover
the number of people using drugs
to increase their ‘brain power’, it
was found that 1400 individuals had
confessed that they used cognitive
enhancing drugs for non-medical
reasons, most were either students or
shift workers.
Amongst 20% of these users, 44% of
them used the drug Provigil; a drug
that eliminates daytime tiredness
in patients with narcolepsy (a rare
sleeping disorder).
So how do these healthy people get
these drugs? It was found that these
drugs were obtained online or by
overseas prescriptions.
This week’s Astronomy.com podcast
(official podcast of Astronomy Maga-
zine) starts with some advice for “noo-
bies”. That’s me. Oh, it’s only binocular
advice.
Remember kids; make yourself as
comfy as possible when stargazing.
We don’t want any neck injuries. Sit
back in the chaise longue...relax...wait
a minute, I’ve heard this before (see the
Astronomy a Go Go!). Luckily this one
is only 8 minutes long. It even manages
to make that seem a long time.
Why is it only Americans doing these
shows? Where, oh, where is my dry
English wit? My dulcet Scottish tones?
Nowhere, apparently. The yanks have
astro-monopoly, and they’re not let-
ting go.
I just checked; Astronomy Magazine
is Huge (like, Super-massive). The
world’s “best-selling” astronomy mag-
azine (like there’s any competition).
So I’d better watch what I say. I just
wish the presenter would stop talk-
ing about his June column. No. One.
Cares.
http://www.astronomy.com/asy/default.
aspx?c=ss&id=104
Corrections: last week’s Red List update article was written by Dominic Andradi-Brown and not by
Erika Cule. Apologies for the mistake.
Smart Drugs, Dumb Students
The Jodcast: our
podcast of the week!
Astronomy Cast
Astronomy a Go-Go!
Astronomy.com
If you’re one of the handful of graduates who join
Bristows each year, you’ll be exposed to top tier
work right from the start. You’ll also be surrounded
by some of the most respected lawyers in their
fields. This is a firm where you’ll learn fast and be
stretched, but you’ll also get plenty of support
and encouragement along the way. There’s no
over-hiring of trainees, either. We’re particularly
proud of the fact that so many of the lawyers who
trained with us have gone on to become partners.
We would like to invite you to come along to
our Career Presentation and Drinks Reception
to learn more about the training offered at
Bristows. The Presentation and Drinks will be
held in the Huxley Building, Lecture Theatre 340
level 3 on Wednesday 29 October at 6.30pm
until 9.00pm.
More Astronomy Music greets the in-
trepid listener of Astronomy Cast. The
universe is TRYING TO KILL US. Not
now dummy, in 2012. Hogwash, says
presenter Pamela Gay. We might col-
lide with a super-massive black hole in
the centre of our galaxy, but not for 700
million years (how does she know this?
If she’s wrong, where do I find her?).
She has a way with words, Ms Gay:
Venus and Uranus are “like problem
children”, rotating on their sides and
generally travelling in the wrong di-
rection. I worry about Pam’s kids. And
‘wrong’ is fairly subjective, depending
as it does on our direction being ‘right’.
At least Venus has a nice orbit. Ours
is imperfect. Astronomy Cast is great
actually, 90% of it being about disaster
scenarios – what happens when the sun
fizzles out? Can we see dead stars eve-
rywhere? – and other 10% deep ques-
tions like ‘why are black holes drawn
with jets coming out of them, when
nothing can escape one?’ Even Pam
doesn’t know that one. Quick, snappy
answers, good analogies, and interest-
ing question choices. Mostly involving
the end of the universe. Check out next
week’s episode on aliens.
http://www.astronomycast.com
Yes! Oh yes!
Finally a Brit-
ish offering,
complete with a
Churchill insur-
ance parody at
the beginning.
My prayers an-
swered. They
sound so classy
(despite being from Manchester):
“Hello Dave”. News from the LHC (not
good, but at least Geneva gets heat-
ing this winter), and SETI researchers
from the University of Hawaii (seri-
ously?) think we might have already
seen alien signals, we just don’t know
it. What have they been smoking? Im-
perial’s very own returning PhD rock
star Brian May also gets a mention.
These guys are über-geeky, but in
a kind of endearing way. Prof. Jim
Cordes from Cornell University joins
the team for a chat. He sounds like the
guy from the Fast Show. He loves his
pulsars: “They just keep giving and
giving”. Don’t I know it. Ahem. Later
on, a guy manages the hitherto impos-
sible feat of saying “global warming”
in quotation marks. The website for
this is brilliant too, and if one hour is
too big a chunk of astronomy (and I
sympathise) you can download each
individual segment separately.
http://www.jodcast.net/
The exhibit opens on the 31st October
at the Natural History Museum. Here
are two of the highly commended pho-
tos from this year.
“Night Griffon”
“At dusk, Safie’s natural-history group
set up camp near the Kirtik river, on the
Russian side of the Caucasus mountain
range. As darkness fell, Safie set off to
look for insects to photograph. Search-
ing some rocks with her torch, she sud-
denly realised she had illuminated a
pair of eyes. Just metres away, staring
back at her from its perch, was a griffon
vulture. ‘I was shocked - and impressed
by the striking beauty of the bird,’ she
says. Safie quickly took control of the
situation and shot two portraits. The
moment was fleeting. The vulture
hissed loudly, launched off and flapped
into the night.”
“Daddy long legs”
“Jordi came across this strange arrange-
ment of spikes and spines while diving
near Puerto de Mogán off the southern
coast of Grand Canary in the Canary Is-
lands. As he moved in closer, he realised
they were a male and female arrow crab
backed against long-spined sea urchins.
The female had eggs in her swollen
abdomen, and her mate was standing
over her, clasping her with his clamps
to stop other males from mating with
her. Arrow crabs are often found with
sea urchins, presumably using them as
protection from predators – their im-
possibly long legs useful for avoiding
actual contact with the urchins. ‘The
spikes and tangle of long legs made a
wonderfully graphic image,’ says Jordi,
‘and the cobalt-blue background with a
school of small silver fish flitting past
was like a sky ofstars. I also found their
behaviour very interesting – this image
is not just a portrait, it’s a story.”
“Night griffon” By Safie Al Khaffaf (Russia): 15-17 year old category
© Safie Al Khaffaf / Wildlife Photographer of the Year 2008
“Daddy long legs” By Jordi Chias (Spain): the underwater world
category © Jordi Chias / Wildlife Photographer of the Year 2008
Professor Sahakian stated that there
is an urgent need for safety tests, be-
cause the long-term effects of these
drugs on healthy people are currently
not known.
In addition, Professor Sahakian was
concerned at the ages groups of theses
drug users, this is because of the belief
that the drugs’ popularity are spread-
ing to consecutively younger people
and students.
The Academy for Medical Sciences
(AMS) declared that not only Ritalin
was being used for non-medical rea-
sons, but so were drugs that are used
to treat Alzheimer’s. It was said that
this drug was used to boost memory
and alertness in healthy individuals.
AMS also acknowledged the pos-
sibility of these drugs being used
to gain an unfair advantage in
examinations.
They are looking into using drug
tests in the future before examina-
tions to prevent cheating.
Fellow student newspaper, The
Beaver at LSE, reported heavy use of
these so called smart drugs or noo-
tropics at LSE as well. Apparently
the drugs are used as a substitute
for hard work, but also help in con-
centration and in extending working
hours without the need for much
sleep.
Fatimah Mohamied
Science Correspondent
Armed with telescopic hearing, Felix
Whitton reviews astronomy podcasts
Ant societies have individuals that
make decisions for the entire colony
and so act as political leaders.
As in Britain, in ant kingdoms the
queen has only a symbolic political
role. Instead of the queen or some
special caste making important deci-
sions, well-informed individuals make
decisions for the entire colony, which
the others then follow. These leaders
even change their minds when they
learn about a better course of action.
This flexible behaviour of the well-in-
formed individuals helps ant colonies
survive in time of distress and high-
lights how, even within this ‘simple’
animal species, personality may play a
crucial role in the survival.
Talking at the 4th European Confer-
ence for Behavioural Biology at Dijon,
France, biologist Nigel Franks from
Bristol University presented his re-
search on ant decision makers. Franks
and colleagues studied colonies of
rock ants (Temnothorax albipennis)
in the laboratory in an attempt to un-
derstand how the colonies of tens or
hundreds of insects, make a common
decision about where to move when
their nest is destroyed.
Researchers already knew that rock
ants prefer dark, flat spaces with nar-
row entrances for their nest sites,
quite the opposite of what a modern
human may like. They also knew that,
to inform others of a good nest site,
rock ants lead or carry them directly
to the new nest: the more individuals
that see and approve of a new nest the
quicker, and hence safer, the move is.
But who makes the initial decisions to
move and where to go?
To answer these questions Franks
and colleagues set up experiments in
which two new nests were made avail-
able to an ant colony whose original
nest was destroyed. By tagging each
individual with miniature ID tags, the
size of Queen’s eyes on a pound coin,
researchers were able to observe who
finds the new nest and recruits new
members to it first.
The results were surprising. The
same few individuals, the ones that
are most physically active, but other-
wise quite ordinary ants, find the new
nests first and decide to recruit others.
Franks said the remarkable thing is
that in the middle of the move, these
same individuals already look for oth-
er potential nest sites and if they find a
better site they change their mind and
start recruiting to this better site. He
adds that the same few individuals act
as both decision makers and consen-
sus-breakers and so, believe it or not,
“play the role of political activists” in
ant societies.
Decision-making in other species
may differ from the model displayed
by ant colonies. Speaking at the same
Ant opinion leaders and political
activists make their views heard
conference, Marie-Helen Pillot, a bi-
ologist from Paul Sabbatier University
in France, said that in sheep, perhaps
unsurprisingly, any individual that
moves first is followed by the others.
In flocks of geese, however, it appears
that although any group member may
suggest a move, only certain individu-
als have the authority to be followed
by others. This is according to Aman-
dine Ramseyer from University of
Strasbourg in France.
Credit: Audrey Dussutour, University of Sydney
The ants marching under the command of their leader. Look familiar to anyone?

