Edward Townes
Guest Writer
An Austrian perspective on things
Can Carl Menger and his countrymen tell us anything about the current financial crisis?
To most people economics is a social
“science”, but it is actually filled with
wrong opinions and faulty predictions.
Economists in practice take a variety
of positions that can be divided into
‘schools’ of thought, where certain the-
ories of generations of individuals have
inspired a specific way of interpret-
ing human action. One of the minor
schools in particular differs in some
truly profound and fundamental ways
from other mainstream ones, such as
the Keynesian or Chicago schools. It is
called the Austrian School, and it has
some very interesting explanations for
today’s financial mess, which I will at-
tempt to impart.
The Austrians were dominant in eco-
nomic theory in the late 19th and early
20th centuries and they were the first
to explain the Great Depression and
why centrally-planned economies are
logically impossible to succeed. Never-
theless, they were relegated to a minor-
ity position as a positivist revolution in
economics led by the man who said the
Great Depression could never happen,
John Maynard Keynes, unfolded in the
1930’s. There were many reasons why
the Austrian School was pushed aside
but most importantly because Keynes’
statistically-based theories validated,
and therefore could be used to justify,
the government’s attempts to intervene
and manipulate the markets.
Several leading Austrian scholars
predicted today’s economic problems,
just as they also predicted the down-
turns in the Great Depression and the
70’s, and they explain that the root
cause is the same each time. Main-
stream economists generally blame
the business cycle on some variant of
errant human nature, such as greed
or confidence. I personally found the
mainstream explanation entirely want-
ing, for why should such an abundant
human characteristic as greed sud-
denly become systematically destruc-
tive in a specific time and place? Or,
if consumer confidence was the only
problem, then surely we could propa-
gandise our way to prosperity? The
issue with the Austrian explanation is
that it is politically unpalatable, and as
a result you will rarely hear this point
of view. Here goes:
First, a quick lesson on money and
monetary policy. Let's say I give you
£100 and let you decide what you want
to do with it. The ratio of the money
you save for future consumption to the
money you spend right away is referred
toasyour“timepreference”.Peoplewith
high time preferences want to spend
their available money quickly, where-
as people with low time preferences
generally save their money, and thus
expand the supply of money available
to be borrowed at the bank. Your time
preference depends on a large number
of things, such as your anticipation of
children, personality, wealth level, etc.
The aggregate time preference of eve-
ryone in the economy gives us the sav-
ings rate in that economy. People who
want to borrow money for investment,
or otherwise, comprise the demand
for credit, and together the supply and
demand for money meet to form a
market price on money through time,
which is the interest rate. The interest
rate tells entrepreneurs the minimum
return on investment or “profit” that
they need to achieve to justify mak-
ing the investment. Thus, the balance
between the supply (savers) of money
and the demand (borrowers) for mon-
ey is absolutely central in determining
economy-wide economic behaviour.
Enter fractional-reserve or no-re-
serve banking supported by a central
bank, with its ability to produce money
out of thin air. In today’s world nearly
all central banks practice “no-reserve”
banking in that they do not relate the
quantity of money they issue to any
fixed ratio of hard commodities (nor-
mally gold) that they hold to back the
paper currency. You see, in a free mar-
ket banking system, currencies would
inevitably be backed by hard commod-
ities otherwise those currencies would
be vulnerable to runs. However, under
fractional or no reserve central bank-
ing, there are laws created to enforce
this fiat monetary system, such as legal
tender laws and “lenders of last resort”
(central banks) laws. By contrast, in a
free market banking economy, if some-
one wants to expand the amount of
money (by mining gold for example),
they have to take resources out of the
economy and apply them more profit-
Carl Menger, founder of the
Austrian school.
Printing money may be easy but it is certainly not the solution to this crisis
ably than the interest rate. Thus there
is always a balance and restriction on
the creation of money.
However, in our current monetary
system, which is not backed by any
hard commodity, the central bank can
literally create money out of nothing,
and then put it into the banking system
so that this new money masquerades as
savings. In doing this, the central bank
inflates the supply of money, and thus
manipulates the price of money (the
interest rate), whilst debasing people’s
savings and depreciating the purchas-
ing power of the currency. This is why
central banks claim to set the inter-
est rate in the economy; in fact what
they are doing is controlling the crea-
tion and destruction of money, which
in turn influences the price of money.
The consequence of a central bank ar-
tificially fixing the price of money is
that the balance between investors and
savers is thrown off. Prices are simply
market information for people man-
aging resources, so when the prices
are artificial, entrepreneurs’ actions
are systematically misguided, because
they've been given misinformation.
So when a central bank manipulates
the money supply with fiat (paper) cur-
rencies under fractional or no-reserve
banking, it has the devastating effect of
distorting the balance between savings
and investing, creating mal-investment
in the economy which at first appears
to be a boom because people are ex-
panding production chains with the
cheap credit to meet the expected new
demand for goods. Except that the
expansion becomes more and more
unstable and must come to an end be-
cause the actual balance between sav-
ing and consumption is not what the
interest rate suggests it is, and a pain-
ful recession, or price correction must
then take place to liquidate the mal-
investments.
But there is more to it. The central
bank can keep the charade going for
a while by creating consumption de-
mand though artificially cheap credit
which allows people to borrow money
at a artificially low interest rate, to
spend on cars and other such things.
Unfortunately this kind of economy is
inherently unstable because it is driven
by debt instead of savings. All it takes
is one contraction in the money sup-
ply (a "credit crunch", if you will), for
the entire thing to fall in on itself as no
new money is made available to service
debts. This economic boom and bust
is a natural consequence of our mone-
tary system and today's financial crisis
should thus be absolutely no surprise.
This is a brief explanation of what
the Austrian School has to say about
the business cycle. Each time that the
central banks provide artificially cheap
credit, as facilitated by fractional or
no-reserve banking and fiat curren-
cies, the bubbles manifest in various
different areas of the economy. Today,
the immediate bubble to burst was
the real-estate one. The reasons for
this bubble existing the first place is
most importantly the cheap credit, but
secondary blame goes to many well-
intentioned, but classically misguided,
US government efforts in the 90’s and
earlier this decade to get banks to loan
to individuals who were not qualified
for the loans, i.e. “sub-prime”. This
was compounded by laws such as:
the Community Reinvestment Act of
1977; the quartering of Fannie’s and
Freddie’s reserve requirements which
were quasi-government entities with
all the moral hazards that ensue; land-
use regulations; the dissolution of a law
(the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933) that
divorced investment and commercial
banking, and various others that cre-
ated a flawed framework within which
normal profit seeking behaviour be-
came systematically destructive.
Our problem now is that most peo-
ple, including most economists, misdi-
agnose the causes of today’s financial
crisis. Therefore, instead of allowing
unsound investments to liquidate,
the governments of the world are in-
tent on making more money out of
thin air in order to price fix the value
of loans which in reality are virtually
worthless.
I believe that we are faced with two
possible solutions, which can be blend-
ed, to the problems of the mal-invest-
ments that were created by the artifi-
cially cheap credit. On the one hand
we can allow prices to correct them-
selves quickly without government
intervention, in the process creating a
large amount of losses for the people
directly involved in the mortgage de-
rivative market and other markets that
were similarly, but to a lesser extreme,
affected by central banking. On the
other, we can fight the ultimately inev-
itable and necessary price corrections
by using government gifts of large
amounts of cash created out of more
debt, further boosting inflation and the
debt burden which may well be enough
to send our already weak economy into
a prolonged depression.
The raging bull of Merrill Lynch, bull down!
ACCA Accenture Allen & Overy LLP Amadeus Argus
Information&AdvisoryServicesLtd ArthurD.Little ARUP
BAE Systems Bank of America BlackRock Bristows
Cadbury Plc Cambridge Consultants CarrillionPlc CHP
Consulting CIPFA Citadel Investment Group Colin
Buchanan Corefiling Corus CRA International Credit
Suisse CSC Cummins Data Connection Deloitte
Detica Deutsche Bank DNV Ltd Doosan Babcock
EnergyLtd DowChemicalCompany DRWTradingGroup
E.on EDF eFinancialcareers.com Ernst & Young
Factset Fidelity International Gallop GCHQ GE
Global Research Gifford Goldman Sachs H.M. Forces
The Army Henderson Global Investors Hewitt Hiscox
IBM Imperial College Careers Service Inside Careers
Johnson Matthey JP Morgan KBC Financial Products
KPMG L.E.K Consulting Linklaters LLP Lloyds TSB
Management Solutions Matchtech Group Mazars LLP
McKinsey & Company Merrill Lynch Metronet Rail
Milkround.com MW Kellogg Limited MWH National
Audit Office NHS NHS Clinical Sciences Norwich
Union Insurance Oliver Wyman Operis Philips
PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Rolls Royce
Royal Air Force Royal Bank of Scotland Saipem Scott
Wilson Ltd Selex Galileo Shell SJ Berwin LLP
Societe Generale Softwire Technology Ltd Spectrum
Value Partners Standard Bank Standard Chartered
Bank Standard Life Assurance Ltd Sungard Surveyor
Magazine & London Borough of Brent Symbian Teach
First Tessella Support Services Plc Thales The
College of Law Tibra Capital Total UK Ltd UBS
Vizuri Ltd Watson Wyatt You Devise Ltd
all in one place over two days
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa

