politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 24 October 2008
Politics
Politics Editor – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
H
ello and welcome to my
first column as Poli-
tics Editor. During the
course of this year both
myself and Katya-yani
will attempt to deliver the best politics
the world has to offer.
This week, yet again, has been domi-
nated by the US elections, not surpris-
ingly as the “big day” is under 2 weeks
away. While all eyes are cast across the
pond, Gordon Brown has had resur-
gence in the polls.
The increase in support for Barack
Obama due to the ongoing financial
crisis has been replicated in 10 Down-
ing Street. Before the downturn of the
global economy, Brown looked set to
lose the next election by a landslide.
People considered him Stalinist, bad
tempered, dictatorial and, frankly, dull;
how things were different when times
were good...
In the current climate, Brown’s de-
meanour appears to give him an ad-
vantage. The serious, commanding
image is good in a crisis right? All the
polls agree.
Perhaps people are reminiscing over
the 10 disgruntled years he served as
Chancellor under Tony Blair before the
top dog of spin shot himself in the foot
during the Iraq war (unfortunately this
occurence is confined to metaphor).
What are my feelings concerning our
PM? Those who know me will be able
to tell you.
In other news this week, the financial
crisis is continuing but with little effect
on most people in this country unless
you were unfortunate enough to pile
your money into Iceland. Bad move.
Russian-Cuban relations are looking
up which is not the best news the US
has heard in a while despite hanker-
ing to their President’s war-mongering
spirit.
Last Sunday the Cubans, led by Raul
Castro, celebrated the Cuban missile
crisis and scaring the crap out of the
Americans. Let’s hope we don’t see
another Bay of Pigs, one illegal war is
enough of a mess. At least Russia has
a cease-fire in Georgia, ending that
rampage.
It appears that in the last couple of
days the conservatives have been up to
their tricks again, trying to evade a ban
on overseas donations.
The Church of England is doomed
according to an imigration minister,
which comes at the same time as rath-
er a lot of people getting rather angry
over abortion - mostly those religious
types.
When having a minor crisis at-
tempting to think of something other
than the disappearing economy and
the battle to be the next “leader of the
free world” to write about, one par-
ticularly inspired chap told me to write
“any old bollocks, it’s only a student
newspaper.”
Well, my friends, we here at Felix are
serious about these few scraps of pa-
per but we need your input to make it
better and enable me to be lazy. Palm
leaves and grapes please.
Like death and taxes in life, nothing
is more certain to feature daily in the
news media than the U.S. Presidential
election. It is to journalism what jokes
about the gender ratio are to Impe-
rial; unavoidable. The number of col-
umn inches devoted to discussion on
the virtues or shortcomings of John
McCain and Barack Obama is even
more impressive than the mammoth
sums of money raised by the Obama
campaign.
With that in mind, let’s examine
another topic and, instead of asking
“Does McCain represent 4 more years
of Bush?” or “Does Obama lack the
experience for the most important job
in the world”, let us wonder; what has
George W. Bush, as both politicians
from both parties openly and repeat-
edly disavow themselves of him, been
doing in his last days of office?
Obviously the financial crisis hasn’t
escaped your notice and, one would
hope it still catches the attention of, in
the words of The Daily Show host Jon
Stewart, ‘still – President’ Bush. While
the crisis unfolded Bush stuck firm to
the Reagan-Thatcherite philosophy
of refraining from government inter-
vention but when the fall of Lehman
Brothers shocked the financial sector
and the economy in general, he em-
braced the adage, as Chairman of the
Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke para-
phrased, “There are no atheists in fox-
holes and similarly no ideologues in a
financial crisis”. Thus came Presiden-
tial Addresses to the American public
warning of the greatest crisis since the
Great Depression; I’m sure he almost
came near to screaming ‘all is lost’
whilst pulling out his hair, just in case
people accused him of underestimat-
ing the enormity of the situation.
When the President and the Federal
Reserve presented the $700bn bailout
to the Senate and House of Repre-
sentatives, neither the credit, nor the
limelight went to George W. Bush. The
all-or-nothing high stakes game that is
the election race between Obama and
McCain overshadowed the economic
crisis and the main question asked by
many reporters was “Who will benefit
most from this in the polls?” With Con-
gressmen, Federal Reserve officials and
the Presidential candidates contesting
the limelight and patting themselves
on the back for a job well done on the
bailout bill, President Bush was forced
back to the irrelevancy of the Oval Of-
fice. Indeed at a time when firm, con-
sistent and visible leadership is needed
to restore confidence, or at least stem
the tide of distrust, in the markets,
President Bush’s behaviour has pre-
dictably bordered on incompetent.
With no planned campaign appear-
ances this election and the handling of
the financial crisis falling to the Fed-
eral Reserve and Congress, Bush has
been looking to shore up his legacy
on the international stage, notably by
abandoning almost every foreign pol-
icy decision of the last 8 years. The
U.S.’s hard line on North Korea has
vanished as completely as McCain’s
post-convention bounce. The oppres-
sive nation, that was once part of the
infamous ‘Axis of Evil’, is now treated
to regular talks with the U.S. and has
recently, in a move aimed to save the
progress made on North Korea’s nu-
clear programme, been removed from
Washington’s list of state sponsors of
terrorism. Pyongyang had begun to
end its’ freeze on nuclear activity be-
cause Washington refused to remove
North Korea’s status as a sponsor of
terrorism until a list of its’ nuclear as-
sets, that the regime had submitted to
the U.S., was verified.
Now that the dismantling of North
Korea’s nuclear programme now back
on track, the Bush Administration is
clearly taking heart from the success
that diplomacy has brought, where
tough words and threats failed. It is
trying to apply the same lessons learnt
in North Korea to Iran, with the hope
of persuading the theocratic regime to
end its nuclear activities before, rather
than after as in the case of North Ko-
rea, it tests a nuclear weapon. A U.S.
Interests Office is due to be opened in
Tehran in November; an Interests Of-
fice serves the purpose of an embassy
but doesn’t carry the acknowledgement
of formal ties that an embassy carries.
This move ends a 29 year freeze in
U.S.-Iranian diplomatic relations and
shows the commitment to diplomacy
of an administration that knows it
doesn’t have the political capital to or-
der strikes before its term ends.
Although Bush seems to be on an in-
tense scramble to achieve world peace
(he has reportedly delivered a letter
to Syrian President Bashar Assad that
proposes Israel pull-out of the Golan
Heights if Syria end ties with Iran),
which mostly involves eating his words,
he faced some criticism from his allies.
The new Japanese Prime Minister Taro
Aso is unhappy at the U.S.’s decision
to remove North Korea from the list.
This stems from Japan’s, along with
South Korea’s, position as a prime tar-
get for any North Korean attacks and
also from the fact that the day before
the U.S.’s announcement, Japan
extended its port ban on
North Korean ships;
the lack of co-or-
dination here
is painfully
apparent.
Japan’s port
ban began
in October
2006 after
North Ko-
rea con-
ducted a
What’s Bush been doing?
With the Presidential election dominating the news, felix checks up on ‘Dubya’
nuclear test but the lack of progress on
the ban stems from a dispute in the 70’s
and 80’s caused by the abduction of Jap-
anese citizens by North Korean agents.
The issue evokes strong emotions in
Japan. A telephone call between Con-
doleeza Rice and the Japanese Foreign
Minister Hirofumi Nakasone degen-
erated into a shouting match as Rice
demanded of the Japanese, “get out of
our way and let us do this”. As China’s
strategic weight increases, and Japans
conversely decreases, this is likely to be
the tone from Washington in coming
years.
Things aren’t all bad for George
Bush. Despite disagreements with the
Japanese and the rather pre-
mature schadenfreude of his German
allies on the financial crisis, there are
things that should make his day better.
Some publications, such as Newsweek,
are already asking “What did Bush
get right” and the growing consensus
within the United States is that the
Surge has corrected the errors of the
Iraq war. If this doesn’t put a smile on
his face, maybe hosting a global finan-
cial summit in November will; noth-
ing raises your spirit than being given
the chance to act important in front of
your peers, even if you barely deserve
the opportunity. In the meantime, U.S.
President George W. Bush would do
well to turn off the T.V., put down the
newspapers and ignore the constant
and unceasing references to
“eight years of failed
policies”.
Kadhim Shubber
Politics Correspondent
James Goldsack
Politics Editor
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 24 October 2008 felix
Politics
In direct conflict with his own party, Colin Powell has given his support to Barack Obama
Colin Powell, the former US Secretary
of State, announced his endorsement
to the Democrat campaign last week.
Speaking on NBC’s ‘Meet the Press’,
Powell expressed his disappointment
and dissatisfaction with the McCain
campaign.
"I think we need a transformational
figure. I think we need a president who
is a generational change and that's why
I'm supporting Barack Obama, not out
of any lack of respect or admiration
for Senator John McCain," said Pow-
ell, who had also served as Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the
Clinton and Bush Jr administrations.
Powell’s support will provide a boost
to Obama’s perceived lack of foreign
policy experience and national security
credentials. But Powell doesn’t believe
this to be the main hurdle in Obama’s
quest for the White house. The con-
stant aura of negativity and smear
tactics that are, in Powell’s view, being
used by the McCain campaign are just
a step too far.
He remarked that senior members
of his own party were talking about
Obama being a Muslim. To which
Powell rebuked, “Well, the correct
answer is, he is not a Muslim. He's a
Christian, has always been a Christian.
But the really right answer is, 'What if
he is? Is there something wrong with
being a Muslim in this country?' The
answer's 'No, that's not America.'”
McCain brushed off the revelation
by saying, “Well, again, we have a very,
we have a respectful disagreement, and
I think the American people will pay
close attention to our message for the
future and keeping America secure.
We're long-time friends. This doesn't
come as a surprise." He went on to
state that he had the support of numer-
ous other senior and respected figures
of the Republican Party, such as Henry
Kissinger and Alexander Haig.
However, Powell didn’t stop there.
He went on to further attack his Party
for their ever-increasing drift to the
Right and how this trend looks set to
continue under McCain.
Furthermore, he expressed his disil-
lusionment about Palin, believing her
not to be ready for the Oval Office.
Powell’s words are likely to have a sig-
nificant positive impact on the Obama
campaign. As a 26-year veteran of Con-
gress and having played an active role
in the Vietnam and the Gulf wars, his
support provides the Obama campaign
with some serious ammunition.
Even thought the polls are showing
that Obama is in the lead, anything is
possible. Palin’s cameo comedy appear-
ance on Saturday Night Live, which
drew a record viewer turnout, went to
show that the McCain campaign may
still have a few tricks up its sleeve. But
with the dark clouds of Troopergate
over Palins shoulders and McCains in-
ability to arouse the voter’s passions,
will such novelty items shift American
voter’s opinions? Only time will tell.
Raz Jabary
Politics Correspondent
Cuba commemorates the Missile Crisis
Colin Powell declares support for Obama
Exactly 46 years ago the world was on
the brink of nuclear war when things
got heated up in the Atlantic between
the American and Soviet naval pow-
ers. The 1962 Missile Crisis as it is now
known saw a crucial turn in relations
between the U.S. and the Soviet Un-
ion, leading to among other things the
setting up of the hotline between the
White House and the Kremlin with the
attempt to prevent risky future stand-
offs.
The commemoration of the Crisis
in Cuba was celebrated last Sunday
with the opening of the first Russian
Orthodox Church in Havana that was
attended by Raul Castro, which is his
first commemoration of the Crisis as
Cuba’s head of state. The opening of
the Church on October 19th, being
dedicated as ‘Day of Russia’ was an
attempt to improving Cuban-Russian
ties, which were damaged after the col-
lapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.
Metropolitan Kiril, head of foreign
relations of the Russian Orthodox
Church, had travelled from Moscow
to Havana in order to be present at
the ceremony. “This is a monument to
Russian-Cuban friendship and all the
efforts that have preserved our rela-
tions including the most difficult mo-
ments of the Cold War”, he said.
The background of the Missile Crisis
in 1962 was the stationing of potential
Soviet nuclear warheads on mainland
Cuba that were in reach of targeting
main American urbanizations. Know-
ing this, the Americans posed a naval
blockade on Cuba with the attempt of
disrupting the movement of shipments
to and from its southern neighbour.
The height of the Crisis was reached
on October 27th when Soviet battle-
ships were approaching the blockade
around Cuba, before an agreement
was reached between the White House
and Kremlin just moments before the
would-be clash. Although Cuba was
possibly spared utter destruction, Fi-
del Castro accused Khrushchev of not
‘standing up to the U.S.’ and blamed
him for not consulting him on the deci-
sion to retreat the Soviet ships. Claim-
ing that the Cubans were the ones
living through the toughest of times,
indulged in the conflict between East
and West, Castro demanded to play a
major role in the matter. Several biog-
raphies on the Lider Maximo, includ-
ing ‘The Real Fidel Castro’ by former
British ambassador to Cuba Leycester
Coltman, describe how Fidel burst
into an outrage upon hearing the news
of the Soviet retreat and even made
Khrushchev out as ‘the son of a bitch’.
The 77-year old Raul Castro was one
of the main figures in the 1959 over-
throw of the Batista regime in Cuba,
alongside his brother Fidel, revolution-
ary Ernesto “Che” Guevara and Camilo
Cienfuegos. The reforms implemented
by Raul from February this year when
he was appointed the official fol-
lower of Fidel, which allowed Cubans
to make use of modern technological
communication equipment such as
mobile phones and the internet, seem
to conflict with the fact that Raul has
been the one seen as more extreme.
During Fidel’s years as head of state,
Raul’s often more leftist Socialist be-
liefs allowed the former to justify his
position to the outside world to re-
main in power by asserting that if he
be removed, ‘fiercer ones’ would take
over. Whereas Fidel Castro had not
affiliated with the Communist Youth
Party during his student years at the
University of Havana, Raul was often
found to show direct sympathy to the
party and was seen involved in its cam-
paigns. In fact, had it not been because
of the strategic and economic interest
in siding with the Soviet Union during
the Cold War era, and of Fidel’s asso-
ciation with Che, some analysts believe
that Cuba might never have turned
Communist after the triumph of the
1959 revolution. It was Raul who in-
troduced the would-be legendary Che
to his brother Fidel in Mexico City in
1955 and it was he who was the first
to take the step of befriending the KGB
service by establishing contact with se-
cret agent Nikolai Leonev.
With Fidel’s closest lifetime associ-
ates Che and Camilo deceased, it is the
question whether nepotism did actu-
ally play a role in the appointment of
Raul as his follower. In contrast to Fi-
del, Raul has often been perceived as
‘more amiable and quiet’ and also dif-
fers in physical built. This has led some
to believe Fidel and Raul merely to be
maternal “stepbrothers”.
On Monday October 20th the Cuban
Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque
arrived on an official visit to Mexico,
where he was welcomed at the airport
by cheering crowds shouting ‘long live
Cuba, long live Fidel, long live Raul!’.
Roque spoke to Mexican business
leaders on the salary reforms in Cuba
that ought to ensure that ‘waiters do
not earn more than doctors’. Currently,
most Cubans hold government jobs
and earn the equivalent of an average
of less than £12 a month. Last week,
Cuba’s state-owned oil company said
the country may have more than 20 bil-
lion barrels of oil, a claim which if true
would place Cuba among the top 20 oil
producing countries in the world and
could generate unprecedented wealth
for its government.
On May 23rd 2008, speaking to the
Cuban exile community in Florida,
American Democratic presidential
candidate Barack Obama said he will
seek direct diplomacy with the Cuban
government if he be elected, something
that has not happened since John F.
Kennedy’s presidency. Republican can-
didate John McCain denounced these
promises and reiterated that Obama
appeared to be ‘too soft’ in dealing with
this matter. Most of the Cuban exile
community in the United States, con-
sisting mainly of well-paid profession-
als, is eager to see the overthrow of the
rule by the Castro brothers and make
the journey south to their country of
origin. With currently a majority of the
11.5 million strong Cuban population
born after1959, it appears to be Raul
Castro’s task in the current govern-
ment to maintain the atmosphere for
the change brought about by the Rev-
olucion in Cuba and prevent citizens,
particularly the younger generations
getting alienated and instead showing
sympathy to the country’s long-term
Socialist political struggle.
It seems to be the question whether
American-Cuban ties would be re-
stored to what they were before 1959
with the change in the top men of both
countries, a question which may be an-
swered in less than two weeks time af-
ter the American presidential elections
on November 4th.
The revolution goes on as Cubans celebrate the Cuban Missile Crisis
Salman Waqar
Politics Correspondent

