NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
14th M A Y 1974 FREE No. 358
ACCOMMODATION
QUESTIONNAIRE
As reported in Felix last term a questionnaire
an student accommodation at Imperial College has
been prepared by the Union Accommodation Com-
mittee. This questionnaire is being sent to all those
students not living in Halls of Residence, Student
Houses, or Union Flats. Some of you will have
already received copies through the departmental
letter racks ;the remaining questionnaires are be-
ing sent out at the moment.
The short-term aim of the questionnaire is to
draw up a register of accommodation and to dis-
cover if any extra accommodation will be available
for IC students next session. In the long term the
analysis of the questionnaires will be useful in
highlighting the acute housing problem facing stu-
dents in London.
The questionnaire will go a long way to provid-
ing the information only if a large enough section
of IC participates. Please oblige the college and
the Union by taking a few minutes off work to fill
it in.
Please return the questionnaires to the Union
Office as soon as possible—ignore the bottom line
of the introduction asking you to return them by
1st May I
Keith Arundale,
ICU Student Residence Officer.
MAGGIE MADE
A GOVERNOR
SIR ALAN COTTRELL FRS and MRS MAR-
GARET THATCHER PC, MP, have been appointed
to serve on the Governing Body of Imperial Col-
lege. Sir Alan Cottrell, Master of Jesus College,
Cambridge, and until recently Chief Scientific
Adviser to the Government, has been appointed by
the University of London to succeed Sir Charles
Goodeve. Mrs. Thatcher, former Secretary of State
for Education and Science, has been appointed by
the Royal Commissioners for the Exhibition of 1851
in succession to Sir Frank Turnbull.
UNION
GENERAL
MEETING
(AGAIN!)
Elections for
NUS Delegation
(Nomination Papers in Union Lower Lounge)
M O T I O N S :
FREE S P E E C H
Union Concert Hall
THURSDAY, MAY 23
1.00
D O N ' T M I S S I T
SAVE YOURSELF TIME, TROUBLE AND
POSTAGE!
Get your Life Membership of I.C.
Union before you leave college this
term.
Only £3. Forms from Jen,
Union Office.
LIFE MEMBERSHIP entitles you to use bar,
sports facilities, join clubs and societies,
etc.
-"-"-•-"-•-•-•---"-•-"-"-------"-"-----"-----•--^-"--,.-_---_-----«----------------™---,
"-™-----------"-r
"-L
'«,
'-''--------_---_-_v-_-1
WEEKEND IN PARIS - £9
including travel, insurance, accommodation
LEAVE I.C. 6.00 p.m. Thursday May 16
VISIT all the famous sights
HOSTED by the National Chemistry
School
RETURN 12.00 Midnight Sunday May 19
— INTERESTED? —
Contact: N O R M SAYLES, Int. Phone No. 2488 or Union Office
•
Royal College of Science Union
A N N U A L G E N E R A L M E E T I N G
(with initiations)
PHYSICS TH 3 1.00 p.m.
(later at the Round Pond)
TUESDAY, 14th MAY — TODAY
HOW TO SOLV
THE LANGUAG
PROBLEM OF
OVERSEAS
STUDENTS
In an article entitled "can you speak English"
(felix 30th April) Ida Glaser the retiring chair-
person of the overseas students committee drew
attention to the serious and neglected language
problems of overseas students. After giving some
fascinating information such as the fact that
about 60% of the world's population can't speak
English she established that many overseas stu-
dents at this College do have difficulties with the
English language and that these difficulties
severely handicap their academic and social
life. Then she goes on to pass her judgement on
this situation: "That students should have such
handicaps is not advisable (?!): one might even
call it ludicrous, inadmissible, or to quote a
member of the board of studies immoral". Ob-
viously Ida doesn't approve. But who is to be
blamed for this "immoral" and "inadvisable"
state of affairs? We have to read on to the end
of the judgement to get the answer. But first we
get some advice from the wise judge: "clearly
students should have a sufficient mastery of the
English language before embarking on a highly
demanding course of study." The judgement
ends with: "Those without such ability should
obtain it before entering college". At last we
have been told who was being tried — the over-
seas students who can't speak English. They
have been found guilty of bringing about this
"immoral" and "inadvisable" situation by not
learning English before they come to the Col-
lege. Having established the guilt the guilty
ones are sentenced, in the proposals which come
further on, to taking a compulsory English exam
before they are allowed to enter the College.
Ida who is supposed to represent overseas stu-
dents has acted as judge and jury to them. We
had heard of people acting as both judge and
jury but that is not enough for Ida because she
wants to be judge, jury and defence.
Continued on Page 8
SOUTHSIDE BAR
Much of the bar committees time this year
has been spent dealing with renovations to
Southside bar. These have been split into two
phases, the first of which was carried out over
Easter. This was to remove what was left of the
carpet and replace with Courtaulds AMTICO
tiles, to have fixed the wooden panelling of the
bar, to have the old furniture completely re-
upholstered, and to buy new stools. The total
cost of phase I will be of the order of £1,500.
Phase II will involve moving the present parti-
tion between the bar and the lounge out, past
the stairs, towards the TV, so creating a new
area for games—darts and bar-billiards.
Any suggestions that members of the Union or
Academic staff may wish to make should be
sent to me.
David Sinclair,
Deputy President ICU,
IC Bar Chairman.
ALL THE BARS ARE GETTING SHORT
OF GLASSES
Will Union members return glasses from
their rooms.
D. SINCLAIR
Hall residents can leave glasses in
nearest lounge when bar is closed.

