FELIX
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
S i r ,
J t i s my view that even the diehards among the college
are at last reconciled to the view that democracy is dead
Disturbing as is this remark,let us make a post mortem of
the last Union meeting to draw the attention of the main
collegiate body to the appalling conduct of affairs. First
ly the annual irritation that is November the fifth is over
and the President of the Union has achieved his object in
minimising the chances of arrest of the rebel few. As such
he is to be congratulated but in his method he has earned
the sessional resentment of the vast bulk of the students.
November 5th is an odious affair for any President to have
to handle, but, is it too much to expect that the majority
•student opinion will be heard on future occasions? OrGvif/il
each President take it upon himself to present the College
with a fait accompli a brief week before the event? These
at any rate.are matters that will concern those who stay
and suffer in the succeding years.
But to more pregnant matters, those which will affect
the .economy of students lasting the present session. In
the first place I am appalled at the profit that the book-
stall makes, Not that I consider $1800 a good trading
return. My personal view is that with competent foresight-
ed organisation .this profit could be doubled by attracting
to the bookstall those customers like myself who recognize
that nearly every commodity sold that can be bought else-
where is either at or above, a par price. Also a great
variery of commodities that are really useful are not avai-
able, showing either inadequate stocking or just sheer bad
business in selli % only what yqw- want to sell and not what
the customer wants. To be specifics is the present admin-
istration, adequate or does the bookstall committee need
closer liaison with the main student body?
Than there is that heartbreaking queue at lunchtime in
line for the expensive lunch. I 'say expensive bearing in
mindjrthatc i f I feed downstairs that I shall have to under-
take a 20 minute walk to get a better one at the price.
But last session I would never have thought of going else-
where for lunch (human inertia and all that). Now alas I
have taken root in my room during the morning and am reluc-
tant to appear in college until p.m. Pity the poor under-
graduate with his timetable and the prospect of a 30% in-
creased price to pay for his % houi - queued-meal! Does the
Union, which has taken upon itself to fall into line with
the government policy of economic restraint no matter what
the consequences, still claim that it has the best interests
of the college at heart? What about makingthe lot of the
students easier by a workmanlike policy towards the refigcr-
tory such as a i 2000 subsidy per year? Or has that got f *
the brass hats screaming?
Finally I think that it is as well to air v i e w s i n
Felix before they are brought to the next Union meeting.
Yours etc, M m S o £ ) e y
8 ih.November, 1952
Dear Sir
Th
" A i o t h e r A i t a r c t i c E x p l o r e r
he articles in Illustrated referred to in today's
of Felx have a far greater connection with I.C.
than you imagined - such is the dulling effect of time.
The member of the expedition mho took the magnificent
photographs which appeared in Illustrated" i s an old Guilds
man.^and he it was who went down the crevasse and rescued
Alec Trendall. . • , • ,
\ K e v i n Walton who was a Civil' from 1936-39 joined the
Nalry on leaving college, and was later awarded the D.S.C.
In 1946*48 he w'als in the Antarctic, where , / i e was awarded the
Albert Medal for a similar rescue to the one he performed in
South Georgia.
These feats were not accomplished without previous'
training and members of ihe Civil Engineering staff may well
remember a sunny morning at the surveying camp in 1938 when
a certain student complained that de could not leave camp
until his suit of tails'(we were under canvas) had been
retrieved from its suspension from the branch of an elm.
tree some 70 ft. above the ground. Staff and students en-
joyed watching the perpetrator repeat rope trick of the
night before and lower himself and tails to the ground.
Kevin Walton is now teaching at Oundle and we look
forward to having some of his trainees at the Guilds in due
cour se! v
Yours etc. A „ s t e p h e n s o n
W a r S i r
* QJOCI: Q J O Vadis? '
What has become of the resolution, proposed
and well supported, at aor r.C.Union Meeting last
sessiony(ox was it the one before?), to convert
the garish looking tennis c o u r t s i n the Union
Quadrangle into a luxurious spread of lawn?
Although such apian, if carried out, would
be hard on the Tennis Club, it would provide
Imperial College with one set of buildings
worthy of its dignity, especial ly as in my
appreciation of the external' morphology of the
Ht&ley Building J appear to be, among a minority
(perhaps to constitute the minority!)
' B y digging up this old bone of contention"
early in a new session perhaps students opinion
will, have time to gather sufficient momentum for
action to be taken upon this point be foe e-^the
annual dissolution,which was. apparently so
disastrous to its first voicing.
Aesthetically yours,
Philip F Bntwistle
To Felix,
To a dying Imperial College,
Is there any spirit left in I C ? Are tf} going to
continue to take a back-seat while other collegestake
the lead?
Next year is Coronation year,why not start it off
with a grand I .C. carnival parading through the streets
of London ,'disp laying the faculties of the Imperial
CQ 11 egeo f Science and Technology and make collection
for some worthy chari table cause? " . ..
Let us restore I.C to what it used tosbe or what it
could be!
Signed: Anoi.' .*" dying student
Sir,
Many perple, during the past week, have held forth*at
great length, and with much beer on the sorry state of
affairs revealed by the failure of thi s Union to observe
the Glorious 5th in the traditional manner. Unfortunate-
ly, most of them have failed to diagnose the ill correctly. .
The fault,as many of as see it, lies with the Union
Officers who deem it their duty to make' decisions on behalf
of the student body without attempting to^consider the
wishes of that body Are we children, to be spoonfed thus?
No, Sir, We are not! . But until we can arouse our elected
representatives to a full realisation of their duty towards
us and their dependance upon as, this once proud Union will
remain .li ttle more than a large and untidy Bridge Club,
The remedy is in our hands. If ail who eat in these build-
ings were to attend Union meetings and raise their voices,
however small, in Union affairs,, the greater part of the ill
would be immediately, removed. Despotism thrives on apathy.
Now is the time, torn a reformation, Act before it is too
late,
Yours e i.C,
M,J .A.Brown
Dear Sir,
Once again I .CUmlon has distinguished
itself in executing a daring said, on one of the
other Colleges in the University - as usual
without leaving its own Union Melting. In
(fimparison with this popular expedition the
Harlington Hop was an utter failure,. being
boycotted by all but a meagre 400 Union members
and their guests.
I think that ihe time is now ripe for
the College either to forego ihe periodic out-
burs ts\ of hot air. to which certain Union
Members' continually subject us,-or to organise a
Rzg worthy of I„C. There are innumerable opport-
unities;' what i s required i s i e s s talk and more
acti oh ,
Yours faithfully.
B,H.Wyatt
Lear Sir,
In answer to the article on the Hops published in the
last edition of Felix, I should' like 'to make a few observa-
tions,, The Hops were stated to be 'io crowded: our Hops
are so popular that we could sell almost twice as many
tickets as we do now., The numbers are restricted to about
430 as this does not make the dance floor too crowded but
allows most of the Union members to attend if they wish,.
On the issue of men from other colleges, I would point
ou.t ,tJ>st. we have reciprocal Union membership with warioUs
other colleges, in particular C.EM who regularly buy Hop
tickets. Members" guests are also not limited _to females
and male guests from other colleges are naturally welcome
in the Union.
The records have been chosen carefully, and recofds
are,played only if they are suitable for dancing,. . Every
endeavour is made to play records of ihe same tempo for a
giveni:
d'ance and to avoid a violent clash of styles,
I remain, Sir.,
Yours,
MA Champney.
I.C.V.E.C.
C h second thoughts we c o n s i d e r tha£ o u r o r i g i n a l n o t e s
on the f i r s t hop were v e r y h a r i i towards the new E h t e r t a i n -
ments CctiTmittee;' i t would have been a h a r d day f o r 'us i f the
f i r s t FHLLX h a d been as c l o s e l y c r i t i c i s e d - e d i t o r
Dear S i r ,
I n 1947 Professor Willis Jackson suggested
\£r^ that five years after leaving college, a reunion
of Staff and ex students should be held to com-
pare notes. The first of ufaat i s hoped to be a',
regular event was held last night at the I.C,
Union. Twenty Members of that year (which in-
cluded a high proportion of ex-service students)
attended from as far as Darlington; letters were
received from others in Canada, Egypt, Tangier,
and various parts of the U K regreting that
they could not attend and relating their exper-
iences. ; V:
Seven members of the Staff were- able to
attend, including Prof. Rushton, now,retired
We think that the exchange of views in en-
tirely informal surroundings was most valuable,
and we shall certainly gather again in 1957; we
commend this interchange five years after leav~
ing college to all your renders,
• A full' report' will appear in "The Central'1
' ' Fours faithfully
„ , . , . _ , „, _' Peter E.M.. Sharp
9 A d d i son Court Gardens W 14

