12 FELIX
A Humanist-Jesuit ?
Members of Imperial College
who were present at the first de-
bate of the session will remember
the reasoned arguments of Arch-
bishop Roberts. Although he often
engages in debate with humanists,
as tor example in a contribution to
a series of articles in "Punch" last
year, his views are not fundament-
ally opposed to humanism. He can
be heard again at General Studies
on Thursday 9th. February, during
Teaching Week.
Archbishop Roberts combines his
Jesuit discipline with a radisal ap-
porach to beliefs Christian. His
moral courage rides above the re-
straints of his Church and his
views on matters both sacred and
secular are worthy of consideration.
LFJ
Joint Christian Societies
On the first Friday of term the
first of a new series of lunchtime
meetings arranged jointly by the
Christian societies was held. A
similar series held in previous years
on Mondays clashed with a
Christian Union meeting and it is
hoped that the new time will 'cad
to an increased attendance.
The Guild of St. Raphael is a
fellowship for those who desire to
work and pray for the restoration
of the healing ministry of the
Church. Its chaplain addressed the
meeting on the tehology of healing.
He set the question in the content
of theology as a whole, whien he
saw as being concerned with our
knowledge of God from our own
experience, aided by the insights
of others. By healing we should un-
derstand that we are concerned
with the wholeness of the complete
person, not only bodily disease.
At future meetings the chaplains
to the various societies will be
speaking.
LFJ
at Metal Box some engineers
become administrators others go
on being engineers—
either way they find fulfilment and
this is worth a great deal today
w h i c h is one reason why people who
come to Metal Box
generally stay. Here are some others:
MB10-1M
The Metal Box Graduate Training Scheme
equips you todo a sound job almost
anywhere, but It equips you to get to the
top of Metal Box.
You assume responsibilities immediately
you complete the appropriate training.
And while your first appointment
may not be a very high one it will be
sufficiently important for somebody who
is very senior to worry about how
well you are doing it.
Metal Box does not discourage inter-
department mobility. This means that it is
possible for you to start In production and
to go to research. Or start in research and
go over to the commercial side. In short you
get the opportunity to find your metier
by testing your ability against a diverse
variety of problems-practical and
theoretical, technical and administrative.
Metal Box don't believe in labelling people.
In their view a science degree no more
precludes sound commercial thinking,
than an arts degree means one cannot
comprehend technicalities.
With Metal Box you can work abroad
without joining the brain drain, and return
to the U.K. without feeling like an expatriate.
Metal Box acknowledge ability in the
Way that matters most.
It's the largest packaging organisation
outside the United States.
38 factories in Britain, 32 overseas...
in Africa, India, Malaysia, Singapore,
Jamaica, Trinidad and, more recently, Italy.
A fast growing light engineering and
marketing organisation, that employs
graduates as company administrators,
factory and commercial managers,
production engineers, research engineers
and market researchers.
A research and development team of over
800 continuously-engaged in a wide variety
of projects involving food technology,
physics, chemistry and microbiology.
Jost&feC *efet 6o*e4
They're leader* In metal, paper and plastic packaging
The Metal Box Company Limited, P.O. Box 1 AN, 37 Baker Street, London W1 Telephone: HUNter 6577
-

