FELIX 15
AT LAST THE SPORTS
CENTRE IS STARTED
Work has now begun on the new Sports centre which will occupy
the site formerly known as 1-7 Princes' Gardens, but what will
it include ? When will it be finished, and who is going to run
it ? These are some of the questions which FELIX thought should
be answered and so inquired into them.
The Sports centre will contain four squash courts, one 75 foot
rifle range with a two tier firing point and a swimming pool of
length 82' 6", breadth 40' maximum depth 11', nrnimum depth
4'. The pool will also be fitted with a three metre spring board,
a tnree metre fixed board and a one metre spring board.
The ASA were consulted on the dimensions of the poo! and
advised against a metric pool. There will be seating round the
pool for e'ghty people, and limited standing room.
P L A N S C O M P L E T E D 1 9 6 3
The plan* which the centre is being built to at the moment were
completed in 1963, and although since then there have been some
modifications, they have not entailed any reduction in the facilities to
to be afforded. The delay in starting to build has been due mainly
to pvodecural matters . (budgeting considerations, curtailments of public
finance selective employment tax etc) and not to any building or plan-
ning problems. The centre is now expected to be finished in June 1968.
On being asked whether he thought a gymnasium should have taken
priority over the four squash courts, Ray Phillips, Chairman of the
Atheletic Club's Committee, disagreed. He said, accepting the need
for a swimming (pool, a (.basonable sized gymnasium could not be
built on the site available in Princes' Gardens. Also the present gym,
if used efficiently, is adequate and will probably be adequate in the
future taking into account the declining interest in sport at IC. He
emphasised that the sports centre is just the first stage in the develop-
ment of sports facilities on die campus and that it only seemed right to
give priority to Close clubs which had lost their facilities. There was
the squash club, which 'lost" its courts to the Chemical Engineering
Department, and the rifle club which lost its range to the new Bio-
chemistry block. When asked whether the tennis club would receive
any new courts anywhere he said that efforts had been made to fin I
new courts for the tennis club, a plan to convert Princes' Gardens into
tennis courts had been rejected and the Natural History Museum had
turned down a request to use some of their grounds for tennis courts.
Mr Mee, the Assistant Development Officer, said that a plan to make
tennis courts on the top of Southside Halls had been rejected as there
a^ too many projections on the roof, such as lift shafts, ventilations etc.
A 'Steering Committee has been set up to look into possible ways
of running the Sports centre, and held its first meeting on December
6th. Ray Phillips said, after the first Committee meeting that it is
hoped to pppoint a Sports centre Manager, who will probably be a young
diploma of Loughborough, by the beginning of next session. The Sports
Centre will probably be run by a sub-committee of the Athletic clubs
committee and will have a constitution much the same as the present
Athletics Grounds Committee. The 'Steering Committee' will meet
again consider the proposals further, after members have visited Liver-,
nool and Cambridge to see how the sports facilities there are run. Mr
Meto has already visited Sheffield Universitv where there is an enormous
n«"w sports -centre and learned a great deal which can be applied to
the sports centre at IC,
The foundations of what will become ICs snorts
completion is expected bv June 1968.
Photograph bv D. Ormiston
centre—
Speaking on the general running of the Sports centre ' Ray Phillips
said the swimming pool will probably be open from 9 am. to 9 pm
Monday to Friday and 9 am to 6 pm on "'a Saturday, though much of
this time would be specifically for certain clubs.
Two of the squash courts will also be for team use only, and two for
general use. The rifle range will be for club use only. Some of these
proposals may be modified when a manager is appointed if he has any
improvements to make. The Centre will have a staff of seven people :—
one Sports Centre Supervisor (Manager) two pool attendants, two basket
room attendants, and two porters. At the moment it seems likely that
admission to the pool will be similar to that at U L U where a sixpenny
turnstile operates,
The next stage in the redevelopment of Princes' Gardens will be the
demolition of 8-15 Princes' Gardens to make way for the Northside
Halls'. These will join with the halls which are to be built over the
Sports Centre. The Sports Centre halls will house 224 men. After
this a lounge 'Sports Hall' will be built behind the Northside Halls.
This will be much more flexible than a gymnasium and it will' be pos-
sibie to convert it for indoor football, rugby, basket ball, and tennis as
well as normal gymnastic activities. There will also be separate rooms
for Judo, table tennis, etc.
This is all quite far in the future however, as two of . the
"ccupants of 8-15 Princes' Gardens have leases lasting until 1976. Thus
work will not start on the 'Northside Halls' till at least 1976, and the
Sports Hall will not be begun until after Nortiiside is finished. There
is no starting date fixed yet even for the 1 alls above the Sports Centre
and in fact UGC approval has not yet been received. Anybody still
at IC when NOrthside is finished should be old enough- to be Warden !
David P. Sullivan
F O O T B A L L -
S O F A R
WITH HALF THE season
paSt the soccer club have three
teams left in the two league cups
•—the 7ths played their game
against West Ham and lost 5-2,
at the third attempt. The fourth
eleven are very near the top of
their league, and of the rest...
The cup games are to be played
next Saturday :—
UPPER RESERVES' CUP
I.C. 3rds versus Q.M.C. 3rds (home),
I.C. 4ths versus U.C. 3rds (away).
LOWER RESERVES' CUP
I.C. 6ths versus either Goldsmith
3rds or London Hospital 2nds
(home).
The 3rd I have played Q.M.C.
in the leagu eand during this
match, which was unfortunately
abandoned, I.C. played much the
better football and were leading
2-0 when the game was brought to
an end. They are above Q.M.C. in
the league and should be in the
semi-finals by Saturday evening.
The 4th, who are now challeng-
ing fo rthe leadership in their
league, beat U.C. 3rds 5-2 in a
league game earlier this season,
and with a win of 5-0 against
Kings last Saturday, they travel to
U.C. with high hopes. On form,
they should find their way to the
other semi-final.
Of the three teams playing in
the quarter-finals, die 6ths seem to
be most capable of reaching the
Cup Final. Altiiough they were
taken to extra time in the last
round a theoretically weaker team,
the 6ths are stronger than most
teams left in -this cup and should
record a good win on Saturday to
enter the Semi-Finals.
However, one must wait and sec
whether these forcasts come true.
The present state of the teams is:—
P W D L F A
9
4
1st XI
2nd XI
3rd XI
4th XI
•5th XI
6th XI
7th XI
17
15
16 11
18 12
16
11
9
8
4
2
1
2
0
3
2
1
1
37 38
40 42
5 49 38
3 79 34
6 70 34
6 33 37
6 27 33
Leading goal-seorrers are :—•
B. Hall 27 (4ths), C. Perry 21
(3rds), B. Baker 19 (4ths).
K I N G S A R E D E F E A T E D I N
F I R S T L E A G U E G A M E
IN THEIR 1st match in the
U.L.U. league IC beat Kings by
3 goals to 2. This was a good
victory for IC, as Kings recently
Won the U.L.U. knock-out com-
petition, in which IC were en-
tered.
Kings opened the scoring in the
second minute with a goal which
was due to some poor marking by
IC who were still somewhat dis-
organised. However, after this set-
hack ':ho College tightened and
held Kings for the rest of the
quarter. In the second quarter IC
pressed hard and were rewarded
with a goal by K. Ong, who beat
the goal-keeper with a flick-on,
while heavily marked. Kings then
attacked and were kept from scor-
ing by some good work in the IC
goal, by G. Mills, and the first half
of the match ended with both
teams level on one goal.
In the third quarter IC got on
top and went into the lead when
a Kings attack was troken up and
Ong went through on his own and
only had to put the ball past the
top and went into the lead when
goal-keeper. A couple of minutes
later Ong completed his hat-trick
with a shot from a narrow angle
from the left wing. The fourth
quarter saw IC on the defensive,
content to hang on to their lead.
This they did, even though Kings
were awarded a penalty, which
they missed. Towards, the end of
the game Kings pulled back one
goal when IC had one pla/er sent
out, but from the ensuing centie
IC maintained possession and
emerged winners by 3 goals to 2,
with high hopes of winning the
league this season. . .

