1 February 2002 p The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
Issue 1226
D o t
D o y o n g e ,
o r V a n i l l a ? M m r r
B 16)
Fifth Sabbatical
It has been revealed to Felix that there is
the distinct possibility of College giving
their consent to the creation of a fifth sab-
batical officer position i n the Union hier-
archy.
At the moment there are four sabbatical
officers, the President, Deputy President
of Clubs & Societies (DPC&S), Deputy
President of Finance & Services (DPF&S),
and Deputy President of Education &
Welfare (DPE&W). The n e w position will
be along the lines of Deputy President of
Sites, and may also take over the Services
aspect of DPF&S.
This announcement comes at a time
when the sabbatical elections are rearing
their ugly heads, and while any decision
will not be made in time for this month's
elections, it is hoped that the n e w posi-
tion will be ready by the Summer of this
year. This will allow a summer election to
go ahead, providing someone to fill the
new post in time to join next year's team.
The job itself would be to look after the
outlying campuses, for example Wye and
Silwood, as well as perhaps the medic
Will it be? What will it be?
campuses. This would mean that the
necessity for a medic sabbatical presi-
dent could be reduced, and would per-
haps lead to the dissolution of this post.
This will certainly be a very controversial
point that will have to be dealt with if the
creation of this new post is confirmed.
However, it is understood that both Wye
and Silwood are happy with the prospect,
and senior Union officials have expressed
the hope that the position would be filled
by someone not from the South
Kensington campus.
This n e w system is very similar to that
of the King's College Union structure,
which has been seen to be very effective
over the last few years. Sen Ganesh,
Union President, told Felix "Given the
recent mergers with other institutions,
there is a strong case for expansion with
respect to Union officers."
The only problem that faces proponents
of this move is funding, since it is very
unlikely that the Union will be able to
afford it. This means that the ball is firm-
ly i n College's court, and as such this
decision is only likely to be made at the
highest levels. The rest of us can only
wait to hear the result.
will
"Notice words like 'teamwork' and
'responsibility1
. Ignore them. Well
dont, but realise that there is more to
t . "
Change The World. Or Something...

