music reviews
Chemical Brothers
Come With Us
Out now on Virgin records
Thankyou, Chemical Brothers, for a won-
derful new addition to the world of elec-
tronic music.
Back i n '99, I w a s very disappointed
when the Chemicals released Surrender
which was, to my ears, a very bleak and
uninteresting offering. There were a few
standout tracks, like the catchy Hey Boy
Hey Girl, but a lot of it just wasn't partic-
ularly memorable.
But here, from beginning to end, every
track is at least decent, and none sound
out of place. The two singles, It Began in
Afrika and Star Guitar, demonstrate the
more conventional side of the album, but
they're good examples of what to expect.
Star Guitar itself, whilst not ground-
breakingly original, is still a great track.
Highlights include the opener Come
With Us, which starts off with a slow yet
frantic violin sample and, after a
Chemicals drumroll, builds into a good
rival for Loops of Fury or even Block
Rocking Beats. The final track The Test is
particularly funky, and this is not the only
time when vocals play a major part - The
State We're In features some lovely
haunting vocals from Beth Orton. The
Chemical Brothers seem to have mas-
tered this kind of tune - unlike Orbital,
whose Otoho was a lame effort.
Pioneer Skies is a very pretty little num-
ber, though it seems to be based around
just one idea, and Hoops is very strange,
but these tracks still seem to fit in well
with the rest. Another stand-out is
Galaxy Bounce, a classic Chemical
Brothers track which shows that the duo
don't have to completely change their
style to make great music.
Corporate Avenger
Freedom Is A...
Out this Monday on Koch records
[Full title: Freedom Is A State Of Mind]
Yet more ridiculous nu-metal from a
bunch of oversized teenagers who prob-
ably wear suits to their day jobs and go
cavorting with the Territorial Army at
weekends. Clad i n the de rigeur sub-
Hellraiser clothes and make-up, superfi-
cially they're just another Slipknot deriv-
ative. A bunch of idiots - amusing, noisy
idiots, but idiots nonetheless.
Is it really worth describing the music?
After the harmless intro and yet another
song on the theme of Fuck Da Police, w e
get some politics. Christians Murdered
Indians starts with a reading of the
Spanish King's proclamation to the
Native Americans, and followed by a lot
of ranting about the resulting massacre.
There are plenty of other would-be
Dead Kennedys lyrics, which are deliv-
ered i n an amusing shouty style. The
tracks are peppered with scratchy bits,
bass beats and breaks, following the
well-tested House Of Pain model. Every
song starts with either a monologue or a
movie clip (Taxi Driver, etc) and then pro-
ceeds to expound a particular viewpoint:
Taxes are Stealing, Voting Doesn't Work,
The Bible is Bullshit (and the Qu'ran, and
the Bhagavad Gita...). This works for
about two minutes on each track, then
grates on the nerves, and then repeats.
There are some truly humorous
moments: "I'm not saying this is good,
I'm not saying this is right, but maybe the
virgin Mary was a hermaphrodite" on
Jesus Christ Homosexual. They're not tak-
ing themselves seriously, and neither
should we. Coming soon to a stadium
near you.
COMPETITION
This week, we're giving away the
soundtrack to the film How High,
featuring Redman and Method Man.
QUESTION: What is the name of
Redman's most recent solo album?
Please email your answer to
music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday.
LHB
T e l l ' E m W h o W e A r e
Out Monday 11 Feb on Telstar records
Playing this for the first time, I was
pleasantly surprised to hear a very clean-
cut piece of chilled-out house.
It is difficult to tell exactly where you
should place LHB, as they seem to bor-
row methods and styles from people as
far apart as Kinobe, the Chemical
Brothers and Ian Brown. A l l the songs
are quite different, and there is no defini-
tive LHB hook, other than purely relaxing
beats perfect for the after-club come-
down or the Sunday afternoon chill-out
session. For all I know, LHB could stand
for "Light House Beats", and if it did, that
would be an apt description.
The best tracks on the album are
Coming Up For Air, Tell 'Em Who We Are
and Cuba. These are the ones that show
the most complete amalgamation of
beats and vocal samples, creating emi-
nently loveable tunes. In fact, Coming Up
For Air sees a collaboration with Imogen
Heap, an experienced campaigner in the
chilled avant-garde market. Her vocals
add a human element to the otherwise
computer generated sound of the group.
TeJJ 'Em Who We Are is completely differ-
ent, in that it uses sampled vocals to cre-
ate that otherworldly sound which acts
as a perfect repost to the self-promotion-
al aspect of the song. The other strange
thing about this track is the addition of a
beatbox to create the bass rhythm.
Sounds horrible; works like a charm.
This may not sell very well, as there is
not enough "catchiness" to grab the
hearts and minds of the general public,
but it will almost certainly feature some-
where on the next Ministry Chillout
Session CD.
Robin Robert HOD Tank

