INTERVIEW with
Nat and Gary from Haven
reviews music
Between The Senses
Out this Monday on Radiate records
In the British rock world, Haven are being tipped to break
through and fill the current gap in style between Starsailor and
Muse. So what is there to make of their debut album?
The first thing you notice is the sheer brilliance of Gary
Briggs' voice. His soaring vocals add a real depth to the lyrics,
which will not be matched by many... ever. This in itself would
mean nothing if the music backing up the vocals was not of the
required calibre, but fortunately it is. The rhythms laid down by
Iwan Gronow on bass and Jack Mitchell on drums allow Nat
Watson to build up the melody into a fully involving experience.
This is never demonstrated better than on the absolutely sub-
lime Out Of Reach. Here, the verse is backed by a contemplative
bass riff, and Watson slowly builds up into the heady heights of
the chorus, which allows Briggs to let loose with his voice. Out
Of Reach is preceded by the equally brilliant Say Something (the
forthcoming single) and followed by Still Tonight. These two
tracks are quite different in their approach, but they still get you
involved in the song. A n d there lies all that is good about Haven
- the songs surround you before you can get away, and stay in
your head for hours.
This by no means a complete album - there are a number of
occasions when the relative pitches of the vocals and guitars
are mismatched, creating something that sounds distinctly odd.
This is made all the more remarkable when you discover that
the album is produced by none other than Johnny Marr, former-
ly of The Smiths. The problem is particularly acute on Is This
Bliss, and although Briggs has a wonderful voice, it becomes
clear that the right mix of music and vocals is essential.
The overall feel of the album is that the best is at the begin-
ning, and that it slowly degenerates as they run out of ideas,
but this only means that they still can and will improve as time
goes on. The album also suggests that Haven have the poten-
tial to be a stadium-filling live act to conquer America. Not bad
for four blokes from Cornwall!
Haven's debut album Between The Senses (see review, left) is
out on Monday. Felix spoke to Nat and Gary from the band
before one of their recent gigs at the Water Rats Theatre.
FELIX: You two met i n a record shop - where did you meet the
other two members of the band?
NAT: I was playing with another two guys - we were just mak-
ing a racket - and I met up with Gary and suggested to him that
he came over. We weren't writing songs; we were just abusing
our ears really. Gary came over and started the whole writing
thing off.
GARY: We found Jack sort of wandering around in Manchester
- we were looking for a drummer, and he looked like one. A n d
then when we started talking to him we realised he spoke like
one, and when he sat behind a kit he was one, so that was a
pretty good day.
W h y did you want to be i n a band?
GARY: For me, being in a band happened by accident, but I was
always going to be writing songs and I was always going to be
doing something with them.
NAT: The first time I heard Nirvana, I knew that I wanted to be
in a band. I was already playing guitar, and I really loved music,
but that sealed it for me.
Have you got any other influences or idols?
GARY: Yeah, I really love the Velvet Underground, 'cause they
seem to be really cool, but they have a sort of unattainable cool,
you know?
This is the third time you've played i n London this month - do
you really like it that much?
NAT: It's good when people come and it feels like an event, you
know - there's nothing better.
GARY: Doing residencies played a really big part in getting us
signed. We did a residency in Manchester, and it's something
that we really like doing... it seems to be a tradition that's been
lost. So for the last month the Water Rats has been our gaff, and
I really like that, I think it's cool.
If you could be any animal, what would you be?
GARY: A snake, cause it's kind of in keeping with my Chinese
star sign. I don't know why I'd be a snake; I don't think I'd enjoy
it, as such. I suppose it'd have to be a songbird.
NAT: Good one mate. I was going to say a rat, 'cause they're the
most well-evolved creatures on the planet.
GARY: Is that right? Is it not monkeys?
NAT: No, rats are up there. If nothing else, they can eat each
other and carry on, happy as Larry.
Have you got a favourite book?
GARY: Yeah, The Outsider by Albert Camus, that's a really good
book. It's a top read, so check it out.
NAT: To be honest, I'm embarrassed to say I don't read. You
know when your mum reads a story to you at bedtime? I used
to say "can you stop please?", and I've not read a book since.
Actually I read one once; it was shit.
Tank Jess

