music reviews
LIVE: The Beta Band
Ocean
The Beta Band. One of the few groups around who are willing
to experiment to get the sound they want. No bowing to popu-
lar taste to get record sales soaring or to attract "trendy" col-
laborators for this lot. But what would they be like live? Would
we get four multi-talented musicians coming together as one
symbiotic being to produce a set so magical that the world
bows down before it? Would we get four blokes having a free-
form jam on stage? Or would we get experimentation to the
extreme, creating nothing but a wall of white noise? Thankfully,
it was the former, and what a symbiotic being they are!
The evening didn't start well when the "guests" promised on
the ticket turned out to be a comedy duo called Fat Russ and
Les, who were supposed to be doing jokes and laying down
some tunes for the waiting crowd. But to be honest, a dead
goldfish would be a better comedian than either of these two
pillocks. The only hint of a snigger came when someone sug-
gested that Russ was a less attractive version of Jonathan King.
But this was a price worth paying to watch the Betas in action.
The whole set was very well put together, and the stage pres-
ence of Steve Mason was phenomenal, matched only by the
quality of the short films and videos shown on a screen behind
the band. The on-stage act was complemented by several
scantily clad men and women (later identified as the angels of
death) roaming the security pit with what looked like vodka
shots (although it may have been water).
Highlights of the show were forthcoming single Squares, per-
formed with brilliant gusto, and She's the One, which finished
off the main set. This final song allowed the whole band to
show off the full range of their musical abilities, as they seam-
lessly moved around the stage swapping instruments while the
song continued unaffected. This real connection between the
different band members was a hallmark of the set, and was evi-
dent again when the encore finished with two of them on dif-
ferent drum sets and the other two on bongos, creating a per-
fectly rhythmic chorus of beats.
Absolutely brand spankingly good!
LIVE: Cooper Temple Clause
Feet First, Camden Palace
Having been completely overwhelmed by The Cooper Temple
Clause's forthcoming album [see review next week], we took it
upon ourselves to attend one of their highly recommended live
shows. A n d where better to see them than Feet First, the
indie/rock night at Camden Palace...
The band came on stage in typical FF fashion, half an hour late
(owing to the fact that the organisers had opened the doors fif-
teen minutes late - much to the disgust of the very cold people
standing outside). This was easily forgivable, for The Cooper
Temple Clause were on top form this evening, banging out the
tunes like nobody's business. They were utterly compelling.
From the amazing power of Film Maker to the soft, crooning
tones of Murder Song, The Coopers took the crowd on an emo-
tional rollercoaster - one minute we would be bouncing up and
down, singing along to the electronic beats unique to the band,
and the next we were almost crying at the beauty of the music
these people can produce. Definitely guitar music at its best,
combining the presence of The Clash, the movement of RATM,
the atmospherics of Tool and the driving energy of Hole.
Unfortunately for the band, not everyone felt as we did - there
seemed to be a rather large proportion of the crowd standing
watching at the back - but there was a fair-sized mosh pit of
about thirty people or so, really giving it something serious
down at the front.
Our favourites for the evening were Murder Song, Did You Miss
Me and Panzer Attack. The latter of these seemed to go down
best with the crowd, probably because it was the band's first
widely available single. Their first two EPs were, sadly, limited
edition box sets, with only a thousand of each available.
Hopefully, however, more people will soon get w i n d of this cap-
tivating band through their highly anticipated and highly rec-
ommended new album See This Through And Leave.
In essence, the definitive statements of this gig were the sheer
quality of the entertainment, the almost magical tunes and the
immense - and much appreciated - effort of the band to commu-
nicate with the audience and make their gratitude known.
ID Tank Sajini & Jess

