film interview
Interview With...
John Lasseter (producer)
Pete Docter (director)
Lee Unkrich (co-director)
John Lasseter is the original founder
and creative genius behind Pixar
Entertainment, the computer anima-
tion coma He is an oscar winning
director and has been dubbed the
"Walt Disney" of computer animation.
Monsters Inc. is Pete Doctor's direc-
torial debut. He was one of the first
animators hired by Pixar and has done
significant work on all their feature
films including writing the script for
Toy Story.
Lee Unkhch's career began in 1991
editing music videos. He now spe-
cialises in background and live anima-
tion effects. He's co-directed Toy Story
2, A Bug's Life, and Monster Inc..
Where did the idea for Monsters Inc. come from?
Peter Docter: Two things that I knew were true for me as a kid.
1 - that my toys came to life when I wasn't in the room. A n d 2 -
that there were monsters hiding in my closet waiting to scare
me. A n d so it seemed like a lot of other people had the same
experience.
John Lasseter: What w e strive to do at Pixar is to come up with
some subject matter that the audience can relate to. A n d after
we started talking about everybody's own personal experiences
we knew this was a common theme.
PD: So the idea came out of trying to answer the question why
monsters scare kids. They don't do it just because they're mean
because that's what you just get told. But maybe it's because
they're trying to entertain other monsters. Like a reality TV
show, or maybe even a sporting event where the top guys go in,
they scare the kids and all the other monsters watch and say,
"Very good, very good."
But that didn't really go anywhere. So then being parents we
knew that children are an extremely unstable source of energy.
Very volatile. So we thought maybe the monsters go in, scare
the kids to collect their scream and the scream is the power
source in the monster world. The idea kind of extrapolated out
from that.
JL: The idea actually started around the time we were working
on Toy Story. Pete was the supervising animator on Toy Story. I
directed it. A n d I always knew Pete was going to direct his own
movie some day.
Did you aim Monsters Inc. at a particular target market? Will
adults like it just as m u c h as kids?
JL: A t Pixar we always make movies for ourselves. We aim at
ourselves. A s reasonably intelligent adults. We love to laugh,
we love to be moved in an audience, we love to see action, so
that's kind of the approach we take. We don't get influenced too
much from the outside. We just concentrate on making movies
for ourselves.
We're also parents and we love to take our kids to the movies.
So in order to entertain adults and teenagers and so on, we
don't put in subject matter or language that might be unsuitable
for kids because we are aware that we want to entertain kids
as well.
It's a high standard that we've set for ourselves but we're very
proud of that. A n d I think, now this being our 4th film, we are
getting a following which is kind of nice.
At the opening weekend of Monsters Incorporated in the
United States we did record business. But what was very excit-
ing was that 40% of the tickets sold that weekend were to peo-
ple without kids. So that was the teenagers, college students,
young adults, and old adults without kids. A n d all the evening
shows and late evening shows, 10.30 shows were sold out and
theatres across the country were adding midnight shows for a
U-rated animated film. So we're really proud of the fact that
everybody enjoys our movies.
In what ways has Monsters Inc. technically superceded Toy
Story 2?
JL: At Pixar, the technical development is really driven by the
needs of the story. We don't just come up with some new tech-
nology and say, "Hey, let's use it in the movie". We come up with
a story that lias something in it that we don't know how to do,
and then we set out to try to achieve it.
The fur on Sully was probably the biggest technical advance
in this film. Inherently, the more organic something looks or
moves, the more difficult it is to do with a computer. The com-
puter likes things simple and geometric. A n d hair, clothing,
skin, are extremely difficult things for a computer to do con-
vincingly. So when Pete came up with this idea to have the main
character to be furry it was a big challenge.
The technical artists may grumble a little bit, but they love
being challenged. Pixar is a pioneering company. Everything
we've ever done, no-one's ever done before.
Does the choice of voice actor affect the characters, or the
way they appear on the screen?
PD: Yeah, it really does. We don't cast our films based on how
famous an actor is, it's more about the talent that they have and
how closely they fit what we're looking for.
In the case of Sullivan we needed someone with a great deal
of strength and power to do him because he's the best, top scar-
er. But he also needs to have a sense of vulnerability as he
becomes parent to the girl. A n d John Goodman fit the bill well.
We then record with the guys before we animate, of course.
We do all the voice recording first. That's when they start to
bring their own personna to the part and w e end up re-writing
the script to fit the actor, so that the character in the film is tai-
lor-made for each actor.

