interview film
Is there m u c h sharing of trade secrets between yourslves and
the let's say the makers of Final Fantasy or Shrek?
Lee Unkrich: Back before Toy Story there was a computer ani-
mation community. You call it a community when you don't
make much money at it, instead of an industry. But it was defi-
nitely a community. It was an art form that had grown out of a
science. A n d in the scientific world there is this sharing of
ideas, done through publishing of technical papers. In journals
and in conferences and so on.
There used to be this computer graphics conference called
Cigraph, when I first started working with computer animation
and it was the thing the entire industry revolved around. There
really wasn't much else. It was a place where every single tech-
nical advance was published as a paper.
There's still a very, very strong tradition of that now. In still
publishing papers. We have won a number of technical
Academy Awards for the work that we've done and to win those
we had to share. It's impossible not to. So there is quite a bit of
sharing going on.
I guess as it has gotten more competitive, certain things you
do hold back, or you maybe hold back a few years and then pub-
lish. The one thing we're proud of still is Renderman, our ren-
dering system and it's a prop that we sell and it's become stan-
dard in the industry.
In the last 10 years there have been 26 films nominated for
best special effects in the Academy Awards. 24 of those 26 films
have used Renderman. So whenever we make a new develop-
ment in our own movie it tends to ripple throughout the entire
industry.
Are there any projects that you need to wait 5 to 10 years to
be able to do?
JL: In the early days of computer animation everybody assumed
you can do anything with computers. A n d then they try it and
they get into something that too difficult and it just doesn't
work. So we're always aware of what it can and can't do and the
limitations guide it in that way.
As computers develop, those limitations are becoming fewer
and fewer but there still are limitations. And, you know, this is
a business as well. You cannot take like 24 or 36 hours of frames
and then edit your film out of that. You just can't do that.
Finances won't cope. You can do some expensive money shots
that do take a long time, but then you have to balance them
with other things.
Comparing the subject matters: Bugs, Toys, Monsters..
Monsters Inc. was very ambitious because the characters were
much more organic than we'd had before. Bugs were exoskele-
ton characters where they were maybe organically shaped, but
they still hinged, and were a little easier to do. Same with Toys
in that respect.
In terms of computer animation Pixar is going from strength
to strength. Will we ever see an adult movie like this?
JL: The way I look at it is that we make movies for the adults.
We just happen to include kids and if we make a movie just for
adults we're excluding a huge chunk of our audience.
Will it happen? Yeah, sure. Final Fantasy was starting down
that direction and I think that it's really a matter of time.
There are a lot of hidden jokes and references hidden in the
background of this film. Would you like to point any out?
LU: Yeah, the coffee shop, in the Monstropolis, is Hidden City
cafe which is back in the little town where Pixar is. It was the
place we always went for lunch.
PD: Yeah, and when they're trying to get rid of Randall at the
end of the movie, he ends up in the bayou down in Louisiana.
But the trailer that he ends up in is actually the same trailer
from A Bug's Life: Bug City is actually underneath that.
JL: There's a Pizza Planet Truck that's been in all four Pixar
movies.
Was it your decision to get Billy Crystal involved in the film?
We actually approached Billy Crystal as the first person on Toy
Story and he turned us down for Buzz Lightyear. But as soon as
we talked to him about doing Monsters Inc. he said, it's the one
decision in his entire career that he regrets making to this day .
Were you consciously trying to make a point about the ener-
gy shortage crisis in America?
JL: We deny that the energy crisis was a convenient marketing
ploy for Monsters Incorporated.
PD: We were doing the whole energy shortage thing and going,
"You know, are kids really going to be able to relate to his? I
mean, the last energy crisis was, what, '78 or something." But, I
mean, it doesn't really matter because the story works even
without that for kids. A n d then the whole energy shortage thing
happened and it's kind of a coincidence.
JL: In Monstropolis, there's a headline: "Rolling blackouts
expected". A n d we actually had rolling blackouts in California
this summer and even Pixar was hit with one. Everything came
back up except our e-mail.
LU: Our email was gone almost a week.
JL: You know, if you want to see a bunch of adults cry, just take
their e-mail away.
Darius

