film reviews
Vanilla Sky
released 25th January
A good film is one which gams in reflection. A couple of days
after seeing Vanilla Sky and I'm thinking, Bam! What a load of
nonsense. I remember leaving the cinema and thinking that
was great. I enjoyed that very much. N o w I'm thinking what a
implausible plot twist at the end. Not so much a twist as a
Chinese burn.
The truth is that Cameron Crowe's retelling of Alejandro
Amenabar's 1997 movie Abre Los Ojos (probably means Open
Your Eyes) is one of the most bizarre movies I have ever seen.
David Aames (Tom Cruise) is a high flying magazine publisher
who has much money, many women, and a Ferrari. He has an
on-going relationship with Julie (Cameron Diaz), "a friend he
sometimes sleeps with". But there's trouble when he falls for
Sofia (Penelope Cruz), which leads to Julie becoming jealous
and driving him off a bridge in her car. While this is all happen-
ing we are shown flash-forwards (like flash-backs except in the
future) with David Aames in a prison cell, wearing a prosthetic
mask, and being interrogated by psychologist McCabe (Kurt
Russell) about someone's death.
Watching this, I asked myself several questions: Why is Aames
in a prison wearing a mask in the future? Whose death is
McCabe talking about? Have I got enough change for a pint
after this? In that respect Vanilla Sky is engaging. The clues are
there it's just a matter of putting them together to work out
what the hell is going on.
With its 'mind-blowing' finale Vanilla Sky fails where other films
like The Usual Suspects and Memento succeeded. It just does
not work. It doesn't make you gasp, you just sit there thinking,
so what was the point of the previous 2 % hours? The script just
is not up to the task and nor for that matter is the acting. Tom
Cruise may be worthy of an Oscar nomination, but the rest of
them just are not as committed to the cause. It is as if some of
them were in it just for the money or something.
Overlong and pseudo-intellectual Vanilla Sky is only notable for
Cruise's paranoia-filled performance as the self-centered David
Aames. But by the end of it I was hoping for this Cruise-control
vehicle to Cruz to a halt. In fact if it was a Cruz missile...
Monsters Inc.
released 8th February
Bedtime. Your parents have left the room. The lights have been
switched off. You are at the mercy of your imagination. There are
monsters in the closet, under the bed, behind the curtains. A l l
of them ready to pounce. The moment you fall asleep. In the
night. A n d out of sight. Speak for yourself I was a born-physi-
cist and my mantra was what you cannot see does not exist,
and what does not exist has got little hope of doing any harm.
Monstropolis is the city where all the monsters live. The city's
main power source is human screams, which are captured by an
elite team of monster 'scarers1
, who enter the human world
every night to scare children and to collect their subsequent
screaming. But today's children do not scare as easily as they
used to, so the city is faced with a potentially disastrous ener-
gy crisis.
Monsters Inc. is the largest scream processing factory and
James P Sullivan, whose nickname is Sulley, is an eight foot tall
blue-green monster. He is the most successful scarer. He is a
role model for all the up-and-coming scarers. His best mate and
scare-assistant is the little green, one-eyed, Mike Wazowski.
The plot takes off when Sulley accidentally lets a human child,
considered highly toxic and dangerous, into the Monster world.
Mayhem ensues as Sulley and Mike try to hide the child from
the authorities until things can cool down so that they can send
her home safely. The plot takes a further turn when the duo
stumble across the number two scarer Randall Boggs' evil plot
to boost energy production.
Monsters Inc. is the latest in a series of computer animated fea-
tures including Toy Story, A Bug's Life, and Toy Story 2. This
time Pixar Entertainment have taken their art form to a different
level in terms of their mastery of the artistic medium. With an
enormous budget of $115 million (not bad for a cartoon) Pixar
have set new industry standards.
Directed brilliantly by Peter Docter, Monsters Inc. is pure enter-
tainment. It made me laugh proper, and when it finished, I was
sad. Just go and see it. In fact, I'm going to see it again as soon
as the Monsters Ink on this review dries.

