Evan Hunter was born in New York City in 1926. He studied
art at the Art Students League in New York, and then at
Cooper Union. Before Hunter began writing full-time he held
many different vocations such as schoolteacher, a lobster
salesman, and a literary agent. In 1954 his novel The
Blackboard Jungle, set in the public school system of New
York City and dramatising student violence as no other novel
of its time did, was published to great acclaim.
Under the pseudonym of E d McBain, Hunter created the
87th precinct set in the city of Isola (which is based very loose-
ly on New York.) The first 87 novel appeared in 1956 entitled
Cop Hater and the 51st in the series, Money, Money, Money
has just been released by Orion in the UK. Below are reviews
of the last two Hunter novels Candyland and Money, Money,
Money opposite is a interview with the man himself.
Candyland
Evan Hunter/Ed McBain
Candyland is a novel in two parts. The first half written by the
critically renowned author Evan Hunter while the second part
is the work of E d McBain, the creator of the 87th precinct nov-
els. The interesting twist being that Hunter and McBain are the
same person and each gives their own literary and gripping
style to both parts of this novel.
The Hunter part of the book recounts the story of Benjamin
Thorpe's night in the city of New York. Thorpe is a well-respect-
ed architect on the West Coast and is in New York for a party
celebrating the opening of a building that he designed. Once
the party is over, Thorpe returns to his hotel, calls his wife and
he then sets out on a course that will go someway to changing
his life. Thorpe is a sexual compulsive. Almost all his thoughts
and tales regarding the good times in his life revolve around
the act of sex. Armed with his little address book (all in code in
case his wife gets hold of it) he seeks out a number of women
that he knows in the city. When that fails he visits a high-class
whorehouse, the XS salon. A n hour later he is lying in the gut-
ter after being bloodied and beaten by the manager but lucki-
ly for him a woman helps him out of the rain (the preverbal
hooker with the heart of gold) and takes him back to her apart-
ment to get cleaned up. Once there he realises some shocking
facts about his past and the way his life is going.
At this point E d McBain takes over. The next morning a
female prostitute is found dead, and the case is assigned to
Emma Boyle, a NYPD detective attached to the rape squad.
The prostitute worked at the XS salon and also had dealings
with Ben Thorpe on the night of her murder.
I personally enjoyed the two parts to this novel, especially
the insight into the mind of a sexual compulsive. Even after he
is beaten up, Ben is still interested in having sex with the
woman that helps him. By doing this, Hunter is portraying
Thorpe's problem as a very deep-rooted one, similar to any
other addiction and not as an instrument of humour. The
McBain part of the story is very much in the police procedural
style with an ending both shocking and very chilling. For me,
the characters are very human and the dialogue is particularly
strong. I look forward to the next Hunter/McBain outing.
book reviews
Money, Money, Money
Ed McBain
Money, Money, Money is the 51st 87th precinct novel by the
master of the police procedural novel, E d McBain.
Cassandra Ridley is a female pilot who served with the 101st
Airborne in the Gulf War. When she is approached with a sim-
ple flying job in Texas that involves couriering four packages
across the border to Mexico and bringing back the same num-
ber in return, which is probably a drugs shipment, she believes
it is an easy way of making her a large sum of money. The job
goes so well that after the final packages have been delivered
she gets a bonus of ten thousand dollars. On her arrival back on
the East Coast just before Christmas she starts to spend the
money. When a burglar, Will Struthers raids her apartment, she
tracks him down and regains her money and her property. It
would seem though that the money that she handed over to the
men in Mexico is not as clean as it should. In fact its counterfeit
and they decide to cross the border to get what is rightfully
theirs. They pay a visit to Cassandra and the next day she is
found in the lion's den at the city zoo being devoured by the
hungry lions. Steve Carella is put in charge of the investigation
along with fat Ollie Weeks from the 88th precinct. This is due to
one of Cassandra's legs being eaten by a lion in the 88th; the
boundary of the two precincts being directly through the lion
enclosure.
The plot from here takes many different turns involving greed,
double-crossing and, of course, murder. Many different groups
of people ffom drug dealers, the government and also a pub-
lishing house are interested in getting hold of the money.
The humour is provided by Fat Ollie Weeks, who cannot think
of anything but eating. He is a racist and he hates all minority
groups equally. One of the best scenes in the whole book is the
piano lesson where Ollie is trying to play "Night and Day" and is
stuck on the first three notes. Joking aside, Ollie is a first-rate
cop and saves Carella's life twice in the book.
The twists in the plot and the continual saga of the detectives
of the 87th make this a winner and confirm this reader's belief
that this is probably the best police procedural series ever.
Both Candyland and Money, Money, Money are published by
Orion, priced at £5.99 and £12.99 respectively.

