reviews book
Interview with Evan Hunter
(Ed McBain)
Can you tell us a little about your background?
Well, I was born on a kitchen table on a blanket in Manhattan;
my Aunt Jenny was the midwife. I was raised on and around
New York and I went to N e w York City schools. In 1944, I joined
the Navy and it w a s while I was in the Navy that I decided that
I wanted to become a writer. Before then I was studying art and
so I had a complete change in direction. Instead of going to art
school, which I had been attending, I decided that while I was
at college I would concentrate on writing.
I held a series of jobs and eventually worked for The Scott
Meredith Literary Agency with other writers such as Larry Block
and Donald Westlake. From there I continued to write and I even-
tually sold my novel, The Blackboard Jungle and the rest, as they
say, is history. E d McBain came into being in 1956 when my pub-
lishers approached me and asked me if I had an idea about a
mystery series.
What was the reason behind the E d McBain pseudonym? Was
it that y o u a n d your publishers believed that Evan Hunter
wouldn't sell writing i n the mystery genre?
No, it was their belief that it would be damaging to my career as
a serious novelist if it were known that I was writing mystery
novels.
So back i n the 1950s the idea of a serious writer writing a mys-
tery novel was somehow beneath them?
Oh yeah. There was this critic, I can't remember his name, for
The N e w Yorker magazine who had written an article called
"Who Cares What Happened to Roger Ackroyd" and it implied
that anyone who wrote a mystery was a nitwit and anyone who
read them was a half wit.
So did these comments set back mystery writing i n the 1950s?
Well this critic was very respected and the belief at the time was
that reading crime fiction was not a proper literary pursuit. This
belief is absurd today. If you look at the bestsellers list in the
United States of the 15 titles, 7 or 8 titles are mysteries.
So what changed the public's perception?
Well, E d McBain came along, well that's not exactly true but in a
sense I added a little class to the mystery novel. For a while back
then when you went into a bookshop the front of the store was
full of romance novels while now its mystery books.
What are you're actual mechanics of writing?
I get to work between nine and ten every morning and I work
straight through, well I have a break for lunch with my wife, and
then I lock the door at six in the evening. When I first started out
I worked a day job and so the only time I had to write was after
dinner, in the evening or at weekends. I sort of vowed that I'd
always work more regular hours if I ever had the privilege to
write full-time which I have been lucky enough to do. I some-
times break this rule if I have an imposing deadline but I try to
stick to these regular times.
The 87th precinct novels are very m u c h admired as police pro-
cedural novels. H o w did you go about the research for these
novels? Did you have any contacts i n the police departments?
I did far more research when I was starting out although to
begin with the police officers that I contacted were not very
receptive. I'd just had The Blackboard Jungle published and they
thought I was coming in to do a number on them, to show how
inept they were. I managed to convince them that I was going to
write sympathetically about cops and they began to accept me
when they realised how serious I was. The police are a nice
bunch of people considering the hard job that they have to do.
What for you were the benefits of creating the city of Isola
instead of using N e w York City or any other real city?
I changed it so I didn't have to call the police every five minutes
because it would seem that they would change the procedure for
investigating a crime about every two weeks. I thought this
would just lead to trouble. Also I didn't want to get involved with
any lawsuits by using real numbers or real addresses. So instead
I made it a mythical city, which I like. I can stick a park or a build-
ing anywhere. But you know, I've been to Edinburgh but I would
wager that your average reader hasn't so if Ian Rankin says that
there is a castle in the middle of town I'll accept it, for me its a
mythical city.
/
Are you still as enthusiastic about writing today, as you were
when you started fifty years ago?
Oh, I love it. I'm trying to think w h y I feel so good in the morning
when I'm starting work. For me, there is a problem to solve every
morning and also a challenge for the day ahead. Each morning I
re-read what I did the night before and I make hard copy before
I put the computer to sleep. It's always invigorating when you sit
down at the computer and finish a scene or you stumble on
something that triggers an idea for the next chapter. It really is
very exciting work.
Evan Hunter was in London promoting Money, Money, Money
and the two mystery bookshops have signed editions of this.
Jonathan

