felix talk
RUBBISH?
Ever caught a waft of a rubbish cart on
a summer's day or been woken by the
relentless weekly bin-emptying at some
unearthly hour? Or for Beit residents,
the bottle banks at the Royal Albert Hall
being emptied?
If yes, just think for a moment of these
two images. Number one is a landfill
site near San Francisco, two mounds
which have grown since 1977 solely out
of cover dirt and solid waste from three
California cities. By 1992, each mound
was seventy million cubic feet in vol-
ume, about the same size as nearly five
Temples of the Sun i n Mexico. Number
two is Smokey Mountain in Manila, cap-
ital of the Philippines - twenty five thou-
sand people i n cardboard huts perched
on stilts stuck into a giant heap of more
than a billion cubic metres of stinking
garbage.
'When people look into a trash bag,
they see things like plastic, paper,
metal and food waste. I see our whole
Chaplaincy
world being thrown away' wrote Paul
Connett (a professor of chemistry in
N e w York and specialist in waste man-
agement), and with the air pollution in
Metro-Manila exceeding allowable lev-
els by three hundred percent and with
over four million children in the world
dying from waste-related illnesses each
year, w h o can argue with him? Surely,
the worst of all the forms of pollution is
wasted lives.
Are you just sitting there thinking
that it's all so awful, but there is nothing
that I can do about it? Well, you're
wrong! A l Gore wisely suggested that
'to warn of the dangers is not to despair
of the solutions. [There] is a call to
action a n d hope...Today the human
species is the only one w i t h the self-
knowledge and the capacity to protect
its o w n future.' So the question for us to
answer is, are w e going to answer that
call?
For a start, at a practical level w e can
all recycle. We can also let our aware-
ness mature so that instead of agonis-
ing over a series of apparently discon-
nected issues, we come to realise just
how interconnected issues are.
Environmental devastation and world
poverty are connected... and the impov-
erishment of the few affects the well
being of the whole. "No m a n is an
island," as the poet John Donne wrote.
When our perceptions do mature, and
our appreciation of issues becomes
joined-up, w e might just come to see
that the issues raised by charities are
not simply about "helping others", but
might actually stem from enlightened
self-interest too.
The inter-connectedness of environ-
mental issues and world prosperity is
one of the issues we'll be touching on
our weekend away at the Eden Project
the weekend of the lst-3rd March, "One
Foot in Eden". A l l members of the col-
lege are welcome to join us. The cost of
the weekend including travel, entry to
the Eden Project and all food is £60.
d o w n
t h e c l a i m :
e a r t h
I am the resurrection, the truth and the life. He who believes in me
will live even though he dies." - Jesus of Nazareth
t h e e v i d e n c e :
A first hand account of Jesus' life, words, death and resurrection
t h e c h o i c e :
Yours. Ask your questions, get answers.
6-week course on Mondays @ 6:30pm (starting 4th Feb)
meeting in Beit Quad East Basement, food provided
i nfo: j enn ifer.g il l@i c. ac. uk

