talk felix
Not being too sure what to write in this
column I'll do something different. A
nonsensical set of opinions, ideas and
the like rather than something hugely
specific on your radio station.
Firstly, the wonder of music, the
breadth and depth of w h i c h is further
than the ear can see. Generally music is
something we all love, some genres
more than others but nevertheless we
all have our own loves and hates when
it comes to music. For sure, a lot of you
guys here love cheeeezzy music, it only
takes a peek in the union on a
Wednesday or a Friday to realise this.
But rest assured there are just as many
who find it somewhat irritating at the
best of times. No offence to the former.
A n example of w h i c h is playing on your
radio station at the moment (Monday
between 8-9), 'The Medicine' is a show
by some alternative music peeps with
tracks that are unique, a bit weird and
surprising to use a few words. Tuning in
another time, typically lunch times,
you'll find a concentrated mix of more
Well kids, it's Sunday afternoon and I'm
currently writing this ramble whilst
feeling rather worse for wear. It was a
bad night last night, I had seven e's and
to be honest it was the worst game of
scrabble I've ever played. Of course my
literary nightmare doesn't end there
because I've only got four days to finish
off this years gloriously offensive R A G
Mag, like Playboy, but without the pic-
tures and the articles on cars are even
crapper.
Producing a R A G M a g is quite an
arduous labour of love. Long hours are
spent meticulously t r a w l i n g the
Internet for material. Occasionally in
between the porn I find the time to
search for jokes, but w i t h only four days
to deadline the matters of the palm shall
have to wait. So apart from jokes what
else goes into a R A G Mag, I hear you
ask? Well to be honest I don't really
IC Radio
'popular' music, naturally including the
cheese factor. Anyway, enough of this,
time for something completely different.
Here's a question that I would like to
know the answer to: What is it about
the nature of music that appeals to us?
Is it the memories reminisced or the
emotions installed that is what we like
about it? A n d as a similar thought, is
that why the people we relate to, have
compatible musical interests to our-
selves? Could you say that our appreci-
ation of music provides us some sort of
humanistic qualities? Is this a waste of
space? Answers on a postcard.
What do you think of IC Radio? Could
its shows be better? Could you do bet-
ter? A question for Princes Gardens,
how is the reception? Over the last ten
years the transmitter there has been
working at reduced power, that was
until last summer when a replacement
capacitor made all the difference. The
result is that the current tenants don't
realise that it can be picked up in the
exquisite comfort of their own rooms on
Rag Ramble
know due to the small but inconvenient-
ly significant reason that I haven't writ-
ten it. I'm sure, of course, that it'll all be
scintillating stuff. Just to keep your
appetites wet though - I'm assuming
here that there's actually people still
reading this article - there will be the
odd piece about what R A G is and what
it does. Which if you don't know by now
means that you haven't been reading
the R A G Rambles and if you're still read-
ing this I do believe I'm heading
towards some sort of paradox... There'll
also be some sort of tacky totaliser, a
comical review of Rag Week (coming
soon, 15th-22nd February, get involved
because if R A G Week fails then I'll have
to think of something else to put in the
R A G Mag) and the usual collection of
the very latest in comical anecdotes and
jokes to keep you amused in between
ubiquitous adverts for whatever tat the
999kHz.
Back to music. The great thing about
it is that you can hear wherever you are,
be it music of your choice or someone
else's. It can put smile on your face, a
tear in your eye or a spring in your step.
It can make you twist the night away or
tune-m, turn on and drop out. You can
be reminded of a beautiful stranger, a
place or times gone by. Next time you
hear a new record you like, pause and
stop for a moment - you recall the
moment later.
A couple of final thoughts, in a couple
of weeks we will have a Learn to Mix
session, so if you're interested in using
The Wheels of Steel (DJ decks) then
come along. Also, I've got a show com-
ing very soon. It's going to be/on
Wednesdays 1-2 (I think) so tune-in.
This is IC Radio, thank you for listen-
ing. •»,•<,
icradiopi
www.icradio.com II
local establishments are trying to push
on the student population. Please
remember if you happen upon an advert
that has you fingering your deep pock-
ets to see if you can afford its wares
then slap yourself sharply across the
face w i t h a cold slippery trout and
repeat after me, "Material items do not
interest me, let me find enlightenment
in generosity, these few English pence
in my pocket are destined for R A G and
the poor sick children that the Shooting
Stars Trust does such sterling work for".
Well I do believe I've managed to string
together enough coherent words to form
an article so my work is done now. Vive
La Rag and remember the wise words of
Confucius "<<you'll have to get hold of
a R A G M a g in the summer term to find
out...>>".
Richard Walker.
R A G M a g Editor-in-Chief.
Hello happy people. If you're reading this, you have an attention to detail. Or you're very bored in your lecture. Either way, you have
the perfect qualifications to volunteer to help with the Summer Ball, or even run it. So email Sen Ganesh on president@ic.ac.uk.

