election special
Do You Think You
Friday 8th February sees the papers for application to be a Union
Sabattical come down. That means you have one week from
today to get round to the first floor of the Union and put your
name down on the list outside the Union Offices. You also have
to be proposed by someone (anyone: your housemate, lab-part-
ner) and get twenty seconders to sign their name underneath
yours. You will then attend two hustings, later in the month, and
hopefullly get voted in before March.
• You do not need to have worked for the Union ever before.
• You do not need to be a boring bureaucrat
• You do not need to have finished your degree
My point is that anyone can stand for this job. Even me.
It is fun. It is good experience. It is better than getting a prop-
er job. A n d what's more you have the potential to change the life
of every single student at this University for the better.
So below we have the five jobs you can apply for. One of them
is mine. Can you guess which one? Well done, you're even intel-
ligent enough to go for it. The excellent gentlemen who have
looked after these jobs for you this year are here to tell you why
you should apply for their job, and not the others. Notice words
like 'teamwork' and 'responsibility'. Ignore them. Well don't, but
realise that there is more to it than that. These guys only have
200 words to get across the concepts, so they don't have time to
wax lyrical about everything, but between them, these jobs
encompass everything that is important to all students. Now, go
talk to them and find out more.
Deputy President Of Education & Welfare
David Francis dpew@ic.ac.uk
What does the job involve?
The job is definitely Education and Welfare, not Welfare and
Education. M y first priority is the education of all the Union's
members. I take views from students and pass them on to
College staff and tutors as well as in the other direction.
Who should stand for the Education and Welfare post?
If you're going to do this job, you've got to be a team player -
working with the other sabbatical officers is really important.
Every Monday we get together, discuss the events of the previ-
ous week, and work on what's going to happen the following
week.
Also, don't be discouraged from standing if you're not a "Union
Hack" - you get to know how the structures work very quickly,
and some of our best ideas come from people who don't know
everything about the Union.
Finally, you've got to be a good communicator, and you've got to
have thick skin if people criticise you or make personal attacks.
What have you accomplished this year?
I think the ethos of the Union has changed a lot this year - it has
always been focused on clubs and societies up and until now,
but I think people this year are realising the importance of edu-
cational representation too. There are also more tangible goals,
like raising money for good causes.
What are the disadvantages?
Sometimes you have to deal with distraught people even though
you're not a trained counsellor. It can be frustrating working
within the Union when you want to get something done. It takes
time working with students who have degrees to do, but democ-
racy is important and we couldn't do without it.
Deputy President Of Clubs & Societies
Rob Davenport dpcs@ic.ac.uk
What does the job involve?
The Freshers' Fair is the biggest task, which is hard also because
it's the first thing you have to do. I've got to make sure all the
clubs and societies know what to do. Also, along with the Union
Manager, the DP(C&S) has joint responsibility for health and
safety in the Union.
Who should stand for the Clubs and Societies post?
You've got to be approachable and patient. Everyone who comes
to you,is a volunteer, giving up their time to run clubs, so you've
got to give them guidance and expect them to make mistakes
sometimes. A cool head is definitely helpful, especially when
you come into the line of fire if something has gone wrong or if
people let you down. Finally, you've got to be a team player.
While most of my time is taken up w i t h clubs and societies stuff,
all of the sabbaticals work together to run the Union.
Do you need to have had lots of clubs or U n i o n experience?
It's helpful to have been involved in at least one club, though the
greater the number and variety, the better. There are certainly
other clubs, but it's useful to know about sports clubs, as some
of the issues can be quite complicated.
You don't need to be too politically minded either. If you don't
have your own political agenda, then you'll get lots of requests
and suggestions from students.
What are the disadvantages?
The DP(C&S) often has to deal with people outside College but
I much prefer dealing with students. Also, there are committees
which don't have much to do with clubs, but which all the sab-
baticals must go.to - it's hard to get interested in all of them.
Is it hard to work inside the Union's democratic structure?
A s a sabbatical, you work for the Union all day, but students are
doing degrees and it can be easy to get frustrated sometimes
when the students haven't thought everything through fully. But
democracy is important, and worth a little inconvenience.
special election
Could Do Better?
Felix Editor
Will Dugdale felix@ic.ac.uk
What does the job involve?
My main priority is to get Felix out on a regular basis, while not
making a loss for the Union (who partially fund it). As well as
this, I often find myself helping out with other publications.
Some officially, such as the Union Handbook, and others just
helping out with design or editorial work.
What's so great about it?
You answer to no-one, really. I am accountable to Council on
some levels, but only so far as they can sack me, and that's not
an easy process. Fundamentally you can say anything, and
everything, and hopefully this can be done on behalf of the stu-
dents. Also you get to flex design, managerial, editorial, political
and writing skills. Seriously good experience.
Who should stand?
It's certainly useful to have some Quark (Desktop Publishing
Program) skills, but not necessarily: you can always learn them.
You have to be friendly, persuade people to work for nothing,
organised (which I'm not really, and I suffer for it), and commit-
ted: if I don't reach a deadline, Felix doesn't come out.
What are the disadvantages?
If you are not an insomniac, you will be. Most of my editorial
work happens in the evening or at night, due to having to wait
for copy from writers and sub-editors, but all the managerial
work happens in the day time, getting advertising and suchlike.
Is it hard to work inside the U n i o n structure?
Hahaha. I tried to avoid it, but in order to make editorial deci-
sions, write news stories, and even just find out what's going
on, you need a very good understanding of both College and the
Union. I've learnt a lot about both, without even wanting to...
President
Sen Ganesh president@ic.ac.uk
What does the job involve?
Everything. As President, I have to co-ordinate the Union's activ-
ities and represent the students to College. I also have to take
ultimate responsibility for the Union's actions. This means
you've got to have a wide knowledge about everything that is
happening, including trading and personnel. I also had to make
the Commemoration Day speech, which involved speaking to
over five thousand people.
What's so great about it?
Although I have to take this responsibility, I have to work with
the other sabbaticals as a team, which makes a big difference.
Who should stand for the post of President?
Someone who likes a challenge. You have to be organised and a
quick learner - you'll encounter lots of unfamiliar situations and
need to deal with them just like any other. Obviously, the job
also requires a lot of diplomacy.
As many people as possible should apply!
Do you need to have had lots of U n i o n political experience?
No, not necessarily. It might help, but then it would also be good
to get a fresh perspective, which wasn't based on previous
Union political situations. The position doesn't have a specific
mandate so you really do make what you can of it.
What are the disadvantages?
The job can be admin-heavy, and it often involves long hours to
get everything done.
Is it hard to work inside the Union's democratic structure?
It can be challenging, particularly when you've got to gain con-
sensus - processes can certainly take longer, but it's good for
students and very important.
Deputy President Of Finance & Services
Ben Hawkins dpfs@ic.ac.uk
What does the job involve?
I manage the finances of the Union, and work with the sabbati-
cal team on Union policy.
What's so great about it?
It's a great way to spend the year. You get experience from the
permanent staff and you get an insight into finance and man-
agement. There's always something to be done.
Who should stand for the Finance and Services post?
Someone who knows and can talk to students and explain
finance issues. You don't need to have experience with finance
or management, as you can learn these during the handover. If
you're politically motivated, then there is certainly scope to
explore this, but you don't need to - it might even be an advan-
tage not to have a background in Union politics.
What are the disadvantages?
You'll sometimes find you have to spend more time writing
reports for committees than doing your job.
Is it hard to work inside the Union's democratic structure?
It sometimes feels restrictive but you can always see the point.
It would be nice to make a decision rather than waiting for the
next committee meeting, but you can see why these structures
are there to make sure you're doing your job.

