L E Q
Dear Will,
I find Professor Rawlings' logic in his
letter to Felix in a previous issue absolute-
ly flawed. He reasons that because the
hacking (sic) of the L E Q website could be
constituted to be forbidden under para-
graph 12 of the Regulations for Students,
the website was therefore "robust and
was not successfully hacked". This is akin
to arguing that I need not lock the door to
my house because theft is illegal. What
two students from the Department of
Computing showed was that anyone had
the potential to access and modify sensi-
tive information on the website. The sys-
tem could in no way, therefore, be consid-
ered secure, nor robust. The students
have repeatedly asserted they contacted
those responsible for running the site
about security holes that were found dur-
ing the pilot, but no action was taken.
Prof. Rawlings also complains about the
poor response to the program. I believe
this was due not only to student apathy
as identified by Felix, but also due to fears
amongst students that the data that they
entered would not be kept private. It
doesn't take a Computing student to fig-
ure out that e-mailing plain text pass-
words to everyone is a bad thing. Why
couldn't students use the same username
and password used to access all of the
College's other computing facilities? To
add insult to injury, the website was not
run from a secure server and so all data
entered, including passwords, was trans-
mitted unencrypted.
I agree with the view that that the stu-
dents from DoC are being made scape-
goats, in order for the College to save
face. It's time that the College admitted
its mistakes and worked with students to
develop a more secure and robust system
ext time around.
L E Q 2
Here are the points which I passed up the
hierarchy.
-START--
1: The site does not use SSL security
which means that everyone can easily
read all data sent between the site and
myself.
2: On my personal page there are no
entries for two lecturers whose course
was taken by the majority of the third
year.
3: There are entries for lecturers whose
courses I did not attend, which means of
course that I can give them a bad evalua-
tion and severely bias the results.
4: While the course code for me is cor-
rect, the course name is incorrect, I am
doing 1
Computing (Software
Engineering)' and not Computing
(Artificial Intelligence)'
5: The email address given at the bot-
tom of the pages for us to send comments
to is not valid, and generated a bounce
message when I tried to use it.
6: Needing to offline the database for
backup purposes is unbelievably stupid -
no commercial system has needed that
for over 10 years.
To pre-empt the standard answer to my
objection 1:
Switched networks do not guarantee
security, they merely make it more diffi-
cult to snoop. Since all traffic is snooped
somewhere, for security or statistical
analysis purposes, this means that it is
certainly possible for someone to know
what I said.
I personally feel that the paper-based
system was much better for students, and
was far more representative - only polling
those students who bother to attend at
least one lecture seems sensible...
Regards, Philip Willoughby
L E Q 3
Dear Felix,
Well, I had a brief look at the L E Q sys-
tem (I was asked to) many months before
it went into production. A n d it was a joke
- the system was riddled with holes and
some very smart students in the
Department of Computing gave some
very good advice that wasn't acted upon.
This beta test, it might be noted, was sig-
nificantly before the actual usage of the
L E Q system, and there was not another
one before rolling it out, to demonstrate
just how riddled with security flaws -it
was (and probably still is, just with a bit
more sticky-tape to protect it).
I don't send any personal information
that I care about over unencrypted con-
nections, and for the college, or anybody,
to expect me to send something where
talk back
there isn't even an attempt at due dili-
gence to protect the machine, then they
are having a laugh. Aside from this, the
inability to use the system from home
(other than by having to create a tunnel to
use a proxy at DoC), simply made it not
worth doing.
It really does look awfully bad on the
university if officials spout such rubbish
about security - an insecure machine is an
insecure machine. The "protected" infor-
mation was a URL. Gee *whiz* nobody
will ever guess that.
Have they actually fixed the problems
discovered? Is it going to be offered to
computing students to attempt to break,
and if not, why should I, or *anybody*
else in the university trust it to hold infor-
mation I do not necessarily want to
become public?
I might like to note, that several times
the Department of Computing has offered
to build a system like this for free, and it
would almost certainly be significantly
more secure. The fact that this, and the
effectively free security auditing that DoC
can provide was not taken up appears to
show a supreme lack of regard for the
security of students data.
Bunch Of Arts
Dear Felix,
Nate Evuarherhe's column lamenting
the budget cuts to ArtSoc was a gross
misrepresentation of the Arts and Culture
provision at ICU.
As chairman of the Arts &
Entertainments Board, I have responsibil-
ity for over a dozen different clubs and
societies allowing students to get direct-
ly involved in theatre, music, poetry, art
and cinema.
The college employs a full time Director
of Music, has 2 orchestras, a choir, many
smaller music ensembles and devotes
half the space on level 5 of the Sherfield
building to music practice rooms and
facilities. The Union has a dedicated
Concert Hall with excellent facilities for
drama, band nights and film showings,
perhaps the best in the University of
London.
This year marks the very first Imperial
College Union Arts Festival to promote
the activities of these societies to the col-
lege, taking place from the 20th February

