back talk
until 1st March.
To say that "lovers of art...are denied the
enjoyment of a hobby that many other
institutions take for granted" is clearly a
gross exaggeration.
All the theatres, galleries and cinemas
in London offer student discounts. A l l it
requires is a little research, which ArtSoc
are clearly unwilling to undertake, as to
how to get these discounts. I regularly
attend theatre in the west end, both inde-
pendently and as a member of the
Dramatic Society at a fraction of full price
by using websites such as
lastminute.com and ticketmaster,
amongst others.
I was one of the people who voted
against ArtSoc being given the budget
they requested, and it was for a simple
reason; the money the union has should
be allocated to societies to allow students
to do something they would not other-
wise be able to do.
Once you justify spending money on
students going to the theatre, you also
have to fund attendance at Twickenham,
Lord's, and any of the Premiership football
grounds in the capital. This would reduce
the money available for everyone and
hence prevents students from taking part
in the activities they enjoy so much, per-
haps the first or only time they may have
this opportunity.
ArtSoc still receives some funding to
buy tickets as well as provision for pub-
licity and affiliation to the National
Theatre and Royal Opera House, and has
the full use and support of the union like
any other society. ICU Council rejected
their budget appeal on 3 separate occa-
sions over 2 academic years. This sounds
like a democratically fair decision to me.
Yours sincerely, Gus Paul
Chairman, ICU Arts & Entertainments
Board
Reconciliation
Dear Felix,
After the Sept 11th, the world con-
demned such terrorists' acts and Bush
declared war and retaliated ferociously
and apparently "legitimately" conforming
to the Geneva Convention. But haven't
the Americans declared war on everyone
and everything only in the interests of the
politicians?
In the 50s, the United States imagined
they were under serious threats from this
virtual enemy, communism. Joseph R.
McCarthy, possibly the greatest dema-
gogue in the history of America, con-
vinced the country Communism as the
supreme evil of wickedness. The
Americans even blamed their domestic
drugs problems to the rice-growing
China. Being paranoid about this imagi-
nary "domino effect" in Far East Asia,
troops were sent to fight against this
harmless old man - Ho Chi Minh. Under
mass media, educated students started
demonstration against such futile war.
Army was instructed to stop the riots
and students were killed on numerous
circumstances.
Now, in the war against terror, they
decided to persecute Muslims or any A l
Quaida related culprits. The United
States arrested them all over the world
and claimed the captives from
Afghanistan are detainees not prisoners
of war (an excuse to defend themselves
to be in line with the Geneva Protocols).
Worse of all, interrogate them without
any legal representatives. The US attor-
ney is digging out any dirt possibly to try
them in the federal courts. Isn't it similar
to McCarthyism?
How many wars do you have to start?
A n d how many have you won? This so-
called democratic country with all sorts
of freedom and human rights contradicts
to the reality utterly and has no privi-
leges to judge the world. America is a
pitiful and ridiculous country ever invent-
ed by mankind. What they need in the
Congress is a round table to allow the
politicians to change sides with ease.
These historical facts encapsulate the
Americans attempt to create this green-
house environment hoping to protect
themselves by sparking off wars that
should never been declared. A l l these
problems indeed have their roots and are
not easy to be resolved. But Bush, a piece
of an advice, not only listen to your moth-
er about your eating habits but also listen
to your conscience when a little boy in
Afghanistan just lost his leg and his fam-
ily because of you. May be that is what
the United States need, a two face hyp-
ocrite, to be there leader. Lets pray that
Afghanistan will be a better place after
the downfall of the Taliban. Two words:
Reconciliation and Respect.
Non Events
Dear Felix,
Why is it that last friday when it was
'kandy' that the music was utterly crap, I
quite happily go to dance clubs and gen-
erally have a good time but the music
that was played was crap and at the end
there were all of 7 people to kick out. I
accept that dance music is not to every-
one's taste but surely it would be better
if, instead of playing random stuff that
nobody has ever heard and only people
who really like that sort of thing will stay
and listen to, you played commercial
trance and house, so that even people
who aren't a great fan can at least have a
dance and enjoy themselves especially
when they have had a few.
Moreover, I thought that the U D H was
supposed to be a chill out room where
people can sit down with there mates
and have a few cocktails and have inof-
fensive music in the background, but it
seems that the DJ's and the ents manag-
er seem to think that putting breakbeat
and house up there will make people
want to go and sit i n there. U m m perhaps
people need there head examined but
during my first year you generally could-
n't find a chair and had to sit where there
was space and there was a good atmos-
phere in there with just nice chilled out
inoffensive music playing in the back-
ground, where as now the bar staff think
its busy if there is ten people in there me
thinks a rethink is needed.
Also when the event is dance music in
dB's why play dance music i n the U D H as
well this seems foolish as people who
don't like dance won't pay money to come
here and probably just go to Southside.
Why do people still think karaoke is
good fun - it only works if there are
Americans or Japanese businessmen do
it so why have it in the union especially
on a thursday night it just doesn't work.
Rant over, enjoy, fred and wilma
Hello fred and wilma (if those are your
real names). I have been asked by the
Union to ask you (plural?) to speak up,
and go and complain personally. The
Union does actually want feedback on it's
services, so they probably won't flay you
alive for going to talk to them about all
this. So do. Or suffer in anonymity. It's
your choice.

