Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 9 June
Imperial Plus are recruiting
Could you be a student trainer? Deliver ILM endorsed skills workshops to
student volunteers at Imperial.
We are looking for enthusiastic students who are excellent communicators,
confident public speakers, are well organised, reliable and can think on their
feet.Gain experience of delivering workshops and develop your skills as a
trainer by joining our team of Student Trainers for Imperial Plus. It’s also a great
opportunity to earn some extra cash!
Imperial Plus gives our 2,500+ volunteers the opportunity to develop
transferrable skills through workshops delivered by Student Trainers. We
ensure our Trainers benefit from the experience too by providing them with
training and ongoing support. Applications close on Monday 5 June. Interviews
will take place on Wednesday 21 June.
imperialcollegeunion.org/student-trainer
Officer Academy - 20 June
Summer Language Socials
SATURDAY 24 JUNE 2017
go to our website to buy your ticket
£43.00
Only
BUY YOUR TICKET TODAY!
MasqueradE
THE SUMMER BALL
Headliners: Philip George | Neiked (DJ Set)
(More acts to be announced!)
performances from students groups, inlcuding Battle of
the Bands winner, Garden Party
Funfair | Photobooths | Great value food & drink
Design an educational escape room
Would you like to try your hand at designing an educational escape room?
We are excited to present and advertise an opportunity which Imperial
College Union have developed in collaboration with members of the Horizons
department. The experience is the first of its kind in that you as students will
work in teams to be in charge of designing an escape room puzzle.
We’re offering 25 students the opportunity to attend a workshop on 17th and
18th July 2017 on designing an escape room. We’ll put you into teams and skill
you up!
The workshop will take place at South Kensington campus on 17th July
and at the White City campus on 18th July where you’ll visit the Advanced
Hackspace and find out how you can use it to build puzzles. For more
information visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/escape-rooms
Attention Club Officers!
So, you’ve successfully secured your place on a committee, exams are coming
to an end and Summer Ball is close (but yet so far away). Now what…?
Enter the 2017 Officer Academy!
This year’s Officer Academy will provide you with the tools and knowledge to
run your Club, Society or Project well, while providing useful tips to help you
plan your year over the summer break. For more information visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/OfficerAcademy2017
We are looking to recruit a team of enthusiastic English speakers to help
enhance the experience of those students taking the Centre for Academic
English Pre-sessional English course. If you’d like to get involved visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/summersocials

