10 Reviews
1
1
1
1
1
1
4
The Wedding
Banquet
A witty portrayal of the elaborate lengths to
which Wai-Tung, a Taiwanese-American, is
prepared to go not to reveal that he is leading a
perfectly happy life with his partner as a young,
gay professional to his parents back home in
Taiwan.
Persistent lobbying from home urging
marriage and the timely production of
grandchildren ends in him persuading his tenant,
Wei-Wei, a Chinese art student who urgently
requires a green card, to pose as his fiancee who
he intends to marry for mutual convenience.
This attempt to fob off parents ends in a giant
muddle when they descend (father with ailing
heart to add drama to the situation) on him to
arrange the marriage ceremony. Part of the
paradoxical festivity is a sumptuous, if not
riotous, wedding banquet, a gift from an old
friend to Wai-Tung's distinguished father so
that he could celebrate his son's wedding a
manner that he was accustomed to.
The culture clash is played accurately and
engagingly and woven skilfully into the
hysterically funny plot that is handled well by
the excellent cast. The seemingly rigid character
of Wai-Tung's father being particularly
endearing. The bittersweet moments are played
with sensitivity in this film which was brilliantly
directed by Ang Lee. Highly recommended.
R.N.
The Killer
Next Door
Joel Norris
Pulp fiction has never had it so good. Silence Of
The Lambs and its ilk have opened a floodgate
for the pseudopsychological investigation of the
'serial murderer', except that these cases
involved real people, but maybe we can't tell
the difference anymore?
Still, here are seven case studies from
America, where everything is bigger and better.
They range from the famous Henry Lee Lucas
(over 300 notches to his belt) to the original
Hannibal Lecter, Arthur Shawcross.
Joel Norris (Ph.D) is an expert, they say.
He's not out to make a quick buck. All that he
comes up with as precursors though are the
usual dysfuctional childhood, drug problems,
insatiable sex drive etc. I guess that it's all true,
but is it "inside the mind of the serial killer"?
The thing that did really stand out was the
inability of the police to catch these people.
Lucas, for example, killed a woman
immediately on leaving prison, leaving the
corpse on the main road. And that's the way it is
in the real world. Murder is a brutal, messy
business and even reading about these made me
nauseous.
Tintin
Published by: Arrow
Price: £4.99
A Philosophical
Investigation
Philip Kerr
This is the story of the hunt for a bizarre serial
killer who impersonally assassinates potential
murderers, thieves and rapists. A Philosophical
Investigation is a heady mix of science fiction
and psychological thriller following a twisting
course through seediest London, Cambridge
academia and behind the closed doors of a
secret government project.
In the book, Kerr skilfully handles several
unsavoury and politically sensitive issues, whilst
avoiding being, excessive or superficial.
However, the novel is ultimately let down by its
central plot device: The man who kills because
science says it is in his nature to do so. Overall
this is a well-written book spoilt by the author's
attempt to cash in on post Jurassic Park 'science
is bad' fever. Shame!.
House.
Published by: Arrow
Price: £5.99 (paperback)
National Art Collection Fund Exhibition
National Gallery
The National Art Collection Fund is 90 years old
and to celebrate they've organised showings of
various works of art to new audiences in other
parts of the country.
To launch the exhibition they have taken
'The Madonna and Child enthroned with St
Peter and St Paul and a Donor' from the
Birmingham Art Gallery and are showing it in
the National Gallery and in my opinion we
shouldn't give it back. For any of you who
haven't visited the Gallery, this is a perfect
opportunity to take in some of the best works
from nearly every period and in every style
imaginable.
In 1991 the Sainsbury wing was built, giving
a permanent home to one of the finest early
Renaissance collections in the world. You can
see the Da Vinci cartoon (which is a rough
drawing from which a painting is planned and
has nothing to do with Disney), a representation
of Saints John the Baptist, Anne, Mary and the
little baby Jesus. The cartoon is probably the
most famous work the Fund has ever helped
buy. For those of you with more modern tastes
there are literally dozens of Impressionists, post-
Impressionists and all manner of European art. It
is free as well, so you have no excuse.
Very little is known about this work. It is
known that it came from the school of the master
Giovanni Bellini; it is almost certain that he is
responsible for the overall composition and the
saints. It was part of an altarpiece and originally
had doors. The figures themselves are
beautifully realised in a way only paintings of
this period seem to be able to achieve; they
appear at once life-like and angelic, perfectly
visualising the dodgy theological idea of being
both God and Man. Little is known about its
history; though we can be sure that it came from
Venice. It is unusual therefore to see a donor in
the picture. Though quite common everywhere
else to have yourself socialising with the saints
in pictures you commissioned, the Venetians
thought this to be just a little too ostentatious.
What we do know is that it appeared in England
in 1801 and was held in various private
collections until it came on the market in 1967.
The National Art Collection Fund donated
£20,000 towards the purchase fund.
The Fund receives no money from
Government and relies entirely on its
membership. Over the last 90 years they have
helped purchase over 10,000 works of art for the
nation and annually distribute £1.5 million.
Membership is £15 per year and you can get
more information on 071 821 0404.
The National Gallery is the big white
building in Trafalgar Square with all the tourists
outside it and it is open every day. So don't say
you weren't told.
Tony Grew
Opera reviews are on page 8

