Reviews 11
One More Head On The Block
The French, eh? Don't you just love them? Well,
no, to be honest. And One More Head On The
Block didn't exactly help matters, what with it
being bloody awful. In retrospect I felt very
sorry for the playwright, Marcel Ayme.
Throughout the whole piece he tries so very hard
to be witty. What we are left with is a very poor
Gallic imitation of Noel Coward. The plot, such
as it is, is merely a vehicle for the alleged
hilarity; a man sentenced to death knows that the
only person who can act as an alibi for the night
of the murder is the wife of the judge who is also
the mistress of the prosecutor. She spent the
night with him in a sleazy motel. He escapes
from prison and confronts them all. This is
where I fell asleep.
The rest of the audience loved it - all 39 other
seats were taken. It defies logic that those people
paid £8 each for this stuff. I would have walked
out if it was free. Yet they revelled in it. In fact
the audience was much more interesting than the
play, trying to out do each other and show off to
their partner - and these are hard-core
Hampsteadites we're talking about here, no
girlfriends of husbands - that they fully
understood the joke, and why it is particularly
funny in French, and basically how very witty
the whole exercise was. There were some actors
in evidence, and you can see a picture of them
on this page. For legal reasons I am advised not
to describe quite what I though of their
performances, but suffice to say I was not
impressed.
Tony Grew
The Chelsea Centre, World's End Place, King's
Road, SW10. 071 352 1967. Tickets £8.
• :
Wallenstein Therese Raquin
Wallenstein is set in the Thirty Years War
(1618-1648) and re-enacts the events of 1634
which led to the death of Wallenstein, the then
Imperial Supreme Commander of the German
Protestant army. Wallenstein doesn't want to
betray the Emperor, but is coerced and tricked
in to doing so by close friends and generals.
Wallenstein is a well written drama. The set
is minimal, but subtle lighting changes and
maximum use of the available set allows the
stage to become any number of rooms or places.
The acting is simply top notch. Ken Bones is
excellent as Wallenstein and Philip Voss is
enjoyable as the manipulating Octavio
Piccolomini. What more can I say? Go and see it!
Dave
RSC Pit, Barbican, EC2. Barbican/ Moorgate
Tube. 071 638 8891. Cones £6.50.
This exhaustingly long, disasterous french play
is hopefully a lesson to all adapters and
translationists since it shows the dangers of
doing a bad job.
The story is as old as the hills, and hence a
bit boring: wife of sexually inactive husband is
fed Up, wife finds tall, dark, sexually active
lover, lover and wife murder husband, lover
marries wife, marriage is haunted by the dead
husband and hence is a nightmare, mother of
dead husband becomes an invalid and must be
looked after by lover and wife and they all live
dismally ever after.
The music and set are good with an excellent
atmosphere being created from the outset. Alas
it is ruined by what I can only describe as either
a really dire adaptation or acting that looks more
at home in an amateur production. The audience
were laughing at the serious bits and especially
at the characters and their over acting.
The 'love' scene was hysterical as well; just a
blatant excuse for faking orgasms without the
actors engaging in any bodily contact (have they
been offered roles for the stage version of When
Harry Met Sally?).
It's seems a shame that the refurbishment of
the Young Vic should precede this awfulness. I
feel let down and hope that the rock opera which
starts on the 18th November is much, much
better.
Harry
At The Young Vic, 66 The Cut, SE1. Waterloo
Tube/BR. 071 928 6363. Until Nov 6th. Mon-Sat
7.30pm. Cones £5.
Read about the Sailing Club's summer antics on page 20

