12 Feature
Careers Fair - Fair or Unfair?
John Simpson, Director of the Imperial College Careers Service advises you
on how best to prepare for this year's ICU Careers Fair and how to get the
most out of it once you 're there.
The ICU Careers Fair is different from many of
the other Careers Fairs you may experience.
Firstly, it is attended by employers who are
particularly interested in meeting students,
graduates and postgraduates from Imperial
College. Secondly it is situated in the Sherfield
Building in the heart of College and so is
immediately accessible to us all and thirdly, it is
not so crowded that you will have to wait for
ages before you can have a discussion with an
employer. So, you have no excuse for not
turning up!
Do your prep.
Preparation is all important! Think about how
you can get the most from the two days, what
you need to say to impress employers and what
you want to learn from them.
And homework.
Do some homework by reading up about the
organisations which are attending. You can get
quick information from the various employer
directories such as PROSPECTS (previously
known as ROGET), GO and GET, available
from the IC Careers Service. Also, you should
read the excellent Careers Fair Brochure
available on the day.
Clueless?
If you haven't a clue what you want to do, now
is the time to start thinking seriously about
yourself. What are your particular interests,
abilities, skills and values? What do you enjoy
doing and what are you good at? The Careers
Service has the computer aided careers guidance
system, PROSPECT (HE), which may help, and
there are also work books you can go through on
your own.
Interests, Abilities, Skills and Values.
These are the interests you have, such as in
engineering or science, managerial or
administrative, literary or verbal. Your abilities
such as problem-solving, numeracy or social
confidence. Your skills such as designing,
planning or analysing. Your values such as
independence, variety or security.
Occupations.
You may wish to remain with your degree
discipline or you may want to think about a
career in a different direction. There are a wide
range to choose from: Engineering to Education,
Science to Selling, Accountancy to Zoo
Keeping. Match your personal qualities with
what you are good at doing and what you enjoy
doing and then you can then try to choose an
occupation.
Employers.
Once you've sorted out who you are and what
sort of occupation you are seeking, you can
begin to market yourself to potential employers.
Approach each one at the Careers Fair as if they
are your chosen, ideal and preferred employer.
Be enthusiastic, it is infectious and you will be
remembered.
Your Questions.
Prepare a few questions to get you started with
each one, along the lines of:
What opportunities do you have for a ????ist?
Can I get Chartered Engineering status with your
company?
Do you prefer postgraduates for any of your
vacancies?
At which location do most graduates start?
What are the career development prospects?
Is a foreign language important?
What travel is necessary in the U K or abroad?
Why do you like working for Intergalactic
Industries?
Their questions.
Be prepared for employers to take an interest in
you and expect some probing questions. What
sort of work are you seeking? Why are you
interested in us? How is your degree course
going? What have you learnt about yourself
during your studies? What are your strengths?
What are your weaknesses? What do you mean
by a management career?
And finally.
The IC Careers Fair should help you to start on
your career search. Y o u may even end up
joining one of the companies you talk to. Give
yourself a flying start by good preparation, and
if you need some advice, call at the IC Careers
Service stand at the Careers Fair.
Imperial College
Careers Service
Room 310
Sherfield Building
For information about vacation training, information booklets, reference files and videos.
Open Monday to Friday, 10.00am to 5.15pm
A review of the killjoy's latest album is on page 7

