18 Clubs and Societies
Clubs and Societies Column
by Charles Leary, Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
Those of you who are still awaiting information
on the clubs you are interested in may be getting
disheartened at the lack of communication. A l l
the people running these activities are full-time
students and have had all the hassles of starting a
new academic year as well as trying to run their
club. You will get news of what is happening,
but some clubs get organised quicker than
others. If you feel you have been forgotten, then
you can always drop them a note in their pigeon
hole in the Union Office.
Two new societies are setting up: the Society
for the Progression of Humanity and the Welsh
Society. Both are social societies providing a
forum for both events and discussions. The
Welsh Society will encourage interaction and
socialising between Imperial College's Welsh
contingent. They welcome both English and
Welsh speakers, in fact anyone with an interest
in Wales. They intend to organise subsidised
trips to Wales, Welsh rugby internationals and
London Welsh clubs. Also the Welsh language
will be taught free of charge. The first event will
be a trip to the London Welsh Club on 29th
October. To find out more contact Krista Jones
on extension 6894.
Wargaming and Roleplaying, a well
established and large society, have already
started their programme of events. They meet in
the Table Tennis Room (third floor Union
Building) on Wednesdays and Sundays from
lpm onwards. Roleplaying Games are like the
'Cowboys and Indians' played by children, but
this time with rules. They are either simulations
or politico strategy games - backstab your
friends and allies before they do it to you.
R A G have been very busy since the start of
term. They ran the cloakrooms throughout
Freshers' Week and organised the tiddlywinking
down Oxford Street last weekend. Tomorrow is
live Monopoly, an event not to be missed by
anyone. New students will get practical
experience in finding their way around London,
meet lots of people, collect cash for M E N C A P
and get an invite to the exclusive party
afterwards. A l l this and it won't cost you a
penny (unless you are too lazy to walk and have
to buy a travelcard).
The Overseas Students Committee have
organised a Freshers' Disco happening tonight in
the Junior Common Room, Sherfield Building.
On Saturday and Sunday, the Operatic Society
will be holding rehearsals for their musical
'Opposites Attract'. The performance will be on
Monday evening and everyone is welcome to
attend.
One of Imperial College Union's newest
societies is the Circus Skills Society. It started
up last year when it was just a humble juggling
club, but now it performs a much wider range of
skills. They will be in the Union Lounge on
Wednesday 3pm-5pm, so drop in and see them if
you are interested.
The final word for this week is on the demise
of the volleyball court. New students will not be
aware of the fact that the Union had this facility
which was used for basketball, volleyball and
badminton. Unfortunately, it was built on
Science Museum property and had to be
demolished. By the time you read this, all the
sports, including both the teams and recreational
playing, should be re-sited to other facilities.
The College have been exceptionally good in
giving every assistance to help replace this
facility and, thanks to their help, these sports
should continue throughout the year despite the
loss of the volleyball court.
What An Atmosphere!
With Freshers' Week now well and truly over
we can look ahead to what's going on in the next
couple of weeks.
Tonight, we start off our usual Friday
Atmosphere nights with the Ents disco kickin'
off at 9pm and continuing through until 2am.
There's a late bar until lam with a happy hour if
you get there early on. Admission is just £1 all
night, free if you've got an Ents card. This is the
format for Friday nights in general with special
events roughly every other week.
Monday night is a specialist disco with
different themes each week - you'll have to
check flyers for details. The music runs from
9pm until 12am and there's a happy hour in the
bar between 8pm and 10pm. Entry is free.
This coming week there are a couple of gems
for your pleasure and enjoyment. On
Wednesday 20th October, Club Libido plays
host to the Full Monty upstairs in the Concert
Hall. The Full Monty is a long running club
from the Windsor area which has spawned
various high brow one-off events. For this
evening the Union w i l l be graced by the
presence of DJ Paul Oakenfold a legendary DJ,
producer and remixer who recently went on tour
with U2 as well as remixing their hugely
successful single, 'Even Better Than The Real
Thing'. He also worked with Steve Osborne on
all the Happy Mondays more famous records.
Support on the night will come from Chad
Jackson who is unfortunately more famous for
'Hear The Drummer Get Wicked' than his skills
on the decks.
Now, any London club would charge at least
£10 for a night such as this but in our usual
generous way we're only charging a measly
fiver. The music on the night should be an
eclectic mix of club tunes old and new. Doors
will open at 9pm and the party runs until 2am
with a late bar 'til 12am. Bring a friend.
The second treat for the week is a somewhat
different affair on Friday 22nd October when
Atmosphere plays host to a band currently
causing a bit of a stir in the media - My Life
Story. Impossible to categorise, they mix poppy
songs and orchestral sounds with a large amount
of traditional English eccentricity and come up
smelling of a mixture of roses, bacon and eggs.
The bands new single 'Girl A , Girl B, Boy C is
a single of the week in both Melody Maker and
N M E but tickets for this event will be just £2 in
advance, possibly more on the door. People with
Ents cards are looking at just £1.
This just leaves me to say a big thanks to
everyone who helped during Freshers' Week.
Special thanks go to Andy Nu and all of the
Dramsoc lighting crew who everyone should
praise for not just the lights but for their all
round help. Thanks to the Sabbs, Sam and
Mandy and of course Michelle for putting up
with us and to Kash for selling tickets. Last of
all a big round of applause to all the Ents crew
that helped especially Dave and Gav, also Andy
and BJ for putting me on the right tracks. And
everyone else not mentioned, I raise my glass to
all of you.
Tetsuo 2:
Body Hammer
"Imagine Ridley Scott directing a William
Gibson story with advice from David
Kroenenberg."
This is the kind of blurb Tetsuo 2 usually
attracts. And it's a fair description really. If
those three names mean nothing to you, the film
is a typical Japanese story of a bunch of metal
freaks who turn themselves into living weapons
(body hammers). They infect an ordinary family
man with their metal seed, causing him to
transform into a man/gun hybrid whenever he
loses his temper, which he does rather a lot in
the course of the film.
Along with its vaguely cyberpunk overtones,
the film's basic theme is the (rather poetic,
actually) beauty in destruction, mixed in with
the bodily corruption and absorption. The film's
imagery is very powerful and the shoestring
effects add much to the dark, grimy atmosphere.
It's being screened at 7pm on Tuesday 26th
October in the Concert Hall. You can join ICSF
on the door for £3 and get in free, or if you're
already a member who's used up your free film,
it's £1.20. Members of Japan Society also get in
for our membership price of £1.20 and for
everyone else it's £1.80.
The Blues Brothers is showing at ICU Cinema next Saturday

