20 Clubs and Societies
End Of Summer Sail!
At the end of last yean the Sailing Club went to Northern Ireland to compete
in the Coleraine 24 hour yacht race. Ben Deverson and Sinead Malone report.
Imperial College Sailing Club's Fireflies
This year, Imperial College managed to muster
two teams for the race: 'Imperial College Flying
Circus' and 'TICkled Pink'.
After leaving college, the first stop was the
Welsh Harp Reservoir to collect two Firefly
dinghies. We eventually left London, seemingly
fully laden, with a further two people to pick up
en route. Not knowing what the weather was
holding in store for us, everyone had packed all
conceivable sailing kit to suit every extreme.
The creature comforts were also well in hand
with members not only bringing along sleeping
bags, but duvets, pillows, cushions, foam mats, a
music system, twelve juggling balls, four
performance kites, copious confectionery and
enough spare boat fittings and tools to make the
'Mary Rose' into a Whitbread contender.
We finally made it to Cairnryan ferry
terminal at 4.30am. Whilst some people piled
out to play frisbee, the remainder collapsed into
the newly found space and snoozed for a couple
hours before catching the ferry.
After arriving at Larne we took the coastal
road to Coleraine via the Giant's Causeway
where we stopped to admire the spectacular
scenery and take team photographs.
The warm welcome we received at Coleraine
Yacht Club really made the day. After a team
siesta we awoke raring to go for the evenings
entertainment - a barbecue plus plenty of liquid
refreshment!
The next morning, disaster nearly struck.
Whilst rigging the boats we found that the mast
for one boat did not fit! We'd brought the mast
belonging to another boat! However after some
frantic work with an electric drill and a file, the
mast was jammed into place and the boat was
passed as seaworthy.
As the race start approached the first crews
assembled and prepared for it, whilst the more
senior (or should that be the more cunning) team
members administered to the demanding task of
attending the Commodores Buffet, which
boasted some reasonable nosh and free drink.
We dragged ourselves out just in time to see the
start and to support our two boats.
The principle of the race is as follows: Each
boat is allocated an internationally recognised
handicap number. Every time a boat completes a
lap, its corrected lap time is calculated as a
function of its handicap number and its actual
lap time. In this manner every boat has a
competitive corrected lap time. Hence the boat
with the quickest average lap time over the 24
hours is the winner.
Throughout the 24 hours our two boats were
very evenly matched. As soon as one boat got a
lead, a change of helm once again reversed the
positions. The boats were never separated by
more than 15 minutes and, as a consequence, the
tense atmosphere increased throughout the race.
After 23 hours of sailing both boats had identical
lap times! Every three hours or so throughout the
race there was a change of crew; the two helms
alternated shifts whilst the crews spent one shift
on and two shifts off. This provided only short
breaks and most people were reluctant to sleep
for fear of being rudely awakened at lam or 4am
only to be told that they had five minutes to
stumble about in the cold and dark and get back
into soaking sailing kit, before wading waist
deep in water at the changeover area to meet the
incoming boat!
Sailing in the dark is really eerie. It was
blowing a steady force 3/4 and we were sailing
hard and fast, having to hike-out up the beat and
surfing down the waves on the run. The buoys
were marked with the flashing amber lights
commonly found at roadworks and in student
bedrooms, the boats with small chemical lights.
The only lighting was provided by flood lights
on the start/finish line and at the changeover
area. These provided a welcome opportunity for
the helm to check the trim of the mainsail,
otherwise it was very dark and quiet.
As dawn approached 'TICkled Pink' was
recorded as sailing the fastest lap time, however
several hours later it was deemed a mistake as
no one believed that a Firefly (and student
sailors) could possibly have sailed so fast!
Fortunately we had very little gear failure,
which is surprising given the testing conditions
through the night. We lost one jib stick
overboard, another snapped under foot in the
dark, and a jib halyard broke during the early
hours of Sunday.
Our two teams , ' I C Flying Circus' and
'TICkled Pink', finished 4th and 5th overall
respectively, winning two trophies in the
process, 'First Menagerie Class' - not in the top
three places and 'Best University Team'. In
addition to the two trophies, we also won a
bottle of Port, two fruit cakes, tee-shirts and
caps, provided by the major sponsors to the
event, Coca-Cola (Ulster).
This highly excellent weekend demonstrated
to all involved the sort of adventure and
excitement that can be had by a club when they
branch further afield and compete on a larger
scale than inter-university racing. A l l
thoroughly enjoyed themselves and hope to
return next year.
Teams:
Imperial College Flying Circus: Helms - Ben
Deverson, M i k e Dunbar. Crews - Sinead
Malone, Zara Flynn, Alan Geer.
TICkled Pink: Helms - Liam Moloney, Bill
Chard. Crews - Mel. Hayles, Sarah Thomas,
Henry Nebrensky.
// you want to experience the thrills and
excitement of dinghy sailing, come and see us at
our weekly meetings every Tuesday at 12.30pm
in the Southside Upper Lounge or contact us
through the Sailing Club pigeon hole in the
Union office. We caterfor all abilities from the
experienced race helm to the complete novice,
with one of the best equipped fleets in the
country.
A review of True Romance is on page 4

