Clubs and Societies 21
From Old Kent Road To Mayfair
This Saturday saw the first event of the Rag
year. Yes you've got it - Tiddlywinks. Many
people ignored the rain to turn up and take part.
Everyone gathered at the C C U offices and then
went over to Princes Gardens for Wakey Wakey
Southside to wake the residents up. A few
people did actually join us from there - they
couldn't really ignore us. Also, for the first time,
Linstead Hall got a wakey wakey call.
From there we were all ferried to Marble
Arch for a photocall (after we woke up one of
our minibus drivers - hello Dave Goddard!). The
CCUs were all there in their regalia, as were Jez
and Clem (the RCSU fire engine and the Mines
flatbed truck). Unfortunately Bo, Guilds' vintage
car couldn't make it because of a poorly back
wheel. Hopefully she will be with us for Live
Monopoly this Saturday.
As soon as everyone had arrived at Marble
Arch, the tiddlywinking started with a
vengeance. Enthusiastic collectors made their
way along Oxford and Regent Street avoiding as
many obstacles as possible. Lots of shoppers and
tourists were so bemused by the sight of people
tiddlywinking along the street that they reached
in their pockets and donated some money to
Action A i d . Some tiddlywinks (but no
tiddlywinkers) got run over but eventually
everyone arrived at Piccadilly Circus intact.
Once here, we did the traditional ring-a-ring-
a-roses around the Eros, much to the amazement
of the tourists. Then Jane, our esteemed Rag
Chair, lost some of her dignity by being dunked
Jane, Rag Chair, after being thrown into thefountain at Eros for thefirst time!
in the fountain, twice! After all this, all the
collectors were ferried to The Queens Arm
Tavern in Draycott Street to try to drink it dry.
The total amount of money collected was the
grand sum of £647.28! Well done to everyone
who took part. All in all it was a great start to the
year and everyone involved enjoyed themselves.
Special congratulations to the top fresher
collectors: Emma Russel & Chris Lewis £36.56
(team) and David Barnes £21.93 (solo).
If you missed Tiddlywinks, don't worry, the
fun isn't over yet. This Saturday there's Live
Monopoly. Teams of four to six run around
London visiting all the sites on the Monopoly
board, solving clues and collecting treasure. Sign
up at the Rag Office (2nd floor, east staircase,
Union Building) from 10am. Afterwards, there's
a free party organised by Mencap. There are
prizes for the winning teams, including a skiing
trip to Andorra. See you there!
Kre you a
vegetarian?
Ever thought of becoming vegetarian
Come and check out the
Main Dining Hall, Sherfield
18th- 22nd October
National Vegetarian Week Special Dishes
Plus
Commemoration Day Menu on 21st October

