22 Clubs and Societies
Scout and Guide Club Go Climbing
The Scout and Guide Summer Tour to the Italian
Alps was convened in the South of France after
a brief, wet and electrifying sojourn in the
shadow of the Matterhorn. Acclimatising was
achieved by patronising successively higher bars
up the valley. Tolerance having been
established, our first forays to the mountain tops
met with the gods' displeasure. Eschewing
strength with his arm, he did a fair amount of
striking down the mighty from their seats. So
Piedmont was quit in search of the good life, the
high mountains, the cheap wine and the
croissants delivered to the tent door every
morning.
The bottom of the crevasse was our initial
target. Getting in was easy enough - a sensation
similar to walking the plank or discovering that
there's one step missing from the cellar steps
when the light bulb has gone out. Getting out
was the hard bit. We were forced to leave behind
some weaker members of the party (such is
Darwinism at the sharp end!).
Those making it back to camp were deemed
to possess the required skills to be let loose on
the unsuspecting French mountains. This theory
proceeded to be disproved repeatedly. Facile
routes were transmogrified into the Eiger
Nordwand. Bergschrands mysteriously
appeared, swallowing equipment and people.
Nights were spent on snowy ledges in
thunderstorms with only a pair of thermal long
Johns between you and certain death.
Survivors staggered back in the early (and
not so early hours) and the helicopters were on
the verge of being sent out on more than one
occasion.
Having endured these 'pleasures of alpinism',
the reward came in making one's own epic into
the most heroic of the tour, over several glasses
of the local plonk de plonks. For example, ankle
deep snow became drifts going over the head
and 2500 metres was causing terminal altitude
sickness. A l l too soon, though, we were
speeding back to the homeland, stopping only to
fill the van with smelly cheeses and expensive
bottles of wine.
Amongst the highlights of the remaining
summer was camping in a back garden while the
next-door neighbours played dance music to
their pot plants.
Thanks must go as ever to Simon Gubbins
(we look forward to his forthcoming novel '101
Things To Do With A Dead Tomato') and to
Stacey Kittner whose organisation ensured that
there was never a dull moment.
We will be piling a minibus to the windows
and heading off in search of adventure a number
of times this term (see below for details). If this
interests you, hear the stories and eat the butties
every lunchtime in Southside Upper Lounge. Scout and Guide, you guessed it, climbing
Oct 15th-17th Hathersage, Peak District Nov 26th-28th Cadair Idris, Mid Wales
Oct 27th Skiing on the Plastic Alps Dec 4th Wyeboston: quads, jet skis,
of Hemel Hempstead even better if it snows
Nov 12th-14th Wasdale, Lake District Dec 10th-12th Bethesda, Snowdonia
• F R E S H H A I R S A
the best s t u d e n t offer
L O N •
in l o n d o n !
to * &
C U T 8c
B L O W D R Y
£ 1 4 LADIES
£ 1 2 M E N
Normal price: £2SI
1 minute walk from South Kensington Tube Sta
C a l l : 0 7 1 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N SW7 3 ES

