Feature 23
Living On The Box
BBC2 launches a new documentary series today,The Living Soap. Five
students living together in a house? Soundsfamiliar. Tony Grew investigate
Simon McKeown, Matthew Lappin, Emma Harris, Vidya Manickavasagar, Karen Bishko
If we're going to be honest about it at the
beginning, we may as well acknowledge the fact
that the Def II series has an image problem.
Basically, young people think that most of its
output is condescending and laughable. And
let's face it, Janet Street-Porter (the 35 year old
clubber) doesn't help matters. Neither does
Normski for that matter. The list of supposed
good ideas, from Rapido to Reportage, is long
and embarrassing. So BBC Youth Programming
have come up with this idea: The Living Soap.
When I say "come up with" it, I really mean that
they have blatantly stolen it from the M T V
series 'The Real World', shown recently on C4.
There is no shame in this and the series looks to
be interesting one way or another.
The basic premise is the same: five students
who have never met are given a house to live in,
their lives are filmed and then shown on T V .
The Beeb have opted to film one week and edit
in time to broadcast the next. The cameras will
follow the subjects to college, their girlfriend's
house, to clubs. Everywhere. There should be
some positive differences from 'The Real
World' whose main problem was that the people
were so, well, American. Consequently it was
difficult to feel anything for them. I kept
wishing they would all fall under a bus. But
students, well, that's a different matter.
The five in question are all suitably diverse;
at least that way you increase the chances of
some in-house tension:
We have Emma Harris who is driven
completely crazy by racism, is troubled by
troubles in Somalia, wants to be an advertising
copywriter when she grows up and regards her
son Samuel as her first priority.
She contrasts neatly with 18 year old Vidya
Manickavasagar (thankfully known as Spider) as
a London clubber who wants to be a DJ or a
supermodel when she grows up. She is annoyed
by bigots, carnivores and cruelty to animals.
It is as light relief that they included Karen
Bishko. Her biggest indulgence is talking on the
phone and she claims that she would abolish
apartheid. In her defence, she does propose that
ginger people should be made to shave off all
their hair. Unfortunately, her biggest ambition is
to make her children happy and win Wimbledon.
As a bit more of a contrast, they included
Dan Moore, a self confessed Conservative voter
whose ambition is to own a multi-national
business, would introduce a law to imprison
child offenders and cites Richard Branson as his
biggest influence. As i f all this wasn't bad
enough, he's from Colchester.
Simon McKeown claims to be famous for
being a sad get, which isn't hard to picture when
you learn that his favourite band is Depeche
Mode, friendliness makes him happy and he
likes tolerance in others.
Lastly we have Matthew Lappin doing a
National Diploma in Audio Systems who
apparently has a problem with the letter 'g', as
he says he enjoys "chillin out, playin tunes,
workin and seein my girlfriend".
I always feel very slightly guilty for enjoying
programmes like these, almost as i f I am
watching someone in the shower. It is inevitable
that a concept with as much voyeuristic appeal
as this one will generate a lot of interest. Indeed
even the national broadsheets have given lengthy
verdicts on the pros and cons of the idea.
The debate seems a simple one of opinion
and semantics; you say exploitative, I say
informative, and so on. In a way, it is irrelevant;
the time slots are a clue to BBC2's real motives;
Friday, 7.15pm gives them fifteen minutes to
engage those who are looking for something to
watch before Coronation Street. Even if they
lose most of the audience halfway through, they
can recoup those losses on the second showing
at 1.40pm on Sundays, when at least eight
million will be tuning in to catch Eastenders.
So it is not just a desire to truly represent the
lives and views of a generation that drives Def II
here; there are several lucrative rating related
ones as well. Again, there is no shame in that -
the B B C deserves better ratings. It must be
annoying when the tat L W T churns out on a
Saturday evening consistently rates higher than
quality programming such as Casualty. The
Living Soap is by no means a safe bet either - it
is set to run for the academic year but we have to
remember that its success is dependent on
factors such as whether people find the everyday
existence of five students interesting enough.
Perhaps the most worrying is the potentially
detrimental effect this all could have on our
parents' ideas of student life. Mine think that I
spend all my time in the library - God alone
knows what they will make of this. Thankfully
the programme goes out before 9pm so we will
be spared the more enjoyable student excesses.
You have been warned, get your excuses ready.
'Oh no, mummy, our college is nothing like
that...'
Rough Guides
No, not an expose of bullying within thefemale version of Scouts, but rather a new series of the excellent
travel programme, alsofrom BBC2 and also starting a new series this week. This time the girl with the
sunglasses and the Asian bloke (who is now a completely different Asian bloke, but nobody seems to really h
noticed) pack their suitcases and showcase the Americas.
First up are San Francisco and Seattle, from gay to grunge. If you have never watched an episode then do
they're well worth the effort, are highly informative and quitefunny as well!
Next week - a feature on the Levi ads of the past

