24 Feature
Five Bands. Five Days, Two Nights
That was the Freshers' week that was. Whilst Owain swanned lyrically
around the bar, Tintin babbled dysfunctionally into his Beamish. Bouncing
boldly off the back of the attending NME journos, they slunk back to lick
their pride and produce their own soiled report.. .
Drugstore by name, shiny dresses and swirly eyes by nature
"Yeah, we can shoehorn another Fresher in
here," signals an Ents man, keen eyes spotting a
sliver of space vacated when two partners
suddenly become 'an item'. Around them the
Union building is hot, sweaty and the only
empty turf is on the conspicuously empty dance
floor before the stage.
Boy Girl Soup are about to play, but the
ephemeral first week alliances are more
concerned with each other. The Fisher-Hall
posse eye up the Bernard-Sunley boys whilst the
We-Met-At-The-Physics-Registration ensemble
shoulder uneasily the Got-Stuck-In-The-QT-
Queue-Together crew. And all in an unholy stew
of veteran drunken sharking third years. It's first
day time again folks!
Some young, some old, so many. Boy Girl
Soup have taken to the stage. Three guitars, a
drummer, and the flamboyant lead singer have
launched into 'Hard On'. "I've got a hard on for
you!" sounds more like the Sex Pistols but is
sung alongside strumming sensibilities more
akin to, say, The Rockingbirds. The kids clap
politely. 'So Much To Do' and 'Mary Jane' later
and a few cheers float across the smoke to our
lads. In response we are treated to ' M a d
Woman' sung from the dance floor, a mad
spiralling mess of green trousers and cheeky
grins. The tune is becoming familiar. Three
guitars have been squeezed onto that stage but
surely they're all playing the same rickety
rhythm? The angry bassist jumps up and down
and the accordion comes out for 'Baby'.
Things come alive a little, Boy Girl Soup are
a good time band and everyone's having fun.
But haven't we heard it all before? 'Jesus (On
The Telly)', a ditty about the scourge of pearly
toothed preachers on the box, already sounds
dated. The tempo's uprated and someone climbs
up and prances around before diving into the
five (wo)man mosh. Hooray! Exit the band and
everyone applauds. A solid set, sure, but I'd
prefer a little more salt in my soup next time
please.
Dodgy cantered onto the stage as the most
reputed band IC have entertained for quite some
time. They were certainly on another plateau to
Boy Girl Soup. Swirling guitars kicked them into
shape and the four piece were off. Strangely lead
by the bass player but having the archetypal
'nice bloke' drummer, Dodgy were tight. There
were Dodgy anthems to begin, then into some
covers of yesteryear, always good as crowd
jerkers. In fact, if you were the sad stage diver, I
hope you woke up with a hangover, else you are
the first sober person to make that particular leap
of faith off a two-foot stage. Slack entered the
set after that, about the same time that the lead
guitarman started to smile. Following on from
this, the single 'Don't Take The Beaten Track'
started off with a bunch of inflatable bananas
thrown into the crowd. This could be classified
as 'the beaten track' in my book but everyone
enjoyed themselves. Inflatable bananas are like
that.
We're back again on Friday, lured by the
promise of fabulous music and more nice
fluorescent yellow wristwear. Less punters came
tonight though, and too many of them came too
late for the first phenomenal act.
Coming second to Blessed Ethel in the recent
Manchester 'In the City' extravaganza,
Drugstore are eagerly awaited by some of you,
certainly by me and the Melody Maker musos
here tonight.
At some point during the first three blended
songs notions of second best are dispelled and
allegiance is sworn. Why? Maybe it's the furious
honesty of the vocalist, heart clearly in her
mouth and in the lyrics she bares before us. Or
the sheer virtuousity of the music - how can an
unknown band burst out with its colours so
brilliantly unfurled?
This the real red-hot Pixies fallout, not Frank
Black's overblown ego-vinyl or the anti-climatic
Breeders. But bands that have taken the insanity
of their basslines and the stop-start elasticity of
their tunes and then dared to smelt the grail and
create something of their own. In years to come
'Debaser' and 'Gigantic' may be trodden over
by new disciples seeking a fix from Drugstore
with 'Almost Ascending', 'Gravity' and 'God
Help Her'. We got ours tonight.
Maybe I was still in love with Drugstore but
Sidi Bou Said were out of my limb. They sang
"I'd rather be a woman," and there was me
thinking that they all were already. Everything
was too overplayed and stretched. It sounding as
if they were uncomfortable with the whole live
thang until late in the set. Then they sounded
relaxed and the last couple of songs had
direction. Occasionally, well once, I was
reminded of The Breeders, so there.
The Funking Barstewards were altogether
different. They wore their wigs with pride; one
even looked like Don Was. Coming straight
from Disco Mountain, so they said. Someone
shouted back "Why did you come down?" I was
still trying to work out if they were real or
whether the send up was part of the fun. It
recalled the ultimate irony of dancing to the
Smiths' 'Hang tThe DJ' and that happened as
well during the evening. O K so I take things too
seriously but I laughed at that. A n d so it
continued both day and night. The Funking
Barstewards strutted their stuff, played with
plastic fish, giant fans, the whole entertainment
package. Their instruments were not so much
played as used as props for tomfoolery and we
didn't care because the music batted into the
night. It was time to go.
In the quad I found a playing card and it was
the Joker, honest. I was still on a shopping high.
This week's Ents events are previewed on page 18

