Feature 25
Autumnal Vegetables On A Roll
"Anyway you choose me, you won't be wrong," - Billy Corgan, a Smashing
Pumpkin, stutters, sings and then soars.Tintin listened in (twice). . .
Surprises are not often on the cards in press
conferences and the Smashing Pumpkins were
no exception. They've been well polished in the
hype grind wheel of late. Indeed, the first
question was almost a cliche: "What does it feel
like to be the Next Big Thing?" You could smell
the boredom in the air. Rock'n'Roll is pretty
dead if that's all we care about. Still Jimmy,
Billy and D ' A r c y shrugged and carried on
through, it's par for the course. (James Iha the
dress wielding guitarist was ill, by the way.)
B i l l y Corgan, 'a difficult man' so he
sardonically pre-empted, was the hub through
which most things passed. That's normal
though, considering that he is the credited
songwriter. Still, for someone labelled as a
control crazed Messiah, he came across as a
good game player, directing questions to Jimmy
and D'Arcy. Perhaps his recent marriage had
something to do with it, although twisted media
labelling sprung to mind as being more likely.
His Superslut T-shirt was just part of the irony.
Much of the conference was taken up with
the issue of the band's, even any bands',
portrayal/betrayal by the media. Did Nirvana
and Pearl Jam really change the world or had
Mudhoney, Sonic Youth and Husker Du been
doing the same thing for a decade? The whole
grunge thing was something larger than music
and ultimately became a peg on which to hang
anything from Levi's to films. Billy confessed to
swallowing the whole Jimmy Page Rock God
myth as a teenager. Ted Nugent posters, long
hair for the sake of image and Spinal Tapisms
were the thing to be.
The list of the fake bands for today included
Madonna, Guns ' N ' Roses and, interestingly,
Suede - is Brett's head glued to his shoulder?
(It's a question you might like to consider.)
Which is not to say that their music is no good
but that there is no honesty in their image-first
approach.
The point is that journalists need to sell
magazines and that's the criteria which a band
must conform to in order to get publicity. This
was explained time and again. In fact, before
any questions were asked the first thing Billy
said was "We're honest."
Honesty is not really what you expect from
musicians and it's all the more refreshing for
that. Jimmy's well documented drugs problem
was another manifestation in question. He saw
himself as a rock star and only later realised
what a dangerous game it was. Y o u get the
women, cars, drugs, the whole nine yards and
the ego- feeders who pump it all up. This may
sound like sour grapes but the deeper you get to
the heart of the fame business the more people
want a part of you. Take heed Musos and
readers alike, it's our determination to get a
scoop and your desire for trivial information
which are the cause.
At about this point some infiltrator at the
back starts to take issue with the band and
several minutes of acrid argument follow. Billy
and D'Arcy are getting wound up, people are
squirming uneasily in their seats and I am
wishing for a miracle of dumbness to fall like
manna from heaven. In the end, order is finally
welcomed back to proceedings and we can
continue.
The question of touring is one which has
dogged the Pumpkins footsteps, particularly
after an infamous visit to the Reading Festival.
The touring pressure caused by the 15 months
promoting 'Gish' almost broke the band up.
Billy says that the difference is between touring
and playing. Touring is looking at the world
through a bus window and ending up like a
mutant; playing is leaving some of your mind on
the stage. Still, for a band known for their
tendency to twisted perfection, playing 200
shows could be seen as taxing. Billy and James'
dress-wearing habits just provided some added
tongue-in-cheek interest as well as being
something of a false skeleton for the press core.
The acoustic gig at Raymond's Revue Bar was
part of the same process of always looking to do
things different. Things start to wind down,
Billy plays out the tailenders and it's time to go.
Yes, you can only trust these people about as
much as you trust yourself because they're
human too.
Smashing Pumpkins
Brixton Academy
For most bands, a producer is a designer label
on which to hang image, not content. The
Smashing Pumpkins have, with the help of
Butch Vig, produced a carefully sculptured
article in the form of 'Siamese Dream'.
Unfortunately that approach doesn't generally
make for good live performances, just because
everything is in a more harsh and brutal format.
The haunting delicacy which characterised
much of 'Siamese Dream' was lost in a heavy
rippling of bassed guitar. The tracks which
suffered most were those which relied on a
contrast in power like; 'Hummer', 'Rocket' and
'Soma'. Interestingly, though, the older material
from 'Gish' worked really well. 'Rhinoceros'
and T A m One' were placed in a new grown-up
atmosphere which displayed something of the
group's progress. Still 'Cherub Rock' looked
good with a beefed up rippling style, as did
'Geek USA' and 'Quiet', which were amongst
the least structured album tracks.
Anyhow Billy was happy enough, striding
onto the stage with a sloganised guitar: T love
my mom.' The rest of the band were the
background canvas for his dreams. Which is not
to say that they were anonymous, rather it was
surprising how much work they had to do to
keep the whole effect going.
But it wasn't until the encore that the
Pumpkins displayed anything approaching their
potential. After playing with the crowd during a
prolonged 'Soma', Billy returned complete in a
clown suit, playing screw-the-press to the last.
This, combined with the strong upward lighting,
created a Stephen King figurette. Round angelic
face, deep eye sockets, hollowed cheek bones
and sharp canine teeth, he became a menacing
figure who you knew you should ran from but
were instead drawn to. 'Spaceboy' was his song.
Primarily vocal, it cut as an intensely personal
song. Remember that Billy had dedicated it to
his disabled brother when playing in the States.
This was a moment out of time. The finale was
a stretched 'Silverf&Sk', an epic even on the
album. Here it was splinted with a short
unaccompanied 'Somewhere Over The
Rainbow' before entering the terminal 'bang
bang you're dead / hole in your head' stage.
This may well have been flawed genius, but
the Pumpkins have made my page, dead or live.
Thanks (twice) to Gin at Bad Moon.
More music on pages 6 and 7

