Letters 27
The Islam debate seems to have reared it's ugly head again
already this year. The discussion went onfor much of last year
and I don't want the same thing happening this year as it got
very tedious. As you can see, I had to reduce the text size just to
fit them all of this week's letters on one page. I will not be
printing any more letters on this subject.
Dear Beccy,
After a summer spent working, sleeping, socialising and
slobbing out, not necessarily in that order I come back to IC to
find at least one thing hasn't changed. Someone is once again
trying to convince my friends and I into becoming Muslims.
Before I go any further I would like to point out that I have not
put pen to paper ref. this subject before nor am I in any way
connected with the Conservative Society, Club, whatever in
College.
I would also like to point out to Saleem and others of his
ilk that for most of us intellect and logic only come into play
when working towards our degree, the rest of the time we
muddle through life trying as best we can. Not being
particularly good with words or at debating topics I'll get to
my main message. My friends and I already know as much as
we want to about Islam and we are not interested, nor do we
want to become Muslims. I am quite capable of making up my
mind about what religion I do or do not want to follow and
how to live my life. What is becoming increasingly perturbing
is that anyone believes that they have the right to tell me that
the life I lead and the religion I follow is wrong. Particularly
when you consider that I am a native in my own country and
the people who are doing the telling are not.
Dear Miss Land,
I know that I will not be the only IC inmate, who upon
seeing the title of the first letter in issue 974, immediately
thought: 'not again' or words to that effect perhaps with
slightly more colourful language.
Let me get it straight, I am the last person who wants to
enter into the 'Islam vs the rest' verbal war of attrition but Mr
Chagtai is too soft a target to pass up. Put in the most
elementary terms, I think he needs to have a bit of a word with
himself. As a third year he must have had his self-righteous
head firmly inserted in the sand all last year. If we learnt one
solitary thing from the 92-93 Christian-bashing season was
Dear Beccy,
Having read the letters page of Felix during my first year
at College, and being irritated by the tedious persistence of
members of the Islamic Society trying to convert everyone to
Islam, or more likely trying to justify their own faith in what
is, after all, just one of many possibilities (as any truly open
minded person will acknowledge), I was hugely irritated by
yet another of these letters in last week's issue.
I wonder if Saleem Chugtai has read any of the Christian
Bible, and Hindu Vedas or Upanishads, the Jewish Torah, the
Sikh Guru Granth Sahib, or the Taoist Tao te Ching? Or how
about the scriptures of the Buddhists, the Confucians, the
practisers of Zen or the Baha'i Faith? (to name just some of
the best known religions/philosophies.) If he has, then perhaps
he can claim to be able to make a qualified judgement of
whether Islam is the 'truth' or not. If he hasn't, then I'd like to
invite him (or anyone of similar inclination) to do further
research before taking it upon himself to enlighten his peers in
a letter of limited scope like his last. As a start, how about this
poem on the subject by Abu-'l-Fazl al-Allaim who was a Sufi
at the court of the Moghul Emperor Akbar in India in the 16th
Century:
'Sometimes I frequent the Christian Cloister and
sometimes the mosque,
I wonder if I went back to Saudi Arabia I would be given
the same freedoms of speech. I doubt it, as it was I was not
allowed to wear a Union Jack on my shoulder or follow my
own religion whilst I was there. However I do realise Saudi
Arabia is an extreme, (my lab partner brings this up every
week!) my most vivid recollection being of the fear the
religious police provoked in Muslims and non-Muslims alike.
If my limited knowledge of the Quran is correct the Quran
says that taking up the Muslim faith should be by personal
conviction, so it appears that Saleem and others are
overstepping the mark by telling other students how to live
their lives. I would like to point out that my argument applies
equally to fundamental Christians or extremists of any faith or
political leanings.
I don't believe that I have the right to tell anybody how to
live within the framework provided by society, equally I resent
strongly anyone who believes that they have that right.
Saleem, I have no beef with you or your religion but with
you trying to ram it down my throat, or educate me as you
term it, I most certainly do.
Yours sincerely,
Christopher Hubbard
that that particularly odious debate will never be resolved.
Religion is a personal thing and trying to ram your loathsome
ideals down our collective throat is hardly likely to get us
flocking to join your exulted ranks. Take note, I'm not putting
Islam down, that's a mug's game. However I'd like to
officially decline Mr Chagtai's offer of what I'm sure would
be a scintillating and two-sided debate, maybe his time would
be more profitably spent revising some basic grammar.
A C Christodoulou, Civ Eng III.
P.S. Mr John Simpson, I did get a job cutting grass at my local
council so I'm right now counting my blessings and so should
many more of you.
But it is Thou whom I search for from temple to temple.
Thine elect have no dealings with heresy or orthodoxy,
For neither of these stands beside the screen of Thy truth.
Speculation to the heretic, theology to the orthodox
But the dust of the rose-petal belongs to the heart of the
perfume-seller.'
Saleem says in his letter: 'When finding the truth, one
should not let their whims and desires dominate over one's
thought'. It seems to me, though, that emotion and spirituality
go hand in hand, as in a phrase attributed to J.C., but of likely
origin circa 7th century B.C.E.:
"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and
with all they mind and with all thy strength, and thou shalt
love thy neighbour as thyself.'
Perhaps Saleem's confusing science and religion, which
are ultimately on the flip side of the same coin. In the same
way, surely heart and mind are interdependent and both
equally valid?
Finally, I hope Saleem finds reason not to hold as low an
opinion of the intellect of his fellow students as his letter
evidenced, and I wish him luck in 'finding the truth'.
Yours sincerely,
Suki Kler, Chemistry 2.
Dear Beccy,
Please can you stop the certain tedium that will result if
any of the 'Islam is/is not better than the Church of England
or Islam is/is not better than the Conservative Party
correspondents continue to be published before they bore us
all shitless, and refer any of these tedious no-lifes to last
year's Felix 'Editor'.
Cheers,
RSMU Office
To the Editor ofFelix,
It appears that the Islam correspondence is starting up
again. We had the first letters of term in Felix 974, 8th
October. I wish to make the following points.
1. It is disappointing to find a 3rd year mathematician
stating that Islam has a proof of the existence of God, etc. No
religion can claim this, except by stating God as an axiom.
2. Christians and Jews are 'people of the Book' (Qur'an)
claiming at least religious descent from Abraham through his
son Isaac. Moslems claim descent from Abraham through
Ishmail. These peoples are therefore cousins. Moslems are
obliged to respect this from the word of Mohammed. Since we
live in a nominally Christian country, please can they do this
and stop ramming Islam down our throats; it engenders
hostility, not friendship.
3. Jesus of Nazareth is a highly revered prophet to
Moslems, and there is an account of his birth from Mary in the
Qur'an. I don't like commercial Christmas any more than the
Islamic Society, but as a religious festival there cannot be
anything unholy about it.
4. Moslems should remember that the Christian attitude to
blasphemy against God is to pray for the blasphemer's soul.
Some sects of Islam however respond to blasphemy against
God with death threats and murder. Mohammed specifically
stated that it is best to love your enemies, but if this is too
difficult then response on the Jewish basis of 'an eye for an
eye, a tooth for a tooth' is recommended. It seems that many
Moslems do not heed the teachings in their own holy book.
(You can say the same about some alleged Christians as well.)
5. Most Moslems and Christians do live in friendship. I do
wish that the hostile ones would think again, and go along
with the majority.
N.B. I am a Christian, but I have read the Qur'an from
cover to cover, although some years ago now.
Edwin Hutton, Process Systems Engineering.
Dear Editor,
I'd like to pick up on Saleem Chagtai's letter on Islam,
published last week. As a Christian there's obviously a great
difference in opinion between us, but that's not why I'm
writing. I'd like to add my voice to the challenge laid down by
Mr Chagtai in his letter, namely that we have a duty to seek
the truth.
Here at IC (and I'm in my fifth year) it seems as if any
reference to matters vaguely philosophical, never mind
supernatural, are taboo. We seem to wander around, oblivious
to life's great questions: Why are we here? Where are we
going? Is there life after death? Are we answerable to a
supreme being? But they'll never go away.
Shouldn't we be trying to address them? I believe that we
should and that we must. The Bible is the most influential
book in the history of the world - fact. Yet it's record of the
life of Jesus, the most influential man in history, is probably
one of the least read of all biographies in print today. If we are
products of logical and scientific training, then surely there
must be a case for studying this book and this man's life.
I hope to see the day when IC becomes a little more open
to this kind of discussion. After all, life and death are serious
things.
Yours sincerely,
David R Kirk, Civ Eng PG.
The deadline for submission of letters is Monday, 6pm

