Reviews
nmmmm
Short Cuts
Starring: Jack Lemmon, Fred Ward, Lyle Lovett
Director: Robert Altman
Running Time: 186 minutes
Just as you are getting sick to death of formula
Hollywood movies, they manage to completely
surprise you with a masterpiece of modern
cinema. Short Cuts is a unique portrait of life in
contemporary America. The film is multi-
layered with different people living their lives in
parallel, oblivious to each other apart from odd
chance contacts or occurrences.
The director, Robert Altman, appears to be
reaching new heights in his career with this
movie. His last film, The Player, was a huge
success and Short Cuts seems to be going one
up on even that. It has already won the Venice
Film Festival's award for best picture (alongside
Three Colours Blue) and the entire cast won an
award for their performance .
The screenplay is based on a set of eight
short stories and one poem by the American
writer Raymond Carver. I've never read his
books so I cannot comment on the authenticity
of the plot, but he is said, by some, to be a
legendary writer. However, the screenplay was
written by Altman and Frank Barhydt in
conjunction with Carver's widow. Altman is the
first to confess that the stories are not an
identikit reproduction, but still they come across
as funny and moving.
If you are into action or high melodrama this
is definitely not the film for you. The stories are
just chance occurrences that change ordinary
people's lives. There's no gloss and no glamour.
Little Casey gets run over, Stuart goes fishing
and finds a dead body, Ralph finds out that his
wife had an affair eight years ago, Stormy goes
mad and rips up his ex-wife's house. That being
said, the film is not boring. At over three hours,
it's tempting fate but it's so beautifully made
that the stories grip you throughout.
One of the major strengths of this movie is
the outstanding performances of the cast as well
as the sheer number of familiar faces. The film
is full of people that you remember from other
movies but can't quite place. Tim Robbins gives
an excellent performance as the stressed
motorcycle cop, Jack Lemmon plays a long lost
father, and such strange characters such as Huey
Lewis and Lyle Lovett play mad fishermen and
angry bakers.
This film is a celebration of life. Under the
Los Angeles haze, an ensemble of bakers,
doctors, clowns, fishermen, swimming pool
attendants and helicopter pilots all laugh, cry,
make love, get drunk, argue and kill, smoke
joints and dream.
This film is great, go and see it.
Kamran Malik
Short Cuts plays at the London Film Festival
next month as is on general release next in
March, next year.
True Romance
Starring: Christian Slater, Patricia Arquette
Director: Tony Scott
From the beginning, this has the feel of a heavily
constructed film. It's complete and boxed up
before we start. Alabama (Patricia Arquette)
relates a talkback from the perspective of the
film's end: "This is what it was like."
The inner city canvas of Detroit is the setting
for Clarence (Christian Slater) and Alabama to
fall in love and get married. After a visit to
Alabama's ex-pimp, a rizzable Gary Oldman,
Clarence mistakenly ends up with with $1
million of coke. Other cameo roles then sail in
and out of view. Chris Walken, Dennis Hopper
and Pitt Brad appear in transparent form, loosely
woven in. It's very much like The Player except
that the stars weren't playing themselves.
Still, the best idea in the film is to have Val
Kilmer playing a never quite defined Elvis
figure, who is the creation of Clarence's pulped
mind. You're never sure what Elvis is there for
and he only shimmers into view twice anyway.
Another feature of the film is the way the
camera plays very close to the face, trying to
enlarging the characters. We get so close you
can even hear the crackle of burning cigarettes.
After fleeing to L A the happy couple attract
the attentions of the police department, the
legitimate drug owners and a potential buyer,
who is a kind of Coppola/Spielberg film
producer composite. Everyone gets to meet in
the final scene which is a total farce; twenty
heavily armed men in one small room. They
shout about for a bit, the usual "lay down your
A boy, a girl and a cadillac - that's romance
guns" stuff before the climatic shoot out end all
the minor characters, disposed of in a cartoonish
orgy of bang bangs.
The ending is Hollywood claptrap - some
mysticism and we're given both our cake and a
full stomach. A t the end of the day this film
"lived fast, died young and left a series of good
looking star corpses". If the advertising for this
film attracts you, go and get Lynch's 'Wild at
Heart' on video. True Romance is a faded copy.
Tintin
The Secret
Garden
Starring: Maggie Smith and some children
Director: A. Holland
Let's face some facts. Maggie Smith is sad. Any
Oscar-winner who agrees to appear in a film like
Sister Act, never mind Sister Act II, has either a
really bad agent or a really expensive drug habit.
Anyway, at least with The Secret Garden she
has a chance to revive some of that comatose
credibility. Not much of a chance, but still.
Adapted from the 'classic' children's novel
of the same name, the plot has improbabilities
which even Neighbours wouldn't use. A suitably
photogenic little girl loses her parents (they die)
in India and she is sent to live with her uncle in
his large mansion on the moors. She is a spoilt
bitch. I'm sorry but she is. There is a
housekeeper who doesn't like our little moppet.
Possibly because her name is more prominent in
the credits. Eventually she makes friends with
her maid and discovers a secret garden with a
shady past. Then she discovers that the strange
noises she is hearing are the screams of her
invalid cousin who she didn't know existed. Or
something like that. Anyway, they restore the
garden and stop her uncle from being such a
morose old hippie (he looks uncannily like the
lead singer of the Wonder Stuff).
It is obvious from the first scene that Warner
Bros, is going all out to try and capture the kid's
market from Disney. To a certain extent it has
worked but God only knows what Dwayne, aged
nine, from Buttux, Nebraska made of this. I
mean, I had trouble understanding the servants.
Did they have to be quite so northern? Don't get
me wrong, I'm quite of a Yorkshire accent, in
it's place. "Should you go and see this film?" is
the question you all want answered. Well, yes
and no. That all depends on whether you like
your entertainment so syrupy you could use it to
make Rice Crispie buns. You decide.
Tony Grew
A plan of this year's Careers Fair is on the centre pages

