Reviews 7
Oui3
Oui Love You
First surprise: A band whose name I find
overwhelming naff (irrational, but true) has such
a good album.
Second surprise: A band predominately
consisting of a rap artist have such brilliant and
innovative tunes and excellent singing.
Third surprise: The positive vibes that hit
you throughout this album. They all have a
groovy and good feel. This is an elpee (shurely
an LP - Ed.) to lift the faint-hearted, give hope
to the hopeless and smiles for the weeping
(hmmm, a bit excessive perhaps.)
Fourth surprise: It's not a major hit yet.
Fifth surprise: There is no fifth surprise. (8)
al
Released on MCA
OUI 3 - Who was their French teacher?
Molly Half
Head
Barny
Mr Molly Half-a-Head has a peculiar vocal
style, like someone singing directly through
their adam's apple. Still, once you've overcome
that, there's not much else on offer. Their
playing verges on professional stoicism.
Definition: That's being good at enduring the
slings and arrows following an outrageous lack
of ideas. Sorry!
Tintin
Released on Playtime Records
Blink
Going to Nepal
Well, they might be Irish, but they are definitely
not U2! Blink play a sort of Indie-pop which
sounds different to anything I've heard before.
The first (title) track opens with an
impressive gong and then passes through some
very weird lyrics that seem quite out of context
with the rest of the song: "Mister Magoo, Tell
Betty Boo, I bought most of your records, But I
stopped at number two." It finishes in the same
way it began. Altogether rather groovy, and
worth buying simply for the first song.
timsi
Released on Lime Records
Anna
Pretty Jesus
With a title track involving the juxtaposition of
Jesus, Hollywood and violence, you could be
forgiven for believing that Anna were playing
the stereotypical indie band game; and you'd be
right. But they play and win. From the snarly
underbones of 'Pretty Jesus' right throughout
there's always combined power chords tearing
the songs together. 'Bumper Cars' is like
vintage Quo, almost.
Tintin
Released onfree records
Spiritualised
Electric Mainline
'Good Times', 'Lay Back In The Sun', and two
versions of the instrumental 'Electric Mainline'
constitute this EP, Spiritualised's first release
this year. The two lead tracks feature all the
essential elements - Jason's 'Sumner-esque'
whisper, the twinkling guitars, the hypnotic
melodies and the glorious crescendos, although
they're certainly not the 'Lazer Guided
Melodies' of last year. Noticeably the tempo is
faster and the horns are noisier and dirtier.
'Electric Mainline' meanwhile illustrates
Jason's much talked about Kraftwerk
influences, although its two guises are basically
identical. A l l in all an EP for those who think
that Spiritualised should put more effort into
their songs.
Yuen'
Released on Dedicated
the killjoys
A Million Suns
There are a number of reasons why I should
choose to disregard this album:
1. Jeremy (a true musical neanderthal) has
just wandered in; said: "This is good, I don't
usually like what you play." This in itself is
an ominously bad sign. Quick, someone slay
the virginal moggy, the gods are angry.
2. The promo literature calls them
'acousticky'; I ask you . . .
3. They're Australians, and antepodians are
the main cause of me not being able to get
within 200 yards of my local pub.
Thus armed with enough prejudice to make
William Joyce look about as extreme as Paddy
Ashdown, I have to concede that I like this
album. The killjoy's art is that of the much
maligned three minute pop song but relying not
only on quirky guitar melodies but also on other
diverse instruments such as the vibraphone,
kalimba and mandolin (witness the Wonder
Stuffyness of 'Shadoo Shadoo'). 'Trains And
Rocks And Riverbeds' washes over you with
it's lilting 3/4, whilst the breathless trumpet solo
on 'Yes Yes Y e s ' is pure Chet Baker and
'Ruby' .. . 'Ruby' is just the jewel in the crown.
Much is made of Anna Burley's voice in the
Australian press (I know, I've read the
clippings) which falls anywhere between Karen
Carpenter and Harriet Wheeler Therefore the
notoriously easily pacified British public will
probably ignore this as they did with other girl
fronted bands, the Katydids, Forget-me-Nots et
al, and settle for another Belinda Carlisle or
Roxette album. Sad but true. (7)
Davros. C. Dick
the killjoys - still smiling at the end of the line
A review of last week's Ents bands is on page 24

