Reviews
Cod Staging of
a Masterpiece
Richard Wagner's vast and uplifting medieval
pageant, Die Meistersinger von Niirnberg, has
returned to the Royal Opera House in a new
production by Graham Vick. The singing is very
fine, the orchestral playing wonderful, but the
staging is disappointingly uninspired. To be fair,
a seat in the upper slips is not the best place
from which to make such a judgment (one
corner of the stage and the whole backdrop are
invisible) but from what I could see, this is not a
production to make one proud of this country's
flagship opera house.
The first act fares the best, largely due to the
diligence of the costume department in
recreating the look of a Flemish old master
painting, complete with prominent codpieces for
several of the Masters. There is much sage
finger-wagging and head-nodding from these
well-dressed worthies, and the standard
multipurpose R O H dramatic gesture (arms
spread, palms out) is more than a little in
evidence. The humour is confined to painfully
unspontaneous slapstick antics from the
apprentices. The light, grainy wooden panelling,
gives the stage a warm glow, and would not
disgrace an unambitious touring opera company.
Cosi Fan Tutte
In this up to date adaptation, sung in English,
two R A F officers test the loyalty of their
fiancees as part of a bet with a friend who is
determined to prove that no women can be
trusted. In true operatic tradition, where you
only have to change your socks to become
totally unrecognisable, the two officers appear
in disguise to tempt the women.
There really is very little I can fault with this
production. The singing is good, especially from
Soprano Jacinta Mulcahy as Fiordiligi, and the
acting brings across all the quirky and subtle
emotions of the characters.
The only short-coming was the rather clumsy
scenery changes performed in full view of the
audience accompanied by some off stage
clatters, but as this was the first performance
they can be forgiven. If you know Cosi Fan
Tutte, this adaptation will still provide fresh
entertainment, while for those who are new to
opera, it is a light-hearted, easy to follow
evening of entertainment that will leave you
wishing for more.
Dave
At the Greenwich Theatre, Crooms Hill, SE10.
Greenwich BR. 081 858 7755. Mon-Sat 7.45pm.
Cones £5.50.
The medieval streets of Act II are depicted by
model houses, each about the height if a man (is
this Nuremberg or Legoland?) and it is left
entirely to the performers to conjure up the
magic of Midsummer's Eve. Beckmesser's
serenade fails to gather sufficient momentum,
and leads into a finale which provides the
biggest musical disappointment of the evening.
This extraordinary passage (imagine Bach
driving a HGV and you'll get the idea) requires
the touch of a watchmaker to balance it
correctly, but here too much detail was lost. The
scrum on stage didn't help; certainly the libretto
calls for a brawl, but the exalted music and the
interests of clarity surely preclude a descent into
hooliganism. It's not as if it was funny, either.
What make the 5% hours of this
Meistersinger pass so fleetly are certain key
performances, and the orchestra. John Tomlinson
looks wild and woolly as Hans Sachs, the
cobbler-poet who plays Figaro to Eva's Rosina.
At first sight it appears as if the Green Knight
has settled down and found himself a day job.
But then he starts to sing and one is immediately
reminded that this is in fact the Father of the
Gods moonlighting from Bayreuth in between
Ring cycles. Immense amounts of power and
stamina, total security of line, and enough depth
and colour in reserve to make the most of the
great 'Wahn! Uberall Wahn!' in Act III.
Gosta Winbergh, as the young knight
Walther, does not have the bright, metallic ring
of the true heldentenor, but strong, accurate and
pleasant voices are not exactly ten a penny in
this repertoire, and his is welcome. David,
Sachs' apprentice, is sung with panache by Deon
van der Walt, who is only occasionally tempted
to overact. As the villain, Beckmesser, Thomas
Allen seems a strange choice; someone with a
growl and a snarl in his voice would have made
more of the role. Nancy Gustafson as Eva, the
eligible heiress vainly pursued by Beckmesser
and eventually won by Walther, is unremarkable,
but she looks the part.
It's the orchestra under Bernard Haitink who
really steal the show: crisp woodwind, bright,
surging strings and, most noticeably, richly
varied and characterful playing from a heroic
horn section. Bar the one cavil over balance
mentioned above, Haitink charts unfailingly the
wide reaches of this full and expansive score.
It's true that everything sounds more vivid when
you're almost literally suspended over the
orchestra, but that was the place to be last
Friday, when there was so much artistry and
imagination from the performers and so little in
the production.
Patrick Wood.
At the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, on
16th October and 4th, 8th and 13th November.
Tickets from £7 (upper slips), up to an arm and
a leg. Upper amphitheatre seats on sale at £29
from 10 am on the day of performance. Student
standby subject to availability.
Next Week: Britten's War Requiem on CD
We predict that Patrick Wood will say 'awesome' and 'colossal' a lot and
have to be taken away for a cold shower.
Camping Out
You are in Happy Valley Summer Camp. Your
presenters Camp Leader and Camp Mother (alas
the Topp Twins) guide you through the summer
with their stunningly hilarious rhythmic songs
and outrageous party games. Not by themselves
mind you, the audience are not so much asked
but feel compelled to get on to the stage or
butter some bread (seriously!). This works
wonders for the play since it provides an
excellent opportunity for the Topp Twins to
demonstrate their wonderful ad-libbing abilities,
while giving more laughter to an already near-
to-hysterical audience.
Set in the 50's and incorporating 90's
humour and wit, Camping Out is an infectiously
funny show that will shock the tame and gives
constant laughter to the exciting. Using jokes
and masses of innuendos (that Julian Clary
wouldn't dare use) about the Royal family,
Australians and members of the audience, an
atmosphere of an almost child-like quality is
created. Everything about the gorgeous but
simplistic set and even the out-dated clothes that
the Topp Twins wear suggests childishness, not
the sort that's silly and likely to be scoffed at,
but the sort for adults that will make even the
serious of folk laugh.
With the exception of incredibly shy people
and the very politically correct, I recommend
everyone to see this, straight or gay, old or
young, Mainstream music or Indie fan. Not one
will leave the theatre with a straight face. And
everyone will leave wanting more.
John and Susan
At the Drill Hall Arts Centre, 16 Chenies St,
WC1, Goodge St Tube. 071 637 8270. Until Oct
23rd. Tue-Sat 7.30pm. Cones £6.
BBC2's The Living Soap is previewed on page 23

