["PUZZLES;
Tinker'%
Welcome to the Christmas Bumper puzzles column. There are
seven puzzles desinged to lure you away from all the problem
sheets you are trying to catch up on. There will be three £5
cheques for the solvers of the prize puzzles, graded 3 or higher.
In addition there will be a £10 prize for solvers of all seven
puzzles, who will be automatically entered for the three £5
prizes.
Merry Puzzling!
This is my favourite puzzle. Using one cut, split the shape
below into two pieces identical in both size and shape. There is
a solution with no 'fiddles' (ie folding or turning over of the final
shapes) which is valid regardless of the angle of the two parallel
lines.
"I n r
L
<- L L
There follows a puzzle which I thought of myself. It took me
several weeks before I realised the solution. I wish you the best
of luck in finding the solution more quickly!
Can a solid sphere be cut into forty three separate pieces with
only six simultaneous planar cuts?
(A proof is required!).
GRADE 4
Cut along the dotted lines, crease along the solid lines, then
fold up the rectangle such that the numbers are in sequence (ie
one on top two below it and eight on the bottom). Of course the
numbers may face either up or down.
Do the same for the second rectangle.
r 71
1 8 2 7
4 ' 5 3 6
8
GRADE 3
Show that
1
The solution does not involve any of the theory of limits.
GRADE 2
L J
GRADE 3
Find a practical arrangement of six matches such that each
match touches all the other matches.
GRADE 1
This is more an IQ test than a puzzle. Find the missing terms in
the following infinite series.
J ± £2 B..... ~5
GRADE 1
Take two long similar cylinders, intersect them at right angles
(ensuring their axies meet at a point). Then find the volume of
the shape enclosed by both cylinders.
The latter was believed to be the first example of a problem for
which calculus presented the only possible method of solution.
The problem may indeed be solved trivially using a volume
integral, but years later an elegant and much faster solution was
discovered. Find the simple solution given that the volume of a
sphere is 4
/3 7Tr3
.
GRADE 3
14 Wednesday 12 December 1984 FELIX

