•FELIX
FELIX
At this time of year reflection and evaluation
preoccupy the thoughts of most of the
populace. It seems fitting to examine the
performance of those we elected as sabbatical
officers last year.
M r Ian Bull got off to a good start at the
beginning of the year by asserting his
authority and generally bossing everyone
around. (Have you noticed that small men
are often the most dictatorial). Ian keeps the
U n i o n ticking-over, much like his
predecessors, but seems to lack a wider vision
of Union affairs. He seems too busy sitting on
committees and conducting interviews to be
bothered with the individual student, or to
spare a thought for the future of the Union.
And this is quite a serious fault. The College
can easily exploit any lack of continuity in
Union thinking.
Dave 'Mad' Parry is widely expected to be
certified insane before next term. He rushes
around from room to room screaming 'I'm
late, I'm late' rather like the white rabbit. He
is paranoid (always one of the first signs),
believing that all Union Officers are trying to
fiddle more money out of the Union. They
probably are, but nobody, and certainly not
the D P , is ever meant to notice.
Eric Darbyshire does his job competently,
but with a laid-back attitude that disguises
his hard work. I feel sorry for Hon Sees. The
other sabbaticals seem to give them all the
boring jobs to do like taking minutes and
operating the Gestetner.
There is a real need, once again, to re-write
the Hon See's job description so as to attract
candidates of an appropriate calibre. Who
better to do this re-write than Eric himself?
Sometimes life gets one down. I sit in my
newly-repainted office in Beit Quad watching
you walk by, happy, relaxed enjoying
yourselves. And then... a disaster occurs.
There's nothing like a good disaster in
College to brighten up the pages of F E L I X .
Someone resigns, a road accident, public
disagreements—these are the stuff of news,
for good news is no news which is bad news
for everyone, especially me. So keep on at it
folks. If you've got a dispute don't settle it,
but have a good public row we can all enjoy.
Point out the mistakes of others, make
unjustified complaints—stand on your
heads, but for goodness sake, please do
something interesting!
I'm sure that they were saying 'Christmas
starts earlier every year' much earlier this
year.
But I don't know that this is such a bad
thing. At Christmas time a spirit of goodwill
seems to enter the hearts of most people,
whatever their religion, or lack of it.
D i s m i s s this as slushy, c l i c h e d
sentimentality if you will, but it wouldn't be a
very bad thing if it continued throughout the
year.
When Christmas finally does come, may it
be a very happy one for you all.
Acknowledgements
My thanks for help on this, and every F E L I X
this term, are due to Ajay, Grenville, Pete,
Nigel, Hugh, Hugh, Dave Jones, Jon Jones,
Jon Burgess, Pete Coleman, Chris Martin,
Pete Hands, Farah Ali, Diane Love, Richard,
Tinker, Finian, Martin, Nick Gillies,
Rosemary and Tony.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 51 1 1 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1984. ISSN 10140-0711.
Next term
begins
Monday 7 January
1985
ends
Friday 22 March
1985
2 Wednesday 12 December 1984 FELIX

