• T I T E R S :
OUR
The one we
had to print
Dear Sir,
Having undergone the difficult transfer
from Imperial College undergraduate life to
Oxford graduate work I am shocked to find
that Oxford University does not have a
centrally produced newspaper like your 'fine
F E L I X ' to brighten-up each week. So the
message to Freshers and all at IC is count
your blessings and may F E L I X never die.
IC Graduate
Bible no match
Dear Sir,
Having read Mr Sheriffs article in last week's
F E L I X , about the eating of pork and its
biochemistry, I would like to make a few
points. He showed in this article a very
cursory knowledge of the Bible, and with a
few 'swipes' tried to make a mockery of it and
those who believe it.
For the benefit of those readers who read
the article for its interesting biochemical
information, and those who are not very well
acquainted with the Bible, it must be pointed
out that the commands prohibiting the eating
of unclean animals were referred to, in the
article, totally out of context with the rest of
the Bible. A brief look through the New
Testament, and even parts of the Old
Testament show that some of these hygiene
and ceremonial laws were just for a time, and
with a specific reason behind them.
I would also like to correct one other point.
The quotation 'It is not what goes into a
person which defiles them, but what comes
out of their heart' was what Jesus himself said
(Mark Ch 7), not the Patriarch of
Constantinople as stated.
Obviously here is not the place to go into
details but let me ask you a question. Do not
most parents tell their young children never
to touch matches? Now who would then
expect them never to use matches when they
are grown up?
This is not an explaining away of the Bible,
but putting these things in their proper
context.
Yours faithfully,
Dave Linkens
Aero 3
Cottle pays up
Dear Sir,
I Must correct at least one inaccuracy in
the letter about the Carnival which appeared
in the last F E L I X .
The majority of the people who were
working on Guildsheet on Sunday morning
did indeed vanish in the direction of Beit to
clean up the building. Late as this may have
been it seems that many of the problems were
due to a lack communication on the part of
Ents people.
I resent the vicious way this letter tries to
attack everyone at once — including
Guildsheet which has nothing to do with it
anyway, I even paid to get in!
Mark Cottle (Guildsheet Editor)
Pork
scratchings
Dear Sir,
We write in reply to the article in last
week's F E L I X (30 November) by T Sherriff
regarding pork and religion. Whilst
commending his research into the
biochemistry of pork we would like to correct
some misinterpretation of Christian
teaching. Firstly his idea that the 'coming of
the Gospel cleansed all things' is incorrect.
Jesus didn't come to cleanse 'things', he come
to break the power of sin and death and to
offer a new life to those who would accept it.
This new life releases us from being judged
under the Law of the Old Testament. All that
Jesus requires is that you 'love the Lord your
God with all your soul and with all your
mind' and to 'Love your neighbour as
yourself. All the Law and the Prophets hang
on these two commandments' (Deuteronomy
6 v5; Levitious 19 vl8 and Matthew 22 v37-
40).
Jesus is more concerned with what we are
like inside than outside, and said 'What goes
into a man's mouth does not make him
unclean, but what comes out of his mouth,
that is what makes him unclean '(Matthew 15
vlO — not the Patriarch of Constantinople as
suggested!) It is not a question of religious
observance rather it is the living out of a
transformed life. The comment by T Sherriff
that there is 'no evidence' that people have
allowed this to change their lives is not
supported by our personal experience or by
the lives of our Christian friends.
Perhaps it would be a challenge to anyone
who does not know that is for themselves to
read the true teachings of Jesus recorded in
the Gospel accounts in the Bible, or to meet
with a Christian friends. It will change your
life!
Yours sincerely,
Steven Burgess (Civ Eng 2)
Richard McCallum (Physics 2)
Snivel's
seasonal
snipes
Dear Sir,
So glad to be behind the pen again, many
thanks to Roger Preece for a great letter, it's a
pity God Himself couldn't have written a line
or two as well, but I know how it is...busy
guy. Still more astute letter I thought
especially the opening lines, I liked that bit. I
certainly don't need any friends with enemies
like you.
Well this week I must relate a most
amusing experience at one of the mnay social
gatherings held at the J C R , much akin to
sticking your head in a bucket of hyaena offal,
but much noisier. Out for nothing more than
a little dancing, a friend and myself
approached the dance floor with intrepid
delight. Adjusting to the vibrant discords
that prevail at such events, I motioned my
way over to a young lady, dancing on her
own, to invite her to dance. I say young lady
because this was the appernace she gave me at
the time. On reflection I should say that she
could well have been young. Anyway to
continue, I sidled up to her and asked her
politely, 'Would you like to dance?' to which
she replied, 'I'm dancing already!' Had I my
wits about me I might have replied 'Well you
could have fooled me,' but as the
circumstances were I stood back aghast and
in all honesty quite amused. Unfortunately
she had no intention to amuse. I said 'Well
what sort of an answer is that?' to which she
looked at me blankly, unaccustomed to
punters pursuing any further. I retorted
'That's not very nice is it?' and with this broke
the ice just a little. With unspoen consent we
strated to dance. I say 'to dance' to give you
the idea, but to say we were dancing would be
exaggerating a little. This girl wasn't about to
waste any energy on me. Dissipating about
two calories an hour it would not be unfair to
describe this girl as death warmed up. (I hope
she wasn't offended.) Shovelling one foot out
in front of the other was as much as she could
manage and with the odd twitch of a limp
wrist I was not impressed by this newly
acquired partner and sought means to get rid
of her. Not to be beaten by T must go to the
loo' or the subtle approach 'Piss Off. M y
boyfriend's coming back' I injected 'Thanks,
I must dash. I've got a dental appointment' to
which she replied 'What time is it?' She
probably told her friends 'He has really bad
teeth'.
No doubt I'm now going to be inundated
with hate mail from every pot-smoking,
bean-eating, lesbian, C N D supporter in the
College...God forbid.
Yours equivocally,
Everard Snivel

