By B.B. Wolffe
If you remember one of my earlier stories
entitled 'Barclays Riddle' in FELIX 566 (you
know, the issue with those abominable
cartoons), then you'll appreciate a similar
incident which occured closer to home.
F E L I X received a full page graduate
recruitment advertisement for Borroughs (an
engineering firm) from advertising agency
Austin Knight, which proclaimed an exhibition
in Southampton! Keen eyes spotted the flaw
and a hasty phone call secured the correct
venue in London.
Hot on the trail of a FELIX scoop, we
quickly dispatched a reporter off to
Southampton to peruse the University
newspaper, Wessex News (and the local beer
festival). I must admit, we found it very difficult
to stifle the laughter on seeing the same
Burroughs ad inviting all keen under-
graduates to an exhibition at the London
International Hotel, Cromwell Road, London!
Perhaps this says something about an IC
graduate's eye for fine detail so eagerly sought
after by engineering firms. Tough luck,
Southampton!
Most of you will have seen those jolly little
posters which are affixed to illegally parked
cars around College. As a deterrant, said
posters are usually stuck down with an
extremely good adhesive and cause much
consternation. And quite rightly, Sir, might I
add.
Recently, a few car-owners broke out into a
cold sweat upon espying from a distance what
appeared to be one of these dreaded curses.
However, most were rather shocked to find
the offending piece of paper peel off eaily in
their hands. Many felt they had simply been
lucky and had arrived while the glue was still
setting. The most observant few actually read
the poster!
THIS CAR IS PARKED LEGALLY.
YOUR VEHICLE'S REGISTRATION NUMBER
HAS BEEN NOTED AND SHOULD YOU
PERSIST IN LEGALLY PARKING YOUR
VEHICLE IN THIS WAY YOU WILL NOT
BE LIABLE TO FURTHER ACTION WHICH
WON'T INVOLVE A FINE OF £0 FOR EVERY
TIME YOU CONTRAVENE THIS ORDER.
By order of I.C. Onion.
The Editor was sent a strange present this
week which he has passed on to me. It was a
plastic bag left in the ofice containing the
Sherfield security sign and the security guard's
pagephone bleeper signing out book, together
with the following letter:
Dear Steve, I thought this might appeal to you:
After repeated failed attempts to find anyone
from security in the remote vicinity of the
twenty-four hour security desk in Sherfield, in
the small hours of the morning this weekend,
a member of this college decided to collect a
memento of College security vigilance. I
apologise for any inconvenience caused to the
noble defenders of the bank, service-till and all
the offices in the building, but it nicely balances
an hour spent carrying equipment up and
down stairs because there was no one around
to unlock a door (why bother locking a side-
door when a thief could go in and help himself
to the entire contents of the security desk?).
I regret I must remain anonymous, but those
sleeping behind the desk are already so
unhelpful after having been woken up that 1 do
not think it would be useful if I were identified
with any particular group who might wish to
use their dubious services again. Yours, etc.
PS: Rumour has it i.e. security said so, that
darling Rae has run off with the key to the
cleaners cupboard in Sherfield, just to help any
other poor minions around here who might
want to use the stuff to clean up after parties.
Is it any wonder the place is in a mess on
Monday mornings?
Enclosed: one sign and one security check-
list book from the desk in Sherfield.
Isn't it terrible the things some chaps get up
to! Mr Marshall has given the momentos to
Beit Security to return to Sherfield.
Any other equally amusing presents will be
readily accepted. In fact, we might just give a
prize for the most amusing one at the end of
the year.
twilight Mi
What a glorious place Imperial College is! One
has only to browse through a copy of this
year's pristine prospectus to reveal all the joys
and pleasures of life at IC. Take for instance
the two photos shown here depicting two sides
of life in a study bedroom. Picture one shows
the diligent student, obviously overflowing with
fresher enthusiasm, scrawling away at desk,
desk packed with useful material (Kleenex,
rubber plant, bananas, etc), surrounded by
educational wall-hangings (picture postcards
of Brighton, etc). Below, picture two, sixties
student strums happily on guitar (probably
'Hippy Hippy Shake' con expressione!).
F r a m e d masterpiece (Picasso or early
Constable) is propped nonchalantly againsl
curtains, thus preventing them being opened
to reveal fine view of V & A scaffolding. Second
musical instrument enters scene (lop lefl),
suspended precariously above adoring lans,
including girl from first photo.
But what's this? My well thumbed copy ol
Student Residence Halls and bouses
Regulations and Information 1980/1 reveals,
under section 11:
11 Considerable annoyance can he caused
to other members of the community hv
excesiue noise, residents are not permitted to
play or practise musical instruments in study
bedrooms.
Breaking college regulations is obviously
one side of life in a study bedroom!
Page 10 FEUX, December 5, 1980

