Compiled by Phil Webb
Results: Wednesday, November 26
Rugby
•IC 1st X V v L o n d o n H o s p 15-15
Football
I C l s t X I v R C H 2-0
I C 2 n d X I v R H C 9-1
I C 3 r d X I v G o l d s m i t h 1-0
I C 4th X I v I C 5th 5-4
Hockey
I C 1st X I v K C H 3-0
G u i l d s v Q M C 2-2
R C S v L S E 1-2
M i n e s v C h e l s e a 0-6
Football Seconds
IC SECONDS CONTINUED to annihilate any
team that dared to present themselves as
opposition with a 9-1 victory over RHC
Seconds.
Carr and Veenman took full advantage of a
poor defence with four and three goals
respectively. The technique known as playing
the man, seemed to have been mastered
by most of the side and was practised in a
tiresomely unsubtle fashion by one of their
frontmen. A vicious kick on Jim Beer meant
that he became the subject of some extremely
firm tackles from Lakin and Niccolls.
Amidst all this, IC played some excellent
football and scored three memorable goals.
The first of these came when Carr rifled his
shot across the penalty area and just inside
the far post. The fifth goal came when Carr
rounded several challenges and fed the
overlapping Drabble whose low cross turned
in at the near post by Veenman, who then
completed his hattrick in fine style when he
cut inside his man and hit a right foot drive
into the top corner of the net.
The sorry RHC performance was capped
when their keeper dropped an innocuous
back pass and the alert Saunders nipped in to
make the final score 9-1.
TEAM: Veats, Drabble, Beer, Armstrong, .
Lakin, Griffiths, Niccolls, Clarke, Veenman,
Carr, Saunders.
Jim Beer
RCS Hockey
HAMPERED from the start by having more
shirts than players, RCS had to resort to
using all available barprops. After a scenic
route to the ground, 'the lads' arrived to find
one opponent — a considerable improve-
ment on the previous four weeks. By an act of
diplomacy, LSE then managed to have all ten
available players on the field.
RCS then proceeded to totally dominate
the first half, although, LSE managed to score
twice. RCS moved well off the ball, and were
still two down at half-time. In one of his two
inspired decisions, Robyn decided that he
would do less damage as umpire than on the
field, R C S scoring almost immediately.
However, with only thrity seconds to go and
the sun setting behind the gasworks, the
second inspired decision was to send off one
LSE player for claiming that he was being
threatened by the entire RCS team. The final
results was 2 - 1 to L S E . Thanks to the
Guildsmen who helped out.
TEAM: Hutchings, Parker, Rogers, Sharpe,
Downing, Purdey, Sirs, Taylor, Waters,
Cornwell, Farrington, Morgan.
Results: Saturday, November 29
Hockey
IC 3rd XI
Basketball
IC 1st
IC 2nd
Ladies
Bank of England
QMC I
QMC II
QMC
2-2
o8-74
26-69
19-53
Hockey Thirds
ON A DAY when Hariington was water bound
the long awaited match against the Bank of
England was played in nearperfectconditions.
The dampness around the pitch was nothing
compared with the post match refreshments
at 32p per pint.
Pre match worries concerning the where-
abouts of Mike Clift and reserve goalkeeper
Phil Webb were cast aside when we realised
that the bar opens before the match.
Playing with the tide in the first half, IC took
the lead through Dave Cornwell following
excellent work by Tim Mitchell on the left
wing. Some fine, if somewhat unorthodox
play between sweeper Rob Morgan and a
deep playing centre back (keeper) Phil Webb
kept this as the only score at half-time.
Early in the second half, following the
inspired substitution of Pete Hughes, the IC
side's defence lapsed and allowed Bank to
score twice. Late on Andy Purdy scored his
first (of many) goal for IC to retain the third
elevens undefeated away record.
Following waitress service of the post
match dinner the side adjourned to the bar for
a pleasant evening.
TEAM: Webb, Morgan, Sharpe, Leinster,
Purdy, Clift, Hampton, Hughes, Mitchell
(Capt), Wylie, Taylor, Cornwell.
Sailing
ON SATURDAY, THE IC team raced UL 2 at
Welsh Harp. After a preliminary snowball
fight to break the ice, the first race
commenced. From the start, the IC team
adopted an aggressive stance and rammed
UL boats twice (when having right of way)
thus inflicting penalty points and only had to
hold the trailing UL boat in last place to win,
but they decided to form a huddle at the
leeward mark of the last beat instead. IC
finished second, fifth and sixth, after some
fast sailing by Mills and Kennedy and some
slow sailing by Murray. Even with the
penalties, this gave UL 2 the match by the
narrowest of margins.
In the second race, IC started well, but
dangerously close covering by UL and
incredibly slow mark roundings by the feared
UL 2 captain put them into a first, second, and
third lead by the start of the last lap. At this
point at the gybe mark, Palmer of UL decided
to do a Firefly railride, and Mills and Kennedy,
pumped their way past the enemy captain
using their legendary pelvic thrust, this
forced them to sail part of the first beat the
wrong way and the two remaining UL boats
sat closely on the gallant IC squad and sailed
cautiously over the line.
T E A M : Murray, Redman, Chadwick,
Younghusband, Mills, Kennedy.
Water Polo
THREE WEEKS AGO, the polo team played
their final match of the Middlesex League
against the Penguin team at Isleworth. It was
an important game, as neither team had lost
any of their previous matches and this final
match determined the No 1 place in the
division. There was a good turnout of
Spooner Allstars for the event. The game was
very hard fought but IC stayed in control for
most of the match, and managed to win by
four goals to three. So we win the fourth
division and play in the third division this
coming season.
The next major event was the U L U
Swimming Championships held in the
University pool in Malet Street. The Imperial
team was probably the best represented
college there. Heffeman won the mens 110
yard backstroke, Wilton won the 110yds
ladies breaststroke and the College came
second overall in the competition.
Last week it was the turn of the polo players
at the U L U Water Polo Championships.
Imperial entered two teams, and both
crushed their opposition in the first round but
the second team came unstuck against a
well-prepared London Hospital first team in
the next round. Our first team continued to
play well and reached the semi-final, with
special help from Leach who kept the team
together, and Heffman who scored twice in
the quarter-finals. In the semi-finals we were
matched against an under-manned team from
Kings College. Although we dominated the
game, their goalie was mainly responsible for
keeping the score to 'one all'. The match was
decided on penalties which Kings won by
four goals to three. Great goalkeeping by our
Ian, but an unfortunate result.
Snooker
THE B TEAM won away to QMC by just one
frame. A most impressive victory considering.
'We witnessed a fine win by Kelly suffering
from a severe injury. Bennett and Cameron
also won to bring our tally to three frames and
a memorable victory.
The C team and A team played with each
other last week. The result was not as clear-
cut as forecast by Proudlove (Captain of A
team) and his band of merry men. The
outcome was 3-2 in favour of the A team. Cox
(Captain of C team) was rather unfairly not
allowed to play by Proudlove on a technical
matter. If he had played I fear the A team
would have won by a bigger margin than they
did.
Fencing
CONGRATULATIONS to the team on a well
deserved victory over KC by seventeen bouts
to fourteen. After a shaky start the second
mens foil won 5-4. A special mention goes to
Bartfleet and Perkins for excellent per-
formances.
The ladies foil was a draw 2-2.
In the Epee we lost 3-6, although this was
the first time in many years that we have
fielded an Epee team.
The mens team won 7-2, clinching victory for
the match. Well done all, and good luck for
tonight against Ealing College.
Basketball
Firsts
A well competed game with the lead
alternating between the two sides, that finally
fell by a short margin to QMC due to superior
fitness, showing us up in the last few minutes.
Seconds
Although the half-time score reflected a fairly
tight game (18-22), in the second half,
Imperial College fell apart at the seams and
QMC deservedly went home with a comfort-
able victory.
Ladies
A rather rough game which ended in victory
for QMC who had a larger number of non-
novice players, making a big difference.
FELIX, December 5, 1980 p „ g e u

