mey Money
If you have to pay rent over the vacation you
may be able to claim Supplementary Benefit
or Rent and Rate Rebates. Here are some
facts and figures.
Supplementary Benefit
Since a successful claim for SB entails
signing on at the unemployment benefit
office in the area of your accommodation, the
amount of time you remain in London may
determine which benefit you apply for. You
normally have to sign on once a week,
although you can apply to have this changed
to fortnightly. Also you may find that your
signing on day falls into the holiday periods,
when the offices will be closed. Otherwise ask
for a holiday form, allowing you to be away
for up to fourteen days.
How To Apply For SB
1. Register as available for work at your
nearest Job Centre, then, assuming that there
IQ job available, tell the clerk that you wish
to register as unemployed. He will give you a
card. Also ask for form B1, which is your
introduction to the DHSS Office.
2. Take the card to the unemployment
benefit office for your area, where you will
receive instructions about signing on in the
future.
3. It may be advisable to phone the DHSS
office firstsince some operateanappointments
system. When you finally arrive make sure
you have the B1 form, a rent book, letter from
your landlord (or the Residence Office if in
College accommodation) and yourunioncard.
How SB Is worked out
1. Calculate your requirements. This is what
you need each week. For householders, i.e.,
those living alone, this is £21.30, plus the rent.
For non-householders this is£17.05, plus rent.
2. Calculate your resources, for most people
this will be £19.20, the vacation element of the
grant.
3. Deduct what you have from what you
need. The amount left may be the sum
payable as SB.
4. This is where the final adjustments come
in to increase or decrease the benefit. Firstly,
joint householders get extra for living
expenses. This is the difference between the
householder and non-householder scale
rates (£4.25) divided by the number of joint
householders. Reductions may involve any of
the following if they are included in the rent:
heating, £4.35; hot water, 50p; cooking, 50p,
and lighting, 35p. If your rent has not been
fair assessed and seems higher than average
the calculations may be based on a rent more
in line with similar accommodation that has
been fair rented. Apart from this factor the
DHSS (Department of Health and Social
Security) have a maximum of £19 rent for
single householders; £14 for sharers; £24 for
a double bedsit and £24 for a one bedroomed
flat. The term householder implies someone
who is individually responsible for all
household expenses. However, it is not
precisely defined, so even if you live in a
student house it may be possible, if you have
your own room, to argue that you are
maintaining a seperate household. The
calculations for your SB will be presented to
you on form A124, and if you disagree with
their assessment you are free to appeal within
twenty-one days.
Anyone receiving S B is automatically
entitled to receive free NHS dental treatment
and glasses, and free prescriptions, so ask for
an exemption certificate from the D H S S
office if you think you might be needing any
of these.
Money Mon
Rent and Rate Rebate
This is the alternative method for those who
will be at home for the whole holiday period.
In some cases it may be worthwhile applying
for rebates during term time also. Different
rules apply for this, so for further details
come and see us at the Welfare Centre.
How to work out rent allowance and rate
rebate for the vacation
Quite substantial deductions may be made
from the total rent on which you are assessed.
First of all the rent will be equated with similar
accommodation which has been fair rented.
Then a 25% deduction is usually made for
furniture with a further amount deducted (up
to 25%) if heating is included in the rent. The
rate element, usually 25%, is also removed,
but this will be subject to a subsequent
rebate. The basic rebate will be 60% of what
remains. Furthermore, if your income is less
than the housing benefit needs allowance
(£34.90) then 25% of the difference between
the income and the needs allowance is added
to the basic figure. For a student with a higher
income than the needs allowance the basic
rate is reduced by 17% of the difference
between their income and the needs
allowance.
The rate rebate is not subjected to any
initial reductions. If your income is less than
your needs allowance the 60% rebate is
increased by 8% of the difference between
your income and the needs allowance. If your
income is more than the needs allowance
your rebate is reduced by 6% of the difference
between your income and the needs
allowance.
While people on rent and rate rebates
cannot automatically apply for other benefits
it is worth remembering that anyone with an
income of no more than £2.50 above their SB
level can qualify for the usual free benefits,
i.e., dental treatment, glasses, prescriptions.
How To Apply
Go to the Town Hall for your area. If you are
not in any of the boroughs listed below ring
up your Town Hall and ask where the rent and
rebate department is since they are not
always in the main building, Kensington and
Chelsea Borough forms can be collected
from the Welfare Centre.
Overseas Students
Since your conditions of stay say that you
must not at any time have recourse to public
funds any application for benefits would
jeopardize your right to stay here. If you are
in serious financial difficulties however, come
and see us at the Welfare Centre.
Unemployment Benefit
In order to qualify for benefit this Christmas
you must have paid Class 1 contributions on
weekly earnings of at least fifty times the
weekly lower earnings limit in one of the last
two tax years. What this bit of official
gobbledygook means is: earnings of at least
£750 between April 1977 and April 1978 or
£875 between April 1978 and April 1979. You
will get a flat rate of £20.65 plus any earnings-
related supplement and dependants allow-
ance if appropriate. The new eight week rule
prevents claims made during the Easter
vacation from being assessed as part of the
same period (and therefore previously
assessed on the same tax year) as the
Christmas claim.
This benefit should be claimed on the first
day of the vacation since any delay results in
lost benefit. It is also worthwhile remembering
that if you have worked before becoming a
student you may be entitled to sickness
benefit, at least during your first year at
College.
NEAREST OFFICES FOR COLLEGE HEAD
TENANCIES
Hamlet Gardens
Job Centre and Unemployment Benefit Office:
Hythe House, 200 Shepherds Bush Rd, W6
Tel: 603 3456
Supplementary Benefit Office: Charles House,
375 High St, Kensington, W14.
Tel: 603 4633
Town Hall: Borough of Hammersmith and Ful-
ham, 5 Nigel Playfair Ave (off King St), W6
Tel: 748 3020
Gerrard Mansions
Job Centre and Unemployment Benefit Office:
Chadwick St, SW1
Tel: 222 8060
Supplementary Benefit Office:
4 Regency St, SW1
Tele: 834 8433
Town Hall: Westminster Council House,
Marylebone Rd (nr Baker St Station)
Tel: 828 8070 ext 4176
Lexham Gardens/Earls Ct Sq/Redcliffe St
Job Centre and Unemployment Benefit Office:
Wyfold Rd, SW6
Tel: 385 2241
(70/74 bus, ask for Kingwood Rd)
Supplementary Benefit Office: Waterford
House, Waterford Rd, SW6
Tel: 736 3399
Town Hall: Kensington and Chelsea, Hornton
St, W8
Tel: 937 5464
(R&R Rebate forms for this area are available
at the Welfare Centre.)
Accommodation for Next Term
(Or Sooner)
A Several unmodernised and unfurnished
flats for one and two people within fifteen
minutes walk of College.
Flats For One - 2rms and WC
Bedroom, bathroom and kitchen together in
second room, seperate WC, hall. £6.21-£7.27
per week.
Flats For Two - 3rms and WC
Same as flats for one with additional room off
bedroom. £8.16-£9.46 per week for whole flat.
Flats completely unfurnished and need
carpet, cooker and furniture (some have old
cooker and some have lino). Materials pro-
vided free of charge, so that you can
redecorate where necessary. All flats have im-
ersion heaters.
All applicants must be students at Imperial
college. Applications considered on the basis
of: a) housing need, and b) first come, first
served.
NB: There is no security of tenure, but it is
expected that most of the flats will be availabe
until at least the end of 1981.
B Double bedsits, ten minutes walk
from College. Rents vary from £12.50 to £16.60
per person per week. Also some at £19.50 per
week inclusive of heating and lighting. There
are some spaces in shared rooms with other IC
students at the same rate.
Also spaces in rooms in flats for £19.00 each
per week.
C Single Bedsit Fulham: share kitchen, inclu-
sive of heating and lighting, £20.00 per week.
Flat for Four, Wandsworth: two bedrooms,
lounge, kitchen and bedroom, £62 per week.
Single Bedsit, Shepherds Bush: cooking
facilities in room, £17.00 per week exclusive.
Two Bedsits, Hammersmith
One single, £18.00, and one double, £25.00
(rent not inclusive). (Not in family house.)
Please contact the Residence Office (Room
161,Sherfied Building) for further details.
Page 4 FELIX, December 5, 1980

