Charlotte Rampling and Woody Allen in "Stardust Memories".
Reviews
Films
To begin with, a quick look at some recent
releases.
John Carpenter's The Fog (AA) turns out
to be nothing at all to do with James Herbert's
novel of the same name. It concerns the return
of the mysterious, qlowing fog to downtown
Antonio Bay, 100 years after the settlement's
founders drew a ship full of lepers onto the
rocks and stole their gold. Needless to say, the
fog harbours the crew of salty lepers, who
wield hooks and swords with relish to get fieir
own back. Mr Herbert's rage over having his
title knicked is understandable when it CDuld
just as easily have been called 'The Leperous
Seamen's Revenge'. I wasn't impressed.
Another contender in the recent blood and
guts stakes is T h e Island (X, Michael
Ritchie), a tale with both much in evidence. 1
can believe that an ambitious reporter would
wish to explain the disappearance of hundreds
of ships in the Caribbean, but why he should
take his son along 1 don't know. As for the idea
of a band of pirates who haven't changed their
ways (over hundreds of years on an isolated
island) and still grab the odd few ships! Well,
I'm stunned. The story turns out to be
reasonably enjoyable, but I'm afiaid the lack of
so many vital factors (like a convincing story)
make the whole film pointless.
Talking about pointlessness, a prime
example is T h e A w a k e n i n g (X, M i k e
Newell), Charlton Heston plays an Egyptolo-
gist who discovers the tomb of Kara, a most
evil queen who is also known as the nameless
one. Irt a frantic effort to avoid genre cliches,
we are taken over a long and boring trail to a
dismally disappointing end. When, eventually,
Heston gets to putting the mummy through its
revival ritual, nothing happens except that his
eighteen year old daughter becomes possessed.
There is no bandaged figure wandering
around strangling people at random, indeed if
Concerts
SAD C A F E are something of an enigma.
Having become successful commercially they
have lost most of their originality, and yet the
songs which come over best in their live show
are the new ones.
It was evident at the Hammersmith Odeon
last week that over the last two years they
have been practising their rock star
impressions. Vocalist Paul Young struts
around like Rod Stewart and pouts like Mick
dagger, while Ashley Mulford chews his guitar
and Vic Emerson flails himself a la Wakeman.
Only original guy was Ian Wilson, who having
fallen off stage the week before, had swapped
his guitar for percussion and plaster cast.
A distinctly ageing audience went crazy over
Every Day Hurts and My Oh My but the
deathly silence during older songs suggested
there were few supporters from the early
albums. Black Rose, which is without doubt
one of the strongest recorded songs, came
over as very weak when played live, while new
material like La-Di-Da and What Am I Gonna
Do sounded much stronger. Somehow the
band seemed out of place. The typical mega-
rock light show was there, but didn't quite
there had have been it would have probably
returned straight back to the tomb due to
boredom. A waste of time.
On to more joyful tidings. The Christmas
season brings the usual batch of big releases,
including the new Flash Gordon, The Dogs o)
War, Clint Eastwood's Any Which Way You
Can, and many more. I hope to look at these in
later weeks.
Firstly though, an advance look at Woody
Allen's film Stardust Memories, which is
released on December 18.
Allen plays Sandy Bates, a film director, not
unlike himself, who has found fame through his
comedies, but meets opposition from all
quarters when he moves on to more serious
topics. Indeed, in order to change the ending
of his most recent work, film company
excutives send him off to a retrospective of
his films at the quiet Stardust Hotel. Here, he
is hounded by fans and bombarded with
suggestions. "I like your early films," people
constantly say. "You know, the funny ones."
recreate the atmosphere of over-indulgent
extravagence of other major groups.
As for the new album, simply called Sad
Caji — well, there are a couple of nice catchy
singles on it, but the rest is a rather slushy
deterioration of their past — as always, I
suggest you buy Fanx Ta Ra instead.
John Miller
Theatre
The Comic Strip
TRUSTING the opinion of John Blake's Ad
Lib column of the Evening News (RIP), and
more recently Time Out, I ventured into the
sleezy confines of Soho. Not I hastily add for
the purposes you might think, but to witness a
novel form of fringe theatre, The Comic Strip.
Suitably named, the show is composed of
several acts, which vary from week to week,
with a resident compere. The humour is often
of a topical and seemingly improvised nature.
In fact, my second visit to this unlikely
nightspot bore the appearance of Pamela
Stephenson (not, Not The Nine O'clock News),
"Everybody look to your right and say, 'Don't
you turn your back on me you Bas . . . . ' " .
T h e plot r e v o l v e s b e t w e e n clips from
Sandy's films, question sessions, and Sandy's
memories and fantasies. These mainly concern
D o r r i e ( C h a r l o t t e R a m p l i n g ) , b u t a l s o
Isobel ( a lover who comes to join him at the
hotel) and Daisy (Jessica Harper) who he
meets there.
I was never quite sure which part of Bates'
complicated life 1 was looking at; by hopping
f r o m fact to f a n t a s y to m e m o r y a little
confusion creeps in, but it maintained the pace
and packed in an awful lot of comic material.
At one point he encounters alien beings and
asks a series of deeply meaningful questions.
"If you wanna do a great service to mankind,"
he's told, "tell funnier jokes!"
Allen seems to be presenting a sharp dig at
film culture — the film companies, critics, fans
and all. S o m e parts are treated very seriously,
but even if it doesn't have the speed and
slapstick of his eariler films, it is still a clever
and very worthwhile comedy.
Mark Smith
The theatre has a delightful atmosphere.
Surprisingly, since it is situated above Paul
Raymond's Review Bar, the honourable
proprieter of Club International. The Comic
Strip being his solution to "What to do with the
money which would have sponsored Mark
Thatcher's motor racing career?". Though
having had my dig, I must compliment him on
his particular business venture.
Many of the acts use mime, notably the
Dangerous Brothers, with their interpretation
of " S p a c e Invaders". Others are very
suggestive, a fake French accent with a pretty
face and dirty lyrics. But I hope that these acts
have long since gone, since the venue will live
or die on its originality and spontaneity.
The price of a pint of lager had a certain
originality at 90p, not recommended. As for
the compere's comments after the intermission
concerning conversations at the Bar, they
were to be savoured (though not printed), and
well worth £3 admission.
The Comic Strip starts every night at 8
o'clock, with additional performances at 10
o'clock on Fridays and Saturdays. Situated in
the Boulevard Theatre just off Brewer Street
(near NCP car park), Soho. The place reeks of
what the working population condescendingly
term 'student humour', and well worth a visit.
Philip Peters
Page 8 FELIX, December 5, 1980

