Dramsoc
Reviewed
AS WITH A N Y play by Brecht all is not what it
seems, the play is intended to reflect the
society around it. However, enough of the
preamble what of the play. It conceerns the
decline and fall of Mac 'the Knife' Heath (Viv
Brown) a smalltime crook. He marries the
daughter of J J Peachum (Alan Minney), who
controls Londons beggars ("the poorest of the
poor"). Peachum then proceeds to bring him
to justice by blackmailing the corrupt Police
Chief (Graham Brand).
There is a certain risk in casting a woman as
the male lead, however, Viv Brown is visually
very credible and her acting ability certainly
allows her to be very believable in the role.
Nevertheless, it is somewhat disconcerting
w,hen she breaks into a soprano solo. Alan
Minney, as MacHeaths nemesis Peachum also
rose to the occasion, almost exuding malice, he
infact gave a very authoritative performance.
As his daughter, Polly, Lulu Dazeley ably
performs the transition from the wedding day
innocent to the cynical accomplice. Of the sup-
porting players space permits mention of only a
few: Graham Brand was excellent as the weak
corrupt Police Chief and Gareth Davies was a
very competant Filch.
The cast combined best in the second act in
the jail scene, which brought the best out of
the cast. In fact, the level of acting was
pleasantly surprising. It was with the songs
that the cast became unsure, some of the early
singing was of variable quality, but in the
second act it became of a more consistent and
competent level.
One final mention is due to the set changing
crew and its chief, Ian Cairns, who raised a
cheer from the audience. All in all, it provided
an entertaining evening, and was a very
laudible effort by all concerned.
Steve Goulder
Lightwave Distributors present
THE TRAVELLER
IN THE
FOREST,
a film by Roger Stotesbury,
starring Suki Kalirai.
SHOWING AT T H E S O U T H S I D E
P E N T H O U S E O N 14th,15th A N D 16th
JANUARY.1981. TICKETS F R O M
T H E H A L D A N E LIBRARY F R O M
M O N D A Y .
flunt %idr£
The pub was one of those old, dirty, dark
places which in later times would be called
quaint and bucolic. As yet however, it was
considered humble: a working class retreat. Old
Garge (though his name was really Oliver) sat in
the corner drinking his pint of 'old overcoat', a
local brew much beloved by the 'townies' who
called in on their way to Sprotboro' Hall.
Episode Five
isits friends
In her spinster cottage Miss Sybil Snout, the sub
postmistress, snuggled into the ageing feather
mattress left her by her late mother. She sells
stamps and on alternate Mondays deals out Old
Garge's pension - tut, such merriment on those
days; Old Garge could be such a one.
Miss Snout was not as timeless as the village
because Old Garge remembered Miss Georgina
Quince and Miss Quince had dealt out Old
Garge's pension even before he was Old Garge.
Before Old Garge, had been Old Paul Merridown
(the 'oldest inhabitant'), but they had buried him
some years previous to Miss Snout's arrival.
FEUX, December 5, 1980 Page 9

