The exhibition showcasing works by
this year’s Turner Prize finalists is
now open at the Tate Britain.
The Turner Prize honours the
achievements of an outstanding art-
ist, living and working in Britain, who
is under the age of 50. Each year,
nominations for the prize are invited
from the public, based on artists’
work exhibited during the preced-
ing year. The shortlist (which, since
1991, has consisted of four artists) is
announced by a jury a few months
before the prize.
The prize is organized by the Tate,
and since its inception in 1984 by a
group called Patrons of the New Art,
it has become the United Kingdom’s
most publicised art award. The prize
money this year is £25,000 for the
winner and £5,000 each for the three
runners-up. The prize is named after
the nineteenth century landscape
artist JW Turner. It is not clear what
was the motivation for naming the
prize after Turner, but the artist did
leave a large fortune for the support
of what he called ‘decaying artists’.
The will was never honoured.
The build-up to the announce-
ment of the winner receives intense
attention from many branches of the
media each year, much of it criti-
cal, addressing the questions “what
is art” and “is this really art”. The
artists themselves usually work in
modern forms, including uncon-
ventional sculpture and audiovisual
media, though painters have also
won. The exhibition and prize rely on
commercial sponsorship. From 1987
this was provided by the company
Drexel Burnham Lambert, whose
withdrawal led to the 1990 prize
being cancelled. Channel 4 stepped
in for 1991, doubled the prize money
and supported the event with docu-
mentaries and live broadcasts of the
prize-giving. This year, the sponsor-
ship has been taken over by Gordon’s
gin with an increase in total prize
money from £20,000 to £40,000.
Although all works of art attract
critical commentaries from the
experts, the Turner Prize has earned
a reputation for some less formal
attacks that have, in part, contrib-
uted to the wide coverage the prize
receives. In 1993, an organization
called the K Foundation received
media attention for awarding the
Anti-Turner Prize, £40,000 to be given
to the ‘worst artist in Britain’, voted
from the real Turner Prize’s short-
list. Rachel Whiteread, who won the
real prize, also won the anti-Turner
Prize. She refused to accept the
money at first, but changed her mind
when she heard the cash was to be
burned instead, and gave £30,000 of
it to artists in financial need and the
other £10,000 to the housing charity
Shelter.
In 1999 two artists, Jian Jun Xi
and Yuan Cai, jumped onto Tracey
Emin’s work, My Bed, stripped to
their underwear, and had a pillow
fight. Police detained the two, who
called their performance Two Naked
Men Jump into Tracey’s Bed.
In 1999, a pro-painting group
of artists known as the Stuckists
was formed. They show particular
antipathy towards the Turner Prize,
describing it as an “ongoing national
joke” and “a state-funded advertis-
ing agency for Charles Saatchi”.
They maintained that “the only art-
ist who wouldn’t be in danger of
winning the Turner Prize is Turner”,
concluding that it “should be re-
named The Duchamp Award for the
destruction of artistic integrity”. In
2002, Culture Minister Kim Howells
pinned the following statement to a
board in a room specially designated
for visitor’s comments: “If this is the
best British artists can produce then
British art is lost. It is cold mechani-
cal, conceptual bullshit”.
This year’s finalists are Kutlug
Ataman, Jeremy Deller, Langlands
& Bell and Yinka Shonibare.
Although the works exhibited at the
Tate Britain are only a small repre-
sentation of those on which jury’s
decision is made, they are a good
reflection on the conceptual style of
the artists.
Ataman’s work entitled Twelve is
comprised of films in which six peo-
ple describe their previous life, death
and rebirth in minute detail. Filmed
in an Arab community in southern
Turkey that believes in reincarna-
tion, the films are a modern form of
the ancient Arabic art of storytelling
immortalized in the Arabian Nights.
The title comes from the fact that six
people are narrating about six other
people, their previous incarnations,
although to a causal observer the
reason for the name Twelve may
seem to arise more from the fact
that the screens on which the films
are projected are viewable from both
front and rear and so look like 12
films. The films are long, almost
one hour each, and it’s impossible
to enjoy this piece of work with a
limited supply of time. Although the
motivation for the work comes from
the artist’s background in film-mak-
ing, the films themselves are prob-
ably made with a hand-held camera
in one take each and not extensively
edited. To those who have not previ-
ously read or had explained to them
what the people are talking about,
it only looks like a jumble of home
videos with one person talking non-
stop.
Deller’s work at the exhibition con-
sists of a series of ten photographs
titled Five Memorials, a 23 minute
video based on his time spent in
Texas called Memory Bucket, a wall
painting detailing a complex rela-
tionship between Acid House and
traditional Brass Band in a flow
chart form titled The History of
the World, and a 13 minute film A
Social Parade of a pageant the art-
ist organized in San Sebastian. Five
Memorials is a photographic tribute
to various events and persons that
are related to present and near past
British life. The photographs cap-
ture simple memorials but being so
simple their effect is striking. A sim-
ple little cycle shape, with no label,
hung over a pole at the spot where a
cyclist was killed last year. A bench
placed in a park in memory of Brian
Epstein, the manager of The Beatles,
a plaque marking the site of riots
between police and striking minors
of 1984, another plaque marking the
death of one of the demonstrators
in the strike and one memorial to
remember the arrival of first ship to
bring Caribbean immigrants under
a state sponsored initiative. With
the exception of Five Memorials,
Deller’s other works are difficult to
comprehend and it’s even more dif-
ficult to figure out what is artistic
about them.
Langlands and Bell’s works are
a result of their two weeks’ visit to
Afghanistan on commission for the
Imperial War Museum. Their works
on display include Frozen Sky, a slide
show of abbreviated names of the
huge number of Non Governmental
Organisations that they found based
in Kabul; United Nations, an earlier
neon work listing the airport abbre-
viations for various world cities; and
House of Osama Bin Laden which is
a computer generated animation of
an isolated and impoverished house
which Bin Laden used for a few
months. The animation is navigable
using a joystick just as in computer
games. However this house could be
any house in Afghanistan and irre-
spective of the fact that Bin Laden
used it or not the only significant
thing about this piece of art is that
it’s a video game without any players
(and anything to play with).
The works on display by Yinka
Shornibare include Maxa, a collec-
tion of various motifs on a common
African cloth; The Swing, a head-
less sculpture representing a cel-
ebrated eighteenth-century painting
of a young woman kicking out her
legs; and Un Ballo in Maschera, (a
Masked Ball), a film depicting the
assassination of King Gustav III of
Sweden in 1792 through the medium
of dance. There is no doubt that cho-
reographic work in this film is excel-
lent still one wonders if the work
needed to be awarded in a dance
competition rather then as a work of
contemporary visual art.
Although all these works have
their own strengths and weakness-
es, there are two things that are dif-
ficult to miss. First is that although
the criteria to be considered for the
prize demand strong connections to
Britain, the works selected hardly
relate to modern British life. Except
for Five Memorials, all works draw
their inspiration from events that
are either of international concern
or utterly foreign to Britain. The sec-
ond is the over whelming use of film
media which is making it difficult to
figure out if the work is good for a
film award, a documentary award or
a visual arts award. Arising from this
fact is the question of the definition
of art in itself.
Theprizewinneristobeannounced
on December 9 and the exhibition
will continue until Christmas.
So, the Turner Prize: is it any good?
Does it serve any purpose whatso-
ever? Does anyone like the art that
is shortliststed for the prize? What
section of the public actually submits
nominations for the silly thing, and
does it make any difference to the
judges’ decisions what the public
thinks?
A lot of questions, but unfortu-
nately this is mostly what the Turner
Prize inspires in people. After all,
when was the last time you ever
heard anyone say anything in praise
of the art on show? In fact, every
year all we ever hear is the eternal
question of “is this art?!” Well, is it?
Anyone care to hazard a guess?
Of course, the definition of art can
be stretched to be as long as the
proverbial piece of string. Freedom
of expression in the name of art is all
fine and well, but are there limits?
Should there be limits and should
there be a designated body to set out
and enforce these limits?
● Your comments and views
on the Turner Prize and all
other attempts at art are
always welcome
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 28 October 2004
20
Arts arts.felix@ic.ac.uk
Boneyard, 2004, by Langlands and Bell
“If this is the best
British artists can
produce then British
art is lost. It is
cold, mechanical,
conceptual bullshit”
KIM HOWELLS,
Culture Minister, 2002
Turner Prize Exhibition
Tate Britain
Tickets: £6.50 students
Best of British
It’s Turner Prize time again! Moazzam Ishaque has been to see what all the fuss is
about this year and, of course, whether any of it is ‘art’

