Union Bookstore's plans
smashed by College
The College has held back IC Union's
hopes for its new bookstore by
quadrupling the rent overnight. The move
has saddened Union Manager, Dave
Peacock, who told FELIX 'It pulls away
from other things we are doing.'
The rent on the bookstore has risen from
£4700 per annum to £19,000. Paul Docx,
a representative of 'Impact', who are
negotiating the new agreement said that
the move ws being made 'To reflect the
changing rents around College.' He added
that the new rent received a 50% subsidy
from the College. As a company wholly
owned by the College, 'Impact' has
become the College's official rent
negotiating body.
College Secretary, John Smith,
described the process as one 'at arm's
length.' The policy of employing 'Impact'
as a negotiator was passed by the College's
Management and Planning Committee.
Speaking on the bookstore's recent high
expenditure on the refurbishment, M r
Smith said,'I accept that it's a bit rough
on the bookshop.' He added, however,
that the new arrangements provided 'much
sharper objectives,' for the bookstore.
If this year goes well for the bookstore,
Mr Peacock expects a profit of £40,000,
which will be halved by the increased rent
costs. He described 'Impact's claim of a
50% subsidy as 'rubbish.' 'If they offered
me a rent of £100,000 and offered to
discount it by 75%, I wouldn't feel any
better, would I?'he added.
'Impact' describes the bookshop as a
'non-college based activity,' which M r
Smith backed up by comparing the
bookstore to a franchise store run by
Dillons. He told FELIX that the site would
be a 'commercial rent,' in this case.
In response to the notion that the Union
is a non-college based activity, M r
Peacock said, 'I thought we were part of
this College.'
The new rent for the bookstore is part
of the College's policy to increase rents
around the campus, including that for the
National Westminster Bank. The decision
comes in the light of a slackening in the
ruling o f the University Grants
Committee, which forced the College to
surrender income from rent to the
Government Treasury.
With the increased rents, M r Peacock
added that he couldn't see the Union
proceeding with the Health Suite
announced last year.
Mr Smith told FELLX that he hopes the
College will be able to arrange a stricter
accountability for academic staff who
recommend books which do not sell well
in the bookstore. He added that the issue
of compensation for space used by the
excess stock accumulated by this problem
over the years was a separate matter from
rent negotiations.
OAP PM sees IC's
IRCs
The Right Honourable Margaret Thatcher,
M P , visited College on August 25. In a
brief interview with FELIX, she explained
that she was visiting the College's
Interdisciplinary Research Centres, which
she described as 'fundamental and very
exciting.'
Mrs Thatcher visited two of the
College's three IRCs, which will bring a
total of £32 million to the College. 'It's
very exciting,' she commented afterwards,
'what we do both in the basic and the
private research really will have a
tremendous effect on the whole future
success of our country.'
The Rector, Professor Eric Ash, told
F E L I X that he had invited Mrs Thatcher
to view the IRCs after she had expressed
an interest to Professor Abdus Salaam in
the Physics Department. The centres are
in population biology, Process Simulation
and control (Chem Eng) and
Semiconductors.
Mrs Thatcher is known to be unsure
about the validity of IRCs as a research
tool. Professor Ash now believes she
thinks 'this is the right way to go.'
taterdlsciplinary Research Centres work
in an inter-departmental manner, drawing
ideas and resources from several areas at
once.
Professor Stradling puts Maggie in the picture in the
semiconductor IRC
C
D
Issue 842
Friday 15th September

