Fiona Nicholas discovers the treasures of the Victoria and Albert Museum on a Sunday afternoon to
Corkscrew mania at the V & A
When you're sitting in your room on a Sunday
afternon and you've gawped at all the pictures in the
Sunday Sport and watched the Eastenders Omnibus,
what do you do next? What could be better than a
visit to the Victoria and Albert Museum...
A voluntary donation of just 50p gets you a natty
little sticky badge, which gives you access to a
wonderland of permanent exhibtions from jewellery
to sculpture as well as a number of temporary ones
which change regularly.
On a recent visit, I spotted 3 glass cases and a
banner bearing the initials 'ICCA'. Further
investigation showed these mysterious 4 letters to
stand for 'The International Correspondence of
Corkscrew addicts.' The'3 cases contained literally
hundreds of corkscrews, the most interesting of
which doubled as a shaving brush. Having spent at
least 20 seconds studying this rather less than
scintillating collection, I headed upstairs.
'The Nude' proved to be an extremely popular
exhibition and consisted of naked bodies in every
possible form and expresed in every medium possible.
I suppressed a terrible urge to giggle and drifted
through the gallery, tripping over art students of
varying ages furiously sketching. I heard a very ironic
comment from one middle-aged lady who noticed a
copy of one of those magazines kept on the top shelf
of newsagents and turned to its centrefold. 'I don't
think that should be in here,' she said. It makes you
wonder who decides what the function of art is.
After a brief sortie into the cafe for tea and banana
and walnut cake (very nice), I decided to wander
around 'European Dress from the 1600's.' As a
permanent exhibition, this proved to be an absolute
In summary, the V & A offers a generally fascinating
afternoon but I recommend that you pick up a map
on your way in and decide exactly where you want
to go. Remember the V & A is huge!
delight with everything from bustles to bodices. The
only unfortunate feature of this part of the museum
was its circular layout which meant I spent rather
longer walking around it than I had hoped.
S
u
b
w
a
r
d
e
n
Applications are invited for the position of Subwarden in Fisher Hall
Subwarden duties are to assist the warden in the day-to-day ruining of the hall and in disciplinary
and social matters.
Candidates should be full-time students at Imperial College and should be sociable, mature,
responsible and resourceful. The successful applicant will be provided with rent-free
accommodation suitable for a single person.
Application forms are obtainable from the Accommodation Office and should be sent to:
Dr R J Murphy
Dept Pure & Applied Biology, Imperial College, and should be accompanied by a CV and two
references.
The closing date for application is
Friday 22nd September 1989
FISHER HALL
Evelyn Gardens
Page 2

