The Fly H
This film is the inevitable sequel to David (Mr Snuff
Movie) Cronenberg's disgusting 1986 remake of a
1950's 'B' horror/science fiction flick.
The story is about the son of scientist Seth Brindle,
who in The Fly invents a Star Trek type transporter
device. When he tests it on himself, he fails to notice
the transmitter is also occupied by a fly. The two are
combined into one and Seth winds up with a good
healthy dose of insect DNA. In the end he mutates
into something disgusting but not before getting his
girlfriend pregnant. At the end in a typical Cronenberg
'sick bag' scene she presents the no doubt bemused
medical team in the delivery room with a giant maggot
before expiring.
But hold on! This is no maggot (How could you
make a sequel about a maggot?). It's really a little boy,
so roll on Fly II.
This is no normal little boy (just look at his
grandparents). He is taken over by a sinister outfit
called Bartok Industries and starts to grow up at five
times the normal rate whilst demonstrating
extraordinary mental abilities, although how it is that
genes from an unintelligent insect make him smart is
never explained. All goes well until his fifth birthday,
when he begins to turn into a you-know-what, then
it is a race against time to find a cure.
The film is done in much the same manner as the Fly
I, that is, you'll probably find a sick bag useful, the
main difference is that Fly I did have a kind of style
in its black humour. Fly II is just a succession of 'snuff
movie' type special effects leading to a conclusion
that could have been accurately predicted 45 minutes
before.
MT Morton
Body Horror
The Body-In Extremis
ICA Cinematheque 'til Oct 7. Phone 01-930 3647 for details.
The ICA really gets you ready for a horror movie.
There's a sinster arty air about the place that blows
down from the eerie Charing Cross subway towards
you and upon arrival the diffident staff are as friendly
as the long Undead. If you fancy a drink you'll be
charged for a day pass simply to get to the mirrored
bar (keep it ready to inspect mind you) and if you've
a craving for popcorn or snacks forget it - far too
riff-raff all that stuff.
Thus relaxed you shuffle your way into the small
cold box that is the Cinematheque (gosh that's French
n'est pas?), pull up a squeaky chrome chair and await
the relatively appealing prospect of a hideous horror
show.
Body Horror is the current genre (yuk) being aired so
it's as well to remember some points of sociobiological
note one can consider for subsequent discussions. For
example one might comment 'I found that a highly
cathartic exploration of society's sexual taboos and
narcisstic physicality as it relates to the communal
psyche.' To which one should correctly reply, 'Well
I liked the bit where his head fell off.'
On offer for the rest of the season are films twined
under the headings Medical Nightmare {The Brood and
The Entity - till Sat 16th), Possession {Amityville II
and The Exorcist - Mon 18th - Wed 20th) and The
Slasher {Motel Hell and Funhouse - Thurs 21 st - Sat
23rd) but don't mistake these nights as a genuine
double bill - you'll have to pay twice.
Following on is a two week season on a similar self
explanatory theme The Body - In Extremis promising
such delights as The Desiring Machine and The eating
drinking shitting and pissing film.
In short here's a well chosen horror season for those
who can take the pretentious 'exclusiveness' of the
place, but watch out - I'm not sure what the
management would say if there were too many bums
on seats.
Page 3

