Bernard Shaw's ORANGE T R E E T H E A T R E
Mrs Warren's Profession Mrs Warren's Profession plays 'til
October 7. 01-940 3633 for details.
The problem of bringing a Shavian socialist
propoganda play to Richmond must be akin to the
problem of inviting an unruly friend to a rather delicate
dinner party. At ninety five years old however (written
in 1894) this particular old boy is quite easily
introduced (by director Brian Cox) as having caused
quite a disturbance in his youth but as now being a
harmless eccentric.
The old man's immediate faux pas is the mention
of prostitutes. To follow comes the disturbing
contention that a prostitute is the ultimate example
and natural result of a person surviving in a capitalist
economic system. Kitty Warren is his anecdotal
example of this: a woman of vitality scarred but
hardened by an impoverished childhood, she has
dragged herself up through the brothels and away
from unrewarded graft. Risen to managing her own
chain of 'hotels' aided by the seedy Sir George Crofts
she passes without question into 'good society' and
wins her daughter Vivie a brilliant education all the
way to Cambridge and a Maths tripos.
Upon return from Cambridge Vivie's unnerving
frankness and unexpected maturity sits ill with her
estranged mother's recollection of her little girl. Vivie's
honest rationality soon uncovers the truth about her
mother's past and the play progressively reveals the
motives and machinery that are the real culprits
behind the so-called world of vice.
Well the Shavian wit went down well with the
drinks and ne'er so much as a ripple passed through
the cosy little four walled club at those awkward
throat clearing moments. The audience entertained
this toothless old codger politely enough and sadly the
evening passed without embarrassment.
MAC
Indian
Summer
Why did the hippy go east? For the dope of course
you idiot, but it might just as easily have been for
some of this stuff which has a variety of not so
disimilar effects. Perhaps that's why, when I went to
see the great guru of Kathak dance Durga Lai at the
Logan Institute, there were no intoxicating drinks for
sale. (Old Ship Inn opposite provides relief for addicts).
Supported by his 'disciple' Renu Bassi, making her
first European visit, Durga Lai's performance began
the Indian Summer season of dance currently on at
The Place.
So after a humble introduction of the musicians and
a further introduction to each piece and its cultural
significance we all sat back and got stoned on the
stuff. The music is the first thing to hit you: the
mellow vocals, the twitching thump of the tabla and
the unmistakably Indian voice of the sarangi-the
nearest thing I've heard to a living instrument. After
an indeterminate period of time you can't tell how long
you've been there or when you'll have to leave.
The stage is there, it would seem, to provide some
Page 4
THE P L A C E
'til September 23rd
Phone 01-387 0031 for details
much needed orientation and the dance to give you
a focus and prevent spontaneous levitation. The
hypnotic detail of this form especially in the precision
of movement of the hands conveys images of
complete control which contrast the heady sweepings
of the music to give the dance its tension. The playful
conversation of foot bells and tabla was just one of
the displays of virtuosity Durga Lai provided to make
the evening a brilliant appetiser for the rest of the
season.
The artists in this performance, excepting Renu
Bassi, will be playing in 'Ghanashyam'-The Broken
Branch a music theatre piece devised and composed
by world famous Ravi Shankar (watch out for details).
Shobana Jeyasingh continues Indian Summer at
The Place this Friday and Saturday with her innovative
and accessible styles and the season concludes with
Pushkala Gopal and Unnikrishnan presenting a new
programme of dance and story dances drawn from
Indian mythology.
MAC
Cousins
This'film is an Americanised version of the acclaimed
1976 French film Cousin, Cousine. It is (described as)
a 'romantic comedy' involving two married couples,
when the adulturous affair of one husband and wife
is discovered, the other two pretend to be doing
exactly the same thing in order to get their revenge.
As I've mentioned, the film is described as a
romantic comedy although laughs are quite thin on the
ground, one exception being when a teenage son
(self-styled 'multi-media artist') produces a wedding
video, the result consists of shots of guests gorging
themselves intercut with shots of starving Africans,
it ends with a shot of a nuclear missile being launched.
The cast does not include anybody really well known
except perhaps for Ted Danson (Three Men and a
Baby and the TV series Cheers)
Usually American remakes of French films are not
as good as the originals and this film does not change
anything in this respect. Americans can put together
a decent romantic comedy when they want to (for
example Hannah and her Sisters) but in the case of
'Cousins' they have just produced a celluloid 'Mills and
Boon.'
If this film was on TV I would probably turn over
to watch International Bowls as it would probably be
more entertaining.
Mike Morton
I

