The Hoodoo Gurus'
Magnum Cum Louder
Slaves of
New York
This bizarre film, based in the Big Apple, is enjoyable
and captivating to watch. It communicates the unique
New York feeling, with its layers of civilisation,
crumbling buildings and fashionable restaurants, so
that you do not just see it you experience it. Rather
than telling a story, the film involves you in Eleanor's
life: a hat designer with an inferiority complex.
We first meet Eleanor involved in an unbalanced
relationship with a jealous artist, self-absorbed and
insensitive. It is satisfying to watch Eleanor grow in
self-confidence, until the point where she realises that
the problems in the relationship are due to Stash's
insecurity, not her own shortcomings.
The downtown New York art world is a close knit
community, where everyone is friend or a friend of
a friend. Although essential to the story none of the
other characters are particularly memorable in
themselves, it is their effect on Eleanor which is
important:
Daria, the femme fatale, who tries to seduce
anyone she imagines will further her career as a
sculptress.
Marley Mantello, the egocentric artist with the
vision of building his 'Chapel of Jesus Christ as a
woman' next to the Vatican.
Sherman McVittie, unsuccessful in love, life and
work, who pines for his lost love, Daria.
Not forgetting Andrew, the dalamatian with an
extremely expressive face.
Slaves of New York is a highly enjoyable film, which
is perhaps surprisingly captivating. The production is
superb, aided by some wacky camera work and
interesting scene changes. A definite must for all fans
of the Big Apple.
Bad Taste
Billed as RCA's finest Rock n' Roll combo the Hoodoo
Gurus come over more as a cross between the out
of time style lyrics of Lloyd Cole, the humour and
vocals of Chris Difford of Squeeze and the
instrumental back up of a fairly well accomplished pop
rock group.
The outstanding parts of the album are mainly found
entwined around Brad Shepherd's imaginative and
lively guitar. Tracks to watch out for are 'Come Any
Time' and 'Another World' which must be potential
singles; 'Shadows of Me' which has a rather innocent
beauty and 'Death in the Afternoon.'
Still Alive
This is Circus of Power's second album and it carries
six cuts, five of which are "special live versions" of
tracks from the band's debut RCA album. The sixth
track "Still Alive and Well" is a previously unreleased
song.
The members of the band seem to be competent
musicians with a complete lack of imagination and as
a result none deserves a mention. As for the "special
live tracks", live they may be (although I would
question whether the audience were by the end of the
gig), special they certainly aren't.
The band are an American "trash rock" group of
sorts, who in the words of a rock fan I know are
'nothing special.' The music is rather bare, not yielding
the usual full sound of rock.
Sine the LP is rather short I thought I'd give you a
brief precis of the charms of the tracks.
Still Alive and Well: Here the band show about as
much musical talent as they do originality. The track
demonstrates that their lyrical abilities coincide well
with their musical talent as 70% of the lyrics are "Still
Other points of interest are the supermarket music
intro to 'Where's that Hit' and.the rather Red Indian
Tribal sound of 'Hallucinations' which sadly suffers
from a 20 second solo that seems to comprise only
two notes (one of the overly self- indulgent side
effects of a band produced album). Another such side
effect is the inclusion of the rather tedious 'Glamour
Puss.'
All in all not exactly my type of music, but the band
show potential and enthusiasm for their music.
Star Rating: Well worth a listen.
Circus of Power
Alive and Well". The beat is unimaginative the guitar
solo uncreative.
Motor: The intro is pathetic which means that it
leads in rather well to the rest of the track. One of
the internal guitar solos has a definite resemblance to
a chainsaw without a tree!
Letters Home: Should have got lost in the post!
I was going to write about the second side but one
aspect of the album seemed to be rubbing off on me
as I found everything I was writing was starting to
repeat itself.
The decision to put out such a half hearted attempt
at an album backs up the impression one gets listening
to it that the band are only in it for the money. The
one track of any strength at all is "White Trash
Queen", which actually shows some ingenuity on the
guitar and probably comes over better live than in the
studio. All the same I wouldn't pay £6 for a 6 track
EP with one decent track on it even if I was a follower
of the band. On top of which, they're ugly B* * * * *d's.
Star rating: Definitely not worth buying.
There are so many ways to sell a 'horror spoof like
this-'Bad taste—it's outrageous, it's anarchic, it's so
bad it's brilliant...!' you can hear the publicity pundits
cry. It glories in its amateur status and shoestring
budget conveying the desired impression of a bunch
of wild eccentrics suffering to create their ART.
All very noble stuff I'm sure but the finished product
must stand on its own and not come cap in hand to
your affections as an 'Art' or 'Cult' movie. So if you
can shake off the feeling of complicity in a crass
marketing ploy-of being conned-then you may find
that Bad Taste is a bit of a laugh and here's the joke:
A 'quiet seaside town' is invaded by aliens who
carve up the inhabitants to use as hamburger meat
for their inter-galactic fast food chain. The screen is
then invaded by the avenging human heroes who
carve up the aliens as an outlet for their bloodlust and
taste for cheap special effects. The plot gives ample
chance for the squeamish to wriggle in their seats and
the macho to disdainfully laugh but the only point, if
there is one, seems to be a militant vegetarian
message.
The movie industry itself has been conquered by the
equivalent of fast food chains: selling more and more
tasteless shit to Pavlovian punters so if there does
exist a gap in the market can it really be for such bland
or Bad Taste?
Opens tonight at Prince Charles, Leicester Square.
MAC
Page5

