An Imperial student describes one solution to the overseas
postgraduate accommodation crisis in London.
The Oasis
It is no fun living in shared accommodation with a
money hungry landlord in a small house on a noisy
street. As an overseas post graduate student, I spent
my first two and a half months in London seeking
suitable accommodation within my means. The
accommodation office at Imperial College was no help
at all. The man at the office puffing cigarettes never
listened to my problem and always looked at me as
if I had made a mistake in coming to London. The
accommodation office at the University of London,
Malet Street is much better; at least they have a polite
and helpful attitude. In the search for decent family
accommodation, I visited almost every possible place
on the list given. Every place was very much in
demand and most of these places were not even
willing to give me a form to fill in or to put me on the
waiting list.
Desperately I started thinking of leaving Imperial
College and getting myself transferred to Birmingham,
although I know the department is not as strong but
where I could at least find a place to stay. But just
tvyo days after I wrote to my sponsors asking for
permission to move to another place, I received a
letter from the Bamet Overseas Housing Association
offering accommodation in Nansen village.
Nansen Village is a beautiful living example for those
who want to do something practical. Back in 1967,
a small group of people concerned about the housing
shortage in London for overseas research students
thought of building high class accommodation to
provide comfort at an affordable price. Today, 8 miles
from Imperial College, Nansen Village is like a small
United Nations, with a very healthy and friendly
atmosphere. The village comprises 60 units far
married students: 33 small self-contained flats for
couples without children, 11 flats for families with one
or two children, and 16 two bedroom houses for
bigger families. There is also a beautiful open green
area. One of our colleagues calls it 'children's
paradise'. The village has washing facilities, a drier
and an open drying area and a big communal hall
which is used for a toddlers' play group on weekdays.
It can also be used for general, social or private parties
at weekends and during school holidays, for small
group meetings, discission forums, and cookery
classes a room is available with a small kitchenette.
In short Nansen Village provides very friendly, quiet
and comfortable accommodation at an extremely
reasonable price.
One past resident described It as 'undoubtedly the
best and the cheapest student accommodation one
can find in London.' Dr Daniel from Sudan, currently
doing an MSc in Child Health said 'I feel very relaxed
when I am in the hospital as I know my wife and
children are safe and in a nice place.'
Mrs Monica from Uruguay, who is leaving shortly
said, 'I deeply appreciate those who thought of
building Nansen Village.'
It is obvious that someone must have been working
very hard to make all this possible. If you come to the
village you can not miss our warden, an energetic, tall
lady who Is always ready to help, whether you have
locked yourself out or stopped the drier by inserting
coins from your own country.
If yoij attend one of the social events or parties
which are frequently held in the communal hall, you
may meet the wife of the chairman of the association,
a lady with a strong sense of humour. At the end of
the party you may see her in the kitchen, helping with
the dishes as she is also a member of the very active
mBnigment committee,
If your oven is out ef order or your sink Blocked or
a bulb has gone, a note in the complaints book will
bring the 'Jack of all trades' and trouble shooter to
fix it by the next day.
The well dressed gentleman, wearing glasses in his
sixties is the chairman, an extremely dedicated man.
A founder member of the association, he has played
a significant role In the building and development of
Nansen Village. As 'captain of the ship', he takes a
tremendous interest in the affairs of the village and
even checks whether the swing in the children's park
is kept properly oiledr At present he is working on a
construction plan to build an additional six family units
and update the existing ones, Because of the building
plans, no family accommodation can be offered to
Students for the coming academic year.
Amongst the tremendous accommodation problems
for students, there can be solutions provided someone
is Willing to put in the devotion and hard work
necessary. Why are there so few Nansen Villages?
F. Habiby, Department of Materials
The Whole business has got too much for me. All
those beeping bar code tills and the clean open
shelving. Yuck! Bring back Roy Hicks and the nooks
and crannies I say, and for goodness sake somebody
tell that Mike Graveson that the closed circuit TV is
for watching the dirty videos on, not security...
Norman Grotbox describes his experience of the new-look Bookshop
under its new manager, Mike Graveson.
The end of an era
If there's one thing I hate it's these high tech types
who like everything modern.
Take this new bloody bookshop for instance. There
was a time when you could get all the books you
wanted and a year's supply of stationery, all for the
price of a ballpoint pen. Yes, last year you could
wander round the nooks and crannies for hours
pretending to search for that elusive copy of 'Persian
Earthquakes,' whilst stuffing your bag full of free
goodies.
Now that Peacock bloke's ruined it all. You've got
no excuse to loiter around on the off chance of a good
passing swipe at the technical pens; no they expect
you to pay for everything!
What's more they've made everything easy to find
and started to stock all manner of stuff. I ask you-I
went in to buy a pen and that new manager Mike
Graveson had sold me 6 HP7 batteries and a bottle
of Kiwi Fruit Juice before I'd left.
The one saving grace of the whole place is the video
library; even that was a disappointment though. I
spent the whole afternoon searching for Gorgeous
Glenda Get's 'em off and a few other select titles
concerning two nuns, a motorbike chain and donkey;
but no! Not a spot of smut.
As a science-fiction fan (I'm still working on the
greasy hair) I was pleased to see a nice new range
of SF books as well as the top 20 paperbacks. Of
course they still expect you to pay for them. I reckon
I could read 'Zargon and the Urgs of Tharg' by next
Friday if I spend enough time in there mind you.
Page 6
Yes, this new bookshop mafia|lf'§ ah 6dd type you
know; he's from New Zealand. The Union Manager,
Dave Peacock has had to spend two weeks teaching
him to speak 'Arthur Daley.' I heard him the other day.
'No, no, Mike,' he said, 'It's not, "Yes, we'll have two
dozen," it's, "Will you do me a discount against two
hundred back issues of the Nicaragua Times." '
Why don't you try the new bookshop
yourself? Stocking products from
electrical to confectionery as well as
books, the store is open 9am-6pm
Monday to Friday.
Plus-Video Club!
£2 per night, £1 membership

