F e l i X
The past month has been a busy time in the FELIX
office. A lot of print work has passed through the
press and I've had a lot less time to get things set up
than I would have liked. This is fine because people
have been flexible and accommodating and I have
responded by trying to get work done as quickly and
efficiently as possible. Whafis begining to piss me off
is the growing certainty that a huge number of people
are going to come into FELIX on the first Monday of
term to ask me to produce a poster for them. I am
sorry to have to announce that anybody who does not
inform me of their requirements for Freshers' week
by 5.30pm Monday 18th September, will be cordially
informed that the photocopier has developed a
terminal disease. I'm sorry, but Freshers' week and
the weeks preceding and following it are very busy
and I have to know what I have to do in advance in
order to organise printing and general production. I will
be delighted to help anyone who still wants work
booked in today or Monday.
On the subject of Freshers' week, I was amazed to
hear of clubs asking the Union if it was too early to
book a stall at Freshers' Fair this year. If a club is so
disorganised that its members are not even capable
of reading and replying to a letter, I would suggest that
the organisation of club matters is probably on a
similar level. The relevant clubs will be the ones which
do not appear in this year's Freshers' Fair guide in
FELIX.
The last issue of FELIX carried an article following
the antics of 'Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid.'
I have received queries as to the source of the
cowboys; it has been suggested that they may have
been contractors. Whether this is true or not, the
latest episode in the FELIX repairs saga is even more
ridiculous. The FELIX was flooded last term when the
toilets above leaked. The deluge soaked the ceiling
tiles in the office, and these were replaced.
Approximately 16 tiles were replaced in an admirably
speedy manner. The poor match with the existing tiles
was later corrected by swapping tiles in the print area
with those in the office. All of this passed without a
hitch. The shock came when the Union was informed
of the cost of this small job-£800! Yes, there are two
zeros; it is not a misprint.
Quite frankly, I cannot see where this figure comes
from. The labour charge is obviously a large part of
the cost, but I would expect Royal architectural
approval for this sort of figure. Come on Peter
Hallworth and those on high in estates-where's the
real invoice?-! dare you! By the way, I'll do it myself
next time, if you're prepared to pay that much.
Having heard several conflicting eye-witness
accounts of the flooding in Southside hall, I am at a
loss as to what the truth of the matter is. The news
story carries what I perceive to be the truth with
everybody's story thrown in. Somebody, somewhere
is lying. Mr Hallworth assures FELIX that everybody
in Southside and Linstead received a leaflet informing
them of the impending shutdown of the hot water
supply. Pauline Clark at SAC claims that the leafleting
was minimal. Loretto O'Callaghan at the
Accommodation Office said that the leaflets were
distributed 'to the best of her knowledge.' As the
Accommodation Officer, who is in overall control of
Southside and Linstead, her knowledge should be the
definitive word on the matter. The worrying point is
that I don't think it is. If she doesn't know the full facts
about as serious an affair as this, how much does she
know about the College's accommodation
arrangements as a whole and what is she being paid
to do?
On the matter of the Union Bookshop's rent, I am
still undecided as to who is in the right. The College
has appointed Impact to negotiate rent for space on
campus in an attempt to remain 'at arm's length,'
according to College Secretary John Smith. The idea
is a sound one, since it stops people doing 'favours'
for each other at the College's expense. Having said
that, I still feel that Impact is being used as the
College's 'Hitman' to deal with its dirty laundry. This
way they can always stand back and say, 'talk to
Impact.' The fact of the matter is that Impact is a
company which is wholly owned by the College.
That's enough airing of dirty laundry anyway. The
good news is that FELIX has a new printer called
Andrew Thompson. We are all glad to 'have him
aboard,' as everybody who has met him has said of
my dirty laundry. I'm looking forward to working with
him this year—be's a good find in my opinion.
Thanks to everybody who has helped on this issue,
they should be listed somewhere on this page. You're
all dedicated nutters and fantastic with it.
Dave
Delaying
tactics
Dear Dave,
I am writing to you concerning the Benefits and Rights
Campaign I am presently organising for the beginning
of next term. The aim of the campaign is to give
students help and advice on all aspects of
accommodation from tenants rights to Housing
Benefit as well as legal advice and information on
DHSS Benefits.
I wrote to representatives of various relevant
organisations inviting them to attend, including the
College Accommodation Officer Loretto O'Callaghan.
This was an opportunity for her to deal with students'
accommodation problems before they became
imminent. I felt that she would be more than willing
to attend. I was therefore surprised to receive a letter
from Loretto refusing the invitation. Apparently six
weeks was not enough notice for her to be able to
arrange to send any representative from the
Accommodation Office, even though it was only for
3Vi hours.
Surely there is something wrong if the
accommodation office is so overworked and/or
understaffed that 3 54 man hours cannot be found 6
weeks in advance.
Yours Jackie Scott
ICU Welfare Officer 89-90
Mary's
foots the
bill
Dear Editor,
In the issue of FELIX for 18th August the heading
'Mary's refit costs College,' above a photograph on
the back page suggested that the costs of
improvements to the students' bar and restaurant
being undertaken this summer were being met from
Imperial College funds. This is not so. All "costs are
being met from School funds supplemented by an
agreed contribution from the St Mary's Hospital
Medical School Students' Union. As some of your
readers will be aware the Medical School is funded
separately from 'Imperial College' for a period of up
to five years from the date of the merger (1 August
1988) under a Memorandum of Agreement made
between the Governing Body and the School Council.
Yours faithfully
Brian Lloyd-Davies
Secretary to the Dejegacy.
Credits
Many thanks to Sydney Harbour-Bridge for record
reviews and help on news and production;Liz Warren
for editing features and helping all round; Stef Smith
being a hero in my hours of need; Mike Morton and
Mac for reviews; Fiona for the V&A feature; Mr
Habiby for the Oasis feature; Andrew Thompson for
being a brilliant printer and flexible to boot; Mac again
for staying up late on Wednesday night and the
anonymous sources who shall remain forever so.
Copyright
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is
printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111
ext 3515). Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager:
Stef Smith. Advertising Manager: Ramin Nakisa.
Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
Page 7
Commemoration Ball
There are 5 double tickets left for this year's Commem. Ball. Anybody
who still wants a ticket should contact Fiona Nicholas in the Union
Office as soon as possible.

