Near miss in Physics fire
A fire started in a rubbish skip at the back of the Physics department two weeks ago. A pressurised cylinder
was known to be present in the container, and the area was evacuated and the fire department called. M r
Geoff Reaves, Chief Security Officer, told F E L I X that he thought it was a 'pretty stupid' thing to put in
a skip. The cause of the fire has not yet been disclosed.
S A C i n hot water
again
Dozens of Southside and Linstead Hall residents
returned to their rooms on Thursday 31 August, to
discover them flooded. The hot water supply to the
halls had been disconnected overnight and during the
day to 'repair a burst main,' according to Managing
Surveyor of Residences, Peter Hallworth.
Mr Hallworth told FELLX that everyone in the halls
had received a leaflet warning them of the imminent
disconnection. Several residents-left their hot water
taps running however, which caused the flooding of
56 rooms.
Speaking on the incident, Conference organiser,
Pauline Clark, said, 'No, I still haven't been informed
officially that the water was to be switched o f f She
added that the staff at the Summer Accommodation
Centre's reception desk had not been informed either.
She described the leafleting of the halls as 'minimal.'
The College has not lost business as a result of the
flooding and has received only one claim for damages
to guests' belongings.
Ms Clark explained that out of the 56 rooms
flooded, only 10 occupants insisted on moving. "They
thought it was a rather a hoot!' she added. She
summarised by describing the affair as 'just crossed
wires.
College Accommodation Officer, Loretto
O'Callaghan, told FELLX that leaflets were produced
and distributed 'to the best of her knowledge.' She
added that there weren't as many moves as they had
thought and said 'it all worked very well in the end.'
Emergency spaces were cleared in Beit Hall to
accoiruriodate the overflow and rooms were arranged
in hotels as part of a contingency plan. Although the
contingency plans were not required, Ms O'Callaghan
told FELLX that the students who worked on the night
were 'magnificent.'
New code of conduct for
Subwardens
Fisher Hall lost and Montpelier Hall gained a new
sub-warden last week, when Warden D r Kevin
O'Connor appointed Fisher Hall sub-warden, Ndiba
Doih. The decision has caused College Secretary,
John Smith to suggest the formation of a code of
conduct for the appointment of sub-wardens.
Mr Doih became a sub-warden of Fisher Hall last
year after living in Montpelier Hall. D r O'Connor
told F E L I X that he had supplied M r Doih with a
reference for his original sub-warden application and
had been present on the committee which advised his
appointment. He described M r Doih as»the best
candidate from the twenty or so who applied for the
position of subwarden of Montpelier Hall.
Mr Smith described the appointment as 'very
wasteful,' and added that the whole affair had caused
a lot of ill feeling and inconvenience. He now wants
to see a code of practice established to cover such
affairs. He told F E L I X that the appointment could
have been covered by a transfer of sub-warden from
Fisher Hall and interviewing for a new sub-warden
for Fisher Hall.
Dr O'Connor told F E L I X that he 'certainly did not
mean to cause any trouble,' and added that he did
not believe that he had. The 'head-hunting' of sub-
wardens had a precedent last year, when a sub-warden
moved from Mining House to Garden Hall.
Dr Richard Murphy, Warden of Fisher Hall told
FELLX that the idea of a code of conduct 'might make
some aspects easier.' He added that he 'may have
found someone,' for the vacant post of sub-warden
at Fisher Hall.
Imperial wins at UFC
Imperial has succeeded in gaining a nationwide top
research ranking in all of the departments reviewed
by the Univeris.ty Funding Council recently. The new
ratings place IC 3rd in the national table of Univerities
with 91.25% of the possible marks.
Rector, Professor Eric Ash told FELLX, 'We've
done extraordinarily well.' The U F C now aim to give
a double weighting to research excellence, which
Professor Ash expects to provide a 'sizeable fraction
of a million (pounds),' in future years. 'It won't
drastically change our fortunes overnight,' he added.
The departments reviewed included Biology,
Mineral Resources Engineering, Materials and
Electrical Engineering, which all received 'star
ratings' in the new rankings.
College buys back Earls
Court death trap
The College Accommodation Office has recently
renegotiated the head tenancy agreement on 8 Earls
Court Square. The site was returned to the landlord
in 1987 due to the building breaking a number of
Council safty regulations.
The property has since been modernised to a very
high standard and houses 32 people in flats, single,
double and triple rooms. The accommodation is
available to all students and staff of IC and St Marys
from next term on 51 week lets. Rents are £59/single,
£49/bed in a double and £39 in a triple all exclusive
of bills and poll tax following April 1990. These new
rents compare unfavourably with the most expensive
College residence; Linstead at £56.50 inclusive of bills
and five meals.
Subwarden
Applications are invited for the post of sub-warden of Mypalsin'ere Hall
Successful candidates should be mature, responsible, out-going (from Fishy
Hall), resourceful, sociable, mature, know every pimple on the Baron's bot-
tom (although this is generally the job of the warden), esoteric, enigmatic,
phlegmatic, charismatic, masochistic, extra-terrestrial....
The posting is open to all Cheapskate citizens but the one we've chosen is
was a sub-warden of Fishy Hall
Applications should be addressed to Dr Kevin O'Kafferbasher, Mypalsin'ere
Hall, c/o The Baron's Bottom, Cheapskate.
Closing date for entries was September 1 st
Page 8

