F E L I X
T H E B A R O N
Derek hurried along the walkway, huddling to protect himself from the biting wind. It was just past midnight
and Derek was returning from the Cheapskate dormitories after checking that all the Citizen's were safely
tucked into bed (their own beds!) and that lights were out.
As he went along Derek looked at all the rubbish stuck to all the walls and said to his wife Mad Dash, 'thank
goodness super-Tuesday is over and the citizens have elected their new leaders. I don't think I can stand
any more of these posters. They are such rubbish, I mean, take this one here'. Derek pointed at a poster and
read it out.
'Uninformed, smudgy, faint, inaccurate. 'Cwis Media, no bollocks—just a great Phallix.'
And look at this crap: 'Willhebe Goodforacolumninch—give the cat something to eat.'
Meanwhile Mad had walked on a bit and found a poster for the last candidate for Phallix Editor.
'Look at this one, Derek, it's quite funny.'
Derek read it.
'Martin Prick—I've got someone else's briefcase.' •
'She thinks that's funny', thought Derek, 'oh well, little things please little minds.' (But Derek knew that
already.)
Further along the walkway Derek found some posters for Citizen's Leader. The very, very serious candidate
had very, very boring posters with a very, very silly red slogan; 'Nige D Butcher—hit me with your rhythm
stick'. The very, very silly candidate had very, very good posters. 'Brendan O'Spud—vote potato.'
The only other poster Derek found was for the new post of Honorary Slave (Parties), it read: 'Austin Morris-
wrapped around a lamppost'near you.'
All these posters had given Derek an excellent idea. Why not make John Secretary and Arthur Michael stand
for re-election every year?
He started to imagine the sort of posters and slogans they would produce.
'Arthur Michael—about as useful as a solar powered torch.'
'John Secretary—about as sincere as a TV evangelist.'
'This was good fun', thought Derek. 'But what would he do for his own posters? This would be difficult.
Which of his many qualities should he emphasise? Gosh, this would be difficult.
How about: 'Citizens shall not live by McNorthey kebabs alone but by every memo that proceeds from Derek's
desk.' No, too wordy. He needed a sharp, punchy slogan. Let's try. 'Derek, The Baron'. Nope, too short.
It needed a little more content. Derek went home and rang up his chief yes man, lain Bore,
'lain', he said, 'I need a slogan', 'Yes, Baron', said Bore grovellingly. 'What sort?'
'A clever, witty one, not too short,
not too long, just the right length.'
lain though for a split second, then
came out with: 'Derek Dash: the
citizens wouldn't give a XXXX for
any other Baron.'
'That's brilliant, just what I want,
thanks lain. Goodnight.'
Meanwhile, in the citizen's
building, Chas Takeiteasy was
getting dressed up into his dinner suit
for the big event of the year—the
Cheapskate awards. He left his office
and went into the citizen's theatre.
After the applause died down he
stepped up to the microphone.
'Ladies, gentlemen and those who
aren't quite sure, welcome to the
1988 Cheapskate awards. The first
presentation is for Citizen's Leader,
and to present this prize here is last
year's winner, Mr Sidney Spanker.'
Spanker took the stage and
Takeiteasy handed him the little gold
envelope. He slit it open, took out the
card, and began to speak: 'And the
results, in reverse order, are as
follows. The runner up in the election
for Citizen's Leader is....
Who has won?
Who cares?
Find out in the next episode of
the Baron of Cheapskate
W
h
a
t
'
s Oo
W E D N E S D A Y
S.L.A.G.S. Meeting 12.30pm.
Society for Lesbian and Gay Students
meets in the Green Committee Room
(top floor Union Building). Come along
for a chat if you don't mind people
thinking you're going to a Wargames
Society meeting!
Ski Club 12.30pm.
Above Southside Bar. Meet for trip to
dry ski slope for lessons and
recreational skiing. Bring gloves and
thick socks.
Hamsoc Meeting 1.15pm.
Meeting in 'shack' on 3rd Floor Union
Building. Also last meeting for anyone
wishing to register to take exam this
May!
IC Radio 6.00pm.
Susan and her new stupendous,
unfeasible, all-new uncelebrity packed
Ripvanwinklepickers show.
ULU Meditation
Group 7.00pm.
Room 3A, University of London
Union, Malet Street. Traditional
breathing meditation. Everyone
welcome. No charge.
T H U R S D A Y
Methsoc AGM and
Elections 12.30pm.
Huxley 413. More political posturing
as the new committee is elected.
Socialist Society
Meeting 12.45pm.
Brown Committee Room. All
welcome. Contact Adrian Grainger
(Maths 3).
Newsbreak... I.OOpm.
STOIC. IC's own news programme.
SFSOC Libary
Meeting 1.00pm.
Green Committee Room, Union
Building. Borrow books from our vast
library, help plan future events.
Members only.
Lunch-Hour Concert 1.30pm.
The Music Room, 53 Princes Gate.
Sally Burgess (mezzo) and Julius
Drake (piano).
Gliding Club
Meeting 5.30pm.
Aero 254. Arrange trial flights, lifts to
Lasham, talks and then to the bar.
Union Bar 5.30pm.
Youngers No. 3 only 60p per pint.
Newsbreak 6.00pm.
STOIC.
ICCAG Soup Run 9.15pm.
Weeks Basement Hall. Contact Liz
Warren (Chem Eng 2).
FELIX Wednesday March 9th 1988 3

