”
A little bit of TLC
How best can we care for an ageing population? Sophie Shina looks at telecare
O
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Primes, primes everywhere!
Science Writer
FRIDAY 31 MAY
10
ne third of babies born
in 2012 are expected to
celebrate their 100th
birthday, according to
government statistics.
Whilst ageing populations are a vic-
tory of development, health and social
care systems are struggling to cope
with the burden of long-term care. As
a result, the need for healthcare inno-
vation has intensiﬁed — is large-scale
telecare implementation the answer
we are looking for?
Depicted by one patient as like hav-
ing a “little nurse sitting on [his] shoul-
der,” telecare is an innovative eHealth
service which aims to help patients
who are either frail and elderly, or
who have a long term condition, to
live more independent lives. It uses a
combination of sensors, alarms and
other equipment to monitor changes
in a patient’s health. he most com-
mon forms include personal alarms,
whereby pressing a button on a pen-
dant alerts a local control centre, and
motion sensors which automatically
control bathroom and hallway lights,
thereby reducing the likelihood of
falls.
Telecare can signiﬁcantly increase
the quality of life for people with a
high dependency on health services
through facilitating self-care and re-
Mathematicians from the US, Hunga-
ry and Turkey just might be one step
closer towards the impossible. One of
the greatest problems in number theo-
ry is determining whether the number
of prime tuples, prime numbers which
lie very close to each other, is inﬁnite.
In short, “are there an inﬁnite number
of prime tuples which lie next to each
other?”
he authors present a mathemati-
cal technique which shows that there
are an inﬁnite number of prime tu-
ples within 16 or less from each other.
While this does not fully solve the
long-standing problem, the research
published in Annals of Mathematics at
least oﬀers a “partial solution”.
Prime numbers are divisible only
by themselves and 1. For example, 2,
3 and 5 are all prime since they can
only be divided by themselves and 1.
Whereas 4 is not, since it can be di-
vided by itself, 1 and 2. his makes it
seem that there are less primes than
there are positive integers; however,
mathematics can tell us that there are
as many prime numbers as there are
positive integers.
However, as the size of the number
increases, the distance between ad-
jacent prime numbers also increases.
Andy Roast his means that the chance that any
given number is prime decreases as
the size of the number increases. he
research indicates that even with a
decreasing probability of ﬁnding two
primes close to one-and-other, primes
A stained glass window of primes. Pretty if nothing else...
“
Telecare ‘is
like having
a little nurse
sitting on my
shoulder’
ducing disruption associated with
routine check-ups and unplanned
hospital admissions. Headline ﬁndings
from the Whole System Demonstrator
Programme, the largest randomised
control trial of telecare to date
launched by the Department of Health
Improvement
in long-term
cognitive
ability
in 2008, were strikingly positive. hey
revealed not only reduced costs, but
also improved patient outcomes with
a 45% reduction in mortality rates. At
the moment there are at least 1 million
telecare users in England, predomi-
nantly women over 70 who are living
Before (left) and after (right) telecare. We’re not kidding.
alone. Based on the headline ﬁndings
of the Whole System Demonstrator
Programme the government intro-
The proof’s in: writing for Science
WILL boost your grades! (Not guaranteed)
Get in touch, be put on our mailing list, and we’ll
send you weekly bursts of exciting science stories,
ready for you to write up and get printed in Felix.
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
duced the 3millionlives initiative in
2012, which aims to extend telecare to
3 million more people over 5 years.
However, the evidence about the ef-
fectiveness and efficiency of telecare is
controversial. Many academics have
criticised the early evaluation of the
Whole System Demonstrator Pro-
gramme and the subsequent haste to
make policy based on what they per-
ceive as little evidence. Indeed, the
latest analyses of the programme re-
leased earlier this year found no sig-
niﬁcant positive impacts for patients
or on the use of other health and social
care services. In addition, there have
been several unﬁnished pilots over the
last few years as a result of the organi-
sational and operational complexity of
telecare implementation.
So is the scale up of telecare an am-
bitious gamble by a government with
scarce resources? Or is it a key pillar
for eﬀective and efficient care deliv-
ery to ageing populations? Without
a credible evidence base, we can only
speculate.
SCIENCE BITES
Why does cut grass smell?
It may smell great, but did you know
it’s actually a plant’s distress call?
You’re chopping it to smithereens, what did you
expect it to do?
Causing tissue damage to grass by cutting it caus-
es it to release volatile organic compounds, collectively known as green leaf vola-
tiles (GLVs). One effect of GLV release is to attract predatory insects to defend the
plant, though how effective they’d be against a lawnmower is another question.
Unfortunately for grass the resulting released GLVs also create the pleasant
odour associated with a freshly-mown lawn. And so the carnage continues...
with very close neighbours are still in-
ﬁnitely many. A weird result, since this
means that prime tuples are as numer-
ous as the set of positive integers.
DOI: 10.4007/annals.2009.170.819

