ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Art Car Boots Fair @ The Old Truman Brewery - This annual event, now celebrating its
tenthanniversary,hasthestatedintentionof“re-introduc[ing]somesummerfunandfri-
volityintoathrivingbutincreasinglycommercialLondonartscene”.Bringpocketmoney
andafriendlydisposition.9June
The Drowned Man: A Hollywood Fable @ Temple Studios - The infamous theatre pro-
ductioncompanyreturnstoLondonandtheNationalTheatrewithamajor,newproduc-
tion. Their unique brand of immersive theatre is perfectly suited to exploring their new
themesofillusionaryrealityinfilmandlife. 4July–30December
DrSketchy’s@VauxhallTavern-IamprettysurewehavementionedtheDrSketchphe-
nomenon before but maybe it’s time again. The concept evolved in the States by the il-
lustrious Molly Crabapple is an intoxicating bend of Burlesque, drinking and drawings
guaranteedtobeaneveningtoremember.June19
Bourgeois&Maurice@LondonWonderground-Thesubversive,funnyandprofoundly
fabulous cabaret double-act are playing for one night at London Wonderground at the
SouthbankCentre.Getreadyforarock-n-roll-pop-ballad-disco-fusionrollercoasterride
throughthe21stcentury.May31
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings to
arts.felix@ic.ac.uk.Doodlingregular,UmarHossain,isbackthisweekwithan
indicationhemaybecomingunplugged.
FRIDAY 31 MAY
14
Museums are funny places. Not
har-har funny, and not even some-
one tripping and then pretending
they actually meant to stumble for
a few steps funny. hey’re funny in
that many people wait until they are
abroad to go to them. I do this quite
a lot. Justin Bieber did that once in
Amsterdam, but the less said about
that the better. So I guess I shouldn’t
have said it all then.
Anyway, even though there may be
a great museum on my doorstep, it’ll
take me years to go there – a good
example is the V&A, which I ﬁrst
stepped into after being in London
for a whole four and a half years, not
to mention the fact that I walked past
it on a daily basis.
I recently went to the British Mu-
seum. I may have been before when
I was younger, but if I had then I cer-
tainly don’t remember it. Everything
about the place is impressive. he
majestic architecture of the build-
ing is the ﬁrst thing to strike you. It’s
detail and size is just awe-inspiring.
Once you move inside, you realise
just how much there is to explore. If
you like to go around reading every
bit of information and looking at
each individual item in a museum,
then good luck to you here: there’s so
much on oﬀer that you may end up
having to live there for a year.
he Rosetta Stone is one of the
most famous attractions. In the ﬂesh,
well, stone, it’s incredible. he Ro-
setta Stone is what allowed us to un-
derstand hieroglyphs. Inscribed on it
is a decree from King Ptolemy V in
three diﬀerent scripts: Ancient Egyp-
tian hieroglyphs, Ancient Egyptian
Demotic script, and Ancient Greek.
Having actually learnt Ancient Greek
for two years at school, which on re-
ﬂection was probably an odd choice;
it was a particularly fascinating expe-
rience for me. Although my knowl-
edge of the language may not extend
far past knowing the phrase for “un-
der the tree” it was fun to have a stab
at translating it. Be warned though,
there will be an army of tourists with
various diﬀerent cameras constantly
snapping away.
he British Museum houses many
ancient ruins. Amongst the most
impressive of these are the Parthe-
non sculptures. Countless other an-
cient civilizations are explained with
structures exhibited. From China to
the Babylonians, it’s all on display in
some form. here are extensive ex-
hibitions on the Far East that have
many beautiful items and interesting
explanations.
When walking through the Ancient
Middle Eastern structures, the size
of some of the statues that survived
from temples and palaces makes you
wonder how they were built – at the
time they were constructed modern
machinery was still literally thou-
sands of years away.
his being a newspaper, it should
also be noted that the history of
writing was particularly interesting.
How writing changed and evolved
from early writing and cuneiform to
what we see today is astounding. he
thought that is most difficult to get
your head around is that, at one point
writing did not even exist.
he British Museum is in the heart
of London. It’s easy to get to, so you
have no excuses not to go!
A stone’s throw away
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief

