MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 31 MAY
18
t is slightly perplexing for a
few seconds. Laura Marling
is a name seemingly sliding
off everyone’s lips at the mo-
ment, yet still, seems to be
unheard of to more than a fair few.
Widely known but remaining anony-
mous, this enigma-like quality con-
tinues to run through her music, her
fourth album, Once I Was An Eagle,
being no exception.
The first single, ‘Master Hunter’
is the most poppy song on the al-
bum. Poppy, in this context referring
to the most catchy and structured
track. Dylan references and the
only song which features prominent
drumming, it is no wonder that it
was chosen to be the one of the first
previewed prior to album release.
Most of the other fifteen are more
akin to long, insightful musings. Per-
Soar Like An Eagle?
Lilly Le examines the intricacies of Laura Marling’s latest effort
sonally, I am a great fan of such stuff;
for those who are not, it is probably
not an album for them. Surprisingly,
Once I Was An Eagle is not an album
I would judge people for disliking. It
is not an album I would try and ram
down my friends’ throats. Unlike her
previous releases, and especially un-
like I Speak Because I Can, darling
Marling seems to be finally releasing
music which I can imagine many lis-
teners not enjoying.
With each LP, she has become
more distant from her early teenage
releases. Previously full of haste with
an annoying “folk” image, dropping
Noah and The Whale’s Charlie Fink
in favour of Ethan Johns’ produc-
tion was probably the best thing she
did musically. Since then, her songs
have matured at impressive speed.
Marling has gone from moulding
I
herself to fit a London scene to an
independent songstress brimming
with Americana; with four albums
under her belt at the age of 23.
Her latest one opens with a four-
song medley, previewed via a beauti-
ful film full of twirling dancers and
romancers ‘When Brave Bird Saved.’
This, combined with three which
have been streaming on her Sound
Cloud for the past couple of months,
make the 16-track album less of a
daunting thing. Plus, don’t bother
with ‘Interlude’.
The remaining eight require two
things to be enjoyed. Firstly, being
in the right mood. Many people mis-
takenly believe this would be a de-
pressive one, but I would personally
warn against that (it doesn’t help)
– more of a state of contemplation
and retreat. Secondly, it requires lis-
tening several times. This is no bad
thing, the best songs are the ones
you get to know over time rather
than those which jump at you first
time and hardly ever again.
Compared to earlier records, the
pieces are less layered, mainly fo-
cussing on her guitar and her voice
joining in here and there, humming
along only when she feels like it.
Marling’s poetic prowess is not lost,
but is half transferred to the musi-
cal bed rather than fully channelled
through the lyrics as they used to be.
What hasn’t changed, however, is
her aloof approach to song-writing.
It is obvious that the songs do not
come directly from personal experi-
ence, but more of an empathy for the
characters she sings about. Plus, she
is a great source of inspiration when
trying to find a book to read – one
which has moved someone to write a
song about it is obviously one worth
getting lost in. I tip my hat off to
Salinas (off of third album A Crea-
ture I Don’t Know) and its nod to
Steinbeck’s East of Eden.
Rather than the majestic instru-
mental composition which bathed
pervious releases, the parts that
jump out are the tender guitar
strings which echo the melody of
her voice. Try ‘Little Bird’ and your
heart will swell as she sings the name
“Rosie”.
Instead of her long poetic verses,
which bulked up older albums, are
short, sharp phrases which send
chills down the spine.
“I don’t care where you’ve gone beast
– I care where you go.” – Take the
Night Off
“When we were in love - if we were -
I was an eagle and you were a dove.”
- I Was an Eagle
“Wrestle in the rope from dark-
ness is no fucking life that I would
choose.” –Master Hunter
“Maybe I like pleasure-pain.” – Lit-
tle Bird
“You weren’t my curse. You weren’t
my curse. Thank you naivety for fail-
ing me again.” – Saved These Words.
This closing track, as they usually
are, is the personal highlight of the
album. Understated and elegant it
leaves the listener with a sweet af-
tertaste. It is similar to watching a
touching film and for five short min-
utes feeling as though you see your
life in a whole new way and that you
are a completely different person.
AMS album of the week
With my short side-parted hair and
corduroy jacket, I’m about as far away
from metal as you can get. Always
open to new experiences, however,
Deafheaven’s upcoming sophomore
album Sunbather caught my eye. De-
scribed as “shoegaze with black metal
drumming and vocals,” and with a cov-
er more reminiscent of drinking pink
lemonade on a summer’s day than of satanic rituals in Norwegian forests,
it looked to be far from the usual black metal fare. It seems that the span
from shoegaze through post-rock to metal may not be an impossible one
to bridge.
Beginning with an unrelenting torrent of distorted guitars and frantic
drums, it lives up to the description: this is undeniably black metal – pur-
ists may claim that it’s not “trve” enough – but with a major key, a series
of powerful crescdeni and melodic tunes picked out on the lead guitar,
it takes the genre in a completely new direction – at least to this outside
observer. This may be the most uplifting album I’ve heard all year.
While I’m no stranger to screamed vocals, those who are certainly
shouldn’t be put off – incoherent and fierce, yet not grating, they blend
so well into the mix that they become almost like just another guitar ef-
fect. They could just as easily be screams of anger as they could of pure,
unadulterated joy.
The album’s fourth and central song, ‘Please Remember’, provides a
brief respite after twenty minutes of the near-continual wall of sound
with sampled speech over a back-masked strings loop which eventually
decays, drowned out by ever-increasing distortion until a soft acoustic
guitar rhythm plays out the rest of the track. This wouldn’t sound out of
place at all on a Godspeed You! Black Emperor album, yet fits perfectly
here, before the following track slowly builds back up to the unmistakable
phenomenally fast-paced metal sound.
Undeniably heavy and powerful, yet at the same time optimistic and
dreamy, metalheads and shoegazers alike should find something to enjoy
here. This album is, if you’ll pardon the phrase, not black metal but bright
metal.
Deafheaven -Sunbather
Keir Little

