Spinning chairs
Stephanie Walton voices her opinions on the BBC’s talent show
ome people really can sing.
And I don’t just mean in
tune with a token crescendo
or diminuendo. I mean with
style and true feeling.
he Voice is a TV show which
searches for these very people and
assesses them on the quality of their
voices alone. In the so called “Blind
Auditions” the vocal coaches cannot
initially see the contestants as their
chairs are turned backwards. If they
like what they hear and want the sing-
er to join their team they press their
buzzer and their chair spins around.
his can be exciting and nerve-
wracking; if no one spins around the
contestant goes home. And if more
than one coach spins around a ﬁght
for the singer ensues. Unlike The X
Factor, in which the best, worst, and
most unusual acts are televised, he
Voice’s Blind Audition contestants are
selected on vocal merit. Whilst the
ﬁrst round of he X Factor can involve
laughing at the poorer contestants
rather than enjoying the better perfor-
mances, the contestants in he Voice’s
Blind Auditions are of a consistently
high standard. After the Blind Audi-
tions, the competition continues with
battle rounds between team members
and eventually a live sing oﬀ before an
overall winner is crowned. hese later
rounds are not as thrilling as the initial
Blind Auditions but are nevertheless a
ﬁne showcase of vocal expertise. he
Voice is a talent show like no other
and most certainly deserves your at-
tention.
he Voice started in he Nether-
lands in 2010 and was such a success
that it has now spread to 50 other
countries or regions, 8 of which also
have children’s competitions. In the
UK we are currently mid-way through
our second series with our four vocal
coaches making excellent television;
Danny O’Donoghue is a real charmer,
will.i.am provides constant amuse-
ment, the gifted Jessie J’s hair styles
and nails are extraordinary, and Tom
Jones is, well, Tom Jones. If, however,
the UK programme irks you for some
reason, try he Voice Australia with
the beautiful Delta Goodrem, he
Voice Holland in which the coaches’
feedback is in mind-boggling Dutch
or he Voice Ireland in which the
coaches sit on diﬀerently styled red
chairs and argue a lot.
But before you get stuck in it is my
duty to warn you of the possible side
eﬀects of this programme. Firstly, re-
vision eﬀorts could be hampered; you
can ﬁnd more than 8 hours of Blind
Auditions’ footage on BBC iPlayer.
And secondly, there is a risk of suﬀer-
ing from what I like to call, for obvious
reasons, the “Wimbledon eﬀect”. You
start to believe that you too can sing
despite 25 years’ worth of evidence
suggesting otherwise. Singing in a
crowded lift is still, I repeat still, unac-
ceptable.
S
TELEVISION Television Editor: Lucia Podhorska
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 31 MAY
20
Discover our range of MSc programmes
We ofer Master’s degrees aimed at recent graduates from the world’s best
universities. Our portfolio of programmes includes Economics, Finance, Health,
Management and Marketing. There are limited places available to start this
October for exceptional Imperial students. If you are interested, we encourage
you to apply soon.
Cutting-edge learning
All programmes at Imperial College Business School are entirely paperless;
our students are provided with an iPad and all course materials are delivered
in electronic format to enhance the student experience.
Find out more and apply at:
imperial.ac.uk/business-school/msc-study
@imperialbiz
linkedin.com/company/
imperial-college-business-school
SHAPE YOUR FUTURE AT
THE BUSINESS SCHOOL
BUSINESS SCHOOL EXPERIENCE EVENING
The Business School is pleased to announce the winner
of the iPad prize draw which took place at our recent
Experience Evening.
Congratulations to Lucy Asanache, shown here receiving
her prize from Programme Director and Principal
Teaching Fellow, Colin Love.
will.i.am was cameraman
for the night, apparently

