TECH PUZZLES SPORT
Xbox One Procrastinate away Riding to victory
Nowadays it seems everything
must be able to do everything.
The question for Microsoft is:
you could make a toaster in a
fridge,butwouldyouwantone?
BigshoutouttothePuzzlesteam
for two whole pages of Puzzley
goodness. Special mention for
Lousia, who came in the day be-
fore an exam to do the pages!
Polo finally have their write-up
from the Nationals. They had
mixed fortunes it seems. Also, a
great report by the Fellwander-
ers on their hiking exploits.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>24 >>28 >>31
FRIDAY 31 MAY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Riaz Agahi, Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Matt Colvin Travel
Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Web
Uploading James Simpson Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: A perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
The Good, The Bad
and The Elections
his week, as always, there
is a mixture of good news
and bad news. I will start
with the bad news. The
tragic death of an Impe-
rial alumnus is not the most pleasant
thing to be reporting. It reminds me
of another incident earlier this year,
which was similarly upsetting to put
into the paper. The fact that so much
money has been raised in his mem-
ory in such a short time, and that he
seems to have had so many friends
at Imperial, shows that his character
must have been strong. It is particu-
larly upsetting that he died so young,
and left behind a wife. I hope that
his friends and family can take some
comfort in the fact that he seems to
have inspired a lot of people into be-
ing very generous: to raise that much
money in barely any time at all is al-
most unbelievable. Hopefully, the field
hospital will help people and so it will
be for a good cause.
Some good news
Thereissomegoodnewstotalkabout.
Firstly, there is the Fleming Library re-
opening after donations. There are
always a few students that feel the
need to essentially move into a library
around this time (if they weren’t stu-
dents they would probably even have
to pay council tax), and they should be
pleased that it’s looking pretty plush.
Imperial teams also seem to be dom-
inating the Engineers Without Borders
Challenge. I’m glad that they had the
opportunity to take such a course,
and hopefully more students will get
to benefit from these extra courses
next year. Take the opportunity to do
something beyond your subject next
year if you haven’t already. Trust me,
you’ll really regret it if you don’t. When
you’re in a job, your life becomes more
rigid, and learning about new things
becomes restricted to documentaries
by the latest dough-eyed scientist.
This actually extends to taking part
in clubs and societies at the Union
as well. Hobbies take time, effort and
money, and, here, you have an oppor-
tunity to do something fun while not
losing too much of all three.
Elections again
The Summer Elections have loomed
up once again. It’s that super stress-
ful work season, so the last thing you
probably want is for someone to start
waving their arms in your face telling
you they’ll instantly transform your
life into blissful relaxation if you click a
button. Firstly, try to be gentle to any-
one distracting you to give you sweets
and a voting link. Secondly, spend
the few seconds it takes to vote and
make a difference. All the positions
matter in their own way. As with all
part time positions they can be made
bigger or smaller by the person filling
it. This is to say that if someone truly
proactive is in the role they could re-
ally change some things for the better.
The fact that all Union positions aren’t
elected in one burst does make peo-
ple a bit bored with the whole proce-
dure. It’s tough on everyone involved,
because the previous round of voting
happened before Easter when people
weren’t as busy, stressed, tired of Im-
perial, tired of work, or all of the above.
This means the Summer Elections
always have a vastly reduced turnout
compared to their counterparts before
Easter.
There is actually a big position up for
grabs: Deputy President (Education).
This is the person that is in charge of
your educational needs. Need to com-
plain about a lecturer’s terrible notes?
They are your first port of call. They
also head up the Rep system, which
is all of the Dep Reps and Year Reps
who sit on the Student Staff Commit-
tees. You only have one week to vote,
so make an informed decision and go
for it. If you don’t like any of the candi-
dates, click RON or abstain. Good luck
to all of the candidates running!
CLASSIFIEDS
T
Tutor wanted
Help with Homework for Year 2 and 3 girls - £10/hour
I am looking for a female student who can help with
homework after school around 3 days a week starting
from 11th June until 18th July approximately. We live in
Ifield Road by the Earls Court Tube. Female applicants
only.
If interested, email Lucia: lc261272@gmail.com
Temps wanted
Temp Renewable Energy installers required for east
london project 10th June. Must be fit & strong, practical,
quick learning & a team player.
See www.sogosolar.co.uk& call Ben on 07804 614833.
To place something in Classifieds, email felix@imperial.ac.uk

