unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
What would you do with £300,000 for sustainability
projects? Send us your ideas
Imperial College Union is bidding for
up to £300,000 of funding to create
a new generation of environmental
and sustainability-focused projects
here at Imperial – and we need your
suggestions.
Whether it’s reducing the
environmental impact of private
accommodation, growing food across
campuses, holding a conference or
creating new ethical training and
development schemes, this is your
chance to turn your idea into reality.
If you can think of something with the potential to change Imperial’s footprint and create generations of graduates
literate in sustainability, let us know.
The key themes are student participation, partnership, impact and legacy. There is an Idea Bank available here –
provided by the National Union of Students, who are running the £5m scheme on behalf of the Higher Education
Funding Council for England.
Please send your ideas toAndrew Keenan, Education &Welfare Manager on a.keenan@imperial.ac.uk, by Monday 3
June 2013.
National Student Survey - prize draw winners
EVENTSTHISWEEK
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
YOGA
Tuesday 4 June, 12:00-1300 and
15:00-16:00
Free
Queen’s Lawn
The Stress Less Yoga class will
help you to focus and help relieve
your stress levels.
MASSAGES
Thursday 6 June, 11:00 - 17:00
Free
Library
Come to the Library Cafe and
let a professional massue gently
massage your stress away, making
you feel more relaxed and ready
for anything.
The overall turnout for this year’s National Student Survey (NSS) at Imperial
College was 81% - 10% higher than last year. Ipsos MORI ran a prize draw
during this year’s NSS and there were eight lucky winners of our prizes -
congratulations to you all! The winners are:
ipad
mini
imperialcollegeunion.org/survey
&moregreatprizes!
Youcouldwinan
Telluswhatyouthink
£20 Union ShopVoucher:
• En Wei Michael Chow – Chemical
Engineering
• Alexandra Hamilton – Life Sciences
• Cristina Grigoruta – Computing
• Obadah Ghannam - Medicine
• Joseph Pick – Medicine
Free Summer Ball ticket:
• Aaron D’souza – Life Sciences
• Charlotte Hewitt – Life Sciences
• Michele Swalens – Civil Engineering
• Margaret Pikovsky – Medicine

