FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
FRIDAY 31 MAY
Film Festival
So Blue is the Warmest Colour was the big winner this year – with the coveted
Palme d’Or going to both the director and its young actresses (typically it’s
only the director who receives the prize). A ﬁlm that is destined to become
infamous for its 10-minute unsimulated lesbian sex scene, critics were blown
away by its “wildly undisciplined” narrative in which a 15-year-old girl’s life
changes forever when she falls for an older woman, and this has been called “a
masterpiece of human warmth, empathy and generosity”.
Whether director Abdellatif Kechiche intended this or not, the ﬁlm is also
marked to become a symbol for France’s recent new law allowing same-sex
marriage.
“A devastating mix of eroticism and sadness” as well as “an extraordinary,
prolonged popping-candy explosion of pleasure, sadness, anger, lust and
hope,” no wonder this walked home with the top prize.
Critics were equally ecstatic about the Coen Brothers’ latest, Inside Llewyn
Davis, which walked away with the second prize, a ﬁlm that tells the story of
a singer-songwriter navigating his way through the folk music scene in 1960s
New York. he Coens have always had a healthy winning streak with Cannes
with their series of outstanding ﬁlms, and it appears this year was no excep-
tion.
Oscar Isaac’s lead performance has been singled out for praise, as “delicate,
restrained portrait that results in a diﬀerent kind of movie than anything else
the siblings have produced.”
he Coens have produced “a boldly original, highly emotional journey” one
that is “as stunning and singular as anything in the Coens’ canon”
Described as an “instant A-list Coens; enigmatic, exhilarating, irresistible,”
the UK will have to wait until 24th January 2014 to enjoy this gem.
Japanese ﬁlm Like Father, Like Son
was awarded the third best ﬁlm prize,
the Jury Prize, marking director Hi-
rokazu Koreeda’s ﬁrst ever Cannes
win after three years of competition.
A baby-switch occurs after a series
of errors and what families do about
this is the premise of this “touchingly
low-key” domestic drama.
Oﬀering a “thoughtful exploration
of meaning of parenthood” as well as
providing a “wholly charming study
of the evolution of parenthood,” Ko-
reeda’s latest has been described as
“sweet-natured” with its “witty com-
bo of humour and human drama”
that results in “charm and abundant
human sympathy.”
Some complaints here however, as
some noted the ﬁlm overall “makes
little emotional connection” and how
the director “never quite manages to
infuse it with the same depth of feel-
ing his main character goes through.”
And here’s the harshest one of all “[it]
has overall depth and tenor of a Life-
time movie.”
Amat Escalante’s unﬂiching (that’s
just a fancy way of saying very, very
violent) look at the shocking eﬀects
of poverty, crime and drugs on a
Mexican family polarised the critics,
some praising, others criticising, the
very use of extreme violence.
Just take this sentence for example:
“Heli may be the most optimistic ﬁlm
you will ever see in which one young
man sets another’s genitals on ﬁre.”
Ouch, and you start getting the full
picture.
Successfully juggling four sepa-
rate stories that take place all over
the modern-day China, all of them
inspired by real-life headlines, Jia
Zhangke’s A Touch of Sin was the re-
cipient of the Best Screenplay.
Adding moments of shocking, bru-
tal violence into his usual style of
long takes and documentary-style
ﬁlming, it’s “a good deal more vigor-
ous” compared to his previous work
and noted this as a “departure” from
some of his past quieter ﬁlms.
In Alexander Payne’s Nebraska, a
black-and-white movie exploring the
relationship between a father and
son who embark on a road trip to col-
lect a $1 million prize, Bruce Dern is
“simply marvelous” as he “underplays
without a trace of neurosis or man-
nerism”
he ﬁlm itself received praise, as “a
bittersweet elegy for the American
extended family”, one that “builds
to a resolution that’s simultaneously
touching and deeply...sad”
Oscar-winning director of A Separa-
tion, Asghar Farhadi’s new domestic
drama won rave reviews as well as the
Best Actress trophy for its star Bejo.
Her performance is one that “ﬁnds all
the right notes” with a “surprisingly
dynamic, unsentimental central per-
formance” as a woman seeking a di-
vorce to marry another man.
She “embodies a particular brand
of hotheaded, hopelessly romantic
Gallic femininity without tilting into
cliche”
Totally shouldn’t
have said “do what
you think is nice”
to the hairdresser
So busy with ex-
ams I haven’t even
had time to shave

