TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maximilian Eggl
ey, an article about the
Xbox One, I hear you ex-
claim, shouldn’t that be
in the gaming section?
Well there probably will
be one, describing all its features and
games that will be available at release.
However this article will focus on the
Xbox One’s, as long with others, intru-
sion into the multimedia market.
he idea that you could get a device
that controlled all your diﬀerent devic-
es, in fact in some cases making them
obsolete, has been around for a while.
he Apple TV was one of the ﬁrst of
these devices produced a big name com-
pany. However Apple TV has never re-
ally hit oﬀ (well not as popular as other
Apple products) with the general pub-
lic, due to the fact that it was not very
general in its abilities, limiting you to
watching movies/TV shows over iTunes
or streaming from your computer. his
FRIDAY 31 MAY
24
H
your current set up to be connected to
your new console. Apart from serving
as an entertainment hub it can access
the internet, run Windows 8 apps, let
you watch TV, Skype calls, play blu-
ray discs, oh and did I forget to men-
tion, it also happens to play games.
Now that seems to be the attitude
with which Microsoft approached the
Xbox One, despite the 360 being one
of the most successful ﬂagships for the
hardcore gamer. Eight years ago when
the 360 was released, in 2005, the ﬁrst
iPhone was probably a bunch of wires
in some Apple technician’s desk and
went on to be quite a hit. So why did
Microsoft totally change their appar-
ently winning strategy? Smartphones
and tablets, that’s why. With the ad-
vent of free-to-play games and casual
gamers, the money in the market has
moved away from the classic niche of
the console gamer, where, apart from
the big name titles, there are rarely any
success stories. herefore with this
strategy of controlling your multime-
dia as well as oﬀering a quality gaming
console, Microsoft is hoping to appeal
to those casual as well as hardcore
gamers, and thus maximise proﬁts.
Now what does this strategy mean
for the major competitors of the Xbox
One, the Wii U and the PS4. Well Sony
seems to have retained the same strat-
egy with the PS4 as the PS3, and in fact
Nintendo has tried to go the opposite
way with making the Wii U: appealing
more to the hardcore gamer than the
Wii. So it seems that the Xbox’s strat-
Xbox One: Ton of fun?
Apparently the one and only center of your new Multimedia world!
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date with the
newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
Mini Galaxy
Samsung seems to have inadvertently shown off one of its new products, the
Galaxy S4 Mini. For a short while it was possible to see the, at this point un-
released product, in the Samsung Online store. The site has now been taken
down, but the existence of the Mini is all but confirmed. Purportedly to be
officially announced on the 20th of June, it will carry some respectable specs
and aim to replicate its big brothers success in the mid-range smartphone
market.
iWatch the Advert
Watching the new iPhone 5 advert, some of the more sharp-eyed of you may
have noticed one of the people in the video wearing a square wrist watch.
Apple are supposedly masters of advertising, so that may suggest this was a
purposeful measure to further increase the hype surrounding the iWatch. It
does seem to have striking similarity to artist’s renditions, so you never know.
On the other hand, the actor could have just had a really ugly watch.
Buzz, Buzzing no more
Google Buzz, one of the tech giant’s failed attempts at a social network is now
being closed down for good. All the data on the website will go into a private
Google server for all the stuff that people kept private, and all the stuff on the
profile that was public will be going into a public server where the general
public will still be able to view everything.
Facebook phone fail
The HTC First, aka the Facebook phone has officially failed. The Android
device, which was hyped pre-launch has failed to sell in the US, even after
the price was dropped to $0.99. This rather cold reception has now led to
the European, including UK, launch to be postponed indefinitely. Facebook
themselves have called the phone a failure. Perhaps this just goes to show that
people do not want their whole phone dominated by their Facebook account.
What’s Black, White and Flat all
over?
Apparently iOS 7! Now that Jonny Ive has taken over the design of the new
iOS after Scott Forstall’s dismissal, speculators on the internet are coming up
with the most interesting rumours. The first no-brainer that I’ve come across
is that Ive, who hates the skeumomorphic design, will get rid of the faux leath-
er as well as all the other “real life” approximations, to make way for a cleaner,
flatter look more in line with the actual devices themselves. There are several
concept videos on the web right now, and most of them look really good, so
have a look if it tickles your fancy!
On A Personal Note
Remember those epic bluetooth headphones I bought about 6 months ago?
Yeah, well I managed to kinda break them by stepping on them. In a study
induced haze, I didn’t watch my step and managed to snap the plastic bit that
attaches one of the headphones to the actual bridge. They still work perfectly,
except that they won’t stay on my head. Well, every cloud has a silver lining,
right? In my case that silver lining is an upgrade in the form a 5 pound more
(£25) pair, from the same company, which have not let me down. In fact they
are even a bit more sturdy than the previous ones ( I hope).
”
“
Apple TV; just
another device
in your bur-
geoning pile of
junk surround-
ing your TV.
Tech editor
egy is unique in this market. here
are two possible consequences of
this uniqueness. One, the average
console gamer is pissed oﬀ at Micro-
soft for betraying them and selling
out, meaning they will probably buy
the PS4. Two, if the hardcore gamer
doesn’t care what his console does
apart from oﬀering the best gaming
experience possible, then the Xbox
seems just as attractive as its com-
petitors. he big diﬀerence is that
even if Microsoft loses some of those
true gamers, it will likely get more of
the not so gaming inclined folks who
like their devices to make their lives
somewhat easier.
Maximilian Eggl
”
“
even if they
loses some
of those true
gamers, it will
likely get not
so gaming
inclined folks
does not make other devices obsolete
or replace them, in fact it’s just another
device in your burgeoning pile of junk
surrounding your TV.
Now let the Xbox One step into the
light. Firstly the name; the Xbox One
itself refers to the fact that it will be the
only device you will need in your home
(except for the Screen, TV-box etc.), and
will serve as the hub of all your enter-
tainment needs. hus it seems that eve-
rything will be controlled by this central
hub, which certainly does help to reduce
the copious amounts of remote controls
that lay around. It not only has a HDMI
input, but also an output allowing for
I SEEEEEEEE YOU

