SPORT
31
FRIDAY 31 MAY
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Riding and Polo Chair
Alex Savell
I’d like to say that there is some really
good reason for how long this article
has taken to come out. You’d think giv-
en this is my personal highest achieve-
ment at the Polo Nationals in the last
5 years that I’d have managed to get it
out quickly. But no, life and, more an-
noyingly, work goes on. However, as we
close in on our trip to the summer edi-
tion of the Polo Nationals in early June I
have ﬁnally managed to sit down (at the
pub) and whip my laptop out antiso-
cially to write up my hazy recollections
of a cold weekend in February and what
looks from the outside like an industri-
al estate a little outside of Rugby which
is, in fact, a polo ground.
Imperial this year managed to beg,
borrow or steal enough cars so that
most of us could rock up under our
own steam fairly easily with just one
medic having to join us via the train late
on the ﬁrst day. However, by this stage
our beginners, already irate about pre-
tournament politics interfering with
their fun, had to swallow their anger
and hop on ponies sporting their very
fetching ICU Lions polo shirts kindly
supplied by the Polo Bar at Rydges Ho-
tel Kensington. I should probably point
out what these “politics” were. Invari-
ably any sport involving horse lovers
(a pretty nutty breed of person at the
best of times) will bring out the worst
in people. And where a slight mixup
with the division entries meant that we
were relying on another team to do the
decent thing and swap with us. It all
looked sorted for some time until the
president of a large student polo club,
based in the capital and comprising a
number of diﬀerent universities (that
shall remain nameless), kicked up a fuss
and destroyed the whole thing leaving
us stuck in Beginner 1a. Suddenly wor-
ried about the safety of my players in a
group that would include a number of
teams far more conﬁdent on horseback
than them I watched with my heart in
my mouth as they took on Portsmouth.
his is where my memories start to
get hazy. Which, while I would like to
blame it on the intervening time, is
probably due to the fact that most of
my cheering time was spent with a pint
in my hand. Despite a few hairy mo-
ments when I thought one of my play-
ers, Mike, might make an unceremoni-
ous exit from his pony, Midnight knows
his job well and gave Mike the sort of
smooth and forgiving ride he needed
and to the sound of one embarrassingly
loud cheer from me Imperial managed
to pull ahead to an early lead. he chuk-
ka continued, hard fought and scrappy,
with Portsmouth scoring two and Im-
perial managing to increase their tally
to stay in touch. With the game being
only 7 minutes long and 4 goals already
scored everything looked set for a draw
and then eventually the more conﬁdent
riding of the Portsmouth girls took it’s
toll and they pulled ahead for a 3-2 vic-
tory. Never underestimate how good at
riding girls from Portsmouth are.
I should introduce the rest of the
team. But our number 3 thinks that
polo is an embarrassing sport that
might get her teased by her friends
for being posh. As a girl who’s favour-
ite word (and nickname) is “Shan’t” I
doubt any of her friends were in any
doubt as it was. Marina on the other
hand ﬁnished up the team of three, an-
other tiny little blonde girl. “Shan’t” got
oﬀ of Cura with some mixed feelings
about the match; many people say that
90% of polo is your horse and while I
think at our level things tend to swing
back to our incompetence making the
greatest diﬀerence it’s true that if you
and your pony don’t get on you will just
be out of it with no way to get back.
Still, with a change sorted for match 2
they headed swiftly out to play again
against Warwick (a team with a reputa-
tion for dominating the Beginner divi-
sions). Again our guys held their own
but just couldn’t compete and it was a
very disheartened Beginner group that
left the yard that evening, however with
intentions for having a decent night of
drinking in the pub.
Unfortunately, at this stage my mem-
ories really do get hazy, though I do
remember I ate a huge meal that was
far too large for any sane person. It did
give me a chance to get back to the polo
on Friday morning. Myself, Jon and Ol-
ivia were in the prestigious Novice 1
division and were pretty excited to see
what we could do when we got on. I
can’t for the life of me remember who
we played in our ﬁrst round match,
it may have been Portsmouth again,
however I do remember the score: 6-0.
We pretty conclusively smashed them
into the ground. Jon went on a spree of
goals and after the ﬁrst throw in I think
they only made it over the half way line
once from a free hit before we were
back after them. Trying hard not to let
the score line go to our heads we waited
for match 2. Against the much more
worrying Cambridge team involving
a player well known to us as someone
that has played at the level above… but
then so have both me and Jon before
now so we were aware we’d have to
ﬁght hard.
hings did not go well with us start-
ing behind and me at the back having
to ﬁght oﬀ strong attack after strong at-
tack. Jon and Olivia managed to mount
plenty of attacks of their own keep-
ing us in contention and winning us a
penalty to keep the scores level. hese
have been our Achilles’ heel in the past
and my heart was racing as I lined up
to take it, my words from a few days
before ringing in my ears; “I’ve never
scored a penalty in an arena match
before”
. he match ended 3 apiece and
dread set in as we realised we were go-
ing to be penalties for the match and
Jon and Olivia both agreed that I would
be up ﬁrst. If I recall correctly we ac-
ICU Riding and Polo celebrate victory at the Arena Polo Nationals
Lions Rampant at Polo Nationals
tually got through a full round of pen-
alties and were still tied, but it was all
over shortly after with the ﬁrst penalty
of sudden death making the diﬀerence.
We were through to the top four.
he Beginners were enjoying a day
oﬀ and slowly resolving to enjoy their
ﬁnal chukkas no matter what. Takea-
way Chinese and plenty of drinks at
our B&B were the order of the evening
as we were all a bit knackered for the
pub. Plenty of banter ensued and while
I was just about okay the next morn-
ing I somewhat assume that some of
the others were a little the worse for
wear come Saturday, even if they didn’t
let on. A match each on Saturday left
the beginners happier with a nil-nil
draw where they were competitive the
whole way through, yet still not the vic-
tors. Perhaps my most fun match of
the nationals was against Sterling that
afternoon despite a couple of notably
dodgey moments. A harsh call against
us led to a 2-0 deﬁcit in the ﬁrst minute.
And Sterling were by no means going
to let us get it back easily, challenging
our goal several more times, stopped
once primarily by a player tumbling oﬀ
of his pony practically underneath our
ponies. Still, we were quickly getting
goals back and my overriding memory
of the chukka is a moment galloping
down the pitch where an opponent
light hearted asked Jon if he would ever
stop appealing for fouls and I had the
time to reply that it seemed extremely
unlikely. he match ended 4-2 in our
favour and the Sterling lads were ex-
tremely gracious in their defeat despite
mutterings before the match about our
team being ‘unfair’
.
he penultimate night of any given
polo tournament is usually a fairly
messy players party. And this Saturday
was no diﬀerent. I think I saw more of
Jon’s flesh than I ever needed to and
some cunning individual came up with
the remarkably pretentious idea of the
“Champager Bomb”
. Which, for any-
one that likes the idea of Champagne
and Jagermeister tastes absolutely foul
by all accounts. Something about us
means Imperial seem to always have
a 9am chukka on Sunday and as such
the beginners were on relatively good
behaviour; the same cannot be said
for Jon, though he continues to claim
he was actually ill on Sunday not ri-
diculously hung over. Still, my team
spirit remained more or less intact and
I did manage to blearily watch the be-
ginners starting up this year’s London
Derby against ULU. Much as I’d have
liked to work up some proper rivalry at
9am slightly hung over it is hard to do
anything but club together and gener-
ally cheer everyone on. Our guys put
up a good showing, with even the ULU
spectators admitting that there was a
visible diﬀerence from them on day 1.
However, as close as they kept it our
beginners went down 2-1 to claim the
unfortunate wooden spoon.
All hope of redeeming ourselves then
rested on the Novices and a ﬁnal with
our training partners and good friends
Oxford Brookes. Much as in the warm
up arena we were all happy to crack a
few jokes with Sophie, Georgie and
Saul it was clear that every one of us
wanted it badly. he chukka was close,
physical and scrappy; both teams happy
to muscle in and ruin each other’s play
rather than allow anyone a real chance
to make flowing runs up and down the
pitch. Frustration started to set in as a
fewobviousfoulsgotmissedbytheum-
pire and with the clock counting down
Brookes were ahead by one. A last foul
against Jon, adding to his already split-
ting headache, gave us a penalty from
25 yards and a ﬁnal chance to level the
score and we sent it home comfortably
despite the pressure.
So the ﬁnal eventually came down
yet again to penalties and with us up
ﬁrst we put the pressure on, putting
yet another against the backboard and
laying to rest our demons (the usually
unreliable nature of Imperial penal-
ties). Georgie Bolton lined up to try to
equalise. She struck it well but low and
the ball bobbled slightly to the left, then
slightly more and eventually caught the
wall just wide. It took a few seconds to
realise that these penalties were sud-
den death before the elation hit and we
knew we were taking home a national
championship title. Alongside a pretty
hefty trophy Jon managed to pick up
the Novice MVP award and we all went
home on a high. Time now for the sum-
mer version playing on grass and hope-
fully a tournament that isn’t quite so
cold and wet!

