COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
FRIDAY 31 MAY
ing presence of commercial inﬂuence at
the Sports ground during these events,
but this year was frankly unbelievable.
On arriving at the gate to the ground
an oﬃcious man in a security uniform
met me and told my family and me
that we had to park our cars in a space
a great distance from the pitch next to
a set of bins. I was told that I could not
park where I had parked every year for
the last 30 years over-viewing the pitch
- so that in the event of rain my fam-
ily could retire to the car and still be
able to see their old dad give the young
lads of the uni an education in the
art of hockey, because that space was
reserved for “the ﬁrst team”. Indeed
there was a barrier across more than
half of the car park which was manned
by another oﬃcious man in a security
hut and beyond this barrier was a set
of ostentatious cars belonging, as it
turned out, to players from some half-
baked football club, none of which have
probably got a set of A’ levels let along
been enrolled on a course at our treas-
ured college in central London. I asked
Mick Reynolds, the out going grounds-
man - whose ﬁrst year in charge was
the same year that I entered as a fresh-
er at college - what was going on and
he expressed dismay, explaining that
alumni and students were not allowed
in the vast majority of the clubhouse
because the college had let it out to this
football club! What was more my 10
year old son was thrown oﬀ one of the
football pitches where he had wanted
to kick his football in one of the very
many unused goals because suppos-
edly it belonged to the reserve squad.
Let me get something straight here -
I was appalled to see that my college
had sold out to proﬁt, and that today
alumni and students came last in the
order of priority for use of college fa-
cilities. What is going on? Have you all
gone completely insane? You are a uni-
versity - you are meant to educate the
young men and women of this country
and in the process, make Britain great.
You are not meant to be selling out to
the highest bidder and squeezing stu-
dents into a corner by a set of bins.
Students are the entire raison d’etre of
the college and aside from matters of
security there should be no place that
they should not be allowed to go.
his is particularly the case with
Harlington and the Boat House in
Putney. It seems the College has con-
veniently forgotten where these facili-
ties came from and who paid the price
for them. Just to remind you - if you
read the governing body minutes dat-
ing back to the period just after World
War I - as I have done - and trace the
history forward to today you will learn
that Harlington and the Boat House in
Putney were bought with the proceeds
of sale of the War Memorial Ground in
Wembly North London. hat in turn
the War Memorial Ground was bought
with funds raised by a trust estab-
lished to commemorate the fallen in
WWI a trust called the War Memorial
Fund. hese grounds were bought with
the blood of fallen students in World
War I and through the charitable giv-
ing of other students and their families
at that time who all expected the mon-
ey they were giving to go for the good
of students. To instead put students
at the bottom of the line of priority is
a gross breach of trust and makes me
feel sick in my stomach. When I was
president of the ICU in 1987 the then
Chairman of the Governing Body a
High Court Judge recognised the im-
portance of the heritage of these sport-
ing assets and forced the college to re-
turn them to trust for the good of the
students. It now seems that his ruling
has been completely disregarded by
current college administration and not
only do I and my children have to be
marginalized by someone who does not
even work for the college on the one day
that I wish to show oﬀ the wonders of
my student heritage to my family but it
appears that the students have to play
second ﬁddle the entire year around.
I would like to understand for the
sake of the fallen students from World
War I and their memory, exactly how
much money is being made from the
letting of these student facilities to out-
side bodies and how the college justi-
ﬁed the detriment suﬀered by the stu-
dent body as worth the beneﬁt of the
money raise, and I would further like
to see how this money is being spent to
the beneﬁt of students and in particu-
lar student sporting activities. Please
note that I will not be swayed by any
use of this money that in my view is
being used to reduce the grant that
central college has been obliged to pay
to support student sport and other rec-
reational activities since the establish-
ment of the college back at the turn of
the last century. I expect to be able to
see some demonstrable improvement
in beneﬁts to the students that has
arisen out of the letting of these facili-
ties which might make it worthwhile
my family being stuck by a set of bins
and us all (students, alumni and their
families) being treated like third class
citizens.
Ian Howgate
Imperial College Union President
1987-88
I have to say that it is my view that
this communication should be going
to the Rector of the College and in my
day as a student we would have had
the right to take a letter straight to his
door. However of course in my day I
could have raised this matter to the
rector either in my weekly meetings
with him, by picking up the telephone
or by raising it at the Governing Body
or Finance and Executive committees.
However it seems that in today’s world
even the alumni have to take a back
seat in regard to communications with
college oﬃcials and hence I am forced
to write to you.
You will probably have grasped that
this is not a letter of commendation
to the college but a letter of complaint
and I would like a formal response and
explanation.
Two weeks back I attended my regu-
lar alumni event at the college by par-
ticipating in the president’s match day
celebration where alumni and students
meet and come face to face across the
playing ﬁelds at Harlington and battle
out for supremacy. I have been par-
ticipating in this particular event since
1984 when as a fresher I was selected
as the university centre half and had
the privilege of playing against some
ex-students who promptly taught me a
thing or two about hockey.
What I and others learned about
team work, fair play, strategy and
determination on the playing ﬁelds
at Harlington during our time at
IC should not be under-estimated.
Frankly I believe that it was far more
important training for my time in in-
dustry than what was given to me in
the lecture theatres and labs at the
South Kensington site - 99% of which I
would never use again.
Over recent years I had noticed a ris-
Letters
felixonline.co.uk/contact
By selling use of the sports grounds to the highest bidder, College
is forgetting the families of the WWI dead who paid for them

