FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 18 JANUARY
Engineering a better world
ave you ever sat in a
boring lecture and
thought: ‘I wonder
how I could help make
the world a better
place?’ Or been stuck behind a bunch
of chatty teenagers on the tube and
wondered ‘why should I even bother?’
Well, be prepared to have all these and
more of your important life questions
answered. We have just the event for
all of your queries!
For the ﬁrst time ever, Imperial will
host his Holiness Radhanath Swami,
who has traversed the deep under-
bellies and glorifying heights of the
world, spreading his message of social
change. his hursday, on the 21st of
March, Radhanath Swami will be dis-
cussing how Imperial students can
engineer a better world, in an event
creatively titled ‘Engineering a Better
World’.
Drawing from a vast array of expe-
riences and the extensive success of
his social projects, Radhanath Swami
will be exploring the challenges facing
our generation in improving the world
and considering how we can save this
planet before the next Mayan Apoca-
lypse.
Wondering how your questions will
be answered? Well: there will also be
a question-and-answer session for the
attendees, so bring your best ones. For
the tech-savvy (most of you), you can
even post questions online at www.
eabw.com. Don’t worry about food
either, we know how hungry students
can get: there will be refreshments
available on the day.
So who is Radhanath Swami? Born
Richard Slavin, in Chicago, Radhanath
Swami faced a sense of alienation with
suburban life and its social injustices
as a teen and, as you do, travelled the
world looking to ﬁnd meaning and
purpose. Now based in Mumbai, he
runs extensive voluntary projects to
help better the lives of people from all
walks of life.
Projects include: ‘Bhaktivedanta
Hospital’, a free-to-use hospital that
treats the most deprived of patients
and the Govardhan Ecovillage, a self-
sustained eco-friendly village near the
outskirts of bustling Mumbai. In ad-
dition to various other humanitarian
projects, Radhanath Swami also runs a
program most students would appre-
ciate: ‘Midday Meals’, which provides
food to deprived school children. It
can be tough surviving on microwave
pizza and cup noodles as university
students, but imagine having no food,
everyday. his is what ‘Midday Meals’
tries to prevent.
Sure, Imperial students are busy:
with coursework, making the library
your home and dates to pretend to be
on, but this could change your lives.
Radhanath Swami has been all over
the world, visiting Cambridge and
Houses of Parliament to give talks
and meeting with personalities such
as Barack Obama and the Dalai Lama.
It’s now our chance! Having also given
talks at companies such as Ford and
banks like HSBC, he should ﬁt right in
with Imperial students, seeing as most
of them become bankers anyways.
Imperial is home to countless pro-
jects and societies that aim to make
the world a better place. his would be
the ideal pep talk for your members,
and a great way to explore new ways
to make a greater impact (particularly
with society elections coming up). For
those that are ‘just not bothered with
all this charity crap’: come along to
ﬁnd out why it is so important! Even
Russell Brand thinks this man has “got
the answer”! Inspiration. Answers to
Life. Free Food. What more do you
need?
‘Engineering a Better World’ takes
place on hursday 21st of March in
Clore Lecture heatre, Huxley. he
event begins at 1800 and light refresh-
ments will be served towards the end,
along with a small mingling session.
For more information please visit
www.eabw.co.uk, where you can post
your questions for the speaker. Entry is
free, but spaces are limited so we rec-
ommend that you register for the event.
Chaplaincy brings you an unmissable evening with His Holiness Radhanath Swami
H

