Bees feel the caffeine buzz
Philippa Skett sips a Starbucks whilst writing about how bees get their own daily fix
A
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
16
commons.wikimedia.org
drink usually associated
with those that have
too little time on their
hands and too much
to do, coﬀee is not just
a beverage but has become a lifestyle
choice. What you drink is “personal,”
according to Starbucks, making this
caﬀeinated concoction sound more
like an outﬁt choice than a quick ﬁx to
a lagging brain. However, it emerged
this week that it is not just humans
that indulge in the caﬀeine kick – bees
are feeling more than their usual buzz
too.
A study published by researchers
this week at Newcastle University have
found that honey bees - those that pol-
linate ﬂowers whilst feeding on their
nectar – regularly indulge in a caﬀeine
ﬁx to increase their memory. Caﬀeine,
a usually bitter molecule, is used by
plants as a defence mechanism to dis-
courage consumption by herbivores,
but is known at low levels to enhance
memory and cognitive performance.
his study suggests that caﬀeine can
also have a pharmacological role by
manipulating the bee’s behaviour, and
ensuring the bee keeps coming back to
the same plant to feed repeatedly.
he study measured the level of caf-
feine in the nectar of three species of
plants, and saw that honeybees that
frequented those plants with higher
levels displayed a threefold increase
in the likelihood of remembering the
scent of the ﬂower. With this response,
the honeybees are therefore more like-
ly to feed again on the same species
of ﬂower, increasing the possibility of
successfully pollination and keeping
the circle of life turning.
he caﬀeine induces both a weak ef-
fect on the rate of learning in the bees
but also a greater eﬀect on long term
memory, with bees studied displaying
a memory span of up to three days af-
ter feeding on nectar enhanced by caf-
feine. hese clever bees could remem-
ber the scent of the ﬂower they had
fed from, increasing their likelihood
of returning to the ﬂower in the fu-
ture. hese bees would also associate
the ﬂower with reward, meaning they
would be more likely to feed again on
its nectar and in turn become much
more faithful pollinators.
Not only that, but these clever ﬂow-
ers have managed to get the balance
just right – with caﬀeine naturally a
repellent, concentrations found in
the plants tested were high enough to
induce a response in the honey bees
behaviour, but low enough to ensure
they were not put oﬀ by the bad taste
and would stop feeding altogether.
his seems to be just one more of the
many goldilocks-type scenarios found
in nature, tailored towards perfection
by natural selection over the millions
of years.
his research is crucial in the un-
derstanding of the foraging behaviour
of bees – with population declines
of these ecosystem busy-bodies will
come a pollination crisis that could
damage agriculture signiﬁcantly. Such
declines are attributed to a number of
causes including the widespread use
of insecticides. Global warming too
may be causing a change in the ﬂower-
ing patterns of plants, altering nectar
availability. Furthermore, with the 50
native species of bees in the UK de-
clining over the last 60 years to around
25, invasive alien species may also be
contributing to a notable decline of
our own bees, and the eﬀect this may
have too on pollination of our crops
long-term is uncertain.
Fornowthough,nexttimeyouknock
back that espresso, cast a thought to
the bees out there which are doing the
same. But remember too that these lit-
tle guys are slowly in decline, so make
sure you recycle that cup when you are
ﬁnished getting your early morning
kick, so the bees may keep on buzzing
long after your own buzz ﬁzzles out.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1228806
SCIENCE BITES
Choccy and the dangers towards doggies
Easter eggs are lining the shelves, but watch out
Chocolate is well known to be toxic to
dogs – but why?
Cocoa, the basic ingredient of choco-
late, contains a compound known as
theobromine (which doesn’t actually
contain any bromine), a mild stimulant.
In general the darker the chocolate the
higher the theobromine concentration.
Upon ingestion, theobromine is broken
down within the liver into various excret-
ed metabolic products. For humans this process is fairly rapid, and theobromine
can be harmlessly excreted from the body in approximately 6-10 hours.
Dogs, especially smaller ones, get the short end of the stick: theobromine
takes a lot longer to push from their bodies, and as a result it stays circulat-
ing, creating a potentially lethal situation. Unless treated immediately vom-
iting and diarrhea are followed by an increased breathing rate and heart-
beat, epileptic-like seizures and even death. Contacting a vet is mandatory.
Catsareactuallymoreacutelysensitivetochocolatethandogs,withanevenmore
reducedabilitytometabolisetheobromine.However,thisriskisoffsetbyacat’sge-
neticinabilitytotastesweetness,henceareducedaffinitytowardsyourEastereggs.
I was going to insert an insect-related
pun here, but I couldn’t bee bothered.
Resistance on the Rise
Laurence Pope Science Editor
As any good Imperial student knows
antibiotic resistant bacteria are a grow-
ing threat to human health. he threat
has been heightened once again by a
recent report produced by the govern-
ment’s chief medical oﬃcer, calling the
problem a “ticking timebomb”.
Professor Dame Sally Davies pub-
lished the second volume of her report
earlier this week, urging the govern-
ment to bring up the issue at the up-
coming G8 summit, which the UK
holds presidency over this year. She
also called for antibiotic resistance to
be placed on the government’s Na-
tional Risk Register of Civil Emergen-
cies, which currently covers such dis-
asters as ﬂooding and terrorist attacks.
Dame Sally also claimed that phar-
maceutical companies need to be
encouraged to develop new antibiot-
ics: right now there’s no incentive for
pharmaceutical companies to develop
them: “antibiotics will only be used for
a week or two when they’re needed,
and then they have a limited life span
because of resistance developing any-
way.”
No new antibiotics have been intro-
duced into the public domain since
1987, whilst bacteria have been getting
on and developing resistance in the in-
tervening 25 or so years.
he problem has stemmed primarily
through antibiotic misuse. Improper
use of antibodies, such as not complet-
ing a full course or using them for viral
infections, destroys a large proportion
of the bacterial population. he survi-
vors are then left to replicate. Because
these survivors likely had a genetic
advantage over the deceased populace
this advantage is passed down, result-
ing in a bacterial population more
likely to resist the drug again.
Despite the growing threat the
message doesn’t seem to be ﬁltering
through properly. Similar pleas have
been made by Dame Sally’s predeces-
sors, with warnings of the growing
threat spanning back to 1999.
Dame Sally’s report can be read at
http://www.dh.gov.uk/health/cat-
egory/publications/reports-publi-
cations/

