FEATURES BOOKS PUZZLES
Cawfee Easter reading Two whole pages
You’ll probably be needing a
bit of a perk up at some point
during the revision process.
Here is a guide to the best
places to do that.
A roundup of the best books
coming out for you to review.
Maciej, the Books Editor, gives
youfivebooks,asreadingmakes
you feel like you’re revising.
It’s the end of term, you need
to find some kind of way to dis-
tract yourself from the exams
looming over you. What to do?
Nonograms. Obvs.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>> 8 >>22 >>44
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor
Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Thomas Lim, Thomas Bell Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Sam Lav Massive Bellend Simon Worthington
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Hall so hard, College
can’t affordably locate
me
nd we’re back to some
more of the same. Yeah,
I get it, I know, it’s been
going on for a while. But,
hey, if we all just forget
this and say “this is boring now let’s talk
about the email storm or something
else” then we do a disservice to future
students. It’s exactly what everyone at
the top wants us to do: just forget it,
get absorbed in our work/life, and let
them just do whatever they want.
Here is a serious question: is it really
10 million pounds to refurbish Evelyn
Gardens? If it is then that is surely
worth it. 10 million pounds for thou-
sands of students’ welfare? It is a lot of
money to us, but not to a big institu-
tion like Imperial. They made ten times
that much in just one year. Of course
it’s not as simple as that as they are
investing in other things, but surely
student welfare, and the chance for
all students to be able to have a great
experience, is worth it? On the subject
of Garden Hall, what more can be said:
a lot of students have got behind the
campaign. They’ve really gone all out
on this, and the message to College
is clear: it is the most oversubscribed
hall, it is cheap and close to campus,
it is what students want. You wanted
student input, you got it.
New Campus
The new campus has been launched.
This is for postgrads only. Much excite-
ment for all as BoJo was chilling with
the Rector and I was forgetting to bring
my camera card. The fact that I felt a
bit underdressed aside, this could be
something great for Imperial – that is,
if we use it wisely. The aims of it are
to built an excellent research centre
(obviously, why would you aim to build
a shit one?) that turns research into a
money making venture. Whilst that
statement may be so souless that it
will probably be cast in any new Twi-
light movies, it doesn’t have to be all
bad. Making money isn’t in and of itself
an evil thing. It’s what you do to make
money that can become a bit sketchy.
It is worrying as this ideology of mak-
ing money from science could lead to
more catastrofucks like the Life Sci-
ences cuts that happened two years
ago. I am worried that researchers
will feel on edge, and as though they
must immediately be showing some
kind of amazing money spinner from
their research. The truth is that sci-
ence for science’s sake often produces
that result. What I’m saying is this: we
can’t go bankrupt, but let the scientists
breath a little bit. Don’t let them care-
lessly throw away heaps of money,
sure, but don’t straightjacket them.
BUCS, Elections, and exams
AquickwordonBUCS:itisn’tbroke,why
are they fixing it?
The elections are coming to a close.
Results will hopefully be announced on
Friday. If you haven’t voted yet, and, sta-
tisticallythemajorityofstudentshaven’t,
then vote. Really think about it, and
make an informed decision. You can al-
ways RON and abstain if you really have
no clue where to place your vote. Re-
member Uncle Ben’s words: “with great
power comes great responsibility”. Good
luck to all of the candidates that are run-
ning. It’s the end of term and I will be in
Metric watching it all unfold, or attempt-
ing to read my phone doing that ‘one eye
closed’ thing you do when wasted (it all
depends on when I finish all the deliver-
ies and choose to clock off).
Two terms in and one more to go for
me, and elections has made me remem-
ber this time last year. There are some
things I still really want to do with Felix,
and I am now, in public, pledging to give
it my all for just one last term, in the hope
of making Felix all I wanted it to be. Have
a great holiday everyone and good luck if
you have exams!
CLASSIFIEDS Ha
ca
m
Volunteers wanted for experiments in-
vestigating balance and perception
If you are interested in taking part you must be aged
18-65 and not suffering from vertigo, dizziness, bal-
ance or hearing problems. The research is at Charing
Cross
Hospital, takes about one hour. You will be reim-
bursed for your time.
The research project has been approved by London-
Fulham Ethics Committee
To find out more, please contact Dr Ed Roberts:
neuro.otologylab@gmail.com
A

