ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
DavidBowieis@V&A-Oh!youprettythings,theyhaveonlydecidedtobringmethe
discoking. I’vebeenwaitingforyou,starman.That’senough.TheV&Ahavebeengiven
unprecedented access to David Bowie and are displaying costumes, handwritten lyrics
andphotographsinamajorretrospective. Go watchthatman!March23-August11
Retrograde Progression @ Blyth Gallery - LeoSoc’s new show has few pieces relat-
ing to the title... while this may be confusing or altogether offputting to some, I
assure you it does not really matter. The works are an interesting showcase of the
hidden artistic talent at Imperial and you can even comment on the utter useless-
ness of art if you should so wish. Now - 22 March.
Othello @ The National Theatre - It has been some years since the wonderful ac-
tor Adrian Lester took to the London stage. I saw him for the last time some eight
years ago in Henry V; his performance was unforgettable, and this time around his
Othello should be unmissable. Starts on 16 April. Tickets from £12.
Carsten Nicolai: Observatory @IBID Projects - Nicolai envelops and hypnotises with his
minimalist grids, lines and sounds. In his new show, it is minimalist structures that pull
youintotheotherwiseemptyspacesandafeelingofwideopendespair.UntilMarch19.
Don’t give a tosca?
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle was done by Dharani Kishore in a Ma-
terialslecture,whatelse?
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
20
rama, passion and a
thrilling unravelling
of events makes Tosca
an opera that will keep
you on your toes during
every act. Set against the backdrop of
turbulent Rome in the 1800s, this op-
era could well be equated with a mod-
ern Hollywood drama.
It is named after one of the main
characters, Floria Tosca, a powerful
opera singer who lives under the pro-
tection of the queen of Naples. Tosca
and her lover, the idealistic painter
Mario Cavaradossi, are at the core
of this story. We follow their misad-
ventures over the course of the day in
which their lives are upturned by the
intervention of one of the most ma-
levolent opera villains ever: Scarpia,
the Chief of Police.
he ﬁrst act of Tosca opens on a
calm and quiet Roman morning in
the candle-lit church of Sant’Andrea
della Valle, conjuring a romantic vi-
sion which will soon be broken. Tosca
and Mario’s beautifully moving love
duet is all too soon shaken by the ter-
rifying appearance of Scarpia, who is
searching mercilessly for Angelotti,
a fugitive escaped from Castel Sant’
Angelo.
A special mention must be made for
the magically crafted set design of this
outstanding production. he opening
scene unveils the interior of a two-
level church, illuminated only by the
soft lights of candles. he levels are
separated by an intricate iron fence,
whose door leads onto a winding stair
case that provides access to the main
chapel, where on the left Mario Ca-
varadossi is painting a mural with a
religious theme.
he beauty of the scenery is sur-
passed in the second act, during
which we are welcomed inside the
elaborate Palazzo Farnese, Scarpia’s
headquarters. Evoking the grandeur
of ancient times, the stage is domi-
nated by a giant sculpture of Saint
Michael, contorted and menacingly
holding a spear. his stage synthe-
sises the drama that Puccini’s music
brings to life in this second act. Mario
Cavaradossi is being tortured out of
stage by Scarpia, who is ruthlessly
using every means possible in order
to capture the fugitive. Tosca now
appears trapped between the suﬀer-
ing of her lover and the taut grip of
Scarpia. Torn away, she cannot but
help her lover, despite Mario’s innu-
merable pleas for silence.
Puccini’s music storms throughout
the whole act encapsulating the gush
of emotions that take the stage. Rage,
power, lust, despair and piety all rise
and are subdued throughout.
his opera is of epic proportions
and is not meant to reﬂect real life,
but rather to deliver a condensed and
acutely dramatic take on real life. It is
diﬃcult to identify oneself fully with
any of the characters, although one
can feel oneself swept into the play; it
gives us a taste of an extreme version
of events, such as we would usually
only experience in a dilute form in our
daily lives.
Tosca’s ﬁnal act delivers a dramatic
ending of an intensity only matched
by Shakespearean plays. As the night
gives away and the Roman bells start
to toll, we are shown a misty terrace
of the Castel Sant’Angelo. he space
appears to defy any sense of perspec-
tive, precluding an uneasy sensation
of deception, which our main charac-
ters will share.
However, without revealing more,
just allow me to encourage any stu-
dent to take an evening free to feel de-
lighted by this enthralling opera.
Tosca runs from 2 – 26 March and 9
Enhanced interro-
gation techniques
are not funny
Rocio Molina thinks you should
D
Boris Johnson
comissions statue

