ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 MARCH 21
he Barbican’s art gallery is haunted by
the ghosts of avant-garde. Possessed
pianos play atonal compositions,
while invisible dancers pitter-patter
across the halls, and long-dead voices
call out in French. his is the sound-
scape against which the exhibition The
Bride and the Bachelors is set, form-
ing the mise en scène for a production
which tells the story of a Dadaist giant
and the New York scene he inspired.
In this tale, the ‘Bride’ is Marcel Du-
champ, the radical French artist whose
‘readymades’ changed the art world
forever. he ‘Bachelors’ courting him
are the four titans of 1960s Ameri-
can avant-garde: Jasper Johns, Merce
Cunningham, John Cage, and Robert
Rauschenberg. he exhibition shows
the inﬂuence these artists had on one
another, and the enormous impact
Duchamp’s philosophy had on the arts
as a whole
Duchamp’s magnum opus, The
Bride Stripped Bare by Her Bachelors,
Even (he Large Glass), forms the fo-
cal point of the exhibition; consisting
of an ethereal, geometric ‘bride’ and
her nine mechanical ‘bachelors’, sand-
wiched between two shattered panes
of glass, the work is an exercise in
decay. Random encounters with dust,
dirt and grime have been left in by
Duchamp, making the piece a study
in chance. First conceived of in 1913,
the piece was not completed until
1923, and accompanying the piece are
reams of notes, studies and paintings
depicting the various components of
the glass. Several of Duchamp’s most
famous works, including Fountain and
Bicycle Wheel, are shown next to the
piece, and serve as an introduction
into the artist’s world.
Duchamp was the central nucleus
of a small group of New York art-
ists, brought together through the
Merce Cunningham Dance Company,
through which they collaborated.
Merce Cunningham was the chore-
ographer, John Cage was the Music
Director, Robert Rauschenberg acted
as the Resident Designer, and later
Jasper Johns became the company’s
Artistic Advisor. he show explores
this collaboration, and how the artists
inﬂuenced one another’s work. A large
portion of the opening gallery is tak-
en up by a stage, upon which dancers
from the Merce Cunningham Dance
Studio perform to a soundscape cre-
ated by French artist and ﬁlm-maker
Philippe Parreno; consisting of works
by Cage, Duchamp, and Parreno him-
self. his cycling of live and pre-re-
corded sounds introduces an element
of chance, allowing the exhibits to
change over time.
Chance was a key theme that
brought the artists together. Starting
with Duchamp’s experiments in de-
cay and motion, during which he let
strings drop through the air before
photographing how they landed, the
exhibition then moves through Cage’s
‘chance operations’, dictated by the I
Ching – a Chinese divination system.
Cage would allow the I Ching system
to determine the structure of his mu-
sic, resulting in unpredictable, atonal
compositions. Cunningham later used
the I Ching to determine where his
dancers would move upon the stage,
introducing chance into a discipline
that had previously been based upon
control and coordination.
While this system of composition
may seem revolutionary, the exhibi-
tion shows that Duchamp preceded
these by about 40 years with his Erra-
tum Musical, in which syllables from
the French deﬁnition for imprimer
were randomly paired to notes pulled
out of a hat, creating a completely ran-
dom piece of music.
his Erratum Musical is a perfect
example of a Duchamp readymade – a
piece in which Duchamp would take
existing, or found objects, and turn
them into art. he most famous ready-
made piece is his Fountain, a urinal
signed R. Mutt which was considered
the starting point for Dadaism and
caused outrage when it was created in
1917. he work is featured in the exhi-
bition alongside Bicycle Wheel, an up-
turned wheel attached to a stool. hese
readymades formed the inspiration for
the sets Rauschenberg designed for
Cunningham, and inﬂuenced his own
Combine paintings, made from a mix-
ture of traditional media and found
objects.
Taking this one step further,
Rauschenberg later began to create
sculptures from solely readymade
objects; Music Box (Elemental Sculp-
ture), created in 1953, consists of a
nail studded box containing small peb-
bles, the name referencing the sound
made when one shook the box. Johns
also took inspiration from the world
around him; from his paintings of
American ﬂags, targets, and numerals,
to his sculptures of cans and tins, John
– just like Duchamp before him – el-
evates the everyday to the avant-garde.
While John’s work ﬁts into the
themes of the exhibition, it is markedly
diﬀerent from those around it; as a di-
rect precursor of what would become
to be known as Pop Art, his pieces are
more accessible – and more fun – than
others in the exhibition, which has a
heavy focus on Cage’s work. While
it is completely possible to appreci-
ate Cage’s pieces on a theoretical or
philosophical level, they only really
come alive when they are performed.
Parreno’s mise en scène attempts to
Lady Dada’s bad romance
Fred Fyles Writer
bring the magical qualities in Cage’s
pieces by playing them throughout
the exhibition, which would satisfy all
but his hard-core fans. Unfortunately,
the curators of the show decided to ﬁll
up a large portion of the upper levels
with Cage’s manuscripts. Perhaps they
felt that this is what visitors were re-
ally interested in, or perhaps they had
reams of sheet music gathering dust
in a back room, but when compared
to Rauschenberg and John’s exuberant
artworks, they simply fail to shine.
his exhibition succeeds in unrav-
elling the invisible threads binding
together ﬁve of the 20th Century’s
most important contemporary artists,
allowing us to see the inﬂuence they
had upon each other; an inﬂuence that
spanned the generations, as well as the
diﬀerent disciplines in art. For anyone
with an interest in any of the artists
features, or even those with a slight
interest in the avant-garde, this exhibi-
tion is a must see. In less skilled hands,
the exhibit may have seemed clunky,
but Parreno succeeds in bringing all
the artists together under one roof:
the bride and her bachelors, bound to-
gether in holy matrimony.
Showing at the Barbican until June 9.
Merce Cunningham Dance Company
perform every Thursday evening, and
at weekends.
Don’t cross the
streams.
MTSoc’s glit-
tering parade
Andrew Foster Writer
“he greatest happiness of the greatest
number is the foundation of morals and
justice.” Really Mr Bentham? We beg to
diﬀer, as we think you’ll ﬁnd that it’s actu-
ally Musical heatre Society’s latest pro-
duction, Parade!, that will be providing
all the moral and judicial foundations we
will be needing from now on…
Set in 1913 Marietta, Georgia, Parade!
stylisticallydocumentsthearrest,convic-
tionandtrialofLeoMaxFrank,aJewish-
American factory superintendent, ex-
ploring and portraying the anti-Semitic
undercurrent present at that time in the
United States. his is not the form of
musical theatre your esteemed review-
ers came prepared for. he emotionally
poisedperformancesoftheleads,theﬂu-
idity of the chorus and the brilliant stage
choreography all conspired to leave us
quivering in awe, struggling to put glitter
pen to fur-festooned note pad in order to
jot down the ﬁve diamante star review
this production clearly deserves.
And so, would-be theatre goers, it is at
this juncture that your trusty reviewers
cannot help but wonder what the out-
come would have been for Chris Huhne
and Vicky Pryce had they attempted to
air their dirty laundry under the auspices
of Judge Roan (Phil Jackson), or conduct-
ed their bickering with the same musical
delightfulness as Lucille Frank (Emily
Jennings) or indeed, managed to sing
and dance to the Charleston with the
same deftness as Governor John Slaton
(Phil Raymond). After watching Parade!,
we are fairly sure it would have been the
one that at least one of the guilty parties
would have been more than happy with.
Written in collaboration with Fionnuala
Ni Dhonnabhain and Severine Marechal.

