Your Easter Reading
Maciej Matuszewski recommends five books to take you
through the Easter break (if you’re not revising, that is)
he City and the City
China Miéville
One of Miéville’s more recent works
follows Inspector Tyador Borlu as he
investigates a murder in the city of
Beszel. Eventually his investigation
leads him to Ul Qoma – a separate city
that somehow occupies the same site
as Beszel. his is a highly acclaimed
novel, having won the Hugo, Nebula,
Locus, Clarke and the World Fantasy
Awards. If you want an introduction
to Miéville’s impressive body of work
you can’t go wrong with this book.
A Game of hrones
George R.R. Martin
he ﬁrst in George R.R. Martin’s Song
of Ice and Fire series, now adapted into
hugely popular HBO television series.
A high fantasy epic following the Wars
of the Roses-inspired power struggles
on the continents of Westeros and Es-
sos this is a gritty and compelling read.
With ﬁve books, each having over 700
pages, having already been published,
the long Easter break is the perfect
opportunity to catch up on this must-
read series.
Random House, one of the ‘big six’
English language publishers, has
launched a set of new digital-only
imprints. Hydra will publish science
ﬁction, fantasy and horror; Alibi will
publish mystery ﬁction; Loveswept
will publish romantic ﬁction; and
Flirt will focus on “New Adult” work.
he terms of the contracts oﬀered
by the imprints have, however, been
criticised by author groups and in-
dustry experts. Sample contracts
indicate that the new imprints will
not pay authors advances and, while
oﬀering a larger share of proﬁts –
ﬁfty per cent – than others usually
do, royalties will only be calculated
after fees for cover design and mar-
keting are subtracted. hese costs are
normally fully covered by traditional
publishers. he imprints also ask for
all worldwide rights for the length of
a work’s copyright. his means that
authors will be unable to re-sell their
manuscripts and that they lose con-
trol over any potential foreign lan-
guage translations and adaptations to
other mediums – such as ﬁlm.
he Science Fiction & Fantasy Writ-
ers of America (SFWA) organisation
has removed Hydra from its list of ac-
credited publishers since it breaches
its requirement of oﬀering advances.
Writing on his blog SFWA president
John Scalzi advised writers: “his is a
horrendously bad deal and if you are
ever oﬀered something like it, you
should run away as fast as your legs
or other conveyances will carry you”.
Random House rejected the criti-
cisms, sending a letter to SFWA
members claiming that “Hydra oﬀers
a diﬀerent – but potentially lucra-
tive – publishing model for authors:
a proﬁt share”. It went on to say that:
“Proﬁts are generated once ... costs
are subtracted from the sales revenue.
Hydra and the author split those prof-
its equally from the very ﬁrst sale.”
he SFWA responded to the letter
by saying that it considers Hydra’s
“attempt to shift to the author costs
customarily borne by the publisher
[to be], simply, outrageous and egre-
gious”. It went on to accuse Hydra of
acting in an “exploitative” and “preda-
tory manner towards authors”.
Controversial new imprints launched
Maciej Matuszewski Books Editor
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
22
Heart of Darkness
Joseph Conrad
Widely agreed to be one of the great-
est English language novels, Heart of
Darkness follows Joseph Conrad’s re-
curring character Charles Marlow as
travels down the Congo River working
as an ivory trader. his is a masterful
and brilliantly written exploration of
racism, savagery and Western hypoc-
risy. Best known as the inspiration
for the acclaimed Vietnam War ﬁlm
Apocalypse Now this novel is a true
masterpiece.
he Windup Girl
Paolo Bacigalupi
Set in the twenty-third century, Baci-
galupi’s debut novel follows a cast of
characters trying to survive in a hai-
land ravaged by global warming and
controlled by giant bioengineering
companies. Both a hugely imaginative
novel and astute social commentary,
this The Windup Girl has won multi-
ple awards. Selected as one of the 101
best SF novels of the last 25 years by
Damien Broderick and Paul Di Filip-
po, this is certainly worth checking out.
More Weird hings Customers Say
in Bookshops
Jen Campbell
Long-time bookshop manager Jen
Campbell’s Weird hings Customers
Say in Bookshops was one of the fun-
niest things that I read last year. Now
she returns with her second instal-
ment, due to be published on April
18. At just over 120 pages this is a
very slim volume – perfect for those
swamped by exam revision and look-
ing for some light relief. Highly rec-
ommended for everyone.

