MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
26
like to think my taste in mu-
sic has greatly varied over the
years. I have gone through the
teenage phase of listening to
Green Day, Sex Pistols, Fall
out Boy, Panic! At the Disco etc.
You get the gist of it all. here was
also a time when I used to listen to
hard rock in the form of System of a
Down, Bullet for My Valentine and
Slipknot amongst others. hese days,
I have moved onto a lot more indie
pop, post-punk and dream pop. he
reason I am telling you this is because
Halestorm doesn’t fall in any of those
categories. Halestorm is in essence a
hard rock band which I came across
when they supported Slash last year
at the Hammersmith Apollo. hat was
a curious gig to say the least, since the
supporting act, a Dutch new wave/
electronic/art punk band called Min-
ny Pops, was booed oﬀ stage. It wasn’t
all disappointment before Slash’s ap-
pearance because that’s the moment
HalestormbringsdownthehouseinCamden
Plabon Saha reports back from the Electric Ballroom
that Halestorm came on. heir energy
on stage was simply admirable and
at this point I think drummer Arejay
Hale should get a special mention for
his acrobatic eﬀorts of constantly jug-
gling drumsticks in the middle of a
song. Lzzy Hale’s strong vocals meant
it was the perfect start to a rock gig
and at that point I became a fan (and
went home to download their music
illegally, like all the cool kids do {fyi I
am not a total prick, I tend to pay for
gigs rather than buy records}).
So remembering that day, it was
with great anticipation that I went to
see Halestorm perform at the Electric
Ballroom in Camden on Friday the
8th of March. I actually missed the
support act but I didn’t really need
to be warmed up (listening to music
during the tube ride would normally
suﬃce, oh and alcohol helps). Before
I dissect their setlist, I should also say
how good Electric Ballroom is as a
venue. It’s the sort of place that’s not
I
too small so that you feel everything
you do is watched neither it is too big
where it makes you feel insigniﬁcant.
It is just the right size that makes you
feel intimate with the band. Halestorm
opened with ‘Freak Like Me’ and ‘Love
Bites (So Do I)’ from their sophomore
album and the upbeat vocals and
drumming was quick to get the audi-
ence jumping. After a couple of other
songs, came a Dio cover in the form
of ‘Straight hrough the Heart’, which
was done exceptionally well, I must
add. Here was a band that knew their
audience well and knew the impor-
tance of the classics and appreciated
the rock enigma that is Ronnie James
Dio. here was also another instance
later in the set when they played a
Guns N’Roses cover of ‘Out Ta Get
Me’. But before that, Lzzy Hale dem-
onstrated the range of her vocal and
musical ability as she played ‘Break In’
on the piano. It had a hint of Evanes-
cence in it but in my opinion Lzzy has
already eclipsed Amy Lee in terms of
ability and vocal range.
here was something for the sea-
soned admirers too, with songs such
as ‘Innocence’. I should also mention
the heroics of Arejay, the drummer
here who decided to perform a quick
solo. he man is simply mental with
a pair of drum-
sticks when he
has a kit in front
of him. He knows
how to keep a
beat going even
with one hand.
his was the ﬁrst
time I have seen
him do a drum
solo and I think
he was enjoying
it as much as the
audience as he
threw his drum-
sticks to the audi-
ence and decided
to bring out a pair
of giant sticks and
keep going before deciding even that’s
not enough as he resorted to drum-
ming with his hands. All in all, it was
an admirable and enthusiastic per-
formance from him. he show closed
very well with the band’s upbeat single
‘I Get Oﬀ’. I particularly loved the way
the encore started with ‘Here’s to Us’
before moving onto ﬁnishing oﬀ with
a high tempo song ‘I Miss the Misery’.
And with that, oﬀ went my mate and
I to the pub for a couple more cheeky
pints before we decided to call it a
night.
As someone who has recently
moved away from listening to a lot of
hard rock, I would have to say I might
have to re-consider a return to the
genre after that performance. After
the success the band has had after the
release of he Strange Case Of…, I can
only hope that they would continue in
that upward trajectory and become
a genre deﬁning band with their 3rd
album. It doesn’t matter when they re-
lease it, as long as it’s composed well, I
can see great things happening for the
group.
Mark England Music Editor
Hurts are a duo from Manchester
who I was undecided about; were they
some bizarrely intelligent synth pop
saviours (their debut sold over a mil-
lion copies worldwide), or were they,
in fact, an industry joke: two blokes
with very good connections, who pos-
sibly have shares in Moss Bros, and
a good eye for publicity stunts. So
when a copy of their new album, Exile,
dropped on my desk, I was intrigued
to ﬁnd out if it could shed any more
light.
If you look at the album cover, and
listen to the ﬁrst few tracks it is clear
that Hurts have only really one setting
– “epic”. Every moment tries to out-
epic the last, with phrases like “mira-
cle”, “heart of gold” and “watch as
the world burns” bandied around so
much it comes at you like U2 sound-
tracking that moment in the Lion King
where Simba gets raised in the air on
that big rock. Let’s just say that under-
stated is not a word Hurts have heard
of.
I am not saying that this is a bad
AMS album of the week
The Flaming Lips have come a long way
since their debut album. Hear It Is, released
in 1986 (not even kidding), was a grungey,
noisey garage punk affair that few will even
recognise as the psychedelic pop band who
would cause such a stir in later years. From
1995-2002 the Flaming Lips released the
holy trinity of neo-psychedelia with the
completely nuts Clouds Taste Metallic, the
beautiful The Soft Bulletin and the commeri-
cal behemoth Yoshimi Battles the Pink Robots. Since then they’ve been a little
less consistent. 2006’s At War With the Mystics took Yoshimi’s commercialised
direction with little of the sincerity whilst 2009’s Embryonic returned them
to their experimental roots with mixed results. In and around that we’ve had
a Pink Floyd cover album, a collaboration album featuring Ke$ha and Chris
Martin and a 24 hour song you could buy encased in a real human skull (not
even kidding). This is their first proper album since 2009, so where have Wayne
et al. decided to take us this time?
The answer is disappointment central. I feel like I came to this with reasonable
expectations. I wasn’t expecting another Soft Bulletin or Yoshimi. I had already
come to terms with the fact they would never scale such peaks again. I have as-
sessed their stuff since then on in its own merits and been impressed every time.
The problem with The Terror is that for the first time in 27 years the Flaming Lips
have done something boring. You can say what you want about releasing a 24
hour song you could buy encased in a real human skull, but at least you have
something to say about it. There’s just not really anything here worth discuss-
ing. It reminds me a lot of the afore mentioned Hear It Is. The first track is fantas-
tic and then it tails off. It’s a band who obviously have something but this is only
a glimpse of what they’re capable of. The problem is that they are obviously on
the other side of the peak now. On Hear It Is you can attribute it to a band find-
ing its feet, hear it is (see what I did there?) a band losing them. Hopefully I’ll
be proved wrong, and they’ll recover. For now though, a dark cloud hovers over
me: I am not excited about the next Flaming Lips material.
The Flaming Lips: TheTerror
Stuart Masson
SoepicitHurts
thing; anthems have their place
in today’s musical landscape.
‘Sandman’ is a track which
works well with hints of Krau-
trock as well as a bit of R&B.
Lead single ‘Miracle’ is prob-
ably the standout moment with
more vigour than a whole pack
of Alka-Seltzer. Among the few
hits, however, are many more
misses which come oﬀ on the
wrong side of tired Euro-pop.
his album provides ample evi-
dence why Hurts enjoy massive
support in continental Europe, but are
perhaps less well received over here.
Six or seven songs into the album
and the over the top nature of the al-
bum starts to grate and you start wish-
ing that Hurts lived in a less grandiose
and emotive bubble. I started to wish
that they had been a bit more Berlin
and a bit less Bulgaria because there
are moments when the electro-shtick
works. And then something strange
happens, ‘he Crow’ comes on, bring-
ing with a feeling that the album is
sorely lacking – it doesn’t try too hard.
True, it is the token slow ballad near
the end, but at least it gives me time
to take a breather from the epic roll-
ercoaster that as so far made me feel a
bit nauseous. I start to believe the lyr-
ics more when they are not constantly
backed by soaring synths and rammed
into anthemic choruses.
So this album has not really solved
the issue I had with Hurts, continu-
ing in a similar vein to their debut. Do
they really believe in the drama they
are peddling? I am not convinced but I
can congratulate them on actually get-
ting this far because when they arrived
I was sure that they would be a one-
album-wonder type band. So kudos.

