unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
Which guest ale should we have inApril?
Last month we had our ﬁrst poll for guest ales in the Union Bar and FiveSixEight. Yardbird was the worthy winner and the guest ale
has been available since last week. It’s now time to pick the guest ale for April. There are ﬁve choices this month, all of which are
below. All you have to do is go to imperialcollegeunion.org/realales and vote for your favourite - the ale with the highest ale wins.
It’s that simple! The poll closes at 23:59, Sunday 24 March, and the winning ale will be on sale after Easter. The ale will join our
regular ales, IPA (£2.90 a pint) and Tolly English Ale (or TEA - £2.20 a pint). Thank you to all those who voted last month, and we look
forward to seeing which ale YOU want to see in April.
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales
StudentAcademic Choice
Awards - nominations still open
Nominations are open now and have been coming in thick and fast!
There are eight awards in total that will cover all faculties, departments
and campuses. There will also be speciﬁc prizes available for those
who supervise doctoral students, teach master’s students, and work in
professional roles within College. The awards aren’t designed to be a
popularity contest but a recognition of innovation, skill, engagement and
energy that students have received from academics.
We will giving awards for:
• Best Feedback
• Best Graduate Teaching Assistant
• Best Innovation
• Best Supervision
• Best Support Staff
• Best Teaching for Taught Postgraduates
• Best Teaching for Undergraduates
• Best Tutoring
We are looking for nominations from every department, centre, study
type and campus, and that’s where you come in! You can still nominate at
imperialcollegeunion.org/academicchoice.
imperialcollegeunion.org/academicchoice
BELHAVEN 80/- 4.2% CARITAS 4.0% I.K.B. 1859 4.7% RED MACGREGOR 4.0% URBAN DUSK 4.6%
£3.30 a pint
Type: Bitter
£3.40 a pint
Type: Pale ale
£3.50 a pint
Type: Bitter
£3.30 a pint
Type: Ruby beer
£3.50 a pint
Type: Bitter
A memorable rounded ale, a
complex mix of grain and hop,
producing Belhaven’s easily
recognised malty and nutty
ﬂavour.
A blonde ale with a slight citrus
taste and fruit aroma, 5p from
every pint will be donated to
Macmillan Cancer Support.
Mid brown in colour with a rich
malt ﬂavour. A beer produced for
for the bi-centenary of Brunel’s
birth.
Delicate, ﬂoral and fruity, with
notes of violets, cherries, toffee
and caramel with a biscuit malt
and spicy hop ﬁnish.
Chestnut coloured premium
bitter with malts providing coffee
aromas with some hazelnut,
caramel and dark fruit ﬂavours
and citrus notes.
Imperial’s easiest exam!
Sexual health clinic onTuesday
Imperial College Union has booked a free, twice-termly sexual health clinic
from the Terrence Higgins Trust, starting on Tuesday 19 March , 11:00 –
16:00. This clinic will offer chlamydia, gonorrhoea, and rapid HIV testing,
condoms, and advice. The clinic is open and free to all students regardless
of age, gender, study type or country of origin.
To book a slot please come to the East Wing Basement in Beit Quad from
10.30 where 15-minute slots will be allocated on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served
basis. We will release extra slots at 13:00 for those unable to attend at
10:30.
For more information please contact our Representation Coordinator, Zoe
Richardson (z.richardson@imperial.ac.uk).

