Who run the world?
Emily Fulham reviews a better Sex and the City?
don’t want to freak you
out, but I think that I
may be the voice of my
generation.” So says
Hannah Horvath, the
main character of HBO’s Girls, in the
very ﬁrst episode of the show. It’s a line
that’s come back to haunt Lena Dun-
ham, the show’s creator, writer and co-
producer, who also plays the character
of Hannah – in spite of the line be-
ing uttered by the naïve, self-involved
character of her own creation, it’s often
been attributed to Dunham herself.
Fans believe the show is a raw, realis-
tic picture of what it’s like to be fresh
into adulthood in today’s society, while
critics attack it for being vapid and self-
indulgent. So, is Girls really the show
that’s deﬁning a whole new generation
of young women?
On the face of it, Girls is nothing new:
a show about four twenty-something
women, living in New York City and
dealing with jobs, men, and life in the
city. he show’s ﬁrst series opens with
struggling writer Hannah being cut oﬀ
by her parents, forcing her to abandon
her unpaid internship and attempt to
ﬁnd a real job. Marnie, her best friend
from college, is working at an art gal-
lery while attempting to escape from
the familiarity of her relationship with
an overbearing boyfriend. Shoshanna,
the youngest character, is a college stu-
dent whose biggest secret is that she’s
still a virgin, while her cousin, Jessa, is a
free-spirited traveller with a penchant
for wearing transparent clothes to her
babysitting job.
So far, so Sex and the City? At ﬁrst
glance, it all seems pretty familiar, but
when you get down to it, what diﬀer-
entiates Girls is its lack of pretension.
hese are women just out of college,
struggling to ﬁnd jobs and pay the rent
(just how did Carrie Bradshaw aﬀord
that Manhattan apartment by writ-
ing one column a week, anyway?) and
trying to ﬁgure out what comes next.
here may be fewer Manolo Blahniks
and Cosmopolitans, but what Girls
lacks in glamour, it makes up for with
realism. And while Sex and the City
typically featured the characters dat-
ing a seemingly endless stream of
men, the relationships in Girls are a lot
more honest, from Hannah’s insecurity
about her body during sex, to Marnie
becoming bored with her long-term
boyfriend, and Shoshanna’s struggle
to ﬁnd a man who won’t judge her for
being a virgin. he male characters are
just as interesting as the women: Han-
nah’s main love interest, Adam, may at
ﬁrst come across as a repulsive creep,
but there’s more to him than meets the
eye.
he characters are often embarrass-
ing, selﬁsh, and at times just plain un-
likeable – but that’s what makes them
so relatable. Refreshingly, these aren’t
the air-brushed, glamorous women so
often oﬀered to us on TV. he show
also isn’t afraid of dealing with diﬃcult
issues: unwanted pregnancy, mental ill-
ness, and, in one particularly excruciat-
ing scene set in an STI clinic, worrying
about “the stuﬀ that gets up around the
side of condoms”. However, the show’s
portrayal of female friendships – some-
thing desperately lacking in most TV
shows – is where it really shines.
And then, there’s the backlash. he
show has provoked an almost unprec-
I
Every Monday night this term, I
have patiently and loyally tuned in to
watch the latest episode of Miranda.
After the past couple of series of goof-
iness and misunderstandings, we’d
all probably had enough of it. here’s
only a certain amount of anthropo-
morphic fruit one can stand. How-
ever, after having wisely kept oﬀ our
screens for a few years, Miranda Hart
was back on Boxing Day, ready for an-
other season. And as the last episode
came and went last week, I ﬁnd myself
actually missing my Monday-night
dose of slapstick.
Miranda has a weird eﬀect on my
mind; a bit like watching my parents
interact with friends I bring home.
Inevitably, I can’t help but observe. I
hope that this time it will be diﬀerent,
that they will be cool and poised, but
alas I end up cringing with embar-
rassment time after time. I doubt the
show was created with the intention
of being such a tragicomic form of
light entertainment: someone wrote
the script with the idea that people
would be rolling around in laughter.
Every time Miranda exits a door car-
rying an object evidently too large
to ﬁt through it, or walks into a con-
spicuous pile of boxes, we are at least
supposed to smile, or giggle, if not
laugh out loud. Don’t get me wrong,
there is laughter in Miranda, and lots
of it, but it is not for the slapstick, be-
cause we dread her making a fool of
herself, and dread is not an emotion
that gets us rolling around. So why
do we still love Miranda? Why, even
though we physically suﬀer when she
slips or farts, do we still tune in and
smile with satisfaction when the sim-
ple, cheerful titles come up?
We feel for Miranda because she is
a worse version of all of us, but still
has more conﬁdence. We feel for her
because she is more digniﬁed when
her mother tries to marry her oﬀ to
strangers than whilst performing
any everyday task. We feel for her be-
cause she does not settle for bad tim-
ing with Gary, but waits patiently for
the right moment to occur. Miranda
manages to give depth to a 2D char-
acter designed to fall over and knock
things down. She is a stereotype with
an unapologetic personality that we
can’t help appreciating, if not loving.
In addition, when she’s not trying too
hard to be funny, she is actually hilar-
ious. She is at her best while pinpoint-
ing the ﬂaws of her posh friends, or
bantering with her bestie, and I per-
sonally can’t avoid recognizing myself
in her as she admits to being scared
of peeing in a ﬁeld at a festival. In all
honesty, don’t we all wish we could be
as cool as her as we fall over in front of
THRIFT SHOP!!!!!
The Miranda Effect
Giulia Gabrielli
TELEVISION Television Editor: Lucia Podhorska
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
30
Television Writer
edented level of criticism against Lena
Dunham. Some of it is valid: for a show
set in one of the most ethnically diverse
cities in the world, there’s a whole lot of
white people and not much else. Other
complaints, such as that of Dunham’s
character being too overweight to re-
alistically sleep with the men that she
does, smacks more of pettiness and,
perhaps, anger that Dunham, at only
26, is writing and directing a wildly
“
successful show in a TV world ruled
over mostly by men.
Girls is deﬁnitely a show worth
watching, especially for anyone worry-
ing about the “what comes next?” part
of leaving university. It may not provide
many answers, but it’ll give you plenty
to think about.
(he second series of Girls is currently
airing on Sky Atlantic)
a large lecture theatre full of people,
or send an embarrassing message to
the wrong person? I know I do.
You’re nicked

