FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
32 FRIDAY 15 MARCH
Do they know som
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
Despite only being almost a quarter
of the way into 2013, these last few
months have definitely been celebrat-
ing the film industry. But with the Os-
cars over and done with, what’s coming
next? Apparently, a plethora of sci-fi
and apocalypse films – are the pro-
ducers trying to warn us? Felix Film
has outlined the coming movies… just
in case.
World War Z
Release Date: June 21st
Director: Marc Foster
Cast: Brad Pitt, Mireille Enos,
James Badge Dale, Matthew Fox,
David Morse, Bryan Cranston
Based on the Max Brooks’ best-
selling book of the same name,
this is the tale of how a zombie
epidemic becomes somewhat
out of control. Now a global pan-
demic, the suitably American
UN operative Gerry Lane (Pitt) is
roaming all over the world in an
attempt to discover a way to stop
this undead madness. he hordes
of zombies have destroyed human
civilization, and are doing their
utmost to kill oﬀ the tiny group of
survivors… and Brad Pitt is left in
charge of saving the world. Clearly
everyone is doomed…? here have
several problems reported in film
news about the making of this
movie, and the slightly lacklustre
trailer hasn’t helped the image
of the film. However, the book
is SO good that the producers
would have to do something quite
spectacularly bad to get this very
wrong. So here’s hoping.
The World’s End
Release Date: August 14th
Director: Edgar Wright
Cast: Simon Pegg, Nick Frost, Martin Freeman, Paddy Considine, Eddie
Marsan, Rosamund Pike
Not to be confused with his Is he End, this is the third (and supposedly
final) film in Wright, Pegg and Frost’s fames ‘hree Flavours Cornetto’ tril-
ogy (aka the ‘Blood and Ice Cream’ trilogy) which includes the smash hit
Shaun of the Dead and the very funny, but somewhat gory, Hot Fuzz. A
group of old friends (Pegg, Frost, Marsan, Considine and Freeman) reunite
after a few years for a good old pub crawl, which is set to finish at a pub
called he World’s End. Annoyingly, the world actually starts to end, and
– such is their determination – the quintet must struggle through their
pub crawl via the apocalypse. It’s looking promisingly good: Pegg and Frost
haven’t let us down yet, and the odds are on that this hotly-anticipated and
very long-awaited last installment will also be a good’un.
This Is The End
Release Date: June 28th
Directors: Evan Goldberg, Seth Rogen
Cast: Jay Baruchel, Seth Rogen, Emma Watson, Craig Robinson, James Franco, Jonah Hill, Rihanna
Ok, we’ll admit – we don’t have high hopes for this one. A cast including Seth Rogen, Emma Watson and Rihanna?
Can you imagine how weird that wrap party would be? he story isn’t fabulous either, despite being conceived by
Rogen. A huge and very fun looking party is underway at James Franco’s house, with a surprisingly A-list group of
attendees. All of a sudden, a global apocalypse begins. Don’t you just hate it when that happens? So the guests (all
playing themselves, by the way) do what they can to save themselves. Clearly, this film will only be good if the celebs
involved are willing to completely take the piss out of themselves. If not, it’s going to be absolutely horrific.
After Earth
Release Date: June 7th
Director: M. Night Shyamalan
Cast: Will Smith, Jaden Smith,
Isabelle Fuhrmann, Zoe Kravitz,
David Denman
Starring Will Smith and his son
Jayden as exotically named father
and son duo Cypher and Kitai
Raige, After Earth follows the pair
as they attempt to transport hu-
manity away from the dying plan-
et Earth. However, things don’t
go quite to plan, and their craft
crash lands on a planet that was
abandoned a thousand years ago.
Sound like a reasonable premise,
although M. Night Shyamalan
was responsible for he Last Air-
bender (possibly the worst film
ever). Having said that, he was
also the writer of he Sixth Sense,
so maybe he might be able to get
to the top again with this latest
attempt. At least the Smith team
should be good.
Oblivion
Release date: April 12th
Director: Joseph Kosinski
Cast: Tom Cruise, Olga Kurylen-
ko, Morgan Freeman, Andrea
Riseborough, Melissa Leo, Zoe
Bell, Nicolaj Coster-Waldau
Ok, so this one’s already in the
cinemas, but it fits quite well in
so we thought we’d better include
it. Based on the graphic novel (ap-
parently we aren’t allowed to call
it a comic) of the same name writ-
ten by director Kosinski, the tale
follows Jak Harper (Cruise) who
lives his life on planet Earth that
was long since destroyed during a
battle with aliens. When he finds
and rescues a 22-year-old traveller
from a survival pod, he is forced
to question all he knows about life
and his mission. It’s not a bad film,
all things (*cough* Cruise) consid-
ered. he visuals are great – the
ruined Earth contrasts brilliantly
with the scientific-looking pods
ﬂoating above it. he script has
been much praised, and, although
it wasn’t a common sight at the re-
cent awards ceremonies, Oblivion
is certainly worth a watch.
The Hunger Games: Catching Fire
Release Date: November 22nd
Director: Francis Lawrence
Cast: Jennifer Lawrence, Josh Hutcherson, Liam Hemsworth, Woody Har-
relson, Lenny Kravitz, Elizabeth Banks
Ok, so it’s not really an apocalypse film – but it just about fits the bill. It is
several centuries into the future in a new version of old America (now Pa-
nem) and, having returned home victorious from the 74th Annual Hunger
Games after ﬂouting the rules set by the twisted government of the Capitol,
Katniss (Lawrence) and Peeta (Hutcherson) must now undertake the long
Victors’ Tour of all the down-trodden districts in the Capitol-controlled
country. heir rebellion in the Hunger Games’ arena didn’t go unnoticed,
however, and some of the Districts are stirring with rebellions of their own.
With Katniss fanning the ﬂame at every turn, the Capitol will stop at noth-
ing to keep Panem under their exclusive control. With her knee still bleed-
ing from her fall to pick up her Best Actress Oscar, Lawrence can only be
outstanding. With a stellar cast backing her up (some of whom made their
names in the last film), this sequel is sure to be as big a hit as he Hunger
Games was.

