FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
35
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
Steven Soderbergh’s swan song
John Park Film Editor
Side Effects
Director: Steven Soderbergh
Screenwriter: Scott Z. Burns
Starring: Jude Law, Rooney Mara,
Channing Tatum, Catherine Zeta-
Jones
As a medic, I should know the most
common side eﬀects of any pre-
scribed medication are nausea and
vomiting. Brutally stabbing your hus-
band to death whilst sleep-walking,
isn’t usually one of them. But that is
exactly what happens when Emily
Taylor (Mara) starts on a new course
of anti-depressants following her
aforementioned husband’s (Tatum)
release from prison. She is nervous,
constantly anxious, and withdrawn
from life, which is what prompts Dr
Jonathan Banks (Law) to try out Ab-
lixa.
Life is good again for Emily, she has
regained her sex drive, something
her insider-trading husband is in-
sanely happy about, given her previ-
ous bouts of depression. A couple of
harmless episodes of sleepwalking
don’t bother him much, that is until
he gets a kitchen knife stuck inside
him multiple times. Distraught and
confused, Emily is still sent to prison
and put on trial, with Dr Banks com-
mitted to ﬁghting for her acquittal.
But things become more compli-
cated than that. To give more details
on further plot development would
be giving away far too much, but Ste-
ven Soderbergh’s slick little retire-
ment project (he has stated that this
will be his last big-screen ﬁlm – he
has one more television movie due to
be released later this year) has more
twists and turns than what you can
see coming. And with every bold
jerk to the narrative, the less “believ-
able” it may become. But with a ﬁlm
dressed as a psychosexual thriller, a
certain stretch of the imagination is
entirely acceptable, and Soderbergh
uses every opportunity to take ad-
vantage of that.
Controversy surrounds Banks’
practising methods, and soon he
ﬁnds himself in the middle of a much
darker conspiracy than he anticipat-
ed. And with Law, Soderbergh ﬁnds
himself a very convincing helpless
victim but one who is not willing to
go down without a ﬁght. He’s an in-
telligent man who puts the pieces
together quickly, which is a relief
for the audience as the ﬁlm gets on
with its developments. And it gives
our victim/protagonist plenty of time
to set things right. Law does have
the satisfying ﬁnal laugh in the end,
something we all end up supporting.
Mara, hot oﬀ her Oscar-nominated
success from David Fincher’s he
Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, tackles
yet another complex role with domi-
nance. Hers is a particularly ambigu-
ous and challenging one, but this new
young talent very skilfully inhabits
her duplicitous persona. Essentially
the ﬁlm’s biggest twist rests on this
single performance, and she cleverly
balances the two main sides to her
fascinating lead character: the chilly,
calculating, as well as the young and
vulnerable.
Zeta-Jones, as Emily’s previous
psychiatrist Dr Victoria Siebert, has
never been this sizzling nor has she
had a role this fun and meaty in re-
cent years. he fact that a seemingly
insigniﬁcant part is played by such a
famous name should give you some
clues as to how much weight she’ll
carry in the later scenes. And as more
is revealed she becomes a crucial part
in the bigger picture, an intriguing
piece of the overall puzzle.
With its hazy, dream-like photog-
raphy, Soderbergh is highly eﬀec-
tive in creating a sense of ambiguity
throughout his scenes. He doesn’t
quite venture into the “what is real,
what isn’t real” type of complicated
theme but rather stays grounded and
involved in the decisions these very
human characters make. his also
isn’t too interested in having a go at
the pharmaceutical industry itself –
again, here is a thriller solely focused
on its small cast who collectively de-
liver a stellar piece of work.
he plotting is mostly tight, and
the ﬁlm does verge into the more ri-
diculous territory as it moves on, and
how everything ﬁts together with all
the big reveals will no doubt require
multiple viewings, having all the
facts straight. Whether everything
ﬂows smoothly is questionable, but
it doesn’t stop the fact that this ﬁlm
is aboslutely bizarre and bonkers,
which is just as well, given the sub-
ject it handles. And as his retirement
project, this is an entirely appropri-
ate way to end Soderbergh’s unique,
multiple-genre-conquering directo-
rial career. He will of course be great-
ly missed from the big screen.

