The humble end of term bundle
Ross Webster takesatourthroughtheislandofAndroidbundle5
all me old fashioned, but
I always thought that
phones were for talking
to people, rather than
browsing the internet,
watching movies and playing games.
Nowadays, it seems that phones are
primarily used to avoid having to talk
to people.
So, in my old fashioned-ness, I never
really got into playing games on my
phone. Well, as they say, there’s a ﬁrst
time for everything, and I booked a re-
turn ticket to the land of Humble-topia,
and wrote a guide for anyone who is
looking for a holiday retreat over the
next 5 days, 8 hours, 30 minutes and
24 seconds (note, time remaining may
vary depending on when you actually
read this article). here’s not enough
space to cover all the tourist attractions,
so here’s my top 5 places to visit.
C
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
38
Dynamite Jack’s Caving Experience
The Sandy Beaches of Solar 2
Crayon Physics Valley
The Super Hexagon Estate
Beat Hazard Ultra Opera House
If you talk to anyone who has seen my
computer or my YouTube history, they’ll
agree that I have a rather odd taste in
music. Unluckily for me, Beat Hazard
Ultra happens to use the music on your
device to create the levels. The faster,
or louder the music becomes, the more
powerful your weapons become, but
also the more numerous and scary the
enemies.
The gameplay of Beat Hazard Ultra
is rather like that of Asteroids – you’re
in control of a small ship in a confined
top-down area, and enemy ships/aster-
oids enter off-screen. As you blow things
apart, you may get items to pickup, such
as score multipliers, money, special weap-
ons, weapon upgrades – you get the idea.
There are two modes of playing the
game – single stick, or dual stick. Single
stick can be thought of as easy mode, as
you simply control the direct your ship
moves – the AI is in control of your guns,
and shoots the nearest target. Dual stick
mode sees your right thumb/finger con-
trol the direction you aim and fire, whilst
the left control moves you around the
screen. My phone’s screen isn’t exactly
small, nor massive, but I find an issue in
dual stick mode, because most of the
screen is now filled with fingers, and I
can’t see what I’m shooting at.
I don’t find the game too hard, nor too
easy, so it’s really addictive, and you rank
up quickly. When you do so, you get to
buy a new perk, and upgrade it with any
money you picked up on the way. I think
this game’s awesome, and I don’t think I’ll
get bored of it anytime soon.
IhadheardandseengreatthingsaboutSu-
per Hexagon. You’re in control of a marker
that you can rotate around the central
hexagon. Lines and shapes move towards
the middle of the screen, and you have to
simplyrotatethepointoutoftheway.Tap-
ping the left of the screen, rotates you anti-
clockwise, and tapping the right hand side
rotatesthepiececlockwise.Simples.
I,however,seemtosuckatthis.Ibarelylast
5 seconds before dying, and after multiple
tries, I ragequit and need to take a breather,
only to get dragged back in! I can see why
people say it’s a good game – it’s quick, it’s
simple and it has one heck of a difficulty cliff.
It might just be that I’m rubbish at it, so if
you’re a fan of this whole “let’s dodge lines”
thing,thengiveitago.
If there’s ever a museum exhibition of
games that punish you for being a few
pixels out, or a half-second too slow,
this game should be the centre-piece.
You are Dynamite Jack, a guy who
loves blowing things up, hiding in
the darkness, but hates getting shot.
The game plays as a speed-oriented
stealth game... with dynamite. Blow-
ing through walls can make your job
easier, and lets you pick up crystals to
reduce the time spent on the level, but
also alerts nearby torch and assault rifle
wielding guards. As soon as the torch
light hits you, you’re shot and have to re-
start. It seems simple, but it’s really kinda
tough.
Missions take place in a range of envi-
ronments – such as tight tunnels where
it’s easy to slip around a corner, out of
sight,andlarge,opencaveswherethere’s
not a single piece of cover for miles.
I was confused when I started the tuto-
rial. I was a rock. A sentient rock. I could
fly around space and smash into things.
I thought I was just messing around,
but it seems I was actually playing the
game.
The game revolves around mass. As
an asteroid, you can smash into other
asteroids, and your mass increases. In-
crease your mass enough, and you be-
come a planet. A barren planet, mind
you, so you want to have a civilization
on you, requiring more mass. Ramming
asteroids now loses you mass, so you
have to stalk asteroids till they orbit
you, and then you harvest them.
Your populace then sends out ships,
places a shield around you, and you
fight other civilizations. I didn’t want to
kill my people, but you can upgrade to
a star (and more, beyond that). It’s fun
when you’re doing well, but it’s easy to
lose mass, and you’re back to the ardu-
ous task of increasing your mass to useful
levels.
I feel I’ve only scratched the surface of
the game, as I’ve seen screenshots of you
controlling solar systems, and upgrading
yourself to a black hole, so it’s the top of
my list to play when the lectures are get-
ting boring. That being said, I’ve a feeling
the game is more fun on PC, as it’s just a
little too fiddly on a small screen. It’s still
a great game though on Android, and
alone worth the sub-£10 that you can get
the whole bundle for!
Considering how you’re at Imperial, I
expect that most of you have probably
heard of Crayon Physics.
Crayon Physics started in 2007 as a
five-day project, inspired by the Ex-
perimental Gameplay project. It won
awards when it was first shown to the
community, and has been spreading to
differing devices and platforms ever
since.
Your objective is to get a ball to hit
a star, by any means necessary. There
are often large chasms in the way, so
you need to build bridges or ramps to
get the ball to the end. Instead of some
awkward spawn menu, you simply
drawashapeonthescreenanditcomes
to life, affected by gravity, friction, cen-
tre of mass, and so on. The graphic style
of the game is that everything is drawn
in crayon (hence the name), and the
background is a worn piece of paper,
which is a really nice touch.
I played the game on Windows when
it came out, and it was fine. I think it’s
a lot more fun on your phone, as you
actually draw the objects on the screen
with your body parts. The game isn’t
made to be difficult, it’s made to be fun,
and fun you will have.

