NEWS
4 FRIDAY 15 MARCH
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
institutions. Students would only be
allowed to compete for IC or ICSM.
his option allows the medical schools
identity to remain and people can still
play sport for their medical school.
But this would restrict student’s ability
to participate in both an ICSM sport
and a diﬀerent sport that IC oﬀers but
ICSM does not e.g. IC Fencing.
he second option is to consider
ICSM and IC as one institution where-
by an analysis of the performance in
the BUCS league would determine
which team takes on the title of Impe-
rial ﬁrst, seconds, thirds etc. based on
their rankings. his would mean that
the ICSM football ﬁrsts team could
become Imperial Football seconds
(Medics). he teams would still essen-
tially remain separate but the ICSM
team would be playing under the ‘IC
Banner’.
Karen Rothery, CEO of BUCS, told
Felix that the options are being of-
fered to regularize the way people are
members of the organization. She said
“BUCS has oﬀered all current Medical
School members the option to remain
as full members of BUCS if they wish
to, but operating to the same condi-
tions of membership as all other mem-
ber institutions – so all students of
the Medical School compete in BUCS
sports for the Medical School, and not
the “parent” university. If the Medical
School joins as part of the University,
then the teams playing can still com-
pete as Medical School teams under
the sports management structures of
the institution. his decision sits with
the institution.”
She also added: “he BUCS member-
ship has been involved in this debate
through the BUCS Advisory Group,
and overwhelmingly agrees that this
approach is reasonable both for medi-
cal schools, and to all other members
which join under the same conditions”.
ICSM are unhappy with the options
that BUCS have presented as they feel
that their heritage will be lost. hey
feel that they cannot accept either op-
tion as the ﬁrst option limits participa-
tion of its students and that the second
option strips ICSM of its name and
recognition since teams would have to
play under the ‘IC Banner’.
ICSM President, Shiv Vohra, said,
“he BUCS situation is quite frankly
frustrating and shows a complete lack
of understanding for what our stu-
dents would like, which is eﬀectively
the status quo. he lack of an appeals
process for the decision by BUCS has
left us with no other option but to
protest against this and voice our dis-
content over the entire ‘consultation’
process.
We will be joining forces with all the
other London med schools (and Car-
diﬀ) under the ULU Medgroup ban-
ner to protest outside the BUCS head
oﬃces on the afternoon of hursday
21st March. Please come and show
your support for our cause – just this
one afternoon could potentially have
such a huge impact on the shambles
of a situation that we are currently in”
Medics angered by change in rules
Lizzy Griffiths
Aero students given funding to build RC plane
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
A 35 strong group of students, led by
Edward Kardouss, Areonautics Year 1
Rep, will build a remote control (RC)
aircraft that will take oﬀ, water bomb
a target, make a ﬂying loop, ﬂy for 10
minutes, and eject a parachutist and
land. he Department of Aeronaut-
ics has agreed to fund the project as
well as provide labs for the students
to work in. he students hope to com-
pete in future years in international
ﬂying competitions against other uni-
versities. he project will start in Oc-
tober and end in March 2014.
Kardouss said: “I came up with this
idea as I thought we should have a
real engineering challenge, one that
can strengthen our skills, one that can
provide a good learning experience.”
Some of the 35 students joining him
also gave comments. Robert Watkiss
described it as a “great o opportunity
for students to get engineering expe-
rience in a project at an early stage.”
Meanwhile Filip Karasiewicz said:
“ﬁnally something that is a proof of
Imperial’s global position and reputa-
tion”. Joel Young says that it is a “step-
ping stone to greater things”. Bruno
Scalzo-Dee seemed pleased to put his
degree into practice saying: “here
is need for a healthy combination of
academic learning and applying learnt
skills, and ﬁnally we have the oppor-
tunity to achieve this much desired
balance.”
Edward Kardouss,
the leader of the pro-
ject, rocks the mic
Group shot of the students involved
continued from the front page
>>

