SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
46
Saturday morning began with one of
the most eventful player crises in re-
cent memory. With many regulars
seemingly sidelined, ICUAFC 2nd
team skipper Dr. “LOVE” Wright took
some time out of his busy morning
Frank Ocean-induced sex coma to
gather the remaining troops for their
battle with ﬁerce rivals Imperial Medic
1st team. he 12 valliant warriors were
almost dealt the most bitter of early
blows when their chariot of ﬁre (Tell-
ings & Miller coach) proceeded to limp
to the Union 20 minutes late. Tim Bea-
sley was close to tears, as the one time
he managed to get Jonny Hill out of bed
within half an hour of departure time
proved futile, and will no doubt never
be witnessed again (#TBtillidie). here
were no more unwanted surprises, al-
though there was a feeling of loss in
the changing room when it became ap-
parent that hom Samas would not be
making an appearance.
Warm up was concluded with mini-
mal fuss, with resident pensioner Be-
nincasa running his usual pre-game
24km high knees. Imperial’s crafty
plan of messing up the Medics minibus
booking worked to perfection, result-
ing in the Medics arriving just 15 min-
utes before kick-oﬀ, with just the bare
11 men.
he ref blew his whistle, and battle
commenced. he ﬁrst 5 minutes were
a notoriously un-clichéd cagey aﬀair,
with the all-important ﬁrst tackle be-
ing won by Imperial. Some tactical
confusion was deployed by Imperial’s
Pete Nugent, who informed his team-
mate with a shout of “TIME” followed
instantly by a “MAN-ON”
. Vedat Ratib,
who received the pass, was immedi-
ately dispossessed. “Joke’s on you” said
Ratib, to everyone who was listening…
which, as usual, was no one. IC soon
took an early lead, a ﬂowing move with
Rob Maizonner collecting the ball on
the right ﬂank before drilling a low
cross straight through the corridor of
uncertainty and into the living room of
champions, where Will Wright got the
slightest of touches to guide the ball to
Myles Jarvis, gambling at the back stick
as always, who struck a right-footed
shot into the bottom corner. here
were mutterings of disbelief, as approx-
imately no one knew Jarvis possessed a
right foot. Nigel Jarvis looked bemused
on the sidelines: 1-0 IC.
At the restart, there were no IC
shouts of “it’s still 0-0”, which, as we all
know, is essential for keeping the lead-
ing team on their toes. Lo and behold,
a Medic equalizer followed within the
next 10 minutes. Dom Aﬀron, in be-
tween moaning about anything and
everything, took an IC throw-in from
the left, with Dion Benincasa taking
the worst touch anyone has ever seen
(ever). he constantly threatening
Medic number 10 and oﬃcial unit,
“Uzi”
, nipped in and applied the ﬁnish
despite a desperate lunge from Andy
Smith. Nigel groaned on the sideline.
Aﬀron continued to moan, only a few
decibels louder. Will Wright’s shoul-
der slumped and head dropped in
disgust, inspirational leader that he is.
Dabbagh shouted furiously. Moxham’s
scalp looked more terrifying than ever.
Andy Smith may even have been heard
saying something. 1-1. he nature of
the Medic goal gazumped IC, as they
carried about as much threat as a dead
possum up until that point.
he Medics began to build a head of
steam, knocking the ball around nicely,
despite the best eﬀorts of their number
5, who was more interested in fouling
than playing football. A tense 15 min-
utes played out, but IC were never far
from the game, and deservedly took
the lead when Maizonner received a
low pass from Aﬀron and ﬁnished with
aplomb into the top corner, despite
taking 53 extra touches. 2-1 IC, and the
half time whistle followed soon after.
he second half began well for the
Medics, who had the better of pos-
session. Two route 1 style hoof and
ﬂick-ons presented striker Uzi with
one-on-one situations. Brap brap, Uzi
missed the target on both occasions,
indicating that his name may well have
been derived from his low hit-ratio
from a large number of shots. James
Owen gave his defence a good talking
too, showing glimpses of the lairiness
that gets him into ﬁghts with fellow IC-
UAFC members. A huge let oﬀ for IC.
With Medics continuing to assert
pressure, Sami Dabbagh was lucky not
to be given a court order for assault
on the opposition number 5, who he
brought down with all the reﬂexes and
reaction of a gun enthusiast’s trigger
ﬁnger. Aﬀron attempted to diﬀuse the
situation by politely reminding the ref-
eree that he was “having a nightmare”.
Unfortunately, this did not have the de-
sired aﬀect, with Dabbagh given a ﬂash
ICUAFC dominate, just like the 1sts
of yellow and the Medics given a free-
kick. Aﬀron continued his eloquent
dialogue with the referree, later calling
him a “maverick”
, with the man in black
seeming somewhat proud of this refer-
ence. It’s always good to have a ref who
doesn’t play by the rules…
With tension increasing, Myles Jarvis
decided to step up to the plate, giving
the Medic right back a torrid time,
sprinting down the left wing before
sending a low cross to the back stick,
where a gambling Rob Maizonnier
converted for his second of the game.
3-1 IC. “It’s still 0-0” screamed Nugent,
and, taking this on board, Jarvis de-
cided to once again burst past his op-
ponent, earning an IC corner. From a
Rob Maizonnier corner, Dom Aﬀron
caressed the ball with his right testicle
into the back of the net. here were
mutterings of disbelief, as approxi-
mately no one knew Aﬀron possessed
a right testicle. 4-1 IC, game over.
With the rest of the match playing
out at a tepid tempo, the ﬁnal whistle
was blown, the ref proving his maver-
ick tendencies by turning the whistle
upside down before blowing. In truth,
4-1 ﬂattered Imperial 2s, but the win
was deﬁnitely deserved. MOTM to
Myles Jarvis, who started his university
football career playing for the Medics,
closely followed by an impressive Rob
Maizonnier.
ICSM Darts Society is the only Im-
perial Club dedicated to the sport.
Shocking right? We consider it a sport.
Not just prime man boob jiggle time
or a pint of beer resting on a beer belly
time – darts is a game of skill, contra-
ry to stereotypes. We usually play in a
Monday night league SKADL (South
Ken Academic Darts League) which
started out as a competition between
Imperial halls, but now includes a lot
of previous students, and other uni-
versities around London. Other teams
include the Holland Club, which has
had to ﬁnd an alternative venue since
the club shut over the Christmas pe-
riod.
he ﬁrst ever Dartsity, an epic clash
between the few IC members of the
medic darts society and the medics
took place at the Reynolds bar this
Monday night. After every member of
the medic team was late, the order of
play was decided by the weekly Park-
our challenge. For IC the Joker put in
a strong performance walking out of
the building on his hands. Female 1
borrowed Female 4 and Crim Dog to
perform a triple bridge, but unfor-
tunately wasn’t enough to beat IC.
In the ﬁrst game which was 6 V
6, IC started by pulling out quite
a lead. However after a later
admitted unlawful subtraction
of 100 points from the medic’s
score, they took the ﬁrst game.
Not feeling downhearted, the
next game went much better for IC
with the Joker, Spitroast and female
4 taking the game. In the next game
Crim Dog and Computing Chris were
unlucky, losing narrowly to Patches
and 62.
With pressure mounting, the ﬁrst
Singles match was Spitroast against
Patches. he two quality Imperial dart
players seemed evenly matched, until
Spitroast hit a massive
1 1 4 , a n d
checked out shortly after
with Patches trailing behind. Maybe if
Feel the power, with Dartsity
Louisa Byrne Sports Writer he had lived up to his name that night,
he could have caused a big enough
distraction.
Second up in the singles for IC was
Crim Dog, who was having trouble
standing up by this point, and several
times managed to not hit the board
with any of the 3 darts. Although
when people weren’t ducking
she managed to hit some pretty
impressive scores, she failed
to ﬁnish, and that game went
to ICSM, leaving them win-
ning 3-2 overall. After a short
interval of Crim Dog stroking
Spitroast’s soft hair, IC made a
comeback. Chris and he Joker
both made convincing wins to put
IC 4-3 ahead. Unfortunately when fe-
male 4 met 62 in the next match, no
amount of buttons popping open on
her shirt let the match swing her way.
With 1 game left at a 4 – 4 draw it
was all to play for. As Coney unfor-
tunately had no darts and was at that
time inanimate, Computing Chris
took on the Captain of ICSM. Com-
puting Chris stormed ahead, but
Brunt wasn’t far behind. In an epic
battle to the ﬁnish, Computing Chris
claimed the title for IC, taking out a
massive double 4 checkout.
To console his defeat, Brunt then de-
cided to piss oﬀ the absent IC Alumni
by snogging his cousin Crim Dog. See
our Twitter, @icsmdaaaarts if you are
disturbed enough to want to see pic-
tures. Despite being cheating scum,
ICSM darts still managed to lose both
the match and their dignity by being
beaten by the better part of their own
team, IC.
Most people won’t give darts a go
because they think they will do badly
– some of the performances of Varsity
show it really doesn’t matter. If you are
thinking about giving it a go, just look
us up on the Union website.
Sami Dabbagh Sports Writers
William Wright

