SPORT
47
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Woodhead had kicked the air so hard
that their striker had no choice but to
fall over. he striker had clearly not
recovered from this near death experi-
ence and took the worst penalty Garner
had experienced all season: straight
down the middle with as much power
as Superman holding Kryptonite. Gar-
ner was so surprised that he could only
push the ball back out to the striker but
he got up quickly enough to thwart the
rebound, keeping the clean sheet intact.
Justice was invoked shortly after
whereby a delightful through ball from
Beasley played in Bjorkstrand who
chipped the onrushing keeper in Can-
tonaesque fashion, giving Imperial a
deserved 1-0 lead. he rest of the half
went by uneventfully, although a Bjork-
strand second was chalked oﬀ purely
because the opposition linesman didn’t
want Imperial to win.
It was clear that Imperial were on
top but the one goal scoreline was not
enough. he second half again started
with Imperial taking control but a sec-
ond goal could not be found. Jones and
Abou Ela Bourquin hit the bar with
headers from Dale corners whilst Bea-
sley was unlucky to have his strike well
saved by the keeper to deny him his
ﬁrst goal for Imperial since he was re-
incarnated as Smithy 2. Dale also had a
chance to ﬁnish oﬀ the game but his left
footed strike was, if anything, hit too
well (and too at the keeper). Hertford-
shire pressed for a late equaliser with
a series of corners and a free kick that
was ﬂicked on, but not well enough to
prevent Garner making a comfortable
diving save.
he full time whistle was greeted
with hugging and general laddish be-
haviour from ICUAFC and the realisa-
tion was that a single point from either
of the two remaining games would be
enough to guarantee promotion.
With BUCS promotion almost guar-
anteed, attentions turned to cup; the
one occasion where a muggle sport is
more magical than quidditch. Having
beaten GKT 1s in the quarter-ﬁnals, a
semi-ﬁnal against their 2s should have
been, on paper, an easier proposition.
his notion was dispelled in 120 min-
utes of nerves and tension.
Having got over the initial shock of
not having an AUX cable in the mini-
bus, members of the team refocused
their attention on the job in hand. A 16
man strong squad provided depth and
experience that should have been able
to grind out a result regardless.
he match started slowly although
Imperial edged the opening encoun-
ters. he hard work being put in came
to fruition about 25 minutes into the
game where a vintage Bjorkstrand
through ball found Robinson in an acre
of space and he calmly sent the keeper
the wrong way with a casual ﬁnish. At
this point you could have been for-
given for thinking that Imperial were
ﬁnal bound but a host of chances were
not converted meaning that the lead at
half-time was a slender 1-0.
Again a second goal did not come, al-
though an ambitious 35 yard piledriver
by Hill was tipped round the post by
the keeper at the start of the second
half. When a win looked imminent,
Imperial paid for their inadequacies in
Imperial has gone from strength to
strength this year, currently holding
the top position in the BUCS South
Eastern 2A division and only having
dropped one game this season. Despite
winning recent games by impressive
margins, Imperial approached their
ﬁnal LUSL ﬁxture of the year against
the strong and talented UCL with a
certain degree of trepidation, knowing
it would be the true test of how far they
have come. In recent years UCL have
ardently beaten Imperial, a point high-
lighted by their status two BUCS divi-
sions above us, and this certainly made
it a ﬁxture we were looking forward to.
Stepping onto the pitch for the
warm up, it became apparent that the
weather was not going to be on our
side. Freezing temperatures and inter-
mittent sleet showers would prove to
make catching and passing a challenge
but the drive to beat our toughest rivals
made us warm enough to step up and
begin the match nonetheless. tFrom
the kick-oﬀ Imperial drove ahead with
ﬁerce determination, attacking UCL’s
defensive line again and again with our
forwards. Eventually, scrum-half Kath
Fok took her chance through a break
in the line and was rewarded with a try
out wide which did much to encourage
the team but made for a diﬃcult con-
version attempt for hooker Lana Lee.
With 5 points clocked, Imperial
faced up to the reset with even great-
er determination and again pushed
hard at UCL’s defence. Several penal-
ties from the rucks gave Imperial the
chance to ﬂex their scrum, which held
its own and more against the UCL
pack. Solid rucking from UCL pro-
vided them with a turnover, which was
quickly passed down their hands out
to the wing where some impressive
outrunning of our defence translated
into a try out wide. At 5-5, Imperial
remained calm and kicked oﬀ with a
big chase into their 22. When a knock-
on from UCL came, Imperial capital-
ised from their impressive scrum with
captain Yasmin Edwards breaking past
several defenders to oﬄoad to Lucy
Olliﬀ for our second try of the match.
his time, the score came between the
posts and Lana nailed the conversion
which would later prove to be crucial.
UCL responded quickly with another
break on the wing slicing through Im-
perial’s line to equalise the try count.
Leading 12-10 at half-time, Impe-
rial were anything but cocky about
the outcome and so pushed hard for
further scores in the second half. In
this half Imperial remained dominant,
taking the majority of the territory and
pushing again and again at the UCL
defence. Unfortunately, by this point
the cold had worsened causing a ﬂurry
of knock-ons from both sides. he re-
sulting scrums worked the forwards
hard but impressive hooking from
Lana saw us retain our put-ins, as well
as several steals which gave us more
chances to push for tries. However,
UCL appeared rejuvenated by the ar-
rival of their captain and their proper
kit, and formed an almost impenetra-
ble wall. Imperial changed tactics, opt-
ing for mauls to drive UCL back over
their score line but the mass of bodies
meant that our break through the line
was held up and we were unable to ex-
tend our lead.
Frantic play in the last 10 minutes
saw UCL possession forcing us back
into our own 22. Slow formation of
our defensive line almost provided
UCL with too many gaps to run
through, but Imperial’s determina-
tion to hold out at 12-10 manifested
in a strong scramble defence that held
even when the ball came loose, with
full back Wakana Teranka putting the
ball over our own line to temporar-
ily keep UCL at bay with a 5m scrum.
Time and time again the Imperial line
held, with notable cover tackles from
Yas, until an interception gave us the
turnover just as the whistle blew for
full time. he initial reaction was one
of disbelief (certain members didn’t
even know we were ahead!), soon fol-
lowed by hysterical joy, exhaustion
and then near hypothermia from the
cold, but it had all been worth it for
our best win of the season. Congratu-
lations speciﬁcally to Forwards of the
Match, Charlie Stephens and Heather
Grant, who were both instrumental in
rucks, tackles and breakthroughs, and
Back of the Match Lucy Olliﬀ who was
always there in support and provided
excellent defensive tackles. However,
the whole team should be commended
for their commitment, with this match
demonstrating how much Imperial has
improved – bring on next season!
IC Women’s Rugby topple UCL
Football 1s continue dominance
SportsWriter
Charlotte Hewitt
front of goal as a corner evaded all the
defenders and found their striker. A de-
lightful left footed swivel shot nestles in
the far side netting, drawing the score
back to 1-1. Tempers ﬂared with Mur-
phy questioning the impartiality of the
GKT linesman and Robinson taking
an opportunity to remind the referee
exactly what he thought of him. With
time running out neither team could
get a winner, taking Imperial to extra-
time for the third occasion this season.
TK MAXX 2s could have been for-
given for thinking 11 new players had
come out for Imperial in extra-time as
Imperial dominated and quickly found
themselves in front again. Dale burst
down the wing with pace that J.W.M
Turner himself would have struggled
to capture on canvas. he resulting
cross was sheer perfection, an artistic
blend of Caravaggio, Rafael and Tit-
ian infused with some Pollock ﬂair,
ﬁnding the diving head of Robinson
and ultimately the back of the net. he
game was over as a contest shortly into
the second half of extra-time as a dis-
guised Murphy pass found Jones who
shimmied around a number of tackles
before planting a ﬁnesse shot into the
back of the net.
Imperial were able to shut up shop for
the remaining minutes and have now
reached the LUSL (formerly ULU) ﬁnal
for the 4th year in a row, where they
will meet LSE 1s. he next few weeks
are pivotal and could potentially see an
unprecedented domestic double. Men-
tion should also go to ICUAFC 3s, 5s
and 6s who have each been promoted
from one of their leagues, whilst the
latter have reached their own cup ﬁnal.
Both cup ﬁnals takes place on Saturday
16th March which is, rather ﬁttingly,
exactly 1,976 years to the day that Ca-
ligula became Roman Emperor.
continued from the back page
>>

