Issue 1544
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
15/03/13
@SportFelix
On Wednesday 13th of February ICSC
ventured to Milton Keynes to com-
pete in the south-UK qualiﬁcations to
the British Universities Indoor Snow
Competitions (BUISC). he two ski-
ers willing to compete, left in the early
morning (way too early to be awake)
whereas the boarders (being board-
ers) waited till midday. Upon arriv-
ing in the ghost town that is Milton
Keynes ICSC were ready to make their
mark on snowsports history! First up
was ski racing, where Race Captain
Michael Parkes was faster than a girl
out of Metric and qualiﬁed top 15,
ready for the ﬁnals. Our second ski-
ing contester Tariq Shair tried whole
heartedly, however he may have con-
sumed a little too much alcohol to put
on a top performance. Next up were
the individual snowboard races where
Ross Maske took the gold, Ed ‘Hallélé’
ﬁnished third claiming bronze and all
four snowboard contestants qualiﬁed
for ﬁnals. After great results in the In-
dividual races the dynamic IC slalom
snowboard team were ready to take
on any opponent, despite the pres-
sure on President John McGlutkin
after last year’s devastating fall which
caused Imperial to just miss out on a
place in the ﬁnals. After a tough ﬁrst
race where IC’s snowboarders just
managed to grab a victory, taking out
this year’s favourites, the next races
were a breeze and we quickly made it
to the ﬁnals, Where the attitude was
kept it cool and racked up four more
gold medals. For the ski duels IC did
not present a team as one girl had to
be on it! Next up was the most antici-
pated event… the Freestyle. Freestyle
captain Mikkel Kranker inspired the
boys with some inspirational words,
despite a major hip injury. his lead
to John McGlutkin throwing down
some killer transfers, impressing the
judges and Ross Maske starting oﬀ
with some major bails (no worries
though – ‘cause people are stoked on
bails) but pulling it back in his second
run triumphing with a sweet ‘back one
melon’ and some gnarly rail riding.
hus, both earning a spot in the ‘ﬁnals’
of the qualiﬁer. he top 8 skiers and
snowboarders then had to compete
for a place in the actual ﬁnals, forcing
them to put down some of their best
runs to win the judge’s approval. John
McGlutkin tore up the slopes land-
ing a stylish and smooth run earning
him a place in the ﬁnals. Odds on Ross
Maske were good for a medal spot as
he had perfected his skills during the
countless Hemel sessions put on by
ICSC. He landed a super clean run
which placed him 2nd overall. After
the competitions the spectators were
in for another treat as the winning
male snowboard dropped a ‘corked
540’ – just for fun. his concluded the
qualiﬁcations for south UK, resulting
in 7 medals for ICSC (breaking every
record) and 5 contestants making it to
the ﬁnals in Leeds.
IC snowboarding squad made their
way up to Leeds (such a trek) to com-
pete in the BUISC ﬁnals. We arrived
on the evening of Tuesday the 5th of
March. he night before the competi-
tion was spent in one of Leeds’ ﬁner
establishments (Discovery Inn) where
the price per week is lower than what
the halls would cost in Acton. Both
John McGlutkin and Ross Maske had
their Birthdays on competition day
so as the clock passed twelve a quick
song was sung and everyone was oﬀ
to bed – crazy night. 8 o’clock was
the hour of awakening and a magniﬁ-
cent breakfast was enjoyed at one of
Leeds’ classic diner/kebab shops. he
Leeds snowdome was set up to ac-
commodate masses of drunken stu-
dents (rather than actual snowsports
competitors) and as a results our
celebratory beers were conﬁscated at
the entrance (not entirely sure if this
was because John looked dodgy or al-
cohol wasn’t allowed). hese precau-
7 medals, snow big deal
Mikkel Kranker Sports Writers
Ross Maske
tions later made sense as the changing
rooms smelt like a club at 7 o’clock
on a Sunday morning and Manches-
ter Snowsports (SKUM) had brought
masses of drunk supporters dressed
as superman – the more the merrier!
Racing was kicked oﬀ with individual
slalom resulting in all the boarders
qualifying for the ‘ﬁnal ﬁnals’. Team
Loughborough’s cocky remarks about
how all of their members qualiﬁed for
the individual slalom quickly vanished
as Imperial had done so as well. How-
ever in the ﬁnals the pressure got to
Ross Maske and Ed ‘Hallélé’ causing
them to fall over and lose a possible
podium position making John Mc-
Glutkin the top imperial snowboard
racer of the year (despite his motto of
“slow time or no time”). Next up was
the team slalom where ICSC ﬁnished
4th narrowly missing out on a podium
position despite an immaculate team
eﬀort – nothing could be done howev-
er as we had the “slow lane”. Last but
not least, the freestyle ﬁnals were to be
held were numerous sponsored riders
were competing. No IC contestants
took positions among the top 5, yet
some noteworthy highlights include:
Ross Maske’s ﬁrst front ﬂip, yet he
decided to ride on a fall over a ‘bump’
on the piste, a switch frontﬂip on skis,
the winning snowboarding pulling an
underﬂip and a hardway 270 in and
of cause honorary Imperial student
William Tickner ﬁnishing 2nd overall
with a HUGE method to ﬂat and some
techy rail rides.
his has been the most successful
snowsports competition in the his-
tory of ICSC, so a big shout-out to all
our competitors and let’s make it even
more radical next year!!!
ICUAFC 1s on brink of League and Cup double
Henry Garner Sports Writer
After a long season, ICUAFC 1s were
hoping to follow in the footsteps of
Dante emerging from the Inferno and
Purgatory into the long awaited Heav-
en (minus a Roman poet as a guide
and lasting considerably longer than
66 Cantos). he week beginning 25th
February was the deﬁnition of make or
break, with matches against Hertford-
shire 2s—placed 2nd in BUCS—and
a LUSL cup semi-ﬁnal against Kings
Medic 2s (GKT [TK MAXX]).
First up was the voyage west to Hert-
fordshire where bad memories were
evoked. he previous year’s ‘playlist’
in the minibus featured too much El-
ton John as well as a Cypriot artist
whose name was unknown, let alone
pronounceable. he minibus had not
been equipped with enough Valium for
the whole team to take, leading to half
the team struggling to come to terms
with their own existence let alone be-
ing in a frame of mind to play a football
match. he same mistake was not to be
repeated: a blanket ban on Biﬀy Clyro
was enforced and the bus was treated
to a rousing chorus of the Gallagher
brothers. his led to all members of the
bus being ‘Mad Fer It’
, except for Toﬁs
who bemoaned the lack of Βαγγέλης
Παπαθανασίου (Vangelis Papathanas-
siou). Toﬁs perked up before kick-oﬀ
whereby he declared his love for Crewe
Alexandra and gave an interesting ren-
dition of some of their popular songs,
before asking what league they played
in.
A strong team was put out, with
Bjorkstrand completing the line-up.
he game commenced on possibly the
best away pitch the team had encoun-
tered all season (N.B. this is genuinely
not sarcasm). he opening exchanges
were about as cagey as the Bastille ten
minutes after it had been stormed (ba-
sically, it wasn’t cagey) and Imperial
dominated the ﬁrst 5 minutes. hen,
as Imperial had been accustomed to
in recent ﬁxtures, the referee awarded
a penalty to the opposition after >>47

