NEWS
6 FRIDAY 15 MARCH
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial College Business School has launched a four week
intensive course in Strategic Marketing.
This latest exciting addition to our world-class suite of programmes is
designed to enrich, enhance and develop your practical skills while giving
you an understanding of contemporary strategic marketing practice.
You will explore the role of marketing in the development of corporate
strategy and the changing digital economy, and investigate the central role
of branding in the global environment.
The course integrates face-to-face teaching with state-of-the-art technology
and learning support via our dedicated online communications hub.
Programme dates: 1 July – 26 July 2013
Application deadline: 6 May 2013
Tuition fee: £2,000
To ind out more and register for our next online information session, visit:
imperial.ac.uk/business-school/summerschool
@imperialbiz
linkedin.com/company/
imperial-college-business-school
SUMMER SCHOOL 2013
STRATEGIC MARKETING
£250 discount for Imperial College students and alumni
Big Elections: voting shuts at midday on Friday
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Voting in this year’s Big Elections is go-
ing to close on midday at Friday. he
elections are to determine who will be
in various Union positions next year,
including the Sabbatical positions,
the RCSU, CGCU and ICSMSU Exec.
Committees, and the Student Trustee
positions. he Union will be hoping to
beat last year’s record turnout of 41.1%,
with the current total, at time of going
to print, being just about 4% behind last
year.
his year hasn’t gone by without
some controversy, with one candidate
running for every single position avail-
able. he Felix Editor election has also
caused a metaphorical storm, of an
email variety, by accident, but the lat-
ter bit is for a separate article. One of
the candidates, Will Prince, was banned
from campaigning on Wednesday. He
also will get no reimbursement for cam-
paign spend. It should be mentioned
that there are three candidates: the oth-
ers are Joe Letts and Forhad Matin. Of
course, RON is running as well. He has
been forced to stop using social media,
as well as get people to change their
Facebook banners if they have a “Vote
Will for Felix Editor” banner. his fol-
lows from a student, Hamza Sheik, us-
ing mailing lists to ask people to vote for
him. his included an email to 9000 stu-
dents signed oﬀ from “Will’s campaign
team”
. Mailing lists are forbidden from
use for the purposes of campaigning.
Prince protests his innocence saying
that he has no control over someone
else’s actions, however the Deputy Re-
turning Oﬃcers stated that he did not
properly dissuade Sheik from posting,
as, before seconding him, Sheik had
mentioned the use of illegal tactics and
mailing lists as a reason to not second
him – the idea being that if there is no
connection in terms of seconding, then
Prince would not be held accountable.
In the private Facebook conversation,
some of which can be seen on the Un-
ion website, Sheik mentions the ideo of
underhand tactics. Prince ﬁnally replies
that it “sounds a tad risky”
. When ques-
tioned over why he did not outright
say no, he has stated that he dismissed
it as an oﬀ-hand comment and that he
was having multiple conversations with
people at the time.
he Returning Oﬃcers have stated
that Prince had partial responsibility
as he did not take the opportunity to
outright say no. hey said that any ar-
gument over campaign team is “moot”
as they did not try to deﬁne a campaign
team because “any deﬁnitions will al-
ways fail”
.
Commenting on the incident, Prince
gave the following statement: “I feel I
never acted in an unreasonable or reck-
less manner, so the severity of the pen-
alty that has been imposed strikes me
as disproportionate. It was never my
desire for Hamza to illegally campaign
on my behalf, a point that in my eyes
is borne out by the facts. he expecta-
tions of the returning oﬃcers when it
comes to me stopping Hamza seem to
me to be unrealistic, especially in light
of that fact that the comments that are
being used against me were made in an
oﬀhand manner in a personal Facebook
chat conversation. When I discovered
Hamza had sent the emails, I was dev-
astated.
It’s not just the penalty that has
stopped me campaigning – the inves-
tigation itself began on Sunday and
wasn’t resolved until Wednesday, cov-
ering a signiﬁcant chunk of the voting
period. he only reason I am not ap-
pealing the decision is the thought of
having to face again the stresses that
come with having the rectitude of your
innocent actions constantly scrutinized
in minutiae.”
he positions that seem to be the
most hotly contested are President,
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
and Deputy President (Welfare). Presi-
dent has four candidates with manifes-
tos. hese are Becky Lane, David Gold-
smith, Ali Ibrahim, and Forhad Matin.
In the DPW race, there are three can-
didates with manifestos, and DPCS also
has three.
he results of all of the elections will
be announced in Metric. his is barring
any last minute complaints from can-
didates that need to be resolved. Can-
didates can still complain until 1pm
on Friday 15 March. Until then, the
stats page can be used to procrastinate
and keep up with how many people
have voted in such detail that even the
world’s biggest anorak might be satis-
ﬁed.

