NEWS
7
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
273 members of staﬀ at Imperial
College London during the period
of 2011/12 were paid over £100,000.
his is according to the oﬃcial re-
ports released at the end of each
academic year. Keith O’Nions, the
President & Rector, was, in total, re-
numerated £354,000. his ﬁgure is ac-
tually a reduction of last year, which
was £367,000. he ﬁgure is mostly
273 staff members on
over £100,000
salary, but £20,000 was categorised
as “Other”. he total renumeration
puts O’Nions as the 4th best paid
Vice-Chancellor in the UK, with only
Oxford, Birmingham and UCL’s Vice-
Chancellors being paid more. his
does not appear to include the added
beneﬁt of the accommodation.
he total amount of money earned
by the top 273 was just over £38 mil-
lion. his is up £627000 from last
year’s total. here are also 6 more
people added from last year.
If anyone high up is read-
ing this: please do not
try to pick this up, it is
merely a picture!
looking for ﬁve years for aﬀordable
accommodation close to College”. He
said that everywhere in ﬁve miles was
loooked at in great detail. He men-
tioned that land in London is very
expensive, particularly in South Kens-
ington. Regarding the price of accom-
modation in North Acton he said that,
while the price may be arguable, it is
actually aﬀordable compared to other
options available.
While discussing the temporary ac-
commodation Paragon, Magee said of
North Acton: “he proposition there
was we can purchase it and if we didn’t
need it we can sell it. It is, let’s face it,
plonked in the middle of the rounda-
bout… not a particularly wonderful
place.”
At the next Management Board
meeting on the 20th March, they will
discuss halls, including Acton and
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
•A special offer for Imperial students
from Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (DSA)
Accredited Instructor
•Mock Test Examiner
5 Driving Lessons for
£95
"Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is
always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London and his
knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons more than
worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to
Imperial students and with the backing of other students I am more than happy to
support him."
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
Free Mock Test from
retired Driving Examiner
"I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I
recommend Denis? Without hesitation."
- Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
Discussion in College: is 10m
refurbishment of Evelyn Gardens worth it
continued from the front page
>> Garden and Evelyn Gardens. College
say that the answers to students’ ques-
tions, which were emailed from Felix
on Friday 8 March, will not be an-
swered until after the meeting. College
have said that they will be in a posi-
tion to answer questions then after the
meeting.
Paul Beaumont, Union President,
asked Sir Keith O’Nions, President &
Rector of Imperial College London,
if he could attend the meeting, to
give the student viewpoint. A College
spokesperson said that, at the time of
going to print, they have not heard
back about Beaumont being allowed
to sit in the meeting.
While all this is going on, the peti-
tion to save Garden Hall, which was
started by students, has garnered over
1,100 supporters. his petition has
also had multiple comments showing
support for the Hall and dismay at the
idea of closure. here has also been a
YouTube video made.
he Big Elections, and speciﬁcally
the Sabbatical Elections, has kept
the subject of halls and the campaign
against North Acton relevant, with
some candidates explicitly mentioning
it while campaigning.
Evelyn Gardens at dusk,
peaceful...
Editorial: page 2
>>

