FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
FRIDAY 15 MARCH
Macchiato: a small shot of thick milk
foam into which has been poured an
espresso or (the rebellious alterna-
tive) an espresso into which has been
poured a small shot of thick milk foam.
Etymology – derived from the Italian
meaning ‘stained’ or ‘marked’ (i.e. cof-
fee stained with milk, or vice versa).
More about the café than the coffee, this is a rustic emporium with genuine
Belgian roots, but have no illusions that it is anything other than a chain: there
are now 175 LPQs in 17 countries. It’s where your professors hang out to take
a break from quantum physics. Free wifi, yellow lighting and expansive tables
make it feel salon-esque (mais oui!) but a large cappuccino clocks in at £3.83
(mais non!). Coffee is served in bowls and can feel like it’s got drowned in the
process. BBB: the lemon tart (£4)
Le Pain Quotidien
45 THURLOE
STREET SW7
THE ROYAL BOROUGH OF
KENSINGTON AND CHELSEA
Unquestionably the best coffee in
London, probably the world, with
paper cups you’ll want as ornaments.
ARTG – the John Soames Museum is
but a short walk away.
Like the Middleton hang-out next-door (Bouji’s), this is all that is upper-mid-
dle class, wholesome and masterfully untrendy in a cup. Cath Kidson likely
buys her artisanal bread here. Americanoes/espressos (£1.90 for a double),
made with Union blend, are good; anything milky tends to err on the side of
blandness. Only outside seating at the South Ken branch. BBB: the carrot cake
(£3.50)
Gail’s Does “quirky posh” like the rest of
Notting Hill (think mismatched
crockeryandheritagetomatosalads),
but makes it feel authentic. ARTG –
Portobello Market, at your peril; the
Electric Cinema, at your pleasure.
Lowry and Baker
Yes everything is infused with the smell of curry grease, and yes there’s no
chance of “latte art” adorning your beverage, but Imperial’s unpretentious of-
fering is considerably better than, say, the national leading chain, Costa, (shud-
der). What’s more, it’s manned by friendly staff, uses Fairtrade beans (see
above) and clocks in at a very reasonable £1.37 for a small latte (student price).
BBB: now we’re getting contentious… the chocolate muffin? (£1.09)
Library Cafe Somehow serious but still funky, with
excellent coffee. ARTG – the rest of
Brixton Village Market.
Federation Coffee
Fernandez & Wells, 8 Exhibition Road – the Spanish upstart, this branch only
dared open its doors to the Parisians (and, more reluctantly, the students) of
South Kensington at the turn of the year. All black framing, hunks of jamón
and industrial lighting, this establishment is pitching itself as the (slightly)
edgier alternative to its neighbours’ niceness, and the staff can be proportion-
ately diffident. However, its small-and-expensive-(£2.30-for-an-espresso!)-
but-perfectly-formed cuppas are probably the best in Imperial’s vicinity.
Wholemilk only. BBB: pastel de nata (£2.00)
A micro-roastery capable of reviving
you after a night in a micro-brewery.
ARTG – the Sunday markets, includ-
ing nearby Colombia Road Flower
Market
Nude Espresso
A reliable blend of affordability and quality, this is probably the best of the
chains: the latte has punch and comes in at a neat £2.10 (with no surcharge for
soya). All natural, all organic and more than a little self-righteous (the web-
site has a well-being section, which includes nuggets such as “to feel alive and
rejuvenated, take your shoes off and walk on dewy grass”; clearly the author
has not witnessed the syringes in Victoria Park). However, you can no longer
slam it for being part-owned by McDonalds, as the US chain sold its shares to a
private equity house, Bridgepoint Capital, in 2008. BBB: the “Love Bar” (£1.50)
Pret A Manger So British there’s a danger you’ll
be sitting next to Nick Griffin, and
worryingly describes itself as “child
friendly”, but delicious nonetheless.
ARTG – the Heath
Ginger & White
Only if you have a pram and con-
sider coffee a form of hot milk-
shake. BBB: the tax advisors.
Starbucks
15-17 EXHIBITION
ROAD SW7
CITY OF WESTMINSTER
THE LIBRARY
SW7
SOUTH KENSINGTON CAMPUS
8 EXHIBITION
ROAD SW7
CITY OF WESTMINSTER Fernandez & Wells
15 OLD BROMPTON
ROAD SW7
THE ROYAL BOROUGH OF
KENSINGTON AND CHELSEA
19 OLD BROMPTON
ROAD SW7
THE ROYAL BOROUGH OF
KENSINGTON AND CHELSEA
23-25 LEATHER
LANE EC1
CAMDEN
339 PORTOBELLO
ROAD W10
THE ROYAL BOROUGH OF
KENSINGTON AND CHELSEA
77-78 BRIXTON VILLAGE
MARKET SW9
LAMBETH
Prufrock
26 HANBURY
STREET E1
TOWER HAMLETS
4a-5a PERRIN’S
COURT NW3
CAMDEN
Within a bean's throw of Imperial A distant plantation
Coffee shops close by Slightly further afield
BBB – Best Besides the Bean
ARTG – Another Reason To Go
ence and is the domain of the pros-
perous middle-class, the connotations
are distinctly less glorious elsewhere
in the world. Coﬀee plantations have
been responsible for large tracts of de-
forestation in countries such as Brazil,
and its cultivation has often notori-
ously been at the expense of local peo-
ple. Western tastes for coﬀee played
a principal role in the transportation
of roughly one million African slaves
to Cuban plantations alone. And be-
cause coﬀee thrives in many equato-
rial countries with lush, volcanic land-
scapes, where livelihoods are often
uncertain, the industry continues to
be plagued with accusations of injus-
tice.
Recent research suggests that coﬀee
crops, such as wild Arabica, are par-
ticularly susceptible to climate change,
so the hardship faced by many of the
smallholders that the sector depends
upon is likely to increase. A number
of organisations are attempting to ad-
dress this issue and oﬀering consum-
ers an opportunity to speak out with
their wallet. he Fairtrade label, for
instance, guarantees that farmers are
paid at least enough to cover the costs
of production, which provides some
certainty in an extremely volatile mar-
ket. CaféDirect – the business that
supplies most of Imperial’s beans, no
less – reinvests at least a third of its
proﬁts back into the communities and
businesses that it partners and makes
laudable eﬀorts to address its environ-
mental impacts.
Such eﬀorts matter if we are to
continue, like J. Alfred Prufrock,
‘[measuring] out [our lives] with cof-
fee spoons’, and to avoid reverting to
World War II substitutes like roasted
chicory. An idea so alarming it might
well trigger a coronary.

