10 FELLX
new men...
new knowledge...
new problems to be solved...
Today's children will grow up in a world that Is
being remade before their eyes. They will have a
wider range of opportunities. They will also face
problems calling for new solutions. Today's
children need the most imaginative and creative
teaching. Teaching by men and women who are
among the ablest of their generation... graduates
who are among the most outstanding of their
year. Teachers have greater influence on future
generations than any other profession.
What does Teaching offer you in return ?
New opportunities
Teaching is a vigorous and growing profession. It offers
the graduate greater opportunities than ever before,
both in developing professional skills and in achieving
posts of influence and responsibility — often far earlier
than in many other careers. For example, nearly halfof
the men graduate teachers between 25 and 29 hold such
posts and receive salaries well above the basic scale.
About half of those in their 30's are heads of depart-
ments, earning up to £2,330, or hold even higher posts.
Onefifthofthose now in their 40's are headmasters who
may earn salaries up to £3,850. The prospects are even
better for graduates withfirstor second class honours, or
a higher degree.
New ideas - new initiative
The mastery of teaching skills and the evolution of new
methods are a stimulating challenge. New discoveries
and new knowledge present teachers with problems for
which there are no precedents. New communication
techniques and aids must be developed.
Training: an extension of your knowledge
Some graduates feel uncertain whether they are
temperamentally suited to teaching. The one-year
post-graduate training course equips you to start your
career confidently on a basis of practical experience
as well as theory.
Why not find out more?
Talk things over with your Appointments Board, and
ask for the new booklet, 'Careers in Education for
Graduates', or write for a copy to Room 114 ( )
Department of Education and Science, Curzon Street,
London, W.I. It describes the schools of today and the
kind of teachers they need; their salaries and special
allowances.
He needs trained minds like yours
to fit him for tomorrow's world
Iisued by th* Department ofEducation andSeienct
TIPS FOR
T0TTIES
T PRESUME that most of you
are either living in or flat-
sharing and so managing on a
budget and, therefore, in this edi-
tion, I will quote some " with-it"
clothes, obtainable within reason-
ably easy reach of S.W.7, with
price very much in mind. I shall
also find time in the article to
quote you a budget tinned meal
for your gas-rings.
Black-and-white Op Art is "way-in"
and if you buy felt, you will be clever,
because it's warm, as well as " with-
it." I'tain in Knightsbridge have one
little dress which I noticed, at about
50s. in pinafore style, so you could
wear a pretty b'.ouse or sweater during
the day, but the round neckline, edged
with white daisy muffs, makes it -oil
enough alone, for informal evenings.
If you want to keep up with the
new Monsieur Courreges length—3 in.
above the knee—you just cut the bot-
tom, for there's no hem! ! or to look
wildly gone, cut scallops—this could
be fun if you have ideas! !
You can stitch or stick with glue,
extra cut outs on to your felt dresses
little flowers, 3s. from Fenwicks. But,
if you are good with your scissors and
needle, then why not make the whole
dress yourself. Remember, no hems,
what bliss! !
Black-and-white, abstract mod handV
bags to match in felt are quite inex-
pensive or in leather, a little more, of
course, from Top Gear in King's RT'.
These shops also have pretty little
black crepe dresses, with a hip level
strioe of white, which are very smart.
Warm and practical as well as "in"
are thick stockings for winter. Wool-
lands have a good selection, one I
liked particularly was an unusual
dogstooth checked stretch in black
and white at about 30s. There are
also paisley patterns too, and this
paisley influence is getting carried as
far as Bermuda type pants—would
you believe it? Under £1 at Harrods
and D. H. Evans, these could make
a fun gift for a fellow girl-friend—
don't you think ?!!
Still on the warm theme, (though
we shall probably have a heat wave
now) slacks are back in force this,
season;, particularly tweeds and trou-
ser suits in coy wcol worsted or
checks. Look out for the turn-up,
sometimes with the front slit and al-
most never the under foot elastic
these days. Emcar stockists have
good ideas at keen prices, then higher
up and more classic, come Jaeger,
Sloane Street. I like C. and A. for
this sort of outfit and it may be that
they are doing thtir three-piece again
this year. A straight skirt, trousers
and a jacket to mix and match, was
under 10 guineas; see Oxford Circus
Branch. I still like culottes too,
slightly " hippy," with a skinny
sweater, narrow belt and school knee-
high socks.
Now, to food. If you like rice,
then I am sure a favourite of mine
could be yours too. It is Plumrose
Risotto, savoury rice of Italian origin,
of course, but made in Denmark and
contains chopped ham, mushrooms
and onions. A large tin at 3s. 3d.
makes two average helpings, but you
can add to it with some crispy bacon
or vegetables, such as pre-cooked
frozen peas, sweetcorn, tomatoes or
a can of red Spanish pimentoes. Or
use it with fresh cooked patna rice
as a basis for your own risotto. It's
easy to heat slowly anyway, with a
knob of butter and a little water, but
take care not to burn.

