F E L I X 3
I.C. IMPRESSES
AACHEN STUDENTS
First Company in the world
to market a micro-integrated
range of computers
Openings for graduates
English Electric Leo Marconi is in the forefront of the
British Computer industry. With the recent announce-
ment of the new micro-integrated System 4 range,
EELM now market the most advanced range of
computers in the world.
A breakthrough like this is the result of years of
work, involving first-class brains and abilities from a
vast range of specialist skills. EELM are at the head of
their field only because the best people work for them.
Why?
First of all, of course, salaries and fringe benefits are.
good throughout the computer industry. But it is the
environment that really counts. At EELM career plan-
ning ensures that promotion and responsibility come
quickly to those wrth ability. The activities of the
Company are so varied that, whatever your particular
career interest, EELM have a job for you which will
challenge your ability to the utmost.
Right now EELM are expanding. They need gradu-
ates from every academic field now and at the end of
this academic year. Opportunities exist in London,
Kidsgrove (North Staffs.) and various provincial
cities.
A booklet "Careers in Computers", which gives a
detailed description of all the types of openings that
exist in the Organisation, will be sent on request.
Company representatives will be visiting the University
early in the New Year and arrangements to meet them
should be made through the Appointments Board.
If any further information is required please write
to:-
I. V. Pugh, University Liaison Officer,
English Electric-Leo-Marconi Computers Ltd.,
Kidsgrove, Stoke-on-Trent, Staffs.
They talk to Dick Waterman
Q N SATURDAY, 9 October, four students from Aachen Tech-
nische Hokesdiute arrived in London to visit I.C. This is in an
exchange for four I.C. men who visited Aachen last July.
I met and interviewed them in
Southside bar under the benevolent
. eye of President Fletcher. The four
students—Joseph Gerard (electrical
engineering), Nick Nauwahl (archi-
tecture) Ernst Singelmann (civil en-
gineering, and President of Aachen)
and Gerd Schmaht (mineral techno-
logy) have been entertained by Union
officials and have visited departments
of I.C. relevant to their studies.
Their general impression of the
College is that I.C. is an excellent col-
lege at which to attend a course in
science or technology, but they pre-
fer Aachen as its courses cover a
wider range of subjects—Architecture,
Philosophy and Theology are included
?nd in fact Aachen will soon achieve
ull University status, including arts
courses in its curriculum.
On the subject of grants, Mr. Nan-
. wahl told me that about 40 per cent,
of the students receive awards at
Aachen, 20 per cent, of these coming
from the State and the rest from in-
dustry or religious and other or-
ganisations. Another interesting point
is that students whose parents earn
over £1,200 p.a. cannot receive grants
from the Government.
It is also difficult at Aachen, as here
at I.C., to get a hall place. There
are 10,000 students and only 1,100
hall places. Add to this the fact that
pnee a Student is in hall he is not re-
moved except in cases of discipline
and the situation at I.C. becomes
comparatively good.
Mr. Nauwahl, whose English was
the best of the four visitors, was most
impressed by the facilities for relaxa-
tion provided, particularly in South-
side, and in the college generally,
students in Aachen not having such
luxuries except those in hall.
Judging by the reactions of the stu-
dents they have enjoyed their short
stay here and share my feelings that
more exchange, visits should be ar-
ranged with foreign students.
Tactful remark of the evening re.
Arthur's beer, " In two or three
weeks we might get used to it"
(good mornings begin with Gilliatt)
Every Sunday morning you can enjoy the razor-
sharp theatre reviews of Penelope Gilliatt. She
brings a fresh, astringent intelligence to the
job. You may disagree violently with what she
says but you will relish the style with which
she says it. If you are tired of the jaded, pre-
dictable opinions of the establishment critics,
begin nextSundaymorning with Gilliatt. You'll
find it a refreshing change.
In The Observer every Sunday

