F E L I X 5
K A N T A
P O L L
Optimistic Ubbelohde
by PETE WALLUM
* BLINKERS ARE NOT PROVIDED WITH A B.Sc." sums up
the opinion of Professor Ubbelohde, head of the Chemical En-
gineering Dept., in his General Studies talk to a near capacity
audience on Thursday, 7th Octo-
ber. His discussion of the prob-
lems of Universities was particu-
larly relevant to colleges such as
Our own.
Although, in the Victorian era it
was possible for the Master of a
famous college to say, " I am the
Master of this College, and what I
do not know is not knowledge," this
is now inconceivable ; it is essential
for courses to-day to be highly spec-
ialised to enable us to approach the
very frontiers of human knowledge.
Nevertheless, one must fight against
becoming an " intellectual serf. It
is not the job of the University to
provide courses of these essential sub-
jects that of necessity are excluded
from our curriculum, but entirely
up to the individual to indulge in
these studies in his free time.
Despite the huge amount of work
necessary on a students degree course
it is essential that some time is spent
on these subjects, for judgement of
human beings and the power of com-
municating information to others will
only be acquired if one carried out a
suitable private course of reading and
study.
The Professor feels that in every
student's busy social life some time
should be allocated to this aim. Pro-
fessor Ubbelohde was optimistic
about the courses given at I.C., feel-
ing them to be as useful as any course
given anywhere. But forget not that
TN THEIR FIRST survey KANTA
' polU asked a random sample of
100 members of Imperial College
Union two questions regarding this
year's IC Carnival. The first arose
from last week's Felix editorial com-
ment in which it was suggested that
the best time for Carnival wou'.d be
not May but the end of the spring
term.
What would be the best month of
the year in which to hold the Carni-
val Charity Week ?
Considering that the organisation
of a Carnival Week needs to be done
during term-time the histogram indi-
cates that the most popular month
would be March. An April Carnival
Week would require that the Carnival
organisers must give up much of their
Easter Vacation.
// these charities were proposed at
the next Union Meeting (21 October),
which one would you vote to be the
Carnival Charity ?
Notting Hill Housing Trust 8
Dr. Barnardo's Homes 3
Oxfam 29
Lady Hoare's Thalidomide Appeal 9
Cancer Research 39
From these results it seems certain
that a large charity—as opposed to a
small national or a local one—will
get ICU's support, with the odds in
favour of one relating to health rather
than to famine. Will Mr. David
Reich, past President of Debates, try
for a third time to advocate the Im-
perial Cancer Research Fund ?
However, a little-known charity—-
such as Multiple Sclerosis Research—
spoken of enthusiastically and con-
vincingly may well sway the masses.
PROSPECTUS REVIEWED
By PETER COMBES
TTIE NEW PROSPECTUS, now available, is an improvement
on last year's. The basic format has been radically changed,
thanks probably to the new Publications Officer, Miss A. B.
Nolan.
The only obvious mistake in this
new version is the college map. Why
couldn't it have been left as before
covering two sides, instead of cutting
it down to one side and making it
face the wrong way?
The whole quality of the printing
has been improved, the paper is better
and the choice of photographs is more
striking. The staff list is much more
accessible than before and it has been
personalised by the inclusion of some
Christian names. But why did only a
few staff members give their Christian
names? Can the others be worried
about beine respected?
The admission procedure has been
made a special section at the end.
Here it cannot be missed owing to the
inclusion of a blue index sheet. At
first glance this looks like a mistaken
inclusion of another cover but in fact
it is a clever way of drawing one's
attention. Since these prospectuses are
sent to tentative I.C. students this part
of the volume is the most important.
The actual written matter is the
same as that which has appeared in
previous editions but the change of
layout and type has given it a new
look which is admirable.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
COMMEMORATION
DAY
Thursday 28 October
RoyalAlbert Hall 3pm
RCS on show
Tickets FREE
Commemoration Day celebrates the visit to the College in 1945
of the late King George VI, accompanied by Queen Elizabeth the
Queen Mother—now Chancellor of the University of London—at the
centenary of the Royal College of Chemistry, the oldest forerunner
of the Imperial College.
This year's celebration will be held on Thursday, 28th October,
in the Royal Albert Hall at 3 p.m. The special visitor will be the
Rt. Hon. Lord Florey, O.M., President of the Royal Society.
Before the ceremony an interdenominational church service will
be held in Holy Trinity Church, Prince Consort Road ; the preacher
will be the Rt. Rev. W. P. F. Chadwick, Bishop of Barking.
After the ceremony the work and buildings of the Royal College
of Science will be on view to visitors.
Tea for present students will be in the main Refectory, South
Side, and tickets can be obtained free from the Union Office.

