F E L I X 9
SATISFACTION ?
By CHRIS LAMPARD
" JJKE A CROWDED, sweaty
cattle-market," was how one
freshman described the
Freshers' Hop of Saturday, 9
October.
Perhaps a more accurate compari-
son would be a Turkish slave market,
as bloodshot male eyes scanned the
varied ranks of females (all shapes
and sizes) for fresh innocent talent.
For most of the evening the con-
cert hall was so crowded that all
movement, save an occasional ecstatic
twitch, was impossible. Meanwhile
in the upper refectory another group
pounded out their souls to a small
audience which was at times down to
a disinterested dozen.
As at nearly all college dances the
bar was the cause of more frustration
than anything else. Despite sterling
work by those serving, it required vast
reserves of patience, tenacity, brute
force and ignorance to eventually get
a drink (which was, towards the end
of the evening, almost bound to be
served in an unwashed glass).
The evening did have its spots of
light relief such as the I.C. man, rather
the worse for drink, who staggered
into the Concert Hall clutching his
sagging trousers, and proclaimed "My
kingdom for a woman or a safety
pin." The group playing in the Con-
cert Hall, had to be recalled by a slow
handclap after an inordinately long
break of over an hour.
Surely, it would be better to fol-
low the lead of Q.M.C., Chelsea and
Battersea and go for quality not
quantity. A top recording group and
more expensive tickets prove far more
enjoyable and popular. Other col-
leges do this for their freshers' hops
and the result is far superior to ours.
NADIR OF TASTE
T H E NEW CROP OF EAT-
ING-HOUSES here in Lon-
don, the Chicken Inns, the
Golden Eggs and Wimpeys con-
tain examples of contemporary
culture which epitomise the
nadir of taste.
It is not so much that the food re-
presents the lowest common denomi-
nator in mass-eating habits but more
that the decoration, the poster reds
and greens which disfigure your fellow
eaters into HAMMER film extras,
betray a nonchalance towards the
sensibilities of people which is almost
insulting.
I remember reading about an
emerging non-culture which includes
for example, non-books by Ian Flem-
ing for people who don't like books
and non-music by MUSAK for people
who don't like music, ana so on. ine
essence of this non-culture is not that
they are bad examples of an art form,
but no examples at all.
The garish quality of some of the
new eating-houses fits in this non-
culture as a non-decor, a style of
decoration that will never offend any-
body because of its lack of reference
to any existing decorative values and
judgements. The polythene age. in
decor, as in haute couture, seems bent
on announcing itself in the brightest
possible colours.
It is with some misgivings that I
notice the new lower lounge furniture
has echoes of this non-decor. Its
juxtaposition of 4 distinct and fairly
strident chair colours seems to have
taken the usual relaxation out of the
lounge, even though the comfort may
well have been increased.
CLIVE HEATH
Startatthe
heartof
British
Industry
with
Each year Turner & Newall, one of the
big groups at the heart of British
Industry, offers a few outstanding
graduates in science, engineering or the
arts, a career keyed from the start to
the areas in which expansion is at its
fastest . . . opportunity at its best.
This is T&N
The T 4 N group is a major supplier of basic
materials to Britain's manufacturing and
export industries. With a large and growing
stake in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in
brake linings and in plastics, T & N is closely
linked to four major areas of economic
growth — to the building, motor and plastics
industries, and to activity in the developing
Commonwealth territories.
T & N thus offers promising graduates a
really worthwhile career with an outstanding
opportunity to contribute to Britain's in-
dustrial and export drive.
Earlier responsibility
T & N's broad and flexible training scheme is
planned to employ all your university attain-
ments to the full, and to equip you to assume
managerial responsibility more confidently—
and certainly earlier—than is often the case
in industry today.
Wider scope for development
Suitable trainees are given the opportunity to
attend, at an appropriate stage in their training,
a year's course at a university with a view to
taking a Master's degree or recognised diploma
in management. As your career develops, the
tremendous scope of T 4 N's activities offers
you an unusually broad range of opportunities
— from factory management to marketing,
export, personnel management or research.
Note to research men
T & N also recruits scientists and engineers
with first or higher degrees direct into its
research and development branches. Oppor-
tunities for supervising work with a practical
application, as well as for fundamental
research, are outstandingly good.
Quick briefing on T*N
$ An expanding £100,000,000 business
with 39,000 employees.
•fi 8 U.K. companies—18 overseas companies
in ten countries.
Overseas interests doubled in ten years.
Ask your Appointments Board for
further details or write direct to:
The Management Appointments Adviser,
Turner &
. Newall Limited, 15 Curzon Street,
London, W1 (Telephone GROsvenor 8163)
TURNER&NEWALL LTD
asbestos, plastics and insulation
Turners Asbestos Cement Co. Ltd • Turner
Brothers Asbestos Co. Ltd. - Ferodo Ltd
Newalls Insulation & Chemical Co. Ltd • J . W.
Roberts Ltd. • British Industrial Plastics Ltd. j/iV'
Stillite Products Ltd. - Turners Asbestos Fibres ^mmm
Ltd. * and 18 overseas mining and manufact-
uring companies TN15/1
NEW STATESMAN
ESSENTIAL READING FOR STUDENTS Every Friday, 1s. only.
Keep informed on politics, world affairs,
new books, all the arts. SPECIAL OFFER
to new student readers: 20 weeks for 10s.
Write sending 10s. to Arthur Soutter, NEW
STATESMAN, Gt. Turnstile, London WC1.

