The World University Service (WUS) is a non-governmental,
university organisation made up of staff and students on
campuses in Africa, the Americas, Asia and Europe. The basic
p r i n c i p l e s b e h i n d the movement are: resistance to all
infringements of freedom of thought and expression in all areas of
life; opposition to all forms of discrimination, exploitation and
injustice and the promotion of university involvement alongside
their basic problems. These aims are pursued with particular
vigour in the education world, in study, research and teaching.
Naturally such a body strongly promotes and supports
' democratic decision-making.
Such high ideals are most laudable, but what does W U S
achieve in practise? W U S (UK) is the British committee of the
organisation and has educational charity status; for more than
fifty years it has helped many of the casualties of repression,
particularly refugees. The work in this area is one of the main
reasons why Britain is still regarded as a haven for refugees and"
an upholder of free thought and free speech. In recent years the
movement has been trying to improve awareness in Britain of
social and economic issues in the world, and has done this
through projects in universities and colleges. In this way links
have been built between British academics and their counterparts
in Third World countries; likewise contacts have been made with
villages, schools, grass-root groups and individuals, which will
hopefully lead to mutual understanding as well as any tangible
results.
Much of this activity has been done through the student union
movement. W U S (UK) has seventy-six affiliated unions and many
others participate in fundraising and project work. ICU is, of
course, an affiliate of WUS(UK) and also takes an active part in
the Third World scholarship campaign; by means of this a Third
World student of suitable academic standing, and who would not
normally be able (for financial or other reasons) to come to IC, is
enabled to do so. The student, who should be doing a course
relevant to his country's needs, has his fees waived by College
and his living expenses made up by student contributions. This
money comes from the voluntary fifty pence donations at
registration at the start of each year, from the proceeds of badge-
selling and from a voluntary collection during the distribution of
FELIX (5p per copy) on Friday 9th May.
In the past, WUS(UK) has been (and still is to some extent)
heavily dependent on finance from the government, in particular
the Overseas Development Administration. WUS(UK) expects a
sharp decline in income from such sources and has already begun
the search for alternative funds. The immediate effect of the
cutbacks is that W U S Is now less dependent on government
money. While this has lead to a reduction in the number of W U S
scholarships being offered, it has given W U S a chance to re-
examine its work and motives. Among the questions considered
at the last W U S conference was the important point of whether it
is wise to educate Third World students in high (and expensive)
technology and science when perhaps more relevant courses
should be given in their own countries. Also discussed were the
decisions and attitudes of the present government and the
effects of higher fees; the most serious consequence is that
although overseas students numbers will remain steady, the
number from the poorer nations will be greatly reduced.
A most difficult problem at present for W U S , student unions
and colleges at present is the Department of Education and
Science. This body seems to delight in delaying decisions until
after the event and seems to have no broad policy, relying on
precedent for decision-making. Mind you, this quirk may be a
political tactic. After all, it is difficult to attack and oppose non-
existent policy.
There is no doubt that W U S will continue to play an important
part in education and the promotion of contact between
individuals and small groups of different countries. ICU has a part
to play in this. So have you. Please donate generously on Friday
9th May.
Tim Hillyer
"Hello wall. Did you have a good day today? My big news is t
there's a Royal College of Science Annual Dinner on Friday 2nd M
with four courses and plenty to drink and it's only £7 and I'm
salivating at the thought of it already and the tickets are goingfa

