Letters
The return of
Saradakis
Dear Mr Goodwin,
I read with disgust in FELIX about the intention
of the Union concerning the reduction of stocks
and cleaning of 'unpopular recommended
textbooks' from the Bookshop.
A students' union has to run some profit-
making places and events in order to generate
money for social and academic services, which
are not r u n on a profit-making basis. Ir
opposition to the current opinion in IC, I strongly
believe that a library or, indeed, a bookshop is
much more of a service to students than, for
example, a pint of cheap beer and, therefore, that
the Bookshop should remain a good students'
bookshop, not a successful stationery shop.
Mr Baker and his Council have sold many
things this year: they sold the ICU to NUS...the
Anti-Loans Campaign to SWSS...and now, the
ICU Bookshop to toiletries' merchapts. I am glad
to see them leaving.
Emmanual Saradakis, Physics 1.
Fusion
Dear Bill,
A generalised mathematics exists covering both
the 'cold fusion phenomenon' and Stepher
Hawking's 'time' (FELIX 834). Verification of this
mathematics could be done by examining
theoretically suggested similar phenomena, tc
that of the 'cold fusion', at room temperature
with routine materials, as IC U R O P projects
However the implications of success in this
endeavour are all important.
In particular, and computer simulation verifiec
this, this generalised theory leads to the possible
creation of a three dimensional energy force
shield'through which 'solid objects' could nol
pass. In addition it would make possible the
generation of entirely new sets of unstoppable
weapons placed in outer space and targetted ontc
the earth.
Clearly the .implications of all new
developments need to be analysied in depth and
military developments avoided...but how?
Yours sincerely,
Harni Fairbrother.
LSE
Dear Bill,
The recent events at the LSE must go down in
history as testimony to the stupidity of the 320
people who, on Tuesday 2nd, voted against the
motion to repeal the decision to elect Winston
Silcott as honorary union president.
James Nathan claims Silcott is a hero. Silcott's
letter of 29th April to The Independent maintains
this illusion, that he is an innocent victim of
institutionalised racism. 'I was locked up for,
thirty years....with no evidence that I had
committed or been involved in any crime'. H e
describes himself as a scapegoat. 'This shame of
a case will always he a thorn in the side of the
British judiciary.' One is moved to pity at his
poignant tale of 'injustice and lies...a black man
who has been used.'
The name Tonv Smith probably means nothing
to most of vou. His father, George Smith, says
about Silcott, 'I saw the way this gangster
lived...He controlled people by fear a n d
terror... this man is a monster.' Twenty vear-old
Tonv was murdered bv Silcott in earlv 1985.
Despite strenuous police objections, Silcott was
granted bail. Soon afterwards the Broadwater
Farm estate erupted in violence. Silcott helped
to murder the unarmed PC Blakelock, who died
whilst trving to protect ambulance crews.
The O . E . D . says a hero is a 'man admired for
great deeds'. 1 see nothing great, nothing heroic,
in the senseless, violent murders of a voung boxer
and a voung policeman. The real thorn in the side
of the British judiciary is that Silcott was released
from prison on bail, and allowed to murder again.
Yours sincerely,
Ultan McCarthy, Physics I.
Converted
from Socialism
Dear Bill,
May I start by saying 1 do exist; I am not a
pseudonym. I did not use 'Christianity as a mere
facade' to promote my beliefs. M y beliefs come
from Christianity; I was converted from socialism
bv US tele-evangelist Pat Robertsem.
It is clear that the letter by J Healer and co. was
not written by a Christian. True, the early Church
'held everything in common' but thev chose to
do so and it was not enforced by government.
Free will is a central part of Christianity and we
should choose to follow Christ.
The introduction of the Welfare State is not
evidence that we cannot rely on charities. It was
introduced by a socialist government after the war
when the economy and country was in ruins. We
have a very different situation today. The Welfare
State causes people to feel the state looks after
others and that they need only look after
themselves. It is this, not Thatcherite wealth
creation, that has led to our self-centred society.
A n indication of how generous a society is, is it's
level of personal charity and this has risen under
Thatcher.
I challenge any Christian Socialist to a debate
in a DebSoc forum.
Yours in Christ,
Dylan lames.
PS. I resent being associated with the Bishop
of Durham. He is a lefty, a liberal, and is trying
to destroy the Church.
Saradakis II
Dear Mr Goodwin,
I was shocked of the election of W . Silcott, a
convicted murderer of a policeman, as the
Honorary President of LSE's student union.
As a foreign observer, permit me to say that
a youth that elects a murderer to lead them, might
create some more wealth for the stockbrokers of
their country but will certainly not create a future
for the nation.
Throughout history, wealth has been at most
a measure of living standards, but, whether a
country was rich or not, whenever basic
traditional moral values such as respect of human
life in all its forms, respect for the Nation and its
representatives, respect to one's family and the
elders, were not upheld, the country in question
was eclipsed from the face of history.
When a country's future leaders (like the ones
at LSE) elect a murderer to lead them, it's as if
thev spat on the face, not only of the dead
policeman but of all his family, of the other
youths who fight for life and against violence and
of all the soldiers and policemen who die on the
field of honour.
Yours sincerely.
Emmanuel Saradaki*. Physics 1.
Loonie-left
radical sheep
Dear Bill,
We were dismayed to read James Nathans letter
in Felix 834. It was naive of us to believe that I.C.
students were at a level above the general mass
of loony-lefty, liberal minded, 'free Nelson
Mandela' radical sheep that is often associated
with other colleges.
It only proves what an idiot James Nathan
really is that he agrees with the LSE Students
Union in its decision to elect the police murderer,
Winston Silcott, as Honorary President.
Racism is probably the most misused word in
this country (and in most other western societies)
todav. A s soon as a black man commits a crime
(which statistically they seem to do more often)
and gets put in jail for it; it's racial discrimination.
If anything, the police should be given more
power—and guns—so that law and order can be
properly maintained. If P C Blakelock had been
armed, he could have probably protected himself
from these murderous Tottenham tribesmen and
would be alive today.
These views" are not borne out of prejudice
against- ethnic minorities, but have been
developed from a genuine respect for law and
order, which should be applicable to everyone,
and should not be waived with respect to colour!
The police and courts have seen their active
powers eroded away, partly due to the trite,
fashionable, left-wing views of James Nathan and
fellows.
If anything hanging (and even boiling) should
be a statutory punishment for these sorts of
crimes, and the sooner we develop a stronger and
less tolerant attitude towards these visciois
enemies of society, the sooner we will have a
safer place for everyone to live in.
The use of the words 'working class' i n M r .
Nathan's letter is itself the height of hypocracy
and just shows what a naive and gullible person
he is, with no real mind of his own. He is exactly
the type of fodder an effectively run left-wing (or
right- wing) organisation would love to have as
a —pliable and manipulable.
James Nathan should grow up!
Yours,
Ole Lie and Bill Bailey MRE 4.
Page 2 FELIX May 12 1989

