Felix
Chemistry
Imperial's Chemistry Department is one of the top five departments
in the country. It has produced two Nobel prize winners and generates
more research income per academic than any of the other departments
within the College.
But, if you walked around the older parts of Chemistry you could
be forgiven for thinking otherwise; the buildings are dank and
miserable; the lecture theatres have not been redecorated since they
were built in the 1900's; the labs suffer from leaking roofs; the
buildings are overheated in Summer and too cold in Winter.
The University Funding Council's decision to allocate £3.6m for an
extension to the Chemistry building should be welcome news. It
should be, but £3.6 million is not enough to provide anything other
than the most basic facilities. There will be no room for lecture theatres
and no room for a planned Interdisciplinary Research Centre to
research into semiconductors. But what is more worrying is the fact
that the department will not be able to maintain its current safety
standards, because the money allocated by the UFC will not provide
an adequate number of fume cupboards.
Perhaps then, it is not surprising that the department has lost three
senior professors in the past two years. Nor is it surprising that the
Head of the Department is worried that top students will not be
attracted to chemistry at IC.
Trading places
In an effort to promote 'understanding' between FELIX and the Union,
Union President Nigel Baker and I will be swapping jobs for a week
from the 22nd of May. It should be an interesting experience.
In some ways Nigel has the better part of the deal. It is possible
to achieve a great deal in a week as FELIX Editor, but very little in
a week as Union President. Nevertheless the swap will provide a
unique opportunity to look into the way the Union Office operates
and I will take the opportunity to produce an in-depth investigation
into the role of a student Union President.
Nigel and I have very different views on the way FELIX should be
run. Nigel would very much like it to be a public relations vehicle for
the Union Office, after all, he argues, FELIX is funded by the Union.
I take the view that the Union is much more than the handful of
people who work in the Union Office; the Union is made up of the
5000 students, most of whom do not even know where the Union
building is. It is those students who pay for FELIX, not the Union
Office, and that is why I have tried to produce a FELIX which ordinary
students will find interesting and informative.
Nevertheless, I have given the Union Office a page every week to
use in whatever manner they wish. The fact that the Union President
and the other sabbaticals have decided they cannot be bothered to
make use of this facility rather diminishes their argument that FELIX
does not give the Union (ie 'Union Office') a sufficiently high profile.
UM (?0UgT£\?LN - J U O l
E v X f ^ A V / A C r A r J ' Z - A . . .
S m a l l a d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Anyone going o n the Frontier
Tanzania Expedition please
contact Simon Nuttall i n Civ Eng
III. Wendy and Steve needn't
bother.
• Peter Matthiessen (naturalist,
explorer and author) will be
giving a talk at Kensington
Central Library on Tuesday 16th
May at 7.30pm. Admission is
free. The talk will take place i n
the Lecture Theatre, Kensington
Central Library, Campden Hill
Road, London W8.
• Keyboard lessons: Rock, blues,
improvisation, MIDI.
Hammersmith/Clapham (24-track
studio with modern keyboard)
first Vi hour free. Isabel 498 0781.
• Vacancies exist for two
assistant subwardens in
Falmough Keogh Hall,
Application forms are available
from the Student
Accommodation Office. The
deadline is May 16th.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• Bike wanted: Men's racer, will
consider anything. Phone Rose
on 3515 (FELIX).
• For sale: J V C personal stereo i n
perfect working order. Auto
£U"i t o u . Nit J b fi- K MOW,
A v J O K t M T o T u t PANtEfo
T o T H E EMVI/CGNMIMT
reverse, 2-B radio, 3-B graphic
equaliser, metal facility. Price
negotiable. Contact S Ghouse i n
Chem Eng.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• Luxury one-bedroomed flat i n
Ealing Broadway. Fully
furnished. £110 p w (plus bills).
Would suit couple sharing.
Phone A Curley on ext 5224.
• Summer—Fulham Broadway
tube. 4 large double rooms with
ensuite bathrooms. Fully fitted
kitchenette w/m. £100 p w , per
room (incl). Phone 384 2389 (this
is the correct number).
PERSONAL
• Dear Panda, (look no mention
of the beastiality complex or the
fact that you are Ready
Anywhere Anytime for A n y
Animal)
• Jif trendy man about College.
• Mme Jai Jay—one down, one to
go. A n y offers?
• Hey Baff! Comprenez-vous this
one? Yoyoyoyoyoyoyo. Bug at!
Zikkety-Twang! Joanie! T L M B .
he. ast. ain. lock.
• No, Nat, don't jump! For m y
sake, pleeeze!! Thunder T L M B .
• The Last M a i n Block would like
to announce: 'Now'—coming
soon to a time zone near you.
T KECKGN \~~\ HA*J
KoRE To VO v-Mftv
THE t C - b - t Pv^n-A
PfctS V H f Fo « Ht <
Credits
This issue nearly didn't come out. My thanks
to Jason Lander for doing sod all, Liz Warren,
Andy Clarke, Sumit Guha, Sydney Harbour-
Bridge, Doug King, Adam Harrington, Penny
Gamble, Stef, Sez Wilkinson, Gary Hastings,
the ravenous bug blatter-beast of traal, Mike
Morton, DrEric Yeatman, Rose, Dean andEric,
and all those people whose names I cannot
mention for academic reasons.
Page 4 FELIX May 12 1989

