14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
30.01.2015
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Girls in Peacetime not as twee as it sounds
You get loads of bandmembers for your money. Photo: grimygoods.com
Philip Kent reviews the latest offering from Belle & Sebastian
Gigs of the week
JESSIE WARE-O2 ACADEMY BRIXTON-31ST JAN
Sassy as hell and newly hitched Jessie returns to her
native South London with offerings from her new
album,ToughLove. It’s certainly in a different direction
to her debut,Devotion,which was a soulful highlight of
2012.However,the uber fans that made her add extra
dates to the London leg of this tour don't seem to care
about her recent colaboration with Ed Sheeran.Watch
out for the fabulous merch,designed by Ted's Draws.
PALMA VIOLETS-SEABRIGHT ARMS-31ST JAN
This overexcited fourpiece provide riotous fun in an
intimate venue.Sure to be mountains of fun,but wear
contact lenses and comfortable shoes.
HOZIER-SHEPHERD'wS BUSH EMPIRE-1ST FEB
His lover's got humour.If you want to sway all evening
to mum-friendly crooning from Andrew Hozier-Byrne
in a room full of lovers,then this is for you.In all
seriousness though,he's just made it in America,so this
might be the last we see of him for a while.
LA ROUX-KOKO-3RD FEB
Now consciously uncoupled from musical partner Ben
Langmaid,Elly Jackson brings the fabulous Troublein
Paradise to Camden.
CHILDHOOD-XOYO-5TH FEB
As part of the NME Awards season,various darlings
of the infamous music rag are playing shows all over
London.Tonight is the turn of angsty young rockers,
Childhood,who are still riding the wave of 2014's
excellent Lacuna.Tickets are still available and are a total
snip at only £11.60.
GRACE RAHMAN
"It becomes
apparent
that the
band is
growing
up"
“The
album
sounds
confident
in a way
Belle &
Sebastian
has never
been able
to manage
before.”
So that’s why mums like Hozier. Photo: stereogum.com
Twee is a word often used to
describe Stuart Murdoch’s
indie band, whose ninth album
Girls in Peacetime Want to Dance was
released on Matador on 19th
January.
However having listened to the
album a number of times since it was
released one is immediately forced to
consider whether this label still holds
true.
Belle & Sebastian has developed
significantly since 1999’s Tigermilk,
the most startling change being in
2010’s Write About Love where the
emotional and sombre ballads of
their earlier works were lost. That
album marked a turning point for the
band as it became more electronic,
more upbeat, and more happy; yet
felt unfinished as if the band did not
know where it was going.
Many critics have cited this as a
‘reinvention’ of the band – I disagree.
Whilst this new album places a heavy
focus on love and relationships (like
practically all their other works), the
stories told in the lyrics feel more
mature and question the world we are
in, rather than who we are.
Throwing in the political anger
prevalent in a number of the tracks,
and combined with the direction
taken by Write About Love, it becomes
apparent that the band is growing up,
moving from the adolescent nature of
their earlier releases to stories about
the lives of twentysomethings.
This is by no means a criticism.
Whilst the enjoyment of the band’s
older works is unaffected by their
recent dramatic direction change, the
listener can observe vastly different
emotions behind the storylines in
what is presented to them today
versus (for example) the band’s
outstanding If You’re Feeling Sinister.
The album feels far more
approachable than Belle and
Sebastian’s earlier releases, and
this is likely thanks to the much
wider range of musical influences
present in the tracks.Gospel makes
a welcome appearance in ‘Nobody’s
Empire’, and a strong theme of dance
runs through the album. Artists
such as Metronomy, Orchestral
Manoeuvres In The Dark and New
Order come to mind through slight
similarities in the music.
The band did put out three singles
prior to the January release – ‘The
Party Line’, ‘Nobody’s Empire’, and
‘The Cat With the Cream’ – all songs
that lend far more closely to Belle
& Sebastian albums of old than
this new album as a whole. Because
of this I reach the only criticism I
feel appropriate – it does not flow, a
startling disappointment considering
how well constructed earlier releases
are.
Ultimately, this does not take
away from the absolute pleasure of
listening to Girls in Peacetime Want to
Dance. Murdoch again demonstrates
his excellent ability to craft lyrical
poetry, and the score – whilst less
cinematic than earlier works –
emotionally moves you in the way
people have come to expect from the
Glaswegian band.
Yet, the album sounds confident in
a way Belle & Sebastian has never
been able to manage before, and for
this fact they must be congratulated.
Girls in Peacetime Want to Dance is well
worth a listen and an outstanding
achievement for the band. If you have
tried Belle and Sebastian before and
have found them a bit too “twee” or
insular for your liking, try again; you
may just like their newly found voice.
Girls in Peacetime Want to Dance is
out now on Matador records.

