THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 15
FELIX 30.01.2015
THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
FELIX
Games Editor Max Eggl & Calum Skene
Games
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3 Space Sims: Ready for Lift-off
Max Eggl compares three games you might ind spaceial
Why is Space such a
good Gaming setting?
MAXIMILIAN EGGL
GAMES EDITOR
Last week,I was talking about the next big trend in
gaming.I really enjoyed writing that article,and I
really felt that I wanted to focus a bit more on what
is the genre that allows you to really do almost
anything.Given the ever increasing power of our PCs
and consoles,the endlessness of space is become
more and more of a world that we can explore.Sure,
procedurally generated worlds like Minecraft are also
endless,but they still feel somewhat‘samey’.There
are only so many caves,forests and oceans you can
see if they are based on the same planet.That is the
magic of space.So you have one gigantic planet,with
caves,forests and oceans but then you can just get
in your ship and jet off to a completely different one,
where everything is completely different! You don’t
just have one endless world but an endless amount
of endless worlds.Can you start to see why I ind this
scenario so fascinating?
Another aspect that draws me to this genre is the
technology that permeates these games.I love
technology and the creative minds behind these
ideas that could soon become reality.I mean how do
laser guns,warp drives and teleportation not sound
amazing?
However,if I really think about it,neither
the endlessness of the game's world nor the
technological fantasy are the factors that decide
why I fall in love with these games.The reason I
really love to start up Space Engineers,Sins of a Solar
Empire or FTL is the fact that I am able to see things
and experience things that I will never realistically
be able to.But then again,you could say that about
any fantasy game.I will never be a goat who licks
stuff or be a Dragonborn.What is different about
space games is that what I am looking at is stuff that
actually is real in some way.If I had been alive in a
later millennium I could possibly be flying around
the Milky Way,smuggling goods and ighting off
space pirates.
Anyhow,what you have to the left here are three
games that I mentioned in my previous article,and
felt that I wanted to go into depth exploring their
differences,strengths and weaknesses.Have fun!
"This game
is for you
if you want
play a space
game, and
you want to
play it now."
Elite: Dangerous
If you are talking about space
games, the Elite series is one that stirs
good memories for many a gamer.
Sadly, the last entry in this illustrious
series was released back in 1995,
meaning that many of the newer
generation of gamers never really
had the opportunity to play this.
Therefore when Elite: Dangerous was
offered up on kickstarter, it wasn’t
long before it reached its target goal.
Now available on PC, what makes
this game different from the other
entries on this list?
Well obviously it’s available, which
No Man’s Sky or Star Citizen can’t
claim. The galaxy that you play in is
modelled on our own Milky Way with
about 400 billion star systems, where
150,000 of those are modelled on real
data. You are given a small amount of
money and a ship and make your own
story. Currently you are only limited
to your ship, but updates are planned
that will allow you to walk around
and interact with NPCs. The game is
also fully online, meaning that even
the solo game-play will require an
internet connection. On the other
hand, the MMO component features
a persistant world, where specific
areas are instances to a certain
number of players.
This game is for you if you want
play a space game, and you want to
play it now. Overall it has gotten
really good reviews, and while the
learning curve may be a bit steep, it
does look really like something that
could be immensely enjoyable.
No Man’s Sky
When this game was shown off by
Hello Games at E3, it completely
blew most people’s minds. No
Man’s Sky looked like the space
game we have always wanted, and
it has mostly been developed in
secret, under the codename Project
Skyscraper. This game’s universe is
completely procedurally generated
and will be based on a 64-bit seed
key. This means that this game can
create more than 18 quintillion
planets (18 followed by 18 zeros) for
you to explore. However, this does
not even include all the possibilities
of flora and fauna, which are
generated in the exact same way. So
not only do you seamlessly get to fly
from space to the planet’s surface,
you can jump out and inspect the
animals, name their species and
categorize them!
That’s the name and aim of
the game that is No Man’s Sky.
While there are some elements of
character and ship upgrades, the
biggest feature of this game will
be its exploration possibilities.
Furthermore, there is rather little
multiplayer, with the focus being
on you having fun (yay offline solo
games!). The only ability for you
to interact with other players is
through exploration updates on
what you have discovered, as well
as allowing them to visit planets
that you previously have visited
– however, only once they have
hyperdrive capabilities.
Sadly this game is not out yet,
and there is no fixed release date,
however, a 2015 launch is promised.
This game is for you if you
don’t really care much about the
fighting, and trading and all those
shenanigans and prefer to explore
things, seeing marvellous new
worlds, watch fascinating creatures
and name them anything you want.
What this game will hopefully be is
a beautiful journey with views that
won’t disappoint.
Star Citizen
ThisisthegamethatIamlooking
forwardtothemost.Thisgamehasa
solidfoundationinoldprequels,and
wascrowdfundedtotheridiculous
amountof$68milliontodate,with
morecomingindaily.Ratherthan
workingwithproceduralgeneration,
thedevelopmentteamatRobertSpace
Industrieshavecraftedover60unique
starsystems,andtheylookincredibly
beautifulforit.However,exploringthe
entiretyofaplanet,orevenmanually
flyingtotheirsurfacesadlyaren’t
featuresthatarecurrentlyplannedin
thegame.
StarCitizenisallabouthyperrealism,
fromtheship’sthrustersthatalign
themselvesinamannerthatreal
thrusterswouldaswelltothepersistent
worldeconomythatisfuelledbythe
suppliesanddemandsoftheplayers.
Furthermore,thisgamedoesn’tjust
focusonthepilotingofthespaceships,
butalsohasanincrediblyvisualwalk-
aroundmodethatallowsyoutowalk
aroundyourship,ontotradinghubsor
planetsurfaces.Thegamewillalsohave
averywellintegratedFPSelement,
meaningthatnotonlydoyougetyour
spacefix,butalsoyourpew-pew-laser-
fpsfix.Thecoolestthingofall?Thisall
happensinauniversethatispersistent
andinfluencedbytheplayersplayingit.
Theeconomyisjustanexampleofhow
youractionscanhaveadirectimpacton
thegame!
Whilethismaybemymost
anticipatedgame,itisalsotheone
thathasthelatestreleasedate,namely
sometimein2016.However,the
developersarereleasingmodules
thatgiveyoupartsofthegamenow,
meaningyoucanhaveapopatsome
features.
Thisgameisforyouifyouenjoy
superrealisticgames,without
necessarilyneedingthefullexploring
thing.However,insteadofexploring
youcanstillindulgeincorneringthe
market,becomingapirateinthefringe
regionsorsmugglegoodsacrossthe
galaxy.Itisyouradventure.
if you want
play a space
game, and
you want to
play it now."
Photo: outofthedarkness.info Photo: gamebreaker.tv
Photo: forbes.com

