Nominations for our Student Academic Choice Awards (SACAs) close Friday 13 February.
Hundreds of students have sent in their nominations already, and we are looking for even
more to help recognise the excellence and innovation amongst Imperial’s academic and
professional staff.
The eight awards available cover all faculties, departments and campuses, as well as all
modes of study. Nominate as many people as you like in as many categories as you like - if
your nominee is shortlisted, you may win a free invite to the SACAs Award Ceremony!
For more information and to nominate a member of staff, visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
Campaigning is about creating change, whether this is a change
on campus or your course, or in your local area, or even tackling
a national issue. This seeks to ensure that students who are
passionate are supported to take on the issues they see.
Examples of campaigns which students at Imperial are
interested in include:
A Extending the lunch hour on Friday afternoon to accomodate
students of faith
A Tackling the stigma around mental health at Imperial
A Finding out the perceptions and reality of lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender students in sport.
Campaigns can be led by any student on the issues they are passionate about, as well as this this we have 8 Liberation Officers, who are elected each year
to lead work in their areas. The Liberation Officers roles are Black and Minority Ethnic, Campaigns, Disabilities, Ethics and the Environment, Gender Equality,
Interfaith; International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans (LGBT).
For more information go to: imperialcollegeunion.org/campaigns
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
You Can Create Change
The Big Elections 2015
The Big Elections 2015 is your chance to be part of the future of Imperial College Union. We’ve got more
students this year, more positions and hopefully more voters - the largest students’ union election in England
and Wales is now even bigger!
You can stand... and we can help! You might have a few queries or worries about taking part in our elections.
Are you an International student and not sure if you can run because of your visa? Not sure if you can do it
because you’re a Postgradutate student? Worried you don’t have enough experience? Don’t worry - it’s no
problem for you to stand in our election. We’re running a number of information sessions before and during
the Nomination period so that you can learn more.
We also have sessions that will help you write a winning manifesto, as well as organise and run an effective
campaign to help you make the most of the campaigning time during the elections.
For more information about our information sessions go to: imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
SACA nominations closing soon!

