THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 27
FELIX 30.01.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dara: Somewhat Lost in Translation
Nicholas Khan (Mir Khalil), Esh Alladi (Gvernor Khan), Sargon Yelda (Aurangzeb), Simon Nagra (Mullah Farooq), Rudi Dharmalingham (Danishmand) in Dara. Photo: Ellie Kurttz
Fred Fyles heads to Hindustan for the National Theatre’s new play
The first challenge that
presented itself to writer Tanya
Ronder and director Nadia
Fall, when planning on bringing a
production of Pakistani play Dara to
the National Theatre, was how to tell
a story that is a legend in the Indian
subcontinent, but largely unknown
in the UK? Dara, originally written by
Pakistani playwright Shahid Nadeem,
had an outing in India a couple of
years ago, where most are familiar
with the struggle between brothers
Dara Shikoh and Emperor Aurangzeb
for the throne of the Mughal Empire.
While some aspects of the play are
translated well, notably the set design
and performances, on the whole
much of the nuance and drama is lost
on its journey to the South Bank.
Taking place across the Muslim
Mughal Empire, which stretched
from Agra to Bengal, Gujarat to
Afghanistan, Dara opens in the
year 1659, two years after emperor
Shah Jahan’s illness triggered a
battle for supremacy between the
eligible princes, of whom Dara and
Aurangzeb were the major players.
Defeated by his brother’s army, Dara
is captured, shackled and paraded
before his beloved people, and tried
as an apostate of Islam. While that is
the basic gist of the story, it belies the
complexity of the script, which zips
between time-zones frequently, and
explores the stories of a number of
other characters.
While this certainly makes for a
dynamic plot line, the speed with
which things move on means that it
can be difficult to follow the plot. We
are shifted through time and space so
fast that it feels like we are developing
motion sickness; dates and places are
projected on the back of the stage with
such high frequency it becomes hard
to know where we are, who the people
are meant to be, or why we should
care. In one – admittedly extreme
example – a character you’d think
would be pretty central to the plot is
introduced in one scene, ends that
scene by starting to cough, and is dead
by the next. When the action is this
rapid, we are afforded no opportunity
to get to know the characters, much
less relate to them.
That being said, the performances
from the cast in general is very solid,
in particular those of Aurangzeb,
played by Sargon Yelda, and Itbar,
the imperial eunuch slave, played by
Chook Sibtain. Sibtain imbues his
character with just the right amount
of sympathy and righteous anger;
he is clearly conflicted between a
feeling of duty towards his masters,
and a resentment that bubbles just
below the surface at those who have
enslaved and mutilated him – he
is an injured bird, imprisoned in a
gilded cage. You would expect Zubin
Varla, who plays Dara himself, to be
the strongest actor in the company,
and on the whole his performance is
solid. There are some moments that
threaten to dip over into melodrama,
especially when his sonorous voice
begins to take on a somewhat hammy
tone, but he recovers himself in
a blistering court scene, coming
towards the end of part 1, which
must be at least 45 minutes long.
Varla, reduced to rags, rages against
his captors, furious not because of
his debasement, but because of their
misunderstanding of his appreciation
of Sufi Islam.
Unfortunately, this marks the
pinnacle of the drama, and in
the second half things descend
into a somewhat chaotic series of
images and scenes, which add up
to an unsatisfying conclusion. The
character of Dara in particular seems
to lose the fire that burnt inside
him during the first half of the
production; instead of the relatable,
princely character we saw during the
courtroom scene, we are left with a
man who no longer responds to any
kind of stimulus. While I appreciate
that this is supposed to be part of his
Zen attitude towards life, it means
that the character is laconic to near-
brain death; it is indeed difficult to
sympathise with a character who
is unable to express any kind of
emotion.
Another factor that interferes
with our sympathies towards the
characters is simply how one-
dimensional they seem; while I
appreciate it is difficult to bring
characters who have entered into
legend into living, breathing actors,
Dara and Aurangzeb are really
not much more than a collection
of tropes. What should be an
exploration of different paths of
Islam ends up simply being a tale of
radicalism vs. multiculturalism, a
debate which has long ceased to be a
fresh topic for the arts.
While the staging at the National
Theatre is always of a good quality, I
feel that for this production further
comment is warranted; the set they
have put together for Dara is nothing
short of stunning. Comprising
mainly of white marble, the set has
a classical feel, almost like a Greek
stage transported to Agra. The ornate
detailing found on the screens used
to divide the stage and the decorative
motifs on the balconies is clearly
influenced by the design of the Taj
Mahal, commissioned in memory
of Dara’s mother and seen by his
imprisoned father from his cell
window.
What is striking about the set
is simply how large is makes the
stage seem, inflating the Lyttelton
Theatre to what looks like twice its
normal size. While the characters
are indeed dwarfed by their
surroundings, the stage never seems
imposing or stale – you can really
imagine people working, living,
and loving within the walls of the
palace. Scene changes are ‘assisted’ by
performances and dancers, who seem
to add little to the overall production;
that being said, the decision to
bring in a trio of musicians, playing
harmonium, santoor, and percussion,
is an inspired one, adding another
dimension to the play, making the
action seem just that more dramatic.
Overall, despite the impression I
may have given above Dara is a very
competent production; competent,
but not excellent. Issues with the
pacing, characterisation, and plot-line
– which may be linked to Ronder’s
decision to add in a number of key
characters who were not in the
original text – make it somewhat
impenetrable, meaning it is very hard
to sympathise with the characters,
much less care what they have to say.
The stage is excellent, and it is so
refreshing to see an all-minority cast
putting on a production at a major
London venue, Dara does not live up
to what it promises.
Dara is on at the National Theatre
until 4th
April. Tickets from £15

