30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
30.01.2015
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Yung Nam Cheah shares her favourite spots in the capital of Belgium.
Top 5 places to visit when in Brussels
Only a two hours train ride
away is the dazzling city of
Brussels, full of gastronomical
and architectural treasures. The
capital of Belgium is known to be
small, but the three days I spent there
wasn’t enough to visit everywhere I
wanted to (though if you go all out
on the transport, you might be more
fortunate than me!). Here are my top
five favourite places (though they
are more like a concentrated area of
sights) in the historical city:
Grand Place
The most famous square in Belgium,
the rectangular shaped Grand Place is
declared a UNESCO World Heritage
Site. It is unique in the fact that the
square is surrounded by historical
buildings starkly different from each
other: most notable of them all is
the Flemish Gothic City Hall taking
up the South West side, with a 99
m tall tower topped by the statue of
Archangel Michael. Opposite it is the
House of the King, noted by its dark
grey colour, it was the administrative
building of governors but now a
small museum telling the history
of Brussels, especially that of the
Grand Place and house a gorgeous
collection of costume for the famous
Manneqen Pis statue. Next To the SE
is the House of the Dukes of Brabant,
a row of six buildings with a uniform
façade of golden gilded marble arches.
The rest of the square are made up of
unique gild houses, each different to
the other.
Hills of Arts
Virtually next to the Brussels Central
Train station is Hills of Art, a small
urban park that leads up to the Royal
Palace and overlook the lower town.
The first things you will see are the
equestrian statue of Albert I facing
his queen, Elizabeth of Bavaria across
the road. Behind Albert I are a neatly
trimmed geometric grass patch lined
with hedges and trees either side,
leading up to a large fountain and
staircase reaching up to the museum
district with the Royal Palace visible
from afar.
Before you head up to admire the
spectacular view of the Lower town,
you should head to the NE corner of
the park and visit the Carillon. This
sun-shaped Art Deco clock mounted
on the limestone building house
many small figures representing
Belgian national hero and chimes
hourly.
Petit Sablon Square
A tiny green space nestled next to
the busy main street leading towards
Justice Palace, the Petit Sablon Square
stands out immediately with its
columned fence and statues. The 48
Neo-Gothic columns surrounding
the park are each topped by a statue
holding a symbol representing
a guild; you can easily entertain
yourself by walking around and
guessing which one represent what.
At the high point of the park are the
statues of Count Horn and Egmont,
commemorating their execution in
the Grand Square in 1568. With a
small fountain, geometric grass patch,
the square makes a nice rest stop
between sights.
Cinquantenair Park
Bordering the east side of the EU
district, a fair distance away from the
town center, the park was built for the
50th
anniversary of the independence
of Belgium by Leopold II. Rectangular
shaped and symmetrically laid out,
this urban oasis is set atop the 2km
long Belliard Tunnel connection
Etterbeek district to downtown. The
western end is home to several Congo
monuments, with the east dominated
by the Military Museum of Belgium
and Cinquantenaire museum set
either side of the Triumphal Arch of
Tervuren. If anyone is a car lover, the
Autoworld behind Cinquantenaire
museum is not to be missed.
Garleries Saint-Hubert and
Statue of Charles Buls
The Galeries Saint-Hubert is the first
covered shopping mall in Europe
From left to right: The Grand Place at night, glowing under the yellow spot lights; Statue of Charles Buls, accompany by his dog Photo: Yung Wing Cheah
From left to right: The Hills of Art overlooking the Lower town; Petit Sablon Square with its neatly trimmed hedges; Triumphal Arch of Tervuren at the end of Cinquantenaire Park Photo:
Yung Wing Cheah
built in 1847. The glass high ceilings,
two-tiered pastel beige neo-classical
corridors are enhanced by the red
stoned columns and grey tiled floors.
It now hosts many restaurants,
chocolate shops as well as a bookstore
and theater. Its main corridor is
200m long and connects to three
smaller ones. Walking inside feels
like you were back in the 19th
century
and the air oozes a sophisticated
atmosphere lacking in modern day
malls. Situated on a small square on
the southern exit is a statue of Charles
Buls accompany by his dog sat on a
bench in front of a fountain. Charles
Buls was the mayor of Brussels during
the reign of King Leopold II in the
late 19th
century. The statue was
created in 1999 by Henri Lenaerts,
to commemorate the much loved
mayor.

