34 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
30.01.2015
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
CANCER
VIRGO
This week, the tattoo you gave
yourself using a ball point pen
and a blowtorch has gotten
infected. The pus makes your
manly image of Led Zepplin’s
Icarus look like he’s mid
ejaculation. You are forced
to ask mum for money for
“personal issues” and now she
thinks you have an STI.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week after much pre-
exam angst you decide to
get Tinder, after finding
an attractive girl you start
chatting and send nudes in
return. Unfortunately when
she replies you realize it
was your mum and realize
that you should probably
stop masturbating. Maybe 5
minutes more.
This week, cycling is your new
hobby, prompting you to go
on a ride through Hyde Park;
however you accidentally
stimulate your prostate due to
a strangely phallic saddle and
an aggressive speed bump. You
subsequently have traumatic
flashbacks to your time in the
Scouts.
This week, to get an edge in
exams you decide to take
some methamphetamines,
unfortunately the only drugs
your foreign roommate has
are unknown to you and seem
risky. You settle for eating 5
tubes of toothpaste, throwing
up in the exam and voiding
your script.
Thisweekyougetbloodallover
yourbedroomcausingfurther
sexualtensionwithyourhall
seniorandthecleaningstaff
alike.Fromhenceforthyou’ll
remembertowrapthehamster
toyourbedbeforeyoupenetrate
it.
ThisweekPhilippaSketthasrun
outofanyinterestingorofany
remotejournalisticvalue,soasks
youtodoanagonyauntcolumn.
Onarelatednote,yourfamily
disownsyouafteryouapplyacar
batterytoyourmother’ssister’s
nipplesinsearchofadvice.Clearly
you’vemisunderstoodthetask.
This week you will discover
that your boyfriend is Swedish.
This is deeply distressing to
you as you have post-traumatic
stress disorder from the fact
a dwarf once ate your hands
in an ikea store right next to
smalland.
This week you find a lump on
your testicles. After a lot of
sobbing, you call your loved
ones and tell them, leading
to more sobbing and a heavy
sense of isolation. You draw up
your final will and testament,
only to discover its malignant!
Unfortunately you are then
crushed by a giant crab.
You decide to go to the inter-
collegiate A Capella awards in
order to stalk/see one of the
Imperielles; unfortunately you
forget the correct acronym and
instead go to the ICKKK’s. It’s
ok though because Kris Kaye is
there and lends you his spare
hood.
This week one of your friends
decides to buy a black light and
barges into your room only to
be blinded with the power of a
thousand suns. The remainder
of your student loan is used
to pay them compensation
and you must now live on
mayonnaise for the remainder
of the term- find a better way
to dispose of your cum rags.
You have jumped on the get-fit
bandwagon as your new year’s
resolution and in order to aid
your exploits this week you
impulse-purchase protein
powder. You misread the
instructions and consume the
whole barrel, rendering you a
solid ball of muscle only able
to roll.
Friday 23rd January
I went to the Union tonight with all my coursemates, as we had an online exam earlier
today. It was so easy though lol as we all just put the answers on this google doc on our
facebook group for our department, and then we shared them all around so I completed it
in basically ten minutes. Still any excuse to drink, right?
I had like six snakebites but was still a bit nervous when American girl turned up. We
spoke for a bit then she went out to Ministry of Sound but I just got a burger king then
went home.
Saturday 24th January
OH GOD FEEL SO GUILTY ABOUT THAT TEST. Like, it is 30% of that module and we all
cheated. Maybe I should tell the department? Can they track who upload stuff to Facebook?
Surely not, college can’t ﬁnd out who did all those Imperial facebook pages, but like, surely
Imperial can track this stuff down being second best in the world or whatever?
Spent today in the library guilt eating jacket potatoes. Sent a snapchat to America girl but
can see she hasn’t opened it yet. Maybe her phone is broke.
Sunday 25th January
Confessed my crime to American girl on the top of the number 9 bus when we were
stuck in trafﬁc in Knightsbridge. She reckons that what I did was a sin, but God will
forgive me.
We held hands for a bit, but she seemed a bit nervous. I tried to impress her on the tour
of all my London knowledge but realised I actually haven’t been out in the city that much, so
most of the stuff I told her was actually stuff I learnt about some buildings in Rome during
my year 10 trip.
I don’t think she caught on.
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
Monday 26th January
Told the department. They went ape shit, but I said it wasn’t me. They are now saying they might
cancel all our marks! But I reckon I got my ﬁrst actual ﬁrst of the term!
Tuesday 27th January
American girl came to my kitchen this evening and I made her a meal using my slow cooker. She
seemed impressed, and later on in my room I had a massive boner and she touched it for a bit, and
we made out.
It was good as this time she didn’t taste of vomit, although she said because she is a Christian she
can’t do anything really sexual to do with her front bits. A website said she might be open to anal
though
Wednesday 28th January
Spent today thinking about anal sex and cheating on that exam. Dedicated about the same amount of
time deliberating over both.
Thursday 29th January
It was too cold in my room today so I put on my shorts and tank top and went to the ﬁfth ﬂoor of the
library. I walked up the stairs, and made awkward eye contact with Dorothy who was sitting by the
window on the second ﬂoor.
She quickly glanced away, maybe because she can sense that I have moved on with American girl
and one day we may go to ﬁfth base. She has turned me into a player, and I am not ashamed.
Had a dangerwank when I got back to halls, as I knew roomate’s lecture was due to ﬁnish ﬁve
minutes before I started

