THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 37
FELIX 30.01.2015 37
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Society Funding in Review
The Union has, according to the
2014 Impact Report, a turnover
of just over £4.4 million. When
you take out the bar and retail outlets,
as well as staffing, overheads etc, that
leaves approximately £1.4 million
running through the clubs’ coffers on
a yearly basis – as reported last year at
budgeting.
With all of that cashflow, spread
over 350 societies, you might
reasonably ask where all of the money
comes from.
Imperial’s Grant
Each year, we are given around
£330,000 by the Union to give out
to clubs. The majority of this gets
allocated during the Spring Term,
once everyone’s had a chance to settle
into their roles.
Each club Chair is expected to
write a budget for the coming year,
factoring in cost and any other
income sources (including members’
own contributions). These budgets get
looked over by Management Group
Chairs and Treasurers and the DPCS/
DPFS, before coming to a meeting
of the Clubs, Societies and Projects
Board (CSPB).
After three meetings, one to discuss
any appeals or issues with budgets,
budgeting is complete – at least, that’s
the aim. Some money is always kept
aside, for…
Top-ups
It’s hard to plan your expenditure
for the next academic year when
you’re halfway through it. There are
unexpected breakages of equipment,
necessary purchases and other times
when money has to be spent to keep a
society running.
Money for contingency comes from
the Activities Development Board,
a subcommittee of CSPB. As of this
year, there is also money set aside for
the Activities Development Fund,
which is intended to support new
clubs that get created, and existing
clubs looking to run new activities.
Harlington
The Harlington Fund was created
in 1989, to manage the funds from a
gravel extraction at the Harlington
playing fields.
Typically, there is around £50,000
a year to be allocated for clubs’ big
purchases – things that are expensive
enough that there’s no way the Union
could subsidise.
Harlington is based around
improving student activity in the
long term, and its guidelines ensure
that the money goes to good use.
“As a general principle, funds
will only be used to finance new or
improved facilities, namely capital
assets or equipment, and not to meet
running costs.”
The principles also rule out,
in general, funding for students’
personal equipment and for
expeditions, so that funding has a
long term impact.
The board on the committee
consists of the Vice Provost
(Education) (Debra Humphris),
a past President of ICU (Ashley
Brown) and the current Union
President (Tom Wheeler).
£60,000 funding was awarded
last year out of £100,000 worth of
applications. After the first term,
there is £40,000 left in the pot for
this year, although the applications
already received would, if all were
approved, take the fund into negative.
Projects funded by Harlington
have included the purchase of
microphones, new equipment for
clubs in their early stages, and
replacement of sports kit.
In January 2014 a one-off spike
in funding was also awarded for the
redevelopment of the Union Concert
Hall, to the tune of £215,000.
IC Trust
Imperial College Trust (formerly
Queen’s Gate Trust) is an
independent charity. A bit like
the ADB (see Top-ups), it provides
funding at various points over the
year to promote charitable work
and fund research connected to the
subjects taught at College. It’s split
into three main categories: Tours,
Conferences and the Exploration
Board.
The main way that societies see
IC Trust money is through the
tours funding that gets handed out
once a term by CSPB. This is used
to fund the travel to and from club
tours, usually with around 20 tours
in a period (Autumn, Spring and
Summer).
There are some fairly specific
rules on the allocation for tours; for
instance, if your club runs the same
trip to the same place every year, you
are expected to budget for it in the
annual Grant. In previous years, there
has also been a rule that a society can
only submit one tour application in a
period. The policy is under review by
The Exploration Board funds expeditions with scientific and recreational benefit. Photo: Gemma Milman
Ben Howitt explains
where, how and why
clubs get the money
they do.
Hack’s Corner
(How to Write a
budget)
For the irst year in a little while,CSPB has a
budgeting strategy.The weird exceptions that pop
up year on year (you know who you are!) have been
discussed.Before budgeting closes on Sunday,here
are a few pointers on making sure your budget is
readable,realistic and effective.
Firstly,make sure that all of the funding you are
requesting is explicitly linked to your core aims and
objectives–subsidy is not available for anything else.
A balanced budget should contain a mix of CSPB-A,
CSPB-B and CSPB-C.Remember that CSPB-A is for
core,essential items only–and that illegitimate A
items may well be moved straight to CSPB-C.There
is a budgeting policy to follow,meaning that CSPB-B
funding will be available in the second round.
It's important that your sums make sense–and
all budget lines should have,at the end of the
description,a 1 sentence sum summarising the cost
and subsidy requested,e.g.“5peoplex3tripsx£30@
40%subsidy=£180”.
As regards subsidy,be as realistic as you can.Look
at what was granted last year,and base the estimate
on that.While 75% subsidy on accommodation
would be lovely,it's just not going to happen.
Also,remember that your budget should
approximately balance–so your predicted income,
membership fees,sponsorship and subsidy should
roughly match the expected cost.There are obviously
exceptions to this related to ticket sales,but as far
as possible try to explain where the non-subsidised
income will be coming from.
For expensive activities,or especially busy clubs,
it is worth mentioning activities that you don't
subsidise,to highlight all of the costs you have as a
society.These should appear in your budget lines,
as it gives CSPB information on the cost to your
members during club activity.
The DPFS is always watching. Photo: Thomas Lim
"The Union
has ... a
turnover
of just
over £4.4
million."

