8 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
30.01.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It’s time to tackle medics’ money problems
Imperial College isn’t well known
for their regard for the wellbeing
of undergraduate students; and
there are many at Charing Cross who
would argue that College high-ups
give even less of a toss about medics.
Either way, sitting back and watching
students, medic or otherwise, fall into
such severe financial difficulty, as
illustrated in the recent survey, is an
abandonment of their duty of care. It
is not a new phenomenon that medics
take a massive cut in funding after
fourth year. As far as I can tell, this
is the first time anyone has tried to
tackle the monetary troubles faced by
fifth and final year medics.
Medics’ final two years are tough
and vitally important; we start
metamorphosing into doctors.
Not only are we in hospitals pretty
much all day every day, we are also
expected to study at any available
opportunity. There is a huge amount
to learn and failing to do so could
lead to much more than poor grades,
but has potential to impact on our
competency after we qualify.
A significant number of us are
struggling financially to a point
where we have no option but to
work several evenings a week.
Some students expressed guilt over
sometimes leaving hospitals early to
get to work on time, others angst over
the lack of time they have to study
as a result of work commitments.
Although some doctors are
sympathetic to this, there are plenty
of consultants and registrars who are
less understanding. The college is also
deeply unsupportive.
I ran into difficulties during
paediatrics when applying for
residency placements (catapulted to
distant hospitals, often outside of
London for 2 weeks). I emailed the
course administrator explaining that
if I were sent away from London I
would be unable to get to tutoring
jobs and thus be unable to make
rent. I got a snide response detailing
College’s student employment policy.
It was clear that I was expected to
prioritise our academic work. Fair
enough – but if the entirety of my
funding amounts to less than basic
living expenses, I don’t have a choice.
Don’t leave me with insufficient
student grants and loans and get
snippy when I need to work to keep a
roof over my head.
I was already aware of the financial
difficulties facing fifth and final
years before I was elected to ICSMSU,
however as soon as survey results
started rolling in I saw it was worse
than I could imagine. For many of
my peers, it came as a shock, leaving
some students tied to rental contracts
that they simply couldn’t afford. The
survey found that 46.4% of students
were unable to cover their rent,
despite many working alongside their
studies. Surely it is unacceptable that
one of the wealthiest institutions in
the world is allowing this to happen?
It has been suggested that students
supported by their parents are at
a massive academic advantage by
having time to study and maintain a
work-life balance. The current system
was built for the historic rich-kid
demographic of medical school.
Now that more medics come from
standard middle class backgrounds
funding bodies need to adapt; we can’t
all turn to the Bank of Mum and Dad.
Many students receiving parental
support describe strained family
relationships and intense feelings of
guilt for doing so.
I was angrier than ever reading
about the impact to students’
wellbeing. Students are forced to
put their studies, relationships and
physical health at risk in order to
keep their heads above water; some
students’ diets depend on how much
money they have. Most shockingly,
there are some students who
essentially starve themselves, going
Many medics are forced to get part time jobs, such as working at the Reynolds Bar. Photo: Faculty of Medicine
Jennifer Watson asks whether the College offer enough support
so far as to eat one meal a day just to
make ends meet. Mental health comes
into play as well. It’s well known that
mental illnesses like depression and
anxiety disorders are a pertinent
problem in elite universities; the
prevalence of anxiety and depression
is even higher among medics. This
is apparently being compounded by
financial anxieties; some students
have been prescribed medication
(anti-anxiety and anti-depressant
drugs) as a result of their financial
concerns. It doesn’t take a genius
to realise that all of this is bound to
impact students’ grades.
I am certainly not the only person
to find this abominable. Consensus
among ICSM students is that of anger
and a deep dissatisfaction that they
have, as one person put it, been “so
greatly let down by The System“.
The Faculty of Medicine has also got
behind me and is looking into ways
to keep the cost of living down for
students, which will hopefully go
some way to alleviating the situation.
All I can do with what I have so
far is try to persuade Imperial to
restructure its bursary scheme and
provide more support to senior
medics. Unfortunately this isn’t an
adequate solution. An extension
of the survey has revealed that the
problem is endemic in London
medical schools. Furthermore,
anecdotal evidence suggests it is
nationwide, implying that the cost
of living in London is not the real
core of the issue. Addressing this at
Imperial leaves many thousands of
medics across the capital and the
rest of the country stuck in the same
situation.
For me, the ultimate goal is top
down reform within Student Finance
and the NHS. Student Finance
may have concerns about students
failing to repay their loans. Let’s be
honest here, medics mostly have
a guaranteed job for life. There is
very little danger of them failing
to pay off student loans. Imperial
contains some of the world’s
brightest minds and is an incredibly
wealthy institution, and yet medics
can’t afford basic living costs while
exercising our right to an education.
Any such system is flawed.
Medics and students in other
healthcare disciplines commit
their entire working lives and make
extensive sacrifices to providing an
indispensable public service, and
yet many are forced into illness and
borderline poverty before they can
even begin to give back to society. Is it
just me, or is there an irony in that?

