PAGE 10 PAGE 11
FRIDAY 26th
FEBRUARY 2015 felixonline.co.uk felixonline.co.uk
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FRIDAY 26th
FEBRUARY 2015
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FILM film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FILM
FELIX steps out onto the red carpet –
Best Picture
Will Win: The Revenant
Should Win: Mad Max: Fury Road
A
ll signs point to this going toThe Revenant,and it’s a pity
really. I found it perhaps one of the dullest, uninspiring,
hollow films I’ve seen in recent memory; while in the
cinema it may seem like a real journey, but looking back
you are hit with the realisation that the film actually says nothing
of interest or note. Spotlight could be a dark horse, as could The
Big Short, but really I feel like the award would serve the film
community best by going to Mad Max: Fury Road. An inventive,
high-octane, perfectly-balanced film, Fury Road creates a world
filled with improbable characters and highly-detailed ecosystems
and after the credits roll you wish you could stay longer – surely the
mark of a great film. It would also help break the drama homogeny
that has consumed the Academy,showing us that an action film can
still have great merit.
Best Director
Will Win: Alejandro G. Iñárritu (The Revenant)
Should Win: Lenny Abrahamson (Room)
I
t looks like Iñaritu will win this award for the second year
in the row for his work behind the camera in The Revenant.
Really it would be no surprise: Academy voters enjoy it
when things are spelled out for them, and The Revenant is
so stuffed full of technically impressive shots that voters can sleep
easy knowing there is indeed someone giving the film direction.
However, I prefer those whose work is a little less obvious; I think
it takes much more skill to create a tightly controlled drama, and
(glossing over the outrage that Todd Haynes wasn’t nominated)
therefore I think the award should go to Lenny Abrahamson. Not
only does he delicately handle the brutal subject matter of sexual
abuse story Room, but he also ekes out two of the most genuine
performances in recent years, from Brie Larson as Ma, and the
stunning, revolutionary Jacob Tremblay as Jack.
Best Supporting Actress
Will Win: Kate Winslet (Steve Jobs)
Should Win: Rooney Mara (Carol)
B
ookies have Kate Winslet down as the likely winner,
following her performance in Danny Boyle’s Steve Jobs,
during which – dodgy Polish accent aside – she showed
off her powerful expressiveness. The dark horse of the
race could be Alicia Vikander, who acted Eddie Redmayne into a
corner in The Danish Girl. Jennifer Jason Leigh is unlikely to get the
nod, although The Hateful Eight marks a welcome resurgence in her
career. Similarly, Rachel McAdams was possibly the best actor in
Spotlight, but probably won’t hold up to the others. For me, Rooney
Mara deserves to take home the award for creating the complex,
emotionally-layered Therese Belivet in Carol; unfortunately,
that role lacked bombastic moments or hysterical outbursts, and
therefore will be overlooked by the Academy.
Best Actress
Will Win: Brie Laron (Room)
Should Win: Cate Blanchett (Carol)
I
n direct contrast to the offerings on display in the Best Actor
category, I can’t remember a year when the Best Actress race
has been stuffed with such fantastic performances. Out in
front for me are Charlotte Rampling, for her devastating turn
in 45 Years, Cate Blanchett, who formed the foundation of Carol,
and Brie Larson, for her stunningly affecting performance as abuse
survivor in Room. While Saoirse Ronan was charming in Brooklyn,
and J-Law was bolshie in Joy, neither of them can match the others
in terms of the power of their performance. Smart money is on
Larson to win on the night, and though I will be happy for her,
deep down I feel Blanchett outstripped all competition with her
nuanced, controlled performance as Carol Aird.
Best Actor
Will Win: Leonardo DiCaprio (The Revenant)
Should Win: Nobody
G
od, this is a bad year for actors. Following on from his
win last year, Eddie Redmayne put in an offensively
affected performance in The Danish Girl, meaning real-
life trans pioneer Lili Elbe had no resemblance to any
human being I have ever met. Similarly, Bryan Cranston portrayed
Dalton Trumbo as a collection of bizarre tics given human form,
using a voice that suggested toothache. Matt Damon was adequate
in The Martian, but for a film that is basically centred completely
around him, he made very little impact. I haven’t seen Steve Jobs, so
I can’t comment on Michael Fassbender,but I don’t know if it could
be worse than the others. All signs point to this award going to
Leonardo DiCaprio for his role as grizzled survivalist Hugh Glass,
showing that to win an award you don’t need to show nuance or
skill, just a willingness to grunt a lot and eat bear liver on screen.
Best Supporting Actor
Will Win: Sylvester Stallone (Creed)
Should Win: Mark Rylance (Bridge of Spies
M
aybe it’s the theatre snob in me, but I would love it
if Mark Rylance takes home the award. Legendary
for his theatre work, not least as artistic director of
The Globe, Rylance’s performance in Bridge of Spies
is magnificent, and recognition would show the worlds of film and
theatre are not as distinct as people think. As Soviet spy Rudolf
Abel, Rylance brings a sense of deadpan humour in his controlled
performance, and is the best thing in Bridge of Spies. I don’t think
Tom Hardy’s performance in The Revenant was worth shouting
about, and similarly Christian Bale’s nomination for his blunt
treatment of hedge funder Michael Burry is baffling. Mark Ruffalo
could be a possibility, given his outburst of energy in Spotlight, but
ultimately I think Sylvester Stallone will nab it, less for his turn in
Creed, but more for recognition of his decades of work.
Best Original Screnplay
Will Win: Tom McCarthy & Josh Singer (Spotlight)
Should Win: Tom McCarthy & Josh Singer (Spotlight)
O
ut of the five nominees for this award, only two have
come up with truly inventive ideas: Ex Machina and
Inside Out both tell completely original tales, one
looking to our childhood past, the other to a potential
future. The others all take on real-life happenings: Cold War
counter-intelligence swapping in Bridge of Spies; the Catholic
church molestation scandal in Spotlight; and the rise and fall of
N.W.A. in Straight Outta Compton. However, while it is tricky
creating something out of nothing, it is arguably more difficult
to tackle a historical event and afford it the required gravitas and
respect. This is exactly what Tom McCarthy and Josh Singer have
done with Spotlight, which manages to present an immensely
complex and controversial topic without a sense of dumbing things
down for the audience.
Best Documentary
Will Win: Amy
Should Win: The Look of Silence
I
know people say let bygones be bygones, but I can’t help feel
that this year’s award should go to The Look of Silence, if only
to compensate director Daniel Oppenheimer for the fact that
two years ago his absolutely mind-blowing documentary The
Act of Killing lost out to 20 Feet From Stardom,a documentary about
backing singers.The Look of Silence may not be as powerful as his last
film,but history calls for reparations.Ultimately,however,the award
is likely to go to Amy, Asif Kapadia’s portrait of Amy Winehouse,
whose descent and death is played out in graphic detail. Whilst
the film relies on footage obtained by the paparazzi who arguably
helped drive Winehouse to her death, and its voyeuristic feel makes
you feel complicit in her addiction and downfall, Amy would be a
worthy winner.
Best Original Score
Will Win: Ennio Morricone (The Hateful Eight)
Should Win: Carter Burwell (Carol)
A
ll signs point towards Ennio Morricone winning this
for his scoring of Tarantino’s Western The Hateful Eight,
and why not – it’s a wonderful piece of work, managing
to be stirring,exciting,but never overbearing.You might
accuse Morricone of ripping off tropes of Western music, but he
pretty much invented them. Star Wars has its usual John Williams
treatment, but does he really need a sixth Oscar? You’re getting
greedy John. Similarly, Bridge of Spies has a perfectly perfunctory
score from Thomas Newman,all swelling strings,but any Cold War
film that doesn’t make use of Nena’s ‘99 Luftballons’is dead to me (I
know it was set decades before Nena released this banger, but really,
does that matter? No. The answer’s no.) However, Carol-lover that
I am, I would love for this to go to Carter Burwell, for his delicate
compositions, which complement the tightly controlled drama.
Best Adapted Screenplay
Will Win: Adam McKay and Charles Randolph (The Big Short)
Should Win: Phyllis Nagy (Carol)
P
ity the voters for this award; few Academy voters actually
watch the films nominated, let alone go through the
hassle of reading the books they were based on, and this
means that the skill of many brilliant screenwriters has
not been recognised. Out of the last five awards, four have gone to
films based on non-fiction books, perhaps reflecting the difficulty
tackling such subject matter can pose when compared to pieces of
fiction. As such, it is likely that The Big Short will win, and while
the screenwriters’ effort to make such an elephantine topic as the
housing collapse accessible in an 120-minute film is admirable, I
would love to see the award go to Phyllis Nagy for her pitch-perfect
adaptation of Patricia Highsmith’s The Price of Salt, which retains
all the brittle sharpness of the original text, and is the most faithful
adaptation I have possibly ever seen.
Best Cinematography
Will Win: Emmanuel Lubezki (The Revenant)
Should Win: Edward Lachman (Carol)
A
cinematographer can make or break a film – and yet the
role is often overlooked by cinema-goers. This year the
award will inevitably go to Emmanuel Lubezki for the
third year in a row, for The Revenant – it’s probably fair,
since the scenic shots are by far the best thing in the film. Vittorio
Storaro does equally good work in The Hateful Eight, although
the interior shots means he can’t show off his chops; and in Mad
Max John Seale takes us through the entire colour spectrum,
from blistering reds to cooling blues. However, I think shooting a
beautiful film is easier when you already have natural beauty in front
of you; it takes something more to take a city street,and capture the
urban magic through the grime. And that’s why I think Edward
Lachman should win, for his sensuous portrayal of NYC, heavily
influenced by Saul Leiter’s masterful photography.
Best Animated Feature
Will Win: Inside Out
Should Win: Inside Out
N
ow, I hear Anomalisa is supposed to be brilliant. It’s
not out until next month in the UK, but the buzz
around it is that it’s a subtle, nuanced, beautiful piece
of work – which means that it will undoubtedly lose
at the Academy Awards. Luckily, it seems that the award will go
to Inside Out, which would be a completely worthy winner. Taking
a look at the interior life of a child going through a rough patch,
Inside Out connects us with our childhood memories, managing to
communicate vastly complex psychological and emotional concepts
with an ease that belies its ingenuity. Inside Out marks perhaps a
return to form for Pixar, which is joyful news in and of itself. Oh,
and it made me weep like a baby 10,000 feet above the Atlantic,
glass of plane wine clutched in my hand. Make of that what you
will.
our picks for the Academy Awards

