10 23 June 1999
The Last Word From
The Last Goodbye
W
ell, this really is it. I know I have had more
farewells than Sinatra, and have invariably
invoked the great man's lyrics o n each
occasion, but this is absolutely the last Voice of Rea-
son. You will therefore forgive the odd smidgen of
self-indulgence. Before I start thanking the cast of
thousands that have made all this possible, it seems
a good time to explain h o w it all started, since, if I
had a pound for every time s o m e b o d y asked me, I
would have enough for a loaf in Southside shop,
and that's a lot of dough. It all started in the autumn
of 1994. Though I had had a couple of letters in Felix
in the previous year, more of which later, it was the
Frater Fiam column that led to my first real rant. Writ-
ten by Felix luminary Marcus Alexander, I, in my
humble opinion, saw it as nothing more than vac-
uous drivel (no sniggering at the back, please).
This I detailed in a couple of letters, which caught
the eye of the then News Editor, Rachel Walters. She
went on to be the 1995/6 editor, and asked if I
wished to write a column o n anything and every-
thing. T h e rest, as they say is history. Initially
intended to be a fortnightly feature, it ran weekly
for three years, becoming larger this year and inter-
woven with my good friend Matthew Salter's Right
Angles to Reality.
It all began o n October 13 199S with a piece
about French nuclear testing in the Pacific, in which
I suggested an alternative, deserted test site could
be EuroDisney, and a moan about the no-smoking
policy in the JCR, which people were beginning to
enforce by the installation of about 50 red a n d
white signs. In those halcyon days, I knew virtually
nothing about Sherfield. Messrs Caldwell, Hansen,
Foster, McClure and Sir Ron were mere entries in the
phone book, so it took a while for m e to get into
my stride, confining myself to the weird ministra-
tions of student politics. Ian Caldwell, later to
become a star feature in my column, first got a men-
tion in the middle o f January 1996. T h e subject?
Signs. What else, dear reader, could it be? T h e
biggest thing in c o m m o n between m e and Caldwell
Is signage. He loves putting 'em up, I love slagging
'em off. The absolute pinnacle of Estates' achieve-
ments still remains the 'This is a Temporary Gate'
sign betwixt the Central Library and Biochemistry. I
hope the promise of one of them still stands...
Beyond Year Zero
• n what was to b e c o m e a regular feature, my job
I was in jeopardy for the following year, but fran-
I tic negotiation with Alex feakes (I grovelled)
secured my position. Campus Renaissance was well
on its way, though not with out a few glitches: BMS
cranes crashing into buildings, bulldozers nearly
falling through the Library roof, that sort of thing.
Clayponds was a bit of a hot issue that year, o n
account of a very large spate of burglaries and an
even larger number of breathtaklngly crass com-
ments from College. Somebody suggested that "IC
admin v students [is not] an equal contest". I could-
n't agree more. Sherfield don't stand a chance. O f
course, I don't just slag off IC's legions of adminis-
trators. The European Union has also been the sub-
ject of many a rant over the years. In November
1996 I said, "how on earth can the Deutschmark
retain all its value after 1999?" N o w I'm not one to
crow, but...
You will know by now my views on alcohol. I am
broadly of the opinion that the beer In Southside is
a little ahead of the Union in much the same way
that a ferrari is a slightly sassier motor than a fiat
126. This caused a bit of a storm in early 1997. Cen-
sored by the then editor, I can n o w reveal that I
meant to say, "if you think real ale is synonymous
with amorous activities in a canoe, leave the Union
Bar and head for Princes Gardens." The point still
stands, though I must say I had a half decent pint
of 6X there recently. M u c h still needs to be done,
however.
Many people wrongly assume that I have a
major problem with ICU, which is of course a load
of old cobblers. I may have given this impression
when I was cruelly misinterpreted over the legiti-
macy of hockey bar names (a tremendous inven-
tion), and my views on PoetlC's Weekly Poem, which
vied for space with my humble prose. Poets, being
gentle folk, don't g o round slapping people, so
they wrote 'An O d e to Simon Baker.' I would quote
it, but my copy of that issue has disappeared. The
boss of that society, w h o I attacked on several
occasions, was some bloke called Ed Sexton. What-
ever happened to him?
The Best of Times
I
shan't continue to list all the times I offended
s o m e o n e important that year, but I must recount
the Great Marquee Debacle. For the benefit of
younger readers and those old lags who don't now
know what day of the week it is, Imperial College
decided that undergraduates should not sit their
summer exams in the Great Hall, but rather in a very
large tent in Princes Gardens. The reason for this
was the startling discovery, just before the sched-
uled exams, that knocking seven bells out of the
adjoining library might generate a bit of noise.
That's why we pay our senior people all that money,
you see. It turned out that the builders' request for
an exam timetable went u n h e e d e d , leading to this
crazy situation, which made it as far as The Inde-
pendent, if I remember correctly. Let's just say that
1996/97 was a g o o d year for a columnist at IC.
My employment secured again at the eleventh
hour from Jeremy T h o m p s o n , 1997/98 began with
a new photo for me, replacing the o n e that actu-
ally made m e look reasonably g o o d with o n e that
looked like Stevie Wonder had been conducting
microreconstructive facial surgery with a blowlamp
and a lump hammer. Having decried the 'motley
crews' a n d Schal project mismanagers, I finally
entered the lion's den a n d went 'on site'. Thor-
oughly nice chaps, I was a bit unnerved when a
seven foot Irishman said that he was not happy
about the motley bit. A pathetic half-laugh o n my
part and it was exit stage left. O n e of the biggest
issues of the year was the Conference Office. I
must be careful here, for reasons that will soon
b e c o m e clear, but they started off by 'mastermind-
ing' the f o n d o n Fashion W e e k extravaganza.
Through incompetence that would have been dis-
missed as unrealistic on the pages of a 'Yes, Prime
Ministe' script, the College barely made a profit
out an event that caused untold chaos to the cen-
tre of the South Ken campus. O f course, it wasn't
all d o o m and gloom as Ken Weir, Security supremo,
will tell you to this day. Despite the fact that I
missed the whole week, I'm not bitter. I never did
rate Helena Christensen anyway. Ken.
The Long Arm of the Law
T
hings went from bad to worse on the Confer-
ence front. £8,000 was lavished on 13 office
chairs (I always said that Chippendale and grey
Formica would clash, but would they listen?). And
then the biggy. As had b e c o m e a trend by this
stage, my famously sharp hearing had picked up a
discussion of the Conferencing trading accounts on
the Walkway. Alas, a few errors crept into a news
item (not my column, mind), prompting the threat
23 June 1999 11
The Voice of Reason
of legal action by the inestimable Annette De f ima,
Head of the C o n f e r e n c e Office. Ulitmately, no
action was taken, for which there are two explana-
tions. Was It the inexorable flow of the milk of
human kindness from that department, or could it
have been the discovery that, as ICU is not a sepa-
rate body from Imperial College, a lawsuit would
have roped in the Rector and the Chairman of the
Governing Body? To this day, it's a mystery.
1997 will be remembered by many as the year
when ICU held more elections than Italy. The ster-
ling Eric Allsop proved a hard act to follow, result-
ing in four rounds before Andy Heeps successfully
took the reins. Along the way we saw some candi-
dates of execrable ability, desperately trying to bol-
ster crappy CVs, a trend which I'm glad to say seems
to have reduced of late. All in all it was a busy year,
with a huge number of different bits and pieces. In
short, I managed to offend the following groups:
Third World First, the Overseas Students Committee,
The CCUs (all of them), the Hockey team again
(honest, lads, it was all a misunderstanding) and the
medics. Having said that, Nick Newton of ICSM
annoyed m e not inconsiderably, so I suppose it's
honours even.
I also managed to offend large sections of the
modern 'art' community, and a Pro-Rector to boot.
I wrote a lengthy diatribe o n an exhibition hosted
in the Ante Room in November 1997. "While I have
no desire to meet the two talentless cretins respon-
sible for this utter waste of taxpayers' money, I
would dearly love to meet the person that wrote the
biographical sketches of these creative non-entities.
To describe a video of a few peas and model sheep
vibrating o n a washing machine as 'immensely
funny' indicates that he or she is peerlessly ironic
or deeply disturbed (or the recipient of a back-han-
der)." As anyone w h o saw it will agree, this is fair
comment. Unfortunately, this was unwittingly pub-
lished two days after a Sherfield Council of War met
to discuss the semi-destruction of said 'installation
art.1
By an amazing and untimely coincidence, the
damage occurred at the same time as a '22 Club ball,
at which I was Club President. This irony was not lost
on many senior College staff, with the odd Pro-Rec-
toral exception. And no, it was not me.
better judgement, Alex Feakes, Jeremy Thompson
and Ed let me continue - Cheers!
People less grateful are Ian Caldwell, Mike
Hansen, Marion Kimberly, Vernon McClure, Lynda
Davis and John Foster. Amazingly, Ian, when we
finally met on St Patrick's Day 1997, resisted the urge
to lamp me, instead, if I remember correctly, buy-
ing me a pint of Guinness. I think we were both sur-
prised that the other was a human being, and later
that year became quite close - he was on one side
of a full colour poster and I was on the other. Mike
Hansen, whose capacity for beer and jalapeno chill-
ies is more than respectable, first tackled me over
allegations of chess playing within Finance. I think
that was eventually a draw -1 was slightly incorrect,
Ill i l l • •
:
• ' 111 . 1;
'. 1
!!• 1
i!i1
11., •
: l i ! :
:
:
*
A Final Thank You...
A
nd so we c o m e to this year, under the stew-
ardship of the e s t e e m e d Ed Sexton, w h o
again succumbed to my charm and grovelling.
No need to review it, because s o m e o n e will have
done that elsewhere. It is therefore time to start
thanking people. Firstly, John 'Hamish' Teale. As
well as persuading m e to send my first letter into
Felix, he came up with the column's name. O n the
subject, thanks to Beccy Land. If you hadn't made
such a mess of running Felix in 1993/4,1 would prob-
ably never done any of this. Rachel Walters holds the
fearsome responsibility of letting me do this origi-
nally, for which I am eternally grateful. Against their
and went on to appear on a Level 4 dartboard.
Marion very nearly took me to task over several com-
ments, but thought discretion to be the better part
of valour. Having had a chance to refine my opin-
ion, I can say that the Personnel Division is safe in
her hands. Pint glasses are a different matter... Ver-
non McClure, with whom I have yet to quaff an ale,
took offence at the suggestion that the Registry was
the size of Wembley Arena, staffed with a capacity
crowd. Thankfully, he didn't take this too badly,
hence the fact that I was allowed to stay on for a
PhD. Lynda and John are also mere faces on the
walkway, having never met either of them. Though
we have had numerous disagreements, they have
always been professionally courteous; fynda has
never slagged me off in IC Distorter and College
Catering have never poisoned me. Well, there was
that meat pie in the SCR once, but I digress.
I must thank the Rector, Lord Oxburgh (con-
gratulations, Ron, I promised I'd put in a good
word, didn't I?), for allowing me to continue my stud-
ies, when many would have slung me out for being
lippy years ago. Thanks also to the College Secre-
tary, Tony Mitcheson. Though I'm sure he has done
much else, he is responsible for the flying of flags.
Not a single day is missed, a testament to his mili-
tary training I assume. W h e n the Union Flag
appeared recently for the Duke of Edinburgh's birth-
day, I nearly rushed over to Suite Five to buy you a
drink. Marvellous.
A huge number of people are guilty of aiding
and abetting this column, but I shall single out a
few. As you know, the very highest journalistic stan-
dards are maintained in this column (sometimes).
Thanks therefore to all the people with whom I have
lived or worked, roped into reading through the raw
text. Additionally, Prof David G o o d g a m c in my own
department, w h o has given frequent and detailed
critiques of my spelling, some of which I hope I have
taken o n board - I hope I've finally got it right! All
work and no play makes Jack a dull boy - you've got
to eat and drink This column and degree and PhD
would not have been possible without the con-
stant and dependable source of liquid refreshment
that is Southside Bar. Roger and his superb staff
have, over the years, consistently served perfect real
ale, during the consumption of which most of the
ideas that I have used came to the fore. They have
just received the Cask Marque in recognition of the
excellent standard of beer served, which is very
richly deserved. This column's finishing, but I'll still
prop up your bar. M y lunchtlmes for the last three
years have mostly been in the excellent and unsung
Holland Club, under the excellent stewardship of
Kev and his fine team. C o m i n g off brie, bacon and
walnut jacket potatoes was not easy, but after that
stint at the Betty Ford Clinic, I can now vary the
dishes with impunity. A great venue, and o n e that
could teach other outlets on campus a thing or two.
Finally, there are a number of people that I would
truly love to thank. Unfortunately, they would prob-
ably face the firing squad if their names ever
appeared in print. You know who you are, and I am
immensely grateful. The students and many of the
staff owe you all a great debt of gratitude for help-
ing to hold to account people, policies and depart-
ments at Imperial.
...and Goodnight
A
nd so the e n d is nigh. I have enormously
enjoyed doing this for the last four years, and
hope that some of you found something in it
to amuse, entertain, inform or infuriate. Some of
you must have, because this column generated
more than its fair share of letters, even ones that
said nice things. I better stop before the upper lip
starts to quiver. Goodnight and God Bless.

