14 Interview 23 June 1999
sir rnnati nxburgh i
He runs the College. He's responsible for your
education. He ultimately controls a £250 million
budget. But do you know anything about him? Simon
Baker finds out by interviewing the newly honoured
Sir Ronald Oxburgh, the Rector of Imperial College.
How does it feel to b e awarded a peerage?
"It's been awarded as much for IC's achieve-
ments as my own*. Noting no firm political affilia-
tions. Sir Ron promised to sit as a cross-bencher
when he takes up his seat later in the year.
What Is the Rector's Job?
Asked what he does now, the answer was a sim-
ple (and surprising) "Very little". In rough terms,
however, "it's akin to a CEO in any major organisa-
tion... all internal and external issues come, at some
point, through my office - though much is dele-
gated".
As a rough example, on any average day Sir Ron
spends "at least a third of my time in correspon-
dence and a third in meetings". More specifically, he
is responsible for all the College's interactions with
key outside bodies - the Committee of Vice-Chan-
cellors and Principles, the University of London, Par-
liament, HEFCE (the g o v e r n m e n t authority
responsible for funding), the Department of Edu-
cation & Employment etc etc.
Do you have any regrets?
Chiefly, "the lack of a decent Senior C o m m o n
Room and an academic staff club".
Can you clarify the finances of the SCR develop-
ment?
The total cost is projected at £1.6 million, "mak-
ing this a much larger job than the JCR". However,
he admitted flaws in the business plan for the pro-
ject, noting that "the SCR need not be self-financing".
Nonetheless, he accepted that "it should almost be
so" thanks to shop units and expanded trade (recep-
tions in evenings, etc), but ultimately it's "something
we need to do"
The other area of controversy surrounding the
project is the contracting out of cateting. However,
unable to confirm the future of the outlet one way
or another, the Rector simply stated that "no deci-
sion has been taken". Nonetheless, he made it clear
that he's not against contracting out in principle, "but
it requires resources to be committed to monitor the
contract". In these terms, he believes that the new
CHP (Combined Heating a n d Power) Plant pro-
gramme - currently taking shape beneath the Elec-
trical Engineering building - is an "ideal project".
Moving onto the second regret, he also noted
that, come 2001, the site presently occupied by
Huron University (on the corner of Exhibition Road
and Princes Gardens) will be taken over by IC, which
owns the freehold on the property, and that the pre-
sent intention is to convert the building into an aca-
demic club.
What about the controversy surrounding the Port-
man Travel deal?
"I was not involved in that...I don't have the fig-
ures". So what about the bizzare, no-rent, commis-
sion only arrangement? "I a m learning this for the
first time... I will ask some questions"
How does the Beit project currently stand?
Confirming that "the project will definitely be fin-
ished come July 2000", he set minds at rest with the
assurance that, whilst all the new rooms will have
ensuite bathrooms, "rents will not be dispropor-
tionately higher". Ultimately, the College's aim "is not
to make money out of students...the cost of the
building works will be covered by increased con-
ference activity". His hope is that this will allow
Accommodation and Estates to "break the vicious cir-
cle ... to form a virtuous circle where increased rent
from improved room stock will feed back into more
upgrades".
So what impact will the Wye merger have on accom-
modation?
The merger will not lead to a material change
in the total number of rooms, but the rooms gained
in Beit will lead to "small" losses elsewhere, as other
halls are disposed of. In truth, "Wye will not make
much difference, since there are only 400 students
there", hence "there should be no net change, ide-
ally".
Elsewhere, the College "continues to look
towards the use of housing associations", and by
"taking our fair share" of the UL Halls allocation we
have gained 100 extra rooms.
What's the current thinking o n the RSM refurbish-
ment?
It's a mammoth task that will cost "up to £100
million to do it properly". Construction work will be
split over three phases, "beginning in a couple of
years". As yet, however, "we haven't found the ideal
architectural solution".
Moving o n , do you agree that academic staff are
underpaid?
"Yes, they are undoubtedly underpaid".
So should w e introduce performance-related pay?
"In one sense it is irrelevant". Expanding on that
simple statement, Sir Ron explained that, impor-
tantly. Imperial is "probably the only university that
has no limits on promotion" (grade quotas are com-
mon). Moreover, he genuinely believes that under
the current system, "more money would probably
result in fewer academics"
In reality, he explained that the current problems
in the pay structure are at the top and bottom - "Start-
ing salaries are not sufficient for those wishing to
start a family", whilst at the other extreme, "some
other universities are offering "silly" pay packages for
those at the top".
What's your position on Tuition Fees?
In the medium term, they're "an inevitability".
Instead, the Rector suggests a system of vouchers,
such that s o m e universities would charge at or
below the voucher value, whereas better institutions
could charge more. However, this would require a
system of scholarships and low-cost loans running
in parallel with the scheme".
Most importantly, Sir Ron stated that w e need
to preserve "free education for all who could ben-
efit from it"
How do you feel about IC's climb up the National
League Tables?
They're "a mixed blessing". In reality, he feels
that they're "not particularly useful", noting that IC
could b e c o m e number o n e by simply awarding
more 1st and 2:1 degrees. Nevertheless, we "should-
n't look a gift horse in the mouth...and there's no
cause for complacency".
interview 15
dose and pers
What's your current position on Imperial's mem-
bership of the University of London?
Any suggestion that he is in favour of disaffilia-
tion is based entirely o n a "mischievous" article in
the Financial Times - and "there's no prospect o f IC
leaving UL for the foreseeable future".
So what are the benefits of membership?
In short, Sir Ron feels that we get a lot out of UL.
However, the principle advantages are probably:
greater access to cheap sporting facilities; easier col-
laboration between College's (which, for example,
allows us to award joint MSc's); and w e can co-ordi-
nate our approach to distance learning - which
might not be a big thing for IC at present, but will
undoubtedly become important in the future, par-
ticularly with Wye College so highly regarded in
Africa for it's distance learning courses in Agriculture.
Which moves us onto the topic of mergers, both past
and future...
The forthcoming Wye merger is "proceeding
well", with only Royal Ascent required before the bill
comes into force (the two institutions are due to
become one in August next year). "It's certainly a lot
easier than previous mergers". Meanwhile, the med-
ical merger is "meeting expectations", but there's still
much more to do. All in all it's currently "satisfactory".
Can you explain what's going on with Project 99?
"We n e e d e d a re-think o n h o w Information
should flow around the College", rather than relying
on "expensive a n d only slightly more reliable"
replacements. Hence Project 99 (which is possibly
now being re-named ICIS), which intends to be a
thorough overhaul and reorganisation of the Col-
lege's administrative IT provision.
With a little over a year to go until you retire, any
thoughts on your successor?
"As far as I'm aware, no one has been appointed
yet".
And what does the future hold for you, personally?
"I'm not sure -1 don't believe in making long-
term plans". However, he has some commitments
lined up - and there's always that seat in the House
of Lords.
In conclusion, how would you sum up your time at
Imperial?
"It's been very enjoyable".
STAFF REQUIRED
FOR 99-00
WE ARE LOOKING FOR NEW
STAFF TO WORK IN THE ICU SHOP
ON SHERFIELD WALKWAY
THE JOB IS IDEAL FOR POSTGRADS
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY
CONTACT THE SHOP ON 48473
OR CALL IN AND ASK FOR DETAILS

