October
The year began with good news: London
Transport announced its student discount
deal, now used by students throughout
the capital. There was a flip side, how-
ever,- matute students were not to be
included in the scheme, a decision
strongly opposed by ULU president Matt
Hyde. David Hellard, ICU President,
hoped that the agreement could be
extended to older students at a later
date,- he was to be proved right before
his presidency was over.
There was bad news for CCUs as
the term began. Resignations caused
numerous problems, particularly in the
RCSU, who were rapidly running out of
committee members by the end of the
month. The BUSA hybrid entry debate
was still rumbling on from the previous
year, causing a certain amount of friction
between ICSMSU and ICU. The only con-
clusion that everyone agreed on was
that merging institutions takes time. Lots
of time. Relationships weren't helped by
allegations concerning financial mis-
management of the Charing Cross sum-
mer ball, accusations fiercely denied at
the time by Nick Carter, the former
Deputy President of ICSMSU.
dent, Wade Gayed. it became clear, how-
ever, that difficulties were partly caused
by the merger of the medical campuses.
Wade Gayed rode out the storm, despite
extreme pressure from all parts of the col-
lege.
The Queen was impressed with the BMS
Controversy over the new building
didn't end there, however. The discovery
that the BMS and bookshop flowerbeds,
and associated 'aesthetic enhance-
ments', were going to cost in excess of
£100,000 caused a storm in Felix, finding
its way into the letters pages, columns
and editorial, and became an institu-
tionalised joke for the rest of the year.
The major story for freshers was the
introduction of tuition fees, which put
them at a severe financial disadvantage
compared to their older peers. A glimmer
of hope came in the Rector's announce-
ment that Imperial would not charge
top-up fees, particularly welcome now it
appears that Oxford are thinking of intro-
ducing them 'by the back door1
for some
of their courses.
On a happier note the extension of
dB's into Felix's former home, including
the construction of a new bar where the
Print Unit resided, was just completed in
time for freshers week. Sighs of relief
from the corridors of ICU could be heard
in Battersea.
RCSU Exec slowly faded away
Meanwhile ICU had its own prob-
lems. Adam Cherrington, who was to be
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies), was
forced to resign over the summer. His
position was eventually taken by Marie
Nicholaou late in the Autumn term, but
not before significant problems had
been caused by the lack of a sabbatical.
RAG also found itself without key players,
but recovered spectacularly as the term
went on, under the leadership of Sarah
Coburn.
College, too, faced difficulties. The
BMS building was almost but not quite fin-
ished as freshers started to arrive, prompt-
ing criticism from academic staff and
Felix writers alike. Even when the Queen
came to officially open the 'Sir Alexander
Fleming' building there was a last minute
panic, as one of the outside doors col-
lapsed hours before she arrived, taking a
sizeable chunk of a concrete pillar with it.
Commemoration Day
November
Allegations of anti-medic reporting in
Felix grew darker with the days. An arti-
cle entitled "Racism Rife in Medical
Schools" caused a stir on the letters page,
prompting retaliatory letters from the
South Ken community. The slanging
match culminated in a petition signed by
over one hundted medics, ruffling Felix's
fur somewhat.
Both sides had their own problems,
however. ICSMSU lost three exec mem-
bers in a month, prompting questions
over the competency of the ICSM Presi-
Wade Gayed kept his head down
At the same time Felix was threat-
ened with disciplinary action over the
now infamous Viz-style comic strip. After
various letters and editorials Felix's editor
admitted defeat and withdrew it. Similar
pressure saw sport return to the back
page. Felix was not the only student
newspaper facing criticism, however, as
the editor of Kings College's 'Roar' was
suspended following publication of the
"Catry on Cottaging - Basement Boys use
Bogs for Buggery" issue.
On a happier note, RCSU finally
elected a president (Simon Torn),
rumours of a 1999 summer ball began to
circulate, and David Hellard announced
his 'Discount Day', which has since led to
some decent reductions in many High St
Ken shops. RAG week had to be can-
celled after the College refused to allow
the annual Beer Fest to take place in the
newly refurbished JCR, but by the end of
the month RAG was starting a slow recov-
ery, setting up a 50p cloakroom for Ents
nights.
Stuart Cook was the only candidate
to stand in the DP(C&S) election, which
attracted minimal interest even by Impe-
rial standards. In the end he quit an hour
before the end of voting, his decision
coming after ICU Exec refused to allow
him to play football on Wednesday after-
noons should he have won.
increased following reports that the Beit
project, which has now manifested itself
in the form of hoardings in the Quad,
could leave the Union substantially worse
off for space then they had expected.
The flowerbeds fiasco culminated in a let-
ter from Ian Caldwell, Director of Estates,
to Felix; Simon Baker responded with a
sharp critique of College's record on
such matters in his column. The Voice of
Reason.
Looking further afield, students from
South East Asia, noticeably Malaysia,
were facing troubled times, as the eco-
nomic crisis of the region worsened,
leading many to fear they may have to
quit their courses for financial reasons.
In early November LSE held a refer-
e n d u m on whether to leave ULU.
Although Felix sources predicted a sub-
stantial 'yes' vote, the students gave a
resounding 'no' to the idea. At the time
questions were being asked as to the
role of ULU, and LSE's decision must
have been welcome relief.
November will be remembered at
Imperial, however, for more serious rea-
sons. The tragic death of an undergrad-
uate from meningitis shocked students
and staff alike, and led to fears that an
epidemic similar to those experienced at
other universities may be on the way. For-
tunately the tragedy was not repeated at
the college, and if any good came of the
event, it was hopefully to remind stu-
dents to take the threat seriously this
and every year.
December
The second attempt to elect a DP (C&S)
saw two candidates stand. Tim Trailor,
however, stepped down in the middle of
the campaign, leaving Marie Nicholaou
opposed only by the omnipresent New
Election. She went on to win a comfort-
able victory, although the turnout was
less than enthusiastic.
Stuart Cook faces the music at St Mary's
Friction between Sherfield and ICU
Marie Nicholaou won her election easily
College again came under fire - this
time the Health Centre took the flak.

