18 News Rewind 23 June 1999
the highest form of flattery...
March
This was Imperial's month for sport. It
started with the momentous defeat of
Cambourne by RSM, and went on to
include a victory for ICSM rugby in the UH
cup for a second year. IC's men and
women also won both UL cup and
league titles in hockey, football and
rugby, with the latter also winning the
Gutteridge Cup. Athletics and fencing
The Football Team stand victorious
also excelled as the competitions con-
tinued.
There was less good news at home,
however, with plans for the new sports
hall coming under heavy criticism from
local residents and building authorities.
The Beit redevelopment was also caught
up in the debate, but managed to dis-
entangle itself without being rejected.
The cause of much of the residents'
anger was a succession of incidents in
Southside in which objects were thrown
out of hall windows into the mews
below, causing severe damage in one
case. This later led to the introduction of
locks' on the windows, even though it
appeared Southside residents were not
responsible for the damage.
After a seven year wait, it finally
looked like the Village Hall at Clayponds
would be built. There was a catch, how-
ever - College wanted the cost to be
passed on as increases in rent, claiming
that the Residences Budget could not
fund the project. Back at South Ken a
man was arrested for bike theft, which
must have been a blessing for Ken Weir
and reduced the number of letters writ-
ten to Felix on the subject.
There was yet more student politics
to be had, with the CCU elections taking
place a mere few weeks after ICU's elec-
tions. Becky England was comfortably
elected as ICSM President, while Will
Bently gained the same position in the
RCSU, although RCSU's below par year
continued with an electoral turnout of
less than 5%. Dinesh Ganesarajah suc-
cessfully moved from Guildsheet Editor
to C&GU President, in a result which sur-
prised many hacks around the college.
Meanwhile at ULU Matt Butt was
elected as President for next year, and
Tom Belton hands over the reigns of
London Student to Chris Campbell this
July. Elsewhere in London there were
successes in the tuition fees campaign,
with an occupation by students of admin-
istrative buildings forcing Goldsmiths to
retreat from their threat to expel any stu-
dents who didn't pay up. They have now
agreed not to expel students who can-
not afford the fees. A similar situation at
UCL also forced a college climbdown,
although the lack of support from UCL's
Students celebrate their victory
student union caused much controversy
amongst the protesters.
Back at IC the term ended with both
good and bad news. IC applied for an FM
license for May, which was unfortunately
turned down over Easter. Meanwhile
negotiations with London Transport were
yielding results, with it now looking likely
that the discount scheme would be
extended to mature students. Finally
Chris Ince (DP(F&S)) announced that
Union curries would increase in price by
10p to £1.20, making the old '£1 curry' slo-
gan from last year seem somewhat out
of date...
April
Students may go home over the Easter
holidays, but Imperial keeps going, and
by the start of the summer term the
Summer Ball had been confirmed as def-
initely going ahead. ICU had underwrit-
ten the event, taking a gamble that ticket
sales and sponsorship would avoid a
loss in excess of £20,000 - a gamble that
in retrospect may look foolhardy.
ICSM's football team had the First
Division Championship taken away from
them, after entering a doctor no longer
on a course in their team. An appeal
brought them no joy, and they finished
the season third. Back on the South Ken
campus a fire over the holidays narrowly
avoided damaging Biochemistry's base-
ment, while Joint Maths and Computing
students gained Chartered Engineer sta-
tus upon graduating.
indeed be sold to finance the new sports
hall, although both College and ICU
authorities denied that any decision had
been made. The sports centre proposals
themselves came under heavy fire from
local residents, putting the entire project
in jeopardy.
There were problems in halls as well.
Southside residents came back from the
holidays to find that the windows over-
looking the mews had been barred,
prompting a string of complaints as stu-
dents attempted to study in stifling con-
ditions. A leaked college document
showed that Imperial was going to be
somewhat short of hall rooms in a few
years time, particularly when some Wye
students are living at Imperial.
Imperial itself increased its rankings
in the Times league tables to number
two, demoting Oxford to third place. The
AUT confirmed and went ahead with its
The AUT strike made its point. Just.
strike, although the disruption to exams
and services was minimal.
ICSM announced details of its sum-
mer ball, which is to take place the day
before ICU's. Questions were asked con-
cerning why the college refused to help
fund the ball, the response being the
standard 'our money is for educational
purposes only'. There was better news for
ICU in May, however, as fondon Trans-
port confirmed it was to include mature
students in its discount scheme from
next September. ICU's Annual General
Meeting rounded off the month, and
was quick and efficient, with none of the
farcical events associated with last year's.
June
May
Felix came under fire from all
quarters this month. An article
about the private housing
office, claiming that they had
engaged in what amounted
to a vetting service, was
sharply denied by Catherine
John, the lady in charge of
such matters.
More evidence came to
light that Teddington will
And so we arrive at the last few weeks
of the year - a time for tying up loose
ends. Clayponds was finally given the
go ahead to be built next year, although
questions still remain as to whether it is
right to expect students to foot the bill.
Staying with halls, Southside residents
met with Pro-Rector Tim Clark and per-
NEED S P A C E ? suaded him to re-evaluate the
worth in barring students'win-
dows. Students stand to lose
out elsewhere in Southside,
however, as it was revealed
that College plan to take over
Southside gym while the
sports centre is expanded,
starting in twelve months
time. Worse still, they plan to
keep it once the work is fin-
ished.
The fallout from the AUT strike
included a small debate as to the role of
students in such disputes, while college
refused to give the strikers' pay to student
hardship funds. Further action is planned
to disrupt admissions procedures this
August. O n the subject of financial dis-
putes, the College are planning to expel
forty students who have yet to pay all
their tuition fees if the money isn't
received by the end of September.
Although it seems likely that many of
them will pay, ICU will hopefully offer its
support to those who can't, and follow
the precedents set by Goldsmiths and
UCL if the college refuses to listen.
More economic question marks
have been raised around Sherfield, with
more information now available on the
replacement of STA Travel by Portmans.
Once again facts are hard to come by,
suffice to say that there is something very
suspicious, if not downright corrupt,
about the deal. Plans to refurbish the SCR
have been unveiled, with the projected
cost running much higher than most
people expected.
ICU also seems likely to suffer finan-
cial set-backs, with poor ticket sales caus-
ing problems for the Summer Ball. As it
stands the Union could lose upward of
£20,000.
Lastly, Imperial's Rector Sir Ron
Oxburgh was made a peer in the
Queen's birthday honours list. Although
he admits to doing very little these days,
Felix would like to congratulate him on
an undoubtedly deserved reward, and
would urge him to use his remaining
time as Rector here to help the students
who, at the end of the day, should be at
the core of every university.
The 1998-1999 sabbatical team. Anti-
clockwise from top right; Dave Hellard
(President), Chris Ince (DP(F&S)), Marie
Nicholaou (DP(C&S)) and Ed Sexton (Felix
Editor).

