23 June 1999 Travel 19
if not us thenwho?
MPT VK
m • m "if
R
ecently four members of Imperial College's Pim-
llco Connection, Trevor Graham, Zeenab Rabak,
Jessica Smith and myself, Elin Thomas, had the
chance to go to the 'If not us then who?' conference in
Salt Lake City, Utah. It is a conference bringing together
2000 students to discuss community service programmes
run by COOL. The conference addresses a whole range
of issues ranging from hunger and homelessness
through to education and the environment. We went
to share our ideas by giving a 90 minute presentation
on the 'Frustrations of Tutoring', and to collect ideas for
the Pimlico Connection. I'm happy to say we were suc-
cessful in doing both.
Wednesday morning, with a general dazed feeling,
we head off to Heathrow. It's just after 6 o'clock - It
seems none of us have got up this early in weeks! It still
hasn't really sunk in that I'm going to Salt Lake City on
the other side of the States. I had been waiting for this
day for the last month, unfortunately I'd have to wait
almost 24 hours before arriving in Utah. Stopping a
stones throw from New York on the way, we were dis-
appointed we couldn't spend a few days visiting. But
before we could catch our breath it was on to Denver,
before the last leg of the journey ending up in Salt Lake
City.
Three flights later, we finally arrive, tired but excited.
It is late at night, so we find a cab to take us to Utah Uni-
versity, a typical yellow cab with the maddest driver I had
ever met, excluding a bus driver we met later. The Uni-
versity is the other side of the city, so he gave us a guided
tour of the city on our way. On arriving at the University
it wasn't at all clear where we were going to spend the
night. I think by this point all we wanted was to sleep!
While waiting for a COOL representative we met some
of the first students who had arrived for the conference.
We were shown to a gym floor, where we were to sleep
for the next four nights.
Early the next morning we were awake and ready
to go and check out the city. It was a gorgeous day; we
had expected it to be under 10°C, however it was closer
to 25°C. We did some site seeing, including Temple
Square, the State Capitol building (modelled on the
White House) and Salt Lake's shopping centre. We
attracted quite a bit of attention due to our accents. This
varied from strangers talking to us in the street, being
preached at by 'Latter Day Saints' and a bus driver telling
us about his hobby of breeding budgies. The city came
across as a strange mix. The Mormons were really
friendly, never missing a chance to tell us about their reli-
gion.
In the evening the conference started. There were
three hours of introductory talks, including an introduc-
tion to COOL and some very thought provoking speak-
ers. The speakers had all been heavily involved in
campaigning for issues all around the world. One in par-
ticular came to talk about his political involvement in
Burma; he described his experiences of being arrested
for trying to stir the people of Burma to rise up against
the regime. By the time we arrived back at the gym it
had filled up. There must have been about 200 students
sleeping on the floor. This gave us a fantastic chance to
meet a really wide variety of people.
Friday was our turn to help the community of Utah.
We all set out in opposite directions across the State to
spend a few hours helping out. I was assigned to Red
Butte Gardens, an extremely beautiful conservation park
in the mountains surrounding Salt Lake City. Here I
helped with the weeding and the set-out of a plot for
endangered species of plants. The jobs of the 2000 stu-
dents at the conference varied enormously, from clean-
ing the apartments of mentally handicapped people,
painting bookshelves in primary schools through to
planting trees.
That evening we attended our first wotkshop. I
went to a very good one on students tutoring science
in schools in the States. It was interesting seeing the big
differences between education in the States and our
own. It seems that we have a better basic science edu-
cation than the majority of Americans. Again there were
more talks in the evening and a count of the numbet
of students attending from each state. This ended up
turning into a riot of people shouting for their own state.
It was this evening that we met an extremely mad girl,
Amanda, and her friends. When we realised there was-
n't a sign for the UK she made us one and became deter-
mined to embarrass the four of us, by letting the COOL
representatives know by screaming. It was great to
meet some one so uninhibited and easy to get on with.
The next day we presented our workshop, which
went very well. In fact the 90 minutes flew by and we
managed to create a large amount of discussion on the
difference between tutoring schemes in the States and
in the UK. Our workshop was based around the frus-
trations inherent in tutoring. It seemed an appropriate
topic as every time we go into the classroom we are
faced with varying situations that uncover new frustra-
tions. We used a variety of methods to present the mate-
rial, including overheads, role-plays and a video of some
of the stuff we get involved with. Most of the discussion
created was focused around the differences between the
Pimlico Connection and tutoring schemes in the States.
Tutoring schemes in the States tend to be very different
to the Pimlico Connection. They are mainly run after
school and tend to function as more of a mentoring ser-
vice than we do. We hoped to educate the Americans
how we overcome the frustrations we face tutoring, and
to pick up new ways of approaching the frustrations we
face in the UK. I think that the biggest frustration that
we face is the aspect of time. We are lucky to have
Wednesday afternoons as a free slot in most people's
timetables, as this is something that Americans don't
seem to have. They find it very difficult to dedicate a reg-
ular slot of time to a tutoring scheme, especially as their
University fees are high and the majority of them have
to work to pay for their education.
The rest of the day was spent attending different
workshops and in the evening the 'Oxfam Hunger Ban-
quet'. A particularly good workshop I attended was on
'Building a better team'; I am hoping that some of the
ideas from the workshop can be used by the Pimlico Con-
nection's committee. The 'Oxfam Hunger Banquet'
stirred a large amount of debate about the issues of
hunger and homelessness. Each of us were given parts
to play. About 10% got to eat a three course meal,
another 15% a meal consisting of rice, beans, bread and
water and the rest of us, representing the majotity of the
worlds population, got a bowl of rice and a glass of water.
It was a thought-provoking activity, which I would like to
see more of in the UK.
Sunday marked the end of the conference. After
another workshop and a closing talk people started to
make their way back to their home states. Inspired, we
left for the UK; it was another 24 hours before we would
arrive home.
I greatly appreciated the chance I had to go to the
COOL conference. Four days concentrating on com-
munity service related issues gave me quite a few ideas
I want to try and implement in the UK, in particular ideas
that may be able to be co-ordinated into the Pimlico Con-
nection. It also allowed me to make new friends and to
meet a large variety of enthusiastic people who care
about issues in their community. It is an experience I
would love to repeat.
Elin Thomas

