2 0 /
~ t * ^ ^ » Travel 23 June 1999
AMERICAN
NEIL MOTHEW HITS THE HOME LEG O N HIS CIRCULAR
Oshkosh Fly-In
Having resisted the urge to get in touch with my inner feel-
ings in California, it was time to move on. We headed for
the Oshkosh Fly-in held in Wisconsin. The flight was long
and covered lots of nice countryside.
Oshkosh is where the headquarters of the Experi-
mental Aviation Association is located. This is also where
the world's largest airshow andfly-inis hosted. When I say
fly-in, that is over 70,000 aircraft flying into the airport in
the space of a few days. This is not an easy task- it requires
the USA's finest air traffic controllers to deal with the dens-
est airspace in the world. Indeed, it is considered the high-
est honour for an air traffic controller to work at Oshkosh
for the week. Watching them in action is excitement in
itself - landing planes at the rate often a minute - often
3 abreast, in formation. Normal radio procedures are not
followed: the controllers give the commands on the radio
and the pilots have to acknowledge they have received
them by waggling their wings.
Oshkosh attracts all types of aircraft from all over the
world. They are extremely friendly towards international
visitors, and even throw a party for us with free hot dogs
and beer.
The airshow is incredible. Once you have been here,
and seen these world-class aerobatics displays, you might
be disappointed by any other airshow. Both the United
States Air Force and world-class acrobatic pilots put on the
most incredible air display. There is something for every-
one. Organisation on the ground is equally as efficient as
it is in the sky. Aircraft are grouped on the ground by type
- the old warplane flightline is a must-see, with easily
enough aircraft for an air invasion of an Eastern European
State.
As well as the manufacturers of General Aviation air-
craft, there are such diverse trade stands as the Bahamas
tourist board, who lend out wetsuits and employ Bahamian
babes to give a free half-hour diving lesson In a swimming
pool. Just what I needed on a hot day.
Chicago
Those familiar with Microsoft Flight Simulator might recog-
nise the airport we flew into. Migs Field, located adjacent
to Downtown Chicago, is the default airport on flight sim,
and as such, I had flown in hundreds of times in the vir-
tual world. On landing, we noticed several discreet black
minivans drive past our plane and then move on. Appar-
ently Bill and Hilary were in town that weekend for the
Democrat conference and they were merely checking us
out.
As if Oshkosh wasn't enough of an airshow for us,
we were given the pleasure of a display by the 'Blue
Angels' over the harbour. This is the US Nav/s variant of
the Red Arrows, only much better, with more daring
stunts.
Our first few hours in Chicago were spent walking
from the airport and getting orientated. We stumbled upon
the Art Institute, apparently one of the world's premier art
galleries. This contains a magnificent collection of art
treasures, providing reason enough to visit Chicago.
You shouldn't go to Chicago without experiencing the
ear-popping lift to the viewing deck of the Sears Tower.
From there, you can see the cityscape and appreciate the
astonishing architecture of the surrounding buildings.
Another place we visited that is well worth a trip is the
Chicago Board of Trade. Here you can witness the fracas
of one of the World's busiest futures and options dealing
floors.
Once again we avoided expensive hotels by staying
with friends. They also took us for an eventful ride on Lake
Michigan in their speedboat. Like a bad Baywatch plot, this
resulted in us helping in a search and rescue for a
drowned lady. To cut a long story short, the coastguard
helicopter was called out and she was eventually located
10 ft under water by another boat's 'fish-finder'. Seeing
the frogmen go in and winch her out of the water put a
lump in my throat that lasted to the evening.
Just before leaving, we toured the Shedd Aquarium,
next to Migs Field. A massive assortment of finned, gilled,
amphibious and other aquatic creatures swim here, as well
as Beluga whales, white-sided dolphins, seals, sea otters
and penguins.
Toronto
We flew into Toronto City airport, a mere two-minute taxi-
ride to downtown.
We got a great deal in a 4 star hotel just overlooking
the CN Tower and harbour. There are so many hotel rooms
in this city that during slack times they reduce the rates
to a fraction of the normal cost just to boost occupancy.
It turned out cheaper to stay here than to stay in the youth
hostel.
A trip to see the spectacular view from the CN tower
is well worth it. The lift to the top is free if you book a table
at the rotating restaurant. Surprisingly they didn't have arm-
and-a-leg prices and it turned out that the main dish we
had was priced at only a pound more than the ride up the
lift to the viewing gallery. The food was absolutely excel-
lent though the service was somewhat rushed by a team
of Chinese waiters, eager to squeeze another sitting
between the first and the second. We took our time eat-
ing.
Ottawa
National capitals are renowned for being the least inter-
esting places to visit in any country, though recent devel-
opments to address this has made Ottawa an exception.
We stayed at the youth hostel near to the city centre.
Located in an old jailhouse, we enjoyed the novelty of
sleeping in former prisoners' cells. If you really want to,
you can even view the gallows where the last public hang-
ing in Canada took place. Despite its history it was quite
a cheery hostel. Close to Ottawa's lovely and lively down-
town, there are so many restaurants and bars in a nearby
market that will make your head spin.
The city's beauty stands out in both it' architecture,
landscaping, parks and monuments. The parliament build-
ings gentrify the city and the public transport system is as
much an asset as the beaver tails served in a market kiosk.
We ate the 'Blue Plate Special' breakfast at Zaks
Diner. This filled us up for, mmm, about two days. The Z-
Z-Top hairstyled waiter wasn't lying when he said it was
big. After that fill up, we caught the bus back to Ottawa
International airport and needed the full length of the run-
way to take off.
Montreal
Although there is quite a large Anglophobic community
in Quebec, Montreal is extremely cosmopolitan and
almost everyone speaks English. Funky bars and clubs line
the streets. Montreal rocks.
The Quebecois are proud of their French heritage. This
is manifested through their driving (like maniacs). If you
are a pedestrian in this city, be aware that the 'WALK' sig-
nal on pedestrian crossings means nothing. Just remem-
ber to look both ways before crossing the road.
Hungry? Montreal is excellent for eating out and is full
of restaurants. One of the culinary specialities of Quebec
are Poutines (pronounced 'poo-teens'). These are french
fries topped with gravy and cheese curds. To the uniniti-
ated, this might sound disgusting. To my doctor, it might
sound like instant cardiac arrest. However, after a night on
the town, they are absolutely delicious and I thoroughly
recommend eating them no more often than once in your
23 june 1999 Travel 2 1
AIRLINE
TOUR O F THE U S A - A N D IT'S TIME TO GET TOURISTY
lifetime.
We took a guided tour of the Olympic Complex, built
for the 1976 games. Apparently the city is still paying back
the three billion dollars (in 1976 money) it cost to build. It
never ceases to amaze me how much is paid for masses
of ugly grey concrete.
Quebec City
Again we spotted the French temperament enroute to
Quebec City. Protesting pig farmers decided to bring
their livestock out for a day trip and as a result blocked the
motorway between Montreal and Quebec City.
Looking totally out of place in North America, Que-
bec City is an old walled city: You can actually sit on top
of the old ramparts to eat and look out on the gorgeous
St Laurence River. A car is definitely not required.
The city is so neat and tidy, I felt I was in Disneyland.
Nevertheless, there is nothing Mickey Mouse about this
town, and it's worth a visit simply for its quaint beauty and
attempts at french cuisine.
Boston
To avoid Boston International airport's expensive landing
fees, we flew into a small local airfield (Norwood) and
rented a car to get us into town.
Boston was an expensive overnight stay. We arrived
at the time when terms for US colleges start simultane-
ously - and as such had to pay top-dollar for what was per-
haps the last available room in town. To compound this,
we were also awarded a parking ticket for being on a
metered space after 6pm, when, according to the small
sign (pointing the opposite direction, 100m away), metered
spaces turn into residents parking only. Still, the ticket cost
less that it would have done in the hotel's car park.
If you are a masochist, then driving in Boston will be
a high point in your life. The car was a bit of a mistake -
1
recommend using the T - Boston's answer to the tube.
Boston is a walker's town. We followed the two and
a half mile Freedom Trail, which links over a dozen historic
sites. Some of the historic buildings are so well preserved
and neat, you could be forgiven for thinking you were
walking in Disneyland. Conversely, the town's atmos-
phere was extremely dusty. Aptly named the 'Big Dig', the
city is presently investing about $1 billion per mile in rout-
ing its freeways underground.
If you need to shop, Boston is a great place to go. Wth
a sales tax (VAT) of only 5% and a good selection of stores,
some terrific value can be found. The aircraft was some-
what heavier when we took off for New York.
New York
Not all the good air traffic controllers were in Oshkosh. I
managed to get clearance to fly the Hudson River Corri-
dor, directly past the Statue of Liberty and the skyscrapers
of Manhattan. It will take an awful lot to top that experi-
ence.
We landed in Teterboro airport, just north of town and
caught a bus to Manhattan island. Hotels in New York can
be a bit pricey, so we were fortunate to use a friend's apart-
ment just a couple of blocks from the Empire State.
Wherever we went, we felt like we had been there
before. Of course, we had to make the trip to all the iconic
places: the Statue of Liberty, the Empire State Building, Cen-
tral Park, Times Square and Wall Street. Cllimbing the 354
steps to the Statue's crown is over-rated, and I suggest
spending the time going to the Staten Island Museum of
Immigration instead. Most of Manhattan is extremely
easy to navigate, thanks to a grid system of named or num-
bered avenues running the north-south length of the
island, cut across by numbered streets that run from east
to west. The atmosphere was not far removed from that
of London, so I felt at home immediately. Overall, we
found our stay in NY to be an in-your-face, exhilarating
experience.
Washington DC
We landed at College Park, a historic airport close to the
city, in which the Wright Brothers used to be based. From
here you need only cross the road to a Metrorail station,
making the transport into town pretty much a 'no-brainer'.
Again, we stayed with friends, this time from George-
town University. We also got the timing right: during
freshers week. We managed to hit about three parties in
just one night. For those interested, being a mainly arty
college, Georgetown has an inverse male/female ratio to
IC. The students there also seemed to be extremely
wealthy (you need to be to afford the fees), with about
half the females I met having their own personal sports
trainer.
DC has some incredible museums and most are
free. The Mall is home to some of the capital's most
famous museums, in particular the Smithsonian Institution.
Of course, we had to visit the Smithsonian's National Air
& Space Museum. This is packed full with historic air and
spacecraft, including the Wright brothers' plane and the
Apollo IX command module. We also visited the US Holo-
caust Museum, which isn't part of the Smithsonian, but
is one of the city's best museums. It's a haunting memo-
rial to victims of Nazi tyranny, covering the period 1933
to 1945.
We wanted to take the tour around the FBI building
but they wouldn't let us in. Maybe it had something to do
with being closed on Saturday.
Be warned: Washington's tree-lined avenues and
grand buildings create a surprisingly warm, almost cozy
atmosphere - though Washington is notorious for poverty,
crime and racial segregation in the shadow of glorious
monuments proclaiming "equality for all". As a result, DC
can be quite a dangerous place, and tourists are often tar-
geted.
Hiitonhead Island, South Carolina
Never before have I seen such a beautiful, deserted
beach. Apart from the many golf courses and executive
homes, Hiitonhead Island is an unspolit paradise. Wildlife
is prevalent. Throw a rock and you might hit a pelican. How-
ever, finding somewhere to eat is quite difficult. So long
as you don't mind eating pelicans, you're fine here.
Savannah, Georgia
Don't tell me about living life on the edge. The nice
weather at Hiitonhead was the calm before the eye of the
storm. A hurricane that was supposed to hit the Bahamas
changed tack - and the eye of the storm was now head-
ing for us in Savannah. What we briefly saw of this historic
southern town was very pleasant - shopkeepers boarding
up their windows, and families leaving their trailed parks
with wide-screen TV's strapped to roof-racks was our cue
to get out. We checked the weather carefully and then
took advantage of a high altitude tail wind to push us
home.
Back to Meacham Field, Fort Worth
As we taxied to the ramp at Meacham Field, we were sad
to finish the journey. So much ground covered in so little
time. Still, there's plenty of time left. Hopefully our future
Bahamian Island-hopping plans won't be wrecked by
hurricanes.

