22 Homelands 99 23 June 1999
By Ed Sexton
It's 4am. You're in a tent. In a field. Lasers and strobes are
strafing across the crowd of 5000 souls you're embedded
in. Suddenly an unmistakable melody floats towards you
from the dozens of speakers positioned in the corners. You
smile. 5000 people smile. Paul van Dyk looks out from
behind the decks with a mischievous grin on his face,
before dropping in the beat from yet another classic
trance tune. The crowd go wild - dancing, jumping, wav-
ing, screaming - as waves of euphoric music flow through
you and with you. Everything is right in the world. There
is no place, no time, you'd rather be. Welcome to the dance
festival experience.
Held somewhere near Winchester on 29 and 30 May,
this was always going to be a dance festival not to miss.
Sure, it may cost £50, but with seven tents and two sound
stages hosting over 100 DJs and live acts for seventeen
hours, it was always going to be worth it.
One of the great things about one-day festivals is how
little you need to take. We left London on a sunny Satur-
day morning with only the best driving tunes, some food
and spending money. And we were of course, as Hunter
S Thompson would say, armed to the teeth...
Although gates opened at midday, there were no acts
on to 1pm. We used the first hour to orientate ourselves
and generally prepare for the matathon dance event that
lay before us. So many excellent soundsmiths were sched-
uled for Homelands that there was only one way to sur-
vive: Dance till you drop, and then dance some more for
good measure. Not all of us wete going to make it...
2pm BlackStar Uner: Choque Hosein was up there exhibit-
ing the usual signs of someone whose taken one too
many grammes of speed, prancing round the stage to a
crowd of several hundred. The fact that all but ten of them
were sitting down didn't seem to bother him much. They
played a respectable selection of dubby tunes, however,
including the excellent 'Yemen Cutta Gonnection1
. Why
weren't they on in the early evening?
3pm Danny Rampling: Now this is silly. Danny Rampling
playing to a dance crowd of twenty-something? Dance
music at its best is a fusion between crowd and DJ: Good
DJs choose tunes on the fly based on the crowd's atmos-
phere, and Mr Rampling definitely suffered from the lack
of Dionysian input. Still, someone has to play the afternoon
sets...
3.30pm Gilles Peterson: We had been promised 'unprece-
dented sound levels', due to the site being situated in a
natural bowl, and we weren't disappointed. Some foolish
person had left the bass on far too high for Peterson: You
didn't so much hear the techno as feel it shaking the ver-
tebrae of your spine. There was only one thing for it; lie
back on the grass, absorb the beats, and chill...
4pm Brandon Bloc While Peterson was vibrating the Mix-
Mag tent from its foundations, a large crowd had gathered
in the Slinky tent for some upfront house. And upfront it
was, with Brandon Bloc wearing, well, nothing really. The
first real dance session of the day, this increased the
tempo for the night ahead.
4.30pm Les Rythmes Digltales: It isn't just Felix reviewers
who think they're French; apparently the organisers hired
a French sound technician for the event. Doh! Anyway, we
raced back to the Home tent to catch some very funky
tunes, including the now overplayed 'From Disco to Disco'.
If you get the chance to see them, take it.
By 5pm it was time for a short pause and reflection.
And more importantly, time for baked potatoes - the only
food I eat at festivals. Sitting under the smiling inflatable
five metre man that marked the meeting point, we realised
how much there was to do. There was a fairground.
There was a bungee. Further investigation revealed that
within the Ericsson tent (guess the major sponsors) one
could obtain a free massage, phone anywhere in the UK
for free, and purchase a mobile while you were at it. Iron-
ically you could barely get a signal on the site.
There were stalls selling everything from blankets to
bongs. There was the Bud Ice Bus (yes, a real bus), one
of the two outdoor sound stages, playing weird funky stuff
all afternoon. There was the bar, playing Salsa and other
Latin American genres, open all the time. And then, in front
of us, there wasjudgejules on the Radio 1 Stage. Damnit,
we've missed the Jungle Brothers...
7pm Faithless: So there has to one cock-up, and unfortu-
nately for Faithless it came in the form of a blown sound
system. The prolonged wait killed the atmosphere some-
what. 'Insomnia' got the crowd going, but many left a few
songs later. All the same, it's not every day you see Faith-
less live.
Dusk brought on a mad panic. Seven acts to see, all
playing at the same time??? There was only one solution;
dance your way from one tent to the next, taking in a few
tunes in each. So here it goes... DJ Shadow in the Home
tent was cool, but completely undanceable, prompting a
swift exit to the MixMag tent, where Red Snapper were
shaking down the jazzy beats of '4 Dead Monks'... Mean-
while Judge Jules had moved over to the Slinky tent and
Danny Tenaglla had started his mammoth 10 hour set in
the D tent (so-called because Its three acts were Danny
Rampling, Deep Dish and DT); across on the other side
of the site Justin Robertson was driving the Bus Ice Bus for
all it was worth, but I was caught by Dave Angel in one of
the two End tents, mixing his own brand of hard house
and techno, and thus missed Ronl Size in the other End
tent. Asian Dub Foundation had started up in the Home
tent with a collection of tunes that were, well, dubby. We
could only stay for a few tunes, though, as news came
through that next door in MixMag Underworld had
droppped the first beat...
10pm Underworld: Karl Hyde can dance. I mean really
dance. Every joint in the man's body must be dislocated.
Through the ecstatic heights of'Moaner' and 'Push Upstairs'
he urged the crowd, which stretched out of the tent and
beyond, to new levels of madness. When they dropped
'Born Slippy' in somewhat unexpectedly the normal cheers
and hand waving didn't happen; everyone was already
beyond fever pitch anyway. The only downer was that to
get near the front required levitation skills.
Almost running into the Essential Mix tent, i suddenly
found myself dancing to the uplifting mixing of John Dig-
weed. A welcome break from the intensity of Under-
world, Digweed was playing the kind of trancey house
you'd expect. Moving onto the Slinky tent I found Seb
Fontaine had set up a small cheese shop, complete with
scantily clad female dancers and fake olympic-like flames.
I had to indulge.
A quick mooch around the far corner of the site
revealed that fairground rides at night are cool, festival toi-
lets at night are dangerous and Danny Tenaglia still had a
long way to go until 6am. I headed towards the meeting
point, where apparently a message awaited me, but was
distracted by Dave Pearce at the Radio 1 stage.
Imagine approaching an open air stage, with around
three hundred people dancing in front of it. Behind you
'Ericsson' is emblazoned on a hillside in huge 'how-many-
kilowatts?' white light. In front of you there's a silly inflat-
able man, who in the last remnants of dusk seems to be
dancing to the house/trance coming out of the sound sys-
tem. You dance your way to the front and suddenly think
"wouldn't it be cool if he played Greece 2000: Three Dri-
ves next?" If you were listening to Radio 1 that night, the
cheers over the first few beats may well have been mine...
Sometime around midnight one of our group decided
to fork out £50 and do a bungee. At night. After dancing
in a field all day. After taking God knows what in the way
of consumables. Silly fellow. He survived the drop, how-
ever, describing the experience as "quite cool". Clearly too
many drugs...
Meanwhile in the tent nearest us DT is approaching
the halfway mark. Suddenly I realise I've missed Paul Oak-
enfold. Doh. Fortunately he is on again later in the night.
Then I realise what we're really missing. Sasha? No, that
will have to wait until next year - now Is the moment for...
1amThe Chemical Brothers: So who doesn't like 'Hey Boy,
Hey Girl'? I thought so. Ed and Tom know so, and thou-
sands crammed into the tent to witness their skills. They
were, of course, superb. The only criticism, however, is that
their old tunes don't seem to work well alongside the
newer stuff, leading to a slightly disjointed set. The last tune
was The Private Psychedelic Reel', stretched out with rises,
riffs and ridiculous 303 noises, climaxing in an almightly
beatless screech of synth as the lights came on full and
the crowd roared. Whatever they lack in continuity and
dress sense they more than make up for in sheer perfor-
mance.
2am Fatboy Slim: Following directly on from the brothers
in the Home tent, Monsieur Cook played a fairly reserved
set, sticking to the bread and butter of Leftfield and how
own tunes, occasionnaly adding some diversity. Good stuff,
but I still reckon he's better at making music than mixing
it.
Somehow we all managed to find each other around
3am and plan the last few hours. I had missed Dope Smug-
glaz and Pete Tong, but you can't have everything In life.
Carl Cox was playing hard house and techno in an End tent,
the atmosphere of which was reminiscent of those heady
first year days at Club UK's Friday nighters. A quick look in
at Basement Jaxx in the Mixmag tent revealed, well, not
much - who hyped them up to me so much? At this stage
the Union flu was beginning to take its toll, as was the lack
of sleep, and I found myself shivering in the pre-dawn chill.
Some coffee and a walk later, I suddenly realised.., I
had missed Paul Oakenfold! Again! Double doh! I waited
around for the Radio 1 sound stage to start up again - Annie
Nightingale was supposed to be playing a dawn set - but
it remained dormant until the close for reasons I have yet
to discover.
Meanwhile Laurent Gamier and Swift were finishing
off the last two hours in the End tents, but our heads were
in no state to take hatd beats, so we opted for the more
uplifting trance of Paul van Dyk. Although I spent much
of the last hour huddled under a blanket in the middle of
the dance floor (a very strange perspective on club culture
indeed), most of our party stayed upright to the rather
sweet end, and danced, jumped, waved and screamed to
'For an Angel' and whatever else the Dyk threw at us.
I felt three drops of rain all night which, considering
half of southern England experienced monsoon-like
storms, was quite good. To paraphrase NME, God may not
be a DJ but he's certainly not averse to a spot of dance
music in afield. The heavy sponsorship from Ericcson and
very good organisation gave the entire event a very pro-
fessional, untra-modern feel. I couldn't even grumble at
the half hour wait to get out of the car park - after all, it
takes time to move 30,000 people who have been danc-
ing all night.
The technology was awesome - each tent had cam-
eras stationed behind the decks and around the arena,
broadcasting images of the DJ mixing onto huge screens
at the front. In the Ericsson tent you could see what was
happening in all the arenas at once on a selection of TV
screens. The laser and light set up was, well, expensive.
And best of all, everyone enjoyed it - even the First Aid
tent was chilled when I popped in at 2am to get some
paracetemol. If you are around in September, I would rec-
ommend Homelands near Edinburgh. If not, I'll see you
in afield next year...

