24 23 June 1999
Reviews
Entrapment * * * •
Starring : Sean Connery, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Vino; Rhames, Will Paton
Director: Jon Amiel
Age gap? What age gap.
n her first screen appearance since
her feisty, swashbuckling role in The
Mask ofZorro, Catherine Zeta-Jones
discards the corset and dons a power-
suit, playing Virginia 'Gin' Baker, an
insurance investigator. Following the
theft of a priceless Rembrandt (valued
at $24 million), she tracks down the
prime suspect in the form of legendary
art thief, Robert 'Mac' MacDougal (the
obsession with trendy nicknames was
irritating to put it mildly). In order to
expose his crimes, Zeta-Jones goes
undercover posing as a fellow felon.
The bait is an ancient mask protected
by a supposedly infallible security sys-
tem, in the spirit of the unsinkable
Titanic. The artefact is shielded by a
lush jungle of laser beams...
Impenetrable to mere mortals, but not
to our blindfolded, catsuit-clad heroine.
This cunning obstacle is a blatant
excuse to have her perform several
moments of slow-motion pseudo-erotic
gymnastics in a skimpy, slinky outfit.
Male viewers will not complain. Nor will
female audiences. Even though Sean
Connery sports a beard, a receding hair-
line and more wrinkles than an unironed
shirt, he still remains the object of many
father-figure fantasies. In fact, Connery
has become more distinguished with
maturity. The age gap between the
leads might appear unrealistic and
unsettling - well, he is old enough to be
her grandfather - but the sizzling on
screen chemistry is undeniable. The sex-
ual tension is handled with more class
and subtlety than your average Holly-
wood blockbuster (more From Here to
Eternity than Basic Instinct), as the cou-
ple engages in an 'electric pas de deux
of wariness and attraction'.
This film obviously managed to
spend even/ penny of its travel kitty.
The exotic locations include the New
York skyline, the Scottish Highlands and
the wonderous grey cityscape of Lon-
don. The Petronas Towers in downtown
Kuala Lumpur also form the backdrop to
one of the best heart-in-the-throat action
sequences since Mission: Impossible's
Channel Tunnel scene. Several hundred
feet up and dangling precariously from
a string of light bulbs, Connery and Zeta-
Jones are guaranteed to induce vertigo
in even the most height-hardened of
climbers.
Millennium mania has even infected
this film, with a high-tech heist set on
midnight of New Year's Eve 2000 - very
topical, indeed. The casting of Sean
Connery as a Scot was an inspired stroke
of genius, considering his immutable
trademark accent. Sadly, however, Zeta-
Jones' americanised twang is cringe-
worthy, in the league of Dick Van Dyke's
cockney impersonation in Mary Pop-
pins.
Dodgy accents aside. Entrapment is
a thoroughly enjoyable thriller, riddled
with twists and turns - a veritable cat and
mouse game of trust and deception.il
Helena & Gary
Analyse This * * * *
Starring : Robert De Niro, Billy Crystal, Lisa Kudrow
Director: Harold Ramis
Billy Crystal seems to have stolen Joe Pescl's rightful place. Brave man.
R
obert De Niro's status as a screen
Icon is long since assured - there
must be countless student
households adorned with the ironical-
ly grinning image of Travis Bickle
enquiring if we are, rather unwisely,
looking at him. However, it seems that
the fire in the belly of the youthful De
Niro responsible for his intense screen
presence has dwindled to barely a
smoulder, as he seems content to
phone in performances in pretty unde-
manding roles and scarper with a fat
cheque. Why else did he bother with
Wag the Dog or Ronlnl Bobby fans will
rejoice, then, when Analyze This reach-
es our screens in late August, featuring
the man in top form if in a slightly
unexpected role.
Though his best known perfor-
mances should be filed under painstak-
ing method realism, he has occasionally
strayed into the realm of comedy,
notably with the hilarious Midnight Run.
His latest film finds him aiming for
laughs once again, though trading heav-
ily on his image as everyone's favourite
mafia hard man. He plays Paul Vitti,
head of a New York crime family and a
man used to inspiring fear in his friends
and enemies alike. Not really a nervous
introspective candidiate for psycho-
analysis, but when the pressure of out-
manoevering his rival mobsters begins
to cause anxiety attacks, he is forced to
seek the help of a psychiatrist. The reluc-
tant shrink, Dr Ben Sobel (played by an
in form Billy Crystal) rapidly has to get
used to his new patient's habit of turn-
ing up with a bodyguard and a gun
rather than an appointment, and very
soon his private life is affected. His
fiancee (Lisa Kudrow with a perfomance
which could probably have been cob-
bled together from a selection of
Friends epsiodes) certainly isn't too keen
on Ben consorting with members of
the criminal underworld.
The on screen pairing of De Niro
and Crystal is a huge success, both
expertly handling the o n e liners along
with the development of their unusual
doctor/patient relationship. Though the
plot looks a little flimsy at times, the
jokes are the sort which make you laugh
out loud, and isn't that the most effec-
tive form of therapy? Q
Simon

