23 June 1999
Reviews
Film 25
Place Vendome * *
Starring : Catherine Deneuve, Emmanuelle Seigner, Jacques Dutronc
Director: Nicole Garcia
A
sad shadow of a woman drown-
ing in the throes of desperate
alcoholism? Nope, not Jennifer
Lopez after tragically failing to break into
FHM's Top 10 Sexiest Women. Nope,
not Radio 2's Sarah Kennedy either.
Well, who then? Marianne Malivert,
that's who. Place Vendome pivots
around the character portrayed by
Catherine Deneuve, best known for her
part as a young siren in the late sixties
film Belle} Du Jour. Sparked back into
reality byher husband's death, she goes
against the wishes of her relatives and
takes up the reigns of the jewellry trade.
What we have here is essentially a
one woman show. Other characters are
merely tools to bring out more depth in
the interpretation of Marianne. The
young, beautiful and talented jeweller,
Nathalie, employed by her husband, is an
echo of her own youth. The mysterious
Jean-Pierre, who seems to keep crop-
ping up whenever she's on business,
highlights both her insecurity and her
determination. In fact, she doggedly
refuses to take the advice of any of her
old friends, leading her into a world pop-
ulated by the Russian mafia and a former
Not bad for a 56 year-old.
lover who betrayed her love for him in
the now distant past.
Despite a synopsis that sounds
intriguing and dark, the film never really
grabs and keeps your attention. Don't
get me wrong. Deneuve is superb and
highly believable as the heroine of this
story. It's just that no sympathy is really
generated for the character. At the end,
I didn't care whether she came out on
top or not. The whole film seemed to
lack any pace. Perhaps the French like to
linger over near-silent scenes for minutes
on end before ending it with a pseudo-
cryptic line. However, this approach does
not lift up my skirt. It stifles the atmos-
phere. It clogs up the story-telling arter-
ies. It leaves me frustrated and ultimately
unsympathetic towards the lead charac-
ter. Vendome is an Intense and complex
film, but it lacks the punch that could turn
it into a top notch suspense thriller. Chan-
nel Five beckons. Q
Dennis
Croupier * • *
Starring : Clive Owen, Kate Hardie, Alex Kingston, Gina McKee
Director: Mike Hodges
I
n attempting to recapture the mas-
tery of the stylised slow-burning
thriller which made him famous,
Mike Hodges has produced a sadly hit-
and-miss movie. Whilst Croupier has
occasional moments of charm, it's
embedded within a distinctly ethereal
atmosphere which certainly won't cor-
respond to any London you're familiar
with.
The problem, I suppose, is that
Hodges wants to recapture his o w n
heyday, which came in the form of
1971s Get Carter (although s o m e
would undoubtedly argue in favour of
kitsch classic Flash Cordon) - and that
kind of movie simply doesn't work in a
modern day setting. Consequently, he
tries to manufacture a stylised vision of
London by basing the action around a
casino, where struggling writer Owen
finds a job. Irritatingly moralistic, he
refuses to gamble himself, however,
and instead gets his thrills by jumping
into bed with every woman he meets,
The atmosphere became tense at the World Snap Championships.
before getting involved with some local
gangsters who want to rob his place of
work. However, whilst the scenes based
around the casino are tensely observed,
the sexual encounters are unconvincing
and the local gangsters are simply
hammy. Worst of all, however, Is
Owen's internal monologue - it's obvi-
ous why he remains a struggling writer
if his cliche-ridden thoughts are any-
thing to go by. Q
Dave
PDATE
The Mask of
zorro
The late nineties may not have pro-
duced many great movies, but they can
at least take a little credit for opening out
the action genre to more than just the
guns 'n' ammo brigade. Integral to this
change are movies like The Mask of
Zorro, which ditches big explosions and
high-tech wizardry in favour of style and
entertainment. Antonio Banderas is the
young pretender to the black hat and
mask, whilst Anthony Hopkins is the
original Zorro, charged with teaching
his young protege the art of swordplay
and the triple-swoosh trademark. Add
Catherine Zeta-Jones and Ooldeneye
director Martin Campbell into the mix
and you're left with near perfect enter-
tainment. Brilliant.
PI
Bleak, dark and almost irritatingly gothic,
PI is a strong contender for one of the
year's weirdest movies to date, com-
plete with de rigeur nightmarish, ultra-
paranoid visions of a technocrat's world
gone mad. The intricate black-and-white
photography is effective, and the end
result chillingly clever, but it's still a little
short on ideas, meaning that writer/
director Darren Aronovsky is clearly at full
stretch to fill the minimal eighty minute
running time. Nonetheless, considering
this is his debut feature, it's still damn
impressive stuff - and it's a shame that
you know that he'll never make it into
the big-time if he continues to make
movies like this.
Hope Floats
Sandra Bullock should definitely employ
someone else to pick her movies for
her. OK, so if you view acting as a job
then I guess you should simply take
whatever parts you're offered, but even
so you have to draw the line some-
where - and clearly M s Bullock draws
hers far too close to the bottom of the
barrel. Hope Floats is a fine example of
such random choices; attempting to
feed her core audience, she picks a
slushy, low-concept rom-com, co-staring
Harry Connick Jr. Consequently, we're
left with yet another movie which isn't
so much bad as depressing. For hard-
core fans only.
Dave

