26 Summer Movie Preview 23 June 1999 23 June 1999 Summer Movie Preview 27
S T A R W A R S E P I S O D E 1:T H E P H A N T O M
THE ULTIMATE PREUEW
FMAftF
l i t
mm
OBI WAN-KENOBI Ewan McGregor
Hollywood's favourite Scotsman dons posh accent and silly
ponytail to play Anakin's mentor. The real hero of the piece,
he is a strict follower of the Jedi Council, and spends most of
his time fighting off the bad guys with his trusty blue lightsabre.
QUI-JON G I N N Liam Neeson
Taking on the Jedi master role portrayed by Alec Guinness in
the original, Liam Neeson gets to dole out sage wisdom and
sabre thrusts in equal measure. As a senior jedi, it's obviously
his duty to offer protection to Queen Padme in her hour of need.
ANAKIN SKYWALKER Jake Lloyd
Essentially taking the saga back a generation, Jake Lloyd's part
is basically a younger version of Luke in A New Hope. Having
been rescued from obscurity on desert planet Tatooine his big
moment comes in the teputedly stunning Pod Racer sequences.
Q U E E N PADME Natalie Portman
The futute mother to both Luke and Leia, Padme is the elected
Queen of the Noboo, who faces opposition in the form of the
evil Trade Federation. Theit attempts to kidnap her in order to
force her to sign a crippling treaty must be foiled at any cost.
DARTH M A U L Ray Park
One of George Lucas' real talents has always been the creation
of genuinely scary villains, and Darth Maul looks to be no excep-
tion. Armed with double-ended lightsabre and assisted by fel-
low Dark Lord Darth Sidious, he's intent on wiping out the Jedi.
Y O D A Frank Oz
Owner of everyone's favourite Star Wars catchphrases, Yoda rep-
resents pretty much everything that's good in the Universe. A
senior member of the Jedi Council (exile on Dagoba presumably
arrives at a later date) he's long on wisdom and short on stature.
JAR JAR BINKS Ahmed Best
Pushing out the envelope of effects technology has resulted in
the inclusion of Jar Jar, a completely computer generated char-
acter. Purveyor of most of The Phantom Menace's humour, he
traipses around the galaxy as Qul-Jon's Chewbacca-esque sidekick.
SENATOR PALPATINE Ian McDiarmid
Reprising his role from the original movies, McDiarmid's Pal-
patine will eventually become the ultra-evil Emperor. Although
he's destined to rule the Galaxy, at present he's an out-
standing senator from the peaceful, neutral, planet of Naboo.
M A C E W I N D U Samuel L Jackson
Alongside Yoda, Windu is one of the most respected mem-
bers of the Jedi Council. Giving Jackson an opportunity to ful-
fil a life-long dream, the role of Wlndu is really only a cameo,
appearing briefly in sage discussion with the small green one.
mm*
m
F
inally, the most over-hyped movie of all time is
about to arrive on these shores. By that I don't mean
to say it's no good - like most of the rest of you I
haven't seen The Phantom Menace yet, (although
considering the number of bootleg copies around,
avoiding it is becoming problematic) -1 simply mean that
it's just not possible for any movie to live up to that kind
of expectation.
Viewed with the benefit of hindsight, 77fan/"c went
down a storm largely due to the fact that everyone
expected it to be truly awful, and thus when it finally
arrived it seemed like a classic - The Phantom Menace
faces the same effect in reverse. Our combined
expectations are already so vast that (try as hard as we
might) we're almost certain to find it something of a
disappointment. Similarly, nothing but the best will be
seen as good enough by the movie's backers Twentieth
Century Fox. Consequently, despite breaking all kinds of
box office records and grossing over $300 million within a
month in the US, it's still being viewed as a iet-down by
execs frustrated that their confident assurances that It
would easily outstrip Titanic in the all-time box-office
charts might not be borne out in reality.
So does that make it a bad movie? No, of course not.
George Lucas is a master of the grown-up kiddies movie
(at the end of the day, Star Wars, The Empire Strikes Back
and Return of the Jedi are really little more than family-
orientated, U certificate fun) and I'll be amazed if Episode
One isn't incredibly enjoyable. The point is that none of
the previous movies were anything mote than that, so if
you book your ticket in the expectation of seeing
something that will change your life you're almost certain
to be sorely disappointed.
Anyway, enough with the doom and gloom - what's
it going to be like? Well, If the trailers and pre-publicity are
anything to go by, The Phantom Menace will be top
entertainment on a broad sweeping scale, complete with
mesmerising pod races (skimming across the barren
landscape of Tatooine), underwater cities, robotic
soldiers, lightsabre duels and the mandatory attack on a
space station. Plus a cast who, unlike those who graced
the first three movies, are act jally familiar with the art of
acting. 1
In reality, the only danger would seem to be that it's
far more effects driven than the previous movies. Sure,
Star Wars owed much of its success to some stunning
effects, which were so far ahead of their time that they
still look damned impressive today, yet the effects helped
the story to stick to its epic flow (Lucas' opus is frequently
compared to classic westerns in terms of both its scope
and style), rather than acting as the centre of attention.
This time around, however, the effects would seem to be
at the core of the movie - indeed Lucas frequently claims
that the cause of the sixteen year delay between Return
of the Jedi and Episode One was simply the need for
effects technology to advance to a level where he could
fully realise his vision.
Consequently, we're faced with the first completely
computer generated character to appear in a live-action
movie (in the shape of the much-maligned Jar Jar Binks),
an entire army of CGI invaders (the cartoon-y battle
droids), and wall-to-wall blue-screened backdrops.
Indeed, such was the scope of the technological wizardry
at play on the set of The Phantom Menace that when
Natalie Portman sprained her ankle during shooting, the
CG animators managed to show her walking normally.
More to the point, rumour has it that the next installment
(due to go into pre-production in Australia sometime
soon) will be so dependant on digital effects that there
won't be any 'real' sets at all. And whilst all that might
sound like a movie packed full of the amazing visuals that
we're all hoping for, the danger is that the effects act as a
distraction from the plot which they bind together - or,
worse still, that Lucas simply replaces genuine depth and
characterisation with the might of Industrial Light and
Magic.
Ultimately, however, the power and mysticism that
the Star Wars movies hold In our collective conscience
will make The Phantom Menace into this summer's most
memorable movie, no matter what the finished product's
really like. And, at the end of the day, with some of the
world's finest talent, $125 million and sixteen years
behind it, do you really believe it's possible for Star Wars:
Episode One to be anything less than stunning?
T H
l M l — I
Episode
Star Wars
The Phantom Menace
A long time ago
in a galaxy far, far away . . .
Turmoil has engulfed the Galactic
Republic. The taxation of trade routes
to outlying star systems is in dispute.
Hoping to tesolve the matter with
a blockade of deadly battleships,
the greedy Trade Federation has
stopped all shipping to the small
planet of Naboo . . .
With imminent conflict brewing between the powerful Trade
Federation and the peaceful planet of Naboo, Qui-Gon Jinn
and his apprentice Obi-Wan Kenobi travel to the sparsely pop-
ulated planet to warn the Queen of the danger that faces her,
and of the galactic fallout which is to follow. Joining them on
their journey is Qui-Jon's co-pilot, the floppy-eared outcast Jar
Jar Binks, and the powerful Captain Panaka.
Once on Naboo, the Jedi must convince young Padme
of her impending fate, and convince the planet's other inhab-
itants - the amphibious Gunguns, who live deep beneath the
oceans and are lead by the formidable Boss Nass (voiced by
the forever-shouting Brian Blessed) - to come to their aid.
Their mission fails, however, and Naboo is invaded by
hordes of battle droids, forcing the Jedis to evacuate the
planet with the Q u e e n and her court. Battling their way
through the Trade Federation blockade, they travel to the
lonely desert planet of Tatooine where they meet a young boy
called Anakin Skywalker who is evidently as one with the Force.
Anakin and his mother are slaves, owned by short-tempered
junk-dealer Watto whose principle trade is selling droids and
spares to the teams competing in the (highly dangerous) local
pod races which take place in Tatooine's least desirable res-
idence, Mos Espa. The two Jedi enlist his help in fighting the
war, with Obi Wan believing him to be "the one" spoken of
in legend who will "bring balance to the force".
With their quest now agreed, the group heads to Corus-
cant - centre of the known Universe and home to both the
Jedi Council and Galactic Senate - where young Anakin is intro-
duced to Yoda and Mace Windu. It's here that we'll also find
the revered Senator Palpatine, who represents the sector that
includes Naboo and will later become the evil Emperor.
Ultimately, the Jedis will be called upon to confront the
Dark Lords behind the invasion, controlled by the sinister, dou-
ble-ended light sabre wielding, Darth Maul. Meanwhile, his
master Darth Sidious, the last of the Sith, continues to lead
the invasion whilst unseen by any of the principle characters
- and thus it is he who represents the true Phantom Menace.

