28 Summer Movie Preview 23 June 1999
Despite the warnings of studios fleeing
in the wake of The Phantom Menace,
there's still a decent raft of movies com-
ing our way in July, with big budget
hits like Austin Powers: The Spy Who
Shagged Me, The Mummy and Entrap-
ment (page 24) just the tip of the Ice-
berg... Wing Commander is the
big-screen version of the computer
game of the same name, starring Fred-
die Prinze Jr and Matthew Lillard - like all
game conversions, it's probably pretty
awful...not as bad, however, as Rogue
Trader, the dramatisation of Nick Lee-
son's fifteen minutes of fame, which
finally arrives two years late, due to the
packed schedule of workaholic star
Ewan McGregor...on a grander scale.
The Thirteenth Warrior is the latest
Michael Crichton adaptation to make it
to the multiplexes, which features Anto-
nio Banderas and a bunch of Vikings
attempting to defeat the flesh-eating
'monster of the mists'...on a lighter note,
10 Things I Hate About You is yet
another high school set romantic com-
edy, staring the regulation set of incred-
ibly good-looking hot young things in a
movie that's billed, bizarrely, as an adap-
tation of Shakespere's The Taming of
the Shrew..from similar territory comes
Varsity Blues, starring James Van Der
Beck (familiar to all Dawson's Creek
fans) and Jon Voight - this time it's Col-
lege Football providing the inspira-
tion...the month's least family orientated
movie comes in the star-studded form
of Ravenous, where Guy Pearce tries to
avoid becoming Robert Carlyle's dinner
when he's posted to an isolated fort in
the blizzard battered old-west...a more
traditional western comes in the form of
The High-Lo Country, with an eclectic
cast which includes Woody Harleson,
Patricia Arquete and Billy Crudup...the
only movie to go up against Sfar Wars
on the 16th is 7he Polish Bride, the story
of a woman who escapes her enforced
work in a brothel, only to find her past
won't leave her alone...The Match
comes straight from traditional Brit-flick
country, with a novelty cast that Includes
Ian Holm, Tom Sizemore, Neil Morrissey
and Richard E Grant as the members of
two pub soccer teams playing to settle
a century-old grudge...much weirdness
can be expected of Last Night, which
sees a group of people with very dif-
ferent ideas of how to face the end of
the world come together with only six
hours until the world is expected to
end...finally, Le Diner de Cons is this
month's token foreign language film,
which (in typically off-beat French style),
revolves around a weekly meal at which
all the guests have to bring an 'idiot'
with them - whoever brings the 'idiot of
the evening' wins...
THE SPY WHO SHAGGED ME
RELEASE DATE : July 30
S
T
A
R
S : Mike Myers, Heather Graham,
Robert Wagner, Rob Lowe
DIRECTOR: M Jay Roach
F
or any fan of Austin Powers, the
news that Mike Myers' big-
toothed hero is back comes as a
God-send - particularly as, this time
around, producers N e w Line have
given Myers free reign (and a hefty
budget) to exercise his warped view of
sixties London.
With Liz Hurley choosing not to
return, kooky Boogie Nights star Heather
Graham takes up sidekick duties as the
subtly named Felicity Shagwell. Mean-
while, Myers himself pops up in four dif-
ferent roles - as Powers, his arch-nemesis
Dr Evil, a sttange 60's guru and as a
henchman going by the name Fat Bas-
tard. As Tony the Tiget would say,
Grrrrrrrrreat.
As far as plot is concerned, it's time-
travel time once again, with Powers
forced to return to the sixties to recap-
ture his mojo (which Dr Evil has stolen
in an effort to incapacitate the testos-
terone driven crime-fighter). Joining
him on this quest are a variety of biz-
zarely named characters: Ivana
Humpalot (Third Rock From The Sun's
Kristen Johnston), Mini-me (a three foot
tall version of Dr Evil) and Robin Swal-
lows (played by Gia Carrides). Plus
Robert Wagner (Number 2), Mindy Ster-
ling (Frau Farbissina), Seth Green (Dr
Evil's troubled son Scott) and Cindy
Margolis (one of the incredibly un-PC
Fembots) all return from the first movie.
Anyhow, all that really matters is
that the enforced return to the sixties
will provide no-end of excuses for out-
rageous costumes, randomly placed
dance-routines and, of course, much
hilarity. Indeed, despite the general
track-record of comedy sequels being
less than enviable, the word from the
States would seem to be that Austin
Powers 2 is just as funny as the original,
making The Spy Who Shagged Me a
definite must-see.
THE MUMMY
RELEASE DATE : June 25
S
T
A
R
S : Brendan Fraser, Rachael Weisz,
John Hannah
DIRECTOR: Stephen Sommers
t wouldn't be summer without a
handful of movies based around
some nifty effects and pretty much
nothing else - think Twister or Lost In
Space - and this year that grand tradi-
tion is kept alive by The Mummy.
Owing a not inconsiderable debt to
the Indiana Jones trilogy. The Mummy
follows ex-Foreign Legionary Brendan
Fraser and brother-and-sister treasure
hunting team Weisz and Hannah as
they trek across twenties North Africa.
Their goal is to rediscover The Hidden
City of Hamunaptra (which Fraser first
stumbled on several years earlier), and
hot on their trail are a group of
unscrupulous Americans, intent on
securing the City's treasures for them-
selves. But - surprise, surprise - the City
is cursed (are all lost cities cursed or
something?) This time around, high
priest Imhotep has been hanging
around for 3000 years, having been
mummified alive for getting a little too
friendly with Mrs Pharaoh - and, under-
standably, he's a little miffed.
So, the tomb is opened, a n d
Imhotep unleashes all the powet at the
effects crew's command - man eating
scatabs, a massive sandstorm, and, of
course, the CGI mummy itself. How-
ever, despite even the best efforts of
Industrial Light & Magic it's still going to
be a very hollow story. There's no
romance (an integral part of any Indiana
Jones caper) and all three stars (partic-
ularly the usually reliable Hannah) are
apparently sorely underused. Ultimately,
however, the greatest failing is to deliver
a grandiose big-budget period tale, shot
in a variety of beautiful locations, that's
totally devoid of atmosphere. Nonethe-
less, if zillion dollar action is your thing,
or if you're looking for an easy means
of escape from rainy-day London, then
check-in with the first of this year's sum-
mer hits to makes its way across from
the US.

