23 June 1999 Summer Movie Preview 29
THE WILD WILD WEST August
RELEASE DATE : August 13
STARS : Will Smith, Kevin Kline,
Kenneth Brannagh, Salma Hayek
DIRECTOR: Barry Sonnenfeld
R
apidly becoming something of an
institution, the Will Smith summer
event movie is one of those rare
things in Hollywood - a movie that can't
fail. His massive following around the
world, coupled with wall-to-wall charis-
ma and screen-filling presence mean
that even a complete dog of a script is
guaranteed to turn a tidy profit.
Consequently, despite some bad word-
of-mouth drifting across from he States,
it'll still be a major surprise if this does-
n't turn out to be an entertaining
action-driven smash hit.
Based around yet another long for-
gotten cult sixties TV show. The Wild Wild
West is based around the adventures of
two top-secret government agents - wise-
cracking ladies man Smith (as the epony-
mous James T West) and his
gadget-laden sidekick Kline - assigned to
protect President Ulysses S Grant from
nutty British cyborg inventor Dr Arliss
Loveless (Kenneth Brannagh in gloriously
over-the-top form). Oh, and Salma Hayek
is on hand as love interest Rita Escobar.
Whilst this may all sound like fairly stan-
dard Western-fare, it's far from it. You see,
the original series owed much to Jules
Verne style contraptions, so Loveless'
plan is to stomp on the President with a
giant steam-powered mechanical taran-
tula - and the end product is described
by Warner Bros as a comedy sci-fi west-
ern. Make of that what you will.
However, as it's directed by Men In
Black helmer Barry Sonnenfeld it's likely
to play on comedy first and foremost -
and should thus come as something of
an antidote to this summer's more seri-
ous effects based offerings. With a mas-
sive budget in place (rumours circulate
of figures between $150 and $200 mil-
lion) and featuring an array of top stars
including Smith, Kline and Brannagh on
hand, you wonder how it can possibly go
wrong.
THE THOMAS CROWN AFFAIR
RELEASE DATE : August 20
STARS : Pierce Brosnan, Rene Russo,
Denis Leary
DIRECTOR: John McTiernan
P
ierce Brosnan continues his
attempts to escape from Bond
typecasting (a feat only previously
achieved by Sean Connery) with this re-
make of Steve McQueen's 1968 caper
movie.
Brosnan easily steps into the roll of
dapper wealthy playboy Thomas Crown,
who decides to steal an incredibly valu-
able Monet oil painting to enliven his pre-
dictable billionaire lifestyle. Lethal
Weapon's Rene Russo is the insurance
agent sent to investigate (a role played
by Faye Dunnaway in the original) who,
predictably, falls in love with Brosnan.
Denis Leary is also on hand as a New
York cop, whilst Jon McTiernan (of Die
Hard and Predator fame) settles Into the
director's chair.
Movies like this rely almost entirely
on a balance between top-notch action
and chemistry - and The Thomas Crown
Affair looks to have oodles of both. Early
footage suggests big-budget high-tech
action, filled with the kind of gadgets and
gizmos you'd expect a billionaire thief to
have at his disposal. Moreover, with •
McTiernan calling the shots there should
be no danger of the action falling flat.
The only problem could be that he's
hardly known for his dazzling ability with
romance - however, the reportedly
sparkling on-screen chemistry between
the two leads should make up for any
problems on that front.
Consequently, the only big stum-
bling block that would seem to face
Thomas Crown are it's similarities with
Entrapment (Sean Connery is the gen-
tleman thief, Catherine Zeta-Jones is the
beautiful agent on his trail). Although it's
possible that the public may not be
enthusiastic about two Raffles-esque
movies in the same year, similar sug-
gestions were made about Deep
Impact/Armageddon and Antz/A Bugs
Life last year - and all of them went on
to rake in massive box office...
As ever, August is packed full of this
year's big-budget outings and no-brainer
star vehicles, with The Wild Wild West
and The Thomas Crown Affair two of the
biggest - but not necessarily the
best...sadly for all the Claire Danes fans
out there, seventies throwback The Mod
Squad is, by all accounts, truly awful,
despite a good-looking and talented
cast and wall-to-wall style...on the other
hand, Eddie Murphy vehicle Life has
gone down a storm in the States with its
depiction of Murphy and co-star Martin
Lawrence as wrongfully convicted felons
laughing their way through a sixty year
sentence...more promising is Pushing
Tin which charts the battle between
rivals John Cusakand Biily Bob Thornton
to prove that they are the best air traf-
fic controller in the west - Cate Blanchett
and Angela jolie co-star...Hugh Grant is
troubled to discover that his father-in-law
(James Caan) is the Godfather in com-
edy-thriller Mickey Blue Eyes, the latest
movie to come from the Grant/Hurley
production company Simian Films...this
summer's token low budget Jennifer
Aniston rom-com comes in the form of
Office Space, in which the Friends star
teams up with her work mates to
trounce their greedy boss...massive box-
office receipts are, sadly, guaranteed
for South Park: Bigger, Longer & Uncut,
thanks to the massive following behind
the adventures of the 2-D foursome -
plot details are at present sketchy...the
heist-gone-wrong premise re-emerges
via Brit-flick You're Dead, which stars
John Hurt and Rhys Ifans in a movie
simply described as 'Pulp Fiction meets
Monty Python'...Hurt also stars in All The
Little Animals, as a badger rescuer who
takes up with retarded man Christian
Bale, who has recently escaped an abu-
sive, hateful stepfather who has killed his
pets one by one...little explanation is
required for Muppets From Outer Space.
which sees Ray Liotta, Andie MacDow-
ell. Gates McFadden and David Arquette
attempt to help Gonzo to find his right-
ful place in the Universe.. Dudley Do-
Right stars Brendan Fraser and Sarah
Jessica Parke and thus, on principle,
can't be bad, despite the fact that it's a
live action version of a cartoon about a
Canadian Mountie...Drop Dead Gor-
geousis a movie about beauty pageants
starring Denise Richards - quite frankly,
those few words alone should be
enough to guarantee a profit...bizzarest
concept of the month goes to Being
John Malkovltch, in which a puppeteer
(John Cusack) discovers a door in his
office that allows him to enter the mind
of John Malkovich (played, unsurpris-
ingly, byjohn Malkovitch) for 15 minutes
- which he then attempts to turn into a
small business...

