30 Summer Movie Preview 23 June 1999
EYESWIDE SHUT
September sees cinema output take a
more serious turn, with Eyes Wide Shut
and Ed TV the month's headline
acts...meanwhile John Travolta returns
with The General's Daughter, wherein he
attempts to lift the lid off the corrupt ele-
ments of the US military (A Tew Good
Men, anyone?) via a script from uber-
scribe William Goldman... The Astronaut's
Wife blends sci-fi, horror and a good-
looking cast, with Jonny Depp as the
recently returned spaceman who's
started acting weird and CharlizeTheron
as his paranoid and pregnant wife...the
latest Shakespeare adaptation to wing its
way to our screens is deficient in one
vital respect - Kenneth Brannagh is no-
where to be seen - instead A Midsum-
mer Night's Dream stars Michelle
Pfeiffer, Kevin Kline and Calista Flock-
hart.. The Haunting kicks Hollywood back
into genuine blockbuster territory, with
Liam Neeson and Catherine Zeta-Jones
attempting to breath some fresh life
into old-style things-that-go-bump-in-the-
night horror...meanwhile Lake Placid
prefers to opt for the Kevin Williamson
school of horror, with Bill Pullman, Brid-
get Fonda and Oliver Piatt running away
from a 35 foot alligator in distinctly
tongue-in-cheek style...Anthony Hopkins
moves back into nutty psycho genius ter-
ritory with Instinct, with Cuba Goodingjr
playing the shrink who attempts to
fathom the reasoning behind his brutal
crimes...on a lighter note, it's back to
teen comedy for Drew Barrymore's lat-
est vehicle Never Been Kissed, with the
£7star playing a journalist forced to go
undercover at a high school to research
a feature...of similar bent is Gregory's2
Girls, which picks up John Gordon Sin-
clair's eponymous English teacher eigh-
teen years on from the original, now
caught in a love triangle between one
of his 16 year-old pupils and another
member of staff...Bill Murray's on career
defining form in offbeat rom-com Rush-
more, collecting critical acclaim and a
Golden Globe nomination for his por-
trayal of a lovesick steel tycoon caught-
up in a complex love-triangle...Go is
Doug Liman's follow-up to Swingers
which follows a disparate group of twen-
tysomethings attempting to pull off a
heist - it's attracted comparisons with
Pulp Tiction, so watch out...with a cast-
list headed by top pairing Kate Beckins-
dale and Claire Danes, Brokedown
Palace promises a big-budget look at
the tribulations faced by a pair of holi-
daymakers thrown into a Thai prison for
drugs trafficking...three film students
travel to Maryland to make a student film
about urban legend the Blair Witch, and
are never seen again - a year later their
footage shows up, and is compiled to
form The Blair Witch Project...
RELEASE DATE : September 17
STARS : Tom Cruise, Nicole Kidman,
Alan Cumming, Sydney Pollack
DIRECTOR: Stanley Kubrick
S
tanley Kubrick's long delayed
return to the ditectot's chair
would read like a movie script in
itself If it wasn't for the tragic ending -
he died just five days after handing
over the completed movie. The roller-
coaster eighteen month shoot (the
longest on record by far) has now
become the stuff of legend - Harvey
Keitel and Jennifer Jason Leigh were
dropped along the way, whilst conserv-
ative estimates suggest that star Cruise
has lost in excess of $100 million thanks
to his decision to sign up fot the movie.
More to the point, two years after pro-
duction started, virtually no-one on the
planet actually knows what Eyes Wide
Shut is actually about.
Shrouded in secrecy, all that's
known at present is that Cruise and Kid-
man star as two married psychiatrists
who are cheating on each other with
their patients, leading to their lives
becoming intwined with some of the
shadier parts of the 70s New York under-
world. Probably. It's also believed to be
shockingly erotic - we're talking censor-
troubling degrees of realism - touching
on S&M, masturbation and Tom Cruise
cross-dressing along the way. The trailer
- which consists of Hollywood's most
successful couple making out naked in
front of a mirror - certainly suggests that
the movie to come will be of a fairly
'adult' nature.
Quite how audiences will react is
uncertain, but coupling the world's
biggest star with one of the greatest
directors of all time (witness Full Metal
Jacket, The Shining and 2007 if you dis-
agree) surely represents a thoroughly
bankable movie? If nothing else, the
prospect of Cruise and Kidman getting
hot and steamy should draw in a fairly
hefty crowd, even if the movie itself
turns out to be another A Clockwork
Orange.
ED TV
RELEASE DATE: September 10
STARS: Matthew McConaughey, Woody
Harrelson, Ellen DeGenres
DIRECTOR: Ron Howard
M
atthew McConaughey is Ed,
the boy-next-door type cho-
sen to star in a round-the-
clock docu-soap designed to boost a US
TV station's flagging ratings. At first he
(naturally) finds the chance to broad-
cast his every whim live to the entire
nation utterly amazing, but soon he
finds his entire life is trapped inside the
show. Sound vaguely familiar?
Well, if you think it sounds not
entirely unlike The Truman Show, then
you're not alone. The US audiences
clearly thought so, and stayed away
from the movie in their droves, despite
the combination of an amazingly tal-
ented cast (Harleson is Ed's best mate,
DeGenres the despetate TV exec in
charge of the project, and Martin Lan-
dau, Liz Hurley and Rob Reiner all
appear in supporting roles) and a big-
name director {Apollo 13, Far and Away,
Ransom, Parenthood, Cocoon).
O n this side of the Atlantic, with
both Truman and Pleasantville little
more than dim and distant memories,
it definitely looks like it'll be worth a
look, with the trailer suggesting a much
darker tone than last year's Jim Carrey
starrer. You see, with his relationships
broadcast across the nation, 24 hours a
day, he starts to learn about the evils of
TV - his friends desert him when pub-
lishers offer big bucks to dish the dirt,
and random assorted bimbos congre-
gate around him in search of their fif-
teen minutes of fame. Understandably,
Ed, his parents and his girlfriend are far
from happy, and he begins to plot his
revenge. Nonetheless, this being a Ron
Howard film there's bound to be a
happy ending at the end of it all, and
plenty of decent gags along the way.
Of course, there's always another
possible reason for the appaling box-
office in the States - would you fork out
$10 to see a movie with a Bon jovl title
track?

