23 June 1999 S u m m e r M o v i e Preview 31
THE TALENTED MR RIPLEY Oct**,
RELEASE DATE : Mid October
STARS : Matt Damon, Gwyneth Paltrow,
Jude Law, Cate Blanchett
DIRECTOR: Anthony Minghella
B
ring together Matt Damon and
Gwyneth Paltrow. Add the direc-
tor of The English Patient and stir
in some beautiful Italian scenery. What
do you have? A surefire winner, that's
what.
Based on a Patricia Highsmith novel
(which was also the inspiration for the
1960 French classic Plein Solell), The Tal-
ented Mr Ripley sees Damon extending
his range as a sociopath sent to turn-of-
the-century Italy to entice a wealthy
young playboy (Jude Law, last seen in
eXistenZ) to return to his family in the
US. However, his desire to be like the
man he's sent to 'rescue' leads to mur-
der. Damon then assumes the identity
of his dead friend, and attempts to live
his life and win over Paltrow.
Despite the amazing cast (which
also includes Oscar nominee Cate
Blanchett and This Life's Jack Davenport)
and multi-award winning director, it's
worth noting that adaptations of good
french movies have a tendency to
RELEASE DATE : October 22
STARS : Samuel L Jackson, Saffron
Burrows, LL Cool J
DIRECTOR: Renny Harlin
D
on't be fooled by anyone w h o
tries to tell you otherwise - Deep
Blue Sea definitely is another
Jaws movie. OK, so this time the sea
monsters in question aren't made out
of plywood and cardboard, but it's bla-
tantly a Speilberg rip-off nonetheless.
This time around, however, the
sharks aren't just big and toothy. O h no
- they're clever too. You see Samuel L
Jackson has apparently invested $200
million into a special project to fight
brain cancer, and medical biologist Saf-
fron Burrows uses this cash to genetically
modify shark's brains to produce cancer
killing enzymes, which can then be har-
vested. With me so far. Obviously, it all
goes pear-shaped (like all the best genet-
ics research) and the killer fish become
intelligent and decide to leg it before
their brains get diced...
Silly it may well sound, but director
Harlin's fairly adept at dealing with such
hokum nonsense (see Die Hard 2 and
The Long Kiss Goodnight for prime exam-
ples). However, he's also no stranger to
become appalingly bad once Hollywood
gets its hands on them (Les Diaboliques
and Nikita spring to mind). Damon's
fanbase aren't going to be too happy
about their hero playing an evil psycho
either.
Nonetheless, Minghella's back on
familiar territory - big budget, beauti-
fully shot, densely plotted romantic
thriller - so expect an end product not
unlike The English Patient. The socio-
turkey city (Cliffhanger was bad, Cut-
throat Island was painful) so it's difficult
to know what to expect. Nonetheless a
stellar cast that includes Stellan Skars-
gard, Jacqueline Mckenzie and, er, LL
Cool J trapped alongside Jackson and
Burrows in a rapidly flooding underwater
lab should provide enough impetus to
overcome any directorial madness.
Ultimately, however, movies like this
live and die by their effects - and it's here
pathic subtext should help to keep the
pace up too, so hopefully there isn't
any danger of Minghella drifting into
the slow-moving, overly long format
which was the only flaw in his previous
film.
Bring all these pieces together and
you're left with a movie which looks like
a sure-fire favourite for at least a few
Oscar noms, making The Talented Mr
Ripleyone of this Autumn's big movies.
that Deep Blue Sea comes into its own.
The implausibly large budget has allowed
Harlin to hire the same giant Mexican
water tankjim Cameron used for Titanic,
and the shark attacks themselves (which
merge real-life Great Whites, CGI trickery
and state-of-the-art mechanised mon-
sters) are reported to be seriously scary.
A difficult one to call, Deep Blue Sea
could either be great fun, or simply too
eighties for its own good.
Moving into the colder months usually
signals a spate of movies released with
one eye on the Oscars, and whilst Deep
Blue Sea may not fit that description.
The Talented Mr Ripley certainly
does...as does The Fight Club which
re-unites Brad Pitt with Seven director
David Fincher, in a dark broody tale in
which Pitt and co-star Ed Norton set up
a club where young men can relieve
their frustrations by beating each other
to a pulp...at the other end of the scale.
Big Daddy star Adam Sandler presum-
ably gave up caring about the critics
years ago, and instead churns out
another entertainingly idiotic tale in
which he adopts a five year-old boy in
order to impress his girlfriend...simi-
larly, any movie which stars Eddie Mur-
phy and Steve Martin isn't going
anywhere near an awards ceremony -
so don't expect too much of Bowflnger,
in which Martin is a nutty director fol-
lowing Murphy around with a camera
crew...still in the no-brainer comedy
vein, Mystery Men stars There's Some-
thing About Marys Ben Stiller as a
member of a group of wannabe super-
heroes who have to stop Geoffrey Rush
from taking over the world
(natch)...moving back into serious
moviegoing territory, Angela's Ashes
tells the story of a downtrodden wife
(Emily Watson) and her alcoholic hus-
band (Robert Carlyle) as seen through
the eyes of their 12 year-old son...Killing
Mrs Tingle marks Kevin Williamson's
directorial debut, and has already
kicked up a massive storm in the States,
where its story - underachieving school-
girl (Katie Holmes) goes on the ram-
page, kills her classmates and kidnaps
her teacher - was deemed to be in less
than the best possible taste...Mad C o w s
stars Anna Friel as a single m u m
attempting to fend off the social work-
ers after she's thrown into jail on a
trumped-up shoplifting charge...Dis-
ney's next project is an animated ver-
sion of Tarzan, repleat with comedy
sidekicks (an elephant and a female
gorilla), evil hunter (voiced by Brian
Blessed) and hardly any decent
gags...this year's cheese award will
almost certainly go to Harrison ford
vehicle Random Hearts, in which Ford
and Kristin Scott-Thomas are brought
together by a plane crash which kills
their respective partners, and then pro-
ceed to fall in love - have the hankies
on standby...Spike Lee's back in the
Bronx with The Summer of Sam, which
looks at the way a 70's killing spree
affects those touched by the mur-
derer...Winona Ryder and Ben Chaplin
discover a conspiracy that will allow
Satan to walk the Earth in supernatural
thriller Lost Souls...
DEEP BLUESEA

