32 Games 23 June 1999
A Year in Providence
(What's been keeping us at the mice, controllers and keyboards...
the good, the bad and the completely weird as seen through the twisted minds of Danny and Gary)
Some time ago our Beloved Games Editor and I were sitting in Da Vinci's discussing
life, the universe and everything, in the way that people do when they've had rather
more IPA than is strictly necessary, when our Beloved Games Editor suddenly had
a brilliant idea. 'I know" quoth he "why don't we do a review of the year for the
last issue? We can tell people how the games we've reviewed have stood up to
the test of time: what is and isn t still on our hard disk." My response is unrecorded,
probably because I was at that moment sliding beneath the table, a glazed but happy
look in my eyes.
A few months and several additional IPAs later, and here we are,- the last Issue
under current management. For obvious reasons we, the writers, are devastated.
We feel as though our world has disintegrated about us. We spend many hours of
hard labour creating a thing of beauty and fascination for you and now it's all gone.
Except for this final issue. We have to soldier on,- to grit our teeth and wipe away
the tears until our duty Is done and we depart the office into the lonesome twilight
bemoaning our empty shell-like lives and cast aimlessly around in search of an alter-
native raison d'etre.
I quite enjoyed writing that. But to the games...
The early days of light
Cheers for that Danny. Well it all started for me as
far back as ECTS in September, the twice yearly
excuse for software companies to spend lots of
money on entertaining the UK's finest writing tal-
ent and several assorted newspaper journalists.
The mood was upbeat even If Sega and EA could-
n't be bothered to strut their stuff, possibly
because Eidos treated us to the real Lara Croft.
But yes, the games. The first five issues pre-
sented us with a odd assortment of games. There
was the rather excellent Red Alert - Retaliation for
the Playstation. A game that started a thousand
arguements and led to an illegal betting ring in my
flat. With just 2 PSX's and 2 TV's you too can start
your own border conflict knowing that the only col-
lateral damage sustained will be the controller hit-
ting the floor after your mates beat you for the
umteenth time. Then there was what Westwood
Studios did next, or what they did a long time ago Lara silences over enthusiastic
but this time a little prettier. Dune 2000. It was a autograph hunters at ECTS.
—«r- M R | j j a p ^ ~ 4 * t y *• bit of a dis-
" <
* % appointment, rather like having fancy body
JHBRJ- 1 panels on a old ford car - it might look flash
and cool but the guts inside were old and
tired. Carmegeddon 2 was brutally under-
scored and only given a single star (at least
three stars less than its actual worth in my
opinion), but the true holder of the golden
turkey turd award was Creatures 2, which
combined the excitement of watching grass
grow with the need for constant attention that a nuclear power station re
even trying to kill the fake fur creatures in original and painful ways live
hours I battled with tedium.
The weird game of this era - though ttiere was
never time for a review - was Kula World, a
bouncy ball in a 3D world. A puzzle game well
worth getting worked up over, under and
round the bend for. Weirdness oozes from it,
with time pills that make the screen go all wib-
bly and wobbles the dual shock pad, and
munchy sounds when the ball eats fruit...
one for the after pub sessions and not the
cold light of day.
i th.
Futurecop: LAPD
Big guns, big machines, big fun.
The short good Christmas days
This was a time when every game from the
western hemisphere gets released within
a four week period, or at least that's how
it started to feel. The five issues up to
Christmas was also a rich and bountiful
time for the four and five star brigade
with Actua Golf 3, Tenchu, Medievil,
Microsoft's Combat Flight Simulator, TOCA
2 and Heretic 2 all getting the fours while
Futurecop - LAPD, Wargasm, Settlers 3,
Populous - tTe Beginning and Grim Fan-
dango getting top marks.
Of all those some of them have been
burning their images into the screen longer than others. Tenchu is still near the top
pile of PSX games in the living room, if only
for the pure grim and dark nature of watch-
ing the ninjas perform the special instant
death moves on unsuspecting employees
that get in the way. TOCA 2 also occasion-
ally gets an outing, though only when I
have trouble finding Grand Tourismo and
need a quick car fix.
From the five star crew I have to admit
that only Futurecop - LAPD gets regular
outings especially for the two player battle
game, and usually to settle the argument
of whose turn it is to clean the flat (A fairly
regular arguement really). Wargasm, while
being impressive graphically, was just too difficult for my console soaked brain,
T e n c h u : Stealth Assassins
The knife Is not Just for cutting bread
Wargasm
It sounds rude.
Grim Fandago
LucusArts' finest go 3D.
though part of the problem could well be the force feedback joystick turning my
arm muscles to the consistency and strength of jelly within moments. Grim Fandango
disappeared off to Hong Kong with David Howell - a bit too far to travel for the occa-
sional and casual game. Populous, well that was Danny's.
My initiation into the world of Felix review-
ing was Populous - The Beginning, which
I rated quite highly at the time. It still
resides on my hard disk, although I can't
claim to play it continuously. It's still an
enjoyable chunk of code, and the graph-
ics are very nice, particularly when you
have a 3D card to help things along. But
it gets damn hard very quickly, and I don't
know anyone who's finished it.
Populous - The Beginning
God Sims: The Previous Generation
Red Alert: very special - enough said.
Among the rest of the mass of 3 star games Bruce Willis put in a performance
in the shooter Apocalypse- absolutely nothing to do with asteroids and blowing them
up. That was Activision's updated Asteroids game - something still good for the occa-
sional and quick blast.

