23 June 1999 Games 33
Halfllfe:
A little knowlege Is a dangerous thing
The long dark winter months
The winter was a case of quality over quan-
tity. It started well. It started so very very well
when Halflife finally fell into one Games
Editor's grubby little paws. So I might not
have played it across the net but to echo
a well remembered line, "Frankly my dear
I don't give a damn". Halflife is still my
favourite single player first-person shooter.
It might slow up when every known evil
throughout this and other world is in view,
but that is only because I 'chose to ignore
the little sticker with the required system
information and ran it anyway. The
Lucasarts Star Wars cash cow turned out another arcade-like 3D flyby shooting game,
Rogue Squadron, which while being very pretty was not especially long lasting and
did not really have the addictive gameplay
of the better Star Wars games.
Eidos changed the rules of the man-
agement game with Gangsters, which
appealed to the player who prefers infor-
mation overload with their violence, espe-
cially watching several goons attempting
to harass opponents, rob banks and gen-
erally do bad. It's not a bad game, just lack-
ing the edge of a truely excellent addictive
management game. It was also during
these months that the compilations sprung up in the shops like early flowers. Danny
got to draw the short straw and got Blizzard's and LucasArts' back catalogue.
First - the Blizzard three pack Starcraft, War-
craft 2 and Diablo. / said that the jewel in
this particular crown was Starcraft. How-
ever, the only still remaining on my hard
disk is Diablo, which has depths in it that
aren't revealed on a cursory play. At the
time I vaguely remember saying that it
was primarily designed for multiplayering,
but after a certain amount of hard playing
I've discovered that tactics are the key to
single player success. The other two are
good, but Diablo has proved Itself superior to both.
X-Wing Trilogy. These are gone. This shouldn't really come as a surprise as they've
been replaced in grand style by X-WIng
Alliance. Quite apart from which all of
these games are at least two years old and
things have moved on. Still worth buying
if your PC can't run Alliance though.
•
it and am still intrigued by the story line.
Definitely one for the collection.
Alpha Centauri. Again a stayer. I
stand by my over-the-top review. Buy it
and cherish it. Real life is far less inter-
esting.
Baldur's Gate:
Dungeons and Dragons for one
There was also SimCity 3000. With spiced
graphics and options aplenty it was now
possible to build your own city, and destroy
it in extreme detail.
Finally Natural Fawn killers deserves a
mention. This was the worst game seen this year. Not only was it tasteless - not nec-
essarily a crime in itself - but it was the worst excuse for a 3D accelerated game ever.
The Gold Turkey Turd prize goes to this and this game alone. May every copy be
left in the bargain basement bin in Electronic Boutiques all round the country.
The Sharp Spring shocks
Diablo:
Hidden depths found in Dungeon I
Tie Fighter:
Creaking Its way Into a early grave
So hope springs eternal. Only three games
| this term managed to get top dog scores.
Warzone 2100 managed to take the Red
Alert Crown which Westwood Studios had
left unguarded for so long. With the abil-
ity to design and build your own force out
HI of custom components and then view the
battle field from what ever view you want,
Warzone 2100 : it still stands as the game to beat - and with
The smell of gunfire Is never far away 2 CD's of the single player game there is
a large amount of game to beat. Wipeout
64 was one of two race games to get a maximum score. It might be a enhanced
version of the old PSX Wipeout 2 but its
quality shines through. Danny unfortu-
nately had to wade through a crop of four
star games.
X-Wing Alliance. It would be very sur-
prising if this had been replaced, and it has-
n't. It is the best spacefight game out
there at the moment (although it's not
long until Microsoft release Starlancer,
which promises to give Alliance a run for Wipeout 64 :
its money) and as such deserves to be in Top bananna
everyone's collection.
Civilisation - Call to Power has been gathering bouquets from the rest of the
games press. I still think Alpha Centauri (or
come to that Civilisation Dare superior. It
ain't taking up space on my machine any
more.
Thief-The Dark Project
Crime does pay...
But there were original games out. Thief
took the sneak-em-up genre of Tenchu -
where running into a fight was a sure way
to be left bleeding on the floor - and
added an almost perfect audio engine to
a superb graphics chassis. If there is one
game this year which sums up atmos-
phere in a game, and demonstates how a
game can completely absorb the player within itself then this would be it.
Tenchu finally got replaced as my action game for the Playstation by Metal Gear
m Solid. It might be spaced over 2 CD's, have
very cheesy dialogue and plot lines trans-
parent to anyone over the age of 10, but
its detail and gameplay is very difficult to
imagine being beaten on the Playstation -
ever. Roll on the Playstation 2. There was
also a severe dolop of excellent strategy
games. As ever these were the realm of the
Dan man.
Metal Gear Solid:
Never has combating global
terrorism been so exciting.
Baldurs Gate has proved itself in style.
This is a very nicely put together game, and
will run and run for sometime. I still play
Over the eighty or so reviews the
games got noticibly better, or perhaps by
the fickle finger of fate the review team
somehow has managed to avoid most of
the year old rancid bad egg releases - well
X-Wing Alliance: all except that Natural Fawn Killers game,
The force Is back something that will take many years to for-
get. Games like Metal Gear Solid, Halflife
and Alpha Centuri ate responsible for various states of lack of sleep induced halu-
cinations - and should carry strong gov-
ernment warnings.
Finally I would thank the rest of the
reviewing team. Despite a complete lack of
regular review material and meetings the
review copy kept flowing - even if it was just
preview info or compilation reviews. So
thanks to Bill Tung, Mark, Ronny Tan, Nick
Dalgiannakis, Magpie, Viv, Beel, Jason, CM,
David Howell and last but definitely not
least the hidden talent that is Danny.
Stay tuned next year for the mostly all
new crew.... GaryS
Civilization Call to Power:
Civ 2.5 to you mister.

