23 June 1999 News 3
Students Face Expulsion Over Fees
By Andrew Ofori
Student activism has undergone some-
thing of a renaissance during the
opposition to Labour's tuition fees.
While IC looked on, many universities
have led extensive campaigns in the
public eye and although a Govern-
mental reform has as yet alluded them,
they have won numerous concessions
as well as supporters. The harsh real-
ity of the fees is about to bring the uni-
versity careers of some IC students to
an end.
The college is currently awaiting
payments from around forty students
with five still yet to pay the first install-
ment. The college has sent corre-
s p o n d e n c e throughout the year
reminding them of the payment and
offering help and advice if needed.
Some of those involved took the
opportunity to explain their position,
but as yet none of the five who failed
to make the first installment have
responded. The college has informed
all those who have not paid that if the
money has not been received by the
end of term they will not be able to
return next year.
The college has had a long stand-
ing policy of expulsion for non pay-
ment of fees and it has been applied
consistently over the years; last year a
number of overseas students owing
fees at the end of the academic year
had to leave the college.
Tony Cullen of the registry office
qualified the measures: "In the interest
of fairness and equality we have to
apply the rules across the board."
Overall registry was "pleased with the
way students have responded" and he
felt the widespread compliance was
due in part to explanations of the col-
lege's position sent out to new
entrants last summer. Maintaining
"registry has been as sensitive as pos-
sible", Mr Cullen made it clear that
those threatened with expulsion were
given ample opportunity and still have
until September to find the money.
There have been no students in
the college who have refused to pay
on principle and there are still options
open to those in financial difficulty, but
the college has been placed in an awk-
ward position with students not reply-
ing to letters.
ICU President Dave Hellard
explained many institutions had made
their campaigns against fees political,
but he viewed the issue as one of
practicality stating "If students couldn't
pay it would be unfair for the college
to throw them out." He went on "We
could have helped and possibly might
be able to help a limited few," referring
to sources such as the Access and
Hardship funds. Disappointed with
the fact those involved had not come
to the Union for help, Mr Hellard con-
cluded "They've been told the conse-
quences and d o n e nothing. Maybe
they've just resigned themselves to
the fact they're leaving".
Next year all undergraduates pay-
ing fees will face a bill of £1025; the
ICU President did not see the increase
from £1000 as an additional problem
c o m m e n t i n g "It's going to have to
increase at some point."
Southsiders Sir Ron Receives
Caged-in Peerage
By Abigail Lazzerlne
O n Wednesday 9 June, the college
researched further into the Southside
windows dispute. Two south-facing
Southside residents had a prototype
grill installed, attached to the inside of
their window; one filling half and the
second filling the whole of one sliding
window.
The grills are made of steel, and
have a square mesh of 5 cm by 5 cm to
enable more aeration than is currently
offered by the blocks, which allow only
a four-Inch gap for ventilation.
The rooms were visited by the Pro-
Rector Professor Tim Clark, Mr Tony
Mitcheson, Secretary of the College, Dr
John Hassard (Tizard and Selkirk war-
den) and Ms Brown and Mr Vincent
from the Accommodation office, all of
whom were concerned for a swift con-
clusion to the situation and looking for-
ward to installing a more acceptable
obstruction and Mews-friendly solution.
Some residents have seen the new
grill, and although they agree that the
grills are a better option than the blocks,
they have suggested the grills make
the rooms like "cages." There is concern
for how new students will adapt to mov-
ing into this environment with the intim-
idation of the grills.
The new measures come have
come as a result of incidents earlier
this year when objects were thrown
through the window (Felix 1143). One
of the most costly elements of these
actions was the damage caused to the
college's relations with local residents;
especially when taking into account
they have already objected to some of
the college's building proposals for the
area.
On Tuesday 15 June, visitors from
Westminster City Council surveyed the
rooms, from inside and outside, to
assess if the new Installations will con-
tradict the building's listed status. It is
most likely that if this is cleared, the grills
will be in place in one hundred and
twenty rooms for the start of next term,
although this was not entirely clear at
the time of going to press.
The full cost to the College is esti-
mated to be around £13,000 but by
making the investment, the College
hopes to appease local residents and
make future planning applications eas-
ier.
It should be reported, however,
that the installation is for approximately
one year until the whole building is
refurbished and the window problem
can be wholly rectified.
By Sunil Rao
On Saturday 12 June, it was announced
that Sir Ronald Oxburgh, Rector of Impe-
rial College, is to be made a life peer
(Baron) as part of the Queen's Birthday
Honours list. Sir Ron, who was knighted
in 1992, has been Rector here since 1993,
and is one of six new life peers created
this year. Also commended is Professor
David Phillips, Head of the Department of
Chemistry since 1992, who has been
made an OBE for his services to science
education.
The British honour system is based on
merit, and honours are awarded for
exceptional achievement or service. Any
British national can be recommended for
an honour - recommendations are made
to the Prime Minister's Office either by
government ministers or by members of
the general public. The recipients of the
awards are then 'chosen' by the Queen
on the 'advice' of the Prime Minister.
Sir Ron was educated at Oxford and
Princeton, and subsequently taught at
Oxford and then at Cambridge, where he
headed the Earth Sciences Department
from 1980 to 1988. He was also appointed
to the National Committee of Inquiry into
Higher Education, better known as the
Dearing Committee, in May 1996, and will
apparently sit in the House of Lords as a
cross-bencher. Professor Phillips was edu-
cated at Birmingham and worked in
Texas, in Moscow and at Southampton
before becoming Professor of Physical
Chemistry here at Imperial in 1988. He is
well-known for his efforts to promote sci-
ence in general and chemistry in partic-
ular, and his lectures to schoolchildren
and on television.

