23 June 1999 Games 35
The Final Preview Ville of the Year
Tennis, fighting, and escaped Apes are just some of the Previews
Anna Kournikova's Smash Tennis (PSX)
Namco
Actua Tennis has been the tennis game
on the playstation for absolutely ages.
Namco has decided that it is time to shift
it from the throne, and, in an attempt to
shift a few more copies with the male
audience, got Anna to appear naked on
the front cover. OK, so I'm joking about
the front cover.
Where most of the current crowd of
Tennis games use real characters, all
motion captured and displayed perfectly,
Namco has decided that this is much
too adult. Instead of motion caption AKST
has echoes of earlier arcade tennis
games. The players are all caricatures of ter bus.
the players, Anna is even blonder and The actual
cuter than in real life (if that is possible), gameplay is much
There are also several other cartoon more difficult to
players, male and female - some looking pick up than the
more like actual tennis players than oth- Actua game. The
ers. All of the courts are also cartoon real placement of the
and imaginary courts. Along with the shot is very sensi-
grass of Wimbledon (called the United tive to the timing
Kingdom court), here is a Westminster of the shot and
court placed right next to Big Ben, com- the position of the
plete with a main road at the end of the player - andwith
court - a decent serve can produce a the smallish play-
loud bang if you hit a nice big routemas- ers it can be diffi-
cult to work out exactly where the ball
will end up. The serve, for instance,
is difficult to control in AKST, and is
ess precise. Serving an ace will take
ages to perfect.
If you want a simple but pretty
arcade tennis game AKST is OK. if you
want a good all round Tennis game,
something without the cartoon ele-
ment that is simple to pick up and
play, stick to the Actua Tennis game.
It might not have the famous name
but it is the better game.
GaryS
Bloodlines and Ape Escape (PSX)
Sony
Sony hasn't completely given up on the
playstation yet. Coming to a machine
near you is Bloodlines and Ape Escape.
Bloodlines is an attempt to turn a
simple game of school tag into a com-
puter game. Set in an arena you and your
opponent attempt to capture more tow-
ers than each other. The first person to
reach a tower gains the initiative and
then rushes to claim the rest of the tow-
ers on the level. The opponent can
attempt to stop you by tagging you (you
make it easier to catch someone by slow-
ing the opponent down by shooting
them). When tagged, the tables are
turned and it is your turn to chase and
tag the opponent while they go for the
towers. An original concept and one that
works better when playing against peo-
ple tather than computers. The 3D graph-
ics are also very impressive and very
detailed.
Ape escape is Sony's attempt to pro-
duce a cute Mario style game. You play
a character who has to go through time
sending escaped monkeys back to the
present. While the
gtaphics are very pretty,
the gameplay and con-
trol method are excel-
lent. Using both the
analogue controls, the
digital controls and the
microswitch in the ana-
logue control it is possi-
ble to pull off quick and
supple motion on the ground, in the air,
and in the water.
With the correct difficulty level this
should keep everyone happy, even the
most hardened of Tenchu maniacs.
GaryS
Capcom Generations and Star Trek : New worlds (PC)
Virgin Interactive
Capcom Generations is not as much a
preview as a postview. Capcom is well
remembered not just by its range of 2D
beat-em-ups but also by its wide library of
80's and 90's arcade games. Well finally
they're coming out legally (you might
have been playing them with one of
those top arcade emulators but as it is
technically illegal to use the ROM images
unless you own the ROMs I would keep
it quiet if I was you). So classics like
1942 and Commandos will be avail-
able for all. Now all I need Is a bro-
ken joystick to really relive those
dodgy arcade experiences.
Star Trek : New Worlds is set
after the pesky Romulans mess up
an experiment and create lots of
new planets all ripe for the race that
can get there and colonise the
planet.
Playing the role of either the
Federation, Klingons or Romulans it
is your job to build, maintain and
defend your base against the other
two races and anything else that is
out there. Very Battlezone 2000.
The graphics look superb, but
we all have to hope that the game
is as good as It looks.
GaryS

