23 June 1999 Arts
FRIENDS OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE SUMMER EXHIBITION
Sherfield Gallery
m
::::<fSS|:ip
F
our artists with four distinct styles form
the basis of this year's Friends of Impe-
rial College Summer Exhibition. Lying
between the reception lobby of the Sher-
field building and the Main Dining Hall, the
ante-room has been hosting a selection of
work by the artists Jan Tinholt, Jan Hruska,
Luce Ceas and Peter Young.
Jan Tinholt was born in Utrecht, Nether-
lands, in 1950. He grew up in a working
class background - his father was a
mechanic and his mother a housewife - the
family's financial situation prevented him
from attending the Academy of Arts.
Instead he became a social worker, spe-
cialising in the field of child psychiatry.
Three years later in 1983, he found he
required a release for his self-expression.
Following a Christmas gift of paint and
brushes, he instantly finished his social
work and started a three-year struggle
researching colours and perfecting layering
techniques. Since his first Exposition in
1985, he has become well known in the
Netherlands and has been included in the
books Lexicon of Twentieth Century Dutch
Naive Art by Nico Vander Endt and First
Choice, both of which have raised him to
the level of international recognition.
He is one of the leading Dutch artists
of the Naive style, typified by simplified
cartoon-like images of people and back-
grounds. While the British Naive artists
favour scenes set in either domestic urban
or seaside situations, Jan Tinholt depicts
arboreal and river scenes pulled from his
own subconscious. His characters exist
within an almost natural Utopia unspoilt by
the machines and stresses of post-industrial
society.
Jan Hruska began painting late into
his life. Born in Lysice, Czech Republic, he
was brought up in a working class family
with six other brothers and sisters. He was
employed as a shop assistant in a drug store
until the age of 47, when he took up paint-
ing because he lost his garden where he
grew roses and wanted a new hobby. His
technique is unique as he uses adapted
syringes to apply oil paint to hatdboard. Lay-
ering these fine strings of colour creates
impressive and expressive detail, the whole
image resembling the fine needlework
found on medieval tapestry. His images are
representative of memories from his child-
hood, scenes from old etchings and prints
of Czech cities from the area around Blan-
sko. The images represent a simpler and
supposedly quieter existence where the
urban environment is blended with the
rolling countryside. His work is renowned
both nationally and internationally as one
of the leading Czech naive artists, having
a permanent exhibition in the Naive Art
Gallery in Litomeric, and displayed in the
Folk Art Museum in Boston, Pompidou
Gallery and the Musee d'Art Naif de Hie de
France in Paris.
Luce Geas retired from being a Uni-
versity Lecturer, after having studied at the
Sorbonne and LSE, to become a full time
painter over twenty years ago. She has
exhibited her work in London, Paris, Hong
Kong and Washington DC and the Arts
Committee of UNICEF has used her work
on a selection of Greetings cards through-
out the world. Her work is more conven-
tional in style and form, and she uses oil and
canvas for most of her images. This exhi-
bition displays a selection of her seascapes
and still-life paintings of flowers. The
seascapes in particular use vivid blues and
greens to form coherent surfaces and
emphasise the cold depths of the sea.
Peter Young was born in London and
was introduced to painting by the Austrian
artist, Margarita Hammerschlag. He first
started sketching while doing National Ser-
vice In Egypt. He later went on to study at
the Faculty of Painting Conservation at the
Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna. Returning
to England, he was appointed Restorer at
the City Art Gallery Bristol before heading
the paintings section of the conversation
department of the Victoria and Albert
Museum. He creates his images using large
brush strokes to form pools of distorted
colour using the media of oil paints on
paper. The completed work creates an
image almost entirely opposite to Jan
Hruska's detailed composition.
Gary
mm

