40 Music 23 June 1999
Albums
KRISTIN HERSH
Sky Motel
IEFNER
The Fidelity Wars
Smile!
F
ollowing last years disappointing
Murder, Mystery and then
Goodnight, Sky Motel represents
something of a return to form for Kristin
Hersh, melding the vibrant and dizzy-
ing electricity of Throwing Muses with
the mellower, yet equally intense,
acoustic sound of her subsequent solo
work.
Echo, the first single from the album,
bounces fluidly from organ to guitar,
stops, restarts and all the while enfolds
you in its delicious melody. Hersh's
voice, idiosyncratic as ever, ensnares
whilst betraying her troubled battles with
bipolar depression; 'I'm loving every-
body, and hating everyone I see...I'm
scaring everybody, I'm wearing every-
body down'.
The common theme that transpires
across the twelve tracks is the loss of love
and a desire for its rediscovery; 'All I
want is you, smiling/faithful to the finish,
I'm grateful to be in this with you/A
fucker of a lifeline/ A mother of a lifetime
with you'; 'Made you not believe/ Made
you lose your faith in the afterlife/ And
all that breathes'.
The English language being what it
is, the second person you being descrip-
tively interchangeable with the first per-
son I, it's difficult to decipher self-refer-
ence from comments on others. Kristin's
out-pourings of love and vitriolic spite
may be aimed at others, quite probably
aimed at herself.
The more robust sound could be
attributed to th'e return to the fold of
David Narcizo, the percussionist and
drummer from Throwing Muses, or just
Hersh's desire to revisit the former glo-
ries of the late '80s. Nostalgia was a par-
ticularly prevalent theme on her last
album, it being a collection of
Appalachian folk songs from her child-
hood. The Ghost of Times Past can be
felt here too, this album presents Hersh
as the person we all know, cathartic to
the bitter end, searching for redemp-
tion, searching for justification. H
Chris
BILLIE MAHONIE
The Big Dig
The band take a momentary break as
they look for a spare plectrum
T
his is a purely instrumental album, with the instru-
ments being mainly of the guitar flavour. O h how
misleading the first few tracks are. The opening track.
Watching People Speaking When You Can't Hear What
They're Saying, is good (although not as impressive as its
title), but the second is called Glenda and is blindingly attrac-
tive. The guitars are strummed so delicately and is put
together naturally with the drums. The tempo varies con-
stantly throughout the track but never throws the piece off,
resulting in a blissful yet energetic sound. With the calm and
mellow ending to the third track, although it is a very inter-
esting number, we begin to witness the fairly rapid decline
into the land of repetition.
The remainder of the album does have its subtle differ-
ences among the tracks but these are not enough to char-
acterise each one as individual; they all seem to start off in a
not too impressive similar manner and that pattern is essen-
tially present till the end of each track.
The final track comes as a bit of a surprise though, and
Its policy is more along the lines of the opening tracks. But
it's too little too late I think. I'm not really sure what this album
is trying to achieve; some parts of It sound a bit like dream-
music but that doesn't hold for very long and quickly breaks
down into a dull blunder. There is nothing groundbreaking or
clever about this album. I've listened to the album a few times
over (mainly because the nine tracks total just a tad over forty
minutes) and I don't think I'll ever do it again. This is one of
those albums that will find itself In the reduced price category
(three for £20 maybe) in no time at all.CI Asad
ands u p w h o tikes Spac
C o m e o n , there must
someone out there. Nobod
I don't like them either. I
thev're shit A
H their music sounds I
they're taking the piss with trvrsc he
nd strangled vocals and r.liched
cue- Hefner on the strangled vot
front I just can't shake off Images o
Tommy from Space when I he
Hefne-f. which Is a shame because tl
In its aren't al all dtched, in tact
aie terribly open and devet
It .'seertts that -everyone; idv
Hefner. They'ie one of those bands th
people -.deep* .cool If y o u n
vouM find nt;; what t n-.f an There ,jr
few bands that music journalists la
onto and extol the virtues of until th
rn:>: o n e t o m e s along and r.t
moment I lefner are that group of r
i wasn't impressed.
H'-frvr d o n t stand rv,xi to Cast in
if a beating but the music they p
'Jut e isn't anything special, fhe iKhi
W-Hf> is mediocre 'nd.t pt-p \>-tl
nore and nothing less. It's this i
iiundane nop that is so difficult to t
jsiasttc about, whether it's entl
p£v> it genf ia1f s apathy fn m ? ;
I wouldn't go that far. The most impoi-
lanl part of the musk is certainly the
Mies which are veiv intelligently vvrrt
that in part make up for the lack of i
inaiftv ever-present in their sound.
Hymn for The Ogareties. which is •
current single, is the- best track on the
album It combines a simple structure
with some lovely lyrics that make- you
snile to vuurst II ad thr T insight.
from, this album. From what f d h e a
about Ihe band thev were the be
ready to' tate \bh crown of 'tile iftf
two things h a o p u u n g What pi
have mistake for the sourki of.vulhgra-
bitfty tit Darren Hayman's v o t e to m e
sourtds weary and untrained, and the
referred to as genius. Hefner have pro-
duced a decent Indie album that a iol
of people yvho waotto lookcop!will g o
••;.:ip;
iSeT:^'.;! • eTtsem;.Ft

