23 June 1999 Music 41
Singles Round Up
Peshay - Switch
This track begins with an opening nearly
exactly the same as which Adam F
prefers and then leads into a fairly stan-
dard step up drum and bass. It's pleas-
ant enough but probably best left to the
dance floors and not to your stereo at
home.
The Autuers - 7he Rubettes
Although The Rubettes contains The
Auteurs' distinctive sound which even
tinges a cheerful song with their trade-
mark subtle darkness. The
Rubettes sounds Hike the name of an
early '60s band and you guessed it, so
does this song.
Hefner - The Hymn for the Cigarettes
A song about your girlfriend smoking
fags in bed, quitting those packs of
twenties and being in love, all done with
a typical sub-standard indie sound.
There is a bonus however as one of the
band members wrote a recipe for meat-
balls in tomato sauce inside the sleeve.
Now why hasn't this been done before?
dEUS - Sister Dew
This is the second release from dEUS'
recent LP, The Ideal Crash. It has the
semblance of a ballad and strives for
epic like proportions but does not quite
reach its goal. Don't expect any chart
success, instead go out and buy the
album, you won't be disappointed.
CutLaRoc-Mattn'/fWof
T. C. Islam is featured on this track
released through the Skint record label,
the home to your Big Beat faves. As with
the Peshay track I'd be up there danc-
ing away to this in a club but for listen-
ing at home this just doesn't cut it.
Solex - Randy Costanza
This is not easy to categorise, and admit-
tedly I don't like to do so, but the clos-
est description that comes to mind is
'quirky lo-fi indie'. I believe a clarinet is
used along with the traditional guitars,
drums and bass, which are all spoiled by
a singer with one of those exteremely
annoying voices. El
Jason
Bellatrlx - Crash
They look like a band that would play
alternative music but I was surprised to
hear hard and fast beats carefully put
together with a lavish helping of sharply
vocals to produce a fresh sound that
would probably go down a storm in a
club (but minus the vocals though). Their
sound could be deceiving though; the b-
side reveals the expected indie.
Shed Seven - Disco Down
Taken from their forthcoming greatest
hits album Going For Gold, this has got
that 70s feel to it, but the Shed's man-
age to pull it into the nineties with style.
This will quickly get you into the flares
and out to a disco (and you better hurry
if Shed 7 get their way - they want to burn
all the discos down).
Another Level - From The Heart
Feature song to the new Hugh
Grant/Julia Roberts film Notting Hill. I
don't know, I guess I have to be a girl to
appreciate these boy-bands and espe-
cially these cheesy love songs. The song
isn't too bad, but It isn't too good either.
In any case, why would anyone want to
buy this and listen to this over and over?
Kristin Hersh - Echo
Singer, songwriter and producer, and
not a bad one at that either. The varying
tempo keeps you on edge - the soft
parts entertain a familiar keyboard
arrangement but before you fall off the
edge the drum beats battle with your
eardrums. She teases: "Do you hear the
loudest sound?" - er, yes, thanks Miss
Hersh.
Wide Angle - Diablo
Wide in angle perhaps but definitely nar-
row in mind - don't they know that
recording crap music will earn them no
fans. This is just guitars making the typ-
ical melody we get in rock and the vocals
are not earth-moving. They should prob-
ably have switched tracks one and three.
The Blood is a much better tune - the gui-
tars are finely played and the vocals ride
on a cool melody.
Luscious Jackson - Ladyflngers
A fresh slice of pop from a charming all-
girl New York threesome. Known to be
friends with the Beastie Boys but their
lyrics are definitely much sexier, although
we may expect some experimental traits
to rub off onto them. I can't wait to get
hold of their forthcoming album Electric
Honey.
Jamlroqual - Canned Heat
I don't really need to say much about this
one. Entered the chart at No. 4 and prob-
ably still doing the rounds in the charts
by the time you read this. A stunning
summer song and Jay Kay's vocals are still
Cardigans - Hanging Around
This is an excellent song. Lead singer
Nina Personn definitely has got some-
thing catchy about her voice. Get this
single if you want to snap only this song
as uplifting as ever - the opening line
'You know this boogie is for real' just says
it all really. Their album Syncronized will
probably also be released by the time
you read this.
New Electrics - Get Together
This track opens with vibrant guitars but
the vocals are really dull. It does get bet-
ter as the track progresses and with a few
more listens. At exactly three minutes
long, it not long enough to really get into
it and it always finishes just as you do. If
the b-side's anything to go by, there's not
much more where that came from.
Suede - She's In Fashion
From their current Headmusic album,
you'll probably buy this anyway if you're
a Suede fan. Otherwise, don't bother.
This isn't one of their strongest songs
and doesn't even sound good enough
for a single. Suede can definitely do bet-
ter than this,- I hope this isn't represen-
tative of their album.
Cay - Prince & Princesses
There were three tracks on this CD and
no sooner than I pressed play it was all
over. The three tracks total a time of
under seven minutes. These are incred-
ibly short songs! Mind you, that's prob-
ably not a bad thing for these were not
particularly good listening. The presented
rock is nothing new and the vocals will
not be missed if they were never voiced
again. EI
Asad
off their Gran Turismo album 'cos it fea-
tures no other tracks. Two mixes sound
almost the same but the Naid Remix is
a bittersweet treat.
Beverley Knight - Greatest Day
I am not very keen on soul and R&B, but
I do recognise some familiar selling-
points on this single. It sounds kinda
good and has an almost Motown feel to
it. Feel-good kind of stuff, or is it?
Hurricane #1- Remote Control
This single has got three remixes of
Remote Control. I don't quite like the
mood of this song and it doesn't strike
me as melodic. The band may have
some potential though and their album
may well be a good one. Twilight World,
Don't Worry, and Indian Water Song are
also on this single.
Mase (feat. Blackstreet) - Get Ready
This is supposed to be a really cool rap
artist! Alas, nothing original, not even
decent rehashing of older music. Apart
from the title track, the single features
Feel So Good and What You Want which
do not help in redeeming the record,
though the latter would make a nice
cruiser of a song.
Jamella - / Do
Fusion of latin and R&B. That doesn't
make it sound less similar to lots of
the stuff getting airplay. It just never
manages to rise above the mediocre.
She can sing, the beats roll, the bass
tones swing, but we've heard this a
1001 times before.
Dark Star - About 3am
New British band. Enjoyed the song and
the single very much. Confident and
dark music with good singing abilities.
Dark Star project a similar musical expe-
rience to that of listening to Pink Floyd.
Henry Beckett and Light Years also fea-
ture on this single. El
Ahmed

