News 23 June 1999
Work Permit
Abolished
The Government abolished work permits
for international students last Friday, leav-
ing them free to undertake part-time and
vacation work without having to apply to
thejobcentre. The new regulations apply
to all students from non-EEA (European
Economic Area) countries except BUNAC
(British Universities North America Club) for
who the system remains unchanged.
The new freedom for international
students is subject to a number of condi-
tions: There is a limit of 20 hours of work
per week during term time except where
a work placement is to be undertaken as
a necessary part of the course. The student
cannot engage in business, self employ-
ment, the provision of services or take
work as a professional entertainer or sports
person. They are also unable to pursue a
career by taking up a full time position.
Non-EEA students are welcome to use
Jobcentre services to look and apply for
jobs. Those students who are concerned
about taking up employment without a
work permit can be issued with an explana-
tory letter to employers. The Government
is set to publicise the changes over July and
August and further information can be
obtained from the Home Office.
At 9.45am on Wednesday 16 June a lorry leaving college by the Prince Consort Road
exit claimed a gate In a 'hit and run' Incident. The rental lorry collided with the gate,
ripping it off Its hinges before driving off. College security are carrying out a full
investigation Into the Incident.
Battle Of the Balls Builds
By Andrew Ofori
The exuberant production of the IC Sum-
mer ball may well cost the Union dear. The
original intention of the event breaking
even has now been replaced with the dis-
tinct possibility of a £20,000 loss.
The original budget submitted to the
Union Finance Committee on 9 March
was based on the sale of 1,900 tickets. The
modest rate of ticket sales leading up to the
event led the Union to take the pre-emp-
tive measure of re-negotiating the event
finances with the hosts, Alexandra Palace.
They accepted a minimum capacity of 1,
400 with a resultant penalty If attendance
falls below this.
The Union has set a sales target of
1,200, a scant improvement on the 1,187
tickets sold for last year's sell-out event
and with the latest estimates at 1,100 last
Wednesday, the event is going to leave
them with a bill of at least £13, 000 which
is likely to be covered by Union contin-
gency funds.
The schedule for the evening is:
4:30pm - pre-ball Pimms reception in
Beit Quad [not included in ticket price]
5:30pm - coaches begin to depart from
Prince Consort Road and from behind the
Union building
6:15pm - last coaches to leave Quad
7pm - reception begins in Palm
Court. Table seating plans available
8:10pm - enter Great Hall
8:30pm - hors d'oeuvres served when
everyone is seated
10:15pm - dinner scheduled to finish
10:30pm - address and formal toast
10:35pm - Platinum Abba funfair rides
and disco following Platinum Abba
12am - first coaches leave Alexandra
Palace for Trafalgar Square then on to Beit
Quad
1:40am - bar closes to allow 20 mins
drinking up time
2am - rides and disco end
2:30am - last coaches leave Alexandra
Palace
Further information is available from the
summerball website at:
www.su.ic.ac.uk/summerbail.
Tomorrow the ICSM Ball takes place at
Cobham with just under a thousand
expected to attend.
Coaches leave at 1 pm, 3 pm and 5 pm
from South Kensington, St Mary's and Char-
ing Cross and there will be coaches back
to the campuses every two hours from
midnight to 6am.The sports run from 2-
6:30pm and include 7s rugby, 5-a-side foot-
ball, hockey, tennis, volleyball and cricket.
There are changing rooms and showers
available and it is advisable to bring
evening wear along and get changed on
site.
A champagne reception starts at
7pm and the 4-course meal begins an
hour later. The evening's entertainment is
headlined by Corduroy supported by
medic's bands. Other attradions include a
bunjee run, gladiator jousting, human table
football and the laser quest. Thete is car •
parking available at the venue and the
neatest British Rail Station is 5 minutes
away.
Clayponds
Complaint
Residents of Clayponds have received
news of their 'village hall' with mixed
emotions; many were unhappy at the
£1.20 a week rent increase. The view
that residents were prepared to bear
the majority of the costs was based on
a survey estimating the increase at
"tens of pence per week".
Some questions have been raised
as to why such an increase is necessary
when a significant contribution is
expected from the IC Trust. The warden
of Clayponds, Dr MarkTyrer, explained
the new building "will be well received
by the residents and make a huge
improvement to the quality of life at
Clayponds" but was concerned that "the
rate of increase of these estimates
seems to be surprisingly rapid for what
is, when all said and done a modest,
one room building and two lavatories."
A number of students have made
clear their objections, one resident
wrote an open letter which included
the comment: "with the suggested
£1.20p per week rent increase, we
could hire three of the married couples
flats, and have a little bit left over for a
porch or covered area from the patio
doors."
Plans for the developmental are at
an early stage and so figures have not
yet been confirmed. Many residents
hope that the rent will be subjed to the
appropriate decrease in five years when
the period of rent contribution ends.
Ian Caldwell, Director of Estates was
not available to comment.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16- 16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040- 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1999. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

