23 June 1999 Clubscene 45
Botchitt &
Scarper
Botchit & Scarper Presents..
'United Breaks Nation'
(B&S) 5
A collection of the very best breakbeat music currently causing may-
hem on the dancefloors. The album demonstrates the immense
variety of music on this superb label, showing that anything goes
- so long as it's good. Influences come from across the spectrum
with drum and bass, funk, techno, soul, jazz - the lot. Artists fea-
tured on this awesome album include Fatboy slim, T-Power, Orange
Kush and FreQ. Nasty. It's a brilliant album, with so much varia-
tion that you're literally spoilt for choice. Out on July 12th.
Clubbers Guide
to Ibiza
Clubbers Guide to Iblza
Mlnsltry of Sound
MOS 4
Valenc1a*C
This is the album for you if you if Ibiza is your destination this sum-
mer. As well as comintaining two cds of the most bangin' tunes
this side of heaven MOS have very kindly provided a pocket guide
to Ibiza which could well save many a clueless clubbers night when
wondering what to do with themselves.
But the music is obviously the most important thing here. Qulaity
is here in bucket loads with several of the likely top tunes of the
summer. Among others we have ATB - 9pm (Till I Come) and The
Olmec Heads - Spiritualised.
The mix is crisp and funky throughout which is only what I would
expect from such an estemeed establishment, but it is nice none
the less, judge Jules does himself proud again!
All in all a great compilation to last you through the summer - and
a flavour of Ibiza if you aren't lucky enough to be going.
Helden vs. Slim Fatboy Slim vs. Armen Van Helden
London Brixton Academy
11/6/99
What a night. WHAT a night. I have nevet been to the Academy
before and this was a great night to begin on. For all those who
havn't been lucky enough to go I thinkn it is a converted theatre
complete with stupidly hig celings. Skint had done a great job of
fitting the place up to look like a ptoper boxing match - complete
with a rotating (!) ring and a cheesy american sounding ref with
all the classic booming commentries.
The rules were explained to the crowd : one hour of solo mixing
each and then a 3 hour mix off...
Put it like this - 3 days after the event my ears are still ringing - quite
frankly it was a bass fest! Nice. All in all the home crowd were
behind fatboy all the way (unsuprisingly) but I thing Van Helden
one over many recruits to the more hip hop side of things with
some clasic tracks from Public Enemy number one and even a cou-
ple a fatboy slim numbers!
Fatboy Slim triumphant - but Van Helden did the US proud.

