23 June 1999 News 5
AUT Attack Admissions Laundry Vandals
By Andrew Ofori
After the limited success of the strike,
the AUT is planning further action with
the ultimate aim of re-negotiating their
pay increase. Although last month's
picket had little effect on IC, its primary
aim was to make employers aware of
the staff's anger. Numerous other
examination boycotts have b e e n
organised for the end of June.
Members of the AUT have now
decided to extend their action to the
admissions process and plan to boy-
cott all admission related activities on
9, 10, 19 and 20 August, the days of
Higher and A level exam results across
Britain. They stated these measures
were "designed for maximum irrita-
tion administratively, but to cause min-
imum disruption to students."
The action may lead students to
initially accept their "insurance" offers
when unable to proceed with their
first choice and continue the applica-
tion process with their favoured insti-
tute at a later date. As well as being
against UCAS regulations this
approach would result in administra-
tive chaos leaving institutions with
only a vague idea of which students to
expect for the new year. However, in
the opinion of the AUT, it would also
"maximise the proportion of students
gaining admission to their preferred
course." They emphasised they did not
intend to impede the admission of
any potential student to an institution.
There still remains a gulf of 7 . 5 %
in the pay dispute and the associa-
tion are also tackling the issue of what
they describe as "systematic pay dis-
crimination" against women. David
Triesman, General Secretary of the
Association of University Teachers
c o m m e n t e d "No wonder the public
sees them as out of touch, the last bas-
tions of poor employment practice in
the public sector. The system has
failed. Strong remedies are needed."
John Payne of Employee Relations
explained IC's plan for dealing with
administrative difficulties: "As ususal
the college will take any steps that it
can to minimise disruption." But Impe-
rial's A U T have plans of their own
described as "actions short of a strike",
which include the refusal to take part
in appraisals and any bureaucratic
work concerned with the Q A A and
RAE.
By Abigail Lazzerine
Southside residents, keen to do week-
end laundry, were surprised to return
to the laundrette to find the new swipe
card system, fot entry into the laun-
drette, had been removed from the
wall. It was most likely "kicked off" by
vandals on Satutday evening. O n
reporting the incident, Security taped
up the entrance of the laundrette and
did not allow anyone in, even to
The Student Pugwash group is starting
to investigate the extent of military
research at Imperial College. Student
Pugwash wants to shed light on this
area, exposing where research money
is coming from and to raise awareness
of the implications of this research. By
making it more transparent, the hope
is to stimulate discussion and to open
up the ethical question of when it is
justified and when it is unacceptable.
retrieve their clothes from the
machines.
Sccutity arc currently surveying
video footage in the hope of finding
the culprits, but if no one is found
Southside residents will most likely
have to pay the bill for repairs. Resi-
dents believe this is not fair since the
identity of the offender is unknown
and access to this area is unrestricted
through the doors opposite Southside
shop, which are open until very late at
night.
In addition, alternative career paths
will be highlighted. "Jobs You Can Live
With: Working at the Crossroads of Sci-
ence and Technology-An alternative
career guide", published by Student
Pugwash USA, will be available at the
careers centre shortly.
If you are interested, please visit
h t t p : / / w w w . s u . i c . a c . u k / p u g w a s h
and/or contact Carsten c.rohr@ic.ac.uk
or student-pugwash@ic.ac.uk.
Military Investigation
to tower!
10\
any purchase
over £10.
just pop down to tower records on
kensington high st. and produce
your Union card at the counter.
"offer ends 30/06/99.
"excludes already discounted sale product,
"offer applies to the kensington store only.
HI
kensington : 0171 938 3511
www.towerrecords.co.uk

