6 Letters 23 June 1999
Portman Prices
Dear Felix,
I have just had my first experience with
Portman Travel. I was wondering what
would happen having read Simon
Baker's column last week, and I wasn't
disappointed. I was flatly (but politely)
told that they cannot get student fares,
even if I am paying with a purchase
order number. (I wish to fly to Edin-
burgh for a meeting for my PhD
research). STA used to, and I thought
the quality of service was supposed to
be better now. Ah, now I see, there is
no mention of the number of services.
Clearly College think that research
students should be spending more of
their research grants (in my case the
grant is from College) on travel! Well,
they've lost my commission, as I'm
going to STA now. I wonder if they will
accept a purchase order number...
PhD student, TH Huxley School
Proposals for a Better IC
Dear Felix,
Could you please remind Mr. Tony Ofori
of Felix that before the Prince Consort
bought the 21 acres with money from
the Great Exhibition the whole area
was Green.
Princes Gardens and Ennismore
Gardens remain Green as does Hyde
Park. Whereas the Queen's Lawn is
mainly a vast open litter bin. We now
have the Weekes Arms,- the Frobisher
Kellar, the Linstead Pub and the Tlz-
zard Pizza Parlour and sometimes 200
hundred steel drums of empty steel
barrels to show for it. We also have
medical waste scattered around from
time to time.
It would be easy to double the
charges of beverages on the IC Campus
and recoup the loss of earnings from
the very few parking spaces lost.
I had to call IC security to attend to
noise and drugs abuse this week at
0320am at No 13/14 Princes Gardens.
There will be masses of student accom-
modation available in Paddington
shortly - See New fife for Paddington
project. There will be summer jobs for
IC students too in Paddington. At the
minute it is a concrete jungle so Mr.
Ofori will feel at home there.
At week ends the college should
charge the same prices as the NCP Cark
Park near the House of C o m m o n s
which is £9.00 for over 2 hrs. Housing
Estates are experiencing huge prob-
lems with an influx of refugees and
the noise they make right through the
night and the day too.
I tried to call Felix on 594 8064 to
get their fax number but to no avail.
Did you Nie ever resolve the ingenious
flower watering problem with your
insurance Company. You could issue a
Tennis Court ticket to Ennismore Gar-
dens Mews Residents who collected
the money or contributed to the con-
struction and planting discussed some
four weeks ago with BHS. You could
give one free Parking Space for Jen-
nifers Harley Davidson or Carol's bicycle.
I must say you are all Engineers of
Exceptional Ingenuity when it comes to
explaining why it takes so long to get
anything done by the Estates Depart-
ment at IC.
Sheffield University give the MAP-
PIN medal for the Year's most excep-
tional student. The Vice-Chancellor of
Brunei was a winner in his day. To cel-
ebrate the Rector's elevation I would
like to propose a Mappin Medal for the
Year's most celebrated E.E.I event.
David Mappin
Dissent from the Ranks?
firstly I'd like to apologise in advance for
using this page as a forum for my inco-
herent ranting - maybe if more of you
had written letters this week then there
wouldn't be space for this.
Politics, they say, is a funny old
game. Student politics, I have decided,
isn't even funny. It is, to be frank, a pile
of arse.
The basic problem is power. Specif-
ically there isn't any. College gives not
a flying fuck for us and our opinions,
and having watched the petty bickering
and backstabbing which seems to hold
endless fascination for so many, I can't
say I blame them.
ICU is bad; the Constituent College
Unions are worse. The general apathy
towards politics which is regularly
berated is due to no-one really caring.
All we want is something to keep us
amused and a nice big salary at the end
of our time here.
If there's one issue that irritates me
it's that of Medics. I don't have a prob-
lem with your typical Medic-in-the-bar,
but those who insist on moaning about
IC in general really need to .become
aware that they are part of something
bigger now. This goes doubly for the
non-Medics out there who seem to dis-
like ICSM on general principles. Most
Medics are pleasant, articulate individ-
uals who happen to be doing a slightly
different course. They're not hugely dif-
ferent from any of the rest of us,
although I do appreciate that clinical
students in particular have different
issues and problems. Sort of like Post-
grads, really.
At the risk of sounding Utopian and
idealist, if we could overcome these
prejudices - on both sides - then life
here would be better for all of us.
Medics need to make an effort to inte-
grate themselves without losing their
identity, and everyone else should help
in achieving this. However, it seems
that the vocal, self-important minority
will keep the arguments and resent-
ment bubbling away for the forseeable
future, dooming us to outdated racism
(yes, racism - it seems to fit the descrip-
tion) and dull polemic.
I have therefore taken it upon
myself to exchange the life of a Union
hack for that of a heroin dealer. I feel
that this is a more personally fulfilling
and socially acceptable pastime, bring-
ing sweet narcotic oblivion to those
whose sanity is being devoured by their
final year projects.
Thanks for the colours, by the way.
Anon
Football and Fags
Dear Felix
Re: letter from Karan kapoor about cig-
arette butt littering. I'm a smoker
myself, and while I know that often I'm
less than sensitive about where I drop
my filters I'd like to address an issue of
social inconveniance that I consider a
bigger problem - football fans.
Now, the considered opinion is that
all good boys should enjoy football but
I (and all of my friends, in fact) could-
n't care less. Yet we are summarily
ousted from the tv lounge in our halls
whenever an "important" match is
about to be shown on a different chan-
nel. This would be more bearable if the
Union was a haven from football, but
no - all too often we have to put up with
selfish rowdy football fans who've gath-
ered to watch some match or other;
remember that what may seem to you
as acceptable high-spiritedness often
comes across to other people, includ-
ing myself, as at best irritating and at
worst intimidating behaviour.
I tried to enjoy football when I was
younger, and a few years ago I went to
a local derby in my hometown of Bris-
tol, Rovers (us) vs. City. The score was
one all, we had bottles thrown at us,
and a Rovers fan died of a stab wound
before the match had even started. In
comparison, I think I'd rather have to
put up with a bit of litter, wouldn't you?
Toby Dore
1 st year. Physics
Prince Albert Feedback
I've just read Prince Albert, and I'd like
to say that the medics' observation that
many IC students are apathetic, spoddy,
celibate freaks with a computer fixa-
tion, who like nothing more than cal-
culating VAT for ICU's assorted
acronyms, has some basis In truth. I also
agree completely that the administra-
tion at IC Is a beaurocratic pile of dung
that doesn't give a flying fuck about stu-
dent welfare. However, I don't think
the medics have done themselves any
favours by writing a magazine that
bears out the belief of many IC stu-
dents that they are a bunch of sport-
obsessed, over-privileged separatists
with their heads up their arses. Aren't
stereotypes fun? Nothing like them for
breeding prejudice, is there?
Given IC's appetite for gobbling up
other functional institutions and inflict-
ing its idiocy on them, isn't it about
time students stopped bitching about
each other (and that counts for both
'sides') and started on people who really
deserve it, i.e. the IC administration? Is
it any wonder that IC shits all over us
when we spend our whole time in-
fighting? Is it just me, or has anyone
else noticed that since the medics have
arrived, the bitching between engineers
and scientists has gone on the back-
burner? This does not bode well for
the influx of students from Wye: how
will the cliques form after they arrive?
Medics 'n' Wye 'n' Biologists vs. Physi-
cists 'n' Engineers, or what? If we ever
want to get iC to stop ignoring our wel-
fare, we need to present a united front,
not one that can't stop beating itself up.
S. Cook.
Biology.
Dear felix,
Medics & their enemies are at it again.
Recent weeks have brought to surface
various resentful bodies, notably includ-
ing ICSM's publication 'Prince Albert'.
Smooth re-association this is not, but it
is inevitable and some of us even want
to meet certain individuals from 'the
other side'.
Non-medics need to stop feeling
intimidated by (and thus hatred for)
our medical colleagues, while the doc-
tors-to-be have got to accept that they
are part of IC (after all it is 'Imperial Col-
lege school of medicine') and not some
separate college or Uni. So how do we
settle these deep-rooted differences?
With a right good ruckus that's how.
Medics v. non-medics fighting It for
supremacy on Queen's Lawn. Having
bludgeoned each other to near death,
weary survivors from both sides can
cure their pains, and any lingering ill
feeling, in Southside. If we're lucky we
can get the staff in on it too... 7pm
tonight, anyone?
Andy Vivian
Bio II

