I; Editorial & Columns 23 June 1999
The Right Thing To Do
I was going to write the usual 'this has
been my year' signing off piece, but as
there seems to be about ten such
columns and/or editorial notes on that
vein in this issue, I'll spare you the agony.
Which, fortunately enough, started
me thinking about an interesting ques-
tion; what exactly do you lot want out of
your student newspaper? I am not con-
vinced that I am any more qualified to
answer that question than I was nine
months and thirty-one issues ago. I know
some of the things you don't want (Viz
and mazes spring to mind), but then
that's the trouble with journalism, and
positions of public responsibility generally;
you only get feedback when you get it
wrong... Hang on, I seem to be looking
back at the year after all...
What It is to be a Hack
Moving away from my own small world of
Felix and into the small world of student
politics, I've been attempting to pin down
what it is that annoys me about hacks. Is
it their irritating ability to habitually recite
regulations at you whenever you ask the
simplest question? Not really - after all,
someone somewhere has to know the
rules. Is It the cliqueness? Perhaps, but that
is fading as the years go by and, if we
were being honest, is no worse than the
insular groups you find attached to most
aspects of society.
I'm beginning to think it is more to do
with the jobs involved. Consider a com-
pany in the 'real' world. Would they ever
allow someone with no direct experience,
no prior knowledge and no previous in-
house training to run budgets of thou-
sands if not millions, lead policy-making
committees or represent the manage-
ment to important external bodies?
Although the actual responsibility and
power available to students in student
unions is minimal, when compared to
that of doing a degree, it is quite striking.
Sabbaticals take up their positions
without the confidence-boosting experi-
ence of promotions and pay rises behind
them, and sometimes it shows. Taking it
all too seriously is one sign. Taking it as a
complete joke is another. Striking the bal-
ance is difficult, as it requires experience
and confidence. I think Dave, Chris and
Marie have got that balance right on most
occasions, and certainly on more than
some previous years' officers. As for other
Union hacks... well, I'll leave that one for
you to decide.
Rhetoric without a Cause?
I would like to leave with some words of
advice, with some grand cunningly con-
structed remark to remember me by, but
to be honest I don't know how to begin.
The weariness that infects us sabbs
towards the end of our terms has got to
me too, and all I can think of is sunny
Mediterranean beaches and Italian ice
cream. Still, here goes...
If you want something, anything, at
this college, you have to fight for It. The
Union will help students... to an extent.
Dave Hellard has already implied twice this
year that students should help themselves
whenever possible, and I reluctantly must
agree. If something is wrong in your hall,
in your department, in your life, track
down the person responsible and tackle
them head on. By all means write letters
to Felix, by all means complain to the rel-
evant ICU officer, but this will only get you
so far. Think your new lecture timetable
is unfair? Write letters to your head of
department, pester them in their office
until they agree to listen to you. In my
experience what the College can get away
with, it will. Don't let it.
On that note please don't let some of
the ongoing news stories from this year
fade away. Residents at Clayponds - keep
an eye on the financing of your new
common room. Users of Portman Travel
- complain every time you get a rough
deal compared to STA. All students - don't
let college throw out your peers who
can't pay their tuition fees. Just because
we're not part of the NUS doesn't mean
we can't have a voice. I have done more
work this year than I did in three years of
my degree. University is one time, per-
haps the last time, in your life that you
have the freedom and energy to make
your opinions count, to say what you
think and get recognition for it and, most
importantly, to be whoever you want to
be. Don't sit around complaining about
your course, your college or your life. Use
your time to act, and change them.
Goodbye and Thank You
As for me? I'm off to the dizzy heights (?)
of fSE next year, but I'm sure I'll pop by
and say hello occasionally. The customary
thank yous should go here, but there's too
many of them - you know who you are.
Three are worth special mention, how-
ever, firstly, thanks to my girlfriend for all
she's put up with since Christmas -
1 know
it hasn't been easy. Many many thanks to
David Roberts - Felix wouldn't have hap-
pened this year without you - and best of
luck for next year (I know you won't need
it). Finally, thank you, the readers. You are
the most important part of Felix, and the
force that kept me going throughout this
year. You are also the College's most
important part - don't let anyone tell you
otherwise. Have a good summer. - Ed
Final Thought For The Day
H
as it really been three years? Was
it really three years ago when I
was sitting on the train from Liv-
erpool to Euston, clutching the few rem-
nants of my childhood which I was not
too afraid to bring with me? When I was
deciding which compartments of my
wardrobe in Linstead should hold which
of my possessions? Was it really three
years ago when my drunken alter ego
first discovered the step outside South-
side Bar, at the expense of one very full
pint?
The innocence of youth. Ain't it cute?
I remember reading in the blurb sent by
College that I was expected to be doing
something like thirty hours of work per
week in my spare time, and I also
remember actually believing it. I also
recall picking up my first copy of Felix,
and deciding that it must be produced by
one hundred and fifty super-efficient
amphetamine-addicted thinking
machines. (I later discovered that it really
thrives on an ailing set of personal com-
puters operated by a handful of people
with a penchant for failing their degrees.)
Most naive of all, though, I was con-
vinced that Electronic Engineering would
be fun.
University, it seems, is a tough place.
A great deal is expected of poor under-
graduate students, especially at such a
competitive, frenetic,
and apathetic institu- Ali Campbell
tion as Imperial Col-
lege. Many students
have mental health
problems. Pressure
can be enormous,
with financial con-
straints; academic
handcuffs; pharma-
ceutical and alcoholic
temptations; unpre-
dictable members of
the same or opposite
sex, and, arguably
toughest of all,
attempting to stay
motivated and happy
amidst all the social
wrangling. And what
often makes it worse
is that no bugger will
listen.
Last year, the
h ' • ; ! : , ; ,
wrote an editorial
lamenting the lack of
proper emotional Cheers!
support for students,
citing his own experiences as an exam-
ple. I remember reading it and feeling
that he was absolutely right. By the time
you read this I may have finished at
Imperial forever, but
on so many occa-
sions I was convinced
this would never be
the case. When I
came to London I
was reeling from the
death of both my par-
ents. If anybody was
going to struggle at
university, it was
going to be me; for
those who attempt to
provide support for
students, the writing
should really have
been on the wall.
It would be easy
now to name names,-
point the finger at
those who are sup-
posed to be respon-
sible for students'
welfare and proved
no help at all; but I'm
not really a trouble-
maker in these
pages, despite the
very occasional pop
at Simon Baker and ICSM over the last
two years. I do not pretend to know how
to make the system better, when such a
phenomenal number of potentially
unstable students are together in one
place. But during those weeks I spent
absent from College in a state of utter
depression last year, when nobody
seemed even slightly concerned, it
became clear that something was very
wrong somewhere. Students' work also
suffers under pressure. This undoubt-
edly happened to me, and is a problem
in which academic institutions ought to
take more interest; it probably costs them
more dearly than they might think.
Provided that these dents to my
degree have not been too excessive, I
bring to a close what should be my final
offering to Felix. We have seen the loss
of the bookstore, the Print Shop and
potentially a few other things, if current
rumours are to be believed. We have
seen Eric Allsop do a sponsored
marathon Union Presidency. (What do
you mean, it wasn't for charity?) And we
have seen the installation of some very
expensive granite.
There's no room for proper saluta-
tions here, but I want to thank everybody
who has been nice to me in any capac-
ity over the last three years, especially the
women. It's been tougher than you think.
Two fingers, though, go up to everyone
who has been thoughtless, selfish,
exploitative or arrogant. Goodbye, and
don't forget what I said about Columbo.

