23 June 1999 Science 9
A Trip Through
Imagine going to see England play football in the world cup. In 1966. Or you could go to 2999 to see what kind of parties they're
preparing for the third millennium. What about going back a hundred years and putting some money into a bank account? Back in
the present, you'll have accumulated more money than the Sultan of Brunei could ever dream of. You know, with a time machine,
anything is possible! Alok Jha looks at how you could book a trip through time.
T
ime travel is a favourite in science
fiction. People skip between dif-
ferent times almost as effortlessly as
you might send an email or ignore read-
ing your lecture notes. The machines they
use are widely varied too. There's the
TARDIS in Dr Who, a phone booth in Bill
and Ted's Excellent Adventures and, of
course, the famous DeLorean in Back to
the Future. Each of these devices have
their own mechanism of defeating the
progress of time's arrow as they hurtle
their occupants through countless adven-
tures in countless different times. While
these make great stories, it will come as
no surprise to anyone that actually trav-
elling through time is not an easy thing
to do. So what exactly are the prob
lems?
Theoretically, there are meth
ods of travelling through time
General Relativity says that
it's possible to bend
space in such a way that
you can create things
called 'wormholes'. By
travelling through these,
you can take a shortcut
through space and
cover huge distances
very quickly. This con- 1
cept can be taken a step
further to encompass time
travel as well. Since space
and time are similar concepts %
In General Relativity, there's no
reason why you can't have a worm
hole connecting two different points in
time as well as two different points in
space. By travelling through one of these,
you can travel through time. There are
problems with this model though. The
main one is that we have no idea if worm-
holes actually exist anywhere in the uni-
verse. It has been postulated that they
may exist inside black holes, but this idea
suffers from the fact that it can never actu-
ally be tested. As far as creating artificial
wormholes goes, you can forget it. The
technology we have at the moment is far
too crude to do anything like bend huge
amounts of space or time into worm-
holes. You would need materials that you
could subject to extreme conditions and
Dr Andrew Liddle, of the Astrophysics
Department at Imperial College, believes
that we won't have anything like that for
the next millennium or so.
Then there are questions about
which way in time you could actually go.
There are a lot of people who think that
travelling backwards in time will never
be possible. Their argument Is that. If we
do ever develop the technology to travel
back in time, there should be evidence of
it already. In other words, people from
the future should be amongst us
right now. Since
there has
no hard evidence to
support this, we can safely say that no-one
from the future has ever been here. Or
can we? Jenny Randies, author of over
forty books on the paranormal and time
travel, believes otherwise. She strongly
suspects that we have indeed been vis-
ited by people from the future but that
they keep their identity secret. "Like we
watch animals in the jungle/', she sug-
gests, "the people from the future watch
us from a distance." She says that there
is a lot of evidence to support her ideas.
One of her ideas is to look for what she
calls 'out of place objects'. These are, as
their name suggests, things which exist in
places where they shouldn't be. Like
iron nails in rock beds that were formed
millions of years before the appearance
of man. Or human-like footprints which
can be dated to similar times. Jenny Ran-
dies suggests that things like the nails may
well have been carried to their discovery
sites from the future and that the foot-
prints are those of time travellers.
Another problem with the whole time
travel thing is that of paradoxes. Let's
assume you
can go
back in time
i UV ( M i
great grandfather. Imagine what
would happen if you had an argument
with the old man and ended up killing
him. He could never meet your great
great grandmother and your family would
.not exist. More importantly, you would
never exist. So if you never existed, you
couldn't have gone back in time to kill
your great great grandfather. So that
means that he survived and that he did
meet your great great grandmother after
all and that your family does exist. So that
means that you were born as well and
you can now go back in time again and
kill him. But that means that... and so on.
There ate two ways of getting around
paradoxes like this one. The first is to say
that history has already happened and
that it is already set in stone. That means
that, if you did go back in time, then the
fact that you are here now means that
you didn't kill your great gteat grandfa-
ther. If you do go back and try to kill him,
time will conspire against you and you will
somehow be prevented from doing it.
This means you cannot change history.
The second way out of the patadox is to
employ some quantum mechanical think-
ing. Professor Chris Isham, head of the
theoretical physics group at Imperial Col-
lege, says that if you did travel back
in time and kill your great great
grandfather, you would return
J m to a different present from
Ihe one you came, ["his is
^ , basically what happened
in Back to the Future
I Part 2. The idea is that
' '
•
' •' 1
•' v;
'
5
J make forces you down
• L u g i g t * ' " w ticular path through
v:; ';.';/•;'/''"':* '
• lime. This leads to the
i l '
J
I
T " IC
'EA TNAT TNERE ARE
AN
infinite number of uni-
>w- verses out there, each ol
• • • which represent all of the
-Jr results of all the possible deci-
• y p r sions you could have made in
your life. Going back in time to
v change one of those decisions will
make you enter another universe, and so
there is no paradox. In that universe, you
never existed anyway.
So where does all of this leave us with
time travel? Basically, it looks like we
won't see people stepping into machines
and disappearing into another time for a
while. Certainly it seems as though it
won't happen in our lifetimes. But, once
again, Jenny Randies thinks differently.
She says that we will see some form of
time travel within the next thirty or forty
years. It will not be a situation where peo-
ple can physically travel but one where we
see information from the future travelling
into the past. She thinks that the first indi-
cations of time travel will come when we
begin to see messages on our computer
screens which have been sent from an
experiment twenty years in Ihe future...

