imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Raise a glass with us at our free launch event of our student social
enterprise support programme, ACT Now! Social enterprise is doing good
through business and innovation, and we know all Imperial students have
the potential to become great entrepreneurs!
As well as telling you about the support, training and funding available
to help flex your entrepreneurial muscles through ACT! Now, we will be
joined by special guests to hear about their entrepreneurial experiences
and ventures: Chemistry Undergraduate and Althea Imperial 2016 Finalist
Lauren Dennis; Engineering Undergraduates Tristan Dell & Debesh
Mandal from IRIS Drone Technologies; and two of Imperial’s Alumni Ilana
Taub & Michael Midge-Dixon who have successfully crowdfunded to
launch Snact, a social venture tackling food waste.
We’ll also be joined by Chrissy Levett, founder of Creative Conscience,
an organisation that inspires students to apply their talents to socially
valuable projects. Find out more about the programme and event at
imperialcollegeunion.org/socialaction
ACT NOW! Launch Event: Monday 24
October
To see the companies attending the fair, visit
imperialcollegeunion.org/careersfair
Enhance your employability
Find your future career
Get ahead of the game
Friday 21 October, 11:00 - 16:00
Queen’s Lawn / Open to all students!
Imperial College Union’s Careers Fair is your opportunity to meet a range of different
companies that want you, an Imperial graduate, work for them after your degree.
You can also meet our Student Activities and Student Development teams to find out
more about how the Union’s extracurricular activities can help your future career.
CF2016 A2 Poster.indd 1 12/10/2016 15:05
Give it a Go is an exciting way to try something
new, meet new people at College and explore
some of the wonderful things that our 350+
different clubs and societies have to offer
before committing to membership.
TRY SOMETHING NEW
take a look at what’s on offer
imperialcollegeunion.org/giveitago

