36 felixonline.co.uk/CandS clbfelix@ic.ac.uk Friday 21 October 2016 Friday 21 October 2016 37
clbfelix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/CandS
felix C L U B S
& S O C S felix
C L U B S
& S O C S
Interview
Musical Theatre Society’s Trent Allen
Abigail de Bruin talks to the director and star of 13
How did you end up directing a musical with MTSoc?
It’s quite a funny story. No one had proposed a show for October show
by the deadline back in June/July but I was around all Summer, being
in fifth year, so I said to Roshani (MTSoc President) I’d be happy to
be MD (Musical Director) if anyone needed one. She asked if I would
be interested in directing. And I was like “If you’re offering, sure, why
not.” Apparently they had a few other MDs that were interested but
no one who wanted to direct. So I said “Fine, I’ll give it a shot!”
Then we were trying to think of small cast, small band, short, low
budget shows. I had done 13 with my Youth Theatre company,
The Young Theatre, five years ago, and it just happened to be
the first show that fit the bill that sprang to mind. Roshani
who was also choreographing, liked it as well, so it
became a choice just really instantly.
So your directing team, it was you and Roshani?
And Colm Molloy, who was the musical director
So how did that come about? The three of you directing
a show together?
Roshani, as President, was always involved, and was
happy to choreograph, especially with the lack of anyone
else. I don’t actually know how Colm got involved, I just
remember Roshani telling me he was MDing.
Did you do much work beforehand as a directing team before you
were let loose on the cast, before or after auditions?
Before Auditions, no, very little to be honest. I think the first time I met
Colm was at auditions but we had spoken. And then yes, we did do
a lot of work before rehearsals. Roshani choreographed the whole
show, and ended up producing it as well, since she’s president of
MTSoc and we didn’t have a producer. I did all the blocking, deciding
on set, lights, and deciding where I wanted people to go and how I
wanted them to do things. So yeah, certainly an awful lot more for the
start of rehearsals than the start of auditions.
How much rehearsal time did you then actually get with the cast
between auditions and show?
We had a month of rehearsals essentially, four weeks and then
show week. We rehearsed Sunday afternoons and Monday and
Tuesday evenings. It was probably not quite 12 hours a week
total though most people weren’t needed for everything.
How were you feeling by the night of the tech and the
night of the dress rehearsal? Were they as horribly
panicked as they often can be?
I was optimistic heading into the tech rehearsal and
it then proceeded to be in contention for the worst
night of my life. Things that I thought we had sorted
beforehand didn’t happen or didn’t exist. At that point,
there was very little that I could do about it. I had done
the planning. We’d had a meeting with the tech team and
been through the whole show in a ‘paper tech’ rehearsal.
So we’d been through all of the queues for all of the lighting
and all of the set changes and how they were going to work
and then they just didn’t happen. We didn’t have some of the set
and we didn’t have some of the sound effects.
Also, and I probably should have mentioned this earlier, I had to play
one of the parts in the show for lack of people auditioning. There are
supposed to be 13 characters in 13. We cut two of them and then I
Musical Theatre Society recently performed the musical 13 in a double bill with DramSoc’s perfor-
mance of Hair of the Dog in their annual October show. We catch up with Trent Allen, the show’s
director to talk about how everything went and what it’s like to be a director.
\\ I was optimistic head-
ing into the Tech rehearsal
and it then proceeded to be
in contention for the worst
night of my life \\
had to play another because we only had 10 cast members who
auditioned. We were short a boy. We were also short another boy
during the tech rehearsal because he had Techtonics rehearsal. So
I had to essentially do the work/be in three places at once which
didn’t help. All three suffered for it. I wasn’t the most helpful director
I’m sure, or in the best place.
The dress was slightly better than the tech and then the first show
was an awful lot better than either. It did go OK in the end.
What was opening night like? Was it scary or did you feel
prepared by then?
I was fairly calm come opening night, I think because at
that point I’d just accepted that what was going to happen
was going to happen and there wasn’t anything I could do
about it. Thanks to an awful lot of MTSoc alumni turning
up in the audience and making it an absolutely fantastic
atmosphere there were laughs right from the get go and it
was a wonderful night.
So, you’ve had your experience, would you ever be interested
in directing for MTSoc again?
Yes, I would. Ideally not directing and acting in it, the Kenneth
Branagh as someone called it. Yeah, it definitely feels like both ends
suffered. I certainly only actually got into the part on opening night
because that was the only time that I gave up on everything else,
since the directing was done. The directing wasn’t done on the first
night but I told myself that it was. So yes, I can definitely see myself
directing again.
So you were in a double bill with DramSoc, what did you think of
the experience of being in a double bill?
It’s certainly a strange dynamic. First off I don’t think we publicised
clearly enough what was happening. Some people didn’t realise
that it was one show then an interval then another show so we
could’ve worked on that. Other than that, it worked fine from
our point of view, we just had to be quiet while DramSoc
did their show before we then could then start warming up
vocally in the interval.
Did you get a chance to see their show at any point?
Not on any of the nights, but I did see bits in rehearsal of
course. It seemed funny from what I saw, I grasped the story
but yeah I didn’t see the whole show start to finish.
In that case my last question is no longer quite so relevant,
but it’s one we want the answer to in the office. Has seeing Jack
Steadman in a romantic role made you fall in love with him?
I’ve always been in love with Jack Steadman.
\\ I had to play
one of the parts in the
show for lack of people
auditioning \\
T
he premise of
this show is a
simple one. Keith,
played by Jack
Steadman, wakes
up hungover as all
hell and with no memory of
what happened the night
before. Sounds familiar
right? Unfortunately for Keith
he hasn’t woken up having
just drunk texted an ex like
a normal person but has,
in fact, made some more
significantly life altering
decisions as he discovers over
the course of the play.
The show is a pretty stereo-
typical ‘Waking up in Vegas’
story which certainly had the
potential to feel dated but
was actually carried well by
talented acting that leaves
you feeling thoroughly emo-
tionally involved in the lives
of these characters. It is a
romcom by all definitions and
it plays out over the course of
one very emotionally charged
day.
We follow the much-travelled
journey of two lifelong friends
finally discovering their feel-
ings for one another, feelings
that are blindingly obvious to
the rest of their friends.
The play tracks the
aftermath of a very boozy
stag/hen night for Keith’s
brother, Dave, and Dave’s
fiancee Lynnie. Keith wakes
up to find his best friend
Amy, played by Daisy Rog-
ers-Simmonds, in his room sat
innocently on a chair waiting
for him with a cup of coffee.
The situation is one he does
not deal with particularly
gracefully. In the audience
we were trying to work out if
he was legitimately hungover
as it was a particularly
relatively engaged with the
characters.
Alongside the story of Keith
and Amy, we also watch
Dave and Lynnie who, despite
supposed to be getting
married the next day, do not
seem particularly keen to
rush home. We follow their
relationship’s ups and downs
through Lynnie thinking she
no longer wants to get mar-
ried, to realising it’s only the
high-maintenance wedding
planner that Dave’s parents
have hired that she’s opposed
to. Whilst the acting itself
can’t be faulted, the text of
the play seems to prevent
the characters developing
enough depth to be genuinely
invested as an audience
member in their lives.
By being set almost entirely
in a single Vegas hotel room,
set changes were kept to
almost none, which definitely
helped keep the transition
between scenes smooth.
Overall, I definitely enjoyed
the performance but it’s
probably not a play I’d be
in a hurry to go and see per-
formed by anyone else.
Abigail de Bruin
DramSoc does
Hair of the
Dog
\\ He’s missing his
dignity but also his
trousers \\
convincing scene.
It then turns out he’s not only
missing his dignity but also
his trousers. He’s also left his
wallet in a wedding chapel.
All of his friends proceed to
be decidedly unhelpful in
helping him get to the bottom
of what happened.
It eventually turns out that
Keith has asked Amy to
marry him. It’s probably not
the most dramatic reveal to
ever happen but you do stay

