10 felixonline.co.uk/science fsci@ic.ac.uk Friday 21 October 2016 Friday 21 October 2016 11
fsci@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/science
felix S C I E N C E
felix
S C I E N C E
James West | 1931 – Present
James West is a U.S. inventor and professor who, in 1962, developed
the electret transducer technology later used in 90% of contemporary
microphones.
He knew he wanted to pursue his interest in science aca-
demically, though his parents were concerned about future job
prospects for an African-American scientist. Undeterred, West
headed to Temple University in 1953 where he received his BSc in Phys-
ics in and was later hired for a full-time position as an acoustical scientist.
\\ John Hopkins University
\\ Howard University
Mark Dean | 1957 – Present
Computer scientist and engineer Mark Dean helped develop a number
of landmark technologies for IBM, including the colour PC monitor and
first gigahertz chip. He holds 3 of the company’s original 9 patents, with
20 more patents associated with his name.
He is credited with helping to launch the personal computer age
with work that made the machines more accessible and powerful.
In 1979, he graduated at the top of his class at the University of Tennessee,
\\ IBM
Charles Drew | 1904 –1950
Charles Drew was an African-American surgeon who pioneered
methods of storing blood plasma for transfusion and organized the first
large-scale blood bank in the U.S.
In 1938, Drew received a Rockefeller Fellowship to study at Colum-
bia. Drew developed a method for processing and preserving blood
plasma. Plasma lasts much longer than whole blood, making it possi-
ble to be stored or “banked” for longer periods of time. His research
served as the basis of his doctorate thesis, “Banked Blood,” making
him the first African-American to earn this degree from Columbia.
Daniel Hale Williams | 1856 – 1931
Daniel Hale Williams was one of the first physicians to perform open-
heart surgery in the United States and founded the first hospital with
interracial staff.
Due to the discrimination of the day, African-American citi-
zens were still barred from being admitted to hospitals and black
doctors were refused staff positions. Believing this needed to
change, in 1891 Williams opened the Provident Hospital and
Training School for Nurses, the nation’s first interracial hospital.
\\ TradingCardsNPS
George Washington Carver | 1864 – 1943
Very few discussions on influential black scientists go by without
mention of George Washington Carver. He was a brilliant botanist
who invented hundreds of products from peanuts and other crops,
producing substances that included plastics, paints, dyes and even a
kind of gasoline.
He was born into slavery in Missouri around 1864. A year later, slavery
was abolished in that area, and his former owner’s wife taught him to read
and write as schools did not take black students. In his free time, he studied
nature and developed a prodigious talent for botany.
\\ NASA
This Black History Month, we’d like to celebrate some black individuals who’ve made significant contributions to science. It’s important to acknowledge the resilience of these individuals, many of
whom faced the very harsh realities of systemic and institutional racism. Most suffered setbacks due to the colour of their skin and some were even born into slavery.
Mae C. Jemison | 1956 – Present
Astronaut, Chemical Engineer, Doctor, Dancer, Actress and all-
round badass Mae C. Jemison made history in 1987 as the first
African-American woman admitted into the astronaut training pro-
gram. As if this wasn’t enough, she blasted off aboard the Endeavour
shuttle in 1992, becoming the first African-American woman in space.
Born in Alabama in 1956, she spent a lot of time growing up reading
about science and was a consistent honours student at school. She finished
high school with a scholarship to study at Stanford where she got a BSc in Chemi-
cal Engineering whilst being head of the Black Students’ Union, and participating
Percy Lavon Julian | 1899 – 1975
Chemist Percy Julian was a pioneer in the synthesis of medicinal drugs
such as cortisone, steroids and birth control pills. Although his race
presented challenges at every turn, he is regarded as one of the most
influential chemists in American history.
Despite earning international acclaim for synthesising a drug that could
treat glaucoma, the university he was researching at still refused to make
him a full professor because of his skin colour.
Julian applied for jobs at prominent chemical companies, but was
repeatedly rejected when hiring managers discovered that he was black.
Ultimately, he obtained a position at Glidden Company as lab director,
\\ National Library of Medicine
\\ ChemHeritage
Patricia Bath | 1942 – Present
Among many firsts, Patricia Bath is the first African American
to complete a residency in ophthalmology, the branch of med-
icine looking at the disorders of the eye. She was also the first
African-American female doctor to receive a medical patent. She
invented the Laserphaco Probe for cataract treatment in 1986.
Through her studies at Columbia University, she discovered that
African Americans were twice as likely to suffer from blindness than
Celebrating black scientists
Eventually in 1891, he began his botanical studies as the first black
student at Iowa State Agricultural College, excelling at his studies
and establishing his reputation as a brilliant botanist.
His ground-breaking research on plant biology brought him to
critical acclaim, but he also did important research on crop rotation
and alternative cash crops for farmers in areas heavily planted
with cotton. His work directly contributed to economic stabilisation
among the black population as he focused his research on strug-
gling farmers who were formerly slaves.
in dance and theatre productions.
She got her M.D. in 1981 and later worked as a GP. For the next
two and a half years she was a Peace Corps Medical Officer in Sierra
Leone and Liberia where she taught and did medical research. When
she got back to the US in 1985, she applied for the astronaut training
program and went on to make history. During her eight days in space,
she conducted experiments on weightlessness and motion sickness on
the crew and herself.
where he invented Aero-Foam, a product that uses soy protein to
extinguish oil and gas fires. He continued his biomedical work,
discovering how to synthesize the hormones progesterone and
testosterone, to be used in hormonal contraception. He was also
lauded for his synthesis of cortisone, which became used in the
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Julian left Glidden and established his own laboratory, in 1954.
He sold the company in 1961, becoming one of the first black
millionaires, before founding Julian Research Institute, a non-profit
organization that he ran for the rest of his life.
other patients to which she attended, and eight times more likely to
develop glaucoma. Her research led her to development a community
ophthalmology system, which increased the amount of eye care given
to those who were unable to afford treatment.
In 1976, Bath co-founded the American Institute for the Prevention of
Blindness, which established that “eyesight is a basic human right.”
where he studied engineering. Not long after college Dean
landed a job at IBM, a company he would become associ-
ated with for the duration of his career. In 1999, Dean led
a team of engineers at IBM’s Austin, Texas, lab to create
the first gigahertz chip—a revolutionary piece of technology
that is able to do a billion calculations a second.
In 1960, West teamed up with fellow scientist Gerhard M. Sessler
to develop an inexpensive, highly sensitive, compact microphone. In
2 years they finished development on the product, which relied on
their invention of electret transducers. By 1968, these microphones
were being mass produced. West’s and Sessler’s invention became
the industry standard, and today can be found in telephones, tape
recorders, camcorders, baby monitors and hearing aids.
As World War II raged in Europe, Drew was asked to head a
special medical effort known as “Blood for Britain.” He organised
the collection and processing of blood plasma from several New
York hospitals, and the shipments of these life-saving materials
overseas to treat casualities in the war.
After creating two of the first blood banks, Drew returned to
Howard University in 1941. He served as a professor there, heading
the university’s department of surgery.
In 1893, Williams continued to make history when he oper-
ated on James Cornish, a man with a severe stab wound
to his chest. Without the benefits of a blood transfusion or
modern surgical procedures, Williams successfully sutured
Cornish’s membranous sac (enclosing the heart), becoming
one of the first people to perform open-heart surgery. Cornish
lived for many years after the operation.
First African-American to have a
national monument dedicated to him
Astronaut, Star Trek actress, teacher and
founder of two technology firms
First African-American examiner for the American Board of
Surgery, collected 14,500 pints of blood during WW2
Founded the National Medical Association, a profes-
sional organization for black medical practitioners,
who were not allowed membership for American
Medical Association
First black chemist elected to the
National Academy of the Sciences in America
Invented the technology that helped to
restore the sight of blind individuals First African-American to become an IBM Fellow
Inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame
Prolific writer and inventor with
more than 250 patents
Eight scientists you should know of
Daniel Ogbonna

