Golf
CLUBS
For all you golf fanatics out there, who
always watch it on TV and have always
wondered how to go about taking it up, 1
went and talked to Andrew Reason,
chairman of the IC Golf Club, to find out
more about the sport.
Before anyone can play golf, you need
a set of golf clubs and proper attire. This
means jeans, trainers and Iron Maiden T-
shirts have to be replaced by golf shoes,
trousers and snazzy jumpers. As for the
golf clubs, you are allowed a maximum
of 14 which may consist of 3 woods, 10
irons and a putter. A new set of clubs can
cost as much as £1000, but novices are
encouraged to buy second hand sets
which cost a mere £200-£300!
Once you have the equipment, you
need somewhere to play. There are
plenty of golf clubs around London, but
with only one drawback - the
membership fee. For your first year with
a club, you can be expected to pay £1500
or more, but from then on this drops to
around £500-£800. However, if you are a
member of the IC Golf Club, the cost to
you would only be £35 - the membership
fee of the club. This is because the IC
club is an affiliated member of Sudbury
Golf Club, thus allowing all its members
to also be affiliated members. The only
catch is that you still have to pay £15 for
each round of 18 holes you play.
However, the IC Union has kindly agreed
to subsidise this cost so long as a receipt,
signed by the Sudbury secretary, is
provided as proof.
Now that you have organised a place to
play, you need to find out how good you
are and get ranked accordingly. This is
done by averaging the scores for your
first 5 rounds of 18 holes, with the
resulting number then referred to as your
handicap. The professionals have
handicaps of less than 1, good amateurs
2-9 and those who just play every once in
a while have handicaps above 20. Once
you have been given a handicap, by
practising and playing more golf you can
bring it down. For each stroke that you
improve by, your handicap decreases by
0.2 approximately.
Novices of golf can also improve their
game with the help of coaching. The club
has made an arrangement with some of
the Sudbury Club professionals to provide
coaching sessions for its members. For £3
you can go out with a group of 6 and get
coached for half an hour. This compares
with paying anything upwards of £20 for
the same lesson, if you tried to find
coaching for yourself.
The IC club itself take an active part in
student golf events organised both within
the UK and abroad. Recently, a team of
three played in a 4 day tournament in
Deauville, France, for the top 50
university teams in Europe. They were
Andrew Reason (handicap 5), Robin Keyte
(8) and Simon Roper (4), and they
12

