managed to finish in the top 20 - quite a
creditable performance. However, the
club captain, Alex Riley, is their number
one player with a handicap of 3. He is
also the captain of the London University
team as well as the Southern Universities
team.
Due to a change of ownership of the
Sudbury Golf Club, it is no longer viable
for them to allow the IC club to be an
affiliated member. Hence the Andrew has
been writing to over 35 clubs around
London, hoping for a new venue. At the
moment Boston Manor sems favourite,
but they will only allow members of the
IC club to play on Wednesday afternoons
during the golfing season (April- October).
However, they are willing to allow the IC
members to come at anytime during the
off season, which is some good news at
least.
Verdict:
Since Nick Faldo's heroics of the previous
years it seems that the cost and
enthusiasm of golf has risen
exponentially. Hence the IC club provides
you with the opportunity to play golf at a
fraction of the real cost but with all the
same facilities provided by a normal golf
club. Having said that, golf is still a very
expensive hobby to pursue - hence it may
only be a pursuit for the real enthusiasts.
But if you are still interested to find out
more, then why not turn up to one of
their meetings at Monday lunchtimes in
the Southside bar.
Olympub!
It was a cold, clear night when the team
from IC and INPG arrived in Alpe d'Huez.
Marc Zanchetta, Tim Parsons, Emmanuel
Omont, Martial Humblot, Emmanuel
Gringarten, and Laurent. They staggered
towards their allocated flat, and collapsed,
sleeping only fitfully in anticipation of the
struggles they knew lay ahead.
The following morning, the gruelling
task of conquering the mountain began.
Equipped with the best gear money could
rent, they proceeded immediately to the
top of the most difficult slope, and with
total disregard for their own safety began
their crash-course in skiing and mountain
survival.
. Later that day, remarkably with limbs
still intact, the more valiant members of
the team proved to be a match for the
best skiers in France and continental
Europe could throw at them. In the first
event, the 'downhill towed-toboggan',
despite cracked ribs and the lack of
camera-angle, the team finished a bitter
second (with only frostbite as a
consolation), but it was a brave start!
The late afternoon saw the second
event, the 'matelas pneumatique'. Again
the 'mixed equipe' giving as good as they
got, retiring only when darkness fell, to
the sanctity of their official residence.
Cleansed and refreshed, the unstoppable
five became the unstoppable six with the
welcome arrival of Ben 'Ski-Man' Turner
esq, official team Champagne Bearer, and
experienced veteran of the black slopes.
In addition to the successful 'downhill
bateau-pneumatique', the second day was
highlighted by an excellent display of
night team skating in the skating relay-
race. A superb performance, equalled by
few other equipes, set the IC/INPG team
firmly in the top ten, cementing their
reputation as a dark horse not be trifled
with. This was only confirmed further at
the discotheque later that night.
The following day, blizzards and fog
cancelled the day's competitive events.
But, bravely undaunted, the team
continued their training, well establishing
their intimate knowledge of the snow
plough. That night, the 'Careers Fair' took
place, although with the benefit of the
Moet & Chandon and Chatreuse
promotions, only some sketchy details are
left of this.
The final day dawned far too brightly.
Aghast at their sudden vulnerability, the
team gulped down their croissants and
rushed to begin the first event, the
downhill BMX. Then the 'descente au ski-
bike'. The person who thought of these
two should be made to pay the medical
insurance premiums for all the
competitors for at least the next five
years. Without disgracing ourselves, we
threw ourselves into the last big event,
the dreaded 'matelas pneumatique'.
In the end, the IC and INPG team came
in at 9th place out of 30. Not bad for a
team consisting of Irish-Italians,
Australians and Anglo-French expatriates!
The real reason behind this article is to
express the gratitude of the team towards
all those who helped us to get to Alpe
d'Huez, both for their encouragement,
footwork and financial support. These
include the Rector, STA travel, the
Department of Aeronautics, the IC Union
the rector of INPG, and especially Lynda
and Liz of the PR office.
Merci pour votre soutien et
enthusiasme!
Fun Run
Tomorrow at 11pm, runners taking part
in the "lOOmph Fun Run" will be starting
off from the Sports Centre. Each
participant can run/jog/walk up to 10
miles in the 1 hour time limit to raise
money for Cancer charities. And it's not
too late to take part!
If you want to raise money for Cancer
Research, sponsorship forms are still
available from the Sports Centre. Simply
collect a form, collar as many people as
possible to sponsor you, and turn up at
the Sports Centre at 10.30am Saturday to
register for the run. Before the start at
11am all runners will be given a number
which will allow them to be timed and
the distance of their run calculated.
The "Fun Run" is being organised by IC
S&WPC which is sponsored by Salomon
Brothers International Limited and
Coopers & Lybrand Deloitte. Our thanks
to all those who have already picked up
sponsorship forms - see you at the
weekend.
Wine
Tasting
In the absence of the Inter-University
Wine Challenge this year, Monday 13
May saw the most important event of the
year for the Wine Tasting Society, the
staff against student competition.
David Rowe, former member of the
society and now editor of Decanter
magazine, set the teams eight wines to
taste asking them to name the grape, the
country, the region, the sub-region, the
vintage and the producer. The reason for
the wry smile Mr Rowe was sporting
through the tasting became evident as the
correct answers were revealed. Mr Rowe
had chosen an interesting and unusual
range of wines from a variety of
countries including Chile and Greece.
Overall, the contest was a close run
thing. The students narrowly won by
scoring 689 compared to the staff's 647.
Also, there was a competition to find the
top individual scorer of each team;
congratulations go to Kevin McKoen of
the students who scored 90 and to Martin
How, an IC Chemistry undergraduate
from 1973 to 1976, who scored 85. Each
took home a bottle of Pol Roger
Champagne, said to be Winston
Churchill's favourite drink.
Commenting on the contest, Diana
Patterson-Fox, of the staff, said 'It was a
good clean fought contest'. However,
Julian Wilson, also of the staff but a
former IC student and society member,
declared 'We woz robbed!' and went on
to claim that the students drank all the
wine before he had had a chance to even
taste it. This was said in jest though.
Many others, both staff and students,
enjoyed the evening and expressed an
interest in repeating the event in future
years.
ICSO
Are you tired of Friday Night revision?
Are you tired of trying to work on
Fridays? Why not make a change and
come to see the Imperial College
Symphony Orchestra perform in the
Great Hall this Friday. We shall be
playing Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto,
Suite from the Sleeping Beauty by
Tchaikovsky, and others including a piece
about the Chinese Chairman Mao's
dancing.
As always with Orchestra concerts
there will be a bar extension until
midnight to complement the evening's
music.
The concert begins at 8pm and is
expected to finish at 10pm. Tickets are £2
for students and £3 for adults on the
door.
DEADLINE!
Monday Latest

