Editoria
After a couple of weeks where there was
virtually nothing to write about, this
week is overflowing with corruption,
scandal, outrageous rent demands, and
more of the fun things that cheer me up
on a Thursday afternoon.
Yet again, Students expected to pay
for Colleges mistakes...
If you've read the news, you should know
that next years rents for College
Accommodation have been released. You
may also of realised that they are just a
tad higher than this year.
In fact, you can have lots of fun with
the list and a calculator. For example,
take your typical room, say a single in
Tizard hall: Currently you'd be paying
£46 for a minimum of 31 weeks. A
couple of quick key-presses later, and you
find out that this amounts to £1426 over
the year. Next year, however, you'd be
paying £52 a week. A few more taps on
good old Mr Calculator, and you see that
this is a 13% rise, with inflation at 10.5%.
But then you realise that you'd be
paying for a minimum of 34 weeks (ie,
you have to pay for Christmas, whether
you're staying or not). So, for the whole
year you'd be paying £1768, which is an
overall increase of 24%, and no, inflation
hasn't changed, it's still only 10.5%
Then there are the rooms where you
have to pay for 38 weeks, which means
paying for both Christmas and Easter.
These rooms are basically aimed at
overseas students, who normally don't go
home until the summer. That's fair
enough, you think. But here comes the
cunning part. Over Easter the
accommodation office runs the Easter
Letting Scheme, where they let out rooms
in halls to people attending conferences,
etc. Now, when they do that, the people
concerned normally want a block letting,
where all the rooms on, for example, two
staircases, are let to a specific company
or group of people. To enable them to do
this the accommodation office want to
allocate certain areas in hall as being 38
week rooms, and the others as 34 week
rooms. This, as a pure coincidence, will
mean that the majority of the overseas
students will be living in one or two
'blocks' in a hall, which strikes me as
being a brilliant way to encourage
integration within a hall. Mmmm.
So why are they doing this? Well, as I
noted last week, the accommodation
sector of College has debts currently.,
totalling about £20.5 million, which is
even more than my overdraft, and which
has interest repayments alone of £1.7
million. How did they get this far in the
red? Well, one would be tempted to
assume there has been some bad
management at some point. As I said last
week, Estates Director Gordon Marshal
told me he could not comment on past
management decisions. But when asked
why therewas such a large debt, he
claimed that the level of borrowing must
of been seen to be reasonable at the
time. That's very likely, isn't it? I mean
£20.5 million seems like a reasonable
level of borrowing...
Getting back to reality, there have
definitely been some big boo-boos. The
one that immediately springs to mind is
Clayponds, which cost £11 million. Now,
Estates will deny this, but the purchase of
Clayponds was inherently linked to the
sale of Montpelier Hall (I've read the
paper given at the meeting which decided
what to do). At the time when the
decisions were being made College was
informed that Montpelier would raise £7.5
to £10 million, which covers the majority
of Clayponds.
However, College was unable to sell
Montpelier for conversion into a hotel
(the original plan), due to a problem with
the deeds, which stated that the site had
to be used for educational purposes. For
this screw-up, College Business Manager
Tom Stevens lost his job (yet again,
College will deny this, but they haven't
given any other reason, it was his job to
check these things, and the timing of the
dismissal was far too close for it to be a
coincidence). This left College a bit stuck:
They'd paid out £11 million, and were
unable to get any money back. On top of
this, Government regulations state that
College Accommodation has to be self
financing, so College couldn't use any of
its University Funding Council grant to
get them out of the poo-poo. On top of
this, when they eventually do sell
Montpelier, they'll only be getting £4-5
million.
So, we are left with a situation where
Accommodation is in a teensy bit of
financial trouble, and in order to help get
themselves out of a mess they created,
College has decided to screw the students
over for even more money. In addition to
this they intend to screw-up the
atmosphere and integration of the halls
by effectively segregating overseas
students. What a good idea...
I've got a far more cunning one. The
way I see it, the major purpose of College
Accommodation in London is to provide
cheap accommodation with easy access to
college, primarily for Freshers, the
majority of whom haven't lived in
London and/or on their own before, and
thus are in the greatest need. The current
plan is not really achieving this. So why
not sell Clayponds?
What you do is wait a year, until all the
renovations are finished. Then you've got
a site which is half brand new, and half
lived in for a year. Given the increase in
land value and the renovation work, it's
got to be worth £15 million. By this time
Montpelier should have been sold, which
is another £5 million or so, and, Hey
Presto, all the problems have
disappeared! The ideal way to do it
would be to find a potential buyer now,
who would be willing to put down a
deposit on the site, thus paying off the
interest for this year. Then you don't
have to put up the rents, and as
Clayponds was never intended for
Freshers, you don't impinge upon your
ability to promise a year in hall to all
new students. Pretty cunning, heh? The
chances of college doing this, or even
looking into it? What do you think?
Meet the man responsible
Union President Paul Shanley is trying to
organise a question- and-answer session
with Estates Director Gordon Marshal,
involving a couple of people from each
Hall of residence , to discuss
accommodation issues. If you'd like to be
involved, give him a ring on internal
3501, or pop into the Union Office and
have a chat...
Staff Meeting:
Monday 1pm.
Credits:
Printing and Typesetting: Andy and
Rose
News Editor: Stef
Arts Editors: Matt and Sumit
Books Editor: Michael
Music Editor: John
Clubs Editor: Khurrum
The Team: Adam, Jonty, Nige, Ian, Dom,
Steve, and all the reviewers.
The Collators: Damn good question at
this point...?!
Transport: Sam
Alcohol Procurer: Louise
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by
the Imperial College Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel 071-225 8672).
Editor: Andrew Butcher, Manager: Chris Stapleton,
Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Copyright Felix
1991. ISSN 1040- 0711.
15

