l.NION
Union Page
Benjamin T u r n e r , ICU D P
1. Careers Service
Board of Studies has now been notified of
the impending transition of the Careers
Service, following the decision of the non-
policy making Management Planning
Group to disaffiliate from the University
of London Careers Advisory Service
(ULCAS).
At the recent meeting of the Careers
Advisors Committee, the first since the
decision to disaffiliate was taken, several
useful suggestions were forthcoming from
the ULCAS Careers Advisors concerning,
among other things, the technique that
could be used to select the future
Director of the Careers Service.
Russ Clark, present Director of the
Careers Service, and the other ULCAS
careers advisors currently with the
Imperial College service, will depart
during July this summer.
Indications are that Kings College and
other colleges of University of London
are also investigating disaffiliation from
the central service. One of the strong
arguments in the debate here for
disaffiliating is that the Imperial College
service could now buy back into those
services at ULCAS that it will not be able
to provide effectively. It would be a
shame if so many colleges disaffiliated
that ULCAS either ceases to be, or
becomes a very different, skeletal
organisation that loses its strengths and
therefore is not be able to provide the
same level of service.
One worry for students at Imperial
College must be that certain costs might
now be passed onto students. In this
respect, I would draw your attention to
the factual (as opposed to opinion)
elements of Andy Butcher's Editorial of
3rd May, 1991, which voices this concern
that Imperial College may have sold out
so that in the long term Imperial College
students have to buy in.
History aside, the arrival of the next
Director of the Careers Service is
anxiously awaited, so that new
management motives can be determined.
If we do not continue to strive for the
best service that can possibly be
provided, what point is there in recruiting
amongst the best school-leavers and
giving them arguably the best technical
education in the country? Our graduates
should be placed in the best positions
available, and this requires a Careers
Service of excellence.
2. College Day
The Board of Studies also received a
report from Professor Alan Swanson
concerning the deliberations of the
Working Party on the College Day.
I attended that meeting, along with Kevin
Tilbrook ("Shades"), the RCS Union
Academic Affairs Officer, as the student
representatives. Supporting Shades' letter
to Felix (3rd May), I was amazed just how
close the College was to operating a
9.00am to 6.00pm working day from the
start of the next academic session. The
Rector had himself suggested, from the
Chair, its inception "as an experiment".
Once down that track, of course, there
would be no turning back.
Fortunately, enough strong views were
immediately expressed for a deferral of
the discussion to the next Board of
Studies pending a further attempt to
persuade the student populace of the
wisdom of such a change.
The Rector has now volunteered himself
for an informal "Rector's Question Time",
date yet to be arranged, but obviously
before the next Board of Studies on 12th
June. He will open himself up to
questions from students concerning any
aspect of student life at Imperial College,
although one of the main topics will be
the length of the college day.
This is not an opportunity normally
afforded to students in any academic
institution in the country - don't waste it.
3. Access Funds
A brief note. The Working Party on
Access Funds has agreed that next year's
allocation should be equally split between
two groups of recipients.
Roughly half of the allocation will be
used to facilitate access for those with
limited resources who are presently
considering going into further education,
which is the intention of the Government
for the introduction of the funds. This will
be in the form of reasonably sized
bursaries.
The other part of the funds will be used
to deal with financial hardship that
students already at the College are
experiencing. Though details are yet to
be finalised with Registry, the indication
is that applications for the hardship
element of the funds will be invited early
in the spring term of the next session.
Benjamin Turner,
ICU Deputy President.
CUP FINAL
This Saturday
BAR OPEN
FROM 1pm
BIG T V
Union E G M
Tuesday 21st May
Bylaw Changes
1 o'clock
JCR
BE THERE!!!!! (pleeeease)

