Ambulance Theft strike?
The Imperial College Ambulance which was broken into
The Imperial College Ambulance was
broken into last week and approximately
£500 of emergency equipment was stolen.
Amongst the articles were several gas
cylinders, two containing nitrous oxide
(laughing gas) and an entinox unit, used
to administer the gas to patients in severe
pain.
The gas creates a high and, since the
entinox unit was taken rather than other
more valuable equipment, the red cross
believe that it was taken for personal use
rather than sale on the black market.
Security are connecting the theft with the
find of an empty Nitrous Oxide Cylinder
in Beit Quad two weeks ago.
The police have been called in to solve
the crime, but no progress has been
made as of yet. To prevent further thefts,
the ambulance, situated outside the
Sherfield building is to be fitted with a
car alarm which will sound upon any
unauthorised entry.
Roger Serpell, Head of the Imperial
College Red Cross Service, is asking
anybody who knows of the theft to
return the articles anonymously, as they
are an important part of the ambulance's
equipment.
Security recommends that anybody
using Nitrous Oxide should go the see the
Health Centre to talk about Medical
Consequences of persistent use.
Pillage
Thefts were reported yesterday in
Falmouth Keogh and Tizard Halls when
unlocked rooms were looted for money
and valuables.
Dr John Hassard, warden of Selkirk and
Tizard Halls informed Felix that two
students in Falmouth Keogh had lost £50
and £60 respectively, and that at least
two Tizard residents had been robbed.
Since there was no evidence of forced
entry, there is little likelihood of a
successful insurance claim.
Undergraduate places might be reduced
next year, when College closes Fisher
Hall's single rooms to all but 51 week
rents. This will mean that anyone not
wishing to stay in London over the entire
summer will not be able to afford to live
there, effectively leaving the places open
only to postgraduates, and some foreign
students.
Fisher Hall's, Southside's, Linstead's and
Weeks' single rooms are to rise in rent
from £46 to £52 per week. In addition to
this, a hidden price rise has also been
included. This takes the form of
compulsory Christmas leasing. From next
year, all students in College rooms will
have to pay rent for the whole of the
Christmas vacation, regardless of whether
they are staying in London, or whether
they will be storing luggage in their
rooms. This gives an effective 9% rent
increase, making total effective rise of
over 20%.
Other increases include a rise in
deposits form £50 to £75, and the notice
which must be given to quit a room will
be increased to one term, making it more
difficult to move out of a College room.
Union President, Paul Shapley,
described the changes as 'terrible',
commenting that it had been seventeen
years since the last campus-wide rent
strike.
Hot Air
Imperial College may be about to change
its suppliers of industrial gases. In the
coming week Mr Greaves, Imperial
College's Purchasing Officer, will be
meeting with its present suppliers, British
Oxygen Company (BOC), and rival
company, Air Products Limited.
At present Imperial provides 10% of the
total academic market for gases, but still
pays the same rate charged by BOC to
other smaller consumers. Mr Greaves said
that he did want to 'prop up other
Universities' and that the savings made
by changing supplier would more than
justify any administrative difficulties
incurred.
Mr Greaves said that the move was not
yet definite, as BOC might drop their
prices to keep the custom of Imperial
College, due to the possibility that our
move might cause a domino effect
through other Universities. He said that
the decision was part of a 'general
restructuring of College Finances during a
recession period'.

