Fete Worse than Death
Last Saturday's Rag Fete suffered from a
lack of student attendance. The Fete,
which in past years has been termed a
success, had a poor turnout and
consequently made little money. The
Queen's Lawn, the usual venue, was
abandoned due to the college having
removed the turf.
Publicity for the event beforehand was
low key with posters appearing only a
short time before the event. Raffle tickets
were on sale the week before, but were
not widely available, reducing the money
gained and attendance yet further. Their
technique lacked the organisation shown
by the people collecting on behalf of
Christian Aid on Monday around College.
Seventeen stalls were listed in last
weeks Felix, the day before the fete, but
an estimated half that number were
counted on the day. The people in
attendance numbered less than one
hundred spaced thoughout the afternoon,
not including the onlookers from the
Halls of Residence surrounding Prince's
Gardens. Only a fraction of the 400
balloons were actually released due to
lack of interest. In total some £300 was
taken over the afternoon with a net profit
of £100. The Karaoke night, organised by
UNICEF, was thought to a good idea by
most, but was also marred by lack of
numbers.
Flemming Heino, this year's event
organiser blamed the poor turnout on
poor publicity and the fact that there was
no rag Fete last year. The Rag Chairman
is planning to make next year's Rag Fete
much larger and to have a 'proper rag
week like other Universities'. Winners of the 1991 Hide and Seek Finals
No Ball
Games
The Evelyn Gardens end of year ball has
been cancelled because permission cannot
be obtained to use the land behind the
West side of the gardens.
The trustees of the garden, Cluttons,
refused to give their permission for the
party when they were asked by Colin
Church, subwarden of Southwell Hall.
They justified this response by saying that
they could not give their consent because
of the inconvenience that it would cause
local residents. Negotiations began, but
even the offer of extending invitations to
private residents and finishing the ball at
midnight failed to sway the trustees.
Individual houses are now planning
their own end of year parties separately,
and may use the iand without permission,
as in past years.
EGM Tues
Paul Shanley, Union President has called
an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM)
deal with rearrangements within the
structure of the Union. The EGM, which
will take place at 1.00pm on Tuesday in
the JCR, will contain motions to abolish
several Union posts without which the
Union council should be able to run more
easily. Mr Shanley claims that the
changes will be purely internal, and that
any student not heavily involved in the
Union office would notice no change.
Whoops
Chris Browne, the driver of the Union
minibus towed away by police last week,
has had another mishap. Driving into
Princes' Gardens, again in a Union van,
he hit a parked car, believed to belong to
the sports centre manager. Neither the
manager, thought to be on holiday, or
Mr Browne were available for comment.
H A I R D R E S S E R S
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D ,
S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N
071-823 8968
We have a fantastic offer for all you
students, a cut wash and blowdry
by our top stylist
(which normally costs around £21)
For only £11 Men £12 Women
Check us out !

