The Slow Moving Snail rants insanely.
Books for Sanity
Depressed Outlaw in the Hills
I am depressed. I am attempting to
discover whether it is me or this place.
Do I fail to communicate or is there an
atmosphere that destroys attempts to talk.
1 have written for Felix over the past
weeks, and apart from talking to my
brother these are the most important
things I have had to say. I have stayed
up two nights a week, writing, pasting-up
and collating this magazine. Why?
Because I feel the need to express my
humanity, to use that tool we are taught
and that enables us to think, language.
There are three types of students here,
at least, those who fit in and enjoy the
environment, those who find it depressing
but avoid it by living their non-time table
hours outside, and those who prevent
their self-destruction by forming 'support'
groups that listen to each other's attempts
to seek sympathy. Of course there is that
group who leave. A more useful survey
for the college and the Union would be
into these attitudes and their causes.
My problem has been trying to survive
as a member of this community. Well,
here's my weekly attempt to be human.
I feel that I want to be gay. This is not a
feeling of sexual attraction to men. It is
because of the power play, the pain and
anguish, the use and abuse of people's
feelings and sometimes bodies. The
pressures, the misunderstandings, the
sense of ownership, the betrayals of
mutual respect. We are heterosexually
brought up to be psychologically crippled
and dangerous. I write as someone taught
at an all boys' Grammar School, shy and
scared of girls. Scared of failure.
I don't think I am simply reflecting my
own problems onto the rest of you.
Though I am sure my honesty can
provide an easy target for DIY
'psychiatrists', those people whose
pleasure it is to cut up their living victims
characters. How do we teach each other
of 'Morse'. His new book is
autobiographical.
'Outlaw in the Hills - A Writer's Year'
tells his story in two intertwining parts;
the diary of a year and flashbacks to his
childhood. His honesty provides a
delightfully funny series of events mixed
with the tragedy of his father's death and
the injustice dealt to him by his
headmaster. He describes his treatment as
a script writer for television, continuously
being let down. His plays are avoided by
the West End because of their portrayal
of homosexuality. The British Medical
Council 'commission' him as an unpaid
script writer for a series of films on AIDS
for doctors. His positive portrayal of gays
is too much for the BMA, who are
worried about upsetting their homophobic
'Finding a Gent's toilet in the BMA's magnificent HQ building
would baffle a professional treasure hunter. I've come to the
conclusion doctors only use glass jars.'
to love or care? So many times, when
faced with someone who has problems,
how many times do we avoid them or
exacerbate them with laughter, mimicry
and the ongoing jokes. These are
responses of people who seek their own
confidence and self-respect through the
troubles of others. In the world of
competition those who -re weak are
destroyed, human dignity is lost.
I feel I want to be gay because of their
sense of humanity, of love, of self-respect.
This is of those who have survived and
grown stronger through their ordeals with
our intolerant society, without accepting
our altar to self-destruction.
'Daddy! Daddy! When I grow-up I want
to be human. Please daddy, let me be.'
Michael Wilcox's plays examine the
issues of homosexuality. 'Massage' is
about the abuse of a young man and the
confusion of responsibilities and ethics.
His other works include 'Rents' - about
rent boys; 'Lent', 'Accounts' and 'Green
Fingers'. He has also scripted an episode
Gripping Reality
Agrippina is a fourteen year old girl with
a five year old brother that sings to
himself and bangs his head against walls
in experimentation, a father attempting to
write poetry about an oyster that is too
yellow, a mother who raises her
daughter's spirits by rallying against life
and sagging bums, a boyfriend called
Modern who plans to make an
existentialist statement by randomly
throwing a burger in a restaurant, and
breasts too big for her mother's bras. Her
members. Heavy editing, and arguing,
take place. Meanwhile the cricket season
begins...
This book is autobiography at its best.
Passionate commentary expresses an
anger at his treatment as a playwright, a
deep sense of injustice for the prejudice
against his sexuality, and a love of the
small village community where he lives
and captains their cricket team. He
describes his late discovery of
masturbationwith the humour that
pervades the book.
When I feel a book in my hands, smell'
the pages as they are flicked by my
thumb, I feel that this is a part of
someone's mind, their ideas. This book
does not disappoint that expectation. It
fulfills those entertainment requirements
of any book, but further gives us a
powerful sense of the humanity of the
writer. In doing so it excites the reader's
own sense of worth. To read it is a
celebration.
world, as drawn by the French cartoonist,
Claire Bretecher, will be hitting our
bookstores at the end of the month. A
wonderful present for your teenage sister,
but read it first. An antidote to all those
cartoons that blow people/aliens away
with mega-guns whilst mega breasts
barely hide their nipples. Sad, what can
become intellectualised just by putting it
into a comic, oops, I mean pictorial story
magazines.
Both these books are published by
Methuen. 'Outlaw in the Hills', ISBN
0-413-64910-5, hardback at £14.99.
'Agrippina',ISBN 0-413- 63850-2, hardback
at £6.99.
4

