L.A. Story
After his disappointing box office
and critical performance in My Blue
Heaven, Steve Martin returns to
form with the very amusing LA Story.
In the movie, Martin plays Harris K
Telemacker, a TV weatherman. Stuck in
a relationship with a girlfriend he has
little in common with, and a job that
embarrasses him, salvation emerges when
fate brings him to an electronic freeway
sign with a mind of its own, which tells
him his life is about to change. This may
all sound completely ridiculous but it is
very enjoyable stuff. The plot, such as it
is, revolves around Martin and real life
wife, Victoria Tennant, trying to find true
love with each other amidst the urban
jungle of Los Angeles.
Martin gives an unusually restrained
performance, and the chemistry between
himself and Tennant works well. Richard
E Grant is good as Tennant's thoroughly LA itself, as Steve Martin (who also wrote
English ex-husband, and Sarah Jessica the script) beautifully pokes fun at the
Parker is terrific as the energetic, pretentiousness and downright stupidity
nymphomaniac shop assistant who gets often found in LA society,
involved with Martin. The movie is filled with wry comments
However the real star of the movie is and witty remarks on contemporary LA
Julia Has Two Lovers
Julia (Daphna Hastner) has one
lover, Jack (David Charles), who
wants to marry her. He also wants
her to be chained to the kitchen sink so
she is a little undecided. As Jack leaves
for work she receives a phone call, a
wrong number. This quickly develops into
a heart to heart, a swapping of intimate
experiences and sexual technique, first
verbally then in practice. Therefore Julia
now has two lovers (where did they get
the title from?). Unfortunately Daniel
(David Duchovny) makes dates by wrong
numbers as a hobby. While Daniel
decides Julia is the one for him, she is
not pleased about his pastime. She
L a A m i g a
nSet Argentina, during and after the
years of fascist dictatorship, La
Amiga centres on two women's
friendship, their lives and dreams, which
are utterly transformed by the terrible
realities of political events.
The film starts with the two characters'
childhood in Buenos Aires, when Raquel,
despised by other kids because of her
Jewish origin, gets protection from Maria.
They thus develop an ever-lasting
friendship and promise to become
actresses. • . . *.
Years later, Raquel does become a
famous Argentine actress and the lover of
a politician, while Maria goes for the life
of a typical housewife with a husband
and three kids. The eldest of them is
involved in an underground political
reforms her life and concludes in a new
liberated way of life.
As well as having a lousy Mills and
Boon plot, David Charles cannot act to
save his testicles from a barbecue, and
can barely remember his lines. Through
the deadpan acting, little sympathy
develops for any of the characters'
terrible plights.
Despite this the film does have saving
graces. The seduction over the telephones
is truly intimate and gently light-hearted.
Although some of the confessions appear
to have been lifted from a Just 17
problem page. The lovers' final drunken
meeting is funny as they bargain over
movement and disappears after the arrest
by the government's secret forces. Maria
asks for Raquel's help, who in turn is
threatened and has to flee for West
Germany where she leads a life totally
different from the glamour she had
enjoyed in Argentina. Meanwhile, Maria
joins other mothers who also have
missing children and demonstrates at
different places. Raquel realises how
much Maria has changed when the latter
goes to Germany to meet a friend of her
lost son. Because of her uncompromising
character, Maria refuses to believe her
son is dead. When military dictatorship in
Argentina comes to an end in 1983,
Raquel returns to Buenos Aires, only to
find it hard to start her career all over
again, while Maria still refuses her child's
life. There is also a fair share of wild
madcap comedy (a gunfight on the
freeway for one thing!) and this mixture
of styles works surprisingly well.
There are some fun jokes based on
Shakespeare quotes, including the 'grave
digging' scene from Hamlet, cameos from
Rick Moranis and Chevy Chase, and even
a reference to that classic Steve Martin
movie—The Man with Two Brains, as he
reads the poem Pointy Birds.
British director Mick Jackson handles
things well, at a fast, yet comfortable
speed, whilst making very good use of
the Los Angeles locations.
Steve Martin fans will love the movie,
but even if you're not a big fan of his,
you should still enjoy his exaggerated yet
poignant observations of life in LA.
The movie also contains some crackling
dialogue—'Darling, your breasts feels
strange' says Martin, 'Oh, that's because
they're real' comes the reply, and despite
one or two overly sentimental scenes, LA
Story adds up to 95 minutes of great
entertainment.
The Don.
who is to 'have' Julia.
Of course the film is set in Los Angeles;
this is a pain, as you could get the idea
that Hollywood is the twisted Mecca of
Western art; the plot appears to be strung
together around the sound idea of a
seduction by wrong number, so all the
other parts of the film are flimsy in
comparison. Daphna Kastner, who wrote
the script as well as starring has to be
congratulated for this achievement. All
the same a higher level of sexual drama
is witnessed in Sex, Lies and Videotape,
which is practically the same plot, just far
superior.
Jonty.
death and continues as the leader of the
mothers.
Argentinian director Jeanine Meeraptel
opts for an emotional approach for the
film, making it a political version of
Beaches. It will attract a wider audience
despite its serious background. But
powerful scenes like the mothers'
demonstration are made in a sentimental
way. The idea of comparison of the
Argentinians' fever for the World Cup,
with their indifference towards the futile
government is good but turns out to be
too dramatic. However, these minor flaws
in the film are covered by a strong script
and outstanding performances,
particularly that of Liv Ullmanj, from a
shy housewife to a self-confident leader of
the women.
S. Su.

