FEATURES
Daniel Shields on Imperial's trip to the Edinburgh Fringe.
Theatre West End
'Spring has sprung', or at least is
springing, and the perennial debate about
where to go on this year's InterRail ticket
has already started in the otherwise
exam-bound towers of Imperial College.
However, there is another choice; forget
the relative merits of Prague and
Budapest over Paris and Berlin, and
consider for the moment the dreamy
(ivory?) avenues of sunny Edinburgh, and
the largest arts festival in the world.
Every year ICU Dramatic Society goes
'on tour' to the Fringe Festival in
Edinburgh. This involves the whole of the
society, both the acting and the technical
side, for we run the largest student venue
on the Fringe. We hire a church hall (on
Princes Street) for virtually the whole of
August, which, in four days, we turn into
a theatre. Then for the three weeks of
the festival we have a large number of
different companies sub-letting from us,
while we also stage two plays ourselves.
Finally in one night we 'strike' the set
and flee back to grimy London.
'Saint John's Church has been the venue
run by TWE for countless years. It has a
quite remarkable seat, underlooking the
magnificent castle, that imposes itself on
the end of the Royal Mile. People flock to
it from the four corners of the town to
admire the wonderful performances
that...that...that; oh dear...is that
enough?'—TWE Exec.
DramSoc travels in the guise of TWE,
'Theatre West End' (our large yellow sign
will no doubt be familiar to any visitors
to the Fringe) and our brief is to provide
a comprehensive service to our sub-lets.
From managing entries in the Fringe
Programme, to selling tickets, from
running the front of house to providing
technical support, it all has to be done.
This may sound a little hectic, but there
will be a large team running the venue,
and so everyone will be able to see their
fill of wierd and wonderful shows and, of
course, soak-up their fair share of Diet
Pepsi in the Fringe Club.
Coupled closely with T W E is TWEP or
'Theatre West End Productions'. This is
the company of actors that go up from
Imperial to perform. This year we have
two 'slots' (two hours a day running for
two of the three weeks of the festival),
currently the plan is for two shows
running alternately. This year we have
chosen the children's plays The Hour of
the Werewolf and Mr A's Amazing Maze
Plays. Whether or not these reach the
same level of critical acclaim as 1989's
shows Huis Clos and Funeral Games
depends largely on you!
'It is great fun to work with the sub-
lets, as long as they don't blaspheme too
much (well it is a church after all), and
even if they do it only adds to the
excitement really. I mean, well, we had
the press here last year after being
(wrongly) accused of censorship, of course
it only served to boost our ticket
sales...'—TWE Administrator.
You may be wondering just how you can
bluff your way into this close knit circle.
Many skills are required, however they
divide broadly into two halves, acting and
technical; both of these are vital to the
running of the venue. The acting side
does not only require people to stand on
stage pretending to be Oliviers/as, but
also:
Make-up artists. Hair, face, hands and
sometimes whole bodies have to have
liberal quantities of colourful greasy paint
smeared over them. The requirements
are to be able to compliment people's
hair, pretend to be from a Philadelphia
advert, and know the difference between
mascara and eye-liner.
Stage managers. Must be able to
remember where the props from the last
performance landed when the cast ran
through the dressing room, restrain
themselves from eating any of the edible
props while waiting for the show to start
and sympathise with disconsolate
thespians when they miss-accentuate the
third word of their seventeenth line in
the second act. Anyone interested must
be able to win at pelmanism and
understand the rules of Mornington
Crescent.
Set-designers. Those wonderful studios
don't just appear overnight. This job
straddles any remaining vestiges of the
ancient actor/techie split. There are
needs such as balancing the flamboyancy
of an over-enthusiastic director, with the
possibilities allowed by having to erect
and dismantle the entire show in about
fifteen minutes. Restraining the urges of a
light-crazed Technical Director preventing
psychedelic outbursts mid-way through
the wooing of two lovers (on stage...). Or
simply ensuring that there are enough
exits from the set to allow the play to be
performed. Potential candidates should be
able to shout in tune and use an electric
screwdriver without amputating any
limbs.
Clearly a good cast is vital to the tour.
So anyone who feels they might like to
follow in the footsteps of Peter Cooke, or
Dudley Moore, or Rowan Atkinson or Fry
and Laurie, or Joe Mangel (sic) or Ben
Elton or of any one of countless thespians
who have trodden any of the various
borads at this world renowned festival,
should at least be very interested.
8
Dramsoc Goes North
Qualifications are minimal, self-control (or
failing this naivety); in reality they are
laughing A T you, not WITH you.
Expression the old maxim still holds true
'always be sincere, whether you mean it
or not', (Oh, and it does help to be able
to learn the odd few lines of dialogue).
'Edinburgh is nice in the summertime;
there are many butterfies skating through
the warm summer breeze, young couples
playing gaily on the green...shit I forgot
the bit at the rest. That'll do that'll do.
Let's have a good sharking'—TWE
Thespian.
Many people are also required to help
run the technical side of the venue
(affectionately known as Techies).
Lights. If you came to the last carnival
in the Union Building then you might
have noticed our Lighting Director,
attention rapt, beads of sweat forming on
his brow, drinking Pineapple Tango. He is
standing at the back of the concert hall,
playing an instrument with more keys
than a piano. Times would appear to
have advanced a bit from standing by the
door playing with the dimmer switch, for
he was controlling the lights. There is
more to this than at first appears. The
lighting 'rig' has to be designed, the lights
obtained, hung, pointed, set and only
then can they be turned on and off!
Anyone interested in (or with an aptitude
for...) climbing large scaffolding towers,
creating monsters out of cables and sticky
tape or seeing just how much power can
be drawn from a wall socket, should
consider this.
Sound. I think that it is a myth that
people who work on sound have to
chain-smoke, but most of DramSoc would
be very glad to have it proved to them.
Equally it would be nice to have someone
around who, when faced with the
equivalent power of ten large Hi-Fi units
running together, did not insist in
checking the stability of the foundations
to Hawkwind! Clearly though this is a
very demanding side of the theatre.
Sound effects tapes have to be made up
to order, spliced when the director
decides that your long sought after rabid
goldfish sounds more like a trout on heat,
and then palyed on cue (bearing in mind
that the actors usually rewrite the entire
script between the last dress rehearsal
and the first performance). Try this if you
are interested in razor blades, or dry
sherry.
There is also a whole class of jobs that
will be shared around amongst everyone
who comes with us to the Festival. We
have a box-office that has to be manned
all day (if only to cash cheques from the
rest of the crew). The sub-letting
companies have to be tended; because
plays are run throughout the day in quick
succession there is only a short time to
set-up and dismantle each performance.
And, of course, the audience, screaming,
shouting and (hopefully) numbering about
one hundred, have to be ushered in and
out (and have the requisite amount of
money exacted from them).
'What is that woman doing? You know
you just can't get the cast these days, it's
just no good. But that rig, gives me that
long thing from the head of a
rhinoceros...where's that POG (pint of
Guinness)...—TWE Techie.
Clearly there are many possibilities and if
you fancy something a little different
from backpacking across the Himalayas
this August come and see us. We will 'be
throwing a party on the Union Concert
Hall stage this coming Wednesday at 1pm
for everyone interested in anything.
There will be a chance to meet everyone
who is already involved in this strange
sport, and decide which of.the groups
above you wish to be involved in. After
the FREE LUNCH there will be the first of
the auditions for the TWEP plays.
So that is the Edinburgh Fringe Festival
DramSoc style. Of course it is 'a
wonderful opportunity', 'not to be missed',
and so on, if you are interested in joining
our merry bunch for the month of August
(or just some of it) then come along to
our party. Or failing that contact the
DramSoc storeroom (college extension
3531) any lunchtime.
Party details
It is free
It is on the Concert Hall
Stage (Union Building)
It starts at 1pm on
Wednesday 22 May
Actors: TWEP will be
recruiting cast and support.
Techies: Auditions for
everything from mixing
sound to changing light bulbs
It is free
Daniel Shields
9

