Swans
—White Light LP
A rabbit stands in a heart-shaped pool of
blood. It is wearing knickerbockers, a red
shirt and yellow bow-tie. It is pointing a
carrot westwards. It is ignoring me
resolutely, content within its own sense of
existence.
A variety of eyes stare out and beyond
me. It is an enlightening, but also
belittling, experience they present for me
as the mordant intricacies of the opening
tracks etch their way in. Imagine
something simultaneously brutal and
gently insidious and you may have an
idea of the sounds; this music is a sonic
scalpel.
Two years later, after The Burning
World and a disastrous involvement with
a major record label, Michael R Gira
returns to expose his child on the world
stage once more. No shade of this pale,
glittering figure is left unexplored, though
it seems devoid of prostitution; and while
it is neither rejecting or rejected, there is
a fairly bloody-minded approach to all
external forces, and a very great sense of
being. To itemise all the elements of this
thing would be a waste of time, because
it is clearly greater than the sum of its
parts, but what is it? Goth? No. Goth is
far too small a word for this.
'I can't even elegantly bleed out the
poisoned blood of failure.' This is how I
feel trying to write this. When Japboe
sings, it's how one imagines an angle
would sound, but when Gira delivers his
lyrics, its with a poignancy and a wryness
reminiscent of Nick Cave at his peak.
This is the best album I have heard in too
long a time (wakey, wakey, Spiggy). So I
can't contribute anything to its greatness.
That both it and I exist is enough for me.
A. J . A y e r .
Cranes
—Adoration 7"
To say that the Cranes produce a mixture
of Cocteaus and Valentines would be an
over simplification. Liz warbles whilst
Alison gargles. Alison sounds like she's
drowning. Not in anything 'orrible and
terminal but in something warm, amber
and pleasant... It's that post-post exam
feeling. You suddenly realise that, hey, its
summer and you've fuck all to do for 3
months. So there you go.
John.
10
Intastella
—Dream Some Paradise EP
This is an extract from the press release
that came with the Intastella's Dream
Some Paradise EP:
"The music..dayglo trips pulling the bits
of yellow sub beatles bubblegum end of
Jim Morrison, Doors, the MC5, like all
strands of pop that glowed with colour
and wackoid style, placed neatly on a
bubbling dancebeat and Stella's neat coo
that breathes sex, a twisting tripping
technicolour, soundtracking a nineties
Barbarella. Glam Rock not played by
thickies, nineties music coloured in by
non-fatties, this is pop in the hands of
subversives, close your eyes and float
upstream, armed with a handful of crazy
colour felt tip pens and a head."
"While Martin Wright cuts axe hero
cred with required land long hair
presence nailing down the melody line on
the six string or whatever comes to hand
'Don't forget the mention I play the
keyboard' he mumbles enigmatically.
Then Anthony dances his way past a
Billy whizzened twitch straight from
Afflecks Palace tripped out stall clutter
and on krazee stage muppet mode."
Shame really, its a good record.
Lise Yates and A n n a B
Blue Pearl
—Alive 12"
"Take me dancing naked in the rain, la la
la, la la la." The third single from Blue
Pearl, remixed by the ubiquitous Youth,
sounds sod all like that particular piece of
turgid dirge, and Blue Pearl's distinctive
soul voice pervades through Youth's
finest efforts to include this on his
"Narrow Variations On A Theme". He
even had a hand in writing this, which
may or may not explain the cliched lyrics
but the overall effect is still generally
pleasing. (Which is more than I can say
for the B- side: It sounds like the
Eurythmics, and it's crap.)
Lise Yates.
Young Gods
-Play Kurt Weil LP
A laugh a minute, this one. I was
thinking, "Mad Swiss trio in favourite
dead composer shock" as I perused the
sleeve notes. Kurt Weill, avant-garde
composer, best remembered for The
Threepenny Opera with Bertolt Brecht,
has been exhumed again, and only the
bones remain....
"Sie Werden jetzt eine oper fur Bettler
Horen" intones the singer, by way of
introduction. The question is, who will
admit to being a beggar, aesthetically
speaking? I like this. This one irony is
enough to see me through the minor
atmospherics and laughable German
accents; through the fairground waltz of
Salomon Song, the sculptured dirge of
Machie Messer, Speak Low, etc...
In parts, however, this sort of histrionic
bluster gets a bit like "dead composer
decomposing". Yes, another old joke. Ute
Lemper did a better version of September
Song, too. That's it chaps. What d'you
want? Blood? Give me something to get
enthusiastic about then.
A . Beggar
MC4
-Camden Underworld 27.4.91
Every misfit had made their way to
Camden for the culmination of long tour
for the MC4. It must have been
something in the beer, for as the band
arrived, grinning, on stage they found
that in fact the crowd were not people,
but crusty old sea dogs, drooling at the
mouth, waiting for pops pirates, EMFs
boot boys, to take to the stage. Baseball
caps trainers and guitars slung round
necks, with a grin they began. Invaders
from the crowd, swinging in on ropes,
knives in mouths, stage a battle ground,
reports of hysteria, aural violence, no
prisoners etc, total chaos. Nothing left of
the stage afterwards. Somebody give this
band a record deal.
Achooo.
John.

