T)ay By Day
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
Page 5
Wednesday 9th
Alcohol Ban for Drunken Steelworker
A steelworker, Joseph Levens, was banned
from drinking for three years under the 1902
Licensing Act, by magistrates at Holywell,
North Wales.
Invoking Section 6 of the 1902 Act
disqualifies Levens from drinking in the North
Wales police area for three years. A n illegal
drink could cost Levens a fine of up to £25-
and supplying him, £25 for a first offence and
£50 subsequently.
The Act had fallen into disuse because of
small penalties but these were increased by
the Criminal Law Act of 1977.
Sexist Remarks on Swedish Radio
Swedish Radio claimed that Mrs Thatcher
had seen a speech therapist to make her voice
sexier. Their man in London talked about her
hats, hairstyles and make-up instead of
focussing on her political success.
The State watchdog, the Radio Council, is
now looking into complaints from Swedish
Conservatives who say that such irrelevant
remarks were not made about Mr. Callaghan.
Thursday 10th
What Happens on June 7th
Advertising for the European Elections on
June 7th began this week and was met with
much criticism. "It insults our intelligence",
said one housewife.
The full page posters in the press proclaim
that you can use your vote to elect your
member of the European Parliament (also
called the European Assembly). Between
June 7th-10th, 180 million Europeans will be
able to vote together for the first time... but
how many will? The world's first international
elections aren't likely to produce a mountain
of votes.
Communication Breakdown
The people of Katmandu were informed
that Labour had won the General Election.
The local newspaper, RISING N E P A L , on
May 4th carried news of the Labour victory
p e r s o n a l l y i n s p i r e d by ' S u n n y J i m '
Callaghan.
The officials of the British Embassy stated
that they had no contact with the B B C and
were relying on Radio Moscow fortheir news.
Friday 11th
IRA Obtain Secret Military Document
The passing of a document, entitled
"Northern Ireland, Future Terrorist Trends",
to t h e I R A h a s b e e n a p o l i t i c a l
embarrassment for the Ministry of Defence.
The document was part of a haul of mailbags
stoen from a train between Birmingham and
London!
The report looks at the structure,
manpower and funds of the IRA and forsees
continuing trouble from the terrorists for five
years at least.
Shirley Williams to Return in Haste?
The problem of whether to ensure the early
return of Mrs Williams to the C o m m o n s is one
which will concern Mr Callaghan when he
draws up his resignation honours list. The
obvious course for him is to promote a
Labour back-bencher, returned on May 3rd
with a substantial majority, to the House of
Lords and so create a by-election in a safe
Labour seat for which Mrs Williams could be
nominated.
Mr Callaghan must consider the precident
when Mr Gordon-Walker lost his seat in 1964
as Labour M P for Smethwick. In spite of this,
Mr Wilson appointed him Foreign Secretary
and he was put up to fight Leyton, considered
a safe Labour seat. He was defeated.
Saturday 12th
Arsenal Win Cup Final 3-2
Brian Talbot scored an early goal for
Arsenal and after a second from Stapleton it
looked as if the Gunners had the match sewn
up at half-time. However, in the second half
their opponents Manchester United were
clearly the better side for long periods of a
somewhat scrappy, undistinguished game
that boiled up into a dramatic climax with
three goals in the last four minutes.
United's two goals were by McQueen and
Mcllroy, but the man of the match, Liam
Brady, passed to Alan Sunderland who
scored giving Arsenal the Cup.
Monday 14th
Student Does 8hr Operation on Himself
A student operated on his own abdomen
for eight hours in his college room with an
expertise that surprised skilled surgeons,
according to the latest Journal of the
American Medical Association.
The 22 year old spent months preparing for
an operation on his adrenal glands by
studying surgical books and acquiring the
necessary instruments and medications. He
disinfected his room, draped sterilised sheets
over his body, swallowed barbiturates for
anaesthesia and performed the operation
wearing sterile gloves and a surgical mask.
Looking into strategically placed mirrors,
he began by cleansing his abdomen with
alcohol, and made an incision with a scalpel,
and the dissection carried out with surgical
instruments. After eight hours he had to give
up because of unexpected pain in retracting
his liver. Exhausted, he bandaged his
wound and called the police. He was taken to
hospital, where surgeons found the wounds
to be remarkably clean and free of infection.
London is Europe's Hottest at 82
Ice-cream sales soared in London, as
temperatures rose above those in other
European resorts. For example, in Majorca it
was a mere 77, and in Nice it was 70.
Sunday 13th I Tuesday 15th
"Kill the Shah" Orders
The Shah of Iran, at present in exile in the
Bahamas, and important members of his
family have been sentenced to death in their
absence by the country's revolutionary
courts. A senior Ayatollah said that anyone
who assassinates them could not be arrested
as terrorists by foreign governments.
Irate Doctor gets Birdie
A goose was found bludgeoned to death at
the 17th hole on the exclusive Congressional
Country Club in Washington- it died after
being hit by a wooden putter. A doctor
member, who admitted killing the bird, said
that he inadvertently struck the goose with
his approach shot. Then, deciding that the
bird was beyond recovery, he put it out of its
misery with his putter. However, according to
the evidence of witnesses, the goose 'honked'
as the doctor was about to putt. The
distraction caused him to miss the shot, and,
in rage, the doctor struck down the creature.
Staying Alive in a Cage of Snakes
A South African carpenter has just beaten
the 36 day record for staying alive in a cage
with two dozen deadly snakes. The
t e m p e r a t u r e i n t h e c a g e d r o p p e d
considerably one night, and the snakes,
being cold-blooded, wrapped themselves
around the man's body to keep warm.
Nevertheless, he is staying on with the
mambas, cobras and puff adders "depending
on how well we get on together".
Thorpe Accused of Plotting Second Killing
It was claimed at the Old Bailey that Jeremy
Thorpe had already plotted another murder,
before planning the death of Norman Scott.
This claim was made by Thorpe's counsel, Mr
George Carman, Q C in a cross-examination
of Mr Peter Bessel, the chief prosecution
witness.
Price Control Scrapped
Price controls and the Price Commission
are to be scrapped and the powers of the
Office of Fair Trading and of the Monopolies
and Mergers Commission increased.
Go-ahead for ITV
After 10 years' of debate and Government
enquiries, the second ITV channel has been
given the go-ahead. The new channel is
expected to be on the air by Autumn 1982 or
Spring 1983, provided the Government give
s u f f i c i e n t p r i o r i t y to t h e n e c e s s a r y
legislation.
The Queen's Speech
The Queen opened Parliament today and
her speech included a statement that the
extent of nationalisation and state-ownership
would be reduced. She also said that
legislation will be introduced to remove the
compulsion on local authorities in England
and Wales to re-organise their schools on
comprehensive lines: and their freedom to
take up places at independant schools will be
restored.

