P a g e 8
The Ins and Outs of Finding Somewhere to Live
There are two stages in this process. The obvious one is finding a
landlord who has a vacancy and there are a number of ways in which
you can go about doing this. The second stage is convincing the
landlord that you are the sort of tenant that he is looking for. In many
ways this is the most difficult part and one whose importance seems to
be generally underestimated. Anyway, first of all find your landlord.
Sources of addresses include:-
THE UNIVERSITY OF LONDON ACCOMMODATION OFFICE.
This is situated at 8 Princes Gardens and has contacts with a great
many landlords. They are also geared up to help you find a place this
term for next year and can send you addresses during the vac. Most
of their accommodation consists of bedsits and lodgings and they do
not have a high proportion of flats. Contact them towards the end of May
for next year.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION WELFARE CENTRE
This can be found on the third floor of the Union Building. It has far
fewer landlords than the UL accommodation Office and tends to rely
more on advertising for new landlords than dealing with established
ones. Also there are no facilities for sending you addresses during the
vacation. However, if you drop in at the beginning of June, there may be
some addresses that you can contact, to book for next year.
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E RESIDENCE OFFICE
(Room 161 Sherfield) Although all College Accommodation is
allocated well in advance there are the occasional vacancies which arise
through people moving out for one reason or another. It is worth
remembering that the Residence Office keeps a waiting list throughout
the year from which these vacancies are filled.
FLAT AGENCIES
These are generally rude, unhelpful and extortionate. Their main
object is to seperate you from your money as quickly as possible. They
are reknowned for being on the landlord's side and advising him on
ways to avoid the Rent Acts. Many agencies don't deal with the kind of
property that you will be able to afford and they charge up to two weeks
rent for simply giving you an address which may or may not still have a
vacancy and which may be completely unsuitable. They are not legally
entitled to charge you unless you move into an address that they have
given you but this doesn't stop them trying! There are a couple of
agencies which don't charge the tenant and it is worth remembering
that estate agents usually charge the landlord rather than the tenant,
though they may ask you for a contribution towards the cost of drawing
up the tenancy agreement. The Welfare Centre should have an updated
list of agencies at the beginning of next term (the present one is a bit out
of date) and it is sometimes worth trying them if you are rich or are
looking for something very particular or out of the ordinary.
NEWSPAPERS
The evening Standard is the best place to look but it is a poor best.
People queue outside their office early in the morning to catch the first
edition hotfrom the press. The phone numbers of reasonably affordable
places are constantly engaged and if you do eventually get through and
the landlord agrees to show you round the place, you are likely to find
that you are being given a conducted tour along with a large group of
other hopefuls.
The Evening News doesn't tend to have so many advertisements but
otherwise the same applies. Local papers like the Kensington and
Chelsea News and the Fulham Chronicle also carry advertisements and
are not quite so heavily subscribed but they don't have so many
advertisements to chose from.
If the Times is back next autumn, its 'Flat Share' column is a very
useful source of places.
ADVERTISING
The Evening Standard is the best place to advertise and for £12 or so
you should be able to place a reasonable sort of advert. The trouble is
that you need a phone number where landlords can contact you and a
lot of the offers you will get will be miles away from where you want to
live.
NOTICEBOARDS
A lot of tobacconists have display boards where people advertise
vacancies but the places are usually gone by the time you ring. It also
involves a lot of footslogging to find the noticeboards in the first place
although there is a list of them in the Welfare Centre which you can
consult.
SELLING YOURSELF TO A LANDLADY
O n c e you have got hold of a few numbers to ring, it is time to give a bit
of thought to your technique in approaching the landlady. In many
cases the landlady will operate on a first come first served basis and so
there won't be any problem so long as you more or less fit in with what
the landlady has in mind. Many landladies, however, are more selective
and you can be sure that if she is offering a good deal at a time of heavy
demand, she will have a lot of people to choose from. Especially if you
are going to be living in the same house as the landlady, she will be
looking for someone who sounds polite, considerate, fits her idea of the
sort of person that she wants and appears flexible - or even exploitable
in some cases. The initial phone call to the landlady and any subsequent
meeting are very important. So, even though you may be exhausted and
frustrated by the time you ring a particular landlady and even though the
room that she is offering sounds like a second cousin to the Black Hole
of Calcutta, it helps a lot if you can sound enthusiastic, polite and
pliable. Don't whatever you do, mention the Rent Acts and if you are told
that you have no Rent Act protection don't question it (although of
course, if there is time you can check what your legal position is likely to
be with the Welfare Centre before you sign anything). Take a long hard
look at your bargaining position before you even quibble about the rent.
Wait until you are established in the place and entitled to any remedies
as regards security of tenure or registering a lower rent via the Rent
Officer or Rent Tribunal and then do something about it.
Although at the beginning of term the most important thing is to get a
roof over your head, it is advisable to be a little cautious about what you
accept. If you can move into a place where there is no problem about
moving out at short notice then it isn't so bad because you can look for
somewhere better as soon as the rush has died down. But beware of
signing an agreement for a long fixed period on an unsatisfactory place
because if you do it will be very difficult to avoid staying there for the
duration of the agreed period.
Various Types ol
There are a number of different
kinds of accommodation which
you might end up in next year.
Although places are advertised
under one label or another, there
is a great deal of variety within
different types and many are a
hybrid of two or more types.
To start off with, unless you can
fix something up well in advance,
you are unlikely to have much
choice as to where you live but
once the rush has died down it
should be possible for you to find
the kind of place that you are
looking for. Here is a summary of
what you can expect if you are
offered a particular type of
accommodation.
LODGINGS OR 'DIGS'.
This sort of place is where you
become part of the landlady's
family and where she cooks for
you, mends your socks and acts
generally as a sort of surrogate
mother. This category is on the
decline and is not very popular
with most people as it can tie you
to meal times and so on and tends
to be fairly expensive. Neverthe-
less it can be a very comfortable
existence, providing a proper
home base and guaranteed
company.
BEDSITS
This is the most common type
of accommodation and often the
worst. Bedsits vary from proper
bedsitting rooms with tables,
chairs and all the requisites for a
civilised existence to partitioned
spaces, hardly big enough for a
single bed. One landlord put a bed
into a tiny room which he was
using as a book cupboard and
offered it as a bedsit for £17 per
week. Another put a bed into a loft
space which was so low that you
would have to crawl to get to the
bed and offered it for £15 per week.
On the whole, bedsits are small
rooms, furnished to a minimal
standard with an electric ring for
cooking and use of a communal
bathroom and toilet.
The arrangements vary also,
from something just a little short
of digs where you live in the
landlady's house and she gives
you breakfast and doesn't impose
too many restrictions to places
where the only thing about you
w h i c h i s n ' t r e s e n t e d a n d
complained about is your money.
Then there are the real bedsit
jungle type rooms which consist
of run down houses crudely
knocked into bedsits where you
don't even have an unfriendly
landlady for company. Most of the
people who operate this kind of
letting are in it purely and simply
for the money. If a room can
conceivably hold two beds, two
beds will go in and it will be let to
two people for twice the price.
Repairs are often never done and
that new carpet which the
landlord promised you when you
moved in rarely materialises.
On the other hand, there are
good bedsits to be had and there
are good landladies but they are
the exception. If at the beginning
of term you find yourself in one
which isn't up to standard, don't
give up. Keep pestering the
people whose job it is to help you
with accommodation until you
find somewhere that is.
P a g e 9
A Place to Live and the Law
Once you have found somewhere to live, you m a y wonder
what your chances are of staying there i f your landlord takes a
sudden dislike to you. C a n he just put your belongings out into
the street and change the locks, or is there m o r e to it than that?
Parliament, through a series of Rent and other Acts, has evolved a
system of protection which varies in strength with the kind of
accommodation that you occupy, but unfortunately it is often difficult
to decide which particular category you fall into.
The two main categories of accommodation for this purpose are
licences which can be terminated with very little notice after which you
have no protection at all, and tenancies where there are varying degress
of protection.
Licences include rooms in hotels and hostels, genuine bed and
breakfast arrangements and places where the landlord or his agents
have free access, without reference to you, to all parts of the
accommodation that you occupy. If you are given an agreement which
calls itself a licence, this does not necessarily make you a licencee but if
the arrangement of the accommodation is such that you don't have a
room to yourself, and the agreement contains a clause to the effect that
the landlord has the right to move one of you out and move in a
replacement and if each sharer signs a separate agreement, then it is
quite possible that this would make you a licencee. Rooms in a hall of
residence are also usually licences. W h e n a licence is terminated, you
become, in effect, a squatter. This means that although the landlord
cannot use force to evict you, there is nothing to stop h i m changing the
locks while you are out.
A l l other types of accommodation count as tenancies which means
that your landlord can't get rid of you without a possession order from
Accommodation
HOTELS
Not, alas, the Hilton but bedsits
by another name. There are a
lot of these in Bayswater and
parts of West London. The main
snag is that they tend to throw you
out at the beginning of the
Summer Term so that they can get
on with their real business of
capitalising on the hoards of
tourists.
FLATS
In many ways flats are the ideal
solution in thatthey can be turned
into something approaching a
home and you can live with
friends. O n the other hand they
are u s u a l l y e x p e n s i v e a n d
notoriously difficult to find. Also,
the strain of living on top of each
other in a small flat can lead to
personality clashes and people
dropping out, leaving the others
to find their share of the rent. The
moral of this is that it is advisable
to make sure that you and your
fellow sharers are sufficiently
compatible to put up with each
other in what can sometimes be
very trying circumstances.
When you are trying to get
people together for a flat it is
worth bearing in mind that most
flats are for three or four people
and flats for larger numbers are
very rare indeed. Also, some
landlords are not keen to let to
mixed groups because they feel,
rightly or wrongly, that mixed
groups are more likely to split up
and run into difficulties with
paying the rent.
F l a t s , l i k e b e d s i t s , vary
c o n s i d e r a b l y in quality. A n
average flat might have two
'double' bedrooms - i.e. bedrooms
that can just hold two beds, a
lounge (if you're lucky) and a
kitchen and bathroom. Single
rooms in flits are rare or very
small.
UNFURNISHED FLATS
These tend to be a lot cheaper
but are almost unobtainable. If
you approach one of the few
a g e n c i e s t h a t d e a l w i t h
u n f u r n i s h e d flats, they will
probably only be able to help you
if you can afford to pay hundreds
of pounds for 'fixtures' and
' f i t t i n g s ' . O t h e r s o u r c e s of
unfurnished flats are Housing
Associations and Local Authori-
ties w h o s o m e t i m e s a l l o w
students to live in flats which are
unsuitable for families (usually
because you h a v e t o c l i m b u p a l o t
of stairs to get to them) or are
'short life' properties which means
that they are due for demolition.
The Union is at present trying to
establish contact with bodies who
can offerthiskindof accommoda-
tion but since many of them say
that they can only help people
who are already living in their
areas, you might well be able to
get something by approaching
the Housing Department in the
Town Hall of the area which you
are living at present and any
Housing Association operating in
the area.
Squatting is another way of
finding very cheap accommoda-
tion, but it does tend to have a lot
of problems associated with it. If
you are interested in squatting,
the best thing to do is to contact
the Squatters Union, Telephone
70I-569I.
the courts. In addition you are entitled to adequate notice, of the
landlord's intention to rescind his arrangement with you. so, except in
the case of a tenancy for a fixed period, the landlord must give 28 days
notice in writing before he can even start applying for a possession
order. A n y other attempt by the landlord to exclude or harrass you
constitutes a criminal offence for w h i c h he can be prosecuted by the
local council.
So, what are the chances of the court granting a possession order to a
landlord who has given you a valid notice to quit?
There are a number of cases where the court will almost certainly
give an order. These include tenancies of places which used to be the
landlord's residence and he wants to live there again or wants it for
members of his family who used to live there or if he bought the house as
a retirement home and now wants to retire there. In both cases the
landlord is meant to notify you of'any such intention at the beginning of
the tenancy, in writing, but the court can dispense with this
requirement. Other cases are where you signed an agreement to stay for
a period of less than eight months in an out of season holiday letting or if
the letting is for the purpose of a holiday (though you might sometimes
be able to argue that it was clearly not let for any such purpose). T h e
same applies to student lettings where the landlord is the college or
university; places with a very high rateable value or extremely low rent
and council and housing association owned property. Another example
of this is where the landlord offers you suitable alternative
accommodation.
If you are a tenant and your landlord lives in the same building (so
long as the place is not a purpose built block of flats) the court will grant
a possession order unless you apply to the rent tribunal before the expiry
of the notice period. T o find out how to do this contact the welfare
centre or the housing department at your town hall. The Rent T r i b u n a l
can grant you an extension of up to six months. A t the end of that period
you can reapply but once the tribunal protection is exhausted a
possession order will be granted.
In most other cases than those outlined above you would have
security of tenure for as long as you wanted to stay there so long as you
fulfill your obligations. O w i n g to the complexity of this subject, the
above can only be a rough guide and if you are threatened with eviction
you should seek advice at the Welfare Centre with reference to your
particular circumstances. M i c h a e l A r t h u r
Welfare Adviser
T H E C O S T O F A P L A C E
Some of you may remember
filling in an accommodation
survey at the beginning of last
term. T h e results of the survey
have produced quite a lot of useful
information on what people have
been paying for accommodation
this year and the standards of the
places that they have been living
in. In terms of what you can
expect to pay next year, rents will
probably be at least 10% higher
than they have been this year.
S T A N D A R D S
O u t of about 250 replies we
found that living conditions were
often not satisfactory. W e asked
• three specific questions about
l i v i n g s t a n d a r d s a n d the
percentage of people who thought
that their accommodation was
defective in one or more respects
was as follows:
Nowhere adequate to work
Too noisy to work
Inadequate heating
O n e or more of the above
These results don't take any
account of all the other defects
that a place might have.
T h e results s h o w e d t h a t
although some people had found
cheap accommodation (e.g. 6% of
people living in flats were paying
rent of less than £8 each per
week), most people were having
to pay through their noses.
40% of the respondents were
paying over £15 per week for rent
alone and when you include
'extras' e.g. heating and lighting
costs. 44% of those in bedsits and
54% of those living in flats were
paying over £15 each per week.
H a r d l y anybody was paying
less than £1 or over £\9 per week
and most were paying b e t w e e n ^
and £16 per week for just the rent.
Flats seem to be more expensive
than bedsits mainly because
heating costs etc are m u c h higher.
So, when you start looking at
places to live for next year. I hope
B E D S I T S
•21.1%
10.0%
23.3%
37.7%
F L A T S
18.7%
18.7%
35.0%
51.2%
this will give you some idea as to
what to expect and whether or not
the landlord is charging over the
odds.

