Page 2 FELIX 29th September, 1969
C
O
M
M
E
N
T
For the thirty-second time today — "Welcome", and
welcome back to our regular readers. Welcome to Imperial
College, part of the University of London. It is not, at
present, our concern to talk about the University of London,
for that great lumbering dinosaur needs an obituary rather
than an editorial, but to talk about I.C. as a University
college. What, we may ask, distinguishes a University col-
lege? The long forgotten Robbins' report set forth four
aims of a University. These are worthy of attention if only
because a member of that committee was I.C.'s late Rector,
Sir Patrick Linstead, and because at I.C., at least, the
money has been more plentifully available than in many
other institutions.
Robbins' Aims
Robbins said a University should educate, should train,
should advance knowledge and should transmit culture. We
have looked at these aims in relation to I.C. elsewhere, in
' I.C. Socialist', the ' Anti-Handbook', but to do so again,
however briefly, might be instructive.
This year should see the climax of a mounting campaign
by I.C. students to prevent the complete obliteration of the
first aim by the second. Linked as I.C. is to industry, the
temptation to put on narrow courses with the intention of
training specialists has long proved irresistible to I.C's
Board of Studies. This is what makes the Board's refusal to
allow student observers on a regular basis so disappointing.
As Freshers will rapidly discover there is a real need to
provide an education which will broaden the mind; to, in
the classic phrase, "prepare the whole man for the whole
life". This is what is meant by the student campaign to
broaden courses, but as several of I.C.'s leading academics,
including Lord Jackson, the Pro-Rector, realise I.C.'s speci-
alism is failing even the Philistines of industry, whose need
is for generalists rather than specialists. There is a need too
to educate students to have a critical mind, so that they can
continuously re-educate themselves in future years, and to
participate in a conduit community—but we will return to
this theme.
Undergraduate freshers will soon discover the role that
research plays in this college. It is a predominant one, some
would say an almost exclusive one. Far from the aim that
Universities should push back the boundaries of knowledge
as it is, only by living in a live research environment can
the teaching aspect of the college best flourish. However,
freshers will be slower to discover the culture which I.C.
is transmitting. Of course, the college has an ethos, but this
ethos often falls far behind what can be termed cultural.
Let us seek to build a community which has a real culture,
where scientific integrity will flourish no matter what indus-
try may say, and the many world cultures present at I.C.
may be variously transmitted.
Co-adult Community
We have, as promised, returned to the subject of com-
munity. Our Rector rightly stresses the need to build a com-
munity at I.C, one trusts he means a co-adult community
in which there are no distinctions between staff, students,
academics or the ' authorities'; such a co-adult community
is, as we have seen, vital to the fulfilment of the aims of a
University. It is this need that makes the limitations placed
on participation high-lighted in todays news, on the B.o.C,
H.o.S. and as regards the AA, most disquieting.
This too, is where the real worry lies about the Gover-
nors' insistence on ' double punishment', the principle that
the college has a right to supplement the legal processes of
the land in certain offences. Let the Rector when he addres-
ses ICU on the 9th of October relinquish this insistence so
we can start to build this community. If not, people will
seize upon this issue to expose staff-student relations as mere
paternalism, and he may well wish he had abandoned
' double punishment' for reasons of expediency as well as of
principle.
FELIX, THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
Phone 01-589-2963. (Internal Phone 2881)
Editor: Les Ebdon.
With: Tony Kirkham, John Rogers, Ian Carr, Dave
Cooper, Chris Slee, Dave Wield, Judith, Janet, and
all those who helped in the collating, distribution, and
selling of this issue.
Printed by: F. Bailey & Son Ltd., Dursley, Glos.
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates,
01-353-3712.
Published by the Editor on behalf of Imperial College
Union Publications Board, Imperial College, London
S.W.7.
* * * * *
PIER'S PIECE * * * * *
So you've finally arrived
at I.C., Freshers. Welcome
to the Gateway to Industry.
For most people, especially
freshers this centre of acade-
mic excellence is a mystify-
ing place, so the sooner you
find out how and why it
works and become involved
in it the sooner everything
will become clearer and more
enjoyable for you . . . read
The Handbook, read your
own paper, Felix, read the
' Blue Book', read (or
throw away) the many other
publications and leaflets
which you will encounter . . .
Ask Questions, beside coffee
machines, with tutors, with
Dept and year reps, in the
Union Office . . . Everyone
and everything is here to
help you.
I.C. and London can be
great places to live in — so
live! Don't be too much of
a cabbage, though remem-
ber if you don't do enough
work you may get thrown
out. Three years is a short
time really, so you need to
get to know people, and one
of the best ways to do this
is to join one of I.C.'s teem-
ing clubs. (Come to Fresh-
ers Afternoon in the Union).
A lot will happen this
year; these events will be
developments of last years
many discussions and chan-
ges. Back numbers of Felix
(get them on Freshers After-
noon) should provide useful
and informative reading.
Important matters to be
discussed this year are:—
Representation on the 3
most important committees
of the college (see Felix
news). The Rector's reply is
not good enough and the
Students Union must decide
what to do next.
I.C's Education: the stu-
dent body has expressed an
overwhelming desire to broa-
den degree courses but the
changes themselves have yet
to be decided upon and
agreed with the authorities.
Double Discipline: (Pun-
ishment under 2 codes of
discipline for the same thing)
Watch out for leaflets on
this important matter. It is
expected that The Rector
will turn up at the first
Union Meeting on October
9th to explain his position.
And many more items —
read next Felix and wall
posters to get all the facts.
See you all, I hope, on Octo-
ber 9th.
H
o
w lo m
a
k
e your
m
o
n
e
y go further
When the problem that you're faced with is the longness of the time
compared with the shortness of the money, likely as not the answer
could be a visit to your local branch of Martins.
At Martins we have a way of applying all our experience of
managing money to help you make the most of yours.
Call in and have a word with the local Martins manager—
guaranteed unstuffy. We don't promise he'll make money for you,
but we're absolutely positive he'll see you get the best possible
value out of whatever you've got.
Ask him for the leaflet we've prepared specially
for students.
Martins have a branch at
35 Gloucester Road, London S.W.7. Tel: Knightsbridge 3343
Ask to see Mr. Bradley.
Martins go to extremes to be helpful

