Page 8 FELIX 29th September, 1969
The Marriage - Breaker's - Yard
The gentle art of marriage smashing has proved im-
mensely popular as a film theme, and producers and directors
are still eargerly ferretting out new twists in the method of
turning husband and wife against wife and husband.
It was only three years ago that George and Martha used
their own fantasy world to salvage their own marriage and
separate their young married guests, in Mike Nicholl's Who's
Afraid of Virginia Woolf? Since then there has been Ben-
jamin, The Graduate, in another Nicholls-directed film. He
managed to break two marriages in the space of one film,
even going to the lengths of kidnapping the bride with the
wedding ring hardly on her finger. Most recently, Laughter
in the Dark, from a book by Nabokov, has a cinema usher-
ette stealing a millionaire art-dealer away from his wife and
daughter. The road to the divorce courts means thriving
box-office.
Currently, the most controversial "other woman" is a
nineteen-year-Old girl played by Judy Geeson, in Three into
Two Won't Go, one of the few notable films released during
the vacation. Iris Murdoch wrote the screenplay, and Rod
Steiger and Claire Bloom do most of the acting. Like George
and Martha, the couple they play, the Howards, are unable
to have ohildren. Unlike George and Martha they are also
unable to come to terms with their disability and are slowly
but surely drifting apart from each other. The husband is
a business man, used to travelling as a sales representative to
the Manchester branch of his firm and, on the return jour-
ney, spending the night at a hotel managed by an old friend
of his. His wife is busy decorating their new home in the
suburbs, where most of the later action takes place. Miss
Geeson is the young hitch-hiker picked up on the return
journey by Mr. Howard, and spending the night with him at
the hotel. The following morning she decides to stay there
and work as a maid and waitress. Steiger shrugs his shoul-
ders, gives her a fiver and drives homewards to his long
suffering wife.
He soon travels north again. Not unnaturally he visits the
hotel on both north and southbound journeys, only to dis-
cover on his return stay that the girl has handed in her
notice and left no hint of where she is going. He soon finds
out. however, for a few days later she arrives at his house
and introduces herself to Mrs. Howard, who invites her to
spend the night. From there the plot unfolds with the pre-
dictable result.
CONTRIVED
It is the character of the girl which seems most contrived.
She keeps a notebook in which she takes notes on all the
men she has slept with, giving each a mark or grade, like a
schoolteacher marking a child's exercise book. She is able
to present any personality she likes according to the demands
of the situation; at one time warning Mr. Howard that if he
doesn't do as she says, she will swear at the top of her voice
in the hotel breakfast room, at another, tearfully explaining
to his wife that she thinks she is going to have a baby. She
pays the molested schoolgirl so well she is allowed to stay on
at the Howards' until she can have a medical check. A great
deal of the story rests on the baby the girl says she is expect-
ing and the childless marriage of the Howards. Steiger is
persuaded that the child is his, and he, presented with the
proof that it is not he who is infertile, agrees to do anything
for the girl if she will not have an abortion.
The best of the film lies in the Bloom - Steiger dialogue.
Having moved into a house Where neither of them really
believes they can live happily without children, they con-
stantly bicker over whether they should adopt a child or not.
She feels certain about his infidelity but still clings to the
hope that a baby could repair their marriage. She regularly
visits her mother in an old peoples' home and has to listen
continually to the story of how her father brought another
woman to live with him, but she, Mrs. Howard's mother,
was too proud to leave him. Steiger refuses to let his mother-
in-law live in his house, and is taking to drink in the face
of his marital problems.
In among all the tension and adultery, there are some
surprisingly funny episodes, but overall it is a form of
domestic tragedy with the young and free seemingly wielding
destructive power over an older generation weighed down
with conventions and responsibility. Perhaps with less accom-
plished actors and actresses, some of the situations portrayed
would seem farcical and the characters absurd; the film
has none of the powerful darkness of atmosphere that lasted
throughout the night of fun and games in Virginia Woolf.
There the action was compact, sometimes acidly funny, at
others just quietly sinister, but even during the most un-
believable episodes it was compelling because the characters
were so well drawn in Albee's original play. It was the older
experienced couple, who seemed to detest each other, who
had learnt to live together, and the younger college doctor
and his wife Who were forced to see their marriage as a
sham.
Three into Two Won't Go is worth seeing for the acting,
but the well-written screenplay and dialogue disguises a plot
that is both contrived and predictable. You could say that
the girl seems so inhuman because She is merely a symbol of
a youthful avenging angel sent to punish a couple unable to
live with each other's inadequacies and their own fears, but
even as such she seems a parody of a human being. To me
none of the subsequent action fulfils ,the promise of the
film's beginning, but ilt is a notable addition to the eternal-
triangle film-theme market.
BLOW-UP AT IC
I.C. Film Soc. Programme
this year is well balanced and
includes Tom Jones, Blow-Up,
The Taming of the Shrew,
films from the Czechoslovak
Renaissance (1964/8) and les-
ser known American films such
as The Trip and The Queen.
Showings are every other
Friday at 7.30 in the Concert
Hall. For further details visit
the Society's stall at the Fresh-
ers' Day Union Fair.
RECORD REVIEWS
Unhalfbricking
Fairport Convention (Island
ILPS 9102).
The Convention's third LP,
this contains three very long
tracks including Sandy
Denny's "Who Knows Where
the Time Goes?" and
Dylan's "Percy's Song."
Their current single release,
also a Dylan song, is prob-
ably the worst track and
seems to have been selected
as the only track short
enough to be released separ-
ately. Nevertheless, the stan-
dard overall is very good,
and the group have proved
extremely capable at arrang-
ing traditional songs for
production on record. There
is only one example on this
LP, but it takes up half the
playing time of the first side.
Fairport Convention seem
to inhabit the border be-
tween folk and pop; their
music is a modern arrange-
ment of basically simple old
melodies. Lead singer Sandy
Denny is one of the best girl
singers in Britain, often
sounding like America's Judy
Collins.
With a little
help from my
friends
Joe Cocker (Regal Zono-
phone).
Joe Cocker sings many stan-
dard soul songs as well as his
first two singles "Marjorine"
and "With a Little Help
from my Friends." Among
the older tracks are the Ani-
mals' hit of a few years ago
"Don't let me be Misunder-
stood" and the best track, in
my opinion, "I Shall be Re-
leased". Together with seve-
ral less well known songs,
these comprise a very enjoy-
able record, which confirms
Joe Cocker's position as
Britain's major white soul-
singer.
The Pious Bird
of Good Omen
Fleetwood Mac (Blue Hori-
zon).
This LP takes tracks from
Fleetwood Mac's first two
albums, added to which are
their first instrumental single,
Albatross, and their latest,
"Need your Love so Bad."
Several are composed by
Peter Green and Jeremy
Spencer, and most tracks are
worth listening to, but 1
cannot see the point in pro-
ducing a record containing
material already on records
which Fleetwood Mac fans
will have bought before.
It is interesting to know
that only Spencer and Danny
Kirwen were not in John
Mayall's Bluesbreakers be-
fore joining Fleetwood Mac.
As a collectors' album
Looking Back, by John May-
all, is unique. It contains
tracks recorded by all the
members of his group over
the past years, including
Mick Taylor, Ainsley Dun-
bar, Eric Clapton, Jack
Bruce, Mick Fleetwood,
John McVie, Peter Green
and, of course, John Mayall.
B r i n g y o u r
g r a n t c h e q u e
t o t h e
M i d l a n d
Use it to start a
bank account with
the Midland. Then
we'll very quickly
give you a cheque
book with which to
draw cash or pay
bills.
It's nice to know
your money is
absolutely safe. But a bank
account with us promises you
something more. A chance to
budget your money each term;
and the right to go to your
bank manager for
advice — and help
— on your finances.
And while you're a
full-time student,
you won't be asked
to pay a penny in
charges, provided
you keep your
account in credit.
Give your local Midland
manager a ring—his number
is in the 'phone book—or go
and see him about opening an
account. Do it now.
M i d l a n d B a n k

