16
C L U B S C E N E - T H E U N D E R G R O U N D M U S I C G U I D E
MUSIC 16 January 1998
Hello and welcome to a new year at IC and
also with the Electric Cafe. Hope you'll enjoy
the sounds that we'll be covering this year on
Clubscene.
After the hectic rush of Christmas and
New Year parties, and all the crazy music
associated with them, I thought that I'd cover
the more chilled-out and eclectic styles of
music that are emerging from London nowa-
days. I was particular/ motivated to do this
after listening to a new compilation album
called Atlas Earthed (Jumpin' and Pumpin').
Atlas is an underground record store based in
Soho (Archer Street) that has been dealing in
cutting edge music for a couple of years.
Many other stores in the area prefer to
keep to their music policy strictly. However
Atlas' philosophy has always been to connect
people to great music that would not other-
wise be given a chance in a world dominated
by catagories and cliques. Countless different
styles of music will be heard during a visit to
Atlas. From dub reggae to latin soul; deep
melodic house to blunted hip-hop breaks.
Techno is also well represented from Detroit
to Chicago and London to Berlin. The empha-
sis here is on what sounds good, not what
looks cool!
The album itself contains eleven pieces of
music that the staff of Atlas feel have really
caused a stir in recent times. In fact Earthed
was compiled by Pete Herbert, the manager
of the shop and an accomplished D] in his
own right (as we found out last year when he
visited the studios of IC Radio to record an
Electric Cafe broadcast).
My personal highlights include Nod to
H 2 0 by Rainer. This is a moody downtempo
number that blends the echoes of an acoustic
guitar with a flowing synth. The effect is sub-
tle and haunting. You can find the original on
Glitterhouse Records. Don't Judge the Silence
by Edge of Emotion points out that techno
need not be fixed completely on four to the
floor rhythms. Rolling drums and big beats all
in one provide the structure to a very classy
track.
Latin eclecticism is well-represented here
in the form of two tracks. Luna Swell by
Simmonds is more complex and relaxing than
most of the latino house offerings of today.
Yet a simple turn of the volume knob in the
loud direction turns it from easy-listening
pleasure into a very danceable piece of music.
Sccobs of Columbia by Plaid has been one of
the dancefloor hits of 1997. Salsa piano riffs
and funky scratching; tumpets and big beats.
What a combination!
We soon turn to reggae in the form of
Work Hard by Charismatic. Chilled out listen-
ing and completely different from anything
you are likely to hear for a long time - this is
dub reggae with a distinct electronic flavour.
Pete Herbert is represented by his own
music, under the pseudonym Bushflange with
Nick Rapaccioli. The basis of their track
(Chicken Feed) is a deep jazz riff. When the
track finally kicks off it is a real treat! Layer
upon layer of sound jostles to get to the cen-
tre of your attention. The result is a highly
enjoyable track.
The type of music on this compilation can
be further investigated via a variety of
sources. Well-established labels such as
Mo'Wax, Ninja Tunes, Talkin' Loud, Outcaste,
and of course all the labels representd on
Earthed are all excellent starting points. And
of course if you are ever stuck in the rain in
Soho and feel like listening to some great and
varied music, you can always pop into Atlas
to relax for a bit.
While the world outside keeps on churning
out new sub-cultures and styles of music that
are supposedly better than the last, places
like Atlas are making the cement to hold the
whole thing together!
Many thanks to Pete, John and Kirby at
Atlas Records.
al;ck
C L U B S C E N E - C L U B R E V I E W
MOVEMENT
AQUARIUM, 260 Old Street. (10pm-4am E10 members/NUS. £ 1 5 . Smart Dress)
T
his is a club I've heard a lot
about but never been to, so
when the invite c a m e to g o
down there 1 jumped at the chance.
N o w being run by Paul Nelson the
man behind Raindance, probably
the biggest & best events of late
80's earlier 90's, so he knows h o w
to throw a party.
The night w e went w a s 29th
december not the most lively time
in club land, and due to this only
the main room a n d the pool were
open, yes that's right there's a
swimming pool &. Jacuzzi in the
club with changing rooms. N o t that
anybody w a s using them, not really
the weather 1 suppose. But 1 feel it
was g o o d that the 2 n d r o o m was
closed, as it created a better atmos
and a little crowd In the main r o o m .
From the m o m e n t y o u walk in
you feel relaxed thanks to friendly
door policy of no search at all, a
pleasant change from the normal
full body search experienced at
most clubs. Y o u just walk straight
in.
The main room just oozes class
plenty of mirrors and silver, a large
bar that's quite pricey £3 a bottle,
absolutely wicked lighting system,
and an ample sound system, that's
incidentally hung from the ceiling
as are the decks cool. But not the
best thing for the DJ's as the decks
keep swinging back a n d forth,
which was doing at least one Dj's
head in that I was talking to.
But this d i d not seem to have
any real affect o n the quality of the
mixing, as I hardly heard a bad mix
all night from the four Dj's, Tony
Nickels, Paul Jackson, Nigel Clark
and resident Huge Gunnal. A s for
the styles of music being played, it
started off in a cheese house style,
but as I was told it's not a strictly
underground club. But as the night
went on the music d i d get more
underground, fat garage b-lines and
driven house beats soon took over,
and in the 2nd room which is usu-
ally o p e n playing 93/94
hardcore/jungle, funk & old skool.
And although their was only a small
crowd most of the people were
dancing and there was a surprising-
ly friendly atmosphere.
At this point I must give a big
shout out to Phil M i t c h e l l of
Eastenders fame w h o I saw chilling
at the bar, if it's g o o d enough for
him it's g o o d enough for m e !
This club has serious potential,
once everyone's got over the Yule
tide period and clubs are to capac-
ity this is well worth a visit. W h e n
this place is full y o u are guaranteed
a m a d one especially when people
start jumping in the pool. I'll defi-
nitely be returning to check the
place in full swing, and don't forget
to take your Speedo's. H E
/o Public

