4 FRIDAY 13 JUN
NEWS
Editors: Nida Mahmud, Maciej
Matuszewski, Aamna Mohdin,
Aemun Reza, Kunal Wagle
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he Union’s Higher
Education policy will go
to a referendum later this
year, after Union Council
felt unable to make a
decision without further consultation.
Students will have the opportunity to
choose from three funding models:
free education, graduate tax and the
current tuition fee loan system.
Arguments for each funding model
were proposed by Andrew Tranter
(free education), Marissa Lewis
(graduate tax) and Alex Savell (tuition
fee loans). Students will get to choose
one of the funding models to be the
Union’s Higher Education policy in
the next academic year.
he Higher Education funding
model afects who pays and when,
which can impact accessibility and
quality of the student experience.
“here's a massive lack of democracy
in our Union, which has previously
resulted in small committees of
bureaucrats making important
decisions,” says Andrew Tranter, who
proposed the motion to open the
decsion up to a referendum.
“I'm glad that Council decided to
inally ask the membership what they
think.”
Union Deputy President (Education)
Nat Kemptston said, “It’s great to see
that so many students have opinions
on how Higher Education funding
should work.”
Planning is already underway for
the Referendum in October, and I am
excited to see what students decide
Imperial College Union’s stance
should be the issue.”
he NUS recently passed a free
education motion during the national
conference in April.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2014.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITORIAL TEAM: Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts, Deputy Editor Tessa Davey News Editors Nida Mahmud, Aamna Mohdin, Maciej Matuszewski, Kunal Wagle Features Editor Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor
Marissa Lewis Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey, Kunal
Wagle Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile Borkhataria Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson Television Editors John Park, Emily
Fulham Film Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs & Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charity Editor Ben Fernando
Travel Editor Chris Richardson Sport Editor Kunal Wagle Online Editors Maximilian Eggl Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copycaptains Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor Copycommandos
Maximilian Eggl.
course closure is ill planned and might
have signiicant funding implications.
“Students were very upset to hear
about the changes. We started writing
an open letter to the College, but were
told at a meeting with Martin Lupton,
the head of Undergraduate Medicine,
that the decision to change the 4-year
program had already be made, and
would not be changed,” says Sophie
Williams, a irst year student on the
four year programme.
he College held a consultation
last year about changes to the course,
in which students suggested more
support for research could be made
available.
A College Spokesperson said, “A
formal review of the four year degree
in 2012, which drew on feedback
from students and staf, found that
in its current form the compact and
intensive programme does not meet
expectations in providing suicient
opportunities for research and
scholarship.”
“At the time, students were not told
about possible changes to the length
of the course,” said Williams. “And, no
further consultation was made about
the changes with students or staf.”
he current four-year course has
various Government tuition fees
loans and NHS bursaries; however
it’s unclear if students can access
these loans and funding on the 5-year
course. Students on 5-year medical
programmes who have previously
taken another degree are not eligible
for any Government loans or funding
until the inal year of their course.
“he programme will not
be considered an accelerated
programme,” said a College
Spokesperson. “However the School
of Medicine is currently lobbying for
it to be recognised as such – with the
associated funding arrangements in
line with this.”
“he additional year brings a large
inancial burden on students wanting
to study at Imperial. Student Finance
England have not conirmed they
will support the 5-year program, and
there are rumours that it won’t be,”
said Williams. “Only students with the
money available to pay the additional
fees will be able to aford to take the
course.”
Earlier this year St. George’s
University of London also cut the
number of places on its own fast-track
graduate course by half.
continued from page 1...
Aamna mohdin
News Editor
Joe letts
Editor-In-Chief
Higher Education Policy
decision deferred to
campus-wide referendum
Sabbatical
Officer Name
Change
T
his week, Council agreed
to change the name of the
Deputy President (Clubs
& Societies) and Deputy
President (Finance &
Services) roles to Deputy Presidents
(Activities & Development) and
(Activities & Finance) respectively.
his change is the result of a “Oicer
Trustee Role Review” that has been
conducted by the current Sabbatical
team after a similar role review last
academic year.
Aside from the name change, the
paper also made changes to the Union
Bye-Laws so they more accurately
relect the roles and responsibilities of
the Sabbatical Oicers.
Over the last year there has been
some reisistance to the name change.
Colours
Hassan Ahmadzadeh, James Badman,
Andrew Bean, Timothy Beasley,
mohammad Bilal, max Boleininger,
olivia Boyd, Thomas Brunt, Yulia
Bulgakova, Richard Cameron, kimberley
Chin-goh, lejon Chua, oliver Clipsham,
Rhys Comissiong, Theresa Davey, Sahil
Dawar, ollie Dean, Thomas Defferriere,
kristina Earle, Nicholas Farmer, luke
granger-Brown, Adrian grutter, Boshuo
guo, Ethan Haley, Timothy Hall,
Edward Hallett, peter Hamilton, phil
Harbord, Jonathan Hardisty, Aislinn
Hayes, Fangjia He, Reuben Hill, Yuri
Ichinose, omer Jamall, Thomas Jones,
maximillian keech, Dongwhi kim, Wilf
kimberley, Don koh, Yin lee, mimi li,
Chew liew, Christopher love, Alexander
lown, Yasmin malik, Dominic marshall,
Ellen mathieson, maciej matuszewski,
Hannah maude, Chris mcDonnell,
Emma mcFadden, Samuel mckenny,
Edward middleton, Sophie middleton,
Sara mohamed, Shorok mombrikotb,
Aditya Narayanan, Charles penny,
Julian phatarfod, Eamonn postlethwaite,
Rasheed Rabiu, Ruth Reynolds, Joanna
Robbings, Delphine Rolando, Joseph
Rumer, plabon Saha, maryam Saleem,
luke Salter, Ayshah Sawjani, Francesco
Sciortino, Sarim Siddiqui, Amanda
Sjodahl, mariza de Souza, Charlotte
Stephens, Joshua Taylor, Chris Terry,
low Yi Ting, Vignesh Venkataraman,
kunal Wagle, Victoria Walpole, madina
Wane, Yuchen Wang, Ross Webster and
Christopher Wood.
Outstanding Service
Award
Stephen Ball, Richard Bennett, george
Butcher, michael Chung, Francis Clegg,
Hazem el-Turk, Benjamin Fernando,
katherine Fok, george goldberg, John
Golden, Rachel Gregory, Peter Grifin,
Benjamin Howitt, philip kent, Charmain
Tian Xin li, Nida mahmud, patrick
mcgown, James murphy, Sunila prasad,
Jonathan pratt, Slobodan Radosavljevic,
Alexander Savell, Andreas Thomik,
David Thompson and Thomas Wilshere.
Fellowship
michael Foster, Thomas lim and
Suzanne Rayner
Fellowship with Distinction
Stefan Nubert
Community Connections
Volunteer of the Year
michael Yat kit Chung
Community Connections
Project of the Year
Schools plus
Innovation & Enterprise
Student Innovation Bootcamp
Contribution to College
Life
Andreas Thomik
Campaign of the Year
Islamic Society’s Charity Week
Club, Society or Project of
the Year
EESoc
Event of the Year
East meets West, Indian Society
Recipients of the Imperial College Union 2014 Awards

