7
FRIDAY 13 JUN
ENVIRONMENT
& HEALTH
Editor: Lawrence
D’Silva
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Background
Africa has a long way to go in terms
of healthcare. It falls behind the rest
of the world on all health indicators,
including the poorer countries of
South-East and South Asia that used
to be behind Africa in the 1980s. he
average life expectancy worldwide is
68, but in Africa only 54 according to
the World Health Organisation. Why
is Africa so far behind?
Biggest offenders
In 1990, the average life expectancy
in Africa was 51. he life expectancy
is steadily increasing due to conlicts
between countries being resolved as
well as improvements in delivery of
healthcare and basic living conditions.
However, Africa still has the lowest life
expectancy worldwide for a number of
reasons, many of which are political.
Many governments don’t have
enough or don’t allocate enough
resources to providing basic
healthcare where it is most needed.
For this reason, there aren’t enough
hospital buildings in several countries
in Africa; treatments can therefore be
diicult to access on account of being
toofaraway.SouthAfrica,forexample,
have many of its healthcare facilities
in large cities far away from rural
areas. his ultimately deters poorer
people from using them because of
the distance and transport costs they
would incur. Also, medical equipment
is often sparse and frequently breaks
down.
Furthermore, inancial aid given
to countries in Africa, unfortunately,
doesn’t always reach where it is
most needed. At times it is misused,
entering personal accounts or to fund
political agendas.
Almost two thirds of the deaths
in Africa are due to communicable
diseases, maternal and perinatal
conditions. he majority of these
deaths are due to infectious and
parasitic diseases. his is almost
opposite to the causes of deaths
worldwide, where non-communicable
disease such cardiovascular diseases
and cancer are the biggest killers.
HIV is still amongst the worst
ofenders; killing 1.3 million people
a year in Africa. Next in line are
respiratory infections, such as
pneumonia, which cause 1.1 million
deaths a year. After these, are the
diarrhoeal diseases such as malaria
killing almost a million Africans
a year due to polluted water and
poor sanitation. he prevalence of
these diseases and infections are
considerably lower in developed
countries due to better access to
healthcare amongst numerous other
factors.
Africa fights back
Over the past 10 years the incidence
of HIV/AIDS has dropped in several
countries in Africa. his is largely due
to awareness programmes, such as
‘ABC’ which tells people to ‘abstain,
be faithful and condomise’. Several
organisations have also been involved
in making antiretroviral drugs
afordable. Tuberculosis is another
disease that has seen reductions
across the continent due to an
increase in successful treatments and
immunisations.
Finally malaria has been eradicated
worldwide, except for some countries
in Asia, and is slowly declining in
Africa. he distribution of millions of
insecticide-treated mosquito nets has
made a cause of this decline. However,
recently there is evidence that these
nets are leading to an increase in
resistant mosquitos and could cause
the incidence of malaria to return to
what it was.
Focusing on these pandemics
has made vast improvements to
the average life expectancy in
Africa. Nevertheless, some people
believe that more attention should
be paid to developing health
systems in a more general way. his
would involve making advances
in primary healthcare including
health education, safe water, basic
sanitation and immunisation against
major infectious diseases as deined
by the World Health Organisation.
Such primary healthcare should be
accessible to everyone and at a cost
that both the community and country
can realistically maintain.
his could potentially enable Africa
to eradicate the same diseases that
other countries worldwide have
successful managed to do. On the
other hand, the resources for this
would be extensive and is likely to be
the major limiting factor in Africa’s
move to a more developed healthcare
system.
Expenditure
Expenditure plays a huge role in
determining the success of healthcare
systems worldwide: it consists of
government spending, external
sources and private spending. In
2001, the heads of state of African
Union countries met in Abuja, Nigeria
and agreed to commit 15% of their
national budget on health spending.
his was made after he Millennium
Development Goals were formed
in 2000 promising to reduce child
mortality rates, improve maternal
health and ight HIV/AIDS amongst
other pledges. However, in 2010 only
four countries complied: Rwanda,
Botswana, Zambia and Togo.
External aid such as foreign
governments and Non-government
Organisations have played a
signiicant factor in dealing with
health emergencies in Africa. he
NGOs seen to be more independent
and therefore less likely to have
ulterior motives making them more
efective.
Private spending consists of people
paying directly for treatment but this
could cause those who are poor to go
bankrupt in order to pay their medical
bills.
It could also deter people from
seeking necessary medical attention.
Another form of private spending is
where a tax is collected on a regular
basis and directed into health
insurance schemes. Many believe this
is where the future lies.
Room for growth
he exciting thing about Africa is
the room for growth. A number
of countries are making successful
eforts in improving their healthcare
systems in order to address their
population’s medical needs. Ghana
for example, removed healthcare fees
for women resulting in a reduction in
maternal mortality. Initiatives such
as providing more free healthcare in
rural areas and the increasing number
of health insurance schemes has seen
vast reductions in mortality. hese
initiatives are likely to be the crux
to the development of a successful
healthcare system in the beautiful
continent that is Africa.
S
cientists are making
progress in increasing
the eiciency of
photosynthesis, the
process that fuels plant
growth. Such research has huge
potential from meeting the demands
of 21st century food security to
increasing the feasibility of biofuels
and to restoring previously damaged
environments. However, with such
reward could come great risk.
Photosynthesis is the process all
plants carry out which harvests
sunlight and absorbs CO2
to produce
fuel for the plant to grow. he problem
is that in its naturally occurring state,
photosynthesis has evolved to be
relatively ineicient in order to avoid
a toxin build up that could kill the
plant. In important food crops such
as wheat, barley and sugar beet, the
maximum eiciency is a mere 5%.
hree research teams, all including
scientists from both the UK and the
USA, have recently been granted a
crucial second round of funding to
address this problem. Much of the
research is focused around attempting
to use genes from certain bacteria
and algae that already carry out
photosynthesis very eiciently and
transfer them into the DNA of major
food crops.
With major cereal crop demand
set to rise from 2.1 billion tons
today to 3 billion tons in 2050, such
research could become invaluable in
feeding the world of tomorrow. For
industry, artiicially engineered fast
plant growth could prove valuable
as companies look to ofset their
emissions and land use impacts in an
increasingly regulated environment.
As a general, overarching beneit,
more eiciently photosynthesising
plants means more CO2
is absorbed
from the atmosphere, thereby
signiicantly helping mitigate climate
change.
Whilst improving photosynthesis
hasuntoldpotentialintacklingsomeof
the world’s most pertinent problems,
it is perhaps not unreasonable to
suggest that a warning lare must be
shot within the scientiic community
to proceed with caution because its
potential, both good and bad is just
that: untold.
Proceeding with precaution
has become a central dogma of
environmental science. his is for
the simple reason that ecosystems
exist as such inely balanced systems
with such impossibly complex webs
of interactions, that even the smallest
interferences can be expressed,
through a ‘butterly efect’ as serious,
global-scale problems, years down the
line. Citing the problem with excess
nitrogen fertiliser pollution of water
courses world-wide, nitrogen fertilizer
was irst invented to increase food
production by providing nitrogen
fertilization of crop plants at an
intensity that simply wasn’t possible
in nature. Whilst it has been credited
withincreasingglobalfoodproduction
by a factor of many, it has led to a huge
amount of environmental damage and
is one of the greatest environmental
problems of our time. In other words,
it has become a problem from a past
solution.
To proceed with engineering plants
to grow faster we must decide whether
we want to act and release the beneits
the research has to ofer, knowing that
wewillmostprobablyhavetodealwith
serious consequences in the future, or
whether we just sit back, knowing we
could have done something.
The Healthcare System in Africa
Shade oyewole
Writer
Lawrence D’Silva
Environment & Health Editor
If Plants Could Grow Faster
Scientists research ways of making Photosynthesis more eficient
Fat or muscle?
We are inviting healthy volunteers to take part in a research study comparing body
fat and metabolism in young adults. It will involve a single visit to Chelsea &
Westminster Hospital for 3-4 hours. You will have a full body Magnetic Resonance
scan, which is safe, and does not involve x-rays. You will also be asked for a blood,
and urine sample and a buccal swab taken from the inside of the mouth. This study
is open to people aged 19-27 years; we would particularly welcome interest if you
were born prematurely.
For more information please email James Parkinson, Research Associate,
jrcp@imperial.ac.uk or text 07814 296596
Sponsored Editorial

