8 FRIDAY 13 JUN
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
London pollution linked to heart complications
philippa Skett talks to the researchers behind turning light into electrons
STATIC-SECURE.gUIm.Co.Uk
London does actually look like this sometimes...it isn’t our printers playing up
Making light of the matter
mimi li
Science Writer
L
ast month, Imperial attracted
the attention of the world’s
media once again, with
researchers based in Blackett
Laboratory showing how to
potentially create matter from light.
heir paper, published in Nature
Photonics, builds upon he Breit and
Wheeler’s theory, made in 1934, and
solves an 80 year old challenge that
previously left physicists stumped.
he theory states that photons, the
fundamental elements that make up
light, can transform into electrons
and positrons, elements of matter.
his potential interchange between
light and matter has never been
demonstrated; it was previously
thought too diicult to force photons
to collide in such a way to produce
electrons and positrons.
However, it seems that the solution
was actually under the noses of
scientists all along. Lead researcher,
Oliver Pike, is currently a PhD
student, and was the irst to coin the
idea. After completing a degree in
Natural Sciences at Cambridge, he
joined Imperial in 2011, to pursue
his doctorate in high energy density
physics.
Inertial coninement fusion (ICF)
energy research, a particular branch
of research that studies some of the
processes behind at nuclear power,
provided the inspiration for Pike’s
discovery: “We were looking into
whether the facilities used in ICF
could be used to study fundamental
physics, initially on scrap paper using
simple order of magnitude estimates.
Within a few hours it was clear they
could provide the perfect conditions
for creating a photon collider. Our
photon collider could create electrons
(and their antiparticle, positrons)
from light with today's lasers.”
With ICF equipment already using
powerful lasers to heat and compress
pellets to induce nuclear reactions,
Pike’s idea was to remove the pellets
and direct the lasers to collide together
instead.
However, it could take some time
to produce tangible results. Pike
told us, “Predicting exactly when the
experiment will take place is very
diicult.
here's no guarantee that it will be
done within the next year, but we are
hopeful the Breit-Wheeler process
will be observed very soon.”
Felix spoke to Professor Roland
Smith, Head of Plasma Physics at
Imperial about the new research, and
what it was like to be in the eye of the
media storm surrounding the story:
“It’s always a pleasure to see how
smart some of your colleagues are
and to have this recognised with high
proile publications and (a brief) place
in the spotlight.”
“High proile results of this kind are
collected by Heads of Department
and College monthly. his paper was
reported on the BBC news online
website, he Guardian, he Daily
Mail, he Telegraph, the LA Times
and the Times of India, the world's
largest circulation English-language
broadsheet. he story featured on the
front page of he Guardian’s website
(where it was one of their top 10 most
popular stories) and the BBC News
website.
[his subject] is a double edged
sword however – it's an exciting
idea with a strong popular cultural
resonance. he paper describes a
process that can be summarised as
“light in, matter out,” (true – under
extreme conditions) but some people
will automatically assume this leads
to a Star Trek “Holodeck” – which is
very false!”
On that idea that this technology
may soon be used to create large
amounts of matter from light, Pike
said, “here currently isn't enough
energy to make heavier particles. Even
if this were possible, these would be
created in such low numbers and at
such high energies that they would not
be an 'object'. Most likely some kind of
electron-positron plasma (like that in
the early universe) would be formed.”
Professor Smith continued, “Can we
follow this up with a real experiment?
Not on site at Imperial I am afraid,
there are only one or two labs in the
world with the right capabilities at the
moment. It would take a minimum
of a £200 million laser system and a
decade of work starting from scratch
so I don't think we will be doing this
on site in South Kensington.”
“I am sure however that members of
our group will be busy writing grant
proposals and bidding for time on
existing "big" lasers to see if this idea
can now be tested – so I am sure it will
be one of quite a few exciting ideas we
want to work on in the future.”
L
ondon is one of the most
polluted cities in Europe and
it is no surprise to hear that
this pollution has potentially
harmful efects on our
health. Air pollution has previously
been linked to an increased risk of
cardiovascular and respiratory disease,
as well as cancer. An estimated 7
million deaths per year are a result of
air pollution exposure according to the
World Health Organisation.
Newly published research links
short-term air pollution to an
increased risk of atrial ibrillation
(irregular heartbeat) and pulmonary
embolism (blood clot in the lungs).
he research team, from the
London School of Hygiene & Tropical
Medicine, used national databases
in England and Wales to correlate
incidence of cardiovascular disease
with local levels of air pollutant.
hese databases recorded statistics
on hospital admissions for heart
attack, stroke and other emergency
admissions. Air pollutants levels
were measured using data from local
air quality monitoring stations; these
included: carbon monoxide, nitrogen
dioxide, particulate matter, sulphur
dioxide and ozone.
he level of PM2.5, a type of
particulate matter, was strongly linked
to an increased risk of atrial ibrillation
and pulmonary embolism. here
was, however, no clear link between
air pollutants and cardiovascular
death (from heart attack or stroke).
Nitrogen dioxide exposure was linked
to increased hospital admissions for
cardiovascular problems, including
heart failure, as well as a particular
type of heart attack (non-ST
elevation). he researchers conclude
that there is no clear evidence that
short-term exposure to air pollution
increases risk of heart attack or stroke.
Stroke and heart attack are the well-
known ‘killers’, but atrial ibrillation
and pulmonary embolism are also
serious conditions. Atrial ibrillation
puts you at an increased risk of
stroke, and pulmonary embolism is a
potentially life-threatening condition,
which can cause collapse and death.
Elderly patients and those with
pre-existing heart conditions are at
increased risk of developing serious
complications.
his study has helped to provide
further evidence on the adverse efects
of air pollution on health. However,
the picture is still unclear.
photons enter and collide together to form an electron-positron pair. look at those particles go NATURE.Com

