Haralambos Dayantis
Kadhim Shubber
“Keep the Cat Free”
FELIX
The student voice of Imperial College London since 1949
ISSUE 1485
11.03.11
Lecturers to strike
National walkout to hit Imperial unless pensions dispute is resolved
The University and College Union
(UCU) has scheduled strikes over
changes to pension schemes of univer-
sity staff, with English universities due
to be affected on the 22nd and 24th of
March. Falling in the last week of term,
the strikes could have a damaging effect
on lecture courses across many depart-
ments, if employers and unions don’t
come to an agreement.
The changes include an increase in
employee contributions, an increase in
the pension age and reduced pensions
for staff who are made redundant.
With no time to reschedule lectures,
and many exams falling straight after
the Easter break, undergraduate students
could suffer significantly from strike ac-
tion. The UCU represents thousands of
Imperial staff for collective bargaining
purposes, but according to the College, of
the 520 UCU members at Imperial, only
around 290 are academics and lecturers.
The President of the UCU at Imperial, Dr
Michael McGarvey, declined to confirm
or deny these figures. However, it is un-
clear as to how many members of staff
would walk out; although Dr McGarvey
Post-study work route could be saved
Sophia David
The government is reconsidering its
student visa proposals announced at the
end of January. These included raising
the minimum level of English proficien-
cy required for entry, limiting opportu-
nities for work experience and part time
work for students, total abolishment of
the post-study work route and restricting
the number of dependants that can enter
the UK with students. After “profound
concern” expressed by sixteen univer-
sity vice-chancellors in a letter to the
Observer, universities minister, David
Willetts, has said that the government is
considering reforming rather than scrap-
ping the post-study work route as well
as re-thinking its restrictions on entry of
dependants. ...Continued on Page 3
FEATURE
How immigration
changed the Mirpuri
community: Page 6
FASHION
The future of fashion
after Galliano:
Page 25
FOOD
Is there anything
better than Nandos?:
Page 29
...Continued on Page 3
After a consultation on the student
visa regime launched by the immigra-
tion minister, Damian Green proposed
scrapping the post-study work route
completely, Willetts has now said that
the government is considering a “range
of options”. The post-study work route
allows international graduates who have
studied here to stay and work in the UK
for up to two years, without needing to
have a sponsor. In 2009, 38,000 foreign
graduates were permitted to stay after
they had finished their studying via this
route along with an additional 8,000 de-
pendents, which includes partners and
children less than 18 years of age. Abol-
ishing the post-study work route would
force international students to leave the
UK as soon as they finish their course,
VINTAGEVEHICLES
Imperial’s rich motoring history: Page 7
Miles Robertson
Strikes will occur on the 22nd and 24th of March if unions and employers don’t come to an agreement

