TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Two burglaries and a case of vehicle crime –
not your an average night out in a rough part
of London, but a description of the crime in
my street in the last month according to the po-
lice’s latest initiative, www.police.uk. The site,
which allows you to enter a postcode and re-
trieve detailed crime statistics for the area, has
been a massive success, receiving 400m hits in
the two months it’s been online.
The site is a coordinated effort by various
government departments and has been hailed
by ministers as a step towards greater transpar-
ency with regards to the working of your local
police force. In addition to providing a local-
ised crime map, it also offers local police force
information and a list of events being held by
the police in the area.
The site throws up little in the way of surpris-
es; the Imperial-infested and expensive south-
west of London is remarkably safe. Albertopo-
lis itself is devoid of any crime, with the worst
you should be expected to endure is a case or
two of the one-fits-all ‘anti-social behaviour’,
something that you’re probably used to at Im-
perial in any case.
The site has been surprisingly divisive, how-
ever, with many people questioning the point
in releasing crime data for individual streets.
Beyond the voyeuristic pleasure of scouring
some of London’s seedier neighbourhoods,
there is little that the information offers that
wasn’t publicly available a few months ago,
and almost no functionality apart from it either.
While it’s certainly healthy fuel for paranoia,
there is also little you can do to get involved
beyond staring at you screen; there is no way to
provide feedback or suggestions to your local
police force through the site.
This lack of apparent purpose has led many
to question whether the government really had
to spend £300,000 on the project. Software ar-
chitect Rob West took it upon himself to churn
out a virtually identical website on the evening
of the site’s launch, managing it in roughly 8
Free App of the Week
iOS - Opera Mini
With O2 and others blocking sites, now’s the time to
start using a proxy based browser. Fast, even over
rubbish 3G signal, Opera does the job in a pinch.
Android’s got the choice of two Opera incantations,
Mini and Mobile. Mobile for when you want a full
browser, Mini for when your signal is pants.
Android - Opera Mini/Mobile
Crime on your street mapped
Feroz Salam
Silicon cases have been a dime-a-dozen ever
since the original iPod. When you get to the
iPhone 4, those same soft silicon cases haven’t
really evolved very much. Sure they have cut
outs now so you can access the buttons and the
ports, but they’re still pretty poor.
The Cygnett SecondSkin for the iPhone 4
is no different. It’s a quick and easy fit silicon
case that can be had in a variety of colours. In
an attempt to differentiate it from the £2 eBay-
specials, Cygnett have included a screen pro-
tector in the package as a welcome extra.
The SecondSkin is marketed as having a
‘soft, talky touch feel’ and while it’s slightly
less tacky than your average silicon case, it still
suffers from the age old problem of pocket jam
Rubberise your iPhone 4 with SecondSkin
Samuel Gibbs
hours.
Supporters of the site are overwhelmingly
positive about it’s performance however, and
the numbers seem to agree that whatever the
reason, the website has managed to tap into our
natural curiosity. It is hoped that the effort will
put pressure on local police forces to deal with
crime better, and allow residents to lobby for a
better presence in more troubled areas.
The site is just the latest measure in the gov-
ernment’s continuing effort to bring data and
transparency in their dealings to the public.
Driven by the central hub of data.gov.uk, da-
tasets released to the public include the ‘Com-
pendium on Motorcycling Statistics’ and the
‘Survey of Vegetables and Flowers’. The idea
is to bring accountability to the government’s
actions as well as allowing interested parties to
analyse and present the data in ways the gov-
ernment may not have thought of.
Despite some very interesting figures hav-
ing come out of the release of the data, there
are still many questions regarding privacy that
have yet to be answered. The government con-
tracts a large amount of work out to private
companies, and it’s a matter of debate whether
they are required to be as transparent.
The government doesn’t have a great track
record so far when it comes to opening up
data to developers either. TfL’s London Un-
derground API (which should allow users to
create websites and apps for phones) is noto-
riously unreliable. Its basic functionality has
been withdrawn unexpectedly multiple times
over the last few years, much to the chagrin
of developers who depend on it for their apps.
With the police.uk website going down on the
day of its launch as well, it’s clear that while
transparency may be the order of the day, it’s
meaningless if the data is stuck on a server in a
back office in central London.
Head on over to the crime map to stare in hor-
ror at the nearest case of violent crime; I per-
sonally find the Compendium of Motorcycling
Statistics gets me off faster.
as there’s simply too much friction. As a conse-
quence, if you’re wearing jeans, it can be pretty
difficult to get your phone out of your pocket
when it rings, and when you do it’ll be covered
in fluff and dust.
The SecondSkin isn’t as tightly fitting as you
might like either, and can come off in a loose
pocket, or bag. It’ll also let a load of dust and
pocket debris get under the case, something
that Apple’s worried is scratching and weaken-
ing the back glass of the iPhone 4. You can’t
really get round that when you want a form-fit-
ting case on your phone, but being a bit tighter
and closer fitting could help.
For about £15 it’s not a bad case. It offers de-
cent, if a bit thin, protection, while access to the
buttons and ports is decent. It’s not that it’s a
bad case, it’s just not great or cheap.
“The site throws up little
in the way of surprises”
12
What? You mean South Kensington isn’t a den of vice and crime?
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011

