POLITICS
14
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
United States
The Head of Libya’s rebel movement has said that
General Gaddafi will not be persecuted if he quits
within 72 hours and stops bombing his country-
men. This comes as Libya’s rebellion entered its
third week with the Gaddafi government counter-
attacking in several key cities. General Gaddafi is
struggling to hold on to his grip on power but there
are signs that he may be willing to resign in return
for dropping the charges against him and a guaran-
tee that he would be allowed to exit safely. Interna-
tional pressure is building up on Gaddafi and the UK
and France is currently drafting a UN Resolution for
a no-fly zone in Libya which is supported by the Gulf
States and the Organisation of Islamic Conference.
Libya
US President Barack Obama is lifting a two year
ban on military trials for detainees held in Guanta-
namo Bay in Cuba. This move is the latest signal to
many that Guantanamo Bay will remain open in the
near future despite Obama’s pledge to shut it down
within one year of taking office. Mr Obama has said
that this move would broaden America’s ability to
bring terrorists to justice. It is expected that Abd al-
Rahim al-Nashiri, accused of bombing the USS Cole
will be the first to be tried under Obama’s new order.
Malaysia
Malaysia’s Leader of the Opposition, Anwar Ibra-
him has won a critical ruling in his second sodomy
trial. The Malaysian High Court ordered three pieces
of evidence crucial to the prosecution’s case to be
excluded after finding that they had been obtained
incorrectly. This ruling means that the prosecution’s
case will now rest solely on the testimony of the
complainant Saiful Bukhari who claimed that he
was sodomised by Anwar in an apartment. Anwar’s
second trial for sodomy, which is illegal in Malaysia
is seen by many as a political conspiracy with the
Human Rights Watch calling the trial a charade of
justice.
The Cuban healthcare system is renowned for
being one of the most effective healthcare sys-
tems in the world today with life expectancies
equal to those of some of the world’s wealthi-
est countries. Cubans have for some time been
making a push to reach out far beyond their
small island borders in order to export their
methods of disease prevention and treatment
worldwide, particularly in the developing
world where their impact is most noticeable.
Cuban medical international, otherwise
known as ‘doctor diplomacy’, is a Cuban pro-
gramme founded after the Cuban Revolution in
1959 that is aimed at exporting Cuban health
practices and practitioners to developing na-
tions. Rooted both in foreign policy objectives,
including Cuba’s policy of supporting anti-co-
lonial struggles of the 1960s, and humanitari-
anism, the programme today employs 50,000
healthcare personnel globally.
As one of the first countries to become ac-
tive in medical crisis operations, Cuba has
dispatched emergency assistance teams and
medical professionals to provide support to
struggling national governments after major
natural disasters and conflicts in Chile, Nicara-
gua, Iran, Algeria and Haiti since the 1960s, of-
ten arriving on the scene well before the large
NGOs and Charities have mobilised. In 2005
Cuba even prepared to send a brigade of 1,500
doctors to New Orleans in the wake Hurricane
Katrina; this offer was declined however by the
former US president George Bush.
Humanitarian crises, although devastat-
ing when they occur, are rare, which is why,
since 1998, the Cuban Comprehensive Health
Fit as a Fidel
Red Elmahdi (CPH) programme has formed the cornerstone
of Cuban international health operations. This
programme has allowed the Cubans to move
towards the establishment of durable interna-
tional healthcare provisions and runs alongside
its international emergency relief programme.
The CPH aims to promote international soli-
darity and bolster the public health infrastruc-
ture of a country through staffing local clinics
and hospitals with Cuban medical teams.
The programme runs in 27 countries in Latin
America, Africa and Asia and as a result there
are now health workers providing medical
care and assistance for some of the most iso-
lated and deprived populations in the world.
In fact in several countries such as Honduras,
Guatemala and Mali, CPH services have been
the only health service provisions available for
many rural and indigenous communities for
decades.
The Cuban approach combines population
based public health principles and preventa-
tive programmes with clinical medicine, for-
mulating long-term healthcare initiatives and
taking these directly to the populations where
it’s needed. Since its foundation, the CPH is
estimated to have sent 3,446 health profession-
als to participating countries. These personnel
have carried out over 96 million patient visits,
saved 1.8 million lives in the poorest parts of
the world and greatly improved the quality of
life of many more. This level of provision is
what many large international health develop-
ment programmes can only dream of achieving.
The price of such success is, however, high to
the individual practitioners who are deployed
internationally, and the question remains
whether such efforts are sustainable and scal-
able to reach more people. Availability of fund-
ing and resources however presents the largest
obstacle to the CPH. These programmes are
implemented in the most deprived countries
in the world and consequently the facilities
available to Cuban healthcare professionals are
often poor, with frequent absences of essential
drugs and clinical equipment. These problems
have been minimised by increased efficiency,
improved logistics and informed human re-
source management but there is no denying
that there continues to be an absolute need for
additional funding that cannot be generated by
the deprived populations served.
Unlike the usual aid and development pro-
grammes implemented by developed countries
and large NGOs, which require significant
investment and are largely vertical, running
parallel to existing health facilities the Cuban
approach of integrating health provision and
strengthening existing systems has been the
key to its success. Traditional health develop-
ment programmes are often additionally lim-
ited by political alliance and ideology. Cuban
programmes work in complete cooperation
with the poorest countries embracing ideas of
international fraternity and disregarding politi-
cal agendas and economic interest. The ques-
tion now is how do they begin to convince the
rest of the global health community to imple-
ment such methods?
The “Developing Health Systems” confer-
ence will take place on 26th March at 9.30
in the Business School, comparing Cuba,
the UK and others. More information at
tickets available at www.imperialcolleg-
eunion.org/medsin
Western media paid little attention to Cuban doctors volunteering in Haiti
We could learn from Cuba’s international health system
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011

