L
ast Thursday, the Muslim
Student Council hosted
an event entitled: “Middle
East: Revolution, Democ-
ratisation, and the End of
U.S. Hegemony.” The evening featured
four invited speakers, talking about re-
cent events in their home countries:
Saeed Shehabi from Bahrain, Monjia
Abidi from Tunisia, Kamal El-Helbawy
from Egypt and Guma El-Gamaty from
Libya.
Each speech (with the notable excep-
tion of Mr El-Gamaty’s) consisted pri-
POLITICS
15
The Middle East protests are secular
“These modern,
liberal youth are
overwhelmingly
secular”
gage with them, they could not acquire
any legitimacy.
Take, for instance, the title’s strident
declaration of “the end of U.S. hege-
mony.” A fairly strong argument can be
put forward for the quasi-imperialistic
nature of American foreign policy in
the Middle East. But because everyone
already seemed to be in agreement on
this, none of the speakers even both-
ered. Rather than discuss and explore
the background and nuances of the
situation, the influence of America
was simply a tacitly assumed (though
not at all well-defined) fact. This was
finally challenged in the far-too-short
Q&A session, when a member of the
audience made the very good point that
the instigators, collaborators and ben-
eficiaries of dictatorship in a particular
country are themselves overwhelming-
ly citizens of that country. Unsurpris-
ingly, this charge was not responded to
adequately.
The evening had a religious slant
from the start, even opening with the
recitation of a Koranic verse. Several
(though not all) of the speakers ex-
marily of a feverish, lengthy and some-
what tedious elaboration on the brutality
of the dictatorial regimes. Whilst ac-
knowledging these facts is important,
the insistence on rendering them in such
minute detail unfortunately lowered the
tone of the evening to one of indignant
victimhood.
A related problem – a touch ironical
given the title of the event – was the
homogeneity of the speakers. On al-
most all the major issues, the panel was
unanimous: there was a total absence of
healthy debate. This might have been
forgivable, had the purpose of the event
been simply to present the experiences
of a group of fairly remarkable individu-
als. But of course this was not the case:
the incendiary title, together with the
overall tone of the speakers, demonstrat-
ed that the event was aimed at making
definitive judgements. Unfortunately,
the organisers failed to realise that any
conclusion is meaningless when all the
participants hold the same views. In-
deed, there were several interesting and
valid points made by the speakers; but
with nobody on the opposing side to en-
pressed their belief that the current up-
risings are Islamic in nature. This is pa-
tently false. The disparate protests and
revolutions currently spreading across
the Middle East have just one thing in
common: their youth. This vital de-
mographic, frustrated from years of
oppressive government and lack of op-
portunity, finally conscious of its own
strength, has shrugged off its shackles
and is leading the revolt against tyr-
anny. Each of the speakers lauded the
young people for their crucial role in
the uprising. But these modern, liberal
youth, along with the movements they
represent, are overwhelmingly secular;
they draw upon notions of national, not
religious, unity. To claim the incredible
achievements of Tunisia and Egypt for
Islam is at best misinformed, at worst
plain malicious.
As mentioned before, the speak-
ers did make a few fairly compelling
points. Mr. El-Helbawy highlighted
the hypocrisy of Western governments,
which extol democracy while sanction-
ing the exclusion of particular parties
from elections. Of all the speakers, Mr.
El-Gamaty was certainly the most inter-
esting and engaging. He spoke in detail
of the impacts that events in neighbour-
ing Tunisia and Egypt had on the Libyan
people, and gave reasons supporting his
view that Colonel Gadaffi would soon
be defeated. However, due to the one-
sided format of the event, these state-
ments could not develop beyond the
embryonic stage.
In the end, this event should serve as
both a lesson and a warning: plurality;
conflict and resolution, are essential for
the development of a complete, robust
view of the world. Groups of people as-
sembling with the sole purpose of agree-
ing with one another should be wary that
they are not taking the first steps towards
their own delegitimisation.
Navid Nabijou argues that you can’t claim the revolutions for Islam
MedEd presents An
Introduction to Tropical
Medicine. Sunday 20th,
10am, SAF Building.
Contact ard08@ic.ac.uk for
more info and tickets: £5
EVENTS
Sarah Jeyaprakash
Will Ataturk’s secularism or Khomeini’s theocratic vision prevail?
FELIX Friday 11 MARCH 2011

