16
COM M ENT
S
omeone once told me that
dogs can’t look up. After
the serendipitous, albeit not
entirely legal acquisition of
several dogs and the sys-
tematic placing of bones, dog food, and
even cats on formidably high shelving, I
at last determined that this was utter bol-
locks. But it got me thinking. Dogs can
look up, but can people?
Well, of course, they can – the me-
chanical basis is there. I’ve spent many
an hour manhandling anatomy skeletons
into a variety of ungodly shapes and
looking up is but one permutation. But
out on the streets, it’s hard to find any in
vivo confirmation.
In fact, on the underground, it’s practi-
cally unheard of. Commuters have gone
several stops past their destination to
save the public humiliation of having
to look up as the station names, embla-
zoned upon the platform walls, flash by.
I think it might a defence mechanism,
a throw–back to that stage of evolution
when the human race was particular vul-
nerable to having its throat ripped out.
In looking up, we expose a very fleshy,
very vital piece of anatomy, practically
welcoming a good garrotting.
So resisting the urge to look up is a
survival strategy, part of the “head down
and carry on” mentality of the collec-
tive. Still, I think it’s sad that a young
woman under attack is more likely to re-
ceive help from passers–by if she shouts
“fire!” than if she cries “rape!” It may
have started as a means of survival, but
keeping our heads down nowadays is
beginning to work against us.
This is such a shame because I think
people are missing out on something
incredible, something you can only see
when you look up. To make sure you get
a really good gander at it, you need to
go somewhere high, or open. Preferably
both.
I can vouch for the top of the Queen’s
Tower and Hampstead Heath, they’ll
both do. Go up on a really clear day and
you can see it. What are you looking for,
you ask? Nothing.
I find there’s nothing better than look-
ing up at bright azure sky and seeing
absolutely nothing, save for the faintest
whispers of cloud.
For me, there is nothing more inspi-
rational than a big fat nothing. Firstly,
there are no boundaries, no limits, on a
blue summer’s sky. If the sky can’t be
fenced, why should I be? Break out, live
dangerously, do something that scares
people! Those people who say the sky is
the limit just aren’t thinking big enough.
Secondly, it is the ultimate blank canvas.
You could do anything on a clear sky,
from playing about with sky–writing
and making shapes out of the clouds to
circumnavigating the world in a hot-air
balloon...and a moustache. There’s so
much potential, it actually makes me
tingle.
And I don’t think I’m alone in this.
Throughout the long, long annals of his-
tory there has not been a single person to
Up is the new down
draw inspiration from their shoes (with
the possible exception of Doc Marten).
Newton was gazing up at the moon in
his orchard when gravity struck. In
school, Einstein day-dreamed that he
was riding a star-beam.
It is important to look up, and not just
to be inspired. Sometimes, it is impor-
tant to look up, just to feel good.
I mean, how can we ever hope to be
up–lifted if we don’t know what things
look like in that direction? Never under-
estimate the untold beauty that hangs
above you. Unless it’s raining.
It’s easy to keep your head down and get lost in your own
world. Maybe we should all get a new perspective
When the Union President Alex Kendall said
that using the amenities fund to subsidise
alcohol was immoral, there was an eruption
of anger. Postgraduate students rose to the
defense of the amenities fund, and Kendall
claimed that he was merely encouraging de-
bate. The discussions about hall rents have
almost entirely focused on this subject, but
beneath the furore another, perhaps more
contentious, question is being asked by the
survey: Should Imperial continue to offer
free gym and swim facilities at Ethos?
Imperial is possible the only university in
the UK that guarantees free gym access
to all of its students. Although services
like exercise classes or squash courts are
charged, the state-of-the-art gym and pool
facilities are not. Few students would ever
be heard complaining about the quality of
the facilities, and it is fair to say that the
free access is a luxury.
In the context of the ongoing debate about
reducing hall rents, one must ask whether
it is worth keeping this luxury. Is it right that
profit from hall rents should go to provide
free gym access for all?
There are some very convincing argu-
ments for saying No. Not all students who
live in halls use the gym regularly and it’s
likely that many of them will use the gym
only once or twice throughout their time at
Imperial. Additionally, free gym member-
ship creates problems in terms of usage;
zero cost should logically lead to infinite
demand. At certain times of the week, it
seems as though this rule is adhered to lit-
erally. This crowding forces students to use
the gym at unsociable hours or pay for pri-
vate gym membership elsewhere. Raising
the cost would dampen demand and there-
fore the congestion. Already we’ve seen
measures put in place to address the issue
of overcrowding. Members of staff (who pay
for Ethos) now have allocated gym time on
Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Of course, these arguments can be coun-
tered with just as much strength. Staff
members earn salaries and are therefore
able to pay. There is no need to introduce
‘economics’ into gym overcrowding be-
cause it’s already there; students who don’t
like using the gym when it’s busy can go at
different times or use a private gym (why
penalise those who don’t mind?) Do 1st
years in Halls really subsidise Ethos? Well
only if they all dropped out; a 3rd year using
the gym ‘for free’ paid for it when he or she
was in halls in their 1st year.
This is clearly only a taster of the discus-
sions being had on the issue. But most
importantly, we mustn’t forget the value of
free Ethos gym membership as a symbol. It
is a luxury, no doubt, but we all feel some
pride in being able to say that our university
offers its students free gym membership.
It’s a feather in our collective cap – and that
has real value.
FELIX
Rhys Davies
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Should Ethos be free?
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“
-
-
g
t
”
If the sky can’t be fenced, why
should I be? Break out, live
dangerously, do something
that scares people!
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
Ben Kennedy
The summer is almost here! Unfortunately so are exams... FAIL
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011

