17
COM M ENT
Whats wrong with
the new generation?
Games. They’re like gigantic,
electric playgrounds. And like
playgrounds, nowadays they’re
all tarmac and cutesy wooden
houses for the reception kids
to play in, whereas we were
lucky to have a bit of rusty old
pipe to play catch with. At least
that’s the impression I get
from Alex Karapetian’s article
in Monday’s Daily Felix, which
seemed to imply that games
are less engaging, less addict-
ing and less related-to-cartoon-
series than they used to be.
Despite understanding this
point perfectly, I’ve seen vide-
ogames grow and evolve over
the last decade into something
unrecognisable. There are now
large communities using them
as art forms, engines for so-
cietal change, medical tools,
learning aids, and most impor-
tantly a way to stave off bore-
dom and entertain the mind.
I’m happy to see gaming move
on. Alex’s point is representa-
tive of how he feels; how many
people his age feels. But it
shouldn’t be a judgement on
gaming itself.
To say that gaming has
changed, and that we’ll no
longer have tacky card game
tie-ins, is probably true. But to
say that this is a bad thing, or
a sign of a weaker generation,
is wrong. My brother’s gen-
eration, ten years behind me,
bonds through discussions of
guns and special forces, rather
than swords and sorcery. But
the fifty hours he spent hon-
ing his quickscoping is no dif-
ferent, really, to the fifty hours
I spent running Final Fantasy
VIII. And at the heart of it is still
the same human enjoyment of
playing.
What’s exciting is that it’s not
just the upcoming newer gener-
ations who are shaping the me-
dium today, but also people of
all ages who are slowly finding
the right games and platforms
for them. As more people join,
we’re going to see even more
diversification. But we’ll all still
be sharing in something that,
psychologically, is very similar
– playing.
So here’s to moaning about
the younger generation. But
also a reminder that the games,
like the kids, are alright.
Angry Geek
The opinions expressed on the Comment pages represent the views of the author only.
IS OUR SOCIETY
ACTUALLY LESS
HOMOPHOBIC?
A
lthough homosexuality
was legalised in England
in 1967, the views of the
people in the UK hardly
changed at all. Those
who came out as gay, acted gay, or were
even remotely ‘metrosexual’ were still
discriminated against for many years.
Over time, the work of groups such as
‘Stonewall’ and School’s Out managed
to promote anti–discriminatory laws and
regulations, and the lives of gay people in the UK improved dramatically.
Schools however were a completely different story; being gay was synonymous with
bullying and schools and the police mostly ignored it. For many years children were
teased, bullied and even driven to suicide, and the police and teachers stood by and
let it happen. Anti–homophobia campaigns in schools and the teaching of the past
taboo subject of gay people have changed that, and schools have become much less
tolerant of any form of bullying, giving children the chance to explore their own
personalities, rather than the personalities that other people demanded of them.
My personal experience in school was far better than I expected, I came out as gay
when I was sixteen in my final GCSE year. I was scared of what would happen
thanks to things told to me by friends and stories in the media, but I was not bullied
further then the occasional name calling of being camp (which is an understate-
ment!). I understand this view is not the same for every school and every person in
the country but I went to a state school in one of the toughest areas in east London,
and felt safe. The only reason I didn’t come out earlier was because of the scare¬–
mongering that people in the media, like Johann Hari, do.
Overall, police also started taking homophobic hate crimes seriously too; they
started getting reported when people finally realised that other people would listen.
Statistics indicate an increase in hate crime, but this is due to people realising that
they don’t have to take that sort of abuse in this country, despite the media’s constant
barrage of warnings.
Many gay people in the media also claim that young kids use the term ‘gay’ as a
derogatory phrase and are therefore homophobic. I argue that this is stupid and that
they should get a life. The term ‘gay’ meant happy long before it was attributed to
gay people. To quote Stephen Fry, “languages change and evolve just as animals do;
to think that they should always stay the same is a fallacy”. You can’t argue that what
young people say has any bearing on its original meaning, given that most kids don’t
even know the original meaning.
In summary, homophobia is not increasing amongst young people, only the media
sees it that way and forces children to believe it. As soon as people realise that it’s
the media that sets these things off in the first place then maybe we’ll see a better
society overall.
Stuart Haylock Chris Socha
Our society is pretty tolerant of all lifestyles, right?
Johann Hari recently exposed the rise of homophobic
incidents in East London. The question is...
“Hate crimes started
getting reported
when people realised
that others would
listen”
T
welve years ago, a nail
bomb exploded in a gay
pub in central London,
killing 3 and injuring 70
more; nowadays the pub is
regarded as an iconic landmark of the
last in a series of attacks on the capital’s
minority groups.
Despite recent advances in LGBT
(Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgen-
der) rights in UK law, recent statistics
on homophobic hate crime can be interpreted to show an increase in crimes against
LGBT people. One in five lesbian and gay people in Britain have been a victim of
one or more homophobic hate crimes in the last three years. Three in four of these
did not report them to the police. These incidents ranged from regular insults on the
street to serious physical and sexual assaults. While some argue that this is because
the police have become more ‘gay friendly’ and approachable, campaigner Peter
Thachell suggests “As more people come out they become more visible and more
easily identifiable. I remember there was a similar backlash in the US in the 60s, a
big rise in racist attacks in the wake of the civil rights movement.”
Now if we’re examining homophobia among young people, one good way is to
look for relevant information within schools and colleges. Research in Stonewall’s
‘The Teacher Report’found that nine in ten secondary school teachers and more than
two in five primary school teachers say children and young people, regardless of
their sexual orientation, currently experience homophobic bullying, name calling or
harassment in their schools. It’s scary to think that almost 90% of teachers regularly
hear the phrases ‘you’re so gay’ or ‘that’s so gay’ and other insulting homophobic
remarks such as ‘poof’, ‘dyke’, ‘queer’ and ‘faggot’.
In many cases these can be picked up from parents or celebrities (Chris Moyles’
“gay” ringtone) who may be homophobic, or may just not understand that what they
are saying is offensive, because unfortunately ‘gay’ is used as a catch–all negative;
for anything from bad, wrong, weak, to pathetic, fake or overly–emotional.
This is why (despite what Melanie Phillips may say...), ‘School’s Out’s attempt
to introduce LGBT elements into the curriculum is important! One school in Stoke
Newington has developed lessons on gay historical figures who suffered persecu-
tion, which has succeeded in “more or less eliminating homophobic bullying” in its
classrooms and playgrounds over the last five years. The homophobia problem is
even worse in faith schools, as columnist Johann Hari explains “Today, schools in
Muslim areas like Tower Hamlets and across Europe are deeply reluctant to explain
that homosexuality is a natural and harmless phenomenon that occurs in every hu-
man society: they know that many parents will go crazy. Tough.” I could go on and
on with my argument, but in summary: homophobia is rife among our youth, and
unless we do something about it, this is not something which will change.
“One in five gay
people have been a
victim of homophobic
hate crimes in the
last three years”
FELIX Friday 11 MARCH 2011

