19
A R T S
Heart-warming sketches from St Trinians’ creator
Cecily Goodwin
In 1969, cartoonist Ronald Searle’s wife
Monica was diagnosed with a particu-
larly virulent form of breast cancer and
given six months to live. She went on
to undergo a series of experimental and
particularly unpleasant chemotherapy
treatments.
During this distressing period, Searle
was determined to do something to sup-
port his wife and has claimed ‘I have
only my talent for drawing, so I drew’.
The result is currently being exhibited,
in association with many cancer and
women’s charities, in The Cartoon Mu-
seum under the title Les tres riches heu-
res de Mrs Mole. These tokens of love
and support were never meant for pub-
lication and consist of 47 pocket-sized
images detailing the potterings of Mrs
Mole, the alter ego of Monica, about
her provencal residence. The house in
which Mrs Mole is seen drinking tea
and champagne, arranging flowers and
admiring views represents one the cou-
ple had bought a few months previous
to Monica’s diagnosis. Thus the life of
Mrs Mole is the idyllic life she might
picture and look forward to during her
treatment.
Ronald Searle is regarded by many
contemporaries, and indeed introduced
in the exhibition, as the greatest living
cartoonist. The illustrator of Moles-
worth and St Trinian’s, he has also
worked for many high profile magazines
including Life. He began his career de-
tailing the horrors of the WWII Japanese
camps where he was held as a Prisoner
of War for three and a half years. He still
continues to draw, having celebrated his
90th birthday last year.
Searle’s work is often associated
with a darkly mischievous humour, as
shown in the misbehaviour and trick-
ery of the St Trinian’s schoolgirls and
in the Molesworth cartoons. As in all
his cartoons, this collection wonderfully
portrays the character of his subject, but
in detailing the life of Mrs Mole, Searle
only portrays peace and content in the
possible future represented by the draw-
ings. The cartoons are full of hope and
light and Mrs Mole herself is delightful
as she goes about her pastimes, planting,
picking and arranging brightly coloured
flowers, looking in her patchwork store
and gazing at birds and butterflies that
flutter about the terraces.
The exhibition ends with a cartoon not
part of the series entitled ‘The Beautiful
Dream comes True in which Mrs Mole
Afghanistan’s magnificent heirlooms
Afghanistan. What images are conjured
up in your mind? The sad reality is that,
for many of us, 3000 years of history
has been eclipsed by 30 years of chaos.
Fortunately the aim of the British Mu-
seum’s exhibition Afghanistan: Cross-
roads of the Ancient World is to remind
us of the country’s crucial historic role
as a junction of the silk routes between
Rome, India and China.
I was initially disappointed by the ex-
hibition. On entering, I was met by an
array of Greek and Roman style pots and
statuettes which, while adequately mak-
ing the point that there was extensive
contact between the Greeks and Romans
and this part of the ancient world, didn’t
really bring it to life for me. There didn’t
seem to be anything there unique to Af-
ghanistan. The accompanying displays
brought the history a little more into fo-
cus. Once part of the Persian Empire, it
was conquered by Alexander the Great
who, as always, took a local wife, and so
Afghanistan found itself on the Eastern
Christina Flanagan frontier of the vast Greek empire.
My impressions improved as I moved
deeper inside as there are some re-
ally lovely pieces which epitomise this
unique fusion of East and West – in
particular a carving of the Greek god-
dess Aphrodite marked with a bindi, the
traditional Hindu symbol of marriage,
on her forehead, and a Roman glass
enameled with a beautiful illustration
of a Tiger. However, the third section
is by far the most eye-catching. Gold
abounds. This is the bling of three of
Afghanistan’s ancient nomad rulers,
which they chose to be buried in. It is
laid out exactly as it was found when
archaeologists first entered their tombs.
The haul includes the ultimate nomadic
accessory: a portable folding crown of
pure gold and loads more stunning jew-
ellery. Even the gold appliqué which
would have spangled their robes is care-
fully laid out alongside drawings which
reconstruct the day’s dress.
For me, the most interesting display
came at the end of the exhibition and
did not concern the ancient world at all.
The stories of how Afghanistan’s trea-
sures were safeguarded during the wars
and turbulence that have wracked the
country during the past 30 years – Soviet
invasion, civil war and Taliban regime –
are very moving. The Taliban famously
blew up Afghanistan’s giant Bhuddas, a
series of rock carvings up to 50m high,
after condemning them as idols. In order
to evade such wrath, curators and arche-
ologists concealed film reels behind false
walls, painted in watercolour over trea-
sured oil paintings and stashed archaeo-
logical finds deep within bank safes.
The display features a set of beauti-
ful ivory carvings featuring ornately
decorated and sensuously posed women.
They date from the 1st century AD and
were stolen from the National Museum
of Afghanistan during looting in the
early 90s. They were recently identified
and salvaged abroad and, thankfully,
following this exhibition they will be
returned, along with everything on dis-
play, to the National Museum in Kabul,
the motto of which is, “A nation stays
alive when its culture stays alive.”
The British Museum has clearly taken
a great deal of care over this exhibition.
“This is the
bling of three of
Afghanistan’s ancient
nomad rulers”
S
itting down in a dingy backroom
of a pub in Camden, it seemed
that we the audience were to play
a more crucial role in this Hitchcock
parody than previously anticipated. I
turned to my ‘Partner in Crime’ and
wryly noted that there were 13 mem-
bers of the audience, indeed an unlucky
number for the opening night of this
performance. Over the next twenty min-
utes we witnessed the murder, not of a
human being (it was clearly a red hand-
kerchief and not blood spewing from the
actress’s neck) but of the play itself.
The play was supposed to be a version
of Hitchcock’s classic Dial M for Mur-
der, however this became condensed
into a twenty minute slot with plenty of
other Hitchcock references thrown in,
which didn’t allow the audience to com-
prehend the fairly complex plot. There
were some redeeming points, including
the good quality of acting from some
of the cast and some legitimately funny
moments. However overall this seemed
to be more of a technical run through
than an opening night, with many of the
sound effects being misplaced and the
actors forgetting their lines. All in all
there was a very rushed feeling to the
performance, which ended abruptly and
fairly inconclusively. So much so that
the audience would have been unsure if
there was an interval, had the cast not
taken their bows.
Afterwards my partner and I sat in a
Somebody
killed the
show
Kelly Osborne
The atmosphere is good, dominated by
full-wall photographs of the Afghani-
stan landscape, and there are some very
shiny computer reconstructions. How-
ever, I find the student price of £8 maybe
too much for the relatively limited col-
lection on show. It is, however, worth
noting that there are 2-for-1 tickets for
students Friday 17.30 - 19.30.
I love my new belt buckle...
Dial L for Latchkey, Pelas Theatre
Company was at Etcetera Theatre
flies towards the open arms of Mr Mole’.
This was produced a few months before
the Searles moved into their house in
Provence previously only occupied in
the cartoons by Mrs Mole. After 5 years
of difficult treatment, Monica Searle had
survived the cancer and they have been
living there for the last 35 years.
The Cartoon Museum is charming,
well worth a visit in itself, and an ideal
location for this exhibition. Searle’s dis-
tinctive and masterful style is shown
in the cartoons but they are uniquely
optimistic and uplifting. The collection
of small drawings, personal tokens of
Searle’s affection and concern for his
wife, is genuinely moving, and I would
greatly recommend a visit.
local authentic fried chicken restaurant
chain and tried to solve the mystery of
whodunit? Was it the fault of the direc-
tor? The Actors? A lack of time to re-
hearse? Or was it the representation of
the Iconic Hitchcock film “The Birds”,
being reduced to a wig on a stick chas-
ing the actors around the stage? I think
so.
At the British Museum until 3rd July
At the Cartoon Museum until 20th
March, students £3
Thierry Olliver
David Cameron’s Big Society
(WARNING: May not be accurate)
FELIX Friday 11 MARCH 2011
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

