A Cappella music has really kicked off since 2010.
People are addicted to Glee and singing programs such
as last choir standing. The Techtonics is one of three A
cappella groups at Imperial and have decided to host
an entire night dedicated to A cappella music in Metric.
Fortunately for people who like alcohol the evening will
be held on St Patricks day so the newly formed A cap-
pella society is looking to show off its talent to all the
Guinnesed goons in the union!
The Techtonics are hosting the night in the name of
the newly formed A Cappella Society and have invited
groups from all over such as the Kings Chix, Oxford
Belles and All the Kings men. Luke Johnston
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Lolcat of teh week
Sexual Health Survey
On campus
Sabb Election Results
Fingers crossed that
nothing will go awry in
the Sabbatical elections.
Hopefully none of the
candidates will cry
“RECOUNT!” If our hopes
come true then the
results of the elections
will be announced in
FiveSixEight and we’ll
discover who the people
have chosen as next
year’s Sabbatical team.
Serpentine Charity Run
IC UNICEF is organising a charity run around the Ser-
pentine. The person who raises the most money and
the person who finishes the 5km first will both win
a brand new iPod. The entry fee is £7 in advance or
£9 on the day. Each runner gets a free t-shirt and a
bottle of VitaminWater. Sign up in the JCR on Monday
or Thursday or just turn up on the day. Email unicef@
imperial.ac.uk for more information.
Hyde Park, Bandstand
19 March 11:00
The Union, FiveSixEight
16 March 12:30
Carbon Footprint Reduction
Staff and students interested in learning about and
promoting the College’s carbon reduction campaign,
StepChange, take note. On Tuesday, members of
the Facilities Management Division will report on the
College’s progress towards its target to cut its carbon
footprint by 20% by 2014. Email sustainability@
imperial.ac.uk if you would like to attend.
Royal School of Mines, G20
15 March 17:30
Techtonics
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany
Charles Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso
Campos Politics Editors Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music
Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash
Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles
Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya
Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Illustrators Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Does anyone actually wear coloured condoms? They’re just silly;
seriously, do one night stands need to be any more weird and hilarious?
A Cappella at Metric
Thursday 17th March. 19:00-23:00
Friday 11 MARCH 2011
It seems that everyone wants to know
about your sexual lives, Imperial. How-
ever, while the Felix Sex Survey was mainly
tongue-in-cheek (giggidy) this survey from
three local doctors and an Imperial medi-
cal student is aimed at gauging the quality
of the sexual health services that Imperial
students receive to find a way to improve
them. The responses are anonymous (you
aren’t asked to sign in with your College
ID) and every entrant will be entered into a
draw to win a £50 Waterstones gift voucher
(if you choose to enter your email address,
your survey response cannot be linked to
it). Complete the survey at
surveymonkey.com/s/imperialsurvey
(A proper one!)

