MUSIC
FELIX
22
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
The Streets
Computers and
Blues
2011
Mike Skinner’s music is like Marmite, you either love
The Streets or you hate them. You can however, hate
them and over time learn to love them, which is ex-
actly what happened to my opinion of The Streets,
after listening to this new album Computers and
Blues. I must say that this is an excellent album, con-
sidering I was expecting the worst. Typically honest
lyrics are displayed with exceptionally smart rhythm,
flowing almost like a rap with well thought construc-
tion of phrases, that gives the vocal line its distinc-
tive Streets sound as I’m sure you’ve heard before.
Progessing his UK garage sound over the years, this
album puts everything in a far more optimistic per-
spective than previous albums: Original Pirate Mate-
rial and A Grand Don’t Come For Free. Looping pianos
and synth-sounds provides its garage basis and mel-
low, feel-good choruses interject the speedy drum
pad rhythms to come wondefully together in a highly
emotional piece of work. It is undeniable that Mike
Skinner’s work truly comes from the heart, and that
is what music should be all about, not the money. So
I applaud The Streets for their genuine, inspirational
album, and for converting me to a future of enjoy-
ing their back catalogue, a hell of an album for The
Streets to bow out on. Luke Turner
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Chase and Status
Thhe Roundhouse
Friday 11th March 2011 (tonight!)
I
f you are even remotely interested in
music, and regardless of your stylis-
tic preferences, then there is a strong
chance you have heard of Odd Future
Wolf Gang Kill ThemAll by now (Odd
Future for the lazy). If you have not, then you
must be living under a rock somewhere with no
wi-fi, phone or carrier pigeon service. Freak.
Over the past year this group of teenagers has
been making serious ripples left and right all
over the Internet. Case in point: since upload-
ing his new single ‘Yonkers’ on YouTube just
under a month ago, leader of the Wolf pack Ty-
ler, The Creator has racked up 2,700,000 views
on that song alone. Kanye West has finally spo-
ken out about OF, proclaiming the insanely en-
tertaining black-and-white video for ‘Yonkers’
– directed by the 19 year old Tyler himself – as
the best video of 2011. It may be a little early
for that sort of declaration, but Yeezy makes a
serious point.
Odd Future is a collective of 17 to 23 year
olds, making some of the most interesting mu-
sic out there today. The most incredible fact
about this band is that they have not sold a
single record yet, despite releasing four mix-
tapes and eight albums through the Odd Future
Tumblr page. Consisting of rappers Tyler, the
Creator, Hodgy Beats, Earl Sweatshirt, Domo
Genesis and Mike G, Casey Veggies, singer
Frank Ocean and producers Left Brain, The
Super 3 and Syd the Kid, already have an in-
sane back catalogue of 250 songs so far, most
of which are sick.
For anyone not initiated to the group, I would
say the best possible place to start is Tyler and
Hodgy’s first television appearance on Jimmy
Fallon a few weeks ago. Since being broadcast
the performance has been echoing throughout
the interwebs. It is a raw, visceral rendition
of their old hit ‘Sandwiches’, performed on a
stage decorated with garden gnomes. Backed
by The Roots (which in itself says enough
about how huge these guys are quickly becom-
ing), the two rappers hit the stage in skimasks,
standing next to some random freaky chick
dressed as Samara from the 2002 horror flick
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Radiohead
2. Daft Punk
3. Muse
4. Arcade Fire
5. The xx
6. James Blake
7. The Beatles
8. The Smiths
9. The Strokes
10. Kanye West
Odd Future killed them all
Or how a bunch of teenagers are taking over the world
The Ring. The set starts off weird enough, but
when the chorus of the song hits (featuring a
gang chant-like repitition of two words: ‘Wolf
Gang’) it feels like a goddamn tidal wave. The
video is a masterclass in how to execute a per-
fect first TV appearance, scaring the hell out of
White America in the most offensive way pos-
sible. OF bring hip-hop back to the basics of
what made Eminem so succesful and exciting
back in his heyday.
The Fallon appearance perfectly illustrates
everything that is so exciting about Odd Fu-
ture: they ally the twisted soul and energetic
performance of metal with urban beats and
clever (albeit over-the-top) lyrics. They aim to
shock, and achieve this goal with bravado in
an age in which we are all pretty much desen-
sitised. I would go as far as calling them the
new rock n’ roll. Parents and religious authori-
ties will forever hate them for the shocking de-
scriptions of rape and carnage; kids will love
them for their portrayal of teenage angst and
the nihilistic, ‘fuck it all’ attitude that crowds
flocked towards Nu-metal acts such as Slipknot
and KoRn for a decade ago.
Yet at the same time there is something
unique and refreshing about them: as a collabo-
ration-heavy collective, each member manages
to exude his own quirkyness whilst the releases
retain an overall cohesiveness throughout.
Whether it is the ‘dystopian weed-rap’ of
Domo Genesis, the pretty-boy gangbangin’ of
Hodgy Beats or the mature lover crooning of
Frank Ocean, each member has a distinct per-
sonality and sound that is communicated bril-
liantly, making each crossover collaboration all
the more exciting.
There is no doubt that OF’s rise to fame is
going to be accompanied with its fair share
of hype (‘the new Wu-Tang’ is being tossed
around far too much) and the obligatory hip-
sters. But this time the hype is justified, and
these kids have a tongue-in-cheek sense of hu-
mour that will keep them grounded. As for the
hipsters, Tyler actively encourages the forma-
tion of violent mosh-pits at their gigs, so they
probably won’t stick round for too long. Their
loss. Greg Power
Friday 11 MARCH 2011
The Strokes’ new album is coming!
One of the most popular rock bands of the
time The Strokes, have confirmed that they
will be releasing their new album titled An-
gles on the 21st of this month in the UK via
Rough Trade. There has been much specu-
lation and anticipation of this album follow-
ing their 2006 release, First Impressions Of
Earth. Many snippets and samples of songs
can be found on the net including the first
release from the album, ‘Under Cover Of
Darkness’. Watch this space. Luke Turner
Art by Matt Martians, OF’s resident artist
“SWAG! SWAG! SWAAAAAG!” – Mos Def, February 2011. Amen, brother
This may be too short notice for such a mind-blowing
gig, however, the terrible two-some will be tearing up
the stage at The Roundhouse tonight with their drum
and bass energy, wobbling dubstep bass and filthy
synth sounds. Taking to the stage to showcase their
incedibly successful album No More Idols, I wish you
all luck in aquiring tickets. Luke Turner
The Strokes come out of the shadows for their new album release on the 21st
March 21st can’t come quickly enough

