FILM
Hammer Horror’s
predictable return
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director Antti Jonkinen
Screenwriter Antti Jonkinen, Robert Orr
Cast Hilary Swank, Jeffrey Dean Morgan,
Lee Pace, Christopher Lee
The Resident
John Park
24
Jokinen doesn’t spend much time trying to en-
gage the audience in a guessing game. Anyone
who has seen the poster will notice Morgan
standing over Swank giving a scary, glaring
look. If that is not a dead giveaway, it’s hard to
know what is. Plus the film doesn’t even attempt
to throw the viewers in the wrong direction
with red herrings. We meet Max’s grandfather
(Christopher Lee) and although he is the classic
‘creepy old man in a horror film saying ambigu-
ous things that don’t make sense,’ it’s clear his
ailing body could not possibly keep up with psy-
chotic activities. Could the cause be supernatu-
ral? Nope, because even the trailer disproves
this theory. So the bottom line is, Morgan is the
villain and there is no tension surrounding it.
Not a lot of explanation is given about Max’s
state of mind and obsessive personality. A few
rushed flashbacks of disturbing images, news-
paper articles and ominous voiceovers try to
set up a history for him but it’s not enough.
To make an effectively disturbing psychopath,
there needs to be plenty of sound, logical ex-
planation, or none at all. Anything half-hearted
doesn’t work and begs the question of “why
bother?” A few references to Max’s messed up
childhood don’t explain a lot and are unimpres-
sive to say the least. For a guy who must have
been doing things like this for years, his meth-
ods can be shockingly careless at times, which
adds up to more disappointment.
Lee Pace makes a pointless cameo appear-
Why the two-time Academy Award winning,
much-respected actress Hilary Swank thought
she needed to do another cheap horror after the
not so well received The Reaping is anyone’s
guess. But before you immediately dismiss this
as another scare-free “horror” film, just know
that the film is not without its moments, and
although everything is predictable almost to
an annoying level, creepy moments do pop up
every now and then. Thankfully it’s a relatively
short film too – only around 90 minutes – so if
you’re willing to bear the frustrating moments
for a few scenes that do truly pay off once in a
while, this might be the laid-back, thoughtless
entertainment we all need occasionally.
There are, of course, much better, much
scarier films out there, and there is nothing
original about the “haunted house” theme of
The Resident. Creaky doors and odd noises are
the least of Juliet’s (Swank) problems when she
moves into her new, spacious New York flat;
its pricing suggests that it’s too good to be true.
It is in fact, since Juliet is very soon stalked
by her psychologically troubled landlord Max
(Jeffrey Dean Morgan). Whenever she drinks
wine, sleeps, or takes a bath (these seem to be
the only things Juliet ever does in her new flat),
there is a disturbed pair of eyes, combined with
heavy breathing following her through the in-
tricately adjusted space behind the walls.
It’s a good thing first-time film director Antti
Classic Cinema
Fargo
Sometimes the Oscars are a little controversial. How-
ever, Fargo fully deserved the two it was awarded in
1996 for Best Actress and Best Original Screenplay.
The film is the story, marvellously told by the Coen
brothers, of a car salesman, Jerry. This salesman,
played by William H. Macy, is strapped for cash and
so hires two thugs to kidnap his wife for a ransom
from his rich father-in-law. Now if ever I heard a plan
which simply cannot go wrong, that’s it.
After the death of three people, Police Chief Marge
(Frances McDormand) starts investigating. She is
not the clichéd wise-cracking super-cop found in so
many films. In fact this film is, refreshingly, totally
absent of cliché. She is a seven month pregnant,
coffee-drinking woman who is in a genuinely loving
relationship. She also happens to be a very intelli-
gent policewoman, as she painstakingly investigates
the triple murder. From the outset, she is depicted as
very human. Her encounter with the crime scene re-
minds us of this as she suddenly switches from hun-
gry to doubled over about to vomit and back again
to hungry – the Coen brothers demonstrate that she
is as vulnerable and hormonally maladjusted as any
pregnant woman.
Subtlety is this film’s watchword. The final mes-
sage of Fargo is very easy to miss, and the tension
and drama is not accompanied by massive crescen-
dos from an overworked score. Instead, everything is
derived from the exquisite screenplay, providing great
dark humour and excellent characters. As well as the
driven policewoman and the hapless car salesman,
there’s the belligerent businessman father-in-law
and the two hired thugs. These thugs are another
highlight of the film. One, played by Steve Buscemi,
is hilariously described as “kinda funny-lookin’” and
gets increasingly wound up as the plot progresses.
The other, Peter Stormare’s character, is depicted as
a menacing psychopath who usually communicates
through grunts and stares, and whose actions are
almost exclusively threatening, violent or just down-
right unpleasant. The strained relationship between
these two, typified by the one-sided conversation
they have during the car journey to kidnap the wife, is
a memorable source of constant tension.
The real beauty here is the understatement of all
the drama: there are no huge explosions, no fast-
paced adrenaline-driven car chases but it still man-
ages to be a gripping and very human thriller laced
with dark humour.
Guy Needham
Marge Gunderson, you’re a real super lady...
ance as Juliet’s on-and-off boyfriend and
Christopher Lee’s talent is also wasted here:
the 88 year-old veteran is somewhat involved
in Max’s background story but that alone is not
enough to justify his presence in the film. Pace
has hardly any dialogue, and what he has is a
very clunky, tacky set of lines delivered uncon-
vincingly by the weakest actor in the cast.
Both lead actors are more than qualified for a
filmlikethisandtheyquiteeasilybreezethrough
their roles. Swank’s looks of absolute fear are
effective, as are her expressions of shock and
disgust as she begins to discover the dark secret
that surrounds her new flat. Morgan’s character
has the tendency to show up out of nowhere, a
well-worn technique used over and over again
but oddly it works, largely thanks to the con-
fined and grim nature of Juliet’s New York flat.
Max’s sexually frustrated, predatory actions are
captured well by the fragile-looking Morgan,
and so despite the limited depth to his character,
he keeps the tension going as much as possible
thanks to bringing more to the screen than what
the script originally required of him.
The Resident marks the wave of films sign-
aling the return of the Hammer Film Produc-
tions Company, but as its comeback film, the
new horror doesn’t help its reputation. For an
organisation that once dominated the horror
market in the past, it’s a disappointing effort,
and doesn’t come close to capturing the goth-
ic-type atmosphere their best films are known
for. Logic is the last thing you would find in
a mindless film like this one, and although
the gruesome final showdown that marks the
film’s climax that we knew was coming from
the start is a wholly acceptable one, it turns out
to be an unoriginal effort. It’s predictable, and
despite the good performances of its absolutely
spot-on cast, they are largely reduced to some-
thing entirely forgettable.
Take out the goddamn trash!!!
Hilary Swank is hungry for nose
“This might be
the thoughtless
entertainment we all
need occasionally”
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011

