GAMES
FELIX
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
IC.HACK began life as a partly-implemented
codebase for another game, called Dungeon-
esque. I’d been writing it as part of TIGSource’s
‘VERSUS’ competition, where over sixty
people developed games with a player-versus-
player element in the months of February and
March. I had a three-hour train ride ahead of
me, and I sat down with some sample code and
bent it all into shape. A few hours later, I have
day one of IC.HACK ready and some words for
you to read.
Hopefully you got a chance to play the game
that came out of last week’s romping through
videogame development. If you did, and if
you read the articles that go along with it, you
might have found things a bit lacking or hollow
in places. That’s because game development is
hard, and try as you might you can’t get much
done in a week. I slashed everything I could
out of the development schedule, and managed
to get some big, juicy core components into the
game by the end of the week, but if last week’s
articles achieved anything, it was merely to
show that it could be done, not that it could be
done well.
So why was I so eager to write these articles
and try and fire up some interest in develop-
ment? It’s not because games development is
an easy ride – it combines so many skills, from
art to creative writing to programming, that
the chances of you being even average at all
of them are astronomically small – it’s because
having gamers make games is really important
for the health of the gaming world.
I can’t think of a comparison that is suitably
pretentious, but if I were that kind of guy I
might liken it to speaking a language. As many
of you will know, particularly those for whom
English is not a first language, keeping a lan-
guage alive means using it often, bending it
into new shapes and finding new uses for it. In
the same way, we keep gaming fresh and lively
by having people hacking out insane ideas in
their spare time. Ideas that could never, ever,
ever work in a million years – but then do. Pro-
cedurally generated worlds of lego-like blocks,
games that you control by shouting into a mi-
crophone at different volumes, games about
hosting orgies to gain in the stock market.
As much as we might hate games like Farm-
ville and its ilk, they have a role in the world of
gaming – they bring new people in, teach them
to play with friends and help them feel happy to
talk about games. The teen-focused worlds of
high-pace shooters (which I’m beginning to re-
alise I am too slow to play any more) also help
to keep gaming sexy and exciting to the world
media. And the indie scene, always rumbling
along underground no matter what goes on
elsewhere, is a furnace of exciting new ideas.
And it always needs more firewood.
So it’s going to take a bit of sweat and tears to
get close to a really good finished game of your
own, if you’re interested in such a thing, and
IC.HACK is in no way an example of one of
those. In fact, since finishing IC.HACK I’ve put
aside the project that spawned it – Dungeon-
esque – in a fit of procrastination, so that I can
start on another pet project on the side. That’s
a few weeks of spare time just archived in the
blink of an eye.
So why do it? It might benefit gaming, but
that’s not why you’re going to want to give up
your Saturday morning. Chances are you’ll do
it because it’s fun. Surprisingly good fun. In
fact, every time I get a new prototype work-
ing or get a little dot moving on the screen for
the sixtieth time that week, I get a little burst
of excitement. That sense of botching things,
muddling through to success and solving the
problems that come up along the way seems,
for me at least, to tap into the same reason I
enjoyed my degree work in the first place.
Not so much of a postmortem as a heart-to-
heart, eh? For more game development good-
ness, hook yourself up to the TIGSource com-
munity at www.tigsource.com, and feel free
to e-mail me whenever for help, collaboration
or commiseration – imperialgamedev@gmail.
com. Thanks for taking part, and thanks to all
those who e-mailed last week.
Make games, it’s important!
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Shellshock Live
shellshocklive.com
Do you remember the DOS classic Scorched Earth or
like the idea of Worms but can’t condone the waste
of good fishing bait? If so, you’re gonna love this
multiplayer Flash artillery shooter. You and up to five
friends (or strangers) can battle it out in tanks, taking
it in turns to fire all manner of bullets, grenades and
even heavy drilling eqipment at each other.
Rather disappointgly victory is awarded on points
alone so there aren’t any exploding tanks to be
found, but watching foaming teenagers rage quit after
the third subsequent air strike is satisfying enough.
The weaponary on offer is varied and plentiful which
means the classic issue of never getting to use the
fun guns isn’t a problem here. Get some friends (or
enemies) together for the ultimate experience.
In this top-down shooter, making a mess is the order
of the day. The floor is splattered with the coloured
innards of every cube you rip into so the more it looks
like unicorn vomit the better you’re doing.
The simple premise is brought to life by the graphi-
cal effects, and although the game starts pretty slow
the pace soon picks up as enemies appear in ever
bigger numbers. Plus, you’ll feel the panic when ap-
proaching enemies disappear amongst the colours!
BattlePaint
ironswine.com/play/1/battlepaint
26 Friday 11 March 2011
Pandco Ltd. began life with a simple idea; they
wanted to change the world of gaming. And
after that idea turned out to be insane, they
decided to try and make a pretty good iPhone
game instead.
Pandco was formed last summer because my
brother had too much time on his hands, no
internship, and felt that forming his own lim-
ited company would be more productive than
recompleting Final Fantasy VII. The jury is
still out on whether he was right, but the re-
sult is that the world now has an awesome new
iPhone app called Hard Hats.
The basic idea of the game is that crazy float-
ing balls have taken control of your construc-
tion yard. We were never quite sure what led
them to this decision, but we do know that you
have a strong desire to get your construction
yard back… and you have a wrecking ball to
hand.
You smash as many floating balls as you can
before your time runs out, being careful not
to snap the wrecking ball’s string. Earn ‘hats’
to power up your wrecking ball (yay, another
game to earn hats in) and unlock new power-
ups as you move up the ranks. If you are good
enough you may even get to see the top rank,
and the mystery Easter egg that comes along
with it!
The only way you will get close is by hard
work, determination, and searching for ‘Hard
Hats’ in the App Store!
“Simon The Medic...”. Sigh, I WISH!
Michael Cook
A summer software success story
James McCormac

