Meatballs, where art thou in my life?
Foodcycle: save food, save us
FOOD
28
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Gastronomical Musings
Dana says:
Look for this voucher every week to enjoy kickass
waffles at Wafflemeister for the next month and a
half – you know you want to...
If all new mothers looked like this...
T
his began when she said “Hey,
I’ve got this lab report to finish
and I don’t have time to finish that
article for Felix. Can you throw an
article together instead?”
And I said, “Yea, sure”.
F**k! Writing a Felix article is a lot harder
than I thought! Are there times to ignore a hot
blonde? Yeah, sure, this was one of them. But
I’m from Imperial and even after years of uni-
versity (eight!) I still haven’t learnt anything
helpful. OK, enough whining! My granddad
always said, “Once you’ve put yourself in an
embarrassing situation you will figure out how
to succeed.” This article won’t be witty but it’ll
talk about a damn good idea and that should be
enough. I need to talk about FoodCycle.
FoodCycle is an odd group of super enthusi-
astic, super-students that fight crime and work
for humanity. You can see some members in
the union Every Sunday afternoon cooking
food for refugees. It is served to the refugees
on Monday at the Notre Dame Drop-in Centre
in Leicester Square. And they love it. They re-
Ankoor Patel encourages you to get involved with them
Getting tired and sick of the same old fast food?
Here’s a change for your taste buds going into
the toughest second term of your life.
Madsen, the Scandinavian restaurant located
in the heart of South Kensington answers all
foodie-related questions about our Northern
neighbour’s cuisine.
With modern furniture and Scandinavian
cookbooks neatly arranged on bookshelves,
the red dining area coupled with blues mu-
sic gives off a relaxing and comfortable vibe.
Even before tucking in, it is hard not to notice
the impeccable food presentation. Their famous
Smushis (cold starters served on rye bread) are
so delicious you wish that you could have it as
your main too, especially the locally sourced
Kassler ham selection that’s dressed with sim-
ple salad crème. The selection of herring fish as
well as the honey mustard herring in particular,
gives a whole new meaning to taste and texture.
Seeing as how this is a Scandinavian eatery,
you cannot dine without the world famous
meatballs! Unlike typical IKEA meatballs,
Danish ones are far more succulent and juicy.
Served with potato salad and deep fried carrots,
this dish is the highlight of the day. Madsen’s
next specialty is the fresh breaded plaice fil-
let. Fried to a tempting golden-brown shade,
served on toast and topped with salmon and
other seafood delights, it is a sheer stroke of
perfection. The prawns, however, were less
fresh, but one can hardly blame them as almost
all prawns in the UK are of the frozen variety.
Definitely try the beef patty on toast with pas-
teurized egg yolk. The yolk gives the tender
patty extra depth of flavour and besides, who
doesn’t like yolk?
To complete your Scandinavian experience,
the Danish apple trifle is a must that will an-
swer all cravings for Christmas trifle! Layers
of stewed apple, cream and Amaretti biscuits
makes this the best way to end your meal.
Madsen Restaurant 20 Old Brompton Rd,
London SW7 3DL. www.madsenrestaurant.
com. 50% off at iconnectimperial.com
Mad about Scandinavia
After a week or two of general exclamation and dis-
gust, and a widely uttered question: “Would you,
wouldn’t you?”; The Icecreamists’ stock of breast
milk ice cream has been seized by Westminster
council because it’s “not safe”. I’m not sure about
you, but I judged silently as retweets and facebook
reports flooded my newsfeed. Excuse me as you try
to prove your awareness of non-Imperial going-ons
but I read the news on the day it was published. I
divulge...
Although the Baby Gaga delicacy (although I
wouldn’t really say so myself) is no longer available
thanks to the council (who knows, they might as well
be dudes who can’t be bothered to fork out for their
fetish for bodily fluids), I don’t think I would have.
You might as well suck it from the source. As long
as you have consent...
The producers of the dessert are well accustomed
to the media glare. These are the people who made
Sunday Lunch into a three-course sundae meal
for £16.99. Breast milk ice cream, no way in hell.
Matt O’Connor, founder of The Icecreamists, said
he wanted to “create something with a real taste of
Britain”. Breast milk ice cream, yeah.
ceive stir-frys, curries, veggie bakes, biscuits,
fruit crumbles, salads… Did I mention it’s all
veggie food? But it is good. (And we don’t ac-
tually fight crime, see foodcycle.org.uk).
However, we are running a raffle this week!
Tom Aikens, one of the biggest names in Lon-
don’s high end dining scene, will cook dinner
for a few lucky winners on 21/03/11. His ser-
vices normally cost £150 but you can eat his
food for as little as £5. Buy a raffle ticket from
tiny.cc/AikensDinner. Tom is not only donat-
ing his time and experience but also all of the
ingredients needed for your dinner. In addition,
Whole Foods Kensington are providing their
kitchen and restaurant for the night and all the
wine for your meal. The dinner will be a culi-
nary feast so don’t miss it!
I joined FoodCycle ages ago when the group
was just beginning at college and I had sud-
denly “a lot of extra time in my week”. The
idea behind FoodCycle was easy: get food
that would be wasted by shops, cook awesome
meals with it and give those meals to people
who need them. We’ve now served over 6,000
meals!! The average household chucks out
£680 of food a year. (Do you remember that
awful flat you once lived in? And remember
that guy who never cleaned his pots and left
half-eaten bowls of pasta?) The whole retail
industry manages to waste almost 400,000
tonnes of edible food. FoodCycle works with
shops to reduce the mountains of wasted food
from the retail industry. (Buy a raffle ticket at
tiny.cc/Aikensdinner!)
But FoodCycle is more than feeding people
and reducing food wastage. I joined because
it was something with open possibilities; you
could do anything you want. You could throw
massive parties to recruit volunteers, open a
student restaurant or sell raffle tickets to raise
funds. Find out more about Foodcycle on food-
cycle.org.uk where you can see all the other
universities involved and learn how to play a
significant part in the operation.
Cooking dinner for moi? Just dinner?
“FoodCycle is an
odd group of super
enthusiastic, super-
students that fight
crime and work for
humanity”
Buy your tickets to enter the raffle at:
www.tiny.cc/Aikensdinner
Nigel Kheng Wei Hehn and Ricki
Calel review Madsen, a Scandinavian
restaurant in the heart of South
Kensington
Audrey Chew
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011

