FOOD
29
E
veryone seems to love Nan-
dos. This makes actually
writing about the place a
health hazard, so violent
would the backlash be
from a negative piece. On the potential-
trouble gauge used by Felix writers it
is only topped by ‘Doing a Review of
the Rector’s Face’. The situation for me
is even more risky, living as I do with
one flatmate who would inject peri-peri
sauce into his veins if he could, and two
others who would happily settle for just
showering in it.
But I can deal with them. What I can’t
deal with is the 20% discount Nandos
gives to NHS staff. Is this some kind of
unspoken governmental policy to attract
workers to the NHS? Or is Nandos just
positioning itself alongside Health as a
pillar of Britain; along with Education,
Military and Stephen Fry? Now I don’t
doubt that the discount leads to fewer
deaths at the hands of distracted, spicy-
chicken-craving nurses. But the under-
lying message is clear: Nandos is not
merely a popular high-street eatery, but
a cog in the machinery of society itself.
Under this kind of pressure it’s al-
most easier to crack and just rip Nandos
apart. I could be the cool, counterculture
hipster who is, like, so not mainstream
in his culinary taste. Or the broadsheet
food critic who judges restaurants
against strange, metaphysical standards
against which the actual food is too crass
to consider.
Instead I ate at Nandos as just my
normal awesome self. Being a thorough
professional, I went three days in a row,
and consulted with Nasif Mahmood and
Ali Kirresh, the famed Nandos Gurus.
I visited both the Bayswater and Shep-
herd’s Bush branches, and consumed in
total about two whole chickens, a loaf’s
worth of garlic bread, a truckload of
chips and enough per-peri powder to be
locked up for substance abuse. And you
know what? You can definitely have too
much of a good thing.
Or so I’ve heard. Personally I’d go
again right now if I could because Nan-
dos. Is. Delicious.
Like, crazy tasty. I hardly need to
whip out the ol’ palette of adjectives, as
few reading this will need any descrip-
tion of the succulent, flame-grilled taste
that Nandos has down pat. I might as
well describe the colour red. Less well-
known are the accessories to a meal
that are available; the spicy ‘perinaise’,
the creamy mashed potato, the veggie
pita mains and the choc-a-lot cake des-
sert (‘lovely’ according to my sauce-
injecting flatmate). Personally, I favour
the frozen yoghurt machine due to my
chronic, debilitating dairy addiction
(don’t forget to play the who-can-bite-
into-a-spoonful-of-frozen-yoghurt-for-
the-longest game!).
But the chicken is the thing, and that
distinctive flavour has its own legacy.
For a start the peri-peri powder and
sauce is actually made from the African
Bird’s Eye Chilli of Mozambique. This
was a fiery revelation to the Portuguese
community that settled there, who later
headed to South Africa during the 20th
Century gold rush, their spicy-chicken
recipes in tow. Still serving said recipes
in 1987 was a place called Chickenland
in Johannesburg, which was bought
by two impressed businessmen and re-
named Nandos after one of their names
(FerNANDO LOLZ!). Oh and appar-
ently ‘peri-peri’, as legend has it, was
a Portuguese boy’s mispronunciation of
the much loved chilli called ‘pili-pili’ in
Swahili. Good man.
I can confirm none of this. But frankly,
if it was found out that Nandos chicken
was flame-grilled in the fires of hell by
the devil himself, people would still go.
They’d feel bad and all, they’d ‘Like’
Who wants some chicken? I want some chicken. Give me some chicken. Buy me some chicken. Eat chicken now.
The Health Service
Omar Hafeez-Bore shows us how chicken is not just a finger lickin’ good sensation
the Facebook groups made to argue
against the insensitivity of using Satan
as a spokesman and all that, but guilt-
ily they’d still go and choose Nandos
chicken and Nandos comfort.
Because that comfortable atmosphere
is something to be reckoned with.
Do not underestimate the joy in being
able to pick your own sauces, and stand
them on the table like glass totems erect-
ed in honour of your spice-hardiness.
Nor undervalue the way you order food
in units of chicken (1/4, ½ or whole),
thereby removing the embarrassing eat-
ing-out guessing game of which of the
strange foreign words will actually give
the biggest portion. And certainly do not
ignore the primal pleasure of eating with
your hands in a rustic, wood-craft envi-
ronment, tapping into deep psychologi-
cal wells of warmth and homeliness.
“Is Nandos just
positioning itself
alongside Health as
a pillar of Britain;
along with
Education, Military
and Stephen Fry?”
These are what define the Nandos ex-
perience, as much as the food itself. It
is wondrous alchemy, a combination of
small things that combine to make a reli-
ably good eat-out.
But what really makes Nandos the
jewel in the high-street crown, is the va-
riety of people who actually eat out at
this eat-out. Does any other restaurant
chain have as wide an appeal? Black
guys visit because it’s like the spicy Jerk
Chicken they love (Well, Chipmunk
says so) whilst health-conscious busi-
ness yuppies go because grilled chicken
fits in with their protein regime. Chil-
dren adore the bottomless DIY drinks,
teens treat it like a trendy upgrade of the
fried-chicken shops they are used to and
Pakistani families like the Halal meat
used in over 50 of the 233 UK Nandos
restaurants.
Correction: Pakistanis love the Halal
meat. As a Birmingham-born-an’-raised
(half-) Pakistani I actually lived through
a major culinary revolution caused by
Nandos. Whilst previously the average
British Muslim’s experience of main-
stream chains was an intimate knowl-
edge of McDonald’s fillet-o-fish, the
opening of a halal Nandos in the Paki-
stani-packed Star City complex in Bir-
mingham created a fervour never seen
before or since. Whole communities
would flock to the branch en masse as if
practising for pilgrimage. People would
revel in being able to eat the non-veg-
etarian option at a bona-fide non-Asian
restaurant. Wizened elders could drench
their chips in Extra-Hot and just pretend
it was an alloo curry whilst second gen-
eration youngsters could join in their of-
fice socials without having to get their
meat fix from the kebab shop on the way
home. And though everyone from KFC
to GBK have now jumped on the halal
band-wagon, it is their original saviour
they remain most loyal to.
As far as high street chains go, Nan-
dos is a success. It has sunk into the Brit-
ish palate slowly and steadily, without
compromising its reliably high quality,
high-taste food. Most importantly, it is a
success enjoyed by all, and one hard to
begrudge when the service is so friendly
and its loyalty card is so rewarding.
As I started; everyone seems to love
Nandos. And so they should.
P.S. I am aware of the debate over
whether Nando’s chicken counts as
Halal by proper criteria, but have yet
to investigate. This article is in no way
an endorsement of Nandos’ Halal-ility,
only its deliciosity.
Nandos nationwide.
(Ed - Just how we like it. I have an im-
mense Nandos craving now...)
FELIX Friday 11 MARCH 2011

