NEWS
FELIX 3
Friday 11 MARCH 2011
Strike over changes to pensions
says that the expectation is that UCU
members will strike, he said that they do
not “dictate” to members and that it will
be up to individuals to decide whether
to participate in the strike. Imperial Col-
lege UCU members were balloted on
Wednesday the 3rd of March about strike
action: 84 of the 132 that returned ballots
voted in favour of the strike.
Although preparations are being made
for the strike action, the UCU has yet to
give formal notice, which legally must
be given at least seven days in advance
of any action. An Imperial College
spokesman said that once notice has
been given, they will “ask any staff in-
tending to participate in industrial action
to declare this.” Following this they will
assess the possible disruption to teaching
and “take steps to minimise the impact”
Postgraduates such as taught masters
students are thought to be less vulner-
able to possible strike action, since there
is more flexibility in rescheduling their
classes. However, the Divisional Ad-
ministrator for Biology and Cell and
Molecular Biology, Pat Evans, said
that rescheduling undergraduate classes
would be “more tricky.”
Dr McGarvey said that any disruption
to students’ courses would be “unfor-
tunate”. He argued that it was not the
union’s intention to negatively affect
their studies and claimed that the strike
was necessary to protect university edu-
cation in the long-term.
UCU General Secretary Sally Hunt
has called on employers to return to the
negotiating table but the Employers’Pen-
sion Forum (EPF), who are representing
universities in the dispute, have rejected
calls for further talks, saying “we are not
persuaded that it is appropriate to re-open
formal negotiations”. Sally Hunt accused
the EPF of engaging in “a macho stand-
off” and said that although striking was
a “last resort”, UCU members “feel they
have been left with no [other] choice”.
Criticising the UCU’s decision to
strike, Brian Cantor, chair of the EPF,
said: “We do not believe that industrial
action is an appropriate step for UCU to
take. We do not agree that students and
their parents will share your view that
there is ‘no choice’ but to strike.”
The dispute originated in late 2008,
when the Universities Superannuation
Scheme (USS), the central pension fund
which covers the majority of university
pensions, set up a committee to review
the pension arrangements of its mem-
bers. A consultation period on the pro-
posals ran from October to December
last year and the final proposals, includ-
ing changes following the consultation,
are due to be implemented on the 1st
of April. The changes, which amongst
other things would see employees mak-
ing increased contributions to their pen-
sions, were called “the most radical”
in the history of the scheme by a USS
spokesman. At present, employees must
annually pay 6.25% of their total sal-
ary into the fund, whilst employers pay
16%. Under the new proposals, em-
ployees would see their contributions
increase to 7.5%.
Other changes include raising the pen-
sion age to 65 and introducing a cap on
inflationary increases to pension pay-
ments at 5%. Following the consulta-
tion period, during which concerns were
raised about this proposal, the cap has
been raised to 10%. Additionally, new
members joining the scheme would be
have a career-average pension rather
than a final-salary pension, which would
leave them significantly worse off.
Perhaps one of the most contentious
proposals would see staff who are made
redundant after the 31st of March 2013
receive a reduced pension. The propos-
als would leave it up to universities to
decide whether or not to offer a full pen-
sion as part of a redundancy package.
Employers say that the current pen-
sion arrangement is unsustainable in the
long term. They argue that people are
living longer (therefore drawing their
pensions for longer) and that salaries
have risen faster than previously antici-
pated. Therefore, they say, the scheme is
in “danger of becoming unaffordable”.
The changes are aimed at reducing
employers’ long-term liabilities. The
consultation document readily admits
that “the scheme is not in crisis” and the
USS’s annual report for 09/10 shows an
£8.5 million positive return after pen-
sions have been paid. Dr Michael Mc-
Garvey said that the Union do not wish
to jeopardise the scheme, but argued that
the proposals “are more extreme than
are required.” A USS spokesman told
Felix that the dispute has arisen, partly,
because employers want to mitigate fu-
ture risk now, while the UCU is reluc-
tant to increase the burden on employees
based on predicted trends.
Rethink on visas
leaving them with no opportunity to ac-
quire valuable work experience.
“There may be ways we can tighten it
up and make sure it is not abused by be-
coming a route to settlement. There are
a whole range of options between com-
plete closure of the route and the sta-
tus quo and we are discussing with the
Home Office what these options might
be,” said Willetts.
The post-study work route currently
enhances the UK’s overall offer to inter-
national students and universities have
expressed concern that scrapping the
scheme will make them less competitive
with other countries in attracting stu-
dents. Dr Wendy Piatt, director general
of the Russell Group of universities, said
that, “If we do not offer international UK
university graduates the opportunity to
work for a short period in highly skilled
jobs, some of the world’s brightest stu-
dents will choose to study elsewhere.”
After Damian Green argued that
the student visa system was subject to
“widespread abuse” and said that the
government would limit the number
of dependants entering the UK with
students, David Willetts now indicates
that these proposals are also still under
consideration. He questions “to what
extent does people’s ability to bring in
dependants affect their own willingness
to come to study?”
University vice-chancellors have
also argued that a visa reduction would
have devastating consequences for the
funding of higher education in the UK,
even forcing the typically more expen-
sive science and engineering courses
to close. Data from the government’s
Higher Education Funding Council for
England also indicates that universities
are increasingly reliant on fees from
foreign students to boost their finances.
Imperial is a notorious example, charg-
ing international fees of up to £26,250
whilst fees for British and EU students
are capped at £3,290 this academic year
(rising to £9000 from 2012). Despite
the 3934 students from outside the EU
making up less than half of the student
population enrolled in 2009, their fees
generate twice as much income: £75.1m
to be precise, compared with the £31.3m
from the 9539 UK/EU students.
The proposals to reduce the number of
student visas form part of a major coali-
tion pledge to reduce net migration from
“hundreds of thousands to tens of thou-
sands” by 2015. With two-thirds of non-
EU migrants entering the UK on student
visas, tightening this system is a crucial
part of the strategy.
“This government want to ensure that
the primary reason for those who enter
on a student visa is genuinely to come
here to study. We are working closely
with the Department for Business and
will make an announcement in due
course,” a spokesperson for the Home
Office said.
University and Colleges Union gener-
al secretary, Sally Hunt has recognised
the reconsiderations as “encouraging”
but claims that “we have a long way to
go before anything this government is
doing to higher education could be con-
sidered welcomed.”
ImperialCollegeBusinessSchool graduates
make a difference. We make things
happen. We shape the future.”
“
www.imperial.ac.uk/business-school/waystomeetus
Ranked by the FT as Europe's top business
school for entrepreneurship. Joint first for the
percentage of research activity assessed as world-
leading or internationally excellent. (RAE 2008)
Xiaonan Zou, MSc Management 2010, UBS graduate training programme
• Full-Time MBA
• Executive MBA (weekday or
weekend)
• Distance Learning MBA
• MSc Innovation and
Entrepreneurship NEW
• MSc Strategic Marketing NEW
• MSc International Health
Management
• MSc Management
• MSc Finance
• MSc Risk Management and
Financial Engineering
• MSc Actuarial Finance
• Doctoral Programme
Join us at our next information session.
Find out more and register online.
...Continued from Front Page
...Continued from Front Page

