TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 11 MARCH 2011 31
I know you’d rather hear about cocaine, but instead Christopher Walmsley
discovers some of the other countless wonders this fascinating country has to offer
Breathtaking beauties of Bolivia
P
erhaps best known for its ex-
ports, the landlocked South
American country that takes
its name in honour of revo-
lutionary Simón Bolívar is
lesser known for its tourism. Indeed
Bolivia does remain a rather unknown
quantity to many outside of the narcot-
ics trade. There is a story that Queen
Victoria once avenged her embarrassed
diplomat to the country, after realising
that it was far too inaccessible to attack,
by simply declaring ‘Bolivia no lon-
ger exists’. Despite this snub and with
a little notoriety gained from the book
Marching Powder this country has be-
come a well trodden destination on the
continent’s Gringo trail.
Flying in to El Alto Airport, the high-
est commercial airport in the world, is
a rather unique experience. Descent be-
gins, and suddenly appearing through
the cloud below you is the mountaintop
runway that you feel comes out of thin
air. And so a short drive down from the
resting place of the mining boom’s lo-
comotives. It’s rather strange to look
at these dilapidated vehicles: now they
are nothing more than scrap, but in their
day were the sign of modern technology
penetrating the region.
For the next three days we traversed
some of Bolivia’s most breathtak-
ing scenery, of arid rocky formations,
doused with sand and sprinkled with
sparse green shrubbery. The intense sun
and deep blue sky may have given the
illusion of warmth, but several layers
were duly required to fend off the chill-
ing temperatures. We ventured further
south towards the Chilean border and
soon arrived at the Laguna Colorada.
With its waters surreally coloured red
it was perfectly coordinated with its se-
rene inhabitants, Andean Flamingos.
The next day saw us continue through
more Martian scenery that to me seemed
far more akin to the red planet than any
Hollywood depiction I’d seen. This was
interspersed with seeing some putrid
geysers and a bath in a natural hot spring.
Then there was the Laguna Verde, with
its pigment derived from copper miner-
als. Sadly I was beginning to take all of
these fantastic natural wonders with a
sense of normality. Driving on we saw
more wildlife in the form of one of the
llama’s cousins, a group of vicuña lei-
surely ascending the rocky bank parallel
to the Landcruiser.
Waking early on the final day was
magical. Leaving the cold lodgings
(completely constructed from salt) we
ventured on from the edge towards the
middle of the Salar de Uyuni, and the
sun began to rise over the high altiplano
casting stark, stretching shadows across
the crystallised white surface. This is the
“Sadly I was
beginning to take all
of these fantastic
natural wonders with
a sense of normality”
Photoshop eat your heart out!
What were you expecting? A photo of Charlie Sheen banging 7 gram rocks? Well I’d like to see him bang some of these rocks...
Most erotic lake name in the world? Step up Lake Titicaca
“Bolivia does remain
a rather unknown
quantity to many
outside of the
narcotics trade”
plateau is La Paz. It is a city in a bowl,
surrounded by mountains, the most
impressive of which being the snow
capped Mount Illuminati.
As acclimatisation didn’t seem to have
hit too hard (probably soothed by the
recommended local tea) we decided to
press on south to the now desolate town
of Uyuni. This town was once the hub of
rail transportation for the region as the
mining industry channelled their goods
towards the Pacific. Its collapse left
Uyuni as a rather drab backwater, with
one convenient benefit that now attracts
60,000 visitors every year: It is a par-
ticularly good base to start on an expedi-
tion to see the great salt flats and lagoons
that Bolivia should be famous for.
There are some generic routes that
these tours tend to take, and we chose
one that would take three days, but in
reverse so that we would witness sun-
rise over the vast white expanse of the
salt flats on the final day. Before ven-
turing into the wilderness the first stop
was a short drive to the town’s outskirts
to see the train ‘graveyard’, the final
remains of a prehistoric lake, a salt des-
ert, completely white with only distant
mountains. It strips you of any sense of
distance or perspective, which inciden-
tally can be used to create some rather
novel photographs. After another long
journey back from Uyuni to La Paz and a
squashed trip onwards to Copacabana in
a local minibus, the coast of the world’s
largest navigable lake was reached: Lake
Titicaca. This lake was the spiritual
home of the once great Inca Empire, who
believed that the island of the sun was
the birthplace of their most sacred god.
Although the island is easily visible
from the mainland, it took a dreadfully
long time to reach because the boats
were frustratingly slow. The island itself
is a rather harsh rocky outcrop littered
with Inca ruins, sacrificial tables and
all. It’s easy to independently trek along
the rugged spine of the island, or take a
detour to follow the coast before reach-
ing the departure port village to watch
another fantastic sunset. From here I
returned to the mainland and skirted
across the border into Peru.
I think they heard you were coming....
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
All photos by Christopher Walmsley

