NEWS
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Deputy President (Education)
Stefan Bauer
During my 4 years at Imperial, I
have enjoyed the responsibility
of holding many positions in clubs
& societies’ committees within the
Union, such as the Handball Club,
the German Society and the ACC
and I have grown fond of the college
and its students. Now, I want to use
my experience and commitment and
represent the student body on the
highest level.
In the past year, many decisions
have been made that will have a sig-
nificant impact on student lives in
the near future and it is crucial to
ensure that everybody gets the best
out of their time at Imperial.
The changes to feedback quality
and timeliness, including a feedback
code of practise have been a step in
the right direction, making Imperial a
more efficient and dynamic academ-
ic environment. I aim to ensure it is
implemented to its full potential and
to iron out problems where they may
occur, so it can succeed.
Postgraduate representation is
important, but there is a long way
between the first point of contact
and the Sabbatical Officers. Provid-
ing a solid PG representation system
that works well will help information
to flow in both directions more effi-
ciently.
With the upcoming and unavoid-
able increase in tuition fees in
2012, it is important that the univer-
sity’s academic commitment mirrors
the financial commitment of the pro-
spective students. It will be crucial
to deal with any issues that arise in
the forthcoming year with the stu-
dent body in mind in order to ensure
that Imperial stays as good as it is.
Jason Parmar
My name is Jason Parmar and I
have what it takes to be the next
Deputy President for Education.
I’m currently a Chemistry under-
graduate studying towards a four-year
degree with Management.
Being an Imperial student isn’t the
easiest of tasks. It’s difficult to bal-
ance the demanding workload we get
from our respective courses with our
other commitments.
The proposed timetabling changes
are something I take very seriously. I
will fight to make sure that any chang-
es are effective, yet reasonable, and
are in all of our best interests.
If elected I will work with all students
and staff to find a timetable structure
that fits everyone’s needs. We’re not
all perfect; sometimes we do miss
lectures, be it because of the Eyjafjal-
lajökull volcanic eruption or from not
knowing your limits the night before.
I believe it’s time for us to bring in
recorded podcasts for all our lecture
courses.
We study at a world-class universi-
ty; we deserve to have ALL our lecture
material to be of a world-class quality
so we can be world-class graduates.
Vote J.P for D.P.E for podcasts of
lecture courses.
Vote J.P for D.P.E for better quality
lecture notes.
Vote J.P for D.P.E for SOLE to have
more of an impact.
Vote J.P for D.P.E for improved
coursework and exam feedback.
Vote J.P for D.P.E for your voice to
be heard.
Representing every demographic at
Imperial.
Representing you.
Go to http://www.
f a c e b o o k . c o m / h o m e .
php?sk=group_202852719741906
or www.twitter.com/votejpfordpe
for more information
In Friday’s issue of The Daily Felix (4th March), the incorrect text was
printed for Stefan Bauer’s manifesto. It is printed correctly below (along
with his competitor’s, Jason Parmar). Felix apologises for this error.
Voting closes on Saturday 12th at 23:59
Go to www.imperialcollegeunion.org/elections to vote and
for live election statistics. The Department of Life Sciences
currently has the highest turnout at 36%.
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011
Union launches Welfare and
long-awaited Halls Surveys
The Union’s delayed survey on hall
rents has launched this week. It comes
after weeks of debate about the value of
the halls Amenities fund, which subsi-
dises social events and is paid into by
all students in halls. The survey asks a
range of questions including whether or
not students think that Ethos should re-
main free or not.
Imperial College Union said that the
survey was intended to “gauge student
opinion on how they view their Halls
experience and to present some options
given to us by College Commercial Ser-
vices on how to reduce rents.”
However, a detailed breakdown of hall
rents and where the money goes has not
yet been released. Despite calls from
students and efforts by the Union to get
such information, the College has resist-
ed releasing a breakdown or the mecha-
nism by which rents are calculated.
Director of Commercial Services,
Jane Neary, declined to comment except
to say: “All the services we provide are
financially interdependent.”
From the respondents so far, over
70% of students say that they want a full
breakdown of their rent on their bill.
The survey originally asked to students
to rank the services that they receive in
halls in order of importance, including
water, electricity and heating. President
Alex Kendall originally defended the
question saying that they were all costs
that formed part of the halls rent but later
removed the question, admitting that it
was “perhaps a bit stupid.”
A welfare survey has also been
launched separately which asks students
a comphrehensive set of questions re-
garding all of Imperial’s welfare servic-
es. This ranges from the Health Centre
to Personal Tutors. It also asks questions
about student depression and crime on
campus. Deputy President (Welfare)
Charlotte Ivison said that she hoped the
survey would lay the foundations for the
future of Imperial’s welfare services and
that it was “the most wide-ranging sur-
vey the Union has ever done.”
Both surveys are available on the
Union’s website, www.imperialcolleg-
eunion.org. The Welfare survey is open
until the 1st of April. The Halls survey
closes on Friday.
Kadhim Shubber
£9,000 fees conditions revealed
Ian Wei perial and Exeter. Oxford University has
said that it would need to charge at least
£8,000 to simply “maintain the status
quo”, and many have warned that there
will a ‘race to the top’ as universities
will want to avoid damaging their image
by charging less than the maximum rate.
Imperial College Union has backed
Imperial’s decision to raise fees to £9,000
arguing that it will protect bursaries.
President Alex Kendall has said “By in-
creasing the fees to £9,000, those from
lower income will have a much greater
bursary scheme available to them.”
The Director of Offa, Sir Martin Har-
ris, said that while access for higher ed-
ucation has increased considerably over
the past five years, the “progress in im-
proving access to the most selective uni-
versities has remained virtually flat”. He
warns that under higher tuition fees that
“There is a real risk that disadvantaged
students in particular will start to feel
they cannot afford to go to university”.
Offa’s director added that such changes
have an unpredictable impact on student
behaviour and the assessment of agree-
ments will be amended in future years.
Universities have until April 2011 to sub-
mit their 2012-2013 access agreements.
The Office for Fair Access (Offa) has
published new guidelines that could
force universities charging over £6,000
in tuition fees to invest a percentage into
fair access schemes.
Universities are advised to spend be-
tween 15% to 30%, based on the propor-
tion of under-represented students, of any
extra amount charged above the standard
£6,000 tuition fees on access schemes
which will have to be approved by Offa
on an annual basis. The guidelines would
see top universities spending up to £900
of the £9,000 fee on fair access schemes.
In 2009/10 Imperial spent 17.5% of the
income from home and EU students’ tu-
ition fees on fair access schemes.
However, some are skeptical about
Offa’s ability to regulate universities.
The body has only three full-time and
one part-time member of staff, aside
from its director. NUS President Aaron
Porter has called the body a “weak and
toothless regulator.”
The guidelines are not binding and
universities will continue to set their
own targets. Additionally, it will be up to
universities to decide whether they have
a low proportion of under-represented
students. Each year, under the ‘access
agreement’ system universities submit
plans to Offa detailing the measures to
ensure fair access for under-represented
students, such as outreach and improve-
ment of school and college links. How-
ever, the plans are rarely if ever rejected
and Offa has never imposed sanctions
on a university.
The announcement comes after a
month of confusion in the higher edu-
cation sector as the government delayed
the publication of its plans to reform
universities. It was forced to retreat af-
ter it became clear that it didn’t have the
legal power to prevent universities from
charging the maximum £9,000 rate of
fees. Currently only three universities
have said that they plan to charge the
maximum £9,000 rate: Cambridge, Im-
“Universities asked to
invest up to 30% of
fees over £6,000 into
fair access schemes”

