FEATURE
Features Editor: Lizzie Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk
southern-fairy/northern-monkey divide of Eng-
land pathetic by comparison.
But even those 68 miles are nothing, a few
inches on a map compared to the 6,000 mile
migration to Britain and the 40 years spent
making it their home. That’s a real, four dimen-
sional shift, a Back-to-the-Future style alternate
reality compared to the Pakistanis who carried
on back home. All geographical and class com-
parisons are just exaggerated by adaptations of
Mirpuris in this foreign land.
So far, so human. Wholesale migrations of
communities are nothing new, and it is cer-
tainly not just Mirpuris who have settled here.
I could talk about the reams of Punjabi Paki-
stani migrants, like my mum’s own family from
Gujranwala or Phelwana da shehar, the ‘City of
Wrestlers’. This also explains my near-superhu-
man strength. Or, I could talk about the Paki-
stanis who settled here after fighting alongside
the English during the war. Or the post-partition
sense of freedom, of starting anew. I would
mention those willing to work for a better life,
who came during the post-war years from the
newly-minted Pakistan into the open arms of an
English industrial boom.
All of these settlers helped build new Paki-
stani villages, ones carved into the urban coves
of industrial towns in Yorkshire, Lancashire and
the Midlands. Ones with fewer donkeys. All of
them are responsible for a strange hybrid-culture
of the Pakistani and British working class, one
that is both part of, and yet alien to its two par-
ent countries. And all of them have brought up
children here who embody this limbo commu-
nity, not quite integrated enough into the British
mainstream to stop referring to them as Johns
or Gorey, but not desi enough to feel at home
on the Pakistan trips of their summer holidays.
These are the children of all Pakistanis. From
the hard-line religious to the hard-drinking
F
or an international student from
Pakistan, London is an explosion
of new experiences. People form
queues, food is bland, the police
actually care (but families hardly
seem to), dogs are walked, old men jog, com-
muters are silent, ‘smiling shop staff’ are rarely
as described, and under the ground men sit and
let women stand on tubes, whilst above it buses
actually arrive on time. Compared to Islam-
abad, it might as well be Oz.
What anchor can such a student reach for
in this sea of change? Perhaps the Pakistani
communities who settled here years ago, who
still cling on to their rocks of religion and tra-
dition like barnacles in this cultural storm?
Not quite. The Pakistanis here have changed.
Many were originally from Mirpur, a land just
68 miles from the people of Islamabad, but a
world away from their thoughts. A land whose
people are almost unknown to the rest of Paki-
stan, yet make up the overwhelming majority
of Pakistanis here in Britain. And because of
this, it is a land whose future is now tethered
to the insulated communities that have grown
in England, a bond of people stronger than any
international alliance or diplomatic gesture.
Every year another kind of Pakistani leaves
home to study in London. He is a British Paki-
stani, brought up here but on a solid founda-
tion of Pakistani-ness, evident in his view of
punctuality as a quaint pursuit of white people
and his casual mistrust of British authority. His
parents came from Mirpur but his home is in
those old industrial towns of the midlands and
the north. He comes to Imperial College, hav-
ing worked hard to come to London, the big
city. It is the land of opportunity and diversity,
of exciting events and important happenings.
It is crap. People are antisocial, no one drives,
proper apna food is a rarity and tasteless frauds
all too common. The fashion is over-flamboy-
ant, cricket is under-revered, no one has any
community contacts and even fewer seem to
have common sense. Suddenly uprooted from
his community, from his Biradari, our man
looks for commonality in the university’s Paki-
stani Society, one built, surely, upon the values
by which he defines himself. One built upon his
code of Pakistani honour, of izzat, of unspoken
community, unbreakable pride and a nuanced
love for Doner Kebabs. Instead he meets some
freshies, educated Pakistanis fresh-off-the-boat
from Islamabad, 68 miles from Mirpur but very
different in their character.
Well, duh. A lot can happen in 68 miles. One
crosses the eastern border of the Punjab into the
South-West of Azad Kashmir, the less disputed
part of the highly disputed Kashmir region. One
leaves the middle classes of Islamabad’s airy
streets for the farms and fields of the Mirpur re-
gion. The refined Urdu of newsreaders morphs
into rapid fire Potahari, or ‘Mirpuri’, and the
people harden from educated urbanites to the
earth-wise people of the country. It makes the
From Mirpur to the Midlands
rudeboys, the focused student with dreams of
studying pharmacy or the relaxed school-leaver
helping his dad in the tyre shop. All are born
(at an impressive rate) in all-Pakistani migrant
communities. All suffer from the cultural con-
fusion brought about by their circumstance.
So why the Mirpuri focus? Extremism. That
is to say, Mirpuris, sometimes branded ‘back-
ward’ by snootier migrants, often embody the
idiosyncracies of ‘Pakistanis’ to their extreme,
as well as the effects of the last 40 years A.B.
(After Boat-trip). And numbers. Mirpuris make
up a huge proportion of England’s ‘Pakistani’
community. This severed limb of Pakistan has
flourished, growing rapidly here in this foreign
culture medium.
Calling the Mirpur region a limb of Pakistan,
however, is an exaggeration. It is at best a little
finger, making up just 0.13% of Pakistan’s land
mass and 0.22% of the total population. This is
roughly equivalent to what the Isle of Wight is
to Great Britain. Okay, so more a finger nail,
then, but one that has helped etch a thriv-
ing scene of markets, curry-houses and Asian
fashion emporiums into the urban landscape
of Britain. It is estimated that around 70% of
the 800,000 Pakistanis living in England are of
Mirpuri descent, and in towns like Bradford this
raises to 90%. This has often made the people of
Mirpur the unofficial, unintended, but undeni-
able ambassadors of Pakistan in the U.K. I have
been brought up in Birmingham (may it forever
stand tall) all my life, but still had to readjust
my impression of what a Pakistani was when
I met middle class and highly educated Paki-
stanis at university, who so differed to the desi
Mirpuri-Punjabi combo of the midlands. Using
my Talking-Real-English voice (full sentences,
proper words, less grunts) with Pakistani peers
at university is a novelty that still hasn’t got old.
But bro, how did all this happen? It can’t be de-
nied that all the reasons for migration described
earlier are important. But none of these are as
dramatic as the 1967 construction of the Man-
gla Dam, the world’s largest earth filled dam.
It was designed to increase water for irrigation
and source more electrical power in Pakistan.
Oh, and it also submerged around 280 villages
in the region, including Old Mirpur city, displac-
ing 110,000 people in the process. Such collat-
eral damage could not be ignored, and Pakistan
quickly brokered a deal with a welcoming UK,
giving compensation, Mahfeza, to scores of
men. This took the form of get-into-England-
free tickets, where they could go and work in the
textile mills and factories of industrial England.
Just temporarily, of course. Just a quick for-
tune made and then an even quicker journey
back to Pakistan, right? Right? How wrong they
were. England proved a more fertile land than
they could ever expect and, without realising it,
these men of the earth grew roots of their own.
We hope to delve into the concluding part of
the story – from big gangster attitudes to the
Little England of Mirpur – next week.
Omar Hafeez-Bore and Kahfeel Hussain on how Pakistani immigration to the UK
changed not only this country, but parts of Pakistan and Pakistanis themselves
“Just a quick fortune
made and then an
even quicker journey
back to Pakistan,
right? Right? How
wrong they were.”
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011
6

