7
FEATURE
Imperial’s motorised mascots
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
P
ride is a funny sort of thing.
It tends to only come out on
special occasions: times like
when you realise the person
you are overhearing on the
tube went to a university that is rated 3rd
from the bottom rather than 3rd from the
top of the league tables and you sit there
thinking that you’re pleased that you
go to Imperial. I think part of our pride
comes from the fact that Imperial offers
somewhat ‘classical’ subjects, showing
a reverence for the timeless and histori-
cally robust. In particular, those things
that make sense to us but the rest of the
world think are slightly bizarre, such as
the fact that we have Varsity against our-
selves and that we have a Mountain Hut
in the midst of Wales. We are one of
three universities (guess the other two)
with an Exploration Board that encour-
ages students to get off campus and ex-
plore the world, and we are one of two
taking care of Vintage Vehicles.
The students of Imperial College Lon-
don are collectively the owners of four
vintage vehicles that are as much a re-
pository of the College history as the
Archive Office itself. Each vehicle was
bestowed, bought or assimilated to be-
come part of the biggest university fleet
in the country, which is now envied by
our competitors. They are Clementine
(II) Morris, Jezebel Dennis, Derrick
and Boanerges – oh yes, our fleet have
names.
It seems pleasingly appropriate that
Imperial would have these attributes as a
unique selling point, having been a lead-
er in engineering since the genesis of
motorised transport. Who doesn’t crack
into a smile or point them out when a
vintage vehicle chugs down the road? To
this end, when they do get out and about,
they serve as some of the very best am-
bassadors for the college and its students
in humility, respect and technical ability.
Our youngest addition is lovingly
known as Clem. She is a Morris T-type
(I’m sure that means something to some
people) one tonne truck born on 13th
October 1926. Having changed hands a
couple of times, she was adopted by the
students of the Royal School of Mines
to become their replacement vehicular
mascot in 1960. Despite being a truck,
she is very much in touch with the mod-
ern stereotypical Imperial girl, being
understated in looks but a rewarding
lover if you give her the attention she
deserves. In days gone by, she boldly
sported the RSM colours with a yellow
cab, black bonnet and wings, and a red
chassis. Her biggest claim to fame is a
total resurrection in 1987, having been
put aside in boxes with the intention of
an overhaul 11 years before. Despite
this medical marvel, she runs like a
charm and continues to pass her MOT.
Jezebel Dennis is perhaps the celebrity
of the fleet in a sort of Jordan-glamour-
model way. She’s got large assets in the
form of her working pump, as she is an
original 1916 Dennis N-Type fire en-
gine that was used by the London Fire
Brigade up until her retirement in 1932.
She then had a fling with another owner
before settling down to become the
RCSU mascot in 1955 on the grounds
that the RCSU of the time “were look-
ing for a suitable means of transport for
their President.” However, like Jordan
and being a bit cheeky, 2 years later she
managed to ruin the Queen Mother’s
coat with her new red paint job. Since
the early days, she’s become the more
demure Katie Price and an excellent ad-
vocate for the college by representing us
at events like the Lord Mayors Show and
the New Year celebrations until in 2009
when she had a run in with a Routemas-
ter bus… literally. What you would only
find out in her autobiography (Jez’s not
Katie’s) is that she is the owner of her
own Blue Peter Badge, which she got
for appearing on the show in 1982, and
starred in Michael Winner’s “The Jok-
ers”; a film released in 1966.
Boanerges (translated as ‘Sons of
Thunder’) is the older gentleman of the
fleet and a true gentleman’s sort of ve-
hicle. Abbreviated to Bo’, he is the mas-
cot of CGCU and was bought in 1934
for a handsome £40 though the car was
born in 1902: a James & Browne with
a 9 horse power engine. In 1953, in the
50th publication of Felix, he underwent
a challenge that can only be thought to
be the idea for the modern day TV show,
Top Gear, in which he boasted a 35ft di-
ameter turning circle. Despite having a
maximum speed of 28mph, he was pur-
sued for speeding in 1956 by the police.
Charges were dropped after the famous
British satirical magazine, Punch, pub-
lished a cartoon of the episode on their
front cover that week. Bo has a younger
brother, Derrick, which is a 1926 Ner-a-
car motor cycle. Together, the vehicles
undergo a strange gender transition to
become a homage to Bo Derek (yes, a
change in spelling), a popular Holly-
wood actress of the 80’s.
In many ways these vehicles are the
perfect hobby for the budding engineer
or DIY enthusiast. The other rare op-
portunity for a university student here is
that you get to be a caretaker of some-
thing that has been passed down to us
from our own alumni with the hope of
carrying on what was started long before
our transient experience of the college,
and continuing that source and tradition
of pride. You don’t even have to be an
engineer, as it’s a great learning envi-
ronment for anyone who wants to appre-
ciate vintage in one of its most lasting
forms. Failing that, the uniforms that ac-
company the cars could perhaps do with
a visit from a sewing machine if that is
more your style. If you’ve been charmed
into getting involved or lured by a false
promise of meeting Katie Price, please
email jez@imperial.ac.uk – the clubs
would be happy to show you the ropes.
A homage to the fleet of vintage
vehicles that belong to all of us.
By Jenny Wilson
“She’s in touch with
the modern stereo-
typed Imperial girl;
understated in looks
but a rewarding lover”
From left: Jezebel Dennis, Derrick, Boanerges and Clementine (II) Morris
Getting to lectures in the morning used to be so much more fun...
These be some ‘fly’ chaps... YO
FELIX Friday 11 MARCH 2011

