SCIENCE
8
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Who wants to be a Legionnaires?
You won’t believe it..
Touched by a robot
Being touched by a sexy nurse is one of the most
common fantasies (not admitting anything person-
ally here) – but how would you feel if your object
of affection was a robot? Researchers from Geor-
gia Institute of Technology found that volunteers
were happy to be touched by a robot nurse, if un-
der the impression they were cleaning a wound. If
told the robot was there to provide comfort, partici-
pants were less than positive about the experience.
Strangely enough, people have a similar reaction
to human nurses – obviously they’ve just met the
wrong sort of nurse.
Charlie Harvey
Want to win £100,000 and catch a dangerous dis-
ease? Well, a proposed “new reality TV show” adver-
tised just that in its search for contestants. Asking
for individuals who were “Not worried about look-
ing and feeling your worst on live TV?” the show,
Quarantine, was to be set in a virology lab with the
contestants exposed to infectious diseases. The
last contestant remaining in the room would win the
money. Published in the Daily Mirror, the advert re-
ceived over 200 applications. Medical professionals
kicked up a fuss condemning the show. However, it
was later revealed to be an experiment by the Mirror
to see “just how far people will go in the pursuit of
fame”.
Ben Good
There’s no need to fear robots
Kadhim Shubber
The Polish restaurant on Exhibition Road, Og-
nisko, seems to be out of its time. The décor
and atmosphere would seem to suggest that
mink-ensconced flappers and mustachioed air-
men could come swooping into the dining hall
at any moment. It’s in these surroundings that
I have the pleasure to sit beside Emeritus Pro-
fessor Igor Alexander, who has just spent the
previous hour or so talking about how the inter-
connectedness of neural networks in the brain
could be the cause of consciousness itself. I ask
him if his understanding of the brain has altered
his experience of the world and his awareness
of his own consciousness. He gives a short sin-
cere laugh and replies that it’s made him feel
much more comfortable about the whole thing.
During his lecture, entitled: “Can mankind
survive in the age of information?” and hosted
by Friends of Imperial, he displayed a similar
air of ease and confidence. He readily admits
at the beginning that the title is a tad mislead-
ing. It’s too easy a question, he suggests, and
it can be answered “in three seconds flat.” The
answer is obviously Yes, he says. Sitting at the
front of the lecture theatre, I can almost feel the
quizzical looks of the audience behind me de-
manding: “then what is this lecture about?”
Asking whether mankind can survive in the
21st century, in this age of information, implies
that there is something to fear. The point of
Professor Alexander’s lecture – starting with
knocking down the title at the beginning – is to
show that those who gloomily predict the rise
of computers (and the fall of mankind that usu-
ally accompanies their narrative) or the dam-
aging effect of the Internet on our brains, are
misunderstanding something crucial about our
brains and consciousness.
As a man who has devoted his entire career to
understanding the mind, Professor Alexander is
more than qualified to make such a statement.
He is an electrical engineer who designed and
built the world’s first neural pattern recognition
system and he has published over 200 scienftif-
ic papers and 12 books about the mind. Why
shouldn’t an electrical engineer pioneer re-
search into the brain? is the challenge he raises
when he says: “The brain is a physical, chemi-
cal and electrical device”, therefore it can be
analysed using the tools of physicists, chemists
and electrical engineers.
So what did people like Ed Fredkin, who
in 1983 suggested on the BBC’s Horizon that
within eight years computers would have
grown so powerful that they would keep hu-
mans as pets, get wrong about consciousness?
Professor Alexander first explained what might
conjure up consciousness. Neurons behave like
the components of a circuit, in that they per-
form the same sort of logical operations. How-
ever, they don’t have the same linear relation-
ship between input and output. They’re looped
and networked in such a way that they pass
signals between each other and, in his words,
“reverberate”. This internal reverberation,
which may not result in any output, could be
the source of thought. The more interconnected
a network, the greater the ability for conscious
thought – this is where I began to shudder at
the thought of someone reducing the intercon-
nectedness of my neurons and wiping away my
consciousness in the process, silly I know.
The crucial point, however, is that this is not
enough for consiciousness. These reverberations
must have some correlation with the outside
world. In short, you must be able to interpret and
recognise the world around you. The neurons
also form imprints and patterns of reverberations
that can be triggered and fired off without exter-
nal input – this is where memory and our ability
to interpret and recognise could reside.
Coming back to robots, to the fear of the
rise of the machines, a being’s consciousness
is dependent on its needs and its experience of
the world. A packaging robot’s consciousness
is grounded solely in its experience of being a
packaging robot. Similarly its needs are simple;
if it’s constantly plugged in, why would it re-
volt against mankind?
The problem with his argument, I guess, is
that one can always have nightmares about a
specific robot in a highly specific set of cir-
cumstances that would crush all of mankind.
Professor Alexander obviously doesn’t worry
about such things (who seriously does?) but
the lecture still left me unsettled. Although he
claimed to be more at ease with his consicious-
ness through understanding where it might
arise, I became more worried about the fragility
of my identity. Each moment of our existence is
unique and definable, he says (well thank good-
ness!) but as you reduce the interconnectedness
of a neural system, your capacity to distinguish
between them, and thus your ability to interact
with the world diminishes.
Oh dear. I’d better lay off the wine then!
Friends of Imperial’s next lecture will be by
Professor Frank Berkshire on the 17th of
March, in the Sir Alexander Fleming Build-
ing from 19:00. It is entitled “Chaotic cards
and dynamic dice” and looks at how math-
ematics can be used for gain in gambling.
Anum Niaz
Protein possible anti-leukaemia agent
A protein, CD19-ligand, demonstrates a prom-
ising cure for one of the most common forms
of childhood cancer: Acute Lymphoblastic
Leukaemia (ALL).
The ALL cells are recognized as mutagens,
which leads to an immune response and the
generation of antibodies against the cancer.
Researchers, Fatih M. Uckun and Hong Ma,
alongside others, began working with a se-
ries of basic procedures which finally led to
the cloning of part of the DNA which directly
codes for part of the CD19 receptor. This part
of DNA was then compared with the predeter-
mined gene sequences within the GeneBank
Database. The resulting DNA sequence was
further developed to form a specific secondary
structure.
The researchers discovered that CD19 re-
ceptor molecules regulate B-lymphocytes re-
leased during an immune response against the
primary leukaemia cells. By interacting with
its co-receptor molecules, CD19 allows the
smooth ‘development, proliferation, activation
and differentiation’ of B-lymphocytes. Howev-
er, the interaction between CD19-ligands and
leukaemia results in cell death which assists
in the regulation of immune responses and the
prevention of autoimmunity. In CD19+ leukae-
mia cells this interaction results in an altered
set of signals being sent which cause cell death.
Hence, the structure and bonding of the ligand
with its co-receptor determines the fate of the
cell.
CD19-L was then tested as a down-regulator
of leukaemic activity in ALL cells with CD19
positive co-receptors. At this stage the interac-
tion between CD19 co-receptors and CD19-L
altered the regulation of genes; the down-reg-
ulated genes were analysed in greater detail,
and lead the researchers to the conclusion that
CD19-L had a significant effect on cell signal-
ling, causing cell death and gene expression.
The experiment is furthered by the treatment
of chemotherapy resistant ALL CD19 positive
cells with CD19-L concluding that CD19-L also
causes cell death in relapsedALLcells (CD19+).
The importance of determining CD19-L
binding and functionality lies in the recovery of
patients with relapsed ALL. As lead researcher
Fatih Uckun says “These are the cells that are
the most difficult to treat. The challenge is to
kill these cells while leaving healthy cells in-
tact.” The major advantage of CD19 is its spe-
cific and ample expression on leukaemic cells.
CD19-Ligands are potential agents for the
transport of cytotoxic materials to leukaemic
cells, and may be a more effective and less
damaging solution to an on-going problem.
Willing to look like this for a hundred grand?
Charlie Sheen ain’t looking good...
My prayers have been answered...
FELIX
Friday 11 MARCH 2011

