9
SCIENCE
Sci-Fi Column
This week I’d like to talk about the
BBC’s newest science fiction series,
Outcasts. Set in the near future it follows
the fortunes of a colony of humans on
the planet Carpathia who have fled the
Earth to escape some as yet unspecified
problems on Earth.
After a promising first episode, where
Carpathia was established as a danger-
ous yet interesting place the show soon
began to go downhill. The main prob-
lem is with the characters. The colony’s
leader, President Tate, was portrayed
in the first episode as a noble idealist
struggling to build to a utopian society
on the planet. The audience, however,
soon found out that he had once ordered
the execution of an entire group of hu-
man clones because he wrongly thought
that they were carrying a deadly disease,
dismissing the notion of quarantine as
‘more unkind’. I wouldn’t have had
problems with this if not for the fact
that the show is structured so as to make
this deranged man the good guy. What’s
even worse is that when he reveals what
he did to the colony’s inhabitants for
some reason nobody is outraged or calls
for him to be arrested or even at least re-
sign. This could have worked if we were
shown the colony considering the clones
as sub-human but we weren’t shown any
reaction at all.
Newly arrived on a transport from
Earth is Julius Berger, the corrupt for-
mer head of the Earth evacuation project
who has proclaims that he has found reli-
gion; worshiping some vague ‘universal
spirit’. Despite having the feel of a slimy
televangelist he somehow manages to
gather a large following. What’s worse
is that even Dr Isen, the highly rational
head of police, begins to trust him, de-
spite her knowing that that he effectively
killed somebody on the transport. Tate,
despite the colony having an advanced
brain scanner which could literally show
all of Berger’s memories of his crimes
to the colony, instantly dispelling his
following, instead gives him a place on
Carpathia’s ruling council.
I do not think, however, that we should
be too harsh with our judgements of
Outcasts. The first seasons of Babylon
5 and Star Trek: The Next Generation
were pretty bad and look at how these
shows turned out. There is a lot of good
in Outcasts, such as the mysteries of the
visions appearing to Carpathia’s inhab-
itants and of what happened to Earth.
Outcasts has the promise of becoming
something we see so little of on televi-
sion: an intelligent, slow-paced hard sci-
ence fiction series with the focus on plot
rather than action; something in the vein
of the little known but brilliant Defying
Gravity. Unfortunately, declining view-
ing figures and mixed critical reception
means that that Outcasts is very likely to
follow in the footsteps of Defying Grav-
ity and be cancelled after its first season.
Floods, fireballs and chaos?
O
f the four billion species
that have existed on the
Earth, only 1% are still
around today. Many of
these forgotten creatures
became extinct gradually, slowly mak-
ing way for new ones to evolve and
take their place. However, sometimes
the rate of extinction can increase so
much that more than three quarters of
the world’s species are lost in a short
period of time.
It is tempting to imagine devastating
scenes of fireballs, floods and chaos
when we hear the phrase “mass extinc-
tion”, but the reality can be much more
subtle than that – so subtle that it could
pass by without much fanfare at all. In
fact, some scientists think we could be
in the middle of one right now.
A mass extinction is defined as the
loss of over three quarters of all spe-
cies in a geologically short time period
– around two million years, or less. This
may not sound short, but the Earth has
been around for four billion years, mak-
ing it is a fraction of a percentage of our
planet’s total lifetime. There have been
five previous mass extinctions, known
among palaeontologists as the “Big
Five”. In a review published in Nature
last week, Anthony Barnosky and col-
leagues, from the University of Califor-
nia at Berkley, brought together fossil
evidence and recent paleontological data
to work out whether we are in the middle
of the sixth big extinction event of the
past 540 million years.
Barnosky and colleagues used sev-
eral different methods to calculate the
rate of extinctions that happened in the
past in order to put what we see today in
context. They used the fossil record to
estimate plausible rates during the times
of previous mass extinctions and then
compared this with what they estimate
the rates are now.
They found that although the recent
loss of species is “dramatic and seri-
ous”, it is not yet, technically, a mass
extinction. However, if all the animals
currently classed as “critically endan-
gered” were to disappear, even if it took
1000 years, it would tip us over the edge
into true mass extinction territory. If this
were expanded to include all animals
in the “endangered” and “vulnerable”
categories, we could bring about a mass
extinction in just a few centuries.
Barnosky and colleagues are quick
to point out the shortcomings in their
methods. As most of the world’s spe-
cies have yet to be formally described,
documented numbers of extinctions are
likely to be underestimates. The types of
animals that can be studied are also lim-
ited. For example, it is only possible to
make direct comparisons between fos-
sils and their modern day counterparts
for species that can be fossilised in the
first place.
“Obviously there are caveats,” Bar-
nosky said. “What we know is based on
observations from just a very few twigs
plucked from the enormous number of
branches that make up the tree of life.”
Despite these flaws, Barnosky and col-
leagues are confident in their conclu-
sions.
It appears to be humans who are caus-
ing these devastating extinction rates,
and Barnosky and collegues think we
should be doing something about it.
Comparing the Earth today with what
scientists believe the Earth was like dur-
ing the Big Five extinction events of the
past, it looks like we are cooking up a
“perfect storm” of conditions that are
conducive to the catastrophic loss of
Maciej Matuszewski
species. Rapid climate change and an
increase in the amount of carbon dioxide
in the atmosphere could both push many
animals towards extinction.
Despite this, Barnosky is hopeful:
“We still have a lot of Earth’s biota to
save,” he said. “It’s very important to
devote resources and legislation toward
species conservation if we don’t want to
be the species whose activity caused a
mass extinction.”
Boom! The scientific consensus is that the dinosaurs were killed off by an exploding meteor, but not all mass extinctions are this dramatic...
Kelly Oakes on how we could be in the middle of Earth’s sixth
mass extinction (and barely even notice)
“The Big Five”
The Ordovician event, ending 443
million years ago, was made up of
two bursts of extinction separated
by a million years. Caused by a low-
ering sea level, it destroyed habi-
tats along continental shelves,
and glacially driven cooling.
The Devononion event ended 359
million years ago. This event is
thought to have taken a long time
to occur and mainly affected ma-
rine life. It was caused by global
cooling, followed by warming,
amongst other things.
The Permian event ended 251
million years ago. Also known,
cheerfully, as the “Great Dying”,
this event is the most severe of
the Big Five. Global warming, vol-
canoes, ocean acidification and
possibly a meteor impact have all
been implicated.
The Triassic event ended 200
million years ago. Occuring just
before Pangaea started to break
apart, this event is thought to
have cleared out ecological niches
allowing the dinosaurs to become
dominant. It was caused by an in-
crease in atmospheric CO2 which
increased global temperatures
(sound familiar?).
The Cretaceous event ended 65
million years ago. The most infa-
mous of all mass extinctions, this
one wiped out the dinosaurs. A
meteor exploding over the Earth,
leading to global cataclysm and
rapid cooling, is thought to be the
likely culprit.
FELIX Friday 11 MARCH 2011

