IMP
22 February 2002
Issue 1229
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
Gold Fii ltd the
rest of him. Oscar
gets it on. (Page 27)
Possibly the weirdest thing
I've seen today, and I went to
Council! Simian. (Page 25)
Council Makes A Decision
The Union is half-way to a new constitu-
tion this week after the draft survived its
first reading in Tuesday's unconventional
meeting of Council.
The meeting kicked off with a record
turn-out as members of IndianSoc tried to
take issue with the President's handling
of fire regulations at their 'East meets
West' event. Council decided not to enter-
tain the complaint, however, requesting
that they should present their argument
more formally at a later date.
The remainder of the meeting was con-
sumed by the approval and amendment
of a draft constitution, the creation of
which has so far taken up the majority of
Council sessions this year. It has been
been necessary due to the change to fac-
ulties by College, which must now be
reflected in the Union's own structure.
Recent Councils have also been
plagued by low attendance of its mem-
bers. The number of attending members
must exceed the Council's quorum for the
meeting to be valid - half of the members
in this case - but a count is only required
Andy Heeps (for it is he...)
should someone call for the quorum to be
checked. A s a result, members last night
spent much of their time referring to "the
Q word" when discussing the quora to be
set by the new constitution. The draft
itself passed reasonably uneventfully,
with no major upheavals.
The final item on the agenda was the
matter of Council Chair. Sam Sharpe, who
had been chairing meetings for the past
year since the end of his tenure as Deputy
President (Clubs & Societies), resigned at
the last meeting due to the conflicting
demands of his Union duties and degree
course. Andy Heeps, former Union
President and College celebrity, had
acted in Mr Sharpe's place for Tuesday's
meeting and was confirmed as Council
Chair by a vote before the meeting closed.
This meeting marks a particularly
favourable part of the nascent constitu-
tion's journey to implementation.
Council's work was completed before the
imposed guillotine - essentially an
enforced end to discussion at a specific
time - which was certainly a contrast
with previous meetings.
Unless there is any strong opposition at
its next reading in Union Council, the con-
stitution will pass to College's Council
and, subject to its approval, should take
effect on the 1st August 2002. Alisdaii
1111^
you get to decide who wins and who REFERENCE
loses. It's all a bit sadistic, really." COLLECTION
Interviews with all the candidates...
Imperial College and
Science Museum Libraries

