election special
How To Vote: A Quick Guide
On the following pages, all the election
candidates present their manifestoes,
and have been interviewed by Felix.
First, David Francis - Deputy President
(Education & Welfare) and Returning
Officer - introduces the system by
which you will vote next week.
The posters are up, the manifestoes have
been submitted, the candidates have
been grilled by an over-enthusiastic Felix
reporter and paraded in front of a televi-
sion camera so that the whole JCR can
see what they have to say. You know
which the departments the candidates
are from, you've heard what they've con-
tributed towards the union over the last
few years and you've been stunned by
arcane titles for clubs and societies that
you never even knew existed. You've
nearly sussed the candidates out.
Now you're looking. Looking for reasons
either to vote for, or, indeed, like the
majority of voters, to not vote, for a par-
ticular candidate. You have an impression
in your mind. You know what they look
like. You know what they sound like. You
know the rash generalisations you've
made about them, either good or bad,
that you wish you hadn't. You've spoken
to people in your hall, in your clubs, to
that girl your mate pulled last Wednesday
night. You've even spoken to your depart-
mental representatives, as they're likely
to actually have bumped into some of the
candidates, at some stage. So now what?
Now you have to vote.
Sounds easy, huh? Sounds like this arti-
cle is going to patronise you beyond com-
prehension? I wish it was that simple.
First things first. You vote with a swipe
card. Not a Union card, or an Activities
card, or a U L U card or indeed a NUS card.
A swipe card. The thing that lets you into
the computer room, but you can never be
bothered to dig it out of your wallet and
so there it sits. You also need to be in the
right place at the right time. You cannot
vote at any ballot box you turn up at. You
must vote in your own department. If you
turn up elsewhere, you will be informed of
where you should be voting and politely
told to head in that direction. There will
be no exceptions.
Once there, between the hours of 10am
and 5pm on both Thursday 28th February
and Friday 1st March, you will be pre-
sented with five bits of paper: One for
each of the sabbatical positions. On each
piece of paper, which will be colour co-
ordinated for your benefit, there will be a
list of candidates standing for each posi-
tion. There will also be RON (Re-open
nomination). For instance, for the position
of President, there will be, in alphabetical
order, Stuart Davies, Sen Ganesh, Idris
Harding and RON.
You will then be required to vote by the
Single Transferable Vote system. In a nut-
shell, your first choice gets one mil vote,
and if they don't win, your other prefer-
ences are reflected. You put a '1' next to
the candidate you want to win. You put a
'2' next to the person you would class as
your second choice and so on. If you put a
'1' next to RON, all other numbers will be
ignored. If you only like one candidate,
and there are more than 2 candidates
standing, put "2" next to RON. You see
how this is working? Lovely.
So there we go. No ticks, no crosses, no
ripped ballot papers and no silly pictures
next to candidate's names. So get out
there and VOTE VOTE VOTE. Ishra!
You could say that a
large group of
individuals is an
impossible concept;
alternatively you could
work for one.
Marakon Associates offers
penultimate year students
the opportunity to participate
in our eight week
London summer internship
programme.
Please apply by C V and
covering letter to:
Emma Sorsky
ukrecruiting @ marakon.com
Ylarakon Associates
strategic management consultants
Applications to be recieved
by 1st March 2002
Your time starts now www.marakon.com

