imperial
c o l l e g e
Union Services Survey
Please give us a few moments of your time to help
improve the Union's services, and you could...
WIN one of these prizes
One of five tickets to a Union Bust-a-Gut
Comedy Night of your choice, (£3 value)
Two pairs of tickets to the end of term party,
22nd March (£10 value)
A ticket to the Summer Ball, 8th June (£25 value)
Your Union is working to improve its service for you. Your comments and opinions are very
important to us, and we hope you can spare a couple of minutes to let us know what you think.
This survey is anonymous - if you choose to enter the competition, rest assured that we will
separate the competition entry forms from the survey before either are examined.
Please select the one most appropriate answer for each question.
Third Prize
Second Prize
First Prize
Please tell us about yourself. 5. When did you last read Felix, and which sections?
Male/Female Age: Under 25 / 25-35 / over 35 Campus news This week This term Last term Never
World news This week This term Last term Never
1. Are you a member of Imperial College?
Reviews This week This term Last term Never
O Visitor O Student O 1st year O 2nd year
Crossword This week This term Last term Never
O Staff O 3rd year or above O Post grad
What's on This week This term Last term Never
O Other
Sports This week This term Last term Never
Department
Features This week This term Last term Never
2. Are you a member of a Union sports club? Letters This week This term Last term Never
O Yes O No
6. Have you visited the Union website (www.su.ic.ac.uk)?
Please list O Yes, but not in the last few weeks. O Yes, quite recently O No
7. Have you ever listened to IC Radio?
3. Are you a member of any other Union club or society? O Yes, but not in the last few weeks. o Yes, quite recently O No
O Yes O No
8. Have you ever watched STOIC (Imperial Student TV)?
Please list O Yes, but not in the last few weeks. o Yes, quite recently O No
3. If you read a newspaper, where do you get it?
O On the way to college O Sherfield Walkway
O I borrow someone else's O Elsewhere on campus
4. Where do you buy...?
Stationery for college/work (pens, notebooks, etc.)
O High Street Kensington O Union shop O Other
Computer supplies (disks, blank CD-Rs, etc.)
O High Street Kensington O Union shop
Greeting cards
O High Street Kensington O Union shop
O Other
O Other
9. Have you worked for the Union? (Please circle)
O No
O Yes, as a student: Full / Part-time O Yes, as a staff: Full / Part-time
Area/s
10. Have you visited the Union Advice Service in the Beit
Quad East Wing basement?
O No, ! didn't know it was there
O No, I know about it but have never needed it
O Yes, but not this term O I found it helpful
O Yes, quite recently O I found it helpful
Comment
O They couldn't help
O They couldn't help

