reviews music
Clinic
Walking With Thee
Out this Monday on Domino records
The career of this Liverpudlian four-
piece, formed in 1997, has developed
strangely. Having released arguably their
best material on a series of early EPs,
acquired a good live reputation and fall-
en out with their fan base for re-releasing
The Second Line to coincide with a Levi's
advertisement, Clinic have not always
been successful or widely accepted. This
album forces me to ask questions and
leaves me confused.
Opening with the subdued and sombre
Harmony, the Clinic boys offer up a dark
electro-seance. Welcome is a drone-
based psychobilly number, where Clinic
live up to all those Velvet Underground
references. Nonetheless, the track
becomes prophetically ironic as A d e
Blackburn remarks "How could you disin-
tegrate form?" just as it becomes appar-
ent that the album itself lacks structure
and direction.
Title track and forthcoming single
Walking With Thee (aka Nuns) is evi-
dently the most effective song, with its
fairground swirl and monkey organ grind
providing a fitting backdrop for a defiant
vocal. However, this becomes the pivotal
point of the album - afterwards, deja vu
sets in and it all goes downhill.
Walking With Thee leaves me with a
strange taste in my mouth. Is there any-
thing particularly good here? The band
have tried to progress - the album has a
distinctly developed cabaret feel, for
example - but instead of moving forward,
they have only stepped sideways. Clinic
burned with vitality and urgency once,
making this album even more disap-
pointing and hard to bear.
Chris
Two Day Rule
When You're Ready
Out this Monday on Sugarshack records
Two Day Rule are a feisty Bristolian boy-
girl punk combo. Comprising of Neil
Murray (lead vocals/guitar), Andrea
Kenny, (who vies with Murray for top
billing), Craig Smith (bass) and Matt
Woolman (drums), they've built up a
small racket of enthusiasm for their
accomplished punk sensibilities and
crazy live sets.
Their debut album begins with the
mildly likeable Odds and Ends and No
Doubt, which have me merely nodding
with appreciation and do not bode
extremely well for the rest of the songs.
Eager anticipation leads me to the recent
single Had A Good Thing, which is
almost indescribable despite being an
impressive track. It's acerbic lyrics, such
as "I want to get into your pants", stand
out from the wall of sound. Space is more
reflective, with a thrashier feel. The cym-
bal and maracas provide an interesting
background for the centrepiece
Andrea's vocals.
The bluesy jazz-funk fusion on Johnny
And Loretta is the first real sign of origi-
nality. This track is the clear winner on
an album packed with peaks and
troughs. Better Off Now is a sixties-style
number with more of the jazz and less of
the funk. The juxtaposition of this with
the trashier I'll Be Just Fine, reminiscent
of Bis in their heyday, works well.
Highlight number two is Sympathetic,
full of guitar noodling and the vocal spir-
it of Blink 182's Tom De Longe - pop-punk
at it's very best. The excellent eighties
pastiche Too Good To Be True rounds off
a real album of two halves - the second
by far outshining the first.
Sajini
Various
FabricLive 02
Out now on Fabric records
Dance compilations are always difficult
things to judge, since they are often as
much about record label politics as about
the music. With this is mind, FabricLive
02, mixed by Ali B (pic above), promises
to be a true reflection of a FabricLive set,
rather than a load of "anthems" lumped
together in one convenient package.
So, how does it compare? Purists will
argue that FabricLive 02 lacks the rough
edges of a live set - that it is too polished.
They may even argue that it misses out
on the whole atmosphere of Fabric itself.
That aside, the album delivers a great
selection of professionally mixed tracks,
put together into a structured set that
takes you from a quirky and comparitive-
ly subdued start to a bass-heavy climax.
It does exactly what you'd want it to do.
Essentially, the key to success for this
CD will lie in its track list. lis' The Next
Level, currently providing the soundtrack
to a major advertising campaign, is sure
to generate interest in FabricLive 02.
To most people, the fact that the album
was mixed by FabricLive resident A l l B
won't mean a thing. But only someone
who truly understands the FabricLive
experience can convey that sublime mix
of bass and beats to an audience who
may not yet have experienced it.
Apart from turning off your lights and
filling your bedroom with a hundred peo-
ple and vast quantities of smoke, this is
about as close as you can get to
FabricLive without actually being there.
Patrick
For a chance to win a copy of
FabricLive 02, turn to page 25.

