LIVE: Delta + Kidd Dynamo
+ Serafin @ The Monarch
This evening was a showcase for some of the new talent trying
to find their way into the music business.
First up were Serafin (pic above), a four-piece from London
who certainly rocked the venue. They went absolutely mad on
stage, despite seeming nervous at first, and played all-out, get-
ting the crowd's feet tapping almost immediately.
Serafin flit between dark, melancholy rock (Day By Day) and
quiet, melodic musings (Ordinarily Me) without a flinch. Their
very special brand of indie-rock is bound to take them a long
way - here's hoping they get snapped up quickly and make the
big time.
Next on stage were K i d d Dynamo, from Belfast, looking quite
intimidated by the size of the crowd. "This is our first gig in
London" admitted lead man Colin, before the band launched
into some of the best emo I've heard in a long time.
Kidd Dynamo's aim should be to retain the naive charm that
so many new bands lose after working hard to make it big.
Their lyrics, together with Colin's sweeter-than-sugar voice and
the ringing, beautifully harmonised guitars make Kidd Dynamo
something very special to look out for in the near future.
Delta were the headline act, and by this time we were expect-
ing great things, considering how good their support had been.
Unfortunately, w e were disappointed.
Their better tracks were medium to good, but their worse
tracks were just not worth listening to. They were everything
that was bad about mid-nineties britpop, mixed with some of
the subtle, smooth melodies of today's indie revolution.
The disappointment of the crowd was reflected by the num-
ber of people who vacated the room in favour of mingling with
the two support acts downstairs in the bar.
music reviews
INTERVIEW with Vex Red
Felix probed the minds of angsty indie-metallers Vex Red on
their dimly-lit, slightly dingy tour bus, somewhere in W l .
[See right for a review of their latest single Can't Smile.]
FELIX: So what bands do you think are good at the moment
then?
NICK: Well, we saw a band supporting The Cooper Temple
Clause the other day in Portsmouth - Biffy Clyro, or something?
You know, I haven't been to a gig where I've been blown away
by a band in ages, and then suddenly there's this band, and
they come on, and they start with the quietest kind of music
and then launch into the heaviest kind of music and I was
blown away. They were wicked.
KEITH: Yeah, I think I read on a website we're playing with
them...
You read about yourselves on a website? W h i c h one of you
posts as Vex Red on the official noticeboard?
KEITH: Normally me.
Aren't there about three girls w h o post repeatedly on there?
KEITH: Yeah, I'll put a message up, and half an hour later there'll
be thirty messages and they're all from the same girls. Spencer,
the guy who does the website, made himself this hoodie that
said "Vex Red Webmaster" on it.
NICK: Yeah, he wore it at a gig, and he was like, "I'm famous for
fifteen minutes!"
Which festivals are you playing this year?
NICK: Apparently we've got Glastonbury. Apparently. A n d
probably Reading and Leeds as well.
Have you got a favourite?
NICK and KEITH (together): Glasto, definitely.
What's the best set you've seen there?
NICK: Um, I don't think we see many bands when we go - we
get caned in our tents and can't move.
Can you tell us about the album?
KEITH: It's fairly eclectic. If you've only heard the singles, it'll be
a bit of a surprise.
NICK: It's definitely a mix - there are a lot of quiet songs on
there as well. Someone described us as the "Spiritualized of nu-
metal", which was quite cool.
KEITH: Yeah, and I read that Terry looks like Daniel Johns out of
Silverchair - he's got the same hair and piercings and every-
thing. But if you say that to Terry, he'll say he had them first.
Maybe Daniel Johns bases himself on Terry. So, tell us about
the pot plant episode.
NICK: Oh yeah, everyone knows about that! A n t nearly got
arrested! The tour bus broke down and w e had to go to a bus
depot to get it fixed. Ant stole this pot plant and he named it
Frank. It was about three feet high, and w e just had it on the
bus. We got to customs and they wouldn't let us through. They
wouldn't tell us why, and then suddenly about six police cars
drove up and surrounded the bus, and they were like, "we
believe you have something that doesn't belong to you on the
bus". Ant was really good about it and gave it back, but I still
can't believe they called the police about a pot plant.
Jess Sajini

