reviews music
Singles
Roundup
V E X RED - Can't Smile
With more angst and passion than a fourteen-year-old's diary,
Can't Smile is the mind-blowingly wonderful new single from
Vex Red (pic above). The combination of a throbbing bass line,
a snappy but memorably dark guitar riff and Terry's melancholy
lilt makes this single well worth having.
BflBBB Jess
H E F N E R - The Hefner Brain
Another quirky mixture of drum machines, modules and indie
crooning is coming your way, and if you like Hefner already,
then you know exactly what to expect. Worryingly though, most
of the tracks sound uncannily like theme tunes from kids' TV
programmes. I think the makers of Fireman Sam should sue.
BBOQD Derek
SIMIAN - M r Crow
Simian, who released their excellent first LP Chemistry Is
What We Are last year, bring us more of their psychedelic pop
experiments. The two incarnations of M r Crow - radio edit and
album version - are both very catchy. Then, on the five other
tracks, all previously unreleased, Simian's exciting brainwaves
are particularly interesting as their sweet melodies contrast
with a background of electronica. On the whole, they produce a
unique, innovative sound.
a a a a o
Frangois
COMPETITION
This week, we're giving away a copy of the highly recom-
mended compilation album FabricLive 02, mixed by A l i B (see
review, page 23).
QUESTION: Name the two resident DJs at FabricLive.
Email your answer, along with your name, year and depart-
ment, to music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 28 February.
OUT THIS W E E K
The following are due for release on Monday 25 February:
A L B U M S
CLINIC - Walking With Thee
J E W E L - This Way
M O N T E L L JORDAN - Montell Jordan
TWO DAY RULE - When You're Ready
SINGLES
BRANCACCIO & AISHER - It's Gonna Be (A Lovely Day)
CAPITOL K - Pillow
TETRA SPLENDOUR - Pollen Fever
...and also the Hefner, Simian, White Stripes, Gorillaz and
Miss Black America singles (all reviewed below)
WHITE STRIPES - Fell In Love With A Girl
What energy! This is definitive rock music. In less than two
minutes, Meg and Jack White deliver a powerful song without
superficial production, and the result is really exciting. The two
other tracks on the CD are just as dynamic and energetic as the
first. This is bound to be successful.
a a a a Frangois
GORILLAZ - Tomorrow Comes Today
So the album's customary slow track finally gets released as
a single. Tomorrow Comes Today is a chilled out song with a
cool harmonica bit, but it feels a little too much like Blur. Not
that there's anything wrong with Blur - I just expected more.
There's nothing special here, although there's nothing dire
either. It might grow on me, but Damon's moaning voice will
probably just piss me off.
BBQOO Oscar
MISS B L A C K A M E R I C A - Infinite Chinese Box
Systematic guitars, dynamic power chords and block rocking
beats begin your ten minute affair with the indescribably allur-
ing, truly seductive Infinite Chinese Box. "Short but sweet" is a
good description for one of the best singles of the year so far.
The B-sides are equally promising. The tale of the dysfunction-
al, self-destructing relationship has rarely been so eloquently
expressed via musica than on Scarface, and the bluesy, expres-
sive Pub Rock Coma features punk sounds reminiscent of
Jimmy Eat World and vocals in the style of Hundred Reasons.
BBBBO Sajini
T E L E P O P M U S I K - Breathe
Squeaky electronic beats backed with inoffensive sonar
swirls. That's probably the most tactful way to describe this
attractively packaged single. Even the randomly scattered
lyrics are unsalvageable, unimaginative drivel. You can't dance
to this - the best that one can muster is a slight nod of the head
in time. But it isn't chilling music either, as the dithery beat
becomes more and more irritating as you listen.
BOOOD Sajini

