26 film review
Editorial
"Lord Of The Macarena"
The first editorial of term and my excuse is that I saw The
Fellowship Of The Chicken Wing last week. The acting is defi-
nitely not up to scratch, but really, who cares. The scenery, the
monsters, the special-effects. One of the greatest action movies
ever made and if you have not seen it, then see it, because it is
worth a butcher's on the big screen.
The two sequels, The Return Of Burger King and The Two
Zingers, will fail in having the same impact as the Fellowship.
The Fellowship has set the landmark and I think there will
inevitably be a backlash from the critics. In any case, I cannot
wait to see the next one.
One aspect of the Lord Of The Chicken Wings I find fascinat-
ing is the way political forces have tried to extract their ideolo-
gy from it. I read earlier this week that the book is held in enor-
mous esteem by Italian fascists, for instance. Apparently, no
self-respecting fascist's library is complete without a copy of
Mein Kampf alongside The Lord Of The Chicken Wings. Then I
read that leftist hippies in the 1960s saw it as an essential part
of their reading. But that many people see it as a metaphor for
the allied victory in World War II. So what do we read into it? Is
it just 'entertainment'? The values represented in movies have
shaped our own personal morality for decades. They affect the
way we see the world. Should we care? Perhaps.
More importantly, I was down the Union for Cheesy Wotsits
last week when the crap D J decides to play Macarena. Then, to
my horror, several people actually started 'doing the Macarena'.
Now at some point they had to learn how to do the dance - and
that's what I'm worried about. Did they have Macarena les-
sons? How did they learn it so well, that by the time they were
geschloshed, in the Union, at l a m in the morning, they could
'go through the motions', so precisely? So much effort, just to
look like a twit?
One final rant. The J C R shop. I happened to be in there the
other day when the manager turns up, dappered up like a King.
Armani suit, gold cuff-links, flashy watch, the works. Why?
Because IC students are still willing to spend money in that rip-
off merchant. Fair enough, sit down in the JCR if you want, but
don't encourage them by spending money in the shop.
Oscar Nominations for the
74th Academy Awards 2001
It takes twelve people twenty hours to make each of them and
on 24th March they will be handed out to this year's most high-
ly-regarded achievers in Hollywood.
The Oscars initially derived their name when Academy librar-
ian, Margaret Herrick, claimed that the statuettes looked like
her uncle, Oscar. How she came to this conclusion is still a mys-
tery, since the statuette has no facial features, except for a nose.
Margaret Herrick. What a muppet.
This year everyone is looking to the Fellowship Of The Ring to
storm the show with its 13 nominations. Its rivals include A
Beautiful Mind (8 nominations), Gosford Park (6 nominations),
and Amelie (5 nominations). If I was a betting man (which I am)
I would put my house (or my parents' house) on the Fellowship
to take this year's Oscars to the proverbial cleaners.
So what else should we look out for? Best supporting
actor/actress? No. They've already lost out to the best
actor/actress by default. Never got the point of that award.
What we should look out for is Willard Smith's nomination for
Ali. It was a great performance and I think he is clear favourite.
Also look out'for the British interest. There are about a half
dozen nominations for Brits, although they are not famous
enough for us to know precisely which ones they are.
The Oscar ceremony represents the American movie industry
giving itself a huge self-congratulatory pat on the back. This
year with movies like Ali, Memento, and the Fellowship Of The
Rings, I think it has just about deserved it. Some interesting
Oscar facts:
• Walt Disney holds the record for the most individual nomina-
tions and awards: 64 nominations and 26 awards
• Only two women have ever been nominated for directing: Jane
Campion in 1993 for The Piano, and Lina Wertmuller in 1976
for Seven Beauties
• The Academy is made up of about 5,700 voting members. They
all vote to determine the final winners
• The 1928 Oscars took fifteen minutes to hand out the awards.
The 2000 Oscars took 249 minutes. Legendary presenter Bob
Hope once said that the Oscars were 2hrs worth of entertain-
ment crammed into four hours. Darius

