E N D S L E I G H
t h e c o m p l e t e i n s u r e r
The quality that distinguishes Endsleigh from all other
insurance brokers is its common identity with the
student and graduate community. We were brought into
existence by students—for students—to provide-a full
insurance service, not merely to arrange life assurance,
Endsleigh will insure your car, your holiday, your
property and your life. In fact, your N U S membership
entitles you to life assurance policies at reduced rates
not available elsewhere.
To bring the Endsleigh service to you, we have a
network of over 30 N U S Insurance Centres
throughout the U.K. There is probably one very near
your college, maybe even in your Union.
Endsleigh is o w n e d by nus
Endsleigh offers a full insurance service
Endsleigh provides reduced rates
Endsleigh service continues after graduation
Consult E n d s l e i g h — F I R S T
LIFE ASSURANCE
A full range of life assurance and savings schemes including a
well-known unit trust investment plan available at a discount for NUS
members. These preferential terms will continue when membership of
NUS ceases. Policies can be arranged with all leading life offices and we
can offer Building Society Investment with a view to future House
Purchase. The Endsleigh Life Assurance Service is at your disposal
throughout your career.
MOTOR INSURANCE
Highly favourable terms with leading insurance companies for students
(STUDENTPLAN) and graduates (GRADPLAN). All policies contain
unlimited passenger liability cover and we are usually able to offer an
introductory bonus to drivers who have not previously held their own
insurance.
TRAVEL INSURANCE
ISIS Travel Insurance provides cover for European or World-wide cover
up to 18 months. Claims paid on-the-spot in most major Western
countries. Generous cover at competitive rates.
PROPERTY INSURANCE
A series of special schemes covering all aspects of property, personal
liability and personal accident insurance.
MEDICAL INSURANCE
Special membership of BUPA for NUS members can be continued after
graduation.
• Life/Endowment
• Home Purchase
• Unit Trust
• Studyplan
(Property Insurance)
• Medical Insurance
(BUPA)
• Studentplan
Motor Insurance
• Gradplan
Motor Insurance
• Overseas
Motor Insurance
• ISIS
Travel Insurance
name age
address (term or work)
tel
address (home)
tel
college

