C&G
Motor Club
THE A N N U A L General Meeting of the C & G
Motor Club is to be held on Friday, May 8 in
Mech Eng 751 at 7:00pm. Several posts are being
contested so if you want to vote for next year's
committee then come along. Later in the evening
there will be a Table Top Rally and beer for those
who are interested.
On Thursday, May 14 the Club will be holding
its Annual Dinner with guest speaker Alain de
Cadenet. Tickets are £7.50 available from the
C & G Union Office. Full details are posted on the
Club Noticeboard.
Finally, should anyone be interested in helping
ensure that the Club wins T H E Treasure Hunt of
the Year, the Miglia Quatro, then please get in
touch with one of the committee. This takes place
on the night of Saturday, May 9 in the City of
London. All support will be gratefully accepted.
Ed's Note
Everyone knows that T H E Treasure Hunt of
the year is, of course, the F E L I X Motor Rally,
due to be held on Sunday, June 21.
S a t u r d a y , M a y 9
Seaside Trip
T u e s d a y , M a y 12
Handover U G M
Joint G e n C o m m
S a t u r d a y , M a y 16
Rag Fete
Tickets for the seaside trip are £1 each from Ruth.
It will be to a mystery destination — i.e. we still
haven't d e c i d e d w h e r e we're going. T h e
Handover U G M will be held at the Albert
Memorial at 12:45pm or in Mech Eng 342 if it's
raining. It will include colours and various silly
awards, and a trouserless exec boat race.
Anyone is welcome to come to the Gen Comm.
We're hoping to get it over quite quickly and then
have food, drink and games, including wine
draughts. Names to Sara beforehand, please, if
you want to go.
It is hoped to "hit" the Rector at the Rag Fete,
but to do so we need contributions. Whoever
makes the biggest contribution can make the hit.
If you have any ideas for stalls please see Ruth.
Help would be very much appreciated, but if you
can't help out, please come to the Fete and spend
lots of money.
Cheers, Andy
5SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
Flats for Next Session
Flats for 4, 6, 7 and 8,
single and double bedsits.
Areas: Mainly Fulham, Earls Court, S Ken.
Rent: Around £20 per person.
For further details contact: Student Services,
Ground Floor, 15 Princes Gardens.
s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s
IC and Kensington International Students
BARN D A N C E
with T H E JUMBLIES (and disco)
8:00pm, Saturday, May 9, JCR
Admission 75p.
S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S S !
IC Open Day
I C U has agreed t o place the J C R at the
disposal of College on
Tucs, Wednes, and Thurs morning
12, 13 and 14 May
to stage the exhibition for
MEET IMPERIAL COLLEGE '81
Students are requested not to use the J C R
during this period. Full facilities are available
in the M a i n Dining Hall. T h e Quiet R o o m
(002) is also available for students' use.
SDP
This royal throne of kings, this sceptered isle.
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars,
This other Eden, demi paradise,
This fortress built by Nature for Herself.
This happy breed of men, this little world,
This precious stone set in the silver sea.
Which serves it in the office of a wall.
O r as a moat defensive to a house,
Against the envy of less happier lands.
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England.
When Shakespeare put these words into the
mouth of the dying John of Gaunt, he was
expressing a view of England, and indeed of the
whole of this island, to which the majority of
people then, in the intervening years and now
have subscribed. Namely that no matter what
g o v e r n m e n t is in office there is for the
overwhelming mass of people the idea that one
must put our country before any narrow
ideological considerations. This is evinced by the
fact that there never has been in this country any
official nationalistic doctrine; we do not have to
tell ourselves, unlike the Germans or the Poles,
how much we love our country. We do, and
therefore there is no need to stridently tell the
world that we do.
This is the reason why the political ideologies
which have dominated the thought of this century
have not made any noticeable impression on our
country. The National Union of Fascists, and its
successor the National Front did not and have
not gained any popular influence. Similarly we
have the smallest Communist Party in Western
Europe.
Since all these parties are extreme it became
obvious to ideologues on both sides that they
could not sieze power in this country by using
these parties. Their solution therefore has been in
the past couple of decades to gain control of the
two main political parties in this country. By doing
this their views received the respectability of
tradition. More importantly since politics is not a
closely followed spectator sport in this country,
people will, out of habit, continue to vote for the
traditional parties without perceiving that they are
bringing ruin upon this country.
Thus the Labour Party has moved to the left
and is now in the hands of the left. The
Conservative Party has moved to the right and is
now in their hands. There is no sight more
frightening than being at a political meeting of
either party where a person is expressing a
moderate view and is howled at by the "purists"
of that party for being an enemy of the party. This
kind of attitude can only logically lead to a
McCarthy era in America or a Stalinist era in
Russia. Once one gets on the slide of intolerance,
violence, arbitrary violence, is the only outcome.
We have not yet, fortunately reached that
stage, though we are getting uncomfortably close
to it. There is a solution, which might work.
Namely the formation of a Centre party. It
doesn't matter whether the Social Democratic
Party will form the next government or not. What
does matter is that it holds a balance of power in
the next parliament so that neither the New
Labour Party, nor the New Conservative Party-
can put through their extreme policies and ruin
this country.
If you love this country, as 1 do, then join the
SDP. and work for them. We can't promise to
make things better, but at least we can ensure
that our country does not become the plaything
of ideologues who would turn it into a wasteland.
Frank James
Bookshop News
Picture the scene, our illustrious tutor, sitting,
meditating, wondering, will it ever appear?
Suddenly in a plain brown wrapper, on approval,
the book arrives. This is the answer to all his
prayers, his years of begging for it. T H E book has
now, at last, been published.
The fatal day at last, March 15, his students sit
in anticipation, will this be the yeai; of the book?
Slowly, oh so slowly our illustrious tutor lifts from
its plain brown wrapper T H E book. This is the
one! The eager hordes swoop down on their
friendly Bookshop Manager, but, alas, he has not
seen or heard of T H E book. But, do not despair,
he will phone the publisher.
Bookshop Manager to Sales Director: I
understand that T H E book is to be published
today, March 15.
SD to BM: Yes, but our stock hasn't arrived.
BM to SD: But you sent a copy to our illustrious
tutor and he has recommended it to his students.
SD to BM: That's his problem. We must stick to
publication date.
BM to SD: But that is today, and we have not
received copies.
S D to BM: Well, you can't have it if we haven't got
it even if it is published today.
BM to SD (in desperation): Can I speak to the
Managing Director?
SD to BM: Sorry, he has gone for an early lunch
and will not be back today.
BM to SD: Is there any hope of getting this
book?
SD to B M : Though official publication day is
today, March 15, you may not get copies until the
end of March — beginning of April; or end of April
beginning of May. Strictly off the record, we do
believe they are suspended above dock, at
Felixstowe, due to an industrial dispute involving
crane drivers.
End of Story.
New Title In Stock: Biochemistry by Lubert
Stryer, published by W H Freeman, £9.95. This
title was orginally due out on March 15, but
actually arrived April 29. But you have probably
heard the story.
• Don't forget the Book Sale is still on!
Reviews
Records
Vardis
The
World's
Insane
Riffs as predictable as rush hour tailbacks in
the Blackwall Tunnel. Just about as exciting,
too. In fact, the effect on the ears is pretty
similar. The drone of bagpipes (Police Patrol),
chug-a-lug beat (Routemaster Bus?), pain in
the head (Carbon Monoxide!). No need for
lyric sheets here — the words are all in the
titles, the noise is all in the head, the songs are
all in the mind. The world's insane.
The inabilitiy to harmonise (does the bass
player actually possess a guitar? The inspired
cover photograph shows that he has at least
handled one), the demented vocals, are all
rather wasted in stereo. Come to think of it, I
remember the. days when the Blackwall Tunnel
was only in mono. Somehow, the effect has
never been the same since it went stereo. The
conflicting juggernaut thrashing and heavenly
bedlam of Fodens and ERFs is so much more
satisfying through only one cruddy speaker.
1 prefer the Woolwich Ferry myself. But then
I'm with it (Geddit?).
John Mi//er
FELIX, May 8, 1981 Page 5

