feature feature
"Get on your bike55
said the man, but this week the bike comes to you.
It's crazy out there in the fast world of highfinanceand boltless engineering but that's what we're trained to deal with. So take a cold plunge into the de
iCU Careers Fair, this Tuesday and Wednesday in the Union Building.
^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
1^ l^^j^^j
n r n T T I I l l i i i i i i i i i i M
wise words about the Careers Fair
It's that time of year again. Yup, time to
delve deep, deep, deep, deep into your
wardrobe and find that suit, knock out
three hundred copies of your CV and
hit the Careers Fair. Time to get a job
(hopefully), or at least have a good look.
There are 41 companies coming to the
Fair this year including most of the
blue chip employers in the country, so
the /CU Careers Fair is as good a place
as any to see what's available. Perhaps
better, as the companies are specifically
looking for the high calibre of
graduates that IC continues to produce.
This year there is a slight change of
plan, and the whole shebang is taking
place in the Union Building, Da Vinci's
being open all day should you need a
spot of Dutch Courage. The brochures
should arrive on Monday 31st Oct, and
it's not a bad idea to have a look at it
before coming along. Brochures will be
available on the day (as long as stocks
last) from the iCU Careers Fair desk in
the union foyer. Please come along and
talk to the employers, as this is
probably the best chance you'll have to
have face to face conversations
outside actually getting an interview.
Most important of all, good luck.
Sam Michel
events and marketing manager
wiiiinimmmiiiTTTTiT
1. Albright & Wilson - tues, UG
2. Andersen Consulting - tues, CH
3. Army Officer - tues, CH
4. Arthur Andersen - tues, CH
5. BOC-wed, UG
6. British Gas pic - wed, CH
7. British Petroleum - both, CH
8. British Steel pic - wed, CH
9. Careers Advisory Service
-both,CH
10. CIMA-wed,CH
11. Coopers & Lybrand - tues, CH
12. Defence Engineering & Science
Group -tues, UDH
13. Defence Research Agency
-both,CH
OB 14. Esso & Exxon Group - tues, UDH
jF? 15. Ford Motor Company Ltd - tues, CH
16. GCHQ-wed, UG
17. General Electric - tues, CH
18. Goldman Sachs Int. - tues, UG
19. Guardian - tues, CH
20. Guardian Royal Exchange
-wed,CH
21. H M Diplomatic Service - wed, CH
22. HMG Communications Centre
- tues, CH
i 3
24. John Lewis - tues, UDH
. Johnson Matthey - both, CH
P.Morgan - both, CH
27. KPMG Peat Marwick - tues, UG
|L] 28. Logica - tues, UG
fYj-, 29. Madge Networks - both, CH
[Aj J 30. Mobil Oil Company - both, CH
Jyj 31. Northern Telecom Ltd - both, CH
jQJ 32. Ove Arup Partnership - tues, UG
33. Price Waterhouse - tues, UDH
34. Procter & Gamble - tues, UDH
35. Royal Navy & Royal Marines
- tues, UDH
36. Ricardo Consulting Engineers
- tues, UDH
37. Schlumberger - tues, UDH
38. Sema Group - wed, UG
39. Smith Systems Engineering
-both,UG
40. Southern Water - both, UG
41. TASC-tues, UDH
42. Touche Ross - tues, UDH
U 23. ICL-wed,CH
^ 43. W.S.Atkins - wed, CH
£j£ 44. VSO-both,UG
WED.
CQNPANY
IVlorgan Stanley . . . has been one of the most
successful of the US investment banks at establishing
a European presence in recent years...
Financial Times, March 1992
F e w can match Morgan Stanley in having top
management that has so clearly grasped what
technology can do for it and what it wants from
technology, Morgan's technology plan is as precise
as its business plan.
The Economist, February 1991
T h e transformation from a patrician white shoe
Investment bank into a worldwide securities
operation has made Morgan Stanley one of the great
success stories of modern banking.
Euroweek, May 1994
MORGAN STANLEY
MORGAN STANLEY
Morgan Stanley is a leading global investment bank which
offers a full range of financial services in three broad categories:
raising capital for companies and governments; trading capital
to support investors with liquidity when buying and selling
securities, and managing capital and providing advice to assist
corporations, institutions and individuals in the deployment of
their assets. Morgan Stanley has developed an important
presence across a broad range of investment banking services
together with sales and trading in the domestic and global
capital markets.
If you are excited by the prospect of a career at one of the-
world's leading investment banks, we would like to talk to you.
The Portman Hotel
22 Portman Hotel, London
at 6.30 pm
on Wednesday 2nd November, 1994
We encourage applications from students of any discipline who can
demonstrate academic achievement of the highest order and who
possess the energy, creativity and confidence to succeed. A Curriculum
Vuae and covering letter should be sent by 31st December to:
Graduate Recruitment - Office ofDevelopment
Morgan Stanley
25 Cabot Square
London
E14 4QA
MM F E L I X 3I0CT9M 310CT94 F E L I X WM

