feature
aunteb Honbcm
Your spooks too reclusive? Our paranormal investiga
paranormal - ^fjj^^^^ - chases whistles and groan
Halloween - the name given to 31st October - is the
eve of All Saint's Day, when supernatural influences
prevail and ghosts are out in force.
Not surprisingly, given its roots of intrigue
and strife, London is known for its haunted
underground stations, parks, theatres, police
stations and even airport. Runway one at Heathrow
is rumoured to be haunted with a bowler-hatted
figure waiting in vain to catch
that spirit plane.
Some of the wandering
souls have evil intent, but many
are simply spirits who haven't
accepted their death. Some may
be sad and watch over the place
they loved. Many of the theatres
in the West End, including the
Adelphi, Albery, Coliseum,
Haymarket, Sadlers Wells and
the Theatre Royal, are homes to
the souls of actors prematurely
departed thanks to their jealous
colleagues. Present actors often
claim they can feel a ghostly
influence on the stage. There's a
tradition that if a ghost appears,
the production will be a success
and launch its actors into an
extraordinary acting career.
Other kindly wraiths warn of
impending doom. A woman in
grey - thought to be Florence
Nightingale - walks through St
Thomas's Hospital. The Lady
of the Lamp no longer
symbolises hope and if seen will
probably signify that
Government closure is nigh.
The Tower of London,
with its gory past and ghostly
chamber of
Green Park, one of the royal parks, used to be
a favourite spot for duellists in Elizabethan times.
However, it is most famous for its haunted tree.
Dead Man's Tree (about 50 metres from Piccadilly,
almost in front of the Park Lane hotel) has been the
scene of many suicides. Low, mocking laughs and
strange, groaning sounds can apparently be heard.
Further along, if you stop off at the Grenadier Pub
(Hyde Park Corner) and see ghostly figures, don't
blame the drink. This pub used to be the Officer's
Mess for the Duke of Wellington's regiment. It's
meant to be haunted by an officer who was
murdered for cheating at cards. Strange noises and
raps are heard; the light and taps are mysteriously
switched on. Who knows, maybe you have drunk too
much. Carry on walking, through exclusive
Knightsbridge and into fashionable Chelsea.
Cheyne Walk has been home to many artists, poets,
bohemians and a phantom bear -» perhaps the
reproachful spectre of one killed by bear-baiting.
Further west is Hammersmith, popular with
students and also the haunt of a woman in grey seen
weeping day and night. Brevor Lodge used to be the
headquarters of a gang of coiners until they were
betrayed and jailed. On release, they lured the
woman thought to be the informant into the lodge,
and forced her to sew a sack in which she was
drowned by the murky waters of the Thames.
Back in Kensington, the phantom bus is
perhaps the most reported sighting. The number 7
is sometimes seen after midnight, driving along
Cambridge Gardens all lit up without driver or
conductor. At the junction with St Mark's Road, the
bus dissolves into thin air. Apparently, this junction
used to be dangerous and was the scene of many
accidents. Since the road has been altered the bus
has not been seen. Perhaps it was a warning.
Certainly all those who enter Holland House, now a
youth hostel, should beware. This was once the
home of Henry Rich, the first earl of Holland. He
was beheaded by
horrors, is the «\anc[ forced her tO SeW Cromwell during the
setting for many unhappy and vengeful Civil War and his
deeds. Many of our ancient royals-the a Sack Ul which she WOS headless body is
spectre of Anne Boleyn and the pale, rumoured to stalk the
grounds.
Does the spirit
of Prince Albert
mournfully wander
along to its memorial opposite the Royal Albert Hall
shapeless figure of Lady Jane Grey -
are thought to glide along the
battlements along Tower Green.
Sometimes images are seen running
around the scaffold, pursued by a phantom axeman
who finally overtakes and hacks off the image's
head.
Nearer at hand is Kensington Palace, the
home of George II until he died there in 1760. His
spirit is said to linger on, looking out of the
windows towards the weather vane. The mad king
used to watch for a change in wind that delayed the
ships bringing news from his beloved Germany.
drowned by the murky
waters of the Thames"
and gaze up, wondering when it will be revealed in
all its splendour? Back to Imperial - what secrets are
held within the confines of the Queen's Tower and
is it true that the underground tunnels under the
college used to be full of danger, intrigue and spies?
Who knows? If you see any misty, eerie apparitions
hanging around on All Hallows Eve, just go up and
ask them - perhaps they'll know. 5
3I0CT94 F E L I X

