Clubs o Societies News
Storming Success
This Saturday saw the first Rag Raid of the
year, to Canterbury. We arrived at the his-
toric and beautiful city of Canterbury and
found it most definitely "Pissing it down".
However, we bravely grabbed our cans and
leapt out of the minibus into the city centre
and started to use every trick in the book to
persuade unfortunate shoppers and tourists to
part with their hard earned cash. One partic-
ularly enterprising pair raised a fortune, col-
lecting for Brain Injured Children, outside
Mothercare and say they had an exceptionally
good response from expectant mothers.
A few hours and several pubs later we
headed up to the University of Kent. Our
appearance here was very popular, and one
security guard commented on the number of
people who had phoned him up to comment
on our exemplary behaviour. Oh and we most
definitely did not nick any signs.
We finally returned to the Union after an
excellent Mystery Tour of South London.
Overall the day was a great success with
everyone having a great time and collecting
superbly. During the day we raised the stag-
gering sum of £547.16 for B.LB.I.C. (British
Institute for Brain Injured Children), with
the top collector being Jon Lambert, who
raised the unbelievable sum of £120.33.
Bungee Jumps
Would you like to Bungee jump for free?
Then drop into the Rag Office any lunch
time, or come to the Rag meeting at 1.10pm
today. The initial cost is £44 pounds but by
Raising just £88 in sponsor money (it's a lot
easier than you may think,) for the Cancer
charity Tenovus you can jump for free. And if
you can't raise that much don't worry as 50%
of what you do raise will be reduced from the
cost of the jump. The jump will take place at
the London Docklands on Sunday 20th
November. So if you fancy experiencing the
most fun you can have with a heavy duty elas-
tic band then sign up today.
Sponsored Kamikaze Parachute Jump
This is where a number of people jump out of
a minibus outside Harrods wearing nothing
but their shoes and try and make it back to
college. This is usually done as quickly as
possible but for the really daring amongst you
there will be a prize for the last one back. A
couple of years ago we had a female student
do the jump for the first time, and this year
we should have several people taking part for
a second time, so it can't be all that bad. So if
you fancy taking part come and see us.
Trick or Treating
Tomorrow sees the next event in the Rag cal-
endar Trick or Treating in Covent Garden for
SENSE (the National Deaf-Blind and Rubella
Association). Jez (the R.C.S.U. Fire Engine)
will be going along, and there will be prizes
of a liquid kind for best fancy dress and top
collectors, as well as McDonalds vouchers for
everyone who takes part. So use your imagi-
nations to think up some original and bizarre
Fancy Dress costumes and meet us in Beit
Quad at 9.30am tomorrow morning, or in
Covent Garden during the day.
Don't forget to come to the Rag meeting in
the Union lounge (opposite Da Vinci's) at 1.10pm
this lunch time.
ICSF: The Prisoner
On Tuesday lst November, icsf is pleased to
present Dave Lally. Dave is an active member
of The Prisoner Fan Club - 6 Ofl, and a fre-
quent visitor to 'The Village' - Portmeiron,
Wales. He has given talks on The Prisoner
dozens of times, and has been known to bring
along a Rover (one of those big not-terribly-
scary balloony things) on occasion.
For those of you who think that The
Prisoner is something to do with an
Australian women's jail, you've been watch-
ing the wrong TV show. The Prisoner was
(is) a cult British TV series which starred
Patrick McGoohan as an ex-spy. Most of the
episodes involve Number Two trying to find
out why Number Six (Patrick McGoohan)
resigned from his job, while Number Six
spends his time trying to escape. Plenty of
action tinged with paranoia.
The evening's events will start at 7.00pm
with a showing of a great episode called "The
Schizoid Man". Dave's got an interesting talk
and film show planned; he'll be speculating
on the forthcoming film, showing rare
"Making of The Prisoner" footage and other
snippets of Prisoner trivia.
Entrance isfree to everyone.
FilmSoc
Reservoir Dogs, Sirens and Flintstones
This week ICU Cinema is full of favourites,
new and old. First up on Saturday is that
"pumping powerhouse of a movie", Reservoir
Dogs. This film is one that everyone should
be familiar with but if you haven't even heard
of it, now is the time to sit up and be counted.
Yes, you too can have a complete life - all you
have to do is come along at 8.00pm or
11.00pm on Saturday. The Sirens will be
sounding at 8.00pm on Sunday with Hugh
Grant not knowing where to look, or more to
the point what to look at. Last but not least
this week is the Flintstones (Thursday at
8.00pm) - Bedrock has been unavoidable this
summer. The climate may be cooling down
now but we offer you the chance to relive
your summer, and now you can even buy an
ice cream from us as well.
Operatic Society
"It Came From Budleigh Salterton"
Many books have been written and many
films made based on stories about strange
creatures visiting planet Earth. If contact was
to be made, would they be coming as friends
or enemies? What's more, who's to say that
they are not with us already? When sitting in
a lecture theatre amidst a hundred people on
a Friday morning, think a bit how much you
really know about the person sitting next to
you...
Surprisingly enough, there's a major
entertainment value to be had by this morbid
and spooky background, and it's there for you
to discover in our next glorious production:
more than just a Fresher's Event, in full
Technicolor and, able to be seen with both
eyes at the same time. OpSoc presents a world
premier: "It Came from Budleigh Salterton"!
It is basically a rock'n'roll rip-off of those
(not quite) science fiction movies of the 50's
and 60's and it loosely based around...well, all
of them really. Everyone who wishes to take
part is welcome; there will be a weekend
workshop held on Saturday the 5th and
Sunday the 6th of November (Union Concert
Hall, 11.00am), with the performance taking
place on Monday the 7th (same place, 8pm).
For further information please contact
Marlain Angelides (BioChem 2) or leave a mes-
sage in the OpSoc pigeonhole the union office.
Fine Arts Course
The Leonardo Fine Arts Society was born
last December. It is open to all students and
staff who want to spend a couple of hours a
week exploring their creativity. Our teachers
are postgraduate students at the Royal
College of Art. The atmosphere is relaxed and
enthusiastic. You can use any of our expand-
ing range of materials, including charcoal and
acrylic paints; or bring your own. Last year
we had a few special classes, this year we will
hold more, on arts as diverse as glass blowing
and origami. The society is young and still
has its rebellious adolescent phase to go
through. So come along and watch your
drawings and painting improve.
You can contact Leonardo Society either
through the pigeon holes at the union or at one of
the classes. Classes are held in Room 101, Civil
Engineering from 6.30 to 8.30 on Tuesdays and
Thursdays. Membership is £3 for students and £6
for others. Classes are £2.
Lord Soper at IC
Radical politics from a ninety-two year old?
For most of his life, Donald Soper has been a
great advocate of Christian socialism, speak-
ing out both in public, and in the House of
Lords. He appears every Sunday at Speaker's
corner, and has done so for well over half a
century. He is coming to speak to students on
Thursday November 3rd at 6.00pm in Mech
Eng 213. This event is organised by the IC
Chaplaincies. Refreshments will be served
afterwards to provide a chance for us to talk
to each other, and to meet with Lord Soper in
an informal environment.
3I0CT91 F E L I X H
Q

