Standby
deeply sunk into addiction, harsh religion and crazy geeks
A girl, with a guitar, and a bottle of
cheap red wine; guzzled greedily
between highs of a curious kind.
Isabel from Drugstore is having
fun, playing to the crowd (or is that
playing with?). The rest is dressing,
though necessary in a sugar-coated,
indie pop-placebo kinda way. It's
Isabel's breathy vocals that give us
the rush we really need: laced with
street-corner seductiveness and
delivered with a knowing poise.
Songs like 'Fader' and 'Gravity'
work their way into our veins; a
dreamy melancholy that stays with
us long after the magical high of the
moment. Drugstore are an
unsettling, intoxicating band, a habit
I never want to kick.
It's later, and the Kitchens of
Distinction amble onto stage like
old friends - no need to impress, we
already know what we're getting,
and we'd hate to have anything
more. Even the abundance of new
songs (well, they do have an album
to promote after all) doesn't detract
from the joy of familiar pleasures:
the Kitchens' brand of guitar-pop,
with its controlled loss of focus and
frenetic energy, is as gorgeous as
ever. On the downside, Julian and
co were maybe a little too laid-back
to really blow me away, but their
new material - played with broader
brush strokes than on record - was
more than good enough to satisfy.
Damn fine stuff.
According to a certain spiky
haired, goateed, cartoon character,
ex-music editor, The Cult are an
object of ridicule. The point is that
that is not the point - they've always
been a band to enjoy whether when
laughing at their wayward rock
histrionics or simply marvelling at
the anthemic quality of their songs.
Okay, so they lost the plot with
'Ceremony' but with this
eponymously titled album they've
metamorphosised into a raw,
serious and thankfully still
thoroughly exciting outfit for the
'90s.
Opener 'Gone' slams down the
new Cult manifesto in
uncompromising fashion. A
throbbing bass-line, scampering
drum beat and jazzy piano collide
into a visceral chorus of intent full of
those scorching Duffy-tastic guitar
riffs and the former 'Wolfchild'
Astbury uttering profanities for all
he's worth. In fact, there's a newly
developed rhythmic presence
running through all the songs (could
we please keep this drummer?),
something which takes intense
pieces like current single 'Coming
Down' and makes them, well,
danceable to. It's not all adrenalised
stuff though. There's the restrained
power of 'Black Sun', a reference to
Astbury's child abuse, and the
beautiful acoustic tones of 'Sacred
Life' which laments the loss of icons
such as River Phoenix and Kurt
Cobain. But we can't end on a
serious note. I'll leave you with a
few words of wisdom from the
rocking, 'Be Free': "Don't eat sh*t, if
you wanna stay fit." ... Try not to
enjoy it. (8)
D u b - W a r opened up with a
air-raid siren blast, which sure got
the crowd's attention. Alas, the
interest barely lasted through their
first song, after which it became
increasingly clear they only had one
song. Billed as a radical mix of dub,
rock, ragga and bavarian folk music
(spot the deliberate mistake), Dub-
War totally fail to make the most of
their influences, drowning out any
subtleties with a head-on assault of
pounding drums and screeching
guitars. They made a half-hour set
sound monotonous, though their
last song, 'Mental', showed some
potential. But one good song does
not a band make...
Blaggers ITA can't be accused
of having only one song. They have
two: the loud, stomp-along anthem,
and the loud, stomp-along anthem
with a quieter bit in the middle. Such
versatility should be applauded, as
should the Blagger's self-sacrificing
response to the Government's Care
in the Community policy. At least, I
assume the guy doing aeroplane
impressions and occasionally
shouting things at the audience
was a refugee from some shut-
down loony bin. I mean, they
already have one singer, so letting
this guy on stage must have been
an act of charity, right? Still, they
were a massive improvement on
Dub-War, and I ended up quite
enjoying their set. Nothing special,
but fun to watch, if only for the
hilarious double-think apparent in
denouncing the Criminal Justice Bill
one minute, only to exhort the
masses to rush out and buy their
new single the next. Who's selling
out now?
You don't need to listen to Lisa
Germano's second alhum, 'geek
the girl', for very long before you.
realise that the geek in question is
Lisa herself. It's more than just the
fact that Lisa's character shines
throughout her music, rather it's the
twist on the wry self effacing quality
which increasingly starts to haunts
us.
When she sings "we are learning
much about evil" in the first song
'my secret reason', it's a statement
of intent for what is to come. After
the edgy experiences offered by
skewed folk violins of 'phantom
love' and '...a psychopath' it's time
to reach for the phone just to hear
another human voice\ Yet even
ghost-trains must finish and with
the warming night breezes offered
by 'a guy like you' and the delicate
beauty of last track, 'stars', we're
back from any proffered brinks. Lisa
ends by singing "
I love my man"
and I guess that's what we're all
aiming for. (7) 0
Q thin-line Japanese style
Amidst the slick and shiny return to glitz this season, the opening of
a new branch of Muji on High St Ken comes as a breath of fresh air.
Muji means "no [brand] name" and signifies their minimalist
approach - pure lines, simple shapes and neutral tones. To really
take centre stage at the Christmas parties this year, the key will be
not to outglam (almost impossible this season) but to outstyle in
understated pure lined simplicity. Clothes by Zoran Ladicobic, king of
minimalism, are described by their buyer at Browns as being for
"women who don't feel the need to disguise themselves with what
they wear but prefer to let their personality make the statement". For
those of us with less well lined pockets Muji is the closest we'll get.
Good cut is essential, and bear in mind this season's shape is long
and lean. Ideal simplistic dressing this winter is found in A-line shifts
either skimming the knee or to the floor. Choose soft, gently clinging
materials and contrast with glossy hair and accessories.
it Paul Smith has opened a new jeans shop this month at 9-11
Langley street. Lads should check it out for its video monitors
screening films and football. PS veterans may find stock at the old
location in Floral St a little too small - take your kid brother there
instead.
it Quintessential^ Glamourous: for the real fashion shopper
comes the return of the perfectly groomed dog as accessory, but
don't worry about feeding it, buy Lulu Guiness' hand-held handbag
that looks like a lapdog.
H Fashions cutting edge for men remains in the 'dare to wear' -
a skirt. Congratulations to Michael for this week's best fashion
statement. Q
3I0CT91 F E L I X MM

