16 FEATURE INTERVIEW 25 March 1998
J A Z Z G 0 € 5
U N D E R G R O U N D ?
Courtney Pine is widely regarded as Europe's finest jazz saxophonist of the last twenty years. His last two
records. Modern Day Jazz Stories and Underground have taken the cream of modern jazz and melded it with the
finest in hip hop and drum and bass. Here, he exclusively tells jazz-freak Jonathan Trout about who influenced
him, why he wants to play with Gchobelly and the time he jammed with Wynton and Ellis Marsalis wearing a
string vest.
;
• irst of all, I asked Courtney iibout his sound;
i how was it created, where it came from. His
laid back intelligent prose flows gently from n
man in undoubtedly familiar territory.
It's a mixture of elements of civalivo
music; improvisation; /a.-,- rind also my
background - my heritage, being from the
Carribean, Jamaica in particular, and
African, and also European -1 was born in
Emopr
His recent ;v>;Mi:
: I -
>
>
,
! K
H
M in:;.;:-::, :
dance music; hip :
bian ; • hi jiji'v Hi ubn.
Ettn, hip hop? /
ate my rtwents • , . • ng be-
bop, tratfition al jazz, avant-garde, blues.
right rhn wgh to jazz fusion. And now I'm
inn) tup hop. Originally 1 was influenced
by Gfispioe and Ska music; 1 didn't know
Wtlrlt It L
vas, it was just good music. But
j / L
• 1• 1
' • •' •' • • : • • •
•
'
• • • • • • • • • ".• • :
-:
'
Weather •Report, .th en .n11Sonn y Rollins, •
Charlie Parker, all the i
Sydney Bechet.
to
to
I noticed that you had Jeff 'Tain' Watts on your last
album, who has done a lot of traditional stuff with
Branford Marsalis; alongside him you have people
like DJs Pogo and Sparky. Tell me about the people
you play with, how did you all get together.
Me and Pogo got together on Sparky's
recommendation about three years ago. I
met Sparky in the early, erm, mid, erm,
late eighties [laughs]. He was producing
in London and he used one of my records
as part of the hip hop thing in 1988. At
the time, technology was not at the stan-
dard it is now, but on this TV show on
Channel Four, and it was great, and I
approached him from that. I was also
doing Jazzmatazz at the time /the ground-
breaking, multi gold selling jazz/ hip hop
fusion project by Guru, featuring the best
in the jazz world with the best DJs, rap-
pers and producers] and meeting up with
a lot of the guys who I kept seeing on
both sides of the Atlantic. I was having a
bit of trouble with having to hire a band in
America, and these were the guys that I
ended up working with. I played with Jeff
Watts on Guru, and a couple of the other close to the underground drum and bass
guys. scene.
Tracks from Courtney's last album have been given
the treatment by remix specialists Roni Size and
Peshay. What does that bring to the sound? How
could the process be improved?
/ think that it gives a different hand, real-
ly talented, experienced people giving
another view, and I wish I was actually
able to play on top of them. In the drum
and bass scene this is how it's being done
now. On the Adam F album, he sent it to
Grooverider, they did their thing and sent
it back to him for him to work on. I think
that that is what I'll be getting into.
If the old school
want to keep to
their own jazz
thing, well thats
fine, but we are
going somewhere
else"
What took you to New York to record the album?
Well, not only am I signed to an American
label, but the studios over there are just
incredible, and most of the musicians on
the record are based in New York. It
seemed the right thing to do.
What do you think of the UK underground scene;
how does it compare to and differ from the US?
Oh, it differs! In America, there is no
'underground scene' as such, in terms of
jazz; but over here, it's buzzing. We have
bands, musicians, we don't have a lot on
the recording side; that's almost how I
would define 'underground'. It's very
How far apart are the jazz and drum and bass scenes
at the moment?
/ don't think that they are very far apart
at all. If I can go on stage with a DJ, a hip
hop DJ, and make really positive music,
then there isn't really any difference with
that and going on with a drum and bass
DJ, and that will happen soon. I don't
think that they are far apart; if you take
someone like Roni Size and myself, we
are both going to the same place, we are
just on different sides of the same fence.
What is your perspective on jazz and the music
industry at this time?
It's going through an interesting phase.
Everyone is talking about underground;
it's become a bit of a buzzword. There are
a lot of people involved in it, people like
Goldie, obviously Roni [Size] now. Ronni
Jordan, at times. You know, people were
talking about these guys and they were
infiltrating the popular music scene. But
it's not got the place it should have done,
and what's happening is that jazz is being
assimilated into popular music. I was lis-
tening to the Propellerheads, with Shirley
Bassey, and you can see the way that
jazz has been absorbed, without saying
"JAZZ!". You only need to look at
Portishead; it's jazz, but people have
realised that you can't call it jazz, 'cos if
you say "jazz" you're not going to get no
play with that name.
So you think that jazz has got an image problem?
In this country it always did have. It
changed direction and the people who
were into that thing just aren't around
any more.
Who is up and coming in this country? Jazz or oth-
erwise?
In this country, well, there are some phe-
nomenal musicians; Jason Robello is on
his way back, so it will be interesting to
see what he does. I like the Cleveland
Watkiss P23 project, I've already men-
tioned Roni Size, erm, Photek's album.

