simon baker
life is always unpredictable. West Ham were
thrashed in the FA Cup by Grimsby, a town that
is as bad as it sounds. When we thought that no
more could ever be needed, more signs have def-
initely appeared on the BMS site fence, which
isn't bad for a project that doesn't have planning
permission (presumably this short respite was to
allow the fitters to recover from chronic exhaus-
tion). Most remarkable ol all, the RCS organised
a good annual dinner. No, the RCS organised a
bloody brilliant dinner that I for one would never
have thought them capable of, had I not'been
there. Excellent food, plenty of booze, loads of
people and not a embarrassing chant to be heard
anywhere. Good work fellas! Maybe your previ-
ous lapses were due to mercury-induced mad-
ness while you were based in your old building.
What have I said...?
I have often thought about pouring forth to
you, dear reader, my views on Europe, and hav-
ing heard the following, I thought now was the
time. Last week, I saw a feature on Watchdog
(well, a man cannot live on drugs and debauched
sex alone) about the EU Chocolate Directive.
This esteemed piece of proposed legislation,
from the same stable as the straight banana rules,
wishes to 'harmonise' chocolate across member
states, imposing minimum levels of cocoa solids
etc. Problem is that British chocolate contains
less cocoa and, God help us, vegetable fat. The
fact that it tastes better than equivalently priced
French and Belgian chocolate is irrelevant. If we
want to continue producing it, we must change
its name to Vegelate. Wiat the Hell is going on?
To defend the European stance, Glenys Kinnock
was wheeled on, managing to talk as much sense
as Stanley Unwin on speed. She insisted that
such a harmonisation would be desirable, show-
ing perfectly how quickly the environment of
the European Parliament has completely
destroyed her already questionable mental facul-
ties. Such ideas of harmonisation have dangerous
totalitarian overtones, portraying an organisation
that seeks to impose drab uniformity on the cul-
turally and socially distinct countries of Western
Europe. Some would argue that I am simply
expounding Daily Mail-style Euro-bashing, but
these barmy fringe issues serve to illustrate per-
fectly the wider malaise in the EU. The
Common Agricultural Policy adds approximate-
ly £20 per week per family to British grocery bills
mostly so that the woefully inefficient and less
than totally honest French, Spanish, Italian and
Greek farmers can be kept in business.
The Common Fisheries Policy has resulted
in the disgraceful spectacle of British trawlers
being decommissioned while Spanish fisherman
pillage the Irish Sea, catching undersizedfishsafe
in the knowledge that the token inspectors in
their home ports do not give a toss. The Spanish
state airline Iberia has just been allowed another
huge state subsidy only 18 months after they
were told 'never again' by Commissioner Neil
Kinnock, while British Airways has to compete
on its own two feet. The only 'sick man of
Europe' is this deeply flawed association of
states. I do not advocate withdrawal - the idea of
a single market is excellent - but to suggest that
rather than resolve the problems, we move to
monetary union is stupidly reckless.
B a s i c s B r e a k f a s t
Cooked Breakfast Only £ 2 . 4 0
available Saturday and Sunday 11:45am - 3.00pm
Basics now open 11:45am - 10:00pm daily
S o u t h s i d e S h o p
10% Student Discount
on Bread, Milk & General Groceries
Please show your Imperial College Student I.D. card to the cashier before buying
your goods as the discount cannot be given once they are rung into the till.

