The largest environmental protest this country has ever seen recently • /rsi o -m
took place in a field outside Newbury. Nolan Fell, with a bemused friend > 11ff ^) (PT1 ^ffglT,
from Kenya, report from the Newbury Bypass Protesters camp. — *# hJ> v ^ i l g^g g/g/
N e w b u r y : N e w E n g l a n d R i s e s
J
acob had never been so cold. Arriving
from Kenya a week ago he had flown
into a storm. England, the country
Kenyans tend to look to as the promised
land, was under a blanket of snow and bliz-
zards were sweeping in from the east.
"We have snow on Mount Kenya, but I have
never climbed high enough to reach it" Jacob
told me. "It is beautiful, but aie! so cold! I can't
believe people are sleeping in trees during this
weather. They must be crazy."
There were a lot of things Jacob was finding
crazy about England. But by far the strangest
experience he had had in his first week was
demonstrating against the building of a road.
"They can build the road in Kenya if they
like," he said with a grin. "You should be happy,
you're roads are good. In Kenya most roads are
dirt tracks and good ones built with aid money
aren't maintained and are lull of holes."
I tried to explain that many people now felt
we had quite enough roads thank you very much
and that if we carry on covering our country in
tarmac soon our ecological heritage would be
damaged beyond repair. They were destroying
SSSIs for Christ's sake. Jacob had never heard of
an SSSI and I could see he wasn't convinced.
We were standing in a field outside Newbury
with five thousand other people. Middle class
local housewives mixed with dreadlocked new-
age hippies. One bunch had dressed up as bad-
gers, while another held a banner which said
"snog not smog." Newbury was the site of two
major battles during the English Civil war
between Charles I's Cavaliers and Cromwell's
Roundheads. This, then, is the Third battle of
Newbury and Middle England, in all its eccentric
glory, was on die march.
The Newbury bypass, if it is ever built, will
pass through three Areas of Outstanding Natural
Beauty, two Sites of Special Scientific Interest
(SSSIs), two Nature Reserves, two Civil War
Heritage Sites, one Conservation Area and make
six river crossings. Snelesmore Common, incor-
porating Snelesmore Woods where three tree-
top camps are situated, is the SSSI that will be
most affected. The road will effectively destroy
1.2 Hectares and the woods will be cut down.
The SSSI contains badger sets and is the home
to dormice and the nightjar, both are endangered
species. Ironically, since the route was
announced so much work has been done to
assess how much habitat and diversity will be
lost, many species and niches have been discov-
ered. The most recent are the
famous 3mm snails.
SSSIs are areas considered vital ^^.Jl
for the maintenance of Britain's environmental
heritage. Friends of the Earth describe them as
"the minimum areas necessary to maintain
Britain's biodiversity." In England they are the
responsibility of English Nature, who 'notify'
land owners, local authorities and the Secretary
of State for the Environment of their existence.
However notification does not guarantee an
SSSI's survival. Often landowners, particularly
farmers, are compensated for loss of profit if
they maintain an SSSI on their land rather than
ploughing it over. But when a development pro-
ject is proposed which will damage an SSSI,
then all that is necessary is that "a balanced deci-
sion is reached". In the case of the Newbury
bypass, although numerous studies have been
made on the anticipated release of congestion in
Newbury itself, the interpretations of which are
a major cause of debate, no proper environmen-
tal impact assessment has taken place.
Ultimately the decision as to whether develop-
ment should take place in an SSSI is made by
the appropriate Secretaries of State. In the case
of Newbury, presumably the Secretaries of State
for Transport and the Environment got together
and made a balanced decision that the road
should be built.
This balanced decision had a lot to do with the
anticipated reduction in traffic through
Newbury, which will undoubtedly improve the
environment in the centre of town, but many
local residents are worried that the road will lead
to industrial growth around the town and with-
in a few years they will be back to the same level
of congestion, but with a town twice the size.
If the bypass is built, the land between it and
the town will become prime real estate. At the
moment any plans for development on this land
are officially denied.
With the level of protest the Newbury bypass
is attracting - Friends of the Earth are already
claiming that the demonstration last Sunday was
the largest environmental protest this country
has ever seen - the building of the road is no for-
gone conclusion. To do it the government may
split the country, creating alliances between
strange bedfellows in the process. Already a
Camp Support Group is being run with effi-
ciency and vigour. Middle-class mothers are pro-
viding food and washing facilities for people who
only a few months ago would probably have
been barred from their homes
The Newbury bypass has become a much big-
ger issue than simply whether a road should be
built around an average town in the middle of
England. It has become the focus for the direc-
tion oi transport policy in Britain in the next cen-
tury and reflects a growing clash in values
between those who feel that Britain has reached
the point of over development and those who
wish to maintain the ethos of conventional eco-
nomic growth.
Jacob had to admire the protesters' courage.
"If people are prepared to live up a tree covered
in snow they must really believe in what they're
doing. I remember President Moi burned tonnes
of ivory a few years ago to stop people poaching
elephants. I see now it was a good thing; for
Kenyans wildlife is very important. Maybe this is
similar."

