hitchhikes to
the Ukraine ITirfogg
BUST- A G
U
T
COMEDY CLUB
with Rainer Hersch
& Lucy Porter
F r i . M a r c
'Steph, what are you doing in June?' 'Not mwc/i,
why?' 'I'm thinking of hitch-hiking to the
Ukraine, do you want to come?' Alright then."
Such was the start of it all. A bit too much to
drink, and an agreement was struck. Armed with
two rucksacks, two tickets to Ostende (OK, we
cheated slightly and got a head-start) and some
dollars, we set out.
lift no. 1 was negotiated before we left the
ferry by sitting next to the tmckers' canteen and
asking them all where they were going. So we
managed to get across Belgium without setting
foot on Belgian soil. A few hours' sleep (under a
hedge) later, and we were off again. Razul, our
Macedonian driver, told tales of poverty as he
hurtled along the autobahn (sometimes without
bothering to hold the steering wheel) with the
20 tonnes of latex he was taking to Skopje.
Seven more lifts later we walked across the
border into Poland. A 300,000 zloty fine (for
putting our feet up in the waiting room) nearly
stopped us catching our train to Krakow. We
only had a hundredth of that and fortunately
they couldn't be bothered to argue.
There's nothing quite like waking up in the
morning as your train pulls into a strange city.
Especially if it's Zhmerinka, and the first thing
you do is buy breakfast through the carriage win-
dow cream cheese filled pancakes from a pass-
ing grandmother. You rub your eyes, yawn, and
try and work out whether you were dreaming -
or did they really lift the train up at the border
and change the wheels?
Once in Key I was amazed at the place. It's
not a city many people from Britain visit, partly
because it's only 60 miles downstream from
Chernobyl (er, don't drink the tapwater) but
also because everyone assumes it's full of hideous
concrete tower blocks. True, there are some, but
they're cleaner and nicer than you'd find in
Birmingham. The plethora of beautiful church-
es, monuments and public buildings is truly fan-
tastic. The Pecherskaya monastery complex by
the River Dnepr is stunning.
The place is cheap. The bus costs less than
halfa penny. Go shopping in state shops, and the
prices are dead low - although Ukrainian pro-
duced food is not recommended due to the pos-
sibility that you get some radioactivity (at no
extra cost) - and you get to experience the
quirky system of buying things. You queue up
and ask for what you want, they give you a tick-
et, you queue up elsewhere and pay, they give
you a receipt, you queue up again and get the
goods. A bit like Foyle's bookshop really.
A quick day out shopping in the Black Sea
resort of Odessa and it was time to return. A
couple of trains took us to the border, and we
walked into Slovakia. But this time we didn't
cheat - we hitched all the way back.
[ C U
8pm EVERY TUESDAY
E50 CASH PRIZE
& more!
SUPPOFTYD Br STA TRAVEL

