FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY FEBRUARY 23RD 1 9 9 6 . FIVE
C a n r o w e r lines give
you C a n c e r ?
New evidence which has only recently been made public shows that the risk of contracting cancer from
exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMFs) such as those from power distribution lines or from domestic
appliances may be higher than was previously thought. The debate has persisted in scientific circles for some
time a n d has occasionally spilled over into the public d o m a i n , but has always ended in indecision.
Even the very existence of biological effects of EMFs has been challenged on theoretical grounds.
The problem with the subject and the reason
for this indecision is twofold. It has not been
possible to come up with a mechanism by
which the relatively tiny fields involved
could have an effect on biological tis
sue, and furthermore, the empir-
ical evidence has not been
clear cut. New develop-
ments on the former
point may throw more
light on the subject.
For instance,
recent corre-
spondence in
the journal
Nature has pro-
posed a new theory
involving minute quan-
tities of highly magnetic iron oxide pre-
sent in living tissue, while findings by a
team at Bristol University published in the
International Journal for Radiation Biology
approach the problem from a different per-
spective, and suggest that power lines may
attract radioactive radon present in the
atmosphere; this is known to be carcinogenic
and people could be put at risk by inhaling it
in increased concentrations. With regard to
the empirical evidence, there have been many
studies which are perhaps epitomised by a
study of 232 child leukemia cases in Los
Angeles over the period 1980-87. This study
sought to find a relationship between the
cases of leukemia and the level of EMFs in the
children's homes. The fields were measured
by two different techniques; one yielded a
close correlation but the other did not, throw-
ing all the results into confusion.
But now a report recently drawn up for
the US Government by the National Council
on Radiation Protection has suggested that
the long-term effects of over-exposure are
dangerous, and therefore advised new levels
on EMF exposure that are several thousand
times lower than current internationally
accepted norms.
This new suggested limit is greatly
exceeded by the field within 30 yards of
power distribution lines and is even exceeded
by many domestic appliances
such as vacuum cleaners,
hairdryers and food mixers.
Before a general panic is
created and people
start throwing away
their hair dryers
and moving
house to get as
far away as
possible from any
power lines, it should be noted
how great the risks actually are. The
report highlights two classes of people
who are more susceptible to developing
leukemia than others; workers in the elec-
trical industry and children. The possible
risk to workers in the electrical industry
is estimated to be a few chances in
100,000 per year. This is a lot smaller
than the total risk of death in such
occupations - the probability of
receiving a fatal electric shock is
much greater but it is neverthe-
less a non-negligible contribution.
Surveys seem to show that the
above- normal risk for children is
something of the order of 5 in
100,000 (which happens to be about
the same as the leukemia risk for in
utero exposure to diagnostic X-rays).
Merely on a pragmatic level there
would be immediate economic implica-
tions if these guidelines became law, as has
already been seen when companies or local
government have implemented some kind of
EMF reduction programme on an ad hoc
basis. An example is a town in the US where
a substantial number of power cables were
moved underground at an average cost of
$20,000 per exposed person. The proposed
guidelines also suggest that in future buildings
will have to be designed to shield their occu-
pants from over-exposure, and new schools
should not be built near power lines. There
may also emerge a new market in 'low field'
devices as manufacturers attempt to make
their products more marketable when public
awareness of the issue grows. Moreover, with
the report now public knowledge there may
well be a very adverse
effect on the value of
property near
power lines.
In Britain the
N a t i o n a l
R a d i o l o g i c a l
Protection Board
(NRPB) maintain that as
yet there is no definite
health risk from EMFs so at
present do not seem to have any
plans to introduce new legislation.
This is one of those issues for which,
through its inherent complexity, it is
very easy for the public to be swayed
in the direction of whichever side hap-
pens to make the most vocal case. This
could swing public opinion from panic to
apathy.
EMF exposure is now regarded as a possi-
ble cause of cancers and as such it must be
taken seriously. More research will have to be
done to find any biophysical
mechanism which may
occur and hence the best
way to prevent its effects. It is a sub-
ject about which the public should sit
up and take notice. Public debate will
sustain interest and investigation into the
issue which must not be allowed to remain
confined to the pages of scientific journals.
Words by Inigo Fraser Jenkins. Picture by Imogen Wood.

