six . FELIX FRIDAY FEBRUARY 23RD 1 996 ELECTION MANIFESTOES
S A B B A T I C A L
E L E C T I O I
M S
i P r e s i d e n t
Here are the manifestoes of this year's sab-
batical candidates. Read them well! Voting
is 4-5 March in all departments, and y o u
need a green Union card to vote.
L u k e M o r a l e s
What interest do you have in the Union? Do
you use it's facilities, from ordering a drink to
seeking advice or playing for a c l u b ?
Whatever the extent of your involvement the
coming year is important. The Union, indeed
the University, is in a state of transition and
your vote is one of the strongest ways you
can register your opinions in these times of
change.
Why do I want to be Union President? I
enjoy my involvement in the Union and have
an interest in overseeing its continued
improvement in efficiency and communica-
tion. I hope to ensure that its facilities are
used to their best potential a n d that the
changes the Union goes through are imple-
mented with full student input and support,
so that it c a n continue to provide the best
possible service to those that care to use it.
Why would I be a good President? M u c h
of anyone's aptitude is determined o n the job
but experience and personality are prerequi-
sites. I was an undergraduate at Imperial, a
postgraduate a n d a n active Entertainments
Committee member at University College of
North Wales (Bangor) and now I'm a post-
graduate here. I'm also t h e Union
Entertainments Committee's DJ officer and
have a key role in the running of events put
on in the Union. I'm friendly, experienced,
outgoing a n d easily recognisable a n d
approachable. Come and talk to m e !
Why should you vote for m e ? I hope the
Union will have a determined, competent,
accountable up-front President who has a
different outlook but excels at working for
and with others and has everyone's interests
at heart. I hope you vote for me.
Either way, you'll find me knocking out
the bangin' tunes here until the end of sum-
mer. See you on the floor!
E r i c A l l s o p
"Why do you want to do that?" is a question
that I have been asked a number of times
since announcing my candidature. It is not
simply a matter of the quid pro quo cliche (I
got a lot out of here, and now it is pay-back
time), although this is partially it, but more a
question of ensuring that students coming to
IC in the future have the opportunity to have
as much fun as I have had.
Having spent what some my describe as
a long time at IC, for the majority of which I
have been on the periphery of union affairs
through working in the bar and executive
positions on the IC and C&G rugby clubs, it is
only quite recently that I have got more heav-
ily involved chairing ICU Council.
So if you elect me, briefly what would I
do?
1998
In October 1 9 9 8 there will be significant
increase in the number of people on campus.
It is important that the union develops plans
so that its facilities can cope with a n increase
in membership. Beit Quad is the only suitable
location for the union because of its auton-
omy and the development opportunities.
The union must ensure that college pro-
vides a co-ordinated response to this chal-
lenge as well, rather than putting too much
emphasis on revenue generating research
facilities at the expense of non-academic
resources.
Subvention
The union must ensure that the level of
funding from college does not continue to
decrease.
To ensure we can support the unions
present responsibilities and future develop-
ments we must also increase the profitability
of the unions trading outlets, without increas-
ing prices.
Student Welfare
Top up fees and graduate tax are both
amoral and I will try and ensure that neither
of them become reality.
M a r k B r i d g e
I do not believe that ICU does very much
these days, a n d well understand the disdain
with which many view t h e Union. A s
President of ICU I will aim to sponsor more
interdepartmental forums, fixed events such
as the recent pan-IC Academic Affairs Day. I
plan to explore this because I believe that
college departments, highly devolved, are too
much in isolation to experience the myriad
benefits of the complex dynamics that such
sharing might bring. In striking the balance
between their requirement for a measure of
independence and the need for communica-
tion I see a role for the Union - an interested
party concerned with every aspect of college
life and accountable to students.
Increasing student awareness of Union
business is key. An informed and knowl-
edgable student body is essential for ICU to
work and I will seek to put in place the con-
stitutional machinery to ensure student infor-
mation during my term of office. I shall work
under the banner 'Redefining the Union',
seeking to increase its role in the daily run-
ning of College, perhaps by exploring the
possibility of taking a role in managing the
QT. The College Caterers are not directly
accountable to students now, something
which is taken for granted in any consumer
orientated market. In setting the stage for
the years ahead I hope that College will begin
to deal with students on a more good faith
basis and that the sham that is the social
provision in the B M S project will be a thing of
the past. Those principles outlined herein will
guide me through the year, and I shall begin
to build a new kind of Union for the next mil-
lennium. My election shall be my mandate to
pursue vigorously these aims set out and
explore ways to further these principles.
I 1
| No |
! Photo !
! Supplied !
i i

