ELECTION MANIFESTOES FELIX FRIDAY FEBRUARY 23RD 1 9 9 6 . SEVEN
D e p u t y P r e s i d e n t (Clubs a n d S o c i e t i e s )
Neil O'Shaughnessy Sarah Corneille
My major objective as deputy president is to
publicise the clubs and societies more effec-
tively within Imperial College. This can firstly
be accomplished by donating space in the
JCR from which they can sell themselves
again to the student body. The college publi-
cations are widely distributed around IC and
Mary's, these publications are an easily avail-
able platform with which clubs/societies can
promote themselves.
By having internal college competitions
enables students to join in for fun. These fun
teams will give the recognised sports teams
a pool of players with which to field their own.
With an increase in the quantity of money
spent on professional coaching the stan-
dards of the teams at IC will increase and
take IC back to a position of academic and
sporting excellence.
I want to help people recognise the non-
sporting clubs and societies. By working with
the Entertainment's manager the Union
building can be fully opened and more acces-
sible to socs. This can be done by making
use of the Union building on Saturdays.
Larger events will incur an increased turnover
at the door creating a larger revenue for the
Union. By having special events in the Union
those clubs and societies involved will be
highlighted to the rest of college and will lead
to a higher membership over time.
A further plan is to have combined
events between 'related' societies. For exam-
ple Opsoc and IC Radio could produce a
radio play together, as Dramsoc and STOIC
produce a screen play. This will hopefully
strengthen these socs. and provide for a
greater turn out at there events, as well as
enhancing the talents of each soc. learning
from the other.
All in all, I wish to see more advertising
of the clubs and societies so that more inter-
est will be stimulated in them.
Sarah is a third year Biologist and I have
known her throughout her time at IC. She
has always been enthusiastic and committed
to everything she has been involved with.
She is very approachable and particularly
good at working with and motivating people.
During her time at college she has been
an active member of both the Ladies Rugby
Club and RSM Hockey team. She is now a
Re-app in Linstead Hall where she has used
her skills to organise some hugely successful
events.
Fiona Grandison
As Deputy President my goals will be clear
and realistic rather than over-ambitious and
idealistic, they are outlined below:
• I aim to promote the arts by setting up and
Arts week, including societies within college
and professionals from outside. Continuing
the work of my predecessors, I plan to work
on obtaining sponsorship for the arts.
• It is necessary to improve health and
safety standards for all sporting and recre-
ational clubs, and to ensure the implementa-
tion of comprehensive insurance policies for
all ICU members involved in dangerous activ-
ities.
• I would like to gain support for some new
major events with possibilities including a
CCU sports day, and continued support for
an ICU Ball.
• .1 will set up a monitoring system to find
out who is involved in clubs and societies
within the Union. Extending the opendoor
policy of the Union and encouraging commu-
nication with students to ensure that the
facilities available are fully utilised.
• Finally with the merger with St. Marys
looming I will continue laying the ground work
to ensure Union facilities are maximised and
improved, clearing the way for a smooth tran-
sition. Simultaneously maintaining the indi-
viduality of the CCU's traditions and identi-
ties.
James Handley
In his year as IC Radio station manager,
James was highly motivated,committed, and
also very capable, and I know he will also give
100% to this job if elected. As DP he'll
achieve the best possible for the Union clubs
and societies, and so I recommend you vote
for James on March 4th & 5th.
Paul Brown
As Deputy President, my aim will be to help
the clubs and societies of the Union to be
excellent in every way. I believe this involves
talking with them as well as allocating
resources fairly. I am fully prepared to fight
on their behalf, where necessary. I will of
course deal with the issues that arise from
both the Charing Cross merger and increas-
ing links with Mary's (hopefully with the help
of the clubs and societies who are, or will be,
affected by these changes).
I think it's wasteful for new sabbaticals
to totally ignore the work of previous years
and so I will carefully review existing and pro-
posed projects. I hope to create a coherent
way for clubs and societies to recycle waste
where possible, and I would love to give first
years more encouragement to get involved
than just Freshers Fair -1 still remember how
daunting my first few months at IC were!!
I believe I am well qualified for this post;
As IC Radio station manager (93/94) I
became very familiar with the workings of the
Union, but subsequent years spent doings
things like learning various musical instru-
ments and rock climbing mean that I have
developed a broad viewpoint on Union
issues.
As well as being qualified for DP, I know
I will do the job to the very best of my ability
- so vote for me!
James Handley

