EIGHT . FELIX FRIDAY FEBRUARY 23RD 1996 ELECTION MANIFESTOES
D e p u t y P r e s i d e n t
(Finance and Services)
Piers Williams
Once more ICU is at a turning point.
Continued government cuts in higher educa-
tion again look to leave the Union budget
level-funded, if not cut again. Set that
against a backdrop of spiralling costs and the
imminent influx of medical students onto the
South Kensington campus and it would
appear the Union is to shortly find itself woe-
fully under-equipped to provide the services
students expect.
Fortunately with the immediate future of
ICU in Beit Quad not apparently under threat
we can turn our minds once more to long-
term planning, and attempt to make the best
out of what we have. Historical precedent
means we have some catching up to do as
regards the union's status as a venue, but I
feel that with the right approach great steps
can be made, and a pooling of resources
should aid struggling clubs and societies.
Similarly we must look to our trading
outlets, and what must be done to continue
their expansion, and improve their already
high standards of service and value for
money. An obvious example is the imminent
new bookstore; it seems obvious to me that
only a store run by students will be properly
able to serve the needs of students. Despite
college's obvious attraction to large amounts
of money from big retail organisations, I am
confident that a properly thought-out bid will
show them the advantages to the students of
it being run by the Union (as well as the pres-
tige of it being the biggest student-run book-
store in the country).
To conclude: whilst concentrating on
optimising the considerable assets we have
already, we must plan wisely to create a bet-
ter union for the future, one that encourages
more active participation. That I stand
uncontested is a sorry indictment on the sta-
tus quo.
F e l i x E d i t o r a n d
P r i n t U n i t M a n a g e r
Alex Feakes
Felix's role at IC is an important one, it serves
to inform and entertain, and provides a plat-
form for those who want to contribute, take
part or express an opinion. Next year, as Felix
Editor, I intend to increase participation of
students, encouraging people to write for the
news team, review films, plays and music,
engage in feature writing and photography,
and also express their opinions. This college
has a lot of talented people who I would like
to see getting involved with their student
newspaper.
IC is often thought of as being apart from
the other colleges in London, but this should-
n't be the case. Therefore, I would like to ini-
tiate much greater contact between Felix and
the other student newspapers in London,
with the intention of reporting what happens
around the capital that interests to students,
whether it's news or events.
It is important to broaden the scope of
the news to include stones that are London-
wide as well as local, with a view to covering
what is going on at other colleges. As
Imperial has a wide range of people with a
wide range of interests, I feel features should
stimulate people in areas other than that of
their degree.
Parts of Felix that always attract a lot of
interest from students are the sports pages,
columns and letters. I think that sports could
benefit from more dedicated coverage and
Felix should give people the opportunity to
express their opinion on what occurs around
college. To this end, I would like to institute
an open forum where students can comment
and analyse on any subject.
There is need for the Print Unit, which
partially funds Felix, to secure more income
to offset a drop in funding and rise in paper
prices.
A l l P o s t s
New Election
Hi there! Tim and Matt, your current Deputy
Presidents, speaking. We're running the
campaign for Mr N. Election (or 'Ron' to his
friends) as we can't seem to contact him.
However, despite this startling lack of
communication with the sabbatical candi-
date there is one thing we can guarantee on
his behalf. You are no more likely to see him
if he is elected (How many of the other can-
didates will dare make that claim?)
So, why vote New Election? New
Election is standing for all posts. If he gets
elected there will automatically be a second
election for that post, held during the sum-
mer term. This will enable you to take your
pick from a new crop of candidates, the the-
ory being that they will be better than the last
lot. Therefore, if you feel that the candidates
standing for any post are not up to the job,
VOTE NEW ELECTION.
Remember, if you don't vote at all then
you can't complain if a completely bone idle
set of sabbs get in an ruin it all! Even more
importantly, you can't vote at all unless you
have a green Union Card! Get one from the
office now - you need a photo and the top bit
of your registration form. Of course, there is
a disadvantage; if New Election does win we
have to go through all of this again. So
please, for all our sakes, think before voting.
OK! That's enough of the boring, positive side
of the campaign. What you really want to
hear from us is what we think of the candi-
dates. So here, exclusive to Felix is the neg-
ative part of our campaign, where we spread
unsubstantiated lies and malicious gossip
about each of the other candidates.
The first person who's reputation we'd
like to ruin is X

