baker-
simon
Firstly, let me assure you this is me, honest, not
some dodgy Canadian DJ trying to dupe you. It's
good to talk, but there are limits. Since Her
Majesty could hardly accuse someone of being an
impostor just in case, surely calls are checked to
see that they are from who they should be. I sus-
pect that some switchboard operator may receive
a job transfer to the Tower of London.
The Beit Quad refurbishment fiasco rumbles
on with the news that, shock horror, it would be
very expensive to move the Union to Sherfield.
Now the fact that everyone else in College knew
this from day one inevitably leads one to ask what
the hell College Estates are playing at. God only
knows how much money has been wasted on
architect's fees and misguided feasibility studies.
The obvious way forward is to convert the Biology
department to provide accommodation and
refurbish Beit Hall thus giving the required con-
ference facilities next to existing amenities. To
move all the administration and the Union was
clearly going to be prohibitively expensive.
However, the motives for wanting this are com-
pletely understandable. For the first time, senior
people in College have asked what actually gets
done in Sherfield. Why do we need such a large
department to manage an organisation the size of
Imperial, where a lot of decisions are taking by
individual departments anyway? By moving them
into a smaller building, this bureaucratic monster
could be reduced in size and made more efficient.
Nobody can dispute the chronic overmanning in
Sherfield, where the various departments have
expanded unnecessarily to fill the available space.
To solve this, how about, for example, cutting the
fat from departments such as the enormous
Registry that seems to do little apart from issue
Council Tax exemption forms and add up our
exam marks. Better still, why not put the whole
of Sherfield administration out to competitive
tender as has been done in the Civil Service.
Earlier in the week, I read an article in the Daily
Telegraph suggesting that in deprived inner city
areas, teachers rather than parents are to blame
for the poor performance of children. Fair enough
you say. Must be written by some smart arse from
a right wing think tank who went to Eton. This
article was in fact written by a teacher who works
in an inner city comprehensive which until about
three years ago was one of the worst performers
in the country. By changing headteacher, scrap-
ping lunatic progressive teaching methods and
getting, dare I say it, back to basics, GCSE pass
rates have more than quadrupled in three years.
Teaching unions are constantiy moaning about not
being treated as a professional body of people, but
it is hardly surprising that the vocal minority of
bad teachers that cling to failed practices harm the
whole profession.
As regular as the National Lottery draw is the
griping and whingeing about this national institu-
tion. Recently there has been a storm of protest
over the allocation of money. ToorightI say. I've
been buying tickets every week since it started
and they haven't given me as much as a tenner.
Being forced to watch Anthea Turner every week
to check I have lost is almost too much to bear.
michael ludlam
This is my third year at Imperial. The last two
went quite well. Exams were passed and course
work was relatively simple. I was enjoying myself,
had good friends. I was partaking in that getting
older bit, the whole learning experience. I came
back ready to start my third year at the beginning
of this month expecting more of the same.
I got it wrong. Pretty much everything has
changed. It is as if everyone I know who is in their
final year has been clipped in a whopping great vat
of sincerity. As if someone somewhere is desper-
ately trying to take out all the fun of being at col-
lege. The word on the street, in the lecture the-
atre, in the bars has changed to "jobs jobs jobs" fol-
lowed closely behind by "marriage, mortgage and
kids." It's getting kinda depressing. Suddenly I
have all this work that needs doing today, not in
May like I was used too. Ok so maybe I was huge-
ly naive, I didn't really listen to all those warnings
about this place. I discovered my worse fear -
Imperial College means degree machine.
Those who did not reach the hurdle of second
year exams have been discarded by the way side.
No more friendly resits, fall below and you're out.
Even those who failed just one exam are no longer
welcome. It is hardly the friendly little sweet col-
lege I thought it was. It's like that pit monster in
one of the Star Wars films, it's gotta have those
sacrifices. All those course work assignments and
problem sheets to satisfy the hungry beast. Eating
up all our free time. It is starting to make me
worry, oh I should be working, not writing this
column. I should stay in to work, not go out and
meet people and enjoy myself. It's like they no
longer want me to expand my horizons.
It is cyclic problem, the more one person wor-
ries about their mark it makes everyone else
worry and so on. People are frightened of not
keeping up. We are all beavering away becoming
excellent scientists, engineers and medics but not
very good people. If you weren't a geek when you
arrived they are trying hard to turn you into one.
So when it comes time to play, we play far too
hard. How can the Rector be surprised that there
is a big drink and drug problem here. What better
way to forget all the stress than get completely off
your face so you remember none of it. We've all
done it haven't we? I have seen perfectly normal
good healthy people turn into nervous wrecks,
through an excessively large work load.
My reckoning goes that college should be
about an experience, about joining the ride and
enjoying yourself, enjoying your course and the
rest of your life. Dare I say it, there is more to the
ride than your course. The pressures of the our
course are immense. Does college really believe
that they only want good academics and not well
balanced individuals? However we do not have
much choice, we have to play the game. What
else we do?

