O
kay, I know many of you spend
Friday morning in various states of
consciousness at the back of the
lecture theatre. But have you
ever wondered how much con-
scious control you have over your own thoughts
and actions? This month at the Royal Society,
Jeffrey Gray, a professor of psychology at the
Institute of Psychiatry, discussed the problem of
consciousness and who should solve it.
There is very little agreement on what the
problem with consciousness is. Some people
will always argue that consciousness is a mystery
of life that can never be explained. However,
most scientists now agree that consciousness is
somehow linked to brain activity. Have you ever
had too many beers and noticed the pub spin-
ning around you? If so you will 'realise that sub-
stances like alcohol, which alter brain chemistry,
also alter consciousness. Perhaps then, a good
place to begin understanding consciousness is to
look at what makes the brain special. The trou-
ble is, of course, that scientists are still arguing
about the best way to do this.
Historically, neuroscientists have gained a lot
of insight into the workings of the brain by
studying patients with brain damage.
Occasionally we get a glimpse into another per-
son's consciousness: for example, patients who
behave as if the left side of space, and even their
own bodies, had ceased to exist. Dr. Oliver
Sacks, author oiAwakenings and The Man Who
Mistook His Wife For A Hat has written some
of the most sympathetic and wonderful tales I
have ever read about people suffering from
these unimaginable mental conditions.
Many neuroscientists believe that conscious-
ness will ultimately be explained in terms of
brain structure and the firing of groups of neu-
C a n Y o u B e l i e v e Y o u r B r a i n ?
It's all in the mind
Sarah Tomlin grapples with consciousness
'pftiC^TJ.:^ • M K"£:
\.. /i>t>g .wife 'fM ,':•;, Miy:"ky;.:
The Margaret Thatcher
Illusion
Filling in the gap: Cover
one eye, stare at the dot on
the right-the lines on the
left should join up.
Is This a Spiral?
rons. But another alternative is a kind of panpsy-
chism (unfortunately nothing to do with a small
guy with a goatee and pointy ears playing the
pipes) in which all matter shares in conscious-
ness. This view has recently been expressed by
the mathematician Roger Penrose in his book
The Emperor's New Mind: concerning comput-
ers, minds and the laws ofphysics. He suggests
that the secret of consciousness may have some-
thing to do with the mysteries of quantum mec-
hanics, since science has so far
failed to explain either properly.
As a psychologist, Jeffrey
Gray believes that a satisfactory
theory of consciousness should
try to explain as many aspects of
it as possible and should be able
to answer some key questions. How did con-
scious experience evolve and how does it help
an animal survive? How are conscious experi-
ences linked to brain events and how do they
alter behaviour? The problem with such an
ambitious, all-embracing approach, is that the
concept of consciousness is so rich and complex
that Professor Gray admits he has not
yet come up with a simple defini-
tion of it. He is not alone in this:
Francis Crick has written "we did
not attempt to define conscious-
ness itself because of the clangers
of premature definition." (If this
seems like a cop-out, try defining
the word "gene" - you will not find
it easy).
Sometimes it is easier to begin
defining something by what it is
not, and it is astonishing how
much subconscious activity takes
place in our brains. There is a lot
of experimental evidence to show
that consciousness always comes
after the brain processes to which
it is linked and more importantly,
it comes too late to affect them.
This agrees with the observation .
that conscious events occur serial-"
ly while neural processing operates
in parallel. During the few sec-
onds or so that it takes you to read
this sentence, your eyes are following the words,
your brain is mentally processing their shape and
meaning, but how much of this activity are you
actually aware of ?
This raises the question that if so much brain
activity and subsequent behaviour is subcon-
scious (including reflex actions , such as remov-
ing your hand from a hot stove) then what does
conscious experience add to our behaviour that
the subconscious cannot do by itself? Jeffrey
Gray explains
"Along with everything else that that, This, by
Freud got wrong, he also t h e
^ » n o t
• , • ,i , Freudian subcon-
wrongly treated the subcon- s c •0u s n e s s
scious as a mystery." Along with
everything else
that Freud got wrong, he also wrongly treated
the subconscious as a mystery. It is not."
Increasingly, scientists understand in more and
more detail how the firing of neurons is linked
to subconscious behaviour. It is the fact that
some of this mental activity becomes conscious
that is the real mystery.
L o o l i n k
Researchers in 'California have recently demohi:
strated vision without awareness (also called
'blindsight') in normal sighted volunteers,
Blindsight has previously h bed in soine
patients vw ' ' l l i i i
notse 'ss:fhe
location ol objects near them, they perfbtnl well
above the level oi pure chance. The novel
approach in this latest study was to create the.
same effect in sighted observers by presenting
:tbemvwith ; )ne display,
which the observers were asked to locate. The
other pattern was similar, except that the dots
were in pairs, and the observers claimed they
could not distinguish the 'target•are3<;:ftom: the
sforcecl to make a guess al.x • 'lion of the
target, the observers were just as successful (70*
|>80% correct answers) as they were when they
cot lid see the target area This is one example of
how much processing may be going on in our.

