-theatre: volpone.
ark summers
ill*' ""t-ji
f|lt< ' f i l l ; ! !
• - •
WMk :.: • - i l l f l l
S P • . • i l p i
IT : | |
Hi It is 1 S-i2S hxfay; until
i:
hdinnuoMinU) .lpoliii
mil 12
Wis
mvrdanir- the show by bill whe-
Ill''1
l i i i l i l l ^ l i l l i t ) . ) l i l i l l
Iper -40
•' lllllllll^^
prisonerrollblock h by david
i l t # : :
• '• '4111
There are none more spectacular than the
National's recreations of the classics at the
Olivier. So much so in this case that the design
and direction outshines what is a very creditable
performance by a largely well-known cast. The
production as a whole is an outstanding success
for Matthew Warchus in his debut as a profes-
sional director on the London stage. Jonson is
considered by many to be the English Moliere, a
theory successfully borne out by Warchus in this
production.
Jonson's black comedy revolves around the
"Venetian miser Volpone who feigns sickness in
order to trick the wealthy of Venice into bestow-
ing gifts on him. For these acts, they believe they
shall be the sole benefactor of his will, beliefs
reinforced by Volpone's parasite and trickster,
Mosca. Following his performance in the BBC's
The Singing Detective, Michael Gambon is a nat-
ural Volpone, although it would be nice to see
him play something other than a sick man and a
grumpy bachelor.
Simon Russell Beale had little difficulty in
stealing the audience's affections as the intriguing
yet loathsome Mosca. But the star of the show
was Robin Soan's Corvino, the foolish Venetian
merchant who even tries to get Volpone to sleep
with his wife in order to claim his fortune. He
had the audience completely convinced, and the
two faced nature of his character was captured
perfectly.
Overall it is a superb production.
theatre: trouble sleeping
grasshopper
Some 10 minutes after leaving Victoria we
pulled into a station that looked like it had been
pulled out of an inter-galactic airport. "Canary
Wharf?" I mused. The huge, towering, grey-
white office block glistening in the lights
in front of me would have been enough
to fool the keanest Fleet Street Editor.
But no, sure as I had expected I was in...
wait for it... East Croydon!
You may have thought that
Croydon is nothing but a dull, leafy sub-
urb. But tucked away just behind the
railway station in the upstairs floor of a
like-named pub (as fringe theatres
always are) lies "The Warehouse". With
a rninute to spare I hurried into the dark-
ened theatre, the audience looked at me
expectandy, I bowed... and took my
seat.
An established focus of local thes-
pian enthusiasm, the Warehouse was
preparing to be graced by a production
of the prodigal Aussie, Nick Ward.
Trouble Sleeping is his seventh produc-
tion (not including his 3 prize-winning
films), which at the age of 33, is a
lengthy repertoire.
The play opens with Rosemary
Daley (Sandra Voe) watching an egg boil
- for the full three minutes. Perhaps it's
a device to paint a picture that is as sim-
ple as can be of Rosemary and her son
Terry (Peter-Hugo Daly) but it is also a metaphor
for the shell that is their life which - under a lit-
tle pressure - can so easily crack.
Terry is a BR worker who harbours an obses-
sion with fire-arms which takes shape in his
predilection for clay-pigeon shooting. However,
things take a sharp change in direction when
Rosemary finds out that her well married sister,
Ursula (Eve Pearce), is ill and will be coming to
live in her old home once more. As if this weren't
a bad enough upset for poor Terry, Ursula invites
Angela (Miranda Pleasance), an attractive run-
away, to live in the Daley house-hold. This all
proves too much for Terry when his secret pom
videos are discovered - the only release for his
sexual frustrations. He is torn between loyalty
and love for his mother and the sorry state of
denial he suffers through his attraction to Angela
whuch finally cracks his manly shell.
It's not that Nick Ward doesn't manage to
invoke feelings of sympathy in his audience, its
just that these are due to the pathetic characters
rather than the accomplished performances. He
himself says that some actors have trouble
adapting from screen to stage and Miranda
Pleasance (a familiar "The Bill"/ "Casualty" face)
is an unfortunate victim of this syndrome. Ward
can conjure a promising scene, but like
Croydon's "fools-wharf" appearance, he does
not produce thefeelings,only simple imitations.

