c e l l u l o i d g u i d e : , , , ,
odeon kensington r
"
pocahowtas
fminelK 1.30,4.10,6.50,9.30
K 9.30::
Hi
the net 3.40,6.30,9.20
1.45.4.05,6.25,8.50
•film: jadee
^'^^•i-y
i/^:Mmgf''' A A « "
A A i f c A A i S Y l A A f t M A * A i
A|liii:£>:
;il|i
A i l A i A i i A ; A :
f i i?
l | A i f t i l i i A • t i i i
£6.50, £4 matinees
:
f?h:(sc^ ekirte
:
fIf< . f § ! l f r t o ; A B j s A ' ; ; j ¥* A i :..
/ ^ I l l l i r i i # 0 s #
i l i i A A i . n : A :A
A i i i ? •
UlS|XT Ml 3. lOpili
' K i v A l i t A A :
r A A A A ' a . ! * v i < i . ? ; :
« ' . : ' ;
^ ¥ A i % . ' C vm:^;'
A A A ^ ^ C:UiftA'. A)v,i ;i AA.vij :
the hail tue 1.30pm 1.50
Ixton- sunrise
AAA' ,'( • 4p fj
A A > ; J - ' S x - ' i A r . s y ; : A " A A ;
i ; i A.i'-eyff;.,...:'-.
David Corelli is an assistant district attorney who
is called to investigate the murder of a prominent
millionaire. While investigating the crime, he is
confronted with the fact that Trina Gavin (Linda
Fiorentino from The Last Seduction), the wife
of his best friend and the woman he has been in
love with since college, is the prime suspect.
Clues which lead to the suspect are finger-
prints on the murder weapon; sightings of Trina
visiting the millionaire's beach house; and a silver
box engraved with the Chinese character for
Jade - the name of one of the millionaire's many
lovers.
Fiorentino gives a cool, if unsurprising per-
formance as a two-timing clinical psychologist.
Mentally Trina appears to be a bit of a weirdo
and sexually she is very liberated - a side of her
psyche which her husband is ignorant about.
Written by Basic Instinct screenwriter Joe
Eszterhas, Jade contains few surprises. The mil-
lionaire who is into bonking young attractive
women and the attorney who is in love with the
prime suspect have both featured in films of this
type before. There is, of course, the obligatory
car chase thrown in but this comes across as
being so preposterous and clumsily filmed that it
does little to raise the adrenaline levels of the
audience.
For the first half hour or so, Jade seems
unpromising although Shawn Murphy's music
score does well to build up the tension in the
opening scene where the murder is heard but
not seen.
In the end director William Friedkin does
manage to shape an entertaining film, even
though it is a bit predictable and tacky at times.
film: the horseman on the
rOOfnagpie
The Horseman on the Roof, or for those endear-
ing people biking level three French the original
title is Le Hussard sur le Toit, will be playing at
the London Film Festival on Monday.
It's 1830's France and cholera is spreading
like a wild rumour through the country obliter-
ating villages and leaving dead bodies for the
scavenging crows. Angelo is a colonel of the
Hussars fleeing the Austrian agents sent to
track him down, for Italy has been invaded by
Austria. The words viva Italia' are Angelo's, and
he defends them with fist and sword.
Angelo finally arrives in Manosque searching
for his friend Guiseppe. The local population has
been driven mad by the paranoia of the cholera
epidemic. Only hysteria and chaos rule, and after
being falsely accused of poisoning the local water
well, Angelo is driven onto the rooftops. Above
him are the crows waiting for him to die and
below the mob want to hang him.
The rain comes and Angelo finds shelter in
an attic where he meets Pauline, an elegant
woman whose calmness and relaxed attitude is a
stark contrast to the death crazed mob: a chance
encounter which is lost by the morning ,as she
has gone. Their paths cross again and Angelo
feels obliged to help Pauline on her journey to
find her husband. The journey is fraught with
danger, avoiding the cholera and the army, who
are enforcing quarantine, but Angelo still makes
the detour.
The Horseman on the Roof is adapted from
the book by Jean Giono: some adaptations seem
to skim over events trying to squash everything
into 100 minutes, but The Horseman on the Roof
is the complete opposite. It is long, and each
minute is saturated with events. Characters
come and go but the overall feeling is everything
is known about them only after a short dialogue.
Each screen is complemented by the changing
scenery, as Angelo and Pauline's journey takes
them to a different idyllic part of France.
Director Jean-Paul Rappeneau binds the
film together well as the large number of events
and different backdrops would usually just cre-
ate confusion. Each scene flows effortlessly into
another and you slowly become amazed by
Angelo's character; his resourcefulness, strength
and the pity he shows to the dying, risking his
own health. Pauline then strikes you as a stub-
bom woman, caring only for herself and her
desire to find her husband. There is a love story
in this film somewhere, but it doesn't surface
until late in the film, since Angelo is an army offi-
cer and so hides his love behind his honour and
he does it obviously a bit too well.
Overall The Horseman on the Roof is a good
film, with an authentic setting in an grim but
interesting period in history. However
Rappaneau never lets you forget the bitter taste
when people die at random and the look of fear,
death and pain in each victim's sunken eyes.

