Page 10 FELIX 20th November, 1969
Board of Studies
Minutes of the Special meeting of the Board of Studies,
held on 12th June last, to discuss the question of student
representation on the Board, have now reached FELIX.
The minutes show that most of the professors were
against the idea of student observers with only Professors
Butler (Physics) and Baker (Civ. Eng.) supporting the
students' views, and the idea was eventually defeated.
The Rector put forward a note giving the students' views,
asking for a year's experimental representation on the GoB,
F&E, and the BoSt. He also suggested the idea of excluding
the student observers from certain areas of discussion.
Professor Chain (Biochem) spoke strongly against repre-
sentation, saying it was not in the best interests of the
College and nothing of interest to students was discussed at
the BoSt. which could not be dealt with by existing
machinery.
The Union proposal was not, he claimed, based upon a
desire for staff/student dialogue, but on pressure from poli-
tical activists. It was a misconception and distortion to
accept representation because of democracy and because
their demands were moderate.
There could never be equality between ' masters and dis-
ciples '. Student unrest was a political manifestation; appease-
ment never paid, and IC had a duty to show leadership
in the situation.
Chain was supported by Professors Sparkes (Civil Eng.)
and Wood (Botany).
Professor Butler then spoke in favour Lord Penney's
proposals. He would not be unhappy if student represen-
tation on the BoSt. was made permanent. This would help
break down the separation of the Academic and Student
bodies, and, he was sure, in time would build up an atmos-
phere of collaboration with students.
Rejections
Rejection of the proposals would provoke controversy,
which it was very desirable to avoid.
However, he agreed with the ideas of reserved areas of
discussion.
Then followed several shorter speeches. Professors Jones
(Maths), Ford (Mech Eng.), Hewer (Zoo) and Barrer (Chem.),
Ubbelohde (Chem. Eng.), Francis (Civil Eng), Anderson
(Elec. Eng.), Hall (History of Sci. and Tech.) and Richard-
son (Metall.) all spoke against student representation on the
Board. Most of these were concerned that the presence of
students might inhibit free discussion at the Board. It might
be better to invite student representatives for discussion of
specific issues. It was, in general, better to leave student
representation to the BoG.
Prof. Ball (Metall.) thought IC would be performing a
great national service if the Board rejected the students'
proposals, despite the risk of precipitating unrest.
Prof. Butler spoke again in support of the Rector's note.
Notwithstanding his very warm support for staff/student
collaboration at grass roots level, he still felt that student
contributions on the Board of Studies would be valuable
in areas which cut across Dept. boundaries.
After a few minor speeches, a vote was taken, and the
idea of having student observers on the Board was defeated
by 17 votes to 8.
No Hanging
at I.C.
On Tuesday, 11th Novem-
ber, I.C Debates held one of
its all too rare meetings to
discuss the motion, ' This
House would reinstate capital
punishment'.
The motion was proposed
by Coun. Lazarus, sent by
Conservative Central Office,
but speaking, he said, from
a purely personal viewpoint,
Coun. Lazarus said that in
recent years two elements had
gained prominence in the
spectrum of crime—firstly
there was a growing tendency
to make the life of the crimi-
nal more comfortable in
prison; and secondly crime of
all sorts was on the increase.
The proposer claimed that
these two could be equated,
and so one way of reducing
crime was to reduce the com-
fort of the criminal. In the
case of murder, he continued,
hanging was the one real
deterrent, and he concluded
by saying that although one
can't reform a murderer by
hanging him, doing so might
deter others.
Miss Penny Tomlinson, op-
posing the motion, stated that
the finality of death was very
difficult for man to accept
and it was for this that mur-
der was thought of as the
worst crime, and so should
carry the supreme penalty.
With the use of statistics,
she showed that since the
temporary abolition of the
death penalty the incidence
of murder had remained
about the same. Murder, Miss
Tomlinson submitted, was
committed under intense
mental and emotional stress
irrespective of the penalties;
this is readily seen in the
cases of family murders. Thus
the argument that hanging is
a deterrent does not hold
under close examination.
Miss Tomlinson, it must be
said, was using the results of
an intensive survey on major
crime on which she had been
working.
Mr. Cullen, seconding the
motion, deplored the increase
in crimes of violence since
the abolition. Les Ebdon,
seconding Miss Tomlinson,
claimed that there was no
deterrent to a crime which is
largely a manifestation of in-
sanity, although perhaps tem-
porary, in extremely emotion-
al circumstances.
After some lively speeches
from the floor and summing-
up speeches from the princi-
pal speakers, the motion was
put to the vote and defeated
by 100 votes to 17 with three
abstentions.
UNION MEETING
NOV. 20
1 p.m. MECH ENG.
220
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Community Action
Refectories and Food
DIVERSIFICATION
AND
REPRESENTATION
(i) Report on BOST (Nov
12) meeting.
(ii) Report on JURGO
(Nov 17) meeting.
(iii) Public Statement when
Queen comes.
(iv) Statement to F. & E.
(Nov. 21).
(v) South Africa and Hall
fees.
(vi) Sabbatical Year for
President.
(vii) Use of space under
motorways.
Does your club require
cheap, reliable transport?
If so, the R.C.C. ' Transit'
12-seater minibus is available
for the use of Union members
at reasonable rates. For more
details, including availability,
cost and conditions of use,
contact Mike Gibson, Physics
913 (Int. 2976).
F E L I X R O A D
Home Again
As avid FELIXfans will
have realised, Young Felixcat
will return to grace our front
page next issue. Felix appear-
ed in some guise or other on
every FELIX since the
paper's conception, and dis-
appeared only when FELIX
changed printers early this
year. Famous throughout the
BBC as the cat the Radio
Times pinched to use as a
heading for their children's
adventure weekly, his tem-
porary disappearance was
mourned by all. Many Happy
Returns.
Bill's Booze
At Linda Steer's recent
ICWA Sherry Party, W. Pen-
ney divulged to our editor
one of his lesser known ex-
periences during the Second
World War. He was engaged
in research in a US warship
—research which involved
the use of alcohol. American
Navy ships being " dry",
every evening a queue of
thirst-ridden sailors would
form outside Bill's laboratory
all hoping for a drop of the
hard stuff.
Linda Steer
When asked if he thought
he would be in his present
position if his benevolence
had been discovered, W. Pen-
ney replied in the negative,
adding that he would prob-
ably still be in jail.
Secrets?
As an irrelevancy, our
Mexican correspondent tells
us that the Mexican secret
police—a much larger force
than the British equivalent—
bought 2,000 Datsuns from
Japan this year. Apparently
these are the first Datsuns in
Mexico. Your guess is as
good as ours as to how many
secret police there are in
Mexico, but estimates range
up to 2,000 less than last
year.
More Commem
Further to the funny tale
before, yet another example
our Uncle Bill being all heart.
Recognising that most of the
students at IC couldn't give
a Mooney chip for Commem-
oration Day, our spies inform
us that he is willing to do
away with the whole affair if
student opinion is against it.
Crunch. Not exactly student
opinion but students' mums'
opinions—'cos, says Uncle,
the Ms and Ds revel in this
kind of thing ! Watch out for
a coming FELIX with a
questionnaire for you to send
to your mum—and . . . .
Talking about ques-
tionnaires : Felicity's amazing
referendum on whether or not
IC needs a newspaper drew
a staggering 100 per cent
" yes ". No Stalinist rigging
this. But out of modesty we
must asked if 4 " yesses " is
statistically significant in a
college of 3,900. Anyone who
can provide a lucid mathe-
matical proof of significance
will receive his next FELIX
for free.
N.U.S., What it's All About
Now that we have joined N.U.S. what can we get out
of it. Anyone expecting a box of good things to be dumped
on the doorstep of the union will be disappointed. Returns
don't come in the same way as for instance when we buy
a glider. With a few important exceptions we get what
N.U.S. gives already without paying for it. N.U.S. is a
national pressure group for students and will go on without
us. However if every other college did the same there would
be no National Union and no national student pressure
group. I.C. for many years has been regarded as isolationist
by other student bodies. People at I.C. have regarded
themselves as different from other students and able to do
without any official contact with other unions. This is a view
however which has been recently changing and the attitude
of students here has changed tremendously in the last two or
three years.
N.U.S. has also reformed itself. It has become more efficient
and has started to take a determined stand on student
demands. In the past N.U.S. has thought of itself as a
mediator in any dispute between students and authorities in
colleges. Now it is much more forthright in its support for
legitimate student causes. In this respect it could be of use
to I.C. If anything blows up, for instance in the deadlock
on double discipline, Jack Straw has said that he would
certainly come (if asked) to talk to the Rector and admin.
At Guildford School of Art N.U.S. blew the issue of staff
sacking up to national proportions and Guildford School
has now been black listed by the staff unions. The Select
Committee report on Student Relations has now agreed with
the N.U.S. recommendations and has also called for an
independent inquiry there.
N.U.S. of course has always run a travel agency and I.C.
students have used it in large numbers. In fact last year
Albert Preston, Treasurer of N.U.S.. said that N.U.S. would
lose money if I.C. joined N.U.S. because individual members
pay £2 as opposed to 5/- a head for affiliated colleges and
over | of I.C. students were members. N.U.S. also run
things like drama festivals and debating competitions. I.C.
has entered the drama festival this session on a special agree-
ment. If we had not joined N.U.S. we would not have been
able to enter next session.
The financial arrangemnets for I.C. joining N.U.S. are
rather complex. The D.E.S. say that the affiliation fees for
N.U.S. are ' legitimate expenditure' and Anthony Crosland,
when he came to I.C. in 1967, said that this meant that the
L.E.As. would certainly pay it. However the chances of
getting it this year are uncertain. After talking to a member
of the admin, it appears feasible to ask the Governing Body
for £6-5 instead of £6 a head this year. A third possibility
is that N.U.S. may waive the fees this year providing we
pay them next year. Piers Corbyn is looking into this prob-
lem. In any case the External Affairs Committee will prob-
ably decide to send two observers to the Margate conference
which starts on Nov. 24th.
Going back to the Select Committee Report all national
educational bodies except N.U.S. are criticised.. The A.U.T.,
the A.T.T.I., N.U.T., and the committee of Vice-Chancellors
are all criticised for lack of organisation and zest. About
the N.U.S. they say, ' They seem to be succeeding in creating
a truly national body to protect and advance what they see
as their legitimate claims. They have enabled student con-
cerns to be well defined despite the complexity of the
(educational) system !
I.C. has finally moved out of its isolationism. Let us hope
that we can help N.U.S. meet the challenge in pressing for
great changes in the educational system of this country.
Edgar Broughton at I.C. hop last Saturday.
Published by The Editor, City of London Polytechnic Newspaper, and Printed by F. Bailey & Son Ltd., Dursley, Glos.

