Page 2 FELIX 20th November, 1969
O N F U S I O N
A T
O U N C I L
The addition of the department reps to ICU
Council further increased the the size, squabbling,
and cumbersome unmanageable nature of the
second Council meeting this year, held in the old
Astro-mooney on Monday, 10th November.
The meeting was notable for a large amount of
confusion. This was largely due to poor chairman-
ship by Messrs. Corbyn and Guy, the latter of
whom took the chair so many times that he was
accused of acting as a co-chairman! Both of these
had, at times, difficulty in controlling the meeting.
Disagreement frequently flared up between Guy
and Corbyn, or one of these and the floor, some-
times resulting in quite sharp exchanges and many
"oh, shut up you" type incidents.
The matters dealt with were, with 3 or 4 important excep-
tions, rather trivial, and if it were not for a lot of general
time-wasting, some of which could have been prevented by
the chairman, the conclave need not have dragged on past
11.30 p.m. As it was, the tired and impatient members of
Council were finally able to dash off to bed at 01.08 a.m.,
Tuesday.
Nevertheless, it was noticeable that, while some people
were unhappy about Corbyn's handling of things, none of
them hesitated to lumber the President with any jobs that
came up during the session!
GLIDER
One of the major items that came up was the matter of
the Gliding Club's appeal to the College Centenary Appeal
Fund for £500 to replace their Eagle sailplane. This glider
belongs to the College, but maintenance costs are paid by the
Union. The club therefore thought it reasonable to ask the
College, and not the Union, to replace it. This would in fact
save the Union some of the heavy repair coists.
Council made no concrete move on the matter, but will
not allow the application by the gliding club until the possi-
bility of obtaining money from this fund has been advertised
to all clubs and societies.
The Fund will also be asked for money towards the IC
Lodgings Bureau. Council, meanwhile, gave £70 to put out
more circulars to landlords.
SUPPRESSION
The Pro-Rector came under heavy fire for apparently
attempting to censor the views of the Union representatives
chosen by Piers to meet the UGC Arts Committee, by objec-
ting to the Union submitting some documents giving Union
policy on diversification of courses. In general, it appears
that the College is attempting to push the Union around too
much for the liking of many Council members.
It was decided to consider petitioning the Queen to have
the Royal Charter of the College changed to allow student
participation, when she comes to open College Block, and/or
to hand out pamphlets on this occasion.
A boycott of refectories was also mooted, as a protest
L y o n P l a y f a i r U n d e r - u s e d
The Lyon Playfair Library has now settled down
in its new site in the Library Block, with the
builders only remaining in parts of the basement.
The book collection, has been tremendously ex-
panded, though still leaving over 70% of the space
empty to allow for the envisaged expansion. The
number of spaces for students to study has been
increased to 500, from 80 in the old building, and
the library now stays open until 9.30 in the even-
ing, and is open until 5.30 on Saturday.
There are also carrels and study rooms in which
academic staff and post graduates can work in
peace.
Although borrowing of books has increased, the
reading and study areas are very little used.
Since the Lyon Playfair library now works in even closer
collaboration with the neighbouring Science Museum library,
which is very strong in periodicals, the Lyon Playfair has
decided to concentrate on buildings up its collection of text-
books and advanced monographs, so that the libraries will
complement each other.
The present stock of books is about 80,000 volumes; capa-
city of the new 53,000 sq. ft. premises is about 300,000
volumes. This year the library has been given an extra grant
of £12,000 for more textbooks and advanced monographs,
in addition to its normal annual grant of £15,000,
The library occupies five levels of the library block. On
three of these, 2, 3 and 4 are working places for 500 people.
These may be used during normal library hours, which are
9.30 to 9.30 on Monday to Friday, and 9.30 to 5.30 on Satur-
day. The full library service is available during these hours.
Carrels
Also on levels 2, 3 and 4 are the carrels. These are 65
small study rooms with a desk and bookshelf, intended for
postgraduates. They are allocated for the whole year, and
PG's may keep their own books and library books in them.
Plenty of these are still available, and prospective users
should see the Assistant Librarian in charge of Reader Ser-
vices, Miss Millier. If demand is large, however, preference
will be given to PG's not in Hall.
Also on two levels are the 16 study rooms, which can hold
up to six if necessary, and are allocated in a similar manner
to the carrels. These are primarily intended for visiting staff
members and advanced research students, though some will
be made available for discussion groups.
Textbooks
The Library's general text-books section is on Level 2. The
books are arranged according to the Universal Decimal
Classification — the same textbook coding system used by
the Science Museum and other major libraries. The assistant
on the issue counter will be pleased to help you find the sec-
tion you want.
Endless line of filing cabinets
Also on this level is the "Restricted Loans" section. Here
are kept the textbooks on the departmental reading lists.
Every member of the academic staff has been asked to recom-
mend books for this section. They are kept behind a special
counter, and may be borrowed for no more than three hours,
or overnight.
Periodicals
Level 3 houses the extensive Periodicals section of the
library. On the west side of the level are the bound volumes
of past years' issues of most periodicals; the current issues
are kept on the shelves in the east room. If the library has
not got the periodical you require, it will be able to get a
copy from either the Science Museum Library, University
of London Library or the National Lending Library. Some-
times, certain volumes of periodicals are removed for binding.
In this case, the library generally ensures that the same issues
are available elsewhere in the College.
On level 4, where the reading and study spaces are very
little used at present, there are report material, foreign
language journals, and the Operational Research Society
library. Also on this level is a large empty room, for future
expansion.
Reference
Back down on Level 1, the main entrance level, are all the
catalogues, and the main issue and return counters. The
bookshelves here accommodate many indexes, abstracts, en-
cyclopaedias, atlases, dictionaries, telephone directories, and
other general reference works.
On the right of the entrance as you walk in is a small car-
peted area — this is the only place in the library where
smoking is permitted. If, while working on a higher level,
you feel the need for a break and a cigarette, then please go
down to Level 1. There will soon be a display case in this
area, to house recent acquisitions.
To get to higher floors from Level 1, go left inside the
entrance and up the stairs on the left, past the returns desk.
Continued on Page 5
against the reluctance of the Refectory Committee to do
anything about the students' complaints. Messrs. Stephenson
and Seaford were mentioned as being particularly obstructive
on this and other committees.
UNFAIR
Co-Chairmen
Geoff Needham brought up the disturbing and undemo-
cratic activities of U L U Societies Council. This has some
rather odd and apparently unfair practices, but when the
IC delegates queried some of these, the Council got very
stroppy and tried to shut them up! Geoff sent in some pro-
posed amendments to its constitution, by recorded delivery,
before the closing date for inclusion on the agenda, but these
items were not included for discussion. Now the Council is
going to exclude semi-permanently all those Colleges who do
not send delegates to the next meeting !
APPEAL
A Mr. Edwards came along to appeal against a 10/- fine
imposed on him for parking opposite Southside, without a
sticker. He said he saw the business as a matter of principle
— who is in charge of parking and discipline in these areas?
Much discussion followed, in which it was stated that Mr.
Edwards was a persistent offender. At the start of the term,
he had gone to the Union office, and, on hearing he had not
been allocated a sticker as he only came from Evelyn Gar-
dens, he had stated that he intended to park there anyway !
Eventually his appeal was dismissed, after 35 minutes wasted.
Other minor matters brought up at Council were :—
Dave Wield has resigned from the Refectory Committee,
and Piers Corbyn was elected in his place.
Mr. Mooney has reprimanded the barman for after-hours
drinking.
The College will be asked to up the pay scale of the Union
Clerk, Janet Hughes, as it was felt she was being overworked.
It was decided that clubs, etc., must duplicate their minutes
themselves, and not ask Janet to do it.
Ents were given permission to end some Hops at mignight.
The financial report on the proposed nursery in the base-
ment of 8 Princes Gardens, indicates that the cost will be
£4 5s. per child per week.
The IC tribal warfare film is still not completed.
Ten student reps, were elected to JURGO ; these are
Messrs. Corbyn, Guy, Hains, Hughes, Woods, Ebdon, Mac-
Adam, Elphick, Wield, Simpson.
The new ICU Constitution, as worked out last year, will
be presented to the Union soon.
The President refused to buy all Council members a curry
if the meeting did not close at 11.40. In fact, when it did
close just after one in the morning, most members were too
tired even to think of food !

