Page 6 FELIX 20th November, 1969
A Look Round The Shop
It is about this time of year that employers, not only
from this country but from overseas, start their campaigns to
recruit their 1970 graduate intake. It is also about this time of
year that most students in their final year at university start
to think (or try to think) seriously about where their money
is to come from after June. The purpose of this article is
to make a brief survey of the various types of employment
that graduates of the past few years have found popular,
to swiftly mention the standard ways of obtaining advice
about a career and (I hope) to offer some encouragement to
those students who like me, found themselves treading water
in a sea of despair, wondering which island to swim to.
When we talk about employment for science and tech-
nology graduates, we should not only include jobs in industry
and teaching, but also openings for academic work, social
work and careers in various government departments. In
1968, according to an excellent review in "The Recruiting
Market" in the Guardian of Nov. 12. Consultancy was
considered the most attractive career by the highest propor-
tion of students. This was followed by journalism with
academic work, falling from top place in '64, edging industry
into 4th place. A career in the forces was considered em-
phatically the least attractive, despite (or perhaps because
of) the intensive advertising campaign waged by the Army
Navy and Airforce in recent years. A high number of stu-
dents (vide the author) have come to appreciate the various
openings in accountancy.
There is, I think, little reason to suppose the thoughts of
students about the attractiveness of various careers have
changed significantly in the last year or so, although it is
probable that industry is a more attractive proposition than
academic work in view of the way that the value of post-
graduate grants has fallen steadily in terms of the real value
of money. In addition, the attractiveness of a career in in-
dustry (in terms of the financial reward) is heightened by
the fact that, from the point of view of the student, the
market is a seller's one, with the employers in close com-
petition with each other for the most competent graduates.
Journalism may also, in the future, be able to offer
The author of this article, Paul Heath, is an ex-editor
of Felix, for which work ICU award him Social Colours.
He scraped a lower second in Maths last year, and deciding
he wanted to get into publishing some way, joined Cam-
bridge University Press as a trainee accountant. He is
unmarried and has no children.
increasing opportunities for scientific and technical graduates
with the ability to write clear and lucid English. There are
many trade and professional journals around where the
expertise of the scientist or engineer can be employed use-
fully.
Accountancy will continue to provide ever more open-
ings and, once an accountant has qualified, the demand for
his services, and hence the salaries offered, are very high.
There is, of course, the drawback of having to spend 3 or 4
years qualifying, but this should be no great difficulty. In
any case, the vacancies for even partly qualified men are
numerous and lucrative.
Graduate Careers
by Paul Heath
From that, admittedly brief, survey of trends of em-
ployment, it will be useful to go on to the means of obtaining
advice. The standard way is to see the departmental careers
adviser and after discussing likes, dislikes and ability, to
attend selected interviews of firms recruiting at IC or to go
on and see the University Appointment Board Field Officer
who visits the college regularly. The person is a specialists
careers adviser with numerous contacts in industry, govern-
ment and the academic world as well as great familiarity
with the problems of the graduate student seeking a job.
Moreover the facilities of the U.L. Appointments Board are
available to the graduate throughout his life, not just while
he is at college. If you've not decided after going through
their channels, the usual course is to keep an eye on the
Ads. in the "heavy" dailies and Sundays. It is also useful
to keep your eye on Felix — advertisers who support student
publications can't be too bad at all !
Inherent in the problem of finding a job is the con-
sideration of whether you will feel happy in it and be cap-
able of success. This is the sort of question which cannot
be answered satisfactorily until you have spent a while in
the job, but it can be answered with at least some degree Of
confidence when you've seen what your prospective em-
ployers have to offer. In any case, if for some reason you're
not happy in the job you select, because you're unsuited to
it or even because you're underemployed, any worthwhile
employer will not raise objections to you making a change.
An interesting statistic is that female graduates spend an
average of only six months in their first job. The average for
males is greater but the point still remains that it is quite
respectable to change a job if it is unsuitable. Anyway it is
in the employers' interest that his employees should feel
happy in their work and the .majority realise this and act
accordingly.
In looking back, I've come to think that finding suit-
able employment was less difficult than all the worry and
insecurity I felt made it seem. As they used to say on the
rare occasions that I finished a problem sheet — "Christ, if
Heath can do it, why the Hell can't I ?"
are you
graduating
in 1970?
are you
looking for
variety in
your
career?
tick h
e
r
e
would you
like to play
a part in
an £80
million
expansion
over the
next two
years?
are you
keen to
move up
to senior
management?
chemicals and plastics
YES to all four? We'd like to hear from you.
For further information please contact
your Appointments Board or write to:
The Manager, Central Staff Branch,
BP Chemicals (U.K.) Limited, Stratton Street,
London, W1X 6LS.

