Avoiding a
Following the C N D issue of F E L I X
(number 644, May 13) Consoc, quite rightly,
insisted on their right of reply and their
chairman John Pattison arranged for
FELIX to interview Lady Olga Maitland.
Lady Olga Maitland (Mrs Hay in private
life) is married with three children. From
being a face of the 60s, she became the 'Fleet
Street hackette' of the 70s, writing the gossip
column for the Sunday Express, and is now
best known as the founder and voice of the
'Women for Defence' movement.
FELIX visited her at home in London Nl
to discuss her views on unilateral disarma-
ment and civil defence, and to find out more
about the 'Women for Defence' movement.
We spoke for over an hour, so what follows
is necessarily a summary of the interview
Women for Defence
FELIX: What prompted you to start the
'Women for Defence' movement?
Lady Olga Maitland: At the end of last year I
began to think more and more about peace
movements, and I had a feeling that at
Greenham Common in particular there's
mofe to it than 20 or 30 lesbian women
wearing woolly hats.
You cannot criticise any movement unless
you take the trouble of finding out. So in
January I spent two days at Greenham
Common. I sat round their camp fire and
just listened. And what was more obvious
than anything else what that, first, they were
middle class and educated, and secondly,
that they came from all over the country,
drawn by this great, almost suffragette
movement. And I came to realise that
women together had strength, so that's how
the 'women' element got started.
I totally sympathise with their fears—
everyone should be frightened of a nuclear
holocaust. But where we are on a totally
different track is that they have been fed
with deliberate misinformation. They are
also amazingly and depressingly ignorant.
They made statements like 'Cruise is a first
strike missile'. Sweeping, emotional—which
I can understand—but wrong.
I came back to London and felt that the
only way was to form a group, to go out and
reassure the women of this nation about the
facts of the defence issue—why we need to
be sensibly and responsibly defended. This
was the original intention of 'Women for
Defence'.
From our first meeting to the launch, on
the Tuesday of Holy Week, was only five
weeks. I knew people would respond so fast
that I made a pledge—that on Easter Sunday
we would have red tulips on war memorials
all over the country, laid in memory of those
who died in the last war to give us the
freedom which we enjoy today. It was
wonderful, it was moving, but those flowers
were laid, from the Channel Islands to
Caithness, East Anglia, Wales, everywhere.
We went on to get a petition signed,
urging the Russians to positively and
urgently negotiate for multilateral nuclear
disarmament. It was presented at the
Russian Embassy and rejected as 'litter',
which became rather a by-word!
Although Conservative in conception, we
have had support right across the board.
Page 4 I H H H H H H M I M H
Defence of your nation is a national not a
party political problem...I felt the petition
represented a growing voice of the silent
people of this country. I have no doubt that
what we're doing is absolutely right. The
response we've had is—'I'm so glad that at
long last somebody is standing up and
speaking about the real feelings of the
people of this country. And the noisy
minority of these so-called peace movements
are not the true voice of Britain.
FELIX: How come this 'true voice' hasn't
spoken up sooner?
OM: The thing is, it's very easy to be a
rebel. Also, people in this country tend to
take the view: 'We vote with our feet; we
/
Melanie Steel who conducted the interview
for FELIX
care about our country, we entrust our
governments with the responsibility of
defence.' Till now both Labour and
Conservative have been quite consistent in
their attitudes towards our defence
responsibility. The great divide has come
today, in this election, and we will see on
election day who is right, how strongly the
people feel about one-sided disarmament.
FELIX: The way you come across in the
media, it seems you have far fewer members
than rival groups, such as CND.
O M : And we have not been going for
twenty-five years, we do not have twenty-six
paid organisers, and we do not have the
millions of pounds that the CND have at
their disposal. We survive totally on five
weeks of existence; we survive on making a
plea for donations of '£ 1 for peace'. We went
nationwide within five days; that is the
strength of our movement. We are asking
the private person individually to rise up in
this country to support us, and that is what
they're doing.
FELIX: What are your views on the CND?
OM: I personally have talked and debated
with the CND, on TV and elsewhere, and
the fact is that the leading elements in the
CND are in sympathy with Moscow; they
are in sympathy with ultra-left-wing leaders
and pro-Communist supporters. For them it
is no horror to be living under a regime that
is totalitarian, ie a Communist regime.
Because they don't feel any fear about it,
they see nothing odd in becoming a one-
sided disarmed country; they don't see the
need to protect ourselves. Now the majority
of people in this country do actually care
very much about our freedom. We care
about the way we live, that's what we're
protecting. I think sometimes people forget
why we are defending ourselves.
FELIX: How far are we prepared to go in
defending ourselves?
OM: I think we have to make it absolutely
credible that we have them (nuclear
weapons). We have to have what I describe
as the minimum nuclear deterrent, unlike
the Russians who have the maximum plus.
FELIX: What if the Russians see the nuclear
weapons we have not as a deterrent but as a
threat, and attack for that reason?
OM: They outnumber us in every field of
weaponry there is, and will continue to do
so. The threat is on the other side.
The Russians are top of the class when it
comes to masterminding propaganda. It is
appalling to find that people in this country
are falling to their insiduousness, believing
that the poor Russians are threatened. How
have they ever been threatened? NATO has
always been a defensive alliance, not an
aggressive one. NATO has never taken over
one single country. Since the war, Russia has
backed the communist take-over of twenty-
eight countries. I'm not saying that the
followers of CND are Communist, but they
are being manipulated by people who know
what they are doing. They are frightening
people, saying 'You don't want your baby
blown up, do you? Well how can you justify
having nuclear weapons?' It would be more
realistic to say 'You don't want your baby
blown up do you; you want your child to
grow up in a free world don't you? So how
are you going to make sure that will
happen?'
FELIX: Do you think that having nuclear
weapons is the best way of achieving this?
OM: I think it is the only way. The Russians
will not invade if we show our determination
to defend ourselves. They only invade
countries which are weak and vulnerable.
FELIX: Are you not concerned that with so
many nuclear weapons around the world,
something could go wrong with one of the
early warning systems?
OM: This is a very natural fear. There is a
positive agreement, a hotline between
Moscow and NATO and Washington, that
there can be no accidental letting off of
nuclear weapons. If there is a NATO or
Warsaw exercise, the first thing each side
does is inform the other of what they are
doing.
Holocaust?
FELIX: Do you trust the Russians on this?
OM: Well, it's worked for the last 38 years.
It's a proven method.
FELIX: Even if you trust the Russians to
play fair
OM: —I don't trust the Russians...oh, yes,
on the early warning system.
FELIX: ...as countries outside N A T O
acquire their own nuclear weapons, do you
trust them also to play fair?
OM: We have to go in for a similar sort of
agreement. Countries like Iraq, Iran,
Argentina, Libya, are all planning to have
their own nuclear weaponry. The evil of
nuclear weapons is that they exist and will
not go away. I have no control over the
Libyans but I feel sure that there will be
arms control talks with them, just as much
as there are with Russia.
FELIX: What are your views on the
European countries that refuse to have
nuclear weapons?
OM: I think they are trying to have their
cake and eat it, relying on NATO protecting
them.
Finland is in a slightly different position,
having a frontier with Russia and not being
as strong as Germany. I am certain that if
Finland had tanks rolling over her frontier
we would rise in her defense.
FELIX: What would we do? Would we use
nuclear weapons?
OM: We would meet weapon for weapon. A
nuclear weapon would be an ultimate last
ditch resort.
FELIX: The Russians have far more tanks
than we do. How many tanks would you
plan sending in?
OM: It's an interesting point. They have
more and better tanks with greater firing
power. So there will be breaking point when
NATO would have to decide, can they cope
with conventional weapons. If it becomes
apparent that they can't, then they must
deploy retaliatory weapons. But that is a last
resort, Russia would have to invade first.
NATO will always be a defensive alliance,
and would never attack another country.
FELIX: But under the right circumstances,
NATO would be prepared to use the first
nuclear weapon?
OM: If it was necessary. It has to be a
credible weapon. There's no point having it
unless you're prepared to use it. But I think
we have a much better chance of ensuring
that a war doesn't even begin if we show that
we have a credible minimum deterrent.
FELIX: What is your attitude to Switzer-
land, where, instead of spending money on
nuclear weapons, they spend it on realistic
civil defence?
OM: It is a much smaller population and
that in itself makes it a lot easier. But the
1983 mmmmmmmmmammmm
real fact is that they are protecting
themselves under the umbrella of NATO—I
think it's a cheating way of going about
things.
FELIX: Is it cheating to have an effective
civil defence plan?
OM: No, no. It's responsible if you can do it.
It is naive to stick your head in the sand. The
Swiss have a small population with new
houses being built, therefore it's much easier
to have underground shelters, etc. This is
why I support a civil defence plan in this
country; it's common sense.
FELIX: Do you think the civil defence plan
in this country is an effective one?
OM: I'm afraid I don't see how it can ever be
truly effective. There is no ultimate defence
against a nuclear bomb attack.
Lady Olga Maitland putting the case for a
credible nuclear deterrent
"FELIX: So why should we have plans for
civil defence?
OM: Because not everyone would be killed.
Of course 'Protect and Survive' (the official
Home Office pamphlet) is unrealistic in the
sense that it is impossible to survive if
you're in the middle of it, but people on the
perimeter could survive if they take
precautions. The principle of the document
must be right; people must be told what they
can do in the event of attack.
I think one has a duty to think...how
dreadful a holocaust is and what the
appalling effects would be. But the
important thing is to make sure that such an
event will never, ever happen, and that's why
we must have a deterrent.
FELIX: One last question—you have
criticised the CND for appealing to people's
emotions. To some extent isn't your
movement also relying on people's emotions
by saying 'your parents and grandparents
died in previous world wars for your
freedoms'?
O M : Are we not all appealing to each
other's emotions? I am saying that we are
appealing to the right ones. We look at
history; we look at the present, and at what
we want in the future: people died in the past
for the freedom we enjoy today. I want to
continue the freedom we have today; you
may not but I do, and the majority of people
in this country want it too.
Personal Speculations
This interview, the correspondence on the
FELIX letters page over the last few weeks
and the articles in the CND issue have
together raised most of the issues of the
nuclear debate. The arguments both for and
against unilateral disarmament have been
persuasively put.
Field Marshal Lord Carver, former Chief
of Defence Staff, said in a House of Lords
debate (Dec 1979): 'I believe that the
retaliation would totally destroy this
country and almost all the inhabitants in it,'
and the authors of London After The Bomb
clearly show that the government's planned
civil defence measures are neither practical
nor effective.
CND says that without nuclear weapons
the threat of nuclear attack on Britain would
not exist. They suggest that, as a potential
victim, Russia will see our weapons as a
threat rather than a deterrent and, at a time
of tension, will resort to attack as the best
form of defence.
Yet Lady Olga Maitland argues, appar-
ently just as logically, that Russia will not
attack a country that is prepared to defend
itself. She also presents C N D as a
communist-infiltrated tool of the Russians,
inducing moral disarray in the basically
patriotic nation.
Both views could be valid. Which is
'right'? Will the uncommited make their
decision based on an orator's eloquence?
What are the facts, as opposed to the biased
opinions, of the debate?
I do not believe that the facts of such an1
emotive and politically tangled issue can
every be put clearly to the 'man in the street'.
However, I do believe that there are some
fundamental questions, answers to which
might help us make up our minds:
What is the Russian threat—are we scared
of nuclear explosions or of a communist
take-over?
If we are afraid of the curtailment of our
'freedom' are we prepared to destroy this
country to preserve it? (NB Lady Olga's
answer to this one is: 'Those who prefer to
be red—go off to Russia, and take a one-way
ticket'...which rather misses the point.)
Robert Kelsey quoted Bertrand Russell,
saying 'Remember your humanity and
forget the rest.' But, as well as being capable
of higher thought and love, man is an
aggressive animal. Even multilateral nuclear
disarmament would not change human
nature and nuclear arsenals could rapidly be
restocked with equally horrific biological
weapons. Would we then be any better off
than we are now?
Are we concerned with the future of our
planet ('Green' politics), our our quality of
life from day to day (traditional party
politics)?
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • P a g e 5

