EXE C NEWS
Annual Report: Silwood Park Committee
This academic year has proved to be a very successful one for the Silwood
Park Committee. Attendances at committee meetings have trebled and
involvement in activities, notably overseas students, has increased generally.
As should be obvious the Committee is entirely self-sufficient in providing
facilities, and has the capability and necessity of introducing any new activity
independently of South Kensington. This is for the benefit of the 100 students
resident, and the 350 students that visit here from South Ken each year.
The total grant received by ICUSPC for 1982/3 was £2,560, with extra
revenue from the table football and snooker light machines. Though this was
an increase on the previous year, it did not go as far, owing to notably the
initiation of an Overseas Student Society, which is a new concept at Silwood.
This has rapidly increased the involvement of these students from a few, to
the majority resident here. It has been the previous scepticism, and hence
inactivity of these students, which has allowed us to survive on a relatively
small budget in the past.
Union Business
(a) Constitution: There have been major changes this year to update the
organisation of the Committee for the expected increased in numbers of
students at Silwood and their increased activity. The major change is the
introduction of a new Exec Subcommittee for day to day matters.
(b) Accommodation: The notable success this year, was the removal of any
residence subsidy to the refectory. This was important, as most of the
residents eat there only as much as the staff, and yet they were the only people
subsidising it. The result of this was that the effective rent increase was in line
with the % grant increase.
Much progress has been made in trying to make the standard of the
accommodation equal, however this has been hindered by attempts from the
College to perfect the new blocks, only for their ceremonial opening at the
Governers meeting here in June. A demonstration may be organised against
this on the day.
A great amount of cooperation has been achieved on the Residence
Committee to clarify students right and priority to rooms, and the paying of
debts etc. This has resulted from a case where a debt in excess of £2,000 was
allowed to be built up, by the warden, while the College policy will cause this
debt to increase the rents, if it is not paid off by the student. A motion passed
by the Committee objects to this policy.
Students involvement in assessing the cost of their residences, and how the
cost can be kept down, have also been successful.
(c) Union Equipment: Silwood Park has successfully obtained a Land Rover
from the Exploration Board at IC to cover the recent lack of transport
facilities here for students. Though this vehicle was not in wtfnderful
condition on purchase, it is now in good working order and a great asset to
the Committee. The students here would prefer a minibus, as the cost of
running a Land Rover and the difficulty in driving it long distances are great. It
is hoped that the Land Rover would maintain a good resale value if a minibus
became available. A Windsurfer has also been purchased this year.
Sports
This area of activities has been very prolific this year even if the array of talent
is limited. External competitions have been played in football, cricket,
snooker, and volleyball. Of these perhaps the snooker has given us greatest
local acclaim. Our football team has a good record against other IC teams.
Other high participation sports include, tennis, squash, badminton, aerobics,
karate, windsurfing. Rugby is starting in the near future.
General Activities
Again the Nat Hist Society has been successful, with a weekend to the Lizard
(Cornwall) and a weekend to Kent to see most of the British Orchids. Next
year it plans to spend a week in Spain.
The Film Society has also been an important part of alternative
entertainment at Silwood and it hopes to incorporate a video section for less
popular films next year.
Entertainments of the social nature have also been greatly increased this
year, with the notable additions of the first Silwood Park Beer Festival, a
Fringe Theatre Musical (the first live theatrical production in living memory
at Silwood) and numerous parties. A boat trip is planned for later this
summer.
This has been a great year for ICUSPC, with a greater understanding
between students and staff. With a promise that things can only get better
from the newly elected chairman, activities can only increase, especially
amongst the overseas students. We only hope that ICU will maintain an
interest in us.
I would especially like to thank Chris Endacott, Jeremy Holland, Rosy
Hailes, Mark Hankins, Andy Adams and Prof Way for their help at Silwood
and Stephen Goulder and Andy Grimshaw without whose interest in Silwood
this year would not have been a success.
Andy Sheppard
Annual Report: Recreational Clubs Committee Chairman
RCC has had a good year, with many of the younger clubs becoming
established and the older clubs carrying on their traditionally high levels of
activity. We have continued to cater for a wide variety of activities from the
low cost indoor clubs to the higher cost outdoor and flying clubs.
The running of RCC has gone as smoothly as ever this year and particular
thanks for this must go to Frank Potter and Karl Skinner. Frank, as Senior
Treasurer has always provided gentle advice and support in addition to the
task that he shares with Karl, that of finance. This has involved Karl in much
boring but highly necessary work which he has always done when needed and
without complaint. I would recommend to all branches of ICU that they
consider adopting the RCC computer accounting system. This gives a weekly
report of individual club finances, eliminates the need for most book-keeping
by junior treasurers and renders the audit preparation relatively painless.
Transport is a major item of expense and frustration for many clubs. The
centralisation from RCC and ACC to ICU has not provided entirely happy
results, although the system has at last been supported by a specific transport
grant from ICU.
This year I have attempted to give the low-cost high membership clubs a
better deal, with Snooker and Wargames Clubs particularly benefitting from
this policy. Gliding Club, Balloon Club and other of the higher cost clubs
have been traditional targets for attack by some sections of ICU. Part of the
justification for students unions must be that they provide facilities for
activities that would otherwise by prohibitively expensive on a student's
income. The number of internationally and nationally known ex-university
figures in some of these activities reflects the validity of this argument and I
trust that ICU will continue to support these areas.
I have become firmly of the opinion that the priority expenditure of ICU
should be in support of its clubs, whether they be major sub-committee or
CCU based, provided that they are democratically run and accountable to
their members and ultimately to ICU as the provider of finance. Some clubs,
particularly within the CCUs have no real membership, no subscriptions and
are accountable to nobody but the relevant CCU committee who are in turn
not accountable to ICU. It is manifestly wrong and unfair that these bodies
should be parasitic on the democratic components of ICU and the CCUs.
A final word of thanks to all those that have helped me this year: Frank,
Karl, Mick, Kathey and Chris from RCC, Jen, Jo, Pat, Steve, John and
Christine from ICU and Ian, Johnathan, Mike and Matthew from the other
major sub-committees. Also my best wishes to all of next year's officers for a
successful term of office.
Colin Butter
SOCIAL COLOURS
ACC
1 Matthews, Cycling
T Bell, Pedal GB 83
D Molesworth, Squash
Jeff Walker, Rugby Tour
Paul Jarra, Judo Trainer
Jeff Walker, Judo Trainer
Chris Mallaband, ACC Exec, FELIX
Barry Franklin, ACC Exec
Sarah Pearson, ACC Exec
Madelaine Spottiswoode, ACC Exec
Dr Dave Chadwick, HST
Welfare
N Pyne, many activities
D G Potter, help this year
A S Gujral, Nightline
Pub Board
Hugh Southey, AP
Mark Simms, STOIC
Tony Atkins, Phoenix
Neil Sykes, IC Radio
Neil Collins, IC Radio
Christopher Martin, IC Radio
David Walker, IC Radio
Adrian James, FELIX
Paul Philippou, FELIX
Lee Paddon, FELIX
Tim Noyce, FELIX
Nick Bedding, FELIX
David Rowe, Phoenix
Peter Rodgers, Handbook
SCAB
Andrew Wood, Orchestra
Mike Withers, Op Soc
A Moore, Music
Dr D M Edwards, IC Wind Band
Mark Priestly, Dramsoc
Ents
D Chaplin, Ents films
P Belford, Ents Secretary
G Livett, Ents films
A Owens, Ents
S Porter, Ents Treasurer
A Fasey, Ents disco
RCC
D B Ludd, Chess & General
Sarah Jane Smith, Wine Soc
Richard Williams, Dancing
Simon Carter, Dancing
N R Daud, Dancing
Sean Davis, Snooker
Nick Gaskill, Snooker
Paul Holt, Snooker
Chris Jennings, Snooker
Richard Barron, Scout & Guide
Jenny Crompton, Scout & Guide
Michael Harris, Wargames
Karl Skinner, RCC Vice-Chairman
Bill Pennington, Audio Soc
Steve Lane, Caving
Mike Bull RCC Hon Sec
FELIXI I June TO, 19831 IPage7

