WALHABOUT-
lOOKSii
by Mobile Optics tac.
Wimbledon and Ascot, grass pollen counts,
county shows and church fetes, are the
universal constants of an English summer. And
even if it pours with rain and strawberries cost
a pound a punnet, one summer tradition
remains unaffected by the weather: the Royal
Academy Summer Exhibition which this year
is supported by IBM United Kingdom Ltd, the
first time in its 215 year history that the
Summer Exhibition has been backed by
industry.
The ritual of selection
JThe toil of months, experience of years
Before the dreaded Council now appears'
So run the first lines of a pamphlet written by a
disappointed painter in 1875.
IREVIEWSI
The exhibition is open to artists of any age
or nationality, professional or amateur. Most
media are accepted and drawings and
paintings must be framed and submitted,
unpacked, in categories (architectural,
miniatures, prints, etc) on specified days. All
must be original and must not previously have
been exhibited in London. This year 5,405
artists brought their works of art to Burlington
House, to be sent before the 'Selection and
Hanging Committee. Just over 1
0
% of the
works survived the selection process and the
1983 exhibition includes an amazing 1,483
works, by over 500 artists.
The artist members of the Royal Academy
Council who comprise the Committee
represent every facet of aesthetic opinion—a
sure recipe for an exhibition inducing visual
indigestion, one might suppose. Landscapes,
portraits, pop art and abstraction are all on
show, but by exercising care and imagination
over the hanging, a sense of unity has been
created from wall to wall and gallery to gallery,
making the exhibition both lively and
enjoyable.
•Cushion Concerts?' Mahler looks dubious at the Royal Academy
Royal Academicians and Amateurs
Stamina is required—unless you visit early on
a weekday morning. The pictures pack the
gallery walls and the galleries are packed with
members of the public. Large ladies in twinsets
and pearls, arty students in rag-trimmed
Japanese fashions, and smart-blazered
gentlemen who went to the private view for
serious buyers are there, discussing,
criticising, or quietly enjoying themselves.
Works by artists of very variable talent hang
side by side. One of the pleasures of the
Summer Exhibition is coming upon aspects of
perfection quite unexpectedly, standing out of
a wall of pedestrian pictures. There are works
by well known 'names'—an abstract version of
pig-in-the-middle by Victor Pasmore, one of
Peter Blake's famous 'assemblages', a
wonderful bronze sculpture Ijy Joan Miro (an
Honorary Academician), and drawings by
Linda Kitson, the Falkland artist. There are
also delightful discoveries to be made—the
peaches and cream skin of William Thomson's
nudes, the secret thoughts of Mel Caiman's
worried little man, a rose-tinted pointilliste
teapot by Lucy Smith, and the fine detail of
Claire Dalby's postage-stamp-sized wood
engravings.
Nearly all the works are for sale to the
public, at prices varying from £25 to £15,000. if
my grant was sufficiently elastic, I should find it
hard to resist Kaname Konno's 'Goddess of
the Sky'. She emerges in luscious curves from
a cabochon shape of polished bronze, oozing
Japanese sensuality to the very tips of her
exquisite fingers.
Music at the Royal Academy
Between 2:00 and 4:00pm on Saturdays and
Sundays till July 17, concerts are held by
students of the Royal Academy of Music and
the RCM in the courtyard of Burlington
House. In addition, four Youth & Music
Cushion Concerts will be given at the RA,
taking place weekly from June 30. The price of
the concert ticket includes a private view of
the Summer Exhibition, from 6:30pm until you
grab a cushion and sit down to listen to the
music at 7:30pm. For further details contact
the New Youth & Music Shop at 78 Neal
Street, Covent Garden (379 6722).
Where? When? £?
The Royal Academy Summer Exhibition is at
Burlington House, Piccadilly, until August 28
(closed June 14 and 15). it is open daily,
10:00am to 6:00pm. The admission is £1 for
students (otherwise £2), except on Mondays
when admission is 50p for everyone, thanks
to IBM.
Fools and
Transvestites
The Perfect Fool (Hoist) and'The Island of
Tulipatan: A double bill by Imperial
Opera
In The Oxford Dictionary of Music Scholes
dismissed The Perfect Fool in only seven
words: 'Composition of an original and
personal character' and despite its rapturous
reception at its first performance in 1923 it has
been largely ignored since—certainly as a
staged opera.
Perhaps the reason for this is the difficulty of
knowing at what level to pitch the humour of
the piece. Imperial Opera, according to their
programme, believe 'that a spirit of high
comedy should be maintained throughout'. If
this was indeed their aim, then I feel they failed
in it; there just isn't enough natural humour in
the libretto to do this. In the first twenty
minutes or so, for example, there is very little
dialogue at all—certainly not enough to make
comedy from.
No, Hoist's reputation rests on his abilities
as a composer, not a humourist, and it is the
music which makes The Perfect Fool what it is.
Happily, the singing was strong and confident,
both by the soloists and the chorus, and the
orchestra coped admirably with Hoist's
technically demanding score under the baton
of Michael Withers.
Where there is opportunity for comedy, the
cast certainly made the most of it, especially
when the jokes are in the music. Particularly
effective were Richard Cartmale and Ellis C
Pike disputing whether the music should
degenerate into a parody of Verdi or Wagner,
and Deborah Miles-Johnson's facial expres-
sions over her disenchantment with the wizard.
And so to The Island of Tulipatan, a
broadly farcical tale of transvestism which
doesn't even merit a mention in the Dictionary
of Music at all.
Hardly surprising, really, since the opera is
complete rubbish—a mishmash of badly
orchestrated tunes accompanying an apology
for a plot which makes Gilbert and Sullivan
appear sophisticated. Nevertheless the opera's
shortcomings were more than made up for by
the professionalism of the company and Tess
Alps's crisp production.
All five principals gave superb perform-
ances, especially Tim Johnson as the grand
Seneschal (whatever that may be) and Virginia
King as his pretentious wife, squeezing laughs
from the most pathetic jokes imaginable. Their
acting was set off well against the singularly
slick chorus work. Special mention here must
go to Roger Middlebrook who, although only a
member of the chorus, was making the most of
the opportunities denied him in the title role of
The Perfect Fool.
Finally, congratulations to the company
who, in four fully staged light operas, still seem
determined to stay away from the amateur
operatic's staple diet of Gilbert and Sullivan.
One can only wonder what long neglected
show they will dig up for their next production.
Whatever it is, I shall recommend it.
Martin S Taylor

