F E L I X
Stop mucking about,
lads and lasses,
ind come
t'uig rave-up...
GRANTS CUT
OPPOSED
Trafalgar Square
Rally Successful
2,500 students joined the NUS rally in Trafalgar Square on
Sunday afternoon to protest against the Government's proposed cut
in grant increases.
Christopher Greene, who also spoke at the LRO meeting a week
last Friday, see page 2, opened and pledged the support of the Liberal
Party to the campaign.
NUS President Geoff Martin then spoke. He noted the Liberal
Party were on the students' side, but said that NUS were still await-
ing an official Conservative policy
Three representatives of the student political organisations wound
up the meeting : Fergus Nicholson on behalf of the Communists,
Phil Kelly for the Liberals, and Victor McColl Chairman of the
Federation of Conservative Students.
About two-thirds of the people who attended then joined the
march organised by the Union of Liberal Students down Whitehall,
from which the NUS executive were careful to dissociate themselves.
The Action
Proposed
Already the NUS has organised
a number of activities in the
Grants Campaign. The meeting
in Birmingham on 7th February,
reported in the last issue, press
conferences, the LRO meeting at
the Institute of Education re-
ported on page 2 and the Tra-
falgar Square rally last Sunday ;
as well as a large number of
events staged by individual Col-
leges and Universities and the
other regional organisations.
The first phase of the cam-
paign will be completed by stu-
dents and their parents writing to
their MPs and by the lobby of
Parliament next Wednesday De-
tails of this are given below and
more will be available around the
College. Another meeting is
planned with Gordon-Walker just
after this, and if no satisfaction is
then obtained, the campaign will
move into its second phase, in
which activity will be gradually
stepped up until the final an-
nouncement in May
The NUS executive say that
they are not ruling out any action
during this stage of the cam-
paign.
Parliamentary
Lobby
The London Regional Organis-
ation of NUS are organising a
mass lobby of Parliament next
Wednesday, 13th March, at 2.30
p.m.
Stewards are being provided
and students will queue by alpha-
betical order of constituencies to
see their MP Each Student will
fill in a green card saying why
he wishes to see his MP before
having the interview in groups
of six to eight at a time.
For more information see the
publicity around the College.
IC won six inter-College com-
petitions last week. See pages 2,
11 and 12.
What the
Cuts Mean
The increase in grants neces-
sary to bring them up to the 1961
level was cut in 1965 by 40 per
cent. Therefore, with an 11 per
cent increase in the cost of liv-
ing since 1965 an increase of 23
per cent is being asked for If the •
cuts are allowed to stand until
1971 then an increase of around
60 per cent will be necessary to
bring them back to the 1961 level
and when faced with this situa-
tion the Government cannot be
expected to keep the grant struc-
ture as at present Several people
are convinced that the Govern-
ment will try to introduce a sys-
tem of loans this summer. An
increase of poverty amongst stu-
dents is bound to result (yes, many
students live in conditions of
poverty now).
More students will be unable
to complete their courses as a
result of enforced economic hard-
ship. This means a greater waste
of public money At the moment
we have one of the lowest wastage
rates in the world—14 per cent.
At IC thisfigureis even lower
Increased barriers to child..t:
from poorer homes from encor-
ing Higher Education and receiv-
ing the education they deserve
will result—25 per cent of the
student population are from
working class homes, a, fact
proudly presented by Shirley
Williams at a Conference of
European Education Ministers re-
cently.
WHAT NUS ARE
ASKING FOR
NUS are asking that:
1. The other 50 per cent of the cut will be restored at a specified
time (next year) not when " for the time being " comes.
2. Hall, refectory and other University charges are meanwhile
restrained (as they were during the prices and incomes freeze jusl
over a year ago).
3. Raise the Means Test floor from £700 to £1,100 in line with
the increase in the average wage from 1962 to 1968.
4. Remove anomalies in the present system, specifically—
(a) Discretionary Awards—some local authorities will give a
grand to a student who fails and is offered a repeat year
whilst others will not.
(b) Postgraduate Awards—graduates studying for a Diploma
-» in Education after completing their degrees will receive a
grant on the same terms as postgraduates students in Dili
varsities, instead of, as now, being subject to the same con-
ditions as for undergraduates.
(c) Married Students—NUS asks that the ban on a dependant's
allowance to students who marry or have children during
the course be lifted.
(d) Mature Students—NUS asks that the Department of Educa-
tion and Science makes strong recommendations to LEAs
that they give Major Awards with full allowances to mature
students; dependants' allowances be brought into line with
with Ministry of Social Security supplementary benefits, and
that previous earnings allowance rates be rationalised.
(e) Widowed and Divorced Students—it is possible for a student
who becomes widowed or divorced during a course to
receive less grant than previously.
NUS recommend the following levels of grant for students in
London:
In Hall £450 ; In Lodgings £460 ; At Home £345.
They have been designed as a bare minimum to live in London.
For instance, in the case of a hall of residence the purely mainten-
ance part (accommodation, food, laundry, etc.) accounts for £240,
£70 for personal expenditure (1/- a week repair and cleaning ol
clothes 1/6 chemists goods, 10/- entertainment), £55 for clothes—£7
less than a recent Courtauld's Market Research indicated was the
minimum necessary for a female undergraduate; £35 for expendi-
ture necessary for the course ; £35 vacation allowance (as at present) j
and £15 travel allowance (£3 more than at present to facilitate LEA
administration).
IC LOSE
MIKE AGAIN
On its first public appearance
since Freshers Day last Saturday
Mike, the IC mascot was re-
moved from a crowded bar at
Motspur Park, the ULU sports
ground, by Kingsmen, after help-
ing IC win the ULU rugby
Sevens and Hockey trophies
The Wooden Horse Club will
he holding a full meeting in the
Guilds Union Office 361 Mech.
Eng. at 1930 on Thursday to
formulate plans for its recovery.
AIRPLANE,
DOORS FOR IC?
The Jeiferson Airplane Photo courtesy Decca Records Ltd.
Ents are trying to book the Jefferson Airplane and/or the Doors
for a hop early next term, probably on Friday, April 26ih, when both
are expected to be in England.
After the Monkees and the Beach Boys these are currently prob-
ably the most popular groups in the USA, with big record suc-
cesses behind them, although they have yet to attract the following
they deserve in this country. Both groups are the product iV •he
American West Coast (or, more specifically, the San Francisco) scene.
Continued on page 9
Donovan Tickets
on Sale
Tickets for the Carnival con-
cert in the Albert Hall (March
21st) are now on sale in Rooms
172 and 178 Keogh every lunch-
time.
(Mon., Wed., Fri.,—12-2 p.m.
Tues,, Thurs.-12.30-2.30 p.m).
Roines Returns
See page 12
i m p e r i a l c o l l e g e
S a t u r d a y
m a r c h 1 6 t h
S P O O K Y
T O O T H
& s u p p o r t i n g g r o u p s

