6 MARCH 1968 FELIX 12
S P O R T S N E W S
Boats
Last Wednesday, the College 1st
VITI successfully defended the
University of London Head of the
River rowed over the Boat Race
course. Starting fourth, IC
reached Hammersmith Bridge in
7 min. 50 sec. and at this stage
had barely gained on Guy's
Hospital, the third crew away.
However, rowing strongly with
the following wind down Corney
Reach, IC had established a lead
of some 20 sees, by Barnes Bridge
and this was extended to 31 sees
at the finish at Mortlake. Also
taking part in the race were the
University of London 2nd and
3rd VIIIs. These crews started
behind all the college entries and,
although they passed many of the
slower crews, were beaten by the
IC 1st and 2nd VIIIs respectively
Following this success, the IC
crew will be appearing at King-
ston Head (March 9th), Reading
Head (March 16th) and the Tide-
way Head (March 23rd).
Results : 1—IC I 19.52; 2—
Tyrian I 20.05; 3—Guy's I 20.23;
4—GMC I 20.27; 5 - I C II 20.29;
6—Tyrian II 20.35.
IC 1st VIII—Bow P. M. J.
Meagher, 2 R. E. Bright, 3 P. A .
Lowe, 4 H . B. Chare, 5 N .
Temple, 6 J. A . Borham, 7. R. F.
Allum, Stroke A . A . Friend, Cox
G. W Harrison.
The IC 3rd VIII were 3rd in
the Junior division, finishing 9th
overall in 21 min. 14 sees. IC
4th were third in the novice divi-
sion finishing 17th overall in 22
min. 33 sees.
Soccer
The hope of the soccer club
rests on the shoulders of the 2nd
XI this season. This Saturday,
they play Q M C II in the final of
the ULU knock-out cup competi-
tion. IC have both won and lost
to this team in the U L U league
this year but the cup final team
will be much stronger and should
win on paper.
The team is already almost cer-
tain to win their league and as
much support as possible will be
more than appreciated especially
as their distinguished inside left
will be 21 on the same day.
WEBB-BOWEN. EVANS.
POTTER & PARTNERS,
consultants
in the marketing of ideas and
inventions. We can make your idea
a practical reality. Our advice is free
Quote Ref. 1000
6 Grafton Street, London, W.l
Tel: 01-629 5253
They Did It
ICWA Hockey team won the U L U Women's Hockey Cup for
the first time in their history, last Saturday at Motspur Park. A fan-
tastic achievement considering the number of women at IC compared
to UC, Bedford, Kings, etc.
However, they did not win easily, UC were on top for most of
the first half which was goalless, being unlucky in not scoring on
several occasions.
In the second half, after being a goal down, IC gradually took
command and scored three times, a rather eager Miss Paluch knock-
ing out the goalkeeper in scoring the first.
Mixed Hockey Victory
The U.L. Mixed Hockey tournament I O O K piace on Sunday 25th
February, and after about 2\ gruelling hours of competitive hockey
the I.C. team emerged victorious.
Playing on the very hard, fast pitches and in such cold winds was
very tiring, and it was obvious the team would have to pace themselves
well, in order to get to the final.
In the initial league IC drew two matches and won the third, thus
ensuring themselves of a place in the semi-final league.
Now, the X I were playing well together, and they easily won this
league drawing one match and winning the others convincingly. Thus
the team arrived in the final against Royal Holloway College. Despite
poor umpiring the result, a 2-0 victory for IC, was entirely satis-
factory.
In conclusion it may be said that the whole team played well,
without any of the continual bickering that characterised most of the
other teams. The defence did not concede a single goal, and the
forwards had a field day.
Team : —R. Webb, M . Burtt, Janet. Linda, C. Woolley, Gay,
Sue, I. Tasney, Dorothy, M. Ramsey, D. Roger, M. Pratt.
Ten Pin Bowling
For the second year running IC Ten-pin Bowling Club have suc-
ceeded in winning the London League, and so retain the trophy. After
an early folding of the League due to the apathy of minor colleges,
IC were left one point above Brunei University who, sadly for them,
were last year's runners-up too. Next session, however, the club
hope to find better competition in a new league comprising possibly
Cambridge, East Anglia, Brunei and others.
Members of the team have been: I. Coleman (Captain), D.
Forster, T. Longmans, S. Moffat, R. Owen, A Parsons, D. Smyth.
Sevens Success
Last Saturday the ULU Sevens were held at Motspur Park and
it turned out to be a field day for IC. Two teams were entered, the
fir,st VIII winning the competition and ,the seconds reaching the semi-
finals, where they were knocked out by LSE. The 1st VII beat them
in the final, 17-5.
Teams: 1st VII—J. Lunn, T. Stephenson, R. Pine, R. Marshall,
J. Kelly, R. Chappell.
2nd VII—A. Vickerstaff, P. Cox, D. Bell, P Humphries, K.
Heaton, P. Evans, and Punchy Stan.
^wMHMM^Roines Returns
Published by David Cooper on beh
~ ~ ~ ,. . . , , , W K o T iriNDON OFFSET CO.. 86, Liliie Rd., London, S.W.6.
alf of FELIX BOARD Imperial College, London, S.W.7. and printed by WEST LONDON

