TROUBLE LOOMS AT RCA: IG HELPS O
U
T
The College Authorities at the Royal College of Art have attempted to impose a censorship
on an article in the present issue of the RCA "NEWSHEEP*. Yesterday the 1\1E¥SHEET Editor and
the RCA Union president saw IC Deputy president Martin Lack, and obtained permission for it to
be printed on the FELIX duplicating machine. This has been done, with the help of FELIX staff.
SE>BHEET has been in existence for about a year and is Sent to a l l studenta, members of
staff and governing bodies of the college. It acts as a vehicle for student opinion, and Colle-
ge activities in general. The production is supported by direct subsidy irom the RCA Union,
the Editor being independant of both the Union and the Staff.
GLORIOUS COLOUR
Chris Palmer, dynamic Carnival Organiser, says that the Donovan Concert in the Albert
Hall will probably be filmed in colour by BBC TV.
WtiM TAKE O V E K H I L E S .
In the Elections at the Mines Annual General Meeting yesterday Barry Sullivan was
elected President unopposed, and Tom Marples was elected Vice president b;y a large
majority. But the shock of having two women on next years committee was such that many
members left before the end, unable to.contemplate singing "CATS".
Other results:-
Barry Hood - Hon Sec; R. Olley - Foreign Student; C. Morgan - Ents Officer;
Keith Firmin - Publicist; L. Campion - R.S.M.J. Eaitor; A. Barton - Ents Sec;
D. Tranter _ Metallurgy; A. Carter - 2 M*- ing Rep; Florence Burke - Mining 1 Rep.
CARIJTVAL COLLECTION TOTALS.
RCS £603 Mines £678 City and Guilds £1630
Mechanical Engineering 1 lead Department total with £315.
SUPERIiEWHIKK.
Newthink 2, out now, is unrecognizable from Newhhink 1 which appeared (did you
notice?) late last term* Price 2/- this issue shows that Nesrthink could become a luorthwhile
magazine for student opinion and ideas. As one expects, the content is midly left-wing;
there is an article putting the case for Young Liberal activism and a. Syip;oRv|)redictable
critique of U.S. policy in Vietnam, styled 'prelude to genocide', complete wij;h a distorted
Scarfe-type cartoon. The great feature of this issue is the excellent poetry, one poem by
Roger McGough, one by Brian Patten, which make up for the dullness of some of the prose. The
general production is of a very high quality and the magazine a recommeded purchase, piers
Corbyn, phys 3, I.C., is the Circulation agent, and is presumably circulating Ivewthink at the
moment. Copies are available in the bookstall, (and inciaentlly in the Arts Lab, where it is
reputedly selling well).
A SOUTH VIETNAMESE AT I.C.
Congratulations to I.C. Political Societies Council on ganising a successful and
useful teach-in on Vietnam and carrying it through without any of the unpleasant happenings
that so often lower the dignity both of colleges and reasoned debate.
On such occasions "
w
e hear a lot of anti-American sentiment and very l i t t l e from the
other side, so Nguyen Van An, Minister from the South Vietnamese Embassy, was the star
attraction. The concert Hall yesterday lunch-time was full, and a large section of the ,
audience were clearly spoiling for their chance to boo and laugh down the representative
of the "puppet government". They were to be disappointed.
First to speak was Mrs, Peggy Crane of the United Nations Association. She
sketched the history of Vietnam since the Japanese withdrawal, and argued that the conflict
was a political one to which a political solution was possible. She thought it was not
essential for the British Government to be neutral.
I\jguyen Van An speaks poor English, but by using notes and remaining unflustered he
succeeded in making himself understood throughout the hall. The beginning of his speech
was marked bj boos, cheers, end sarcastic laughter. Nguyen Van An spoke on at a measured
pace. "Points of information" were offered-ignored by the chair. After these, the speaker
was heard in silence. His theme was that Hanoi was the aggressor. "The aggressor who started
the war should not be mistaken for the victim." He was giving usithe ofiical views of the
Saigon Government, which we do not hear very often. They (the North Vietnamese) sent arms,
ammunition and trained people into the South. They organised a terror campaign. They
broke down the social, economic and welfare structure of the country. They forced the -
International Control Commision teams to . . . .
(P.T.O.)

