6 M A R C H 1968 FELIX 9
LONDON SCENE
SCOUT AND GUIDE WEEKEND
The weekend 24th-25th Feb.
was the date of the Westminster
Decathlon, a 24 hour assault
course for venture scouts run by
I.C. Scout and Guide club.
Activities for the club began
early on Saturday morning when
camp was set up at Chalfont
Heights, near Slough. Due to over
efficiency rather more tents than
required were borrowed from
Westminster Scouts—almost one
per head. After lunch a number
of lethal obstacles were erected
for Sunday's activities.
Saturday night was taken up
with a rather hectic and sup-
posedly friendly wide game. Only
one person was taken to hospital,
and then only briefly.
Stlnday morning started cold
but very late due to the failure of
the only alarm clock in camp.
The morning was occupied with a
number of incidents such as ab-
sailing down trees, swinging on
ropes and pioneering in mudbaths.
After lunch came the ultimate
torture—a wire cable aerial run-
way. Rumour has it that part of
the unique braking system is part'
of the infamous Guilds pedal car.
Camp was finally struck in sub-
zero temperature by the light of
the moon. The coldness of the
week-end was emphasized when
someone tried to wash down a
table—the water froze before it
could run off. The huntrrv mas-
ses then proceeded to " 129." the
flat of one of the club members
where 2\ dozen eggs, unaccount-,
ably unbroken in one of Sunday's
incidents were consumed. It is
fair to say the real winner was the
weather.
The London club scene is
dying as fast as the word hop
at IC. Where can you now find
scenes to match Georgie Fame
ud the Blue Flames at the
Flamingo, Zoot Money's Big
Roll Band at Klook's Kleek, Cyril
Davies and Alexis Korner, the
Yardbirds or tie Rolling Stones
at the Marquee, or, more re-
cently, the Pink Floyd or To-
morrow at UFO ? Whatever
happened to the Scene, Scotch of
St. lames, Tiles, UFO, the
Roundhouse or Bag o' Nails ?
What has killed the London
club scene—braces, flat-topped
hair styles, flared trousers, Vidal
Sassoon or just apathy? The real
answer lies in the fact that the
demand for genuine music has
died out. Each club has its own
little in-set of groovies: the Blues-
ville moddies, the Flamingo colo-
nials, the Middle Earth hippies
and the Marquee drudge. The
moddies killed UFO, the hippies
killed the blues clubs, they joined
hands to kill the Marquee and all
are now hammering at the doors
of the Speakeasy.
London Dead
A leading A.& R. man once
said to me " the London scene is
dead, I'm going back to America
where the small groups are worth
watching." This just is not true.
Fantastic groups are springing up
every week—Ten Years After,
Aynsley Dunbar Retaliation,
Dantalians Chariot, Tyranno-
saurus Rex, Spooky Tooth, the
Fairport Convention, to name but
a few. Why are these groups not
getting the wild receptions they
deserve? Simply because the ave-
rage person's comprehension of
anything more profound than the
colour of the lead guitarist's trou-
sers is practically non-existent.
Remember five hundred people
swinging with Georgie Fame?
YOU'RE A
GOOD MAN
CHARLiE
BROWN
Reviewed by
John Mullaly
Truly Charles M . Schulz of " Peanuts " fame must be a wealthy
man. In addition to appearing in newspapers throughout the USA
and Britain, his strip cartoon has fathered two smash-hit records
(remember "Charlie Brown" by The Coasters?) and a series of coffee-
table books (Happiness is—, Security is—, et al). Finally the ultimate
has appeared—a musical entertainment, no less! and given the chance
to review it, FELIX could hardly refuse. So.
" You're a good man, Charlie Brown " is presently appearing at
the Fortune Theatre and I must, in all honesty, report that nothing
in the show matches the excellence of the strip cartoon to any degree.
The same dry line in humour, gently probing the weaknesses and
foibles of Schulz's six characters is still there, for the story line is
nothing more than a sequence of the cartoons acted out on the stage,
interspersed with a little song and dance. Charlie Brown never gets
to talk to that cute little red-head, never makes it to home base;
Snoopy curses his Red Baron from the top of his kennel; Lucy
screeches romantic love at a piano-playing Schroeder. Yet the wit of
the cartoons has vanished in the transformation to the stage. The cast,
after all, consists of a group of adults masquerading as a group of
children masquerading (very often) as a group of adults. Without as
much as a tail as a prop, masquerading as dog Snoopy is an even
tougher assignment. In trying too hard to make contact with the
audience the show loses the subtle quality of Schulz's humour. Neither
can it offer the appeal of " the cute way kids have with them." Even
the music fails to bring the show to life, being a series of forgettable
tunes around moderately interesting lyrics. Nourished by the Daily
Sketch on hi-grade " Peanuts," I found " You're a good man, Charlie
Brown " disappointingly tasteless.
Yet there were some good moments. Snoopy's duel with the Red
Baron comes off well, mainly because the whole thing has already
been fully documented. From time to time Charlie Brown and Lucy
scratch and pick at a sore of great amusement in the apparent com-
pulsion of Americans to analyse one another. Unfortunately the show
ends on a note of schloppy schmaltz with the song " Happiness" (is
a thumb and a blanket). Curiously enough the audience quite appre-
ciated this sugared curtain-closer, on the night I went. As far as I could
make out it was, like the show, almost entirely American.
Now a titter might arise from
the stalls when Alvin Lee shatters
his seventy-ninth plectrum. Re-
member an Eric Clapton solo
with the Yardbirds? Now, a
fifteen year old teeny-bopper col-
lapses in ecstasy as Carle Wayne
of the Move rams the microphone
stand into his crotch. A group
does not stand a chance now
unless they are called Aluminium
Margarine, feature two sitars and
a booglie and the lead singer has
been out with Twiggy.
Are the clubs doing anything
about this state of affairs? In the
pulsating depths of a San Fran-
cisco summer the Flamingo, one
of the all time great blues clubs,
changed its name to the Pink
Flamingo and closed the lid over
a great tradition of music. As
the teeny-boppers bought their
bells on the winkle stands of
Southend, UFO went back under-
ground, the rent collectors seized
Tiles and so on.
One can count the successful
clubs on the fingers of one hand.
The Marquee continues to put on
attractive groups but even they
have lost the knack of turning
young guitarists into professional
musicians. Supreme at the top
reigns the Speakeasy. How do
they do it? Simple—restrict the
membership.
PETE NICHOLLS
WIZZ •••
" Don Partridge used to bottle
for me." So said Wizz Jones,
last Wednesday's guest at the
Folk Club. Ha plays contem-
porary tunes and is concentrating
more on his guitar playing than
on his singing at the moment. In
fact in the first half he played
" the only ' folk song' of his
repetoire " which he had written
himself. He has been a profes-
sional artist for ten years. He
began his career in 1957 busking
outside the Warner cinema. Then
after a summer in Cornwall toured
Europe and North Africa busk-
ing. He gave that up because of
too much " student competition."
When he returned to Europe he
" discovered " the folk clubs and
has been playing at them ever
since. He now plays solo but
used to play with Pete Stanley,
a blue brass banjo player. Unlike
Don Partridge, Popdom did not
come his way although he and
Pete Stanley did make a Bob
Dylan single—before anyone had
heard of Bob Dylan!
He performed in the first half
to a small and quiet audience. By
the second half however, this had
increased in both number and
volume. The performance of
Wizz, and of the resident per-
formers improved as audience
participation became more lively.
The standard was perhaps nojt as
high as is normal at Fell. Club but
it was none th" less enjoyable.
He was ably supported by the
resident artists and a good time
was had by all.
Drug;
at IF j0
The International F tions
Club held a poorly attend' neet-
ing on Drugs on Mondi.„ -22nd
February, with William Deedes
MP, speaking and with a showing
of the American film " Hooked."
Mr. Deedes began his talk with
a run-through of the various kinds
of drugs at present in use and
with an outline of the new
Dangerous Drugs Act. Accord-
ing to him, the main anomaly of
the drugs legislation at the mo-
ment is the way marihuana is
classified under the 1965 Danger-
ous Drugs Act whereas LSD, a
far more dangerous drug, is
merely mentioned in the less
stringent 1964 Misuse of Drugs
Act. Informed medical and so-
cial opinion leads him to believe
that these two drugs should be
interchanged.
Social Problems
More important, however, is
the social problem presented by
the taking of drugs. T'iere is a
point, as Mr. Deedes said, beyond
which you can't legislate against
people doing something they
really want to do, so education
must undoubtedly start to fill a
larger role in the fight against the
drugs menace.
New problems always present
themselves to the social worker.
Recently there has been an up-
surge of people only " fixing " oc-
casionally. It is a relatively
little-investigated topic as to
whether occasional taking of the
" hard " drugs heroin and cocaine
eventually lead to addiction. Then
again there is a social twork
unhelpful to doctors and che-
mists, etc., where addicts 1
together and sell narcotics
amongst themselves. Mr. Deedes
believes that there are about 4000
drug addicts in London at the
moment, and unless the new act
has an immediate and profound
effect, this number «ill be asro-
nomical by Y 7 1
.
C O U N C I L
The election for the vacancy n
Council caused by Malcolm
" Spooks " Duckett's resignation
will be held at the next Union
meeting on Thursday, larch
14th. Favourite at the moment
is Rob Collinge, who stood at the
end of last year and was defeated.
It is believed that Ian Wells is at-
tempting to get a Miner to stand.
Nominations close on Tuesday.
Business to be discussed in-
clude the Boothman/Duckett
re-or<Mnis;''ior> of the whole
Umuu struct,„ and l?r w-rtv,
motion to have another Consti-
tuent College rep on Council.
AIRPLANE, DOORS FOR I.C.? Continued from page 1
The Jefferson Airplane are the leaders of the folk-rock type of
music and feature the incredible voice of .Grace Slick, an ex-folk
singer. They have had three singles released in Britain : " White
Rabbit" (which was a big hit in the States), " Somebody to Love,"
and the " Ballad of You and Me an Pooneil," and an LP, " Surreal-
istic Pillow."
While the Airplane are trying to adapt and fuse together the
idioms of folk-music and rock-'n-roll, the Doors are trying, both
lyrically and instrumentally, to evolve something completely different
from pop music at present. Their lyrics and singing, full of poetic
imagery, may leave something to be desired (although infinitely better
than the lyric of the standard pop love song, which is at last fading)
but they have few peers in their superbly imaginative instrumental
improvisations. On their first LP, " The Doors," the addition of a
three-minute instrumental passage to the million selling American
No. 1, " Light My Fire," transforms it from a well above average pop
song to some of the best pop music at present available. In addition
to " Light My Fire," which had small success, they have had two
other singles released here; " Break on Through," also from their
first L P and " People are Strange " from their latest L P " Strange
Days," which was released recently.
Ents expect the hop to cost them about $1,000 (£417) and if they
can bring one or both groups to IC will scoop all London colleges and
possibly all Universities as well
The two groups are booked to do one concert toge. jr in the
Albert Hall on Easter Saturday, March 13th.

