nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 felix Friday 5 December 2008
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Catherine Jones (CJ)
You cannot
escape New
Year’s Eve
Don’t just sit around. Force yourself (or
someone else) to organise New Year’s Eve
plans before you end up alone... again
P
ut the mince pie down (care-
fully). Momentarily step
away from the tinsel. It’s
time to start thinking about
making those dreaded New
Year’s Eve plans. Here is a fine selec-
tion of events in the capital for those
wishing to start the year in style.
As the clocks strike midnight, there
is one place guaranteed to have the
ooooh factor.; that clock in Westmin-
ster. Everyone has seen Big Ben, and
the spectacular fireworks detonated
above the Thames on television, year
after year. Will it meet up to expecta-
tion in real life?
Clearly the main problem with
this otherwise sensible plan, loutish
crowds. Revellers need a bar to pro-
vide the essential alcohol, shelter and
warmth. Hypothermia is not a good
look or way to start a new year. The
WalkAbout Bar near Temple Tube Sta-
tion is the obvious choice to meet your
needs. It faces onto the Thames, so the
midnight fireworks are on your door-
step. The unpretencious Australian
theme, with DJs, relatively affordable
drinks and a modest entry fee should
make for a good all round experience.
Matter
What can you say? Once again, the su-
perclub at the O2 has the mother of all
line-ups. 2ManyDJs are headlining the
celebrations with an electroclash DJ
set. For a duo with a DVD called “Part
of the Weekend Never Dies”, I expect
there to be many fond memories of
frenzied midnight dancing. I wish you
a happy pilgrimage all the way to North
Greenwich. Get home safely children.
Peaches
May I suggest adding a new celebration
to the calendar? An inspired club pro-
motor has booked Peaches to perform
a DJ/MC set at Durrr’s “Not The New
Year’s Eve”. The self-titled “electrocrap
queen” seems the perfect antidote to
tiresome Christmas cheer. I pronounce
that the 29th December shalt hence-
forth be known as New Year’s Eve Eve
Eve. Why has no one thought of this
before? Hmmm.
How to describe Peaches? Well, she’s
on a different planet to the likes of
Dido. She is glam-shock, provocative,
vulgar and obscene. Perfect for rebel-
ling against nostalgic festive tweeness.
Indoctrinate yourself with the unoffi-
cial videos for “Fuck the Pain away” on
YouTube. Gossip Queen Perez Hilton’s
Miss Piggy version of this track is an
excellent intro for beginners. I’m sure
she will be wishing “Goodwilll to all
men” this Christmas.
Guanabara
I don’t know about you, but I’d quite
like be at a beach party in Rio on New
Year’s Eve. Pyrotechnics, live music
and waves gently lapping on the beach.
It’s an image of perfection.
Back home in London, you can still
live the dream at Guanabara, a Brazil-
lian late night venue near Drury Lane.
Revellion is the Brazillian new year’s
event, a celebration originating from
the traditions of the Umbanda religion.
This Afro-Brazillian faith is based on
a mix of Catholicism and Spiritualism.
Revellers dress in white, float candles
in the sea and offer flowers to Iemanjá,
the Queen of Seas, in return for bless-
ing the new year.
At Guanabara, DJ Mark Robert-
son from Spiritual South, Limao and
D.Vyzor will be on the decks playing
Brazilian sounds. Mandinga, samba
popsters and London School of Samba
will be playing live.
2ManyDjs will be wrecking up Matter and they are so good that light literally shines out of their arses
Peaches isn’t technically at The End on New Year’s Eve but December the 29th is close enough
If you aren’t lucky enough to enjoy Rio’s floating Xmas tree, then Guanabara near Drury Lane is for you
If none of these events interest
you, alternatively there’s a house
party at David J Paw’s abode.
Check next week’s issue for the
full details. The dress code is
“16th century surrealism”.
Catherine Jones
Nightlife Editor
Mince pies
down!

