26 felix Friday 5 December 2008 27
Friday 5 December 2008 felix
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
Spotlight on the Recreational Clubs Committee
H
ave you ever found your-
self having fun/ wanting
to have fun whilst at Im-
perial? If the answer is
yes then the chances are
that you are/ want to be a member of
a club that is part of the Recreational
Clubs Committee. Those of us in the
RCC make our sole purpose in life to
cater to the needs of the hard work-
ing Imperial student by providing you
with opportunities to maximise those
rare occasions when you find your-
self with some ‘free time’ (read: not a
deadline tomorrow). In short, the RCC
has a plethora of fun activities to suit
your every whim- from Belly Dancing
to Wargames, Surfing to Mah Jong,
and Caving to Wine & Fine Drinks
(but preferably not at the same time)
as well as our newest addition, Radio-
Controlled Modellers. In essence, the
RCC represents an eclectic mix of (oc-
casionally quirky) clubs that satiate this
college’s craving for that Holy Grail
that we all must strive for: a life.
Now that we’ve convinced you of
your need to join one of these clubs,
we’ve prepared a handy flow chart to
help you decide which one/ones to
join. Its worth noting though, that this
is by no means an extensive list- our di-
versity is so diverse that it’s simply not
possible to include them all, but that’s
not to say that if its niche you’re seek-
ing, we can’t provide- because we can.
Do you sometimes find yourself yearn-
ing to look after a 100 year old fire en-
gine? Or do you find Windows Vista
the bane of your life and have become
an apostle of Linux? A full list can be
found at www.union.ic.ac.uk/rcc.
And if you still feel there aren’t
enough hours in the day for fun, we’ve
also got the annual RCC Night Hike
for your delight and amusement. Com-
ing to you this February, it is always a
night of fancy dress, frustration (the
good kind) and frolics; guaranteed
to leave an indelible mark on your
hippocampus.
RCC Chair Jenny Wilson and chums go through the ins-and-outs of the recreational side of student life
Why not try Parkour or Gymnastics:
these could both accurately be de-
scribed as the skilled art of running
and jumping over obstacles. A more
subtle difference is the nature of those
obstacles. If parkour is your style, say
goodbye to brick walls stopping you
in your tracks, for it becomes a ques-
tion of which way to go around/over
the wall? On the other hand, if you are
more of a traditionalist then gymnas-
tics is for you, where you can conquer
your fear of cartwheels and have a le-
gitimate excuse for wearing a leotard.
If gravity is what’s holding you back
Synchronised Swimming is another
option, particularly if you want more
from a swim than badges.
Do you like fun? Reconsider
Do you have an “allergy to
sweat”?
Do you embrace the geek
week?
GEEK POSITIVE GEEK NEGATIVE
Do you like running and jump-
ing or adventure?
RUNNING & JUMPING ADVENTURE
AstroSoc and Street Magic could
be just up your alley. Think of it like
transforming your life at Imperial to
one akin to a life at Hogwarts, and si-
multaneously fulfilling that fantasy of
yours/mediate your disappointment
that there wasn’t a Hogwarts Uni op-
tion on UCAS. AstroSoc does more
than just looking at the sky- they have
things like ‘star parties’ and regularly
hear from astronomers as well as go-
ing on excursions to our Wye campus
to watch solar eclipses. Or for those of
you who need a better party trick than
reciting pi to 100dp, knowing a bit of
Street Magic is a much cooler alterna-
tive. If you’re lucky, they’ll even teach
you to conjure a lab report.
For you Lara Crofts/Indiana Jones’
we have a range of adventure clubs
covering sky (with Gliding and Para-
chute), sea and rivers (with Canoe)
and land (with Outdoor, Fellwander-
ers, Exploration and Mountaineering
clubs, though admittedly the last pre-
fer to traverse vertical surfaces). And if
you’ve had enough of over-ground, we
also have Caving club to take you un-
derground, or Underwater society for
those of you more aquatically inclined.
These provide the perfect chance to
really leave the city life; distance isn’t
really a consideration for these adven-
turers as long as there is fresh air- even
in a tank. Whatever the weather, they
always return with some exciting tales.
Fairly self explanatory in their nature,
why not join Wargames, Chess, Back-
gammon, Mah Jong, Gaming (as in
computers and consoles) or Web De-
sign & Software if your style is more
relaxed. These clubs provide an indoor
haven for those who don’t require frost-
bite, trench foot or reality to have fun.
That’s not to say of course that they
don’t induce a similar adrenaline rush
to their more physical counterparts,
from cerebral achievements alone.
That’s right, with these sorts you could
work towards taking on Deep Blue
(the chess playing computer) or hack
the main frame with your new supe-
rior Perl or C++ skills (read: computer
skills for geek negatives).
YES
NO
SWEAT IS A WAY
OF LIFE FOR ME
SEVERE HIVES
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
David Paw eats steak
phere, service – are available in spades.
Grab a table if you can – table service
is quick and efficient, and takes any po-
tential stress out of the proceedings.
After just over the 30 minutes had
elapsed, we were shown to our seats.
The setup at Sophie’s – unlike so many
space-starved London eateries – is a
welcome relief. The tables are perfectly
placed for people watching and come
with a claustrophobia-free guarantee.
While this isn’t the perfect setup for an
intimate date, I would hazard a guess
that watching a previously-attractive
girl/boy devour a plate of near-raw
meat could be quite a turn-off.
The a la carte is a carnivore’s delight,
and almost everything on the menu
was a tempting proposition. The list of
starters was mercifully abbreviated too,
offering perfectly rendered classics like
calamari and dressed Cornish crab.
But of course, the star attraction was
what we, and most of you, will venture
to WC2 for, and though the list wasn’t
as comprehensive as other steakhouses
(say, either a gargantuan 20oz piece, or
a proportionally-challenged 8oz cut),
at least it was to the point.
Between us, we ordered the Porter-
house and two portions of the Cote
de Boeuf. After a very brief wait, the
waitress set down what can only be
described as three monstrous slabs of
bovine joy on our table. With a smile
Sophie’s Steakhouse HHHHK
29-31 Wellington St, WC2E 7DB
Phone: 020 7352 0088
www.sophiessteakhouse.com
Best: Incredible meat-binge
Worst: The fries... oh those
french fries
Price: £25/30 per head
and wink she chirruped “Enjoy!” and
left us to contemplate the task at hand.
However, unlike cooking a steak at
home, which almost inevitably turns
out too well-done, too cold, too-un-
derseasoned, and almost always with a
lacklustre accompaniment (in my case,
a couple of glasses of Cooper’s), restau-
rant steak is always a tongue-searingly
delicious, melt-in-the-mouth, disgust-
ingly tender and perfectly balanced
experience. My steak started dark pink
but became intriguingly and deviously
darker as I moved towards the centre
of the cut, gaining in intensity and fla-
vour. It was so easy to cut I could have
eaten it with a pair of chopsticks, and
the flavour so satisfying the accompa-
nying fries and salad was only resort-
ed to during moments of guilt at the
overindulgence.
Speaking of which, despite the qual-
ity of their beef, Sophie’s really need
to do something about their chips. If
the most hard-up, fiscally-challenged
chipshop in the most Godforsaken
part of Northern England can conjure
up pure potato magic with a deep fat
frier, a sack of Tesco’s value spuds and
some salt, then I do not think it is too
much to ask a respected establishment
like Sophie’s that charges £2.50 for a
paltry squirt of Coke to produce some-
thing decent from whichever labori-
ously selected supplier provides them
with potatoes. Hot. Crispy. Golden. It
isn’t brain surgery, chaps.
Despite the oversights on the part of
the kitchen however, Sophie’s is still a
worthy affair. It has the right ingredi-
ents to be a resounding success. The
management understand that no one
wants to get dressed up to eat what
is essentially the most primitive and
basic meal of them all, and that while
too formal is bad, not formal enough
is worse (no novelty steak sauces or
balloons in sight). Sophie’s has hit the
right balance, and has integrated the
bonus of a great bar. Let’s just hope
they get those chips right next time.
The second outpost of the venerable
institution on the Fulham Road, So-
phie’s Covent Garden screams “NYC”
from the moment you step through
the front doors. Everything from the
space itself – a single huge, expan-
sive room more SoHo loft than Soho
squat – to the luxurious banquettes
and oversize vase dominating the front
entrance, gives off an irresistible party
atmosphere. The room’s liberal use of
dark woods and gorgeous, earthy reds
paired with a mass of elegant, spiral-
ling hyphae-like LED lights adds to
the mood, giving an impression of a
party deep in a forested grotto. Front
reception are frantic dealing with im-
promptu attendees (the restaurant has
a no-booking policy to push the casual
factor up), and bar staff rush back and
forth mixing oversized martinis.
They needn’t worry though. While
half the evening’s clientele sink their
teeth into enormous, perfectly cooked
steaks, the other half are sat back soak-
ing up the buzz and kicking back at the
bar. You don’t get a vibe this relaxed at
Gaucho. We put down a reservation
when we arrived, and we were told it
would be about 30 minutes before our
number would flash up on one of the
small electronic boards dotted about
the walls. So, we went through a few
very acceptable mojitos. Open until
2.30am, long after the kitchen closes,
the bar itself is an attractive proposi-
tion. Therefore, it’s such a pity that they
have to do with so little space when the
other key ingredients – drinks, atmos-
Afonso Campos
Food Editor
Is my cardigan like
totally awesome?
Y
ou know that little place?
The one one on Glouces-
ter Road in front of
Nando’s and some rancid
fish and chips dive? The
one supposedly no-one knows about?
Rosie wrote about it at some point...
No? Brilliant. I’m glad you don’t. Why
is it refreshing that you have no clue
about it? Mainly because I like it.
Because my friends like it. Because
normal people who go there like it. I
have been going there since my first
term at Imperial and immensely enjoy
how peaceful it can sometimes be. I
usually like to go there late at night to
grab a pizza and read any paper that
is not overly commie, or have a quiet
chat with my friends. There’s some-
thing special about it. I don’t know
what it is – perhaps the feel of a place
that knows itself and does not need
to try to be just another run-of-the-
mill expensive coffee shop, sacrificing
real-world authenticity for those extra
bucks. Or pounds. Whatever. The
point is, the place is authentic, unpre-
tentious, and well... nice. Pretty nice.
Because of that, I don’t especially
love it when the place is filled to the
brim with Imperial students being
loud and obnoxious. Please don’t
get me wrong though – everyone is
allowed to go wherever one wants,
whenever one wants. Except if you are
not an avid reader of this section, or
start reading felix from the back page
(ie: sports pages). Ta-da! Christmas
came early for some of you, as I will be
dishing out some better-than-average
advice. And guess what? For free. Go
to Starbucks. Seriously dude, it’s right
there and you will look much cooler
drinking your triple venti eggnog latte
with a shot of vanilla, no sugar, extra
foam, low temperature rabbit’s sperm
and Jesus’ tears than you could ever at
House of Coffees.
I know we reviewed this place, but
I seriously don’t want you there. Also,
since when does a review constitute
an invitation? This clear misconcep-
tion has led some of my favourite
places in London to be inundated by ...
ugh... I’ll just leave it there.
On the other hand, if you are one of:
uncontrollably cool
•
in love with comedy by Bill
•
Hicks
an appreciator of the sartorial
•
arts
stupendously good looking
•
Miranda Kerr
•
you are more than welcome to come
over. My friends and I may even invite
you to sit with us following a ques-
tionnaire reminiscent of the Spanish
Inquisition or a GCHQ interview.
All joking aside now, of course I
don’t mind anyone going to House of
Coffees. In fact, I encourage you to
do so. I ask however, that if you do
go, you respect the people who make
it either their comfortable second
living room or enjoy the very simple
pleasures that place somehow brings
to those that manage to find beauty in
the supposedly banal and mundane.
On a totally unrelated note; how
awesome is my cardigan? For further
dicussion on the issue, please email
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
INGREDIENTS: (serves 3/4)
1 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp green curry paste
300g oyster mushrooms
10 stalks of broccoli
1.5 courgettes
1.5 tbsp soft brown sugar
VEGETABLE THAI GREEN
CURRY
“My steak
started dark
pink but became
intriguingly and
deviously darker
(...)”
1 tin coconut milk
2-3 stalks of lemon gress
juice of one lime
coriander to garnish
thai jasmine rice
light soya sauce
Heat the oil in a large frying pan or wok. Add the curry paste and sugar
and for roughly a minute on fairly high heat. Add the lemongrass and
reduce the heat slightly. Stir in the vegetables until completely coated
in the sauce. Add the coconut milk and soy sauce, bringing the entire
concotion to a simmer for about half an hour until it’s thick(ish). Chuck
in the coriander and lime juice and more soy sauce if you think it needs
it. Leave to sit for a while until slightly cooled. Serve with the jasmine
rice that you have cleverly cooked taking into account how long the
rest of the stuff takes to make.

