felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
This week we have moved on from the
rugby boys and met the IC netball cap-
tain, Colette Gregory. I think you will
agree that she provided some interest-
ing and yet very entertaining answers
in her interview with Jack.
On a week where the temperature
dropped dramatically, we have seen
many matches postponed/abandoned
due to frozen pitches and other similar
circumstances.
This leads nicely on to the ACC bar
night on Wednesday. Except for the
frozen gas regulator at the bar which
put the free beers on hiatus for a short
while, we are both sure that all the
sports teams enjoyed themselves and
spectacles such as the infamous boat
race are sure to be repeated in the up-
coming bar nights.
Gracing the sports pages this week
are reports from fencing, the outdoors
club, lacrosse and ultimate frisbee,
which barring the hockey report are
some of the smaller sports and ac-
tivities amongst Imperial. This by no
After the twenty hour journey from
London, it was quite a relief to be fi-
nally stepping off the bus as we digest-
ed our first views of Chamonix, our
home for the next six weeks.
The first thing we saw was a McDon-
alds. It wasn’t very French but the plac-
es we stopped by on the journey hadn’t
sold anything in the way of real food.
After surviving the journey on choco-
late, ice cream and a tin of pâté, a Mc-
Donalds breakfast seemed like luxury.
The first few days saw us finding our
feet and finding what Chamonix had to
offer. Once the supermarkets, Maison
de Guides and pub had been located
we went off for an acclimatisation
climb up on l’Index.
The ascent was easy as fortunately
there is a cable car most of the way,
topping out with a scramble up to
2600m. This felt quite high at the time,
at least compared to anything in Brit-
ain, but we had much grander aspira-
tions. After descending, plans were
made to move our camp up to the
Vallée Blanche glacier where the team
would spend the next few days.
The team went for a quick acclima-
tisation climb up the Cosmique Arete,
a popular mixed snow and rock route
up to the Midi cable car station, before
descending back down to camp.
The team split up the next day. One
team chose the voie normale on Mont
Blanc du Tacul (4248m), which despite
pushing some to their personal altitude
record at the time, turned out to be un-
eventful and quite dull. The other team
decided to descend the Vallée Blanche.
This had sounded like a good idea at
the top, but it soon became less so. Af-
ter some delicate down-climbing, fall-
ing through snow bridges, and avoiding
multi-tonne blocks of ice falling across
the route in an epic adventure that In-
diana Jones would have been proud of,
we made it back to the campsite.
After that character building day out
some bad weather prevented us from
returning up high and so a few days
were spent recuperating in the valley.
Coinciding with our tour, the Climb-
ing World Cup was being held in town,
with both leading ability and speed
climbing being tested in separate
events. China did extremely well in the
speed climbing with one of their team
climbing 15m in 7.97 seconds.
During the spells of bad weather
the team spent time at the many sport
climbing crags along the Chamonix
valley. This gave us a chance to explore
and we even walked to Switzerland one
day to get at some more crags! Every
imaginable style of route was available
from crack climbing or friction slab to
steep overhanging routes, in grades
to suit any level of experience. It’s no
wonder that Chamonix is so popular.
We got back up high when the
weather cleared, and established a new
camp on the glacier. By this time there
was quite a community up there, with
many other climbers choosing the eco-
nomical option over the comfort of the
Jonathan Phillips & Rob Porter
Jack Cornish &
Mustapher Botchway
Sports Editors
A cold old
week!
means detracts from the fact that they
have experienced recent successes and
are currently joint top of felix sports
table. A special mention to the ICSM
badminton men’s 1st team who are
also top and beating their college coun-
terparts. Only time will tell if they can
keep it up as they play more games.
This paragraph is now going to focus
on what we politely require from you.
Firstly, in order for the table to be as
representative as possible we need to
make sure that all results are in to Al-
issa Ayling (Sport Imperial) as soon as
possible. At the time of going to print,
we are still missing a few results, which
definitely have an impact on the table.
So get your results in and you can be
sure that the most deserving teams and
clubs will be rewarded! Another re-
quest is hi-resolution photos to accom-
pany your reports! They need to be at
least 1MB in size (for the back page -
though this is a basic requirement).
Get snapping, get winning and get
drinking!
Alpine huts. It was from here that the
group divided into smaller teams.
One team headed off to Italy on the
and successfully reached the summit
the Dent du Géant (4013m) and also
investigated the Arete de Rochefort.
The other team attempted the Midi
Plan traverse however turned back due
to poor snow conditions. As a consola-
tion they climbed the Rébuffat on the
South Face of the Midi, and managed
to fit in some glorious rock climbing
on lovely Chamonix granite.
An attempt was made on Mont Blanc
at this time; however lightning and a
blizzard caused the team to retreat.
In the third week of our stay we were
told about a memorial lecture for Sir
Edmund Hillary, who had died earlier
in the year. Seeing as this coincided
with a couple of days of bad weather,
we decided to go along.
The three speakers were each a
part of climbing legend, playing ma-
jor roles in historic climbing events.
They were Maurice Herzog, George
Band and Doug Scott CBE who were
the first man to climb an 8000m peak,
the youngest person on Everest with
Hillary and Tenzing and the first Brit
to climb Everest respectively. It was
a privilege to hear these men speak
about their experiences in the moun-
tains, and spurred us on the bigger and
greater things during our trip.
The team now made an attempt on
Mont Blanc (4807m), this time up the
Photograph by Bjoern Lehnert
Continued on page 32
Outdoors in
France

