4 felix Friday 5 December 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
Roaming Rabbi at IC
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Several complaints have been raised
over the recent actions of a Jewish
Rabbi on the Imperial College campus.
Rabbi Mendy Loewenthal has been
seen in and around campus attempting
to inform the Jewish students about
the Chabad organization.
Chabad, who are an outreach branch
of the Jewish faith that provides oppor-
tunities for Jews to become more ob-
servant, as well as shelter and kosher
food for travelling Jews. Their website
describes the Chabad of South Ken-
sington as a ‘place where university
students come to connect to their Juda-
ism. It offers students the opportunity
to learn and discover the richness of
their Jewish heritage with group study,
one on one learning, organized trips,
Shabbat and holiday celebrations.’
Neither Imperial College Union
[ICU] nor Imperial College [IC] have
a problem with the presence of the
Rabbi in the area. They are concerned,
however, with his actions around cam-
pus. Several posters have been appear-
ing across the campus advertising the
Chabad centre using the Imperial Col-
lege Union logo, thus indicating that
there might be an affiliation with ICU.
Jenny Morgan, ICU President, made
it very clear that he has “no affiliation
with Imperial College or the Union”.
Imperial College do have a Chaplaincy
Centre, which is open for students of
all faiths to go and explore different
faiths and beliefs, ask questions about
identity and meaning and to engage
with contemporary issues.
Rabbi Loewenthal has also been call-
ing himself the Rabbi for Imperial Col-
lege, which is incorrect, as the actual
Rabbi for London students is Rabbi
Gavin Broder. Rabbi Broder has been
heavily involved with campus activities
this year, including assisting at the ICU
Freshers’ Fair and wandering around
Rabbi Mendy and Sara Loewenthal operate on an open door policy,
regardless of affiliations, backgrounds, and religious observance
campus in an attempt to contact the
Jewish community at Imperial.
One student told felix that they have
felt ‘harassed’ by Rabbi Lowenthal,
who persistently sent them e-mails and
flyers in an unsolicited manner. He has
also attempted to add a number of stu-
dents as friends on facebook, and has
added Imperial addresses to his mail-
ing list without consent of the students
in question.
Yoni Weiner, President of Imperial
College Jewish Society, told felix that
“there has been a mixed response from
the Jewish students, some students
have welcomed another person organ-
ising additional educational and social
events for Jewish students but other
students feel that considering the small
number of Jews at Imperial it is not
necessary to have another organisation
competing with the Imperial College
Jewish Society which already provides
educational and social activities for
Jews at Imperial and are weary that
Chabad have a hidden agenda.”
Recently, Chabad were in interna-
tional news when Rabbi Gavriel and
Rivkah Holtzberg, a couple running a
Chabad house in Mumbai, were killed
during the recent tragic events that oc-
curred there.
IC Big Band perform their music at the competition
Imperial College Big Band
win Gold Award
John Prestage &
Marc Hinken
Sunday 30th November saw the Im-
perial College Big Band take a trip to
Colchester to take part in the regional
heat for the National Concert Band
Festival. Competing in the Open Big
Band category, the band played music
from jazz legends Gordon Goodwin,
Dizzy Gillespie and Kenny Wheeler,
up against strong competition from
the University of Surrey Big Band,
amongst others. The band excelled
under the direction of musical director
Andy Simm, with the judges particu-
larly impressed by the band’s “highly
musical and stylish performance”, as
well as Chaz Keiderling’s masterful
solo on the tenor saxophone.
The band walked away with the
highest award possible, a gold, being
the only band in the South East to do
so, marking an excellent end to the au-
tumn term. In April, the band will trav-
el to Cardiff to take part in the national
finals of the festival, where they will be
fiercely competing against winners of
the other regional heats. This will give
the band an excellent opportunity to
further their musical and cultural de-
velopment, furthering the opportunity
to be nationally recognised as one of
the top Big Bands in the country.
The IC Big Band rehearses on a
weekly basis and showcases some of
the best musical talent that Imperial
has to offer. The society is one of the
most active at Imperial, with extensive
gig opportunities arising throughout
the year, including termly gigs at the
union and an annual European tour.
Their next performance will be on
Thursday 18th December at 8pm in
dBs, promising to be one of the high-
lights of Christmas week at the union.
Entrance is free and the band will be
playing their award winning tunes as
well as their usual variety of jazz, latin,
funk and a feast of Christmas songs
like you’ve never heard them before!
The world beyond
college walls
Representatives of 100 countries gathered in the Norwegian capital Oslo to
sign a treaty that will ban cluster bombs all over the world. However the big-
gest stockpilers of the weapon, the US, Russia and China will not be signing,
arguing that cluster bombs have legitimate military uses such as repelling
advancing troop columns.
Concerted pressure to ban the weapon came from campaign groups around
the world, and the movement gathered momentum after the 2006 Israel-Leb-
anon war where cluster bombs were deployed. Supporters of the treaty hope
it will stigmatise the use of cluster bombs, just as landmines were stigmatised
by the 1999 Ottawa Treaty, which will shame the big arms producers to sign
the cluster bomb treaty at a later date.
Norway: Treaty to ban cluster bombs
signed
Iraq: ‘Chemical Ali’ convicted
Saddam Hussein’s cousin, Ali Hassan Al-Majid who is known as “Chemical
Ali”, has been convicted of crimes against humanity by the Iraqi High Tribu-
nal and sentenced to death for a second time. He was found guilty of crush-
ing a Shi’ite uprising after the First Gulf War in 1991. The prosecution used
evidence obtained from dozens of mass graves
containing thousands of decayed bodies that were
discovered after U.S. forces ousted Saddam’s gov-
ernment in 2003.
Al-Majid, who earned his nickname for his
role in using poison gas against Kurdish villages,
already faces a death sentence handed to him in
June 2007 for his role in a 1981 crackdown on
Kurds in northern Iraq, but it was never carried
out due to political wrangling.
Kenya: Time for Mugabe to be
removed, says Kenyan Prime Minister
According to Raila Odinga, the Kenyan Prime Minisiter, “power-sharing
in Zimbabwe is dead and it is time for African governments to oust Presi-
dent Robert Mugabe. The comments made by the Kenyam PM is one of the
strongest comments made by any African leader, and are sure to have re-
sounding effects.
President Robert Mugabe, who has been in power for some 28 years,
blames Western sanctions for the current situation and woes in Zimbabwe.
As the most recent elections, President Mugabe had to share power with
Morgan Tsvangirai after many months of campaigning.

