after interrogators found out from the
one terrorist captured alive that he had
been working with “lashkar i taiba”– a
terrorist organisation with a link to the
Pakistani government.
Although you can use ‘devastating’,
‘disgusting’ or all of their synonyms in
one large sentence that would cause
your computer to paint the page green,
it will not do justice for those who have
had their lives taken in those attack.
Yet it is very important to try and put
the events that transpired in Mumbai
into some kind of context.
After 9/11, the Patriot act was
rushed through Congress and after the
attacks on the London Underground
and Transport System in July, the
Prevention of Terrorism act has been
rushed similarly through Parliament.
“The War on Terror” seems like an odd
phrase. Simple enough, one may think
but what does it actually mean? Terror
is not an ideology like Communism or
a “rogue state” like North Korea. It is
the utilisation of desperate, disorien-
tated and frustrated naïve young peo-
ple by older, more calculated individu-
als who remain hidden but wish their
own atrocious agendas to be met.
I sincerely hope that India does not
follow what America did after 9/11
for many reasons. Firstly India is not
America, these type of attacks on
6 felix Friday 5 December 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 5 December 2008 felix
Comment
Gilead Amit welcomes you to Cabaret
Imperial Girl bites back at her
critics... well just Angry Geek
“There are only
so many times
you can write
about Wikipedia
before the
Imperial body
thinks that the
toilet paper in
Sherfield is a
better read than
your column”
W
e must follow the
example of what
the United States
did after 9/11, we
are more vulner-
able than them and therefore we must
be a tough state and not a soft state.
Our Intelligence network, our secu-
rity response, our legal framework
all need an overhaul and all need a
strengthening”
This was the reaction from Arun
Jaitley, a senior member of India’s op-
position party, the BJP.
The number of confirmed dead
reached 172 and counting, after a siege
of almost 60 hours and multiple gun
battles at multiple locations, includ-
ing several luxurious hotels that attract
the upper classes and wealthy, both do-
mestic and tourist alike.
Newspapers in India have reported
that the country’s government has
raised its security level to a “War level”
“A community
that feels
victimised due to
what they hold
dear, would feel
resentful and
angry with no
idea how to be
heard”
Amin Elmubarak says don’t sacrifice democracy
Indian soil have been occurring for
years, but for years it has mainly been
the poor or those of “lower casts” that
have been affected: Trains being de-
railed, lone gunmen, grenades, car
bombs etc. So what is the difference?
These attacks on Mumbai have killed
about a dozen Westerners – the other
one hundred and sixty or so were Indi-
an, yet the media coverage everywhere
has shown those Western victims. Put
simply, this is an attack that the West
– those crusaders against terror can re-
late to. Though we can only speculate
at this moment in time about the mo-
tives behind the Mumbai attacks, we
can be certain that, unlike 9/11, it has
nothing to do with America’s foreign
policy in the Middle East.
Secondly, who on Earth would wish
to follow the actions of the Bush Ad-
ministration? This is a government
that instigated a war against an enemy
state after only loosely associating it
the Airliner attacks. Let’s not forget
that the Taliban government did not
fund, coordinate or aid the attacks on
the Twin Towers and Iraq…. Well they
were included as part of the war on ter-
ror but as hindsight is always 20:20, we
now know that the reasons for going to
war had nothing to do with this global
battle against terrorism.
And finally; though Westminster was
equally guilty of this, why would one
strip their country’s constitution of civ-
il liberty by such acts as the Prevention
of Terrorism act here and the Patriot
act in the US? By sacrificing freedom
for safety one deserves and will achieve
neither, this is how it works:
Those who are profiled as being high
terror suspects due to what a profile of
a terrorist is, would have their civil lib-
erties quashed “for the sake of national
security”. A community that feels vic-
timised due to what they hold dear re-
gardless of what it is: be it religion, eth-
nicity or country of origin – as the case
may be in India now that one of the
terrorist was found to be a Pakistani
citizen – would feel resentful and an-
gry with no idea of how to make their
views heard. Of those, a suggestion
able and angry few would be utilised as
foot soldiers to commit senseless acts
of terrorism on defenceless civilians
and so the cycle is perpetuated.
In closing, these attacks are more
than ghastly, yet if the response is a
knee-jerk one then we will do noth-
ing but cause suffering to those caught
in the cross-fire and encourage a new
oppressed and frustrated generation
of would-be terrorists, who will have
grown up in countries that have come
to accept civil-rights violating laws in
the name of national security.
I
had the choice not to respond.
I had the choice not to write
again. I had the choice to give
in. But of course I didn’t get into
Imperial with that submissive
approach. Angry Geek, you really are
too angry. I take on board your criti-
cisms about my grammar but I don’t
agree with your attitude to the context
of my columns. I write to share MY ex-
periences as a girl at Imperial; it’s not
for you to disregard me, as crude or as
unimportant you might find them.
Threats in your last comment, “...
have formed a militia with the intent
of murdering you in your sleep”- A.
Geek, are seriously not appreciated.
I may talk of female issues that you
find offensive but in every language,
that act of violent murder is definitely
NOT funny or witty and is unlikely to
be tolerated by anyone on Campus. I
read the psychiatrist is great at Impe-
rial; perhaps you should take a look in
because that is a ridiculous comment
to attack me with.
At first, I was quite hurt by your re-
sponse and shocked that you choose
to publicly announce your views about
my column is such a derogatory way
to women “Loose-Women”- A. Geek,
without emailing me first. Then I re-
membered the numerous emails I
have received and feedback that I have
heard from girls and some guys who
enjoy reading my column and decided
not to let your opinions affect the read-
ers chance to enjoy reading what I have
to say.
So please, although I am flattered by
all the attention you are giving me, you
keep to your side of the sheet and I’ll
keep to mine. I suppose if you mention
me again we will all just have to assume
that you have run out of things to write
about, I mean there are only so many
times you can write about Wikipedia
until the Imperial body thinks that the
toilet paper in Sherfield is a better read
than your column. :)
So I carry on regardless. Recently, I
have been exploring the idea of adop-
tion, bought about by a discussion I
had with a relative. She feels that she
will be unable to find a partner soon
enough to have a child of her own.
So I suggested adoption to her, and
it got me thinking. Adoption. Is it for
everyone?
When I was in Year 8 my English
teacher was talking about some litera-
ture that discussed the subject of adop-
tion. At the end of the class, she passed
by a friend and I and started talking.
She admitted she wanted children but
couldn’t have them. Adoption was out;
“Couldn’t do that” she says “bring up
someone else’s child” (the hint towards
that the parents might be unsavoury
characters and may have passed on
these characteristics to the child).
Adoption has become “All the rage”
with the endorsement of celebrities
such as Angelina and Madonna. But is
it a dangerous game? Many may know
of the Woody and Mia case where the
then couple adopted a child called
Soon-Yi who then went on to marry
her guardian Woody. He is now 71
and she is 36 and they have been hap-
pily married for 10 years. Not to say
that all adopted children will marry
their guardians but there are other
complications.
Take the Jolie case where many bogus
claims were made to acknowledge that
baby Zahara Marley Jolie-Pitt was ac-
tually their biological grand-daughter
or otherwise daughter. What happens
when the parents of the adopted child
want back in to that child’s life, perhaps
for financial motives, emotional at-
tachment and alike? What if the child
wants to know who their biological
parents are? Does this system make an
adopted child search for closure in un-
answered questions for the rest of their
lives and equally the mother that will-
ingly or unwillingly gave up their child
so long ago?
It undeniable that a child might know
without being told that they are adopt-
ed but what’s assured is that if a mother
is desperately seeking a child and has
the ornate need to be a mother she will
overcome all these barriers. There are
too many children left stranded in this
world to deny them a chance of a fam-
ily or just a mother. China’s orphaned
girls are of the most highly publicised,
reasoned the result of the One Child
Policy. Adoption is a lengthy process
that can often take years, in which time
many of these orphans may pass.
Adoption is not without its red tape
but if a someone wants to adopt none
of these factors should stop them.
What do you think? - email me, Impe-
rialGirl@imperial.ac.uk.
BAM! A.Geek hits the deck! That’s a brutal left hook from Imperial Girl
I
n the forty-odd half-baked lit-
tle ramequins of whimsy that
I’ve rammed down your throats
over the fifteen months spent at
this glorious institution, I have
only once embarked on what could be
called a rant. A stream of violent abuse
emerged from my own fair hands in
May of last year, as I tore into YouTube
commenters in a wholly cathartic vitu-
perative frenzy. The video that sparked
off that uncharacteristic outburst, in
one of those twists Agatha Christie
would have struggled to concoct, was
also the inspiration for the FROTHY
quiche of delight you now see before
you.
The video in question was a 192-sec-
ond long extract from the movie
‘Cabaret’, wherein a suitably blonde,
blue-eyed Aryan youth sings a gen-
tle berceuse to the beauties of the
countryside.
As the camera pans out to reveal the
Hitlerjugend cap on his blue hair and
the demented look in his blonde eyes,
the entire biergarten is seen joining
him in a rousing chorus of ‘Tomor-
row Belongs To Me’. A terrifying clip
that offers us one of the most enduring
cinematic clichés of pre-war Germany.
Lots of scope for vapid, sinister or be-
wilderingly stupid video posts, I’m sure
you’ll agree. One year and 784 posts
on, the reasons for my little explosion
are still painfully clear.
But I am a better man. The most dis-
turbing Cabaret-related item I was able
to find online this time round was that
a remake starring Renee Zellwegger
is up in the air. I hope and pray to my
Immoral Atheistic Nonentities that it
never comes back down. There comes
a point when the idea of remakes, re-
vivals and sequels leaves the platonic
world of tribute and respect far behind
and plunges itself headlong into the
crass world of commercialism.
Reproducing an artist’s work before it
has truly faded from the collective con-
sciousness is as insulting as it is lazy.
Imitation maybe the highest form of
flattery, but a work needs to be allowed
to rest: the cauldron of creativity has to
“People with
creativity
shouldn’t be
incited to tap
into lucrative
veins of
enthusiasm they
didn’t generate”
Angry Geek drags
up MMR again... it’s
not his fault, honest
settle before the film of inspiration can
be stirred by the ladle of reinterpreta-
tion. The motivation behind artistic
endeavour should not be a desire to
feed off a collective nostalgia. People
with originality, creativity and vision
should be encouraged to embark on
their own projects, not incited to tap
into lucrative veins of enthusiasm they
didn’t generate. At the present rate of
things, the entirety of cinema history
will be rewritten every fifty or so years,
in progressively sharper colours and
with increasingly tighter dialogue.
Take the Old Testament – a work
blinding in its originality and breath-
taking in its scope - a text that has
formed the bedrock of Western civili-
zation and that no self-respecting ho-
tel bedroom should be without. How
would it feel if some local studio chiefs
decided to commission a remake? An
updated version with an all-star cast
and none of the unnecessary boring
bits that were in the original? Some-
thing that captured the spirit of the
day?
Sure, let’s make the God character
a little friendlier. Let’s cut some of the
explicit sex and violence in order to
get a PG or U rating. Let’s insert a like-
able, central protagonist and have him
be a little more tolerant than some of
the guys in the original. You know, to
get the kids involved. You can guess
the punchline to this Mitchell & Webb
sketch: the New Testament is released
in cinemas globally and has massive
returns at the Box Office. Lucifer vies
with Saint John the Baptist for the
Best Supporting Actor Oscar while the
Almighty makes a clean sweep of the
Special Effects prizes for the second
year running. Talk of a television series
is scrapped as Jesus reveals he won’t be
able to make the filming dates: a shame,
but maybe we could shift the focus onto
a secondary character. ‘Saint Peter: the
Pearly Gates’ goes into pre-production
and the franchise keeps on growing.
Seeing as I began with films set in
I
picked up the Metro again this
week, fresh from including it in
my column not so long ago. In
a way, I was asking to be pissed
off, but the promise of their new
section intrigued me. Turns out that
my claim of them stealing stuff from
the Internet wasn’t so far-fetched, as
they now have a section dedicated en-
tirely to that.
Unbelievable quality journalism,
right there hard-hitting coverage of a
walrus with some kind of flute, accom-
panied by an explanation that - animal
lovers may complain- but hey, fuck
them, this is a walrus with a goddamn
wind instrument!
As I leafed, I came across The Story.
The Story concerns the MMR Baby
that died ten days after receiving an
arguably controversial inoculation. It
didn’t get many column inches, pre-
sumably because the paper was all
babied out, what with coverage of the
terribly-named doom babies, Faith and
Hope, and the baby made for tabloid
headlines, Baby P.
Yet despite being consigned to the
depths of the inner pages, the MMR
Baby still makes a good headline, con-
taining both the word ‘baby’ and ‘died’,
part of the holy trinity of sensationalist
journalism.
But why would I be angry about the
death of an adorable, innocent child?
Why. I’m such a bastard. There’s even
a photo of him, and he definitely looks
like he was going to grow up to be
Prime Minister or something. I’m such
a shit.
Well. Back history for those unini-
tiated with the wonders of the MMR.
The Measles, Mumps and Rubella vac-
cine is an injection given to children to
protect them from some pretty horrific
diseases. They used to come as three
separate stabs in the arm, but medi-
cal genius managed to cut that down
to just the one some years back now.
Everyone’s happy, in theory. Until the
alleged link with autism hit the press,
and everything went into the toilet. All
across the universe, a million women
cried out in unison, “As a mother, I...”
and then fell silent.
Only it wasn’t silence, it was really
loud shouting and the most comedy-
sized gigantic headlines you could pos-
sibly imagine.
Despite the fact that a lot of the fuss
surrounding MMR has died down
now, it’s still a good demon to drag out
of the underworld once in a while and
beat to death with the journalism stick,
so naturally this story was a good one.
Who cares why the baby died, all that
matters is that someone died, and the
MMR jab is to blame.
Presumably, then, the journalists
were quite disappointed upon talking
to the parents and discovering their
baby died because they weren’t keep-
ing an eye on his temperature. This is a
child with a rocky medical history any-
way, and the parents claim his death
came about because they weren’t told
to watch over the child following the
vaccination.
I’m sorry? I mean, assuming this was
actually true, and they weren’t told to
watch their own son - which is hugely
unlikely, as it’s about the only thing you
can get nurses to say nowadays - and
then, then assuming that they weren’t
handed a bunch of paperwork saying
exactly the same thing - almost as un-
likely, since the one universal constant
of medical treatment is that you leave
with lots of bits of paper telling you
to sit very still in a dark room for four
days - even assuming all of this, are you
honestly telling me that these parents
did not consider to watch their own
son?
What in God’s name are they think-
ing?! My GP doesn’t tell me not to
inject heroin into my eyeballs, but I
still don’t add it to my to-do list. And
that’s when I began to feel the pangs
of guilt, because God knows I’m a fan
of bitching about the NHS. There are
a lot of incompetent people working
for them, mainly because they insist on
hiring “humans” for some reason. I’ve
been done over a lot of times, and fam-
ily members have fallen pretty ill ow-
ing to their mistakes. But there’s always
a line you have to draw, isn’t there?
There’s always that point at which you
have to say that maybe, maybe this isn’t
something we should be complaining
about?
Okay, so a cute little baby died. We
want someone to blame. But throttling
the NHS – just as throttling social serv-
ices with the Baby P fiasco – is unlikely
to help things. These institutions exist
because they get things right most of
the time. That’s a fact. The only thing
to be angry about in the case of this
child’s untimely death is that he wasn’t
cared for better.
Let me know how little I know
about medicine and/or caring for
children by sending your flaming
pitchforks to anangrygeek@goog-
lemail.com.
“What in God’s
name are they
thinking?! My
GP doesn’t tell
me not to inject
heroin into my
eyeballs, but I
still don’t add it
to my to-do list!”
Nazi Germany, I feel tempted to quote
the line from Pimpernel Smith: ‘The
mind of man is bounded only by the
Universe’.
Platitudinous and unimpressive
when seen out of its original context
as a codephrase for Jewish intellectu-
als to escape from German clutches,
perhaps, but true nonetheless. The
problem with that, of course, is that the
Universe is a pretty limited place to be-
gin with. Things exist in patterns and
rhythms, with repetitions and recur-
ring features: the very fabric of the cos-
mos obeys phenomenally simple laws
governed by mathematics that even a
human mind is capable of grasping.
Just as the infinite possibilities existing
in nature lie in variations on a theme,
so the most original of our inventions
fall into the same trap.
The theory has been proposed that
all stories, whether taken from the
arcana of Norse Mythology or the fi-
nal assignments of first-year creative
writing students from American arts
colleges, fall into five basic categories.
There are five ways we have managed
to express our Universe in verbal form,
and all the rest, as the preacher might
say, is vanity.
While not subscribing to the idea
that five is necessarily the golden
number, we are clearly limited in the
means of communication open to us.
Every novel is in some sense an adapta-
tion of an earlier publication, each play
or sonata a pastiche of an earlier work,
and all films remakes or parodies of
those that came before.
We can’t help repeating ourselves,
and our artistic footprints are so large
that we end up crossing our own paths
time and time again. There should,
however, be limits to how eagerly we
run around in circles. When this par-
ticular frothy souffle of enchantment is
updated to a 22nd Century audience,
for instance, it would be a shame if
people watch the 2012 version of ‘Cab-
aret’ to get a feel for my message.

