politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 5 December 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
A
t some point during my
tenure here on earth I
would like to converse
with a member of the
BNP in depth, in an at-
tempt to gain some kind of insight
into their psyche. The meeting would
no doubt end in fierce argument but
would nevertheless give me a better
understanding as to how sometimes
seemingly rational people can hold
views that are so alien from my own.
Freedom of speech is something
that we take for granted much of the
time, as clichéd as that sounds. We will
champion that old adage, the one that
vehemently states that we ‘may not
believe what they have to say, but will
defend to the death their right to say it’.
In practice though, much of the time
it is difficult to accept differing views,
I have seen many a political argument
escalate after those involved have self-
righteously proclaimed; ‘I respect your
opinion, but...’ Of course you don’t re-
spect their opinion, you think that they
are complete buffoons…maybe I am
generalising, of course I don’t think I
am, and if you do, well, you are an idiot.
I jest, I jest dear reader, but you get the
point.
As an editor of this section I have
come across a number of articles
that I don’t fully agree with. Myself
and James publish them regardless, I
am not arrogant (or knowledgeable)
enough to believe that another’s views
are invalid. We as students with var-
ied personalities and a diverse range
José Manuel Barroso the 12th presi-
dent of European Commission has
come to the conclusion that Britain is
“closer than ever before” to joining the
single currency, the Euro.
Speaking in an interview with a
French radio station Mr. Barroso said
that the “the people who matter” were
having second thoughts about Brit-
ain’s long-held position as a bystander
of the single currency. Mr. Brown, the
PM, at the helm of the Labour party
has made no secret of the fact that it
favours entering the single currency
but not unless five economic tests, set
by the Treasury, have been met.
As late at 2003 the Treasury ruled
that it was not in Britain’s interest to
join the single currency. Mr. Barrosso
was further quoted as saying “I know
that the majority in Britain are still op-
posed, but there is a period of consid-
eration under way and the people who
matter in Britain are currently thinking
about it.”
The optimism of the Commission
has been fuelled by the comeback of
Lord Mandelson, previously the Eu-
ropean Commissioner of Trade, who
this Saturday, at a Labour conference,
spoke favourably of joining the Euro -
contradicting Number 10’s official line
on the Euro “We have no intention of
joining”.
Apart from sparking fury from the
opposition party, the Conservatives
said they will now table parliamentary
questions to establish what recent con-
tact Lord Mandelson has had with Mr
Barroso. William Hague, the Conserv-
ative shadow foreign secretary, said: “It
is extraordinary that certain politicians
are whispering to the EU Commission
about joining the Euro behind the Brit-
ish people’s backs.”
Meanwhile sources close to Lord
Mandelson claim no discussion had
been had with Mr. Barroso over Brit-
ain’s Euro future. Joining the Euro
would require a referendum; a refer-
endum is herald over by the elector-
ate. The people that “matter” are not
the Labour politicians now in office it
is the other 60 million odd people of
Barroso has claimed that Britain are considering joining the Euro
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
of views on everything from politics
to soft drink flavours have the ability
to write to this fine student newspaper
and have our opinion published, em-
brace the opportunity dear reader, it
is a privilege indeed. If you feel some
disillusionment with the content of the
paper, write us a comment piece or an
article that takes the opposite view, I
guarantee you will feel better.
I can’t say I was not taken aback this
week when the accusation was lev-
elled against the newspaper that it was
purely a medium to promote fascism,
in addition to which I was told that I
simply must be a supporter of the con-
servative party purely based on the
highly convincing evidence that my ac-
cent is ‘a bit posh’. Considering James’
last column was entitled ‘In honour of
communism’, I was slightly perturbed,
nevertheless, hopefully we will have a
comment piece from the particular fel-
low who felt so strongly about the po-
litical tone.
I suppose the mark of a truly toler-
ant society is one where we are able
to tolerate those who hold bigoted
opinions, those who are not open-
minded as well. This is the society
that we persevere to attain, so I will
continue to listen to people telling me
that I am wrong and debating for ar-
gument’s sake the content of an article.
If nothing else it makes my day more
interesting and hopefully tolerance will
succeed in elbowing its way into such
conversations. For the sake of my san-
ity I sincerely hope so.
A tribute to
tolerance
UK welcomes Euro
the UK. A recent poll by the Evening
Standard found that 70% of the partici-
pants were against Euro entry.
It is beyond this correspondent what
exactly Mr. Barroso is trying to achieve
other than promoting the opposition
party’s European policy, and thus the
party itself, and further distancing the
British population from the EU.
Food shortages: a growing worldwide dilemma
Do you get your 2000 kilocalories a
day? This is the minimum energy in-
take of an adult from food according to
the UN body the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO). Since you’re in
Britain, you probably do, but the an-
swer to that question is no for 1 billion
of the 6 billion people who inhabit this
Earth.
As part of the Ahlulbayt Islamic
Society’s campaign about the current
Economic Crisis, Mr Nafeez Mosad-
deq Ahmed, Executive Director of the
Institute for Policy Research & De-
velopment (IPRD) gave a talk regard-
ing the current crisis in food supplies.
Mr Ahmed began by making the point
that increases in food prices are caus-
ing riots around the world. Although
not reported widely in the news, 37
countries have seen food riots, includ-
ing Indonesia, Morocco and Mexico.
Here in Britain the consequences have
been less severe with households see-
ing their weekly grocery bills increase
due to fluctuating prices over the past
few weeks, which have hit low-income
families the hardest.
Since most Imperial students are not
farmers, it’s difficult for us to remem-
ber that the food we eat – that Plough-
man’s Cheese sandwich sitting in its
plastic container or the mandatory cup
of coffee between lectures – actually
grew out of the ground at some point.
Agriculture is that age-old human ac-
tivity, but according to Mr Ahmed, it
is the unsustainable industrial agricul-
ture practiced across the world that
is creating a food crisis. Some of the
mechanisms for this, such as soil ero-
sion, were explained. The intensive
growing of crops today isn’t compatible
with the fact that it takes 500 years to
replenish 1 inch of top soil, the result
is lower productivity year on year. Wa-
ter scarcity is an under-acknowledged
issue; the NewScientist magazine re-
ported that an average hamburger
takes 11,000 litres of water to produce,
and like topsoil, fresh water is currently
being used faster than water tables are
replenished. Pesticide Pollution and
the effects of Global Warming were
also discussed.
Lastly Mr Ahmed argued that mono-
culture – the growing of only one crop
over a large area - is completely un-
sustainable. Third world farmers face
pressure to grow only one “cash” crop
to sell to huge corporate agricultural
companies like Dupont and Cargill,
who in turn sell it to supermarket
chains in developed countries. Instead
of rotating crops or growing a vari-
ety of them, which would supply local
markets, huge fields of cocoa or cotton
are sown and their produce exported. Due to high exports, most farmers cannot even feed themselves
Colombia is not short of arable land
and its biggest agricultural exports
are coffee, tobacco and cut flowers,
but the Latin American country must
import other food to feed its popula-
tion, of which 13% are undernourished
according to the FAO. India is another
paradoxical case where, despite earn-
ing $1.2bn from exporting milled rice
in 2004, a fifth of India’s population is
undernourished.
Overall Mr Ahmed made a com-
pelling argument, but he failed to ad-
dress several common criticisms. For
example many advantages have been
gained from the industrialisation of ag-
riculture, like economies of scale and
improved yields, and what role would
Genetically Modified food would play
in a more sustainable agricultural sys-
tem. Additionally the Peak Oil half of
his talk was not as well developed, with
a plethora of technical terms clouding
his argument.
Terms like a Hubbert curve, Olduvai
theory and the opinions of petroleum
geologist Colin Campbell, are ones
best left for the hours spent browsing
Wikipedia.
Worrying about feeding ourselves is
something we don’t do anymore in a
developed country like Britain. Our su-
permarkets are open 24/7 with a huge
choice of food, and the law requires
motorway service stations to be open
24/7 to let us refill our fuel tanks and
stomachs. And if you’re annoyed that
the JCR closes at 6pm when you still
want a bite to eat, the Imperial College
Library Café is open throughout the
Hassan Joudi night! We live our lives assuming food
will always be available, but for many
people in the world most of their time
is spent ensuring they get their 2000
kilocalories a day just to survive.
Neil Dhir
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 5 December 2008 felix
Politics
Mohsin Asharia
Dubai faces criticism during hotel celebrations
This week saw the world’s most expen-
sive party, complete with the world’s
largest ever fireworks display, marking
the launch of the world’s most lavish
hotel, in the city with the world’s most
“world’s mosts”.
£20m for the opening of Atlantis The
Palm, Dubai is a small figure in relation
to the £1bn cost of the hotel itself, but
certainly enough to cause a stir. Kylie
Minogue reportedly pocketed around
£2m for her 45-minute performance,
and the fireworks display was over
six times that of the Beijing Olympics
opening ceremony, and could be seen
from space.
The extraordinary celebration is just
one example of Dubai’s extravagance.
The city has, in recent years, become
synonymous with glamour, glitz and
luxury. Burj Dubai, the world’s tall-
est building, lies a stone’s throw away
from The Dubai Mall, which opened
in a credit crunch-defying manner a
fortnight ago. With four times as many
shops as Westfield, I probably don’t
need to add that it is the world’s largest
mall, and also houses the world’s larg-
est Gold Souk and an aquarium with
the largest viewing panel and largest
school of sharks on the planet.
Combine all of this with perennial
sunshine, white sandy beaches and tax-
free salaries, and you may think you’ve
discovered paradise on earth. You
wouldn’t be the first; there are already
100,000 British expatriates in Dubai. In
fact, expats make up 80% of the city’s
population, most of them South Asian.
However, despite its progress and opu-
lence, even Dubai has adversaries from
all angles. The launch of Atlantis The
Palm was threatened by environmen-
talists’ calls to free “Sammy” the whale
shark, one of 65,000 marine creatures
in the hotel’s aquarium. They claim the
shark, which has since been confirmed
Dubai has recieved criticism from its people and from international organisations for the Atlantis hotel, the latest in a string of lavish projects
for release, was “captured”, whilst the
resort say it was “rescued”, close to Du-
bai’s coast.
Much more voiced, however, are calls
from Human Rights organisations to
put a stop to poor conditions faced by
labourers. Many find it sickening that
millions can be spent on launching a
hotel which was built by construction
workers earning as little as $10 a day,
working up to 60 hour weeks in the
stifling heat in often dangerous condi-
tions. Workers are given respite if tem-
peratures reach 50 Celsius. It always
seems to be 49. Despite this, the mon-
ey that they earn goes a long way back
home, and many are forced to continue
risking their lives on a daily basis to
prevent their wives and children back
home from starvation. Change in the
near future seems unlikely. Migrant
workers continue to flow into Dubai at
a rate of 800 a day.
Dubai may have become a victim of
its own success. Local Emiratis are be-
ginning to feel the influx of foreigners
may cause their heritage to disappear.
As one put it, “we are building tow-
ers but losing the Emirates.” Others
have criticised the yo-yoing between
the state’s culture and its appeal as a
playground for the rich. Drinking al-
cohol on the streets is forbidden, but
the guests at the Atlantis launch were
treated to Veuve Clicquot champagne.
In September, state-owned Dubai
World bought a large stake in Las Ve-
gas casino projects, despite gambling
being outlawed as immoral in the
UAE.
Emirates airline boss Sheikh Ahmed
bin Saeed al-Maktoum calls the UAE
“halfway between East and West”. In
more than one sense, it is because of
this centrality, geographical and cul-
tural, spiritual and material, that Dubai
is being targeted from all sides.
Malcolm X famously said, “If you
have no critics, you’ll likely have no
success.” Only time will tell, but the
success of Dubai’s future may lie in the
way it deals with its criticism.
Labour party’s hopes for re-election still alive
Raz Jabary
With the next UK general elections
scheduled for 2010, New Labour under
PM Gordon Brown is fully operational
in order to secure a fourth ruling term.
Whereas until recent times there were
existing doubts as to the party’s leader-
ship and whether New Labour needed
a new face, current PM Gordon Brown
is found to be more trusted by the Brit-
ish public than Conservative leader
David Cameron when it comes to the
economy, a recent poll from the Mc-
Cann Erickson advertising agency has
shown.
In a time when Britain’s economic
competitiveness abroad is being threat-
ened, and the Afghan and Iraqi peoples
are in desire of a stable and prosperous
future for their countries, a potential
Conservative government with no
ruling experience for the past eleven
years seems to be a conflicting idea.
The British people desired change, and
change came about at the New Labour
leadership stage in June 2007. It seems
that most people in Britain would not
have a tendency to affiliate Mr Brown
directly with the war in Iraq. Rather,
during a time when the unpopularity of
the Iraq war was at its highest, people
perceived the new face of the Labour
Party as a sign of hope for change, for it
has to be noted that many Labour MPs
were actually initially fiercely opposed
to the Iraq invasion in 2003, which in-
cludes John McDonnell MP, a senior
candidate for the party’s leadership.
After the toppling of the Saddam
Hussein regime it was New Labour that
initiated an attempt of reconciliation
between the British and Iraqi peoples
with the creation of Labour Friends
of Iraq. In an interview with felix last
month, Dave Anderson MP and Gary
Kent, chairman and director of Labour
Friends of Iraq respectively, outlined
how they and other MPs had visited
prominent Iraqi politicians – among
which Iraq’s PM Nouri al-Maliki – in
a bid to increase mutual understand-
ing and friendship between the two
countries.
The recent win in the Glenrothes by-
election for New Labour meant a sub-
stantial stimulus to the party. The seat,
which some months before was pre-
dicted to fall to the Scottish National
Party (SNP), was given away to Labour
by residents who had just experienced
Britain’s vulnerability to a major eco-
nomic downturn and how national
unity ought to be a top-priority in such
difficult financial times.
The pre-budget report that was
outlined by Chancellor Alistair Dar-
ling in the House of Commons on
24th November means an important
contribution to business owners and
households. A 2.5% cut in VAT (to be
Europe’s lowest) has to lead to a major
boost in the UK economy of over £12
billion, of which over £1 billion will
go to job centres across the country in
order to get people back to work and
cut rates of unemployment. In a re-
port to Labour party members on the
same day of the announcement, Mr
Darling wrote of ‘providing real help to
families and businesses at a time when
they need it most’. He further claimed
that the Conservatives, unlike Labour,
‘would rather turn their backs to these
groups and say that we should do noth-
ing’. Tory critics on the contrary claim
that Mr Darling’s report seems to be
‘more concerned with reaching out to
detached Labour voters instead of to
the greater benefit of the UK’. On 25th
November, the day after the report
was announced David Cameron even
called for a parliamentary debate on its
contents.
With soaring political and economic
crises facing Britain in this first decade
of the new century, among which most
prominent the wars in Afghanistan
and Iraq, terrorism, the banking sys-
tem, the devalued pound, the demand
for more green, rates of unemployment
and rates of crime, the British public
faces an ever-important event ahead
in the next general election. Although
the greater majority of Britons would
put their individual circumstances
first when it comes to voting, it has to
be recognized that tough challenges
ahead for Britain require a strong unity
among the people in order to effective-
ly tackle these issues that are facing our
society today.
New Labour, determined to seek an-
other term in government, seems to be
ahead in providing the essential ruling
and leadership experiences for this.
David Cameron in trouble as Gordon Brown and New Labour have a resurgence in the opinion polls

