business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 5 December 2008
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
The trouble with being thrifty
Saving might be beneficial for the individual but society has to act to avoid a crash in demand
Daniel Naujoks
Faced with fears of losing their jobs,
many might decide it is time to start
saving more for an increasingly un-
certain future. Even students, I guess,
can be affected by worsening job pros-
pects. If it’s less likely you’ll find a job
after graduation you might feel it safer
not to expand your student loan by
more than necessary (well fine, ‘neces-
sary’ is a flexible concept). Such thrift
is not bad by itself, at all. It’s entirely
rational. Yet unfortunately greater sav-
ing also has the side effect of reducing
consumption – as income is equal to
saving plus spending. And a fall in con-
sumer spending will mean less revenue
for companies.
So what? Who cares if Marks &
Spencer, BT and Currys make a little
(or a lot) less money? Obviously those
holding shares in such companies will
care. But even for the rest of us, there
are good reasons why it is far from ir-
relevant. A fall in revenue and demand
for companies’ products means that
they are pushed to cut production and
reduce expenses. This might be done
by closing some factories, shops and
offices, or by reducing their payroll e.g.
by laying people off, employing fewer
temporary staff, and putting even in-
flation-matching pay rises on ice. Thus
average income decreases. While a
greater proportion of people’s income
is being saved, this is effectively more
of less. Hence, despite a higher savings
rate, total savings may rise by less, re-
main constant, or even fall – a possibil-
ity termed the “Paradox of Thrift” by
the influential British economist John
Maynard Keynes.
Does this imply that thrift is actu-
ally a bad thing? From the individual’s
point of view it’s perfectly sensible,
but for society as a whole there is a
cost to everyone spending less, namely
reduced income. It may be thrown in
that, surely, this is not in anyone’s in-
terest and hence individuals should
want to keep spending in order to sus-
tain their salary. Yet it is worth consid-
ering that while a person bears the full
cost of his own spending, the benefit in
terms of increased revenue and income
is distributed amongst a huge number
of people (a phenomenon known as a
“positive externality” to economists).
Hence the positive effect of his spend-
ing on his own income is minute, and
not a reason for abandoning thrift.
A case like this, where the rational ac-
tion of the individual has negative con-
sequences for society as a whole, can
be conceptualised into the “Problem
of Suboptimisation” (equally, it could
be understood in terms of the related
concepts of the Prisoner’s Dilemma or
the Tragedy of the Commons). This
describes a situation where optimising
the outcome for a subsystem (an indi-
vidual) does not optimise the outcome
for the system as a whole (society).
How do we get around this problem
and ensure demand – and ultimately
income – doesn’t crash?
As it is society that reaps the wider
income benefits of avoiding a demand
crash, it should also be prepared to
take on the costs – no smaller subsys-
tem will. Arguably, any such collective
action can only be taken by our repre-
sentation, the government. It will need
to spend now and repay its debts once
the economy is more stable again. If
the decision is taken to spend (future)
public money, we would certainly like
it to be done in a manner that maxim-
ises the effect on demand and benefits
as many people for as long as possible.
How do we best achieve this? Should
the government just give everyone
money, for instance by cutting in-
come taxes? Or is the money better
spent directly on public services and
infrastructure? Handing out money to
households would have the beneficial
effect that they can spend it on what
they want, and it would be quick to
show effects. The problem with this
is that if people feel like saving more,
they will also save a large part of the
money given to them – which is great
for them personally, but fails to ad-
dress our systemic concern with main-
taining demand. The alternative, to
raise government expenditure directly,
ensures that it really is spent and not
saved. Yet there are drawbacks, too, as
big government projects are likely to
take some time to get going – a delay
that could leave the economy vulner-
able to a short-term slump with per-
manent consequences. Furthermore,
central decisions are often assumed to
be more wasteful than those taken by
participants of the market.
Evidently, both stimulus approach-
es have their shortcomings. Hence a
mixture of the two is probably best:
some tax cuts for immediate effect and
public sector expenditure to ensure as
much as possible actually reaches the
economy. The recent VAT reduction
seems favourable to simply lowering
income taxes, since it directly incen-
tivises consumption, making it less
likely to get stashed away in personal
savings. It also has a broader effect,
giving everyone more spending power,
including those who don’t pay income
tax – such as pensioners and those on
benefits (and students, incidentally,
*wink, wink*). Money spent directly by
the government should benefit more
than just the immediate providers of
the services. Without going into much
detail here, education, public trans-
port, healthcare, energy efficiency and
infrastructure are just a few examples
offering sustainable long-term benefits
to society. Not all of it needs to be new
expenditure either, but simply planned
future investment brought forward by
a few years.
The Bank of England is already do-
ing its bit by lowering interest rates,
and the VAT rate but the situation
also calls for expansive fiscal measures
(lower taxes, higher government ex-
penditure). Yes, this is a lot to ask from
a taxpayer who might feel that the cur-
rent economic woes are the result of
other people’s reckless behaviour. Yet
as I have tried to argue, it is the lesser
of two evils, where the benefit of action
outweighs the cost of inaction.
“for society as a
whole there is a
cost to everyone
spending less”
One of the fundamentals of economics
is the idea that everything has a value.
Everything from the air you breathe
to the food you eat to the clothes you
wear. The trees, the birds, the seas, the
clouds, the houses, the ground, all of
it has a price. Even people. Especially
people. For economists, people are the
most interesting things to value in the
whole wide world.
How much is your life worth? Take a
guess. Seriously, guess. What did you
go for? Thousands? Tens of thousands?
Hundreds of thousands? Keep that fig-
ure in your mind.
Obliviously (as you’ve figured out)
the value of a person depends on the
person in question and what the value’s
going to be used for. Clearly some-
one who can read is worth more than
someone who can’t, your average child
is worth more than your average 90
year old, and obviously someone with a
skill is worth more than someone with
The dollar value of a human life
none. So how can we work out the val-
ue of a human life? Well, the majority of
economists argue that we should look
at wages, evaluations by healthcare ex-
perts, potential earnings and the like,
but frankly that’s too much effort and
is too indirect. Instead you’re better off
just looking at how much people actu-
ally sell for on the open market.
There are about 27 million slaves in
the world today, but because of the un-
derground nature of the slave trade, it’s
a bit tricky to get a truly accurate figure
of how much a person sells for. That
said, lots of groups estimate that your
average slave costs about £60 (or $90),
with the cheapest slaves available in
Mali, where you can get a young adult
male labourer about £27 (or $40).
Now, it’s worth taking in to account
that at these prices, you’re not going to
be able to buy premium quality slavery.
Sure, a £27 slave can talk, feel, think,
hope, dream, love, fear and whatever,
but they’re probably incapable of do-
ing anything really useful like reading
or writing fluently, nor will they be
guaranteed to be free from disease.
Higher quality human lives are more
costly and their prices depend on what
they are needed for. For example, a
HIV-free, young, female slave (suit-
able for brothel work) can cost £669
(or $1000).
So immediately we can see that be-
ing female, young, attractive or disease
free makes you a more valuable human
being, but even so £669 is actually quite
cheap. If we look at trade transactions
from the last 150 years we can see that
in 1860, a human male would sell for
something between $450 and $1000
dollars. Today, that’s about £7,725 to £
17,170. So, one American slave in 1860
was worth the same amount as 461
equivalent slaves today, or 207 average
modern slaves or 18.6 contemporary
brothel slaves.
To put his into even further perspec-
tive, a quick search on www.epupz.
co.uk shows that a retriever (a breed of
dog) costs about £750 on average, 12%
more than a HIV-free, young, human,
female.
So using the slave-gauge we can see
that not only is a basic human very
cheap, but it has also decreased in val-
ue by about 99.679% over the last 150
years. Assuming that humans have de-
creased by a constant rate, we can the
go on to work out the value retention
rate of human life to be about 0.9625
a year, giving us a human life inflation
rate of 3.75%. Or in other words, the
value of human life halves every 18
years.
Depressing, isn’t it? But don’t worry
so much because according to the gov-
ernment, your life is worth millions
of pounds. Yes, millions of pounds.
The US government puts the life of
an American at $6.9 million. Here in
the UK, the government is a bit more
discreet with the figures, but it’s safe to
assume that you’re worth at least £4m
to her majesties civil service. To BP
though, a human life is worth signifi-
cantly more, with the average person
being worth about £13.3m. But to an
insurance company, you’re worth a lot
less.
Want to know why? It’s not because
you’ve got more skills than a slave.
It’s not because you can read, write
or whatever. It’s not because you’re
healthy. It’s because unlike the peo-
ple who have been kidnapped, you’ve
got rights. The major value added to
a human life comes from our ability
for argue our case in courts of law and
our societies recognition of the value
of life. BP assesses human life so high
because that’s the average cost of an
out of court settlement per person.
The government assesses human life at
about £4m because that’s how much it
is willing to spend to save your life if
you’re in danger. Insurance companies
value your life based on how outraged
you would be with small settlements.
We are valuable almost purely be-
cause you were born in a western
country that bestowed you with rights.
Without those rights, we loose the ma-
jority of our value. As far as the market
is concerned, our lives are cheap, but
our rights are expensive.
Luke Dhanoa
Business Editor

