Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 5 December 2008 felix
MTSoc ‘Don’t tell Mama’
14 felix Friday 5 December 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Arts
I
’m trapped in a room full of
dancing and prancing in the
Huxley building, with the aim of
presenting my faithful readers
with a cheeky sneaky preview
of the Musical Theatre Society’s immi-
nent production ‘Don’t Tell Mama’. I’m
treated to a full run-through, but first
I am forced to sit through their warm-
up exercises, which are terrifying. It’s
a bit like watching a primary school
PE lesson. I get somebody’s arse in my
face a couple of times, but I try not to
take it personally. My initial impres-
sions of MTSoc is that there’s more of
them than I expected, they seem to re-
ally enjoy what they do, and they sing
unbelievably loudly. In this tiny little
room it’s almost deafening – and yet
during their actual performances they
use microphones.
The first song is ‘Good morning Bal-
timore’ from Hairspray. It’s a catchy
song and difficult to fault. I did feel
that at times the performers are fight-
ing to out-sing each other, particularly
the more confident ones, so it often
reached ear-splitting levels. It’s hard
to tell whether that will do better or
worse on stage.
The next song is a solo: ‘Taylor the
Latte Boy’, sung by Katie Clemence. It’s
an amusing, witty little ditty. Clemence
is very good, with a sweet voice suited
to the role perfectly, though she was
a little quiet. This is one of the songs
I’ll look forward to revisiting on the
night. At this point I had to ask “erm...
is this supposed to have a storyline?”.
The answer was no. It’s a cabaret thing.
Which is fair enough, but I hope they
make this a bit clearer in the perform-
ance or otherwise the audience will be
left bewildered.
‘I Can Make You a Man’, of Rocky
Horror fame, is more MTSoc’s usual
camp comedy style. It’s a hysterical
number, bound to be an early show-
stopper. ‘Don’t Tell Mama’, the show’s
title song, is another funny one. The
choreography is top class stuff, but
the female company is sloppy. To their
credit, the directors knew this and told
them so. If they can pull it together
during the week it will be amazing.
The duet ‘I am Adolpho’ is another
comic number, and is very amusing.
Barry Whiteside and Elizabeth Fritsch
are both very talented, but have a quiet
confidence that really makes it succeed.
Whiteside, in particular, truly comes
alive on the stage. ‘Snooky Ookums’ is
another duet, but is a charmingly funny
song that doesn’t need the hammed-
up slapstick prevalent in the rest of the
show... Like ‘Afternoon Delight’. Yes,
the song about afternoon love-making
from Anchorman. MTSoc’s rendition
of this ticks all the raunchy gay cliché
boxes. It will make every straight man
in the audience want to run for the
nearest emergency exit. I can hardly
believe they have the guts to do this
sort of thing – it’s utterly astounding.
I enjoyed it, though others might find
it a step too far.
Matt Stringer has a subtle but pleas-
ant voice and does a respectable job of
‘If I Didn’t Believe in You’. It’s difficult
for a show to swing from homoerotic
piss-taking to something more serious,
so this song could end up underappre-
ciated. We’re back on to the sex again
in ‘Toucha Toucha Touch Me’, another
Rocky Horror. “There’s no use in heavy
petting, it only leads to trouble and
seat-wetting”. Hum. Laura McCaughey
is very good but risks being smothered
by a loud female chorus. If she can be
louder and less delicate this could end
up being the best song in the show.
‘Sarah Brown Eyes’ is a beautifully
romantic song. I don’t get to see the
female part done by the real person, so
I can’t comment on that, but Phil Ray-
mond nailed the male part perfectly
so I’ve got high hopes. For the record,
Lucy Harrold was an excellent stand-
in and did a thoroughly believable job
of it. We’re getting towards the end of
the production now, with everybody
coming together for some finale ac-
tion. There were some voices in ‘Be-
ing Alive’ that I would have liked to
have heard more of in their own songs.
Perhaps these hidden talents will be
revealed in the next production? The
whole company comes together nicely
with some beautiful harmonies, bar the
occasional high note making me wince.
The final song is ‘Fame’. Now, in their
favour, the whole lot of them clearly
Emily Wilson previews the Musical Theatre Society’s newest production ‘Don’t Tell Mama’
adore this finale. It’s full of passion and
excitement, with fun and funky chore-
ography that would be beyond most of
us, coming together in a grand climax.
But why ‘Fame’? It’s such a cliched and
predictable finale! I felt bad for dislik-
ing it, and I wish they’d come up with
something equally impressive but a bit
more original.
Of course, I was watching a rehearsal.
What I saw was riddled with mistakes
and inappropriate giggles, out of cos-
tume and away from the stage. A lot of
people with solos weren’t there. All in
all, I certainly didn’t get the full effect.
But on the other hand it was fascinat-
ing to watch MTSoc interact with each
other, and to see all the hard work that
goes on putting on these shows. I was in
awe of some of the musical talent that
comes out of a university of science
and technology. In my opinion they all
deserve a major pat on the back.
Having seen many of their past per-
formances, I also think this one ranks
quite highly, so MTSoc should regard
it as a triumph. But should I recom-
mend it to you? Many of you, I’m sure,
are already set in your hatred of what is
regarded as a lower art form. It’s crass
and immature, and entertains with its
sexual innuendo, fluffy gayness and
cheery tunes.
MTSoc’s production conforms to all
the usual musical theatre stereotypes,
so if that’s something you despise
then don’t expect to have your mind
changed. However, ‘Don’t Tell Mama’ is
a perky little production that makes for
an uplifting night out, so is a must for
pre-existing musical fans or anybody
in need of some light entertainment.
“Having seen
many of their
performances,
this one ranks
quite highly”
The company on stage during their recent performance of ‘Don’t Tell Mama’
The cast at one of the photo shoots for the performance
DramSoc’s Merry
Persons steal the
opening night
Jonathan Dakin reviews the opening night performance of
DramSocs’s Robin Hood
T
his year’s Christmas pan-
tomime from Imperial’s
Drama Society is Robin
Hood, but don’t expect
strong men running
around saving the poor and fighting
the bad guys: this is a rather different
story.
The play begins with a weak and
scatterbrained King John talking to
his Freudian psychiatrist about how
bad things have been for him lately. It
seems that everyone has been hit by a
money crisis (mirroring contemporary
times), including royalty. In turn, we
then meet all of the unusual characters:
an alcoholic and arrogant Sheriff of
Nottingham, a stupid and ditzy Robin,
a sexist and short tempered Friar Tuck,
an angry and hot-headed Wil(helmina)
Scarlet, and a spoilt and self-centred
Marian. It seems that everyone is out
for themselves: the Sheriff forces Mar-
ian to woe Robin in order to make him
steal from the rich for her, but instead
of giving the money to her evil Abbot
uncle and the Sheriff, she plans to run
away to Paris with her long-suffering
maid Sizeable Joanna, taking all of the
goods. Although this is a very differ-
ent take on an overused idea, lets not
forget that this is a Pantomime, and
so good should triumph over evil… or
will it? It is hard to tell how it will end,
especially when every single character
has questionable ulterior motives.
Robin Hood has some funny mo-
ments, including a sexual encounter
between Little John and Sizeable Joan-
na and a fight between Kung Fu Fight-
ers, a band of Pirates and a group of
Monks. It is also interesting to see that
it is actually Little John and Wilhelmi-
na Scarlet who are running things,
not Robin Hood, who thinks that he is
the one in control when everyone else
knows he isn’t.
There are also some good perform-
ances from a few of the cast. Lak-
shmi Sreenivasan who plays Brudo,
a sword-wielding midget, gets most
of the laughs, mainly because of her
short-statured caricature, and Shamini
Bundell, who plays Maid Marian, does
well to convince the audience that a
spoilt selfish woman can change for
the better. The Ensemble are also good
at being funny, although sometimes
not intentionally. It is a shame that the
cast mainly played their roles seriously,
they almost seemed to forget that this
is a Pantomime, and that their charac-
ters should be over the top and played
for laughs. It could be first night nerves
that got to them, but I would have liked
to see a bit more energy and I am sure
that if they all relax and take it less seri-
ously, then a lot more humour would
come through.
But saying that, it is not easy to do
Panto, especially when much of it de-
pends on audience participation, and
the fact that they are all amateur ac-
tors. They made a good attempt at a
hard task, and even when the audience
heckled them, the cast seemed unfazed
and used it to their advantage.
The real highlight of the night was
the audience, who were all very in-
volved in the play, and enjoyed playing
along to the Panto elements e.g. ‘He’s
behind you!’ If you went with a group
of your friends, looking to have a fun
and humorous time, then I would say
that as long as you, your mates and the
rest of the audience are willing to get
involved, you will have a good laugh.
“They make a
good attempt
at a hard task,
and even when
heckled, they
used it to their
advantage”
Prince John and a merry person, no euphemism intended
Come and see the show tonight or tomorrow night in the Union Concert Hall

