film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 5 December 2008 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 5 December 2008
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
There’s nothing Jolie in Changeling
This incredibly original film is an au-
tobiographical account of the direc-
tor’s attempt to recover his memories
of the Israel-Lebanon war in 1982. As
we learn at the beginning, Ari Folman
suppressed the memories from his sol-
dier days for 20 years until a meeting
with an old friend jogs his subcon-
scious. The friend’s retelling of a recur-
ring dream about the 26 dogs he killed
during the war prompts Ari to suffer
his first flashback and starts him on his
quest to remembrance.
The Israeli-Lebanese conflict start-
ed in 1981 when violence erupted in
South Lebanon and North Israel. South
Lebanon at the time was a state within
a state with a population of 300,000
Palestinians and a very active Palestine
Liberation Organization (PLO), which
made numerous, attacks on Israeli
border villages. Israel responded with
a bloody bombing of the PLO head-
quarters in Beirut and the fighting con-
tinued until July 1981 when a ceasefire
was agreed upon. But the seemingly
calm year was in reality filled with
strenuous tension. Ronald Reagan at
the time received a report in which his
Secretary of State informed him that
Israel was ready to start a full-blown
war against Lebanon at the slightest
provocation. The provocation inevita-
bly came and Israel attacked the civil
war ridden Lebanon in 1982. The re-
sulting war is now mainly remembered
for the massacre performed by the
Christian Phalangists in the Palestin-
ian districts of Beirut. It is this massa-
cre that our protagonist knows he wit-
nessed but can’t remember what part
he played in it. The movie is filmed as a
documentary; Ari visits and interviews
both the friends that he believes served
with him as well as soldiers from other
regiments and people involved in the
war who can shed some light about the
events that led to the massacre.
Although the interviews at first seem
a bit random, they imitate the way in
which the protagonist’s memories
came back (i.e. in fits and starts, in dis-
connected snippets of images) and a
clear picture of the war steadily builds
itself as the movie continues. Obvi-
ously the theme of memory is very
prominent in the film and at the start
we are rather explicitly told that mem-
ories should not be believed, the brain
easily deceives our recollection of the
past. This unsubtle reminder that what
we’re watching and hearing isn’t neces-
sarily true is reinforced a hundred fold
by the fact that Waltz with Bashir is
animated!
That’s right, animated. And what a
painstakingly beautiful animation it is.
The mise-en-scene is minimalistic; the
artist draws in only those bits that are
vital to our understanding of a shot,
but nothing else. Close-ups and yel-
low colours dominate, with the char-
acters drawn in hard clear lines while
the background is slightly washed out.
This visual style creates a dreamlike
feel to the movie, which borders on be-
ing poetic.
The animation is what makes the
film stand out and what allows the
movie to deliver such a powerful
punch, because it forces the story to be
told without any acting. All the scenes
are simply visualisations of the stories
told in a plain, monotonic, almost un-
emotional way, by the interviewees.
The result is a brutal clash between
stunning and emotion-inducing im-
ages, a very expressive soundtrack and
the cold narration of the atrocities of
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
war. What we’re seeing doesn’t directly
correspond to what we’re hearing and
the feeling that this is unreal, all made-
up, persists. And then bam! The movie
reaches its end and suddenly the ani-
mated scenes of wailing women and
abandoned corpses are replaced by
If you want to spend two hours stress-
ing yourself out watching the lowest
of the low scumbags presented to you
in typical Hollywood fashion with no
shades of grey, this movie is for you. If
you want a story with no clear resolu-
tion and one that leaves you despising
humankind that bit more, Clint East-
wood has fulfilled your wishes. Fi-
nally, if you want to see what is most
likely an Oscar winning performance,
Angelina Jolie doesn’t disappoint. But
if you want a movie that is honest
and unpretentious, one that will stay
with you after you’ve left the dark-
ened cinema room, don’t put all your
hopes into Changeling. You’ll feel like
shit coming out of the movie theatre,
even the gloom of London’s autumn is
enough to dispel the only slightly lin-
gering feeling of unsettlement.
Telling a true story of one woman wag-
ing a war against the corrupt and brutal
Los Angeles Police Department in 1928
in order to find her missing son, Change-
ling is definitely not light entertainment.
On 10 March 1928 Walter Collins, the
son of Christine Collins (Jolie), disap-
peared from his home. After a 5-month
search the police announced that the boy
had been found and subsequently reu-
nited mother and son. However, it turns
out the LAPD has made a mistake, the
boy is not Walter. But one of the most
corrupt police forces ever, one whom bad
press is the last thing they need, cannot
own up to making a mistake. They ignore
Christine’s allegations, bribing doctors
and specialists to proclaim that it is pos-
sible for a growing boy to suddenly lose 3
inches under stress and that the fact that
the new found boy is circumcised doesn’t
prove anything. Prompted by the local
reverend (John Malkovich’s forgettable
role), whose goal in life is to uncover the
constant breaching of the law by the po-
lice, Mrs. Collins makes her fight more
public. And she suffers the consequenc-
es. Interweaved between the story of
the morally putrid LAPD and Christine
Collins’ unwavering fight to find Walter
is the mortifying tale of a young psycho-
path and the 20 or so kids he slaughtered
with an axe.
Changeling HHHHK
Director: Clint Eastwood
Writer: J. Michael Straczynski
Cast: Angelina Jolie,
John Malkovich,
Jeffrey Donovan
Visually breathtaking, Waltz with Bashir will leave you stunned.
Clint Eastwood impresses as a director yet again with this mystery melodrama that chills to the core
Directed by Academy Award Winning
Sam Mendez (American Beauty), and
starring Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate
Winslet, Revolutionary Road looks set
to be a show-stopping powerhouse of
superb directing and acting.
Based on a novel of the same name,
Revolutionary Road is about a mar-
ried couple, Frank and April Wheeler
(Diaprio and Winslet) living in 1950’s
America who want a better life for
themselves. April is an aspiring actress
who dreams of moving to Paris, and
alcoholic Frank wants to quit his dead
Coming Out Soon
end job and continue having an affair
with his mistress. Although a gloomy
premise, the film centres on the cou-
ple’s relationship falling apart and I am
sure that both DiCaprio and Winslet
will provide stunning performances
and will make the film commanding
from beginning to end.
This is the first time Winslet and
DiCaprio have worked together since
Titanic, but the plot could not be more
different (thank goodness). With Win-
slet’s husband, Mendez, behind the
camera, I hope that this film provides
us with something like award winning
American Beauty than flop Road To
Perdition.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
This time Kate and Leo exchange selfless love for an unhappy marriage
To say the least, the movie is very dis-
turbingandthesubduedwayinwhichthe
story is presented makes the punch even
harder. Angelina Jolie’s performance is
particularly effective because the actress
doesn’t fall into the trap of expressively
showing every single emotion. When
Christine is left with nothing but despair,
Jolie skilfully demonstrates despair rath-
er than the, easier to act but more annoy-
ing, hysteria. Despite a morally satisfying
conclusion to the drama, Clint Eastwood
doesn’t offer any comfort; gloomy scenes
of a death sentence being carried out im-
mediately follow scenes of a battle won
in the courtroom. The movie is filmed
not in black and white, but in extremely
bleak, washed out shades of green and
grey, interspersed with contrasting yel-
lowish and brownish shots of the Ameri-
can outback where the grisly crimes take
place. Overall, however, the cinematogra-
phy is boring and forgettable, used only as
a medium to seamlessly tell a story.
The director clearly put the script
above all else; the dramatic events that
unfolded are shown without redundant
flair, which is a very good idea that un-
fortunately backfires slightly. The musi-
cal score doesn’t overpower the scenes
but it doesn’t enhance them either. The
restraint of the main character in openly
showing strong emotions, adds to the un-
deniably depressing mood of the film but
also makes it that much harder to care
about the movie after the credits roll.
Eastwood took a chance by giving us a
story in this cool and slightly aloof man-
ner – it partly works, partly doesn’t, but it
wasn’t a mistake. What I can’t accept on
the other hand is the one dimensionality
of the police characters; even Christine
Collins is to some extent flat. The bad
guys are clearly bad and the good are nau-
seatingly good. I also wasn’t impressed
by the fact that everything in the film is
given to us. We get it all nicely served on a
silver plate. The distinction between the
good and bad, the moral and unethical,
is too sharp and too pronounced to get
you thinking. The most irritating thing
about Changeling though is how mark-
edly it was created ‘for your consideration
only’; it’s a film that knows it’s meant for
the American Academy and the upcom-
ing Oscars.
Those are not tears of joy as Jolie realizes the kid found by the police juvenile departement isn’t her son.
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Film Editor
Waltz with Bashir HHHHH
Director: Ari Folman
Writer: Ari Folman
Cast: Ari Folman,
Ron Ben-Yishai,
Ronny Dayag
New, innovative and moving, simply a must see!
historical footage and we can no longer
delude ourselves that the war, the fight-
ing and the massacre never happened.
That’s when the screen goes dark, the
audience continues to sit speechless
and you realize this is the best movie
to come out in a long time.
Films we love at Imperial
How can you beat Michael J. Fox skate-
boarding through town holding on
to the back of a truck, to the sound
of Huey Louis singing Power of Love,
as the opening sequence to a movie?
Quite frankly you can’t, and hence my
favourite film has to be Back to the
Future.
A mad scientist, a time machine and
the one and only MJ Fox are woven to-
gether by the likes of Robert Zemeckis
and Steven Spielberg into a master-
piece of cinematic history.
I’m sure we all know the story, but
for anyone deprived during their early
years, here’s a very brief overview, al-
beit one which simply cannot reveal
the brilliant intricacies of the plot. We
begin with the entrance of the fabu-
lously good-looking Marty McFly (so
handsome, in fact, that he later lent his
name to a boy band who certainly did
not live up to its legendary status). Fol-
lowing a phone call from his mad sci-
entist friend, Doctor Emmett Brown
(Doc, to his mates), Marty realises he
is late for school, at which point the
aforementioned skateboard scene pro-
ceeds. Where to go from here? Fear
not: Zemeckis has answers.
Marty later meets Doc in a car park,
where he reveals a beautifully sci-fi
looking car: a DeLorean. He then in-
forms Marty he has transformed it into
a time machine. After sending his dog,
Einstein, one minute into the future,
Doc offers a brilliantly scientific expla-
nation for this feat. I should probably
consult one of the many Imperial phys-
icists before I ascribe its brilliance, but
oh well. It has something to do with a
flux capacitor.
Unfortunately,tocreatesaidtimema-
chine, Doc has stolen Plutonium from
some terrorists, who turn out to be
quite unhappy about it and shoot him,
leaving Marty to escape in the DeLo-
rean. However, in the process, he ac-
cidentally travels back to 1955 and has
no plutonium with him for the return
journey. Only the energy of a lighten-
ing bolt can power the flux capacitor
enough to send Marty ‘back to the fu-
ture’, but of course he has to consult
the Doc of 1955 and consequently risk
breaking the space-time continuum,
which he foolishly does on a number
of occasions (will he never learn?).
For example, he meets his mother and
stops her falling in love with his father,
leaving his entire existence in jeopardy.
Clearly, this needs to be corrected, and
although he only manages to do it just
before he is due to travel back to 1985,
it’s nice to see he still has enough time
for a Johnny B. Goode guitar solo.
OK, there might be a few holes in the
storyline and the continuous mention
of flux capacitors and the space-time
continuum may grate slightly, but who
cares? Doc has a DeLorean that can
take you back in time: does anything
else matter?
With classic quotes including, “Are
you telling me my mum has the hots
for me?” and “My God Doc, you vapor-
ised Einstein!” brilliantly thought out
inventions of the future and a classic
soundtrack, Back To the Future has
surely become a timeless classic. If you
haven’t seen it, watch it; if you have,
watch it over and over again.
Catherine Luckin
Student
Imperial College students, lecturers and staff share their
treasured movies with felix. This week: Back to the Future
Look behind you...Is anyone there?
Ok... Please read on.
The aim of Secret Cinema is to sur-
prise the audience. Before the actual
day of the screening, the audience
doesn’t know where the screening will
take place, what film will be shown,
and what sort of side programme (with
special guests) awaits them.
An e-mail message on the day of the
screening reveals the assembly point,
and this is where you come and meet
all the other secret moviegoers. The
organisers then take you to the place
where the screening will happen. I say
‘place’ because this could be practically
anywhere: out on a farm or in a garden,
on a rooftop of some downtown build-
ing, at a hotel parking lot, in a garage
or in a tunnel.
The whole concept of the secrecy
is aimed at bringing back the mystery
to the cinema experience; it is aimed
at adventurous cinéphiles who de-
spise going to the same old monotone
multiplexes to see the same old Hol-
lywood trash. Tired of such cosmetic
‘know-what-to-expect’ experiences,
the Secret Cinema team decided cin-
ema deserves to be more exciting.
Secret cinema started in London in
December 2007 and takes place once
a month. Given its popularity despite
their somewhat expensive tickets (up
to £18), perhaps audiences really are
getting tired of boring and predictable
cinema experiences.
Another interesting concept of mak-
ing the cinema experience a bit differ-
ent is the ‘Bad Film Club’ organised
in an art-house cinema, Chapters in
Cardiff. Here you find two knowledge-
able people commenting on the film
as it is being screened. Those of you
who watch your DVDs with the com-
mentary option ‘on’ might not find
this as much of a novelty though. Are
these two concepts perhaps the birth
of a new wave of trying to attract audi-
ences back to cinema in today’s world
of YouTube and Internet TV? I don’t
know, but it is exciting: the closest to
secret cinema I ever got was sitting in
an open air ‘summer’ cinema on an is-
land in Croatia wondering whether the
rain was going to spoil the ending of
the film for me!
For those of you who want to know
more and like being let in on a secret
check out the following internet sites
(secret or not, the internet has it all):
“http://www.secretcinema.org/” and
“http://www.chapter.org/13283.html”.
By the way, if anyone asks, I didn’t say
anything.
P.S. Remember, tell no -one.
Why can’t our lecturers be a bit more like Doc? Or maybe they are?
Mico Tatalovic
Try before you die: Secret Cinema
My GOD, that is one sexy man. I mean WOW.
Competition
L
ast time the competition
didn’t go as well as planned
and now I find myself still
stuck with three DVD cop-
ies of Asylum. So let us try
again, and remember, all you need to
do is send the answer in an email, we’ll
do all the work, track you down and
hand you the prize. This week you can
win Pineapple Express.
A new side-splitting comedy pro-
duced by Judd Appatow (40 Year Old
Virgin, Knocked Up), Pineapple Express
harnesses the riotous comic talents of
Seth Rogen (Zack and Miri Make a
Porno, Knocked Up) and James Franco
(Spider-man Trilogy, Milk).
Also starring Rosie Perez (Do The
Right Thing) and Gary Cole (The Brady
Bunch Movie), Pineapple Express fol-
lows a pair of druggie losers as they
reach the top of the hit-list when one
witnesses a mob murder and drags his
buddy into a crazy flight from mob-
sters bent on silencing both of them
permanently.
Lazy stoner Dale Denton and his
dealer Saul Silver end up having the
adventure of a lifetime after witnessing
a murder by a crooked cop. When they
realise that their rare strain of weed
called Pineapple Express, left behind at
the scene, is so rare that it can be traced
back to them, they really do have to run
for their lives.
Simply answer the simple question
below and send your answer to film.
felix@imperial.ac.uk.
The Noble has it’s less seri-
ous equivalent called the Ig No-
ble, what is the Oscar’s flippant
counterpart?
Winners will be announced in next
week’s edition!
Revolutionary Road sees Dicaprio and
Winslet reunited, but don’t be fooled

