12 FRIDAY 06 DEC
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
wkward moments
in a GTA’s life come
pretty thick and fast.
I had hoped to start
a new term off well,
but 3 months of GTA experience had
taught me better. I have several times
marked something as completely
wrong only to realise five minutes
later it is a perfect solution and had
to cross out all my notes. I have also
had to start calling my lecturers by
their first names, which is not only
weird and wrong, but also impossible
with people who the other staff refer
to as Professor. Yet still they insist.
Most awfully I’ve had to rebound
chat up lines from students. With
the MScs and their older wiser ways
this is only vaguely embarrassing but
by undergrads, who look to me about
12, it is just awful and not cute as
my sister determined in her wails of
unfeeling laughter.
But today did not get off to a good
start. I was invigilating an extra time
exam which had just one student in
it. These are the best GTA jobs (apart
from the fieldtrips) as you can stay the
whole way through the exams, which
can be over 4 hours (good cash times
after a rather indulgent Christmas).
You can also take in your own work.
Thus, you have 4 hours of time alone
with your work, with no emails or
people or funding proposals, and you
get paid for it.
This sounds pretty ideal until your
stomach starts rumbling. Very, very
loudly. Now this is awkward on any
Christy Kelly thinks now is the winter of our discontent
Confessions of a GTA: Part Seven
The GTA
Anonymous
A new and slightly more awkward year
occasion. I still remember a particular
primary school teacher whose
stomach would always kick off at
around 12pm, but in a tiny silent room
with only one other unknown person
who is trying their hardest not to fail
an exam. Seriously!!! And it just went
on and on and on, sounding quite a lot
like a cat singing the song of its people.
I think the worst thing about it was
there was nothing I could do. With
corrections there is tipp-ex, with
lecturers you can go as long as possible
without calling them anything, and
with students you can make it quite
clear you are looking for someone
who is rich enough to pay for the rest
of your academic career. Here, I was
helpless.
So apologies to you. I hope the
exam went ok. Thus my confession
this week can only be that even GTA’s
bodies let them down more often than
they would like to admit.
R
ichard III marks the
start of Shakespeare’s
longstanding engagement
with villainy. From the
‘motiveless malignity’ of
Iago to the sublime tragic grandeur of
the Macbeths, the roots of all can be
spied in this early work; the scandalous
graveside seduction, the poisonous
force of Queen Margaret. And yet, it
is an early work and this shows: the
play lacks the psychological subtlety
of Othello, the (if you will forgive an
oxymoron) crude sophistication of
Troilus and Cressida, the scale of A
Winter’s Tale, the profundity of the
undeservedly lesser known Richard
II. Similarly, the pathos during the
death of the little Prince is a little
too pathetic, the ghosts serve too
simplistic a function when compared
to their counterparts in Hamlet, Julius
Caesar and Macbeth. Finally there
is Richard himself, vulgar without
Iago’s intelligence, a short (Napoleon
Complex susurrates on the periphery
of every analysis), grotesque figure of
a very picturesque evil.
Yet he has a certain tragic dignity,
behind the bathos. The legacy
bequeathed on us by the ancients, of
sympathy and catharsis, still hold sway
in the poetry of the classical époque.
We know well that Richard is nothing
other than his rapacious surface, yet
the very form of tragic theatre grants
him a closeness to us. A closeness
which, while we stare on, in wonder
and in terror, is stolen from the rest of
the world.
This, to adapt a phrase from our
friends across the Atlantic, is the
world this winter: in Iraq, Mohammed
Abdul-Hameed, Raad Yassin Al-
Baddi, Wassan Al-Azzawi, Jamal
Abdul-Nasser Sami and Ahmed
Khattab Ohmar are murdered during
a raid on local TV station Salaheddin
TV. In Bangladesh a nameless lawyer
is beaten by four men as she protests
in the run-up to the coming election.
In Japan, TEPCO employees are
‘asked’ to return compensation money
for working in the devastated nuclear
wastes of Tohoku. In the US, in New
Orleans, a sex worker unknowingly
contracts HIV. Earlier, she decided not
to carry condoms with her; she heard
the police were using them as evidence
in prosecutions for prostitution. In
the West Bank, 23 Palestinians face
the immediate loss of their homes
and livelihoods following an illegal
court ruling in early December. In
South Africa, Funeka Soldaat tries
to help another victim of ‘corrective
rape’, rape aimed at ‘curing’ lesbians
of their homosexuality. In Colombia
the family of Albeiro Váldez Martínez
continue to face death-threats for
attempting to reclaim their land.
When Váldez returned to his farm in
November 2009, a cattle rancher who
had taken over the farm while Váldez
was displaced threatened to kill him.
When Váldez was found murdered
in March 2010, the mayor of the
town returned the land to the cattle
rancher…
Meanwhile: a complacent Alain
Fienkelkraut holds court on the
‘clash of civilisations’ from his desk
at the École Polytechnique. TEPCO
shareholders see a 136% yearly return,
while the Telegraph worries that John
Kerry and America might just be a
little too late to come to the ‘rescue’. I
presume that asking of whom is to beg
the question? Bloomberg announces –
surprise, surprise – that the rich got
richer, and – surprise, surprise – that
they will continue to get richer. That
ballast of intellectuality and historical
sensitivity, Shinzo Abe, takes a
spiritual jaunt with war criminals
before watching Japan’s latest big
budget nationalist farce Eien no Zero,
The Eternal Zero…
Perhaps it is not so much that the
form of theatre grants our favourite
tragic heroes an immediacy lost to
others, as that a certain distance in the
very ways in which we relate with each
other allows the theatre to maintain
an equally ‘close distance’, so to speak.
It has long been said that, at least since
the dawn of the classic age, and in my
opinion since long before, language
is autotelic, that signification is
reflexive, that representation is always
representation of representation…
Certainly Shakespeare assures us that
all the world’s a stage, and if the men
and women are really only players
then perhaps, just perhaps, these
players gain the dimensions of men
and women.
Yet when we reach events where all
the world really is a stage (you will, I
hope, forgive the anachronism), the
players lose their tragic dignity. They
become not individuals but a faceless
mass, without name and without
history. And when the winter of our
discontent is made summer by the
rising sun of York? Keats wrote of ‘the
murmurous haunt of flies on summer
eves’. Harbingers of the stench of
death…

