15
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 17 JAN
ARTS
How an educational charity is bringing
art back to the masses
P
resent education policy
seems to be driven by the
political notion that culture
should be seen as a ‘luxury’
and a ‘commodity’, and
purely in terms of economic utility. In
April 2013, arts secretary Maria Miller
spoke on the subject of British arts,
saying that the argument for continued
arts funding must be made primarily
on economic grounds, so that it “will
get traction, not in the press, but with
my colleagues – and with the country
at large”.
Meanwhile the reforms to university
tuition fees that came into force
in 2012 have had a profound and
devastating impact on the arts across
the UK. Students are applying to study
vocational subjects rather than take
the gamble and end up with a degree
that will leave them up to £36,000 in
the red.
“The government is emphasising
that culture is a luxury we can’t afford,”
said campaigner and fundraiser Neil
Griffiths, speaking at the one day
conference at Central Saint Martins
College of Arts and Design entitled
‘What’s the Point of Art School?’ in
May 2013. This idea is reiterated by
award winning comedian Josie Long,
who believes the liberal arts have
been side-lined by a government that
sees higher education as a means to
employability rather than an end in
itself.
Arts Emergency Service is a
grassroots project co-founded by
Griffiths and Long in 2011. It aims
to reverse the trend by “gathering a
nationalnetworkofvolunteerstocreate
privilege for people without privilege
and counter the myth that university,
and in particular arts degrees, are the
domain of the privileged.”
Long, who won a place to study
English at Oxford despite coming from
a family with ‘no connections’ and
modest means says that studying the
arts ‘changed her life’. She is passionate
about giving underprivileged children
a chance to explore creative careers
and the benefits that it can bring. The
project primarily runs the ‘Alternative
Old Boys’ Network’, subverting the
tradition of alumni from elite schools
and universities helping each other to
get a leg up in the jobs market. The
Alternative Old Boys’ Network gathers
hundreds of volunteers working in
fine art, theatre, media, comedy,
design and more to provide mentoring
services. Amongst volunteers from the
members of the public, an impressive
list of big names are also involved;
patrons include the journalists Polly
Toynbee and Laurie Penny, artist
duo Jake & Dinos Chapman, authors
Neil Gaiman and Alan Moore, poet
Scroobius Pip, and comedians Stephen
K Amos, Stewart Lee and Shappi
Khorsandi. Mentors need not even
have an arts degree; they include
scientists, public sector workers and
self-trained artists, the only common
factor being their passion for arts
education and keeping the door open
for students from all backgrounds.
Mentors work with student
members aged 16-19 in further
education to help pursue a personal
goal and explore their options in the
arts, media, academia and professions
such as Law and Architecture. They
are given the opportunity to meet
useful people from the network,
and give themselves a foundation of
confidence and connections on which
to build a successful future – on their
own terms. Mentors meet students
face to face, talk on the phone or
email offering information, advice and
guidance relevant to their experience.
Many also offer work experience,
taster days and further access to others
in their personal networks. According
to Arts Emergency the program has
found considerable success in the pilot
scheme; each student member that
joined is now studying at university or
is the process of applying. ‘Graduates’
of the scheme are offered on-going
practical support in the longer term
through access to the network.
Speaking to the Guardian in 2011,
Long said that the “ultimate aim” of
Arts Emergency Service is “to reinstate
free education for all at a tertiary level.”
As well as running the mentoring
scheme, Arts Emergency are involved
actively in the community by running
workshops in schools and sixth
form colleges to ‘de-mystify’ creative
careers. Members also speak regularly
at public events; Josie Long appeared
alongside author Phillip Pullman and
world-renowned graphic novelist and
magician Alan Moore at the 2013
Oxford Literary Festival to discuss
‘what’s the point of the arts?’ and
whether the arts and humanities can
survive in times of economic hardship.
In addition to positive propaganda,
in order of raise money for the
arts education cause, in 2014 Arts
Emergency will run the ‘Student Debt
Lottery’ in which winners get some
and possibly all of their debts paid off.
Ironically, the government’s
withdrawal of support for humanities
higher education is likely to prove to
be a short sighted decision. The July
2013 report ‘Humanities Graduates
and the British Economy: The Hidden
Impact’ conducted by the University
of Oxford has found that 80% of all
Oxford humanities graduates go on
to be employed by key economic
growth sectors such as finance, law,
media, and education. This trend is
almost universal across universities.
Employment trends indicate clearly
that Humanities higher education is
not a disadvantage for graduates in a
highly competitive economy; in fact
the creativity, literate, critical, and
communication skills that have long
been the core of Humanities-based
higher education have proven appeal
to employers.
In lieu of government funding, the
mantle of keeping the arts alive seem
to have fallen to charities such as Arts
Emergency, and if successful, its work
and the work of similar projects will no
doubt be claimed as a victory for the
‘Big Society’ in operation by the Tories
in the years to come. Meanwhile the
public can support the Arts Emergency
Service by joining up to be a mentor or
donating at their website: www.arts-
emergency.org
Arts Emergency!
Alan Moore, Josie Long and Philip Pullman at the Oxford Literary Festival,
discussing ‘What’s the point of arts and humanities?”
Hipster German
expressionism
Clara Clark Nevola
Writer
What: From Morning to Midnight
Where: National Theatre, SE1
When: Until 26th January
Price: Various
S
o here you are. You’ve
watched all the Salvador
Dali films in the house,
knitted all the hipster
beanies you need, the bars
in Shoreditch are too mainstream on a
Friday night and you’ve already spent
hours listening to unknown bands
on Soundcloud. So what next? Well,
you get yourself a ticket for a German
expressionist play at the National
Theatre, obvs.
So if this is your plan, let me talk you
through the pros and cons.
First pro is that you’re unlikely to see
it again for a long time: From Morning
to Midnight, Georg Kaiser’s master-
work has not had much airing since
its premiere in 1917. Basically, now’s
your chance.
Secondly, and this is quite a major
one, taking the lead role as the Clerk
is Adam Godley. Doesn’t ring a bell?
Charlie’s dad in the 2005 Charlie
and the Chocolate Factory film, Elliot
Schwartz in Breaking Bad, he’s been in
heaps of TV and theatre. Nominated
multiple times for the Oliver Award
and winner of numerous other
awards, Godley is basically the only
actor in the cast who got what the play
was about. Oh wait, that’s a spoiler –
more of in the cons. Anyway, Godley
really brings the existentialist angst to
this performance. Playing the boring,
middle-aged clerk with a repetitive
life and a repetitive job, he evolves as
a character from his infatuation for a
travelling Italian lady to his quest to
find the meaning of life. In a 24 hour
whirl, he tries out the thrills of life,
looking for meaning in adrenaline,
debauchery and religion. Comic but
tragic, the clerk is self-aware of his
failings and yet desperate to discover
an underlying truth – the epitome of
the expressionist hero.
Nextup,allpraisetoSoutraGilmour,
the stage designer. This really makes
the production stand out, creating
surreal and often disquieting sets,
framing and highlighting the spiritual
angst which the play conveys. In many
ways, the stage design speaks more
than the actual cast, and certainly
more convincingly. A giant clock
towers over the stage, a reminder of
the limited time that the clerk, and
indeed everyone, has left. Below, the
people scurry in pursuit of pointless
activities and empty pleasures. The
thrill of a bike race is marvellously
rendered, the excitement of a non-
existent crowd palpable. Bed sheets
turn to snow and snow to waves as
the clerk goes on his journey form his
domestic repetition to the urban life
outside. Houses collapse, lightning
strikes, banks are robbed – this is all
done seamlessly, with props being
reused inventively to create a dream
like stage geometry. All is set to almost
constant refrain from Wagner’s
Tannhouser., which sometimes works
and sometimes doesn’t, but definitely
adds to the overall angst of the viewer.
And now for the negatives of this
production. It’s hollow, it’s predictable
and it’s flat.
The overall production is striking
and impressive – but overwhelming.
The constant flashes, music and stage
surprises, though wonderful and
ingenious, do nothing to improve your
interest in the clerk’s fate. Is he going
to find the meaning of life in religion?
Is he going to get caught? Will he go
back to his previous lifestyle? You just
don’t care. And the truth is none of the
cast members seem to either. With the
notable exception of Godley, no one
seems to have got into their part, or
even be aware that their lines are part
of a dialogue.
All in all, a trip to From Morning to
Midnight may be better than another
evening polishing your fixed gear bike,
but only just.
JOHAN PERSSON
Indira Mallik
Writer
ARTS EMERgency

