16 FRIDAY 17 JAN
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Republic of the Moon
S
ince the dawn of humanity,
mankind’s relationship with
the Moon has been a special
one. When our ancestors
looked up into the sky, they
saw the same heavenly sphere that we
see today; unchanging and dynamic,
familiar yet distant, the Moon has
provided a wealth of inspiration about
what it means to be human. For many
years now space has been seen as the
‘final frontier’, culminating in the first
manned moon landings in 1969. While
enthusiasm for lunar exploration
seems to have somewhat waned – the
last manned landing was over four
decades ago – as China and India
begin to make their mark on the lunar
surface, it seems likely that we will see
renewed interest in the coming years.
But there is a massive question that
hasn’t yet been answered: now that we
have finally reached the Moon, what
do we do with it?
It is this question that The Arts
Catalyst is attempting to answer
with their new conceptual exhibition
‘Republic of the Moon’. Bringing
together artists whose work resonates
with the lunar landscape, The Arts
Catalyst has taken over an old
bargehouse, which they have declared
an Earth-based embassy for their
newest republic.
Given the current economic and
environmental situation here on
terra firma, it seems highly likely
that there will be some attempt
within this century for international
corporations to exploit the natural
resources the Moon can provide.
While an international treaty was
signed in 1979, banning the use of
the Moon for exploitative activities, it
has never been ratified by the United
States government, nor any countries
that have launched missions to the
Moon. With so little to protect it, it
seems somewhat inevitable that a new
colonialism will emerge centered on
this celestial body.
Astronauts are described as
‘emissaries of humanity’, a label which
can surely be used to describe the
role that artists play in our society.
Therefore it seems to make perfect
sense that they are the ones to explore
what the Moon means to us.
American artist Liliane Lijn
looks back to ancient times for her
inspiration, exploring the link between
fertility, lunar cycles, and the notion of
femininity in her work moonmeme.
Unrealised as of yet, moonmeme is a
complex work in which Lijn, working
with scientists and astronomers,
plans to project the word SHE across
the lunar surface, large enough to be
seen on earth. As the Moon wanes the
word fades out, becoming HE before
disappearing, linking together the
male and female, revealing how one
is integral to the other. The work is
represented by a real time projection
of what the word would currently look
like on the lunar surface, along with a
soundscape created by Lijn, in which
she combines mystic quotes about the
Moon by thinkers such as Pliny with
repetition of the word ‘She’, which has
been used for millennia to describe
the Moon. Stretching out the word, it
begins to lose its meaning, becoming
a part of the magic of the lunar cycle.
Furthering the idea of the Moon not
belonging to any one nationality, Lijn
has furthered the project by expanding
it to other languages; ‘Elle’ becomes
‘El’, ‘Ona’ becomes ‘On’, and so on.
The beauty and mystery of the Moon
has inspired a myriad of artistic works,
and Agnes Meyer-Brandis’ work is
informed by one of the earliest works
of science fiction: Francis Godwin’s
The Man in the Moone. Published in
the early 17th century, it describes
a man who is carried to the lunar
surface by a flock of ‘Moon Geese’. In
Meyer-Brandis’ piece, Moon Goose
Colony, the artist attempts to recreate
this absurd journey; raising a flock
of geese from birth, she has trained
them as ‘astronauts’, and they are now
embarking on a habituation mission
together, spending a year on a Moon
analogue in the Italian countryside.
Comprising a short film, in which she
documents the project, along with
photos of the geese involved and a
model lunar habitat, the work is full
of whimsy and wonder, reflecting the
unique magic of the Moon.
However, Meyer-Brandis also uses
the work to raise questions about
human impact on the environment; we
see her trying to teach the geese about
avoiding space debris during their
journey, but for many bird species
today, migrating to their breeding
grounds can become as daunting a
challenge as being sent into space.
This theme, of humans and their
interactions with earth and space,
resounds through the exhibition,
which opened last week with a
‘Manifesto Launch’. Artist group WE
COLONISED THE MOON addresses
the problem of space tourism and
colonisation head on, organising anti-
mining protests throughout the run of
the exhibition. While this might seem
like a far-fetched concept, it is difficult
not to be reminded of the current
protests surrounding fracking, which
has become a talking point only within
the last couple of years; is it really so
absurd, considering the inexorable
march of technological progress, that
the Moon could become the new
arctic circle, or oil sands?
This decision about what to do with
the Moon is summed up, somewhat
pessimistically, in a piece by WE
COLONISED THE MOON, who give
us the stark choice: ‘Theme Park or
Quarry’. But are these really the only
two options that we have? Perhaps
this exhibition can inspire a different
vision of the future.
The idea of colonialism can seem
difficult to apply to the Moon, but
when we look at historical dominance
over the territory it seems hard not to
draw parallels. Thus far twelve people
have walked on the Moon – all white,
American men, they can hardly be
described as emissaries of humanity.
But this could soon change. The
Indian Space Research Organisation
was established in 1969, but it was
not until recently that the ISRO
stepped up their space programme,
successfully launching their first
lunar probe, Chandrayaan-1, in 2008.
Challenging the status quo of space
exploration, it today seems more likely
than ever that the main challengers for
control of the Moon will not be the
US and Russia, but India and China.
Chandrayaan translates as ‘Moon
Vehicle’, which has become the name
of a joint project between the ISRO,
artist Joanna Griffin, and students
at Srishti School of Arts, Bangalore.
Essentially and outreach programme
for the school, Moon Vehicle shows
how the prospect of space exploration
can inspire an entire generation of
young people.
Katie Paterson’s work, while directly
inspired by the Moon, is unique in
that it focuses on what is missing as
opposed to what is actually there. In
her first piece, Second Moon, a piece
of lunar rock is being sent by courier
around the world, at twice the speed
of the real Moon. We can track this
artificial moon as it makes its man-
made orbit through an app (when I
visited it was somewhere in Eastern
China); as it passes through cities it
will be exhibited at art galleries, before
making its triumphant return to the
Republic’s Embassy.
While the work delightfully subverts
the idea of a human satellite, it seems
rather high-concept, and pales in
comparison to her second work
Earth-Moon-Earth, which makes
use of ‘moon bounce’ technology.
Paterson has converted Beethoven’s
Moonlight Sonata into morse code,
before transmitting it at the Moon;
Fred Fyles takes a trip to the new Earth-based Lunar Embassy
the notes are reflected back to the
earth, but parts of the information is
lost in the craters of the lunar surface.
Lacking part of the information, we
are left with a piece that resembles
the original, but is peppered with
gaps. As the automatic piano plays the
piece, these discordant pauses create a
tense, melancholic atmosphere in the
exhibition space.
If one criticism could be levelled
at the works exhibited thus far, it
would be that they are all very high-
concept, and removed from the
individual relationship we have with
the Moon. Luckily we have work from
photographer Leonid Tishkov’s series
Private Moon. Tishkov represents the
highly personal link each person has
with the Moon by carrying around a
luminous crescent with him. In a series
of candid shots we see him taking
his moon sailing, sleeping next to it,
and showing it the Moscow skyline.
It is difficult to understate the sheer
beauty of these pictures; beautifully
lit, and technically accomplished, they
manage to make the Moon a tangible
presence, rather than a distant rock
in the sky. These pictures form the
highlight of an exhibition that is
brimming with excellent pieces,
creating a mood that is both sombre
and intimate.
Artists provide us with a unique
outlook on life, and, as mankind
seems poised to erupt from this
crowded earth to reach for the stars,
their voices become increasingly
important. Thus far the Moon is
viewed through the prism of our
current Earth-based technology; such
a seismic shift in human migration
requires a completely new way of
thinking, one that scientists have –
as of yet – been unable to provide.
We can see this attitude in the US
space programme, whose spacecrafts
are given names such as Pioneer and
Prospector, indicating that the Moon
is just another frontier for the US to
conquer - an out-dated concept when
one considers the stratospheric rise of
India and China. It is exhibitions such
as these, in which scientists, engineers,
and artist work together, that give us
a more suitable context in which to
place space travel. When I leave the
exhibition, I find that the cloudy sky
when I arrived has been transformed
into a clear winter’s night; staring up
into the sky, I can see the brilliant
waxing Moon staring straight back. It
may be thousands of kilometers away
but – for tonight at least – it has never
seemed closer.
The Republic of the Moon is on display
in Oxo Tower bargehouse, Southbank,
SE1, from 10th January to 2nd
February 2014. Entrance free.
Republic of the Moon, London, presented by The Arts Catalyst

