18 FRIDAY 17 JAN
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Vithulan Patkunan reviews Donna Tartt’s latest masterpiece
Anyone familiar with Donna Tartt
knows that her works take time; her
debut, The Secret History, took her
eight years to complete and her follow-
ing novel, The Little Friend, a decade.
Anyone familiar with Donna Tartt also
knows that the wait is completely jus-
tified and worth it. The Goldfinch, her
third and latest novel is no different
from its predecessors, in both senses.
Fans have been waiting for her next
novel for eleven years and it was finally
unleashed on the world in the autumn
of 2013. At a hefty 771 pages, the book
is her longest yet and the world she cre-
ates is, no doubt, the richest.
The Goldfinch is a tale about a man’s
life from teenager to adult, and how
it completely metamorphosed after
a single piercing event: the loss of his
mother. After baiting us with a literary
‘cold-open’ – the protagonist, Theo-
dore Decker, is cooped up in a hotel
room in Amsterdam, waiting to dis-
cover if his name and implied crimes,
whatever they may be, have been outed
in local news reports – the narrative
goes back in time to tell the story from
the beginning.
It all starts on a particularly rainy day
in New York City where Theo and his
mother are on their way to a parent
teacher meeting, set up for the thir-
teen year old on account of him being
suspended. Met with some free time
before the meeting, Theo’s mother, a
lover of art – and of a specific piece be-
ing exhibited that day in particular, de-
cides to visit the museum, unaware of
the terrorist bombing set to destroy the
building. Having been separated from
his mother inside, Theo finds himself
amongst rubble and bodies. Here he
experiences the single most important
encounter of his life. An old man, badly
injured, communicates with him: inco-
herent but with moments of extreme
clarity. He gives him a ring and the
words “Hobart and Blackwell”
. He also
urges him to salvage Fabritius’ master-
piece, The Goldfinch, which happened
to be the very painting that Theo and
his mother had come to see.
Theo leaves the bombsite back to the
agreed emergency meeting point: their
apartment. He has with him nothing
but the painting, the ring and an as-
sured feeling that his worried mother
would be waiting for him back home
wondering what took him so long. The
writing of the following events shows
off Tartt’s genius beautifully, contrasted
with the tragic circumstances they de-
scribe. The emptiness of the apartment,
the nausea of the concussed Theo fall-
ing in and out of consciousness and
perhaps worst of all, his unfailing be-
lief that his mother would walk in any
moment now are conveyed painfully
to the reader; the broken sentences in-
terspersed with long meandering ones
place us amidst the confusion, chaos
and concussion of it all. Perhaps the
most disturbing aspect of the situation
is the indifference and abruptness with
which a couple of social workers let the
thirteen-year-old Theo Decker, along
with the readers, know that his mother
was dead: one of the most fascinating
passages in fiction that isn’t outstand-
ing due to the events that occur, but to
the intensity and accuracy with which
the emotions are expressed.
It wouldn’t be an exaggeration to say
the rest of the book details how Theo
copeswiththenews.Ashisalcoholicfa-
ther had left him and his mother a long
time before, he was suddenly alone and
shipped from place to place; we see the
life of a private school kid in New York
get turned completely upside down, to
a life where child and drug abuse are
commonplace, to a place where nobody
cared if he came home for the night or
not. One of the first things you’ll no-
tice about this book is its wide array of
characters, each with their own quirky,
carefully revealed personalities. Hav-
ing said that, there are really only two
main characters in The Goldfinch: Theo
and his mother. Despite the fact that
his mother is alive for only a tiny pro-
portion of the book, the echo of her life
exists through the pages, through Theo.
His actions, his thoughts, the people he
likes and dislikes, can all be traced back
to his mother and to his deep sadness
at her loss. We learn, with regular drips
of information, of her past, her tenden-
cies and her small quirks. The way Tartt
keeps the character connected to his
past is startling in its realism. We see
Theo go through massively contrasting
situations, harrowing lows and ecstatic
highs; each event molds his personal-
ity and we see the results in his future
decisions.
It is difficult to write about the plot
of this book without spoiling it some-
what. After the opening chapters set in
New York and Theo’s mother’s death
– which form the premise of the sto-
ry – the plot goes at high speed from
one place to the next. Half of the fun in
reading this book is the anticipation of
the plot and where it would lead next
with its many twists.
There are a few major themes run-
ning through this book, one of which is
the theme of antiques. Theo becomes
fascinated with The Goldfinch painting
he takes from the destroyed art gallery
and then with furniture and antiques
in general. Perhaps after witnessing the
transience of human life, he takes sol-
ace in the longevity and assuredness of
ancient pieces of art. James Hobart of
“Hobart and Blackwell”
, which we find
out to be an antiques store, is to whom
Theo is led after heeding the injured old
man’s words. Affectionately called ‘Ho-
bie’
, the giant of a man becomes Theo’s
guardian and his teacher in all things
antique. Theo’s relationship with Hobie
is one of the few real connections we
see him have; his exchanges and pres-
ence give Theo (and the readers) an an-
choring in the otherwise choppy waters
of his life.
Perhaps one of the most intriguing
characters in the book is that of Boris:
a misfit Russian kid Theo befriends at
school after his mother’s death. An al-
coholic from age ten, Boris sets Theo
off into a routine of alcohol, cigarettes,
glue-sniffing and shoplifting. Boris’
casual criminal behavior, suffering of
abuse at his father’s hand and expo-
sure to an adult’s world at too early an
age makes him a tragic yet interesting
character, not least due to his genuine
caring for Theo. The inevitable de-
pendency on drugs that Theo develops
becomes a source of some of the more
depressing but beautiful passages in the
book. Theo’s musings and frustrations
at the “human predicament” during
his drug fuelled highs and withdrawal
depressions create an emotional depth,
while the unfolding of the story brings
a sense of fast-paced action, all lead-
ing up to the events of the ‘cold open’
in Amsterdam and the intense ending.
Donna Tartt has always had an abil-
ity to express hauntingly familiar yet
seemingly inexplicable emotions in
an exact and precise way, an ability to
explain abstract concepts in a tangible
fashion. This novel is no different, in
fact it seems Tartt has honed this skill
even further to the point where she has
created moments where you truly and
strongly relate to Theo.
A passage from the book where an art
connoisseur describes The Goldfinch,
the painting, comes to mind when
describing the novel itself. “There’s a
doubleness. You see the mark, you see
the paint for the paint, and also the
living bird…Rembrandt. Velázquez.
Late Titian. They make jokes. They
amuse themselves. They build up the
illusion, the trick – but, step closer? it
falls apart into brushstrokes…A dif-
ferent and much deeper sort of beauty
altogether.” The novel as a whole is her
masterpiece, her brushstrokes are her
abilities to make words malleable and
form them to articulate exactly what
she wants: a deeper sort of beauty al-
together. Anybody who loves reading
should read this book, whether you like
the characters or not, you will love the
experience. All that can be said about
The Goldfinch: 11 years well spent. And
well spent is exactly what the time in-
vested in reading this mammoth book
would be.
A story of loss and beauty
“A different and
much deeper sort of
beauty altogether”
“...hauntingly fa-
miliar yet seemingly
inexplicable... ”

