FRIDAY 17 JAN
2
EDITOR’S PICKS
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
Read all about the latest
innovations in tech
CES 2014
TECHNOLOGY
AMS reviews the new album by
Warpaint.
Warpaint
MUSIC
Film Editor John Park reviews
the Oscar nominated Ameri-
can Hustle.
American Hustle
FILM
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Nida Mahmud, Aamna Mohdin, Aemun Reza, Maciej Matuszewski Features Editor Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor Marissa Lewis Business Editor James Tsim Science
Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna
Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile Borkhataria Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film
Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs & Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charity Editor Ben Fernando
Travel Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editor Kunal Wagle Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copycats Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor
Copykittens Tom Rivlin, Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi, Jonathan Pratt
D
ecember 24th: World
War Two Codebreaker
Alan Turing finally
receives Posthomous
royal pardon 61
years after being convicted for
“homosexuality”.
AlanTuring,amathematicianknown
for helping GCHQ (Government
Communications Headquarters)
break the Nazi Enigma machine
encryption during World War II,
was charged with “homosexuality”
at the age of 39. Turing, colloquilally
named “the Father of Modern
Computing” was a Cambridge-
educated mathematician who played a
very significant part in the war effort
at Bletchley Park, the centre of WWII
wartime codebreakng.
Turing was charged with
“Homosexuality” when admitting to
having a relationship with another
man while reporting a theft at his
house. The court case Regina v.
Turing and Murray that took place
on 31st March, 1952 led to Turing
being sentenced, after which he
chose to receive chemical treament
to reduce his libido rather than
face imprisonment. Two years later
Turing was found dead from cyanide
poisoning in his appartment, with
the general consensus being that he
committed suicide.
Turing’s pardon was requested by
Justice Secretary Chris Grayling MP,
who later stated, “Dr Turing deserves
to be remembered and recognised
for his fantastic contribution to the
war effort and his legacy to science.
A pardon from the Queen is a fitting
tribute to an exceptional man.” The
Queen, who had been on the throne
for less than two months when Turing
has sentenced, granted a to Turing
pardon under the Royal Prerogative of
Mercy on Christmas Eve, 2013.
Alan Turing Pardoned at
Christmas
Sjoerd Ferwerda

