22 FRIDAY 17 JAN
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
I
t’s difficult for any side project
to ever be judged in comparison
to anything but their parent
band, and when that band
is Godspeed You! Black
Emperor, it is probably never going
to go well for you. Starting as A Silver
Mt. Zion in 1999, Thee Silver Mt.
Zion Memorial Orchestra are onto
their seventh album and fifth name
(including the memorable Thee Silver
Mt. Zion Memorial Orchestra and
Tra-La-La Band with Choir). They
are probably the best known of the
numerous Godspeed side projects,
and a lazy journalist might describe
them as Godspeed without the
experimenation. They do bring a few
new things to the table though, with
the addition of vocals in particular
being an interesting innovation.
They’ve taken a backseat for the
A Thrill-Ver Mount Zion
AMS album of the week
Warpaint, the eponymous follow-up
to 2010’s well-received debut, The Fool,
offers a different manifestation of the
LA foursome’s brand of delicate rock
music. It smacks of the same cohesion
which The Fool was noted for, however,
whereas The Fool was generally
characterised by a restless streak,
Warpaint presents a departure towards
a more natural, slow burn. Indeed, it
opens with a clue that this might be
the case: a peek behind the abstracting
mask of musical production at a quirk
of their recording process. Warpaint are inviting us into their world rather
than presenting it to us from the outside.
This idea continues seamlessly on the second track, Keep It Healthy,
which further defines the approach the band appears to have taken when
composing the album. They guide us on a journey through with gradual,
gentle touches, settling on the most satisfying hooks and repeating them
in an appealing way. By doing so, we are allowed more time to get the
most out of each musical thread before the journey starts off again. Feeling
Alright is another track which shares this quality and sounds as anthemic
and uplifting as anything the band has produced as a result. The album’s
melodies are generally delivered at a slow tempo which allows the sleepy,
dreamy introspection of tracks like Drive and Teese, a stripped-down
love-note of a song which may be the album’s most personal and heartfelt
moment.
That’s not to say we ever stray into too indulgent or maudlin territory.
Time is still found to show flashes of a mercurial edge reminiscent of The
Fool on Hi and Disco//Very which stand in stark contrast to Biggy and Go
In which respectively follow the two tracks. Hi, my personal favourite, kicks
off with a drum beat and bass line so grippingly seductive that they wouldn’t
sound out of place on a Portishead record. The single, Love Is To Die, also
falls into this category, the urgent bass indicating a digression from the
album’s main arc. These three songs importantly provide depth beyond the
picture of peaceful contemplation which the album otherwise builds.
Warpaint is both artistically beautiful and easily listenable. It achieves
the feat of delivering emotional extremes in gradual, friendly doses.
Although it bears hallmarks of the same group of four which produced
The Fool, it is musically more straightforward, which results in a more
accessible but nonetheless rewarding album.
Warpaint – Warpaint
last few years due to the Godspeed
reunion, meaning that Fuck Off Get
Free We Pour Light on Everything
is their first album since 2010. It’s
definitely been worth the wait, and
not just because of, you know, the
Godspeed reunion.
Opening track, Fuck Off Get Free (for
the Island of Montreal) opens with a
grungey shoegaze with strings affair
before descending into a hypnotic
waltz. This all culminates in crushing,
almost doom metal type guitar over-
lain with a screeching guitar wail and
chanted vocals. It is an absolutely su-
perb track. This is a track that wouldn’t
feel out of place on a Godspeed record,
and would have been a highlight on the
most recent one. It also taught me that
Montreal is on an island, which is use-
ful knowledge... Austerity Blues has
a slow start, building into a droning
unrelenting guitar track that gets a bit
much after a few minutes. As the cre-
scendo hits, and the screeching guitar
sings out a beautiful melody, you can’t
help but fall into its trap. This leads to
a big noise jam, before that dies off too
and reemerges soft and becalmed. Take
Away These Early Grave Blues is the
first shorter track on the album (but
still clocking in at slightly under seven
minutes…) and as such, doesn’t really
let up from its combination of distort-
ed guitars and manic strings. That’s not
to say I want it to though, especially as
it’s followed by the actually quite short
(two and a half minutes) Little Ones
Run, a pretty piano led affair. What
We Loved Was Not Enough has a simi-
larly calm opening, and whilst it does
build into something a bit louder, it
doesn’t ever build
into something
that catches the
imagination in the
same way the ear-
lier epics did. Rains
Thru the Roof at
the Grande Ball-
room (for Rough
Steez) is a bit of
an oddity. Really
quiet drumming
underpins shim-
mering strings and
a clinky piano. It’s
definitely a change
in style and it is
a really nice end
to the album.
This is a really
great album. It’s
certainly not a poor man’s Godspeed
record. It is something a bit different
(and not as good). Post-rock has been
retreading a hell of a lot of ground
in recent years, and this doesn’t ex-
actly break the mould, but there’s a
few novel ideas and it’s not as if the
rest of it is run-of-the-mill. It’s also
one of the better SMZ releases, and
definitely a great place to start for any
Godspeed fans who have never got
round to listening. I probably wouldn’t
recommend it to people who aren’t
familiar with Godspeed, mostly be-
cause I’d be too busy recommend-
ing F#A#∞, but this is great, and the
fact that I’ve fallen victim to my own
opening sentence doesn’t change that.
Stuart Masson reviews the Godspeed side project’s latest album
T
ara Jane O’Neil is a multi-
talented musician based
out of Portland, Oregon.
At the age of 19 she was
already playing bass for
art punk band Rodan. She then
went about forming Retsin, a folky
indie duo and The Sonora Pine, a
more experimental post-rock type
band. Since then there has been a
collaboration with legendary slowcore
band Ida, a wide range of guest
appearances and even a prominent
role in the film Half-Cocked. She is
also a notable painter. (I did say multi-
talented!)
Tara has been releasing solo albums
since 2000’s Peregrine. Where Shine
New Lights is her seventh solo album
and it’s a really beautiful
listen. It’s certainly a
long way from art punk,
with the arrangements
here generally relying
on a few instruments
played pretty quietly.
It veers from Julianna
Barwick-esque choral
ambient (in particular
on the opening track
Welcome) through to
really tender folk pieces.
The Lull the Going is
a particular highlight.
matching a picked
guitar with some quite
fabulous harmonies.
Elemental Finding opens
with a vibraphone before opening out
into a dark folky number. It’s really
quite haunting, but it’s also really quite
beautiful. Over. Round, in a Room.
Found. is almost hypnotic with
a busy beat underneath sparse
instrumentation and virtually
lyricless vocals. The slowly
repeated synth in All Now
Vibe transforms it into a really
spectacular listen, whilst the
final track, New Lights for a Sky
adds a dissonant edge to the
pretty ambient feel that works
an absolute treat.
There are a few tracks here
which remind me of other
Tara Jane O’Neil - Where Shine New Lights
Stuart Masson
Music Editor
more prominent singer-songwriters.
The aforementioned Julianna Barwick
comparison is definitely one that
keeps coming back to me, St. Vincent
is an obvious touchstone on This
Morning Glory and there’s even a
touch of EMA, especially in the first
half of Wordless in Woods.
This is a really great listen. A
wonderful collaboration of ambient
and folk; this is the perfect remedy
for all the stresses of student life. It’s
not the most exciting listen, but that’s
pretty much the point. It’s relaxing,
it’s comforting and it really does go
down easily. This is defnitely one I’d
recommend to all.
Matthew Okenyi

