24 FRIDAY 17 JAN
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Nebraska, Nebraska, I love you
Following on from the Oscar-nom-
inated The Descendants (featuring
George Clooney’s best performance
in years, and introducing the amazing
Shailene Woodley – soon to be seen
in The Fault in Our Stars), Nebraska
is Alexander Payne’s latest film as
director, and (unsurprisingly) it’s al-
most everything you’d expect – and
a little more. Shot entirely in black-
and-white, Nebraska gains an ethereal
kind of beauty in appearance – the
frequent landscape shots, previously
so full of life, colour and Hawaii in The
Jack Steadman
Treasured Writer
Nebraska
Director: Alexander Payne
Writer: Bob Nelson
Starring: Bruce Dern, Will Forte,
June Squibb
Runtime: 115 minutes
Certification: 15
Descendants are replaced by haunt-
ing images of the wide-open spaces of
Nebraska: a sunrise without any col-
our is an incredibly surreal shot, but a
strangely picturesque one. It’s through
this lens the rest of the film is viewed,
and with some drop-dead gorgeous
shot composition (even of a field full
of cows, at one point), it’s a fantastic
place to start.
Fortunately, Nebraska doesn’t drop
the ball from there – if anything, it
builds on it. The plot is simple, slow-
moving and rather easily resolved, but
it’s also utterly irrelevant here. The
focus lies on the interactions between
the characters, and it shines through
the monochrome in glorious Techni-
color. Bruce Dern delivers a career-
best performance as Woody, the con-
fused, elderly father convinced he’s
won a million dollars, capturing every
nuance of a man who’s not quite sure
where he is anymore, while the sup-
porting cast are almost universally ex-
cellent. Will Forte steps away from his
comedy background to play the role
of the earnest, caring Dave, while Bob
Odenkirk (Breaking Bad’s Saul Good-
man) pops up to take on a somewhat
less legally and morally questionable
role, with the an absolute treat that is
June Squibb as Woody’s feisty wife.
The chemistry within the family
unit is incredible, but it’s the comedy
of the extended family and friends that
really steals the show (although, hav-
ing said that – a scene in a graveyard
is priceless, proving an undeniable
highlight that tops The Descendants’
running-in-flip-flops scene for come-
dic absurdity, and manages to be fun-
nier than half of 2014’s comedies so
far). There are a multitude of scenes
that provoke prolonged, out-loud
laughter, tinged (as always) with a hint
of melancholy and sadness. Although
Nebraska lacks the emotionally crip-
pling ending of The Descendants (I ap-
preciate this review is just turning into
an extended comparison, and I would
apologise were it not for the fact I
loved The Descendants, so there), it
still has its moments of tenderness
and plain-dealing emotion, if never
quite tipping over into out-and-out
sentimentality.
There are a few moments of wry so-
cial commentary hidden amongst eve-
rything else – most notably a cheeky
nod to America’s relationship with
technology over people – but ulti-
mately this is a deeply personal, inti-
mate film about people. It’s near per-
fect, and it’ll leave you with a smile on
your face but a tinge of sadness in your
heart. And it also features the best
fight sequence ever, so there’s that.
The last samurai movie PLEASE
Anonymous
Asian Writer
47 Ronin
Director: Carl Rinsch
Writers: Chris Morgan, Hossein
Amini, Walter Hamada
Starring: Keanu Reeves, Hiroyuki
Sanada, Ko Shibasaki, Rinko Kikuchi
Runtime: 118 minutes
Certification: 12A
There is no doubt that 47 Ronin was
Universal Studio’s hope-child given
its vast budget of $175-million. How-
ever, unlike The Last Samurai in
whose footsteps this movie obviously
attempted to follow, the difference
between their respective results is
stark; in fact, rather akin to that be-
tween a samurai (warriors following
the bushidō serving their liege) and a
ronin (ex-samurai who has failed and
thereby lost his liege), a concept that
the film is supposedly based on but on
which the film curiously lacks much
expansion apart from a brief narra-
tion of the definition of a ronin in the
beginning and sporadic mentions of
‘honour’ here and there.
One foremost difference is that the
protagonist in The Last Samurai was a
foreigner and hence, the dialogue was
clearly split between English and Japa-
nese. As the protagonist in 47 Ronin,
Kai (Keanu Reeves), is born and raised
in Japan it follows that the entire Japa-
nese cast (basically everyone except
Reeves) would need to act in English
lest the film become subtitle heavy.
Apart from 18th Century Japanese
characters speaking English some-
what denting the authenticity of the
film itself, this is surprisingly less of
a hindrance in enjoying the film com-
pared to the predictability and general
cheesiness of the film’s dialogue itself.
“I would search through a thousand
worlds and ten thousand lifetimes un-
til I find you”? Yes, it might actually
take that long before such line does a
180° and is considered not cheesy. Or
a desperate attempt to keep the love
line that seems forced in plot as well
as in performance.
The legend of the 47 ronin is a fun-
damental one surrounding the Japa-
nese culture and history of the samu-
rai, which has been retold in so many
forms of arts and literature with lots
of material to offer. However, you just
can’t help feeling much has been ste-
reotyped and simplified – exiled war-
riors striving to revenge their wronged
master with a cliché villain and star-
crossed lovers thrown in for good
measure. Throughout the film you can
see much evidence that the film strug-
gled to walk the fine line between an
art-house samurai film (abundance of
cherry blossoms, the colourful cos-
tumes and even somewhat bizarre
looking makeup making up an overall
impressive visual) and a more easy-to-
swallow mainstream action film with
Eastern influences (err, the character
Kai himself, the illustrious shape-
shifting witch (Rinko Kikuchi), feeble
love-line with Mika (Ko Shibasaki) the
daughter of Lord Asano (Min Tanaka)
etc.).
In theory, catching two such birds
with one stone would have been
great, however, in real life, it would
have been better if the film simply
directed all its efforts to one and did
it well rather than being neither here
nor there. Rather disappointingly for
a samurai film, it even lacks in decent
swordfights: they are all too quick and
easy to end, which was probably not
helped by its 12A rating.
Apart from the underwhelming
quality and amount of action scenes
many other aspects of the film re-
main shamefully underused. Lord
Kira (Tadanobu Asano) spends most
of his time sitting down and is only
awarded with a rather short ultimate
fight at the end, there is very little plot
surrounding the Tengu (nanny figure
of Kai with owl reminiscent eyes in
the film, a mythical Japanese creature
typically with red face, long Pinocchio
nose with big sword and feather fan
in Japanese myth) and the full-body-
skeleton-tattooed gunman and even
Kai himself spends a considerable
amount of time standing around like
a bystander. The character that carries
the heavy burden of leading and carry-
ing on the plot of the film falls on the
shoulder of Ôishi (Hiroyuki Sanada)
who fortunately provides gravitas that
the film otherwise lacks. No wonder
the film was not very well received
even in Japan itself – despite a special
edit that was specifically designed for
its audiences.

