26 FRIDAY 17 JAN
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Every day I’m hustlin’
John Park
Film Editor
American Hustle
Director: David O. Russell
Writers: Eric Singer, David O.
Russell
Starring: Christian Bale, Bradley
Cooper, Amy Adams, Jeremy Renner,
Jennifer Lawrence
Runtime: 138 minutes
Certification: 15
“Thank god for me”, says Rosalyn
Rosenfeld (Jennifer Lawrence), after
setting fire to her brand new micro-
wave, ignoring her husband’s advice
to not put something metallic in there.
She then proceeds to furiously tackle
some housework whilst listening to
‘Live and Let Die’. Yes, thank god for
Jennifer Lawrence, who steals the
show completely with her utmost con-
fidence and relentless energy in David
O. Russell’s smart heist comedy that
is no doubt the director’s best film to
date.
That’s not to say the rest of the cast
under-performs. The big names in this
star-studded ensemble, most of whom
who have worked with Russell before,
are all on top form, with even a bonus
cameo appearance from a screen vet-
eran who makes the most of his brief,
uncredited appearance in which he
scares the hell out of everyone by be-
ing a smart, bilingual mob boss.
Based on the ABSCAM (Arab-
scam) sting operation in which a
number of corrupt politicians were ar-
rested for taking bribes, we first meet
Irving Rosenfeld (Christian Bale) and
Sydney Prosser (Amy Adams) who
hustle money off of desperate individ-
uals ready to fork over large sums over
the promise of massive returns. Every-
thing seems to be going swimmingly
for this couple, an arrangement that is
not only beneficial financially, but also
in terms of embarking on a love affair.
But their ideal world is shattered when
FBI Agent Richie DiMaso (Bradley
Cooper) arrests the pair. Giving them
very limited options, this ambitious
Fed is looking to take down some of
the biggest names he can think of, all
for the benefit of his career.
John Park
Film Editor
The Railway Man
Director: Jonathan Teplitzky
Writers: Frank Cottrell Boyce, Andy
Paterson
Starring: Colin Firth, Nicole Kidman,
Jeremy Irvine, Stellan Skarsgård
Runtime: 116 minutes
Certification: 15
The idea behind American Hustle
is that everyone here is desperate to
find their own versions of ideal hap-
piness. And to do so what they resort
to is deception. They lie to others, and
sometimes lie to themselves. Irving’s
volatile, tiresome relationship with his
wife, Rosalyn, is one that will generate
the most laughs, but it’s a relationship
that is also the most thought-provok-
ing. Irvin and Rosalyn are together for
various reasons, and love barely fea-
tures in them. And when the truth hits
her, most devastatingly so when her
husband’s mistress Sydney boldly fac-
es off against her, Rosalyn is a vulner-
able, teary, insecure mess, a scene for
which Lawrence deserves an Oscar.
Mayor Carmine Polito (Jeremy
Renner, rocking a retro hairdo that is
criminal by today’s standards) is the
major target of Richie’s new opera-
From one station of life to the next
tion, one that is barely approved by his
agency superior Stoddard Thorsen
(Louie C.K. in a priceless supporting
role). Carmine’s love and dedication
for the state of New Jersey is una-
shamedly used and manipulated by
the authorities to bag what they want,
and in the end it’s difficult to not feel
some sort of remorse for an all-round
enthusiastic family man who wanted
nothing more than to set a good ex-
ample to his constituents.
The “scam” itself is full of hilarious
moments as not everything goes ex-
actly to plan. One of many examples
of this is having to settle for a Hispanic
FBI agent to pose as a rich Arabian
Sheik who will be providing all the
false bribe money. The “good guys”
are all desperate for their plans to suc-
ceed, and it’s in their sincere, earnest
efforts that the sparks begin to fly and
the script starts to have fun with un-
predictable twists and turns.
“He wasn’t necessarily in good
shape, and he had this combover that
was rather elaborate, but he had this
confidence that drew me to him” says
Sydney in a voiceover that explains
the immediate attraction she had for
her partner in crime. Throwing Richie
into the mix and the bubbling sexual
tension that arises with Sydney in the
middle of it all, constantly flashing her
side-boobs in her many different out-
fits, is a car crash waiting to happen.
Are Sydney and Irving a steady
enough couple to survive the cage-
rattling by Richie? Is Richie only using
Sydney to gain what he wants? If push
comes to shove, will Irving choose
his mistress or his wife? Can Irving
really betray Carmine who is slowly
but surely becoming a good friend of
his? Where does Sydney’s heart truly
lie? Should Rosalyn really be looking
after a young son? The classic game of
who’s conning whom takes place and
for those wanting to get to the very
top, security and freedom, difficult de-
cisions must be made and it’s in these
fascinating characters Russell’s smart,
sexy heist comedy is made complete.
American Hustle is an absolute blast
from start to finish and it never lets go
in terms of gripping the audience with
its intriguing plot and unique charac-
ters caught up in highly entertaining
scenarios. Released towards the end
of 2013 in the States, it’s no surprise
there’s a lot of awards attention sur-
rounding this, and although it’s way
too early to call it for the 2014 Europe-
an film market, American Hustle will
remain as one of 2014’s best.
It’s an unbelievably touching story of
human survival, love, and forgiveness.
Young Eric Lomax (Jeremy Irvine), a
prisoner of war when the allies sur-
rendered to the Japanese in Singapore
during the Second World War, goes
through gruelling times to say the
least when enemy soldiers discover
he’s been building a radio and draw-
ing a map. Years after the eventual
victory, Lomax (now Colin Firth) has
a chance encounter with Patti (Nicole
Kidman), who later goes on to become
his wife. It’s only then the signs of post
traumatic stress disorder come to sur-
face, which spurs on Mrs Lomax to
find some sort of closure for her long-
suffering husband.
With the help from an old army
friend (Stellan Skarsgard) Patti learns
of the brutal torture and inhumane
cruelty her husband was subjected
to. And Kidman, playing a supporting
part in the first half of the film or so,
is quietly effective in showing warmth
and compassion, which is also heart-
breaking of sorts, as Patti struggles to
improve her husband’s condition.
Flashbacks reveal the ordeal Lo-
max went through, something that is
shown in a lot of beatings, screaming,
and one scene of water-boarding, al-
though you get the feeling that the film
is holding a lot back when it comes to
methods of torture.
But through excellent performances
coming from both Firth and Irvine,
there is an element of continuity that
paints Lomax as one person rather
than splitting him up into two sepa-
rate characters to fit into the different
timelines.
Less well executed is when Patti re-
enters the picture towards the end. In
a clumsy voiceover that attempts to
finish off all the loose strands, Lomax
credits his wife and their love as be-
ing an important influence of good in
his life. The thing is, there hasn’t been
a whole lot of Kidman to make that
statement convincing.
The eventual reunion that takes
place between Firth and his torturer
Takashi Nagase (Hiroyuki Sanada) is a
powerfully moving and equally tense
sequence that will rightly get those
tear-ducts overflowing.

