27
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 17 JAN
FILM
Here we go again
John Park
Film Editor
The Hobbit: The
Desolation of Smaug
Director: Peter Jackson
Writers: Fran Walsh, Philippa
Boyens, Peter Jackson, Guillermo del
Toro, J. R. R. Tolkien (novel)
Starring: Ian McKellen, Martin
Freeman, Richard Armitage, Orlando
Bloom, Evangeline Lilly, Lee Pace,
Luke Evans, Benedict Cumberbatch,
Sylvester McCoy
Runtime: 161 minutes
Certification: 12A
Dwarves are useless and can’t do any-
thing, whilst Wood Elves and their
fluid, slick gymnastic movements are
awesome and humans haven’t yet had
the chance to shine: that’s the mes-
sage to take away from Desolation of
Smaug, the second entry to Peter Jack-
son’s overblown Hobbit trilogy.
It’s a good thing we got all of the in-
troduction out of the way in the first
film. Remember how it took nearly
forty minutes for Bilbo Baggins (Mar-
tin Freeman, still going strong and re-
liable as the protagonist) to make up
his mind about the Dwarves’ quest
to take back their home from an evil
dragon? Now the Dwarf Fellowship
and Bilbo are well on their way to the
Lonely Mountain where the deadly
Smaug (voiced by Benedict Cum-
berbatch) awaits. During the jour-
ney, Gandalf, perhaps the only useful
member, decides to leave them to fend
for themselves whilst he ventures into
a scary dark worn-down castle to hunt
down some clues that may or may not
have to do with a certain dark overlord
who may or may not be rising. There
is also the sinister underlying subplot
of the infamous golden Ring and Bil-
bo’s growing attachment and reliance
for the object, something that can lead
to no good given how much the au-
dience knows about the Ring and its
dark powers.
Cue the spiders, Orcs and other ugly
antagonists until the band of broth-
ers whose names or faces you will
certainly not remember from the first
film (there are thirteen of them...I can
barely remember the names of the
Three Musketeers) are rescued by the
Wood Elves. Enter Legolas (Orlando
Bloom, looking very serious as though
he means business throughout the
movie), and Tauriel (Evangeline Lilly,
who nails the posh English accent),
both characters who don’t even fea-
ture in the original novel, plus a hint
at a possible love triangle, as Tauriel is
taken by , Kili (Aidan Turner) an eligi-
ble Dwarf who she claims is taller than
most Dwarves she’s seen.
As if the trilogy wasn’t long enough,
(this second installment alone lasts
over two and a half hours) the lengthy
diversion into the Wood Elves’ liveli-
hood plus an extensive tour of their
insanely decorated palace may seem
unnecessary, but it’s with these mys-
tical creatures the fantasy action
starts. There’s something refreshing
to be seen in individuals who know to
take care of themselves, and between
Legolas and Tauriel, with their qual-
ity archery skills and knife-wielding
abilities, the two of them slay a vast
number of antagonists in an extended
sequence that comes mostly as relief:
reassurance that the good guys aren’t
so buggered after all.
Jackson’s vision of Middle Earth is
still one to behold, as the many differ-
ent settings come to life in the film’s
many, many grand sweeping shots,
most noticeably once Smaug enters
the picture. The endless treasures that
fill the Lonely Mountain is gold, more
gold, then even more gold, as poor
Bilbo is tossed into the ring to face
off with the dragon in the film’s tense
but equally funny exchange between a
teeny Hobbit and the mighty dragon.
It’s down to Freeman’s likablility as
an unexpected hero and his desper-
ate attempts to outsmart and distract
the dragon that works to the film’s
advantage.
Even if your concentration drifts in
certain parts, even when Stephen Fry
and Luke Evans turning up as human
characters who will be put to more
substantial use in the third and fi-
nal film can’t hold your attention for
long, Smaug will wake you back up
and make the whole movie-going ex-
perience worthwhile. Designed with
motion-capture and voiced by the
nation’s favourite Sherlock Holmes,
Smaug alone is the best use of CGI in
the Hobbit franchise so far, and given
how the film wraps up with an excit-
ing cliffhanger with one major loose
end relating to the fate of the dragon,
we’ll certainly get to see him again and
it will be a visual treat once more for
sure.
Being the middle film, there are
many hanging strands that need ad-
dressing. What is Gandalf so afraid
of? What will become of the dwarves,
the humans and the elves? And will
Lee Pace, as Legolas’ father Thranduil,
show up once more with his exces-
sive wardrobe and head accessory that
puts the fashion of Vatican to shame?
We will all just have to wait until De-
cember 2014, when the Hobbit trilogy
will come to a close, more than a dec-
ade after the Lord of the Rings took the
world by storm.
2014 Golden Globes
Best Motion Picture (Drama): 12 Years a Slave
Best Motion Picture (Comedy): American Hustle
Best Actor (Drama): Matthew McConaughey (Dallas Buyers Club)
Best Actress (Drama): Cate Blanchett (Blue Jasmine)
Best Actor (Comedy): Leonardo DiCaprio (The Wolf of Wall Street)
Best Actress (Comedy): Amy Adams (American Hustle)
Best Supporting Actor: Jared Leto (Dallas Buyers Club)
Best Supporting Actress: Jennifer Lawrence (American Hustle)
Best Director: Alfonso Cuaron (Gravity)
Best Screenplay: Spike Jonze (Her)
Best Original Score: Alex Ebert (All is Lost)
Best Original Song: Ordinary Love (Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom)
Best Animated Feature Film: Frozen
Best Foreign Language Film: The Great Beauty
Why we should join the Oscar for Best
Actor and Best Actress into one award.
There are a many strange things about
trying to decide who is the ‘best actor’
because whatever performance they
give is through the lens of a director
and rewritten by the editor. We also
don’t know what they set out to do. For
example, in Dr. Strangelove, George C.
Scott, wanted to play the role of Gen-
eral Buck Turgidson straight, but was
tricked into performing over the top
“practice takes” for comedic effect by
Kubrick. The main point is that “Best
Actor” sounds objective, when re-
ally it is a completely subjective affair,
alongside the fact that the academy
who votes on these matters may well
have vested interests in improving
revenue of their own films.
There is however another anomaly
in way these awards are designed and
that is that there are gender boxes for
the acting awards, but for none of the
others. We don’t see best female edi-
tor, or best female VFX, or best female
Director.
I have talked previously about the
problems that arise from the lack of
female directors in the industry and
I think giving female talent more air-
time can only be a good thing. HOW-
EVER I cannot think of anything more
patronising than saying to female di-
rectors they are going to be in a new
“little league” for the girls. This isn’t
sport, there are no justifiable argu-
ments like “men are on average bigger
Best Lead Performer
or stronger”. This is a creative intelli-
gence thing in which men and women
are entirely comparable and it you dis-
agree I suggest you go away read ‘The
Mismeasure of Man’ and rethink your
approach.
One argument against combining
Best Actor and Best Actress is that
men and women on screen can’t get
the same jobs unlike anything behind
the camera. I have to say I thoroughly
disagree for two reasons.
1. Because there are a lot of things
that make people unsuitable for a role-
race, size, age are just a few examples.
It would be ridiculous to suggest cat-
egories like the Best Tall Female His-
panic Leading actor in a 20-30 age
bracket.
2. Prosthetics and makeup are cur-
rently good enough that this is no
longer a consideration. Take for exam-
ple Todd Haynes surrealist Bob Dylan
Biopic I’m Not There. It’s shows Bob
Dylan at different stages in his life
from young boy to old man and how
they would interact if they met. It has
a stellar cast; Christian Bale, Richard
Gere, Heath Ledger, Ben Wishaw and
in my opinion the most convincing
and engaging Bob Dylan (based ap-
pearance and mannerisms) is Cate
Blanchett.
There are also many other mov-
ies out there in which a woman play
men, and more difficultly people on
both sides of a transsexual operation
(Transamerica).
The only problem I see with this now
is that there are many more men in
movies, and most leading characters
are male (Only 1/3 are women). This
may push women to the back of the
pack in the awards. However I think
that we have to make a decision as to
whether we should patronise artists at
the cost of giving them more airtime.
Maybe this is an idea that works better
in a perfect world where woman are
equally represented in film, but I think
we need to standardise our approach
and not have a system in place that
would have given Kathryn Bigelow a
Best Female Director award instead of
a Best Director Award.
Peter Brook
Writer

