28 FRIDAY 17 JAN
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The best of festive TV
T
here must have been few
shows in recent memory
that were so widely
anticipated as series three of
Sherlock. The first two series
earned themselves a legion of fans
for their clever stories, impeccable
characterisation and fine acting from
leads Benedict Cumberbatch, playing
Holmes, and Martin Freeman, playing
his friend Watson. The final episode
of second season, ‘The Reichenbach
Fall’, proved particularly popular, with
Holmes having his final confrontation
with his nemesis Moriarty and faking
his death – the final scene showing
that he had somehow survived a fall
from the roof of St Bart’s Hospital,
despite several witnesses supposedly
seeing his dead body.
With two whole years between
this and the start of the latest series,
fans had driven themselves wild
with speculation as to how Sherlock
survived. It is therefore quite
appropriate that the first scene of
the first episode, ‘The Empty Hearse’,
purportedly an explanation of how
Holmes did it, turned out to be, in
fact, a wild theory from a character
who is obsessed with proving that the
great detective is somehow still alive.
Indeed, a major subplot of ‘The Empty
Hearse’ is effectively an affectionate
satire of fan culture – with the episode
showingusagroupofSherlockHolmes
obsessives who take turns to present
their increasingly outlandish theories
of how the our protagonist could have
survived. This was a very fun element
of the first episode which fortunately
distracted somewhat from the fact
that the actual explanation turned out
to be somewhat pedestrian. It was also
an example of the show’s continuing
clever and successful efforts to bring
the story into the modern era. The first
episode, for example, also very briefly
touched on the theme of controversial
terrorism legislation while the third,
‘His Final Vow’, focussed heavily on
Murdoch-style journalistic excesses
– all the while remaining true to the
spirit of the original Holmes stories.
However, what really made this
series of Sherlock so enjoyable is what
earned the show its popularity in the
first place – its writing. The original
Sherlock Holmes stories were known
primarily for their meticulously
constructed mysteries, and Holmes’
unique ability to solve them. The show
maintains this key feature but also goes
far further in exploring the characters
of Holmes and Watson – building up
a powerful study of the relationship
between the two men. This is done
particularly well in the second
episode, ‘The Sign of Three’, which
leaves the mystery element somewhat
in the background and focuses on
Holmes having to deal with acting
as best man at Watson’s wedding.
Everything – from the pacing, to
the plotting, to the brilliantly sharp
and witty dialogue – comes together
perfectly to show how the two men,
despite each often finding the other
frustrating, have grown to genuinely
care for one another.
While ‘The Sign of Three’ was more
introspective, ‘His Final Vow’ was a
return to the show’s more traditional
tense drama, with Holmes up against
master blackmailer Charles Augustus
Magnussen. The episode was fast
paced, exciting, and filled with twists
that, while unexpected, felt very
natural and which were, in hindsight,
set up well in advance. The ending in
particular was done very effectively,
drawing on many elements that had
been developed earlier in the series
and finally presenting Holmes with a
true no-win scenario. It was a tragic
and poignant sequence that would
Maciej Matuszewski reviews two highly-anticipated Christmas specials
Sherlock
have served as a fitting finale to the
show itself.
That is why I have somewhat mixed
thoughts about how the very final
scene was a set up for the next series.
While I have every faith in the show’s
creative team I fear that they may
struggle to replicate this series highs.
In any case, I hope that this time it will
take us less than two years to find out.
Doctor Who:
The Time of
the Doctor
D
octor Who is
simultaneously one of
the best and one of the
most infuriating science
fiction television shows
out there. I can think of no other
show with a premise that has so much
potential. With a machine capable of
taking our heroes anywhere in time
and space, and a protagonist whose
face and, to some extent, personality,
change every few years, the writers
of Doctor Who have the freedom to
tell pretty much any story that they
want. Yet, throughout its many years,
the show has too often been plagued
by bad writing and terrible story
decisions.
The first few years of Matt Smith’s
tenure as the Doctor, and Steven Mof-
fat’s as head writer and executive pro-
ducer, were, in particular, a very mixed
bag. A small number of brilliant epi-
sodes, like ‘Vincent and the Doctor’
and ‘The Doctor’s Wife’, couldn’t out-
weigh an often painfully convoluted
metaplot and some of the worst mo-
ments in the show’s history – from
the simply dreadful ‘The Curse of the
Black Spot’, to the offensively bad ‘The
Almost People’, to the near incompre-
hensible ‘The Wedding of River Song’.
The most recent series of the show,
however, did seem to show some im-
provement, with most episodes being
at least competently written and ex-
ecuted. This, together with a generally
enjoyable fiftieth anniversary special
in the form of ‘The Day of the Doctor’,
made me reasonably hopeful going
into this year’s Christmas special, and
Matt Smith’s final episode – ‘The Time
of the Doctor’.
The episode opens with the Doc-
tor setting off to explore a mysterious
planet that has been transmitting an
incomprehensible signal throughout
all of space and time. However, upon
arriving he discovers that the planet
is Trenzalore, the world on which he
is fated to finally die. With Trenzalore
beginning to be surrounded by the
fleets of all his enemies, who have also
received the signal, he must work to
uncover its secret while protecting the
planet’s innocent inhabitants.
‘The Day of the Doctor’ certainly
didn’t disappoint. Many previous Doc-
tor Who season finales and specials
have focused on big threats to the
existence of the universe itself – not
only making the show repetitive but
also making what should have been
big events seem cheap and vacuous.
‘The Time of the Doctor’ was a pleas-
ant change in that, while maintaining
high stakes, it focused far more on
the character of the Doctor himself.
Here we see him at his best – fun
and eccentric, while also absolutely
dedicated to doing right and helping
others. The Eleventh Doctor’s ‘death’,
of old age after having literally spent
centuries protecting the people of
Trenzalore, fitted the character per-
fectly and was executed remarkably
well. The episode even managed to tie
together most of the loose ends from
the Silence plotline, which had been
plaguing Matt Smith’s run since his
first episode, in a surprisingly satis-
fying fashion. The use of so many of
the Doctor’s classic old enemies, and
some surprising old friends, would, in
many other episodes, have felt cheap.
However, with the themes of the final-
ity and reflection permeating through
the entire episode, here it felt very ap-
propriate.
Sure, the obligatory Christmas
theme felt tacked on – but then it was
not treated as particularly important
by episode itself. Sure, there were a
lot of plot holes – but by now I’ve got-
ten tired of complaining about such
things when it comes to this show.
Sure, it wasn’t the best thing that I’ve
ever seen and it doesn’t quite stand up
with the true classics of Doctor Who –
but it was far better than I could have
dared to expect given what had come
before. Truly, a fitting farewell to the
Eleventh Doctor. With the show now
seeming ready to make a fresh start,
and with Peter Capaldi taking his
impressive acting talents to the role
of the Twelfth Doctor, I am quietly
hopeful about Doctor Who’s future.
screenrush
BBC

