29
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 17 JAN
TELEVISION
B
atman is a popular
superhero to say the
least, and, as such, he’s
appeared in many TV
shows over the years.
Three years after the 1989 film, a
new animated series was produced,
called Batman: The Animated Series.
The 80s had been a prolific year for
animation, producing shows like He-
Man, Transformers and GI Joe, but
they had a tendency to be simplistic,
repetitive, and unchallenging. This
show forever redefined American
animation by saying that kids’
cartoons could be dark, mature, and
intelligent. It never took its audience
for granted, showing Batman and the
characters of his universe in the noir,
grown-up way that Burton had done
on film and Miller had done in comics
in the previous decade. After airing
for over 100 episodes, it spawned an
entire universe of connected animated
shows, including two Justice League
shows and a far-future sequel. To
put it briefly, it was both good and
successful.
Cartoon Corner
Let’s talk about Batman
Tom Rivlin
However, it isn’t the last Batman
show to have graced our screens. Since
B:TAS stopped airing, there have been
three more shows about the caped
crusader. The first one, The Batman,
was largely similar to the original
except for being worse (which is not
an insult – it was still a decent show).
The most recent one, Beware the
Batman, is getting canned after only
13 episodes (which is a shame, I have
heard it was good). The second one,
however, was something completely
different. Let’s compare Batman: The
Brave and the Bold with Batman: The
Animated Series.
The description here of B:TAS
stresses how “mature” and “dark” it
was (the word “noir” was even used at
one point). The reason the show was
that way was because it was heavily
influenced by the trend in comics
at the time, and by the aesthetic of
the Burton films. In the mid-80s,
the comics Watchmen and The Dark
Knight Returns were published.
They both essentially redefined
the entire genre of the superhero
comic – putting the final nail in the
coffin of the campy, child-friendly
aesthetic they had had since the 1950s
(perfectly encapsulated by the Adam
West Batman show of the time). This
has generally been considered to be
a Good Thing. It allowed the comics
industry to “grow up” and reflect
their changing audience, and B:TAS’s
acceptance of this played a big part in
how great a show it was.
Batman: The Brave and the Bold
saw things differently. At the very
height of the Nolan movies’ popularity
(just after The Dark Knight came
out), this show began. It rejected
the accepted wisdom that had been
established for superheroes, and for
Batman especially, that superheroes
were Serious People who did Serious
People Things, and took Batman right
back to the aesthetics of the comics
from the “Silver Age” (the 1960s – the
name of the show comes from a comic
book anthology series from that time).
Drawing inspiration from the zaniest,
most far out, obscure corners of the
DC universe, the central premise of
the show was that every episode had
Batman teaming up with a different
DC character to fight an impossibly
huge variety of villains. Recurring
characters included ’second-tier’
heroes like Blue Beetle, Green Arrow
and Aquaman, with more minor and
major characters only making one-
off appearances (Superman only
appeared twice).
Everything in the show was a
love letter to the Silver Age comics
the writers clearly grew up loving,
with every episode bursting full of
references to characters, places,
themes and stories from the whole
history of DC comics. There were even
references to other Batman shows,
with Adam West playing Batman’s
father in one episode. (Adam West also
played a pastiche of the 60s Batman in
B:TAS – he sure made a career out of
making fun of himself!) The show was
filled with the imagination and light-
hearted enthusiasm that made comics
so appealing to kids at the time, and
spotting every gag, in-joke and subtle
nod to the wider DC universe in each
episode was a fun game for long-time
fans.
Most importantly, Brave and the
Bold was completely self-aware. It
knew it was going against the trend by
presenting Batman in this way. It knew
it would be considered less “adult”
by modern day Batman fans, but it
didn’t care. In one memorable scene,
Bat-Mite, an omnipotent imp from
the fifth dimension who is a hardcore
Batman fan, attends a fifth dimension
Comic-Con (I feel the need to say “not
making this up” a lot in this column)
and justifies the lighter nature of
the show in front of an audience of
hardcore fans who prefer the dark/
gritty Batman. The show didn’t take
itself too seriously as a story where
the characters go through hardship
and turmoil, but it took itself seriously
as a valid alternative to the modern
Batman that kids, long- time fans and
everyone in between could enjoy.
This column was originally intended
to be a side-by-side comparison
of the two shows, but as I began
writing it became clear that the only
thing I wanted to say about B:TAS
was that it was great for the same
reasons things like The Dark Knight
were great, and everyone already
knows about that. There was a lot
more to say about Brave and the
Bold because it was just so different.
The creators knew they didn’t want
to make another clone of B:TAS, so
they made something unique, and
that was far more interesting to talk
about here. Brave and the Bold ended
after 65 episodes, a decent run for a
cartoon, but it definitely could have
run for longer. Sadly, it was probably
cancelled to make way for Beware the
Batman, which swung way back to
the dark/gritty side of things, which
is what the suits wanted. Either way,
it made its mark and had fun doing it.
Which of the two shows was better?
It’s hard to say, for although being
about ostensibly the same character,
they were as different as night and day.
Girls, uninterrupted
I
t’s been a year since we last saw
the girls of Girls, so the news
that its third series would return
with a double bill was definitely
welcome. The ever-divisive show
picks up a short while after we left off
at the end of the second season, in
which time there’s been more than a
few developments. Although Hannah
and Adam are very much in an ‘on’
phase of their on-off relationship
after he ran through the streets of
New York in answer to her desperate
cry for help, Marnie and Charlie are
most definitely off, with the former
turning to her mother in consolation.
Also firmly broken-up are Ray and
Shoshanna, while wild child Jessa
has resurfaced after months of
disappearance – in rehab.
If the finale of series two seemed
uncharacteristically optimistic and
rom-com-esque,withAdamheroically
dashing to Hannah’s rescue and
Marnie and Charlie’s reconciliation,
the first episode of season three soon
bwrings us back to Girls’ familiar
territory of poor life decisions and
public confrontations. When Adam
and Hannah find themselves face to
face with Natalia, his ex-girlfriend
from last series, she and her friend
waste no time in letting Adam know
exactly how badly he treated her.
Although Adam seems genuinely
sincere in his apologies, things get
worse when Hannah is dragged into
the mix. By the time Natalia has
finished describing Adam as an ‘off
the wagon, Neanderthal, sex-addict
sociopath’ and telling the couple to
‘enjoy your urine-soaked life,’ any
lingering rom-com illusions have been
fully dispelled.
Meanwhile, Jessa’s trip to rehab
is, it emerges, courtesy of her
grandmother, who’s dictated that she
spend sixty days attempting to recover
from her many, many problems.
Unsurprisingly, it doesn’t prove to
be effective, as Jessa endeavours to
disrupt every meeting and make every
other patient hate her. Even a pep
talk from guest star Richard E. Grant
doesn’t seem to make a difference, and
when Jessa accuses another patient of
using rehab to avoid coming to terms
with her sexuality, anyone with more
than a cursory familiarity with the
usual events of the show can predict
what follows.
The second episode of the double
bill takes a different approach, with
the majority taking place on Hannah,
Adam and Shoshanna’s road trip to
pick up Jessa from rehab. (On a side
note, Hannah’s willingness to drive
for hours to pick up the friend who
abandoned her months ago is one of
those subtly perfect Girls moments.)
The trip provides ample opportunities
for interaction between polar
opposites Adam and Shoshanna, and
a painfully frank conversation on
whether college days really are the
best days of your life with Hannah,
which particularly resonated with me
as a final year soon-to-be graduate.
It’s impressive that, even in its third
series, Girls still feels as fresh as ever.
It is unique in its place as a no holds
barred depiction of uncomfortably
relatable young women, imperfections
included. It’ll be interesting to see
where Lena Dunham, growing visibly
more confident in her skill as writer
and director, takes the rest of the
series. Having already proven time
after time that she’s unafraid to take
risks, one thing is for sure: it’ll be
anything but boring.
HBO
Emily Fulham celebrates the return of the most honest show on TV

