30 FRIDAY 17 JAN
GAMES
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Calum Skene,
Imran Rashid
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Star in Command
Khurram Liaqat reviews the mobile Star Command
Delays, delays and more delays, at
the end of which only 30% of the game
had been realised. Truly… the cake
was a lie. I’m talking, of course, about
the Kickstarter campaign of Star
Command, a game that was pitched
as a strategic space simulator, where
aspiring Captain Kirks would explore
planets and fight against aliens,
all the while chewing bubble gum.
For many, Star Command became
the typical example of many
Kickstarter campaigns: too ambitious,
so features had to be cut to meet
the deadline. For larger studios,
this isn’t a problem, as the features
which were cut are usually unknown.
With Kickstarter however, the
game and ideas are first pitched to
the public, who then invest because
of feature X, or mechanic Y. Once
development is underway and it
becomes apparent that feature X
won’t work, they have to cut it, much
to the dismay of investors who feel
as though they’ve been ripped off.
Unfortunately, the deadline was
missed, features were still cut, and
we’releftwith30%ofthegamerealised,
accordingtothedevelopers.Butatlast,
it’s here, so let’s see how well it does.
A couple of loading screens,
customising your Captain, choosing a
Ship, and that’s it: the game has begun.
It’s very quick and easy to jump in and
get your hands dirty. You have aliens
shooting at you within 5 minutes of
starting, so pacing is definitely great.
However, you can’t simply load
it up and play from where you left
off while you wait at the dentist’s
as you’re unable to save the game
at certain points; usually during
missions. So when you sit down to
play, be sure to have plenty of time,
otherwise you’re going to have to sit
through parts you’ve already done.
Star Command primarily consists
of a series of linear missions, with
a few options near the middle
portion to do what are, essentially,
sidequests. The missions themselves
are typically preceeded with dialogue.
You’re given options, but most of
the time they don’t affect anything,
which is slightly disappointing.
The core gameplay revolves around
assigning crew members to different
rooms. There are three types of rooms:
Medical, Engineering, and Weapons.
Crew members assigned to Medical
rooms have a blue shirt and the
ability to heal team-mates, while crew
assigned to the Engineering rooms
wear yellow shirts and the ability to
repair the ship. Lastly, crew assigned
to Weapons rooms are outfitted with a
red shirt and a gun to shoot invaders.
There are five main rooms that you
use during ship to ship combat. The
Weapons rooms, the Shield Booster
room, the Dodge Generator, and
the Medical Bay. When these rooms
have crew assigned, a button appears
on your HUD. When they’re fully
charged you’re able to activate them.
Upon activation, the weapon room
shoots at the enemy ship, and after
the completion of a minigame, the
Shield Booster increases shields,
the Dodge Generator dodges
one incoming projectile, and the
medical bay increases the health
of all of your crew in your ship.
If this is sounding overly complex,
don’t worry. It’s very intuitive and
simple in actual use, and forms the
basis of your decision making as
Captain of the ship. For example,
do you pull a crew member out of a
weapon room (which causes weapons
to charge more slowly) in order to take
out one of the invaders on your ship?
Once you’ve progressed further
in Star Command, and acquired
more crew, which happens pretty
quickly, and you don’t have to
constantly swap them between
rooms, it becomes somewhat
easy. Increasing the difficulty
does alleviate this by providing a
better challenge, but not by much.
It’s a game that desperately
needs another mechanic to add
an element of strategy, both in
the ship-to-ship combat as well
as against invaders. Perhaps
cover, or different types of guns.
AI, hostile and friendly, could
definitely use reworking, as well as
the core concept. At the moment,
you have to constantly move each
individual crew member a few spaces
forward so that they might aim at
enemies. This does not make for
particularly entertaining gameplay.
I’d much rather assign ‘zones’ for
a group of my crew to patrol. This
would allow the autonomisation of
the more mundane tasks outlined
above. The developers could then
add in more varied types of AI to
fight against, so that the element
of decision making is not lost.
Occasionally it feels unfocused and
rushed. For example, the ability to
customise your ship from the meagre
selection of rooms is so shallow you
wonder why it’s even there. I can
only surmise that they kept 30% of
all features, rather than keeping the
few features that worked, and cutting
out entirely the ones that didn’t. Their
intention may be to upgrade and
improve these features with updates.
Star Command does make
references to possible new features,
for instance, the ability to beam down
to planets is, apparently “coming
to a Star Command near you”.
The controls are good; responsive
and easy to use, while minimising
screen clutter. It works well with a
touchscreen, with simple gestures
to zoom in and out, and tapping on
crew members to move them about.
Despite the repetitiveness and
ease, it does manage to be a fun and
engaging experience for most of the
time due to the very frantic decision
making, where there are no right
answers or solutions. The dialogue is
pretty funny, and the universe feels
rather deep and substantial, with
many different and distinct alien races.
The story won’t blow minds,
but it’s something that doesn’t
take itself too seriously – part of
the charm that the game offers.
There’s also the strange attachment
you begin feeling to your crew
members, watching them being
sucked into the vacuum of space is
actually saddening. Star Command
does a great job at making
the player feel like a Captain.
Star Command primarily uses
pixel art for most of its graphics,
and it really looks beautiful, despite
becoming overused in recent years.
Aliens are varied in design, and so are
their ships, with menacing, insectile
Antorians, and the sinister Vox.
Weapon effects could be improved as
they’re fairly bland: simple coloured
streaks and circles across the screen.
The music is extremely good, and
helps add to the deliberate faux-
epic atmosphere of the game, as are
the sound effects of the weapons.
While the gameplay can be
improved, the atmosphere, story and
depth of the universe make up for
it. Hopefully the developers are still
committed to bringing updates out to
extend the longevity of this title, but
for now, this can get old pretty fast.

