33
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 17 JAN
TECHNOLOGY
Given the popularity of electronic coins it is not surprising that
somebody came up this genius idea: originally know as the Coinye West,
this currency pays tribute to the biggest thing on the internet. Now after
threat of court action by Kanye West, the creators of the coin have been
forced to change its name, as well as asked to hand over their website.
Now further controversy has been added, by the fact that the Coinye coin
has folded completely due to continued legal threats by the West Estate.
Consumer Electronics Show
The Consumer Electronics Show
(CES) is an annual technology and
consumer products show held every
January in Las Vegas. Being the global
stage that attracts next generation
innovations and electronics, CES is
the largest of its kind, showcasing
over 3000 exhibitors from computer
hardwaremanufacturestoautomotive
andlifestyleelectronicsmanufactures.
The CES really is the hub for rising
technologies, not only attracting
big names such as LG and Intel
but also emerging innovators and
start-ups that are keen to make
their new products stand out.
The Occulus Rift, a virtual reality
gaming head-set, made its mark at
last year’s 2013 CES show making
virtual reality buffs insist that we
are ever closer to a next generation
of gaming, all virtual. In 2014, the
developer Occulus brought about
more improvements to their original
design in the latest prototype,
Crystal Cove. Enhancements, such
as carefully placed LEDs on the
ski-goggle like design has added
to the headset positional tracking
technology, greatly reducing motion
blur and hence the need to vomit
every time you peep around that
corner to get a better view of the
enemy. The new external camera
provides upper body tracking,
enabling the user to lean, turn and
crane their neck as they please,
giving a truly ‘immersive’ experience.
With $75 million in new funding
we can expect to see a lot from
Occulus Rift. The Crystal Cove
prototype that was seen in CES
is by no means a finished version
with upcoming improvements in
resolution and camera quality.
The Galaxy NotePro, Samsung’s
newest note tablet, comes with
a 12.2 inch screen, widget based
interface and premium specs. What’s
innovative about this new tablet is
that it leaves behind the traditional
android user interface, TouchWiz,
going for a more widget based
graphical feel. Utilising Samsung’s
newest Magazine UX interface has
allowed a much more immediate
access of apps and information.
The specs of the NotePro are,
in short, nothing but a premium
selection of hardware. With a
Qualquam Snapdragon 800 quad
core processor at 2.3GHz per core
and a built in GPU that delivers
up to a 50% increase in graphics
performance, users can expect a much
faster and better performing tablet
when it comes to multitasking and
running taxing apps. The screen has
a 2560x1600 resolution, delivering
sharp images. The rear camera is at
8-megapixels with LED flash while
the front has a two megapixel camera.
After showing off the NotePro
at CES, the success of this product
will depend on Samsung’s new
Magazine UX and how customers
react to it, so far the feedback on
the new UI has been positive and it’s
good to see that Samsung is doing
something different rather than just
introducing another android tablet.
Audi A7 demonstrated its
automated vehicle technology at
this year’s CES. Being still under
development we can expect to see
automated driving in the not too
distant future. This technology is
aimed at automating the car when it’s
driving below 40kmph to give drivers
‘a break’ by using its forward-looking
radars and laser to detect the traffic in
front. Moreover, a camera mounted
on the windshield is used to detect
lane lines to keep the car in its lane and
a rear radar to detect upcoming cars
on either side. All of these sensors and
detectors work together in harmony
to provide the car’s computer with all
the information it needs to control the
brakes, steering wheel and accelerator.
Autonomous driving is not a new
concept or even a new technology,
but what Audi managed to do is
bring automated driving closer to
the consumer market place. If you
compare the Audi A7 with Google’s
famous autonomous cars with their
large mounted roof detectors, the
A7 has its gear neatly hidden in
the bodywork still giving the car
its distinctive aesthetic Audi look.
Perhaps the most awkward part of
CES 2014 was Transformers director
Michal Bay’s supposed Samsung Talk
that ended up in him leaving the stage
in front of hundreds of journalists
and industry professionals due to a
teleprompter fail. Not knowing what
to say, Bay walked off the stage with,
“Excuse me, I’m sorry, I’m sorry”, as
his final words. Samsung chose the
director, best known for his special
effects, to praise the company’s
ultra-high definition curved TVs,
but due to a series of unfortunate
events, the main one being the
autocue failing, the talk ended in a
disaster mainly for the embarrassed
Hollywood A-lister but also Samsung,
who thought their new TVs would
get the promotion of a lifetime.
Onto a less embarrassing story, all
eyes were on Gabe Newell, CEO of
Valve as he unveiled the low-cost and
diverse Steam Machines. Alongside
computer gaming giants such as
Alienware, Scan and GigaByte, Valve’s
aim is to bring PC gaming to the
mainstream with each of these gaming
companies designing and developing
their own Steam Machines that come
in different shapes and sizes. What
these Steam Machines aim to do is
bring PC gaming into the living room
and take a large portion of hardcore
XBox and PlayStation gamers from
the hands of Microsoft and Sony.
With Steam’s open source software,
Newell stated that they plan to give
gamers the flexibility to play on their
rigs how ever they want to while
at the same time be user friendly.
The most important thing for many
console gamers when they switch is
that they don’t lose their game titles,
and indeed for many years Steam
has amassed a plethora of games
which many gamers will still be able
to enjoy on new Steam Machines.
Wacky new stuff you should check out....or is it just a fad?
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awara
Technology Editors
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up
to date with the newest, wierdest and most futuristic things
around
Windows 9
The Coin of a generation
Given the recent and less than positive reception of the Windows 8, it
may be a bit surprising that Microsoft is bringing out a new OS already.
However rumours of Windows 9 have been surfacing recently and may be
released at the developers’ conference in April 2014. What the rumours
seem to suggest is that this update will just be a fix for all the negative
reception of Windows 8 and 8.1 e.g. updating the Metro interface.
Osama Awara
Technology Editor
Bad code in films
You know what I am talking about. You are watching a movie where
somebody does something IT related, scanning through lines of code and
just making it work. As you watch this you wonder what the hell did that
code just really mean? Well somebody started a Tumblr that deals with
this very important question. For example in Elysium, we have a bunch of
code which is actually an Intel instruction manual! If you want to see more
just check out: moviecode.tumblr.com

