7
FRIDAY 17 JAN
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk FEATURES
Ben Fernando
Reporter
T
he Union’s campaign to stop
international students being
charged for NHS services
under the Government’s
Immigration Bill received a
strong boost late last month when Ed
Balls, the Shadow Chancellor, agreed
to look into an amendment to the bill
that would exempt students from the
charge. Responding to a question
put to him by the author as part of
an Imperial College Labour Society
delegation that went to meet with Mr
Balls in December, he explained his
views on the government’s new drive
to reduce immigration to the UK.
When asked what he thought
of the Union’s campaign, Mr Balls
responded by saying that ‘we’re not
opposed to migrants contributing to
the NHS’ (presumably in the same
way that UK citizens pay National
Insurance contributions), but stated
that the government’s attitude toward
international students was daft.
‘What we’re seeing is a reduction in
the number of students from India
and Pakistan’, which he agreed was
‘not beneficial’ to the economy. In
response to the author’s questions
about what could be done to
ensure that international students
from poorer backgrounds weren’t
disadvantaged, Mr Balls agreed to
‘ask Yvette [Cooper]’, the Shadow
Home Secretary about a potential
amendment to the bill.
Mr Balls’ agreement to do this
comes at a critical time – Labour
MPs recently abstained from voting
on the second reading of the Bill in
the House of Commons in an attempt
to force the addition of several other
amendments, including one that
tackles the exploitation of low-paid
migrant workers. Should Labour
end up in a position to pass these
amendments in the final reading of
the Bill in the Commons, it will go
forward to the Lords and if passed
there (as seems likely), will come
back to the Commons for a final
consideration of amendments. Once
these are approved by the Lords, the
Bill will be signed into law.
Many have asked why international
students were not excluded from NHS
charges under the original wording
of the Bill – was it an oversight, or
deliberate? Mr Balls had a few ideas
to share, and seemed to suggest that
it was the latter: ‘the majority of illegal
migration into this country is from
people who are here legally to begin
with and who overstay their visas, and
the Conservatives aren’t doing very
well to manage this’. As a result, he
suggests that the Tories are attempting
to reduce net migration by targeting
sectors of the population that they can
manage – nominally, international
students and migrant workers, even if
doing this is detrimental to the long-
term health of the economy.
One might expect Mr Balls to be
suspicious of the Conservatives’
motives, but his suggestion is
supported by the statistics. The
government looks likely to miss its
target of reducing net migration to
below 100,000 people per year (a target
many have ridiculed as meaningless),
and this isn’t the only piece of
legislation that has discriminated
against international students in
recent years. Caps on the number of
visas issued and an increase in tuition
fees have reduced the number of
applicants for taught postgraduate
courses. Unfortunately the decrease
has been most noticeable in students
coming from the ‘poorer’ Asian
countries of the Indian Subcontinent,
with a 23% drop in the number of
Indian students and a 20% drop in the
number of Pakistanis.
This does really seem unfortunate,
given that the speed at which the
economies on the subcontinent are
growing and the potential benefit
to the British economies that their
young, enthusiastic populations could
bring. We can only hope that the
Government will see sense and not
stick another financial hurdle in the
way of those who want to bring their
talent to the UK. If they don’t, I’m sure
the onset of damage to our economy
will be apparent soon enough - and
what a mess that would be..
Balls to ask about Amendment to Immigration Bill
Ed Balls reaching out to Ordinary People Ben fernando/FELIX
W
ith the Create
Lab’s Venture
C a t a l y s t
Challenge ads
plastered all
around campus, those of us who aren’t
that interested in entrepreneurship
and/or are more academically-
oriented might feel a little left out.
But while the research model (and
wizened scientists in general) might
appear to stick with what works and
not necessarily engage with the latest
and coolest of technology, there
is actually a surprising amount of
progress and innovation beneath the
surface.
The most important development
over the past few years is arguably
the rise of citizen science. While
businesses and high school students
jump abroad the Internet train to post
Instagram snaps and tweets in dogged
bids for attention and popularity,
scientists globally are taking advantage
of the hyper-connected nature of
today’s world to create new models
which allow for easier communication
of scientific ideas, and inspire people
to take an active role in research
projects which may have profound
results.
Zooniverse is perhaps the biggest
citizen science initiative across
Europe today. Started by academics
from the University of Oxford and the
Adler Planetarium, it allows anyone
anywhere to participate in research
projects with nothing more than a
computer and an Internet connection.
Those of you who are fans of Prof.
Brian Cox might know Zooniverse
from the BBC’s Stargazing Live show,
which had featured Zooniverse’s
project on discovering exoplanets
around foreign stars. And for those
of you who frequent London Tube
stations or are interested in cancer
research, then you may know the
Cancer Research UK-Zooniverse
partnership which allows the public to
analyze cancer patient data en masse.
It may seem like such initiatives are
merely for those with a lot of time
on their hands (during lectures, for
instance?), but they have incredible
potential to make change. Science
communication, in particular, benefits
massively from citizen science
initiatives. By letting people get their
hands dirty and actually be part of
science, they can have a personal
understanding of topics that they’re
involved in, and shrink the divide
between scientists-atop-ivory-towers
and the rest of civilization. The range
of projects and areas being offered by
projects like Zooniverse, which ranges
from physics to zoology and medicine,
also allows prospective scientists and
science students to explore their
interests and inspires them to pursue
higher education in those areas. With
astonishing statistics of educational
levels & literacy across London
boroughs, as shown by the Schools
Plus programme, even a little push
could mean a lot.
But if the opportunity of translating
whale songs on Zooniverse doesn’t
satisfy your appetite for ‘hard science’
(what sort of person are you???),
then projects like CitizenScienceLab
and the European Citizen Science
Association might interest you.
Both are initiatives with Imperial
involvement, and deal with super-
serious science projects like using
crowd-sourced efforts to assist in
particle physics discoveries and
developing new organic parts through
synthetic biology. A number of their
projects are still in infancy, presenting
plentiful room for you to be involved
in future science.
But citizen science isn’t all about
science; for those of you involved
with International Development,
then UNITAR-UNOSTAT’s ‘Disaster
Mapping’ is worth a look at. As the
project’s profile on CitizenScienceLab
states, “an expert on the Nubian
people of Sudan can look at a
photograph of a location experiencing
famine and immediately determine
specific details such as the clan or sub-
clan of people depicted…and perhaps
minute details such as adequacy of
firewood stocks or potential crop
yields.” By using the Internet to bring
together people who can give input,
information on the regions affected
can be quickly collated to help with
relief efforts. The Internet suddenly is
an extremely powerful tool which can
save countless lives.
As citizen science’s momentum
continues to grow, it’ll be interesting to
see whether more of science research
will permeate into our daily lives. In
the meantime, projects are already up
and running, so let’s go exploring!
If you are interested to find out
more about Zooniverse and citizen
science in general, and how such
projects could engineer social and
educational change, then be sure to
attend Imperial Hub’s THE Series:
Citizen science in future research and
science education on Thursday, 23/1.
The talk lasts for only 1 hour and is
FREE. Prior registration required at
hubseries.eventbrite.com.
Future of Science: in the hands of Citizens?
San Chun Yin
Imperial Hub
Vice-President
Samples of Spin-off Citizen Science Projects from the original Zooniverse zooniverse/realscience.us

