8 FRIDAY 17 JAN
WELLBEING Editor: Marissa Lewis
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Marissa Lewis
Wellbeing Editor
Stress Less is a programme of fun, free events that are running throughout the exam period to tempt you out of the library and give you
a good excuse to take a break and relax. The wide range of events available (everything from meditation workshops to laughter yoga) are
designed to suit a range of tastes, so you should be able to find something that appeals to you if you check out the website at
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
Stay active
Exercise increases production of endorphins (your brain’s feel-good neurotransmitter), can improve your sleep and
even boost your self-confidence. Simple changes like walking or cycling to College rather than getting the bus can help
you find the time to fit this in.
Breathe
Relaxation techniques such as breathing exercises can help calm your body and mind. If you feel revision is getting
too much, taking a few, deep, calming breaths can help get you back on track. To find out if this works for you, head
over to one of the mindfulness mediation or InnerSpace sessions.
Talk
Chat to friends and family about how you’re feeling – even if they can’t offer much advice you might find just letting
off some steam calming. It’s also a good time to check on your coursemates or friends to make sure you are all coping
at a stressful time of year.
Break it up
Taking a big topic or module and breaking it down into smaller concepts can help revision seem less daunting.
Structuring your revision also allows for you to plan it around times of day you are most productive and factor in
regular breaks.
T
he January exam period can be a tough one. For
first years, this is the first set of university exams
you will have and it can seem a bit intimidating
to step into your first Imperial exam hall. For
everyone, there’s the sad fact that a grey and
rainy January can make it a miserable time of year even if
you don’t have exams.
I’ve been at Imperial for almost five years now and I’m
pretty sure I’ve fallen into every exam trap there is: I’ve
spent entire nights in the library, I’ve procrastinated to
avoid that one topic that just seems impossible, I’ve lived
off junk food and caffeine pills, the list goes on.
I know it’s really easy to say, but actually making a
plan which incorporates regular breaks and time to look
after yourself is the easiest way to get through exams and
ensure you don’t burn out – particularly relevant if you
have multiple exams in one exam period.
This is where the Union’s Stress Less campaign comes
in.
January Blues
Get perspective
Although it may feel like this mid-January, realise that exams are not the end of the world. It’s easier said than done
but try taking a step back to see the bigger picture.
Top Tips for Stressing Less
S
tress is a natural, physiological response to
difficult events or situations. A little stress
can actually be beneficial as it excites and
motivates us but unhealthy responses to
stress can be damaging and leave us feeling
overworked. Here are a few red flags you can look out for
in yourself and others which could signal it’s time to take
a break or get help:
• Physical symptoms – headaches, stomach
problems, palpitations and back or neck aches are
all physical signs of stress.
• Disordered eating – continuously skipping meals
or, conversely, overeating.
• Sleepless night – the odd restless night isn’t
unusual in the exam period but if this continues,
and is impacting your health, there’s a problem
• Substance abuse – an increase in smoking,
drinking or other drug use, including ‘study drugs’
e.g. Adderall and modafinil.
• Feeling overwhelmed – feeling a little worried or
stressed out is completely normal, but if you begin
feeling out of control, overwhelmed or like you’re
unable to cope with the situation, this could be a
warning sign.
If you have concerns about exam stress, it’s a good idea to
talk to your personal tutor or course director as a first port
of call. If you have concerns about how stress is impacting
your mental or physical well-being, you can also speak to
your GP in confidence.
There are various services run by the Union, College
and external providers that can also offer help: these are
outlined opposite
What is normal
stress?
Useful Contacts
The Advice Centre
Independent, impartial and confidential advice centre run by Imperial College Union.
Contact: 020 7594 806. advice@imperial.ac.uk
Counselling service
Free, confidential counselling for all Imperial students.
Contact: www.imperial.ac.uk/counselling
Nightline
Talk to a fellow student based in London in confidence.
Contact: call, e-mail, Skype or talk online 0207 631 0101. 18:00 – 08:00. Every night of term.
Samaritans
Discuss whatever’s on your mind in confidence.
Contact: ring, e-mail or drop in to a Samaritan’s centre. 08457 90 90 90 any time of day or
night
1
2
3
4
5

