9
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 17 JAN
WELLBEING
Yas Edwards
How do Sabbs Stress Less?
DAVID
President
Listen to ‘A History of the World in
100 Objects’ podcast, drink tea and
do yoga.
JOE
Felix Editor
I am always super super stressed. :(
I should go to Stress Less events to
get some ideas!
KIERON
Deputy President (F&S)
I play competitive sport.
YAS
Deputy President (C&S)
Get outside in the fresh air,
reconnect with nature and do some
high intensity exercise.
NAT
Deputy President (Education)
I put on some loud music and
dance like I’m Beyonce.
What’s On This Week in
Stress Less
Laughter Yoga
Join us for some endorphin-releasing silliness and laugh your stresses
away. No yoga experience required. Wear comfortable clothing and flat
shoes or trainers.
Tuesday 21 January, Activity Spaces, 12:30 – 13:30
Group Walk
Join us for a gentle stroll around Hyde Park. We’ll be meeting in Beit
Quad, Imperial College Union.
Friday 24 January, 12:30 – 13:30
Zen Lounge
Drop in for a free massage, kick back and relax with our chill-out music.
This is a work free zone.
Monday 27th January, Metric, 11:00 – 16:00
Your Exam Preparation Checklist
Weeks before your exam:
ѡ
ѡ Revise – come up with a plan but be flexible about it. If you come across a topic you don’t understand, flag it up
early with your personal tutor to give them a chance to respond.
ѡ
ѡ Manage your stress – make sure to take regular breaks, get some exercise and check out the Union’s Stress Less
programme at imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
ѡ
ѡ Check your dates – make absolutely sure you know when your exams are and note them in your diary.
ѡ
ѡ If you have a disability, disclose it to the Disability Advisory Service or your department. You can contact the
Disabilty Advisory Service at: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/disabilityadvisoryservice
One week before your exam:
ѡ
ѡ If anything has happened that might impact your exam performance e.g. illness or bereavement, apply for
Mitigating Circumstances. You can find more guidance on this from the Imperial College website or you can ask
your personal tutor for advice.
ѡ
ѡ Make sure you find out when and where your exam is and note this down so you aren’t scrambling to find out
the night before your exam.
ѡ
ѡ Check the format of your exam so you can plan your time in the exam hall smartly.
One day before your exam:
ѡ
ѡ Pack – get together your exam kit; pencils, pens, your CID card and a water bottle are all essentials.
ѡ
ѡ Read over the key points on the topics you’ve been struggling on most – try not to fall into the trap of trying to
cram everything in to this one day.
ѡ
ѡ Plan your route into College and check there are no planned disruptions – TfL can be a fickle friend.
ѡ
ѡ Most importantly – get some sleep!
The day of your exam:
ѡ
ѡ Leave plenty of time to get into College for your exam – you don’t want to end up panicking because of tube
delays or traffic.
ѡ
ѡ Aim to arrive 20-30 minutes early so you have enough time to take a breath and get yourself settled before the
exam starts.
ѡ
ѡ Eat something – although you might be feeling queasy, having something (healthy) to eat before your exam can
give you an energy boost.
After your exam:
ѡ
ѡ Avoid exam post-mortems – your exam is over and you can’t change it, there is no point spending ages agonising
over how many marks you may have missed or how your friends did.
ѡ
ѡ Take a breather – if you have more exams, try and take a short break to relax before leaping into revising for the
next.
ѡ
ѡ Celebrate!
If all else fails, I fully endorse looking at pictures of cute animals until the
world seems less awful.

