4 F E L I X
F 3 IX
Imperial College Union
Prince Consort Road
London, S.W.7
Telephones : K E N 2963
Internal 2881/2799
E D I T O R — D . I, W I L L I A M S 2799
Assistant Editor—Peter Combes
Production Manager—Barrie Pichler 090
Features Editor—John Cawson 2751
News Editor—John Grout 3351
Sports Editor—Frank H o b a m 3353/4
Treasurer—Andrew M a y o 3353/4
Sales—Pete Ash, Elizabeth Rankin, Rodney Dawson
Local Adverstising—Tony Firshman, Chris Lampard
Sub-editors—Graham Botch, Malcolm Rossiter, Richard Mitchell
Photographers—Colin Harrison, Rahit Qattan
Cartoons—-Richard! Gentle
National Advertising—Educational Publicity C H A 6081
Comment
That Democracymaybe seen
to be carried out...
TOMORROW (THURSDAY) IC Union will be asked to decide
whether the responsibility for choosing its President should reside
with every student at the College or with the students' representa-
tives on Council,
One criticism that is all too often levelled at our system of electing a President
is mat it is not democratic. If this is go, then the election of the British
Prime Minister, too, does not belong to a democracy.
Council may be likened to an outdated British Constitution, where certain
constituencies are represented by more than one M P , and some electors
have more than one vote. F o r instance, your vote may be used to elect
a Deputy President, three representatives from IC Union, a represenative
from a constituent college, and one or more Committee Chairmen.
A l l but the first Deputy President and I C U representatives on Council are
chosen by a closed vote; only R C S men have the franchise for R C S
President and their representative on Council, only Chairmen of Social
clubs elect their Committee Chairman (they are in turn elected by the
members of their clubs).
Why should the closed vote for President, therefore, be discarded? A particu-
larly able person is needed to take on the position. By the present system
the candidate (there is rarely more than one) has, generally, spent a year as
understudy, observing how Council operates and discovering all that the
Presidency involves. The President-elect is thus able to take over the
responsibility immediately, and does not need the summer term " training
period " prevalent in so many other college democracies.
H o w well do other Free Votes in the College work? The easiest parallels are
to be drawn from the constituent colleges, and from those elections from
the I C U Annual General Meeting. It appears to be a general rule that the
more the responsibility carried by any post, then the fewer are its
contestants. This year's Deputy President, Chris Molam, was unopposed;
s6 tpo were the Presidents of Mines and Guilds. Futhermore, they were
put up for their posts by their predecessors, and thus well-briefed on what
lay ahead.
One of the arguments against Council's election of the President may be
summed up i n that dreaded word " clique." The open votes appear to
suffer from that other dreaded utterance "apathy." The question now
becomes one of "what's the difference?"
Whichever system of voting for the President is adopted only those who are
really interested in the running of the Union will take the trouble to
impress their views on the matter. Now they have to find their way on
to Council or lobby present members of Council. Soon, perhaps, they
may merely have to record their crosses on a piece of paper.
On balance I hope that the open vote does tip the scales, if only so that
democracy may be " seen " to be carried out in IC Union. If tomorrow
the general members of the Union do gain the chance to vote directly for
their President, we all must beware of any cheapening of the elections
bv untidy wall-daubings, emotional bombast or other adverse reflections.
Keep out of the rut
for just another year
and help in a
developing: country
VSO needs 900 graduates and
professionally qualified volunteers
for next September
Consult your Appointments Board or write to
VOLUNTARY SERVICE OVERSEAS
3 HANOVER STREET LONDON W 1
A PLACE TO GO
AST W E E K I W A S unlucky enough to find myself in Malet Street one
' night about ten. Being a conscientious student, I ventured into the
mausoleum on the corner, laughingly called a university union. In
desperate need of relief, I first tested their facilities an level one and
found them entirely satisfactory. Returning to the throngs in the passage
ways, I followed a sign to the bar, which I must admit was pretty lively ;
people drinking heartily, and being ever so careful not to drop ash on the
floor. Attempts to buy a drink, however, proved absolutely fruitless,
because it was 10.02 by the clock and I was told " Bar closes at ten, Sir."
T E N . I could hardly believe it, but all efforts to get a drink met with the
same reply. Dejectedly, I went down again to the ground floor, and
picking my way 'trough the crowds of people all wearing patriotic red
white and blues scarves. I reached the front door. " Union closes 10.30 "
said the enamel plaque. This was the last straw; I went and was last
seen i n the " Intrepid Fox " i n Wardour Street, which closes at eleven,
thank you very much. It is hardly surprising the place is so empty, the
welcome is overwhelming to the point of embarrassment. Perhaps if they
rearranged the name to "University lu," i t would get more support.
ADVERTISING
C O M E T H I N G W H I C H T H I S College can be proud of, is the quality of its
*-* advertising. One has only to look around to see rows of imaginative
artistic posters luring the unwary away from work. The free availability
of photo-copies has enabled the various publicity men to spend more
time on design, and a lot less on construction. Although the College
Unions and R.C.S. Carnival have produced the more obvious material,
it is noticeable that many more' of the smaller clubs are producing high
quality advertisements for their meetings. The Religious and allied
Societies have a prodigious output, especialy the stripe of fluorescence
asking, " W h y believe?" This improvement is not only aesthetically
pleasing, but should increase the support for a wider- range of union
activity. If it does not, the publicity officers certainly cannot be blamed.
YOU
V V 7 H A T D I D Y O U D O to support Population Control Week? Quite a lot,
judging by the remarkable decrease i n the number of women at Sunday
breakfast. That's the spirit, keep it up, lads.
WAY OF THE WORLD
J R E J O I C E to hear that Guilds are
making progress with their new,
Bowdlerised Freshers' Dinners; any
breach in the wall of heartiness, any
triumph for a seemly prudishness is
dear to my heart. One day, I hope to
see them included in General Studies
with urbane, cultivated M r . M c -
Dovetail sitting discreetly near the
back, puffing paternally, and plebby,
ignorant H a i Bowells reading (though
with difficulty) from " Party Jokes foi
Toddlers," and the elegant, sophisti-
cated women all tittering coyfy.
It will never happen, of course.
Kiss of L i f e " says critic—" Big
giggle" says Dufti, " shall we ever
know the truth? " Ned Tedium was
then elected Miss World—this about
sums up the tone of the meeting"
sniffs Our Correspondent. Is it any
wonder our dedicated clowns were
hurt? " I enjoy pratting about there—
and the Union enjoy seeing me " —
(Dum again).
Adventure
Playground
I H E A R that the Holy Huddle is in-
tending to secularise their social
work i n the neighbourhood. I hope
the good work of the organisers of the
Union H o p doesn't get overlooked:
what would all those fourteen year old
girlies be doing on a Saturday night
if they weren't in our Concert Hall?
Dedication
Y A V H A T G O E S into Felix is con-
" siderably less interesting than what
gets thrown out each issue. One day
1 hope these non-Felixes will be pub-
lished by Some publisher with great
courage.
The method of censorship is quite
simple—come up to the Felix Press
Room every other Wednesday and
blast the galley slaves about anything
you don't like. The staff will nod re-
spectfully, and if you are F. Lecher,
eventually nod off respectfully.
This time it was Tweedledum and
Tweedledee huffing about a rather
elephantine piece of reporting on
their latest Union meeting. " Not
enough publicity" said their stern
critic;—I wouldn't know—I've long
ignored all Constit. Union meetings
and their advertising. " Embarrassed
silence at Dum's demonstration of the
Mb T*££bL£l£E Miieeb To
T(,t£&u&,M s^.d lUtMMtff fAb Ztittb Mi &M&
JtSr fdfn ftiw M A " * MavsTm/j c*w. <is rfMc*-
fOfGOT rung QutoVei—crt
Uood luck to tnem—ana to .Mascot
Snatching—and to Morphy Day—and
to THAT Club—and to everything
else that keeps our Peter Pans in the
Vlth Form, and out oi the real world
bevond their time.
Mgnotus
if you like dancing
in an exotic decor
at prices geared to students
come to _
countdown
la palace gate kensington w8

