6 F E L I X
A Philosophy
for Life
M R . SCHUMACHER, Economic Advisor
and Director of Statistics at the National
Coal Board,finishedon Tuesday his series of
six lectures on how to apply the precepts of
philosophy as a guide* to living. He dealt
with convergent and divergent problems,
showing that not all divergent ones (i.e.
non-scientific ones, not encountered in the
laboratory) were soluble, with the question
of free will and causality and with many of
the important philosophical errors which
people tended to accept
His latest three lectures completed and drew
together his argument into a logical whole and
indicated how to translate philosophy into action.
Before formulating any precepts on a guide to
action, there are three main prejudices to be
overcome : that of assuming superiority of intel-
ligence over our ancestors—an hypothesis easily
discounted by a study of the great literature, art
and science of the world. That of the superiority of
the white man over others, and that of religious
prejudice and intoler nee.
Self Awareness
A consideration o l the three greatest teachers
in history, Buddha, Christ and Mohammed, will
show that all, i n effect, basically say the same
thing; that man must become "Awake," must
achieve self-awareness. The ideai of Buddha was
to achieve " enlightenment,' Nirvana; Christ was
always giving warnings of the danger of " falling
asleep into temptation," and many passages in the
Koran compare sinners to " sleepers ,n a prison
. . . " This idea is also followed by many primitive
tribes and is found in most western philosophy :
(Dante's Divine Comedy :—" In the middle of the
road of life I woke up—.") Man must free him-
self from his hampering passions, from his own
likes and dislikes, and become aware of his posi
tion in the world. Between the dialectical extremes
of attachment and detachment there is the " middle
way," non-attachment. St. Thomas Aquinas
echoed these ideas when he said that a l i w of
pleasure is subhuman. " Pleasure is not w, ong,
but the pursuit of pleasure as a diversion is wrong.
It arises natural." Plato wrote that the two vir-
tues of man were (a) " prudentsia"—i.e. self-
awareness, (b) " solertia "—objectivity in the face
of unexpected events. A l l systems which realize
the goal of self-awareness also agree that the way
to achieve this is to tackle one's m i n d : " A l l
that we are is the result of what we have thought,"
said he Buddha, and again " Vigilance is the path.
Thoughtlesness is the path to death."
Morality
Before finding a basis for action, then, we must
first find self-awareness, or "wisdom." T o live
in this state of consciousness we must liberate
ourselves from our likes and dislikes, and achieve
freedom of intellect. The intellect, and hence
morality, must be sovereign in our lives—this
again is a common precept of all great religions.
For instance, the noble eight-fold path, in Buddhist
teaching, is Right Understanding and Right Aims,
(awareness), Right Speech, Action and Livelihood
(morality), Right Effort, Mindfulness and Con-
centration (" mind-training ").
Man may be thought of in two separate ways :
1. " H o m o Sapiens," a zoological description of
man. This method says that man is simply a
cosmic accident in the. process of evolution. In
some philosophies this is raised to a religion—
a basically erroneous step; because a hypothesis
fits certain facts, this does not mean that the hypo-
thesis is the absolute scientific truth, or even that
the hypothesis is correct. It says that there was no
intelligence behind his creation—it just happened,
due to the operation of immutable mechanical
processes.
2. " Homo Viator "—man, the pilgrim. The homo
viator says that it is impossible for man to be
created by an accident in a few thousand million
years—the probability of it occurring is too low.
He feels "something has created him from chaos."
Both systems start with an unexplainable enigma,
•f ; creation or formation of man. Under these
two headings can be grouped all philosophies and
religions, and all methods of living.
Freedom
The inevitable and unavoidable inference from
considering the " Homo Sapiens" approach is
that man has no freedom; everything is deter-
mined by physical and chemical processes, because
this is being proved by science. But the other
system assumes that man is endowed with the
power of potential freedom—this is justifiable,
since the scientific method precludes the existence
of freedom, it is unobservable by science. In
Kierkegaard's words, " Omnipotence cannot only
bring forth the most imposing of all things, the
world in all its totality, but can also bring forth
the most delicate of all things, a creature that is
free of the world." Potential freedom in one's
life is affirmed by Nietsche, Sartre, and other
Existentialist thinkers, and is a recurring theme
in most religions—man has the freedom of choice.
Systems in which man is a biological phenome-
non only deny the existence of any existential
meaning in life. Life has no purpose, no meaning,
is absurd, says much modern philosophy (Camus,
Hegel, Sartre.) Kierkegaard was confronted with
this problem of meaninglessness, but unable to
offer any consolation, he could only confirm the
diagnoses. " One sticks one's finger into the soil
to tell by the srnell what land one is i n ; I stick
my finger into existence—it smells of "nothing.
Where am I? Who am I? How did I come to
be here? What is this thing called the world?
What does the world mean ? Who is it that has
lured me into the thing, and now leaves me there?
. . . How did I come into the world? Why was
JL not consulted, why was I not made acquainted
with its manners and customs, but was thrust
into its ranks as though I'd been bought from a
kidnapper, a dealer in souls? How did I obtain an
interest in it? Where is the Director? I would
like to see him." Evolution is assumed to be
taking mankind (a collective term) higher and
higher. But presumably one does not bother
about the majority who will fall by the wayside.
Man has no task in life, but everything is pre-
viously determined and programmed by scientific
principles.
Art and Individuality
The homo viator considers that man is a " pupil
in the school of life," to use a sanctimonious
phrase. He must use his freedom to fit i n with
the universe as a whole, and his task is set by the
" Director of the enterprise " (Kierkegaard). One
can teach optics to a blind man (manipulative
knowledge), but this is a very different from a
knowledge of L I G H T . Science trains us highly
in manipulative knowledge, to solve convergent
problems, but divergent problems cannot be
solved by such knowledge. Others are regarded
simply as physical necessities for self-preservation,
by homo sapiens, but the homo viator says that
unless one lives in a certain way one is debarred
from understanding the things worth understand-
ing. The two systems lead to completely different
modes of living and thinking (in one case, art, for
instance, would be regarded as an intimation
assisting towards self-awareness, but in the other
case, art is propaganda or entertainment). One
cannot be agnostic, for this is simply subscribing
to " Homo Sapiens," but must decide which course
to follow. Both philosophical systems agree that
man must develop his individuality, (c.f. " The
Lonely Crowd," by Reesman) but if one views
man as " Homo Viator," one must progress further.
To achieve " metanoia " (self-awareness) and then
" rebirth," or to live in a " state' of inspiration,"
is the goal.
People judge themselves by their intentions, and
other people by actions, but if this process were
reversed, many problems of community life would
be solved. We would also live existentially, and
discover freedom and responsibility. Whatever
objections one had against M r . Schumacher's
method of philosophy, one could have nothing
but admiration for the lucid way in which it was
presented. So often, philosophy is wrapped up
in obscure mumbo-jumbo, tut here at least one
had the satisfaction of understanding and digesting
the choices and arguments presented.
M A R T I N B E L L
Poll on
President
Ignorance Revealed
\S THE AVERAGE I.C. student well
enough informed on the running of the
Union to be able to choose wisely a Union
President ?
Kanta Polls investigated this question by asking
approximately two hundred members of the Col-
lege including some Freshers, the following three
questions:—
1. What do you think the main function of the
President of I C U is ?
2. Who is responsible for the basic financial
policy of the Union ?
3. H o w many people sit on Council ?
A summary of the result is given below.
Qu. 1—
per cent
Don't know 28
Student representative 20
Public figure 13
Administrator 10
In answer to the first question, the largest per-
centage (28 per cent) of the people simply did not
know what the main function of the President of
I C U is, or even should be, and 29 per cent had
only a vague idea.
When asked what he thought the job of the
President should be, Adrian Fletcher, President of
I C U , said that it would'vary from President to
President, but it should be concerned mainly with
being one of the following : an administrator, a
fieurehead, a student representative to I.C. authori-
ties or to other Colleges and Universities.
Twenty-five per cent of those interviewed ad-
mitted they did not know the. answer to question
two ; 30 per cent gave the correct answer—Coun-
cil. This shows a distinct lack of interest in the
financial affairs of the Union.
Lastly, the majority of students (75 per cent)
thought Council to be smaller, and therefore less
representative, than it really is. Eighty per cent
of those asked could not get within plus or minus
five of the correct number, 26, their answers very-
ing from 4 to 40.
From the results it can be inferred that the
majority of the members of this College are unin-
formed or mis-informed on the running and set-up
of the Union.
R.J.M.
Private Party at the Queens Gar-
den Hostel for Commonwealth
Students

