FELI X 7
s• uDi N0
1s lam mE R S EAlS
772 Foreigners
Visit I.C
OfficialAttitudes
Mr. DOW E L L T A L K S ABOUT THE
RECTOR'S OVERSEAS STUDENTS
COMMITTEE
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E has more students
from overseas than any other college in
London University, with the exception of the
London School or Economis. Last year,
there were seven hundred and seventy-two
overseas students in the college, or one in 4.2.
This is much higher than the national aver-
age for universities which is one in ten.
Some of these students are from European
countries and North America, but the majority are
from other continents. Usually they come to
Imperial College direct from their own country,
and find themselves plunged into our English
society with some very strange customs. How do
they react? What do they think of us?
The student from abroad can usually be picked
out from a crowd by his physical characteristics;
this makes him feel different. It is emphasised by
language problems. A large number of the students
will find themselves having to speak English
exclusively for the first time i n their lives. A s
one third year Malaysian said, " Don't criticize
the English in my report, I think it is amazing that
I have produced anything in a foreign language."
Accommodation Troubles
His main difficulty is with accommodation, a
problem which we all share. Unfortunately,
though, there are many landladies who will not
take lodgers who look foreign, this problem
gets worse as the student's skin gets darker. He
can get help i n finding accommodation from the
University Lodgings Bureau or the British
Council, or i n cases of real difficulty M r . M c -
Dowell, secretary of the Rector's committee on
Overseas Students, can help. This cannot reduce
the embarrassment felt when he answers advert-
isements for flats or digs and is told, " Sorry, no
blacks."
At Imperial College there is a large number of
nationalistic societies. I cannot help feeling that
the very number of them is in some way an indi-
cation of our failure to form an integrated
community at Imperial. W e have a society for
racraj equality and an International Relations
Club, but they concern themselves in the main with
what is going on in the world at large—perhaps we
ought to set our own house i n order first. What is
it that goes wrong? It is unlikely that many people
will have another opportunity of meeting others
from different cultures.
The Good Ladies at Chelsea
There are several bodies which exist outside
the college which offer friendship to the foreign
students, but many of them seem to exist in order
for the " good Ladies " of Chelsea and Kensing-
ton to demonstrate their virtuosity to each other.
However good some of these organisations may be,
it is still a reflection on our hospitality as fellow
students that they exist at all. The British Council
runs the London Overseas Students Centre which
provides a focal point for the foreign student i n
London. Any British student who wishes to can
get free honorary membership of the centre, but
few take advantage of this. The effect of bodies
such as this is to make it easier for a student from
say. Africa, to make friends with a student from
Ind:
a, than one from Britain.
The main problem, along with accommodation,
which besets the student from abroad is the vaca-
tions. When the term ends we all go home, or at
least those of us with families in the British Isles
do, but the student who is living i n a foreign
country, and who has not got a great deal of
money, cannot. Some are lucky, and will be able
to spend this Christmas at a Centre such as that
at Hans Crescent, or will have been given an invita-
ion to spend the holiday with a family in this
country. Others will not be so lucky and will be
facing the thought of Christmas alone i n digs.
This is somewhere where we can help—see oppo-
site.
J. C A W S O N
TT WAS FOUND on talking to a variety
of I.C. students (born in the U.K.) that
the majority were oblivious of the existence
of the committee. Mr. McDowell, the secre-
tary, was therefore asked to talk to Felix
about how the committee tries to help over-
seas students.
Before the beginning of the academic year an
introductory day is organised. This consists of
an information morning, when the students are
given a talk on the history of the College, and
meet various College officials whom they can ask
about lodgings, health facilities etc. etc. They
are then given lunch, and the afternoon is devoted
to a departmental guide, ending i n tea. This
year 140 out of the 300 overseas freshers attended
the above meeting.
Overseas students are welcome to go to see M r .
McDowell whenever they come up against prob-
lems. Generally he finds language and trouble in
finding accommodation constitute the greatest
difficulties. Often he helps with more unusual
problems such as nursery schools for students'
children.
Mr. McDowell's greatest worry is trying to
help overseas students during vacation, when
often they find themselves alone.
One of the answers to this problem is for an
English family to have a student to stay with them,
and often this is the only opportunity for the
student to See life i n an English home.
C L A I R E S O U T E R
If there is any British Student
in college who would like to en-
tertain an overseas student in his
home this Christmas would he get
in touch with us and we will try
to put him in contact with one. If
any overseas student would like
to take advantage of any offers,
will he or she do the same. Please
contact Claire Souter, room 130
New Beit, or through the Felix
pigeon hole in the Union Rack.
Bewildered
Buddhist
in Britain
L A Y H A R T A N is a Chinese student
from Singapore—a second year chemist.
She came to Britain because of the better
facilities fo* studying science, because she
had heard of I.C., and also for the oppor-
tunity of living abroad ; she hopes to return
to Singapore after her degree.
Lay Har -was in digs in Holloway last year, and
now she has digs irt Earls Court. She says that
because she was in digs a long way out< she took
very little part in college activities last year; she
was only a member of the Chinese Soc. and the
Buddhist Culture Soc, and had very little social
life, (apart from I C W A functions).
Most students from overseas, apart from scho-
lars, come from wealthy homes (otherwise they
would not be here), and she said that in her case,
this meant that i n Singapore she had led a very
cosy life, whese most things were done for her.
Coming to I.C. was a very abrupt change, and
meant a great adjustment. There are difficulties
in obtaining lodging for non-Europeans, difficul-
ties i n communicating with British students, dif-
ferent customs, and all this is very confusing to
a foreigner. Thus Lay Har feels that the College
does not adequately help overseas students newly
arrived in Britain, especially i n their first term,
and thinks that more ought to be done. She said,
however, that she was lucky in having a very help-
ful Personal Tutor, but many people did not even
know who theirs was.
She thinks that where to stay, and what to do
during the holidays, can someimes be a problem
with foreign students, but that she is lucky in
having relations near London. However, although
her impressions of her first term at I.C. were
simply of bewilderment,, this year she intends to
have a fuller college life.
M . J . B E L L .
Troubled
African
Christmas dinner at the British Council
Residence for Commonwealth Students in
Hans Crescent
" § O M E ENGLISH boys are all right. 1
suppose that it is partly our fault—
overseas students should try to talk to the
British students and not Wait to be ap-
proached by them."
Sam is a student from East Africa. This is his
second year in England but his first at Imperial
College.
He spent his first year in digs in South London
whilst he attended a technical college. He was
thrown out of his first digs with only six hours
notice, shortly after his arrival in Britain. In this
case the British Council was able to help him, and
he soon got some more.
This year he has been more fortunate, and is
living in a room i n East Africa House. East
Africa House is a hall of residence, built for
students in London who are nationals of one of the
East African Countries, It is typical of several
residences which have been set up for students from
specific countries. His room is a small area, par-
titioned off from a larger room. For this reason
it is noisy, and at £5 12s. 6d. a week is fairly
expensive.
Does he like Imperial College? " W e l l , the
standard of education is good." Socially? " I
belong to Wellsoc and the Africa Society but no
other clubs." If he misses his meal at seven
o'clock, he will either have to pay for another one
or go without. This acts as a severe barrier to
his activities.
Although most students, from overseas tend to
do more academic work than their English
counterparts, Sam finds that most of his studies
are confined to work at college, except for periods
immediately before exams.
S.I.D.

