F E L I X 9
Athletics Water Polo
TENTH TIME
LUCKY
I1
E N Y E A R S A G O our athletics team won the University winter
field events trophy for the first time: two weeks ago they won
if for the second. After ten long bleak years, during which throwers
and jumpers seemed to be entirely the property of other colleges,
and we were forced to rely on press-ganging unwilling " track men "
into service, such success seems like a dream.
In spite of the cold, wet and windy
FISTICUFFS
YY/ATER POLO has never had a
reputation as a " gentleman's
sport," and I.C.s match against
Birmingham University bore more
resemblance to Putney tow-path on
Morphy Day than a normal polo
match.
I.C. scored three excellent goals
through their trio of Geoff Hook,,
Barry Stapley and K e n Price. These
however were insufficient to overcome
the handicap of having Stapley,
Shorty, Randall and Rowe sent off
conditions turning the Mot spur Park
ground into a polar waste, there was
a complete college turn-out and th's,
in addition to several fine individual
performances, was our winning factor.
The Tvalve trophy for field events
works on an " aggregate" points
system, where the distance achieved by
each competitor from a college is
added together to find the final college
placings. This means that it is essen-
tial to have two men entered for each
event for otherwise even the indi-
vidual winner of an event can score no
points if he has no second string to
back him up,
Full Team
By ensuring that we had a full
team in each event, we managed to
gain high points in most events : 1st
place in the High Jump; 2nd in the Pole
Vault, Discus, Shot and Triple Jump
and sufficient points in the remaining
events to take us to a 30-27 points
victory over the second place team
Guy's Hospital.
Near Thing
It was a neck and neck struggle be-
tween I.C. and Guy's all afternoon
with I.C. just leading by one point
each time the overall scores were
anounced, and only in the dying
Stages of the afternoon, as the rain
began to pour down, did we draw
ahead with everything depending on
the result of the Triple Jump. Here
Chris Fowers and Paul Jones, fighting
hard at the end of a strenuous after-
noon after each had competed in sev-
eral events, managed to stave off the
Guy's challenge and bring us to vic-
tory.
Versatile
Many of our athletes tried their
hand at several events : Leon Hall
took one look at the high jump take-
off and stormed off in disgust to come
second in the pole vault and Brian
Dexter gave fine service by coming
second and third in the Discus anij
Shot. We wefs nowhere near so
succesful in the relays' cup, which we
have held quite often in the past,
with a depleted team coming a dis-
mal seventh.
Badminton
Fall from Grace
AFTER EASY VICTORIES against
I.C, Q.M.C. and King's, we went
confidently to play the next best team
in the League to us—Goldsmiths.
Last year's Captain, M . Fitzgerald,
who had only lost one league match
for I.C. in two years had an " off-
day " and lost two of his matches.
R. M.ilward and D . Fisher after being
14-0 up against Goldsmith's first pair
in the final game of the first match
lost their grip and managed to lose.
In light of the foregoing, what chance
did we s'.and. We lost, 6-3! Our first
defeat for almost a year. Since then,
however. Goldsmith's have been
beaten by King's and as our seconds
beat them at the beginning of the
season, we should still win the League
(always assuming we beat our un-
beaten second team.)
Ian Blair
Sportlight
FROZEN FIXTURES
'T'HE NORTH W I N D doth blow and we shall have snow," and so we did—
lots of it. Perhaps it did not last very long but it was enough to warn
us that this looks like being a harsh, bitter winter. A winter that will
tempt us all to any excuse to avoid soending a Wednesday or Saturday
afternoon shivering on a Harlington Pitch.
There will be matches cancelled; there will be pitches unfit; and there will be
a lot of people who suddenly discover they have an unprecedented amount
of work to do, relatives to meet etc. N o doubt the top teams can be
persuaded to keep turning out through all the bad weather to come, but for
the lower ranks, who may possibly feel that their matches are not so
important, it will be a different proposition.
Don't Give Up
But if a sport is worth doing it is worth doing well—and that means regularly.
During the bad winter of '62-'63, even some of the gym games gave
up because the gym was too cold. This year, should the weather be as
• bad, let us hope that everyone will be brave and remember that everyone
is needed from the 1st team to the 7th.
Frank Hobson
Soccer Report by Bob Grundy
A MOODY WIN
I.C. 2 — Q.M.C. 1
O N WEDNESDAY, 17th November, I.C. travelled to Brentwood
to play Q.M.C. in the Premier Division of the University League.
Due to their previous record the visitors were not too confident of
their chances. The conditions could not have been called ideal, thick
mud covered most of the playing surface, which later on in the game
wj>c
*•» •nrn into a quagmire.
Straight from the kick off pressure
was on the I.C. defence and early on
a shot from the Q M C inside forward
was kicked off the line by Holmes
with Wojtowicz beaten. IC played
good football and managed to stave
off these early shocks and indeed went
close on a number of occasions, Smart
in particular going near with a twenty
yard drive. Towards half time, IC
playing with the slope, were firmly in
charge cf the game, but they could not
take the lead.
beaten all the way
Two minutes after the interval
Q M C scored when a centre from the
left was headed in by the inside right,
beating Wojtowicz all the way.
It was very pleasing however to see
the IC Team fighting back after this
setback, and they set up attack after
attack, going close to scoring on a
number of occasions. It came as no
surprise when Eastall scored the
equaliser; after receiving the ball
square on the edge of the area he
sent the ball rocketing into the top
corner leaving the keeper helpless.
hasty measures
The game was now developing into
a battle, more against the conditions
than anything else. Both teams were
striving hard for the winning goal,
and the defences had to resort to
hasty clearances time and ime again.
IC at last got their second goal when
Hopwood although harassed by two
defenders crashed the ball into the
corner of the net. Although Q M C
piled everything into a final bid for
the equalizer, the IC defence held out
to the end.
This against the form win for IC
was very heartening, particularly
with the team coming from behind.
by the referee. In a brave effort to
restore the balance Rowe even
managed to get sent off a second time
but it was all in vain and we lost by
four goals to three.
Knock-out Cup
Last Friday in the play-off of the
U.L. Cup I.C. won through to the
final. On the way there both the 1st
and 2nd team defeated Q.M.C. 6—0
to reach the semi-final. In the semi-
final I.C. I and I.C. II were drawn
against each other with the 1st coming
home 4—2 after a close struggle.
And so on to the final for the fifth
year running. Our opponents U.C.
took a very early lead but owing to
poor shooting by I.C. the equaliser did
not corne until 20 sees, before the end
through a goal by Randall. The
game went into extra time when U.C.
scored to take the cup 2—1.
Squash
ON THECAM
THE A N N U A L pilgrimage of two IC
squash V's to one of the more provin-
cial of Universities took place on
the week-end of the 20th, 21st Novem-
ber.
The party set off from the Union at
the civilised hour of 11.00 p.m. on
Saturday morning. The first car
managed to cross Hyde Park before
becoming lost. After driving right
round Regents Park a couple of times,
the driver and navigator decided on a
likely looking road and we resumed
our journey in the general direction
of Cambridge.
The cars arrived in time for lunch
in various pubs and/or colleges. In the
afternoon the 1st team played and
were just beaten by a strong Christ's
College team 2-3. The 2nd fared
better against the St. Catherine's first
team and managed to scrape a win 3-2.
Sunday Tea
The evening was spent drowning
sorrows or celebrating victory until
closing time. The following morning
was spent similarly occupied till luncn
time. In the atternoon the 1st team
obtained a commendable win over
Queen's College; 3-2. The second
team were not so fortunate being
hammered 0-5 by a strong St. John s
Team.
After tea and crumpets, followed
by ale, the two teams rejoined and set
off for the bright lights of London
again. The journey was uneventful
apart from one of the cars nearly
running to the other at some traffic
lights.
Pete Combes
Rugby
GUTTERIDGE CUP
SIR JOHN CASS COLL. 0 — L C 17
Last Friday i n the play-off of the
U.L. Cup I.C. won through to the
final. On the way there both the 1st
and 2nd team defeated Q.M.C. 6—0
to reach the semi-final. In the semi-
final I.C. I and I.C. II were drawn
against each other with the 1st coming
home 4—2 after a close struggle.
And so on to the final for the fifth
year running. Our opponents U . C .
took, a very early lead but owing to
poor shooting by I.C. the equaliser did
not come until 20 sees, before the end
through a goal by Randall. The
game went into extra time when U.C.
scored to take the cup 2—1.
Last Wednesday at Chingford I.C.
beat Cass by 5 tries and one conver-
sion to nil in the 1st round of the
cup.
I.C. lost the toss and played down
the slope into a cold wind and a low
bright sun. T w o early L C . attacks
nearly succeeded but Cass defences
held out.
As the first half ran out, it became
obvious that Cass were at full stretch,
but also that I.C. could not click in
attack. I.C. were up against it, and
were playing up slope next half.
The I.C. forwards took over. Cass
were outshoved, outhooked, out-
jumped, and were generally given a
lesson in combined forward play in the
tight and the loose.
The forwards hunted continuously
with real fire. A defensive error by
Cass on their own line brought the
next I.C. score. The right wing failed
to clear and was caught by D. Howell.
N . Bentley picked up and went over
for try No. 4.~ One more try and we
ran out impressive winners.
Owen Williams.

