Edwina curries favour with students in an.
Unfolding Future
O n Tuesday, Mrs Edwina Currie, M P ,
visited Imperial College. Security was
rather higher than as for the similar visit
by Mr Cecil Parkinson, Transport
Minister, a fortnight ago, with two
security men o n the door checking bags.
Mrs Currie started by asking whether
Labour would w i n the next election, and
answered herself by saying 'they haven't
got a chance'. She cited three reasons
why she was optimistic of the Tories
retaining a majority in Parliament.
Firstly, Labour have a tendency to pile
up votes in seats they already hold,
rather than seeking to gain new territory,
and in many of the seats, they need to
win to control Parliament, they are not
even in second place behind the Tories,
thus they need to displace the Liberal
Democrats (who she referred to as the
Alliance).
Secondly, as a General Election
approaches, Labour policies would come
under closer scrutiny. She said that
people would find 'many of these
unworkable, expensive or empty
promises'. 'What Labour wants is to
satisfy every interest group in our society,
without it costing anybody any extra
money.'
'If you go through policy documents
like Looking to the Future, which sounds
like something Spielberg should have
been involved in, and add up what they
want to do, and you ask whether it is
feasible, in many cases the answer is
'Could be'.'
However, she said that these policies
could not be carried out 'without
substantial increase in taxes'.
Thirdly, for this reason, she considered
that the Tory policies were vote-winners;
very few people want to part with more
money than they have to.
The rhetoric over, she invited
questions. During these it emerged that
she was strongly against parents having
to support their offspring through college
or university. She said that while she was
at university, she was on full grant, but
the people who had to get some or all of
their money from their parents had a
harder time with financial worries, it
being more difficult to get money from
them than a local authority. She was also
strongly against further education
Ittfigii
' : i l ^ H H i
St
FELIX
Edwina presenting a student with their top-up loan.
institutions charging tuition fees to U K
students, saying that 'We, as a nation,
benefit from you being students'. She
thought that this should be the
Government's contribution towards
further education. She added, 'Living
expenses are your business'.
However, w h e n questioned about
Student Loans, and the effect that this
would have o n discouraging people from
poorer backgrounds going to university
with the prospect of a large debt at the
end, Mrs Currie said that as the current
student loan was only £ 4 5 0 a year, no
one would get far into debt.
This begs the question of who is to
fund further education. If the Government
pays tuition fees, and parents are not to
be involved, who pays the living
expenses? She encouraged people to get
holiday jobs; regardless of the fact that
nearly everyone does anyway, even if
only to placate the bank manager.
W h e n questioned about the withdrawal
of housing benefit to students, and the
effect this had on discouraging students in
London because of the high costs, she
said that the Government was neutral on
where students go for their education, but
that housing benefit was 'for poor people,
not you'.
She stated that a full grant is more than
a single pensioner gets, and that it would
be very hard to justify students getting
more than pensioners. 'You'd better stock
up on the thermal underwear and save
on heating bills.'
The National Curriculum was raised,
and in defence of it she said that 'it is an
enormous step forward to have one, and
to insist that everybody learns their o w n
language, can spell, can put syntax
together, can add up'. ' Y o u go out and
just ask people how to convert a fraction
to a decimal, they don't k n o w what either
of them are, let alone how to do it.'
She thought that there was something
wrong with the national ethos whereby
people would m u c h rather become
apprentices rather than go to university,
and would employ accountants rather
than engineers in industrial management.
However, with the increasing unity with
Europe, she hoped that the respect for
engineers in the U K would increase, as
on the Continent. She suggested that
students should 'get good qualifications,
be ambitious and get into management,
or found your o w n business' and then in
time it would be possible to push salaries
for engineers up.
No controversial questions were put to
Mrs Currie, and this was not because of
the machinations of ConSoc: Mrs Currie
selected questions at random (unless She
memorised all ConSoc's faces!). There
wasn't even a reference to eggs. Come on
Socialists and Communists, where were
you? Afraid of being converted?

