S p o r t
Football
IC VI-5 QMC IV-4
IC 6ths scored five goals to total 17 in
only three games when they knocked
Queen Mary & Westfield College 4ths out
of the U L U cup on Saturday. The game
proved very tough with both sides
suffering a number of injuries, most of
which were caused by Dave Buckle who
left players from both sides sprawled
around the park. Star IC defender Yasser
Hamdi was taken to hospital with a badly
cut lip after a collision in the first half.
Goals from Dave Phillips and Akio
Iwase helped to make the score 2-2 at
half time but Q M W scored two quick
goals early in the second half. IC keeper
Martin Atherton kept shouting in order to
make up for the lack of the large crowd
that a team of this standard deserves. His
shouting was rewarded when two goals
from Keith Cordeiro and one from
A n d r e w Stanniland in the last 20 minutes
left Q M W wondering what had hit them.
ULU Six-A-Side
Sunday 21 October, W i m b l e d o n , IC II
began their annual pilgrimage to Motspur
Park for medals and glory. IC's qualifying
group comprised C H X , R F H , Golds I and
UC II.
UC II provided IC with an excellent
aperitif as IC w o n 1-0. M A b d o scoring
the decisive goal and T Hulbert, the fish-
like keeper, doing what fish-like keepers
do best.
R F H proved a nasty p r a w n cocktail: IC
with D Cook scoring twice in a 2-1
victory. Next on the menu was Golds I, a
team full of U L U players and tournament
favourites. However IC were very hungry
and devoured Golds I and spat out their
bones with contempt, with goals from S
Watson and N Leonard in a 2-0 w i n . IC
' wrapped up their group, against C H X , 2-0
with S Barry scoring twice.
The quarter final, against Kings II, was
won at a trot, S Barry scoring the winner
to set up a semi-final clash with Golds 1
who had somehow sneaked through via
the backdoor.
IC dished out a second helping and
knocked them out of the tournament. D
Cook scored the winner with N Leonard
scoring arguably the goal of the
tournament. IC had marched 'Imperiously'
into the final but, sadly, RCI ended their
dreams. Fortune was against IC as a
lucky goal, inspired goalkeeping and
fading light denied IC the reward their
play undoubtedly deserved.
It was a complete team effort.
14
Sailing
The Firefly Class Inland Championships
were held at the Welsh Harp last Sunday
(October 21). IC Sailing Club entered two
boats into the event, notable for the very
strong wind w h i c h resulted in the
majority of competitors getting a touch
damp. The first race unfortunately saw
one team go s w i m m i n g after rolling a bit
too far whilst running, and the other
nearly joined them, filling up their boat in
the process. In the afternoon the teams
generally sailed better, apart from a
completely successful attempt by one of
our boats to ram one of the competitors
by ricocheting off a motor launch, and
were eventually rewarded with 13th and
16th place. A video was made of the
Canoe
So far this term, the Canoe Club has had
two trips.
The first weekend trip of the year
involved seven of last year's members
going up to Swaledale in North Yorkshire
to take part in a charity paddle on behalf
of the Samaritans, M.S., and Guide Dogs
for the Blind appeal.
A well organised event was rather
spoiled by the fact that it hasn't rained up
there for some time and there was no
water in the river. After the first day's
paddling and dragging of boats over
rocks, we decided to head for wetter
parts.
After a wild goose chase North to the
River Tees we ended up o n the River
Ure, near Ripon, competing for a scrap of
river with all canoeists w h o ' d realised
that this was the only spot of white water
available in the area.
Last weekend we headed for Symond's
Cross Country
The rest of London's students were but a
hedgehog in the path of the IC
steamroller at the first colleges' league
match, held at Parliament Hill over five
miles. Strong men were m o v e d to tears
as the Imperial warriors swarmed over
the field to win the first division and gain
third place in the second and ladies
divisions. Resplendent in all white with
Captain Marvel himself, Paul Northrop,
taking it by the scruff and running away
with the individual honours by a
considerable margin. Behind him a flank
of home talent had formed, with a
stunning freshman performance from
Dave Johnstone landing h i m in third and
gaining victory over Frank Dudbridge and
A l e x Gaskell (5th and 8th) both of w h o m
returning with a vengeance from the
abyss of physical injury. Four in the top
ten was the best performance by IC in
event which we will try to show later in
the term, possibly at the bonfire party on
November 3.
On the weekend of October 27 and 28,
the IC Sailing Club entered a team into
the Foot Trophy, one of the major team
racing events in Britain. The new squad
found itself struggling against m u c h more
experienced teams, but. managed to rally
itself for a resounding victory against the
University of London second team.
Although hardly a brilliant result for us,
the chance to see some of the country's
best teams in action should pay off in our
coming matches against other
universities.
Yat in South Wales for the first of our
Freshers' trips. With warnings of gales
and floods, we set off enthusiastically on
Friday evening.
The weekend's paddling consisted of a
leisurely paddle in the W y e Valley,
looking at the scenery and having the
opportunity to practice a few skills. There
was also the chance to play on the rapids
of the Yat itself. The weather was great,
and a good time was had b y all.
The College club is predominantly
white water, and we have a number of
experienced paddlers who are willing to
teach beginners, or people who've done
just a little bit. W e have pool sessions for
this, but a better way is to come on a
trip.
For further details contact Keith Wilson
(Physics 2), John Kent (Life Sci 2), or
Martin Hillcoat (Chem Eng 3).
living memory, and to round off the team
Carl Edwards grunted his w a y to 19th in
his first league race after six years at
College. His infectious enthusiasm
extended into the second team; Bill
Skailes, Dan McQueen, Ian Williams and
Jim Watson all enjoyed massive
improvements on previous placings to
launch the B-team promotion challenge,
with Duncan O'Dell and Dave Budgett
making fine debut contributions. In the
women's section a savage warning was
issued to the w o r l d as a full Imperial
team was finally assembeld and attained
third rank. Spearheading the posse was
Edwige Pitel who finished third and
promised more; Helen Macintosh and Keri
Warden-Owen, 10th and 20th, also
showed positive attitude as they prepare
to represent U L in Japan.
Guildford next week.

