s
Massive restructuring of the college day is
being considered by a college committee,
the 'Working Party on the College Day',
chaired by Professor Alan Swanson.
The Rector, Sir Eric A s h , told Felix that
the idea had emerged from a Board of
Studies discussion in which students were
represented. He pointed out that the
college was 'short of teaching space -
lecture rooms, seminar rooms, short of
space at lunch, short of timetabling space
with the novel combinations like
chemistry and management and four
year courses requiring language study'.
He said that the committee was to
recieve feedback from students, and
stressed that there was to be no increase
in contact hours. He preferred a
'reduction on number of lecture hours'
and an increase in the number of
seminars.
He added that 'classical office hours
were a terrible straitjacket' and 'there
was a lot to be said for starting at 8.30',
which would ease travel from afar as it
would avoid the rush hour. He said that
staff who would still hit the rush hour
could come in earlier and work before
the proper day started.
Professor Swanson said that the
committee was still in the process of
asking the departments for their views,
and that the IC Union President, Paul
Shanley, was on the committee to express
the students' point of view. H e said that
the Humanities department couldn't do its
job under the present timetabling
constraints. In addition departments will
have to be controlled to stop them giving
more lectures in the extra time this
proposal would produce.
He added that he had written to all the
people who might be affected - including
Rob Northey, Refectories Manager - to
ask their opinions.
The change to the college day will be
discussed at the Union General Meeting at
1.00 on Thursday 8th November in the
Great Hall. Please note that the date in
the advertisement on the back cover is
wrong - the U G M is on Thursday, not
Tuesday as printed.
Stick-Up Suzanne Ahmet Resigns
The Management schools' plaque was
mysteriously returned to its original
position last Sunday. It was stuck to the
wall upside down with B l u - T a c k , with a
carrot attached. A message was left with
the sign saying that it had come from 'the
Phantom Carrot'. The perpetrator is
thought to reside in Falmouth Keogh Hall.
It is believed that a member of the
Royal College of Science Union (RCSU)
stole the sign believing it to be a part of
mascotry. T h e RCSU mascotry team have
been unavailable for comment.
The original sign was due for
repacement and a new plaque has been
on order for some time.
More
Thefts
A 'considerable amount of theft' has
occured this term, according to Mr Terry
Briley, security officer at IC. 'Since the
beginning of the term there have been 38
recorded thefts .. this is worse than
before', he said on Wednesday.
He added that this week has seen three
bike thefts - a total of £600. A wallet
containing chequebook, driving licence
and £220 was stolen from the Union
G y m . Mr Briley advised that lockers must
be used, and added that if anyone is seen
acting suspiciously - for example loitering
around cars or in departments - the
observer should immediately report them
on extension 3372.
A football kit and two footballs were
stolen from the Southside bar on
Wednesday evening. Paul Shanley, Union
President, said that the kit belonged to a
member of Imperial's 1st team and was
insured for £360.
Suzanne A h m e t has resigned as External
Affairs Officer (EAO) to enable her to
continue her normal affairs as RCSU
President. A letter of resignation was sent
to Murray Williamson, H o n Sec (Events),
dated the 28th October.
Papers for the re-election of the E A O
Insult
Last week the Universities Funding
Council (UFC) rejected university bids for
an increase in Government funding.
Almost 95% of universities had requested
an increase exceeding the levels
suggested. T h e move by the U F C may
have been in retaliation for the
universities failing to meet 'cost-cutting'
targets previously set by the Government.
The decision was described by Sir
Edward Parkes as a 'grotesque insult to
universities'.
The university bids may have been an
attempt to cover the cost of the
Government's plan to double the number
of students entering higher education by
the year 2000. Student numbers have
increased by about 13% over the last two
years without an increase in funding.
Sir Edward said that the Government's
expansion plans were unrealistic at the
present level of funding and that he
believed universities would not sacrifice
the quality of education to augment
student numbers. He strongly denied
allegations that universities had secretly
collaborated to sabotage the new funding
system in w h i c h funds would be allocated
to universities that could provide the
cheapest education.
Mrs. Currie said ' A n y expansion has to
be funded three ways; tax payers, the
students and their families, and the
universities themselves.'
were put up o n the 29th October on the
staircase leading to the Union Office.
W h e n questioned about the action Ms
Ahmet said T d rather do two jobs well,
than three jobs in a mediocre-fashion'.
Soon after Sir Geoffrey H o w e resigned.
UCLU Loss
University College Student Union (UCLU)
are to lose their G y m , workshop and the
'Garage'. This follows last year's wrangles
over the affair (Felix, issues 868-870, M a y
this year). Nick McAlpine, Publicity and
Communications officer of U C L U , told
Felix that the affected clubs had been
relocated 'as a short term measure'.
He added that the pharmaceutical
company 'Eisai' had 'donated' £250,000 to
the college for the use of their facilities,
but that it was the Medical Research
Council (MRC) that was to use the area
previously occupied by Union buildings.
He added that 'the picture has improved
since we learned more .... we have all
talked sensibly and the college is very
helpful at the moment'. He said that the
union 'aims to get a long term solution -
we are making sure that the issue is kept
on the boil'.
Give Blood
If you want to help medical science but
don't want to die first, City and Guilds
College Union (C&GU) will be running a
blood donating session in the Southside
gym on Tuesday the 13th November.
Sign up now in the Guilds office or in
the J C R this Tuesday (6th November). A l l
of the college are welcome.
2

