REVIEWS
The Freshman
Brando! Broderick! Together at last on
the big screen! Matthew Broderick is the
Freshman and Marlon Brando is Carmine
Sabatini who bears a startling
resemblance to., er-m...
Broderick is new in the B i g Apple and
manages to find a w o r m in the first
nineteen minutes who makes off with all
his clothes, money and self-respect. (The
latter may not be strictly accurate). His
father is as nutty as something very nutty
indeed and tighter than something we
can't mention on prime-time Friday fare.
His professor runs a film college from his
own books, which are compulsory to the
course (sound familar eh kids ?) and so
Our Hero has no choice but to take the
first job offer he gets.
Which, in the way of such things, is
offered to him by the very self-same
crook who ripped him off in the first
place. Said villain introduces Brod to
Brand; ol' 'Five Million Dollars For The
First Five Minutes' plays an honest Italian
importer who has a poster of Mussolini
for sentimental reasons and a vacancy for
a nice lad to run deliveries at a thousand
dollars a trip.
This poses a moral dilemma for an
honest young fresher since he doesn't
know the nature of his goods. A t this
point, the film, which has thus far been
shaping up as a gentle but obvious Mob
comedy takes a turn for the surreal with
the unmentionable package. It also grows
a good deal funnier, if you have a secret
hatred of shopping centres and petrol
station attendants.
Because this is a Matthew Broderick
film it ends in gratuitous but not
unalloyed happiness. Various complicated
moral issues resolve themselve neatly and
all is well with the world.
The Freshman is nicely made, certainly
not dull, and both stars give appealing
and credible performances. It wins big
Brownie points from us and we saw
Mariella Frostrup in the audience.
P.S. For those of you w h o may not
have understood the above review,
T . A . F . G . M . would like to summarise as
follows : It's a good film. It's a light
comedy. Go and see it. A N D we saw
Mariella Frostrup in the audience
(P.P.S. W h y don't we get crap films any
more ?)
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
A n d A Bag Of Fish, Please.
The
Enchantment
The Enchantment (Japanese with English
subtitles) is billed as an 'ultra-modern film
noir'. Very catchy, I'm sure. The plot
concerns a psychiatrist (played by a
remarkably western looking Japanese
model/actor—Masao Kusakari) who
becomes involved with a mysterious (and,
quite naturally, beautiful) patient. She
happens to have a serious multiple
personality problem,, on top of which she
holds great and dark secrets in her
heart(s) etc, etc.
Unfortunately, though the plot may
twist and turn, the film rattles a little too
much—it is not quite as smooth as the
makers must have hoped. It's not too hot
on the noir bit either. Y o u can't just have
a load of shadows and say: well boys,
here's a film noir. It lacks the
psychological depth, the tension, the
atmosphere of the genre.
A l l this apart, however, there are some
'nice bits'. There is a nice piece of irony
in the opening and closing sequences (the
psychiatrist is seen in the first shot of the
movie to have nearly cured a taxi-driver
of his obsession with an ex-girlfriend,
while at the end it is the kwack who
is...well, you can guess). The relationship
between the psychiatrist and his girlfriend
is also quite interesting.
The Enchantment runs at the ICA until
November 19.
lft.
D r . F a u s t u s
English National Opera, London Coliseum, 20th October.
A cross between '42nd Street', 'The
Rocky Horror Show' and an amateur
Gilbert and Sullivan? That was one
verdict on the ENO's revival of Busoni's
Doctor Faust.
F r o m the moment the curtain rises to
reveal Faust sitting at a modern
executive's desk, wearing a modern suit
and towered over by piles of filing
cabinets arranged like a city skyscraper
skyline, the audience knows it is in for an
updating of the sixteenth century
morality tale to the twentieth century.
In fact the whole design lacks cohesion:
ostensibly set in the early twenties, with
the women at the court of Parma
wearing beaded 'flapper' dresses, the
chorus are dressed like thirties mafia and
Helen of Troy appears to have wandered
in from the Cole Porter musical next
door. Mephistopheles' transformation into
Faust's stage assistant, wearing pink
basque, red garter and red stilettos was
obviously meant to parody the magician's
assistant's role, but merely ended up
camp.
These points would be merely irritating if
it were not that the set itself, dragged out
of mothballs for this revival of a 1986
production, looks on the point of collapse.
However, the staging does show some
nice touches, for example, the triangular
floor consists of strips of rubber through
which heads, hands and bodies can
appear and disappear, but which can also
be walked across like a solid floor.
Another disappointing area is the
choreography. It was difficult to tell
whether similar movements were meant
to be unsynchronised or were simply
sloppily performed. The E N O are
apparently unable to stage convincing
looking crowd scenes: the chorus seems
to mill randomly, exhibiting no emotion
or sense.
What is good about this production? The
orchestra, under the direction of A n t h o n y
Beaumont, play brilliantly as always, even
if they sometimes drown out the singers.
Alan Opie's Faust is excellent in such a
challenging role. He has many protracted
monologues and is on stage for almost all
three hours of the opera. Graham Clark,
recreating the role of Mephistopheles
from the original production, is also a fine
performer.
The direction shows some fine insight
during parts of the production, but varies
between frenetic, seemingly pointless
activity and moments of visual banality.
However it allows the opera's theme, that
'human beings are responsible for their
o w n actions and may not ascribe even
their crimes and achievements to either
God or the Devil', to develop through
good use of repeated imagery.
This is certainly not a good introduction
to opera for the uninitiated. It is perhaps
only fit for those who wish to be
challenged. This would have been far
better as a concert performance than as a
visual mess on stage.
Doctor Faust continues in repertoire until
Novmber 15th.
Liz W.

