T h e H a n d m a i d ' s T a l e
Kate (Natasha Richardson), her husband
her small daughter have just failed to
escape from the Republic of Gilead
(formerly the USA). Her husband lies
dead in the snow, she is surrounded by
armed border guards, and her daughter
has stumbled off into the bushes
frightened by all the noise.
She ends up with many other w o m e n
who, for one reason or another, have
been rounded up by the police and they
are separated into those who are fertile
and those who are not. The fertile
w o m e n are sent off to be trained as
handmaids—surrogate mothers for couples
who cannot have children of their o w n
because the wife is sterile.
It is the near future. What was formerly
the U S A has been taken over by a group
of religious right-wing fundamentalists.
99% of the population have been
rendered sterile as a result of nuclear
accidents and chemicals in the
atmosphere. The government supports
racism and capital punishment (by
hanging) for such crimes as rape, adultery
and homosexuality.
The origin for the handmaids comes
Queendom
Come
By Ellen Galford
The author of this book doesn't have a
chip on her shoulder, she's got five
pounds of K i n g Edwards!
Set in a future world where the
Conservative party has created a Blue
Reich, the story revolves mainly around
Scotland in general, and Edinburgh in
particular. The government has taken the
Conservative ideals to their illogical
extremes, culminating with such
momentous pieces of legislation as 'The
Sexual Normality Act.'
To save the people from their
predicament Queen Albanna is brought
forward in time by her sorceress. A s you
can imagine she comes from a time
where things are rather different,
particularly in sexual terms.
The Prime Minister, as ever interested
in her publicity, tries to use her to gain
support for the dictatorship style
government. Unfortunately Albanna
doesn't play by the rules, creating havoc
and m a y h e m wherever and whenever she
can.
It is defiantly not for the conservative
minded and I don't expect m a n y people
have read a lesbian love scene? Well you
won't here either but no subject is taboo
and she definatly pulls no punches when
it comes to the present government.
A reasonable book but I can't help
thinking that if she could control her
paranoia the author could become a very
good writer.
Ian Hodge.
from the story in the O l d Testament of
Jacob and Rachel. Rachel gave her
handmaid to Jacob so she could have a
child for her. This story forms the basis of
the 'ceremony': a sexual act taking place
at a time w h e n the handmaid is at her
most fertile and in the presence of the
wife. It is very cold and impersonal and
unsettling for all three involved.
Although, because of their fertility,
handmaids have theoretically got a high
position in society, they are very m u c h
beneath wives and are actually not
treated well—when they do have a baby
they don't even get a chance to see if it's
a boy or girl before the mother has
whisked it off and claimed it as her o w n .
Kate, although outwardly s u b s e r v i e n t -
one has to be to survive—never gives up
hope of finding her daughter (who, she
finds out, is being brought up by another
couple) and either overthrowing the
government or escaping from the
country. She has become involved with
an underground group working to restore
the country.
Even though Kate is going through a
very traumatic time the film never
actually becomes emotional—it is far too
factual and realistic. Reading about the
whole situation may seem very far
fetched but the film makes it appear far
too plausible.
J L W .
Young Guns II
Not normally a fan of westerns I was
pleasantly surprised by this one. Unlike
most sequels which seem mainly a
vehicle for m a k i n g a lot of money on the
strength of the original film's name, this
one did actually appear to have a plot
and a purpose.
The film begins with a solicitor's
representative meeting an old cowboy,
who calls himself Brushy Bill Roberts and
claims to be Billy the K i d . He knows he is
dying and wants to be pardoned. He says
he was pardoned over seventy years
before and wants this pardon to be made
official. The y o u n g man pooh-poohs this
story because he knows the legend of
how Billy the K i d was assassinated and
therefore can't be standing before him
now. So the old cowboy tells him how it
happened...
The story is actually based around fact.
One of Billy's former friends wrote a
book called 'The Real Life of Billy the
Kid'—but it was a failure, and a man
claiming to be Billy the K i d did actually
turn up in 1950.
Emilio Estevez as Billy the K i d
successfully combines characterists of the
archetypal cowboy—spinning of pistols
and lightening quick draw—with a
realistic portrayal of the K i d as a person
rather than a legend.
I did really enjoy this film it is a
humourous film with a plot and also good
drama which will please people like
myself. For the western buff there's the
obligatory gratuitous violence, frequent
shootouts and even a little sex.
J L W .

