Greame chats to the Unstoppable Sex Machine.
C a r t e r I n t e r v i e w MUSIC
'Hello. Have you got a tape recorder?' He
smiled sincerely and his manner was very
polite. Nice m a n this Jim Bob, 1 thought. I
did have a tape recorder so we got on
with the interview.
'Is it alright if its just me., he's in a bad
mood, probably just smash your
walkman!..'
Jim Bob and Fruit Bat, the two
members of Carter The Unstoppable Sex
Machine, were in Brixton playing The
Fridge. Practically a home gig (they lived
about two miles away), it comes towards
the end of a gruelling U K tour.
'It's just his name., his name is Carter
and I started taking the piss, about the
sex machine, and it just stuck.'
Although Jim Bob generally sings the
songs, both members demand equal
attention on stage, and yet they both lose
to the adrenaline pumped music they
thrash out. This is high technology guitar
pop, set against a manic backing tape of
drums, keyboards, bass and samples.
Each of their guitars pierce through this
melange with overdriven riffs of such
hype that even the stiffs groove down.
'Yeah, we lay the patterns down on a...
yeah, good guess, as Alesis..' (a drum
machine for those not in the know) '..and
then go into the studio, add other sounds
and the rest of it. W e do use samples but
less and less now.'
The way their sound goes together
makes it hard to characterise Carter.
'Well, we've been compared to so
many, The Clash., even the Pet Shop
Boys.' I myself can find no adequate
comparison although The Shamen provide
a similar sort of stage show. Strobes and
lights all add to the situation to create an
audio visual experience.
'Yeah, tonight we will use their
projectors here. Basically because they
won't let us use our backdrops.
Apparantly they're not properly fire
proofed. W e k n o w because the stage
manager set fire to them. He SET FIRE to
them just to proove a point, wanker.
We're going to set fire to him later!' This
unique style also gives them a universal
audience, from the indie biker's jacket to
the dancey Converse boot.
'I don't think it actually existed, it was
just thought up by somebody. Y o u can't
liken The Happy Mondays to James or
The Stone Roses or The Inspirals. There
are bands around, like The Charlatans,
who are influenced by one of those four
and then other bands have copied them.
They're copying the w r o n g ones.'
'The acid thing? Don't really have time,
sometimes dance to it.'
Carter's new single, Any Time, Any
Place, Anywhere, is the first released
since signing to Rough Trade. Already it
snip - <!
" * ' 3 i .
is high up in the Indie charts at Number
4 and is all set to storm the Gallop poll.
The single has been given good reviews
and Jim Bob tells me that the video is
excellent, though unfortunately is not
receiving m u c h airplay.
'We do want to do well in the national
charts. W e want to go on Top Of The
Pops. It's one of our aims at the moment.'
After talking to him, this didn't surprise
me. Jim Bob is actually quite a mild,
conventional chap, despite the impression
he gives on stage.
It's obvious Carter don't want to be just
another hip indie band all their lives, and
judging by the reception from the mixed
crowd at The Fridge, I don't think that
will be a problem.
The tour has been very hard work for
the two lads and their crew (especially
'Fat Bastard' who is hailed with a half full
beer cans at the start of each gig) and
they will be glad to wind it up this week
in Canterbury.
It's then back into the studio to record
the album for Christmas release, at which
time another mini-tour is planned, visiting
only their favourite venues.
As the Top Of The Pops theme blurted
out their entrance, Carter came on stage
to a rapturous welcome and quickly went
about the task of blowing everyone away.
Clutching m y tape recorder (which
hadn.t worked) I watched the steady
stream of stage divers jump about around
Carter and noticed that Fruit Bat never
once stopped smiling. He was loving it
and I thought about what J i m Bob had
said. I disagree. I can't imagine such nice
people wanting to smash m y walkman!
'Students., no I don't hate them., used
to but I realised it was pointless.' What
about those who tiddly-wink down Oxford
Street? ' O h yeah, that sort., yeah, they're
wankers!'
Graeme

