R o s e o f A v a l a n c h e
Gone are the black sleeves. Gone is the
sombre dark base. In comes the Modern
Beat and spacey designs IN C O L O U R .
Yes, Rose Of Avalanche have gone the
same way as the Soup Dragons to
achieve commercial prestige...but it
works.
Even the first track blights away the
gloom, in Your Light's O n , the benefactial
purchaser is pleased by a liberal dosage
of the traditional indie wah-wah and hip
beat, man. As the cover implies, a
suitable concoction of Loop and Primal
Scream, in precise quantities, may total
Rose.
Much jolliness ensues. The vocals may
be an acquired taste, but somebody had
to sing. Make It Right is bound to do well
when released, and they A R E looking for
inspiration, honest. It's a happy thing.
Suddenly and dauntingly, the mood
String A' Beads LP
thickens. The acoustics strike wondrously.
Even the voice is listenable.
Ooh, String'A'Beads is the title track
and deservedly so. Rose take the recipe
and define beat, bends and boppiness.
Shake the ceiling. The whole is drowned
in unashamed conviction, no concessions,
no defeat. They seem to continue for
ever. The rest merely glances by, a
remnant from their earlier days. Having
failed the bop-beat scene, they now
trespass on New Model Army acoustics
and cliches of typical loves, lost, held and
lost again, sob, sob. The last track, B e
True To Your Love is memorable, but
never quite gets there, and ends in a
frustration of noise and wah-wah.
Even so, they seem set to destroy any
mega-basses still intact after the dance
takeover.
SJH
A l i e n S e x F i e n d
—Camden Underworld
Alien Sex Fiend, as you might guess from
the name, do not boast a reputation as
the most tasteful of bands. Their difinitive
box-set contains a plastic dog-waste
simulacrum (commemorating their first
release which flaunted the real version of
same upon its sleeve). This, and the
photos which adorn the gatefold of their
double live L P , did nothing to reassure
me, so it was with some trepidation that I
found myself dragged to their first U K
dates for a while.
At first glance the stage did nothing to
quell my doubts, swathed as it was in
cotton cobweb and amputee Barbies.
Nick Robertson & Slice
This acoustic offering shows precious little
talent. It initially sounds quite pleasant,
Show Me A Sign 12"
inspired perhaps by early Housemartins;
but the singer hasn't got anything of
interest to say. The music is hardly
original, making each song sound, at best,
unmemorable. In an effort to relieve the
tedium, Nick deploys gimmicks, such as
scatting, but his voice is simply not up to
it. The title track thus ends up as a
complete mess. One song even ends up
with the old p u b - r o c k trick of speeding
the tempo up and up while The Flame
sounds like a bad copy of a Tracy
Chapman song.
Unless the group can develop an
original sound of their o w n (assuming
they can find one) they will remain as
creators of slightly annoying background
music.
Rel
After much belching of dry ice and not
inconsiderable amounts of audience
anticipation the band finally took to the
stage. The guitarist looks 'normal'
enough. The percussion/keyboardist, clad
in ragged labcoat, is otherwise. Mrs
Fiend, also on keyboards, is downright
attractive in purple velvet. Nik Fiend...on
stage, at last, is the least pleasant-looking
man I have ever seen; white faced,
tarten-trousered and puke-green Riddler
coat.
Thankfully the stage is too small for Nik
to engage in his full antics and the music
more than makes up for it. ASF play a
fusion of H M distort guitar and hard-
edged dance percussion and keyboard
which went d o w n well with the audience,
most of w h o m were die-hard aficionados.
While the songs are formularised to a
certain degree there's enough variation to
keep the gig from turning into a straight-
forward industrial dance race, the tempo
rising and falling through the B P M scale.
During the hour-and-a-half set most of the
old favourites get a dusting off (Gef Into
It, Manic Depression and (ugh!) Sample
My Sausage) and the newer songs are
aired with a fair degree of panache for a
first time out. EST...Trip to the Moon and
Boneshaker Baby both m o v e d the crowd,
the first as a long, drawn-out synth riff
and the latter as a straight rock 'n' roller.
If you enjoy dance music with a little
more melody and power and you can
cope with cut-price Alice Cooper visuals
ASF might be worthy of your attention.
Their latest album, Curse, is available
now, and they tour again next year.
(This review has been written according
to the new hip 'n' trendy editorial policy).
Stone.

