U L U A U - N i g h t e r
It could have been the most crucial event
in the London student calender. It could
have been kickin'. I could have tripped
out on twelve hours of jollity, music and
50:50 boy girl mix. U L U all nighter could
have been ACE.
But it wasn't. Not even close really.
Quite an anti-climax, and all rather
upsetting for those who had paid the high
entrance fee of SI5. Perhaps this cost was
the very reason for the night's downfall
since essentially the only things lacking
were people.
Those of us from Imperial College had
the fortunate opportunity to start Friday
night off with a visit to the Royal Albert
Hall for a free peace concert with Sri
Chinmoy. I was feeling pretty mellow so
went along before setting off for ULU.
W h e n 1 left the place I was just so
relaxed my essential bodily functions
were in danger of collapse. A very
strange man that Sri Chinmoy.
Quickly into the tube and out to Russell
Square for the groovy do. W e arrived
around ten thirty, in just enough time to
catch Milltown Brothers do their set.
Their Mancunian indie sound was to
prove the standard for the night, (by
heck, you should have seen the flares on
show! Baggy tops, they were practically
Nana Mouskaris!) but their performance
was one of the best. Everybody was dead
jolly at this early stage.
Following The Brothers came, among
others, Ocean Colour Scene and Flowered
Up. The former were personally rather
disappointing, although the sound was
good. A few songs stuck out as obvious
crowd pleasers but other more moody
numbers just seemed to wash over us
irrelevantly like ocean tides. Quite apt.
The flowery lads from Kings Cross were
relatively good. They were headlining and
knew it, flaunting to the seething masses
with their brand of scally pop. By the
middle of their act, half the crowd
couldn't see the band for the other half
were all on stage doing their upmost to
be aresholes. Flowered Up actually have
a Bez (re Happy Mondays) of their own—
a total loony who looks like one of Bill
and Ben's mates.
By this time it was two-ish and people
were tiring. W e ' d all had our supper (a
jacket potato that I'm sure R S M would
have been interested in) and were
looking for some stimulation. The bouncy
castle beckoned but the smell of sweaty
feet that had finally escaped from the
DMs soon put people off that as well.
They showed Grease on video, thus
inciting a bit of singing en masse, which
Flowered Up
was fun, but when Robocop came on the
general concensus was that it was just too
loud for five in the morning.
The discos started well. There were
two, one for the indie black jeans D M lot
and another for the dancy E-generation.
Breakfast was excellent—croissants, jam
and multiple cups of coffee and at 4.30am
seemed remarkably appetising.
The security staff, who were initially
just indignant, had finally succumbed to
weariness and now couldn't give a
monkeys fuck for the party, the people or
the rules that governed them.
Seven o'clock arrived and it was time
to go. A few hundred had lasted out but
those who were conscious numbered only
a few.
On the whole the night was fun, but
not worth the money. Live A i d it wasn't.
London meets Manchester? Perhaps.
P r e f a b S p r o u t
Competition
Hammersmith Odeon 22.10.90
With the album comes the tour, originally
titled 'The Comeback.' Finishing with two
nights at the Hammersmith Odeon, both
of which sold out, they produced a show
I will remember for a long time.
Prefab Sprout have never hit the mega
market and this showed in the age and
diversity of the audience, no screaming
teenagers here.
They played tracks from four of their
five albums concentrating equally on the
new and old material.
For me the whole show was one
continuous delight, culminating in their
second encore with the playing of their
most famous song 'When Love Breaks
D o w n ' and finally 'Doo W o p in Harlem.'
A wonderful night from a wonderful
group, they are not to be missed if you
like music where you can hear the words.
Ian Hodge.
We are giving you the chance of winning
a copy of Prefab Sprout's latest album,
Jordon: The Comeback. W e have three
copies of the cassette and two of the
compact disk, one of w h i c h could be
yours if you answer all of the following
questions correctly.
Who featured on harmonica on the From
Langley Park to Memphis album?
Which of the following is not a Prefab
Sprout song?
a) Doo Wop in Harlam.
b) The Devil has all the best tunes.
c) Green Isaac.
d) On the right hand of God.
Who are the last four tracks on side one
of Jordon about?
Which two members of the band are
related and what do they play.
All entries should be sent to the F E L I X
office to arrive no later than Wednesday
31st October. Please specify which format
you require, compact disk or cassette.
In the event of more than five correct
entrants the winners will be pulled from a
hat.

