2 F E L I X
ST. Y A N 1956
Dine members of I.C Gliding Club took part in
tha World Gliding Championships held this year at St.
Xan aorodpome in Central Franoe. Frank and Hike were
crowing far Philip Wills; Martin, Philip S. and Toby
looked after Diok Georgeson, New Zealand's'pilot; Tony
and Ron helped everyone, and Betsy and Doo. 3. compared
notes with other international meteorologists and coll-
ected valuable information from the world's best glider
pilots.
Finding i t impossible to give a reasonable account
of the Championships in a limited space, one oan only
record a few impressions and hope that they will gon-
vey a fair idea of the event.
The prelude to our departure was a month's work
fitting out the gliders an? trailers, buying every-
thing, from tow-ropes to toothbrushes, fixing two-way
radios in the gliders and the Vangaurds, arranging
passports - and so on. Ohoe at St. Xan the activity
increased even more, for in all such events there are
always many things to be done at the last minute which
simply cannot be predicted when at home.
Twenty-five teams, speaking fifteen languages of
their own, and trying to speak the other fourteen as
well made life very interesting and at times very oon-
fusing. However, in gliding, as in other forms of In-
ternational Sport, much oan be accomplished by gestures
and a l i t t l e guesswork and everyone got along quite
well.
Two of the features characteristic of St. Tan as
far as we could tell were the daily aerobatics by their
crack team of four 'Stampe' biplanes, who would fly in
formation, inverted, at about 20 feet above the ground,
for half the length of the airfield; and the p.a. sys-
tem whioh appeared to be always doing one of three
things:(1) Relaying, at great power, Eddie Calvert's
rendering of "Oh Mine Papa", (2) Announcing that * M.
X..... est demands' an Secretariat General avoo d'urg-
enoe.",(3) Warning us, in slightly hysterical tones,
that "Oh orage approohe avec vents a soixante - dix
kilometres al'heure - guardea vos planeurs I"
The sight of sixty gliders being sucked up into
the maw of a giant thundercloud, which had been dark-
ening the sky for the previous half-hour, and the sound
of the radio messages to the ground as they reported
"10,000 feet - oxygen an, 18,000 feet - aileron3 frozen;
21,000 feet, on course, s t i l l climbing - ;" was only
to be equailed by the suspense round the central con-
trol at 9.30 p.m. the following evening, after a day's
task across the S.W. Alps to Cuers, dose to the Med.
All the machines save one - that of Paul M'Cready, who
was eventually to win the Championships for the U.S.A.,
had telephoned back by just after eight. Had Paul
pranged ? Was he s t i l l up; or stuck i n some narrow
valley miles from anywhere ? He must be down by now...
Everyone present was relieved when we heard that he had
landed 15 km. beyond Cuers at 9.15 p.m. by the landing
light3 of a military airstrip - thus winning the task.
Philip Will's description of his 380 km. flight
to Cuers was almost as full of rapture as was his crew's
account of the following day - spent lounging amongst
the lovelies on the beach at Toulon !
Finally and inevitably, one remembers the food,
wine and hospitality of the French. Few things are mare
welcome than the sight of a large, hot, excellent and
willingly-eerved meal, in a small restaurant, at 10 p.
bu, after a day's hard driving in the heat of Summer.
Above all, there was the feeling, all too rare
these days, that here were teams from all over the
World, both East and West, some of them State sponsored,
who oould come together and compete on a completely
friendly basis (although determined to finish as near
the top as possible), without bringing to the meeting
any of the unpleasantness and argument whioh seems to
aoormpany present day international meetings, whether
politioal or otherwise.
As the French advertisements say: "VOL A TOILE,
SPORT HEAL." T.H.
HAVE IT
W E S T L O N D O N O F F S E T HI
OFPSIT PRINTING EXECUTED PROMPTLY
alio LETTERPRESS PRINTING of every kind
'Phone : FULham 7 9 6 9
307a TELEPHONE PLACE. LONDON, W. 14.
:: i : : : : : :
FILM SOCIETY
Film shows will be held in the Physical Chemistry
Lecture Theatre i n R.C.S. for the first two terms of
this session. These shows are open to all members of
I.C. union and their guests and the charge to those
who are not members of the Film Sooiety will be l/6d.
Screening of the first film, Roberto Rosselini's
"Paira", i s on Friday Oct. 19th. at 6.45 p.m. Other
notable films, including "The Red Shoes", "The Little
World of Don Camillo" and "Kingdom of the Waters",will
be shown at approximately fortnightly intervals on
Fridays at the same time. Further information may
be obtained from M.J. Bennett (R.C.S. Room 124, Int.
Phone No. 577) or from J. Chadwiok (I.C. Hostel).
I.C. MUSICAL S0CIBTY
The Musical Society i s i n v i t i n g a l l who are
interested i n playing chamber music (and that
does not include the Mines' Pornographer .
'
) to
a meeting i n the Council Room, C. & G., on Oct.
11th. at 5-30 p.m. At this meeting they w i l l
discuss the formation of suitable ensembles.
The conductor of the I.C. Orchestra i s Mr.
Frank Kennard who welcomes players of a l l orch-
estral instruments to weekly practices which
commence at 5*30 p.m. on Oct. 18th. i n the
Council Room. So trusting i s the Musical Soc.
that there i s no audition for new players.
For those who were unable to attend this year,
and for the people interested i n tha compsa--
ison, above is a photo taken at the Freshers'
Reception l a s t year. Then the flourishing Mus-
ic Society's stand was a star attraction.
I.C.CHOIR
J O I N T H E
C O N D U C T O R . : MISS I
M
0
4
V
E
W HOLST,
WeeXI-Y* RCM£ARSA1_S S T A R T THIS TUESDAY
S~-3o *
*
m
. iN TH£ COUNCIL. R o o m , C.+ Q-.
THERE IS HO AuDtriaH

