F E L I X 3
This artiole i s reproduced from the Freshers' Edition
of two years ago. It i s perhaps lamentable that the
last paragraph is s t i l l applicable.
CL £ette% pcam the Glde&t Memlfet
Dear Fresher,
Our Editor, in his wisdom, is of the opinion that
a short note from the oldest active member of the Felix
Board may he of interest to you. It is with some as-
tonishment that I find this honour falling on me, and
with much trepidation that I reoord my experiences and
ideas on a few questions whioh have been important in
my university life. There is nothing in these notes
for the glib young-man-about-town: I write only in the
hope that some of you are as sly, confused and lost as
X was when I entered our oollege.
Only four years have passed sinoe I crept into
the Bookstall and bought a soarf ( which represented
Studenthood to my young brain ), and then stuffed i t
into my pocket beoause I was too selfoonsoious to wear
i t . I soon learned that I need not skulk in disguise,
for the Fresher i s not a target for gibes and sneers;
indeed the same day a thousand officials from a hun-
dred olubs urged me most pitoously to join them in
their particular road to Elysium.
In those days a high percentage of the older
students were ex-servioeman, and many were old enough
(and experienced enough) to be my father. They were
much more self-assured than the people who arrived
straight from the sixth-form, and they occupied a l l the
important positions in the Union. We lived in awe of
them - for the first few days. The percentage of ex-
bervxoemen has fallen considerably sinoe then, and i t
seems to me that with this decline we have become mors
steady, sober and industrious, much less interesting,
and much less enterprising in Union affairs generally.
This view may, however, suffer from aberrations asso-
ciated with my extreme age.
In our early Fresher days, most of my contempor-
aries studied conscientiously, and went home at five
o'clock. I was among them. After a term or so I began
to yearn for female company, but having been equipped
with an efficient mental chastity belt at school, I
was very reserved, awkward in company and, worse, un-
able to dance. The latter defect at least oould be
repaired, so I bought a book on Ballroom Dancing (the
union library has since been equipped with one) and
grimly learned a few steps on the floor ofraylodgings.
Then, with palpitating heart, glistening brow, dry
tongue and hands dripping with sweat, I wont to a hop.
It was a dreadful experience, but i t was the beginning
of my oollege life.
I was fortunate enough to share lodgings with
several other students, and we wasted a great deal of
time together. We would often spent half the night
discussing Politics, Religion, Art, Women, Prostitution
and allied subjects, Morality, Books, and the World
as i t was beginning to unfold to us. We worked suffic-
iently to pass our exams, with a little to spare. (We
found i t helpful to suppose that anybody who learns
everything in his syllabus not only has no time to
learn anything else, but must surely go mad). We were
never in danger of madness or suicide, and. these
discussions form some of the pleasantest memories of
my life.
In due course I came into contact with the Stud-
ent Rag. We dashed down the streets and did things
collectively whioh none of us would have done alone.
I saw acts of wanton destruction (smashing a Belisha
beaoon, for instance) whioh would have been called
vandalism or hooliganism had they been perpetrated by
the "lower classes". But on other occasions, norphy
Day, the Great Victoria Rag, and at several informal
battles between R.C.S. and Guild's, I witnessed scenes
which I shall always remember with delight. It seems
a quality of rags that they appear best in retrospect.
(The back numbers of FELIX, available in the Onion
Library, contain accounts of many of these events.).
You may have already run your head into the eter-
nal problem of the Cultural Relations of the Scientist.
It is widely understood that "Culture" means reoognls-
NQ, B.B., SOCIAL LIFE IN I.C.
ISNT W
H
A
T IT USED TO BE !
ing Picasso'e Blue Period, Beethoven's Quartet Op, 59
No. 2 (first movement, second subject) or Shelley's
"Prometheus Unbound"• If you know nothing about these
you can learn something by going to the I.C. General
Studies lectures, and by reading a few carefully
chosen books: by becoming in fact, a Kultur-oonoious
bore. This is rather like sitting in front of an
infra-red lamp in Stepney, and then boasting of your
Riviera holiday. Surely, a cultured person is one who
is responsive to beauty, and who is repelled by ugli-
ness, and who makes his own life, and others, happier
and richer by his reactions to all external aauditions.
Knowledge of the list above may help in the achievement
of such a state, but so may many other things, one of
the most important being the rational discipline and
aesthetic appeal of Science. In this respect we have
an advantage over the Arts man, although many scient-
ists neglect i t , with the result that we have a col-
lective reputation for moronishness. Do not be
intimidated by the connon, erroneous, petty conception
of "Culture".
It any seem to you that I.C. is a bit of a hole.
Our Union i s s t i l l in a shocking condition: we have
nowhere to eat oomfortably; we have nowhere to sit.
The authorities promise us eventual relief from these
inconveniences, but we cannot expect i t for years,
and i t will be inadequate when i t arrives. Until we
have a high percentage of residential students our
college will always be something less than a Univers-
ity. But i t is the centre of our lives far several
years, and i t provides us with the greatest of a l l
boons; the companionship of kindred spirits. If you
neglect your fellows at oollege you will pay for i t
in loneliness and frustration. Do not go home regul-
arly at five o'clock. Stay for supper occasionally
and talk with your new friends. Have a drink now and
again, but not alone. - And pity the poor post-great
who has to dash back to his lab 1
Tours sincerely,
Watt A. Wordsworth.
P.S. Pardon my use of the now de plume, but i t is
hallowed with time, and is better known than
my name.
(EDITOR'S won. Roaiars ^ay bo interested to know that
"Watt" is s t i l l with us.)

