4 F E L I X
F e u x
C I R C U L A T I O N 12 0 0
EDITOR: John Bramlsy
* PRODUCTION MANAGER: Peter Levin
The beginning of a new session is perhaps an ap-
propriate time for a few weighty editorial remarks an
Rags. We might begin: a university Education leads up
to a position of responsibility, and responsibility
implies a certain code of decorum of its bearer - but
this is not meant to be a lecture.
It has often been said that the standard of ragg-
ing has fallen in recent years; many reasons far this
having been propounded. We do not propose to enter into
that argument, but set before' you what we consider to
be a good standard of ragging.
The primary consideration i s that a rag should be
funny - not only to the participants, but to a l l on-
lookers, and that i t should be "in good taste". I.C.
have a high reputation in this respect; but rags do
tend to get out of hand, and i t is then that the f o l l -
owing point i s frequently overlooked. There should be
no damage to property whioh may ooat the 'victims' of
the episode money that they cannot afford. In fact,
such 'victims' as there are ought to be able to be
amused when viewing the incident in retrospect. We are
fully in favour of a good rag. We hope to bo able to
participate in, and record in FELIX, many in the ooming
session - but we do not want to see the college get a
bad name as a result of the actions of a thoughtless
few.
THIS EDITION IS UNIQUE ! - 8 pages, bigger print, and
i t i s s t i l l only threepence. As always, FELIX is in-
dependent of financial support from the Union. Tour
Union Counoil cannot dictate to you through the paper.
This is unlike SENNET, whioh oosts U.L.U. a lot of
money every year.
As this is our Freshers' Issue, produced by a much
depleted staff, we do not apologise for using a small
proportion of material that has appeared before In
previous editions. Our older readers may miss some of
their favourite features. "Viewpoint", "Letters to the
Editor", and some news items have been held over until
the next issue, No. 96, which will appear on Friday
October 19th. As usual, FELIX will come out on
every alternate Friday this session. We are not alone
in thinking that i t is worth 0.2143 of a penny per day
to be informed on I.C. affairs - so remember to buy a
copy of this paper every time i t appears.
Contributions to FELIX are always welcomed. - So
are letters to the Editor. Do not be afraid to write
in. The paper i s 'made up' on the Sunday before the
Friday on whioh i t is due to appear. If club secret-
aries desire publicity for their club, i t is up to them
to write us a report of their activities now and again*
Put your reports and articles in the Union letter raok
not later than Saturday lunohtime of the 'make up*
weekend. The sooner we have the articles the better.
The next issue of FELIX will contain reports in
full of the three expeditions carried out under the
auspioes of the College Exploration Board, A report
of the Camargue Expedition already lies on our desk.
We hope that the others will be forthcoming when the
participants have recovered from their exertions.
Also in the next issue we hope to print "P.G.'s
A-HLre", an amusing account of a holiday in a hired
launch on the Thames whioh gave much pleasure to two
I.C. men this smsu
TEMPORARY ARRANGEMENTS
Until the main part of the Union building be-
comes available later in October the following temp-
orary quarters have been obtained :-
Bridge and Chess Clubs: the room whioh was known as
the "small lounge" last year, opposite the Messengers'
Office on the ground floor of the Beit Building.
Committee Room: any clubs or committees who need to
hold a meeting during the first fortnight of term may
use the President's Office. Bookings may be made in
the Union Offioe.
Table Tenuis Club: the roam which was known last year
as 'Committee Roam 'A" an the third floor of the New
Hostel.
During the first fortnight of term the Dsnoing.
Judo, and Fencing Clubs will have to hold meetings in
the Snack Bar - and any outside rooms whioh are avail-
able. In the period Oct. 23rd. - Deo 1st., the Con-
cert Hall will also be available for these clubs and
the new Gymnasium should be available as from Deo. 1st.
The Badminton Club will continue to operate on outside
courts until the Gymnasium is ready.
STUDENT OFFICERS
Anyone who wishes to make criticisms or suggest-
ions about any aspect of the Union or College life
should approach the appropriate student representative,
either personally or in writing.' This representative
will be failing in his duty i f he does not investigate
any serious suggestions fully. On the other hand, folk
who grumble without coming forward with their own ideas
are failing in their duty too.
A l i s t of student officers and student represent-
atives on college committeosi win be posted in the
Union throughout the coming session. The constituent
college Unions have additional representatives on the
Bookstall Committee, the Athletic Ground Committee and
the Exploration Board.
THE CHRISTIAN UNION
- What reaction does the name evoke ?
- Pictures of a few dull pietists sitting round
In a gloomy circle, reading Bibles - killjoys, with no
fun ?
We are a body of Christians, united for a specif-
ic job, in a specific place, far a specific purpose.
The job ? - that of telling of the joyful news of
Christ - of the meaning of Bis life, death and resur-
rection - and challenging you with Bis teaching.
The place ? - I.C. - doing the job with Univers-
ity level presentations of Christian faith and pract-
ise.
The purpose ? - that you might have life - i n a l l
its fullness, joy and power - as God intends us to
have i t .
Join us on Mondays, at 1.15 p«m. in the Metallur-
gy Lecture Theatre (Ground Floor, R.S.M.) sec 'Coming
Brents' for further details.
COLLEGE EVENING CHAPEL
an interdenominational service of worship for
all members of the college
o n F R I D A Y s.
5 . 0 5 . t o 5 . 3 0 . p . m .
IN HOLY TRINITY C H U R C H , LEO BY
T H E VICAR, REV. D.W. C L E V E R L E Y FORD

