F E L I X 3
'A
D E V O N T O U R
On Tuesday, June 26th. 1956, fifteen good men and
true made their way down to Plymouth to begin the tour
of South Devon. To the uninitiated the Devon Tour ia
an annual institution begun in 1938 by E.R.S. Winter
et alia cm which I.C. take on the local cricketing
talent. The name of Imperial College i s reoognised
frcei Exeter to Torquay (with the help of the WESTERN
MORNING NEWS).
The I.C. party this year inoluded 3 oompetent
cricketers foam the CJonrocmwealth, Jerry "the Barbarian"
Carter from W. Indies, Umeah Pande (India) and N.
Bhatti (Pakistan).
Seven matches were played on the tour of which 3
were won and 2 lost. The result of the opening match
against R.N.E.C., Plymouth, was in doubt until the
last ball which Dytham, to the Surprise of a l l con-
cerned, smote for the winning run to give I.C. victory
by one wicket. The dusky pair, Bhatti and Carter,
shared 8 wickets whilst Walker(36), Shepherd (22),
and Hearn(59) obtained the major snare of the runs.
The latter, alternating between glorious hits and
palpable misses, scored 48 of his runs in boundaries.
The next day saw the team on the stately ground of
the R.N. Barracks at Devonport. I.C. managed to scrape
only 95 runs, of whioh Kitchener soored a painstaking
29, quite out of oharaoter with his usual tour form.
The Barrooks obtained the required runs for the loss
of 3 wickets. Inoidentally this defeat was I.C,
first sinoe the 1953 tour.
Prinoetown, with its grey stone prison and oottages
surrounded by the bleak hills of Dartmoor, the whole
almost enveloped in low oloud, was the setting for a
new fixture, that against the Dartmoor Prison Offioers.
The wicket was prepared by the prisoners on parole and
one suspected that they had left holes where a ball
might fly and injure an unsuspeoting warder. The
warders soored 102, whioh they thought was a m
a
m
m
o
t
h
total. For once the English bowlers managed to share
the spoils with the two spin 'wizards', Bhatti and
Carter. I.C. achieved a oautious victory by 6 wickets
due to a stand of 50 between Bhatti (22 n <s) and
Watson(37 a o)»
After a'vacant day. on the Saturday, the team looked
forward to the Whimple matoh with relish. Suitably
fortified with the excellent lunoh at the Countess Wear
Hotel , Exeter, I.C. soored 199-6 wkts in under 2 hours.
This spate of sooring was load by atohea«r(7Jf) end
Heam (52, inoluding 3 sixes and 6 fours). Hearn's
bowling (4-17) assured I.C. of victory by the hand- *•
some margin of 93 runs. Thus in % hours cricket, $
g
|
<
*r»2 runs had been scored.
And so t; Torquay! This year Dickinson had a
strong team to take an 'Curly' and the boys,This team
inoluded Reg Dare, late of Hampshire, as professional.
I.C. were not daunted and compiled 164 runs. Once again
Kitchener (67) was mainly responsible, helped by Faaroa
(38) and Shepherd (37). The crumbling wicket was of no
help to pace bowlers and once again Carter and Bhatti
took the .
.
. .ckots between then. They were, however,
unable to capture Torquay'a last wicket to achieve „•«
victory. TJf
M ' S COUIH
LOTO,"FELIX AND MARRIAGE: Join the FELIX staff
and find happiness I L\jring the Vacation the
lost Editor got married; the Printer became en-
gaged, and the present Editor also became eng-
aged - of course i t might be something to do
with Leap Tear as well, but the suggestion
would be unfair I NELSON congratulates a l l
concerned.
C
S
3
M
M
E
M
. DAT: We hear from a very important
person that Mr. P.L. Levine has been re-appoiat-
ed STUDENT ORATOR for the <3omiiemoratio7Day
proceedings in the Albert Hall following his
amazing success last year.
MINES' VIRGIN WHITENESS: 'Old Lags' will
hardly recognise the R.S.M. Its sjLeaning
during the Vacation has nothing to do with
the graduation and departure of the Lady
Miner who spent the last three years there.
FRESHERS SHOULD K
N
O
W ABOUT OARNIVAIS:
Innooent Tounfl TMngj,
"What i s a Carnival, pray ?"
Habitual Oarnivalite:
"An old saok, an empty glass,
low lights and thee."
- AND THAT OLD, OLD STORY:
I know that Coraroam. Ball
Is open to a l l ,
But it's a question, haooy,
(by OGGT)
Hi'
TOE EBB STAIRS I In the new union building, we are
told, there will be two l i f t s - one for feed and ana
for human beings. At first, when installing these
labour-eavlng devices, the tackle for the haulage of
the former was Installed in the latter. The contract-
ors have sine* regpairnd the defeat bat we wonder i f
the food l i f t will be Strang •asugh to carry the
oollege steam puddings.
DEFINITION 07 AM 1,0, HUP: Somewhere where the
students are fresher than the freshers.
I.C, met their second defeat at Brixham in the
evenins matoh termed by the locals "Imperial College
night". In the gathering gloom I.C. oould only muster
5b in reply to Brixham's 92, probably due to an over- ml&
dose of "cockles and mussels" during the day. 9$f
The and of the tour, as far as playing was oonoemed
came rather abruptly when, after I.C. had scored
120-3 in 73 minutes (Shepherd 60 n.o.) against Paignton, •
rain prevented further play.
On the social side, I.C. kept up their reputation
as beer-sinkers, and, arising from this, many an
amusing tale can be told of this latest tour. These
are secrets whioh cannot be divulged to the press, bat
may be extracted from a Devon tourist i f ho is given
enough liquid fodder as a reminder.
The Eighth Imperial College
C O M M E M O R A T I O N g A L L
Thursday, 25th Ootobor, 1956
CLARIDQE'S HOTEL
Danoing from 8.30 p.m. u n t i l 2.30 a.m. to the
music of THE BILL SAVILL ORCHESTRA
2i gne. i n o l . buffet - Evening Drees
Order before the 19th Ootober to make sure
of a ticket.

