A t last for those dieters w h o can't resist a snack between meals,
Procter and Gamble have d e v e l o p e d Olestra, a fat free fat. But just
h o w healthy is a fat free diet and h o w healthy is Olestra?
>in
S n a c k A t t a c k !
C
ould fat make you thin?
Olestra is the dieter's dream:
a fat like any other fat with
one vital difference - it con-
tains absolutely no calories. For some,
Olestra is the ultimate slimming product
that promises to take the guilt out of glut-
tony. But some scientists find the idea of
Olestra just too hard to swallow.
Twenty-five years after first creating
Olestra, US food manufacturers Procter
and Gamble last month received the go
ahead from the American F D A (Food and
Drug Administration) to manufacture foods
containing Olestra. A new range of low-calo-
rie snack foods to be sold under the name
Olean will soon be on sale in America. Plans
are afoot to make them available in the U K .
But there was just one condition to the
FDAs approval of Olestra. All foods made
with it most carry a warning saying: "Olestra
may cause abdominal cramping and loose
stools. Olestra inhibits the absorption of
some vitamins and other nutrients". This is
hardly an appetising advert for any food and
with a message like that you may wonder if
Olestra really is good for you.
Olestra is a specially designed fat made
of a mixture of sugar and vegetable oil. It can
be used for cooking and works just like any
other fat but, because ol its structure, the
body cannot break it down and absorb it
into the blood stream. Olestra' has no calo-
ries because it stays completely unchanged
as it slips through the body. What is more, it
has a strong affinity for vitamins A, D and K.
On its way through the digestive system
Olestra sucks up these vitamins and vacu-
ums them out of the body. Procter and
Gamble have partly countered this effect by
adding extra vitamins to Olestra so that, like
a hoover with a hill bag, it is already too hill
of vitamins to pick up any more.
Olestra also sucks up nutrients called
carotenoids as it passes through the body.
The role of carotenoids is not hilly under-
stood, but it is suggested that carotenoids
are essential for a healthy immune system
and may be useful in preventing some forms
of cancer. Eating just three grammes of
Olestra causes a 40% decrease in
carotenoids. Procter and Gamble
have not altered Olestra to deal w ^ - - J
with this effect because the ^?W.JL
exact role of carotenoids in the diet has not
been established.
Olestra can also give you wind, diarrhoea
and in some cases it causes anal leakage. But
Procter and Gamble scientists, Chris
Hassall, points out that eating too much
fibre gives you diarrhoea and too much fat
can also lead to anal leakage. Michael
Jacobson, Chief Executive of the Center for
Science in the Public Interest, and one of
Olestra's strongest opponents says "Olestra
acts like a laxative and robs the body of
nutrients. We don't need Olestra potato
chips. It's crazy to add a substance to the
food supply that makes people sick."
Whether or not Olestra makes people
sick is exactly what the F D A had to find out.
After wading through around 150,000
pages of test results, a panel of specialists
decided the substance was not poisonous
and did not interfere with the action of
medicines. Olestra had to undergo very
stringent testing. The F D A has never tested
a food additive with the potential to take up
such a large part of people's diet. Normally
tests involve giving rats 100 times the
amount of the food additive that a htiman
would normally eat. For Olestra this would
mean feeding rats on nothing else, which
would certainly kill them. Instead, 8000
men, women and children across America
took part in tests to assess the effects of eat-
ing Olestra. The F D A has ruled "with rea-
sonable certainty" that Olestra is "harm-
less".
Olestra genuinely gives food the same
the pleasant texture as normal fats. The all-
important "mouth-feel", so often absent
from diet foods, is very much there with
Olestra. But what are the chances that it will
make you thin? Dieticians and doctors have
differing views. George Blackburn, nutrition
scientist at Deaconess Hospital Boston says:
"ft could (make a difference) if people fol-
low the dietary guidelines; that is, they eat
everything in moderation. If they use it as a
licence to overconsume, it'll have no effect".
Geraldine Fitzgerald, a U K nutritionist, says
"I very much doubt it will work. Nearly all
American studies have shown that people
will eat just as many calories by supple-
menting their diet with other foods."
Nutrasweet and other low calorie sweet-
eners have done little to overcome the
weight problem of either America or
Britain. Olestra snacks may let us enjoy the
pleasure of eating for half the calories and
with less of the guilt, btit it is unlikely to
solve many people's weight problems.
Natalie Barb

