-simon baker
We are rapidly approaching that
annual Hollywood event which cap-
tures the whole world's attention. I
refer not to a liz Taylor divorce, but
the Oscars. As has been the case of
late, Britain seems well placed, with
Emma Thompson's Sense and
Sensibility almost certain to secure a
number of nominations.
However, were an Oscar to be
awarded for Best Actor in an
Evading Role, the Royal School of Mines would
be odds on favourite for its shenanigans above,
and in, the Felix print room. As we learnt last
week, two of their leading lights, on falling
through the false ceiling, said that 'they were
lost' when Security got hold ofthem. I know just
what they mean. One minute I'm walking along,
minding my own business, and then I suddenly
find myself in a service void. It could happen to
anyone. I think that anyone who has the front,
and the quickwittedness, to come out with such
a laughable excuse should not be disciplined, but
given a show on Channel 4. Mind you lads, if
you'd wanted a little more credibility, you could
have said you were conducting a geological sur-
vey and thought that you were down t'pit, since
it was so dark and cramped. If they'd said you
were mad, you could have blamed the very high
workload, which we all know is a problem.
Last Friday, I was driving through West
London and heard on the radio that there had
been an explosion in Docklands. I immediately
thought that this must be due to gas, but later
heard that it was the work of the IRA. My reac-
tion was one of anger and despair. The peace had
indeed been slow and difficult, but the ceasefire
had held and the international efforts being
made were looking positive. Then as soon as the
proposal for elections was made, which met
with Sinn Fein's total opposition, the IRA chose
to return to their old ways. In doing so, they have
destroyed all the credibility that
their political wing had started to
build, and plunged the talks into
* '. m crisis. This was a particularly evil
and fruidess attack by the IRA,
which has merely succeeded in
strengthening the call for arms
decornrnissioning and turned the
Irish Government against Sinn
Fein. One might imagine that
Gerry Adams would immediately
|j seek to condemn the bombing.
No. He blamed the Government.
What is more, he telephoned the White House
shortly before the explosion to say that he had
some "disappointing news." This is extremely
significant. Despite his protestations, did Adams
know of the bomb before its explosion? The vital
question is that if he did, and if he is serious
about peace, why didn't he warn the authorities?
If not, and he is not intimately linked with the
IRA, then why on earth-should we be talking to
him? It is widely known that British intelligence
has much evidence (although not enough to
bring charges) on the alleged terrorist activities of
both him and Martin McGuinness, supposedly a
former head of the IRA. General Council. One
can only hope that the peace process has not
been irreconcilably damaged.
On a happier note, I saw that it was the 40th
birthday of the Routemaster bus. As anyone who
knows me will realise, I am not an enormous fan
of buses - they tend to attract the slowest, rud-
est and weirdest members of society. The excep-
tion to this sad state of affairs is the Routemaster,
a design classic that manages to avoid bringing
out the worst in people and creates a contented
atmosphere within its dignified body. I know
that they cost more to run, being crewed by two
people, but dare I say, what the Hell. If cost
became a problem, we could always charge
tourists quadruple fare to travel on these famous
vehicles. Not that I think tourists are gullible you
understand...
cd magazine - blendeiian
Blender is a magazine with a difference: it comes
on CD-Rom. It also costs more than a small
Caribbean island. And it's a huge bunch of arse.
Seriously, it does cost more than a small
Caribbean island, and it is a bunch of arse. After
receiving the initial package of an impressive-
looking box, I was disheartened to find that the
box contained only one measly C D with no
mates. Slipping it deftly into my machine I was
then rather perturbed to find that I had to fill my
hard disk full of Mac software. The Blender box
distinctly says 'for Windows and Mac', but it
appears to be only for Mac users and people who
wish that they had a Mac.
The 'magazine' contains a large number of
articles, but unfortunately it appears that the cre-
ators have tried to fill the C D with impressive
graphics and music at the expense of any con-
tent. To my further annoyance, the graphics
and music were tediously slow and generally of a
suspiciously low quality. To my knowledge eight
bit sound cards are extinct, so why are Blender
providing us with pathetic eight bit samples? I
have heard better music emanating from the
Stock Aitken and Waterman studio.
Blender is essentially a very good idea,
adding sound and visuals to articles in a poten-
tially entertaining and interesting fashion. The
magazine format on C D should work well, but
unless you have a computer worth several thou-
sand pounds, it will just be articles with crappy
sound and visuals which take several decades to
load. Putting this fact to one side, the only other
problem holding Blender back is the extortion-
ate cover price.
Until this situation is remedied, I would
advise buying a copy of Computer Shopper and
some LSD - it will have the intended effect of
Blender but at a lower price, and with better
visuals.

