DIARY FELIX FRIDAY FEBRUARY 1 6TH 1996 . TWENTY-THREE
The Experience of Structural Adjustment in Jamaica
Angela Stultz Crawlle of Jamaica will be
speaking at IC on Thursday about the social
consequences of 'structural adjustment'- the
International Monetary Fund's policy on
development which stipulates that borrowing
must be linked to the opening of economies
to international market forces.
Jamaica is a particularly interesting case
as it was one of the first countries to take part
in the process of structural adjustment. In
1977, following several years of recession and
oil price increases, the Jamaican economy
was in decline. The government was forced
to borrow heavily, primarily from the I M F
which lent on the condition that an austere
fiscal policy was embraced. This included the
cutting of government spending and the
removal of all food subsidies. The I M F
encouraged Jamaica to target developing
industries, arguing that the economy's vul-
nerability was due to its lack of diversity.
The IMF has been similarly involved in
the economic affairs of Jamaica ever since.
However, little improvement has been
IF YOU POOR NATIONS WANT MORE
LOANS, HERE'S WHAT WE WANT TO SEE -
Get a Life!
Let me guess, you're a scientist, you like your
drink, and most importantly, you're totally
broke. When you leave Imperial with your
first class degree, little will have changed,
except your overdraft will no longer be inter-
est free and alcohol will become a luxury you
can no longer afford. To tread those corridors
of wealth that you've been dreaming about,
you need more than a first class degree, you
need a life. Unfortunately drinking the
'chaps' under the table is likely not to
impress future employers. You need a C V
that reads as well as Terry Venables latest
line up, err, okay bad example, how about
the Brazilian line up? As an alternative to
lying in order to bulk up your C V , you could
do something valuable with your spare time
(that's when the bar is closed).
SciTech is a student consultancy run by.
IC students. It is a concept originally Irom
Europe where companies are able to pay stu-
dents to work on projects for them. The
companies get a cheap yet competent work
force, and the students get a chance to make
useful contacts with the industrial world,
whilst gaining valuable C V points. For more
information about SciTech, turn up to one of
the meetings in room 307 in Civ Eng, contact
us through e-mail at scitsl(<v ic.ac.uk or via
the Union pigeon holes under SciTech.
There are positions to be filled on the com-
mittee, specifically within the European
Network and IC Liaison or you may just wish
to add your name to our student database in
order to partake in future projects.
realised; as Richard Bernal, Jamaica's ambas-
sador to the U N has commented:
"The policies of the 1980's have rein-
forced old structures, especially dependence
on imported food. We have, seen none of the
promised upsurge in production. The high-
tech agro-chemical projects have failed. The
vulnerability of the economy to external
forces is greater than ever."
The economy may not have changed but
the social conditions in Jamaica have. The
damage that has been done to the social infra-
structure as a result of the government's tight
fiscal policy has been immense. Basic services
have been fundamentally damaged. For
example spending in education has gone
down by 30% in real terms. As a result, thou-
sands of teachers have left the country in
search of better pay and work conditions.
More immediate problems have been
experienced in the health service; an acute
lack of funding has resulted in many workers
being forced into the private sector. A t pre-
sent, 64% of nursing positions are vacant.
C a r e e r s I n f o r m a t i o n
Summer Vacation Training opportunities
are now available on the database in the
Careers Office. Apply to UROP for research
opportunities.
"Improve, your interview skills" is a short
course on Wednesday 21st February in
Huxley Room 343 from 2-4 pm. Sign up in
the Careers Office.
For more information and careers advice
come to the Careers Office, Room 310
Sherfield Building, which is open between
10am and 5.15pm Monday to Friday.
H o m e o p a t h y
FREE Homoeopathic treatment is available
to students of Imperial College on Monday
afternoons at Imperial College Health
Service, Princes Gardens.
A L L ailments and conditions can be
helped by Homoeopathy, which uses safe
and natural remedies to enhance our general
health and well-being. Whatever the prob-
lem - eczema, asthma, hay fever, anxiety,
depression, insomnia etc. Homoeopathy
offers an alternative approach which can not
only sort out your particular problem but
also improve your overall level of health at
the same time, so you become less suscepti-
ble to illness in future.
So, don't delay, contact Rosalind
George on (0171) 603 8600 to make an
appointment today
So why has Jamaica lost both its social
services and failed to revive its economy? The
answer must be related to the country's debt
problem. As the World Bank has pointed out,
"In 1991/92 half of tax revenues went to
service external debt, while roads deteriorat-
ed for lack of maintenance, schoolchildren
were short of books, and hospitals were short
of medicines. The indirect efforts com-
pounded the problem by slowing growth.
The high debt burden makes business reluc-
tant to invest in Jamaica, and encourages
young people to move abroad if they have
acquired education and skills to achieve
access to the international labour market."
Jamaica's problems are complicated with
no easy solutions. Without dealing with the
debt problem and re-examining the present
policy towards the countriy's infrastructure,
the situation can only get worse. The
Jamaican example certainly challenges the
validity of structural adjustment.
Third World First: 12.45pm, Thursday
February 22nd, Huxley 341
EAT LESS
E x a m S t r e s s
W o r k s h o p s
Exam stress workshops will be held at the
Health Centre over two sessions - from 3pm
to 4.30pm - on the afternoons of
Wednesday 6th March f 996
and
Wednesday 13th March 1996
To take full advantage of these sessions,
you are advised to attend both. These work-
shops Will be led by Psychotherapist Claudio
Calvi. Everyone suffers from stress before
and at examinations. For most people stress
improves their performance; but if you have
a significant or debilitating examination
stress problem, these workshops are for you.
For bookings, please ring Liliane Carter
on direct line no (0171) 594 9381 or inter-
nally on 49381 .This service is entirely free of
charge, so don't hesitate to register and solve
your problem.
WE ARE HERE T O HELP. D O C A L L !
S t o p S m o k i n g
The stop smoking group starts on 22nd
February at 12.15pm. The group will meet
weekly for five weeks, and each session is
one hour. There's no need to change your
smoking habits before you come.
Contact Margaret Reddoch at the health
centre, on extension 49393 for more infor-
mation.
GREATER BALANCE OF TRADE EQUILIBRIUM,
APPROPRIATE CURRENCY ADJUSTMENTS...
mrfk
AND AN END TO
SUBSIDIZED
CONSUMPTION
WHAT DOES
ALL THAT
_ MEAN?

