PAGE 24 PAGE 25
FRIDAY 9th
OCTOBER 2015 felixonline.co.uk felixonline.co.uk
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FRIDAY 9th
OCTOBER 2015
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
Recommended:Things we forgot last week
Ahir Shah: Distant (Soho Theatre, 19th
- 24th
October )
The former Cambridge Footlight returns to London’s premiere comedy venue after a stellar month at this year’s
Edinburgh Fringe. An odd mix between the classically stereotyped Oxbridge elite and a young shaky political
smart arse. Wickedly funny with a biting political repertoire, Shah’s material is rarely easy watching but some
of the sharpest, wittiest and most current comedy on the scene. Some will hate Shah’s work, but if you can bare
the intensity of his set you’ll be in tears by the end of the hour.
Staging a Revolution (Young Vic, 2nd
- 14th
November)
A series of ten productions over two weeks, the critically acclaimed Belarus Free Theatre present a collection of
controversial works on the theme of revolution. Banned in their own country, the production moves each night
performing at undisclosed locations and at the Young Vic. The viewer is subject to the fear and bravery that
goes into consuming and creating art under a totalitarian regime. Ranging from discussions on hacking and
surveillance state to two nights of King Lear,BFT display a breadth and a creative courage rarely seen on stage.
Les Liaisons Dangereuses (Donmar, 11th
December – 13th
February)
Like every production at the Donmar, Les Liaisons Dangereuses is sold out two months before opening night.
With the feisty Dominic West taking up the lead role, it is unlikely that he lives up to John Malkovich’s
lightning performance in the 1988 film, but the play oozes enough sex, sass and wit for West to work with. I
have little doubt that this production will be extraordinary. Day tickets are available but getting them can be a
pain. For those of us with better things to do, NT Live will show the production on January 28th
.
Frank Auerbach (Tate Britain, 9th
October – 15th
March 2016)
Frank Auerbach is considered by some to be one of Britain’s finest painters. He has worked a very narrow set of
subjects for many years, charting the change in the streets around his home in Camden Town over decades. He
is notorious for simply painting over his previous works until the finished piece emerges. This exhibition is an
opportunity to see the collected works of an artist who, along with Lucian Freud and Francis Bacon, has had a
profound impact on British art.
Carmen (Royal Opera House, 19th
October – 30th
November, ballet from 26th
October – 12th
November)
This is the classic tragedy of Don Jose who sacrifices everything for Carmen, the woman he loves. When she
leaves him for another man,his love turns to hatred.It has everything you could want from a blockbuster opera;
passion, betrayal, a raucous Spanish atmosphere with unforgettable music to boot. For a two-week run, the
ROH will also be staging a dance adaptation of the classic Bizet opera by The Royal Ballet.
The Amazing World of MC Escher
(Dulwich Picture Gallery, 14th
October – 17th
January)
Escher’s lithography and woodcuts, based on the work of leading mathematicians such as Roger Penrose are
surrealism at its most distilled. Whether you want to admire the mathematical concepts that underlie the art,
or the brilliance of Escher’s technique and imagination, this exhibition featuring nearly 100 of his drawings
and prints spanning his career is not to be missed.
Words that bridge cultures
S
ituated merely a couple
of minutes away from the
hustle and bustle of Covent
Garden, Betterton Street
with its petite shopfronts and
relative quiet seems like a world
away.
Yet, almost every night, from a
humble unit along this street, words
emerge, carried by the wind and
heavy with emotion.
It is easy to miss the Poetry
Café. Its nondescript shopfront is
identifiable only by a plain sign:
“The Poetry Place”, and the bright,
cheery interior of the café when one
peers in. The glass front is plastered
over with leaflets and posters
advertising poetry events all over
London. It is small and cosy, a place
where one might enjoy an afternoon
with a book and coffee.
The stairs to the basement open
into a small space; on one side there
is an open area where poems are
read and music played, on the other
a couple of rows of red plastic chairs
for the audience.
It is this basement that is the heart
of activity, with different poetry
events happening all the time.These
include open mic poetry readings,
“poetry clinics”, where established
poets are invited to critique the
works of aspiring poets, poetry
slams and even combined jazz and
poetry performances.
On the first Monday of every
month, the basement fills with
the voices of those who hail from
foreign lands, the ones trying to
find their place in a land they still
hesitate to call their own. These are
the members of Exiled Writers Ink,
a group of artists mostly living in
exile in the UK and Europe, as well
as the descendants of those who fled
their countries.
The organisation was set up in
2000 by Jennifer Langer, herself
the daughter of Holocaust survivors
from Germany. It aims to support
the work of exiles, migrants
and their descendants through
performance, publishing and
training, encouraging integration in
the process.
Each poetry reading is themed
– this month, it was ‘Daughters
of Migrants’, while the upcoming
November reading is themed
“Writing out of War and Exile”.
Often, they are opened with music
by the gypsy music group Le
Gazhikane Muzikante, a longitme
collaborator of Exiled Writers Ink.
This month, they performed music
form the Jewish community of 15th
century Spain,in the spirit of poetry
by the daughters of Jewish migrants.
It is often said that art is universal,
and its appreciation is common
across cultures.Of the audience who
went to hear the October poetry
reading, only a handful were exiles
themselves. Some were third, fourth
generation migrants, on all accounts
born and bred British,but interested
in their own ancestry and how their
forefathers must have felt, having
left their homes for unfamilar
land. Others were interested in aid
work. There were poetry enthusiasts
and even some tourists who had
happened to pass by.
Yet, the words of the poets were
relatable to anyone – it is fair to
say that everyone has felt some
displacement at some point in their
lives, whether it is a child not fitting
in at school or an adult moving into
another city for work.
Aviva Dautch, one of the poets
reading on the night, brought
up the concept of a “harmonious
discord”, which she raised as the
common experience of any migrant.
As a foreigner among people who
are different to yourself but largely
similar to each other, there is both
an unwillingness to completely
change yourself to fit in, and the
physical impossibility of doing so.
The best solution,then,is a positive
integration of your differences
into the fabric of the community.
Discord is not always unpleasant –
in fact, it can sometimes add colour
and excitement into our lives.
Jingjie Cheng
Arts Editor
Family relationships and vignettes
of childhood seemed to be a popular
theme of the night. Perhaps, when
our physical surroundings keep
changing, we identify “home”
intangibly - it is our most important
relationships and our fondest
memories.
Having grown up outside of the
UK myself, one of the poems I hold
close to my heart is Originally by
Carol Ann Duffy:
Do I only think
I lost a river, culture, speech, sense of
first space
and the right place? Now, Where do
you come from?
strangers ask. Originally? And I
hesitate.
Displacement has always been
a favourite theme of poets, and
language especially is a recurring
motif. Linda Black, another poet of
the night, described the confusion
with the pronunciation of her
grandfather’s family name when
he moved. Language is probably
one of the first things that reveal
one’s foreign origins, and one of the
first obstacles that a new migrant
has to overcome. Language is also
a connection to one’s roots. In the
words of Ms Dautch:
“We brush off dust, but who can brush
off pain in Hebrew?”
Being a third generation Jewish
migrant, she questions the extent
to which we can shed the history
of our people even as we seem to
The Poetry Cafe is the perfect stop for a light dose of poetry - this month, we cover a
group of writers who discuss their experiences transitioning between cultures.
The Poetry Cafe. Photo Credit: The Poetry Society Exiled Lit Cafe. Photo Credit: Exiled Writers Ink
It is often said
that art is
universal, and
its appreciation
is common
across cultures
so easily morph everything else to
fit into our adopted homes. “How
is that possible,” she asks, “when
the root of the sound of my name
is Hebrew?”
Even as these poets write of the
search for a coherent identity and
a sense of belonging, their words
have crossed cultures and shared
their personal struggles with the
rest of the world. This, I feel, is the
beauty of words and art – both as
an articulation of emotion and a
force for a common understanding.
Within the theme of exile literature,
then, the words of the dispossessed,
especially those of the newly settled
migrants,is as important as a tool for
integration and understanding as it
is a way of dealing with the complex
emotions of such a displacement.
Discord is
not always
unpleasant –
in fact, it can
sometimes
add colour and
excitement
into our lives
With the refugee crisis constantly
on the news and spilling right onto
our doorstep, it is not enough to
only be thinking about the logistics
and politics of where and how the
refugees should be distributed. It is
perhaps worth thinking about how
our societies can integrate those
that eventually settle in kind ways –
Exiled Writers Ink, for example, are
making a trip to the Calais refugee
camp to bring them books, poetry
and company. Migration, after
all, has been a fixture throughout
history and we are living in the
resulting richness and diversity that
makes the world so interesting – and
of course, enjoying the whole genre
of literature that human migration
has inspired.

