UCL Referendum
A referendum of Imperial College students will
be held on 25th and 26th November over the
recently announced plans to merge with
University College, London.
The referendum was officially approved at an
Emergency Council Meeting - the second this
term - last Monday, but the details have since
been set by the Union's Executive, a much
smaller committee which oversees the general
running of the Union.
The IC/UCL ballot comes just a few months
after Imperial students voted on Imperial
College Union's affiliation with the National
Union of Students (NUS). That referendum had
the biggest turn-out of any student ballot at
Imperial for several years, but many are already
voicing concerns that the question of merger
may fail to capture the student body's attention.
Campaigning for both sides officially begins
next week and will continue until the referen-
dum itself which is due to be held in three
weeks' time.
Artist's impression of the referendum
As it stands, there are already several people
interested in leading the merger "Yes" campaign
but few are willing to lead the "No" band. This
is surprising given recent remarks about the
proposed merger (see letters, page 13). Past
experience has demonstrated that a good
turnout, and hence a meaningful result, often
comes with outspoken and vigorous campaign-
ing by both sides.
Union Break-In
Significant damage was caused last
weekend when a thief ransacked the
Union offices in Beit Quadrangle.
The burglar took the float for the
till at the front desk, as well as char-
ity collection tins. The haul is prob-
ably worth little over £50. However,
in an effort to find more cash, filing
cabinets and drawers were severely
damaged, mostly with implements
found in staff offices, several of
which were also searched.
The burglary was discovered on
Saturday afternoon by one of the
Deputy Presidents. College Security
was notified and the police arrived
shortly afterwards.
Ken Weir, Head of Security, said
that the situation was "a police
investigation", but indicated CCTV
footage was unlikely to help appre-
hend the burglar. Instead, it is hoped
fingerprints gathered at the scene
may provide important links.
Forced entry around College is
apparently a small problem com-
pared with "walk-in thefts", where
wallets and briefcases are stolen
opportunistically. Security's advice
is, as always, to lock doors even
when leaving rooms unattended for
only a moment. AW
Of course, the College is under no obligation
to take the result into account - the referendum
is only to register student opinion. When asked
whether the College was likely to take notice of
the result, Union President Sen Ganesh said
that he was "sure the Rector would listen to the
voice of the student body... especially given
recent developments".
The College has already seen one student
protest partly motivated by lack of student con-
sultation, but its impact has yet to become obvi-
ous. Despite this, Mr Ganesh pointed out that it
was important to "feed student opinion into the
process".
Staff, however, will not be balloted despite
the Rector declaring the merger "nonsense"
without approval of the academics - that voice
will have to come from the College Senate.
Whether or not the student body's opinion,
through this referendum, will be given the same
weight remains to be seen.
AW
Union Reception: Ransacked
Alex vents further spleen on the
subject of procrastination
Felix international begins it;
global journey with a review
this past week's spectacular,
Diwali night
Our new fashion pages
underway, starting with th€
shop hotspots of London
Never a cross word said... Boris
gets down to business with
some crytpic conundra
1st November 2002
"Look, I'm bitch monkey and you're mitch bonkey... so you sit there." http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/ • felix@ic.ac.uk

