1 4 W E B S I T E R E V I E W S F E L I X
I border-0"tr> *td align-right valign-hottonra href-l
der-0 *idth-38 height^B ( V ' H H I M I valp-tallnm-a hr|
href-hitp://www.gouale.com--imo src-/images/res3,gil border-
href/advanceil search'/rj-wehsitereviewsSlil-enSlr-Bie-UTP 8-Advai|
hreHlanpgeJoBls?q-»ehsilc*reviews8hl-BnSlr-(lie-IITr 8'Lanpge'
value-"en">-input type-hidden name-lr value^'-input tgpe-hidden name-ie value-"ISO 88591"*-input lype-lext nauie-q size 31 maxlenglh
i W i n a lirel=hltp://ww».guu|le.ciiin"ini!i srr/iuiages/resl.gii bur
align-right valign-lop cla$s-h>"b"6iibsp;</bHtd->td valign-top>-a
nbsp;-/lont>'/td>"/tr></tahle"/td>-td nonrap-lunt size-ha
wsShl-enGlr-fiie-UTF H>Preferences-/a»Snhsp;Gnnsp;Snbsp;Snhspra
fnnn name-gs itielhtnl lit! action tarelr-inpul lype-hidden name-Id
size- h -Input type-submit nanie-bH value "Google Search"-span
A l i t t l e s h o p p i n g t h e r a p y i n t h e w a r m
Not relevant to Bonfire night I know but shop-
ping can and should be done anytime of the
year. Advertised as having 'the latest hot stuff'
this is a website with a serious number of cool
gadgets. I could so easily blow my entire loan
on this site, it has an amazing selection and is
easy to browse with loads of information,
including pictures, on each item. I cannot
emphasise enough how fantastically easy it is
to navigate around this site, with a short
abstract to catch your attention then loads
more stuff about it including reviews from peo-
ple who have bought it. There is a little green
tick if it is currently in stock for you to order
and if not then there is the option to pre-order.
One of my friends (yes I have some) has just
had a twenty first birthday and I got him an
acre of land on the moon. However, do be
warned that this led to a good many awful
jokes about being given the moon. Somehow I
don't think it was the first or last time that joke
will be made.
The most amazing section is the expensive
stuff, you can purchase a skycar (yes, one that
flies), with a vertical take off and a top speed
of 380mph. At only £324,000, it's a bargain.
If anyone has exams coming up or course-
work due in, sorry, this is a great site for pro-
crastinating even if you are broke (and being in
central London as a student this is quite likely).
There really is something for everyone here so
go, procrastinate and enjoy.
Oh, and if anyone feels like it, they can buy
me the blink digital camera - me want!
www.firebox.cam
" F r e e t h i n k e r s w e l c o m e "
Now for a more serious way to waste time.
Everybody knows the Guardian newspaper
whether you read it or not, knowing this it is
not difficult to realise that there will be a web
site. However, I am not interested in the news
aspect of this web page because we all know
that it is there and in hundreds of other places
on the net. The reason I draw your attention to
this is the talk boards, discussions on every-
thing and anything.
I love a good debate, and this place provides
the opportunity to air opinions and then have
them questioned by other (hopefully intelligent)
people. This is a really popular site so the dis-
cussions move on fairly speedily if it is some-
thing people want to talk about, a discussion
on where you left your inflatable pigeon might
not last very long. There are some very serious
discussions and it is really good to hear what
other people think about the important issues.
There are also threads that will interest those
of you looking for a little light entertainment
such as "why are the Americans not told about
the outside world?" or "men get angry, women
get depressed".
While this site can be read without logging
on, it is necessary to register in order to leave
your own comments or start your own thread.
This is a simple process that even the slowest
of you ought to be able to manage.
There aren't too many restrictions on the
content and language - trust me I had to work
hard to get thrown off this site. I suppose this
T.,l„ " U,.„«„.„l..,
Tfrli^r*ilnivn*i M M I W BB
A little present for those of you who like a
good argument
is because the Guardian advertises "free
thinkers welcome".
'The haven' contains some of the more light
hearted threads, while others such as 'issues',
'science' and 'UK news' include important dis-
cussions. Despite the anonymity of this site, or
maybe because of, there is quite a lot of per-
sonal banter which is fun and often insulting.
Maybe it would be worth starting a thread on
whether the merger with UCL is going to be a
step forward or a step back, might be interest-
ing to see what our future employers think. Or
our other favourite topic of conversation, top-
up fees. Well, whatever you wish to discuss,
whether sober or not, in my opinion this is the
best web site to visit.
talk.guardiao.co.uk
T e r m o f t h e W e e k :
Firewall
I know I'm not the only one who hits these
and wonders what they are, well, they are the
first line of defence to protect a system from
unauthorised users. They prevent access to or
from private networks, i.e. the internet users
from accessing private networks (intranets)
without authorisation. Messages have to pass
through the firewall and meet certain security
criteria before you are allowed access.
There are four types of firewall: packet fil-
ter, application gateway, circuit-level gateway,
and proxy server. Usually a combination of
these techniques are used in order to give the
best security. So there.
F r o m t h e d o t M e i s t e r
I did my best this week to find something
interesting about bonfire night and fireworks
but it was all a bit poor. It seems that the inter-
net thinks bonfire night is solely for children,
well I beg to differ on that point, I love burn-
ing things.
Anyway, as a consequence of my fruitless
search you are lumbered with two totally unre-
lated sites. Firstly, there is firebox, a brilliant
site and a friendly, excellent service in my
experience. Secondly, the talk board that the
Guardian newspaper provides for those of us
who enjoy discussing the issues of the day.
Have a good bonfire night and don't let your
pets out. Jenny
web.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

