F E L I X N I G H T L I F E
NightLife
Trash
Monday @ The End
Yet another quality night at The End, but as
always it will suit some more than others. As
the promoters say themselves, the music is
eclectic - although they hate to admit it, it
ranges from Glam Rock to Indie and then in
some way to Punk. As bizarre as that sounds,
it actually works.
The venue itself has two rooms, the main
dance floor and a smaller chill out area with
comfy couches and the all-important bar. The
club itself is welcoming to students and easy to
locate, but the atmosphere at Trash nights can
be a little pretentious with a typical clientele of
art students and young rich kids; although the
dress code is non-specific you will get turned
away if your sense of fashion doesn't fit. This
is where the aforementioned club kids get a bit
snobby. Alternative is the buzzword and you
have to be a little different in your image to be
accepted. Basically avoid straight leg jeans
and check shirts, dig out old Adidas pumps
and the hideous tank top your granny knitted.
All that aside it is an interesting night and
worth going if you get kicks out of laughing at
others. Marc L
Monday 11th November
Erol Alkan
James
Rory Philips
10pm - 3am
£4 entry
The End, 16a West Central Street, WC1
www.the-end.co.uk
Paraiso
Thursday @ Camden Palace
Paraiso is 100% pure unadulterated Brasilia.
A 20-piece samba band, Latino DJs, live salsa
music and exquisite carnival dancers are just
a few of the items on offer at the Camden
Palace each month.
There is no escape to the infectious beat as
the dance floor fills with people from every
walk of life. The passion of the music and the
artists soon take over and as part of the crowd
you suddenly feel part of the show. Balloons
and confetti fall from above while shimmering
dancers in remarkable feather headdresses
show the star-struck masses how it's done.
The flavour of Paraiso hits you straight in the
heart and goes right to the head.
And if you're worried about how your per-
sonal samba skills (or lack of) will size up on
the dance floor, then have no fear. There are
free beginners dance classes courtesy of
Paraiso, and so you'll be up on the podium in
no time at all
Paraiso is a night to stimulate the senses;
with enough feathers, colour, laughter and
music to satisfy every desire and leave you
begging for more. Keira P
Thursday 7th November
8pm - 3am
FREE samba lessons before 9pm
£5 IC students (£8 others)
Camden Palace, la Camden High Street
(opp. Mornington Crescent Tube Station)
www.paraisosamba.co.uk
For more information call 0870 744 2654
Welcome...
This is only a test.
It has reached that time of year when golden
leaves carpet the pavements, cheeks become
rosy and little children throw fireworks at the
elderly. Yes, this is autumn.
Before you go off grieving the loss of sum-
mer, let me remind you that autumn and win-
ter are perhaps the most fruitful of seasons as
far as clubbing is concerned. So, unless you
are John Leslie, there is absolutely no reason
why you should be inside.
So, keep a look out for the advertisements
for Christmas and New Year events, some of
which have already started to sell tickets. This
year Ministry of Sound will be returning to the
Millennium Dome and you can also expect the
other major London clubs to be hosting some
of the best parties, with the best line-ups that
you are ever likely to attend.
Newsflash from Turnmills:
Turnmills is offering free Student Membership
to all of our weekend club nights. This
includes The Gallery on Fridays, City Loud,
Metrogroove, Roach, Soul Connection and
Release Yourself on Saturdays. This amazing
offer entitles students to cheaper admission,
full access to the Membership Bar, plus the
luxury of walking straight to the front of the
queue. Simply let Turnmills know you are
coming down to the club, go to the
Membership desk with 2 passport photos and
exchange your details for your Turnmills
Student Membership card... then get a drink,
get on the dancefloor and get ready to have
the best times of your life.
Patrick
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk "There are actually farm animals that could do my job..."

