2 0 F I L M R E V I E W S F E L I X
And they say that miracles don't happen?
TWO pages! HAR! I tell you, within a month
this section will ROCK so pay attention...
This issue sees the welcome introduction
of the first two of my ever growing army of
minions, so thanks to John and David for
shouldering some of the film-reviewing bur-
den (and doing a much better job of it than
me, I might add).
Somehow we all went out and watched
totally different movies at the weekend, so
it's all turned out nice again. In fact, with
luck and a following wind, next week may
even see the addition of a co-editor and a
further gaggle of eager underlings for me to
send forth and do my bidding. You see? This
is what happens when you place power in
the wrong hands.
For those of you on the look out for some
fine post-halloween style action this week,
you could do a lot worse than check out 28
Days Later... hand-on-heart promise that
you'll have a review to savour next issue.
Till then, enjoy our humble offerings on
the unforgiving celluloid altar... Si
If you're interested in adding your talents to
this underground movement of movie-
hacks, have ideas for us to shamelessly rip-
off, or simply want to bitch about how crap-
py (or great) the reviews are, then apply to
the usual email (film.felix). A free reply
with every e-mail! Limited time only!
x X x
Starring:
Director:
Running Time:
Vin Diesel, Asia Agento,
Samuel L. Jackson
Rob Cohen
123 min
"A new breed of secret agent" - indeed. Vin
Diesel (Pitch Black, Fast and the Furious) is
certainly that and more. The man touted to
be the next Arnie stars in this high octane
action-fest of a movie as extreme sports star
and adrenaline junkie Xander Cage.
Recruited by an American government in
need of "something different" in the on-going
fight against Bond-esque villains, xXx sets
out its stall as the first in what could prove
to be a very popular franchise (xXx2 is pen-
cilled in for a 2004 release). For those who
have been stuck at the bottom of a well for a
year, Vin (that's Mr Diesel to you) is a rip-
pling mass of man-flesh with a voice Barry
White would kill for. xXx sees him reunited
with Fast and the Furious director Rob Cohen
in a movie not too dissimilar to the hugely
popular Point Break with Fast Cars caper of
2001. Huge stunts, staggering special
effects and a brash, loud soundtrack are the
name of the game with this one folks. With a
large hunk of Cheddar on the side to ade-
quately represent the script, plot and sup-
porting cast.
I broke all of my rules in watching this
movie. Well, I only really have one rule and
that is not to read any reviews before I see
the film. And I read them. I read them all.
Now, whilst some of you may be thinking
this is no bad thing (research, background
knowledge and the like) I have, over the last
few years, been thoroughly gutted on many
occasions by the overly-detailed reports of
reviewers who clearly have no intention of
allowing their readers to enjoy a film. Pet
hate of mine this, I despise knowing too
much about a movie before I see it - it takes
all the fun out of the experience. Seeing
these things cold is where it's at as far as I'm
concerned (of course this raises the whole
paradoxical/hypocritical issue of me writing
reviews myself - I choose to ignore that one
to save my meagre brainpower for more use-
ful tasks).
Why this long monologue you ask?
Where's the juicy details about xXx? Well,
the relevance of all this is that I have to
admit to being disappointed. My normally
shield-of-steel like hype-defences let me
down and I was hoping for a lot more, so
naturally I was a touch put-out when the film
failed to deliver. I adore Vin Diesel so the
man has to go some way to do wrong by me,
but then I am going to have unrealistically
high expectations about a movie with such a
tantalising premise as this one (better than
Bond etc). Vin isn't as awe-inspiring as he
was in Pitch Black, but he puts in a far more
convincing performance than he did in The
Fast and the Furious - in fact I would even go
so far as to say Diesel carries this movie on
his huge shoulders. (By the way, two gold
stars to anyone who can find me a coat like
Xander wears in this film - it's almost as cool
as his modified GTO). So what's wrong with
it? Well, there isn't a plot for starters. Well,
there's something about an anarchy group
but it really could have been any generic
"Bad Person" organisation. The script, whilst
not diabolical, is no masterpiece either and
will efficiently succeed in pissing off any biol-
ogist, chemist or engineer in the audience
unless they can suspend their professional
disbelief for two hours. (Binoculars. Just wait
until you see the binoculars.).
That said, it was never meant to be a cere-
bral film. If you can ignore the implausibili-
ties of the plot and don't mind cheesy dia-
logue then you're off to a good start. The rest
is just good-old honest action. Big bangs,
great stunt work, with a touch of impressive
cinematography thrown in. The greatest hon-
our someone like me can bestow a movie is
to say that I will definitely be getting it on
DVD when it comes out. Is xXx deserving of
this accolade? I think it is. I want to see
those stunt sequences over again (maybe
with a bit of behind-the-scenes action too)
and I'll be needing to keep my Vin Diesel
back-catalogue up-to-date.
All in all, a good (but not great) popcorn
movie. Si
xXx was released on 18th October 2002,
Cert. 12 A.
If you liked this, try :
True Lies (Arnie as the "new breed of Secret
Agent")
Pitch Black (Vin's best to date, a damn good
"Aliens" rip-off)
IC Cinema
<V 1
1 A
/
o
v
18;00 - <
1
e
n In Black 11 (P$)
20:1? - Sfildwww (1?)
T«, 12 tfcv
16:00 - SpiJ (V)
?0:30 - m In (P<\)
The cinema is on the second floor of the
union directly above the main office. Tickets
(as always) are 3 pounds per ticket, or 5
pounds for both films in an evening.
What you should be
watching...
...at the Movies: Donnie Darko (Released
18th October, 15)
...on TV: So I Married an Axe Murderer
(Saturday 9th November, ITV1, 01:10)
...on Sky: Memento (Monday 4th November,
Premier 4, 22:10)
...on DVD: The Killer (Released 18th
October, 18)
film.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

