F E L I X F I L M R E V I E W S 21 R
S I M • N E
Starring: Al Pacino, Catherine
Keener, Rachel Roberts
Director: Andrew Niccol
Running Time: 117 min
We live in a world where the appearance fee
of an A-List actor has rocketed into the tens
of millions, and the price of developing com-
puter animated digital actors has fallen dra-
matically. Given this fact, if you were a direc-
tor given the task to find a replacement for
your leading star who has just walked out on
you in your failing low budget movie only just
dropped by your studio where your ex-wife is
the boss (please, bear with me here)... then
which type of actor would you choose to
replace her? (Just before you decide, may I
add the fact that a mad man, no sorry, a
dying mad man, has offered you the free use
of his life-long developed computer code
which will allow you to create the computer
animated star for free...)
Well, this is the dilemma faced by director
Viktor Taransky (Pacino) in SlmOne, a film
by "Truman Show" director Andrew Niccol,
which develops the ideas surrounding the
concept of a creating a digitally animated,
stunningly-beautiful movie star (played by
newcomer Rachel Roberts) and how her
looks and details of her personal life can be
craved more than the actual content of her
films.
This is not like any Pacino film you will
have ever seen before, and for any die-hard
Pacino fan, or perhaps a keen viewer of
Truman Show-style "this-is-what-could-hap-
pen-if-we-get-too-carried-away-with-fame"
films, this is a must-see. Many deep and
meaningful issues are raised in this film
(almost too many) about the public's obses-
sion with fame and their curious need to
know everything and anything about their lat-
est in-favour movie star. SlmOne captures
the answer to the question; what if this newly
found sensation were never to appear in pub-
lic at the height of her fame? How would the
public and the 'exclusive-story' starved
media react?
Just as every Scientist (or Palaeontologist)
would shudder at the words "Jurassic Park
could really happen," the Computer Science
Dept in Imperial College may be slightly dis-
gruntled by the somewhat dubious missing
links in this film. In fact, anyone would be
puzzled when trying to determine how Pacino
who, and I quote "does not know how to use
computers" can somehow use, and develop
the amazing code given to him by the afore-
mentioned dying man, thus allowing him to
create a completely digital TV, Film, Music
and Literary megastar, who also still finds
time to go on goodwill missions to the Third
World (I swear I am not kidding!)
In short, this film does not intend to be
realistic (well, let's hope not!). Instead it tries
to ask questions in a slightly patronising, yet
intelligent, thought provoking manner about
how the modern world is obsessed with
fame, celebrity and in general the lives of
those other than us. What would happen if a
completely perfect person was created to ful-
fil our needs for someone to look up to/wor-
ship/obsess? (please delete as applicable)
It's easy to watch, and will keep you enter-
tained for the duration of its 135 minutes,
even if it is just because you may well be see-
ing the first in a future string of Al Pacino
comedy-ish films, or even if you're trying to
find comparisons with director Niccol's vision
of the future of Hollywood to the actual real-
ity of today. Alarmingly it would seem we're
not too far away...
Mark out of ten: 000111... (that's a 7 in
binary code). John
SlmOne was released on 25th October
2002, Cert. PG
s i g n s
The Culkin dynasty continues...
Starring: Mel Gibson, Joaquin
Phoenix, Cherry Jones
Director: M. Night Shyamalan
Running Time: 107 min
Signs is the latest offering from Mr M Night
Shyamalan, the man responsible for none
other than The Sixth Sense and Unbreakable.
The action centres around a one-parent fam-
ily who come close to being munched by
marauding aliens, but drive them away. Oh,
and in the process Mel Gibson reaffirms his
faith in God. Which he lost on talking to his
dying wife, who happened to be pinned to a
tree.
I wouldn't like to call myself prejudiced,
but the omens can't be good for a film star-
ring Macaulay Culkin's younger brother. You
would have thought they would have
changed his name or something, but no, it's
like they think being associated with the
Original Little Shit will actually help his
career or something. Actually ickle Rory is a
significant improvement on the older model,
but I digress...
M Night Shyamalan has a reputation to live
up to. After his two previous oevres, one
expects unforeseen twists which at a stroke
show the plot's events in a different light.
There are many similarities to his earlier cre-
ations - the suspense, the use of child actors
- but this is not one of them. The plot is
obviously intended merely as a backdrop to
the characters themselves. Unfortunately
their personae are too underdeveloped (or
perhaps too typical) to be sufficiently emo-
tive.
One of the main themes running through
the film is about coincidences. Are they real-
ly happenstance, or maybe, just maybe,
could they be part of some grand design?
This is a masterstroke on old Nighty's part.
Now it doesn't matter if the story is about as
believable as Britney's knee operation,
because it was all obviously meant to be. So
that's why the little girl thinks the water's
contaminated! It's so that she leaves hun-
dreds of glasses of the stuff lying around,
because it kills the aliens. Someone give this
man the Nobel Prize for Writing Logical
Scripts...
Ah yes, the script. What can the man who
gave the world the immortal 'I see dead peo-
ple' serve up this time? The enlightening,
'Either these things are a hoax... or they're
real', and my personal favourite; Macaulay
junior telling his 5 year old sister, 'do it - do
it for your children'. As for the acting, the
cliche machine is wheeled out with such
abandon that poor old Mel et al really don't
stand a chance. Joaquin Phoenix (who was
obviously drafted in to lend some weight to
the cast and thus dupe stupid people like me
into going to see this film) makes the best of
a bad job, but his lines are too few and far
between to make any real impact.
To be fair, the suspense (truly Mr
Shyamalan's speciality) is managed well, but
the shocks are too predictable and too few and
far between to call this a true horror movie. In
conclusion, a contrived and tired slice of cine-
ma, and to be avoided unless you want to
have Mel Gibson's babies or something. David
Signs was released on 13th September
2002, Cert. 12A
film.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

