C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
T H E G R E A T F E L I X Q U O T E S Q U I Z
T H E Q U O T E S
1. "I'm a member of the Nazi party. I'm a munitions manufacturer. I'm
a profiteer of slave labor, I'm a criminal. At midnight, you will be
free and I will be hunted."
2. "We will not go quietly into the night. We will not vanish without a
fight. We're going to live on. We're going to survive!"
3. "Husband...negative. Children and a Labrador...negative. Tight little
package...affirmative."
4. "From the minute you're cut loose from the womb, it's a one way
ticket on a trip to the tomb."
5. "Love. Where does it come from? Who lit this flame in us? No war
can put it out, conquer it. I was a prisoner. You set me free."
6. "What're you thinking about?"
— "Girls....Naked Girls....In a fish-tank."
7. "Respect is fine, but actually I've always wanted to be feared."
A N S W E R S T O G F Q Q 1 2 4 5
1. Maxwell Dent/Jurgen Prochnow - Beverly Hills Cop 2
2. LeRoy Brown/Charles Dutton - Crocodile Dundee 2
3. ElvisA'al Kilmer - True Romance
4. William DevasherAVilford Brimley - The Firm
5. Mr. Miyagi/Noriyuki "Pat" Morita - The Karate Kid
6. Philip Niles Argyle/Trey Parker - South Park the Movie
7. Xander CageA/in Diesel - xXx
W E B S I T E O F T H E W E E K
www.mulletsgalore.com
Synopsis: A website dedicated to the mullet. No, not the fish, not the
fish but the hairstyle.
Rating: There are many different classifications of mullet, such as the
Camaromullet, Ultimullet or the Vegasminitruckmullet. Mullets are rated
with quantitative measurements such as 'Mulletude' and
Aggressiveness'. There are plenty of pictures and a great no-nonsense
navigation system which appeals to our sense of apathy. Visit if you can.
Coffeebreak score: 8/10
K A M B L I N G S
While the Fudge is away, Cyclops will play! Yes, the Doctor is not in
today, and I have the run of the coffee-pages. Firstly, let me fully intro-
duce myself to you if this is your first perusal of the coffee-break section.
My name is Robert Cyclops - the One-Eyed Trouser Snake, begotten not
created on Fudge Ranch some years ago. Being cold-blooded I must
warm myself under the Doctors hands before any work on these pages
may begin. With him not being here this week, I had to find... alterna-
tive methods. Anyway, enough of that - let's get onto the quiz(zes). Sorry
again about the cock-up on 1244, hopefully everything is back to nor-
mal now. A little commentary - the two major teams 50D and the JMC4
Coalition are proving that working together gets results, and are racing
ahead. There are also some clear individual quote and lyric geniuses
amongst you, and it's nice to see some fresh faces on the boards, as well
as some well known ones from last year: Mr A. J. Rodrigues and Mr C.
Ince to name but two.
Remember there is a
£1000
cash fund for prizes, so keep it coming. Until next week. B.C.
CUT & Bl.OW DRV
BY OUR TOP STYLISTS
£20 LADIES
£17 M E N
Normal Price £35
ACCESS VISA MASTERCARD CASH CHEQUES
'Still the best student offer!'
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW73ES
!1 Minutt walk from
South Kensinpon fobt)
p Telephone 020 7823 8968 ^
3
mi
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Quotes Quiz

