F E L I X C O F F E E B R E A K 2 5
GFIAI (THE FIRST ONE)
T H E G R E A T F E L I X L Y R I C S Q U I Z
L E A D E R B O A R D S
<aoo GFLO
Name Score Name Score
Richard Hutchinson 22 50D 33
50D 21.5 Richard Hutchinson 28.5
JMC4 Coalition 16 Ongar Rd Massif 20.5
Chris Ince 16 Chris Ince 20.5
Dave Roberts 16 Christopher Dent 20.5
Jennifer Williams 16 Jennifer Williams 20.5
Samuel Jackson 16 Samuel Jackson 20.5
Geoff Lay 16 Geoff Lay 20.5
John Anderson 16 JMC4 Coalition 20
I J L T R A L E A G U E
Name Score Name Score
50D 54.5 Chris Ince 36.5
Richard Hutchinson 50.5 Ongar Rd Massif 35
JMC4 Coalition 36.5 Christopher Dent 35
Jennifer Williams 36.5 David Mercer 34.5
Samuel Jackson 36.5 Rosemary Chandler 33.5
Geoff Lay 36.5 Richard Moore 31
John Anderson 35.5 Luke McManus 30.5
V E R Y S H O R T S T O R Y
Now a very short story from one of our readers.
This is true. It happened to me.
The scratching at the door became a crescendo, and he burst in bare-
toothed and wild-eyed; arms flailing and making his way towards us - the
attack was as swift as it was elegant. I remember his insane grin: an evil
clown's grin which flashed wickedly in the moonlit room, like a collection
of icicles in a bat filled cave. I saw his weapon - a retractable blade, like
a miniature Stanley Knife. So, my assailant was a homicidal paranoiac
with a penchant for arts and crafts - already he was betraying his weak-
nesses to us. He lunged forward, I dodged and wheeled round, forcing
him near the window where what little light the Moon provided might
give me the edge. What could I have done to anger him so? Hours ago
this man was normal - what changed, what caused such a polarisation?
Who knows what goes on inside the mind of a psychotic?
He caught me unawares, pressing the weapon to my gut, but retract-
ing the blade just before contact was made. He was toying with me.
Grabbing the nearest weapon/shield/item around me, I threw a blanket
over him - entangling the attacker like a dolphin-un-friendly net. Yelling
the old adage/war-cry "the worm is faster than the sword!", I proceeded
to beat him with the business end of a tennis racket, and bundle him out
of the door at the same time. Once out of the room, the door was barri-
caded. I looked at my associate, out of breath. "Anyone can flip." I whis-
pered. "Anyone can flip." Anon
T H E L Y R I C S
1. "There are things that I regret, like being called a nervous wreck
and working up another sweat for you."
2. "You used to ride on the chrome horse with your diplomat, who car-
ried on his shoulder a Siamese cat."
3. "I met a girl who sang the blues, and I asked her for some happy
news...but she just smiled and turned away."
4. "Face to face, out in the heat. Hangin' tough, stayin' hungry. They
stack the odds still we take to the street, for the kill, with the skill
to survive."
5. "I was tryin' to catch your eye, thought that you was tryin' to hide.
I was swallowing my pain, I was swallowing my pain."
6. "I've got no kick against modern jazz, unless they try to play it too
darn fast; and change the beauty of the melody, until they sound
just like a symphony."
7. "We're heading for Venus and still we stand tall, 'cause maybe
they've seen us and welcome us all."
8. "I woke up again this morning with the Sun in my eyes, when Mike
came over with a script surprise: a Mafioso story with a twist, a
'Too Wong Foo, Julie Newmar' hitch."
9. "You're a nut! You're crazy in the coconut!"
10. "Mars ain't the kind of place to raise your kids. In fact, it's cold as
hell."
A N S W E R S T O G F L Q 1 2 4 5
1. Ooberman - Physics Disco
2. Gerry Rafferty - Baker Street
3. Jerry Reed - Eastbound and Down
4. The Clash - Should I Stay Or Should I Go?
5. The Levellers - Julie
6. The Sugarhill Gang - Rapper's Delight
7. Dean Martin - That's Amore
8. Blur - Parklife
9. Crash Test Dummies - Mmm Mmm Mmm Mmm
10. Pink Floyd - Time
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Lyrics Quiz

