Come and find
your future!
2 days
4 rooms
97 companies
and thousands of job vacancies!
3
Wednesday & Thursday, November 6 & 7, l l a m - 4 p m
Throughout the Union Building and in the Beit Quad, Prince Consort Rd.
Visit the website, www.union.ic.ac.uk/careersfairfor company details
It's Career Fair Time Again!
This is the Union's largest event and a fantastic opportunity to meet employers. You can see them individually on
campus at presentations and skills workshops throughout this term but the only time you get them all together is at
the Careers Fair. The event is designed so that you can contrast and compare, discuss and collect information all
on the same two days. If you're undecided it could help you choose what to do next. If you already know what
that is you can discover which employers have the kind of job you're looking for.
Be Prepared
First read this pullout or look at the web site; www.union.ic.ac.uk/careersfair. It includes information on the partic-
ipating companies. Then decide which firms you want to target. If possible look at their web sites or get more
information from the files in the Careers Service or the Graduate Career Directories. You will discover what kind
of people each employer recruits and the range of jobs they are offering. If you do that before attending the
Careers Fair you will be able to hold a much more meaningful conversation with the recruiters.
Take Your CV
Have a copy of your CV with you and give it to your chosen recruiters.
Recruiters may put you on the spot by asking a difficult question that you have not come across before. Try to stay
calm and show your analytical skills.
Motivation is a vital ingredient and prepare yourself for the questions.
It's Here for You
This is the best chance to speak to the companies interested in Imperial students without any other competition.
Come and make the most of this opportunity offered by the Union. There are two busy days with different compa-
nies on each day, so prepare yourself and make the most of it. Good Luck!
imperial
• college
union

