I N T E R N A T I O N A L
W o r l d S o c
F E L I X
A fun and energetic evening was had by all at
the Diwali evening on Tuesday. On entering
guests were presented with a mithai sweet and
an offer of a tikka mark for their forehead. By
20:30, some of the Thali dances had already
begun, with concentric lines circling the central
table where dancer figurines surrounded a
flower-bedecked Krishna. We soon approached
the 400 mark, as students from Kings, LSE,
UCL City and QMUC joined their IC counter-
parts in the biggest student Diwali in London.
The lines swelled as people took off their shoes
and succumbed to the beat of the drums, which
were backing the singers and synthesizer of the
Nishaan Band. They tirelessly played through-
out the evening, their music a fusion of Indian
with references to Western influences, such as
the Titanic theme.
As the music quickened, it became clear that
the majority, in traditional dress, were going to
maintain their elegance much longer than those
in western garb, the cooler outfits being much
better suited for the energetic dances; a contin-
uous swirl of gold-edged beiges, blues, pinks,
purples yellows and greens.
A quick break for some speeches from NHSF,
and a glance to see who was here. Not just stu-
dents from Britain, and a few from India, but
also people from communities in Kenya,
Diwali
The presentation of a big cheque
Mauritius and Malaysia, and not just Hindi stu-
dents but Muslim too, reflecting the fact that
Diwali is not merely a religious festival, but a
community one too.
Everyone now congregated for the Aarti
(prayer), led by the band. "Diwali" comes from
a corruption of the Sanskrit "Deepa Avali", liter-
ally "light formation". It is the Hindu New Year,
a celebration of purity. Deepavali is placed at
the center of the 5 day festivities, and is the last
year of the lunar calendar cycle. The other days
celebrate aspects such as love of one's kin, the
triumph of good over evil, the killing of the ego
and removal of ignorance. If you're a business-
man you also worship Lakshmi, the goddess of
wealth.
A cheque was presented to NGO Sewa
International, who have projects rebuilding
schools in earthquake-devastated Gujarat. This
was followed by dancing - the line dances of
Rumjanuu or Rail Gadi, which imitate the shak-
ing of a railway carriage! Then a masterful pres-
entation dance to music from Devdas, which
easily overcame a false start, followd by every-
one joining in the Gujarati dance Raas. Long
parallel lines form, with opposite partners tap-
ping their dandiya batons, twirling, tapping and
moving on to the next partner in line. All this
happens quickly, to the frenetic sound of
Nishaan pushing the sound to extremes of
tempo and volume. The stamina was impres-
sive, frequently the dancers lasted longer than
their dandiyas, which weren't up to all that tap-
ping! A brief pause to pick out winning dancers,
before the evening continued with Bhangra as
your reviewer unwillingly left. Many thanks to
Keshava Shastry, and all others who helped
remove the more glaring errors... Ed
Focus on:
Fed up with no-one here knowing
the first thing about your country?
Do half the people you meet con-
sider the Mappa Mundi as hot car-
tography? Well, here's your chance
to rectify the situation. We want
contributors for Focus on:, and not
just from countries represented by
the OSCs here at Imperial.
Because we know you're out
there...
According to last year's annual
report , the top ten foreign nation-
alities are (approx.) as follows:
425 Greeks, 325 Malaysians,
225 French, 225 Singaporeans,
190 Germans, 125 Italians, 110
Chinese, 90 Indians, 80 Thai and
70 Nigerians. (Compare with
6585 Brits). Now there were
9975 of us in total, so there must
be several other nationalities out
there. We know of Columbians,
Kenyans and Russians, but per-
haps there are also Djiboutians,
Nepalis and Azerbaijanis. We
want to hear from all nationalities!
So write us an article about your
country, and when we've got
enough, we'll run it. We're not a
beard-stroking political forum, so
by all means include a bit about
the history (post-colonialism per-
mitted) and such matters, but
keep it succinct.
Sections we'd really enjoy would
be like some of the following
ideas:
Slang from your country -
include the meaning, and possibly
an idea of how acceptable it is,
unless you're of a particularly mis-
chievous bent.
The local sport (other than foot-
ball) - we know there are plenty
out there, for example petanque,
takraw and schwinger. However,
do include the stranger ones - the
conker equivalents.
What tourists might think
they're saying, but due to mispro-
nunciation/just being wrong they
are in fact saying... An example of
this is the word 'embarrassed',
usually translated into Spanish by
us Brits as 'embarasado'. In fact it
means pregnant, which aptly
describes the ensuing silence,
especially if you're a guy.
Social stuff - what you and your
friends get up to, places to go out
in your city, local drinks (alcoholic
or other), the local equivalent of
cheesy pop, and please, the alter-
natives!
In brief, famous people from
your country, any interesting web-
sites, ways to visit cheaply if you're
a student and customs that
tourists always get wrong.
Don't restrict yourself to the
above, do let us know if you want
to be anonymous and get writing!
So, you're an international stu-
dent in Britain. No doubt you're
already familiar with many of
this country's quirks, but there
are certainly aspects which will
have escaped you. For a start,
you're in London, which is not
representative.
For example, when did you
last see a restaurant dedicated to
British food? Some students
(often French) may go out of
their way to avoid such a thing,
but I know you'll all be open-
minded (or risk having your
Gallic cheek slapped), and try to
find out more about this country.
I'll be your guide to the intri-
cacies of Britain and Britons,
examining diverse topics - places
you'll never visit, stereotypes,
slang, food - you get the idea.
For today, you'll have to content
yourself with dispelling a myth:
the stiff upper lip we're sup-
posed to sport in adversity.
You're only likely to come across
this outside a botox clinic.
Cholmondely
world.felix@ic.ac.uk Want to review for us? Want to be reviewed? Email us! For British and International students at IC

