o
Science & technology
careers for graduates
%
O
INVESTOR W PEOPLE
[dstl]
Dstl is part of the
Ministry of Defence
Imagine teaming up with the finest minds
in their scientific fields. All working towards
common goals that challenge the previously
unchallengeable. And picture yourself inspiring
new ways of thinking, being valued for your
ingenuity and advancing the boundaries of
scientific knowledge through pure research.
Individuality thrives in an environment of
perpetual learning, world-class facilities and
projects when you join Dstl (the Defence
Science and Technology Laboratory).
We provide expert advice to the Ministry of
Defence. Our knowledge is underpinning
future military capabilities. And we're
working with international partners the
world over. But while we're part of the MOD,
our expertise is also helping the wider
community, particularly in the field of health.
We'd like to meet graduates from a wide
range of disciplines - Applied Sciences,
Biological & Health Sciences (Molecular
Biology, Microbiology and Virology), Physics,
Engineering, Electronics, Mathematics,
Operational Analysis, Computing and
Human Sciences (Physiology and Psychology).
We want to talk to those with initiative,
team skills and a passion for knowledge.
Flexible training will enhance your talents
while we also believe in both a healthy
work/life balance and in rewarding high
achievers. All positions are permanent and
come with a comprehensive range of benefits,
including generous pension and holidays.
Come and visit our stand at the Recruitment
Fair on Thursday 7th November, from
11am - 4pm, at the Imperial College Union,
Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BP.
If you cannot make it on the day, see the
careers page of our website where you can
apply online or, for a brochure and application
form, email: graduates@dstl.gov.uk, telephone
01980 614596 (24hr answer phone).
Alternatively, write to: Dstl Graduate
Recruitment, Room 17, Building 106,
Porton Down, Salisbury, Wiltshire SP4 OJQ.
Please quote reference Dstl/IMP.
Dstl is a committed equal
opportunities employer.
Dstl: Inspirational ideas. Aspirational people.
www.dstl.gov.uk

