I l l The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
Kings students in mindless raid on IC Union office
F i l t h ! O u t r a g e !
Students from King's College plastered the Union Office with
eggs and flour and threw human excrement when they 'raided'
the IC Union Building on Wednesday afternoon. Several
hundred pounds worth of damage was done to the office and
to people's clothing. Two IC students were abducted and taken
to King's College for part of the afternoon. They were later
returned to IC by car.
Prior to the raid, two King's
students had called at the Union
office, pretending to be
representatives of U L U
entertainments committee. They said
that they wished to 'go for a drink'
with Union President Christine Taig
to discuss a joint Rag meeting.
Because Ms Taig was occupied. Rag
Vice Chairman Judith Hackney and
FELIX photographer Dave Burns
agreed to go. Shortly after they left,
6 King's students charged into the
Union office and threw flour and eggs
indiscriminantly. There was no
attempt to find or remove any ICU
mascot. Union Receptionist Kathy
Tait was covered in eggs and flour in
the incident. One student threw a
plastic bag containing human faeces
(his own) across the room; this
narrowly missed Ms Taig and struck
one of the office windows.
The intruders then withdrew
swiftly, but UGM Chairman Hugh
Southey and ICU Hon Sec Dave
Colley gave chase and managed to
apprehend one of them. He admitted
to being from King's after Mr Colley
(weighing 18 stone) hit him several
times.
The Union office was then cleared
for the rest of the afternoon as the raid
had left it in an unusable condition.
Ms Taig rang King's College
immediately. Though she could not
contact any King's Union officer at
once, the call was returned by Rag
Officer Al Steger-Lewis (Mr Steger-
Lewis is also Communications
Secretary-elect, the equivalent of
Union President). He denied any
foreknowledge of the raid, other than
the plan to abduct an IC student, and
said that he did not know any of the
students involved in the raid. Ms Taig
demanded that Ms Hackney and Mr
Burns be returned immediately, and
that no demand for a ransom be made.
She also said that all cleaning bills
would have to be met by King's
Union, unless the offenders returned
to clear up themselves. Mr Steger-
Lewis rang again shortly afterwards
and said that he had "identified some
of the students." (Mr Burns and Ms
Hackney were in the room with Mr
Steger-Lewis at the time, and later
told FELIX that the raiders were
present, and reported to have advised
Mr Steger-Lewis to pretend he knew
nothing). Ms Taig said that she
wanted letters of apology from each
of the students. Mr Steger-Lewis said
that the raiders would not be willing
to return to clear up the Union office
because they said they feared
reprisals.
Mr Colley and External Affairs
Officers Adrian Johnson (22 stone)
went to King's (Strand site) to pay a
serious call. By the time they arrived,
Mr Burns and Ms Hackney were
already being returned to IC, having
already escaped once, only to be
recaptured, however, Mr Burns had
spent one hour in handcuffs and Ms
Hackney had had an egg broken into
her hair.
A firm of contract cleaners were
brought in to clean out the Union
Office on Wednesday evening, and
the Office was re-opened on Thursday
morning. All bills for cleaning and for
repairs to the office are being
forwarded to King's. They will also
be charged for an afternoon's wages
for the ICU permanent staff, who
were unable to use the office after the
attack.
King's College Communications
Secretary Frances Taylor rang
yesterday and apologised profusely
for the incident, adding that she would
fully support any action taken by
ICU. Ms Taig has also written a letter
of complaint to the Principal of King's
College, Professor Sutherland.
Ms Taylor told FELIX that King's
would definitely be disciplining the
students involved; she added that
matters of this nature were normally
left to the Union, though she added
that Professor Sutherland may choose
to take action directly.
Sabbatical Election
Manifestos Inside
Free Friday M a r c h 6th No. 766

