Letters FELIX, Friday March 6th 1987 2
Abortion
Dear Dave,
Abortion—one of the apparent few.
who thinks that a woman has the right
to choose what is to happen to her
body, on contraception failure.
I've been amazed recently by
opinions voiced in discussions of the
'Miss S and Mr C court case. Not
only do we have to absorb the
negative female imagery in everything
from hard porn to the subtle (and
more disturbing, as many people are
disgust'ed by snuff movies)
advertising...but can witness an ex-
boyfriend daring to force a woman to
carry a child for 9 months plus a
"health endangering birth" (her GP).
This woman is being treated as a
baby machine (the violation of which,
incidently. is worth less than that of
"property, according to the male
judiciary). And what is sex for,
except for conception?—I don't
believe that she wanted to conceive
(who. in her position would want to
wreck good prospects by becoming a
single parent?)
I refuse to accept that a woman
should have to pay such a great
penalty for a situation created by both
her and this man, (I do question her
taste). If she has an illegal, or self
inflicted, abortion due to a successful
appeal I hope that she recovers
quickly with all the support from
friends she needs a deserves.
Yours,
Clare Murphy, Civ. Eng. III.
Last straw
Dear Felix,
I have only been here two terms but
I think that is quite long enough to be
completely disillusioned by the utterly
useless and pathetic student Union we
have. Last week's FELIX was the last
straw.
I have always found anything
Christine Taig has said amazing but
her comments concerning the recent
NUS demonstration were ridiculous.
How can she accuse the NUS of being
naive when her only solution to the
grants and loans problem is to vote
Labour in the forthcoming election.
Sometimes I feel she is completely out
of touch with reality.
In the same article was a report on
the ULU march protesting against the
proposed 50% cuts. How many IC
students knew about this march? How
many IC students knew about the
50% cuts and how this affects them?
They certainly weren't told about it
by our own Union yet this should be
an important issue for many IC
students. I, myself, live near the ULU
facilities which are certainly
considerably better than anything IC
can provide, and since our Union
seems unable to organise suitable
entertainment for its own members,
it will be a sad loss if the proposed
cuts are implemented.
Another subject is the proposed (or
has it been passed?) government
legislation preventing students from
claiming housing benefit. Now I'm
the typically badly informed student
who knows nothing about this.
Shouldn't there have been some
opposition to this? Or at least I feel
we should be a little more informed
on what is a very relevant concern for
all students.
Back to FELIX. I nearly died when
I read the end of the President's piece.
She actually says when referring to
College administration, "this lack of
information and communication is
doing a great deal to damage any
sense of community that the College
has. Life would be a lot easier and
more relaxed for everyone at College
if those in posession of information
didn't wait for aggrieved students and
staff to come knocking on their doors
before being prepared to distribute
it." I suggest she takes a close look
at her own Union.
Until the ICU stops promoting their
own political beliefs and their
oversized egos and start getting
interested in the welfare of their
members by promoting relevant
issues I will continue to be
disillusioned and "apathetic."
Yours sincerely,
C W Gray, Mech. Eng. I
P Bayada, Mech. Eng. I
Bible bashing
Dear Sir,
I read with dismay the two letters
in last week's FELIX responding to
my letter of the previous week. Both
of them precisely illustrate the point
about not having time to listen to
anyone else. The authors may have
read the letter, but they so completely
failed to hear what I was saying.
Maybe if Andrew and Matthew and
others as well, were to quietly re-read
the letter with open hearts, they might
hear something very different. They
might hear of a God who is not out
to threaten them, or criticise or
condemn them, or to tie them down
with a set of rules, but one whose
heart is filled with compassion,
openess and love.
On the criticism made of the
quotation and New Society, maybe it
would have helped if Andrew had
read the article first. He would
probably have found that it actually
coincided with his own attitudes
towards down-and-outs. As for me,
I have friends who are or have been
prostitutes, heroin addicts, alcoholics,
or tramps and I love them dearly. I
know some of their life histories and
it breaks me just to hear of them. I'm
sorry Andrew misinterpreted my
attitude.
Open, searching hearts are the only
ones that will ever find God.
Yours,
Rob Brown, Civ. Eng. PG.
Promises, Promises
Though the Executive might wish to
deny it, IC union, like the rest of
Imperial College, is a slave to
bureaucracy. As the "administration"
continually expands, there is little
opportunity for new initiatives to get
off the ground. Though we are
supposedly seeing a move towards
"forward planning" this year, the
progress so far has been for a sub-
committee (the Union Planning
Group) to set up three sub-committees
(working parties) which may
eventually report back to a major
committee (Council). To date, one
working party has decided something,
one has decided nothing and the third
may have decided something.
General meetings are frankly
useless as a means of communication
with the student body as a whole. It
is asking too much of anyone who
does not have exceptional patience to
sit through hours of petty procedural
squabbling. This is not going to
change until somebody takes it upon
themselves to re-write those pages of
printed drivel known as standing
orders.
This is why the sabbatical elections
are so important. The officers you
elect next week will, as far as the
Sherfield sharks are concerned be
next year's IC Students' Union. The
elections are one of the few
opportunities all students have to
affect the running of ICU. It is
imperative that the right candidates
are elected—College administration
have no qualms about treading all
over weak Union officers if it suits
them to do so.
There is no harm in being severely
cynical when weighing up the election
promises the candidates make. The
important question is, "why are you
standing for this post?" Nobody who
stands for a sabbatical does so because
they "feel they are the best
man/woman for the job." This is sort
of altruism is confined to saints and
deities—and there are none of either
at IC. Every prospective sabbatical is
interested in whether the year will
benefit them. I mean no disrespect to
people whose concern for ICU is
entirely genuine, and I am not
implying that candidates are after
extra Brownie points for their CVs.
The reality is that sabbatical
candidates stand because they feel it
is a positive way for them to spend
a year; it is their reasons for thinking
this that give the best indication as to
who will do the best job.
Felix and things
As usual, as the end of term is
approaching, there will be no FELIX
next Friday; instead there will be a
final issue on Wednesday March
18th. There will also be a small
results FELIX on Wednesday 11th.
Please submit What's On entries on
Monday 9th at the usual time
(1.30pm). For all other copy, the
deadline for the end of term issue is
1.30pm next Wednesday.
Credits
A very tight schedule this week, so
special thanks to all the following,
Dave Burns, David Rowe, Charles
Robin, Pippa Salmon, Francis Miers,
Judith Hackney, Chris Edwards,
Aaron Kotcheff, Mark Cottle, Chris
Martin, Andy Bannister, A l Birch,
Bill Goodwin, Neil Motteram, Sean
MacRae, Dave Colley, Christine
Taig, Drain, Hamster, Aidan
Kershaw, Liz Holford, Alex McNeil,
Sarah Kirk, Gail Turner, Steve
Kilmurray, Chas Jackson, Rachel
Black, Pete Wilson, David Williams,
Nigel Whitfield, Sunny Bains, Rose
Atkins and Steve Shackell.
David Jones
Public Warning
All copy submitted to FELIX should be written double-
spaced (ie on every other line) on single-sided A 4
paper. There are very good reasons for asking for
articles to be presented in this manner—we are not
just trying to be difficult. Please submit What's On
entries for Friday March 13th to Tuesday March 17th
by next Monday 1.30pm, so that they can be included
in the 'Results issue' on Wednesday 11th. For all other
copy, the deadline for the final issue of term will be
1.30pm the same Wednesday
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications
Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road, London,
SW7 2BB (Tel 01 589 5111 ext 3515). Editor. David Jones. Business Manager, Jane Spiegel.
Copyright FELIX 1987 ISSN 1040-0711.

