FELIX, Friday March 6th 1987 3
W i n a H o l i d a y f o r t w o !
This week's questions are;
•With the sponsorship of STA, FELIX is offering you the chance
to win a weekend for two in either Paris or Amsterdam. The
competition is being run over five issues of FELIX; there will
be two questions in each publication. In each pair of questions
there will be one "identify this" photograph, and one general
kmowledge question. All the questions will be based on Imperial
College. Answers should be submitted to the FELIX office every
week; there will be an additional weekly prize of £10 for a
randomly selected entrant who submits correct answers to the
two questions before Wednesday 1.30pm of the following week.
Later entries will be elligible for the overall competition, but
not for the weekly prices.
The overall winner will be Announced at Rag Fete on Saturday
May 8th; if there is a tie, the competition will be decided by
raffle. The winner will be able to choose between a holiday
weekend in Paris or in Amsterdam.
• A l l entries should be addressed to the FELIX office, and must
be marked "STA Competition". For further information please
contact either FELIX or Mark Fletcher, in the STA office on
level 2 of the Sherfield building
UlUtravel
^STUDENT
^ T R A V E L
HANDBOOK
IT'SFREE!
Gety
o
u
r
s
NOW
Enquiries and Bookings 3EE3
European 01-581 8233
Intercontinental 01-581 1022
ULU Travel
Imperial College
Sherfield Building
A service of
STA
The Worldbeaters
/ C P U -
1) What part of College is shown here?
2) Who was Rector of Imperial College before Lord
Flowers?
Answers to the FELIX office by 1.30pm Wednesday, please.
G e t y e a r s o f e x p e r i e n c e
a t t h e s t r o k e o f a p e n
Engineers at IC can join one of the world's most
exclusive clubs. Money can't get you in, but the
talent that made you a Guildsman can.
Collectively, the club's members know most of the
answers, most of the time. People with industrial
street-wisdom covering public and private sectors,
from social work to systems analysis. The club is
called the OCs.
The OCs helps you benefit from hard-won experi-
ence in so many fields. Experience which would
otherwise take years of trial and error to acquire.
Join if you can. Unless, of course, you would rather
face the trials and make the errors.
OCs: A very special link
Old Students' Association Office, Room 303 Shelfield Building
Imperial College. Telephone 589-5111 Ext. 3026

