Opinion FELIX, Friday March 6th 1987
C o l l e c t i v e D e f e n c e
b y D a v i d B u r n s
Last week at Imperial, Tony Benn MP
advocated a British withdraw! from
the North Atlantic Treaty
Organisation, and political association
with the non-alligned states. Such
arguments have gained momentum
recently, moving hand-in-hand with
the continuing prominence of the
Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.
However, if such a move was self-
evident we would not have remained
a member of NATO for the last thirty-
eight years. As this is an issue which
affects us all, it is worth asking why
is there a NATO, why are we part of
it, and what would be the price of our
withdrawl?
The North Atlantic Treaty was
signed on 4th April 1949, initially
with twelve member states—now
increased to sixteen. It provides for
collective defence against a perceived
post war threat from Soviet expansion
in Europe.
During the years immediately
following the Second World War, the
United States pumped cash aid into
Western Europe, while the Soviet
Union gradually established
communist systems in the nations
which had come under its control.
Marshall Aid from the US was
declined by these countries. As a
consequence, they never realised their
economic potential in the way that
Western Europe had done.
Meanwhile, in the West, the
economic revitallisation continued at
a pace, reinforced by the security
offered by NATO. When the Federal
Republic of Germany was admitted to
NATO, in May 1955, it took the
Soviet Union nine days to implement
its own plans for collective military
operations, by producing the Warsaw
Pact, a mirror of NATO. Whether the
formation of the Warsaw Pact was
prompted by a fear of increased
Western military potential on the
frontier of its sphere of influence, or
by the need to enhance its own
offensive capabilities, is unclear.
Whatever the motive, the European
divide, the "Iron Curtain" as
Churchill described it, was firmly in
place across the continent.
The segregation of Europe, and the
prolonged Cold War which followed,
have led to difficulties in guaging the
precise nature of the present Soviet
"threat". There may once have been
a real intent on the part of the Soviet
Union to increase its sphere of
influence in the European theatre,
possibly involving the unification of
Germany. The establishment of
NATO has undoubtedly dispelled
such ideas, for the present. Such is
the nature of deterrence. The threat
from the Warsaw Pact is still there,
but its own severe internal problems,
and the very presence of NATO,
make the prospect of the Red Army
rolling across the plains of West
Germany a very unlikely one.
The Soviet capacity for massive
conventional and nuclear assault upon
the West is still a real threat. Of
course, the large conventional and
nuclear counter which NATO
deploys, can be regarded as a threat
to the Soviet Union, and so the
endless "Catch 22" arguments, as to
precisely who is a threat to who,
Germany, Britain's contribution is
key. It is a responsibility that we
cannot afford to shirk.
In the, at present unlikely, event of
a full scale Warsaw Pact attack on
Western Europe, NATO's major
problem is that its largest available
force is rooted on the other side of the
Atlantic. In such a situation the US
reinforcement of current defences
would undeniably take time, and it is
Britain's contribution to NATO,
along with the other "front line
states", which would buy this time.
The British Army on the Rhine
(BAOR) is stationed in Germany to
avoid the necessity of bringing it
continue. The real clue as to the intent
of the opposing factions is in the way
in which they train for the situations
they are likely to encounter. Whereas
NATO forces constantly train to repel
large scale Soviet tank incursions, and
projected invasions on the Northern
front (Norway and the Baltic), the
Soviets train for amphibious assaults,
airborne assaults, and massive
movements of armour. The message
from this is clear. No matter how
much the Soviet Union may claim that
they retain their forces for defensive
purposes, they are trained in a highly
offensive role. As such, the Soviet
Union must continue to be considered
as a threat to the NATO nations.
Britain's role in the defence of
Europe, through NATO, is a crucial
one. Each military force in NATO has
a particular task assigned to it. With
the third largest navy in the world,
and a substantial military presence in
forward from Britain in the event of
attack. Such delay could conceivably
lead to the Warsaw Pact overrunnning
Western Europe before even half our
defences had been brought into place.
The Royal Navy's task is equally
important. The logistical impossibility
of transporting troops to the front in
sufficient numbers by air, means that
there must be sufficient maritime
strength to carry US reinforcements
by sea. The Royal Navy provides
70% of NATO's maritime capability
in the Eastern Atlantic, its chief job
being anti-submarine operations. The
Soviet submarine building
programme of recent years has
mushroomed, and as an almost
entirely landlocked nation, its naval
growth can in no way be justified as
defensive. Nor can its continued
maintenance of the largest land based
maritime air force in the world.
The trend towards a "blue water"
school of strategy in the Soviet Union
is a worrying one. Increased Soviet
naval activity world wide can only be
read as an indication of a more
aggressive military stance. This may
be due to a change in Soviet military
thinking following events in the
Second World War, of which so
much is made. They may now
consider offence to be the best
defence, and could respond to any
perceived western "threat" in a more
aggressive manner.
So, with the above in mind, what
would be the price of a British
withdrawl from NATO, and is such
a move feasable? Financially, the
savings made in defence expenditure
from a British withdrawl from NATO
would be enormous. It is very easy
simply to slash the BAOR and the
majority of our navy, scrap Polaris
and cut back the Royal Air Force.
Such a move could hardly be
considered as wise. It would leave our
NATO allies in the lurch, destabalise
Europe, alienate the US, and isolate
us from the rest of Europe. We may
make friends in the Third World, but
this cannot be considered as a
desirable trade-off for throwing the
whole of Europe into turmoil.
With the current concern about the
stabilty of the US, and their dominant
political and military role within
NATO and the Western alliance as a
whole, it might be better to consider
a more unified European approach to
defence and the political scene. This
might well act as a restraint, and a
greater guiding influence on US
policy, as well as demonstrating more
clearly to the European public that we
are indeed part of an "alliance".
Opting out of the European political
scene by becoming a non-alligned
state is just pie-in-the-sky fantasy,
totally out of British political
character.
NATO is a defensive necessity, and
as such should be retained intact.
Whether or not its heavy reliance on
nuclear deterrence is wise, is a matter
for further debate. In order to counter
the large Soviet conventional threat,
which although different in nature
from our own forces, is still massive
enough to be considered as ultimately
overwhelming, we presently have to
rely on nuclear deterrence. It might
be possible to increase our
conventional forces to the point where
they could halt a Soviet attack, but
with no nuclear deterrent behind
them, they would be open to
destruction by the Soviets' nuclear
arsenal. It is a reality we have to face
in a nuclear world. There is no head-
in-the-sand, non-alligned, soft option.
T h e c a s e f o r N A T O

