Manifestos FELIX, Friday March 6th 1987 8
P R E S I D E N T Bill Goodwin, proposed by Sarah Allsop
Bill Goodwin is a second year undergraduate in the
Mechanical Engineering department. While at
Imperial College he has taken an active and
constructive role in the Union. As FELIX News
Editor he has taken a strong interest in Union and
External Affairs. These affect all students, not just
hacks. Bill has also been acting President of QT
Soc and an Ac-Rep in Mech-Eng. He was
responsible for producing the first 'Ac-Rep News'
for students in his year group, which many have
found useful. Bill has proved himself to be an able
candidate for President. He has the experience and
ability to bring about improvements for students
next year.
Sarah Allsop
The time for joking is over. The Union has been
misled too many times by joke candidates
masquerading as serious ones. It is too easy to be
blinded by the seemingly credible rhetoric of
power-crazed canvassing sycophants intent on ego-
masturbation. However "while they babble on about
residential impregnability and refectory boycotts,
I have formulated a workable set of practical
policies that tear down all the old cliches. The
duplicity of College administration and the
impressionability of Union Officers has led to us
losing large tracts of the JCR, ignoring the chance
of gaining other rooms in Sherfield. We have been
distracted by facile arguments on the CCUs without
taking the time to look at how they really work.
At the same time we ignore important parts of IC
such as Silwood Park and the gravel extraction at
Harlington. These things are merely peripheral to
the standard campaigner who is more interested in
the winning than the thrill of the chase. Until, at
the denoument of every election we witness the
schizophrenic simultaneous orgasm: the ejaculation
of joy of the succesful candidate, and the cries of
relief of the crowd.
Bill Goodwin
P R E S I D E N T Ian Howgate, proposed by Tom Brandon
I have been a student at IC for almost four years
now and will be returning for a further year. In that
time I have been:
Captain of RSM Hockey Club;
Student Coordinator for the RSM
Openday;
Geology Departmental Representative;
Student Residence Committee Union
Representative.
At present I sit on ten student committees and
four College committees. As many Presidents have
said their job involves a lot of boring committees.
Well believe it or not I actually enjoy committees
and general representational work.
My knowledge of Academic Affairs, Welfare and
Accommodation is extensive, but I do need to work
on my knowledge of External Affairs. I have
complete confidence in Alan Rose's ability to do
the DP's job and feel we can work together well.
I have many plans for the Union, most of which
would bore the average student silly, but include;
Union reorganisation, pushing for better
accommodation and sports facilities, continued
improvement of the College refectories and a drastic
reorganisation of the entertainments machine to
incorporate more C C U involvement and
participation. I feel I have a good working
relationship with College staff and only a few days
ago Mr Northey agreed to give free chips away if
I held UGMs in the JCR.
There is far too much of a 'College versus
students' feeling at present and these barriers need
to be broken down so we can all work together for
the best results.
I became involved in the Union last year when
I was so annoyed at the lack of representation I and
friends were getting in halls and in my department
that I took up these jobs myself. I now wish to work
for all of you to make this College a better place
for everyone.
Please remember that even though there are only
two candidates it is still very important to vote.
Ian Howgate
H O N S E C R E T A R Y Symon Corns, proposed by Mark Ball
I've known Symon for nearly three years, and have
been impressed by his involvement, enthusiasm and
commitment to a job. He is also well-versed in
Union matters and pretty friendly to boot.
Symon Corns is the perfect candidate for the job,
and I urge you all to vote for him.
Mark Ball
Hello. My name is Symon Corns, and I'm standing
for ICU Honorary Secretary, because quite simply
I feel that I'm the best person for the job. I'm a
final year Chemical Engineer, and in my four years
at College I've been involved in both Guilds Union
(as Vice-President last year I was involved in
committee work, administration andfinanceas well
as organising and running events) and IO Union
(I've been on Rag Committee, Transport
Committee—transport is a major area of
responsibility for the Hon Sec—and the Union's
governing body, Council). I thus consider myself
to be ideally experienced for the post.
The whole structure of ICU is under review, and
it is very possible that next year the Hon See's
responsibilities will be radically changed, and it is
here that my wide range of experience will be
invaluable, as it will help me to undertake whatever
extra responsibilities come my way.
Imperial College Union should provide a service
to every student at IC and I would try to ensure
this, both in my individual capacity as Hon Sec and
as an Executive Officer of the Union. Officers must
not allow themselves to become bogged down in
self-interest and bureaucracy whilst the 'ordinary'
student suffers. We should be electing someone to
help run an organisation for the benefit of us all.
I believe that I am that person.
I hope that I can count on your vote. Thank you.
Symon Corns

