Manifestos FELIX, Friday March 6th 1987 9
H O N S E C R E T A R Y Chas Jackson, proposed by Hugh Southey
The Hon Sec needs to be somebody who is going
to work hard for the Union. Chas has shown that
he is prepared to do this. As Union Publicity
Officer, Chas has produced tons of posters, being
one of the people who ensured that the QT boycott
was a success. He has served on working parties
to reorganise the Union and has helped in the office
doing the jobs that nobody else has time to do.
Chas, though, has not just become involved this
year in order to become a sabbatical. He has been
interested in the Union for longer than he and I care
to remember. Vote for Chas Jackson for a hard
working Hon Sec.
Hugh Southey
Next year there are a number of important changes
which must be made to the Union Office and
organisation. The Hon Sec and all the sabbaticals
must be closely involved with this. An Hon Sec
must also be a decision maker with proposals for
the good of the Union. Amongst my concrete
proposals are:
Duplicating
As the Union Office now has two gestetners and
two electrostatic scanners, I will try to set up a
gestetner with a scanner for the use of clubs and
societies.
Exec News
It is vitally important that students are kept
informed of the actions of Union Officers and
sabbaticals. If elected I would produce this
fortnightly and print it in FELIX. I hope that it will
include adverts for discounts in local cinemas and
shops.
Transport
Expansion of the fleet would mean that more non-
RCC clubs could use the vans at weekends.
However I will examine possible alternatives to
buying new vans. Perhaps contract hiring could
provide an answer. At the moment, outside hire
of vans at weekends is very expensive.
Chas Jackson
F E L I X E D I T O R Chris Edwards, proposed by Adrian Johnson
Over the time that he has been involved with
FELIX, Chris has become one of the most regular
contributors to FELIX and other publications in
College. He has taken on, at various times, the
mantles of News Editor, Features Editor, Designer,
Cartoonist and Columnist on FELIX, introducing
new ideas in layout and in writing. This makes him
the most experienced candidate for Editor, with
enough knowledge of where to make major
changes.
Chris was brought in to edit Phoenix last year
in order to revamp its image, a task which he did
in style to produce a truly seductive magazine. It
was described in FELIX at the end of last term as
"the best produced Phoenix ever".
All in all this makes Chris the best all-round
candidate for FELIX Editor.
Adrian Johnson
For years now, FELIX has been stifled by lack of
imagination and planning to end up with a paper
that won't last for a Friday lecture let alone the
whole morning. Successive editors have plodded
out a safe course trying to avoid new ideas and
controversy. However, now you have a chance to
make Friday mornings worth reading once more.
I have stood for FELIX Editor in order to breathe
new life into the paper. This will involve
restructuring the paper, making it more flexible to
sudden developments. News and features will be
expanded with controversial topics and extra
background to flesh them into real articles.
Humour, so often relegated, will be given special
prominence with regular cartoons and sharp satire.
It would be easy to produce just another FELIX,
and many could do it—but to pick it off the floor
and deliver real entertainment on a Friday means
just one candidate.
For FELIX Editor, vote Chris Edwards.
Chris Edwards
F E L I X E D I T O R Judith Hackney, proposed by Ciaran Hassett
Judith Hackney is one of the best candidates ever
to have stood for the post of FELIX Editor. She
has made a substantial contribution to FELIX under
three different editors, and is best known for editing
the excellent ICU Handbook. As a senior staff
member she has a thorough knowledge of all
production techniques, including writing,
typesetting, laying out and printing. She has held
several important Union posts, including two years
as Publications Board Junior Treasurer and Vice
President of RCSU. But of much more importance
she is reliable, hardworking and enthusiastic. She
is also a strong believer in teamwork and always
encourages other people's input into a project. All
these qualities combine to make for the best possible
FELIX so put a ' 1' against JUDITH HACKNEY's
name on Monday or Tuesday.
Ciaran Hassett
FELIX is produced to provide information,
entertainment and criticism. It must cater for as
wide a range of students as possible. It is not enough
to be proficient at producing a newspaper. The
Editor must be able to generate a tight and well-
formatted publication with quality news and sports
coverage; encourage articles from both regular and
occasional contributors; inspire and advise the staff;
run the Print Unit efficiently and competently.
As Editor, I intend to restructure FELIX with
definite sections for news, features and sports. Each
section will have its own style; a well-ordered, easy
to read news section with background and analysis
of events plus external news of interest to students;
a magazine-type features section including
previews/reviews, cinema and theatre listings,
music and fashion; a more comprehensive sports
section that reports on and previews matches with
a weekly, up-to-date results table.
If you want to see my kind of FELIX next year,
vote HACKNEY 1.
Judith Hackney

