EUROVISION
FRIDAY, 11TH
MAY, 2018 FELIX ISSUE 1692
FELIX
felix@imperial.ac.uk EUROVISION felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 19
ALBANIA
C
Z
ECH REPUBLI
C
LITHUANIA
ISRAEL
ESTONIA
BULGARI
A
AUSTRIA
Mall – Eugent Bushpepa
This was another unexpected qualifier from semi-final one, but one I was personally quite pleased with. Eugent Bushpepa is
a fairly well known rock singer in Albania, having won the‘Best Male Singer’category twice in Albania’s‘Top Fest’talent show.
He’s also supported some big names on tour before such as Deep Purple, both lead guitarists of Guns N’Roses and Overkill. His
soft-rock song‘Mall’(that doesn’t mean the same thing in Albanian as it does in English just to clarify…) is about the yearning
you feel when you’re away from the people you love, and is just a quality number. Eugent also nails some high notes that brings
this song to a new level, and it is a deserving qualifier.
When We’re Old – Ieva Zatumsikate
Now this song is just the epitome of cuteness. Ieva is just this little ball of sweetness singing about growing old with your one
true love. Her performance is beautifully simple, just her on stage with a flowing pink gown and a few subtle graphics showing
people with different types of love. Right at the end of the song, she walks onto one of the small bridges coming off from the
stage and delivers the final lines “(in Lithuanian) Right from our very first kiss I knew it’d end up like this. (In English) I’m not
afraid to grow old if I have your hand to hold”just as her husband walks by her side and holds her hand **start crying now**.
La Forza – Elina Nechayeva
‘La Forza’is an Italian language pop-opera piece delivered flawlessly by accomplished soprano Elina Nechayeva. I fell deeply
in love with this song after watching the Estonian national final performance where Elina’s out-of-this-world vocals and the
projection light show happening on her dress that fills the entire stage make for a magical three-minute viewing experience.
Her journey to Lisbon was thwarted by financial difficulties since Estonian broadcaster ERR couldn’t afford the €65,000 to rent
the projectors for the dress light show – however the dress drama came to an eventual end when sponsors were found.
Nobody But You – Cesár Sampson
Austria saw their first win in decades recently with the fabulous Conchita Wurst and her impressive beard. They got the
dreaded nul point the year after but have enjoyed a couple of mid-board successes since. As for this year – I’m not really sure
what to say about this entry really. The song is nice, the staging is nice, the guy looks nice, his vocals are nice and that’s about it
really. If you’re looking for a toilet break song, I’d recommend this one because I guarantee if you do watch it, the main things
you’ll remember is Cesár’s gap tooth and little about the song itself.
Lie to Me – Mikolas Joseph
If you were ever listening to Jason Derulo’s ‘Talk Dirty’ and thought ‘I would love to hear a pretty Czech boy sing a worse
version of this song on the Eurovision stage’ then you’re in luck. I personally can’t stand this song, but it’s got a lot of support
and has given Czech their second qualification in history. It hasn’t been plain sailing, – following an attempted back flip in the
first rehearsals, Mikolas landed himself in hospital. He got back on his feet after a few days and could potentially do well on
Saturday. Listen to some of the… inspired lyrics in the song:“plenty motherfuckers wanna eat my spaghetti”.
Toy – Netta
There’s been a craze surrounding Netta since her song dropped in March, and was firm favourite to win until a few days ago
– she’s slipped to third now. It’s hard to describe ‘Toy’, really; I suppose it’s an electro-pop song that makes good use of a live
looper, but that doesn’t really do the whole thing justice. Much of the craze stems from the chicken clucking that serves as the
pre-chorus which, somehow, manages to work perfectly in the song. With lyrics like “Wonder Woman don’t you ever forget,
you’re divine and he’s about to regret”, Netta’s message is one of self-empowerment for anyone who’s been mistreated.
Bones – Equinox
Bulgaria have been riding a wave of good results since they returned from a two-year hiatus in 2016, placing fourth that year
then second last year, and they’ve come back again with a solid entry.‘Bones’is a fairly dark, ominous song about deep love that
goes ‘beyond the bones’. Equinox is a common framework of five singers from both Bulgaria and America created just for the
competition. The single woman in the group, Zhana Bergendorff, has been the suspect of speculation during rehearsals due
to doubts that she is actually singing in the performance. I’ll admit, after watching the semi-final performance, I share them.
The Acts: Part I
S
PAIN
ITALY
FRANCE
GERMANY
UK
PORTUGA
L
Tu Canción – Amaia y Alfred
Spanish broadcaster RTE brought back to life Spanish reality show Operación Triunfo, a weird cross between Big Brother and
X Factor. Out of it came Spanish power couple Amaia and Alfred. Their Spanish language song‘Tu Canción’(‘Your Song’) is your
quintessential love song with (translated) lyrics like “feels like I’m dancing for the first time” and “everything is perfect when
you’re here”. Alfred and Amaia (or, Almaia as they’re called a lot) are just about as cute as a couple can get, and this translates
onto the stage as well. Spanish Eurovision fans – who are amongst some of the most passionate – are sure this is going to win,
but they said that about Pastora Soler, Ruth Lorenzo, Edurne, and Barei all in the last six years so I wouldn’t hold your breath.
Mercy – Madame Monsieur
Émilie Satt and Jean-Karl Lucas, the wife and husband duo creatively called Madame Monsieur, are representing France this
year with the hard hitting song ‘Mercy’. The song starts with ‘Je suis née ce matin, je m’appelle Mercy’; if you hear it and think
this person is called ‘thank you’, you won’t be the first. In fact, this song tells the story of a Libyan refugee child born at sea
called Mercy, a story which made headlines in March last year, and the journey her mother made to give birth in a safe place.
Francophones might gulp at the lyric‘Je suis tous ces enfants que la mer a pris’– I know I did. The end of the song culminates in
a chant of‘merci merci’where Jean-Karl and Émilie will try get the audience to reach out and give love to the beat.
Storm – SuRie
In a post Brexit world, we really need an epic song to win Eurovision. The BBC ran their‘Eurovision You Decide’national final
again – the show that gave us classics like‘Flying the Flag’and Andrew Lloyd Webber – so hopes were high. Were these hopes
matched? Maybe not. But should we be ashamed of our entry this year? No way. Susanna Marie Cork, or SuRie, brings us an
uplifting pop ballad about how storms don’t last forever, and while the song isn’t creating storms itself, SuRie sells it to the
camera and has a clever light show so we might not come last.
Non mi avete fatto niente – Ermal Meta and Fabrizio Moro
This song has one of the deepest lyrics in the competition, responding to terrorist attacks around Europe over the last few
years.‘Non mi avete fatto niente’means‘you haven’t done anything to me’in Italian, and is the main message of this song. Ermal
and Fabrizio earned the right to represent Italy after winning the Sanremo Music Festival, although this win wasn’t without its
dramas. It transpires a song called ‘Silenzio’ was entered to the festival in 2016 which is extremely similar to this year’s song,
and the duo were temporarily disqualified from the festival until they were eventually allowed back in after they argued that it
wasn’t plagiarism, but self-referencing since the author of both songs were the same.
You Let Me Walk Alone – Michael Schulte
This is the first Eurovision song I’ve ever cried to on first listen. Michael pulls on the heartstrings in a massive way with a
poignant song lamenting about his life after the death of his father in his teenage years. The song has a strong Ed Sheeran feel,
and is similarly quality. The staging of this performance just elevates this already-beautiful song – Michael stands in front of a
screen with images of fathers and their children as well as pictures relevant to the song being projected onto it. This song is
growing in many people’s estimations, and the emotional resonance it may have with many people is expected to propel it to
perhaps Germany’s best result since they won in 2010. I certainly hope this is the case.
O Jardim – Cláudia Pascoal and Isaura
Portugal won the competition for the first time ever last year with the song‘Amar Pelos Dois’, a pretty, atmospheric love song.
This year, they’ve sent a song with a similar tone yet, for me, it’s much better.‘O Jardim’means‘The Garden’in Portuguese and is
about the death of Isaura’s grandmother and how she will continue to tend her garden – something which will forever remind
her of her grandmother. It’s sang by Claudia Pascoal who is best known in Portugal for coming fifth in The Voice Portugal, and
her distinctive voice gives this song an ethereal feeling that makes it stand out above other ballads in the competition. Portugal
may not win again this year, but this an entry they can really be proud of.

