EUROVISION
FRIDAY, 11TH
MAY, 2018 FELIX ISSUE 1692
FELIX
felix@imperial.ac.uk EUROVISION felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 23
MOLDOV
A
N
E
THERLANDS
UKRAINE
SERBIA
HUNGAR
Y
DENMAR
K
SLOVENI
A
My Lucky Day – DoReDos
Moldova surprised everyone with a third place result last year – their best ever – when they brought back Epic Sax Guy in the
group Sunstroke Project who previously represented them in 2010. They’re going for the same upbeat, slapstick song this year
with ‘My Lucky Day’ which was produced by Russian superstar Philipp Kirkorov and performed by the trio DoReDos (no clue
where this name comes from). No one thought all that much about it before the show, but the staging is sorta fun and makes
you forget the trash lyrics. Moldova could very well pull out another top ten performance this year.
Under The Ladder - MÉLOVIN
This is weird in many respects. The song is, apparently, in English but I can’t understand a word. The guy’s stage name is
‘Melovin’which is apparently an amalgamation of‘Alexander McQueen’and‘Halloween’, but don’t ask me how that works. His
aesthetic is vampire chic and his performance sees him emerging from a coffin-like piano. He’s got a coloured contact lens in
one eye making him look terrifying. I could list more but you’ll see for yourself on Saturday. Despite all the weirdness, this is
something of a fan favourite and admittedly really quite catchy.
Viszlát nyár – AWS
Hungary like to send something a bit different to the competition, and this year is no exception. After winning preselection
show A Dal, the metal group AWS were chosen to represent Hungary with the song‘Viszlát nyár’. This is a fairly polarising entry
and will immediately turn some people off due to how screamy it is. The song title means‘Goodbye Summer’in Hungarian and
is about the lead singer’s loss of his father (déjà vu right?). You can really feel the pain in the screams and, just as you’re about
to get emotional, you see the guitarist dive into the stage and forget all about it.
Lea Sirk – Hvala, ne!
Hvala,ne? More like hvala,ye! Lea Sirk wrote the song‘Hvala, ne!’(‘No thanks!’) is about the fakers in the world, and the people
who try to tell others how they should live their lives. This is an upbeat Slovenian language song complete with dance routine
that Lea delivers fiercely. No one really expected her to qualify, but against all odds – here she is! And I think she definitely
deserves her place there. Also, keep an ear out for the break in the song – she’s using the cheapest gimmick there is, pretending
the music has stopped working…
Outlaw In‘Em – Waylon
Waylon is certainly no stranger to the Eurovision stage having come second in 2014 as part of the group The Common
Linnets. Fast forward four years and he was announced to be representing The Netherlands again with the song ‘Outlaw In
‘Em’which is a country/rock song claiming that“everyone’s got a little outlaw in‘em”. Due to this message in the song, you can
imagine why some controversy started to brew around the stage performance when it transpired that Waylon is accompanied
by four African-American dancers – a staging choice which left people wondering if they were meant to represent the outlaws?
Sanja Ilić & Balkanika – Nova Deca
Serbia has brought one of the strongest ethnic feeling songs, in a year with the highest number of songs sang in languages
other than English, with their song‘Nova Deca’which means‘New Children’in Serbian.The song is an ode to the next generation,
with a hopeful feeling of creating a new world together. The group were one of the most fun on the promo tour before the
competition, always willing to take an interview and give fun new renditions of songs
Rasmussen – Higher Ground
Danish broadcaster DR had the idea of creating a song about peace and waving the white flag, and what better way for a
Scandinavian country to do this other than with Vikings! They were after someone with the right look (i.e. big beard and big
hair) to give the performance, and they found singer and stage actor Rasmussen to play the part. The one word that comes
to mind when watching the stage show is ‘testosterone’, as Rasmussen is accompanied by four equally haired men providing
(slightly demonic) backing vocals and‘Viking walking’.
The Acts: Part II
F
INLAND
IRELAND
CYPRUS
NORWAY
SWEDEN
AUSTRAL
I
A
Monsters – Saara Aalto
Saara Aalto describes herself as a Finnish snow fairy, although I describe her as MY QUEEN. Fans of the UK X Factor might
recognise the name – Saara got second place in the show in 2016 after she repeatedly wowed judges with her amazing voice
and bonkers performances. She’s no stranger to second place, having come second in all five TV talent shows she’s competed
in including two previous attempts at representing Finland in Eurovision. She was chosen this year with her song‘Monsters’–
a really upbeat song about facing your problems head on and “making friends with all the creatures hiding there under your
bed”. Some wrote her off as a fan-favourite flop, but my girl slays her performance every time and sailed into the final.
Fuego – Eleni Foureira
Yeah, yeah, fire! Eleni Foureira is the sizzling hot Albanian born, Greek singer representing Cyprus this year who’s now climbed
to first in the betting odds to win. Last year, when Salvador Sobral won for Portugal, his winning message was about‘fast food
music’and that‘music is not fireworks; music is feeling’but Eleni apparently didn’t get this memo and is serving us some fierce
hair flicking, sassy realness – fireworks and all. Is this the best song in the world? No. Have we heard many songs just like this
before? Yes, but Eleni brings it to life on stage and could very well walk away with the title. There’s been a lot of speculation
whether or not Cyprus would actually be able to host the contest last year, with financial constraints and lack of venues and
accommodation potentially getting in the way.
Dance You Off – Benjamin Ingrosso
Benjamin Ingrosso won Melodifestivalen, the Swedish selection show, with his funky, 80s throwback song‘Dance You Off’. I’ll
be honest with you, I have no clue what it means to dance someone off, but I’m pretty sure that he’s getting over some girl by
doing it. Sweden is a Eurovision powerhouse having placed in the top five six out of seven times since 2011, and their success
is often due to effective staging. We’ve seen them bring interactive projection shows, dance routines on treadmills (think OK
Go) and this year we have a charming Michael Jackson wannabe thrusting his hips on a background of light tubes which,
surprisingly, works.
Together – Ryan O’Shaughnessy
Ryan O’Shaughnessy might be a familiar name to people in the UK having come fifth in Britain’s Got Talent in 2012, and now
he’s returned to the spotlight, already creating a stir as being a shock qualifier from semi-final one. His song‘Together’is a cute,
though slightly repetitive, break-up song that Ryan wrote about two friends of his. The song itself is slightly meh but its music
video showcases gay love story with two men dancing through the streets of Dublin at night and was embraced warmly by
Eurovision’s large LGBTQ+ fan base. They replicated this story on stage and created a moment that propelled them into the
finals despite many expectations. Fun fact: Ryan’s uncle Gary O’Shaughnessy represented Eurovision in 2001 and came 21st
.
That’s How You Write a Song – Alexander Rybak
Rybak very convincingly won the whole thing in 2009 with‘Fairytale’, and after nine years of maturing (though not physically
ageing apparently – how does someone stay looking so young?) and to think of a new winner, he’s come back with a cheesy,
nonsensical, though admittedly catchy song that would be better suited to the Junior Eurovision Song Contest. Norway have
had a run of top ten entries since 2014 (except for the sad blip in 2016 #JusticeForAgnete), and this seems set to follow that trend
being the bookies’second favourite to win. The song is akin to a WikiHow article about how to write a song, and apparently it
takes just two steps! Step 1: believe in it; step 2: roll with it. Who knew song writing was so easy!
We Got Love – Jessica Mauboy
We’re four years into Australia’s run at Eurovision and I think it’s about time we drop the questions about why they’re in the
competition SO I AIN’T GONNA TALK ABOUT IT. They have pulled out a top ten finish in every competition they’ve competed
in so far - are they on track to maintain this record? At one point, everyone thought so but people aren’t really sure anymore.
Jessica Mauboy is a fairly big deal in Australia, and her song ‘We Got Love’ sounds almost perfectly made for Eurovision with
messages about love, love, peace, peace. Unfortunately, this isn’t really translating on the stage and people have been left
underwhelmed with the performance. But she is a seasoned performer and could very well pull it out of the bag on the night.

