Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 11 May
Hi Imperial,
Yet another election
There’s something you should know - it’s okay to not be okay. Life is inconvenient and the stuff that throws us out of sorts doesn’t always happen
when we’re best equipped to handle them. In fact, it’s often the opposite. So this exam season, if you’re going through something that’s making it
extra hard to cope, we need you to know two things: it’s okay to not be okay, and we’re here for you.
Imperial College Union employs full time professional caseworkers in our Advice Centre to handle the kinds of problems you may be experiencing.
They are completely confidential and will provide as much or as little support as you require. The Advice Centre handles mitigating circumstances,
appeals, money issues, legal woes, or anything which may affect your performance or ability to prepare.
So go ahead, send us an email at advice@imperial.ac.uk, drop by the Union (Level 2), or visit imperialcollegeunion.org/exams.
#icuHereforYou,
Imperial College Union
P
.S. We’re also giving away exam goodies every Monday this month. Find us lunchtime in Central Library at South Kensington for ear plugs, energy
bars, water bottles and breakfast tea. It’s our way of showing we care and to help make studying easier.
Oh no, not another election!We hear you. But Democracy is one of our key values and that means giving all students the chance to lead the change
and have their say. Summer Elections are a chance to do that across a range of positions affecting student life, including Liberation, Constituent
Unions, our Academic & Wellbeing Representation Networks and our biggest Clubs, Societies and Projects.
The full range of positions will be available online when nominations open next Wednesday 16 May. The nomination period closes 23 May, while
voting will run fromTuesday 29 May to Friday 1 June.
If you’re planning to stand, manifestos will be due onThursday 24 May, with campaigning set to begin on Friday 25 May.
#leadthechange
Summer

