8 May 1998 COLUMNS
THOUGHT FOR THE DAY
Oh God, Jimmy, no.
It's not too often that I find myself handing
this c o l u m n in to Jeremy late, but 1 a m afraid
that this is one of those weeks. This is due to
the rather unfortunate bombshell that I have an
exam tomorrow, and still haven't starting revis-
ing yet. W h y not? - well, s o m e might quote me
an answer containing the words "bone-idle",
"layabout" and "good-for-nothing". True as these
scandalous accusations might ultimately be, I
am going to suggest a far more noble cause: the
Embassy World Championship Snooker.
Yes: it's that time of year again w h e n men in
waistcoats and bow ties knock a kaleidoscope
of colour around an apparently chlorophyll-sat-
urated piece of cloth. Eventually one of them
wins an obscene quantity of hard cash through
this apparently very simple activity, but by g u m ,
the spectators don't half have some fun along
the way...
After seeing Jimmy White lose a d o z e n or so
heartbreaking frames on the trot one year to
Stephen Hendry, I decided that the subsequent
operation 1 had to have performed o n my ner-
vous system was something I was unlikely to be
able to afford again, and v o w e d to give up my
important role as a spectator of this Sport of
Kings. Snooker is snooker, though, and so w h e n
I heard that instantly recognisable B B C Sport
musical interlude, I knew that the next two
weeks were going to be completely out of c o m -
mission for any purpose other than eating
crisps, drinking coffee, and smoking a lot of cig-
arettes. So the dice were cast, and just as the
prevalence of W i m b l e d o n fills houses with
grunts and the erratic bleeps of Cyclops, so the
alluring Siren that is the sound of two snooker
balls colliding draws me d o w n from my eco-
nomics revision. 1 d o not even have the luxury of
lashing myself to the mast.
So follows days of cheers, groans, and mut-
tered conversations about the "foul and a miss"
rule. The first rounds of any major tournament,
be it snooker, tennis or tiddlywinks, seldom
contain any major drama as the top seeds blast
their way through the board, greatly upsetting
the y o u n g qualifying hopefuls. This year, howev-
er, was a very welcome exception, as the
unseeded Jimmy "bookie's friend" White bat-
tered Stephen Hendry w h o was then the world
Number One. Even after this beautifully con-
trolled display, there was little doubt in any-
body's mind that poor Jimmy, a runner-up in the
final six times, didn't stand an earthly; it was
perhaps fitting that it was the job of Ronnie
O'Sullivan, often considered White's contempo-
rary replacement, to send him packing yet
again.
This demonstrates admirably another
appealing facet of the game: it is a game of
characters. From the unbridled arrogance of
Stephen Hendry to the cheeky chirpy Scouse
twang of John "don't let me into your dressing
r o o m or I'll steal your trousers" Parrott, or the
calculated conservative play of 80s wizard Steve
Davis, everybody has their eccentricities, and
the concentration that the sport requires seems
to merely amplify these twitches. There are also
the wags behind the microphones: John Virgo,
Dennis Taylor, and that fellow w h o has recently
retired; y o u know, the biased one w h o whis-
pered a lot: "1 think Jimmy's left a red on. Wait,
he's left two.... Or is it three.... O h G o d , Jimmy,
no. Please, G o d , no. N O O O O O O "
So there you have it. I k n o w nothing about
indifference maps, h o w to maximise a firm's
profits or G a m e Theory. But I d o know a lot
about referee indifference, the m a x i m u m break
prize and the theory behind the greatest table
sport in the world.
Ali Campbell
Goulash
This week we head east, pass over a few inter-
vening countries and arrive in Hungary to sam-
ple the local mainstay, goulash. This was origi-
nally a low-budget stew eaten in the country but
has now been upgraded to a posher internation-
al status. S o m e h o w the transition managed to
change the name as well: despite the spelling,
goulash is 'gouyash' as a rather excited hungari-
an restaurateur once told me (over and over and
over again throughout an expansive dinner).
The originality of goulash is that it is spiced
with paprika, a mild/very mild chilli grown in
Hungary. The same restaurateur also told me
that he used a heaped tablespoon of paprika per
person and the result was excellent but you
might want to start with less especially if you're
a chilli-wuss.
Another hot tip I've recently discovered is
that those of you w h o have problems with beef
can use some neck of lamb and get something
just as delicious. So there.
And finally 1 thoroughly r e c o m m e n d this dish
if you're camping and have to cook for lots of
people on only one heat source since the stodge
cooks in the splodge if y o u know what I mean.
O
This, as all good vampires will know, is the
neck of a lamb.
You will need:
V I Vi - 2 lb beef / lamb
2 onions
®" 2 oz butter
T 1 tbl flour (heaped)
»" 1 tin tomatoes
'A pt red wine
«' 1 pt stock (possible cheat with cubes)
5T bouquet garni or just any old herbs
«" paprika, lots
* small tub of soured cream
«" 6-8 spuds
Start of by cutting the meat into 'A inch
cubes (or get your local butchered family to d o
it for you). Heat up a large frying pan, melt the
butter in it and gently fry both the sliced onions
and the meat until well brown. Grind some pep-
per into the pan, add the flour and leave to
singe for a g o o d minute stirring all the time. Put
everything into a large saucepan and deglaze
the frying pan with the wine. Leave the wine to
simmer gently for a moment, scraping the base
of the pan to dissolve all those pyrogenic chem-
icals and then add it to the meat and onions.
Also add the tomatoes, stock, bouquet, salt and
a couple more pints of water to the saucepan.
Heat this up and leave to simmer for at least
I Vi hours.
Meanwhile wash and dice the potatoes into
1" cubes. You then add these and the paprika to
the stew '/z hour before y o u want to eat, bring
back up to the boil and simmer.
The finishing touch is to add the cream to
the goulash just before serving with s o m e g o o d
crusty bread and the rest of the wine if it's still
around.
Antoine

