PAGE 3
felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 13th
NOVEMBER 2015
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A Halloween
frat party
allegedly
refused black
students
entry as the
door policy
was “white
girls only”
Race row at Yale sparks protest
A
fter an email from a
college administrator,
telling them to “look
away” if they were
offended by racially insensitive
Halloween costumes, Yale students
have been protesting this week.
Shortly before Halloween,
an initial email was sent to the
whole student body from Yale’s
‘intercultural affairs committee’
which included representatives from
the chaplaincy, athletics and various
ethnic groups. After telling students
that Yale “values free expression as
well as inclusivity,” it went on to
remind students to be aware that
their costumes could be interpreted
Grace Rahman
Editor-in-Chief
Rumbling racial tensions over Halloween costumes, censorship, and safe spaces
have caused some students to take direct action at the Ivy League school
American universities were once a safe space not only for
maturation but also for a certain regressive, or even transgressive,
experience; increasingly, it seems, they have become places of censure
and prohibition. And the censure and prohibition come from above,
not from yourselves! Are we all okay with this transfer of power?
Have we lost faith in young people’s capacity – in your capacity –
to exercise self-censure, through social norming, and also in your
capacity to ignore or reject things that trouble you? We tend to view
this shift from individual to institutional agency as a tradeoff between
libertarian vs. liberal values (“liberal” in the American, not European
sense of the word).
Nicholas says, if you don’t like a costume someone is wearing, look
away, or tell them you are offended. Talk to each other. Free speech
and the ability to tolerate offence are the hallmarks of a free and open
society.
But – again, speaking as a child development specialist – I think
there might be something missing in our discourse about the exercise
of free speech (including how we dress ourselves) on campus, and it is
this: What does this debate about Halloween costumes say about our
view of young adults, of their strength and judgment?
In other words: Whose business is it to control the forms of
costumes of young people? It’s not mine, I know that.
as offensive to marginalised groups.
Four potentially problematic types
of costume were named; ‘funny’,
‘historical’, ‘religious’ and ‘cultural’,
with each followed by questions
potential party-goers should ask
themselves. Under the cultural
banner, the administrative staff
asked, “If this costume is meant
to be historical, does it further
misinformation or historical and
cultural inaccuracies?”
While classic examples of
distasteful and downright offensive
costumes,like feathered headdresses
and blackface, were named, the
email generally advised students
to consider whether their costume
could potentially cause offense
before they wore it.
In response, the Associate
College Master of residence, Erika
Christakis, sent out an email
comparing dodgy costume-wearing
students to toddlers playing dress-
up, mourning the lack of free
speech and questioning the validity
of some points in the initial email
asking for sensitivity when choosing
Halloween costumes. She also
quoted her husband on the matter,
saying, “Nicholas says, if you don’t
like a costume someone is wearing,
look away, or tell them you are
offended.”
In response, 740 students signed
an open letter to Christakis, calling
her email “offensive”, berating her
comparisons between pre-schoolers
and students, and for comparing
cultural sensitivity with censorship.
A thousand students took part in
a ‘March of Resilience’ on Monday,
with hundreds missing lectures to
show support.
In a heated exchange between Yale
students,her husband,quoted in the
email, was filmed by a passer-by.
After saying he didn’t think his
wife’s email was making the college
an unwelcome space for minorities,
one particularly upset student was
filmed screaming “why the fuck
did you accept the position?” at the
professor.
The last few weeks have been
marred by accusations of racism at
Yale, after a Halloween frat party
allegedly refused several black
students entry, on account of it
being a “white girls only” event.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, a fraternity
Nicholas Christakis responds to
students. Photo Credit: YouTube
with branches at several American
universities, is being investigated
over the matter.
They have already been banned
from conducting any activities
on campus or using their name
in association with Yale’s, after
last year violating the university’s
policy on sexual misconduct and
then attempting to hinder the
investigation that followed. Last
year a video emerged of several
members of the fraternity’s
Oklahoma branch singing a racist
song on a bus, implying that
they would rather lynch African
Americans than allow them to join,
saw the chapter shut down and two
students expelled.
The University of Missouri’s
President and Chancellor stood
down earlier this week after
heightened racial tensions on
their campus. Several incidents,
including two students being caught
scattering cotton balls outside the
university’s Black Culture Centre,
and the US equivalent of a union
president describing common use
of racial slurs on social media, lead
to the university’s football team
threatening to boycott their next
match.
University-level football is big
business in the US, and with the
college standing to lose one million
dollars over the missed match, both
big names stood down.
Exerpt from the email from Associate College Master, Erika Christakis
A thousand
Yale students
took part in
a ‘March of
Resilience’
Students protesting on Monday. Photo Credit: Twitter / @hannuhmontanuhh

