F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
NO. 169 FRIDAY, 8TH DECEMBER 1961. PRICE 4D.
GUILDS IN G R E A T F O R M
SPANNER-BEARERS SENTENCED
On Thursday November 30th 1961 Guilds
held their second Union Meeting this term
in room 04. This meeting was well up to the
standard of the previous one due to some
hard work behind the scenes in preparation
for the trial of the Spanner-bearers. The trial
was successful in that they were convicted
and subsequently thrown into the R_ound
Pond.
Opening the meeting at 115 p.m. Guilds'
President, Lawrie Austin, called for a Boom-
alacka to ensure that the meeting was quor-
ate; room 04 was shaken to its foundations
by the blast. There was a quorum. Secretary
Max Finney eventually read the minutes un-
der extremely trying conditions, as the num-
ber density of decayed grocery round his
head was unusually high. A t this point a
young lady from R.C.S. was observed to be
present: blood was called for but the Pre-
sident rightly decided that this could only
be brought up under A.O.B. The only item
of correspondence was a letter from all eleven
undergraduate Guildswomen challenging all
Guildsmen (1200) to a game of hockey. The
meeting decided that it was not going to take
this lying down ("We don't take it standing
up either!", said an irate Guildsman). Mr. G.
Brough was unanimously elected Captain ^f
the men's team.
The President announced that Sunday,
January 21st, 1962 was to be a Sport Day
against RCS with 5 rugger, 4 Soccer, 2 Hoc-
key, 2 Darts, 2, Dominoes, 2 Bridge, 2 Chess
and 1 Tiddlywinks teams from each college.
Kick off /bully off/ middle-for-diddle /first
drop/ opening bid /first move/ first squidge
was to be at 2.15 p.m. The contests were to
be kept to departments as much as possible.
Reports were received and adopted from
Bernie Liberman on Morphy Day ("We
won!"), from Harry Watson on the Bright-
on Run, and from the President himself on
the Lord Mayor's Show. Mr. Liberman also
introduced the meeting to the Morphy Day
song (lyrics by 1st year Civil, music by
Flanders and Swann). The Swimming Gala
was also announced — see this page for de-
tails.
The trial of the Spanner-bearers is reported
fully in our Legal Column, but the outcome
was never in doubt due to the excellent be-
haviour of the jury, who maintained a bar-
rage of assorted missiles, all aimed in the
general direction of the officials.
Having sentenced the Spanner-bearers and
concluded the trial, the President announced
AOB. Under the vigilant eyes of Dr. Vest,
the RCS intruder was brought forward to-
gether with her Guildsman escort, one Mr.
J. Klascka, aged 21, of no fixed address.
The case was speedily and summarily dealt
with, and they were both sentenced to join
the convicted Spanner-bearers in the Round
Pond. The meeting was then adjourned to
the Round Pond where 350 Guildsmen saw
that jutstice took its course. The Spanner-
bearers and Mr. Klascka took to the water
gracefully, especially Mr. White, whose long
white corns were much admired. In defer-
ence to her sex, the RCS lady merely had
her feet paddled in the water by the now,
brighter-than-white Spanner-bearers.
A stray police-woman joined the throng in
pursuit, it later transpired, of a cork annulus
of unknown use, but the meeting assumed
that she wanted to join the Union, and her
application was accepted with acclaim. In-
deed, she was lifted shoulder high to the ac-
companiment of a Boomalacka.
After a short horn recital by Chem. Eng.
from the bandstand, the parry was return-
ing towards the Union when the President
realised that he hadn't concluded the meet-
ting (idiot!), so this was done with due cer-
emony on the Albert Memorial. Guilds' con-
tribution to the IC Carnival was started by
asking a penny each in return for permis-
sion to leave the Memorial enclosure. The
sum of £1 • 18.10 was collected. The meet-
ing closed at 2.50 p.m., but at 3.15,' several
Guildsmen were still playing hop-scotch with
a stray copper on the zebra-crossing.
SWIMMING G A L A
At last the day of the I.C. Swimming Gala
at U.L-U. has arrived. After all the plugging
it has received I.C. will be turning out in
force and who knows, perhaps a little sport
may be had. I.C. and U.L.U. in close proxim-
ity seems a promising situation for a start.
Coaches have been provided by the three
constituent colleges for your convenience.
These will leaving Guilds' Entrance (Exhib-
ition Road), the Chemistry building and the
Mines' Entrance at 5.30 p.m. today and pas-
sengers are advised to get there early. If you
miss the coach take the Piccadilly Line from
South Kensington to Goodge Street, or a 73
bus from outside the Albert Hall which pas-
ses Goodge Street Station. U.L.U. is in Malet
Street quite near to the station.
All who are going are asked to take their
I.C. Union Cards; U.L.U. Cards are not nec-
essary in spite of what the commissionaire
may tell you. The President of I.C. has ar-
ranged with U.L.U. President for I.C. to be
exempted from the rule which states that
student must carry U-L.U. Cards as well
as their college Cards-

