SPORT
CROSS COUNTRY
The club continues to make good pro-
gress in both University Leagues. After win-
ning the first three matches, IC's 1st team
have an 8 point lead over Barts and Kings
in a 700 pt total. The second team also
leads the second division by about 80 pts.
from Guy's and Goldsmith's with the 3rd
and 4th teams in 7th and 8th places respect-
ively in a field of 18 teams. A succession of
regular matches shows a more disappointing
form largely due to continuous weakening of
the club bv the University.
The annual two-man mile invitation Paar-
luuf was held at Hurlingham on Sunday 26th
November. This race is over 40 laps div-
ided into 220-440 yd laps, with each runner
on alternate stages. Apart from proving to
be an extremely interesting slant on racing
Galling one's self?) it is extremely good train-
ing. The race was won by Bogshaw of L S E
/Littlewod, Barts in 45-10, with John
Collins/Dave Hammonds IC's first team
home in 3rd place in 45-50.
Tomorrow, Saturday 9th December^ the
University Championship takes place at
Wimbledon Common. After six successive
wins, the first team have every hope of re-
taining the Tyrian Cup. However, a greatly
improving U C team could well upset hopes.
This race also incorporates the intercollegiate
cross county competition, counting towards
IC Sports Day. Why not come and support
your constituent College? Helpers would be
very welcome to act as recorders and team
managers for the six IC teams; see the Cross
Country notice board for details.
D O U B L E T R I U M P H F O R
SWIMMING CLUB
Twice within a week, the College flag has
been flown in honour of the Swimming Club
for winning both the U L Water Polo K O
Competition, and the U L Men's Challenge
Cup for swimming.
An uncertain start against Q M C nearly put
IC out of the running but by playing more
as a team they reached the semi-finals only
to find their opponents were the old lags of
the IC II team. IC played in the spirit of
the competition, unlike Barts, who in a simil-
ar position withdrew one of their teams, and
treated the spectators to the fine sight of
the second team revelling in their only op-
portunity to hammer our firsts.
Luckily, the first team won and in the fin-
al, a shocked N C L team (certain fovourites,
or so they thought) were soon 2 goals down.
Putting on the pressure in the second half
they soon drew level but a series of indis-
criminate fouls against our players gave us
a well deserved 5-4 victory. Harford, Morris
and Ted were outstanding in this match.
The first night of the U L Championships
saw IC to the fore once again, with Cliff
Davis setting up a nAv fly record whilst the
free style relay team comfortably bettered
RUGBY
The first hurdle of the University Cup was
surmounted when IC beat N C L comfortably
by 14 to 3. There seems no doubt that a
strong IC cup team has an excellent chance
of retaining the cup, but the usual team
weakened by injuries and U L U demands
have been struggling after a good start to
the season (5W, 8L, ID), but with the excep-
tion of the cup match, the last win was Oct.
28th. There are some easier fixtures ahead
and the injpry list is being reduced so the
record should improve.
The main reserve teams have suffered by
the calls of the first X V with the result that
the Ex. 1st and A XV's, and Ex. A X V have
only one win apiece, but a real improve-
ment seems to be on the way. It would have
helped these teams if they could have fielded
a full 15, but this has not always been pos-
sible, a situation which should not arise in
a club of this size.
The B and Ex. B X V ' s do not suffer so
much from this difficulty as their strong team
spirit enables them to field regular teams.
Many players iwho could play for ihigher
teams have decided to stay with the lower
teams, so that their records are the best in
the club, the B lst's having lost one match,
Jim's two, the B 3 none of seven games, and
the B 4 and 5 not being so successful. The
stars of the club are without doubt the B 3,
having scored 50 points on two occasions,
their total is 212 for and 89 against in only
7 games.
SAILING
Last Friday I.C. entertained the Univer-
sity of London Sailing Club at Ayrton Hall
for the Annual Ball
During the course of the evening, the var-
ous trophies wefce presented, I.C. winning
everything bar the 2nd place in the ' A '
points. The President, who had been invited,
was suitably appreciative. I.C. are continu-
ing to do well this year and we hope to re-
peat the performance.
A new boat will be arriving after Christ-
mas. This brings the total to six, the lar-
gest number owned by any one college in the
University. This will provide further opport-
unities for people wishing to sail.
the existing record. The finals resulted in a
long series of second and third placings with
few wins and IC topped the overall point
score with 48 points to NCL's 44, and Kines'
35.
The display of swimming and water polo
strength augers well for the Intercollegiate
Gala to be held tonight at U L U pool at 6.30
p.m. Turn up to see the same first class per-
formances in the pool, and help in the cel-
ebrations after!
B.M.
SOCCER
Hoping to win the University Soccer Cup
for the fourth season in succession, the 1st
Round game on Sat. 25th Nov. at Harling-
ton, against Woolwich Poly, was approached
far too casually and after a very tough 90
minutes the score stood. 0-0. A drawn game
seemed imminent as in the 90 minutes the
I.C. defence had blotted out Woolwich's for-
ward line, whilst the forwards moved slowly
lacked directness and many good scoring
chances were wasted.
In the second period of extra time Mike
Cox scored two goals from close range, hav-
ing evaded the strong Woolwich defence that
had played extremely well for the previous
100 minutes.
In defence it must be pointed out that I.C.
finished with 10 men on the field, Colin Har-
ris having been carried off on a stretcher just
after half time while three of those were lim-
ping: Steve Fisher having gone on to the
wing after two minutes of the start of che
game and Lawrie Austin and Max Finney
having injured ankles in the second half.
In the 2nd teams cup, I.C. II and III had
narrow victories,which were in keeping with
their excellent performances this season.
The 4th X I are still without a win, al-
though they were by no means disgraced in
losing 3-0 to U.C. II in the cup. The Ex.
7ths strengthened by formed Soccer Club
stars march on and are now unbeaten since
the first game of the season.
Currently the 1st and 3rd X I are leading
their respective/ leagues jn the University
competition, and there is promise of an even
better season than last.
T E A M R E C O R D S
up to and including Saturday, Dec. 2nd
P. W. D. L. F.
3rd X I 13 10 0 3 42
2nd X I 15 11 1 3 50
1st X I 15 7 2 6 37
4th X I 14 0 1 13 10
5th X I 13 4 2 7 25
6th X I 14 4 2 8 46
7th X I 10 2 1 7 21
Ex. 7th I X 7 4 2 1 30 14
LAMLEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G INSTRUMENTS
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1. 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S.W.7.
Published by F E L I X B O A R D , Imperial College. London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

