- 2
50 ANNIVERSARY
of the Union
BY OUR CONVIVIALITIES CORRESPONDENT
I had a slight headache in my left eye
on December 3rd. This was probably due to
December 2nd, when the Union celebrated
it 50th anniversary. A large crowd of past
and present Union celebrities, officials and
general layabouts, with an admixture of ac-
ademic and administrative staff were
gathered together at a reception in the Upper
Dinning Hall and the Senior Common room
where the drink flowed freely and the conver-
sation was, to say the least, lively.
A happy note was struck right at the be-
ginning by the appearance of a rum punch,
the very smell of which brought tears to the
eyes of one former Union official. This was
an incredible drink which conferred the gift
of tougues on more than ex-I'.C. rugby
player. Unfortunately, it didn't last long. But
well begun is half done, as they say, and
the festivities took on a more than Olymp-
ian look. At this point my recollections of
the evening become a little blurred, but the
thing which stood out more than anything
else was that all the older people present
really enjoyed themselves.
...Our correspondent blissfully expired at
this point, so we can onlv add that, judging
from the chaotic state of the Lower Lounge
and the New Hostel, a good time was had
by one and all (or words to that effect!!).
PROFESSOR
FRED HOYLE
A T I.C.
Approximately 650 people attended the
meeting of the R.C.S. Maths. & Phys. Society
on Nov. 21st to hear Professor Fred Hoyle
give a very comprehensive and interesting lec-
ture on the origin of the solar system. Pro-
fessor Hoyle began by giving a survey of
the theories from Laplace to Lyttleton and
continued with his own supernova theory
which he had later abandoned in favour of
a condensing gals cloud and its associated
magnetic fields. His lecture ended with the
prediction that there was no heavy water on
Jupiter — any keen P.G. want a research
topic?
The organising committee of the society
should be congratulated on arranging three
excellent lectures this term, their efforts have
been well worth while.
J . K J .
F E L I X
Y E T A N O T H E R
1
SURVEY 1
At lunchtime on Thursday Nov. 22nd Mrs
Robb was to be seen in the Union Archway
procuring innocent young men for yet an-
other student survey. The pill was sugared
by the presence of an attractive red-headed
young lady who was distributing the quest-
ionaires. This was a pilot survey for a nat-
ion-wide one to be organised in the Spring
for the Robbins Committee, and comments
were invited on the questions and any other
matter relevant to the survey. No doubt due
to the red-head's presence the comments re-
ceived were milder than might have been
the case.
Correct Procedure
Just to emphasise the point let us first out-
line the incorrect procedure. Find a telephone
that works and dial the number that ,you
found in the booklet on DSIR grants. This
loses your fourpence right away, because you
merely get the Whitehall exchange operator
to tell you that the number has been changed.
Assuming that you can remember the new
number that you are told, you dial it and
after a few attempts you find that the
phone has an objection to that particular
number and keeps on burping back at you.
Undaunted you get the operator and she fin-
ally gets you through to the DSIR incoming
switchboard. This is where your troubles re-
ally start.
The DSIR operator knows nothing about
grants or anything, and passes the call on to
an infinite series of people who are in a
similar position. Halfway through this lot,
just as you have got your piece down to the
absolute minimunj number of words, you are
cut off and find yourself addressing the Chan-
cery operator again). She sympathises and
puts you back to the DSIR switchboard and
you are off on the infinite series again. This
can happen several times and can mean i
>
p
to half-an-hour in the phone-booth before,
purely by chance, you contact someone who
knows something about DSIR grants.
In contrast, the Finney-Gilbert procedure,
named after the two intrepid idiots who dis-
covered it, is beautifully simple. Dial CHA
1262 and ask immediately, without revealing
your mission, for extension 237. This puts
you in touch with the only man who knows
anything, and is strongly recommended.
I. C. out of U. L.U.
On Thursday, November 23rd the IC Deb-
ating team was knocked out of the U L U com-
petition by a team from Richmond Training
College. The motion was "That the monarchy
is irrelevant" and Richmond were propos-
ing. This motion was eminently suitable for
a debating competition and neither side could
produce an overwhelming argument. Never-
theless, I.C.'s team, Finlay McPherson, Dick
Lewis, Asit Chandmal and Bob Finch ac-
quitted themselves well and their opponents
superiority was only marginal. By far the
best feature of the debate was Taff Philips'
chairmanship; although engaged at very short
notice Taff made an excellent job of the se-
rious side and during the free-for-all while
the judges were in session he was the life
and soul of the party. The U.L.U. judge dis-
graced himself by turning up an hour late
and prattling in the worst possible style for
far too long before announcing the result.
The Saga
of the Yogi Bear
On Friday Dec. 1th, 2nd Year Chem* Eng.
terrorised the Snack Bar by removing the
trousers of catchable members of Zoology,
the present owners of Yogi Bear, Chem. Eng.
2's favourite televfkion characher. To raise
funds for the stolen Mr. Bear, the unfortun-
ate zoologists were charged 2/6 each for the
return of their trousers; there was no discount
for repeated orders and one gentleman paid
7/6 for three pairs.
1
QUOTES OF THE WEEK '
I am not a C.N.D. bloke.
S. Apeji
That's the voice of conscience from the floor-
Bob Finch of Jim Carter's heckling.
Which way do you find it more comfortable?
Dram Soc. character to female Dram. Soc.
character, during rehearsal.
Come and see my etchings — they're on the
ceiling.
Rugby-following ICWArian
Who is Jim Carter, anyway?
Uninitiated Felix typist.
We do not allow politicians at this College.
Bob Finch
Yes, I've got a job but I'm not doing any-
thing.
Ex. Pres. of I.C.
It was at that moment that the tremendous
significance of the curried mutton hit me.
...Prof. Fred Hoyle quoting Conan Doyle.
They're a rough lot, but good boys at heart.
Mrs. Robb
COMING EVENTS
N E X T F O R T N I G H T :
FRIDAY DECEMBER 8TH:
1. Swimming Gala: U.L.U.: 6.30 p.m.
Coaches leave at 5.30 p.m.; see front page-
2. Tiger at the Gates: Concert Hall; 7.30
p.m.
3. Oh, Mr. Porter (Film Society); Physics:
7.30 p.m.
4. Guilds Motor Club talk by Chris Law-
rence, designer, tuner and driver1
: 542,
E.I.: 5.15 p.m.
SATURDAY DECEMBER 9TH;
1. U.L. Cross County Championships and
I.C. Intercollegiate Competition: Wim-
bledon Common: afternoon.
TUESDAY DECEMBER 12TH:
1. Christmas Hall Dinner: 7.00 p.m. for 7.30
p.m.
2. Catholic Society Christmas Party: Upper
Refectory: 2.30 p.m.
WEDNESDAY DECEMBER 13TH:
1. R.C.S. Natural History Society Christmas
Party: Snack Bar: 5.30 p.m.
FRIDAY DECEMBER 15TH:
1. Mines Ball.

