W A N T E D W A N T E D WAR ON WANT
I. — A CARNIVAL QUEEN
Is your practical partner the most beautiful
girl in the world? Or have you got your eye
on the dashing young blonde in the Concrete
Technology department? Then let the world
know of your good fortune, or the blonde
know of your interest, by proposing her es
Carnival Queen.
We intend to adorn every Felix next term
with at least two photographs of prospective
queens. Each nomination needs two prop-
osers and, of course, the young lady's per-
mission. The Queen will be choisen in the
Summer Term.
Photographs will be taken by a member
of the Felix staff; all we need is a short note
extolling the merits of the girl of your choice.
II. — JOKES, ARTICLES, CARTOONS
The Carnival Magazine (edited by Alan
Irvine) still needs plenty of material of a
light-hearted nature. Even if you can't write
and you can't draw, it would be of some
use if you collected twenty jokes (from
Chrismas crackers if you're really hard up)
and sent them in. The best will be published.
N.B. Alan Irvine is no relation to any pre-
vious Carnival Magazine Editor.
III. — BILK TOTTLE MOPS
Sorry — milk bottle tops.
In all refectories;, and at various places
around the College, you will find two bags;
one for silver paper1
, one for milk bottle
tops. Please collect as much as you can for
our Carnival charity, War on Wan|.
You can also help by collecting silver pa-
per and bottle tops (preferably washed)
during the vacation, and bringing them back
here next term. Please keep them seperate.
INTERNATIONAL
During the last long vacation an Internat-
ional Club was formed at short notice to en-
tertain students from abroad, many of whijm
were visiting this country for the first time.
At the club the foreign students could meet
others of his own, or a different nationality,
and find a small welcome in an otherwise
indifferent London. IThe Club was enthus-
iastically supported by well over two hundred
students who came to hops on Saturday
nights and socials on Tuesdays. Small grolps
were taken to Cambridge and places of in-
terest in London, and Stanley Unwin enter-
tained the more fluelnt English-speakers in
the Club.
The appreciation shown was an encourage-
ment to a greater effort, and this year the or-
IV. — CAROL SINGERS
At last! A n opportunity to display that
golden voice known only to your bath tap.
On four evenings next week parties will
leave I.C. to soften the gold-plated hearts of
the Kensington aristocracy in rippling floods
of song. This year the routes are being ar-
ranged so as not to clash. Here is a schedule
of activities.
I. Date — MON. 11TH,
Place — UNION ARCHWAY
Time — 7.30 P.M.
Organisers — THE CHRISTIAN SOCIETIES
Eligible to come — EVERYONE
II. Date — TUES. 12TH
Place — UNION ARCHWAY
Time — 8.00 P.M.
Organisers — CATHOLIC SOCIETY
Organisers — METHODIST SOCIETY
Eligible to come — EVERYONE
III. Date — THUR. 14TH
Place — UNION ARCHWAY
Time — 7.30 P.M.
Organisers — R.C.S
Eligible to come — EVERYONE
(even Guildsmen)
Also, on Wednesday 13th, a suitably lub-
ricated party will leave Ayrton Hall at about
10.00 p.m., after the Halls of Residence Din-
ner. Last year this party alone collected £40
(plus a few lire, yen, etc.). With four parties
this year, perhaps we can quadruple this re-
sult!
C A R N I V A L L U N C H E S
The International Relations Club is hold-
ing popular breadj-and-cheese lunches every
M o n
d a y in the Roderick Hill Building. Next
term these will become the Carnival Lunches
which were so successful last year. With
a jazz band playing, and as much as you
can eat for two bob, what better way is there
of spending a Monday lunch-hour?
STUDENTS CLUB
ganisation is beginning weil in advance. A
more ambitious programme is planned, to ox-
tent over the whole of the V a c , subject to
the support of the London University stud-
ents. Anyone who will be in London for all,
or part of the vac. and is interested in enter-
taining the foreign students, is invited to
come along. Those who have experienced the
welcome of the Scandinavian clubs, for ex-
ample, will realize that the formation of a
London Club is long overdue — London can
be lonely enough for English students during
the summer without the added problems of
language. If you are interested in helping,
please contact us through the Union Rack.
A.R.
JON CALLING
The Imperial College Carnival is unique
in the field of student activities. The pur-
pose is to raise money for a charity which
the Union chooses. Direct financial help is
impossible for a student, dependent himself on
another body for hiis livelihood, but his en-
ergy and ideas can be tapped to help tne
needy.
In other parts of the country, Universities
and Colleges run "rag" days, and raising
money this way is necessarily by plaguing the
community for a day or so with typical stud-
ent pranks, enjoyed by nearly all. The locat-
ion of Imperial College does not allow this
method and the result is the more sophistic-
ated Imperial College Carnival. Until a trad-
ition is well established this is a more difficult
way of making money- It means that IC must
develop methods such as the garden fete, but
more must be done to bring in the residents
of the neighbourhood. It is these people that
should be brought to take part in the Car-
nival not only with a view to raise money,
but also with the aim of creating a good re-
lationship between them and the College.
Imperial College Carnival should benefit the
College, the neighbourhood and above all,
the Charity.
Much work must be done throughout the
year to help this year's Carnival, and to lay
the way for future Carnivals. I would like
to make an appeal for helpers; you can help
others as you are being helped by those
who are sending you to University.
JON BAREFORD
Please help this man: he is the Carnival
Organiser, Jon Bareford. His address is
W E E K S H A L L .

