FELIX
I I I I P I P I I O F I M P E R I A L C O L L I D E O H I O *
Edltmial Cammettt
Several readers have remarked on the ab-
sence of editorial from the past few issues
of Feli*. and some explanation mav be wel-
come. The Editor believs that Felix's first
iob is to report news and that a regular soiel
by the Editor himself is of secondary im-
portance: thus pressure on space has ex-
cluded editorial comment from some recent
issues. This time however there are several
things that ought to be said.
The first is that many students at this Col-
lege are ill-mannered, uncouth and given to
petty thieving. Felix can vouch for this last
because we often lose up to £1 from our
boxes and tins each fortnight. This is appal-
ling but it is true. As for manners, we ap-
preciate that students enter this College as
callow, unpolished youths, but this is no ex-
cuse for the uncouth inconsiderate behav-
iour that many outsiders take for our trade-
mark. Also, whilst appreciating that this
may be a rare exception to the rule, we have
had reported to us-' the boorish behaviour
of one professor of this College to a girl-
student who had come to see him on a per-
fectly legitimate errand. This sort of thing
is offensive and unnecessary; perhaps a little
more politeness on both sides might help staff-
student relations.
Felix itself has some apologies to make
for its behaviour. Due to the disorganised
state of Felix generally (partlv inevitable and
partly due to the Editor's way of working)
we did not print some articles which we had
asked for in the last issue. We apologise to
those concerned. Since it seems to be a
touchy subject in some quarters we should
also apologise to the other Union publicat-
ions (Phoenix, Exploration Review, Mount-
aineering Club Journal and Scrutiny) for
mentioning them or not mentioning them 'is
the case may be. It is the Christmas issue
after all.
The Editor would like to thank all those
people who have assisted Felix in any way
this term, both his regular staff and the stud-
ents who are interested enough to come a-
long and help. These people have given gen-
erously of their time and energy and their
work is all too often taken for granted.
Finally, a Merry Christmas and a Happy
New Year to all our readers.
F E L I X B O A R D 1 9 6 1 / 6 2
Editor
Secretary
Sales Manager
Assistant Sales Manager
Sports Editor
Production Managter
Advertising Manager
Treasurer and Buisness Manager
Publications Board Representative
Publicity Manager:
DAVE GILBERT
PENNY HOWARD
MICHELE CONFAUVREUX
CHRIS PETRI
DENIS RAMHARRY
ANDREW PAWLOWICZ
JAMES PORTER '-•-«««.
TONY ALCOCK
PETE YOUNG
REG TALBOT
FACES FOCUS | Personal Opinion
An unknown policewoman being attacked by
unknown body somewhere in Kensington
recently.
Dear Sir,
Just two brief comments on the last Felix*
1. Si Lyle's chairmanship of the Uniori
Meeting which "Culcutt" describes as 'com-
pletely characterless', could surely be better
described as 'completely efficient' — or pen
tyiaps Culcut^s presidential experience con-
sisted more of trying to project his own views
on a meeting!
2. / / "Scrutiny is... a vehicle for propa-
ganda" (quote from your 'Literary Corres-
pondent') then it is surely up to to those
people with other views to submit them in
writing to the Editor of Scrutiny. Such a
magazine, like your own, can naturally only
publish articles sent to it, so Christians and
others please take note (...paper, and pen
to it\). Remember 750 were sold this time.
Yours,
GGEQDBI
OUR PRINTER
Wing Commander
R O M A N G A R B Y - C Z E R N I A W S K I
VIRTUTI MILITARI, O.B.E., CROIX D E GUERRE
For just over ten years now Felix has been
printed by West London Offset Co.
and it seems an appropriate time for
us to introduce our readers to the
founder and director of the firm, Wing
Commander R. Garby- Czerniawski was
the head of the Allied Intelligence organis-
ation in occupied France during the last war,
was described by the Germans as "a legend-
ary man", and has just published a book
' THE BIG NETWORK", telling the story of this
organisation for the first time.
Wing Commander Garby was born in
southern Poland in 1910 and joined the Polish
Air Force imrrjediately after matriculating
from school, having always wanted to be a
pilot. Immediatelv before the last war he was
the leader of the Polish aerobatics team; he
then entered the General Stafl College,
learning the French language and the
basic principles of intelligence operations as
part pi the syllabus. When France fell he
found himself travelling across occupied
country and observing almost without effort
the positions, the destinations, the strength
and so on of the German troops that he
passed. He decided then that he could, if he
chose to remain in France, set up and run
an intelligence organisation which could be
of the greatest value to the Allies. The story
t>f how he did this is told fully in " T H E BIG
NETWORK".
When the network was finally broken by
the Germans, its leader was imprisoned, but
managed to escape to England. There he
joined the Polish General Stafl, and after the
war he was the Director of Resettlement for
the Polish Air Force. Having resettled 12,000
men, in 1949 he finally set about the task
of entering civilian life in England, having
been in uniform for the whole of his adult
life- In spite of all the difficulties and set-
backs he has now built up a successful busi-
ness, and although he has many claims to
fame remains a modest, surprsingly mild
man. Felix and the Union have to thank
him for all his interest, enthusiasm and hard
work for us during the past ten vears: during
all this time, in spite of all the usual
contretemps. Felix has never been out late.

