F E L I X
hWtA to iht [dltbL / ^ i
Dear Sir,
Mr. Levitt's letter in the las' week's issue
of Felix was both a welcome and an un-
expected surprise. I deeply commend the love
of honesty and righteousness which he up-held
so highly in his opening paragraph. For the
sake of those who value these vitrtues and
for Mr. Levitt's information, I beg of you
to grant me the hospitality of a column of
Felix.
On the basis of the most conservative
United Nations estimte, at least 600,000
Arabs fled from Palestine as a result of the
1948 war. I don't think that one needs to be
as knowledgeable in mathematics as Mr.
Levitt is to conclude that more than a mir-
acle is needed to make a nation's populat-
ion increase six fold in the span of 12 years'.
I would certainly ask him to check the source
from which he obtained the figure of 100,000
inhabitants in the whole of Palestine in 1936.
The best known estimate puts the figure
nearer half a million (His Majesty's Govern-
ment Report to the League of Nations).
As for the statement that 90 per cent of
present day Israel consists of swamps and
deserts which nobody inhabited, all that is
needed is for someone to take the trouble
of looking up any geography book. It
would not be difficult to check that there are
no extensive swamp areas in that part of the
world. As for the Negef which forms the main
desert area in Israel, it forms only 45 per
cent of its total area. The Negef was, any-
how, annexed by Israel since the signing of
thearmistice in 1948, in a series of attaks
between 1949-1950 against repeated U.N.
resolutions.
m any case, the number of people living
there and what proportion of the land they
occupied are irrelevant to the moral issues in-
volved- What is relevant is that these people
lived there continuously for 20 centuries, so
they had a perfect right to regard the country
as theirs. What is more they were a homogenous
nation having a common language, religion and
culture. Were they morally wrong in resisting
Jewish immigration when such emmigrants
arrive with the declared intention of creat-
ing an all-Jewish indepedent state within
their country? Or is Mr. Levitt going to up-
hold the principle that any nation (religious
group!) which has an emotional attachment
to a particular piece of land is morally just-
ified in acquiring it irrespective of what
people already living there might think?
I am awaiting Mr. Levitt's promised art-
icle with great eagerness- Surprising as it may
seem to him, I am as eager to establish the
morality of it all as anyone else. I hope he
will write it in the same spirit of good faith
promotion Of peace and understanding and
the alleviation of human sufferings, which
I wrote my article in.
Yours etc.,
M . H . KUBBA
Dear Sir,
Please allow jne to reply to Mr. Levitt's
letter which you published in the last issue
of Felix.
If Mr Levitt is not a Zionist (I say Zionist
not Jews, since all Jews are not Zionists) then
he is either biased against the Arabs or has
been carried away by Jewish propaganda. I
dm not concerned here about his references
to such things as the barriers to Jewish im-
migration in Palestine, etc. What I would
like to point out is that before the Jews got
the idea of setting, up a state in Palestine
there was a minority of Jews living in'Pal-
estine just as in other Arab countries. This
had been the case for many centuries and
was not something quite recent. Now may I
ask, what right had the Jews who were for-
eign to Palestine have in setting up Israel.
It was mainly because of the foreign Jews
or Zionists that this agitation for Israel
fftarted. The majority of Jews in Palestine
and the Arabs were living peacefully for cen-
turies and would have continued to live like
this had there been no Zionists. Any person
reading the many unbiased works on this sub-
ject will soon come to the conclusion that is
is strange and shocking that the Zionists
should have done to the Arabs what the
Nazis had done to them.
Only when individuals stop believing in
things like "My country, right or wrong", or
"My community, right or wrong" will there
be any justice and peace in the world.
Yours truly,
AZIZ SULAIMAN, AERO 3
Sir,
There seems to be a regrettable tendency
in the College towards a more Social Club
— type attitude. You, Sir are as much to
blame as anyone in not reporting the activities
of the more important sporting clubs, and as
representatives of about 300 players we feel
we must protest very strongly over this neg-
lect of the Soccer and Rugby Clubs'.
Yours,
D.R. HARBURN
CAPT. I.C.A.F.C.
J.P. KEHOE
CAPT. I.C.R.F.C.
Dear Sir,
The correspondent who wrote the report on
the last Union Meeting seems to be under
a complete misapprehension about the use-
fulness, or perhaps he would prefer to use the
term uselessness, of "procedure" at meetings.
In fact, good procedure sensibly upheld by
the Chairman is especially useful at meetings
where a great deal of business has to be
completed in a restricted time, as is the case .
at our Union Meetings. The Chairman by
proper application of precedure should be
able to keep the debate on strictly relevant
terms thus enabling the business to be com-
pleted in a correspondingly shorter time. For
example, the motion to reinstate I.C.C.N.D.
would have been put to the vote much earlier
if the Chairman had been able to cut short
the rambling, and to a large extent irrelevant,
speeches made by the two gentlemen who op-
posed the motion.
It appears that the author of the article
has had misfortune to be present at meetings
where irresponsible Constitutional and Proce-
dural wrangles have taken place and I would
therefore like to suggest that he goes to a
properly run meeting where he will see for
himself that all such meetings are not "pro-
cedure bound slanging matches."
Yours sincerely,
C.M.B. HENDERSON
P.G. GEOCHEMISTRY
Dear Sir,
I have read the article in the last issue of
Felix concerning an l.C. Motor Club.
I believe that it would be rather pointless
to form such a single club instead of having
the three seperate clubs. At present Guilds
is the only really active Motor Club and its
meetings, film shows, rallies, visits and talks
are open to all its members many of whom
are from Mines and R.C-S. I hope that they
do not mind being members of a Guilds
Motor Club rather than an IC club. If they
did have active clubs, we would be only too
glad to join them as it would enable us to
indulge in even more motoring activities.
It is the responsibility of the club commit-
tee to maintain the three mascots in running
order and I am sure that no single committee
would have the time to look after all three
vehicles properly.
I hope never to see the day when an I.C.
Motor Club has to be formed because there
is not enough support to haave seperate
clubs.
Yours sincerely,
S.R. KLAT P.G.M.E.
Captain, Guilds Motor Club
Dear Sir,
As possible originator of the idea of an
I.C. motor club for the article in the last
edition of Felix, I feel bound to comment.
Judging from the present state of the con-
stituent college motor clubs, an I.C. club
would be doing little more than changing the
name of the Cuilds' club. Even the upkeep
of the so-called 'motorized mascots' would
presumably still have to be maintained by
unwieldy sub-committees from each college.
There is much that can be said against
changing the name. The club has a proud
tradition built up since its foundation in the
late 20V Its reputation stands high as having
produced some of the best rallymen in the
University. A fine example set In recent years
is that of Keith Duckworth (Captain five
years ago) who produces the Cosworth-Ford,
one of Briton's most successful racing car
engines.
Invested in the club name is a consider-
able, sum in the form of car badges, which
have to be bought in bulk to prevent their
price being prohibitive. The financial aspect
is perhaps the mo$t important one. Guilds
M.C. receives nearly twice as much finan-
vial support as R.CS. because of its larger
membership and it seems unlikely that I.C.
S.C.C. would be willing to put up a three-
figure sum each year.
Yours etc.
H.C. WATSON
P.S. When will Felix learn that BO is male'!
Dear Sir,
It is proposed to form an "Anarchists' Soc-
iety". This society would co-ordinate the ef-
forts of those students who are dissatisfied
with this country's progress towards a demo-
cratic Socialist republic, and who are pre-
pared to use revolutionary means to achieve
this aim.
Anyone who is interested should contact
me through the Aero rack-
S.AIREY

