— 6 F E L I X
by COLCUTT
Do you read this column often or only
in the mating season? Do you usually under-
stand it? Well, do not worry if this week you
cannot understand a word — is not your
fault it's mine. What a week-end! What a
shambles! Let's forget about running rugby
teams, C.'s N . D., S.C.C., R.C.S., C. & G.,
and R.S.(Mi and everything else, let's just
have 50th Anniversary Celebrations every
week and spend the money that way. Oh,
yes, we. had a carnival too this weekend. 1
don't seem to remember very much about
that. But if I go back a little way further 1
have vague recollections of starting the ev-
ening by consuming 2\ pints in the Queen's
in twenty minutes, followed by three rapid
pints in the I.C. bar and then playing darts
of all things. I remember being quite excited
over this, at least someone was excited and
I think it was me. But to go back even fur-
ther there were those crazy biochemists in
the basement who try to make wine out of
every enzyme that they cannot indetify. How
many bottles of that so called apple wine
did we drink He said he had a dozen bottles
somewhere, but we can't have drunk that
many, the fridge was not big enough, and
after all there^were only three of us, or was
it four? Oh, yes, that funny fellow with no
hair on and a big beard, you know the one
— he ordered another rum-punch to be made
on Saturday and then discovered it costs £18,
came along and said something about want-
ing a sack for the Carnival. Seem to remem-
ber stuffing him in a green sack and then
nearly cutting his ears off when trying to
give him arm holes. Oh, yes, the Carnival.
Don't remember feeing him there 'though,
in that sack. What was that about his head
being dirty? Surely we did stick him in the
sterilisation cupboard? I had better go to have
a look. Oh, no, of course, he was there on
CITY AND GUILDS COLLEGE
ENTERTAINMENTS COMMITTEE
ENGINEERS
DINNER DANCE
January 26th 1962
Apply now for tickets.
Forty-four shillings double.
Saturday. The Carnval cabaret seemed good,
bit obsessed though, these mixed up Guilds-
men trying to wreck it, McPherson going to
stop them, wonder if they filled him in-
That's it, these films, I knew something was
bothering me. I was watching Peter Sellars
in some crazy good picture and I closed my
eyes for a second and instead of being an
inspector from Scotland Yard he was a dig
chief Union official. Still don't understand
that, and those floppy nude women what had
they to do with a theft from a museum? Bit
off that I thought.
What happened on Saturday? Somebody
was. three men short, good game though. I
went to Harlington to play soccer for Ben's
team, didn't see Ben though, don't remem-
ber seeing Ben after 12.00 midnight, funny
that, anyway I was changed for soccer wher
somebody said the extra A needed a wing
forward. Seem to remember playing wing
forward for the first X V some time ago-
Wonder if I did play rugby.
Never seen anything like it. Started off sob-
erly enough, everybody on sherries then
rum-punch, then beer, then there was some
more rum-punch, then beer, then there did
not seem to be anything left but sherry. Had
to buy the drinks in the I . C W . A . Lounge.
Saw Ben again didn't look too good. Don't
remember much until Dr. McCoubrey ar-
rived. Seem to recollect going to McPher-
son's room for coffee never been in a sea of
green crepe paper before. Must have been
other people there occasionally saw hands
with arms attached poking through the paper.
Was it McPherson's room though? Who made
the coffy anyway? Wonder why Lyle and
Stacey kept coming in off the balcony through
to the sea and out through the door. Wonder
what day it is.
THEATRE TIGER A T T H E G A T E S
"Tiger at the Gates" is a tragi-comedy set
in the time of the Greco-Trojan Wars. In it
the Dramatic Society have again found a
play which debarks the kitchen sink school.
The play has a message which is commun-
icated without grime or vulgarity and sex is
present without being dominant.
The play presents the opinion that war is
dependant not so much on the leaders as the
state of mind of the people. A parallel may
be drawn between the pointless death of a
Trojan sailor brought about by the lies of
a dying poet-politician and the assasination
of an Archduke in 1914 bv mistaken nation-
alists. Neither were really important but
served at the excuse that had been awaited.
This play has not the depth of The Ascent
of F6 possessed but nevertneless it is wortny
of reading prior to seeing. Mike Barron's pro-
duction is carried along well by the comedy
whch is personified for members of the Union
by James Carter — I quote from the pro-
gramme — playing the part of! a sex-starved
Trojan. In general the production %is solid
but like the "stone" step has the occasional
creak. The standard of acting is again very
high but as in F6 the female lead is the weak
point; however, Paris' portrayal of John
Webb is inimitable!
I have not mentioned the electricians, the
make up and many other small items: this
is because they do their job with efficiency
and without protrusion; in conclusion I
would say that this was a play worthy of full
houses.

