F E L I X
L A W R E P O R T
FROM OUR LEGAL CORRESPONDENT
CITY & GUILDS C O L L E G E UNION
V.
L I D D L E A N D WHITE
7 —
Before the Rt. Hon. Judge Lol Austin,
B.SC, A.C.G.I.
Prosecuting: Mr Perry Libermason, G.C.E.
Defending: Dr. Row Pindi Jossstik.
This interesting test case shows that crim-
inal law, civil law, slapstick and cabaret com-
bined need not prejudice the chances of ob-
taining a conviction. Indeed, the jury-cum-
public gallery participation which distin-
guished this trial could well enliven many
magistrates' sessions.
The court officials entered the court in a
hail of escorted m'ssiles and order was ob-
tained with difficulty. The foreman of the
jury was elected by unilateral vote, i.e. his
own and swore at the jury to their evident
disatisfaction. Christopher John Liddle, aged
21, unemployed casual labourer at present
living in a men's hostel and Jonathan White,
aged 21, unemployed and of no fixed ad-
dress, were charged jointly with wilful ne-
gligence allowing certain persons unknown
to extract from their possession the Beloved
Spanner and thus failing to fulfil their duties
to the Union. Both defendants pleaded not
guilty.
Prosecuting counsel called two witnesses;
Mr. Mike Hunt and Mr. Tiger Barron. Mr.
Barron's professed inability to read caused
some difficulty, but both witnesses testified
to the accuseds' negligence in allowing the
said Spanner to travel unaccompanied. In
his cross examination Dr. Josstik sought to
show that both prosecution witnesses were
drunk at the time and that the evidence was
therefore invalid. The jury did not agree and
showered defending counsel with a variety
of rotten fruit, etc.
Dr. Josssrjk called in two meyiical ad-
visers; Dr. T.S. Tickles examined Mr. White
behind a temporary screen in the courtroom
and Mr. White's unusual taste in underwear
caused a titter to run round the room. Dr.
Tickles announced that accused was too
short and ribald comments from the jury
had to be suppressed. Dr. Thelma Vest, a
German physcologist, explained the struggle
she had with Liddle on her couch to sym-
pathetic cheers from the jury and announced
that accused was complex and difficult 10
handle. A t this point Mr. Harburn, an am-
ateur footballer, bel'eved to be living in a
hostel for Distressed Gentlefolk, was ob-
served to hurl an egg at the judge, who how-
ever, observing that the jury was behind him,
did not order his suppression. Dr. Jossstik,
competing with the growing tumult from the
jurors and partly obscured by the toilet rolls
aimed at him, put forward two pleas of di-
minished resposibil'ty, for Liddle on the
grounds that he was a congenital idiot and
for White on the grounds that he was too
short. The jury and the judge agreed with
the mental and physical states of the accused,
but though that this was no excuse, and dir-
ected each other accordingly, Mr. Harburn
threw another ege to emphasise the point and
the missile struck a gentleman of the Press
on his top-hat.
The verdict of gulltv was never in doubt
and the result was received with acclaim and
another egg from Harburn, together with sun-
dry objects proceeding in the general direction
of the convicted who were hampered in their
retaliation by the fact that they were stand-
ing in dustbins. When asked if they had any-
thing to say Mr. White announced that he
was pregnant and Mr. Liddle confessed to
being responsible. The jury collapsed in
laughter and M r . Harburn threw yet ano-
ther egg.
Judge Lol donned the black cap (curious-
ly reminiscent of a festering pair of soccer
shorts) and pronunced the sentence: that the
convicted be taken to the Round Pond,
there to be washed till they be cleansed of
their sins. A pleasantly informal touch was
the way in which the iurv collared the pris-
oner immediately and assisted in the ex-
ecution.
FILM
WILL HAY
and
OH! MR. PORTER
In the late thirties Will Hay, having al-
ready made an impact with his highly suc-
cessful Music Hall sketches, appeared in a
series of films which were gloriously comic
with typical English humour. Hay had made
films earlier but his best were made for the
old Gainsborough Company and resulted
from brilliant teamwork, Graham Moffatt
and Moore Marriott appeared with Hay,
Marcel Varnel directed and the script writers
and technicians were retained for successive
films, Albert (Graham Moffatt) is modelled
on Dicken's fat boy Joe from Pickwick plus
perhaps Billy Bunter. He is bullied by Hay
to comply but only reluctantly does so after
showing his own independence first- Har>
bottle (Moore Marriott) is a stubborn old man
full of advice whioh, after Hay has rejected
it, invariably turns out to have been sound.
Everyone has met an old fogey like Har-
bottle. Hay is their leader full of ludicrous
ideas, always extracting his band from one
uncomfortable situation only to land them in
another. He chooses to take unfaml'ar char-
acters and poke fun at them — a station
Master in "Oh\Mr. Porter", a fireman in
"Where's that Fire", a policeman in "Ask a
Policeman'" a convict in "Convict 99", and
a British explorer in "Old Bones of the
River". "Ohl Mr. Porter" is his best-loved
comedy. Hay is station master of a very small
station in rural Ireland — Buggleskelly, which
the railway company seems to have forgotten
about. A l l are lost in a world of their own,
proud of their sel^-inflated importance and
their old engine Gladstone. Peace reigns. The
signal box is used as a greenhouse. The vil-
lage gossips. Then the smugglers appear to
break the quiet and the highlight is a chase
in Gladstone, remarkable not only for it bril-
liant comic impact but also for the superb
photography. Marcel Varnel directs and ed-
its the film with crisp smoothness and the
whole dialogue sparkles throughout.
A.J. WALKER
The accused: White and Liddle in dustbins. The Rt. Hor. Judge L o l Austin B.Sc.,
A.C.G.I.

