THE LIGHTER SIDE
Apart from useful suggetions and run-of
-the-mill complaints, Mr. Mooney's 'suggest-
ion book' for this year already contains sever-
al sparkling examples of student wit- A n d
in all fairness to the Refectory Committee,
many of their replies are no less witty.
The following is a selection of the most
entertaining pieces of repartee. Names have
been omitted to protect the innocent.
To confuse the issue further, we have
mixed-up the sueeentions and replies. See
if you can sort them out without referring
to the book.
Dear Mr. Mooney,
Do you think that the Police, the Union,
the Governors and the Establishment in gen-
eral would object to a hot-dog stall outside
the Union Building during: lunch-hours'?
This would certainly alleviate the crush and
besides I have an uncle in Oswaldtwistle with
some experience of this and he was wander-
ing. ..
Dear Mr. Mooney,
I wonder whether it would be possible to
supply nuts at some meals. Vegeterians some-
times find the salads unpalatable, so what
about the nuts'?
Dear Mr. Mooney,
May I suggest that if you wish to secure
large profits for the Union {for which we are
duly grateful) by selling 'Wagon Wheels, at
4d. each (Tea — Sunday, Nov. 5th) it might
be more tactful if, before displaying them on
the counter, you took them out of their box,
prominently marked: 'Special Offer, 4 for
lOd.
Dear Mr. Mooney,
Among the many diverse ingredients of my
cream of chicken soup this evening, the only
sign of chicken was one feather. This is
a bad thing.
Dear Mr. Mooney,
If you mitst serve up rubbers-bands with
your kidney turbigo, would you mind cutting
them up into small pieces, as your knives are
not sharp enough for me to cut them my-
self!
Dear Mr. Mooney,
The meal I had with you yesterday is all
coming back to me now. If necessary, I can
bring this up at the next Refectory Commit-
tee meeting.
Dear Mr. Mooney,
A fortnight ago I was fortunate enough
to find a 3d. bit in the bottom of your fruit
salad, about which I am not complaining.
Please, however, find the attached bundle of
wire, two thirds of which I unfortuna'r
swallowed while eating your otherwise excel-
lent apple pie.
Dear Mr. Mooney,
If twine is included in salads, would it be
possible to supply hemp instead of sisal
(scisors welcome with either)?
Do you consider this to be a fair port-
ion, as I received on Thursday evennig!
18 at \ " or less
1 at 1" (only jiust)
3 at 1" or more
making 22 chips with a total length of less
than 18". This is a record!
Dear Mr. Mooney,
Could you make the, ffiedrbread a little
softer in the morning, or else provide hack-
saws with the cutlery!
APOLUGIES: M r . Mooney indentifies the frag-
ment as part of a pot-scourer, an is instruct-
ing his staff to take better care of refectory
equipment. We are glad that you had some
prior recompense for your traumatic exper-
ience.
The chef will be asked to provide softer-
fried-bread.
Nuts are very expensive and there are many
varieties, but if you would care to elaborate
your suggestion we will try to get to the ker-
nel of the matter.
Apologies. Please return dishes containing
foreign objects to the service counter-
's*
We think it does little good to re-hash
these old, unhappy, far-off things' — bet-
ter let rest where they are.
We apologise. Please return to the
counter at the time.
The Committee does not wish to disfigure
Prince Consort Road in this way, but we
would be interested to see if your uncle
could get away with it-
We must apologise for this error.
Please accept our apologies. Mr. Mooney
is at a loss to acount for the appearance of
this unintentional ingredient.
The best way of remedying ingredients or
faulty portions is to complain at the conuter.
Opera and Ballet
Although Christmas is still some way off,
one must be thinking in terms of the New
Year if one wishes to see of the more popular
Operas and Ballets in London, so great is
the demand for seats; and the following brief
notes are written with that in mind.
Parrault's well known fairy tale "Cinder-
ella" has been a source of inspiration to no
less 'then three operatic composers; Rossini,
Massenet and Wolf-Ferrari all producing
operas on this theme at various times in the
19th and 20th centuries. However, only one
of these works has survived the test of time
and is still regularly revieved on the stage.
This is Rossini's version which can be seen
at Sadler's Wells during the Christmas sea-
son (Dec. 20th & 26th, Jan 6th & 16th).
The same) fairy tale also attracted the
Russian composer Prokofiev which le to the
production in Moscow in 1945 of his full-
length ballet "Zalushka" (The Ash-girl). This
rapidly became very popular in Western
Europe and is regularly revived at Covent
Garden under the title of "Cinderella". These
performances, along with /those at Sadler's
Wells mentioned above, provide an almost
unique opportunity of seeing the same per-
formed in the two different mediums of
Opera and Ballet. The leading ballerinas of
the Royal Ballet will alternate in the title
role with evening performances on Jan. 19th,
13th, 15th, 17th and 25th while the exact-
ing role of the Jeser will be shared between
Grant and Shaw.
Felix
Pub Guide
No. 4. T H E C H A M P I O N
The Champion in Wells St. near Oxford
Circus is a large Victorian pub, which was
lavishly restored eight years ago. The inter-
ior is decorated with cut and etched glass
and has luxurious padded seating. The pub's
best bitter is 'Director', a slightly stronger
tasting beer than Keg or Red Barrel- A good
selection of food is available and there is a
restaurant upstairs. The pub is conveniently
situated for shopping and viewing the Christ-
mas lights; Wells St. is the fourth left going
eastwards from Oxford Circus.
N.B. Closed on Sundays.

