H E N E W S P A P E R GvF I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No. 144 Friday February !2tK 1960 4d
R U G G E R C L U B G I V E I . C .
H A N C E O F T R I P L E C R O W N
Not a great game, nor even a memor-
able one other than for the faot that i t
put I.C. onoe again into the final of the
U.L.U. Cup.
Prom start to finish the game was
scrappy, being broken up by spasmodio
three quarter movements, which inevitably
failed to reach the winger.
In the loose the College forwards
were undoubtedly superior to their opp-
osite numbers and had the potential to
dominate the play. In the line outs
and the tight I.C. were again superior,
particularly striking being the jumping of
John Bridges and the hooking of Dai How-
e l l . In the second half I.C. lost only
two of the set sorums which gave an ind-*
ication of their superiority in the tight.
• At half back I.C. did not get going
until the. second half and even then.both
half backs were slow in their movements,
Their slow servioe of the ball gave the
centres, who were very closely marked bj
the C.E.M. backs, l i t t l e room in which
to move and neither winger had a clear
run after the ball had travelled the
three quarter line.
The baok row onoe again showed their
value to the side and a l l three played
a great game. Otto Gilbert now seems
to have regained his previous form and
a break of his from the line out in the
second half left both his own team and
the opposition standing.
C.E.M. kioked off and almost imm-
ediately I.C. were penalised for one of
their centres being offside. For some
unknown reason the referee had the kiok
taken from the point of play rather than
where the infringement had taken place.
Hanoook's kick was wide. Randal Peart
out I.C. ahead, b. a penalty from the
C.E.M. twenty five, a few minutes later.
This soore gave I.C. a lead of 6-0 at
half time.
In the seoiud half I.C, played a
l i t t l e better, and we saw some good lin-
king up by the forwards.; Dai Howell,
John Bridges, and Kris Tronski were ever
prominent, the last two, sometimes seen
charging from the line out with several
C.E.M. players clinging to them.
From the first r e a l three quarter
movement o f the game Randal Peart came
into the line and scored a very fine try.
His own kick at goal failed. Some i n t e l l -
igent kicking by the centres gave J . Egan
several good runs, but unfortunately he
always had too many men covering him, to
make the tine.
The final score came when Pat Bruce
came up very quiokly on to a loose ball
over the C.E.M. line and touched down.
Mike Bregaiszi, who had led his team with
fire and vigour added the points with a
kiok which brought back memories of the
last Cup game against Kings.
In the closing minutes. C.E.M. pres-
sed hard and we saw some good running
by their backs, but the I.C. line remain-
ed intact, and the final score was 11-0.
The final is on Saturday Feb. 20th.
and we would like as many people as poss-
ible to help beat Vets at Motspur Park on
that day.
Make a note oj Feb. 20th;
T.G.King.
C O N G R A T U L A T I O N S
Felix would like to offer i t s
congratulations to Miss Hilary Tompsett
*nd Mr Guy Hawkins on their engagement.
P R E S I D E N T I A L
V E W P O I N T
The attitude of the IC Executive to
the Evening Standard's venture was
recorded in the last issue of Felix.
The deoision not to give information to
the paper has been adhered to, but behind
any deoision that was taken was the idea,
that as soon as they published UL news
in a l l editions we would give the
Standard information. For under these
circumstances i t is a venture worth
supporting. It was hoped that oonoerted
action by the College Unions and by ULU
would change the Standard supplement to
a suitable form. That is why at ULU
Presidents' Council I tabled a motion
urging the Colleges to give no help to
the Standard until i t was clear that
their UL supplement was serving the
University a useful purpose.
IC Council on Monday evening sup-
ported the actions taken by the Executive.
Acting on the Bxeoutive decision I refus-
ed Mr John Clarke permission to write his
front-page story on IC last week, telling
him that only when the news was given in
a l l editions would we support the venture.
Mr Clarke invited me to lunch to hear the
reasons in f u l l , an opportunity whioh I
took on Monday 8th February.
m At the reopening yesterday of tha
adjourned Presidents' Council I withdrew
my motion in favour of a ULU Executive
one that "ULU recommends to the Evening
Standard that i t discontinues its UL
slip edition". I spoke to this motion
and urged other colleges to follow IC's
lead by refusing information. The
.notion was carried by 16 votes to 10.
It appears though, that the other big
oolleges intend to get what they can
from the scheme, for they voted against
the motion.
Also at the Presidents' Council i t
was agreed in view of a letter of apology
from Mr Spellman that the suspension be
lifted from midnight on Sat 13th Febj
which means Council has in the space of
the same meeting agreed to his suspension
and then lifted i t almost at onceI An
action which I'm afraid will look like a
olimb down by the Executive, since they
proposed that suspension be lifted. It
waa also agreed, by a narrow majority,
that ULU only have observer status at NUS
in future and not delegate status. The
wearisome Presidents' Council dragged on
over two days for 10| hours, of whioh at
least Vi hours concerned merely the
problem of Spellman, after the S.Africa
acycott and the Standard embargo. I am
thinking of initiating a Presidents'
Council boycotts
Les Allen - 10th Feb 1960.
S T O P P R E S S
I.C.A.FC. TROUNCE VISITORS
MANNHEIM BEATEN 6-2
ICBBC DEFEAT
CENTRAL-Y.M.C.A. 43-38

