FELIX FRIDAY 22ND NOVEMBER LETTERS & EDITORIAL 13
^ T F E L I X
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072
Copyright Felix 1996. ISSN 1040-0711
Editor Alex Feakes / Advertising Manager Mark Baker
STRIKE ONE?
In a rare display of solidarity and
action, the College was closed this
week by the combined effect of tech-
nicians, manual workers and lectur-
ers striking. The issues that have
brought these disparate groups
together are firstly money, and sec-
ondly the state of HE in Britain.
The level of anger amongst the
pickets on Tuesday morning was
running high. The weather for the
occasion, freezing rain, sleet and
snow, was perhaps suited to the mis-
erable state of affairs that prompted
the action. Higher education is in a
mess, they said, through lack of fund-
ing, lack of attention, and lack of
respect for the hundreds of thousands
of students, workers and lecturers.
Nationwide, the day of action was
startlingly successful, with all HE
establishments affected. The AUT
were early in claiming a majority of
institutions more or less closed by the
strike. In London, University College
was closed, King's College severely
under-staffed and many smaller col-
leges were also affected. At IC, near-
ly all 600 technical and support staff
were on strike, as were a number of
lecturers, and at least five depart-
ments were closed completely.
However, despite calls by the
demonstrators to support their action,
and an NUS policy to join the strike,
picket lines were still breached by
students, and lectures still took place.
It would seem that a day off in pas-
sive support of a protest against cuts
in HE funding - which ultimately
affect all students - is less favourable
than braving the cold and wet for a
few understaffed lectures or a chance
to use the internet. Are students here
so laid-back that even a day in bed is
too radical for them?
The day of protest unfortunately
coincided with other equally impor-
tant items of news, and was not real-
ly give the coverage it deserves. A
strike by HE personnel is rare - the
last was over ten years ago - and
therefore deserves good coverage.
Academics are sensible people and
would not go so far as to strike if they
did not have a genuine grievence.
As the Rector said in his
Commemoration Day speech, the
Government has stated that there are
no votes in HE. The implication is
that we are a soft target for cuts. This
week's action was a valiant effort to
expose the complacency behind this
stance. Let us all hope that next
week's Budget reflects the views of
the hundreds of thousands of voters
affected by Higher Education cuts.
LETTERS TO FELIX
Clayponds talks back
Dear Editor,
For fear of this letter sounding a
bit 'tit for tat', I shall be brief. I am of
course referring to Danny Segal's
response in last week's Felix to my
previous letter concerning security at
Clayponds.
In my letter I mentioned that I
would like to see deadlocks fitted on
our front doors and used the common
room money as a possible means of
funding this venture. Danny 'took
issue' with my 'conclusion' that the
most urgent upgrade was in the form
of better locks for the front doors on
the grounds that only one of the bur-
glaries over the summer had
involved entrance through a front
door.
This seems to be a case of 'we're
not going to spend money on this
because there are other far weaker
points that need dealing with first' ie
he practically acknowledges that the
general level of security is appalling.
Well I'm sorry but the issue of dead-
locks IS an important one, not least
because one is unable to get private
house and contents insurance at a
sensible premium without such a
lock. Instead one is forced to pay the
high 'All Risks' cover offered by the
College for any computers etc which
should NOT be classified as 'All
Risks' unless they are portable and
you wish them to be covered when
out of your room.
The common room was merely an
example of how College money is
available for certain things but not
for others. I'm not saying that people
don't want one. After all, if some-
body issues a questionnaire asking
'Would you like a Jacuzzi and satel-
lite TV installed in your home ?',
you're not going to say no are you?!
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Payne
Result for sandwich
campaign
Dear Mr Baker,
Thank you for taking up my cam-
paign against QT. I really should
have let John Foster write his own
reply, but as he took the trouble to
come and see me personally, and
appeared not to have read Felix (and
I am such a kind and uncynical per-
son) I thought I would report what he
said. I even let him see what I had
written before I sent it to Felix, hence
the use of the words "trading sur-
plus" where I originally put "profits"
and the bit about the Sandwich Shop
having lower overheads. I thought I
repeated the word "apparently"
enough times that it should have
been obvious I was merely reporting
what Mr Foster said and did not nec-
essarily believe it. I would like to
know why the college charges its
own catering department overheads
(I subsequently added this to my
reply in Felix, together with the fact
that I agreed with your earlier remark
about budgets being used to cover
things up, but it wasn't published).
Meanwhile, my letter has also
been in IC Reporter and I have had
only praise from my colleagues and
other staff. Since I wrote my letter,
Mr Foster has undertaken a QT cus-
tomer survey. I am awaiting the
results.
Linda Hart
Imperial College
Dear Felix,
It seems almost churlish to criti-
cise the cheerful budget fodder sup-
plied in Da Vinci's. Many over-
worked academics punctuate their
day with their fine coffee, and lunch
time sees throngs of brassic students
keeping mind and body united with
their infallible curries.
But, as you've probably guessed,
I'm going to criticise it anyway.
I have been concerned for some
time about the immense quantities of
polystyrene consumed. Every curry,
meal, coffee, cake and even bread
roll comes with its own quietly dis-
turbing, disconcertingly white and
utterly unbiodegradable plastic disk.
Once a styrene object is created, it is
never destroyed. No organism exists
that can digest the stuff (though my
flatmate's working on it) and most
people are familiar with the poiso-
nous, acrid fumes that are produced
on combustion.
Also, there are direct health prob-
lems associated with consuming
trace amounts of common plastics.
New research is revealing that they
contain chemicals capable of mimic-
king oestrogen and other sex hor-
mones. In an age where fertility is
dropping devastatingly fast, this
should be a real concern. Polystyrene
also releases free radicals (nasty) and
can spoil the taste of the food.
Da Vinci's may not have the space
and facilities to use real crockery, but
alternatives exist. Waxed cardboard
plates and bowls are available to
almost any specification. In particu-
lar, there is no excuse for using poly-
styrene for cups; even McDonald's -
the paradigm of materialistic waste-
fulness and social corruption - use
paper vessels throughout.
Its time to take responsibly as con-
sumers. We can't afford to treat our
world as a dustbin any longer.
David Ross,
Mech Eng II
Letters may be edited for length.
The guest editor's opinions
are not necessarily those
of the editor.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1071
is Monday 25th November.
Please bring some form of identi-
fication. Letters may be e-mailed
to our address: felix@ic.ac.uk
NEWS: MARIA AND JACKIE; FEATURES: ROBIN, SANJAY AND DAVID, PUZZLES: DUNCAN ROBERTSON; ILLUSTRATIONS: STAVROS; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT:
DAVID AND CHRIS; PHOTOGRAPHY: LING, ALDUS, MATTHEW AND LILY; SPORT: DAVID; GENERAL HELPFULNESS: JON.
COLLATING LAST WEEK: ROBIN AND DAVID; SECRETARY: SARAH

