4 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 22ND NOVEMBER
Police exhibit charity streak in Rag stunt
MARIA IOANNOU
Last Saturday saw the latest outing of
the infamous Sponsored Nude
Kamikaze Parachute Jump. This is
the annual excuse for a small group
of IC students to get their kit off and
streak from Harrods to Beit Quad, all
in the name of charity. This year, for
thefirsttime ever, the rag event man-
aged to acquire a police escort.
By 9:15 am last Saturday, eight
brave men had gathered in Beit Quad
to psych themselves up for the ordeal
that lay ahead. Last minute doubts
over the route were dispelled by old
hands who described those wishing
to take a shorter run through the back
streets of Knightsbridge as "girly
wusses."
Following tradition, the intrepid
band had already decided to go
straight down Cromwell Road and
then straight up Exhibition Road.
Standing with just a few layers pro-
tecting them from the cold, several of
the participants hoped that there
would be several tourists around the
museums that day, perhaps giving
some insight as to the sort of people
who gladly declothe in public.
As the jump time of 10:00am
neared, the excitement and nervous-
ness of the jumpers rose. First-time
streakers all (few do it twice), the
journey toward Harrods was punctu-
ated with nervous chatter and chilly
breath, unsuprisingly for people just
wearing their pants and jackets. It
was now 9:50, with traffic from Hell,
and there were hordes of impatient
shoppers thronging the pavements
outside Harrods and Knightsbridge
Underground station.
To facilitate the 'mission', the
minibus turned down a side road just
before Harrods, allowing them time
to whip off their knickers and strug-
gle out of their jackets. At the pre-
arranged signal, the door opened and
they leaped out and started running
up the road towards the waiting
crowds. Almost at once, startled
onlookers began laughing and cheer-
ing, as the streakers became blobs of
pink amongst the traffic. A group of
onlookers began a rousing chorus of
Rule Britannia.
One of the crowd, positioned just
by the Harrods entrance to
Knightsbridge tube described what
he saw: "They ran straight across the
main road, and were generally greet-
ed by applause and adulation from
the crowd. The roads were packed,
but the traffic all stopped to let them
past. Taxis honked their horns, dri-
vers waved, passengers stood up
through sunroofs to get a better look.
These guys were instant celebrities."
"They ran along the opposite pave-
ment, pedestrians clapping them as
they went past, to the continued
laughter and support of everyone on
the other side of the road. As they ran
past, the doors of Harrod's opened
with exquisite timing. On the road,
there was a double decker bus and
the entire top deck were looking out
of the window, waving and cheering.
Not far behind the bus, a Police van
was waiting, but it was trapped in the
middle lane."
The route followed by the raggies
took them along Knightsbridge on to
Cromwell Road and right up
Exhibition Road, and from there to
the Union Building. However, by the
Victoria nd Albert Musuem, one of
the runners was clearly lagging
behind. He later claimed to have been
running beyond his aerobic limit, but
other observers said that a female
pedestrian wanted his photograph.
Meanwhile, the others were jog-
ging past the Natural History
Museum, where there was someone
selling the Big Issue. "Sorry, no
change!" shouted one of the runners.
At the corner of Exhibition Road and
Prince Consort Road, the group
paused to consider options. The
majority chose to run a victory lap
around the Albert Hall. The last run-
ner was clearly in trouble, and decid-
ed to head back to the Union.
This laggard had one more piece
of bad luck to befall him before he
saw his trousers again. A mere twen-
ty yards from the Union, while casu-
ally strolling past the Royal College
of Music, the long arm of the law
caught up with him. Watched by
bemused spectators, including a
Felix mole, a Police car pulled next
to the perambulating nude and with
an "Oi, you. Stop!" he was accosted
by the boys in blue.
Satisifed that it was merely a stu-
dents stunt for charity and not some
form of massive campaign of civil
disobedience, the policemen accom-
panied the student back to the Rag
office. Luckily, the police decided
not to press charges, and didn't even
take the details of the runner they
caught, saying it was unfair to do
anything to him just because he was
the slowest. Showing a charity streak
they commented that "women and
children didn't want to see naked
overweight blokes on the streets."
The event raised several hundred
pounds for charity, and was general-
ly reckoned to be a success by Rag
Chair Andy Southern, with more
people participating than in the past.
Selkirk Hall experiences Tarantula trauma
N E W S T E A M
A chance discovery has exposed a
student at Selkirk Hall who has been
keeping a tarantula in his bedroom
since the beginning of term. The pet
was discovered after a re-app found
crickets, bred by the student to feed
the spider, jumping around his show-
er cubicle.
According to insect experts, a full-
grown tarantula can eats about 8-10
crickets per week. Unfortunately for
the student involved, some of these
escaped. Other then the re-app, a
number of Selkirk Hall students have
reported seeing some of them, most-
ly in the area of staircase six. Some
were spotted sitting in kitchen sinks,
others lurking in the showers. The
presence of these crickets led to the
discovery of the tarantula.
When asked to comment on the
situation, the Assistant Subwarden of
Selkirk Hall remarked, "I really don't
think this is news, so I'm not going to
be helpful." Dr. Hassard, the warden,
was unavailable for comment.
The College position has always
been that students are not allowed to
keep pets while they are staying in
halls of residence, so the heart-bro-
ken student was given 48 hours in
which to get rid of his unwelcome
pet. Unconfirmed rumours suggest
that he took it to the Biology depart-
ment to be looked after, leaving it in
the common room in the hope that
some kind soul would take it in.
The Housekeeper of Selkirk, Mr
Pappalardo, who had been away and
was therefore unaware of this,
expressed amazement at the tarantula
and other wildlife. "It isn't as if a
tarantula is easy to hide, not like a cat
or a dog. Next we will be getting
chimpanzees jumping up and down
the galleries. This place isn't meant
to be a zoo!"

