6 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 22ND NOVEMBER
Gardens of Enlightenment?
Simon Wistow and Michael Roberts are enlightened by reading IC's application for
spondulicks from the Millenium Comission but have to ask....
Is it all worth it?
One of the first things people
notice when they come to Imperial is
that, frankly speaking, the architec-
ture is as inspiring as a flat tire on a
rainy night in Moss Side. Yes that is
a cliched complaint oft heard around
the JCR (I'm not even going to men-
tioned the lack of women, whoops),
but when I came to have my inter-
view here I was very nearly put off
by how ugly everything was. If
Imperial didn't have such a good rep-
utation then I would never have
come. But (and the large cranes
around the campus are a big hint)
things are afoot to renovate the area
and generally change our dear
College into something we can be
proud of.
The obvious improvements are, of
course, the BMS building and the
Library. Despite a few set-backs (and
near deaths) these are at last under
way. However the most important
restructuring is yet to come.
The area around Dalby court is to
be completely transformed and to
help pay for the mammoth costs the
College has put in a bid to the
Millenium Comission. There is cur-
rently £300m being invested by the
Government, the Lottery and private
finance in the South Kensington area,
but this project will be centered
entirely around the the Civil Eng
building and is composed of some,
how shall we say this, interesting
ideas.
The College wishes to remove the
existing car and postal van parking
spaces from Imperial College road
and relocate them to a new, under-
ground car park. This new, two level
building will provide up to 200
spaces, and would allow parking for
staff cars during the day, the Albert
Hall at night and the various
Museums at the weekend.
By removing vehicles from
Imperial College road, the Queens
Lawn would become more accessible
and would be opened to the public,
along with the Arts and Music Centre
on top of the Library and the rest of
Dalby Court, where "a sequence of
revitalised spaces would be created...
called The Gardens Of Enlighten-
ment" (featuring the Shrub of
Righteousness and the Tree of
Universal Knowledge, perchance?
Who thinks these things up? Cheech
and Chonch? David Ike? Neil from
the Young Ones?).
Also on the cards is a new campus
entrance at the the junction of
Imperial College road and Exhibiton
road which will include a link to a
subway system, connecting the South
Kensington Underground station, the
Natural History Museum and the
Victoria & Albert Museum. After
removing the traffic from Imperial
College road, there are plans to build
a tree lined avenue, which will be
trimmed in the centre to allow light
onto the piece de resistance - a rip-
pling, undulating, canal with bridges
across it. Apparently, "the form of
the canal with its sinusoidal curves
and the gravel avenue will contrast
with the more formal layout of the
Queens lawn, with its central water
feature..."
"Central water feature?" I hear you
cry? "there ain't no water on the
Queens lawn". Ah, but this is all to
change. French landscape architect,
Alain Provost, is being brought in to
create a kinetic art piece, using com-
puter controlled fountain jets, which
can be programmed to change height,
duration and at night, colour and
light.
To quote the Millenium applica-
tion, "We will exploit this technolo-
gy in an array of 100 or more jets, to
provide sequences of aesthetic repre-
sentations of the structure of the ele-
ments - orbiting electrons could, for
example, be isolated, high thrown
packets of water in transient, concen-
tric shells, around a more stable
nucleus of protons and neutrons. The
periodic table itself could be repre-
sented on a large scale in the
coloured paving of the fountain
piaza." Eh?
The Queens lawn will be resolved
to bring it onto the same height as
Imperial College road, making it the
focal point along the east-west axis.
This landscaping would create an
open air cafe space in front of the
Sherfield Building. A mixture of
hard paving, grass and gravel will
help to 'soften' the space. Above the
Dalby Court car park, there will be an
informal space, made either of timber
decking or fine gravel. There will be
trees in boxes surrounded by seating
and screens to create smaller spaces
and since the court is bounded in on
the North by the Bessemer building,
there are plans for an eight-metre-
long geological map of the British
Isles. This would be executed in
stone, with each of the main geologi-
cal units being represented by its own
rock type. It would be surrounded by
large shaped boulders, from classic
geological sites. Are they crazy?
The estimated total cost? A snip at
£6,000,000.00 of which the College
anticipates half will be paid for by a
grant from the Commission and half
from revenue from the car park and
otehr retail opportunities.
For once I cannot be accused of mak-
ing all this up. I have, in my hands at
this very moment, a copy of Dalby
Court and Landscaping Milenium
Lottery Application, a document pre-
pared by Foster and Partners, the
very expensive architecture company
run by Sir Norman Foster. This nom-
inally confidential document was
supplied by a helpful source within
College administration (it is howver
in the public domain).
Even to the untrained eye this doc-
ument is, to be frank, pants. It seems
hurried and scrappily put together,
with a bit of wishy-washy landscap-
ing-babble and some photos and dia-
grams to pad out space. This is our
application to the Millenium com-
mission. True, an attached memo
states that "if the bid makes the
Commissions' initial long list, further
detailed work will be required", but
surely it is first impressions that
count. How can the application be
taken seriously if it is so poor?
Especially when it is hidden among
the hundreds of thousands of other
applicants for Millenium money.
Considering how much we are pay-
ing Sir Norm I think we should have
a slightly more impressive document.
And why is the document confiden-
tial? Don't we have a say in what is
done?
I'm sure future freshers will enjoy
searching for the few women at IC
along the shady banks of our very
own aqueous sine wave and, if they
get lucky, sitting hand in hand, next
to a tree in a enclosed space above a
car park. The public can "ooh" and
"ahh" at the splendid atomic fountain
complete with orbiting electrons and
large scale periodic table for amnesi-
ac chemists.
Since the area will be public
access, suitable drug dealers may
even be on hand to enhance the
'Enlightening'. If this development
has public access, whose jurisdiction
will it fall under? Will it be up to Ken
Weir and his present Security Force
to combat the inevitable rise in petty
crime and the distinct possibilty of
vandalism and half-inching, requir-
ing College to employ more guards
either internally or from an outside
firm, or should it become the police's
responsibility?
The whole project has potential
and it would be nice to be able to
look in the Imperial College prospec-
tus for 1999/2000 and not cringe at
the 60s concrete block style architec-
ture but I think (and hey, I'm never
outspoken) that maybe the students
should have a little more input in to
the whole shebang.
Also, if I was being cynical, I
would say that maybe there are a few
things more important that six thou-
sand, thousand squids could be spent
on (maybe renovating Evelyn gar-
dens or rebuilding those buildings
that were built in the 60s to last 20
years, for example). This could all be
a moot point, though, because judg-
ing by our application, I wouldn't be
surprised if we came away with noth-
ing to spend.
"If this development has public
access, will it oe up to Security
to combat the inevitable rise in
petty crime and the distinct pos-
sibilty of vandalism and half-
inching, or should it become the
police's responsibility?"

