FELIX FRIDAY 22ND NOVEMBER
_ AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL
WITH HUMAN-RIGHTS INCREASINGLY IN F O C U S , S A N J A Y SIKDAR INVESTIGATES THE WORK OF A M N E S T Y
As many of you will know, Amnesty
International is the world's largest
voluntary organisation dealing with
human rights issues. You have prob-
ably seen their adverts in magazines
portraying graphic examples of tor-
ture. This bears testament to the high
profile Amnesty has. It has 1.1 mil-
lion members spanning 150 coun-
tries and territories with 125,000
members residing in the British Isles.
Amnesty International was founded
in 1961 by a British Lawyer, Peter
Beneson after he heard of human
rights violations against two
Portuguese prisoners. It is funded by
members and through the public
using strategic fund raising schemes.
Amnesty International mission
statement is simple - to pursue the
release of all prisoners of conscience.
In other words, those incarcerated
solely for their beliefs, colour, sex,
religion, ethnic origin or religion and
have not used or advocated violence.
Amnesty International strives for fair
and prompt trials of political prison-
ers, it opposes extrajudicial execu-
tions and sudden disappearances
that take place in nations who bla-
tantly contravene the concept of
basic human rights. Amnesty is also
totally against torture, degrading acts
on prisoners and particularly the
death penalty. This applies to politi-
cal and non political prisoners alike
because there is nothing more inhu-
mane than to give a person the time
of their death.
Historically, Amnesty Inter-
national focused their energies into
assisting political prisoners but now
includes human rights abuses in its
mandate. For instance, Amnesty
fights for asylum seekers who are at
risk of being deported only to
become prisoners of conscience and
face the full wrath of their captors. It
is against abuses by opposition
groups, prisoner killings, hostage
taking and genocide such as the
recent atrocities in Rwanda. The
organisation is also concerned by
people being forced out of their
homelands for reasons of belief, reli-
gion, colour, ethnic origin and lan-
guage and who have not retaliated in
violence.
Amnesty International does not
believe in criticising particular
regimes, and ignores government
ideology as long as there are no vio-
lations of human rights - that can
even occur in supposed democracies.
Some might say that Amnesty med-
dles in the internal affairs of states,
but surely the issue of human rights
goes far beyond boundaries.
You may think that being a volun-
tary organisation Amnesty has no:
power to enforce their mandate but
allow me to give you two examples.
After hearing of a nine year old
Ethiopian boy who had been impris-
oned all his life along with his moth-
er, children in Norway, sent draw-
ings and cards to the Oslo office of
Amnesty. These were all bundled up
and forwarded to the President of
Ethiopia, along with a message
demanding the release of the two
prisoners. Within five weeks mother
and child were set free. In a second
example, the President of Brazil was
so distressed about Amnesty's cam-
paign in Brazil that he vowed
Brazil's human rights record would
never be cited again in future reports.
Clearly, the power of democracy can
force even the most ruthless regimes
into action.
There are several exciting events that
have started now which may interest
you. The "Amnesty International
Christmas Raffle 1996" will take
place on the 20th December (1st
prize £3000, 2nd prize £1500, 3rd
prize £500 and loads of runner-up
prizes of vouchers for Amnesty cata-
logue goods, videos, tapes and
CD's).
Amnesty International has long
been associated with music well
before the days of Live Aid.
Amnesty, in collaboration with
Miracle Music, has launched a com-
petition, for budding songwriters.
There are two categories: firstly a
song written on any theme and sec-
ondly a song specifically to do with
human rights. The first prize in both
sections is £200 and a publishing
contract, along with the use of a
demo studio to record the song.
Second and third prizes are amounts
to £100 and £50 respectively plus a
publishing contract. An ideal oppor-
tunity for you budding Noel
Gallaghers or Kurt Cobains to make
a positive statement.
Finally if you are going to attend
the "Skunk Anansie UK Tour 1996"
you will probably see Amnesty
stalls. Raffles will take place includ-
ing a boogie box signed by the band.
A M N E S T Y N E E D S Y O U
At the moment Amnesty is actively trying to recruit student members because
they are thought to be active and very passionate in support of causes. If you
wish to become a member you can ring the hotline telephone number (0891
445 999). Membership for students costs £7.50 a year.
Try out the following quiz to test your awareness of human rights:
1. Human rights violations occur in all political ideologies.
2. Torture is prohibited by the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
3. Prisoners have been tortured in one out of every three countries during the
90's.
4. A 17 year old can be executed in the US but not in Indonesia or Russia
5. No innocent US citizens have been executed this century.
6. In the USA, those who kill blacks are just as likely to be executed as those
who kill whites.
7. No western industrialised nation apart from the US again uses the death
penalty.
8. Many citizens are silenced through "disappearances" by governments as a
means of repression to avoid public criticism.
9. Amnesty International works tirelessly for the release of all political pris
oners regardless of beliefs or actions.
10. Amnesty International got the Nobel Peace Prize for 1977 in supporting
Human rights.
Answers:
3iux(0I3MBd(63tui(83Iu
l(£3S
IB
d(93
siBd(g3nJl(l7onJx(e3nJl(3onJi(i

