8 NEWS FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 22ND NOVEMBER
ML
funds:
1. Trips to visii i* luiive ondeatl '>ed (in New Zealand.)
t 2. Parents moved house without leaving a forwarding address, thus destitute.
3. Library fines,
4. Forced to pay £2000 fine to TV licence,people, acting upontip-offby hall cleaners.
5. Mugged whilst .walking to landlord's office to pay deposit in cash.
6. Forced to live in expensive, nearby flat due to diagnosed clinical laziness (Doctor's certificate attached.)
7/8/9. Failed - i - aiket/property/drug deal.
10. Personal bank collapsed, all assets frozen.
11. Only able to eat extremely expensive foods, due to rare dietary condition (Doctor's certificate attached.)
12. Ripped off by disgruntled boy/girlfriend.
13. Abducted by cult, brainwashed into donating all worldly possessions to Krishna. \
14. Failed multiple-lottery-ticket scam.
15. Only able to shop at Harts, due to bizarre inherited nocturnal sleeping patterns (Doctor's certificate attached.)
16. Left wallet in a phone-box on Charing-Cross Road, later detonated by the bomb squad.
17. Hopeless womaniser, embroiled in multiple paternity-suites.
jfliy JJ8119/20. Needed expensive psychiatric treatment following alien abduction/near miss by falling library ceilingrhyp-
ittlj Jfe^/nqjps outing fresher's week.
21. Victim of credit card fraud.
22/23/24. Flat infested, grant spent on cockroach traps/rat poison/having the squatters evicted.
:•*,; 25. Needed to buy vast television, due to failing eyesight (Doctor's certificate attached.)
26. Needed to buy vast speakers, due to failing hearing (Doctor's certificate attached.)
27. Needed to fit double glazing, due to failing hearing of neighbours opposite.
28. Bank error in bank's favour (£200.)
29. Accidentally played Monopoly with real money and lost.
30/31/32. Flat demolished by falling asteroid/satellite/747.
33. Caught up in South Kensington protection racket (money needed urgently.)
34. Spent grant on sandwiches from the JCR (Doctor's certificate attached.)
35. Knocked over a Ming vase with rucksack during visit to the V&A.
36. Entirety of possessions removed by a removals firm calling at the wrong address.
37. Overspent during a bout of "Sainsbury's rewards point fever."
38. Grant cheque bounced.
39/40/41. Last year's access fund cheque eaten by dog/roommate/IC internal mail system.
42. Suffered blow on head causing amnesia, and thus incurred tuition fees re-learning how to speak, eat, integrate
43, Personal accountant AWOL. Last communication received; a post-card from Rio de Janeiro carrying tfteohly the
message "It's all gone. Sorry." (photocopy attached.)
44/45. Donated student loan to donke> ianuuar>/Kurt CVbai memorial fund.
46. Accidentally left the . theoi aflHH^HH£(£c friend in Hong Kong.
47. Can only wear silk, due to . . t * tor's certificate attached.)
48. Forced to replace entire wardrobe following a grievous lapse of concentration in the launderette.
49. Grant spent on skin grafts following an accident in chemistry lab.
' SO. Grant spent on false limbs following1
an accident in the Mech Eng workshop.
51. Grant spent on a guide dog following an accident in the laser lab. 1
•
•
• .
.
*
'
/
•
< /
52. Gullible.
53. Prostitute's fees; a justifiable expenditure resulting from the disadvantageous male:female ratio (mate applicants
54. Bodyguard's fees; a justifiable expenditure resulting from the disadvantageous male:female ratio (female appli-
55/56. Legal costs/Vet's bills resulting from bizarre sexual practices/preferences.
57. Forced to replace flatmate's microwave oven following failed suicide bid. _ . ,
58. Toupee purchased to replace hair lost throughfinancialstress. .
59. Got married, had kids, settled down during the summer holidays.
60. Foolishly let slip PIN number to roajtmate whilst sleep-talking, hence bankrupt.
61/62. Compelled to buy suit for job interview/roommate's funeral.
63. Father, head of crumbling media empire, committed suicide by leaping from his private yacht, leaving one respon-
FELLX FRIDAY 22ND NOVEMBER NEWS FEATURE 9
J-up, Roll-up, get out those loan agreements, photocopy those bank-statements, there are prizes to be won in
IC's annual bullshitting contest... For today sees the deadline for applications for student Access funds.
finally intended as an alloc >r those I going particular financial hardship, today's falling
nts and soaring living costs have produes in the number of students applying to the fund.
itough IC's budget for such ar.<<.<.ui s, more fingers in the pie can onlv mean less pie per
ger, and so the more deserving cases are inevitably losing out to those students willing to make financial gain
by being economical with the truth. This has turned the applications procedure into something resembling a cre-
ative writing contest... Those individuals not fortunate enough to be blessed with missing limbs, debilitating ill-
nesses or children are having to become increasingly inventive in order that their pleas be heard above the beg-
ging throng. To this end, and in keeping with the standards of journalistic integrity that our readers have come
to expect, Felix has compiled a list of 101 tall tales, outrageous claims and abject lies with which to boost your
chances of a windfall come the new year, Pens at the ready...
sible for bad debts. -
64.Ploughed both grant and loan into top-secret personal research project (Nobel prize imminent.)
65. Frequent trips to New York, Paris etc... for 'vital research purposes."
66. Squandered all available funds in a vain attempt to woo a particular member of the opposite sex.
(
•
7
. Cost of redecorating and refurbishing flat after third patty...
68. Fire... "*|
Iff. and Theft.
70. Act of God (uninsured.)
:
: : : . ..... ... • .
•
71. Terrible cook; can only eat out. ' 1
T^ferrified of London, hence exorbitant travel expenses.
73; Ffet situated next to Bosphorus Kebab, entailing obvious increase in living costs.
jHBHp situated far from Sainsbury's, entailing obvious increase in living costs.
75. Member of Conservative Society (refused to cash grant cheque on principle.) *
76. NljiSber of Socialist Worker Student Society (refused to open bank account on principle, hence unable to cash
77. Spent entire grant, loan and overdraft in a single day, following a premonition that the world was going to end
talse.)
grant cheque.) :
(since proven
> pay reparations ,;e> -
> n-:r g up jm
79. Driviiic le-vsons. '
8'0. Colour blind, hence unable to tell betjif|lj,
K/S2-/83- Overdraft caused bv addiction t l j l f *
. bank-manager.
84. Cats to support.
85. Threats of violence
86. Chain-drinker.
87. Failed bid to host next Olympic Games.
88. Money vanished during holiday in the Bermuda tria
89. Couldn't possibly wear last year's fashions (darling.)
90. Somebody I know got £500 last year.
91. National Insurance contributions.
92. Negative equity.
93. Invisibles;
94. Overheads.
95. Sundries and miscellany.
96.1 simply don't know where all the money went.
97. Lost student loan in Nigerian investment portfolio hoax.
98/99/100. You have to give me the money, I'm in the boat club/on the University Cl|jj
.. .And the least believable of all: 101. Spent it on textbooks.
inations of bank-note .Doctor's certificate attached,
e/Bosphoni$%iixed grills.
pal friend; : 1

