10 NEWS FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 22ND NOVEMBER
O N T H E ISLAND OF
K O L U M B A N G A R A . . .
A voyage of
discovery
The rest of the intrepid expedition had gone to
brave the mountains of Kolumbangara's interior
(Kolumbangara is one of the Solomon Islands,
in the Western Pacific), and I had been told, with
all due subtlety, that as a mere girl, I would slow
them down.
This left me at a loose end in a male domi-
nated training camp - the envy my friends had
shown when I told them I would besharing my
holiday with eighty 16-21 year old lads (and
five Australian monks) proving to have been
misplaced. So, I borrowed a dug out canoe and
set out to sea. It was about 8 'o' clock, and the
sun illuminated the rainbow of colours thrown
out by the coral, living on the shallow seabed,
easily visible through the crystal clear tropical
water.
As I paddled on, following the shoreline
around the mountainous tropical island, I passed
a few palmleaf huts and an overwhelming num-
ber of half-dressed native children. A school of
dolphins soon joined me, swimming in front of
the canoe - but always keeping their distance.
The Solomon islanders consider them a pest as
they eat the precious tuna stocks, and the dol-
phins have learnt to stay out of spear's reach.
Yet the dolphins stayed with the my canoe; leap-
ing across its path as I continued my voyage, on
around the island.
Following the coastline of this beautiful
island, you begin to feel that you are no longer
on the same planet as that inhabited by SW7 -
the clear turquoise oceans, clean air and simple
native ways of life are so far removed from the
unstoppable pace of twentieth century living that
we have all grown up with. Indeed, you easily
begin to beliieve that some mythical shield pro-
tects this lonley paradise from the forces of
change.
Yet all of a sud-
den, the
reality of
the mod-
em world
hits you
smack in |
the face...
Strangers in
paradise
Though it is a cliche, it is unfortunately true that
nowhere on earth is entirely perfect, and the
bare patches on the mountain side stood out as a
testament to the destructive power of the log-
ging industry. The loggers are at the root of
deep and bitter disputes between the island's
community which reach right down to family
level.
In the Solomon Islands, titles like "chief are
passed on mainly through the paternal line, and
the chiefs are seen as caretakers of the land. But
it is the woman who actually own the land,
passed on through the maternal line. However,
the logging companies had gone into the islands
assuming that the land was owned by the chiefs.
Consequently, they thought that they had
obtained permission to log the forest.
Unfortunately, as the the chiefs did not actually
own the land many cases have gone to court.
The matter of landrightsand logging has led to
feuds within families in a society where the
sense of family is extremely strong and looking
after your 'wantoks' (relations) is a social
responsibility.
Although this system has many advantages -
there are no beggars, and all the old and infirm
are looked after by their families - it also has a
system of strict taboos. A husband is not
allowed to go to the bathroom if his wife's
brothers are in the same house, and while climb-
ing Mount Popamanseu I was asked to keep my
hair tied up, as the local giant took offense to
long hair,and would "do your hair in" if he was
angered.
Later, paddling along the coast of an idyllic
island in the increasingly fierce sun, Mount
Popamanseu seemed less daunting, though
other dangers exist for those in canoes.
Tararamanu, the
Sea Devil, will
only venture forth
on clear moonlit
nights when his
anger spurs him
to lightening
strikes. Luckily,
I was safe today
- apart from a
bad case of
sunburn. H
At a loose end in the Solomon Islands

