22»d May, 1973 F E L I X Page 3
MARTIN'S BIT
S O C I A L C O L O U R S
Nominations for social colours must be com-
municated in writing to me by the 3rd M a y , 1973 (ex-
cept in the case of Rag, Ents and Clubs).
So if you know somebody who has worked very
hard for the U n i o n in any of its fields of activities please
nominate them, send me a note with their name and
details of what they have done.
S W I M M I N G G A L A
Tomorrow (23rd M a y ) — the Sports Centre pool.
Compete or just come and watch. F u l l details elsewhere
In Felix.
F I R E A L A R M S , E X T I N G U I S H E R S and D R U N K E N
P E O P L E
I understand that the new College fire officer (I
wonder why we don't have a fire P R E V E N T I O N Offi-
cer) has sent signals to the Halls of Residence and stu-
dent houses explaining that henceforth bills will be sent
©ut for fire equipment which has been misused by silly
people (drunken or otherwise).
The Halls will have to get the money from some-
where, probably the residents, either the individual j
©Senders or hall amenities fund.
If people persist in trying to stop fire alarms ringing
during the monthly test then it is most likely that they
will be tested at a time inconvenient for students.
I'm a little bored with being woken at about 10
a.m. on a Saturday morning so I a m encouraging the
system to hold these tests at a more realistic time. I
explained to the fire officer that students are just like
real people — just three hours out of phase.
S H O R T S
W i l l the person to whom L lent a spare pair of
shorts at the R C S soccer sixes please return them to me
at his earliest convenience. I won't insist on them being
laundered.
A N D T O C O N C L U D E
Why, every year at election time, do all the candid-
ates spend so much time criticising the existing regime?
ft is not really necessary and does little to create good-
will between them and the incumbents. There seems
to be a trend that the least critical candidates get
elected. Food for thought?
G o o d luck to you all in any exams you may be
taking.
A n d a souvenir autograph from M C B for your
scrapbooks:
STOP PRESS
Do you want to earn £6 for a few hours work.
If so phone D i c k Gleave 01-748 9996/7/8.
I have more details if you are interested.
F E L I X , Newspaper of Imperial College Union.
Issue No. 336
Tuesday, 22nd May, 1973.
Editor: Oliver Dowson.
Asst. Editor and Editor-elect: Alasdhair
Campbell.
Contributions this week by G r a h a m King, Dave
Gribble, John Lane, Martin Doughty, Martin
C. Black, et al.
Published by the Editor for and on behalf of
the Imperial College Union Publications Board,
How to spend
40 days
in the USA
for only £10
Hopefully, you will see in the U n i o n and around
College posters advertising "40 days in the United
States" and pamphlets entitled "International Leader-
ship training Course for the New Age". Y o u may won-
der what it's all about? It is for a course sponsored by
the Unification Church to take place in July-August.
Cost of the course will be £10 plus whatever spending
money you want.
W h y are we sponsoring this? We believe all people
must, and will only come together i n a spirit of co-oper-
ation through a clear understanding of the Spiritual
nature of man. T o explain what is meant by this we
can take an example from the world of medicine.
Western medicine has tended to concentrate on diseases
and concern itself with the treatment of specific diseases
and specific areas of the body affected. However, it
finds itself incapable of dealing with psychosomatic ill-
nesses, depressions and neuroses. These are areas i n
which Oriental medicine has traditionally been strong
since Oriental doctors treat the whole man — mind
and body and are concerned with keeping a person
healthy. In recent years Oriental medicine has stag-
nated, but now is being rediscovered and as it is de-
veloped will be of great benefit to the world of med-
icine.
L o o k i n g at the world today we see Western
Society in all aspects is highly developed materially
but barren of spiritual values. This aspect of life we
must rediscover if we are to use modern technology
creatively and build a world of peace and harmony.
To examine and explore the principles which gov-
ern man and his environment, and apply the finding i n
daily life, is the aim of the Unification Church. W e
have members from all faiths, classes and races, we
are concerned not with mere beliefs but with under-
standing the world around us and acting with a sense
of purpose — that purpose being to bring about a
revolution in the hearts of all men, and thus in their
environment.
We believe that this course will help you have
hope for the future and will inspire you to creative
activity in the present.
We hope you will show interest in this project •—
applications for the course should be made to M i s s
Nicola Barlow, B A , 1 Marlowe Road, Cambridge; tel.
62281.
If you haven't seen any of the literature you can
get more information from Christopher Davies, 28
Liverpool Road, Thornton Heath, Surrey; tel. 01-653
8508.
Imperial College Union, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Felix telephone numbers
are: Office, 01-589 5111 ext 2229, Int. 2881;
Editor's home number 01-567 8721.
Advertising contracted by University Press Rep-
resentation, Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square,
London WC2.
Printed by F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley,
Glos., GL11 4BL.
Next issue: 29th May.
Copy: 25th May.
© All rights Reserved 1973
Home-based
Students ?
B y now you will most likely know about the pro-
posed increase i n the grant: £40 instead of the original
£20 on the full grant bringing the full L o n d o n rate up
to £520 per year, and various similar adjustments. But
where does this really leave us? H o w much will you
he getting next year?
Take my case, for example. This year, living in
hall, I was entitled to the full L o n d o n grant of £480,
subject to a deduction due to the income of my parents.
This meant that for the whole year the government
paid me £112, not enough even to cover my hall fees
let alone food, books, etc. L u c k i l y my parents have
made a contribution though not the full amount due of
£368, they cannot afford to pay so much. I was lucky,
some fjarents pay nothing. The proposed increase would
mean I would get £132 next year, the adjustment in the
parental means test only affects those whose parents
earn-below £2,000, above this low level parental contri-
butions remain unchanged.
But the local authority doesn't even want to pay
£132. I live in Harrow, one of the outer London bor-
oughs. This month I got a letter which stated "Students
resident in this borough who attend London colleges are
normally expected to live at home and travel daily to
college, unless they obtain a place in H a l l . " I shall not
be in H a l l next year so they want me to live at home
and thus base my grant on the home rate. W i t h the pro-
posed increase, the home rate is £395. Taking the means
test into consideration I would end up with the mini-
m u m grant of £50 per year plus some allowance for i n -
creased travel costs. £50 for a year! Even living at home
totally dependant on one's parents for food and accom-
modation this is ridiculous. But besides that what would
living at home mean? Harrow is a large borough and
from the part where I live the journey to Imperial C o l -
lege by public transport takes 1 \ hours, a total of at
least 3 hours travelling every day if I were to live at
home. A n d they exp>ect one also to study!
This wasn't always the case. N o t long ago students
from Harrow attending the Central London colleges
were given full grants. But now the government is en-
couraging home-based students. N o t only do they ex-
pect students to attend their local college but also that
they should spend 3 hours per day travelling to do so.
This cannot but have an effect on their studies to say
the least.
F o r mysetf, 1 shall probably be forced to live
nearer college. If Harrow Education Department
doesn't change its mind I shall end up getting less
money to pay the-higher cost of living outside hall than
I get this year living in Hall. A n d the government c a n
go to hell with its pathetic grant increases. M y grant
will be reduced!
There are few who will benefit very much from the
proposed increase. Even for those getting the full
amount of £480, the rise to £520 does not even cover
cost of living increases. This offer is derisory, however
one cannot but admit that without the militant cam-
paign for higher grants this year we would not have got
even this. F o r this reason I believe we must continue the
campaign next year. It has been shown that we can
achieve something, let us continue and achieve a de-
cent grant increase benefiting all of us. O f course the
campaign will be long, since our power to put pressure
on the government is limited, but we do have some so
let us continue to use it as effectively as we can. Because
the campaign is long we must be careful in how we
carry it out. The tactics we use must aim at putting
the maximum pressure on the college authorities and
through them on the government, with the minimum
harmful effects to ourselves, only thus can we carry
out a long campaign successfully. But above all, think
about it. Some students, those on discretionary awards,
still get nothing whatsoever, the government has not
even mentioned these in its recent proposals. Surely, a
decent grant for all students is our right. Let us fight
for that. .
S O M A H O C K F E L D E R

