Page 8 F E L I X 22nd, May 1973
c h e s s
IC WINS T H E P U K E - U P !
IC's Chess C l u b completed the double when the
First Team defeated the Second Team 4\—\\ in the
final of the Pugh C u p (Puke-up?) last week.
The Firsts had reached the final by winning a
strong preliminary tournament and then defeating St.
Thomas' Hospital 6 — 0 i n the semi-final. T h e Seconds
were hoping for another upset, as there had been when
they defeated Westfield in the semi-final, but they were
quickly outplayed o n four boards, including a brilliant
win by M a r k (where's my pint?) Hassall over Deniz
Georgiou. T h e game of the match, however, was on
board five, where R Fisher ("Dwain") played Dave E d -
wards ("Dwain of the Year"). It was a close even
struggle until " D w a i n " mysteriously sacrificed and then
lost shortly afterwards. "I was messing about" said
Dwain, after the match, "I was winning it a l l the w a y "
replied the Dwain-Elect. So the Firsts left for Stan's bar
chanting, "We've won the P u k e - u p ! "
Results:—
1 A . Ashby J , D . Tucker \
2 M . Hassal 1, D . Georgiou 0
3 I. Heppell 1, P. Warren 0
4 R. M a r s h 1,D. C a r r O
5 R. Fisher 0, D . Edwards 1
6 R. Colston 1,J. E l E i n i O
The first team also w o n the league, winning a l l
seven games, annilihating a l l i n the process, including a
fine 4 — 2 w i n over our b i g rivals U C , last year's winners
and a 5—1 w i n over Westfield who were runners-up.
In a l l I C scored 37 points out of 42. R o b Colston
the skipper-manager who h a d a fine season as cap-
tain, refused to comment about his team's chances next
year.
The Second and Third Teams also had a good
season losing only one game each, thus showing the
Club's great strength i n depth, yet again.
During the Easter holidays we entertained an
Iraeli college team and with a weakened side lost 4 — 2 .
M a n y friends were made and the club is now hoping
to tour Israel during the Summer playing Israeli col-
leges.
P. L . D A V I E S .
b o a t i n g
B O A T C L U B
The month-long Easter vacation was considerably
shortened for members of the 1st V I I I this year i n an
attempt to maintain their fitness and the mental attitude
developed last term. T h e last month of last term saw
them i n a position not enjoyed by their predecessors for
many years. The highlight was their performance i n the
Bedford Head in which they won the Colleges pennant
and came second overall behind Goldie. In doing so
they defeated all the Cambridge Colleges that matter.
Two weeks later, despite a disastrous clash with Vesta
and an abysmal Walton crew which cost them 25 sees,
they came 15th out of 80. They rounded off the term
by coming 31st out of 37 crews in the tideway Head
to become the highest placed I C crew for 15 years.
The row itself however was not one of IC's best and
they fell short of their predicted 20th.
The Saturday before the start of this term saw
them at Hammersmith Regatta where, on finding them-
selves the only Senior A crew, they had to row i n the
Elite VIIIs. O f the quality of their row I will say noth-
ing except that they were passed by the Umpire's
launch. T h e next week saw them at Barnes and Mort-
lake regatta and after disposing of Exeter University i n
the Senior A semi-final were hopeful of obtaining their
first win of the term.
However a fortnight away from their high protein
diet (Mooney pie, chips and beans) had reduced them
to a shadow of their former selves and a poor row re-
sulted which led to them losing to London R C by \l.
A great deal of confidence building was needed
after this defeat and the I C coach had to work ex-
tremely hard. Then suddenly something happened and
the V I I I recaptured last term's form. W h i c h brings us
to last weekend's A l l o m C u p , the University of L o n -
don summer regatta.
This was the worst A l l o m C u p for years. 39 com-
petitors came from I C and only 78 from a l l the other
U L colleges put together, a third of these coming from
Guys. Special thanks must go to Guys, who at least
made an effort. D i c k Smith w o n the novice skulls for
I C despite the fact that during his first race his com-
plexion resembled the grey of the I C blades, a result of
spending the previous night at a dinner at the Dor-
chester, courtesy of the B B C . Fortunately he recovered
in time for the final against the U L B C secretary Steve
(where's the D i x o n Cup) Dean, who used his position to
gain a rather excessive rest between races i n a pro-
gramme, which despite the lack of competitors was
very poorly organised. The open sculls was w o n for I C
by Neil James, the Cambridge Blue, i n quite a high
quality field. H e also w o n the Coxed Pairs with Birch
of U C . I C also had a half share i n the Coxless pairs.
The Novice V I I I were drawn directly into the final
against Guys but since Guys didn't turn up, they had
a row over which I suspect was a disappointing end to
their day. T h e 2nd V I I I were unfortunately knocked out
in the first round of the Roderick H i l l cup, but as this
is a new crew they can hope to improve o n this.
Thus we come back to the 1st V I I I . Besides rowing
in the Open VIIIs they split into two fours. One, i n the
Senior C Coxed restricted division and the other i n
the Open Coxless division. The Coxed I V completely
outclassed their opposition in the semi-final and i n the
final, after negotiating various power boats came i n
to win quite comfortably.
The story i n the Coxless boat was slightly different
in the semi-final they met a Guys crew containing two
purples. After a slow start they powered their way
through and after getting 3 lengths clear, saw Guys give
up. In the final they met a very powerful U C I V con-
taining the National Squad Purple, Birch, two members
of lyrian, and a member of Thames Tradesmen.
A magnificent start saw I C £ 1 up after one minute
and going away. Unfortunately lack of practice led to
I C steering into the U C I V and the race was stopped.
L u c k y not to be disqualified, I C were forced to re-start
the race \\ down. A g a i n they got i n a good start and
pulled back to level but the two supreme efforts had
cost them too much and they faded over the last \ min.
to lose by 1 1. T h e two fours joined together for the
VIII's final, again against Guys. The Guys V I I I , con-
taining several ex-purples was quite powerful but no
match for the pseudo-professional (six days training
per week) I C V I I I . They went away from the word go
and won comfortably by 31.
If the regatta was a n outstanding success for 1C,
one could not say the same for the regatta itself. The
low entry, especially the pathetic contribution from the
Hospitals (Guys excepted) was inexcusable. The feeble
excuse given was that most of them didn't want to show
their VIIIs just before the Hospital Bumps. What satis-
faction they get from saving their eights for a race in
which the fastest boat in U L , with the exception of
the purple eight, is ineligable, I don't know. N o excuse
at a l l was forthcoming about the lack of novice VIIIs,
the absence of which will lead to some very inexperi-
enced Open VIIIs in the near future.
VOLUNTARY WORK
Are you a student from
Harrow?
Will you be coming
home in the holidays?
Are you looking for
voluntary work in the
holidays, such as running
gardening week-ends, dec-
orating projects, helping
on holidays for deprived
children, running holiday
playgroups and visiting
the elderly?
If so, when you come
home (or before) write to:
Miss C. A . Cusdin,
Community Service Offi-
cer, Education Depart-
ment, London Borough of
Harrow, The Civic Centre,
PO Box 22, Station Road,
Harrow H A 1 2UW, or
'phone: 863-5611 Ext.
2408.
JOHN LANE
PRESIDENT'S P I E C E
Students have been giving the D.E.S. a hard time the
last two years.
Last year's abortive attack on student unions led
to an ungainly retreat by Mrs. Thatcher and the de-
cline and fall of Mr. Van Straubenzee. Now over the
grants issue another up-and-coming young junior
'Norm' St.-John-Stevas, looks like doing himself a
grievous injury by falling elephant-like between two
stools. And worse still the Daily Telegraph launches a
campaign to force Mrs. Thatcher to design and ap-
point a Fascist Government pledged to Monday Club
Policies no doubt involving a general strike of stock-
brokers, financiers, land speculators and Admirals and
a mass exodus to the Coyman Islands.
£20 may be enough to allow some Vice-Chancellors
to put refectory prices or hall rents up without more
than a twinge of conscience but it is not going to be
enough to buy off many students. The proposals will
be seen for what they are: an attempt to pacify some
sections of the campaign and minimise support for
those rent strikers who are facing victimisation (some-
times completely illegal) from their College Authori-
ties. Because married woman have had no increase
since 1965 they are supposed to be glad to get some-
thing. Better means test arrangements if your potential
income is under £2,000 are supposed to take the steam
out of the campaign against the means test. And the
£20 increase should bring back 'moderate' opinion into
the fold, win lots of Tory votes in the General Election
and make Mrs. Thatcher the first non-male M.P. since
Ted Heath.
In fact the Government will have to face a bitter
reaction particularly from discretionary award stud-
ents who still face exactly the same discrimination as
before. So as 'Norm' spectacularly misses the stool
he was aiming at, 'moderate' student opinion (Tory
students, et al) will become increasingly appalled that
he left his original seat of total intrasigence. For mili-
tancy has worked after well-argued memos were seen
to fail. The lessons are clear. After the Triennial Re-
view in 1968 the grant increase recommended was
halved. The 'moderates' in control of N.U.S. could do
nothing more than foam (politely, of course) at the
mouth. In 1971 N.U.S. mounted the first campaign
which attempted to involve ordinary students in any
sort of mass activity. The Review then did nothing to
change the discretionary award system but at least
the Government did pay up the full amount they
agreed to. The fact that now under pressure from a cam-
paign of unprecedented mass militancy from students the
Government has partly broken the Triennial Review
procedure to give an interim reward which should en-
courage us to redouble our efforts.
Why did the Government feel it had to bury us off
anyway? Partly it was due to pressure from College
Authorities faced wjth rent strikes, catering boycotts,
strikes, occupations and other such disruptions. The
amount of support we received helped (even old age
pensioners joined the picket of the D.E.S.). Perhaps
the most important factor, one which is often forgot-
ten, is that the students of today are the teachers,
technologists, doctors, etc., of the future. Equally the
militant students of today are the militant white collar
trade unionists of tomorrow. The disaffection of the
"middle strata" at the same time as massive conflict
are taking place between the Government and the
working class could lead to its downfall. A very real
fear brought forth the £20 and caused the Tories to
ditch their "moderate" supporters.
Lastly what of those who said we could win nothing
without bringing down the Government. T o say the
least they look a bit foolish!
The way to get united action from students is around
demands which would meet their real needs and which
they see as being just. Bring-the-Tories-down-type slo-
gans immediately split as before Tory, anti-Tory and
indifferent not to mention those who want to bring
down Labour governments too. Any serious splits make
the task of winning allies very difficult and gives the
Government as easy way to discredit us.
The N.U.S. extraordinary conference on grants
should decide on firstly, measures to defend victimised
rent strikers, secondly specific plans for an even bigger
campaign next session, and thirdly concrete proposals
to win practical support from the Labour movement
instead of just talking about it.

