IC M E N S H O C K E Y
W I N U L U C U P
On Wednesday the IC
Mens Hockey 1st XI beat Wye
College 3 - 0 to win the cup
that they last held in 1972.
Full report next week.
DISUSED L A B T O B E
CONVERTED INTO
SPORTS COURTS
A disused laboratory in Chemistry is
to be converted into a basketball,
volleyball and badminton court. The
laboratory, which is large enough for
a court to be built in it, is expected to
be converted by the end of this
academic year. The cost of the
conversion is expected to be about
£7,000, the bulk of the money going
on a new floor and new lighting.
ICR
CONSERVATIVE
SOCIETY
A G M
The A G M of Con Soc was held on
Friday 7th March in Huxley 644.
Chairman Mark Clegg reported on a
year in which four speaker meetings
were organised, including the highly
successful Ted Heath visit on 4th
March, which attracted 350 people.
Membership now stands at its
highest for at least five years. The
1980-81 committee will be:
Chairman: Mark Clegg, Mech Eng 2
Vice Chairman: Chris Webb, Chem
Eng 2.
Treasurer: Tim Lawes, Maths 2
Secretary: Brian Smith, Physics 2
Morning Cloud Editor: Bernard
Smith, Physics 3.
Publicity Officer: John Narborough,
Elec Eng 2.
U F C DECISIONS
Last Friday U F C met and decided to
underwrite the Caravan concert
planned next term. This means that if
the concert is cancelled or makes a
loss, then the deficit will be borne
jointly by the Union and Ents.
The concert is planned for the
third of May, and will coincide with
the Rage Fete. Tickets for the
concert, which will cost about two
thousand pounds to stage, are
expected to cost about three pounds
each.
Also discussed at the meeting was
a claim for three hundred and
twenty pounds from the Athletics
Clubs Committee. The money is
intended as a subsidy for the
travelling expenses of the women's
hockey team's upcoming trip to
Holland. There were no objections to
giving the money to the team, since it
was readily availalbe.
ICR
WATER POLO RAFFLE
Tickets from Ken
Sports Centre
CRICKET C L U B TRIALS
The cricket club trials will be held at
Hariington on Wednesday 23rd
April, meeing in the Union Lower
Lounge at 12:30pm. Afterwards
there will be a social gathering (piss
up) in the Union Bar.
Anyone wishing to play during the
summer term, but unable to attend
the trials should contact Martin
EUacott through the Mines letter
racks.
All prospective players should try
and keep the availabilities chart
(which will be situated outside the
Union Bar) up-to-date, to help with
team selection during next term.
Anyone wishing to purchase
sweaters should also contact Martin
Ellacott before the end of term.
EDITORIAL
Error in this weeks
crossword.Clues down
should be across and
visa versa.
Get out your crystal balls to predict how
the winning candidates will perform
during their sabbatical years of office.
During the election campaign I was made
aware of the candidates' personalities and
their past experience, but it was difficult
to identify their future policies. There has
been some discussion on the merits of
the nine d a y e l e c t i o n c a m p a i g n as
compared to last years twenty-one day
poster battle. T h e short period has
p r o d u c e d a high t u r n o u t , b u t , for
candidates who have names that are
unfamiliar to the electorate, a short
campaign is a disadvantage.
Guilds •
In contrast to the I C U elections, Guilds
voted for their new Exec on Tuesday.
T h i s year G u i l d s i n t r o d u c e d a n e w
method of voting. T h e paper ballot
system with stand-downs from President
or Vice President was chosen to replace
the old system which was based on voting
by a show of hands and had unrestricted
stand-downs. T h e r e were about five
hundred Guildsmen at the meeting which
is approximately 25% of the total number
in C & G .
A t first I w o u l d have a d v o c a t e d a
departmental paper ballot, but such a
high turnout to the U G M meant that
most students who would have voted in
their departments turned up to the
meeting. It is satisfying to -vote and then
be told the result within a few minutes.
The new system has proved to be a
success.
Congratulations to the new President, Pat
Leggett. I worked with Pat, last summer,
when he was producing Spanner. Although
the two other candidates for G u i l d s
President put up a good fight, Pat deserved
to win. However, I would like to make a
special mention of Dave Gayer. Dave
managed to win 139 votes which is pretty
good considering that he's only in his first
year at IC. It is perhaps worth looking at
the points raised by Dave during his
election speech for Guilds President.
Dave said that Guilds Union needed to
have less emphasis on drinking with a
broader range of events in Freshers'
Week. He said that Guilds events were
only attended by the same faithful few
and that College would not continue
paying out money to Guilds just to see
the Union cater for a handful of people.
Dave's comments could well be applied to
ICU. By still continuing all the activities
associated with drinking, but by introducing
events that do not require booze, we can
shift the emphasis away from drinking. A
good example was last Saturday's Deaf
C h i l d r e n ' s Party. IC students found
satisfaction in entertaining the children
and the kids had fun as well. We need
more events held at Imperial that benefit
the community rather than the brewery.
• Term Ends
As the last few days of the spring term slip
by, my x-ray eyes can see through the walls
of the halls of residence and there I notice
hundreds of students rapidly finishing off lab
reports and other course work. Why not
take a break and come as 'your favourite
American' to the J C R tonight? It looks like
it's going to be a great party. I know I'm all
for events that do not rely on booze, but
tonight I could become the first sabbatical
to be convicted of failing a breath test
while driving a wheelchair!
Next Friday, 21st March, there'll be an
end of term FELIX. Don't miss it. I hope
to include some special competitions for
your entertainment on the way back
home.
Cheers!
This is the regular paragraph where I say
'Cheers!" to everyone who has helped
with FELIX and also to those who have
given me a push around College. I even
managed to get to last Saturday's Willis
Jackson party with Chris Callow's help.
I'm not sure w h e t h e r B r u c e Willis
deserves to be mentioned in this part of
the Editorial after he stripped down my
wheelchair at the Guilds U G M , but at
least he put it back together again!
A special thanks to Jeremy Nunns who
has been fetching and carrying for me as
well as helping.with F E L I X . C h e e r s
Jeremy!
Finally, on a rather obscure note . . . I
have already got two notches in my
plaster. Will I get another tonight?
Colin Palmer
FELIX Editor
; published h-, ihe Fdnur ijn bfhall DI ihi> Imperial College Union Publit nions Board I H IX ISSN 0140-0701 I Hegisiered <»t ih«- Post Offke ( opv right It I IX I9NC
FFL'IV i* prinnjd on ihe l nion premises in Prince Consort Road I ondon SWT Ffcl IX. the tdnor ot H I IX and Union OHi< ers tdrinoi a< .epi llabifin, in respect r.i errors or onVissior
Editor Cfilin Richard Pdlrm-r rt.l IX Imperial College Union Pr.ni <
• ( onsori (load London SWT Ini Phone 2HH\ f \t Prjonv 01

