10 Feedback Felix • 11 October 1999
Another year, another columnist,
another bout of slagging off the
medics. Well, maybe not. That's
not the point of this one... this col-
umn is going to look right at the
heart of this Union, week in and
week out, and tell it like it is.
Whether you, or Tasha Newton,
likes it or not. Okay? Let's get a
few ground rules straight, so that
the rest of the year is put into con-
text...
We, the students of Imperial
College elect six students into sab-
batical positions each year. Two of
these are "special" positions; one
is the editor of this august publi-
cation - that is, he solely has the
responsibility to produce this
newsletter week in, week out. The
other is the sabbatical President of
ICSM SU, a position introduced by
Eric Allsop in 1997 when it was
felt that medics would not want to
stand for general ICU positions.
The ICSM President is responsible
for all aspects of the welfare and
extra-curricular life of medics at
IC. In addition, we have an ICU
Deputy President (Finance and
Services), who is constitutionally
responsible for the bars, catering
outlets, shops and also setting
general budgets for the Union
(including the medics), an ICU
Deputy President (Clubs and Soci-
eties), who assists the Club Chair-
persons in any way he can, repre-
senting their concerns to the
Union, and an ICU Deputy Presi-
dent (Education and Welfare), a
new position introduced'this year,
who is responsible for ensuring the
Union provides adequate repre-
sentation and services for its mem-
bers in areas such as welfare (sur-
prisingly) and academic matters.
All of these sabbatical officers
are responsible to ICU Council,
your democratically elected repre-
sentatives, and not (much to her
chagrin) to the ICU President, who
in fact has such a small job
description, it is better to tell you
what she does NOT do. She does
NOT go around introducing mem-
bers of the Union (i.e. your) staff
as "her staff" to both the Chancel-
lor of the University of London and
new student staff, she does not
introduce a fellow sabbatical offi-
cer to the Pro Rector (Educational
Quality) as "her Education and
Welfare Officer", and she does
o i n t
not demote the sabbatical who
runs this fine independent newspa-
per to "her magazine editor".
What's the point of this? Why
badmouth the Union before it's
even had time to get going? Well,
for this simple reason. ICU does
not work properly, and has not
done for years. Students don't get
involved, don't tell people what
they want to happen - none of this
"Talk to Tasha" crap. Let's take an
example:
For years, College have been
trying to build a new sports centre
at South Kensington. The local
residents association seems to
have finally caved into the idea,
but the Union is now refusing full
support, saying that "it is not in
the interest of one-fifth of the stu-
dent body". Who in the Union
opposed it? Tasha Newton. Did
she consult ICU Council? No.
Why? Because to build the sports
centre, the College needs to sell
one of its three sports grounds,
i.e. Teddington. El Presidente's
argument is that the medics want
to "keep" Teddington (it's no
longer theirs by the way - an Act of
Parliament saw to that in 1988 -
it's "ours"), and so one-fifth of
"her" members (i.e. ICSM under-
graduates) would rather not see a
sports centre.
FACT ONE: The larger com-
ponent of ICSM is the old Charing
Cross and Westminster Medical
School, who couldn't give two
hoots about Teddington.
FACT TWO: There is enough
space at Harlington, IC's main
sports ground, for every IC and
ICSM team to play a home game
at the same time
FACT THREE: IC is one of the
few remaining universities without
a decent sports centre.
So come on, mobilise. Get
down to the first ICU Council
tomorrow, and get yourself elect-
ed to the remaining places.
Medics get what they want
because they shout the loudest -
shout louder! Do you want a
Sports Centre? Do you want to
keep Teddington? Have a view.
Use it. It's what democracy is all
about...
The appaling performance against dire oppo-
sition of the bunch of Medics on University
Challenge a few weeks ago suggests to Kevin
that the selection process for the Imperial Col-
lege teams needs overhauling. Imperial, like a
number of other institutions can enter two
teams. Presently one team is organised by the
Medic's Union, the other by ICU's quiz socie-
ty. This year only the Medic's team, none of
whom had any concrete links with IC, qualified
for the televised rounds. University Challenge
is a team game, which requires a team to win
it, not four individuals. Students should form
themselves into teams, which then compete
against each other, in a centralised competi-
tion, with the best two teams going on to rep-
resent the college, regardless of CCU. Such a
system would encourage diversity in back-
grounds of the team members. The quiz show
should not be the place for childish student
bets. Like Mr Paxman, Kevin is unaware of the
work of "Wango".
Basics staff are phoned on an almost nightly
basis by Sherfield Security, who inform them
that they "have a fire alarm". Usually, the hap-
less staff member apologises for their incom-
petence, and quickly serves the offending
burnt pizza before the escapade is noticed by
their manager. The residents of the above
Southside halls are not disturbed. Kevin under-
stands why this arrangement is in place. Due to
the frequency of fire alarms last year, by the
end of the year-many staircases had an unoffi-
M i s h
M a s h
A Mostly Harmless Column by
Kevin, a random entity who
knows nothing about nothing
cial rota - only one person would bother going
to find out what was going on following an
alarm. If the alarms went off every time some-
thing burnt in Basics, they would be universal-
ly ignored.
If you have just moved into Southside halls you
may be wondering why your window has been
blocked from opening properly. The windows
are barred because college administration is
scared of 'the residents'. Students are residents
too, and perhaps we should follow the lead
given to us by other universities where students
have managed to drive the locals so mad with
their student-y antics, that they have moved out
of the area immediately surrounding the uni-
versity. The property in this area then plummets
in price and becomes affordable for students.
Over time the students region of influence
grows, usually until the students have con-
quered a large region of the town or city.
Medic's names could be Mud by the time
they've finished their degrees. Across Europe
over the last few decades there has been an
attempt to differentiate between academic and
medical 'doctors'. It is likely that this trend will
reach the UK in our lifetimes. One of Kevin's
favourites is seen in The Czech Republic where
a medical doctor's name is literally mud. A
doctor who in the UK would be addressed, "Dr
Mash", would in Czech be, "MUDr Mash".
As for this year's Union Handbook, suffice to
say Kevin hears it was proof-read by at least
five different people.
For more from Kevin:
http://come.to/mishmash

