Music Felix • 11 October 1999
frequency ^/^
Hello and welcome to
Felix's swish and stylish
new music and club-
scene section 'frequen-
cy1
. Produced by two
main editors and a
large team of reviewers,
frequency aims to bring
a higher quality of
music and club cover-
age than ever before.
We'll be reviewing more
live music and club
events, and previewing
more of the multitude of
happenings that go on
in London each week.
...welcome to
frequency...
We're also an expand-
ing clan, and would
very much appreciate
some views from some
of you alternative music
lovers. Some of you
might remember the
almighty r'n'b column
Tha' Bomb brought to
you by everyone's
favourite loudmouth,
Milen. This column and
others on rock and jazz
will hopefully be launch-
ing soon in a bi-weekly
or monthly format. Any
prospective columnists
or reviewers should
drop into the Felix office
and ask for James or
Joel. See you soon, and
make sure you have a
good one.
Leftfield
Rhythm & Stealth
(Hard Hands/Sony)
Although this album came out a few weeks a g o , due to the large
amount of fuss surrounding it's release I thought to leave a comment
out of this bumper review section would be more than unfair. What the
fuss was about was simple; Leftfield's first album Leftism was one of
only a few albums to truly cross the dance and chart music genres to
give a sound that was instantly accessible to both sides. From the
opening subaqua echoes of Re/ease the Pressure to the stunning beats
at the finale of 21st Century Poem, Leftfield partners Neil Barnes and
Paul Daley never put a foot wrong. The job for Rhythm and Stealth was
to keep up the same standard. So did the boys do the job? Well not
quite, but they came very close.
From the album starter Dusted it is clear that Leftfield have decided that
the dance floor sound is not the be all and end all of music making,
and thus on first listening Rhythm & Stealth appears to be not quite all
it should be. However as the listening experience is repeated, Leftfield's
change of tack turns out to be less of an error than it at first seems.
Indeed Rhythm & Stealth turns out to be the perfect partner to Leftism
for an evenings music listening. After the opening downbeat, hip-
hoppy Dusted, R&S steps up a tempo or three to the unmistakable
beats of Phat Planet kick in. Like Open Up from Leftism, Phat Planet
provides a sound unheard of anywhere before and this is Leftfield at
their best. The rest of the album, however, doesn't quite cut it when it
comes to originality, and that is the main difference between this and
Leftism.
Another question remianing over Rhythm and Stealth is that perhaps
only three of the tracks are suitable for the dancefloor and some
heavyremixing is going to be required if we're going to be bopping to
Leftfield over the next few months. I'm sure though that this can't be
too hard a task for two lads clearly capable of electronic wizardry more
masterful that any of the other in the chasing pack.
Rhythm and Stealth thus is unquestionably an album you must own. It's
not quite Leftism, but it's better than any other dance album to come
out for some time. And that includes the Chemicals equally hyped Sur-
render. Let lushous Leftfield lay it in on you.
Live
The Distance to Here
(Radioactive)
There's a style of music called Adult Ori-
entated Rock or A.O.R. for short. It's a
complete misnomer because (well to me
anyway, juvenile that I am) whenever I
hear the letters A.O.R. I think Eunuch's
rock music: music that lacks balls for
people in their new flannel shirts, white
trainers and crisply pressed jeans with
turn ups, looking for some sounds with
an edge. If you take the time to investi-
gate this lame-sounding genre you'll find
that there are some decent bands
amongst the pap that invariably gets
thrown up when some pony-tailed record
executive invents himself a reason for a
pay rise. Counting Crows, Matchbox 2 0
and Live are in this creditable minority.
The Distance To Here is the latest offer-
ing from the latter of the three, and very
good it is too. The distinctive husky voice
of Ed Kowalczyk adds a certain raw qual-
ity to an otherwise perfectly produced
album. Live seem to be moving in a
heavier direction, albeit not that different
from what we'd expect from them. There's
more bass on The Distance..., the guitars
are a little bit more overdriven and the
vocals are a tad darker. That said, this is
still unmistakably Live and on the first lis-
ten you might think that the music just the
same as before. But this is an album that
deserves another listen, then another and
another. In fact, the more it gets an air-
ing, the more appreciated it'll become.
ID James Christian

