18 Music Felix • 11 October 1999
frequency ^/^
Kevin Rowland
My Beauty
(Creatiom)
After leaving Dexy's
Midnight Runners, Kevin
Rowland spent 1 1 years
as a cocaine addict and
beggar. While I can
see the mild attraction
of the first pastime, I'd
have rather cashed in
on being one of the
Runners earlier than
Kevin has here, on this
an album of specially
selected cover versions.
Kevin's also taken up
cross dressinng, and
aquired a good skill of
chatting absolute shite.
Apparently Kev made
this album because he
had to. All the ugliness
in the world really took
its toll on Kev, and it
was only the beauty of
the songs he has cov-
ered on this album that
brought him back from
the cold.
What? Moving from
cocaine to cross dress-
ing and from beggary
to mouth farting does
not sound like a move
in the right direction to
me. Indeed Kevin, you
daydream believer you,
I think you're just a bit
of a wally.
• • • • • James
David Bowie
Hours
(Virgin)
After dabbling in dance and other areas , Mr. Bowie has returned to
a style much more similar to his earlier self. It seems he has tired of
his continuous reinventioin in the front of the worlds media.
Titles such as "Survive", "The Pretty Things Are Going to Hell" and
"What's Really Happening" don't suggest a Steps view on life. Howev-
er, the album isn't a gloom fest - rather an acception of all that has
gone before and a determination to make the future better.
With its combination of rockabilly riffs and electronic beats "If I'm
Dreaming My Life" he questions the very existance of a previous rela-
tionship - "was she ever really there at all?". All his practised years as
a performer come to the surface, with many uses of the tried (or should
that be tired?) and tested "Build it up, Knock it Down" tempo. The lyrics
of "Seven" are only slightly brighter than the film of the same name.
"Seven days to live my life or seven ways to die". The theme of intro-
spection occurs again and again in the album. "The Pretty Things are
Going To Hell" is unsuprisingly raw and shouty. Mid 80's softrock like
in its production/with plenty of squealing guitar solos, this is one of the
higlights of the album.
"New Angels of Promise" darts between Chinese sounding flutes and
modern rock, with a smattering of electronica thrown in for good
measure. The clarity of Bowies voice continues to show up lesser vocal-
ists, he manages to tread the thin line between tonefullness and
tediousness with practisced skill.
However, for all his vocal talent, even if he is an icon of the Twentyth
century, for all his production skills, this album fails to convince. Maybe
its because he's not an angry young man, or that hes not short of a
bob or two but he just doesn't feel very relevant.
This album feels like a bit of a purge, a bit of (admittedly very expen-
sive) therapy for some past relationship. But do you really want to buy
an album like that?
John Digweed
Bedrock Mix
(Virgin)
At a guess I'd say about sixty per cent of
the students at this college own a John
Digweed track. Hidden on the ridicu-
lously popular Trainspotting soundtrack,
is an absolute stormer of a track called
For What You Dream Of. Written under
his music-making pseudonym Bedrock
this is John Digweed at his finest.
However making music is not only the
only skill Mr Digweed has at his dispos-
al. He's also one of the biggest name dj's
on the circuit and with his own clubnight
also called Bedrock John Digweed is not
a man to be ignored! Next week also
sees the man take the decks at the first
birthday celebration of the Bedrock club
at Heaven
So where does that leave us with this mix
then? Well much like Digweed's recent
Heaven Scent single that sound of the
mix moves from house to trance and
back again with seamless ease as the
well-mixed tunes ebb and flow under the
control of the master. There's tunes from
Heller & Farley, Interstate, Morel as well
as the aforementioned which concludes
the mix in a way that no other track could
achieve. Unmissable, this is the club
music that always pleases.
• James
Digweed plays with Sasha and Danny
Howells at this Thursday's Bedrock 1st
Birthday party at Heaven.
Tickets are £8.
Joel

