11 October 1999 • Felix Games 25
react (g)
Pokemon Facts Pokemon (Game Boy and Game Boy Color)
Worldwide, the Pokemon
franchise is worth a mind
shattering $5 billion.
$300 million of Pokemon
merchandise were sold in
the U.S. in 1 week.
Japanese Air Force pilots
have taken to the Pokemon
craze by painting Pokemon
characters on their fighter
jets.
As well as this, Nippon Air-
lines currently has three
planes in its fleet, with full
Pokemon deliveries flying
full time from Tokyo to San
Francisco.
An Australian fan sent Nin-
tendo $ 1 0 because he felt
he hadn't spent enough
money buying the game!
Pokemon is the now the
most searched for word on
the internet.
In the US Volkswagen have
created a fleet of 10
bespoke Pokemone
Pikachu Beetles.
In Japan, 5 0 % of 7 t o l 2
year olds are regular play-
ers.
A Colorado preacher has
declared Pokemon to be
evil, and demonstrated his
strength of belief by spear-
ing a Pikachu with a 30in
sword.
Pokemon (known as Pocket Monsters in Japan) is an RPG in which
the ultimate objective is to collect 150 Pokemon in order to
become a master Pokemon trainer.
You are a 10 year old boy living in Pallet Town with your mother.
Next door lives your rival. You used to play nicely together when
you were little, but lately he has become mean. He sees you as his
rival because you are the same a g e and height. When you hear
that Professor O a k is a Pokemon expert, you get excited because
you are a curious boy. You walk outside of Pallet Town in search of
Pokemon and you hear a voice.
"Hey! Don't g o into the grass!" It's Professor O a k . "There are wild
Pokemon living in there," he says. "They can be very dangerous. If
you possess trained Pokemon, you can let them fight against wild
From this outset this is obviously aimed at young kids, but don't let
that put you off. This little sucker is infuriatingly addictive. It's all
too easy to lose a couple of hours. So if you want to get good
marks this year it's best to steer clear. The graphics were never
going to be impressive considering this is probably the oldest con-
sole still in production, but the designers have managed to cram in
a suprising amount of detail. If you play on one of the new G a m e
Boy Colors or even ickler G a m e Boy Pockets the graphics look
even sharper, thanks to the better screen.
The really, really clever marketing ploy of this game is the fact that
it comes in two versions, a Red and a Blue cartridge. In order to
become a true master Pokemon trainer you have to enlist the help
of a friend with a copy of the other colour game.
By entering your Pokemon into many battles you can make them
grow in strength and ability. Also at certain points in the game,
your Pokemon will evolve into new Pokemon, with new abilities.
Death does not exist in the Pokemon world - you merely beat o p p o -
nents - if your Pokemon take too much damage they pass out -
ready to be re-charged by their trainer.
I really found this game very hard to put down. While it was a little
childish at times, it was sweet instead of annoying and all the mon-
sters are very well designed with memorably wierd names. While
the R P G sections are simplistic, there is enough variety to keep you
going and a wodge of that "just one more battle" feeling.
Why not get a piece of the Pokemon pie while its still fresh?
Joe!

