science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 6 June 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Over-indulgence: the cause of obesity, right? Laura Starr investigates if this really is the full story
“P
lace the chocolate-
iced custard-filled
doughnut back on the
second shelf and step
away from the fridge,”
whispers the voice in my head as I’m
about to indulge in my guilty pleasure.
My conscience overrides my taste buds
and I restrain myself from consuming
the fourth delicacy of the day – the one
that would push me forward another
300 calories and eight grams of satu-
rated fat.
It has long been thought that be-
ing overweight was simply a result of
overeating. One consumes an excess of
calories resulting in those pounds pil-
ing on – this being the sole explanation
for an expanding waist line. Until now.
One group of scientists is adamant
that our genetic make-up has a vital
role to play. It is not only our actions
that stimulate the onset of these con-
sequences but in a large proportion of
cases it could be down to our genes –
the building blocks of life.
In the past little has been known
about the influence of genetics on ill-
nesses associated with obesity, such as
cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
But Professor Jaspal Kooner and his
colleagues at Imperial College Lon-
don found that half of the population
contains a specific sequence of genes
closely associated “with waist size,
body mass index and insulin resist-
ance, which is a pre-diabetic state.”
The uncovered sequence is posi-
tioned next to a gene, named MC4R,
which is responsible for regulating
energy levels in the body by influenc-
ing how much we eat and how much
energy we expend or conserve. Kooner
and his colleagues think that this se-
quence is responsible for controlling
the MC4R gene.
Studies like this are key in finding
new ways to tackle the world’s weight
problem. The number of obese chil-
dren is rapidly increasing, leading to
the threat of a global obesity crisis.
Here in the UK 1 in 10 six year-olds
suffer from the disease, thereby in-
creasing their susceptibility to major
health problems.
“Using this research, you can do one
of two things,” explained Prof Kooner.
“You can identify the people that are at
risk and work on prevention, or devel-
op antagonists.” As the position of the
gene sequence and its protein product
are both known the challenge is to now
“develop antagonists to protein prod-
ucts that may ultimately turn out to be
drug targets.”
Interestingly, the gene sequence was
found to be around 30% more common
in the Indian Asian rather than Euro-
pean lineage. This could explain why
there is a greater prevalence of obesity
and insulin resistance in Indian Asians.
The sub-group makes up around 25%
of the world’s population but will ac-
count for 40% of global cardiovascular
disease by 2020. Lead author Dr John
Chambers stressed the importance of
his research; "The number of people
involved, the comparisons between
two ancestries, and the detail with
which we can explore genetic and envi-
ronmental effects are helping us iden-
tify crucial linkages."
Using a genetic approach to combat
the disease is promising. Our genetic
make-up cannot be altered, however,
we can focus on the development and
application of preventative and inno-
vative measures, for action needs to
be taken. Action in the form of back-
ing such studies, supporting research
against a disease that is at present a bur-
den to an estimated 300 million people
worldwide. Who may all be pleased to
hear that there’s finally, some evidence
that over-indulgence might not be the
only thing to blame.
You're mine now. Whatever the fate of exhibit A, doughnuts, and over-indulgence in general may only be
one suspect in the case of the expanding waistline. Genes like MR4C may yet prove to be the kingpins
A moment on the lips, a lifetime on the hips?
Eating out for greens
The concept that locally grown food
has a smaller carbon footprint than
food grown in other countries may not
come as a surprise, but the fact that the
carbon footprint for some restaurant
meals can be a hundredfold larger than
those prepared with locally sourced
food might.
A new report from The University
of Nottingham - 'The Environmental
Sustainability of the British Restau-
rant Industry: A London Case Study'
- found that cuisines that originate
outside of Europe, which use specialty
ingredients from the home country,
on average, will expend more than five
kilograms of CO2 per meal, compared
with a "green" restaurant meal at 51
grams.
The study, carried out by BSc student
Will Brookes, cranked through the de-
tails for 40 restaurants in London cat-
egorised as green, British, European,
and non-European.
Thisfindinghasfarreachingimpacts,
considering that food transportation
accounts for 35 percent of the UK's to-
tal emissions. But the study isn't calling
for a major overhaul of the restaurant
industry. As Dr. Nick Mount, Will's
tutor, reasons, "If all restaurants did
source locally, the dining experience
would be uniform and dull."
Instead, they suggest a novel program
of offsetting the carbon footprint, sim-
ilar to those for airplane flights, that
would add no more than ten pence for
any meal.
The onus should not just be on the
customer to make changes, restau-
rants can offset the impact them-
selves by implementing recycling and
composting."The UK’s reliance on
food prepared for the consumer is at
an all time high. This puts restaurants
in a highly prominent position," says
Brookes. "The restaurant sector has
the potential to be at the forefront of
improving the sustainability of our
food industry."
Recent news: restaurant's carbon footprint and self-healing planes
Bleeding planes
It may sound like science fiction, but
aerospace engineers at Bristol Uni-
versity have developed a simple but
ingenious idea for self-repairing ma-
terials that is inspired by nature, such
that damaged aircraft could mend
themselves automatically, even during
a flight. Similar to our human bleeding
and clotting mechanism, the otherwise
hollow fibers in fiber reenforced poly-
mer composites are filled with a resin
and hardener, such that when the fib-
ers are broken, the resin and hardener
flows out, enabling the composite to
recover up to 80-90% of its original
strength.
“This approach can deal with small-
scale damage that’s not obvious to the
naked eye but which might lead to se-
rious failures in structural integrity if
it escapes attention,” says Dr Ian Bond,
who has led the project. By tinting the
resin with dye, any ‘self-mends’ can be
identified along with larger-scale dam-
age during ground inspections, and re-
paired if necessary.
But the mimicry of biological sys-
tems won't stop there. “This project
represents just the first step”, says Ian
Bond. “We’re also developing systems
where the healing agent ... actually
moves around as part of a fully inte-
grated vascular network, just like the
circulatory systems found in animals
and plants.
Such a system could have its healing
agent refilled or replaced and could
repeatedly heal a structure through-
out its lifetime. Furthermore, it offers
potential for developing other biologi-
cal-type functions in man-made struc-
tures, such as controlling temperature
or distributing energy sources.”
Kerrack! Not the last sound a pilot will hear, if this research bears fruit
Claudine Chen

