science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
Science
D
ance! Boogie Wonder-
laaand! The 1970s hit
by Earth, Wind & Fire
blasts out and the lights
are dimmed. A man in a
white suit struts across the stage. He
suddenly produces a giant plastic mol-
ecule and starts dancing suggestively.
No, this is not some weird nightclub -
the show is actually the bizarre finale
to a well respected Science Communi-
cation Conference.
The ‘dancer’ is Dr Graeme Jones, a
chemical ecologist who enjoys engag-
ing the public with science. This was
‘Saturday night Science’, an amusing
‘scientific guide’ to a great night out.
Jones explains how reaction dynamics
explain that ‘boy meets girl moment’:
to speed up a reaction, you need heat,
pressure (lots of molecules in a small
space) and a catalyst (to lower the en-
ergy barrier). So to attract someone,
you’ve got to be hot, go to a busy club
and … dance. If you thought the cata-
lyst should be booze, he reminds you
that a catalyst cannot be consumed by
the reaction. Jones was certainly a col-
ourful way to finish the conference.
The conference is organised each
year by the BA (British Association
for the Advancement of Science). The
BA is a charity that works to build a
positive relationship between science
and the rest of society. The BA organ-
ises other major initiatives such as the
BA Festival of Science (this year to be
held in Liverpool, 6-11th September)
and National Science and Engineering
Week (next year: 6-15th March.)
This year was the 7th annual BA
conference, which was held at the In-
stitution of Engineering and Technol-
ogy, Savoy Place. Lord Melvyn Bragg,
the renowned broadcaster, writer and
novelist, gave the opening speech. The
basis of his talk was that science is cen-
tral to British culture, but most people
only think of culture as the arts. Bragg
believes that to help overcome this
stereotype of culture it is vital that the
public can trust science.
Once the delegates had met each oth-
er, through a ‘structured networking’
event based on speed dating (slightly
frustrating if you have to move on after
just a brief exchange with Robert Win-
ston!), there were a series of ‘hands-on’
The BA Science Communication conference
Katrina Pavelin represented Imperial at this year's event. Here, she tells us what exactly this involved...
'It is the most closely allied forms –
varieties of the same species and spe-
cies of the same and related genera
– which, from having nearly the same
structure, constitution and habits, gen-
erally come into the severest competi-
tion with each other'.
This startling statement was made
by Charles Darwin in 1859. Recent re-
search has supported this view, reveal-
ing that close animal relatives shouldn't
share the same habitat – a wake-up call
for researchers modelling the effects of
climate change on biodiversity.
In1932,theRussianecologistGeorgii
Frantsevich Gause, after observing
similar species of bacteria competing
for the same resources in a test tube,
founded the competitive exclusion
principle that states no two species
with similar ecological features can co-
exist indefinitely on the same limiting
resource.
Today, we know closely-related spe-
cies of plants are able to thrive together,
but with animals it's a different story.
Scientists at Imperial College London
have discovered evidence supporting
Darwin and Gauss – related animal
species living in the same habitat have
the tendency to 'exterminate' one an-
other if they live together.
Natalie Cooper, a PhD student at Im-
perial College, is lead author of a new
study published in the Proceedings of
the Royal Society on closely-related
species of mammals. She discovered
that related mammals, such as tama-
rins and spider monkeys, do not tend
to live in the same community for good
reason – over-competition. “Moving
together isn't going to do them any
good, they're perfectly distributed as
they are, but once they get forced closer
together that could cause problems.”
One of the advantages Cooper and
other researchers have compared to
Darwin is that he was working with
taxonomies when predicting that
animals with the same genus names
would compete more strongly than
those with different names. Scientists
today use phylogenies or evolutionary
trees that better reveal the dysfunc-
tional relationships between closely-
related animals.
Cooper discovered that squirrels and
possums dispersed further apart from
one another over millions of years of
evolution after comparing data from
the mammal 'super tree,' a big fam-
ily tree of all mammal species in the
world.
“There's a possibility that habitats are
going to shrink in the way that rainfor-
ests are shrinking.” In the wake of cli-
workshops. These allowed delegates
to share their ideas about a specific
branch of science communication
and discuss contemporary issues. The
workshops ran in three strands: ‘En-
gaging to Inspire and Educate’, ‘Engag-
ing to Involve’, and ‘Engaging Through
the Media and Public Relations’.
The PR workshops, which were
organised by Stempra, an informal
network for science communicators,
started with one looking at the respon-
Brett Cherry
Attendees got down to some solid networking after being subjected to suggestive dancing with molecules
To find out more, check out
www.the-ba.net/the-ba/
ScienceinSociety/index.htm
sibilities of a press officer. Presenters
included professional press officers,
such as Steve Palmer from Cancer
Research UK, and science journalists
such as the Daily Mail’s Fiona McRae,
who provided useful advice about the
best way for press officers to work
successfully with journalists. Another
workshop encouraged delegates to
devise ‘best-practice’ guidelines to be
later developed by Stempra.
The conference aims to attract peo-
mate change, this research could prove
beneficial to preserving biodiversity.
Climate change models have often
judged each species as independent
from one another implying that close-
ly-related animals can live together
without causing loss of biodiversity.
“They're not actually going to be able
to do that,” said Cooper. “You can lose
more biodiversity just by looking at
each species as independent.”
In order to address the impact of
climate change on animal popula-
tions, the problem of related species
of mammals living closer together over
time due to habitat destruction must
be included, otherwise “we're going to
be very confused when half the animal
species go extinct because of interac-
tions with other species, rather than
the indirect effect of climate change.”
Support for Darwin's theory after scientists discover that closely-related species of mammals don't get on
Old news: close relatives make bad neighbours
ple from different backgrounds. Each
year there are bursaries available that
cover the full expenses of the confer-
ence – including travel and accommo-
dation. This year there were 29 bursa-
ries that were funded by the Wellcome
Trust and the Department for Innova-
tion, Universities & Skills.
“The purpose of the bursary scheme
is to ensure that certain groups of peo-
ple attend the conference who wouldn’t
be able to do so otherwise,” explained
Nigel Eady, the Science in Society
Officer at the BA. The bursaries are
awarded to scientists and engineers in-
volved in public engagement, science
communication students, freelancers,
and campaign groups.
One bursary recipient, Maya Her-
bolzheimer, said “I’ve found this con-
ference really helpful, especially as I’m
fairly new to the communications are-
na. It’s been really good to meet lots of
new people from different sectors.” She
is from Forum for the Future, a charity
dedicated to sustainable development.
The bursary also covered the high-
light of the conference: the three course
dinner. This was a wonderful social
event, allowing delegates to ‘network’
over wine and relax on the balcony,
with a stunning view of the Thames.
The conference was a great oppor-
tunity to meet people and learn more
about the role of science in society. It
would be equally useful for research
scientists who want to enrich their
careers by engaging the public with
their work. And what other confer-
ence would leave you dancing madly
in the lecture theatre and waving glow
sticks?
This mah nut – you go git your own. Squirrel Nutkin don't share with no-one. Certainly not with no possum

