14 felix Friday 6 June 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw & Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
S
o it’s nearly the end of term.
If, like myself, you have al-
ready finished, you may have
suddenly found yourself
with a generous amount of
time on your hands. What to do with
it? “Travelling” is an obvious option.
“Loafing” is another popular one. But
if you’re travelled out for the time be-
ing, feel bad for bumming money from
the parentals/overdraft or simply can’t
be bothered, what other options are
there?
Well if you’re thinking this after hav-
ing read Felix Arts for the last year
during our current tenure, you must
be smoking something impressive (my
fellow editors might be interested.
Write us). If we can’t find anything to
do in this city, God knows what we’re
going to do elsewhere! For an individ-
ual with an open mind, the options are
(seemingly) endless. However, some-
times your choices become limited by
trivial things like, oh, cashflow. Or per-
sonal preference. With regards to the
former, though it could be argued that
you could be sunning yourself in sunny
Spain or er, Krakow, with the currently
generous mood of the aviation indus-
try towards consumers, festivals are
still a popular option. Right?
Ah, festivals. I remember a time
when “festivals” used to mean going
ape. When I was 10 years old my older
brother went to Donington. The bas-
tard. KISS were playing, He came back
smug as hell with video footage and a
brand new KISS tee, which to this day,
he still has not worn. Perhaps the nar-
row amount of exposure to music a
ten-year old widening out opened my
eyes to the array of activity out there.
I’d like to say I had made wonder-
ful summer plans, but after having
scratched a major travel itch last year
and another issue of Phoenix to con-
jure in a short space of time, gallivant-
ing wasn’t exactly on the cards.
However, I am going to Paris in a
few hours. I’m slightly concerned and
overwhelmed by the sheer amount of
art and leisurely pursuits on offer.
Those of you with an appreciation
for the history of fashion will also ap-
preciate Paris’ place in that world as
its spiritual centre – hence there are
many worthy addresses of former
couture houses to fit in, as well as the
textile museum and the Jardin des Tu-
ileries, where vast tents are erected
every season in which to show runway
presentations.
In light of this, how can we possi-
bly compare to Paris on that front? In
truth, I don’t think we can. But never
mind. London has long been a melting
pot for exciting and raw creative talent.
If Paris was the world’s city in the 19th
century and New York in the 20th,
then we are shaping up to lay claim to
the 21st.
David Paw
Arts Editor
Love, beasts and valour...
Caz Knight is transported to India as the British Library opens its latest exhibition
“A
s long as mountains
and rivers shall last
upon the earth, so
long shall the story of
Rama be told among
men.” (Valmiki). The story of Rama
(‘Ramayana’ in Sanskrit) is one the
most influential of ancient legends in
India and Sri Lanka and has been told
and re-told constantly since its crea-
tion by the sage Valmiki from 500 BC
to 100 BC. Love and Valour in India’s
Great Epic: The Ramayana at the Brit-
ish Library explores this pivotal tale
through over 120 paintings from 17th
century illustrated manuscripts and
examines the importance of this epic
and how it has been brought to life by
countless other methods.
The story in its entirety spans 7
volumes and over 400 paintings, all
produced between 1649 and 1653 in
Mewar, South Rajasthan. The region
adopted the Ramayana as their own
Royal Family history and Rama him-
self as their ancestor. Rama was the
righteous ruler and upholder of Hindu
Dharma (social and religious order).
The production of the manuscripts
was spurred on to rival the illustrated
dynastic manuscripts of the Mughal
Empire, Mewar’s political overlords,
hence the wealth of stunning paintings
which bring to the life the legend of
Rama and his bride Sita.
Rama won the hand of Sita after suc-
cessfully mending the bow of the God
Shiva (literally meaning ‘Auspicious
One’, the destroyer God), belonging
to Sita’s father King Janaka. Shortly
after the weddings of Rama and his
brothers, he and Sita are exiled from
Ayodhya to the forest of Dandaka fol-
lowing Queen Kaikeyi’s (their mother)
orders. Rama’s younger brother and
devoted companion, Laksmana as well
as Hanuman, the monkey general and
committed friend of Rama accompany
them. The strife begins when Sita is
abducted by the 10-headed king of
Lanka, Ravana, and Rama summons
an army of monkeys to help rescue her.
A series of battles ensue between the
heroes and giants, magicians and de-
mons but in the end love triumphs (as
it always does) and the ever-chaste Sita
is returned to Rama and their rightful
kingdom of Ayodhya.
The exhibition takes you on the
journey through each stage in the ad-
venture whilst allowing you to admire
the Rajput paintings which have been
magnificently preserved, retaining all
their vivid colour and beauty. Sahib-
din is the most important of Mewar
artists and despite being a Muslim he
was comfortable with painting Hindu
themes. This seems to offer up a con-
tradiction, given the conflict between
Muslims and Hindus.
These mesmerising pieces of art
are unique given their intricacy and
just how much detail they hold. The
sheer volume of time, care and effort
required is apparent from the minis-
cule brush strokes used to bring to
life the people, animals, buildings and
landscapes of each scene. The colours
are bold and contrasting, set apart by
vigorous lines. A noticeable, favourite
feature is the use of golds and silvers
against the other matte colours, the
sheen of which catches the eye and
makes the overall effect of the image
slightly magical. Another thing which
sets these paintings apart from Euro-
pean or Islamic illustration is the fact
that one image will set about to capture
several episodes of a story. The same
character may appear twice or thrice in
one picture to depict the progression of
the tale. For the purpose of story tell-
ing, no attempt is made to recreate an
accurate perspective of space, volume
or time in the paintings. The effect
is dream-like: men with purple skin
standing the same height as trees set
against an orange sky. A very marked
contrast to the paintings being created
by Rembrandt and Johannes Vermeer
The demons try to rouse Ravana’s brother, the prostrate giant Kumbhakarna, by hitting him with weapons and clubs and shouting in his ear
The allies launch an assault on the walls of Lanka
(‘Girl with a Pearl Earring’) at the same
time in Europe.
About the periphery of the exhibi-
tion is a collection of manuscripts,
costumes, puppets, textiles, sculp-
tures and other artefacts representing
the myriad of other ways in which the
Ramayana has been retold and cel-
ebrated throughout the ages, not only
in India. The story has had influence,
albeit not as significant, in Burma,
Thailand, Tibet and other parts of SE
Asia such as Java. In each region the
story is told a little differently. In Thai-
land, the loyal companion Hanuman is
a sexually active creature who embarks
on amorous adventures on his own,
entering into a fling with the Golden
Fish Princess. One can see clearly the
differences in style between Indian and
Thai depictions of the same charac-
ter. In Java, the story is told through a
100-strong male chorus chanting (not

