arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
Arts
Sugriva sends out his monkey army to search for Sita. Rama gives Hanuman his ring as a token by which Sita can recognize him
sounding dissimilar to the powerful
Maori hakka) accompanied by percus-
sion, wind instruments and a metallo-
phone. It evokes images of tribal rituals
carried out around huge, midnight fires
on beaches: I was transported back to
Bali immediately! The singing is tradi-
tionally paired with reenactment of the
Ramayana by shadow puppets which is
also a very popular practice in India.
Shadow puppets on display are crafted
from perforated animal hide, mounted
using bamboo sticks, lit with candles
and oil lamps.
The original Ramayana was initially
disseminated by the poem written by
Valmiki. So touched with pity by the
death of two mating birds by an arrow,
he began reciting in a new type of verse
form (sloka) and the epic metre was
created in which the story of Rama was
born. Bards tour towns in India with
travelling shrines, adorned with im-
ages, reciting versions in the original
metre or in vernacular versions. Rather
like classical epics such as the Iliad and
those of our very own Bard (Shake-
speare), the version of the Ramayana
in its original form is only understood
by the highly educated and so the need
for retelling in so many other ways is
necessary. Play versions were writ-
ten by playwrights such as Bhasa (3rd
Century), Bhorabuti (8th Century) and
Murassi; Bhasa- making these works
some of the oldest recorded plays. The
playwrights would adhere to the origi-
nal story, only tightening the plot for
dramatic purposes.
On display are glorious textiles, tem-
ple hangings, friezes and photographs
of sculptures which would have been
stationed in temples for worship. The
threat of northern Muslim invasion
prompted the people to increase the
presence of their own deities in tem-
ples and throughout the land. In Hindi
culture it is believed that Rama was the
seventh avatar, that is the personifica-
tion of the god Vishnu (the preserver
and supreme God). The need for the
restoration of good to balance out
evil was required when the 10-headed
king, Ravana, became arrogant after
being granted super-human strength
by the Brahma (god of creation), mak-
ing him invincible even to the gods.
In his foolishness, Ravana forgot to
specify that his strength protected him
from mere mortals and animals too. In
this way, Rama’s quest to rescue Sita
was a means to confront and destroy
the evil of Ravana. Sita is identified
with Vishnu’s eternal consort, Laksmi,
and the couple together and revered as
the perfect marriage ideal. That Rama
moved mountains for his love and
that Sita maintained this love despite
adversity makes them the subject of
many paintings and very influential in
Hindi culture.
Hanuman, Rama’s monkey compan-
ion, ever loyal, and also Shiva’s avatar,
is a very popular icon with his image
appearing in countless contexts. To-
day, he is the main character in many
movies, and the exhibition shows some
glorious paintings of the devoted com-
panion. One example has Hanuman
painted in a deep cornflower blue set
against a contrasting bright yellow
background, wearing a silver necklace
and his nails painted the same colour.
A Tamil bronze statue of him has ador-
able, friendly features not dissimilar
from the well-known Dr Seuss charac-
ter ‘the Cat’ (of Hat fame).
This free exhibition is a delight to
attend. Not only attractively laid out:
black ceilings paired perfectly with col-
oured walls and a huge ten foot model
of Ravana, but smelling fragrant and
exotic, once again bringing me right
back to the smells of Bali and making
me want to set off immediately for In-
dia, hitherto uncharted territory. This
collection not only offers stunning art
but a chance to learn reams on a differ-
ent culture. Until 16 September.
Hanuman, while leaping across the ocean to Lanka, dives into the monster Surasa’s jaws
Hanuman showing his heart to his most beloved Lord Rama and Sita
God Vishnu: The all-pervading essence of all beings

