16 felix Friday 6 June 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Lovebox Weekender
Like house music? Like fields and a festival atmosphere? Hate the general trek out to the middle of nowhere, the muddy fields
and sleeping with three other drunkards in the same tent? Fear no more. Proving there’s life beyond “big tunes”, those cheeky
chaps from Groove Armada have expanded their weekly club night into an all-out festival in Victoria Park in the heart of East
London. As if you didn’t already know.
Yes, I know East London is a whole hour away on public transport and a trip to WC2 qualifies as a “trek” for most Imperial-
ites, but an hour to music heaven and being back home in time for Match of the Day is still better than queuing for unspeaka-
bly abused portaloos and shelling out a six quid for a burger and chips. The lineup for the weekend is also expected to include
Goldfrapp, The Flaming Lips, Human League, Jack Penate, Manu Chao, and The Glimmers will be manning the decks.
Sat 19th – Sun 20th July
www.lovebox.net
Marleybone Summer Festival
Tired of kookiness? Sick of posers at festivals more interested in catching a glimpse of Sienna et al
than enjoying the music? Then perhaps Marylebone’s annual summer festival will do the trick. An
old-school affair and totally family/couple friendly, the festival sees the closure of the Marylebone
High Street to traffic, allowing pedestrians to roam free in the otherwise chichi neighbourhood.
Stalls and food will be laid out, great music will abound and the air will ring with the sound of fair-
ground rides. Think Marylebone with a dose of Portobello, or classic street parties with organic
produce – a pleasant day out assured.
Sun 15th June, 11am – 5pm
Tube: Marylebone
London Festival of Architecture
Though summer is about chilling, the hardcore amongst you will no doubt be tramping the streets of our fair
city in search of cultural stimulation to compensate for the hours spent revising or working on projects. With
the city’s theatres, bookstores and the London Lit Festival being popular targets to head for, consider the city’s
architecture-fest that takes place this summer. A celebration and exploration of the city’s buildings, streets and
spaces - with over 600 exhibitions, lectures, public space installations, guided walks, bicycle rides, boat tours,
parties, design workshops and debates. In other words, a multitude of ways to get stuck in and truly involved
– stimulation indeed. Highlights include talks by high-profile architects, including 2007 Stirling Prize winner
David Chipperfield and Daniel Libeskind. Alternatively, join speakers like Janet Street-Porter or Jon Snow for a
full English breakfast in an architecturally significant venue.
Fri 20th June – Sun 20th July
www.lfa2008.org
Ben and Jerry’s Sundae Festival
A delight. A lazy weekend of schmoozing around in the sun (hopefully), with movies, live mu-
sic, movies on big shiny screens, unlimited ice cream and the happy sparkly utopian atmos-
phere that only a universally-adored brand like Ben and Jerry’s can conjure up. All for a fiver.
Unlimited ice cream for a fiver?
Yes indeed. All the ice cream you could ever eat (that’s not a challenge) should be enough to
convince you to go. But if that isn’t sufficient, the nostalgic vibes of Britrockers Ash and the
anticipation of exploring Clapham’s wealth of local eateries and drinking dens later on should
do it. So go for that gut-busting cardio workout beforehand, embark on that torrid lemon-
juice diet if you have to and forgo the Colonel’s special recipe for a month in advance – you’re
going to get fat.
Sat 26th – Sun 27th July
www.benjerry.co.uk/sundae
Kenwood House Concerts
Tucked away in pretty Hampstead, Kenwood House’s series of concerts is perfect for those of you
who just want to chillax with a cold drink on a sunny day instead of sweltering the heat. Of a fem-
inine disposition (i.e. female)? With the missus (i.e. whipped)? Then this may just be the ticket.
Though it’s a bit of a trek, it makes for an enticing day trip reachable by regular Oyster-worthy
routes, combining the charms of Hampstead, a gastropub or two, a leisurely stroll and an impressive
concert line-up. Highlights include Rufus Wainwright, Omara Portuondo of the Buena Vista Social
Club, Van Morrison and Katherine Jenkins. For those of you more predisposed to self-harm, Diana
Krall will be performing on the 9th of August.
Sat 26th June – Sat 23rd August
Tube: Archway, then 210 bus
www.picnicconcerts.com
Written by David Paw, concept by Rosie Grayburn
The Great Culture Crawl
Chapter Twelve – Summer festivals
Get Loaded in the Park
Come late August, Summer will still be in full swing. Courtesy of whatever major climactic event is the cause of Blighty
in Autumn feeling more akin to the Gobi at the height of summer, we will crave the Zen-like calm of air-conditioned
Caffe Neros, copious Mini Milks will be consumed and most of college will have pissed off home or be “having it large”
somewhere conspicuously droll. Koh Samui is a popular choice or, say, Milton Keynes. You could feel sorry for the poor
bastards left in the city over the summer, but alas, with massive summer festivals like the Wireless and Loaded in the Park,
you could argue about who would have the most fun.
The cheekier South London equivalent of Wireless, though it can’t boast the latter’s megawatt line-up, the organisers have
still pulled something special out. Rock, hip-hop, electronica and more will feature at the festival, which has booked The
Hives, Iggy and the Stooges, Kate Nash, Gogol Bordello, The Gossip, Utah Saints, The Holloways and uber-DJs like the
Plump DJs, Soulwax, Mylo and DJ Yoda.
Sun 24th August
www.getloadedinthepark.com
DANO Korea Summer Festival
How about something completely different? Many of us will be familiar with facets of east Asian culture – samurai
films, anime and salmon sashimi in Japanese traditional and contemporary culture perhaps, or the New Year’s
events or martial arts of China. However, in comparison, very few people are aware of their peninsular counter-
parts’ sheer cultural diversity and depth. With a totally unique, traditional style of dress (the elaborate hanbok),
martial arts (the familiar tae kwon do) and music, there is much to be gleaned from Korean culture. Did we men-
tion the cuisine? Blowing peppery hot and spicy with fiery stir-fries or sensuously savoury and clean like the best
that your favourite Japanese can muster, Korean eateries are popping up all over town with good reason.
This Sunday, Trafalgar Square will be transformed into a mini-Korea for the annual DANO celebrations. The festi-
val provides a fascinating insight into the culture and customs of Korea featuring performances by Korean artists,
crafts and music workshops, Korean food and a parade. The event celebrates Seoul Day and the 60th anniversary
of the establishment of the South Korean government.
Sunday 8th June
www.koreasummerfestival.org

