arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Breaking down the class barriers
Someone by the name of Clare has never set foot in a theatre, but decides it’s time to give it a try. Will a
trip to Pygmalion change all preconceptions or will the middle class hypocrisy be too much to take?
H
aving spent the first
twenty four years of my
life successfully avoid-
ing that bastion of bour-
geoisie, the theatre (am-
ateur productions aside), last weekend
I finally succumbed. To me the theatre
represents everything that is wrong
with the middle class – a form of en-
tertainment that by its very nature and
prohibitive cost keeps us away from
those terrifying lower-class people
(I had to pay one pound to place my
coat in the lobby!!!) By taste, occupa-
tion, and accent I have become middle-
class, distancing myself from my fam-
ily and their social network. Becoming
a theatre-goer would nail the lid in the
coffin, but maybe it was worth it? That
the play should have been none other
than Pygmalion, with its infamous ref-
erences to “middle-class hypocrisy”,
was pure coincidence.
I was surrounded by white, elderly
ladies and gov’nors (although the age
bracket might have been skewed by
the time – I went to a matinee and I
did spot one other black person in my
row.) Don’t get me wrong, I’m not one
of those oh-pity-me-I’m-Asian, I’m-
so -underprivileged types, in fact I
sincerely believe that my “Asian-ness”,
and my scarf, have been a source of
positive discrimination. In London, at
least, your upbringing and your school
has more consequence than any genet-
ic misfortunes you have inherited. It
just happens that the majority of Black
(and by that I mean brown in all its
different shades) people have still not
learnt the tricks to get their kids into
good schools.
Time to go back to the play. I have
always loved Pygmalion. Considering
my ingrained distrust of the theatre,
I thought Shaw’s sparkling comedy
would be a fair place to start. And it
would not offend my Victorian values
(which I am very proud of, by the way.
I think the world is in such a mess be-
cause we have lost those Victorian val-
ues). And I have to admit it was quite
entertaining. Well, Act Three was won-
derful; I’m not so sure about the begin-
ning, it took some time for the actors
to warm up. Or maybe the actors, from
a middle-class background themselves,
do not spend much time with the peo-
ple they were supposed to portray and
hence found it difficult to relate? I real-
ise this is a gross generalisation, but all
that I know is that Michelle Dockery’s
Eliza was magnificent as the Duchess,
I don’t know about her Flower Girl.
The set and the costumes were beau-
tiful, they even had a little back cab
crossing the stage at one point! And
Higgins’ Mother is simply breathtak-
ing. Well she did slip up with her triple
rail against the enigma that is Men – it
sounded a tad put-on.
Which brings me to my conclusion –
was it worth it? Ticket prices range be-
tween £10 and £50 but the Old Vic had
a limited number of £12 concessions
for the under 25’s. With that money I
could have gone to the cinema twice,
and chosen a good seat (let’s just say
the concessionary seats were strategi-
cally placed). The movie would have
been crafted (if properly picked) such
that every shot, every scenery, every
sound was tuned to perfection. There
would be no annoying interacts. I
would not have felt so out of place. No
guilt involved either – the cinema is the
only form of entertainment where peo-
ple from all class come together under
one roof (and maybe football but then
you still have graded seats). Will I go
again? Borrowing Eliza’s most famous
line – Not B***** likely! (Sorry- those
Victorian sensibilities again)
Pygmalion is on at The Old Vic
until 2nd August 2008.
Tim Piggot-Smith as Henry Higgins and Michelle Dockery as Eliza Doolittle
“Eliza was magnificent as the Duchess”. But does her ‘flower girl’ match up?
18 Friday 6 June 2008
felix

