Farmers, kilts and blankets
Plaid returns for Fall 2008, and
plaid signifies class, tradi-
tion and resilience. A flash of
tartan underneath a dark grey
suit will provide some interest-
ing eye-candy for admirers or
otherwise.
Kanye West
The boy can dress himself.
Sure, he has the money to do
it, but so do the other multi-
millionaire rappers and they
still dress like I did when I was
13. One day I’ll be as rich and
successful as him. One day.
Attached Scarves
I guess they look all right
and, and no one has to know
it’s actually attached to the
shoulders of your T-Shirt, but
don’t you also look like bit of
a pillock walking about in a
scarf and T shirt all day? Nov-
elty would wear thin quickly.
Stupid.
Exams
Nothing to do with exams
directly (or at all), but I think
everyone at College can agree
they suck balls. They suck
balls so hard our collective
scrotums are starting to chafe.
Cringe at that image, and then
promptly go back to hours of
revision and exams. Now do
you agree they suck balls to
scrotum-chafing levels?
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Fashion Editors – Sarah Skeete and Daniel Wan
19
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
COOL
LAME
Daniel Wan
Fashion Editor
I
know this may be a bit of a
sappy way to start this week’s
(and indeed my first ever) Edi-
tor’s Column, but apologies
are in order. If my social life, or
my life in general, hadn’t been
raped by revision, you lot would have
got Felix Fashion pages for the last
three weeks. For their absence, I can
only apologise and I trust you didn’t
cry yourselves to sleep each time you
realised you couldn’t get your fix of Fe-
lix Fashion that week. If you remember
two weeks ago, Felix Fashion exhibited
some ‘fashionable Imperialites’. If you
were one of the lucky people featured,
I hope you’re pleased with the pictures
we chose for you, because after all we
didn’t (not that we could with our fa-
cilities!) airbrush or tweak anything
like they do in most publications. We
want to show you lot in all your natural
glory! It was funny to see my friends
starting to get insecure when they re-
alised I hadn’t asked them to feature in
the spread.
Since I’ve never really had a chance to
introduce myself, now seems as good a
time as ever. With the intellect that got
you into Imperial, you’ve probably fig-
ured out I’m Dan. Despite my surname
and shared interest in fashion, no, I
am not related to Gok Wan, and hence
don’t take pleasure out of undressing
unshapely women.
As Fashion Editor, I’ll be taking Felix
Fashion beyond this term into the new
academic year (2008-09) at Imperial.
This is also an opportunity to thank
Sarah for the years of Felix Fashion
she’s edited. Without doubt, she’s set
a precedent for me and future Fash-
ion Editors for Felix; one I’m going
to have to do a lot of work to match,
and hopefully beat. I’m looking out for
some Fashion writers for this term and
especially next year. I know this might
be a bit far-fetched, but if there are any
budding fashion journalists out there
at Imperial, thrust your writing hand
forward and write for Felix Fashion!
On the contrary, some of the best ar-
ticles that I’ve come across have been
from those that do not have a great
passion for fashion but those that just
have something they want to bitch
about or praise in a one-off article.
If you don’t think you’re a good
enough writer, truth be told, you’re
probably better than most, especially
at an all-science university! Email me
anything remotely related to fashion
to daniel.wan07@imperial.ac.uk. You
know you want to.
Lastly, but in no way least, the news
that the iconic designer Yves Saint-
Laurent passed away in Paris on Sun-
day, 1st of June. A name synonymous
with elegance and beauty, Saint Lau-
rent built up a fashion empire under
his own name. In this brand, his un-
disputed creative genius will forever be
remembered in the clothes generations
past, present, and future, admired and
worn. Personally, I was born a decade
too late to even experience Saint Lau-
rent’s ever-dwindling years as an active
haute couture designer however what
I write about here every week would
take a very different shape without
Yves Saint Laurent. His legacy will stay
with us in our lifetime and beyond.
Y.S.L. 1936 – 2008
support their struggle for liberation
over the past century.”
And so he did, influencing even the
average woman’s wardrobe. Before
YSL, the woman’s trouser suit was
virtually unheard of, launching the
infamous “Le Smoking” suit. He also
pioneered the beatnik look, turning
its former deadbeat associations into a
high-end fashion trend. He also man-
aged to introduce capes, blazers and
the ‘turtle neck’ to the runway.
Even before his death, tributes to
Saint Laurent’s undeniable talent were
in no short supply. Just looking down
the list of names who were inspired by
Y
ves Saint Laurent, re-
garded as one of the
greatest fashion design-
ers of the 20th Century
died on the 1st of June
2008.
Influential and celebrated, Yves Saint
Laurent went from his early days as a
designer in the studio of Christian Dior
to his own label’s acclaimed haute cou-
ture collections of today. YSL’s style re-
mains unmistakable and synonymous
with excitement, individuality and
elegance.
His aim was to “serve [women’s] bod-
ies, their attitudes and gestures and to
him justifies his calling as one of the
greatest designers of modern fashion.
British designer Vivienne Westwood
described him as “one of the great
couturiers, one of the few who have
achieved perfection with everything
they touched.”
Jean Paul Gaultier claimed that Saint
Laurent was his “idol’’ and a figure in
fashion “to be followed.” Veteran de-
signer Valentino called him “a giant’’
with “limitless imagination,” and Gior-
gio Armani said he was “the greatest
designer of our era.’’
He passed away in his Paris home af-
ter suffering years of declining health.
Sascha Holland reports on the passing of a fashion design icon
Clockwise from top left; ‘Le Smoking’ (1975), Mondrian inspired dress (1965), Ballet Russe, 1976,
Betty Catroux (left) and Loulou de la Falaise in YSL’s classic 70s safari look.
In tribute to Y.S.L, Felix showcases some of his most celebrated and remembered designs from the
last 25 years. Elegance through simplicity, they became iconic images in modern culture.

