unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Freshers’ Fair needs you! We’re trying to make Freshers’ Fair
2008 bigger and better than ever before and are looking for
your input. If you have any suggestions or thoughts about
how Freshers’ Fair could be improved, things you’d like to
see, or if you just want to moan about your stall location (but
not too many please!) come to the Freshers’ Fair Forum on
Wed 18th June, 2pm, Meeting Room 1 (top floor, main Union
building). There will also be refreshments provided to help
ease along the discussion.
If you can’t make it, we’d still like to hear from you, so feel
free to email llt104@imperial.ac.uk with any suggestions.
Look forward to hearing from you.
Freshers’ Fair Forum
LilyTopham
Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies)
Elect
llt104@imperial.ac.uk
Euro 2008 is here!
watch all the
action at the Union
£1.50
a pint. Carlsberg, Tetley’s
& Snakebite.
During all 19:45 kick-offs until 21:30.
We will be showing all the Euro 2008
games on our big screens and offering
the best drinks offers in town!
Starts Saturday 7 June.
As you will all see over the coming
fortnight, we are having a referendum
on our continued membership of the
National Union of Students (NUS).
Should Imperial College Union
remain affiliated to the NUS?
This is the all important question and
we want to know what you think. Online
voting on the referendum will take place
from 00:01 Tues 17 June until 23:59 Mon
23 Jun online at
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote.
It is important that you vote in this
referendum. If you want to know more
about the NUS and our involvement
with it or the reasons why we should
leave or stay, there will be a debate on
all the issues. Live! and STOIC will be
broadcasting the debate online but you
can also attend. The Union Dining Hall
will be the venue on Thursday 12 June
from 17:30 with the ‘Yes to NUS’ team
being represented by Wes Streeting,
NUS President. Whilst the ‘No to NUS’
will be headed up by Stephen Brown.
Both Live! and Felix will also be
extensively covering the ongoing debate
and we urge you to take a look at both
arguments and then make your vote.
Any questions on the refendum can
be directed to Alistair Cott, Returning
Officer. dpcs@imperial.ac.uk
NUS Referendum

