felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold, Nadine Richards and Ammar Waraich
TWMA: An Amsterdam special
W
onderful, wonder-
ful Copen… I mean
Amsterdam, cos
that’s where I went,
innit. Blinking in
the bright sunshine, as a fellow chum
and I arrived in the central station it
was clear that the city centre was un-
dergoing what can only be described
as a light raping as various schuper
fun happy construction guys dug for
victory. Victory over common sense
though, as the only way to cross the
square was by means of a piggyback on
a sturdy prostitute.
We decided, to make life interesting,
to ‘go Christian’ in our choice of youth
hostel. Incidentally ‘going Christian’
should not be confused with ‘going
Dutch’, a convention where by at the
end of a nice meal between a couple,
the male, instead of taking on the full
financial burden of the shared dinner
service, instead slips Rohypnol into the
Singapore Sling of the fairer sex.
Manning the youth hostel, Jesus had
decided to recruit a receptionist who
seemed to lead a life based upon bliss-
ful ignorance of basic skills, and con-
sequently instead of keys to our room
we were unexpectedly given a small
tambourine and a well-thumbed copy
of the New Testament. Upon arrival in
our salubrious accommodation it came
as some comfort to us that our beds in
the room had already been well tested
by a large American fellow who had
entered a well-fed zen state. Having ar-
rived a little late in the evening, after a
quick drink in a local watering hole we
were ready to hit the hay and toddle off
to the land of nod, falling asleep on a
soft blanket of metaphors.
The morning arrived unexpectedly
prematurely around two hours before
one might have hoped it would do at
6:37am as our subconscious slumber
was interwoven with the incessant beat
of dance/house trance fusion. It would
seem that our bulbous friend from the
colonies had set an early alarm call
to awaken him from a pie-induced
snooze, yet the greedy gobbler had
failed to wake himself, copious adipose
tissue clearly muffling his hearing and
thus the unexpected concert contin-
ued until 8am.
After a communal shower and morn-
27
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
later added to these increasingly com-
mon ‘emporiums’ when, it was first
imported to Britain from Iceland in
the 1920’s. Sitting at the breakfast ta-
ble, liberally spreading a glaze of jam
across my ham, I came into conversa-
tion with a beautiful French girl, and
we began to bond over a shared dislike
of poorly-cooked oatmeal.
Not being helped by an ill-judged
and slightly racist comment by my fel-
low travelling companion about French
cuisine (he claimed later that he did
not realise the nature of her national-
ity, a claim I can only fail to believe due
to her outrageous French accent), I at-
ing prayers we were ready to face the
new day head on, but not before the
much anticipated free breakfast ©. The
hot option of oatmeal was discounted
on principle and thus we were left with
the now legendary delicacy of toast
with ham, cheese, and jam. The ham,
cheese and jam combination is now
largely overlooked in Blair’s Britain,
however, during the 17th century res-
toration period, as copious indulgence
led to the acquisition of the Jam colo-
niesfromthethenRhodesiacausingthe
now notorious jam flood of London’s
East End, endless ham and jam houses
sprouted up. As we know, cheese was
tempted to rescue the situation with
a quip about her upward inflexion at
the end of sentences which went down
about as well as a Gordon Brown rap
concert. As she left the table I cursed
my awful small talk and ate my jam like
a good Christian boy.
Our hopes were high for the fresh
day, our morale barely dented by my
previous brush-off and so we set out
to look at a young girl’s attic. Our trip
was planned like a military operation,
albeit one without a map and a clear
sense of direction, so we were reliant
on the maps provided at information
points throughout the city.
Now I do not want to necessarily
come over as critical of the Dutch grid
referencing system, but I could have
been clearer in my labelling system of
historic city sites aided by only a ham
and jam crayon. As a result of the blun-
dering city cartographer, we arrived at
Anne Frank’s pad only to find it had
been converted into a zoo contain-
ing among other animals: Warthog,
Heron, and Llama. Looking at a small
schoolchild waving at a distressed pea-
cock, I sensed we may not have honed
in on the ‘secret annex.’
Our disastrous day was only com-
pounded by a hastily planned trip to the
Ajax stadium where we were informed
by a haughty blonde that tours of the
stadium had been cancelled due to a
concert by a non-specific band which
I latter found out were called ‘De top-
pers’. It was a bitter disappointment.
The next day, having used a series
of GPS pigeons to finally locate what
the Nazis had failed to do for so long,
we paid €7.50 and filed into a small
house at number 267, Prinsengracht
Street. I am not going to make cheap
jokes about what was, at times, a mov-
ing exhibition but I will point out that
the choice, by an Canadian tourist, to
hum out loud ‘The Final Countdown’
upon exiting the secret Annex was at
best, ill-judged.
Relaxing later in a sunny ‘Ooster-
park’ surrounded by a pack of dogs that
seemed strangely attracted to the belt
on my jeans (I really don’t know why
this was, a sentiment I repeated later to
a stern looking customs official) we re-
flected on an error-filled, but ultimate-
ly enjoyable trip and decided to go and
find another harassed peacock.
If you can’t find Anne Frank, this is what you can do...
Amsterdam. Caution advised when seeking out accommodation...
Meeting Jesus, flirting with French women and cruising over to Anne Frank’s pad; it’s all in a day or two’s
work for the Travels Without My Aunt crew. Theo Georgeiou Delisle elaborates on his discoveries
De Toppers! ROCK ON!

