Hangman
Putting the cat out to dry
30 felix Friday 6 June 2008
Rector gets his in last orders
on the tube, mash-up style
Rector and his new lady friend, later found floating in the Thames
How to be attractive
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
S
tudents; the next few para-
graphs could turn out to be
the most important words
you’ve ever read. I am your
saviour and I am here to lead
you to the promised land that is sexual
intercourse with a female. Delete your
bookmarked porn sites and start using
your socks on your feet because the se-
cret of being attractive to the opposite
sex is about to be revealed.
Tip number 1: If you are beyond hu-
man help, ie: ugly, stop reading now
Tip number 2: A hot body (see right)
helps, but is significantly counter-acted
by long, curly hair... lose the hair
Tip number 3: If you are gaming,
then you aren’t spending time with
girls: cease gaming immediately
Tip number 4: Now that you’ve got
a hot body, nice hair and some spare
time; leave Imperial. Run! Flee the
darkness!
Tip number 5: Stop taking tips from
somebody who works for Felix. Don’t
you know we never... never get laid. If
you’re looking for help from us, then...
you might as well kill yourself
Letter
Dear Editor,
Not wanting to sound like the Foot-
ball Club... protest to the slurs...
...deeply derogatory... slander... neg-
ative... gender stereotyping... retract
this comment... extend a warm invi-
tation... join our rank... long pointy
sticks
Knit Sock HQ
Secretive Hangman Editor responds
A young boy named Timmy used to
live in Kansas, never harmed a fly.
One day he stumbled upon his mother
in the kitchen, knitting. No-one’s quite
sure what happened next, but... that
boy was never the same. He lost sight in
both eyes and couldn’t enjoy the touch
of another human being again.
The point of the story is this, sure
some people might benefit from knit-
ting, who knows there might even be
folk who enjoy it, but it’s just for lady
folk. We’ve seen what happens when
knitting and men come together, look
what happened to poor old Timmy.
We can’t allow more people to be
harmed by this here knittin’.
I was alarmed when Knitsock was
founded but I’m a tolerant person
even if I don’t agree with some of the
stuff in this world. But I don’t wanna
see more lives ruined, I’ll thank ya not
to come around again and to leave
our menfolk alone ya-hear? Now get,
unless you want to feel the end of this
here shotgun, alright?
B
oooooooooooooooooooze.
I know you guys. You like
to drink it don’t ya? Don’t
lie to the Hangman or you’ll
end up like Felix (see right).
Turns out you’re not the only ones who
like to intoxicate yourselves to the ex-
tent they’d have sex with Ross Gold-
berg (post-stabbing). As you may have
deduced, our Rector, Richard Sykes, is
an alcoholic fiend!
The picture, shown above, taken by
the Hangman team shows our “glori-
ous” rector drinking on the circle line,
during the riot that was “Last Drinks
on the Tube”. The Hangman crew hung
out all night on the tube drinking with
good ol’ Dickie and quite frankly we
were disgusted, appalled and aroused
by his performance.
We totally didn’t Photoshop the pic-
ture. Honest. Look at the time stamp.
This guy’s a Physicist: meaning he has the attractiveness of a flag pole
Who are these Imperial inbreds?
E
very year Camborne School
of Mines partakes in a
seemingly friendly series
of matches with the Royal
School of Mines. I Alistair
Hutchinson (definitely not a Hangman
reporter pretending to be from CSM)
enjoy the playful banter as we beat
RSM into submission every year. In
fact I can’t remember the last hockey
match in which CSM didn’t beat RSM
by at least 100.5 goals. This year was
particularlyenjoyableastheCSM17ths
beat the RSM 1sts in rugby. However
the sweet nectar of victory was spoiled
by uncivilised mongrels. That’s right,
Imperial College’s beloved RSM!
The shameful actions of RSM mem-
bers at this year’s Bottle Match were
a step too far. RSM members trawled
around Camborne carrying pitchforks,
torches and dildos; brutally violating
any CSM member they could get their
hands on and setting our thatched
houses alight. One of the worst cases
was that of Big Time Willy. Big Time
(BT) was penetrated by no less than
5 members of the RSM hockey team,
then branded with the RSM logo as if
he were a piece of cattle. I told BT he
shouldn’t have worn that cow bell, oh
why didn’t you listen Big Time?
BT’s hideous disfigurement into a
half man, half cow hybrid forced me to
send a really, really, really angry letter
to Danny Phantom (RSM President),
asking him to apologise to Big Time
Willy for the terrible things that had
happened to him. I received a letter
back denying any such behaviour took
place, calling me a liar and a cheat.
However, Mr Danny Phantom, I have
proof (not proof of the stated incident,
but proof of something)!
After days of searching, I discovered
offensive pictures on the Imperial Col-
lege Union’s Web site. Many stating
that we, CSM and the Cornish, are not
genetically engineered super humans
but actually inbred swine. WE ARE
NOT INBRED! Just ugly to the max.
I hope by writing this article you, the
general populous of Imperial College,
will see how scummy the RSM really is;
I hear they’re trying to become a sepa-
rate union. What fools.
Check the web link on the left, to
see more offensive pictures cre-
ated by RSM.
If you were offended by any-
thing in this issue, please email.
We’ll be sure to pass your ad-
dress onto www.freaksofcock.
com. Go on, check it out...
Where did these come from?! Ahem... Union website! http://www2.union.ic.ac.uk/rsm/gallery/bmcomp07
Outraged CSM representative, Alistair Hutchinson, relives nightmare. RSM feels no remorse whatsoever

