Felix has uncovered data suggesting
that mental health receives less atten-
tion and fewer resources at Imperial
than nationally. Also discovered was
that Imperial students suffer propor-
tionally far more from academic stress
than comparable institutions (ie: ‘Old
Universities’ comprising of the Russell
Group and a few others).
This week, Felix obtained the latest
student mental health statistics from
the Imperial College Student Coun-
selling Service (SCS), coinciding with
a special feature examining student
depression. The Counselling Service’s
annual report documents data from
the previous academic year (2006-07)
and indicates a continuing increase in
the general upward trend in referrals
to the service over the last nine years,
but exhibits a massive disparity with
national data obtained by Felix.
Felix also spoke to students with ex-
perience of the Counselling Service,
mainly being referred as individuals
suffering from depression. Their opin-
ions of mental health at Imperial have
been mixed, with some highly critical
comments of the Counselling Service.
The last year showed a 10.5% increase
in the number of students contact-
ing the SCS compared to the previous
year. This figure is almost double the
increase in the number of students at
Imperial year-on-year, suggesting that
a rising proportion of IC students are
requiring some form of Counselling
for mental health issues. This increase
is either due to increasing awareness
of the College’s counselling services or
that more students are encountering
difficulties during their studies. Not
only are more students in need of the
service, they are requiring more ses-
sions to combat their issues with an
increase of 16% in the number of one-
to-one Counselling sessions between
2006 and 2007.
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
News
Mental health at IC: Who cares?
Imperial’s Student Counselling Service found wanting when compared with national student figures
Tom Roberts
& Andrew Somerville
Miners offend the Cornish
Jovan Nedić
Incoming Editor-in-Chief
Imperial getting set for
university entrance exams
Imperial College Rector, Sir Richard
Sykes, has criticised state schools for
failing their students and voiced con-
cerns that it is extremely difficult to
differentiate university applicants us-
ing their A-Level grades. He also laid
out plans for an entrance exam for ap-
plicants to Imperial.
An entrance exam for subjects other
than medicine, which already employs
the BMAT (BioMedical Admissions
Test), will begin in 2010 and could set
the model for entrance exams around
the country. The Rector said at the In-
dependent Schools Council’s annual
conference that nearly all applicants to
Imperial had 4 or 5 A-Levels and “Even
if you interview all the students you still
have a problem [selecting the best].” He
went on to defend A-Levels but em-
phasised that due to “grade inflation” it
was impossible to use A-Levels as the
main discriminatory factor.
The entrance exam will not replace
A-Levels but serve as an added dis-
criminatory factor when making offers
to applicants. While new entrance ex-
ams will be developed for most under-
graduate courses, Biomedical science
students will take the already estab-
lished BMAT
He also made wider comments on
the state of education in the UK, saying
it was “frightening” that 40% of Impe-
rial undergraduates came from the 7%
of the student population that attend-
ed private institutions. He claimed that
something radical was needed to save
the 93% who are state schooled and
were “not getting the education that
they deserve”. The rector further slated
state schools by stating: “We have in
this country some of the best second-
ary education in the world but only a
few percentage of people benefiting
from it,” and suggesting that bright
children should be “saved” by remov-
ing them from state schools and giving
them a private school education with
government funding.
However one might take the Rec-
tor’s apparent sudden concern for the
education of state school pupils with a
pinch of salt, given his previous calls to
raise the cap on tuition fees.
The Royal School of Mines (RSM) have
managed to cause controversy, and
bring the national media’s spotlight
onto Imperial College Union (ICU),
over a comment made on their hockey
club’s website. The offending comment
directed at the Camborne School of
Mines (CSM) read:
“The Royal School of Mines Hockey
Club follows in a long line of RSM
sporting prowess but most of all its
about fun, drinking and beating the
pulp out of little Cornish inbreds who
like to call themselves miners”.
A Cornish Councillor, namely Grae-
me Hicks, found this remark highly of-
fensive and discriminatory to Cornish
people and demanded that the state-
ment be removed with a formal apol-
ogy to be issued by ICU. Subsequently,
Union President, Stephen Brown, had
the statement changed. The word “Cor-
nish” was replaced with “The Cam-
bourne School of Mines” as he felt this
would “allow students of the RSM to
continue to insult their rivals at CSM.”
This was still not enough for the
councillor. “I was horrified to see this,”
Cllr Hicks told Western Morning
News. “You expect idiots to say these
things but this was on a student un-
ion website linked to Imperial College
London – I think it’s absolutely dis-
graceful. If you said that about a black
person you would be in court.”
The BBC news website picked up on
the story too, and since then, the entire
sentence has been removed from the
Union’s website. Formal apologies have
also been sent to Cllr Hicks from both
Stephen Brown and Pro Rector, Prof
Buckingham.
Many students have dismissed the
entire affair as friendly rivalry between
two institutions, with David Laverty,
CSM President, in agreement. “It’s just
banter, it’s the same year in, year out.
It rolls off your back. I’m not an inbred
and the Cornish are not inbreds.”
Some Imperial students have taken
great offence to Cllr Hicks attitude,
who believe he has publicly offended a
large cohort of IC students by tarring
them all with the same brush.
Rumours that Stephen Brown is
quaking in his boots after some West-
ern Morning News readers called for
him to be sacked, are a little hazy.
Kids, Cornish people do not look like Jupiter from The Hills Have Eyes
Kadhim Shubber
Deputy & Politics Editor
18% – Depression & Mood Change
15% –
Anxiety
19% – Academic
12% – Loss/
Bereavement
16% – Relationships
4% – Abuse
4% – Transitions
4% – Self
& Identity
Undergraduates are statistically un-
derrepresented in the statistics, with
only 55% of SCS users being under-
grads, whilst they make up 64% of the
College as a whole. In comparison PhD
students make most use of the service:
25% of the total, whilst only 19% of
campus.
Overall, 2.1% of students at Imperial
required counselling in 2006-07.
Felix compared this data to national
figures compiled by the Association
for University and College Counsel-
ling (AUCC). Most of the institutions
that supplied their counselling service’s
data to the AUCC had similar popula-
tions to Imperial, with IC’s 12,129 stu-
dents being extremely close to the aver-
age of 12,500. However, Imperial’s SCS
statistics are strikingly lower than the
national averages. A massive 44% fewer
students use the SCS than the national
average of 436 cases every year. Impe-
rial’s service records 55% fewer individ-
ual sessions, and the SCS’ 2.6 Full-time
Equivalent staff is more than an entire
staff member less than the national av-
erage of 3.7 full-time counsellors.
There are two striking differences
between the national and Imperial
statistics.
Firstly, when the reasons for coun-
selling are compared between Imperial
and ‘Old Universities,’ the most com-
mon issues at IC are depression and
academic stress. Elsewhere depression
remains dominant whilst academic
stress is in fourth place (out of sixteen),
averaging 29% fewer cases than Impe-
rial. One PhD student told Felix that
“this is obviously a bad thing, but it
doesn’t surprise me as students are un-
der a great deal of stress here.”
Secondly, when the total percent-
age of students requiring counselling
is compared: an average of 3.5% need
counselling across the UK, whilst only
2.1% of IC students receive counselling
according the latest report. The reason
for this disparity is unclear, but appears
to boil down to three possible explana-
tions: Imperial students are less prone
to mental health issues; Imperial stu-
dents are not getting the help they
need; or Imperial students are seeking
help outside of the university.
Felix interviewed three depression
sufferers whose opinions of Impe-
rial’s SCS varied. “Due to their lim-
ited resources, I was told that students
couldn’t really use [the SCS] as a long
term therapy,” said Anna. “There was
not the time to build up the therapeu-
tic relationship that I needed to really
openupandprogress…butIamthank-
ful that they saw me for as long as they
could.” The comments were echoed by
SCS’ Senior Counsellor, David Allman,
who admitted that their resources were
limited and that they would like to in-
crease them, “but ultimately it depends
on College’s decision.”
Kate, a less impressed user of the
SCS, told Felix: “College’s counselling
service isn’t very helpful to those who
actually need their help. I guess it looks
good on paper to have such a service
though.” She went on to compare Im-
perial to other institutions around the
country: “A friend at another uni re-
ceived regular support from the coun-
selling service for the duration of their
studies. I wish Imperial could have
done the same for me when I asked
them to.”
Turn over for Felix’s special
feature examining depression
The percentage breakdown of issues presented to Imperial College’s Student Counselling Service (SCS) during the 2006-07 academic year.
Depression dominates counselling services nationally, however, IC has 29% more cases of academic stress compared to other UK institutions
DATA
PROVIDED
BY
STUDENT
COUNSELLING
SERVICE

