31
felix
Friday 6 June 2008
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk Sport
Coxed four empty the tanks for victory
Imperial’s men have Met success in Eton
This weekend saw one of the most
prestigious domestic rowing events
take place in Eton; the Metropolitan
Regatta. While most other university
sports tend to wind down over the
summer, the peak of competitive row-
ing conveniently occurs in the middle
of exam season!
The Metropolitan Regatta is second
only to Henley Royal Regatta in terms
of quality of racing, and is a vital test
of speed before racing at Henley. It
involves 6 or 7 crews racing side-by-
side over 2 kilometres from a standing
start. In physiological terms, it is one
of the most intense forms of exercise
in any sport, and lies between a sprint
and a long-distance race in a horrible
world of lactate pain, which most nor-
mal people will never have had the joy
of experience!
This year, Imperial had a total of 18
boats entered in a variety of races at the
‘Met’. Topping the bill was an Imperial
College composite coxless four, featur-
ing Imperial rowers Simon Hislop and
George Whittaker, as well as Olym-
pic Gold medallist Kieron West. The
four’s race on Saturday saw them come
a disappointing 2nd to a Cambridge
University crew made up of boat race
veterans. However, a change in crew
order and adjustment of rigging saw
the Imperial 4- turn things around the
following day to win their ‘elite’ event
by 4 seconds.
In single sculling boats, Andrew
Gordon and Ole Tietz both raced hard
in their heats to reach the same semi-
final. Ole was able to turn around a 3rd
place in his heat to win the semi- and
subsequently come a close second in a
tough final. On Sunday, the two came
together in a double-scull and showed
their excellent speed as a crew by com-
ing 3rd in an ‘elite’ event (the highest
category of racing, usually featuring
potential/current internationals). The
Gordon-Tietz double is now hoping to
find another two scullers to compete in
a quad at Henley. After this, the duo’s
thoughts will turn to trials, with Gor-
don set to enter GB U23 lightweight
trials in the autumn and Tietz vying
for a place in the German lightweight
squad.
Imperial also entered its top 8 into
an event featuring the fastest crews in
the UK. Essentially, the 8 was made up
of two coxless fours that had raced the
previous day and as such was almost,
but not quite, a ‘scratch’ crew. Some
members of the crew approached the
race with some trepidation; however,
a good rhythm was quickly found dur-
ing an extended race warm-up, and
the crew attached to the start pontoon
with greater confidence.
The eight had a quick start, staying in
the pack and in touch with the rest of
the field. At 1000m the crew were only
4 seconds behind Durham University;
the fastest uni crew in the country.
Soon after halfway, a member of the
crew caught a ‘crab’ (where the oar
is not extracted from the water, thus
Iain Palmer
causing an unfortunate braking effect).
However, the last 500m saw the crew
battling hard once again to finish with
significant speed. With 4 weeks re-
maining until Henley, the gap between
Durham and Imperial can be closed,
provided the crew really pull together
as one.
The depth of the squad was also
shown by the 2nd 8, another scratch
crew and containing four newcomers
(this year) to the sport. After boating
45 minutes before the race, the crew
practised their start, and immediately
found that there was significant speed.
By the fourth or fifth practise start; the
boat was moving surprisingly well and
scything through the water.
After rowing to the start line, the
eight came under starter’s orders. “At-
tention……Go!”. First stroke; draw.
Second stroke; draw again, then spin
up the rate. On stroke five, the stroke
man almost caught a crab, which
would have spelt an effective end to
the race. However, the rest of the crew
recovered well to reach full length by
stroke 10 and get off to an excellent
start. Throughout the next 2000m the
‘powerhouse’ middle four of Adam Se-
ward, Carlos Schuster, John Dick and
Frank Murphy maintained the work to
remain fully in the race and finish ex-
cellently. Importantly, this eight over-
came their collective lack of experience
through determination and raced very
hard all the way to the finish. Promis-
ingly, this crew was only 1s slower at
500m and 3s slower at 1500m than the
1st 8, showing quality throughout the
squad.
This week, the build-up really be-
gins for Henley. While many students
will be either revising (before exams)
or drinking (after exams!), spare a
thought for Imperial’s rowers, who will
still be training 11 times a week. By the
time you read this, the entire squad will
have completed 2k ergometer tests; 2
kms on the rowing machine, absolute-
ly flat out. I advise you to attempt this
yourselves for ‘fun’; have a go at beating
George Whittaker’s 5’ 59.9s (averaging
1:30 / 500m). I can guarantee that it is
one of the most painful tests known to
man. However, if this is what it takes
for racing success this summer, then it
is most certainly more than worth it!
Imperial 1st 8 going for a paddle
NICK
ABLITT
The Metropolitan Regatta took place
last weekend in the world-class rowing
centre at Dorney Lake. This spectacu-
lar location will host events in the Ol-
ympic and Paralympic Games in 2012
and has already been host to Rowing
World Cup 2005 and the World Row-
ing Championships in 2006. ICBC
squads were entered in a range of sen-
ior categories for the 2km regatta race
and departed early on Saturday morn-
ing prepared for a tough weekend.
While most boat clubs generally spe-
cialise in either rowing (single oar) or
sculling (two oars), Imperial College
Boat Club continually finds success
in both techniques. Coaches Steve
Trapmore, Ross Smitheman and Brian
Steele have focused intensively on the
women’s squad, preparing them for
the pinnacle of the season; Women’s
Henley Royal (WHR), which takes
place this month on June 20-22. The
MET regatta is essentially the Golden
Globes of the rowing circuit offering
predictions for possible victories at
Henley. With WHR just three weeks
away, racing crews have been largely
decided upon and the MET regatta is
a chance to see where crews are ex-
pected to rank and if any last minute
changes are necessary.
Lightweights Rachael Davies and
Cynthia Mynhardt competed in the
women’s double sculls S2 event, com-
ing second in the opening round and
finishing an impressive third place in
the final just over four seconds off win-
ners Durham University BC.
There was further achievement in
sculling on Sunday when quadruple
scullers Claire Waterworth, Rachael
Davies, Cynthia Mynhardt and Katy
Smith raced in a straight final. They
had a winning time of 7:13.5 with
Mortlake Anglian & Alpha BC trailing
for second place in 7:18.22.
ICBC commander-in-chief Erica
Thompson was in action in the wom-
en’s S3 single sculls coming second
in the opening heat and progressing
to the semi-final but unfortunately
missed out on a final place. Jenny For-
rester competed in the women’s S2
single sculls and after dominating the
repechage proceeded to the final, fin-
ishing 5th overall in a time of 8:18.97
to Reading RC’s pole position finish in
8:02.74.
In the rowing events there were two
coxed fours entered in the S3 category,
which due to the volume of entries was
divided into two divisions. Imperial
College (A) consisted of Selina Gra-
ham, Ro Smith, Deborah Tamulonis
and Clarice Chung coxed by Connie
Pidoux while I was stroke for Imperial
College (B) comprised of Mackenzie
Clavin, Anna Jones and Deepika Red-
dy. Both crews finished first in their
opening heats and progressed straight
to the final without having to partici-
pate in the repechage. The six-hour
gap between races was fatal for Impe-
rial (B) who were unlucky in a tough fi-
nal, while Imperial (A) were impressive
and won their division in 7:36.17. The
Littleton Rosebowl was awarded to the
fastest overall crew of the two divisions
which Imperial lost out on to Cardiff
University/Swansea University by over
Imperial’s women also deliver goods at the Met
Christina Duffy four seconds.
Imperial (A) crew were in action
again on Sunday in the S2 category
competing for the Matt Wood Bowl.
They finished third in the opening
round proceeding to the repechage but
were unable to reach a top three posi-
tion and didn’t make the final.
The weekend’s results are very prom-
ising and with several weeks remaining
beforeWRH,morespeedwillbegained
in these boats. Not in action over the
weekend but expected to perform well
at WHR, is the women’s heavyweight
quad of Jenny Forrester, Guen Brad-
bury, Carlyn Greenhalgh and Erica
Thompson at bow. The power quad is
a formidable force, as shown in their
victory in Ghent. The next few weeks
in the build up to WHR will prove cru-
cial as crews endeavour to stay healthy
during this intense training period.
Imperial 2nd 4 pulling away from the rest of the pack

