felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Imperial at the MET
Imperial College Boat Club successful in Eton, see page 31
A perfect day at Henley
To many, Henley Royal Regatta is an
opportunity to drink Pimm’s in the sun
by the Thames. However, for most se-
rious rowers, it is the peak of the rac-
ing season – the event for which the
past nine months of training have been
building up to.
In essence, there is no other race
quite like it. Unlike most other regat-
tas, it is raced side-by-side and against
the stream. A week before the race it-
self, a full-scale construction process
is carried out to lay wooden booms in
the river along the length of the 2112m
course, create various riverside enclo-
sures and build a large grandstand at
the finish line. However, it is truly the
unique atmosphere of the regatta that
makes it special; crews travel from as
far away as the US and Australia to ex-
perience racing at Henley. Unsullied
by commercial interests, the regatta is,
however, a truly British institution.
Racing begins on Wednesday and
continues until Sunday in a one-on-
one ‘knock-out’ format, generally with
a race each day for each crew still in
their event. The quality of racing in all
events is extremely high, and a Henley
win is highly prized. In the past four
years, Imperial College has dominat-
ed the ‘Prince Albert Challenge Cup’
event with two wins. As a result, Im-
perial was given the honour of naming
the event and the rector, Sir Richard
Sykes, donated the Cup last year on
behalf of the college, in the presence of
HRH The Queen.
This year Imperial will be seek-
ing wins at Henley Royal Regatta and
Women’s Henley. Such feats will not be
easily achieved; if they are, however, it
will boost Imperial’s sporting reputa-
tion massively both in the UK and in-
ternationally and show it can compete
with the likes of Cambridge and Har-
vard outside of academia, as it already
does inside. Women’s Henley runs
from Friday 20th June to Sunday 22nd
June, while Henley Royal Regatta be-
gins on Wednesday 2nd July and ends
on Sunday 6th. For more information,
visit the regattas’ websites at www.hwr.
org.uk and www.hrr.co.uk. Please feel
very welcome to come and support
your university!
Henley Royal Regatta
Iain Palmer
NICK
ABLITT
NICK
ABLITT
Imperial student and ICUACC ‘Sports-
man of the Year’ Adam Freeman-Pask
is no stranger to international compe-
tition, having competed in the World
Rowing U23 Championships in both
2006 and 2007, and the World Univer-
sity Rowing Championships in 2006.
However, in the coming year he hopes
to raise his sights even further by aim-
ing for selection to race at the Senior
World Championships.
Over the weekend Adam raced in
the ‘elite lightweight single sculls’ at
Metropolitan Regatta’, winning with an
awesome 1st 500m time of 1’ 40s. The
following day, he moved into a poten-
tial GB lightweight quad, which also
won very convincingly. This should
stand Adam in good stead for selection
to represent his country once again in
the near future.
It should be stressed, however, that
rowing at such a level is not all work
and no play. As we are told by his pro-
file on the GB rowing website, “in his
spare time Adam enjoys sports such
as surfing, snow boarding and cycling
and also likes going to the cinema and
to live gigs.”
A mention should also go out to Olly
Mahoney, who is aiming to compete at
the 2008 FISU World University Row-
ing Championships in the lightweight
pair. Good luck to all of Imperial’s cur-
rent and future international oarsmen!
Imperial students hope for
international success
Iain Palmer
The man himself, Adam Freeman-
Pansk

