6 felix Friday 6 June 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
International
Headlines from around the globe
The world beyond College walls...
Zimbabwean Problems
Zimbabwe
President Mugabe’s actions as President are attracting increasing criticism as the date of the Presidential runoff
approaches. Only three weeks before the proposed date, opposition candidate Morgan Tsvangirai was arrested
for ‘planning to attend an unauthorized meeting’ in the south of the country, before being released several
hours later. The arrest is frustrating news for critics of Mugabe’s regime, who see their chance of replacing
him decreasing with time. Mugabe has also come under renewed criticism for his agricultural policies, given
his sudden eagerness to criticise the West for some of his own domestic troubles. Most recently, however, he
has been accused of ordering some 30 aid agencies to halt operations, increasing the suffering in the South
African nation.
Food Crisis Continues
Italy
The UN met in Rome earlier this week to approve the allocation
of $1.2 billion to the 62 countries most severely affected by this
year’s food crisis. The cost of basic foodstuffs is rising and riots
over the prices have led to national instability in a variety of
hot-spots around the world. Whilst this year’s terrible harvests
are largely to blame, the increasing subsidies awarded to the
use of crops as biofuels have intensified the problem. The
UN’s actions are set to prevent the number of people below
the survival line doubling in the near future - a very real risk.
Presidents Mugabe and Ahmadinejad have joined forces to
blame the West for the global situation, criticisms which, from
Mugabe’s part, are deemed highly hypocritical.
F
irst things first. We have
a democratic presiden-
tial nominee for the
US elections. Finally.
Clinton may have been
offered the VP position by the
time of going to print but at the
time of writing, nothing has been
confirmed. Whether or not the
Obama-Clinton combination re-
ceives the support of their respec-
tive voters, it has advantages that
could be too good to miss. We’ll
see. The election is not going to
be out of the headlines for long.
Now on to another election.
Zimbabwean presidential chal-
lenger Morgan Tsvangirai has
been arrested three weeks be-
fore the scheduled run-off.
Then released. I’m leaving my
cynicism in the bag on this one.
Come to your own conclusions.
Burma has made it back here
this week; the suffering of mil-
lions in the far East deserves
another chance in the spot-
light. “Watch in Wonder as Aid
is Deprived from Millions - be
Amazed by the ‘feel-bad spec-
tacular of the year ‘ (Guardian)”.
The 2007/8 food crisis is mak-
ing its debut performance this
week; be kind. It really has been a
year of appalling harvests around
the world; though the belief that
crops should serve as bio-fuel
rather than nourishment is mak-
ing things far worse than they need
to be. By the way - Ahmadinejad
and Mugabe agree that the whole
problem is caused by the West.
Nice to see trans-national agree-
ment on something, I suppose.
Anyone reading this must still be
atcollege,andIassumemust,there-
fore, still have exams. Good luck.
Election Results IV
United States
Earlier this week, Senator Barack Obama became the official Democratic nominee for the upcoming Presidential elections.
After months of exhausting debates and prolonged contests in every state, Obama finally obtained the support of enough
delegates to secure the nomination. With the leader of the Democratic ticket now confirmed, the identity of the Vice-
Presidential is the subject of increased speculation. Senator Clinton, who has not yet conceded defeat, is clearly the obvious
candidate. Despite the lack of any official announcement from the Clinton campaign on this subject, indications from all
directions show that she would be willing to accept the vice-presidential candidacy. The potential ‘dream-team’ of Obama
and Clinton could be hugely effective in uniting the Democratic party and silencing criticisms of Obama’s inexperience, but
the move may prove unpopular with supporters of both candidates. Obama has since appointed a triumvirate of experienced
Democrats to assist him in chooising someone to fill the number two spot.
Gilead Amit

