politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
International
Situation Escalates
Sudan
Tensions are rising in Sudan as troops from the North and South of the
country converge on the oil-rich Abyei area. Both sides claim the rights to
the land, which contains some billions of dollars worth of oil, but neither is
seems willing to de-escalate the situation. US and UN envoys to the region
fear that another deadly crisis may break out in a country already having
to deal with millions of displaced people. Although spokesmen for both
parties claim their intentions are peaceful, external negotiators are not
optimistic, believing that both sides are in fact keen for hostilities to begin.
Burma Aid
Burma
Latest UN figures indicate that there are still over 3 million
Burmese still in need of emergency care, with almost a third
of them not having received foreign aid in any form. These
problems stem principally from the Burmese government’s
continuing refusal to grant access to relief workers, despite
official assurances given to the UN. The military junta has
persistently rebuffed French, British and American efforts,
forbidding access and limiting the role they play in the
emergency operations. As a result, large numbers of aid ships
are returning home, frustrated at being unable to help.
Nuclear Probe
Syria
The Syrian government has recently granted permission
for IAEA inspectors to enter the country and search for
their alleged nuclear weapons programme. The decision to
allow external inspectors comes months after US released
intelligence stated that a Syrian nuclear site was ‘not
intended for peaceful purposes’, pointing out its similarity
to the Iranian nuclear facilities. Syria has persistently
denied all such accusations, dismissing them as ‘ridiculous’,
although it has indicated its intention to collaborate fully
with the IAEA team.
Pakistan Explosion
Islamabad
Danish intelligence has linked Al Qaeda to last week’s
car-bomb explosion outside their embassy in Islamabad.
Though no group had claimed responsibility at the time
of the Danish announcement, a web posting supposedly
made by Al Qaeda has since taken the credit.The blast,
which killed 6 and left 24 people injured, is widely
believed to be yet another response to the Danish Post-
Jyllands prophet controversy. Security measures are being
reinforced around all other embassies in Islamabad, and
the Danish representation has temporarily closed.
Designed by Gilead Amit & Kadhim Shubber

