8 felix Friday 6 June 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
NUS affiliation debate – Round 1
The leaders of the ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ campaigns give you a taste of the debate to come. See next week’s Felix for a
comprehensive collection of opinions from members of both teams, then cast your vote in the referendum
I
’m not a political hack. In fact I
even haven’t decided where my
political views lie yet! But I am
SO annoyed that 24 people in a
room have voted to spring this
referendum on us right in the middle
of exams, without even getting the
required numbers to sign the referen-
dum petition.
I mean doesn’t democracy mean
anything more? The British people are
not happy with the EU constitution, so
what does the Government do? They
ratify the Lisbon Treaty. Nobody want-
ed the war, and what does the govern-
ment do? They threaten Iran. I am just
SO tired of being told that our elected
leaders know better than us!
The whole issue boils down to this
– at the NUS Annual Conference in
April, the proposed changes to NUS
governance, aimed at giving the union
a more democratic structure, which is
“agile, cheaper, and more accessible”
did not go through. Imperial Union
was one of the main backers, and had
in fact mandated all of its delegates to
support the Governance Review. Un-
derstandably, Imperial Union was not
happy with the result but perhaps less
understandably, now want to take the
rash decision to leave the NUS. That’ll
teach them to mess with our Imperial
demands!
What I ask you, dear readers, is to
consider whether this is in Imperial’s
best interest. Both the previous and
current presidents were in favour of
the Governance Review and a revised
form is being put together. The re-
forms fell by only 25 votes, with almost
two thirds supporting it. The argu-
ment for NUS reform has been won,
even if this vote wasn’t. In all likeli-
hood the reforms will be passed before
Christmas.
Even so, the NUS has already come
a long way over the last year: by mak-
ing the tough decisions to streamline
processes and cut back on staffing the
NUS slashed affiliation fees by 10 per-
cent overnight. In the year since we’ve
joined, the NUS has won major victo-
ries for students, not least engineering
the back down of HSBC over its stu-
dent overdraft charges. Since joining,
our sabbaticals have attended NUS’
summer training programme, and
NUS provided tailored and specific
training to our college committees and
welfare volunteers. Next year ICU will
have to register as a charity, and NUS is
getting the legal advice on how best to
do this– clubbing together for this sup-
port is far cheaper than us paying for it
on our own. And lastly, as we go into
the review of top up fees next year we’ll
need a national voice like never before
to make ourselves heard.
I’m not trying to pretend that the
NUS is problem-free. It’s just that the
biggest problem with the NUS is well,
US. Yes us. But if the NUS didn’t ex-
ist, we’d have to invent it. You have the
biggest student organisation in Europe,
discussing, researching and campaign-
ing on issues that affect students. We
have the brains and the drive to actual-
ly get things done. Yes the various fac-
tions within the NUS each have their
agenda, so sometimes it takes time
to come to a consensus, but hey wel-
come to the adult world! You discuss,
you compromise, you don’t throw your
toys out of the pram and sulk.
Imperial College was one of the
founding members of the NUS in
1922. We left in 1923 citing irrecon-
cilable differences. We joined in 2006
again after 27 years, and are planning
to leave after a year. We’re Imperial, we
think we don’t need the NUS, because
we think everybody knows us and will
listen to our views. Get real. This time,
let’s keep our cool, keep our voice and
remain affiliated to the NUS.
Keep your cool and our voice
Soumaya Mauthoor
‘Yes’ campaign leader
I
campaigned for Imperial Col-
lege Union (ICU) to join the
NUS back in November 2006
and whilst I think it was worth
giving them a chance I can now
safely say that they have now proved
themselves no longer worthy of the
trust I put in them.
We were promised an effective NUS
that was going to change and that we
could play a leading role in driving that
change. Instead we have seen their (and
our) attempts to change stifled by ex-
tremists who would rather that the or-
ganisation continued to be their own
play park funded by Unions like ours
whohavecountlessactivitiesthatarefar
more worthy of the best part of £50,000
per annum that we pay to NUS.
If you are not aware, ICU has a con-
troversial history with the NUS as the
organisation has never provided any
tangible benefits to the student body.
Funnily enough, we were a founding
member in 1922, disaffiliated in 1923
and then did not re-affiliate until 1939.
In 1940 ICU left in protest at the NUS’
stance against conscription for WWII.
During the 60’s and 70’s we dipped
in and out of membership, leaving in
1977 and then finally rejoining in No-
vember 2006. This information is just
Anti-NUS
campaigner
Pro-NUS
campaigner
Emancipate Imperial
to illustrate that students at Imperial
have always had severe reservations
about the NUS who have for decades
refused to listen. I thought that after all
this time it was worth us giving NUS
membership another go but this his-
torical evidence does suggest that the
organisation is condemned to being
institutionally useless.
In this referendum there is no debate
about how much of a mess this organi-
sation is as the threat of financial de-
cline has forced them to come clean.
This year we have heard all about
how the NUS has suffered from finan-
cial mismanagement, disengagement
from the issues that are relevant to stu-
dents and how they are not respected
as the “national voice” that they claim
themselves to be. NUS will tell you that
they are hugely influential yet this is the
same “national voice” that is dismissed
in parliamentary committees as being
only representative of student activists
and not ordinary students.
I urge you to vote No! as I believe it
is crucial that we emancipate Imperial
students from this organisation whose
own leaders openly admit has been
shockingly mismanaged, politically ir-
relevant and inaccessible to all but the
most hardened political activists. The
money that is spent on NUS affiliation
could be far better spent by students at
Imperial rather than throwing it down
the NUS budgetary drainpipe. We were
promised a cheaper, radically different
NUS by April 2008 and it has not mate-
rialised. I believe it would be irrespon-
sible for us to take that gamble with
£46,000 of our money that could be
far more effectively spent on academic
representation and student activities
for students at Imperial. Why continue
wasting our cash on a “national voice”
that consistently fails to reflect the fact
that the UK education sector is hugely
diverse with different types of institu-
tions pursuing different objectives? By
disaffiliating we would not be subsidis-
ing this debating club for students who
have political aspirations but do very
little to further the cause of student
support and development on campus.
During the course of this referendum
you will hear a variety of sob stories
about how the NUS is really going to
change next year. Well, we’ve head it all
before. Vote No! if you are not willing
to take that gamble.
Kirsty Patterson
‘No’ campaign leader
Last August, the NUS helped force HSBC to rethink its plans to charge
graduates 9.9% on their overdrafts when they finished their degree
Is ICU’s approximately £50,000 NUS affiliation fee worth it?

