comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 6 June 2008 felix
Comment
Salman Waqar
Academic... Freedom?
C
ast your mind back to
America in the 50s, with
McCarthyism in full
swing. And now imag-
ine that you are a young,
bright and popular student at a pres-
tigious university who happens to be
doing a dissertation on Communism
for your degree.
Now, like any self-respecting stu-
dent, you go off to the library to do
some research and check out this book
that all the boffins recommend – Com-
munism for Dummies. You take it back
to your department, but wander off for
a moment. Unfortunately for you, one
of your vigilant colleagues sees this lit-
tle book, gets a bit uneasy and decides
to call the cops. Oh, and I forgot to
mention that you’re actually a Russian
immigrant who has sought refuge in
the US after fleeing Mother Russia and
decided to live the American Dream.
Right, so the cops come out and ar-
rest you and then detain you without
charge. At the same time, your family
gets harassed, your home gets raided
and property gets confiscated. Your
name is in all the papers and your eth-
nic community is now under attack.
And to top it all off you have brought
in an air of controversy and damaged
the prestige of your institution.
The cops and judges decide that you
don’t really need to be here as your pa-
perwork looks a bit iffy and they de-
cide to send you on the first plane back
home, where your comrades are wait-
ing in open arms for their lost brother
to return.
What on earth, you ask, is the point
of all this historical fictional babble?
Well, just recently a modern-day classic
took place at Nottingham University.
Hicham Yezza, an Algerian-born
employee at Nottingham, decided to
make use of his free printer credits
to print the edited Al-Qaida Train-
ing Handbook (available from the US
Department of Justice website) for his
Pakistani-born mate Rizwaan; who
was writing a dissertation on Islamic
extremism for his MA in Politics. They
were both ‘caught’ and arrested with-
out charge. Hicham was subsequently
re-arrested because his immigration
status wasn’t quite up to standards –
even though he had been living in the
UK for 13 years and had his citizen-
ship papers being processed before
the whole debacle took place. He was
due to be deported last Sunday, but the
Home Office have since had a re-think,
following a national campaign.
Why am I telling you all this? Is it
because he was checked into the fast-
track service for deportation without
a hearing? Or is it the apparent sensa-
tionalist response to both men’s ethnic
and religious origins? Imagine if they
were Swedish Goths... No, the real rea-
son is a little something we like to call
academic freedom.
That is the right for academics to
have the right to engage in research,
and to teach subjects that are deemed
to be controversial without fear of per-
secution. This issue was highlighted
back in 2005 when the government
made amendments in the Anti-Terror
legislation which was designed to stop
academic persecution from occurring.
But even then there was some pessi-
mism as to how far the new measures
would go. Furthermore the whole affair
has raised questions about the govern-
ment’s insistence to raise the detention
limit from 28 days to 42 days without
charge.
The likelihood of such an incident
happening at Imperial is rather remote,
thanks to the distinct lack of research
in social sciences that goes on around
here. But, there is a danger that ethnic
and racial profiling, alongside encour-
aging lecturers and staff to monitor
and report the activities on campus
may prevail.
And that would be a real throwback
to the 50s.
A. Geek
Let the grown ups get on with it
C
az Knight’s charming
piece last week about how
jolly revolutions were was
something of a wake-up
call to me. There I was,
assuming that socialism had gone the
way of the Teletubbies and thick-cut
marmalade in becoming unfashionable
and childish, only to find that there’s at
least one brave soul out there who still
feels that whining and bashing things
up actually helps society get along. It’s
heartwarming,notonlybecauseitgives
me the opportunity to be extremely
patronising – isn’t that right, champ? –
but also because it means there’s still
a few people out there whose spirits
need crushing. Start your engines.
Here’s a cold, hard truth for you la-
dies and gentlemen – revolutions slow
us down. And yeah, I’m talking about
‘progress’. It’s in single quotes rather
than double, because I don’t look down
on it as much as most of you seem to.
Progress is what gives us the Industrial
Revolution, it gives us comfortable
shoes and it gives us movies featuring
Matt Damon.
It holds it hands up. It says ‘Sure, peo-
ple got permanently disfigured by un-
safe machinery. Yes, children died with
their hands bleeding onto the floor in
Asian sweatshops. And the side effect
of Dogma was that Ben Affleck’s career
will be forever remembered.’ It knows
its faults. But you know what? It just
waxes its stereotypical mustache, rea-
ligns its top hat and tails, and waddles
on down the street to the nine o’clock
Gravy Train to Profit Towne.
I want to be absolutely clear once and
for all – I might make love to Mother
Nature like it’s going out of style, and
I might believe that, occasionally, it’s
bad to take advantage of people. But
a lot of my core beliefs are more right
wing than a Boris Johnson-themed
Kentucky Fried Chicken meal, and
that’s because I like it when things hap-
pen and people get on with their lives.
Caz might think ‘hedonism’ is a fun-
damental part of human nature, but
people used to think that dying cold,
alone and in a pool of your own faeces
was a fundamental part of being alive.
Then we realised that if we worked re-
ally hard we could heal them. Although
some people optionally kept the faeces
bit, which is fine.
I’m not rich. I don’t have any privi-
lege or class benefits that I’m aware of.
I just think that if we want to organise
six billion people in any meaningful
way, then someone has to be at the top
getting most of the glory and a large
proportion of the Innocent smoothies,
and some people need to be crawling
the bottom feeding off of flakes of Ba-
sics onions and urine-soaked copies of
The London Lite.
I’m sure Caz has solutions to this
problem that don’t involve the little
guy getting shat on, and I’m sure many
of them don’t involve people with long
hair and bandanas shouting in Span-
ish despite being from Gloucester. But
the fact that remains is this – revolu-
tions are a condensed form of human
stupidity. They are that moment where
we decide that the last eight thousand
years wasn’t really worth our time, and
“
People
used to think
that dying cold,
alone and in
a pool of your
own faeces was
a fundamental
part of being
alive
giving in to raw emotion is a much
more sensible way to go.
It’s when you do the ‘student’-y thing.
You start sentences with ‘fuck’ and
then append the name of something
that people seem to be vaguely disap-
proving of. Then everyone shouts and
gets up off their chairs in JCR and goes
off to huff and be all angry somewhere.
Sometimes it’s on the street. Mostly it’s
on the internet. Maybe, sometimes, it’s
right here on these pages.
As long as you all stay there, it’s fine.
We know where to look if we need irra-
tional, emotional people who couldn’t
organise a fart into spreading around
a room. When the population of the
earth has been whittled down to a few
thousand people – as no doubt it will,
thanks to humankind’s natural idiocy
that fuels revolution – then you can
take over. You can stir people up and
push them into action, founding a new
society which will learn how you saved
mankind from the wrong of the past.
Up until that point, the grown-ups
have work to do in order to stop im-
pending armageddon. So if you can all
just play nicely in the corner, and we’ll
pick you up after our meeting.
And really, in this day and age, who
would just get angry over nothing on a
week basis? Some cunt. That’s who.
¡Hacia abajo con la revolución!
Nottingham Uni employee, Hicham Yezza, has avoided deportation
Dear Editor,
Not wanting to sound like the Foot-
ball Club, we would like to protest to
the slurs made against our club. The
recent photo of the ''Editor Elect –
a little girl?'', in [issue 1,404] of this
'orgasmic publication', with its accu-
sation of knitting as a 'sissy passion',
was received as a deeply derogatory
remark to the noble craft and historic
art that our club strives to promote.
This type of slander only serves to
reinforce the negative publicity and
gender stereotyping knitting has re-
ceived in the past, therefore please
retract this comment. Furthermore
we at Knit Sock HQ would like to
extend a warm invitation to the Edi-
tor Elect (as well as any other closet
knitters) to join our ranks. Remem-
ber, we are armed with long pointy
sticks, and we know how to use
them.
Knitted regards,
Knit Sock HQ
Felix Editor, Tom Roberts, responds:
Thank you for the email. Once
again, the article was intended as
satire. Apologies for causing offence
though. I’ll be sure to pass your invi-
tation onto our incoming leader!
To our dear readers, please take the
words that spew out of the Hangman
articles with a glacier sized pinch of
salt.

