TEN . FELIX WEDNESDAY JUNE 26TH 1 9 9 6 FEATURE
The State of the Union
The once scorned Friday night Ents are almost
invariably packed full by 10pm. The
refurbishment of the bookstore in the early
nineties turned a reasonable trading outlet
into a major going concern. A referendum
held last year on rejoining the National Union
of Students received an unexpectedly loud
voice calling for autonomy to be maintained.
If not actually fighting off the mythical demon
of disinterest, is Imperial College Union at
least making inroads into determining its own
future?
The academic year began with the Union
stubbornly refusing to budge on a College
proposal to move them to the Sherfield
Building. ICU now looks likely to retain its Beit
Quad premises, but with an influx of
hundreds of medical students beginning in
1998, the scope for expansion looks limited.
College are planning to put management of
the bookstore out to tender, potentially
depriving the Union of it's major
non-Governmental source of funding at a
time when capital funding across the spectrum
of Higher Education is set to drop by 50%.
With the benefit of a year's hindsight, the
Sabbatical Officers of 1995 -1996 consider
what future there is for the Student's Union of
Imperial College...
"Last summer
was horrible, but
it made us think
about things a
lot: think about
how we use the
building, and
how we can
improve it. It
forced us to
question why we
are here, and
we're coming up
with constructive
responses."
Sarah White,
ICU President
O
ur location seems a lot more secure than it did a year ago,
which means we can think about our future. The uncer-
tainty which was hanging over our heads meant that we
couldn't go ahead with projects such as the refurbishment of the
Ents lounge. Now we are getting things up up scratch: our long-term
aim is to get to a public Ents license, so that we can have bar exten-
sions with more ease - the University of London Union can keep
their bar open until lam whenever they like. And we would also be
able to use more of the building, and get bands in.
"Last summer was horrible, but it made us think about things a
lot: think about how we use the building, and how we can improve
it. It forced us to question why we are here, and we're coming up
with constructive responses.
"I think it's quite likely that we will be able to get some of the
Beit basement space when Biology move out: there's nothing else to
put in therel All we can do with the existing space is improve the
service, but we can't expand on what we do.
"We're also considering what else we do, and how we make stu-
dents more aware of what's on offer: there's no point in waking
them up by putting posters up saying 'Come to the bar.' The
resource centre should be good. It will hopefully have phones, a fax
machine, photocopiers and computers and all the things clubs and
societies need. They'll pop in and think, 'I know, I'll pop into the
advice centre and sort out that dodgy contract while I'm here.' The
easiest way of telling someone what you do is to show it to them -
make them walk past it.
"The big issue of the future will be coping with the cuts in high-
er education funding. Whether you go somewhere with a decent
sports' hall is less important than whether you are there at all."

