FEATURE FELIX WEDNESDAY JUNE 26TH 1 9 9 5 . ELEVEN
"The next
five years
are
fucking
crucial.
The situa-
tion looks
brilliant
from one
angle, and
dire from
another."
Tim Townend,
Clubs and Societies
I
C is sorted academically: IC's student development is not.
We're in a brilliant position, if only we can develop ideas. The
clubs and societies have a massive base of activity, and we have
nice venues and good facilities, especially if the refurbishment of
the Ents lounge and the development of the sports centre goes
ahead. We have the foundations, but we need to invest in student
development. ICU is there to enable students to do what they
couldn't do on their own, but ii we're so insular we never look out,
we'll never get anywhere.
"We need to consolidate our position, decide what our key
functions are, and focus on them. It's like a war: if we deiend on all
sides we will end up losing on all sides. The next five years are fuck-
ing crucial. The situation looks brilliant from one angle, and fucking
dire from another. I think that's why the staff are really happy on
some days, and then miserable as Hell the next.
"IC academically is second to none, but students haven't got
the support network that they would have if they went somewhere
equally demanding, like Cambridge. The one-to-one system there
means that if you miss a single tutorial there is someone worrying
about you. I guess that's why employers like IC graduates: they
haven't been spoon-fed. But we do need improvements in our tuto-
rial system. If they don't change attitudes, we're never going any-
where, and it's ICU's job to make sure those attitudes are changed."
W
e're as certain as we'll ever be that we will be staying put
in Beit. Ideally we would like to expand into some of the
ground floor at the front of the Quad. The promise of
some basement space would be significant. It might end up as some
kind of a bargain; College could put money into it, and in return
control it over the vacations. If we get that, it will give enough room
to expand the ents lounge into the Print Unit, and possibly move
the snooker rooms into the basement too. And if the new sports'
centre goes ahead, we could convert the gym into rooms for clubs,
societies and welfare. The basement area is huge: apart from any-
thing else, it would give us more storage space, and that's one of the
biggest problems we've got.
"To sum it up, we can get space, but we can't get money, which
is an improvement on last year, when we couldn't get either. So we
need to make our own money, and that's under attack as well. We
just don't know what's happening with the future of the bookstore.
At the moment we're working on a proposal for what we would
offer, assuming it goes out to tender. The benefits of us running it
far outweigh the benefits of anyone else running it, but no doubt the
argument that it's better to keep the money within the IC com-
munity will fall on deaf ears."
"We can get
space, but we
can't get
money, which
is an improve-
ment on last
year, when we
couldn't get
either."
Matt Crompton,
Finance and Services
"Where are you
going to get
£15
million to pay
for a Students'
Union in these
days when
everything is
funded by either
the PFI or the
National
Lottery?"
Rachel Walters,
Felix Editor & Print Unit Manager
I
like to think that Felix is continuing to improve its role as a
bridge between College and students. There's so much happen-
ing at the moment, and because we're not a particularly con-
frontational student body, much of it goes by without any chance
for discussion. Besides, I think that College would get a lot more
support for the positive developments if there wasn't such a strong
perception that so much is completely underhand.
"What I find slightly worrying is that the current location of
the Print Unit is the one prime target for the extension of enter-
tainment facilities. It would a very great shame if we were moved
to some inaccessible grotty basement. The current location is bad
enough, but I'm not sure if we are a priority as far as the Union is
concerned! Being completely selfish, a move to Sherfield would
have been superb for us: we were looking at a purpose built 2-level
print shop in the middle of things. But then I wonder if it could ever
have happened: where were they going to get £15 million to pay for
a students union in these days when everything is either funded by
the PFI or the National Lottery?"

