ALEX FEAKES, FELIX EDITOR 1 9 9 6 - 9 7 FELIX WEDNESDAY 26TH JUNE 1 9 9 6 . THIRTEEN
Situations vacant'' it said, white on black. This is (or me, I thought, this is what a
:.':rf" soon-to-be-sitting-his-Finals-dreaming-about-what-he's-going-to-do-next tvpe person
needs, a vacant situation into which I can slide, without comedy, and without an incumbent.
IP 1 read on: "No experience required" - even better, since in my experience, my experience to
satiate was minimal, (my girlfriends past had always said that I was a man with no experience"}
:this must be for me! What was next? "Luxury accommodation." Superb I thought, fully furnished,!
well appointed, perhaps a penthouse flat? (A subtle irony here). I paused, put down the ad and took I
|a few sips of coffee. "Felix Editor / Print Unit Manager," I mused, hmmm, I could do that.
Four months later and soon-to-be-editing-Felix is sitting his Finals, interspersing bouts of revision!
II with visions of fonts, front pages and what-the-hell-are-you-doing-get-baek-to-work-you-procras-:
i
tinating-fool. Six mind-numbingly exhausting exams in a week and it's more-ordess over, bar the
fj shouting, drinking and gad-it's-rushing-up-on-me-and-l-don't-know-the-lirst-thing-about-edit-:
i i ing-how-the-hell-do-you-recharge-the-photoeopier-cards-oh-good-griet-my-typing-has-gone-1
111 dyslexic-damn-collating-machine-go-back-whence-vou-eame-and, and, oh, everything.
Actually,
C P I I'm quite looking forward to it. ,
When run-
Ining around the various halls of resi-
Idence that surround Princes Gardens in a fit 1
iof campaigning fury, my prime purpose was to
iii meet the people who read Felix each week. It
| had occurred to me, while tweaking the news
I pages late one Wednesday evening a few weeks
beforehand, that what people read in Felix -
what I was writing or editing - must make an impres-:
sion. This was borne out when, after knocking on doors and relating my breathless:
If banter, the occupants would ask me questions, wanting to know more.
This primitive 'meeting the public' exercise was very satisfying, and reassured
line that the enormous number of Felixes that we distribute each week weren't just : : :
f picked up by cleaners. It showed that people were reacting, taking in what was reported, and II
I ruminating on what piqued their interest. In a way, they were taking part in their Felix, keeping I
their end of the unwritten, unspoken contract between the writers here and the eclectic masses
|beyond the office doors.
And that process is mirrored every time they move to pen a letter or tap a key, allowing them toil
participate in the production side of Felix, stepping across the invisible line that marks out the read-ft
|ers from the producers in the relationship. Some have been moved to come and see lor themselves,
|trying their hand at a review, picking up a news-assignment, reporting on a hockey match or whatev-
|jer - they are engaging themselves in Felix, and reflect a little ol themselves into the reading.
So the reader-mannequin aquires a bit of life in its perusal of Felix. Felix gains in the partic i- /-A- flttj,
pation of its readers. Felix and readers alike benefit when they interact.
How will you interact with Felix? How will you benefit?
^rieH

