Fancy a trip to the >in
virtual jungle?
By Ben Wilkins and Tony Heenan
Imagine trying to carry out your scientific
research in a tropical jungle: forty degree
heat, high humidity, snakes, insects etc.
The logistical problems involved would
deter all but the most intrepid of scientists. But
what if the field operation was connected to the
internet? Wouldn't it be possible for many of the
researchers to stay at home, remain in the comfort of their offices and
take part in the field operation exclusively via the information super-
highway? The only problem now is how on earth do you set up and
maintain an internet link in the middle of a jungle...?
ft
What do two aeronauti-
cal engineers, a bio-
chemist, a materials sci-
entist, a physicist, a
Venezuelan entomolo-
gist and a lap-top com-
puter have in common? Give up? Well, they
are all about to embark on a unique expedition
to study butterfly populations and the Orinoco
river in Southern Venezuela.
What makes this venture, called
Netspedition, unique is that they will be using
the latest in portable computer and satellite
technology to transmit each day's results and
their experiences to Imperial. Back at IC, a sup-
port team will release the data onto the
Netspedition web page. Netspedition was the
brainchild of Matthew Lewis, one ofthe six who
will be going this summer. "The main idea was
to go on an expedition. I've always been an
Internet fanatic, and I wanted to find a way to
combine the two."
After landing at Caracas, the expeditioners
will meet up with the sixth member, the ento-
mologist from the University • •
of Zulia in Venezuela. The six 5
^
^
^
J
_
J
_
will then hire a bush plane
which will take them as far up
the Orinoco River as possible.
From there, they will open
their rucksacks and unpack
three 18-foot foldable canoes,
paid for by the Harlington
Trust. They will then travel by
canoe along along the river
through a remote area the size
ofWales. In total the team will
spend six weeks together
awayfromcivilisation.
The primary goal of the expe-
dition is to show that it is pos-
sible to transmit from the jun-
gle. To do this the team will be
using a lap top computer and a
'sat phone' - a $35,000 mobile
phone which was lent to them
by California Microwave.
According to Tony Heenan,
using it couldn't be easier:
"You open the box, unfold the satellite dish and
away you go."
Along the way the team will measure char-
acteristics of the river such as temperature, pH
and conductivity. Simple chemical analysis will
be used to determine the levels of salinity, hard-
ness and nutrients in the water. The idea to
study butterfly species diversity came from an
ex IC student, now at the Open University, who
read about the expedition on the Internet. The
team will be studying how the local conditions
such as light, and river parameters affect the.
species diversity. All their results will be fed into
the computer, along with their location, as given
by their satellite global positioning system.
Scientists from all over the world will be able to
analyse the results and feed back comments, to
the group. Tony Heenan believes this technolo-
gy could "open up new methods of remote
research on a global scale." •
Before the team can start to study the but-
terfly population, they will have to catch them.
These days this is a lot more sophisticated than
running round the jungle with nets. Instead they
will use something called a fruit trap, which is
basically a 14-inch plate -covered with rotting
fruit with a net above it. Those butterflies which
find rotting fruit irre-
sistible will be caught
when they try to fly
away. Unfortunately,
90% of butterflies don't
like fruit. So how will
the team catch these? "By mnning around the
jungle with nets," says Tony Heenan.
But he stresses that these experiments are
by no means trivial: "You don't demonstrate the
potential of this technology if you do Mickey
Mouse science... As far as we can tell, nobody
has been there for the express purpose of study-
ing butterfly populations before. People just
don't know what's there. The chances are we'll
come across maybe a dozen new species."
If the team find a species which is new to
them, they will send images of the live butterfly
to the collaborating scientists who will try to
identify it. Eventually the specimens collected
from the Orinoco will end up in the Natural
History Museum and the Museo de Artropodos
in the University of Zulia.
Along with the scientific objectives,
Netspedition intends to be the first truly inter-
active expedition on the Internet. As the team
journeys through the Amazon, sounds, images
and video of the flora and fauna, the diverse ani-
mal life and of the scenery of what is one of the
most beautiful regions on this planet, will be
digitised using a C C D camera and the multime-
dia facilities of the lap-top.. This information,
along' with a continuously updated log of their
daily life, will be released onto the Web site. It
will be possible to e-mail the expedition team,
ask them questions and help them with any sim-
ple decisions they might face.
Would you like to get involved in
Netspedition? The team are still looking for stu-
dents and staff to help maintain the Web site
and also provide scientific support to the team in
the field. Why not check out the web site at:
http://sunsite.doc.ic.ac.uk/netspedition and
then get in contact
with the relevant team
member. Join us if you
dare...

