simon baker
And now, the end is near,
and so I face the final dead-
line. After 9 months and
nearly 20,000 words, I have
run out of opportunities to
vent my spleen on you, the
good folk of Imperial. I have
also reached the end of my
degree. Not averse to the
odd cliche, as you all know by now, I must say
that it has gone incredibly quickly.
My friends, I'll say it clear. I'll state my case
of which I'm certain. In October 1993, little old
me pitched up at Linstead Hall, found the bar
and the rest is history. I arrived as a young, happy-
goducky idealist and leave as, well, form your
own opinions. I've seen people, buildings and, of
course, signs come and go, the latter not neces-
sarily on a one-in-one-out basis. Felix certainly
hasn't missed out change over the last three
years. Many of you will remember this august
publication under the stewardship of my dear
old friend Beccy 'as vital to the mnning of Felix
as David Mellor is to the Elite Model Agency'
Land, who printed one of my letters criticising
her under the banner, "Will he ever shut up?"
Clearly no. Last year was a dramatic improve-
ment under the control of Owain Bennallack,
though I did have cause to rattle the cage of Mr
Marcus Alexander, aka 'Prater Fiam'. A blind
seven-year old could extract more meaning from
the Portuguese version of the Maastricht Treaty
than some of his writings, but there you go. As
for this year, modesty forbids me to be specific,
but I must congratulate Rachel on a brilliant job
and thank her for giving me this space with
which to amuse and entertain you, I hope,
throughout the year.
And more, much more than this, I did it my
way. Regrets, I've had a few. And I'd had a few
that fateful night at King's a few weeks ago.
Dance like a demon, I tell you. It does seem a
shame that despite the way we avidly followed
each other's careers, Ian Caldwell and I never
met. I put it down to some swine pinching all the
Rector's dinner invitations from my pigeon hole.
When it comes to College Estates I did what I
had to do and saw it through without exemp-
tion. I planned (members of said department
unsure of this word's meaning are referred to a
dictionary] each charted course of action, each
careful step along the satirical byway. Who am I
kidding? Attacking Estates was like shooting fish
in a barrel, as taxing as stealing candy from a
baby. I suspect that all the noisy building work
around College will be suspended now that the
exams are out of the way, since we wouldn't
want to disturb the paying guests over the sum-
mer, dear me no.
The post of U L U President being occupied
by Ghassan Karian is also regrettable, although I
hear he has now resigned, giving me yet another
excuse to spend some money in Southside Bar. I
have long held reservations about him, con-
firmed by his moonlighting for Uncle Tony Blair,
but his response to the no
confidence vote was
beyond belief. How dare
he compare his disgraceful
behaviour with the course
of action taken by Lady
Thatcher in 1990. She was
effectively the victim of a
coup d'etat, whereas this
despicable rat has shown
that he couldn't give a toss about the people he
represents or the post he occupies.
I also wish that I had intervened in the
ConSoc fiasco earlier. It all seems such a long
time since these pages were filled with letters
from the legendary triumvirate of Bayley, Boon
and Summers, firing off salvos willy-nilly like a
machine gun with Parkinson's. They moaned
about the national press, they moaned about the
College press, they've even moaned about each
other. In fact, they attacked everyone except the
people who they're supposed to, namely IC
Labour Club. Such was the self-destruction
achieved by these three clowns that they have
been forced to remain tight-lippedforthe rest of
the yearforfear of further embarrassment. All
this at a crucial time in British politics, where a
little debate would not have gone amiss. We can
but hope that next year's incumbents do a bet-
ter job, and let's be honest, that is not the great-
est challenge facing mankind.
Yes, there were times, I'm sure you knew,
when I bit off more than I could chew. After
receiving the first letter of complaint in the first
term from Sarah White about New Solutions, I
thought that I'd be a bit clever. She moaned that
I hadn't read any of the relevant documents, so
I immediately asked for copies, hoping that she
wouldn't have them. Of course, she did, and
kindly provided me with one. She also tipped
me off about a meeting at Goldsmith's College
(issue 1043), attended by Mr Karian and some
of the most left-wing people on the face of the
Earth, which proved to be very enjoyable, so no
harm done. Anyway, I must wish Sarah all the
best for next year, safe in the knowledge that she
will do a better job than him at U L U and stay
the distance. But through it all, when there was
doubt, I ate it up and spat it out, which brings me
nicely to College Catering. When I was at school,
an article I wrote about school dinners got me
hauled up before the Headmaster to explain
myself. It is therefore reassuring that tilings are
dealt with a little more rationally at Imperial.
Criticism is at least accepted, but mismanage-
ment and inefficiency seem to get the ostrich
head treatment of blissful ignorance. It would be
great to think that one day the current outfit
might be booted out after competitive tender-
ing. We can't go on propping up the M D H to the
tune of nearly £200 000 per year, a loss partly
disguised by selling mediocre sandwiches at vast-
ly inflated prices in the JCR and the efforts of
Southside Shop, where multinational corpora-
tions could be bankrupted buying the weekly
groceries. Is it unreasonable to expect hot and-

