film: kingpinS
a
r
a
h tuner '
I hate comedy. I really hate it. Especially when
otherwise talented actors are made to look
stupid by playing ridiculously unbelievable and
foolish characters. So I'm afraid to say that
before I had even seen this film I had decided
that I was not going to like it. But seeing it didn't
change my mind at all.
Thankfully, I managed to drag a friend along
(with a sense of humour), who pointed out that
it did have some good points. The film revolves
around the unconventional life of Roy Munsen
(Woody Harrelson), an ex-bowler with only one
hand.
At a time in his life when he is particularly
down on both luck and money, Roy stumbles
upon Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid), who seems
to share his enthusiasm and talent for the game.
He decides to coach Ishmael for a tournament in
Reno which, if he wins, will make them both
rich.
celluloid guide:
However, to his horror, Roy discovers that
Ishmael is Amish and wants nothing to do with
him. So he poses as an Amish visitor from Ohio,
and goes to Ishmael's family farm to convice him
to leave. Since the family has financial problems,
and will lose the farm if they don't come up with
enough money to pay off their debts, he finally
gives in, in the hope of returning home as a hero.
On their way to Reno, this unlikely pair
manage to pick up a beautiful companion called
Claudia (Vanessa Angel]. Although things go
wrong from that point onwards, the film still
manages to have a happy ending: Roy and
Claudia fall madly in love, and drive off into the
sunset together.
I could summarise this film in a few words:
Boring, stupid, pointless and totally unbelievable.
As my friend said, "She'd never have fallen for
him in real life". I admit that some parts are
almost funny, but that's the nicest thing I can say.
film: back of beyoncL«
This film, set in the Australian middle of
nowhere, is worth seeing due to the beautiful
scenery and the watchable characters. However,
when it comes to a well-paced plot or good dia-
logue, it fails noticeably.
Instead of what could have been a powerful
depiction of Aborigine dreamtime, it delivers a
cliche ridden romantic slush. By the time we get
to the supposedly meaningful revelation at the
end, it is not so much a surprise as an explanation
of the artifices of the plot. It is more of a surprise
that a very Australian film puts an Irish band -
the Cranberries - as the closing track.
Despite the criticisms, the film is watchable
due to the stark landscapes and the relatively
good acting of otherwise dire lines. One of the
financial backers of this film was the Australian
Tourist Board, which may explain a lot.
theatre: who shall be happy
.HIrian thurston-gordon
If not everyone, who shall be happy? This is the
question asked by playwright Trevor Griffiths,
regarding the imprisonment and subsequent
unlawful execution of Danton and who and
what he represented in the triumvirate of the
French Revolution. Danton, plausibly played by
Stanley Townsend, is held in prison guarded by
Henry (Kuluinder Ghir) and he tries to convince
this simple guard to carry a coded letter to his
wife, in order to be rescued. Henry may be
simple but he's not stupid, and he plays along,
allowing Danton to bribe him with ever
increasing sums.
Danton has been placed in solitary confine-
ment in one prison, whilst an actor pretending to
be Danton has been placed in another prison to
confuse the many would be 'springer'. Our pris-
oner, pretends to be the actor, in an attempt to
convince Henry that his letter in innocuous.
However, when Henry apparently starts to
believe that Danton really is the actor, Danton is
incensed and starts to act the part of Danton
with passion to prove that he really is the liber-
ator of the people. Henry plays another game
with Danton, and he asks him to act some more.
Danton claims that to continue would make
him cry, but Henry tricks him into a further pre-
sentation because he hopes that this prisoner
truly is Danton. Henry shares the same revolu-
tionary dream that he heard Danton expound,
years ago.
The set, lighting and design is as excellent as
the directing and writing, but this story doesn't
get to the heart of the Revolutions problem
which was not, "Who shall be happy?" but who
shall be 'unhappy'. It was a question of ideolog-
ical vision, tantamount to the rise and demise of
a culture and a people and consequently a nation.
Hl~l 137434?
• S S ^ f i y ; ; ^ . -
' : ./ ! V./.'
<>171 7923303
w M m ^ r m mm- •.<;.••>
itSk0xYYy pi[i\MX§''-rC" • O.K..
•;fll|#;
.v . V*'""
AiyWSy:'3SxyyX:y
iWXW%xxyx.xyy

