s i n g l e s : POO
might like Stonysleep.
Pi obleru is that it's not
Sonic Youth have ai reach,
io ':
: st "". , c
Pfp i|lta.rm' • •aelfIIP • •if;
53'sg .iS^^^SlHIilJ^lspl
%;. it ••solelpfi l i f ;t&5llf,
amazing hyperspeed
P § I H
bedroom..
goya dress c rush
indiepop singles. Sounds
P t l l S i g
pI5§|g^
Si ptember.
in-M Massive Attack.
i nl. Perfect • hiII-out
:|»I|lc;;..;.:,:;:i:|
|p253
i;P33ffiiffiP|53
:;I5#335|3
;-^y^|}'^BPS&ht c l i f
Pi i | f 6if p!5i355P5(?
PiP5||-'•.
-album: porno for pyros -
good god's urgepaili
Jane's Addiction albums were always inspiring.
They invoked emotions, whether it was the sad-
ness of 'I Would for You', the angry resentment
of 'Had a Dad' and 'Been Caught Stealing' or the
mellow wistfulness of 'Mountain Song'. Every
song made you feel something.
Unfortunately the same can rarely be said of
Pomo for Pyros, the current project led by ex-
Janes ffontman Perry Farrell. The problem for
Perry is that his new baby will always be judged
against the immensely high standards of its older
brother. The sad truth is that Pomo for Pyros
seem increasingly unable to reach these stan-
dards.
Don't get me wrong, 'Good God's Urge' is
musically a very good album. Compared to the
output of most other American alternative bands
these days, it is brilliant. It's definitely better than
the previous album, which was universally slated
for its sheer mediocrity. The crucial point is that
despite using many of the same musical styles
and ideas of Jane's Addiction, the end product
just doesn't quite hit the spot.
The new tracks touch on a new vein of psy-
chedelia and blissed-out coolness but the sound
is still the same. The overall impression is that
Perry has calmed down, stopped being angry and
has now gone all mystical. 'Tahitian Moon' and
'Kimberly Austen' stand out in this respect, and
are the ones that come close to repeating past
glories. The rest is good - occasionally 'rocking',
occasionally beautiful - but rarely brilliant (7)
•album: placebo -
placeboia
Placebo arrived on the music scene at a point
when Britpop seems to have nearly run out of
steam and a multitude of clone bands have
swamped the charts. Undeniably there are still
some very good Britpop bands out there but it
seems that Placebo are heading in just one of the
directions that new guitar-based alternative
music is progressing towards.
The lead singer has a very distinctive whin-
ing voice and has spent most of his life in the tiny
country of Luxembourg. There is an ever pre-
sent sexual undercurrent throughout the album,
as in the possibly autobiographical 'Nancy Boy'
where the lead singer's bisexuality comes to the
fore. An immense feeling of sadness and sorrow
permeates most of the record, particularly in
songs such as 'I Know' and 'Lady of the Flowers',
a trait seen in some great albums of the recent
past such as the Smashing Pumpkins' 'Siamese
Dream'.
There is another side to Placebo, heard in
their debut single 'Bruise Pristine' and the cur-
rent '36 Degrees', which are full of sheer exu-
berance and racing grating guitars. Placebo sound
very progressive and the release of this album is
bound to herald the emergence of more 'alter-
native' indie bands. Who knows, it might even
do some good (7)
gig: dissident prophet
A few months ago I 3
"the Ivst new band in Britain" about this
unknown Brummie loo. wii i h - jo still
unknown Sut if anything they're getting 1«11 •
so it can only be a matter of t f t ^ ^ ^ r e oth< 1 s
are saying the same things about them.
For a group who've been together for a rel-
atively short length of time, they are disamw a •
confident (note: not arrogant or swaggering). But
then you would be if you were all expert musi-
cians' who played rock songs which have more
passion, more quality and more substance than
you'd find in the dreams of almost any other
''5p52cypn 5.r-M
3;ii ifley canlillij play 'Unconditional
Love', a tour de force of wrenching beauty, yet
still play a set which lacks nothing (other than
some crowd input, but then no crowd, no input)
says everything about their output and their tal-
ent. May their musical reign be ushered in soon...
thanks: all reviewers -
and everyone elsev,k
Okay, so this is my opportunity to come over all
cheesy and soppy (that's a warning by the way,
not an apology).
I just want to thank all the people (Alok,
Andy Steele, Andy Thompson, Babe Magnet,
bEA, Caroline, the ever-mysterious Davros C.
Dick, Ian, Jason, Jim, K.S. Pulaski, Uttle Jack
Horne-y, Lucas, Mark, Max, Mr. Happy, Mr.
Trout, Nick, Paul, Paul Shore, and Rachel) who
have contributed to the music pages over the last
year and made life easier for me. Thanks also to
Catfish for stepping in with the hatchet at regu-
lar intervals.
You can vom now...

