TWENTY-FOUR . FELIX WEDNESDAY JUNE 25TH 1996 THE STAFF ON THE EDITOR
W
h
a
t is s
h
e like
The first time I met Rachel was around 18 months ago. [t;
Wli;:
less than a week into my term as DP(F&S) and Rachel Came to interview me.
Even at that early stage she demonstrated her eye for an interesting story as well as her passion for various metals (the interview was regard-
ing the Union's plumbing!). It was here that I first wifnessed arguably Rachel's greatest strength; her ability to charm the socks off absolutely
anybody. Her natural friendliness and approachability hove been a great<psset to Felix throughout the year.
• Editing Felix is a difficult job and Rachel has had her fair share of sin jiion. From coping with the male, dominated working en-
vironment (even by 1C standards) through to balancing the vieWS'd^^ll^pJ^^^^^^lrious Clubs and Societies and individuals. This proved
to be an impossible task, as highlighted by a remark she once made: "Since everybody regularly complains that Felix is biased against them -
1 must be doing something right!" M
Throughout the year Rachel's dedication has been amazing. Many of ol
.deed a twenty hour day at some stage in our time at IC,
but how many of us can claim to have worked these hours twice a week for most or an academic year?
Rachel's approachability has also caused her a lot of frustration, ifegolaffy-^oring the busiest finwjbf her week somebody would request
limedo talk through an issue, often completely unrelated to her postjbs pditor* This frequency reduclM'her minimal mid-week sleep to none at
all; In fairness, few people realise the effort involvec. 11 reducing Felix every week, I certainly didn't lost y<ldr.
If you feel this reads a little like an obituary then 1 ap m a way it is. The Rifchel Walters Felix dies with this issue, and
'Very soon the Rachel Walters Iron Girder will come of agev^;
k. Dan Look
lout than Owain, and shorter too. Also more female,
t.upstairs' in the Union Office. This can only be a good thing,
ilanning issues. I've heard too many grim tales of Editorial
Print Unit. The Great Separation of Felix and Print Unit is
>
k gets produced more efficiently (or at all).
Apparently it's 'traditional' to write some nice words about the outgoing Felix editor in the last issue, and as one of the general no-lifers and
permanent fixtures of the office, I've been nabbed as one ofihe men to do the job. Errn... what to say? OK, I'll be methodical about it
1. Comparison with Other Felix Editors I Have Known
That only gives me Owain (last year) to compare to. Very different! More prone
Rachel has been very successful this year in getting on with - andtalkingto
and I've been very impressed with the long-term attitude she has taken to mon
Folly in the past, but this year I think Rachel has left a positive mark on Felix Oi
upon us, and Rachel has also spent a huge amount of time ensuring that the Hand
2. General Compliments on Character, Style and Punctuality
Rachel is - when not doing twenty things at once - one of the most disarming!/ friendly people I have come to know at Imperial. She's coped
with having to justify and defend Felix under attack from some quite hideously rude and two-faced people this year (no names) and managed
to do so politely (although it's just as well they don't hear what happens when they leave the room).
Rachel is very supportive of her Felix 'lackeys' and has had to perform emotional open-heart surgery more than once this year. She's been
more than just an Editor, but a great friend to many people, and I doubt whether I would have survived this year without her.
3. But is She a Babe?
Undoubtedly.
Mark Baker
So you read Felix this year - what did you think the person who organised it was like? Did you read those editorials and think "My God,
what the heck are they on?" Or wonder at the belief that things could change? Or maybe you didn't even realise that Felix has a full time edi-
tor.
What many people don't recognise is the job's isolation, something that I still find incredible. The trouble is that when the Editor has to spend
the vast majority of their time cooped up in a dreary office (as much as they may try to get out) the public all too often consists of the minority
of readers who come in to complain.
Positive reaction from students or staff had a similar positive effect on Rachel as it did on last year's editor. As the year progressed it was
frightening to see how Rachels reactions to events became so similar to her predecessor's. Perhaps seventy-plus hours a week in this office has
an effect that is impossible to withstand.
But can it b
e a year since Rachel bounded down the stairs in the Union ecstatic at her decisive victory in the elections? It seems like anoth-
er lifetime when w
e were planning those hustings speeches which filled me with terror. Like everything else that resulted from her election, she
managed to take it all in her stride. There is no doubt though that her time as Editor has had significant effects on Rachel, not all of them things
that she might have liked. I suspect that it may be quite some time before Rachel is seen around the Union, or in College at all, after July.
Disillusionment with vast tracts of College, the Union ana journCiifsm seems to have increased as the year has progressed;;:
For those of us left, it is sad that Rachel feels so strongly about getting out of Imperial since it was here that most of us met her. There aren't
many people who can talk Irish politics and organised religion in an inebriated state and still vaguely make sense.
Andrew Dorman-Smith

