TWENTY six . FELIX WEDNESDAY JUNE 26TH 1 9 9 6 CREDITS
There really isn't enough room to thank all those who have contributed this year, even less so those who have supported, counselled
and advised. The people who have been involved in Felix 95 - 96 have encouraged and inspired me, and a great many have become
superb friends. What follows is 1 600 words of in-jokes to thank just a few of them: it will probably not mean a great deal to anyone
but those concerned, for which I make no apology. Allow me one last page of self-indugence...
Miles Ambler encouraged me to stand for the job in the first place and I still feel guilty that he didn't get his, but hey, he got the last laugh! • Is
there anything that marhBahEr can't do? The ultimate in technical assistants, he was the one who actually got things done, and really is the person
without whom it would never have been possible. What a starrr... • So damning had Simon Baker been on my predecessors I was terrified to actu-
ally ask him to step over to the other side. I am still overwhelmed at his instatiable enthusiasm and perseverance long after I could be bothered to
keep pushing the points. • VIK bflllSflL : The most laid back man I've ever met, dedicated to the end, despite it being two days before his wedding! This
man has more moral fibre than the rest of them put together, and I respect him immensely. • Nat Barb : Infectious enthusiasm, and a female to boot!
Nat had an amazing knack of appearing just when there was no one else around. Thanks! • O W A I N B E N N A L L A C K : What can I say? Hero, inspira-
tion, mentor, person to take the piss out of... In retrospect I'm beginning to realise that I probably was quite useful to you, which might go in some
small way towards returning the favour of giving me everything I have had. • The world is a better place for the idealism of M
A
R
K B
R
I
D
G
E
. I'm sorry I was
too cynical for him. • It is a very great shame that Felix hacks of the future will never have known Terry Briley: our man on the inside; endlessly enter-
taining, but far more importantly someone who never hid the fact that he actually had rather a soft spot for students. • Ian Caldwell : Scapegoat '95
- '96. Single handedly helped achieve the one goal I really felt I made: to actually begin to tell the students what was going on. • I need say nothing
other than that Ivan Chan is a truly lovely guy, who probably never realised how much 'Mom!' appreciated his straightforward dedication and enthu-
siasm. • The fact that the one major argumental upset I've had all year was with Matt i l« flint! II is a very great shame, because I have much fonder
memories of that day when we had our photographs taken on the roof of the chemistry building. I think he has done a great job, though I continue
to be intimidated by the tidiness of his desk. • Juliet* &)eeae&vjas the great unsung behind-the-chaos heroine of the early days, and the person who
I really deserved nothing from at all. Thank you. • The presence of P
A
U
L M
A
S has a lot to do with me being here in the first place. That he has hardly
spoken to me since is, quite frankly, crap. • M U M U W DORMAM-VMIIH never let me get away with anything without an argument, which was pretty cool:
I'd trust this man with my life. The craic's been good, and I'll miss you. • I honestly don't know what to make of fcWlWW P WMJWlWW: normally peo-
ple I like aren't quite so infuriating! Thank you: for putting up with being patronised, for wanting to be here next year, and for Robert Fisk on the sofa.
• Dipak Ghosh was superb (until he disappeared!), happily gifted with the unusual combination of being really keen and a good writer to boot! • I
wish I'd had the courage to ask Hikf flnflSETfor help earlier; not many in Sherfield are so honest, even if it's not what you want to hear. • [l00IHanHa(|llB:
the most prolific writer I have ever met, and, in the end, not like all the other kids... • As Tories go, Stephen Hamilton isn't all that bad! Besides, any-
one who turns up just when the interest is beginning to thoroughly flag and quite happily takes on the most tedious job of the lot gets my vote! •
Sarah HickingbOttOm is one of very few of my old friends that actually weighed in, which meant a great deal. • .Katie Hopkins, Jenny Ho and Adrian
Berry were the great cogs on the frighteningly reliable cinematic team. They were so remarkably efficient I never got to know them, which is a bit of a
shame. Thanks for all the effort! • What's great, what's exciting, what's fabulous? MB*)* H O M I S is definitely one of the good guys from upstairs, and
one who seemed to appreciate how it was. "Whatcha, sex-god?" • Somehow Jane Hoylehas managed to come to terms with the great fiscal mess that
is the Felix/Print Unit finances. Tirelessly helpful: it was great to have her around. • I have enormous admiration for Mandy Hurford and appreci-
ate the fact that she listened to what I had to say. Thank you for making me feel worthwhile! • The only problem I have with J o n J o r d a n is that
he makes me feel thoroughly inept: this man seems to produce brilliancy in everything he touches. But I like to think a little of it rubs off, and besides,
he made exceptionally good company last summer. • W e i L e e has been the most reliable of the lot (by a long chalk) this year. He could never real-
ly appreciate how high an accolade that is. • If only William torcur's talent was matched with the willingness to sacrifice his degree in the way this
place demands! He's taken some superb pictures this year. • Not every Felix editor gets their own personal management consultant: I got Da,r% Look,
an endless provider of 'meaningful management information'. Suffice to say that I couldn't have done it without him. • Michael LudlaiTI is the only
person who has really driven me to despair this year, so I thank him for heightening the experience. There's no point in working your third consecu-
tive 100 hour week if can't have someone utterly unreasonable giving you abuse at the end of it. • J o e M c P - a J J e n is just about the only person who
didn't patronise me as if Thursday evening stress was a great sign of weakness. Thank you for your support • I find G
I
D
O
N M
O
O
N
T fascinating because
he's interested in all sorts of things I'm not! Thanks for all you've done. • Steve Newhouse is the only member of the old school that made me really
feel proud to be part of some sort of a heritage. Also an exceptionally useful information service! • Ah, the life of Ro6in Rifey, late-comer on the news
team and all round good bloke • Gfaire SamueJ pottered in and out during second term with an enormously uplifting cheery smile and some rather
good theatre reviews. • If only it didn't sound like such faint praise to thank T i m S i . O a i r heartily for being so thoroughly useful all year. Good luck
in whatever you end up doing. • j\ndy SinWaray's idealism and continual enthusiasm provided a motivating force at many of those times when I real-
ly couldn't be arsed any more. I'm really sorry he couldn't make it back in the end, but am touched that he cared so much, -Erie Stables will proba-
bly not remember the November morning he stopped me on the walkway at 8am on a Friday morning to tell me how much he enjoyed Felix. It helped
immeasureably. • P
t
T
)
(
i
|
) TFforripsoi): If not quite God, than certainly a god of some sort. • Things have changed since this time last year when I told Jeremy
Thomson that he terrified me: If only he wasn't so damn unreliable! His enthusiasm has made it all worthwhile. • ^^ed&^Affi&a^ has been saying
supportive things at sporadic intervals all year, generally making me feel big and important. People like that help a lot! • Most misunderstood '95 -
'96: H i M i l l ] has really pissed me off a couple of times this year, but underneath that bulldozing exterior there is a highly motivated, enthusiastic, inno-
vative and hugely intelligent man. If only he could learn the meaning of tact and diplomacy more might have realised what an exceptional job he's
done this year • (Bral)ain tCresttt made me a lovely pizza once, and he has been a great escape. • There have been a couple of occasions when I have
really wanted to thump JfeufflMWM£bM WMmWIP But when he was sober he showed a great knack for writing and at least he was funny when he
was pissed. • Andrew Tseng told me smuggly I was bound to end up as editor about a fortnight after I first walked into the Felix office. Thank you
for your confidence in me! • I am forever grateful that t>*n J*r Slr»«l-«^ indulged my game of playing shops whilst explaining VAT to me for the
17th time. Thank you for your patience. • Sarah "White put up with me patronising here all year. This woman has remarkable patience and has
been a superb ambassador • Ben Wilkini has provided the only part of Felix that I could say has been consistently excellent. He also has an inexplic-
able, but damn handy enjoyment of collating. And if that wasn't enough, he's a lovely, caring and hilarious bloke. • The first time I met Piers Williams
I thought he was utterly horrendous: my first impressions have always been useless. Thanks for explaining all that Pub board stuff I knew nothing about,
and good luck next year! • Yvonne Woods and lan Richardson: thank you for feeding me. Emotional sustenance only goes so far!

