EIGHT . FELIX WEDNESDAY JUNE 26TH 1996 FEATURE
The View of the Tower
Sir Ronald Oxburgh, Rector of Imperial
College and Science, Technology and
Medicine. A man with a lot to answer
for, I reckoned. It was to be an inter-
view of tough questioning and hard-
hitting journalism. But as soon as I
was shown the tomato plants in grow
bags on the balcony of his Sherfield
balcony, I fell apart. So here it is: our
Rector appeared to me as a sincere,
caring, enthusiastic and eminently
approachable man who left me in no
doubt that at least part of the Powers
that Be really do care more than we
give them credit for.
So I apologise for the following:
after a year of this I'm blatantly in not
much of a state to fight any more bat-
tles. I suspect that this man could have
easily persuaded me that it would be
best for students to dig up the library
at the start of the exam season every
year. Alarming, my predecessor wrote
something similar last year, too.
Perhaps it is simply that after a year of
ever-mounting cynicism Sir Ronald
Oxburgh's honesty and frankness is
refreshingly straightforward. For one
thing, of all the people in the Sherfield
Building I have questioned over the
past couple of years, the Rector is the
first to admit to a mistake. He is cer-
tainly the only one to use the phrase
'enormous cock-up,' although I think
he said to not quote him on that.
Estates development
I started well, asking whether the current
estates developments, particularly the con-
struction of the biomedical sciences building
and excavation of the library during the exam
period was indicative of a caring and sensitive
student-focussed college. He had an answer for
everything: the digging up of the library base-
ment was, indeed, much noisier than anyone
had anticipated. Apparently the college
records were incorrect, and the contractors
came across areas of solid concrete which were
simply not present in the plans. They then had
no choice to bring in pneumatic drills. "It
builds character," he said, laughing, "I live
beside it."
We haven't really got much choice, given
that the first medical intake arrives in
October 1998. We have to have everything
ready at least six months in advance so that
the departments can be ready and so that the
library is set up - we can't have everything
half finished and half done when the intake
arrives. You may think that people have been
badly inconvenienced - and they have - but
not half as badly as they could have been had
we not bent over backwards. We've spent an
awful long time trying to schedule work in
such a way that the inconvenience would be
minimal. In a few cases that came unstuck,
where it was outside our control.
But in some cases, on the grounds of stu-
dent inconvenience, we have changed the
overall plans. We have delayed the health
Some of our halls of
residence, frankly,
I'm ashamed of...
centre: we thought we had it planned in such
a way that it would give the best result all
round, but what hadn't been recognised was
that the noise in the lower part of Southside
would transmit throughout the Southside
structure. Perhaps that should have been
recognised, but it wasn't foreseen. We had
planned to move the health centre across over
the summer, so that it would be up and run-
ning for next September. It won't be ready
now until sometime in the autumn term -
there will be disruption in the service then.
So whatever you do, you're actually going to
lose out somewhere or other. In the end, we
have to say, 'it's Hell for us, but won't it be
nice for those who come after?'
It's going to be miserable for the next
three or four years. But we think the worst is
over on the BMS site. There's going to be
quite a bad period next year when enormous
tankers and lorries are going backwards and
forwards, pouring concrete on the structure,
which will probably last four months. But
once they've got the basic structure up it will
actually be much quieter, because the work
will mostly be internal. The library will be
going on in parallel, but mostly out of term: a
lot of it will be done this summer.
Campus renaissance?
The overall building program that is underway
preparing Imperial for its medical school and
taking the College into the twenty first centu-
ry, has been dubbed 'the campus renaissance.'
So what's that then?
Looking at the college as a whole, this
surge of building offers the opportunity to
give the whole campus a face lift in a way it
has not had for twenty years. Frankly quite a
lot of the campus is getting pretty run down
- if you come here every day, you tend to
accept it. But on a worrying number of occa-
sions people have come and looked round,
and they've also been to some of the newer
universities, with their very attractive accom-
modation and settings, and they've said
"Well, I'd rather go there." We can't afford
that. We are unlikely ever to compete with
the best for accommodation, but we've got to
a maintain a particular decent standard, and I
think we're getting perilously close to falling
below that at the moment. Some of our halls
of residence frankly I'm ashamed of, and we
really have to do something about that.
The union move
It was the way my year started: fear and
loathing from my new employers, concerned
that they were to be moved to the concrete
monstrosity that is the Sherfield building so
that Beit Quad could be turned into a confer-
ence centre. Or something like that. What was
it all about, and where are we now?
Fundamentally the union was opposed, I
think probably for the wrong reasons, to mov-
ing. We looked at the cost of moving them
over here, and it was going to very substantial.
If the Union had said "yes, this is a great
opportunity," (and I think it was, I think
they've blown it, to be quite honest) saying
"we want to do it, we want to make this
work," we would have said "okay, we'll try to
find the money." But it was not worth push-
ing it. It was a jolly expensive idea.
But there are many different ways of
doing it. We can expand the Union facilities
over there: it's pretty clear that we're going to
have to find more meeting rooms and things
of that kind, and we're going to have to give
quite a lot of thought to that. It may be that
we can provide some Union society rooms
over here in Sherfield.
Higher education funding
We are in the privileged position of having a
Rector who also happens to sit on the Dearing
Committee, which has just met for the first
time to consider the whole area of higher edu-
cation funding. Will Sir Ronald be trumpeting
the cause of the elite science and technology
establishment, I wonder, or representing the
common or garden undergraduate-in -penury
in a an expensive part of London?
I don't consider myself as representing

