FEATURE FELIX WEDNESDAY JUNE 26TH 1 9 9 6 . NINE
Sir Ronald Oxburgh
spoke to Rachel
Walters of his
perspective on
Imperial over the
past year.
anyone. I see myself bringing what experience
I have of universities, in different parts of this
country, in different parts of the United
States, and in different parts of Europe, to a
massive national problem. In looking at the
composition of the committee, no doubt
those who set it up tried to make sure that
there was sufficient breadth of experience, so
that all important aspects of the problem
would be looked at. I have a particular affini-
ty toward research orientated universities.
Everyone is selected bringing their own expe-
rience, but that's different from representing
a particular group.
I think the principal uncertainties of the
year are external... these are the things we are
exposed to when we have really only one
lump-money sensitive customer for the
greater part of our services, which is the
Government. The really dramatic reductions
in funding is absolutely amazing: student
financing has dropped by about 25% in real
terms over the last decade.
I suppose, fundamentally, I would like to
see a system where tertiary education was a
basic right for those who wanted it. But the
economic situation and the rapid expansion of
higher education makes this an unrealisable
objective. Under those circumstances, my
own personal preference, without having seen
any of the alternatives, is for some sort of
graduate tax on those who benefit. It would
need to be spread over a longish period, and
delayed until they were sufficiently well
established to pay it - in other words they had
actually seen some benefit from higher edu-
cation in terms of salary increase. But the dif-
ficulty is that it is very unattractive to politi-
cians, because they wouldn't see the benefit
of it for ten years.
The Chancellor is concerned about the
public sector borrowing requirement, and
what you are talking about would put a big
loan on the PSBR. So what a government that
went that way would do, would be to actual-
ly set up something first class, the benefits of
which would be felt by two governments
down the line. Although it's probably the
right thing for the country, it's not necessari-
ly something that is immediately appealing
for a government with a financial problem.
It's not a simple problem. But these are the
problems we have to look at.
The Rector's year
So how was it for you? What events stand out
in Sir Ronald Oxburgh's 1995-96?
In the year as a whole a number of great
things happened, but I think winning
University Challenge was really great, proba-
bly giving the college a greater shot in the arm
than many other changes. What delighted me
was not only that they won, but that all sorts
of people said to me, "What a nice group!"
People who didn't know the College were
rooting for them to win because they were
such decent people. I thought that was
tremendous; looking back on the year that has
Winning University
Challenge probably
gave the College a
greater shot in the
arm than many
other changes
to be one of the highlights.
Looking back earlier, we finally got agree-
ment from the various medical institutions to
join us, then obtained the funding for the new
building, getting over £40 million for it. At
the same time, we were able to attract a first
class principal for the new medical school,
poaching him from Edinburgh, and then got
planning permission to then get everything
underway. Of course, this medical school,
there are going to be big problems with it: any
initiative which brings together tribes with
different customs: everyone's customs are
long-cherished, and dearly held: the problem
is they are all different! So melding this group
into a coherent working whole, but on the
other hand finding a way of not submerging
their individuality is a challenge.
The overwhelming impression that
comes across from a conversation with
the Rector on the future of Imperial
College is that, while we're certainly
not short of ideas for improvement,
we are sadly lacking in the capital to
realise them. In the course of an hour
we discussed building new halls of
residence, expanding the sports centre
and the Union, redesigning the inside
of Sherfieid to make better use of the
space, landscaping the Imperial
College Road and Queen's Lawn area
and building a car park in Dalby
Court. The potential sources of fund-
ing ranged from the National Lottery
and Medical Research Charities to the
Private Finance Initiative and the
Millennium Fund. He described the
BMS building as the last of its kind,
simply because it will be built with
£40million from the Higher Education
Funding Council. The other major pro-
ject underway, the refurbishment of
the library, will be largely funded by a
bequest.
I imagine Imperial is hardly alone
amongst universities by appearing to
be an institution deprived of the free-
dom to determine its own destiny,
scrabbling for finances to realise its
goals.

