FELIX 3
E X A M I N I T 1 S
Peeling nervy, depressed? Suffer-
ing from vague emotions of foreboding
and guilt? The ohanoes are you have
examinltis, a seasonal disease whioh
claims thousands about this time, and
has even been known to be fatal. This
malady strikes by destroying the confid-
ence and self-respeot of the sufferer,
laying him open to subsidiary attacks of
swotting, fear of failure, worry and the
hysterical reactions to these. The
basic cure i s therefore to restore the
victim's confidence: and the methods of
doing this oan be divided into two
classes:-
i) Methods based on increasing
his internal confidence
i i ) Methods designed to destroy
the confidence of others.
1. Under the first head a variety of
treatments include:
a. Learn with extreme thoroughness a
minute fraction of the syllabus, whioh
engenders confidence out of a l l prop-
ortion to the effort involved.
b. Obtain one past examination paper
and work out how to do the questions
about six months before the exam.
Then, whenever an attack threatens,
look at this paper and think how easy
i t i s .
o. Alcohol.
2. Under the second head may be
included:
a. Disappear from the college 8 days
fromthe Easter vacation, and reappear
only on the days of the exams. I f
possible, bribe a friend to relay
acoounts of your continuous study back
to college.
b. Be seen studying furiously In- the
library a l l the time. This i s more
effort than 2a, but carries more con-
viction. You need only be daydream-
ing over some journal, anyway.
o. Having carried out 1a, introduce
your speciality into the conversation
at any opportunity i n gre?t detail,
remarking on i t s elementary character
If you have several specialities, the
effect i s more impressive: besides,
they may even come up ir. the exam.
d. When actually i n the examination
room:
27 minutes after the start, go up to
the front and take, very deliberate^',
one by one, three supplementary answer
books. R e f i l l your pen once 48 minutes
after the start, and again 17 minutes
before the end.
Allow your desk to became cluttered
with a l l this (largely blank) paper,
adding log-tables, blotter, hundreds of
coloured pencils, slide-rule, ink, etc.
thus giving ah effect of furious energy
and concentration.
Never be seen to stop writing even
for an instant, even i f you are forced
to write sentences twice and cross them
out again, or doodle on the blotter.
JWalk out 2j minutes before the end,
with an absolutely deadpan expression on
your face, and slowly screwing the cap
on your steaming pen.
D.E.H. Jones.
STROLLING ABSURDLY
Whilst remaining ever impressed
by the literary eloquence of the London
Transport Country Walk series, I am
always left with the impression that a
l i t t l e more ingenuity oould have been
used i n the description of the various
itineraries. I therefore submitted
the following description of a genuine
walk route to the Editor, which he
seems to have printed. Starting and
ending in Southfields, the journey
covers some of the most picturesque
spots around the South West London
distriot.
The route is presented in the form
of a first-hand, eye-witness, on-the-
spot, you-are-there account of the first
annual Lsvenham Road walking champion-
ships. The line-up at the start of
this year's race, which took place
under the steaming Temperate sun of
Surrey and Middlesex, included only
one competitor, who was later to be
proclaimed outright winner. This
fearless entrant wore a sports cap
sports ooat, and haversack; i n his
lefthand pocket was a carefully
folded butterfly net, whilst i n his
righthand pocket was his right
hand!
The race began at 2.45 p.m. on
Whit Saturday, the competitor setting
off at a brisk pace in plimsolls, and
without a map. Cutting across
Wimbledon Common, the Queensmere was
soon passed on the right, and the
competitor restrained his impulses,
knowing the his landlord had to swim
there every morning.
Nipping nimbly across the golf
course to avoid being golfed upon
the head by a golf ball, he emerged
on to the' Kingston Vale opposite Robin
Hood Sate. Turning l e f t , he proceeded
up the A 3, which leads to Portsmouth;
however, i t was decided that this might
prove too far owing to the aforemention-
ed Temperate heat of the day. And so
he strutted through the thick traffic
of Kingston, avoiding being traffioated
en rout*.
Leaving the maddening crowds be-
hind him he pointed his nose to the
South for Hampton Wick, and the rest
of his body followed amiably enough.
Crossing the Thames, he arrived i n
Hampton Wick and carried straight on for
Hampton Court. Here he was faced with
the gates of Hampton Court on the left,
ind Bushy Park to the right. He turned
right through the latter in order to
avoid the maze - you w i l l recall that
he had no map anddid not wish to get
involved.
The trek through Bushy park led
past the Horse Chestnuts i n f u l l bloom
l i k e a miriad of candle-bedecked
Christmas trees twinkling with the
light o f the Temperate sun, which by
now was losing some of i t s steamy heat
and beginning to condense. The Moon
was just visible to the left or right
of the Sun, depending upon which way -
you stood, and i t was observed that the
former was chipped where Jodrell Bank
radio-telephone oalls had been bouncing
off i t . They have no respect for this
the earth's oldest satellite.
THROUGH SUBURB/A
Emerging from Bushy Park, he
turned left, s t i l l in the lead, and
then right through Teddington in the
Borough of Twickenham - according to
the notioes to dogs on the lamp-posts.
dogs oan't rawlranyway. Crossing the
Thames again, baok on the South Bank,
he turned left past the locks at
Teddington, and began the long leg
round the towpath of the Thames to
Richmond. At 5.45 'The Three Pigeons'
was welcomely sighted, nestling by the
river, with i t s beer garden commanding
a fine view of the reach to Teddington.
Arrived here, he produced the sandwiches
and cakes from his haversack, both hav-
ing been kindly supplied by his landlady.
A couple of pints of Vr'atney's beer were
required to lubricate a l l the sandwhiches
eaten, the Cucumber ones being rejected
owing to the contempt with which the ax
stomach views simultaneous gifts of the
latter vegetable with alcohol.
At 6.45, he arose and took the 6.45
express feet to Richmond, where he turn-
ed back up the h i l l , walking briskly to
avoid the famous Lass. A fine view
back over the course i s to be had from
this vantage point, with the river
winding into the distance, yet trav-
elling a l l the time towards the ob-
server.
Crossing Riohmond Park, the
skyscraper skyline of Roehampton
soon appeared, and was entered via
Roehampton Gate. The later stages of
the race paased the 'King's Head' at
Roahampton, the 'Green Man', Putney
Heath, and 'Burghley Hall'. The race
ended at Lavenham Road at 8.30 p.m.,
after a total walking diatance of
about 20 miles.
The author of the above account i s
not entering to defend his t i t l e next
year, having retired, not to write a
book, but to draw up a map of the
Wimbledon, Hampton, Richmond district.
Asked whether his ambition was to walk
again in any more of the season's big
races, the winner replied that his am-
bition was just simply to walk again -
ever! As he spoke, the three men
hired to pull off his plimsolls gave
up the task as an impossibility. The
winner was therefore forced into the
alternative of wearing this footwear
until i t dropped off through old
xge *
• like a leaf from a tree i n
Autumn, although not, perhaps, 3uch
an impressive spectacle.

