Opinion
bureaucratic and self-important
attitude not only loses him the
support of many of his Officers, but
the involvement and support from
students and staff in the Union. A
great deal more discussion of what
are generally good ideas and
important issues would be a step in
the right direction. Nigel D Person,
all is forgiven.
Bill Goodwin
Bill suffers from one of two
unfortunate problems either he is
too nice a person or he is an out and
out coward. I find the latter rather
hard to believe considering his
outspoken nature, a side of his
character we have not seen very
much of last term. FELIX is an
extremely important commodity in
the running of the College. It
manages to keep the system in
check, keeps a large number of
people on their toes and reminds all
of us that we are still human, we
make mistakes no matter how
important we are.
FELIX is here to spread news and
keep the public interested in the
running of their own organisation;
a little bit of scandal is always good
for involvement. Its ability to point
rumour and hearsay is also very
important so long as it does not
damage someone's reputation. If
rumour was not printed, then a
number of people in very
entrenched positions in College and
the Union would be able to get away
with anything. That little hint of fear
that it produces in everyone in
College helps to stop outrageous
things happening.
This year Bill has failed to grab the
bull by the horns and investigate
stories to the embarrassment of
those concerned. It is my belief that
Bill has been too soft on too many
people, especially the sabbaticals. I
am sure that in part this is a kick-
back produced by the over-zealous
behaviour of last year's Editor and
the legal wrangles she found herself
in over libelous material printed in
these pages.
Bill has not had an easy time. He
broke the mould when he got the
job and, having found his feet, he
finds an over-zealous President
breathing down his neck
threatening to rewrite everything in
FELIX.
This is partly of his own making.
If he had not been so nice to these
people at the beginning of term over
matters such as the Union
refurbishment he would not have
the problem.
Bill has also put too much
emphasis on being involved in
every area of the production of
FELIX. True it does produce a good
looking FELIX, but does it produce
and interesting read? I, for one,
would far prefer to read something
that intrigued me and made me
want to see next week's issue.
The FELIX Editor's job is to edit
FELIX, not produce it almost single-
handedly. A FELIX Editor must cut
the dross and print the scandal. Bill
has it the wrong way round.
Bill must learn to delegate to allow
himself more time to stick his nose
into other people's business and let
the students have his opinion in a
revealing editorial that has been well
researched. This is what Bill is
excellent at.
Ian Morris
It is very hard to be critical of anyone
in this job, as it is totally new. What
is true of all the sabbaticals is that
they only have one year in which to
achieve as much as possible before
they find themselves prematurely
cut short. Ian, although working
hard, does not appear to be working
at a rate suitable to achieve the
world in one year.
The Hon Sec (Events) is
responsible for Entertainments,
Rag, industrial relations,
sponsorship, publicity and
campaigns. As yet the Industrial
Relations Committee has not been
established, let alone met. It now
has a sizable budget, but no
financial regulations under which to
utilise this budget.
Under campaigns Ian is
responsible for the planned Human
Rights Week which first underwent
a drastic reduction in size and was
then scrapped altogether. This may
be due to the fact that it was
unfeasable or that ULU hindered its
development too severely last year,
but I believe it is because Ian Morris
has no interest in the subject matter.
Ian must realise that representing
the students means you must
represent their desires whether you
agree with them or not. On the
other hand the Union Entertain-
ments this year are running more
regularly and successfully than in
many years gone by. The Charity
Monopoly planned for the summer
is being received enthusiastically by
students and the outside world
alike. The Union is looking at new
forms of entertainment, recently the
Union Building has been unduly full
of women and it looks as though a
number of national sporting events
will generate their own TV parties
even though Ian can't fit his new big
screen telly into the lift.
At the same time, Ian has donned
a white hat and silver plated 45s to
become the students' hero taking up
the causes of student rents and
student loans with considerable
effect when his fellow sabbaticals
have all but ignored them.
We could see an outstanding year
from Ian if he pays a little more
attention to industrial relations
rather than sexual relations!
U . R . O .
The Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (UROP) gives
undergraduates the opportunity to participate in the research activities of Imperial
College staff and postgraduates. It is entirely voluntary and is open to all
undergraduate students. Participation will give you a chance to:
-learn at first hand what research is about;
-contribute to knowledge in a field of research;
•further interests you have already developed;
-cross disciplinary boundaries;
-get your name on a scientific publication;
-get a flying start on your final-year project;
-get a useful summer vacation job.
How to Join
The scheme operates on a first-come-first-served basis through the UROP Directory
which gives full details of the scheme. The 1989 Directory will be published early
in January. To get a direct-mail copy, complete and return the slip below.
Delaware Exchange Scheme
Under an exchange scheme with IC and the University of Delaware, USA, you have
the opportunity to join their UROP for 10 weeks work in the Summer of 1989. They
give a grant of $1500 and on-campus accommodation (costing about $4001.
Complete the relevant section of the slip to receive further details.
To Dr Sinclair Goodlad, UROP Office, Room 440 Mechanical Engineering Department.
"Please send me a copy of the 1989 UROP Directory when it is published.
"Please send me details about the Delaware exchange scheme.
NAME (block letters).
DEP" YEAR
ULU TRAVEL i
* Low cost worldwide flights * Special fares for students
* Expert advice for independent travellers
* Tours, short breaks i t ski holidays • Group bookings
* Over 70 offices worldwide
From
ULU Travel
Shertield Building
Imperial College
London SW7 A E3
01-581 1022 Intercontinental
01-581 8233 European
I Mi l \l
79521,
ULU TRAVEL
January 13 1989 FELIX Page 15

