Letters
A supportive
letter
Dear Bill,
'"This is a reaction to a letter of the Islamic Society
in Issue 822. A bottle of whisky is not an
'abominable thing': it is just something forbidden
by a few religions. Moderation is a virtue, and
in Ancient Greece, the homeland of all
philosophy, religious and secular, excessiveness
(the rhetorical 'hyperbole') was, and still is, an
insult to God. It usually leads to Ayatollah
Khomeiny types of regime! I therefore express
my support to the Editor, noting that if we.
Christians, were to react with such violence, the
whole of the FELIX Christmas issue should have
been siezed and thereafter destroyed, whilst the
editorial staff would be excommunicated!
Yours sincerely,
Emmanuel Saridakis Physics 1 (Christian)
Shurley shome
mishtake
Dear Editor,
Congratulations on suggesting the best present
for your readers this Christmas. I refer to the
Qur'an (mis-spelt Quoran) in the sack of Father
Christmas on the front cover of the last issue of
Felix. Since embracing Islam eight years ago, I
have found the Qur'an to be the True and
Uncorrupted Word of God, the final and
complete revelation for the guidance of mankind.
The only thing I found objectionable was that the
Qur'an was placed next to a bottle of intoxicants,
something which has been forbidden by the
Qur'an. Also that the Qur'an has been associated
with the pagan festival of Christmas, which is
more of an event for commercial exploitation than
the commemoration of the birth of Jesus of whom
the Qur'an speaks of very highly.
Yours,
T Sadi, Civ Eng
Anonymous
writer avoids
bitching
Dear Bill,
I would like to reply to Mr McCall's letter
(FELIX 821), which I quite frankly found
somewhat distasteful. As co-ordinator of the
Hitsquad, I put in at least 60 hours of solid work
during Rag Week. For this I did not and still do
not expect any money/gifts/thanks/sympathy, in
fact the only thing I did expect was to be flanned
myself. I did this job because I enjoyed it and,,
although this may sound rather cliched, I liked
the idea of others getting enjoyment out of my
work. The careers fair is organised on behalf of
IC students and it is an athema to me that an elite
band should receive a gratuity, particularly when
one considers that most of the organisations
represented at the Fair would carry out
recruitment drives in College regardless of
whether or not the Careers Fair existed. The
Indsoc members gained much anyway:
organisational experience, 'brownie points' and
contacts in companies,, a nice little line in their
CV's and a sense of satisfaction in a job well
done. But no, this was not enough. What
particularly rankled was Mr McCall's statement
'If we were to be paid properly then we would
each receive over £80'. Having, due to family
circumstances, spent the last nine years living and
working in the 'real' world I find his belief that
his right, as an undergraduate, to put a value to
his work both arrogant and naive. In essence, I
believe that an event like this ought to be run on
a purely voluntary basis, with no thought of
personal gain, as are all other student events in
this College (eg Ents, Rag etc).
Since I have no wish for Indsoc to batter me
to death with their Filofaxes, I have refrained
from making any of the following bitchy
comments:
i. 'If brains were dynamite, McCall couldn't
blow his nose.'
ii. 'Where I come from we say 'Where's there's
muck there's brass', perhaps Indsoc Committee
should go and jump in a pile of dung.'
Phew! Good job I avoided using those
comments.
Name withheld by request.
Adverts in
FELIX cost £20
Dear Bill,
Just thought I'd let you and all your readers
know what the RCSU Entertainments Committee
intends to be getting up to in the coming months.
Tonight (Friday 13th) sees our first event selling
burgers in Beit Quad during the Carnival. Please
buy some, we've got more than even I can
possibly eat! The next event pencilled into my
diary is for the weekend starting March 11th
when we'll be going to Amsterdam. Expect to pay
about £50 for travel and accommodation,
depending on how many nights we actually
spend there. In any case it should be far cheaper
than travelling individually.
Finally, on Friday May 5th, is THE event of the
year: the Country House Ball at Silwood Park
near Ascot. Double tickets will cost £55 and only
one hundred will be available. These will include
sherry reception, transport, a glass of
champagne, a buffet meal, wine, band, disco,
breakfast, and a fabulous lighting display
courtesy of Dramsoc.
Yours sincerely,
Andrew Dagli$h (RCSU Ents Comittee Chairman)
Malayan
Culture
Dear Editor,
Your article on Malaysia written by Third World
First in the issue of November 11 was extremely
disturbing to many Malaysians in Imperial
College. I would therefore like to clarify several
points. In the process,' I do not wish to negate
the facts surrounding the article. However, I
would like to point out the reasons for the actions
described in the article, for which the author has
conveniently omitted to inform the reader.
Firstly, in terms of the arms deal, anyone with
a knowledge of the Malaysian armed forces
readily accepts that it is the least equipped force
in the region. Additionally, the military hardware
available is old and decrepit. Thus re-armament
is necessary, given Malaysia's strategic location,
to enhance her role in the defence of the sealanes
used for free world trade. The second, perhaps
more disturbing comment, related to the recent
arrests of the political dissidents. Malaysia is a
culturally mixed country, so has a very volatile
racial mixture. The people arrested have been
fomenting discontent; bringing cultural and
religious prejudices to the fore. The actions that
followed, despite their severity in Western terms,
were necessary to prevent the spread of racial
violence.
/ Jengi, Mech Eng 2
AUT Action
hits exams
Dear Student,
This term, your lecturers, supported by other
university staff, will be refusing to set and mark
examinations. You may be adversely affected by
this action and we therefore want you to
understand why it is being taken. This 'exams
boycott' is being held by members of the
Association of University Teachers (AUT) as part
of their campaign to achieve decent salaries. After
12 months of negotiation, their employers
(represented by university Vice Chancellors and
principals) have refused to offer any salary
increase at all for 1988. Over the last decade
salaries have fallen (in real terms) bv over 20%.
Problems in retaining, recruiting and motivating
high calibre academic and related staff have
escalated beyond recognition. If good staff cannot
be attracted to a university career, then the
students of tomorrow will suffer as Britain loses
its interational reputation for excellence in higher
education.
The action means that members of the
Association of University Teachers (which
represents 30,000 professors, lecturers, librarians,
administrators, researchers and computer staff in
UK university institutions) are withdrawing from
the examination process and the administrative
process which supports it:
-examination papers will not be set
-examinations will not be invigilated
-examination papers will not be marked
In continuous assessment, feedback will be
given, but not formal marks. The action continues
until Vice Chancellors have made their staff a
reasonable pay offer for 1988 and agreed a
timetable for negotiations for 1989.
We are very sorry that it has been necessary
for us to take this drastic action, but we have been
forced into a position where we cannot see any
alternative. If you have any questions about the
action, please do not hesitate to contact me at the
number below.
Thank you.
Yours sincerely,
Susan Parry, President, 1CAUT
Ext: 96292/3338
Page 2 FELIX January 13 1989

