Felix
Editorial
The state of the Union...
At the beginning of this year I could honestly say that it had the potential to be one of the best
years the students' Union has ever seen. Now, at the beginning of the second term I am struck
by the realisation that I was completely wrong.
The fate which has beset this year's Union is one that has been responsible for the failure of
numerous Union administrations in the past; it is the obsession of the individuals within the Union
with their own self importance.
The Union finds itself with a President who feels the need to be in complete control of everything
within the Union; he prefers not to accept help or advice and likes to give the impression that
the other Sabbaticals are in some way subservient to him.
It is sometimes easy to forget that the Union is not controlled by the President, or for that matter
any of the other Sabbaticals. The Sabbaticals are here to act on behalf of the students; they were
elected by the students to represent their views, and when it comes down to it, it is the students
who should control their Union. And the vehicle for this control is the Union General Meeting.
It is ironic then, that the Union is adopting a policy of keeping UGMs as short as possible and
that there are rumours about abolishing UGMs altogether in a move designed to appease St Mary's
Medical School.
I remember reading the following statement in Nigel Baker's election publicity; 'One side of Union
life which has saddened me this year is the seemingly incessant internal bickering between the
Union Office and FELIX. Everyone in Beit Quad is on the same side...' I would like to think so.
Yet while the Union Office expects FELIX to bend over backwards to help them publicise events
and do their printing work for them they are not prepared to put anything back into FELIX. Far
from it; they have treated FELIX very shabbily indeed for a whole term.
For example, there was the time when Nigel Baker and the other Union Officers decided they'd
much rather get drunk in the Union Bar than help collate FELIX on the occasion when we had
no one to collate. There was the Alcohol Awareness supplement which FELIX put together to
support the Union Alcohol Awareness Week. Nigel promised lots of collators to help put the insert
and Exec News in what was a larger than average edition; none turned up and five very depressed
FELIX staff ended staying up until 3.30am to ensure that FELIX came out. There was the motion
which the Union put through Council shortly after Pub Board had finally agreed on a workable
arrangement for dealing with external income which in one swoop invalidated all that we had
worked so hard to achieve. And the list goes on.
I do not think that FELIX has been scathing or unfair in its criticism of the Union. On the contrary
I think it has been too kind.
Yet while our Union President likes to dismiss FELIX as something which is read for half an
hour and then thrown away, he gets very worked up about every turn of phrase in every news
story or editorial that mentions his name. So incensed is he that he would dearly desire • if only
he had the guts to go through with it - to take the FELIX Editor to a UGM and call for a vote of
no confidence, but he knows deep down that such a call would be very quickly thrown out.
There, there Nigel, never mind.
The Union's latest-move is to set up a committee to look into 'the standard of FELIX. 'Oh sorry
Bill, we were going to tell you about it but we forgot.'
What followed were a series of petty complaints: for example charging Guilds for an advert
which they eventually got free of charge (Oh Gawd I'm so sorry); not folding and collating Guildsheet
(surely this is the job the Guildsheet editors); having to reprint a job which went wrong; and sending
someone an incorrect invoice (bloody hell what an catastrophe). Of course none of the people
involved had thought about bringing these things to the attention of the Print Unit Manager - myself.
Come on Nigel, what does your little Committee really expect to find ?
'•• • viat's next on the cards ? 'Why don't we take the Print Unit out of FELIX.' Well, because
i, rtLiX didn't have a Print Unit there would be no FELIX.
What it all boils down to, of course, is the Union's dislike of a newspaper which is free to print
what it likes i.e. the truth, because the truth can often be disconcerting. It keeps the Union on
its toes; it means that Union officers can not get away with doing nothing; it brings egotistical
Union Officers back down to the ground. To quote from a predecessor of mine; 'without its
newspaper IC Union is a festering heap of egomaniacs.'
Thanks to: Dave, Sez, Rob, Romin, Steve, Liz, Andy, Paul, Doug, Wendy, Andy for masses of
pasting up, Summit, Ian Morris, Jason, Penny, Syd, Simon, Walter, Chris Edwards, Rose, Dean;
anyone I have forgotten, and all the collators.
o-ff
s fcat<
Little Lord Patacake sat in the corner
of the Citizens' office, sucking his
thumb. That naughty PHALLIX
Editor Willhebe Goodforacolumn-
inch had done it again, just as Little
Lord Patacake was about to set up
his committee to find out just how
naughty Willhebe had been.
Little Lord Patacake had thought
he was safe for the rest of the term.
Then Willhebe had printed a
flysheet, just to slag him off.
'It just isn't cricket!' thought Little
Lord Patacake, 'And I've been so
slimy and nice to him recently.'
Meanwhile, in the PHALLIX
Office, Smuggly, the PHALLIX
Fairystories Editor, was in a huddle
in a corner with his sidekicks, Steve
Thingy and Says Who. They were
bitching about the rest of the
PHALLIX staff and the fact that they
never finished collating before half
past three.
'Bloody Hell,' said Willhebe
Good-foracolumninch, as he
shuffled into the Print Room, 'they
weren't around in Rabid Bones'
year.'
'Bloody Hell,' said PHALLIX
Busybody, Dizzy Lizzy, as she hung
on to his arm.
'Oh, isn't it a nice day?' said
Winthrop Cravat, as he trundled
after Dizzy Lizzy, who was
desperately trying to get rid of him
so that she could be alone with
Willhebe at last.
Back in the Citizens' Office, Chas
Pianoplayer hid under a desk as
Sydney Spanker (brain changed in
aid of comic relief) flounced in.
Spanker was Meeja Committee
Stool and was anxious to find out
what had happened at the last
Meeja Committee, which he'd
missed because a sequin had fallen
off his favourite dress.
"They took it out of contingency,'
snapped Little Lord Patacake.
'Oh, right,' said Spanker, as he
made his way towards Mrs Jolly
Hockey-Sticks.
'Never mind, dearie,'she said,
'have a glass of sherry and let's talk
about the good old days when you
were Chief Citizen.'
'They took it out of contingency,'
said Littic Lord Patacake, as he burst
in on the scene.
Se'.:nj; spanker's puzzled look,
which was slightly different from his
usual confused look, Mrs Jolly
Hockt Sticks leaned across and
whispered in his ear, 'They're
taking the money for a leaving party
for the Meeja Committee Head
Money Counter out of contingency.'
She sat back and sipped her
sherry appreciatively.
'Oh, excellent,' said Spanker, 'it's
about time too!'
'But, but, but...,' said Little Lord
Patacake, and slunk back to sulk in
his office.
Chas Pianoplayer emerged from
underneath his desk. His floozy,
John Dense, the Sorry No One
Watches (SNOW) supremo, had
just arrived. They had been going
round the Citizen's Building
holding hands and changing door
locks together. This was supposed
to stop naughty people with Arthur
keys getting in and stealing
computers.
Just after they'd fitted a new lock
to the SNOW studio, someone
broke a window and stole their new
'autofocus 3D stereoscopiccamera-
wamera'. But as nobody could use
it, it didn't matter anyway. The real
purpose of changing the locks was
to keep the PHALLIX Editor out of
the PHALLIX Office.
Little Lord Patacake sat in his
office and rubbed his hands with
glee. If Willhebe Goodforacolumn-
inch couldn't get into the PHALLIX
Office, he couldn't produce
PHALLIX. And if he couldn't
produce PHALLIX, then Little Lord
Patacake could no confidence him
at the next Citizen's Meeting.
Will Little Lord Patacake pluck up the
courage to no confidence Willhebe
Goodforacolumninch ?
Is fohn Dense making a late entry into
the race for Deputy Chief Citizen, and
can he really be serious?
Will Winthrop Cravat ever wake up
to the real world?
Find out in the next thrilling episode.
Page 4 FELIX January 13 1989

