THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 11
05.12.2014
FELIX
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
For the past week, the town
of Ferguson, Missouri
has been racked with a
continuous stream of protests and
riots following the Grand Jury’s
decision to not indict Officer Darren
Wilson in the case of the shooting
of Michael Brown. The outcome
of the investigation has attracted
widespread criticism from many
individuals within the United States
and elsewhere in the world.
For many however, the dubious
circumstances surrounding
Brown’s death exonerate Wilson
and undermine the credibility of
the protestors. At the core of many
critics’ arguments is an attempt
to turn any debate on its head by
accusing supporters of the protest of
‘playing the race card’. The argument
has been articulated in hundreds of
ways, but the underlying message
is generally the same: the greatest
barriers to a post-racial society are
‘liberals’, who constantly inject race
into every issue. As one Fox News
pundit put it: “The only people who
talk about race are racists!”
The argument is as asinine as it is
out of touch: race is a fundamental
tenet of American politics and
will remain so for a long time.
The abolition of the ‘Jim Crow
Laws’ – which mandated enforced
segregation between the white and
black communities – has not yet
reached its fiftieth anniversary.
There are still individuals alive today
who remember being unable to eat in
the same restaurants, ride the same
buses, or even use the same toilets
as other ethnicities. For numerous
others, the times when white police
officers would turn a blind eye to
crimes committed against ethnic
minorities, or when police would
stop and arrest people from certain
ethnic groups simply because they
could, are within living memory. The
expectation that ethnic minorities
should simply ignore this history
because it is now in the past, is utterly
absurd and supremely arrogant.
Understanding our history and the
effect it has on our society is the first
step to avoiding similar events in the
future.
The harsh reality is that although
the racist behaviours of Jim Crow
America have truly died out, the
brazen bigotry of previous decades
now insidiously manifests itself in
a mode of policing which targets
ethnic minorities – particularly
African- and Latin-Americans –
far more aggressively than other
communities. In New York City,
black and Hispanic people are the
targets of more than 80% of all stop-
and-frisks carried out by the NYPD,
despite comprising less than half of
the population. Other statistics are
equally damning: African-Americans
are typically struck off from juries
by the prosecution in cases involving
those of the same ethnicity, and
can expect to serve longer prison
sentences should they be convicted
of a crime. In 2010, the United States
Sentencing Commission reported
that, on average, a black man will
receive a prison sentence 10% longer
than what a white man would receive
for the same crime. In Alabama,
a 2010 report by the Equal Justice
Initiative found that eight out of ten
African-Americans who qualified to
serve on juries were struck off by the
prosecution in death-penalty cases.
In light of these facts: is it surprising
that trust in the justice and law
enforcement systems is lowest
amongst ethnic minorities?
Ferguson is exemplary in this
regard: a city in which two-thirds of
the population are black, but 94%
of the civil service and police force
are white. If you are rich and white,
middle-class and white, or even poor
and white, then you almost certainly
have had little first-hand experience
of this aggressive profiling, and
therefore no real understanding of
why such deep-seated animosity
towards police exists among
minorities; you are out of touch
from the very start. We lambast our
politicians for being ‘out of touch’
with the people they are appointed to
govern, yet give our law enforcement
a free pass when they are equally
removed from the people they seek to
protect and serve.
This vitriolic, institutionalised
racism is also compounded by a
culture of opacity and self-interest
which ultimately jeopardises the
role of police officers as impartial
enforcers of the law. Officers may
act with impunity, knowing full well
that they will enjoy the full backing
of their municipality, regardless of
the nature of their actions.
The negative results of this
imbalance are synergic: a law
enforcement system which is out of
touch with, and openly aggressive
towards minorities, and a justice
system which precludes meaningful
investigation into the actions of their
officers. The results are shocking:
In 2010, police officers in Ferguson
beat and hospitalised an innocent
man, Henry Davis, before proceeding
to fine him $1,500 in in property
damage for “bleeding on their shoes”.
It has been tense in Ferguson since the shooting of Michael Brown in August. Photo: ibtimes
NATHANIEL GALLOP
COMMENT WRITER
Who is accountable for the death of Brown?
"The only
people who talk
about race are
racists."
Davis promptly filed a suit against
the police department, and lost.
Brown’s shooting is an indirect
result of these manifold problems.
Brown most likely grew up harassed
by law enforcement, under the
impression that the police are not
there to help him. His distrust in the
police would be solidified through
incidents such as those experienced
by Henry Davis. When Brown was
apprehended, his options were
seemingly clear: to confront Wilson,
or to surrender. Surrendering would
give little chance at any semblance of
fairness: the balance of probability
states that he would be arrested and
processed by white police officers,
tried by a white judge (and most
likely a white jury), and would be
thrown into prison for far longer
than was his due. To confront the
police officer may have deadly
consequences, but carried the slight
chance of escaping. It is the epitome
of a no-win situation.
We may never know the
choice he made. Ultimately it is
inconsequential; Michael Brown was
shot dead. No matter what his choice
was, the police and government of
Ferguson must be held accountable
for their role in this tragedy.
Nathaniel Gallop discusses at the fallout in Ferguson

