16 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
05.12.2014
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Historic Soho venue’s license revoked for good
Dev Hynes and Alex Turner share the White Heat stage way back in 2008 for the Falling Off Lavender Bridge
album launch Photo: Emir Shad
Grace Rahman relects on Madame JoJo’s rich past and uncertain future
This week on IC Radio
Following its total refurb over the summer,IC Radio
is back! Tune in to the following handpicked shows at
icradio.com.
A Few of My Favourite Things – Friday
17:00-18:00
Conall and the gang offer tunes and chat every Friday
afternoon.Expect ierce topical debate and jovial
observations of the week’s stories peppered with an
eclectic mix of hand-picked tunes.
The Imperial Ratio – Monday 19:00-20:00
The aim for me and my guests is to have a laugh.
However,if you end up having one too,well,extra
brownie points! The show is mainly improv comedy
interspersed with some tunes,mainly when we need
to think of stuff to say.We largely like to poke fun
at desperate students wanting advice on their hairy
problems but we also play radio games and often
cover the week’s news.If you have issues,please
submit them to theimperialratio@gmail.com and we
GUARANTEE to solve them or your money back.
Letters from the Ghetto – Wednesday
14:00-15:00
Treat your ears to some sensual stimulation as two
guys resolutely not from any sort of‘Ghetto’spring
live-on-air improv on each other in what can best be
described as a mental schism being caught on tape.
Come compete in our weekly‘GSM’challenge (with
actual prizes!) and lap at our eclectic taste in music as
we try not to say something politically incorrect.
Quantum Musology – Wednesday 17:00-
18:00
Tune in for some amazing music from all over the
world,together with fun facts and info about your
favourite bands.
"They
retaliated
by wielding
bats they
kept in a
bin bag on
site"
"I only
went twice
but both
times I saw
penises."
Music fans were left mourning
the loss of another one of
London’s live music venues
last week, after Westminster council
permanently revoked the licence of
Madame JoJo’s in Soho, after their
appeal against the initial ruling
failed. For years, this had been the
home of White Heat, an indie night
that’s seen the likes of The xx, Adele,
Lorde, and Horrors grace it’s stage
before they made it big, as well as
being a favourite haunt of Imperial’s
own Alternative Music Society.
The council’s decision was seen as
inevitable by many, considering the
planned revamp of the whole area by
developers.
However, the council maintains
it was solely made on account of an
incident on the 24th of October, when
the bouncers at Madame JoJo’s and
neighbouring Escape Bar attacked
a punter with baseball bats after a
verbal altercation. The punter is
alleged to have responded to initial
insults by throwing bottles at the door
staff after which they retaliated by
wielding bats they kept in a bin bag on
site at Madame JoJo’s.
The head of Westminster’s licencing
committee called it “an organised
assault” and Escape Bar’s license was
also suspended. Despite the council
saying that they had taken evidence
from several parties including the
police, fans of the club are convinced
it was an inside job.
Supporters have also pointed out
that this was an isolated incident
and that the total revocation of its
licence conveniently coincides with
the planned regeneration of the area
surrounding Madame JoJo’s. Soho
Estates, that has now repossessed the
club, owns hundreds of millions of
pounds worth of property across the
West End and put in an application
in September of last year to demolish
the buildings that currently stand
in the vicinity. Permission was
granted, with local business owners
and affiliates of the club nights run at
Madame JoJo’s dismissing it as part
of an unwelcome ‘blandification’ of
the notoriously seedy, but quirky
location.
On the 29th
October various
promoters and performers from
the venue’s vast array of nights
marched from Soho Square to the
headquarters of Soho Estates in
protest. It didn’t seem to achieve
much and White Heat’s Facebook
page reported that no-one answered
when they rang on the door of the
property firm’s office.
Soho Estates owns the copyright
to the name ‘Madame JoJo’s’ and
a new club is expected to replace it
after redevelopment. As well as being
one of the few venues in the area to
have kept its seven-day-a-week 3am
licence, Madame JoJo’s had, quite
possibly, the widest variety of club
nights in London.
As well as being home to White
Heat every Tuesday for six years,
it has a rich history of alternative
cabaret, burlesque and jazz dating
back from the 50s. At the news of its
closure, punters and promoters alike
reflected on how suited and booted
burlesque fans would share the dance
floor with the first arrivals for Free
Your Soul, the weekly Afro House
night.
Despite the fact that his company
is ready to redevelopment the area
on which the club stands, many Soho
die-hards are grateful to infamous
porn-baron Paul Raymond for
buying up large parts of the red-light
district in the 60s and essentially just
leaving it alone. As well as having
been one of the few unkempt sections
of the West End left, the diversity
of Madame JoJo’s is unmatched. As
well as boasting a wealth of cabaret
and drag shows, indie fans have been
flocking to White Heat for years.
Where else could Dev Hynes of Blood
Orange (but back then of Lightspeed
Champion) been seen jamming out
with a baby-faced Alex Turner of The
Arctic Monkeys?
Since Cheap$kates’ home,
Moonlighting, shut in September
White Heat was probably the
last place in W1 where drinks
were still £2.50 each. Grotty but
fabulous, much like its clientele, one
anonymous student recalled, “I’ve
only been there twice but both times I
saw penises”.
The owners of Banquet Records
in Kingston, who run New Slang, a
similar indie night showcasing new
bands, showed support for White
Heat promoters Marcus Harris and
Matty Hall, saying “Chances are New
Slang wouldn’t exist without White
Heat. Good people doing a good
night. They’ll be back.”
But will they? The petition to save
Madame JoJo’s had nearly 8000
signatures at last count, but chances
are this Soho haunt is gone for good.
For now, White Heat is being
shared between The Lexington and
Electrowerkz and hopefully its loyal
fanbase and excellent track record
will mean it will find a permanent
home in the near future.
Photo: David Newbold

