THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
05.12.2014
FELIX
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk Tech Editors Jamie Dutton & Osama Awara
Welcome to a world of ups and downs
YOYO is the electronic payment choice of a lot of Imperial students. Disclaimer: has nothing to do with real
yo-yos. Photo: Wikimedia Commons
Chrysostomos Meli looks at how you will be paying for things in the future
Millions injured in worst Friday since Rebecca Black
Jamie Dutton
SECTION EDITOR
Silicon Valley has for some time
now declared an all-out war
on our non-electronic habits,
changing them to fit around their
technology. It has been a gradual
process but thinking about it, we
certainly don’t read books the way
we used to. Writing an essay barely
involves a pen anymore, we can
go grocery shopping without even
leaving the house and our fitness
regime is becoming a lot more
informative. It now seems tech
companies have got their eyes set on
the way we pay.
Companies like Paypal have, for
more than ten years now, been
helping us buy things online. They’re
making financial transactions from
our own bank account to someone
else’s that much easier. But that isn’t
good enough anymore. Real world
transactions should and will become
as easy and painless. Why should
we carry those heavy wallets in one
pocket when we all have sophisticated
electronic devices in the other?
Paying with your phone is
definitely not something we are that
used to in the UK but for last few
years, the USA has been inundated
with different apps that can act
as credit card holders. The most
interesting one is Google Wallet - an
app anyone can download on their
Android phone. The premise is very
simple - add your card credentials and
then proceed to the register, paying
wirelessly using your phone’s NFC.
But Google Wallet hasn’t lived up to
expectations. Debates over credit card
fees seem to be the prevailing reason,
but as Apple found out last month,
big retailers such as Walmart have
their own services, which they need
to push.
Apple finally decided to join the
fray with Apple Pay, and everyone
is hoping that it will be the publicity
the technology needs to finally go
mainstream. The service is available
only on the iPhone 6, 6 Plus, the new
iPads and the Apple Watch when
it’s released. Although the service
has been out for just a little over a
month there haven’t been any major
complaints, but we won’t find out
about usage statistics until Apple’s
next financial quarter announcement.
Google and Apple are not providing
these services for anyone outside the
USA yet - they want to get it right
before it goes global. The USA is
known for its high consumerism and
these companies couldn’t ask for a
better testing ground. What’s more,
introducing a new payment system in
a country with a whole new currency,
banking system and consumer
behavior will prove more difficult.
That leaves the UK an open playing
field for anyone who wants to try. A
serious contender is YOYO, a product
of our very own Imperial Create Lab
that has raised £3.1 million in seed
funding from investment groups
such as Telefonica and Firestartr. It is
one of Europe’s largest seed funding
rounds this year.
YOYO is an app which, unlike Apple
Pay and Google Wallet, doesn’t allow
you to pay directly through your
credit card. An account is set up once
you download the app and you use
your card credentials to add funds
to your account. Once you reach the
register, the funds used are in the app,
not in your bank account. Although
this means that you have to top-up
your account every time it runs out,
it is a fairly painless process. What
makes YOYO attractive to users is its
voucher integration. Every time you
spend money at a particular retailer
YOYO remembers and, if for every
9 coffees you get one for free, YOYO
will display the voucher for you to use
the next time you’re at the shop.
Another fundamental difference is
the use of the registered laser scanner
to make the transaction; scanning
a QR code instead of tapping your
phone using NFC. Once the code is
scanned, the funds are immediately
removed from your account
displaying your total and actual
amount at all times. This give YOYO
the advantage that it can be installed
on any smartphone device running
Horror at Currys PC World
Workington branch as
millions of people flocked to
the store to pick up excellent deals
on the best and latest technology,
ranging from 2.5mm microphone
cables to ruby-encrusted vibrators.
The opening was just like any day
but the first people to arrive were
literally confounded by the excellent
deals such as “buy-one-for-the-
price-of-two” and “80% off (500% of
original value)!!!”
Smiles of joy however were
transformed into pouts of
indifference as the customers found
they had to wait six years to be served
in the queue.
Despite this, many thought it
was worth the time and spread the
word on social media. The whole of
mainland Britain drove as fast as they
could to get the best deals. It was even
rumoured that some people from
Northern Ireland were so desperate
to cash in on such great savings that
they swam across the Irish Sea. It
was the biggest stampede the North
had seen since the opening the first
Greggs bakery in 1939 and many were
injured as a consequence.
It wasn’t all bad news, however.
The government smiled at how
well the public adapted to such
Americanisation and announced
plans to abolish the NHS and raise
university tuition fees to £100,000
per year to complete the United
Kingdom’s transformation to the 51st
state of the USA.
The British public, many who
have been writing frantically to
their local MP asking when carrying
a gun will be legal and when
‘Disneyworld Lincolnshire’ will be
built, have unanimously accepted
this transformation and cannot wait
to sing The Star-Spangled Banner at
their child’s next baseball game.
iOS or Android even the ones without
NFC, which encompasses every iOS
user who hasn’t upgraded to iPhone
6 yet.
The app also offers a platform for
store owners to collect and display the
data they need to run their business
more efficiently- data that would
otherwise be impossible to collect. A
similar service is provided by Square
Inc. - a Silicon Valley startup recently
valued at $6 billion. It should be noted
although Square’s business platform
‘Square Register’ has seen wide
success, their payment app ‘Square
Wallet’ has been recently pulled from
both the Android and iOS app stores
due to lack of interest.
YOYO for the time being is using a
page right out of Facebook’s playbook
and is expanding their user base;
jumping from one campus to the
next. It’s a move they believe will
eventually bring in retailers, which
any payments service desperately
requires in order to succeed.
Payment systems are very much in
their infancy, especially in the UK.
However, startups like YOYO are
making real headway. It is very early
to call but the sky is the limit and
YOYO’s recent deal with Snapchat to
provide a money transfer service is
very much a testament to that.
Artist's impression of scene at Currys Worthington Source: youtube.com

