18 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
05.12.2014
Games Editor Max Eggl & Calum Skene
Games
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
DanceDanceRevolution:KungFustyle
Dancing her way to the top, and looking incredibly sassy while doing it! Photo: Creative Commons
Sanchit Sharma inally hooks up a XBox controller
From the KSP
Mission Control
MATTHEW ALLINSON
GAMES WITER
Kerbal Space Centre are happy to announce their first
successful flight of an unmanned space probe around
the planet. The probe, the RoboUglyDuck launched
mercifully without any noticeable hiccups yesterday
and was able to carry out the desired science missions
in Low Kerbin Orbit.
Unlike previous missions where the idiotic Kerbals
did things like “let go of the space craft whilst in space”,
the robotically controlled drone was perfectly well be-
haved. Unfortunately no one has invented solar panels
yet, and since transmitting all its scientific data back
to earth, the on board batteries have now died. The
remains of RoboUglyDuck are the first chunk of what
promises to be an exciting blanket of Kessler Syndrome
space junk that will no doubt soon envelop the planet.
"Overall,
Kickbeat is
a game that
had a lot of
potential.
Sadly, the
execution
leaves a
lot to be
desired."
Kickbeat describes itself as “an
innovative rhythm game with
a kung fu theme, featuring
fully 3D characters and high-energy
music!” Which sounds pretty good.
The reality is not quite as good as it
seems at first.
In essence, Kickbeat is a classic
four-button rhythm game – at
the right time you press up, down,
left or right. Sometimes you need
to press multiple buttons at once,
sometimes you need to press and
hold, and pressing space at any
point will activate your chi (I still
haven’t worked out what this does,
other than changing the background
colour).
The “innovative” part of the game
comes from the way that the four
buttons are presented – as individual
enemies circling you, readying for
an attack. They’re even helpfully
colour-coded as to what they’re going
to do! This is a pretty cool idea, in
theory, but combined with the full
3D environments and characters it
causes the fatal flaw of this game.
There’s just too much on the screen
at any given moment. Even with
the colour coding, it’s difficult to see
the important information because
the game is just throwing too much
at you to be able to sift through
everything for what you need. Which
leads me to believe that actually,
chi doesn’t do anything other than
changing the background. It certainly
takes away a lot of the noise, and
makes the game far easier to play!
In addition to this, the powerup
mechanic is nearly unusable.
Occasionally, enemies will appear
with powerups over their head
(which is pretty cool). In order to pick
them up, you need to double-tap
the correct button instead of single
tapping it. Again, at first this seems
okay, but then you realise that in
any reasonably difficult song you
just don’t have the time to press that
button twice before the next one
comes along! And in a difficult song,
you’re going to mess up occasionally
– this causes you to lose health and
the only way to regain it is these
powerups. The powerup system
simply hasn’t been thought through
properly, and really needs a complete
overhaul to make it usable.
After forming my opinion on the
game in general (and struggling to
get through the first few missions
because of the design flaws), I got a
chance to try this with an Xbox 360
controller. Throughout the game,
there are not-so-subtle hints that you
can use a controller instead of the
keyboard to play, so I figured it was
worth a try.
And oh my god it is so much better.
Suddenly, my scores shot up. Instead
of struggling to survive each mission,
I’m now working on getting that 5th
star, the information just becomes
so much easier to sort through and
the game feels more responsive. The
fact is, Kickbeat: Steam Edition is
just not playable without a controller
– which as I’m sure you’ll agree is
pretty stupid.
However, using a controller brings
a few new problems into the mix. The
screen no longer seems as busy, yes,
but picking up powerups becomes
even harder. And remember those
enemies that come simultaneously?
Good luck with those on a controller
– you’re going to need multiple
fingers on a set of buttons that have
been designed for just your thumb.
Finally, there’s the cutscenes. Yes,
this is a rhythm game with a story.
It’s utterly nonsensical (which is
expected and good!) but the voicing
leaves a lot to be desired. This is
clearly a game that needs to be
voiced, but when they don’t bother
getting decent voice actors it’s just
annoying. I’ve sat through all of the
cutscenes so far (though they are
skippable), and whilst the master is
reasonable all of the other characters
grate a bit. It really lets the cutscenes
down – whilst the art is beautiful
and fits perfectly, the story is fun
and stupid, but then you get this
really bad voice acting that breaks
the best bit of the game. I would
have preferred that they just skipped
voicing it altogether, if this was the
best they could do.
Going back to the story, I love the
ridiculousness of it. It’s a game where
you beat up guys using kung fu to
music, a realistic storyline would
have been worse. Little things are still
a nuisance (why is all the music in
the world stored in one place? Why
is a renowned martial artist teaching
a completely new technique based
in America?), but overall the story
so far gets a thumbs up from me –
especially with the little lines here
and there that mean that you just
can’t help but laugh (“Did they take
all the songs? Even... Justin Beiber?”).
Overall, Kickbeat is a game that
had a lot of potential. Unfortunately,
the execution leaves a lot to be
desired. It could have been great but,
sadly, it falls short.
If you think you want to give it a
try anyway, Kickbeat: Steam Edition
is available for £6.99 from Steam.
Photo: Kerbal Space Program, Matthew Allinson
Photo: Kerbal Space Program, Matthew Allinson
Buoyed by the success of RoboUglyDuck and pan-
icked by the fact we were about to run out of money,
the KSC decided to shoot for the moon. We loaded what
we thought would be enough fuel onto UglyDuck VI
and put rookie pilot Doodlorf Kerman at the helm and
blasted off. The plan had been to go for a free-return
sling round the moon without landing on it. We hoped
this would get enough science and reputation to keep
our funding up for the time being.
UNFORTUNATELY this wasn’t to be the case. The
engineering team are investigating what happened
as we speak, however it seems that the rocket was put
together asymmetrically: causing it to wobble like hell
all the way out of the atmosphere. This wasted so much
fuel that we didn’t have enough to make it around the
moon. Doodlorf was able to carry out all the scientific
experiments to great success, and even managed to
do an EVA without letting go of the craft. UglyDuck
VI touched down, with Doodlorf a true Kerbal Hero.
Unfortunately we lost so much money on that mission
that we couldn’t afford a ticker-tape parade.

