imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
The Venture Catalyst Challenge is an intensive 6 week science and technology
pre-accelerator. It is designed to prove the commercial viability of a course
project, idea or venture you are developing.
With over 200 mentors, more than 25 service providers and corporate partners
and a network of accelerators, investors and other funders, the Venture
Catalyst Challenge brings together Imperial College’s manifold resources to
take you a step further.
We are looking for ideas that have the potential to really have an impact on the
world. We match you with top innovators and mentors with specific expertise
to work one-to-one with you to move you forward as fast as possible. At the
end we award a substantial cash prize and give you the chance to present your
idea to a room of investors, change-makers and more.
Open to PostDoctorates, Postgraduates, Alumni and Undergraduates!
Come along to the info session on 5 December to hear from past participants
and learn about what you need in order to enter.
For more information on the challenge visit: vcclaunch.splashthat.com
Applications now open!
Islamic Society raise a massive £83,401.70 during Charity Week!
Last month Imperial saw the return of Charity Week, an annual campaign
organised by the Islamic Society with the aim of raising as much money as
possible for orphans and needy children worldwide. This year’s Charity Week
saw the Islamic Society raise a whopping amount of over £83,000, raising
more money than both UCL and Kings. Imperial has nearly half the number of
students that either institution has, so this was a tremendous effort by all those
who participated and donated. Charity Week is a national campaign facilitated
by one of the UK’s leading charities – Islamic Relief – one of 14 charities that
make up the UK’s Disaster Emergency Committee.
This year the week was held between the 2 and 9 November. The creativity
seen in this year’s fundraising efforts was unparalleled; the week was jam
packed with numerous exciting events including an exhilarating inter-society
quiz, (Battle Of The Societies), a huge girls only pampering and fashion day
(Smoky Not Smudgy), an inter-uni football competition, sponsored treks up
Mount Snowdon, black-tie dinner and many more! This was coupled with daily
cupcake and donut stalls across campus and tube station, street and door-to-
door bucket collections.
Alex Savell, Deputy President (Finance & Services), said: “We are
incredibly proud of all the achievements our many clubs and societies
make, but Islamic Society have really done something incredible this
year. Sitting in our office, we’ve seen how diligently and enthusiastically
they’ve been working towards this and I’m personally extremely happy
for them that it’s paid off in such a spectacular way. It’s brilliant that a
society here are raising and giving such a large sum to such a good cause
and I hope student organisations at Imperial College Union and all other
institutions continue to do such good deeds”. The Union would like to
congratulate the Islamic Society on this great achievement.
A Better Experience for Taught
Postgraduates
We have published our Response to the 2014 PostgraduateTaught Experience
Survey - making recommendations on how College and the Union can better
serve our 3500 taught postgraduate members.
The PTES is a national survey that takes place every two years, measuring
the satisfaction of taught postgraduates - students on MSc, MBA and MPH
courses at Imperial College London. Imperial College Union, as the voice of
Imperial Postgraduates, has generated our Response to the survey results,
including 15 specific recommendations.
Read the full response at imperialcollegeunion.org/responses.
Free STI Clinic - Tuesday 9
December
Free STI testing at Imperial College Union, provided by theTerrence Higgins
Trust and Earls Court Health & Wellbeing Centre
Gonorrhoea, chlamydia and HIV tests will be available, as well as contraception
and sexual health advice.
Appointments are free but availability is limited.
Please email sexualhealth@imperial.ac.uk to request a slot, including your
preferred time.

