22 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
05.12.2014
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The thinking woman’s crumpet
"The
revision
period
can be an
intense
time, when
it seems like
everything
in the world
revolves
around your
subject."
"For idle
watching,
MTV always
offers
something."
Photo: NBC
Are you troubled by revision
time? Do you find yourself
sweating over notes and
books, asking yourself who invented
pre-Christmas exams? Well, we’re all
in the same boat.
The revision period can be an
intense time, when it seems like
everything in the world revolves
around your subject. Bottom line,
it does. But it can be useful to allow
yourself a responsible break after a
couple of hours’ intense studying.
Television can be a useful distraction.
There are, however, a couple of
dos and don’ts to bear in mind, and
several rookie mistakes to avoid.
The ideal TV-break is around
twenty minutes long. Handily,
several TV series follow this format.
Specifications, however, don’t end at
length.
It is important to choose something
light-hearted, which won’t leave you
pondering about the meaning of
life. This excludes shows like Modern
Family which, despite the humour,
may tempt you into calling your
mother for a three hour conversation
about your crushed soul and dreams.
Most important of all, the show
must prove entertaining, yet not
sufficiently entertaining to become
addictive. This is a subtle distinction
that excludes all spy shows (luckily
rarely twenty minutes long anyway)
and love plots like How I Met Your
Mother. Friends is another no-no. We
may have all watched it hundreds of
times, but there is nothing stopping
us from going through the whole
thing once more just for the 1990s
nostalgia.
These criteria may seem quite
selective, but actually there are
several shows that fit the bill.
Evergreens like 30 Rock, Parks and
Recreation and Community are happy,
idle shows, basically created exactly
for this purpose. New releases are
good alternatives, in particular the
shows Black-ish, starring Laurence
Fishburne, and A to Z.
The first is a new family sitcom.
The Johnson family, however, is not
the typical American TV family. No
sugary tough love, pets and candy
in this show. Dre Johnson (Anthony
Anderson), the father, is a self-made
Afro-American man who’s arrived.
As a result his children, grown up
in a privileged neighbourhood, are
“too white” for his tastes. This is pure
satire, and definitely worth a watch if
Forget Brian Cox and David Attenborough.Forget science
documentaries about space and animals,for a little while
at least.There’s a new generation of TV presenters giving us
insights into big cities,old jazz clubs and sacred rivers and
we are deinitely digging it.
Dr James Fox,art historian and Cambridge Fellow,takes us
through three of the cities that marked our popular culture.
In the documentary BrightLights,BrilliantMinds,Fox travels
from 1908’s Vienna to 1928’s Paris and a little further to 1951’s
New York.
Through a heterogeneous mix of interviews,original clips
and walks through the places that inspired the greatest
thinkers of the 20th
century,Dr Fox illustrates some of the
events that shaped the way we think.Greenwich Village
and the Beat Poets’apartments,surrealist cinemas in the
Quartier Latin and Sigmund Freud's ofice are all connected
through a thread that,once explained,appears almost
enlightened.
Fox’s commentary is entertaining and charming.In a
slightly awkward,adorable manner,he paints the lives of
Magritte,Klimt,Cole Porter and Kerouac.He is essentially
being paid to go on the trip of a lifetime,living the life of a
French intellectual while hobnobbing in New York’s best
jazz clubs.And we envy him for it.
SacredRiverswithSimonReeve shows us another journey,
one that is more adventurous and spiritual than Fox’s.
The show is a discovery of different parts of the world and
their essential connection to sacred rivers.The Yangtze,
the Ganges and the Nile are some of the longest and
largest rivers in the world,and to the people who live along
their path they are a source of food,water,religion and
community.
Along with the show,Simon Reeve is a revelation.
Entertaining,sharp and always ready to get his hands dirty,
he is a true modern day adventurer.Unlike many of his
predecessors,his attitude to local costumes is one of awe and
excitement and not of patronising judgement.
Whether it’s jumping the Nile or swimming across the
Yangtze,Reeve is always ready for a laugh.This documentary
is so good,it is impossible not to fall in love with some of
these places.But more importantly,it is impossible not to
fall in love with the presenter.
GIULIA GABRIELLI
Photos: BBC
uncomfortable humour is what rocks
your boat.
A to Z is a traditional romantic
comedy, created thinking that
we hadn’t seen enough of Cristin
Milioti since the end of How I Met
Your Mother. Despite this being
profoundly untrue (we did, after all,
spend ten years of our lives hearing
stories about her), this is a sweet
and lovable show with one great
advantage. The main characters get
together at the beginning of Episode
1. The programme from then on is
supposed to be a recollection of their
relationship. With no will-they-
won’t-they chemistry, this is a series
that won’t keep you waiting to long
for answers, but that will still make
you smile.
For idle watching, MTV always
offers something. Lately the teenage
comedy-drama Faking It is probably
the strongest show on the channel
(which admittedly is not saying
much). The series follows the lives
of best friends Amy and Karma
who, in a school too Glee-like for
words, fake being lesbians to attract
attention. This premise may repulse
some of you, but the way in which the
homosexuality theme is touched by
the show is surprisingly refreshing.
Finally, all these considerations
are useless without the appropriate
degree of self-control. If you find it
hard to say stop, don’t press play, go
for a walk. In these occasions even
adverts can become slightly addictive.
Watching the John Lewis penguins
play around for the fiftieth time may
seem more stimulating than revising
the Krebs cycle, but it won’t be on the
exam.
Giulia Gabrielli gives us a selection of the best shows for unwinding
Revision 101: a short television
guide to 20 minute breaks

