THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 27
05.12.2014
FELIX
Film
ilm.felix@imperial.ac.uk Film Editors Ellen Mathieson, John Park & Jack Steadman
And the Oscar goes to...
It’sDecember,whichmeansonlyone
thing. The Oscar Race has officially
begun. The New York Film Critics
Circle has announced their winners,
the Gotham Awards have given out
their trophies to the independent films
worthy of recognition, the National
Board of Review have also announced,
the Los Angeles Critics will soon
follow, building up the excitement
surrounding some of this year’s best
films.
Even in the months ahead of such
events, pundits, critics and fans alike
love to speculate over who will be the
big winner come Oscar night. It is
still without doubt the biggest night
in Hollywood, celebrated at the very
end of the long awards calendar.
Celebrating films of this year, the
Academy Awards will be held on 22nd
February 2015, hosted by Neil Patrick
Harris. Already the buzz is strong on
certain films and performers, and this
week Felix Film looks at the hotly
anticipated contenders whose names
and performances you should watch
out for in the coming months. And
let the long, intense, competitive race
begin.
Best Leading Actor
A lot of worthy names fighting out
for the Oscar with no clear winner set
as of yet but the States should brace
themselves for a healthy amount
of British invasion, withactors
Benedict Cumberbatch (The
Imitation Game), Eddie Redmayne
(The Theory of Everything), Cannes
winner Timothy Spall (Mr Turner),
and David Oyelowo (Selma) in hot
contention for their performances.
They all played real-life heroes, (Alan
Turing, Stephen Hawking, J. M. W.
Turner, and Martin Luther King Jr.,
respectively) which will work hugely
in their favour, but the main focus at
the moment is on Michael Keaton,
who has put on a performance of a
lifetime in Birdman. Would you also
believe that Steve Carell (Foxcatcher)
could cause a serious upset at Keaton’s
chances? Others who should not be
overlooked but have a high chance
of getting unjustly ignored are
performers whose films have not been
seen widely. Chadwick Boseman (Get
On Up) is a revelation as James Brown,
and Jake Gyllenhaal (Nightcrawler) is
brilliantly mad.
Best Supporting Actor
J. K. Simmons (Whiplash) should
be in for a very clean sweep of every
single Best Supporting Actor award
there is out there, for his ferocious
turn as a ruthless jazz band conductor
who will stop at nothing to achieve
the absolute best from his students.
Edward Norton (Birdman) is the
most likely candidate running
for distant second, veteran actors
Robert Duvall (The Judge), Tom
Wilkinson (Selma) and Christoph
Waltz (Big Eyes) are all gunning for
spots, (this would mark Waltz’s third
time in the category) and Duvall in
particular seems to be likely to get
in on the race, given his success with
the Hollywood Film Awards earlier
this year. It has been awhile since the
underrated Ethan Hawke (Boyhood)
has scored a nomination, but his
strong supporting turn in what many
argue as this 2014’s best film, gives
him a big boost into the possibility of
a nomination. Another cast member
of Foxcatcher receiving attention for
this performance is Mark Ruffalo,
who might just get squeezed out given
how much competition there is.
Best Leading Actress
Julianne Moore (Still Alice) can most
certainly expect nominations to start
flooding in, given her wonderfully
measured, masterful performance as
a linguistic professor with early-onset
Alzheimer’s disease. It is about time
for Moore to score some awards,
given years of injustices of missing
out on wins and nominations, and
she may as well start polishing up
on her acceptance speeches. Reese
Witherspoon (Wild) for a while was
the frontrunner, displaying a strong,
moving performance in a film that is
very well-reviewed, Amy Adams (Big
Eyes) practically scores a deserving
nomination in whatever serious
role she plays, and there is talk of
Brit newcomer Felicity Jones (The
Theory of Everything) also joining the
mix. Hilary Swank (The Homesman)
may be a serious contender to the
remaining space in her feminist
Western. Critics may be divided over
the quality of Gone Girl, but they are
unanimous in praising Rosamund
Pike’s frighteningly unforgettable
performance. Is there space for Essie
Davis (The Babadook)? Possibly not.
Best Supporting Actress
Hot off her New York Film Critics’
Best Supporting Actress win, it is full
steam ahead for Patricia Arquette
(Boyhood) in her quest to win her
first Oscar. She has had success on
television, and is now displaying her
talent returning to the big screen.
Keira Knightley (The Imitation
Game) has won rave reviews for her
warm, tender performance opposite
Cumberbatch. A part of what made
Wild special was the presence of
Laura Dern providing excellent
support for Witherspoon as the
character’s mother, and everyone
seems to have picked up on this,
given the buzz surrounding her
contribution to the film. It wouldn’t
be Oscar season without the mention
of Meryl Streep’s (Into the Woods)
name, and her latest musical
effort might help her score her 19th
nomination. That’s right. 19th
. Emma
Stone (Birdman) could be looking
at a first-ever nomination in a film
loved by pretty much everyone, and
if anyone was looking for an acting
nomination with Interstellar, Jessica
Chastain could be the one.
Photo: chrisreedfilm.com

