28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
05.12.2014
Film
ilm.felix@imperial.ac.uk Film Editors Ellen Mathieson, John Park & Jack Steadman
“Discover how little you know”
MEN WOMEN &
CHILDREN
Director: Jason Reitman
Screenplay: Jason Reitman,
Erin Cressida Wilson, Chad
Kultgen (novel)
Cast: Adam Sandler, Rosemarie
DeWitt, Jennifer Garner, Judy
Greer, Dean Norris, Ansel
Elgort, Emma Thompson
Has technology made us more
violent? More promiscuous?
Is it easier to cheat with a
little help from the internet? How
dangerous are online games? Is it okay
for a mother to essentially spy on her
daughter? Is romance dead because of
technology? Does social media reveal
too much about us? With a boom in
the use of texts, Facebook, Twitter,
and all sorts of other platforms, it is
everyone who has been affected in
some ways, by the advancement of
technology. Men, women, children,
regardless your gender and age, Jason
Reitman’s newest feature is one that
looks at how living in the modern
world keeping up with the same
struggles as before looks like.
So yes, we get the insecure teenage
girl who has weight issues wanting to
attract the attention of a boy whose
mind is only on one thing. We have
an adorkable ex-high school football
star from a broken home who is
addicted to online gaming. A young
girl whose smothering (“can’t
spell mother without it”) mother, who
might as well call herself the National
Security Agency, is watching her every
move. A young girl who yearns to be
a great big star in L.A. An unhappy
married couple who look elsewhere
to find some much-needed pleasure.
And why not throw in their 15-year-
old son, whose unhealthy obsession
with pornography is starting to affect
his sex life, when it comes to actually
having to perform.
There is of course an element of
technology thrown into all the plot-
strands at one point or another. The
film cleverly utilises pop-ups of texts/
tweets/posts/messages and everything
else as a way of communication.
What the characters in the film send
off to one another, we get to see. The
audience is doing a spying of our
own too. And the focus is undeniably
limited. For a film that wants to
look at how social media is affecting/
interfering/enhancing our lives, the
scope is too narrow, and each plot
strand is a quick, simplistic view of
a soapy storyline with some flashy
effects thrown in. Just reading the
character list above should give you
a clear idea as to how the film is not
offering anything new for us.
Yes, the internet makes it easier
for Don (Adam Sandler) to look for
an escort, giving the anatomical
specifics to be his near-perfect mating
partner. His wife Helen (Rosemarie
DeWitt) uses a dating website that
encourages married couples to cheat.
There she meets “Secretluvur” (Dennis
Haysbert), with whom she can try
some cringe-worthy, awkward dirty
talking. Their son Chris’ (Travis
Tope) internet search history is quite
something, with certainly a hint of
fetish for domination. Allison (Elena
Kampouris) refuses to eat, and she
has an army of fanatics trying to be
as thin as possible giving her some
questionable advice. Patricia (Jennifer
Garner), so worried that her daughter
Brandy (Kaitlyn Dever) is growing up,
does a weekly sweep of everything.
This includes Facebook, phone, etc
whilst her husband, who may as well
not have been written into the film
since his role is so miniscule, stands
by and watches. Seriously. Tim (Ansel
Elgort) finds out his mother, who
abandoned her family to go live with
her boyfriend, is now engaged. He
finds this out through his Facebook
newsfeed. His interest in football has
hit rock bottom, despite him being
a talented player, and all he cares
about now is Guild of War, and his
father Kent (Dean Norris), who had
big dreams for him as a football star,
is of course disappointed. Hannah
(Olivia Crocicchia) takes risqué photos,
uploading them online for her website
which her “clients” thank her for. The
one taking her pictures? Her mother
Donna (Judy Greer). Yes. She believes
these photos of her scantily-clad
daughter are to help with her future
ambition of becoming a star. Who
is the nuttier one out of Garner and
Greer? You decide.
Establishing the concept of what
this film is all about is done in a
very effective manner. As we see one
character use some sort of technology
in his/her life, we move on to the
next, and another one after that. We
see their problems clearly, we see the
influence of technology, but as the
film begins to develop into a more
dramatic one, steering away from
the lighter mood, it slowly becomes
something incredibly familiar. The
fights and tears all happen at the exact
moments you would expect them too,
and there is little surprising about
the outcomes and how the individual
strand wraps up.
Despite the predictable setting, there
is a reason this film works. It is mainly
thanks to the humour that serves as
the film’s major saving grace. To start
off with, having Emma Thompson
intermittently narrate the events
of the film was such a genius move
that you wish there was more of it.
Thompson has that very dry but witty
delivery of some shocking narration,
all said in a tone that does not seem to
bother her one bit.
Reitman has an impeccable cast
at his disposal. Despite some actions
that may seem very, very unlikely,
the actors in the roles play them with
Photo: variety.com
so much conviction that it is easy
to believe people like this can exist.
Garner’s is a piece of work, restricting
her daughter in the interest of mostly
her selfish well-being. She is the kind
of mother who will make you feel
better about yours. She takes the
prize on delivering the most “WTF”
moments in a film that she will make
you want to throw things at her. And
there are simply no words to describe
what she gets up to towards the end of
the film. Sandler and DeWitt make
their sexless marriage that is devoid
of any inkling of passion work, and
rounding off the adult cast, Greer and
Norris too have their more dramatic
burst to completely own.
There are plenty of laughs to be had,
although very few of them are actually
due to a funny, happy event occurring.
No, these are uncomfortable, nervous
laughs of utter shock and disbelief,
which can be the best kind of laughs,
when used correctly. There are so
many embarrassing things that go
wrong in these people’s lives, that the
automatic reaction in the screening
cinema was laughter.
More impressive however are the
younger members of the cast. Elgort, a
rising star hot off his success with the
Divergent franchise and The Fault in
Our Stars, is excellent, he’s a very good
crier too, as the depressed high school
student finding his way back into the
world. He has a very glib outlook on
life, as anyone in his position would,
but he eventually starts connecting
with Brandy. Her role here is
surprisingly under-written, although
the actress playing the part, Dever, has
great chemistry with her scene partner.
The psyche behind an oppressed child,
why she acts out as strangely as she
does, is never fully addressed, and we
are supposed to simply accept that if
you have a controlling mother, it is
only natural for a daughter to be as
quirky as this. Crocicchia is convincing
playing the exact same role Mena
Suvari did in American Beauty, and,
Kampouris, looking painfully thin, is
at times heart-breaking to watch, with
her desperation and idealistic view on
love getting her into trouble.
It’s ultimately a formulaic picture,
but one that is not short on laughs.
All the strands finish exactly the way
you would expect them to, and no
character is immune from having
either a soapy meltdown or revelation.
What the film wants to say about
the influence of technology is, very
limited and it fails to fully explore this
frankly overcrowded ensemble. As
with most things with Jason Reitman’s
name on it, it looks at a serious subject
matter and decides to have some
fun with it along the way; and fun is
what Men Women & Children has an
abundance of.
JOHN PARK
SECTION EDITOR
Photo: diversions.co.nz Photo: whatson.bfi.org.uk

