THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 33
05.12.2014
FELIX
Arts Editor Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In 1613, Elizabeth Tanfield Cary
published The Tragedy of Mariam,
the Fair Queen of Jewry. Taking its
cue from Roman drama, it is a classic
example of a Jacobean revenge drama,
a tale of love, betrayal and murder.
The play centres around Mariam,
second wife of Herod the Great; at
the beginning of the piece, Mariam
believes her husband is dead, killed
at the hand of Octavian. However,
Herod returns, and his sister, Salome,
manages to convince him that
Mariam has been unfaithful in his
absence. As punishment, Mariam is
executed. What makes The Tragedy of
Mariam special, unique even, is that it
was the first play written by a woman.
This week, more than 400 years
after Mariam was published, sees
the opening of a new production of
Rebecca Lenkiewicz’s play Her Naked
Skin at Guildhall School of Music &
Drama. The play, which was written
in 2008, is set in the years preceding
WWI, and describes the campaign
for equal voting rights by the WSPU
– more commonly known as the
Suffragettes. Both of the plays use
the past as a way of questioning the
societal values of today, particularly
those relating to women: Cary uses
the idea of the Greek chorus to
represent the patriarchal values of
the day, allowing her to question
their value; Lenkiewicz presents the
lessons learned from the Suffragettes
in a dramatic manner, thereby
highlighting how things have
changed since then. But how have
times changed? Surely today, more
than four centuries after Cary first set
out to defy convention, things have
improved for women in the theatre?
Sadly, they appear to have not.
Lenkiewicz’ play, although very well
received on its original run in 2008, it
achieved more publicity for being the
first original play written by a woman
to be staged on the main stage at The
National Theatre. That’s right. 2008.
The National Theatre, held by many
to be the finest tribute to theatre in
Britain, if not the world, did not put
on an original production written by
a woman until a little over 5 years
ago. This fact in itself is, for me,
shocking, but if we expand our gaze,
looking out further afield and back in
time, the picture we paint for women
in the theatre is grim indeed.
Let’s start with the National
Theatre, which recently celebrated its
50th
anniversary, and is perhaps the
best-known theatre in the country.
Surely, if British women playwrights
are to have a place to call home, it
would be here? Unfortunately not: in
the first ten years of director Nicholas
Hytner’s tenure - from April 2003
to April 2013 - the NT put on 206
full scale productions, of which a
paltry 20 were written by women, less
than 10%. Other theatres fare much
better, with the Almeida, Hampstead,
Soho, and Bush Theatres averaging
30% of their output being written by
women, but this is far from ideal. In
fact, the only theatre that comes close
to reaching a balance is The Royal
Court, whose output is 41% written
by women, although perhaps this is
to be expected, since the company
champion new and eclectic writing.
Recent estimates suggest that on the
whole, only around 17% of produced
plays have been written by women.
So why is there this disparity?
Some blame the Western Canon,
the collection of works regarded as
‘The Best’, from whose vaulted halls
many women throughout history
have been denied entry. While there
is an argument – a strong one – to be
made that the Canon marginalises
any writers who aren’t white men, the
world of theatre’s reliance on such
work would almost certainly distort
the types of plays being put on. With
a rich history of Ibsen, Strindberg,
and Chekhov to choose from, there
is little incentive for theatres to
attempt to take a chance on newer
works. But recent productions
Her Naked Skin & the Legacy of Women Writers
Fred Fyles asks the theatre industry where the women playwrights are
have shown that introducing more
women onto the boards can have
wide reaching benefits for the
whole cultural landscape: Phyllida
Lloyd’s all-women production of
Henry IV recently finished its run
at the Donmar Warehouse to rave
reviews, while the Royal Shakespeare
Company – which would have
perhaps the most legitimate excuse
for ignoring women out of all theatre
companies - is making active steps to
bring a more balanced view to their
output, adapting two of Booker Prize
winner Hilary Mantel’s works for the
stage. In this respect, the National
Theatre in particular is dragging its
feet: only 18% of their new plays were
written by women.
But perhaps those plays written
by women are just not as good as
those by men? Such an argument,
which seems to revel in the idea of
the solitary male genius, simply does
not hold water. One only has to look
at the current state of theatreland
to realise that a majority of the best
plays in the last few years have been
written by women: Lucy Prebble’s
Enron, which fused music and high
drama to tell the tale of the corrupt
US energy giant, ran for nearly a year
in the West End, picking up gushing
critical reviews with ease; Laura
Wade’s Posh, which premiered at
The Royal Court, has recently been
made into a film, The Riot Club, for
which Wade wrote the screenplay;
and Chimerica, written by Lucy
Kirkwood, was perhaps judges as the
Charlie Bate, Rebecca Lee, Amber James, Alice Winslow, Lily Sacofsky, Elaine Fellos, and Emily-Celine Thomson
in Her Naked Skin Photo: Clive Barda
play of 2013, garnering multiple
award nominations during its West
End run.
And it’s not just in the UK: Harvard
economist Emily Glassberg Sands
researched gender disparity on
Broadway, and found that works
written by women were on average
18% more profitable, and yet ran for
the same amount of time as those
written by men, adding weight to the
idea that women simply have to be
better in order to achieve the same
as men. Sands also sent out identical
scripts to multiple theatre companies,
giving half a women author and half a
male author; she found that the work
written by ‘women’ was judged to be
of lesser quality, and likely to make
less money.
Times certainly may have changed
since the days of Mariam, but the
British world of theatre remains
hostile to women: they can tread their
boards, they can even direct their
plays, but they cannot write their
scripts. The UK in particular has a
rich tradition of women writers, from
Jane Lumley, who in the 16th Century
became the first person to translate
Euripides, to modern writers such as
Abi Morgan and Caryl Churchill, and
it therefore is so tragic for their work
to remain unrecognised. History is,
as they say, written by the victors, but
for most of our history women have
been banished from the paper, they
have been robbed of the pen.
Her Naked Skin ran at Guildhall
School of Music & Drama last week.
Rebecca Lee and Oscar Batterham in Her Naked Skin Photo: Clive Barda

