34 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
05.12.2014
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
Let’s just get oolong now, shall we?
Photos: Lulla, Etsy
Michelle Tan looks at some teas from further, er, aield
"Brewing
a cup of
masala
chai can
make your
house smell
incredibly
festive"
It’s no secret that Brits are known
for being HUGE tea lovers.
Songs are written about it, many
jokes (sometimes with vicars) are
made on the subject – it’s a national
institution. But do you know about
the many benefits of tea? Thankfully
they’re not all hard-to-stomach bitter
brews; there are so many different
types out there that there is bound to
be one that you’ll come to really enjoy
the flavours of.
Everyone has heard of the
traditional English Breakfast,
Chamomile and Green Tea, but here
are some of the less well-known teas.
Give them a try the next time you are
on the hunt for a new drink to keep
you warm this winter!
Need to stay awake?
Translated from Mandarin, its name
actually means “black dragon”.
You would normally drink Oolong
tea during a meal of Dim Sum,
but don’t let that stop you from
having it at home! It is one of the
more caffeinated teas out there,
helping you revitalize your memory
especially if you are bogged down
with work.
It also helps boost your metabolism
– maybe an added bonus after
snacking on some of those chocolate
chip cookies in between revision
sessions! Oolong tea can help aid
digestion, helping to reduce the onset
of acid reflux or indigestion.
Getting stressed and need
something to help you relax?
Rooibos tea is a red tea from a South
African Red Bush. Due to its lack of
caffeine, it can be a good choice just
before bed – especially with winter
right round the corner. It contains
a wide range of antioxidants in the
form of polyphenols, which can
help the body fight free radicals.
It has also been found to relieve
stomach ailments such as cramps and
indigestion. Try this as an alternative
to green tea if you prefer teas with a
more robust flavour.
Blurred eyesight and
persistent skin breakouts?
For that “take me to the spa RIGHT
NOW” vibe, try some lemongrass tea
– I can assure you that it works! The
aroma of lemongrass just brings me
back home to Thailand, where it is
commonly used to scent rooms.
Plenty of spicy south-east Asian
dishes (namely curries) also make
use of lemongrass, so it’s everywhere!
Lemongrass contains Vitamin A,
which is beneficial for eyesight and
the skin. It also contains citral, an
antioxidant to protect your body
against free radicals.
Down with the flu?
Second only to chamomile as our
Food Editor’s herbal tea of choice!
Peppermint tea can help relieve your
sinuses and soothe the sore throats
that we tend to get around this time
of the year.
The menthol in the tea can help act
as a muscle relaxant especially after
an intense workout or sports training
session. Also, you can have a cup if
you need to de-stress after a busy day
at uni. It’s traditionally seen as an
energizing brew.
Want to start getting into
the Christmas mood?
I know I do – I mean, it’s December
already! Just brewing a cup of masala
chai can make your house smell
incredibly festive, what with all the
spices. Originating from India, it is
known for being good for health and
increasing peace of mind.
Chai is actually the word for tea
in many parts of the world; masala
chai refers to the specific spiced
drink, but we tend to refer to it as
“chai” as “masala chai” seems to be a
mouthful. (Every time you say “chai
tea”, a tea-picker somewhere in the
world weeps.) It’s based on a rich
black tea infused with all sorts of
herbs and spices – such as ginger to
help improve circulation and fight
bloating; cardamom to detoxify
the body; cinnamon and clove with
anti-inflammatory and antibacterial
properties; and finally, black pepper
to give the tea an extra kick of
spiciness which is found to improve
our metabolism.
Recipes have varied wildly since
traditional times, so of course
there’s nothing stopping you from
experimenting with the spices you
use, and how much of each you put in
your brew. It is my favourite tea of all,
especially with the usual addition of
milk and sugar! Traditionally in India
some form of heavy milk is used – try
evaporated milk in yours.
A final note...
Of course, no herbal infusion is a
miracle worker or a substitute for
healthy eating habits! These ones
we’ve listed however are only the tip
of the iceberg in that huge wonderful
world of teas out there, specialty or
otherwise. It’s amazing how some of
them have been used for centuries as
traditional remedies, and that they
aren’t necessarily just a luxury for the
upper classes.
So the next time you’re out for tea
with a friend or loved one, spice it up
a bit – try something new, expand
your palate’s horizons a bit!
Felix Food recommends...
Found these suggestions interesting? We made a few
tea-related pickings for you to check out! Disclaimer:
We receive no compensation–these are just
personal recommendations,tried and tested.
FORTNUMANDMASON
Call us posh all you want,but besides Whittards and
Harrods,this is also a good place to start looking for
some off-the-beaten-track teas.Michelle's a fan of
their Elderflower Green Tea,which gives a nice floral
twist to the much-loved beverage.
BLOOM
Robust rooibos is best paired with another robust
flavor,and warming cinnamon is just that.Bloom
offers a lovely Heartwarming Tea that combines the
two.It comes in fuso bags–the posh pyramidal ones
that enable you to enjoy the goodness of loose-leaf
sans strainer,and the convenience of a bag without
having to put up with“sneeze dust”tea.
JOE’STEACO
There's peppermint,and then there's PEPPERMINT
–with Joe’s tea being exactly it! We don’t know
how they do it,but Carol got the chance to try
their peppermint tea after doing that Christmas
hamper shoot for Brompton Food Market and was
truly bowled over.Bit more expensive compared to
supermarket Twinings,but cheap as an indulgence.
YUMCHAA
A lovely little independent nook in Camden
that stocks a variety of amazing loose-leaf teas.
Translated from Cantonese,the name actually
means“drink tea”! Michelle rates their Chai Black;
Yumchaa's blend is made with an Assam tea base.
There’s also a tea school for you to check out!
T2
Australian by heritage,they opened their irst store
outside Australasia on King's Road not too long ago.
They may have been acquired by Unilever in 2013,but
that doesn’t change the fact their premium teas are
well-loved in Australia.Well those guys know their
coffee,so maybe this is one to watch...

