THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 35
05.12.2014
FELIX
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
Somehow coffee appears to be
a lot more divisive than tea,
probably because its (buzzy)
effects are a lot more potent, and its
flavors a lot more punchy. Most kids
would detest the taste and texture
of coffee; I remember in my case,
it was either some “weird insipid
swamp water” or “rocket fuel gloop”
depending on what brew method
was used (or if heaven forbid, it was
instant.) Just as well, as tots aren’t
meant to consume the stuff.
Call it my palate growing up, but
after discovering as a tween how nice
coffee was with the addition of dairy
and sugar (not drunk, but in tiramisu)
and appreciating the aroma, I was
slowly introduced to better coffee bit
by bit. Our generation’s lucky to have
seen the evolution of coffee culture
through two different waves: second-
wave coffee chains like Starbucks,
and third wave coffee which is the
specialty stuff out of microroasteries,
sold in independent corner cafes.
I do appreciate though that for
most of us, that cup of joe is a means
to an end: staying awake for those
pesky deadlines. Other than instant,
or filter and espresso-based drinks
from the Imperial cafés, there’s a lot
more to the world of coffee. In this
hopefully multi-part series, I’ll start
by looking at different brew methods
– I’ve picked three to look at. Process
geeks, right this way!
Cafetiere/French Press
After Turkish coffee (“sludge” in my
opinion) and espresso shots, coffee
made this way is next on the “full-
bodied” spectrum; it also usually
tends to leave behind some fine
sediment that’s okay with some and
“ick” to others (hence the “rocket
fuel” moniker some people give).
Compared to most other home brew
methods, the cafetiere is actually
relatively easy to master and get
consistent brews from (we STEM
people love our reproducible results,
Pick your (liquid) poison...
CAROL ANN CHEAH
SECTION EDITOR
There's something to be said for coffee and tea,
whichever beverage you prefer and whatever way
you choose to have it (black,builders’,just the
mildest dash of milk,etc).Not just because they’ve
powered many an Imperial assignment; I'll admit
wholeheartedly that this issue has been brought to
you by copious amounts of both,alongside Lemsip–
thank you so dang much,laryngitis.Not.
No,it’s more because they’re both universal
catalysts for meetings between all sorts.The
butterfly-inducing irst/blind date,the reunion
between old friends,the moment when hipster
artist/writer inally meets that stroke of inspiration
they’ve been looking for...
The nice thing is that the bonding would probably
still happen,regardless of the beverage quality.
I don’t think the fact I was drinking“sneeze-dust
Tetley”instead of posh lapsang souchong made
any of the conversations I used to have with the
sisters at my boarding school’s sick bay any less
meaningful.Neither has the advice given by my
dad over breakfast suddenly become useless,just
because he was drinking Nescafé instead of stuff
made from single-origin beans that came out from
a microroastery a week ago.I’ll always attest though
that just upping the freshness and quality of your
ingredients is a relatively simple and inexpensive
way to give yourself a little bit of luxury,especially for
one of those tougher weeks.If you don’t know where
to start,give the lovely folks at TeaSoc a whirl.They
meet every Tuesday for sippable goodness.
Ironically,while I now absolutely adore my
fortnightly deliveries from my coffee wingmen at
Pact,kid Carol was so adamant that dad should only
drink decaf because it was better for his health.Oh,I
was crazy stubborn about that one! Little did I know
at the time that the processes used to decaffeinate
coffee were actually worse–Swiss water process
decaf wasn't really sold back in Malaysia.Ah,to be
naive again...
I guess for me,the appeal of these lovely drinks
isn’t just because they bring peeps together or
encourage productivity.Neither is it because of the
world of flavours out there.Nah,it's the fact that so
many little things influence (some greatly so) the
inal outcome of the brewed beverage.Every new
cup brewed is an experiment waiting to happen.
What are these little things? Water-to-infusion-
material (tea/coffee) ratio,temperature,time,grind/
particle size,origin (for coffee),brew method (ilter/
cafetiere)...I could go on for yonks.
Either way,I also love how both the brewing and
the drinking processes can be highly meditative
one minute,and a habit-on-autopilot the next.I
ind crafting latte art for my“pseudopresso”/faux-
espresso beverages incredibly relaxing and fun.That
mug obviously has a different taste and vibe to the
one I grind at 11am in the Felix ofice,just because my
body is threatening to make me doze off somehow.
What chameleons these beverages are–what
possibilities,too!
Incidentally,I’ve somehow managed to overwork
myself this week.Investigating the death of Professor
Grimm with News has been really engaging,but as a
result of the phone calls I’ve made chasing up for info
(and a delayed wave of freshers’flu),I now have half
my voice–ergo,Lemsip and Joe's Tea Co Peppermint
over the last few days.Look after yourselves,guys...
the term’s nearly over,so hang in there!
Livin’ La Vida Mocha
Carol Ann Cheah talks java... the sippable kind, duh
"Our
generation
has
seen the
evolution
of coffee
culture
through
two
different
waves"
ya know). You just mix ground coffee,
add boiling water, steep, plunge and
pour.
The one downside to it is that it’s
a massive pain in the posterior to
thoroughly clean; old coffee oils love
clinging to the fine filter mesh and
the many other nooks and crannies
in a cafetiere. However, the small
footprint, relative cheapness and
really small learning curve mean
that it’s a popular choice for people
graduating from instant coffee for
the first time.
Stovetop/Moka Pot
A favourite in Europe and Latin
America, with an extremely iconic
design. These are traditionally
made of aluminium, with a bottom
chamber filled with water and a
ground coffee gasket screwed on top.
This is then heated to boiling point,
where steam builds up and is then
forced through holes in the coffee
gasket, creating the brew.
They’re not the easiest to clean,
much like French presses. The
resulting coffee though does have
extremely rich body (hence being
dubbed stovetop “espresso” makers),
and the brewing process is definitely
more engaging. You’ve definitely got
to keep your ears out for the changes
in sound to tell you when the coffee’s
just right.
AeroPress
The brainchild of Alan Adler, a
Stanford lecturer who invented
the Aerobie flying ring that won
a plethora of awards – Felix Food
suspects he got bored and wanted to
try his hand at something radically
different. The AeroPress (AP),
invented in 2005, consists of two
polypropylene chambers: one with
a rubber seal that acts as a “plunger”
to brew the coffee with the help of
pressure (nowhere near that of an
actual espresso machine, of course).
It has all the advantages of a French
press and is rather cheap, but also
with the added plusses of super-easy
cleanup, higher durability (being
glass-free to begin with) and a much
shorter brew time.
Coffee brewed this way can take
on many qualities, depending on
whether the user makes espresso-
style or Americano/long-black-style
drinks. Regardless, they tend to have
the flavour clarity of a filter coffee
but with a stronger body that’s just
under french press coffee. I use it
lots for my “pseudopresso” drinks;
another Felix colleague actually loves
it so much that he owns two (one for
uni, the other for home).
To sign off...
This was just a brief introductory
primer to some of the more
common/popular brew kit. Next
time I’ll be looking at the different
coffee-producing regions and what
characteristics their coffees have,
along with the general brewing
steps for these methods. And of
course, some troubleshooting for the
discerning home brewer.
I’ll also be looking at more novel
brew methods as well. If you’ve got a
specific coffee query you’d like me to
look at, email in to Food and I’ll see
what I can do!
I’d like to thank Pact Coffee in
Bermondsey for the super-fresh java
that powers this section. I don’t work
for them or get any kickbacks; I just
really love their wares, convenience
and the people behind the company!
Interested peeps can sign up at
pactcoffee.com using ‘FELIXFOOD’
to get the first 250g bag for £1, or
use ‘pactstudents’ and sign up with
your Imperial email to get a student-
exclusive kit for just £6.95.
This includes a bag of coffee, a
Hario V60 filter cone and papers, and
a nice large KeepCup to transport
your brew. They also have other
coffee gift bundles at pactcoffee.com/
gift – perfect for Christmas!
Artist's impression of the moment I was picking out my first piece of "proper coffee" kit. Photos: Gamesided, Pact Coffee

