THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 37
05.12.2014
FELIX
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk
that this Christmas wonderland
offers plenty of photo opportunity.
When I say that, I just mean when
you are inside the park. The best view
of the place is from the south bank
of Serpentine, where you can see the
neon lights reflected on the water.
Oh Christmas lights, so Christmas-y
From top left going clockwise: Selfridges Destination Christmas sign beaming out the festive vibes; Selfridges window display consisting of luxury products, gleaming in front of the
mystical moon; another window display at Selfridges depicting a golden web with a spinner – no doubt representing the Sleeping Beauty; glimpse of Somerset House completed with
Christmas tree through its archway entrance; The large baubles hanging on the ceiling of Covent Garden; decorated Oxford Street looking ever so Christmassy with the complimentary red
buses going up and down it all night. Photo: Yung Nam Cheah
Discover the local spotlights of London’s Christmas suit with Yung Nam Cheah
It is getting to everyone’s favourite
time of the year again, and the
capital has already decked out for
the season.
From white fairy lights to giant
reindeer, there’s no end to what
London can dream up with.
Here’s some of my favourite.
Oxford Street
There’s nothing like the glittering
Christmas light on the shopping
streets to put you in the mood for
holiday shopping, especially in the
long, dark winter nights. Chains of
circle bulbs have lined themselves up
and down this major retail runway,
with fairy lights wrapped around the
trees.
Selfridges Christmas display
With the theme this year being
Destination Christmas, the Selfridges
have really outdone themselves with
the otherworldly window display
that literally stop people on their
feet and draw their phones out for a
dozen photos. Each window seems to
beckons you closer, displaying a fairy
tale world like no other littered with
golden mannequins, beautiful dresses
and unique props glowing under the
coloured lighting. These gorgeous
scenes have become something more
like art then mere window display,
and it’s definitely worth going to
have a look before Oxford Street is
swamped with Christmas shoppers.
Covent Garden
Despite reusing the same display
every year, the enormous dangling
baubles hanging off the ceiling at
Covert Garden never cease to give
me a sense of wonder. The red and
silver bring a sense of festivities into
the warmly lit space, and there is a
delightful reindeer statue outside.
The rearing metal statue is adorned
with lights and riding on a Christmas
skate, with a scattered of presents
at its foot; if this doesn’t bring your
Christmas spirits out, I don’t know
what will.
Natural History Museum
Despite the fact that almost every
Imperial students who commute
walk past everyday, the scenic view of
the Natural History Museum is one
that I must mention. With the fairy
lights wrapped around the trees, the
merry-go-round and the ice-skating
rink with magnetic blue and purple
lighting cast over it all, it’s almost like
you are glimpsing a fairy world where
Christmas occur everyday.
Winter Wonderland
Whilst this popular attraction
hasn’t made it to my top 3 things to
do in London, there’s no denying
Winterwonderland viewed from the Serpentine, an illusion of peace and
serenity Photo: Yung Nam Cheah
The metal statue of Reindeer
sparkling in the long nights of
Christmas. Rearing on a carte
ready to go. Photo: Yung Nam
Cheah

