THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 41
21.11.2014
FELIX
CANCER
VIRGO
This week you bake a cake
that is valued at £3800.
Unfortunately it only makes
£50 at auction, despite being
a truly exquisite cake. You
realise that your money
laundering scheme has fallen
flat on its face, and that it’s
time that you joined Finance
Society to learn how these
things are really done.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week you copy edit
Fleix. Sleplling mistakes kepe
creepnig into articels, as wlel
as grammaric errors. You hope
taht no one noticed, and yuo
know that none cares. Fuck it,
this is still better spelling and
grammar than the editorial.
OH I AM COMING TO GET
YOU FOR THIS ONE – Ed.
This week you make your
professional porn debut.
Unfortunately, you learn that
strangulation, fisting, female
ejaculation, and spanking
are now banned. You cannot
legally release your film and
your co-stars, your sister
and mother, are bitterly
disappointed.
This week you are a prominent
Lord at Imperial. You realise
that your moustache is actually
a live animal and BUAV start
a campaign against you. They
smear red paint all over your
beautiful vintage Bentley.
Serves you right for making
our Felix Editor cry when she
interviewed you last year.
Thisweekyoudothisyear’s
Christmasdecorationforyour
hallinthenightasasurprisefor
yourfriends.Inthemorning
youwakeuptoconcerned
chatteraskingwhyanyone
wouldwanttobreakinandrub
humanshitacrossthewallsofa
hallofresidence.Yourealisethat
Christmasatyourhousemay
havenotbeennormal.
Thisweekyoudecidetocome
crawlingbacktotheFelixEditor
and finallyapologiseforbeing
adick.Youaskherhowyoucan
makeituptoher,andshedecides
thatyoucandeliverthepaperon
aFriday,whilstwearingnothing
butathongandafurrytailed
butt-plug.Iknowyouwould
secretlyloveit.
BeatBeitQuadfor9amplease.
This week you are Deputy
President (Welfare). You
decide to spice up your sex
life by pouring chilli pepper
powder on your genitals. You
learn to be careful what you
wish for, and to stop taking
relationship advice from the
Union President.
This week your corridor in
halls decides to celebrate
Thanksgiving. Since you
decided to publicly give thanks
for the reflection in the win-
dow that lets you watch your
neighbour and her boyfriend,
no one will talk to you again
this year.
This week you enter the
RCSU’s Science Challenge.
You lose to an exceptionally
gifted group of schoolchildren.
You are a fourth year physics
student who should have
known better than to compete
against children. You will carry
the shame of this forever.
This week you write decide to
write for Felix. Unfortunately
you leave this until the last
minute, when you are drunk
and all they have left is the
horoscopes. You try to inject
them with some serious
journalism, but you quickly
resort to tasteless jokes and self
deprecation.
This week you find yourself
on Imperial’s University
Challenge team, despite not
having done well enough in
the qualification round. You
declare your undying love for
Jeremy Paxman. The Union
try to remove you from the
team, but your friends start a
petition so you’ll be fine.
This week one of the Felix
grandees wrote a headline for
one of your articles saying that
bankers are wankers. All of
the banking companies that
you applied for jobs at find out
about this, and you realise that
your job prospects are ruined.
Never mind, you can always
run for a Sabbatical position
next year.
Friday 28th
After lectures I caught a train back home, the ﬁrst time I have been home home since
the start of term. It was weird being back in a room without a roommate or screaming
students parading the corridors, but it was nice too. Mum made me lasagne, god I love
lasagne.
I feel so much better having a meal that hasn’t been sitting under ﬂuorescent lights in
the library café for eight hours.
Saturday 29th
We went on a massive night out tonight into town, as everyone had come back for Neil’s
birthday. I know we all go to different unis and stuff but like I reckon we will still be
friends for ages yet, it was like none of us had ever even left and it was basically like
sixth form all over again.
Stuart wouldn’t shut up about Leeds though. We get it, you go to a uni in Leeds, living in
London is so much cooler so I dunno what he is on about. Whatever Stuart, everyone knows
you cheated on Steph in Oxford anyway so we all still think you are a tosser still. Steph
didn’t come out as she comes home next weekend, and apparently hasn’t seen the outside
of the library in seven days according to facebook.
I forgot how cheap alcohol is back home
Sunday 30th
Spent all day on the slowest train ever because it was the cheapest. I decided to avoid
Dorothy as she started whatsapping me this morning about how I had ignored her all
weekend. I didn’t want to spend all weekend at home with my head in my phone, you know?
Writing this in the library on the fourth ﬂoor, my second home. It is Dorothy free and I
have an essay due in next week. It’s really hard and I literally have spent the last two
hours surﬁng imgur and done no work.
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4 Monday 1st
I have calculated that I have to revise for 300 hours over Christmas to cover each lecture in time for
the exams. I have made a schedule and given myself Christmas day and New Years Eve off for a
period of six hours each. I should be able to get through all the material by then and hopefully get
full marks
Kris Kraye is home tomorrow though, we are going to get him from Heathrow in the afternoon.
Tuesday 2nd
Took Dorothy to the airport and Kris Kraye met us at the gate, wearing a really tattered HR Lads on
Tour t-shirt, although someone had drawn a penis on the Queen’s face. Kris said someone did it in jail
when he was sleeping but refused to tell us more. He was really happy when we gave him some
wine and said we could go to the casino later.
It was really odd though, as Dorothy was really clingy to Kris all day and I dunno, she seemed to be
giving me the cold shoulder. Maybe she is pissed at me because I changed my phone background
from a photo of us a photo of my friends from Saturday’s night out (best night out ever, I miss home,
cannot wait for Christmas and my 12 hours of freedom)
Wednesday 3rd
Tonight was the ACC night, so I put on my 3D glasses and took Dorothy who was already sporting her
usual ﬂushed face by the time we walked over to Beit after predrinking. Kris Kraye joined us too, and
he got really excited when Japan Soc came to the Union dressed as different coloured crayons.
I lost both of them before coming home but that was ﬁne, I got a Burger King on the way back
and it was good to have a whole single bed to myself even for the ﬁrst time in a while, even if my
roommate was snoring.
Thursday 4th
So, apparently, Kris Kraye went home with Dorothy. I heard he asked her if she wanted the DPW
and said he’d give some horizontal welfare. Does that mean they had sex?
Fuck.

