46 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
05.12.2014
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
England ended their autumn
international campaign
with a 26-17 win against an
Australian team struggling for form
in recent weeks. An estimated 82,000
supporters at Twickenham watched
England exert their dominance in
the scrum leading to a brace of tries
split either side of half time for
number eight Ben Morgan. Australia
did sparkle at times and retaliated
with two tries of their own through
Fly Half Bernard Foley, who was
substituted immediately after, and
replacement lock Will Skelton,
although they conceded far more
penalties during the 80 minutes.
After exchanging penalties at the
beginning, England pushed ahead
with another three points from the
tee as well as Morgan’s first converted
try – the result of an Australian
handling error deep in their own 22.
Another Foley penalty meant that
at the break the visitors trailed 13-6.
Australia emerged the brighter at
the beginning of the second half and
made light work of the home defence
to score an emphatic try 5 minutes
in. Having closed to within three
points, the game intensified although
it was more errors in deep in their
own territory that cost the Wallabies
a second try at the hands of Morgan.
They pushed hard for another try
which duly came but were held off
with two more penalties from the
boot of George Ford.
England can take plenty of positives
away from the match with good
performances put in across the
pitch. The forwards controlled the
game at set pieces and breakdowns
as well as utilising the rolling maul
with devastating effect. George
Ford’s open play kicking was much
improved. Having lacked purpose in
previous matches, all of his kicks put
pressure on the Australian defence
and were the initiating step of both
tries. The stand-out performers were
Morgan for his two tries and control
of the scrum and Courtney Lawes,
who produced try-saving tackles in
both halves before going off injured.
There is cause for concern as well.
Whilst Australia would always prove
a greater challenge than last week’s
opponents, Samoa, the team they
fielded looked wearied by a series
of defeats and were certainly not on
a par with the other big southern
hemisphere teams. The English
defence was unable to cope with the
speed and strength of the Australian
backs and would have conceded
more tries were it not for several
handling errors at crucial moments.
In contrast, England’s back three
played with little variety and were
completely neutralised in attack and
provided little to no resistance when
defending. Jonny May, who scored
three tries this series, was reduced to a
cameo appearance with a single carry
in the first half while other winger
Anthony Watson made only a few
short bursts in the second half.
What have we learnt from the series
as a whole? The England pack is not
only effective but consistently so.
They dissected Samoa and Australia
with ease and formed the basis of
most of the teams attacks. With the
likes of Alex Corbisiero and Dan
Cole returning from injury they will
only be stronger. George Ford is an
emerging talent. This time last year
Autumn Internationals: How far off are England
from lifting the World Cup?
HENRY LAMBLEY
SPORTS WRITER
Owen Farrell was making his mark at
10 but has since fallen out of favour
and with good reason. Ford has grown
with confidence over the Autumn
and played well against the Wallabies
although his place kicking will need
to improve to make him top choice
for the Six Nations in February.
The backs need to improve their
attacking game which lacked
sufficient variation to fool the better
teams. Jonny May shone with an
individual try against the All Blacks
and added another two against Samoa
but was made to look as ordinary
as the rest of them in the other
tests. Mike Brown was especially
disappointing given his performance
in recent tournaments. The whole
team lacks the intensity over 80
minutes to secure the win. It was a
series long theme that showed that,
whether it was the second half against
New Zealand, the first half against
South Africa or after scoring tries
against Australia, they cannot afford
to rest on their laurels against the best
teams in the world because they will
be punished.
Looking ahead to the World Cup
next September, England’s prospects
look fairly good. While they only won
two games in the Autumn series it
was not a complete disaster and the
issues highlighted can be ironed out
through the Six Nations and over
the summer when the coaches will
have more time to work with the
players. It is not fanciful to believe
that they could win the competition
and should certainly progress from
their group judging by the current
form of Australia. Players returning
from injury will undoubtedly inject
some energy into the team as the
competition for places intensifies and
the potential of Sam Burgess’ move
from League to Union could give the
backs that dynamism they have been
sorely lacking.
The series was an opportunity for
Stuart Lancaster to bed in a relatively
inexperienced team with a view to the
World Cup and we will have to wait
until then to find out if this tactic has
been successful.
England have undoubtedly stalled
since the Six Nations in the spring
but there is a clear path ahead to
prosperity if the coaching staff
are prepared to acknowledge the
shortfalls of this current crop of
players.
Lifting the Webb Ellis Cup in ten
months’ time may seem more a hope
than a likely outcome with the form
of the favourites New Zealand but
with home advantage, all is still to
play for.
Ben Morgan scores a try for England in their 26-17 victory over Australia. They won two out of four Autumn Internationals Photo: Getty Images

