THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 47
FELIX
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
05.12.2014
After weeks of deliberation
and minutes of research, tour
secretary Naven Ghulam
came to the decision that Imperial
College Union Association Football
Club (ICUAFC) and its hordes of
Rangers were to return to the tour
destination from two years ago: the
lovely sea side town of Brighton. The
day began as Philipp Gerstenberg
arrived for his first pint at the
union a good eight hours before the
scheduled departure time. The Tour
Sec was bombarded with questions
on a range of topics using the hashtag
#AskNav. Despite his ability to keep
calm in answering these questions,
it soon became apparent that he was
in fact from the Matt Cann school
of tour secs and that the tradition of
incompetency was to be carried on.
Refusing to let this setback hold them
down, the army of Rangers powered
on as more and more joined the cause.
The touring party arrived in
Brighton full of high spirits and
optimism. The squad was split into
rooms of 20 and 18 with careful
consideration to spread the deadwood
and the fun people equally. After the
session at the union and an eventful
train journey, only a brief stop at
the local ‘spoons was required to
get everyone sufficiently loose and
warmed up. The importance of a good
warm up was highlighted when a
certain Kings’ 1st
s player became the
first casualty of the tour and in the
process made for an uncomfortable
bus journey for an unsuspecting
french woman. Our first fixture was
being played at a beach-side club
called Coalition. To the surprise of
many, the majority of the group
managed to get into the club with
the exception of a few. Julian
NoFuncaponi was deemed ineligible
to play by British Universities &
Colleges Sport (BUCS) as he had
conveniently forgotten his ID for the
entire weekend. Vice-Captain, Robert
Maizonnier, continuing his ongoing
struggle with bouncers all over the
country was also forced to watch
from the stands. The game started
with a high tempo and the pace was
too much for Cricket Social Sec and
self-proclaimed BNOC MattWho?
Knights as he suffered from a case of
‘Couldn’t hack it with the big boys’.
The opposition, University College
London (UCL) Netball, arrived late
but were quick to get involved with
the play. A cagey period of play
ensued as resident Scouser, Ant
Wilson, peppered the UCL netball
goal with some shots but she was
having none of it. With about an hour
on the clock, Dom Wood broke free
next to the bar and slotted in a neat
finish to open the scoring. Vicious
rumours circulated that he also
agreed on a return leg in London with
the opposition. Club wonder kid, Sam
West Brom, was having a torrid time
in Brighton and there was no respite
from the opposition. Having heard
of his academy past, he was double
man marked out of the game all the
way back to the hostels. Despite the
best efforts of the rest of the squad he
couldn’t break past the double man
marking and the opposition managed
to register two goals. IC looked to be
heading to defeat until Edin Dzeko
snuck in with an equaliser late on as
the points were shared. Other notable
incidents in the game were Naven
Ghulam receiving Red for a two
footed challenge to the head as well
ICUAFC go on tour to Brighton’s beachside
clubs... And play some football as well
Seb Gosden collecting his first ever
sending off for giving chat-back to
the referee. Bazzledon insisted he had
scored a winner in the disable toilets
but his claims were denied to due to
the use of a 4-1-4-1 formation and a
scandalous self pleasuring technique.
Second day of tour began slowly
with the prospect of actual football
to be played. Nav still serving his ban
on the touchlines meant the group
was without their tour sec yet again.
We arrived at the pitch to see what
can only be described as a poor man’s
Hyde Park football pitch with the
added feature of actual human faeces.
Expert storyteller, Charlie Powell, had
warned the troops of the potentially
deadly effects of getting shit in the
wound and players on both teams
started the game with caution. IC
skins were captained by tour enigma,
Alcoholic Frank while IC shirts were
captained by 3 out of 4 Patel brothers,
Kieran, Beeran and Peeran. (Come
to the union to meet all three on any
given Wednesday or Saturday). Both
teams produced a display worthy of
the pitch. A scorpion kick goal from
Dickon Dent Duffield was a highlight
whilst Charlie bagged a hat-trick only
to be disallowed due to lack of goal
conversion via Klinsmann. After the
game, both teams were treated to an
exhibition of textbook Klinsmanns
by Shagger Harris, which everyone
appreciated. Final score was a 1-0 win
to Brighton football pitches and Man
Photo: ICUAFC
Taha Butt on the action from the coast
of The Match was Peeran Patel for
being peer pressured into learning
how to kick.
With football out of the way there
was just enough time for a visit to
another dubiously named night
club. This time it was the beach side
establishment of Shoosh that would
play host. IC had a lengthy warm
up at ‘spoons where we got told off
for having too much fun and being
“too intoxed”. Not affected by this
early setback IC arrived at the venue
with high hopes. Unfortunately the
opposition set out for a draw and the
points were shared. Highlight of the
game was another late challenge, this
time on Bronia’s brother Callum,
even though he wasn’t even playing.
Callum was subbed off bringing an
end to his Brighton adventure.
Next morning, the only thing
on the agenda was to make a quick
getaway and get back to London as
soon as possible. Despite a quality
weekend, it was agreed that Brighton
would never be revisited. Thank
you Naven Ghulam for organising
another fantastic ICUAFC tour.
Photo: ICUAFC
Photo: ICUAFC

