IREVIEWSI
Steven Berkoff demonstrating his potential in
Marlowe (picking teeth) and a sofa (reclining)
Decadent Class?
Decadence written and d i r e c t e d by
Steven Berkoff, Arts Theatre.
Steven Berkoff's play Decadence is a
merciless onslaught on the English ruling or
upper classes, "so called by virtue of
strangulated vowel tones rather than any real
achievement." Mr Berkoff has written many
other plays for The London Theatre Group
which he formed in 1972. Among these are
Metamorphosis and The Trial (after Kafka),
Macbeth, Hamlet, Miss Julie (after Strindberg)
The Fall of the House of Usher, Agamemnon
(after /Eschylus) and Creek and Decadence
which have toured the world to critical
acclaim. He has also appeared in many films
and is co-starring in Roger Moore's latest Bond
film to be rehearsed in June.
Decadence has a cast of two: the writer
himself and Linda Marlowe, a founder member
and co-writer of the original "Sadista Sisters"
rock group, with many TV appearances to her
credit. According to my press notices, Mr
Berkoff has for ten years "been mounting a
scathing assault on English Society." And
Decadence, judging my the finished product,
must be Berkoff's last desperate measure, the
ace up the sleeve, the weapon to end all
weapons, the spectacularly bloody revenge,
because Decadence is desperate and totally
uncompromising. There is no plot as such. Mr
Berkoff and Ms Marlowe play two upper class
adulterers but we are treated to a positive but
humerous cry of exaggeration. The two blue
stockings seem to be in perpetual orbit around
sex, gluttony, alcohol, sex, boredom, childish
games and more sex. The caricatures
portrayed are monstrously exaggerated. It is
Gargantua and Pantagruel gone mad (with
Monsieur Rabelais turning in his grave).
Berkoff assembles the whole range of
stereotypes into one person, but it is not so
much what he says that is funny (he's not very
Decadence (or is he just boasting?). Linda
complete the scene.
good at doing posh accents) but his physical
mannerisms and gymnastics on stage. He is
superb at mime — he is Parisien trained — and
as the evening wears on the acrobatics
become more and more energetic. If nothing
else, his part is a physical tour de force.
Although we 'see' the couple at an
expensive restaurant, the opera and other
haunts of the 'idle rich' the stage is adorned
throughout with no more than a sofa and a
tulip in a vase. But Mr Berkoff does the most
strange things with the sofa. The most strange
things indeed. Mr Berkoff fondles it, he makes
love on it, he makes love to it, he tells rude
stories on it, he throws up on it, he empties his
bowels on it and clambers around on it like an
orang-utang in a cage. This is decadence of the
most animal kind, and this is Mr Berkoff' idea
of upper class behaviour, what all the Lords
and Ladies in the land are doing. All the Lords
and Ladies? Does Lord Flowers indulge in this
kind of thing? Of course not. Then what is Mr
Berkoff trying to say? I don't know. If it is a
generalisation then few people will be fooled.
All generalisations are dangerous and this is
one of them. Of course, most of us are guilty of
making them from time to time, and people are
also making them of us. In East Germany the
authorities issue lists of approved terms for the
popular press to use when describing other
nationalities. The officially approved terms for
the British run as follows: paralytic syco-
phants, effete betrayors of humanity, carrion
eating servile imitators, arch cowards and
collaborators, gang of women murderers,
degenerate rabble, parasitic traditionalists,
playboy soldiers andf conceited dandies.
Sounds familiar?
The social comment there is in Decadence
is rather snowed under by the gross
characterisation. Be that as it may, the
production is still funny, rather shocking (and
often downright vulgar—keep granny well
away) and although it is not the sort of thing
that would have universal appeal, there are
bound to be some who think highly of it.
Nick Bedding
Continued from previous page
is not without hope. This mud is the essence of
life, the all pervading medium of our everyday
existance.
The photography is attractive with the black
and white washed out look capturing the
somewhat mournful mood of the picture. The
use of standard rather than any of the scope
formats is unusual but effective. I have long felt
that 'scope's wide screen is a drawback, as it
disperses the attention of the viewer with vital
things happening in the periphery of vision.
Obviously it is harder for the Director to cram
into the frame all he wants without losing it in
the distance, but it is often worth the effort.
Minoru Sakurai turns in a fine performance
as Kuchi, the self reliant outcast, and Takahiro
Tamura, Nobuo's father plays the part of the
wistful, bitter war veteran with great prescence
However, Nobuo himse: his mother are
•somewhat embarrass nt • i u....'h and the film
seemed to drag a bit in piaces. Whether it was
the well-upholstered chairs of the Bijou
Theatre or too many after film booze ups that
caused resonant snoring to echo from one part
of the cinema after an hour or so is open to
question.
Muddy River is playing in a double bill with
The Spirit of the Beehive, a Spanish film about
a girl who believes in Frankenstein's monster.
Altogether a very interesting double bill, but,
running for nearly three hours, it is only for the
true afficianado.
Lee Paddon
WALKABOUT-
LOOKSEE
by Mobile Optics Inc.
What does lVa//cabouf-Loolcsee do after
galleries etc. have closed? Well iherp ate
alternative visual experience ..actually'
"alternative vis. exp." probabk describe8
|
Laserium quite well.
The blurb on the glossy little pamphlet is
typically uninformative in a geewhizz-fantastic
glossy-pamphlet style. "200pl
watts of .sound
from 12 high power speakers and the mo.-.? j
advanced (? er, \2 watt I krypton gas laser
combine to create a breath taking display ol
multi-coloured pulsaiing images". Try not to
let that put you off! The lasenst is a great guy,
friendly and laid back, and his introduction to
the show is entertainment in its own right —
durii.g the pcrtormar.ee you can't eat. can't
drink, can't smoke and can't toke...but i
other than that teel free!
Laserium
Coherent light, as in lasers, is very beautiful.
The beam is so intense and so concentrated
that the quality of red, blue green and yellow is
unlike that from any other source of primary
colour. The concert part includes tracks by
Pink Floyd, The Who, Jimi Hendrix and Elvis
Costello, but 1 found mysell so hooked by the
lights that 1 just let the sound wash over. The
show takes place in the hemispherical dome of
the London Planetarium, some numbers
against a backdrop of starry sky, some in pitch
darkness. The images have texture: sharp
edges soften and solid shapes dissolve into
diaphanous gauze. They also have scale: a
homely gas jet the other side of the kitchen,
explodes into a 'Close Encounters' spaceship
Page101 I J a n u a r y 21,19831 IFELIX

