ICLUBS & SOCIETIES!
B o o k s h o p i |
From January 31, it will be compulsory to wear
seat belts, for. those of you with a nervous
disposition, we now have in stock "The Ruck
Zuck Seat Belt Cutter", price £2.50. This is
supplied with a pouch which can be fixed
behind the sun visor.
When people pay by cheque, we ask for the
cheque card number to ensure that in case of
difficulty, we do get our money. We ask for the
Department and year so that if the cheque is
made out incorrectly, we can either phone or
use the internal mail to contact them, thereby
saving a lot of unnecessary hassle. So, please
cooperate.
M O P S O C
MOPSOC has joined the Royal Institution of
Great Britain. This gives Mopsoc members a
unique chance of experiencing the atmosphere
of the Christmas Lectures venue. Tickets are
available from Jon Frost, Physics 3 for the
coming Friday evening discourses, which are
held at 9pm at Albermarle Street, off
Piccadilly.
Lunchtime lectures this term include
Catastrophe Theory from Professor Chris
Zeeman and the Fundemental Constants of
Physics by Dr Paul Dean, Director of the
National Physical Laboratory.
There will be a visit behind the scenes at the
Barbican Centre on 26 Jan and to a local
telephone exchange on 9 Feb. Membership is
50p for the rest of the year.
Just a couple of dates for your diary this week;
there's a Finance Gen Comm on Monday Jan
24, to which all club treasurers must come if
they want to be in with a chance of any funds
next year.
Then, of course, there's Mines Review, in
true Mines tradition, next Friday, 28 Jan.
Music, films etc.
On the Rag front, there will be a Rag Mag
trip to Newcastle, crash pad provided by the
Students' Union for Saturday night, sign list
outside G.20 where you'll find details.
New Books
Portable Shakespeare—Peguin £3.50
Five Day Course in Thinking—Edward de
Bono—Pelican £2.50
Ciw'/i'sarion—Kenneth Clark—Pelican £1.95
Asimov's Guide to Science—Pelican £2.95
Adventures with Your Pocket Calculator—
Rade and Kaufman—Pelican 1.25
Way of Zen—Alan Watts—Pelican £1.75
Zen Flesh Zen Bones—Paul Reps—Pelican
£1.95
International Thesaurus of Quotations-
Penguin £5.95
Crown Jewel—Ralph de Boissiere—Picador
£2.75
Visitants—Ralph Stow—Picador £1.95
Exotic Pleasures—Peter Carey—Picador
£1.95
Innocent Erendira—Gabriel Garcia Marquez
—Picador £1.95
Unreliable Memoirs—Clive James—Picador
£1.95
Tokyo-Montana Express—Richard Brau-
tigan—Picador £2.50
Crying of Lot 49-Thomas Pynchon-Picador
£1.75
The Hard Life—Flann O'Brien—Picador £1.50
The Price was High—F. Scott Fitzgerald-
Picador £2.95
Door Marked Summer—Michael Bentine—
Granada £1.95
Captains & the Kings—Jennifer Johnston
—Fontana £1.50
March to the Monteria—B. Traven—Allison &
Busby £2.95
The Poorhouse Fair—John Updike—Penguin
£1.75
Dianetics—Ron Hubbard—New Era Publicat-
ions £2.95
Some Experiences & Further Experiences of
an Irish RM— Somerville & Ross—Dent £2.50
Modern Astronomy—Robbins and Hemenway
—Texas Press £13.10
Craft of Macrame—Helene Bress—SCIBNER
£4.50
A big "Hi" to everybody out there. The fancy
dress disco was a great success last
Friday—thank you to all those of you that
turned out.
Last Saturday "Hit Squad" went out on the
streets and collected £35 for rag. Given a few
more collectors this could have been a much
larger figure, but everybody enjoyed
themselves.
Coming events are:
1. Guilds Rugby Sevens on Saturday—meet
9.15 am at Beit Arch.
2. Guilds Motor Club Autotest also on
Sunday—starts 9.00am in the H zone car park.
3. Ice skating next Tuesday—meet 6.30pm in
the Union Bar/Beit Quad.
Hope to see you at these. Meanwhile watch
out for our over zealous police force. Esp-
ecially if you are in a mini!
Cheers,Mark Harris
£ 3 3 — a L ^
Yes, I know it's a bit late, but Happy New Year
in any case. The big event of this term is the
Annual Dinner on Feb 4—tickets are available
from social reps and the Union Office. It is
being held at the International Hotel, Cromwell
Road so there will be decent food. On the
subject of (non) decent food, refunds (about
£1) will be available on Monday and Tuesday
lunchtime at the office for everybody who went
to the Physics Freshers' Dinner. If you can
possibly take your dinner ticket along with you
to claim your refund it will speed up the
administration.
This term heralds Rag Week. RCS will again
be running 'a million plus one' down darts on
the first weekend (18-20 Feb) so if you want
to play, see Ian Thomas, Physics 1. More
importantly sponsors are needed—all you
need to do is guess how many darts will be
thrown by the winning team; entry fee lOp,
prize 10% of the takings. Also in Rag Week the
Smoking Concert, our illustrious Ents
Chairman Eric needs sketches, so if you've
always wanted to be on the stage see him.
Hope to see you all at Harlington on Sunday
for the Soccer 6's (who knows, even I may be
playing!) if not there's a barnight in the Union
Bar afterwards.
Fiona
D e b S o c
We meet every Wednesday lunchtime in the
Union Upper Lounge where we indulge
in. ..er...well debating (plus frequent free sherry
as an added inducement to join). Debates are
usually fairly informal and sometimes even
FUN. Any member can propose a motion, so
long as he or she can find 2 people to speak for
it and 2 against, so if you have any views you
want to air, this is the place to do it. Or maybe
you just like listening other people doing it and
asking them embarrassing questions after-
wards. Whatever your preferences Debsoc is
the society for you.
Now that you've heard (OK read) the word,
why not come to a meeting and see it in use?
Or contact Jonathan Smith, Physics 2 via
letter racks or our Venerable Holder of the
Word (no less), Debsoc Chairman Chris Day
via chemistry letter racks.
Meanwhile, Spread The Word.
S o c S o c
I see a spectrum of ideas in socialism today.
There are many 'colours' of socialism
Supporters of Soc Soc may be one of these
colours or a combination of many. But
whatever colour of socialist you are, you are
always welcome to join us. In Soc Soc we try to
encompass the whole range of socialism.
For example on Tuesday we have a speaker
from the British Association for Responsibility
in Science to talk on the title "IQ, Eugenics and
Racism". This is not aimed at any particular
group but open to all. See you there!
S T O I C
Greetings book lovers everywhere! No, don't
turn the page in disgust thinking this is one of
those long, tedious and ever so cliquey
"Bookshop News" articles. Far be it from
STOIC to waste whole third of the clubs and
societies page by listing the titles of the
recommended texts for the second year
applied and theoretical quantum dysenter-
iorology course option (by the way there are
fourty eight copies of last year's text book in
stock at present, but if your table is really
wobbly then more can be ordered if you see
the one with the medallion after work). Mr
Hicks asked us to tell the anonymous librarian
that she had better re-issue the second edition
before the cleaner discovers the mop is
broken!!
Following the return of the questionairre
we issued with the FELIX of two weeks ago, •
we handed over the answers to the Computer
Centre and 360 c.p.u. seconds later they came
up with a sure-fire way to increase our already
considerable audience:infimic/cm'on.
So watch STOIC or we send the boys
round. Our detector vans will be in your area
soon, on the lookout for the tell tale pallid
complexion, warts, bloodshot eyes and blank
expression that prove you are not watching
enough STOIC. Or maybe it just proves you're
at IC. Over to you Roy.
Page 61 I J a n u a r y 21,19831 I FELIX

