The Dinner for Two Club is an interesting and
unusual concept in eating out—particularly for
the real restaurant addict.
The idea is that you buy a membership card
from the Club which lasts for a year and
entitles you to two free meals in each of sixty
restaurants, or, in other words, you can get
120 free meals for £28.75 (the cost of the card).
The snag is that you need to go with at least
one other person who pays for their own meal,
in full. Also you have to pay for drinks, any
cover charge and service charge.
In effect it means a significant reduction in
the bill although since you only get one free
meal irrespective of the size of your party
maximum benefits are achieved by eating out
as a twosome.
The main advantage of having the card is
that you can then afford to eat in places which
you might not even think of trying.
With your card you get a directory in wallet
sized folder containing brief details of the sixty
restaurants and giving an average cost for two
with the card, exclusive of wine.
These costs vary from £12 for two (ie £6 for
two with the card) for a Turkish restaurant in
Mayfair to around £30 for two in some of the
more expensive ones. On average, the figure is
around £20. Just about every kind of
restaurant imaginable is represented and
almost all are situated within a couple of miles
of College.
One might wonder what the restauranteurs
get out of this. Apparently they feel that it is
worth it to get new customers and hope that it
will bring further recommendations.
As with most things there are a number of
disadvantages; some of the subscribing
restaurants drop out of tht scheme and the
Club does not have a very efficient system for
notifying members. This means that you could
go to a restaurant, eat a mammoth meal,
hand over your card and be met with blank
looks and a demand for the full whack or
services in the washing up department. This
can be overcome by checking when you book
or asking 'when you first go in.
Another point to remember is that drinks
tend to be expensive in good restaurants and
that cover charges and high service charges
are the general rule.
Nevertheless you can .expect to get away
with a bill for around £16—£20 for two — with
wine — in most of the restaurants listed.
Since it would be virtually impossible to eat
out 120 times in one year the large number of
restaurants is more useful in terms of choice
than in working out how much money you can
make with the card. However, you only need
to use the card three or four times to recover
the £28.50 that it costs.
Unless you are fairly keen on eating out, the
Dinner for Two Club is not really a sensible
investement. If, on the other hand, it is
something that you do regularly, then it is well
worth considering.
Further details can be obtained from:
Dinner for Two Club,
24 Curzon Street,
London W1X 7AE.
Tel: 449 7722
fuE/rs Co B c ^ T J
CflSOBLTT
J a n u a r y 21,19831 IPage7

