IREVIEWSI
A FILM B
Y YILMAZ GUNEY
THE WAY
YOL (15) a Yilmaz Guney film directed by
Serif Goren, now showing exclusively at
the Lumiere Cinema, St. Martin's Lane.
YOL may strike you as a bit of a daft name for
a film, sounding more like a Scandanavian
navvy than a Turkish word meaning 'the way'
(a reference to a journey or route through life
in this case). It turns out to be a surprisingly
well made film which shared the top award at
Cannes last year with Costa-Gavras' impress-
ive Missing.
YOL tells the story of five prisoners who are
given a weeks parole from their island prison.
The film opens in the said institution, which is
rather relaxed and not a bit like the home for
defeated cons shown in Alan Parker's
Midnight Express. But their joy at release is
soon dampened by the harsh realitie.- of life in
modern day Turkey. Through a series of
episodes each prisoner's story is revealed with
an ease which betrays the experience of the
film's creator, Yilmaz Guney. This remarkable
man has fpent mosi of the last 20 years in a
Turkish prison, but has still managed to
produce a long list of films by virtually directing
from his cell. Visitors showed him sketches
and stills from the scenes and he even
rt-hearsed ac.ors and edited from r: shes. He
finally escaped to Paris ir 1981 to edit VOL,
?';er :;*•:«• hope in eve: having ftvedom in
Turkey.
One of the prisoners travels to Kurdistan
where rebels continually raid from nearby
Syria. His fat is soon decided for him by a
combination, c external forte1
and he does
not return to nis jail.
Another ;t face trie reality of his crime
and admit he was responsible for the death of
his brother-in-law. This leads to him regaining
his estrnnoei.1 wife, but with tragic conseq-
uences
The nict! r romp'ate story is that of Seyit,
which dominates tne latter halt ot the film and
is genuinely moving. He returns home to
Jiscovcr that his wife has committed a;
unforgiveable crime and must, by tradition, die
at his hands. To do this he travels to the
isolated mountain village in north-east Turkey
where her family have imprisoned her, chained
and unwashed, for eight months. Torn
between rage and pity he finds himself
suspended between ancient customs and
human compassion.
All of these scenes blend together to give a
powerful and ironic message; each man finds
himself imprisoned just a much in the outside
world, trapped between outdated customs and
restrictive authorities. We also see a range of
breathtaking images of Turkey, from crowded
cities to snow covered mountains, all used to
quite stunning effect.
So overall YOL is a pleasant surprise which,
despite its tragic story, remains inspirational
rather than depressing. It kept my full
attention throughout and is recommended as a
very interesting and entertaining picture.
Mark Smith
Seyit bids a tearful farewell to his son in YOL,
but his return to the island prison is left in
doubt.
I Fr
om left
F E u x a a
Nobuo and Kiichi (a new Triple act to rival the Marx Brothers)
i J a n u a r y 21, 19831
Still Waters
Muddy River, directed by Kohei Ozuri,
Japenese dialogue, English subtitles. Now
showing at the Paris Pullman.
If your only experience of Japan is watching
Shogun on the telly, then your view of Japan
may well be that it was all wooden-and-paper
houses, picturesque gardens and sullen
samurai until someone invented the micro-
chip and the economy car, when overnight it
was transformed into teeming cities and
gleaming office blocks.
This film is set between these two
periods—in 1956, after our transatlantic
cousins had spent a few years setting fire to
every wooden-and-paper city they could lay
their hands on and before they started buying
every Datsun and electronic gadget they
could.
What we see is a desolate landscape with a
poor country struggling to rebuild itself after
defeat, humiliation and devastation. The war is
still a fresh wound in the minds of the men who
vividly remember their fallen comrades, and
many wish they had fallen in battle with their
samurai pride in tact, rather than suffer the
degradation of trying to scrape a living in a
time of peace.
But this film is not about war or the old
warriors. It is about a friendship between two
nine year old boys. The Muddy River of the
title is an allegory. Nobuo's parents own a
restaurant on a river. Kuchi lives on a boat
with his mother and sister, which one day ties
up on the opposite bank of the river.
The Muddy River also stands for the 'River
of Life'. At its source, birth, it is clean and
pure. But, as it is sullied by its environment, it
widens, flows slower and the issues are no
longer clear but cloudy. There are no rights or
wrongs, there are just grey areas. Yet the film
Continued on next page
• • • • • • • • • • • 9 1 Page

