felix C U L T U R E
felix
C U L T U R E
14 felixonline.co.uk/culture culture.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 20 January 2017 Friday 20 January 2017 15
culture.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/culture
A
las, poor
Jermaine.
Forest Hills
Drive was a
huge success,
the wider
public had recognised your
musical and lyrical talent, and
you were being mentioned
in the same breath as the
likes of Kendrick; you’d made
it big. Why did you have
to sabotage it all by taking
shots at Yeezy? Now, beef is
nothing new in the Hip-Hop
world but, as with the recent
Drake-Cudi conflict, it’s the
timing and targeting of these
insults that’s suspect. Why
go after him now, when he’s
been hospitalised? And why
target his mental health? Cole
falls into the classic trap of
painting Kanye’s struggles as
something of his own doing.
He paints West’s issues as
deliberate manifestations of
an over-indulgence of ego,
rather than recognizing that
likely the inverse is true. It
would stand to reason that,
perhaps, this projection of
ego is an attempt to mask
insecurity and depression,
and ridiculing it publicly
would only serve to worsen
it. You either don’t get this, or
are deliberately ignoring it.
Not cool, Jermaine. Oh, and
as an aside, if you’re going to
go after one of the greatest
producers of all time, don’t do
it on a recycled Joey Bada$$
beat.
Anurag Deshpande
Problematic faves | J Cole and Jesse Hughes
J
esse Hughes,
frontman of the
Eagles of Death
Metal, is a fairly
tough nut to crack.
EoDM’s music can
generally be described as a
lighter, more pop-like take
on Queens of the Stone Age.
So, it came as somewhat
of a surprise to me when I
discovered that Jesse Hughes
was a full-on gun toting
right-wing Republican. Now,
this didn’t really bother me
at first because he kept his
politics to himself and didn’t
actively support any of
the crazies. However, the
Bataclan incident changed
all that. Hughes has since
made comments that could be
construed as islamophobic,
and has taken the bizarre
alt-right stance of blaming
liberalism for terrorism. Given
the traumatic experiences
he’s had, and given his
history with drug use, I’m
inclined to somewhat forgive
this behaviour. But, I can’t
deny that his views have
coloured my feelings about
the music. Sure, I’m all for
separating the art from the
artist, and I still enjoy the
music; just, perhaps a little
less than I used to. Another
thing to consider is that music
is, at the end of the day,
commercialised art. Jesse’s
may say some suspect things,
but he’s been through a lot
and, at the end of the day,
he’s pretty harmless. So, I
plan to keep listening: at least
for now.
\\ Cole falls into the
classic trap of paint-
ing Kanye’s struggles
as something of his
own doing \\
Featuring food from several of Imperial’s overseas and
cultural societies, enjoy flavours from around the globe!
\\ I discovered that
Jesse Hughes was
a full-on gun toting
right-wing Republi-
can \\
Reflections Of My Life
With this 1969 hit, Marmalade show that sad music isn’t just
about introverted arrangements. The song’s sweet vocal harmo-
nies and triumphant trumpet parts contrast with its bleak lyrics.
The backing vocals in this song are a real highlight adding tex-
ture to an otherwise simple song.
\\ Paul Padshewscky
Tiegan Neary \\
Got those pesky January blues? Exam stress getting you down? Bask in your own sweet, sweet
self pity with this playlist from our very own Rob Garside.
Moving onto the more melodramatic side of sad, The Cure take
us into the wilderness that is Disintegration. With the disconcert-
ing glass smashing samples, unwavering drum machine and self
indulgent vocals, the song is weirdly mesmerising. If you like
this sort of thing but fancy something more dynamic check out
Converge’s cover. Jacob Bannon’s murmured vocals swirl in
the background before building up to a shouted climax.
Disintegration
Sylvia All That Could Have Been
The whole of The Antlers’ concept album Hospice is pretty sad, with
its stark storyline playing out amongst an ambitious, multi-faceted
indie rock soundtrack packed with stellar musicianship. This mid-tempo
song drifts between acoustic guitar segments and electronic passages
before a restrained climax. So much of this song hinges on the croon
of Silberman, which carries the narrative, sweetly juxtaposing the
haunting lyrical content of this song.
The continuing success of NIN is directly due to bringing
industrial themed music to the mainstream through the use
of clever hooks amongst militarist drum beats. One of their
ballads, this track has a disconcerting structure that allows
the song to build and build. The confessional self analysis
of this of this song makes it one to pay attention to.
Interludio
I often find the process driven side of minimalist music too mechan-
ical to be fulfilling, yet Luciano Cilio’s work is beautifully restrained
so that even a small raise in volume is meaningful and chilling. From
the beautiful mandolin lead that opens the record to the wordless
voices and desperate cello lines, this record excels in creating a
depressive atmosphere.
\\ hannah k
29-95.com \\
When Bastions confirmed their hiatus towards the end of last
year, one of the great lights of the UK hardcore scene was extin-
guished. The combination of using clever, efficient songwriting
and the cathartic, tortured screams of their lead vocalist Jamie
Burne helped them create vivid emotional soundscapes.
Murmuring
The Man Comes Around
The Show Must Go On
Johnny Cash’s American series with Rick Rubin is a stripped
back, heavily reflective album, showing a slower, darker, more
religious side compared to Cash’s previously more comedic and
upbeat works. Written in the last years of his and his wife’s lives,
Cash’s deep, sombre voice is the main focal point throughout.
Queen’s finest moment in my eyes is their final album. Written
during Freddie Mercury’s deterioration due to AIDS, the whole
album is informed by his gradual acceptance of his approaching
end. Mercury’s vocals as usual are on point, ably assisted by
dramatic harmonising backing vocals. Despite the triumphant feel
to this song, it is still heartbreaking to hear.
Rob’s Sad Playlist

