26 felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 20 January 2017 Friday 20 January 2017 27
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix M I L L E N N I A L S
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
SEX
w
How not to fall in love with someone (from Metric)
Remember that one night stand in Metric? Time to deal with the fallout.
JUST THE TIP
It wasn’t a one night stand
So you had your one night stand, but clearly you fucked up
along the way because you’re still in contact. Stop, before
this goes too far. Put your phone down and think about what
you’re doing. Avoid excessive texting. Communication should
be solely for organising sex. You’re literally just here for the
orgasms. And if they’re being thirsty and texting you all the
time, don’t reply right away. You’re not there to meet their
every need for validation. Give them your therapist’s number.
Or mine. Mine is great. We slept together last August and we
never fell in love. He’s a professional. You can be one too.
2
1
T
his is a follow up to our piece ‘How to have a one night stand (in Metric)’. For those of you who somehow missed it, we provided a tried-and-tested plan of action
designed to get you laid after a night in Metric. This plan was meant to get you in and out without leaving any trace. But expectedly, you failed. We know that
some of you followed our ‘foolproof’ guidance, but now you’re starting to be concerned that you may be feeling something more than just carnal desire.
Call us jaded, but we think that falling in love is overrated. There’s nothing like a bad case of The Feels to hold you back when you should be writing that course-
work or revising for your finals. We don’t think the expense, time sink, and eventual inevitable heartbreak is worth it, so here’s a handy guide to not falling in love
with your one night stand.
Dehumanise them
They’re just a piece of meat. Don’t save their
number. That would imply commitment. So what if
now you know their name, if you do need to save
it for whatever reason, don’t use their real name.
Instead, use a code name, or a vague description
of the circumstance in which you met, for instance,
“Halloween ACC #2”.
Metric comes first
So, you’ve arranged to see them again. Don’t cancel plans to
see them. You have your life, banging them is a pleasant extra.
Like guac on your burrito, but it doesn’t cost 75p. You do it after
you’ve done whatever else you were doing, or on Sundays when
you’d just be lying in bed watching TV anyway (and by that we
obviously mean masturbating).
Just say no
(to emotional blackmail)
You’ve successfully booty called them. Do
not be convinced to have unsafe sex. It’s just
a trap, and they just want to be exclusive
with you after they pass on whatever niche
strain of HPV they’re carrying. Sexual
exclusivity is just a pretence, what they
really want is emotional exclusivity and the
corresponding emotional blackmail that
comes along with it.
There’s no ‘us’ in ‘friends with benefits’
Make sure you bring up your fear of commitment and your complete
inability to form permanent bonds with humans, not just the first time
you meet up with them, but every time you meet up with them. This
manages their expectations, and stops them falling in love with you.
There is a possibility that this will backfire. (Did I mention I’m in love
with my therapist?) There is a high proportion of your sex-friends who
will just want you more, by virtue of not being able to have you. (But
it’s cool, we’re just friends. I don’t mind. Honestly.) Play by ear, and
proceed with caution.
3
4
5
Lef Apostolakis & Tessa Davey
Netflix and
chill?
Always pack
condoms
So you fucked up. You’ve been dating for a month and you
didn’t have a clue.
You realised because you were just grabbing a post-coital snack in the outside world (risky), and you ran into
their friends. For some reason, they ask how long you’ve been seeing each other. HOW DID THEY KNOW?
Was it something you said or did in the moment? Did you refer to them as babe? Or has your sex-friend been
spilling the beans? Was this all planned? Maybe this wasn’t a chance encounter! You’re getting paranoid.
You’re sweating. All of these thoughts occur in your brain in a millisecond.
Scenario 1: Abort mission
Before you have a chance to think, you blurt out,
“We’ve been hanging out for a week! Just hanging
out. HANGING OUT!” You turn your head, only to
witness the twinkling light of hope depart from your
sex-friend’s eyes. You know it’s over. Damage control
success? Congrats.
Scenario 2: Go all in
You hear your sex friend say, “we’ve been seeing each other for a while,”
and for some reason, this doesn’t make you panic. Your chest fills up with this
fuzziness. Are you having a heart attack? No, it’s lurrrrve. This sudden surge
of emotion is getting you hard. Is that a rocket in your pocket? NO! It’s a dia-
mond ring! Boom. Wait, what? How? You find yourself on one knee. Maybe it
was a heart attack and now you’re just keeling over. You decide to just go with
it and propose. Damage control… success? Congrats.
10
This is your own
fault
6
There’s no D in frienship
So you’re spending three nights a week at their place. Don’t forget
though, you’re not there to make friends. Steal the milk, make snarky
comments about the decor, and never flush the toilet (only if you’re
doing a number one, if you don’t flush a number two, you’re an animal
and as a serious high-profile publication we can’t be associated with
you). And don’t introduce them to your friends. If you happen to run
into them, immediately pretend to answer your phone. “WHAT?! MY
DOG IS ON FIRE?!” or similar will do the trick nicely. Now run away.
That’s good. This is why you’ve been hitting the gym all year. That
cardio’s doing you proud.
If you can’t make an excuse, do not refer to the time you spend
together as anything other than hanging out. Yep, just hanging out.
Nothing suspicious going on here. Make sure you make it explicit that
you’re just hanging out. You may need to repeat this a few times so
that people really know.
No sleepovers
Okay so you’ve failed at this one already, but
you can start fixing it now. You get what you want,
and then you get the hell out of there. Okay, we
understand. They live in Acton, you live in Shepherd’s
Bush, it’s cold outside this time of year. If they live
more than 3km away, you’re going to be inclined to
stay. You just had sex, no matter how short it was, so
you’re probably feeling a bit fatigued. Stay there but
DON’T leave a toothbrush. You leave no trace, like a
ghost shit. (Where did it go?! I heard the splash!)
You’re nobody’s
snugglebunny
Cuddling is okay, but only as
long as it feels good. Don’t put up
with Dead Arm Syndrome – you’re
here for you, not for them. It’s still
“me-time”, even if you’re spending
it with someone else.
Avoid affectionate nicknames.
Don’t by any means call them
babe or honey. Do call them
dude, man, or pal, regardless of
gender. Pet names are the first
step to emotional attachment, and
after emotional attachment comes
codependence, and we all know
where that leads. Prison.
7
8
9
Avoid prolonged eye contact
As it is commonly known, gazing into someone’s eyes for
longer than five minutes (cumulative) means you’ll fall in
love with them. It’s like your annual radiation dose, once
you’ve reached your max, you need to end it. Immedi-
ately. You know you’re in deep shit once you know your
fuck buddy’s eye colour. It’s also common knowledge that
during prolonged eye contact sessions, you lose control of
your mouth, and are liable to blurt out something like, “I
really like spending time with you”, or, God forbid, the L
word (and we don’t mean lesbian). If you find them about
to say something sappy, simply place your finger on their
lips. “Shhhhhh...”
STOP RIGHT
NOW
Eye
contact
=
Bad
Enough is
enough
boo

