Featura FELIX, Friday J u n e 12th 1 9 8 7
ICy Heights
In view of the imminent departure of a group of IC students for
the Karakorum, FELIX introduces this week the gripping tale of
the first ascent of Annapurna in 1950.
For many people the idea of
mountaineering in the Himalayas
suggests a long, lonely struggle up
steep rocks, in constant danger and
hardship. But this is just a fraction of
the reality. Though in Himlayan
expeditions, as in so much else,
fashions change—from large groups
with hundreds of porters, to small
groups living off local food and with
a minimum of equipment—the
complexity of even the simplest is
challenging. Local people, porters,
Sherpas: all have to be dealt with—
in their own language. Climbing gear
and enough food to sustain the people
on the mountain, with a wide safety
margin, have to be carried over great
distances of rough terrain. And then
you have to find your mountain...
By 1950, when Maurice Herzog's
expedition started, 22 other
expeditions to the Himalayas had tried
and failed in attempts to climb
mountains of over 8000m. The
group's objectives—Dhaulagiri and
Annapurna—lay in the heart of Nepal,
an area as yet unexplored, so that the
maps of the area were sketchy, to say
the least. Thus after over two weeks'
marching across Nepal, the nine men
found their maps were wrong, and
Annapurna was nowhere to be found.
Ridges where passes were marked on
the map made the area
unrecognisable, and the few villagers
around didn't recognise the name.
After a period of reconnaisance the
team decided Dhaulagiri was too
formidable, and the approach to
Annapurna was found. A route
avoiding likely avalanche paths, and
the treacherous crevassed part of the
North Annapurna glacier, was
planned on the first day the weather
lifted enough for them to see the
mountain clearly.
Now it was a question of juggling
supplies between their earlier camp,
the Base Camp and the camps that
were to be established further up the
mountain to support the assault
parties. Acclimatisation would also be
a problem; earlier at 16,000 feet they
had suffered from severe headaches
and even a form of hallucination.
Already the team found the plans for
the Alpine-style fast attempt they had
made in Paris were unworkable, and
they were glad of the Sherpas they
had intended to do without.
At last the order to start the assault
was given. From Camp I the route
followed the glacier up. Sun reflected
off the ice made the valley a furnace,
the thin air made breathing difficult
and arguments broke out over the
weight of the loads they carried. The
usual daily storm, snow and mist
overtook them further up but finally
Camp II was set up in the middle of
a plateau at 19,350 feet, with
avalanches roaring down from the
invisible heights around. The next
stage was still more dangerous, all
snow and ice in unstable seracs and
slopes. Reconnaissance showed that
the only route was up a vertical ice
wall, which they narrowly managed
before the next snowfall. But that day
they were beaten back without finding
a place for Camp III. Fortunately
going down was easier than climbing
up, despite the difficulties of crossing
a heavily crevassed area in the mist.
At this stage the rearguard of the
expedition—including photographer,
doctor, and more food—caught up
with the advance party, and the
climbers could feel that victory was
possible. Eventually Camp III was set
up in a snow packed crevasse. Camp
IV followed quicldy, with the Sherpas
rapidly picking up the necessary
technique. Back at Camp II plans for
the next moves were made.
Throughout the next day black specks
moved up and down between camps
and a maze of tracks developed. But
towards evening the chaos settled
down. Until shouts were heard from
the lonely darkness...
to be continued.
Digital Applications
DAI is a private Systems and
Software house, specialising in
industrial computer applications.
We have an international reputation
as one of the leading European
companies in this field. With 100
engineers, we are big enough to
provide a varied and challenging
career path, yet small enough to be
really flexible and reward individual
excellence. If you are graduating in
International Limited
a scientific or engineering discipline
and would like to work in a friendly,
growing Company, offering an
attractive salary and benefits
package, send your CV or
telephone:
Madeleine Stafford
Digital Applications International Limited
Axtell House, 24 Warwick Street
London W1R 5RB
Telephone: 01-734 5486
LONDON (WEST END) • MANCHESTER • FRANKFURT • THE HAGUE

