O p i n i o n
A Human
Rights Dilemma
Whilst one hears almost every day about
Jewish dissidents in Russia and blacks
in South Africa, the Western media often
ignores one of the most serious human
rights issues in the world today: the
plight of the Palestinian people in the
West Bank (Palestinian territories
occupied since 1967) and in the
Lebanon.
One wonders about the objectivity of
a "free world" which allows the State
of Israel to get away with horrific crimes
against the Palestinians. In 1982 50,000
people (mostiy civilians) were killed and
wounded in the invasion of Lebanon.
Israel claims that the almost daily
bombardment of Palestinian refugee
camps in the Lebanon is an "essential
self-defence" measure against "terrorist
bases". The Israelis seem to think that
they have the right to deny the
Palestinians the most basic of human
rights: the right to a land of their own.
The report (1985) of a UN special
committee (established in 1967—UN
resolution 2443) investigating Israeli
practices in the West Bank, speaks of
"continuing deterioration in the level of
respect for the human rights of the
Palestinian civilian population".
In addition to restrictions on the rights
of Palestinians to express themselves,
move about freely and form
associations, the Israeli government is
continuing with its policy of annexation
and settlement in the occupied
territories. The Israelis now have
building plans in the West Bank, which
extend well into the next century.
According to these plans, 27 new
settlements are to be built there by the
year 2010, at a cost of $650 million, on
land which has been siezed by force
since 1948fromArabs living in the area,
for so called "security" or "state use"
purposes
The ruthlessness of the Israeli
practices in the West Bank has made it
a regular event for universities to close
down for prolonged periods ('University
of Beith-Lahem' and 'Beir-Zit
University' are still shut down); There
are restrictions on the movements of
civilian leaders, such as lawyers,
teachers and journalists; houses are
sealed or demolishedas aform of
punishment. A Palestinian artist, Fauzi
Ghabin of Gaza, was jailed for six
months, because he used the three
colours of the Palestinian flag in his
paintings.
The most serious Israeli practice in the
West Bank is the overlooking of terrorist
activities by large scale organised settler
groups (such as the TNT gang), directed
against the Palestinian civilians, and
aimed at driving large masses of Arabs
living in the area to flee their homes. In
fact, only a few settlers, known to have
participated in violent acts against Arabs
in the West Bank, have been brought to
trial and in each case, the sentences
given by the Israeli courts were a
mockery. (Most of these convicted
settlers are allowed out of prison during
the day, and are only required to spend
the night in jail).
Despite all the suffering of
Palestinians caused by the Israelis, and
despite all the Israeli barbaric practices,
the Western media and many Western
governments are still very keen on
promoting the false Israeli image,
picturing it as a democratic, "peace
loving" country, often threatened by
attacks from "Arab terrorists". The
Israeli propaganda is even beginning to
succeed, with Arabs always being
labelled as "terrorists" in the West,
while most of the time it is they who are
suffering in the Middle East.
The sad truth is that there are four
million Palestinians in the world today
who are homeless, a large number of
whom still live in refugee camps, often
being butchered by various 'groups' and
constantly being persecuted by Israel.
This is not taking into account the West
Bank where there are one million or so
Arabs still struggling to live under Israeli
military rule. Yet, the West is doing]
nothing to unmask the reality of the:
Israeli State and show the real terrorist
in the Middle East.
In view of such indifference shown by
the Western world for Palestinian lives,
one has to wonder how much longer the
Palestinians should suffer before the
"free world" moves away from its;
unjust attitude, and shows more!
understanding and sympathy for the
Palestinian cause.
H Idriss, PG I
When a director's first two major films
are cult hits it can lead you to demand
too much of his future efforts. So it was,
I suspect, with Alex "Repo Man" Cox's
new release Straight to Hell which opens
on June 12th. Straight to Hell is a spoof
on spaghetti westerns, in which Cox tries
to combine the style of Sergio Leone
with a modern Spanish setting and a cast
of itinerant rock stars. The problem is
that rock stars aren't necessarily great
actors. This wouldn't matter in such an
offbeat film if there were enough jokes
to cover over the cracks—unfortunately
all that's left to prop up the plot towards
the end is a steadily increasing pile of
corpses. Joe Strummer as a 'hired gun'
and Elvis Costello as a weird butler
aren't bad but the rest of the cast are just
hamming it up completely.
This looks like a film which was fun
to make, although it's only average to
watch—and in this business average isn't
enough. There are some good details
which are reminiscent of the style of
Repo Man but they aren't sufficient to
make up for the fact that it fails to be
nearly as charismatic as The Good, the
Bad and the Ugly. It also lacks sufficient
talent for black humour to make up for
a high level of realistic violence—I was
surprised that it got a 15 certificate.
Perhaps the censors rate sex and
swearing worse than a bullet through the
brain?
If you like the Pogues you'll probably
like the way they play the treacherous
McMahone gang (a play on Pogue
Mahone?). On the whole though I get
the impression that this is just wacky old
Alex Cox and some of his mates making
a wacky holiday film on a binge in
Spain.
Dirk McBeast
Straight to Hell
PG Fish
The Annual General Meeting of the
Imperial College Union Postgraduate
Group will take place on Thursday June
18th 1987 at 1.00pm in the Union
Dining Hall. A l l Departmental
Postgraduate Group bosses are required
to attend; ie those of you who've had
money from us over the year. The
meeting will last about half an hour with
a few bits and elections for next year's
PG Group officers. If any of you out
there are interested in the following
posts: PG Hon Sec, Chairman
(PGAAO), Treasurer, 2 ordinary
members, PG Women's Rep, UG
Liaison Rep. All candidates must be
postgraduates or last PGs from
September/October coming.
All postgraduates MSc/PhD are
invited to attend.
Gareth Fish, PGAAO
RCSU office move
Today marks the beginning of a busy
four days in the life of the Royal College
of Science Union. It's the Annual
General Meeting at 12.45pm, at which
various union posts will be elected,
reports will be given and handovers will
take place. It's worth popping along,
even if you aren't a regular UGM-goer,
as it's a chance to check up on your
elected officers and who's to be elected
for next year. Also there is the
ceremonial pouring of the infamous
'RCS mix' and painting of the
Executive. Clothes pegs definitely
required for this one.
Tomorrow the RCSU Office actually
moves to its new site in Old Chemistry;
a process which will probably take
almost as long as we waited for the
office to be completed. Hopefully
everything will be in good working
order for next year. Please take the
opportunity to visit the new office
sometime.
Tomorrow night when the old office
has been cleared we will be having an
' 'old office leaving party". Everyone is
welcome but please bring a bottle.
Sunday sees the Annual RCSU v
RCSA Cricket Match at Harlington.
Coaches leave Beit Arch at 1.00pm.
Monday sees the Joint General
Committee with the official Executive
handover. A chance to see your new
President in action and the wonderful
wine draughts afterwards. For reasons
of exams there will be no Vice
President's match this year. Instead there
will be three matches: President's, Hon
See's, and HJT's.
Be there!
Happy holidays and see you next
term.
NUTS
Many thanks to the clubs who have
submitted articles for this year's
Spanner. We are still waiting for
contributions from: Chem Eng Soc, Civ
Eng Soc, SPT, RFC, Doc Soc, HPV,
Hockey, Hover and Guildsheet. Please
submit your contributions, before the
end of term, to the Spanner Editor, City
and Guilds Union Office, or we will
send Simmo around.
We are looking for more general
interest articles for this year's Spanner.
Suggestions include alternative pub
guides, a guide to curry restaurants, etc.
Photographs of Guilds events are
welcome, and will be returned when
finished with.
Ragged
singers
Firstly, apologies that this bit is a week
overdue—exams you know...This is just
to say a very big thankyou to everyone
who helped, collected, sang or made
themselves look silly in a Santa Claus
suit for our Carol Singing on May 28th.
This event went extremely well and
raised nearly £270, which is very good
going for twenty or so people. The
highest collector was David Williams,
as usual, who raised an incredible £58
(perhaps by getting people to pay him
not to sing). Anyway, he gets the prize,
when we've decided what it is. Thanks
also go to QTSoc for lending us the
Santa suit. Nigel looked charming in it,
and was most persuasive with a security
guard from Covent Garden who tried to
throw us off, as well as promising lots
of little children impossible things next
Christmas, thereby causing six months
of anguish for several mothers.
Without a large contingent from
OpSoc, the singing would have been
atrocious (well, even worse, anyway) so
we're very grateful to them all. Last but
not in any way least—the Trombone
Trio: Phil Cambridge, Tony Neal and
Nick Lieven who accompanied carols as
well as playing through some of their
other repertoire—brilliantly, of course!
Other news from Rag is that we've
chosen next year's charities, and they
are: Quest for a Test for Cancer, The
Muscular Distrophy Group, The British
Institute for Brain Injured Children,
Shelter and the Terrence Higgins Trust.
For more details about these charities,
see our notice-board on the Walkway.
Well, that's it for now—back to
revision...
Emma Barrett,
Rag Secretary 1987-88
More
Fishing
The Annual General Meeting of the
Imperial College Cricket Club will take
place on Wednesday June 17th at
12.15pm in the Lounge. All members
of Imperial College Cricket Club should
attend to hear reports, hold elections,
discuss the tour and anything anyone else
would like to bring up. Further details
from Rob Kelley (int 4642) or myself
(int 6289).
Gareth Fish,
Hon Sec IC Cricket Club
Ever wished you could type?
Well now you can - easily.
Sight & Sound offer fully comprehensive
training - fast - in typing, audio, shorthand,
word/data processing, book-keeping and
computer studies. Part-time courses start
daily, full time start every Monday. Daytime or
evenings - you choose.
• SPECIAL O F F E R ! *
15% discount on production of Union Card
Call now, and learn a new skill for life!
SIGHT & S
O
U
N
D
Charing Cross Road 836 9045
Fulham 381 4655 Archway 263 9700

