Opinion. FELIX, Friday J u n e 12th 1 9 8 7 8
Sexual Apartheid
"I d o n ' t e v e n t h i n k t h e y k n o w w h a t a
h o m o s e x u a l i s . T h e y p r o b a b l y t h i n k i t ' s a
p i z z a . "
Comedian Bernard Padden on his parents.
After succumbing to pressure from
Andy Bannister to prove that he's not
the only gay at IC, I thought I'd write
an article on some of the daft things said
by people in and out of College this
term. The above quote is quite suitable
to describe the archaic prejudices and the
silly opinions of supposedly intelligent
people at the College.
I'd like to answer a few of these
criticisms and include a few daft quotes
from recent months to add a little light-
hearted amusement.
Recently we've all been flattened by
the excessive election coverage, yet
despite the fact that 10% of voters are
assumed to be gay I did not hear any
politician address the gay question.
All we've heard is a torrent of
hysterical ragbags splattered across the
tabloids, ruining the careers of a string
of mainly Tory MPs. Poor Harvey
Procter, a misguided individual taken for
a ride by a group of certainly less than
innocent young men, is the most recent
example of this hysteria. Moreover in
our supposed democracy gay
relationships are not legitimised for
housing, inheritance, taxation or
immigration and the discriminatory
attitudes continue to squash visibility in
books and magazines.
For gay men, sex itself is illegal
except in a 'private, unshared residence
when both are over 21 and neither first
approached the other in a public place.''
In an electoral system where a swing
of 3 % is regarded as crucial why have
none of the political parties expressed
policy on the gay issue?
I think that the answer is that gay
voters apparently do not consider their
homosexuality to be a political issue.
Indeed, Robin Squires MP believes that
the majority of gays presently vote Tory,
so surely the Conservatives have got the
most to lose by adopting a clearly anti-
gay stance. Yet despite a string of sexual
scandals in the Tory party (of one kind
or another), Tory MPs have never
moralised so much.
It is a damning indictment of society,
particularly here, that people know so
little about what gays are like and are
willing to believe the most amazing
exaggerated rubbish.
ThiS rVMacJno and" \o;s-friervis
f l c \>ocV< ar>c\ M r S w r l k r s e ...
. . . -fcloeUr* -fond of a dr.ok or3 1
E
Mark
AIDS is probably the most grossly
mis-represented issue affecting the
image of gay people today. AIDS does
not worry me—I have no intention of
ever being in a situation where catching
the virus is possible. It is true that the
gay scene used to be rather promiscuous
but that is not the case now. Indeed,
60% of men polled by Capital Gay had
had sex with either no one or only one
person in the previous month. Only 2 %,
on the other hand, claimed to have made
it with between 11 and 20 partners.
Promiscuity is now a term to be
associated with straights, especially the
sex-starved people at Imperial. Most will
jump into bed with any woman given the
chance! So in my view Mr Howgate and
his mates ought to concern themselves
with the AIDS issue and stop pawning
it off on us as a term of abuse.
So what about the moral position? No,
this is not an extract from the ' 'Joy of
Gay Sex", but an attempt to confront
the patronising view that to be gay is
immoral.
Homosexuality is described by the
church as "sinful", but so is adultery
and that isn't illegal. There is a clinging,
label of "unnatural"; a view that
homosexuality is a real threat to
procreation (though with over-
population and the unavailability of jobs
this might be seen as a bonus, were it
true). But what is particularly annoying
is the scurrilous accusation that gay men
are dangerous to children.
I think that much of society's
subservience can be accredited to
Christian teachings, most of it stemming
from a positive dislike of women and a
fear inherent in almost all clergy of their
own latent homosexuality.
Things are changing for the better,
however. Brian O'Sullivan, Executive
Secretary of the National Conference of
Priests said, "I don't think any priest
would accept or encourage promiscuity,
but quite a lot would be prepared to
accept a stable relationship of a
homosexual couple."
So, what about sex? Almost every
letter written in recent months has had
references to sex. It is a paradox that
people who claim to be so disgusted at
the thought of people being gay, seem
so interested in what it is we actually do.
A few weeks ago someone wrote an
appalling letter in which he used the
word "scatology". Well that bloke was
obviously thinking very hard about the
private lives of gays to come up with a
comment like that. There were other
remarks like "there's a lot of blood
around" attributed to Andy Bannister.
In fact he was severely misquoted and
it amazes me that such a trivial comment
raised so much hysteria. Suffice to say
the remark is completely false anyway
if you're doing it right.
For the rest of you animals obsessed
with physical sex and penetration I
suggest a useful reference— The Joy of
Gay Sex by Dr Charles Silverstein and
Edmund White. Regrettably it's not
available in the College bookshop or the
Lyon Playfair Library, which is
probably just as well as I can see the riots
now.
I don't want to say anything else about
sex itself. It is after all a very private
and personal issue and in my opinion it's
not the business of anyone else. Besides,
I don't feel we could give the subject a
fair airing without verging on the
obscene. I leave the subject with an
interesting exchange of comment
between Peter Tatchell (ex left-wing
Labour MP) and the manufacturers of
a strengthened American condom, Red
Stripe.
Tatchell—"I've never had a condom
split on me."
Red Stripe—"You're either under-
endowed or you don't thrust hard
enough, lovey."
Make of that what you will!
Finally, I want to pose this question
to those of you who have read this far.
What are you going to do if one of
your mates or perhaps your roommate
tells you he's gay? Will you kick his face
in, abuse him and force him back into
the underworld of lies and deceit he's
been living in up 'till then or will you
shake his hand and say "well done for
admitting it! Now go out and do
somethingto help sweep away the awful
prejudices in the College"?
I don't expect straights to regard
gayness as "normal" because it's not,
by the very definition of the word. But
I do expect intelligent people to accept
the need for gays to be able to come out
at this college.
I expect people to realise that
homosexuality is not a disease that you
can cure by hitting the people infected,
but a natural way of life for those of us
born gay. I leave you with these
thoughts.
Al Roberts (Doc I)
Hr W k W>U<>
people u/loo cweot
Like\oirvi.
L
°OK 'til Ut
Mr HacVio and M r S ^ a r t Arte o o b
U/itlo t V ^ S - o n e loau^aviol aootUeT.
B u t t\oerev
& Sor^t&tU\\no^
Mr D o r k doesiofc k^oouj

