No. 197
. WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 27
X . 1963,
COLCUTT EXPOSED-pj
SOCIETY SINK
Feeble support causes
CANCELLATION
Coming Events
November
R.C.S. Carnival Fri., 29th
1st round U.L. Football C u p -
Sat., 30th
December
R.C.S. Union Meeting Tues., 3rd
I.C. Dramatic Society's Production of
" The Lark" by Jean Anouilh—
Fri., 6th
Swimming Gala Fri., 6th
U.L. President's Ball Fri., 6th
U.L. Cross-country Championships—
Sat., 7th
U.L. President's Ball Fri., 6th
Carol Singing Mon., 9th
Mines Ball Fri., 13th
R.C.S. Night Mon., 9th
End of Term Fri., 13th
" The Debating Society is on its knees " was the comment of a
prominent union official after only eight people turned up to a debate
on " the under developed countries." Gordon Hall I.C.'s President
of Debates moaned " if s not good enough, 38 people were watching
Coronation Street."
Poor Hall, although he still manages to force a smile in public,
he must realise that his new ideas of evening, and more frequent
debates, are not having the desired effect; but it must be admitted
that some of this term's debates have larger attendances.
What are needed are good motions, well known first speakers,
and more original publicity. I.C is not apathetic toward world
affairs. The political societies are thriving and general studies meet-
ings are well supported, when the speakers are known to be good.
These people are not too difficult to get. I rang the three major
political parties this afternoon and all said I could have a good
speaker within four of five weeks. It can be done. Dave Watson
has said Gordon Hall is the man for the job.
get off those Welsh knees !
Well, come on, Gordon,
C.C.A.B.
Index
Letters 4
Departmental Column 5
Editorial 6
South Side 6
COlcutt 7
R.C.S. and Guilds ... 8/9
Sport .. 10/11
Puzzle ., 12
UNION MEETING
FULL HOUSE
INSTRUCTS EXEC.
The first Union General Meeting was held on Wednesday, 14th
November. The selection of the charity for next year's carnival was
raised. Mental Health and Imperial Cancer Research had been pro-
posed. After brief speeches outlining the aim of each charity, Mental
Health was chosen as the charity the Carnival would support this
year by 58 votes. Mike Hodgson is this year's organiser. He hopes
to raise £2,500, compared with £1,600 last > year. Anyone wishing
to help in any way should contact him via Weeks Hall Carnival office.
PHOENIX
This led on to the motions before the house. Roy Ellis, in
proposing that Phoenix should appear at all official Union functions,
said that a mascot was the " Focal Point of the Union " and an
" encouragement .for Union spirit and activities." The motion was
carried unanimously. Cont. on page 2, Col. 4
T R O G S
Lord Mayor's Show - p.9

