6 F E L I X
EDITORIAL
PUBLISH A N D B E D A M N E D
In the best of Hearst traditions we published . . . and were
damned. The unfortunate case of Colcutt has spotlighted the whole
purpose behind a college newspaper. At a recent Felix board meet-
ing the Editorial policy (or lack of it) was criticised ; perhaps the
fairest and most balanced critique of Felix as it now stands appears
in Scrutiny. Here Chris Tye makes several valid points on the Felix
editorial policy but to suggest that we have none (as has been done
by others) and then talk of sensationalism is a paradox unworthy of
any member at this College.
This paper will not under its present leadership present the
Union as the ideal institution some would have us believe. Although
we are a Union publication it is clearly our duty to report news and
inform our readers. If the Union feels that thieving is an unworthy
reflection on its members, then the answer is to stop the thieving,
not its publication.
We A R E tending toward sensationalism, but N O T for its own
sake; if bigger headlines and a layout verging on that of a genuine
newspaper make Felix more readable and interesting, then that is
the way it will stay. If some of our issues are controversial then this
too must be a good thing. Inaccurate reporting cannot be condoned,
but comment upon facts is an essential part of any student journal.
"What If It Sells"?
This is a remark that has caused much grumbling in some
circles. Any function or publication can judge its success on only
one thing, namely the interest it creates. In the case of a college
newspaper the only possible yardstick is its sales. Felix has been
selling better than ever before; we can only assume that this is
because people are interested in it. When our sales fall it will be
because our readers are no longer interested.
A great deal of work has gone into Felix this year, headlining
and layout techniques have been completely revised ; sale methods
have been improved and are givirtg better results. we are trying to
make Felix a NEWSPAPER—Reactionaries to this change will just
have to bear with it.
The Case for Colcutt
There was a time when Felix contained nothing controversial,
when it was flabby and contented, when it reflected the Union as it
is not; in that era Colcutt provided for many the sole centre of
interest. It wa,s an anonymous, opinionated and informative column
written by a prominent person in Union affairs. The column held
the paper together and provided some spark of controversy in a sea
of dead fact.
That era has passed, and Felix can stand on its own without a
column of this sort. To stand out now Colcutt must be very strong
indeed. That the last one was published is regrettable, but this
should not spelLhis end ; there is a place in any newspaper for an
informed column which comments and bites where necessary, espec-
ially on Union affairs. However, since this comment is not neces-
sarily that of the Editor, there is little reason for his continued anony-
mity "; if Colcutt is to attack he must also be prepared to defend.
S C A N D A L O U S
As most of you will know", the
opening of Southside Was delayed
for many months. This article
sets out to explain the reasons for
this delay. The factual evidence
was collected during the last
acedemic year by the authors
from diverse sources and, in their
opinion, could all be substantiated
again if necessary.
The first point to be made, em-
phatically, is that the delay on
Southside was not due to strikes.
The builders were held up ap-
proximately two months by the
weather. This, in turn, retarded
the carpenters and the electricians.
The latter lost four days, in
strikes, during the eight months.
They operated no overtime bans
or go-slows. The carpenters also
lost four days over a similar
period. The second point to be
made is that these were quite
justified.
Electricians: One major strike
occured when four men were
taken on without their union
Cards.
paint, instead they put the bonus
up to 2/- when it had just been
cut from 1 / l i d . to 1/ld. Even
so the painters estimated that the
firms saving on materials and
labour A L O N E was £1,600 on
the 6th floor alone. This does not
take into account the gain due to
finishing the job quicker.
So, having presented the facts,
some words of explanation on the
part of the authors are necessary.
What reasons account for the
eight month delay before South-
side was opened? The very hard
winter caused an estimated two
months fall behind in schedule.
Thus there are still about six
months to account for. It is
common practice on the part of
building contractors to estimate
construction time rather optimis-
tically, especially for non-essential
buildings like Southside. This is
done because it makes a firm's
tender more attractive, and then,
later it is possible that there might
be higher payment from the col-
lege for " increased building
Carpenters; At one stage three
coloured employees were sacked
by the foreman. He was a white
South African who said that he
wanted no coloured men on his
site. It was necessary to call a
strike to obtain their reinstate-
ment.
It should be stressed that there
was no " militant activist mi-
nority " at work in the E.T.U. on
Southside-rather a majority. The
union estimated 80 per cent,
attendance at site meetings, and
25 per cent, at branch meetings,
which is better than most unions
(including ours!).
Now for a closer look at some
of the new Guilds buildings: We
were told by one of the site stew-
ards that the individual contrac-
tors often ordered work to be done
inadequately. For example they
told the palmers to put O N E
coat of paint on the ceiling tiles
of the fifth and sixth floors in the
Electrical Engineering building.
The contract specifies • THREE.
Again not enough paint was
ordered to be put on jheaters,
skirtings, and walls, both inside
and out. When the painters com-
plained the contractors still did
nothing about the missing coats of
time." However it does often
mean that the work gets done pro-
perly, and we were told that the
painting, carpentry, decorating
etc., in Southside, were being done
exactly to the architects schedule.
In comparison, the work on the
new Guilds' building was being
finished in an inferior fashion,
though they have been opened,
generally speaking, on time
(though this was to a somewhat
revised target).
Why the difference? Primarily
because the Guilds' buildings,
being labs, and teaching facilities,
have to be considered as highly
essential equipment which must
be opened on schedule, and there
exists a bonus for the contractors
if they can do it. So a different
set of what can only be described
as malpractices is carried out,
namely that of skimping the work
in order to finish on time and, as
already pointed out, to save
money.
P A U L C A R T E R
TONY H A L L
This article was condensed
from a longer one, and there is
much more information available.
Those interested please contact
the authors.

