F E L I X 7
Colcutt would like to take this
opportunity of apologising to Mr.
Frank Fuchs for certain comments
made in the last issue of Felix.
On further reflection Colcutt feels
that the printing of such an article
was completely unwarranted and
that the opinions expressed in it
were totally unjustified. Colcutt
wishes to retract them completely.
Colcutt wishes to apologise in
addition to Mr. Fuchs for any
hurt that he may have suffered
when he read the article and for
any inconvenience that he may
have undergone as a result of its
publication. Colcutt wishes to
assure Mr. Fuchs that there will
be no further printing of such
articles.
The I.C. Union Meeting on
14th November proved an unusu-
ally refreshing occasion, it was
very noticeable that Mr. Watson
handled the business with con-
siderable efficiency and would
tolerate few irrelevant words. This
is indeed a pleasant change. Col-
cutt felt that it was a pity that
both R.C.S. Council candidates
were proposed by Guildsmen.
Mr. Tye should make himself
acquainted with such matters and
organise proposers himself if nec-
essary. This has long been the
practice in C. & G. The revival
of I.C.'s mascot Phoenix was at
least a sign that the Union was
giving certain interested parties a
chance of revenge. The two
speeches proposing the support
of mental health and cancer re-
search were dull and contained
meagre information. This made
it very difficult to decide which
was the more deserving cause.
J. T. K L A S C H K A ,
20th November, 1963
BROWN BAGGER BROUGH
HALDANE
That name is familiar; or is it?
Where have I heard of the Hal-
dane Library? It must have been
one of the many, many items
thrust at me when I came to col-
lege on Freshers Day.
Started in 1923 by a donation
from Sir Arthur Acland, the
library has been expanding ever
since. Named after Lord Haldane
in 1958, the library moved to its
present quarters, No. 13 Princes
Gardens (North Side, next door
to Garden Hall) in May 1959.
The 9,800 books, of which one
third are fiction, are housed in
two large airy rooms with a pleas-
ant outlook over Princes Gardens.
Comfortable chairs are at hand
for you to stay a while and enjoy
the many periodicals—the usual
weeklies and specialist journals
for the theatre, cinema, and gra-
mophone etc. There are also sets
of Felix and Phoenix if you are
interested in your predecessors'
activities.
Hours of opening: —
11.00 a.m.—5.30 p.m. Mon. Wed.
& Friday.
11.00 a.m.—7.00 pm. Tuesday &
Thursday.
1.00 p.m.—5.00 p.m. in the
vacation.
C. E. JAMES
DEPUTATION TO THE MINISTRY
DEPUTATION TO THE MINISTRY
The motion passed at the last Union meeting instructing the
Executive to make representations about National Insurance pay-
ments for students is being followed up vigorously. Letters have been
drafted to the Minister for Pensions and National Insurance, the
Minister for Education and the M.P. for South Kensington, and the
best method of delivery is now being sought. It is expected that
within the next few days these letters will be delivered by a deputa-
tion from I.C. probably riding on the college mascots. The executive
are to make a press announcement so that this can be covered by the
national press as well as Felix.
SACHED
(South African Campaign for Higher Education)
The Union General Meeting of November 14th passed a motion
instructing the Executive Committee to raise a subscription fund for
SACHED, an organisation which finances the higher education
of coloured South African students outside that country. The follow-
ing steps are being taken :—•
1. Collection tins will be placed in the Union and departments on
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the 27th, 28th and 29th
November.
2. Undergraduates will be approached by their year representative.
3. Postgraduates and staff will be circularised with an appeal.
Donations should be delivered or sent by internal mail to the
Union Office. Cheques should be made payable to " Imperial College
Union " and marked " SACHED." •
Proposers should realise that
when the whole Carnival pro-
ceeds, which are .expected to
amount to £2,500 and the effort
put into the making of this money
are being considered, it is only
reasonable that an equal amount
of effort is put into deciding where
the money is to go.
IT IS HAIR NOT COLOUR
" I simply cannot cut this sort of hair and there are very few
barbers in England who can." This is the reason why Sam Apeji
cannot get his hair cut in the college; according to Mr. Kaye, the
College barber. Mr. Kaye has been a barber since 1926, and for
the last 12 years has been providing, in his own words, " an excellent
service " for the College. During this period, Indians, Chinese, in
fact all the straight-haired races have benefited from it, but Africans
have been politely turned away. "Nobody's made any trouble until
now ; it's just this one individual."
Why isn't a note put on all barber shop notices warning
Africans ? " That wouldn't look good would it ? Much better to
tell them to their face." Why wouldn't Mr. Kaye let Apeji have
information about hair-clippers a year ago when he asked for it ?
"The Union would never allow that (the Hairdressers Union, pre-
sumably). Give away trade secrets ?" But if he only wanted to cut
his own hair, which very few barbers in England. . . . " But he didn't
say it was for his own hair."
STUDENT EXCHANGES
WITH EUROPEAN
UNIVERSITIES
Preliminary notice has been
given of three exchange scholar-
ships to European Universities
for postgraduate students with
some command of the German
language. Two are in Germany,
one in Switzerland, and the col-
lege will make £100 available for
travelling expenses in the country
visited.
Mr. Kaye works for Hairdressing
Contracting Services of the Edg-
ware Road, who coyer most, if
not all, of London University,
divers other colleges, and even
I.C.I. Apparently Africans' hair
is never, or rarely, cut in these
establishments either, and no-one
has ever complained. Mr. Kaye
finished his remarks to me (every
One of which, he told me, " came
from the heart ") with: " I shall
tell my employer about this to-
night; he'll be very upset. I've
been upset about it all day."
S M A L L A D .
FOR S A L E B Y M I D DECEM-
BER—1960 Healy Sprite—one
owner—30,000 miles. Soft top
and tannoy cover. Serviced every
1,000 miles, new tyres, seat belts.
Leaf green. £330. Phone W I M
3909. C. Harvey.
HOWLE ASTON, Photographer
has wide experience of scienti-
fic work, making copies,
slides and prints ;
takes a personal interest in all
work undertaken for lec-
tures, thesis and research
work generally;
gives special consideration to
undergraduates and
graduates.
3a, Stilehall Parade,
Chiswick, W.4 CHI 0219

