ISSUE 1713
FELIX
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Best Controllers For Super Smash Bros. Ultimate
Conner Flynn from GadgetReview.com reviews some of the latest Smash controllers available on the market.
GAMES
Conner Flynn
Games Writer
S
uper Smash Bros. Ultimate is all the rage.
Nintendo Switch users have been waiting a long
time for this brawler. This game is awesome be-
cause every character, throughout all the Smash
games, is now playable – as well as new characters to
hit the scene. New features allow players to battle over
multiple arenas and there are new gameplay modes to
explore and enjoy.
Fans of the game will already be familiar with the
GameCube Controller, and now there’s a new Super
Smash Bros. Ultimate GameCube controller available
for sale. Many, though, will only play this game using
a Gamecube style controller; if that’s your preference,
here are some great choices!
PowerA GameCube Style Wireless
Controller for Nintendo Switch
Being the only wireless GameCube controller
licensed by Nintendo, the Power A GameCube con-
troller is the latest and greatest, improving on some of
the features of past GameCube controllers. It runs on
two AA batteries and comes in three different colors.
Another cool feature is the LED light that displays the
player number, which also flashes to show you when
your battery needs to be replaced. For those who are not
fans of replacing batteries, there is also a wired model
available. It’s also worth knowing that this is the only
GameCube controller that can still be used when the
Switch is undocked, without using an adapter. It’s easy
to see why this controller is a hit with the fans!
Hori Nintendo Switch Battle Pad
The Hori Nintendo Switch Battle Pad connects to the
Switch with a USB port, but the technological precision
of attack functions are just insane. You can also custom-
ize the shoulder buttons to adapt to your favorite form
of gameplay. It also packs in Switch system buttons
like home, screenshot and +/-. The textured grip will
give you better control all around. Like the others on
this list, it is a popular choice for playing Super Smash
Bros. The Hori comes in five different varieties, which
mimic some of our favorite Super Smash Bros. char-
acters. These versions include: Zelda, Luigi, Pikachu,
Princess Peach and Mario. They come in bright colors
and all of the controllers, except for the Pikachu model,
are translucent.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate
GameCube Controller
This special edition GameCube controller is reminis-
cent of the original 2002 gamepad, but with the latest
technology built-in. The Super Smash Bros. Ultimate
GameCube Controller is a wired controller, you can
easily connect it to your Switch with a USB adapter
or 8BitDo wireless adapter. This controller features an
outline of the Smash logo, giving it the game’s nod of
approval. I have to admit, this one is my favorite! It
looks awesome with that Smash logo over black, and
it’s hard to improve on a classic at any rate.
PDP Nintendo Switch Pikachu Wired
Fight Pad Pro
Are you a Pokemon fanatic? Gotta catch ‘em all? Or
do you just love Pikachu yellow? Either way, you’ll
love this Pikachu Wired Controller, which combines the
best of the GameCube and Hori Controllers. The PDP
has system buttons, such as home, just like the Hori,
and has a USB connection. What make it unique is the
detachable full-size analog stick that can be swapped
out for the C-stick. That alone makes this controller
very versatile. This is the Smash Bros. controller of
choice for Pokemon fans. My new motto? Gotta Smash
‘em all.
While all of these controllers have very similar
buttons and designs, they each have a unique feature
that differentiates them from one another. Each is a great
choice for beating the hell out of your friends (all in fun
and in-game of course!) Your choice may come down
to a particular must-have function, or just be because
that particular controller comes in your favorite color.
Either way, you’ll have a blast playing Smash Bros.
Ultimate with any of these.
No matter which you choose, in the end, all that
matters is that you have a fun time playing the game –
and that you win of course! So get your headset on, grab
your controller and fight!

