UNION ENTS COMMITEE
W
ith the opening of Metric next year,
it will be vital to ensure that the new
venue doesn’t suffer the disastrous
reputation that dBs had.
Promotion: One of my priorities as a member of
the ents committee will be to establish an effective
promotion network for union events and to extend
this network to clubs, societies and faculty unions
who decide to host events.
Drinks Deals: Aside from slightly cheaper pints
on a Wednesday, there is generally no creativity in
providing drinks promotions. Simple changes such
as happy hours, cocktail jugs or cheaper shots will
make a massive difference.
Music: For the new venue to be attractive to a
broad demographic of Imperial students I aim to
push for a wide variety of music to be played, in-
cluding live acts.
Having worked at a variety of bars and clubs, in-
cluding the union for 2 years, I have the experience
to make Metric a success.
Alistair Owen
I
’m Christopher Schlumberger-Socha and I am
running for a position in the Entertainments
Committee.
I’m very excited about the Phase 3 de-
velopment plans (“http://bit.ly/Phase3Blog”),
and can’t wait for it to be finished so we can
use our new space. Metric has the potential to
become an amazing club venue, both for Union
and society events! Working on the Entertain-
ments Committee, we’ll filter through society’s
requests and organise the calendar so that YOU
get the best club nights!
As well as an avid clubber, I’ve previously been
a senior technician and floor manager at the QEII
Performing Arts Centre. I’ve had to organise and
manage external companies using our space, and I
know the difference between and successful night,
and a flop! I think I have the necessary skill to be in
the committee and that I can bring a valuable con-
tribution to it.
VOTE Christopher Schlumberger-Socha for En-
tertainments Committee Member!
Christopher Schlumberger-Socha
C
lubs and societies hosting their own
events in Metric is something that’s
both exciting and really important.
Clubs will never be short of enthusi-
asm or people-power, and I hope to be part of
helping them maximise their potential. As part
of the new entertainments committee, I would
place enthusiasm and a positive attitude top pri-
ority. I’d like to create an events handbook with
all the information and contacts that societies
need. I’d also push for those clubs with excep-
tional proven records to be given a chance on a
Friday or Wednesday evening. My progressive
and open attitude mean I’d be great for the job.
Having spent three years involved with putting
on society events in dB’s, I’ve also learnt what
works and what doesn’t. Most of all, I’ve learnt
how many good ideas are out there in the stu-
dent body.
David Trevelyan
H
aving become sickened by the infectious
spread of the simile “dark and empty,
like a party at Imperial College”, I’m ap-
plying for Ents Committee to make the
dismal social life a thing of the past, and to ensure
the Union is the envy of all other universities. Vari-
ety is definitely the spice of life so, in terms of soci-
ety run nights, I’m going to be pretty open-minded.
The more original the idea, the better, as long as I
think people will be game.
Although Sports nights are on Wednesdays, I
think sports teams should be encouraged to or-
ganise Tuesday and Saturday nights, but equally
if Knitting Society want to throw a crazy “Vicars
and Farmyard Animals” party, who’s going to stop
them? Not me.
I can see a future where the Union is the new
Ministry. King’s students will beg to come party
with us. And we will say no.
Luke Foreman
keep
up-to-date
with
phase 3
Blog
Phase 3
imperialcollegeunion.org/phase3
Vote online from 24-27 May
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote

