COUNCIL CHAIR
M
y name is Jenny, and currently I am
taking a sabbatical year to be Dep-
uty President (Clubs & Societies).
Next year, when doing a Masters in
biochemistry, I would like to hold the position of
Council chair. Over the past two years I’ve been a
member of Council, reported to it and held others
accountable which I think captures a lot of what it
can do, but not all. I’ve also had a lot of experience
at chairing meetings, including the Recreational
Clubs Committee and the Clubs & Societies Board.
My aims for the role would be to better advertise
when meetings are, what the outcomes were, and
what that means to students. I would also like to let
students know how they can get involved in student
democracy to make the most of it, by helping them
to raise issues there or in other Union committees.
Jennifer Wilson
RON (RE-OPEN NOMINATIONS) FOR ALL POSITIONS
H
i dooods, I’m Justin Bieber. You might have heard of my as that an-
noying twerp that is on every single billboard and television screen in
the world. I sing annoying songs that other people write for me. More
talented people that is. Well, I’m representing RON, Re-Open Nomina-
tions at this year’s Summer Elections. ROFLZZZ! So if you think I’m cool and the
other people are useless, vote for RON. Get it?
I mean, all the people on these pages are probably just as talentless as me. Once
I lose my adorable baby-face looks, I’ve just a non-career in heroin and short-lived
marriages lined up. It’s true, my mommy says I have. These cretins on the other
hand, don’t. They lose this election, they have the prospect of another year at Im-
perial College. They are the type that strive on responsibility, and without it, they
shrivel up like slugs and things. I learn about slugs in school. YAY! SLUGS R KOOL.
Ohmigod! I’ve just read their manifestos, and LOLLERS, they’re useless. Maybe
it’s cos I haven’t learnt to read yet, but I just pretend I can anyway.
Who needs a Deputy President of Education. We don’t need no education. Didn’t
that really old band, The Who, sing that or something?
So, if you’d prefer a funtastic COOL 13 year old boy (like me) in the positions be-
ing contested in the Summer Elections, you’ve only got one thing to do:
OHMIGOOOOOOD, VOTE RON! VOTE BIEBER (AND HIS GF)!!!111!!
CAG CHAIR
H
ello! Many of you may not know what
the CAG Chair actually does; so I’ll give
you a little heads up before asking you
to vote for me. In the past few years, the
CAG Chair, and the function of the Community Ac-
tion Group has essentially been to run a soup kitch-
en in Lincoln’s Inn Fields on Sundays, to provide a
refugee centre with sustenance through FoodCycle
(formerly Foodworks) by recycling unwanted raw
ingredients and then just last year to oversee the
formation of IC Buddies. Next year, we want to do
so much more. The Union has been working with
CAG, essentially a volunteering-coordinating body,
to figure out a way to facilitate volunteering within
the community around Imperial College. Next year,
if elected, I will make volunteering a more stream-
lined process. No more worrying about CRBs, in-
surance or whether someone else from Imperial is
already doing this and that there and then. For club
officers looking to organise some volunteering, this
should make your lives much easier as we’ll already
have the answers you’re looking for.
As treasurer of the group this year, I’ve seen the
difficulties faced by the chair as well as the oppor-
tunities to make a difference. Give me the chance
to realise those opportunities. Vote for Nicolas
Massie.
Nicolas Massie
NOT SUBMITTED
Weili Dong
P
h
o
t
o
n
o
t
s
u
b
m
i
t
t
e
d

