12
COMMENT
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
A
re you on the organ do-
nor register? Do you even
know what it is? Would
you have any objection to
people taking your organs
after your death? Nobody can decide
what you would have wanted once
you’re dead and gone, so you probably
should think about it before it gets to
that stage.
New York has been the most recent
area of the world where the organ
donor system has been questioned.
Last month, a New York assembly-
man commenced his campaign for
‘presumed consent’ for organ dona-
tions after his daughter underwent a
kidney transplant which saved her life.
The UK has the same system as the US
when it comes to organ donation; we
have an opt-in system, which means
that you have to register to become
an organ donor and (usually) carry a
donor card. The problem is that not
enough people are ‘opting-in’ to the
system, and it’s not necessarily be-
cause they don’t want anyone to have
their organs once they’re dead, it’s just
because they didn’t know they had to.
Despite the fact that around 90% of UK
residents claim that they agree with
the concept of organ donation, only
27% of the population are currently on
the register. With over 10,000 people
needing an organ transplant, and ever-
growing waiting lists, there just aren’t
enough hearts, kidneys, livers, corneas
etc. to go around.
Back in 2007, Sir Liam Donaldson,
the UK’s Chief Medical Officer recom-
mended that we changed to a system
of presumed consent here in the UK,
so that we could increase the number
of organs available for donation, and so
reduce waiting times for transplant list,
and ultimately save lives. As usual, the
government ignores the professionals.
The thing about donating organs
after death is, it doesn’t even hurt. I
won’t claim to be the most altruistic
person in the world. God knows no-
body is taking my blood or bone mar-
row while I’m alive, and the thought of
having a blood sample taken makes me
come over all light-headed. But once
you’ve departed for whichever afterlife
you fancy, you just don’t need them
any more. You might as well give them
up to somebody who does.
This approach is not for everyone of
course, to quote one of my friends “I’ve
spent the last 21 years growing these
organs to perfection, I’m not giving
them to just anybody!!”
But why not? Selfish git.
CharlotteMorrisgivesherorganstoscience
“[In the UK] we
have an opt-in
system, which
means that you
have to register to
become an organ
donor...”
F
or a medic like myself, one of
the more hellish ordeals you
must face in your journey
for the elusive stethoscope of
power – and an F1 post – is
pharmacology. So many drugs, so many
side-effects, so many interactions, and
they keep making more all the time!
Trying to learn it all is like Sisyphus on
ice-skates. But what really helps is find-
ing patterns to link it all together.
For instance, Ibuprofen and Aspirin
are both NSAIDs and they have N and
I in them but Paracetamol doesn’t, and
it isn’t an NSAID. But it does have a P...
like Penicillin, which is an antibiotic...
but it has an N and an I in it...loads ac-
tually. Doesn’t that make it an NSAID?
And Prednisolone has an N, and I but
that’s actually a steroid...and it has a P
like Paracetamol which cures infection
or...was it...where was I?
A lesson I learned in Monte Carlo was
that, no matter how good your system,
the house always wins. As true for diu-
retics and anti-emetics as it is for Texas
Hold’em. Even with the most compre-
hensive and complex system ever de-
vised, it is impossible to learn all the
drugs in the British National Formulary.
Instead, what is needed is a good spring
clean. There’s a lot of clutter within the
pages of pharmacology textbooks and if
we could get rid of that, we might just
be able to get somewhere.
To that end, I have been beavering
away at the bogged-down field of phar-
macology, chipping away at everything
less than absolutely vital. My efforts
have led to a revised pharmacology
textbook, much lighter on the mind, let
alone the back. After some fine-tuning
with the dosages, it’s finally ready for
publication. Are you excited?
Firstly a drug for everyone who is un-
well. After some disastrous research tri-
als at Northwick Park for that promised
panacea, Paracetamoxyfrusebendrone-
omycin, I have devised an alternative
wonderdrug. For all those under the
weather and in need of a good pick-up,
I prescribe Chicken Soup (400g, to be
taken orally, thrice daily at mealtimes).
Its rejuvenative properties are well-doc-
umented in the medical literature (well,
someone’s literature), proven to revive
the body and lift the soul. And at the
very least, it’s not going to make things
worse.
Secondly, we need an analgesic,
something to take away the pain. Like
morphine and heroin, it needs to be in-
credibly potent and also amazingly ad-
dictive. This may sound like a bad idea
but with compliance rates notoriously
bad in the NHS, I thought it would be
a nice change to have a drug people ac-
tually want to take. Thus, the analgesic
to have to hand is Chocolate. I hardly
need to expound the wondrous efficacy
of chocolate’s pain-relieving properties
but the effects are two-fold. As well as
somatic pain, chocolate is an excellent
remedy for emotional and psychologi-
cal pain. It can be prescribed as an an-
algesic or an anti-depressent because
of this, neatly taking out two birds with
one stone. Lollipops may also be pre-
scribed for analgesia in children under
twelve.
Thirdly, we need a drug of last resort,
the one we turn to when all other av-
enues have failed. The current problem,
especially with antibiotics, is that the
drug of last resort ten years ago is now
useless due to rampant drug resist-
ance. Therefore, we need something
that won’t lose its edge, or if it does,
we can easily modify it for greater ef-
fectiveness. And so we have the great-
est weapon in our pharmacological ar-
senal – Cake. This is reserved for only
the most serious and severe of cases;
terminal cancer, heart failure and ath-
lete’s foot. If faced with annoyingly
refractory disease, we can modulate
therapy with a range of icings, fillings
and flavours. We also have the one with
hundreds and thousands on it.
In addition to these, I heartily rec-
ommend hot blackcurrant squash for
seasonal and pandemic flu, as well as
a nice cup of tea as prophylaxis for...
anything.
And there you have the crux of the
new pharmacology, simplified to op-
timise patient care and, more impor-
tantly, to preserve the sanity of future
medical students. Pharmacology will
still haunt the dreams of medics for
years to come but at least now, they’ll
be dreaming of cake and chocolate, in-
stead of Methotrexate and Infliximab. I
was worried that some may be tempted
to self-medicate, especially during the
stressful exam periods, but remem-
bered that Imperial students are wiser
than that.
They’ll just stick to alcohol, nicotine
and caffeine as always.
RhysDaviescan cure all ailments, no drugs
“My efforts have
led to a revised
pharmacology
textbook, much
lighter on the mind,
let alone the back.”

