13
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
’d love to be able to have a free
education, a system truly based
on education for the most tal-
ented, not the richest. The UK
has a history of cheap or free
education, but this led to an under-
funded Higher Education sector, and
science and engineering departments
across the UK closing. Since 2006, UK
Universities have had access to funding
from ‘top-up’ tuition fees. At Imperial,
if you’re a home student then you’re
paying the maximum of just over
£3,225 a year. With living expenses,
according to the registry, of £10,000
a year, this leaves a student studying
a 4 year course with a debt of around
£50,000. Even though much of this
(about 60-70%) is debt with the univer-
sally hated Student Loans Company, it
still leaves around £15-£20,000 to be
paid for by term-time jobs, parents or
massive overdrafts and bank loans.
Universities like Imperial say that
tuition fees introduced in 2006 have
“helped universities to put their re-
search, learning and teaching provi-
sion on a more sustainable footing” but
have students seen a real difference? I
am happy to carry the burden of stu-
dent debt if I see a good return. There
was definitely a power-shift for some
institutions after 2006. More and more
universities began reaching out to stu-
dents, advertising places and trying to
appear more open and enticing. The
students are clients and the university
is providing a service, something they
began to acknowledge.
Clearly tuition fees aren’t going away,
but the Russell Group (which Impe-
rial is a part of) want them to go up
even more. Possibly more intimidating
than that, they want graduates to start
paying back their student loans faster,
and at a higher rate of interest. Whilst
these changes won’t affect you, I think
the prospect of even more debt after
graduation (up to £10,000 in tuition
fees per year) would definitely make
you think twice about how you could
ever afford an Imperial degree. I be-
lieve there are many students who will
be priced out of the market – there’s no
guarantee you’ll leave university with a
job which can pay your various student
debts. But is it fair for anyone except
the graduate to pay for their education?
Providing there is sufficient support
for those without funds, extending
top-up fees could be a workable sys-
tem. However, if Imperial did receive
three times as much from students
each year, we’d expect that to be re-
flected in their teaching provisions.
No longer would we accept appalling
coursework feedback, a stuffy over-
heated library or such a weak student
voice in College’s decisions.
It’s up to the Browne Review and the
government to work out a way to ef-
fectively fund Higher Education, and
ensure access to education for all. A
wide variety of evidence has been col-
lected for the Browne Review and the
group and they are now moving to
the stage where they select proposals
and judge them based on their 3 key
criteria: “guaranteeing the world-class
quality of our Higher Education sys-
tem; ensuring that talent, rather than
ability to pay, is what determines par-
ticipation; and ensuring that funding
arrangements are sustainable for the
long-term.”
Free education is obviously the best
model for ensuring that students are
educated based on merit, but is also
impossible to implement economi-
cally. If everyone was paying ‘full’ fees,
like international students, then we
would instantly price a vast propor-
tion of the students out of a degree at
a Russell Group university. It’s naive to
blindly ignore the funding crisis, but at
the same time, Imperial and the gov-
ernment need to be realistic. A British
education should remain world-class
and it must always be accessible to
those who want it.
ChrisDarbywantsworld-classeducation
“Free education is
obviously the best
model for ensuring
that students are
educated based on
merit...”
H
umour, as those of you
with an interest in these
things will doubtless be
aware, is the quintes-
sential quantum phe-
nomenon. Those of you without an
interest in these things will probably
have stopped reading by the end of this
sentence which, to be perfectly honest,
is more your loss than mine.
In any case, now that I am left with
only the most discerning and attractive
cross-section of my readership, we can
return to the matter at hand. Which
was, in case your hand had gone to
sleep, the fundamentally quantum
nature of humour. The uncertainty
principles which underlie the modern
quantum theory dictate that in ordi-
nary laboratory settings it is impos-
sible to obtain an accurate reading of
where a joke is going and simultane-
ously to know how amusing it will turn
out to be.
In more technical terms, the uncer-
tainty concerning a joke’s final payoff,
multiplied by the uncertainty in its
ultimate destination, must always be
greater than a finite number known as
Prank’s constant. And it is this physi-
cal principle which makes the objec-
tive evaluation of humour so damnably
difficult.
The same phenomenon has also
been observed in the non-scientific
community, where there is an old say-
ing to the effect that explaining a joke
is much like dissecting a frog. Nobody
enjoys it very much and the frog is still
dead. And this is why I would ordinar-
ily have no interest in responding to
the Batrachian post-mortem that Tom
Hills conducted last week on a piece I
had written for election night.
My intention in writing on that fate-
ful evening had been to amuse and en-
tertain, and he, for whatever unfortu-
nate congenital reason, assumed that I
was serious. Given how certain he was
about my intentions, the error bars on
the piece’s humour were clearly going
to be off the scale. What can you do.
Had this incident taken place two
years ago, when I was still wet behind
the ears and damp beneath the arms, I
would have jumped at the chance for a
war of words with Tom. But this year
I would gladly have let it slide, had it
not been for the fact that, owing to me-
ticulous copy editing in my temporary
absence as deputy editor, his response
appeared on two separate pages of last
week’s paper.
The fact that my colleagues on the
editorial team valued his criticisms so
highly has led me to re-evaluate the
quality of my own work. If others can
take my writing so seriously, perhaps it
is my own fault for not making the irony
and lightness of touch sufficiently obvi-
ous. Peeling back the skin of the original
amphibian, I can fully understand how
the suggestion that ‘George Osborne be
dipped in gold and sold as a commemo-
rative figurine’ would be taken as incite-
ment to violence against one of the na-
tion’s most powerful figures.
Likewise, my own unworthy self-
mockery on the issue of my foreign
birth was clearly too near the knuck-
le. When I apologised for having a
‘tongue not yet suited to your mother’,
I could not have realised how pro-
foundly offensive that remark would
prove to be.
Perhapsitwouldbebetteriftherewas
some form of linguistic tool specifical-
ly designed to distinguish an attempt at
humour from ordinary speech. Clearly
sarcasm, the paradox, irony and meta-
phor no longer serve their purpose.
From now on I propose that all jokes
be identified with the symbol (!). Not
that the above was a joke, of course, I
was merely road-testing the symbol (!).
No – that wasn’t a joke either (!). But
that, on the other hand, being a third
repetition, can legitimately be consid-
ered funny and hence an appropriate
use of (!). Oh bother (!).
I must of course, also apologise to
Tom and the legions of readers who I
am sure also made eye contact with my
avatar two weeks ago, for my unfair use
of long words and complex metaphors.
Such sesquipedalian tendencies and
rhetorical excesses have no place in
the modern opinion piece, which must
above all things be bland, banal, bour-
geois and, frankly, boring (!).
But, as was so rightly pointed out
to me last week, it is only the most
bigoted of individuals who criticise
without offering a viable replacement.
And yes, of course it is easy to knock
the response I received last week. It
is the easiest, simplest, most patently
obvious remark imaginable to say that
the piece was uninspiring and misdi-
rected (!). But what would I have liked
to see in its place? What alternative
use of those column inches would I
have preferred?
I’m sure I can leave that to your im-
agination (!).
GileadAmit’squantumtheoryofhumour
“One cannot tell
where a joke is
going and at the
same time to know
how amusing it will
turn out to be.”

