14 felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Germany will ban ‘naked’ short selling
Since shortly after the 2007 to 2008 financial crisis, EU politicians have been talking up a drastic tightening of
financial regulations. On Wednesday Germany appeared to have taken one step further by banning short sales.
T
he many students here
considering future careers
in finance have been given
good cause over the last
couple of years to worry
about the future of the European fi-
nancial industry. Bold assertions have
been made, ranging from the introduc-
tion of Tobin taxes on financial trans-
actions to complete bans on certain in-
struments. But for the most part, these
have turned out to have been populist
politicking as governments feared that
destroying the industry through undue
regulation could jeopardise the huge
taxes extracted from them. For exam-
ple, at their peak, taxes from the City
accounted for fully one seventh of all
British Government revenues. Last
Wednesday, Germany went against
this pattern of tough talk and relatively
little action by announcing a ban on
the practice of short-selling on finan-
cial markets.
Short-selling is the practice of mak-
ing money from a fall in the price of
underlying assets such as stocks and
bonds, in return for losing money if
their prices rise. This negative expo-
sure may be gained, for example, by
‘renting’ an asset, selling it immediate-
ly, and then buying it back at the end
of the rent period in order to return to
the original owner.
The announcement was made by
Chancellor Angela Merkel, in a speech
to mark the opening of a parliamentary
debate on Germany’s contribution to a
£700 billion bailout aimed at stabilis-
ing the value of the Euro. Merkel called
for faster cuts to German government
spending, more international focus on
financial regulation, and for insolvent
European states to be allowed to go
bankrupt in future, rather than bailed
out as with Greece. Merkel will be
making the case for these measures
to other European governments in a
meeting this Friday.
“The lack of rules and limits can
make behaviour in financial markets
driven purely by the profit motive
destructive, and lead to an existential
threat to financial stability in Europe
and even the world...the market alone
won’t correct these mistakes,” Mer-
kel told German legislators, showing
that the German government has not
wavered in its commitment to private
means for public ends. “All of this will
stay in effect until another solution has
been found at the European level,” she
continued.
“Merkel called
for faster cuts to
spending, more
international focus
on regulation,
and for insolvent
European states to
go bankrupt“
But the biggest reactions were to the
Chancellor’s promise to ban German
financial firms from engaging in short-
selling. All major European stock ex-
changes were down on Wednesday
on the news. The announcement was
seen as a push back against recent
electoral difficulties for Merkel’s coa-
The European Central Bank has been concerned about the solvency of so-called
‘PIIGS’ - debt-ridden, over-spending Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain
Before the recent UK general elec-
tions, the Liberal Democrats were
more vocal than the Conservatives
about the need to increase banking
regulations. But both parties, who be-
tween them have formed the UK’s new
coalition government, agree on a “con-
sumer-protection” agency, higher cap-
ital holding requirements, and tighter
overall regulations, both domestically
and internationally.
BeforetherecentUKgeneralelections,
the Liberal Democrats were more vocal
than the Conservatives about the need
to increase banking regulations. But
both parties, who between them have
From left to right: French finance minister Christine Lagrarde, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy. The three have worked closely in the past two years to introduce tougher global financial regulations.
formed the UK’s new coalition govern-
ment, agree on a “consumer-protection”
agency, higher capital holding require-
ments, and tighter overall regulations,
both domestically and internationally.
In addition, the Tories are promising
to give extra powers to the Bank of Eng-
land to supervise financial companies,
ensuring that they take on less risk. The
Liberal Democrats meanwhile have gone
substantially further and are calling for
the break-up of banks into retail-only
and investment-only operations, even
the ones that are not owned by the Gov-
ernment that performed well during the
crisis.
As felix wrote for the election issue,
such increases in the level of regula-
tion are still unlikely to cause significant
movements of large financial firms to
more welcoming regulatory environ-
ments. The latest move by Germany
should cause concern. Even worse is that
the British government talks as if it is
buying into a similar philosophy. But his-
torically governments have never been
as tough as their word on such a vital
source of taxes.
The actions of both the British and
German governments currently suggest
that this is still the case.
lition government, which has recently
lost control of the Upper House of the
country’s parliament. Germany’s re-
cent pledge to bail out Greece, which
is facing problems because its civil
servants want raises that few German
workers have seen in the last two years,
has made matters considerably worse
for the Germany’s ruling Christian
Democrat-Free Democrat coalition
government.
The reaction from across Europe
has been negative. Carsten Brzeski,
economist for the ING Group, the
Netherland’s biggest bank, argues that
Merkel’s move looks like “political des-
peration,” sending “the totally wrong
signals to European partners and also
to the markets...it’s mainly driven by
the domestic political agenda.” He
worried that “Germany is simply not
able to come up with a clear line... [In-
vestors] start to think, ‘I don’t under-
stand this anymore, I’m going to sell
my Euros.’”
No other EU country has so far
backed the plan, but the tone from
officials so far has been diplomatic.
“There is strong pressure to take ac-
tion against speculative attacks,” said
the EU Economic and Monetary Af-
fairs Commissioner. “Therefore, I
can see the reasons for this decision...
it’s important that we now accelerate
the regulatory reform of the financial
markets.”
This decision by Germany comes as
many have been wondering whether
London might lose its position as Eu-
rope’s most important financial centre.
Government policy is a major factor in
location decisions for financial firms,
and so there has been concern over
plans to crack down on many profit-
able but risky banking practices.
“Historically,
governments have
never been as
tough as their word
on such a vital
source of taxes“

