17
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
ing the tune in determining the shape of
the government of the United Kingdom.
Under PR, this situation is likely to be a
permanent feature, and the inglorious
backroom deals that have been done in the
past few days, perpetual.
However, when Mr. Clegg went to La-
bour to ask them for PR they told him no.
When Mr. Clegg went to the Conserva-
tives they said almost the same thing but
offered the Alternative Vote or ‘AV’ in-
stead. Before we go through the intricacies
of AV, it must be noted that an AV referen-
dum motion would have to pass through
Parliament, which is far from a sure thing
since neither Labour nor the Tories really
want it – it exists primarily to appease
the Liberal Democrats. If it did, only then
would it be subject to the people.
The AV is very much like the First-Past-
the-Post (FPTP) system. Like FPTP, it is
used to elect representatives for single-
member constituencies, except that rather
than simply marking one solitary ‘X’ on
the ballot paper, the voter has the chance
to rank the candidates on offer. In some
AV elections, such as most Australian
elections, electors are required to rank all
candidates, explains the Electoral Reform
Society (ERS). AV also differs from FPTP
in the way votes are counted. Like FPTP,
a candidate who has won an absolute ma-
jority of the votes (50 per cent plus one) is
immediately elected.
However, if no candidate has an absolute
majority, under AV the candidate with
the lowest number of first preferences is
‘eliminated’ from the count, and his or her
ballots are examined for their second pref-
erences. Each ballot is then transferred to
whichever remaining candidate has the
highest preference in the order as marked
on the ballot paper. This process is repeat-
ed until one candidate has an absolute ma-
jority, and is declared duly elected.
One advantage of transferring ballots is
that it enables the votes of several aligned
candidates to accumulate, so that diverse
but related interests can be combined to
win representation. The Alternative Vote
also enables supporters of candidates who
have little hope of being elected to influ-
ence, via their second and later prefer-
ences, the election of a major candidate.
For this reason, it is sometimes argued
that AV is the best system for dealing with
elections in deeply divided societies, as it
can compel candidates to seek not only
the votes of their own supporters but also
the ‘second preferences’ of others.
All MPs would have the support of a
majority of their constituents. It more ac-
curately reflects public opinion of extrem-
ist parties, who are unlikely to gain many
second-preference votes. It also eliminates
the need for tactical voting. Electors can
vote for their first-choice candidate with-
out fear of wasting their vote and it en-
courages candidates to chase second- and
third-preferences, which lessens the need
for negative campaigning and rewards
broad-church policies, says the ERS.
However, AV is potentially less propor-
tional than FPTP. It turns politics into a
game of second preferences. Politicians
can discard voters’ immediate concerns,
and rely on picking up their second pref-
erences. Far from allowing an increasingly
consumerist electorate a wider spectrum
of choice, AV mitigates against niche and
distinctive voter choice. It will leave a pol-
itics that is even more bland and generic.
FPTP allows the largest coherent group to
rule if it is large enough, even if it does not
command a majority of voters.
Another way to put this same point is
that FPTP tends to produce outcomes fo-
cused around what people want, not what
they oppose. AV produces outcomes in
which people vote against things, ordering
their preferences such that what they dis-
like most comes last. But what is disliked
is irrelevant – all that counts is whether
enough of you agree on some specific
thing you think is better. It does very lit-
tle to improve the voice of traditionally
under-represented groups in Parliament,
strengthening the dominance of the ‘cen-
tral’ viewpoint. There is no transfer of
power from party authority to the voters.
It is prone to a certain amount of ‘Donkey
voting’, where voters rank candidates ran-
domly, not knowing enough about all of
them to make an informed decision.
In 1997, 2001, 2005 and sort-of 2010 the
Tories lost. They lost a lot more in the
previous three elections when they then
naturally blamed the system. They, like
Clegg, have a point here. The FPTP System
is massively biased against the Tories. The
only people it really works for currently
is Labour and they crashed and burned
anyway, as expected. Labour won the 2001
election with 412 MPs against 166 Con-
servative MPs, and a landslide majority
of 165, but with a lead of only 9 points in
the popular vote. John Major’s Conserva-
tives had a popular vote lead of not much
less – 7.5 percentage points – but a paltry
majority of 21 and 336 MPs compared to
Labour’s 271 when they won in 1992.
Under the current system for electing
MPs to the House of Commons, there are
650 separate constituencies across the UK
each electing one single Member of Parlia-
ment. In order to vote you simply put an
‘X’ next to the name of the candidate you
support. The candidate who gets the most
votes wins, regardless of whether he or she
has more than 50% support. Once mem-
bers have been individually elected, the
party with the most seats in Parliament,
again regardless of whether or not it has a
majority across the country, normally be-
comes the next government.
Only one MP is elected in each con-
stituency, so all the voters who did not
vote for him or her are not represented.
Their votes do not help elect anybody and
so are wasted, they could have stayed at
home and the result would not have been
altered. In 2005 19 million voters cast in-
effective votes - that is 70% of those who
voted.
A high proportion of these voters are
the same people every time, e.g. Conserva-
tive voters in County Durham or Labour
voters in much of Surrey. Voters are rep-
resented unequally. Concentrated support
for a party produces results.
The way the boundaries of constituen-
cies are drawn can affect the results ac-
cording to the Electoral Commission.
Governments are often accused of ger-
rymandering, adjusting the boundaries
of constituencies to influence the results.
The FPTP is not a bad system but has been
manhandled into electoral oblivion by
opportunist politicians over the past dec-
ades. Over 60 countries, with almost half
of the world’s electors, employ FPTP, and
only 0.5% of electors vote using the Alter-
native Vote (AV) and only 0.1% by the Sin-
gle Transferable Vote (STV).
The Alternative Vote Plus (AV+) devised
by the Jenkins Commission is not used
in any country. FPTP tends to lead to a
two-party system. The system tends to
produce single party governments, which
are strong enough to create legislation and
tackle the country’s problems, without re-
lying on the support of any other party. It
provides a close link between the MP and
their constituency. The system represents
the views of the people, as the candidate
with the greatest support wins through a
fair process.
What is more, the current government
is committed to cutting the number of
MPs by 10% and redrawing boundaries so
the system becomes fair again (assuming
there is no gerrymandering, and that as-
sumption should not be made). Moreover
it allows voters to choose between people
rather than just between parties. Voters
can assess the performance of individual
candidates rather than just having to ac-
cept a list of candidates presented by a
party, as can happen under some List PR
electoral systems, and more importantly
gives a chance for popular independent
or minor party candidates to be elected –
like the Green Party’s first MP selected for
Brighton.
While it does form a strong majority
government, the same is true for the op-
position save for the majority; it gives rise
to a coherent opposition in the legislature.
In theory, the flip side of a strong single-
party government is that the opposition is
also given enough seats to perform a criti-
cal checking role and present itself as a re-
alistic alternative to the government of the
day. It advantages broadly based political
parties.
Under the Bill of Rights 1688, the vote
granted the electorate the power to law-
fully sack those who tax them and make
the laws. Proportional representation
would make that impossible, and if you
cannot sack those who tax you and make
laws, you are not free.
The laws uphold the people’s rights and
liberties and protect them against the oth-
erwise potentially tyrannical power of the
state (this has not really worked so well in
the UK under New Labour one is afraid
to say). This, allied to the Act of Habeas
Corpus of 1679, effectively puts the citizen
above the state. There has been no revolu-
tion since 1688 in England or the UK. No
other state in the EU has a constitution
pre-dating VE Day May 1945, and France
has had more than 20 constitutions since
1789.
These are profound questions that do
not lend themselves to a quick fix merely
to oblige a minority party in return for its
support in the Commons voting lobbies.
Mr. Cameron was right to offer an all-par-
ty review; it needs to be wide-ranging, and
certainly not rushed.
The Liberal Democrats wielded dispro-
portionate negotiating power over what is
now the first coalition government since
1945. It will most likely not last more than
a year. Both sides have had to sacrifice a
lot, and settle for something they do not
believe in; head not heart, supposedly for
the good of the country.
What now passes for a majority right-
wing government is more left wing than
the one in 1970s. Only time will tell if that
grand homage to the nation was really
true or just desperate opportunism from
desperate politicians aching for a spell
at power. The British voters supposedly
wanted a different kind of politics, well,
that is certainly what they got.
“...if you cannot sack
those who tax you
and make laws, you
are not free.”
Voting reforms could revolutionise choosing No. 10’s residents
“However AV is
potentially less
proportional than
FPTP”

