21
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
THE SUN’S OUT:
WHERE DO WE HAVE THE PICNIC?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
Dave New World Or
Con-Dem-Nation?
I for one welcome our new Tory overlords.
Second Year Physicist
It’s like Darth Vader and Harry Potter going on a date.
First Year Chemist
Oh well. It was nice having an NHS while it lasted.
Drunken-mate photo of the week
The feats of endurance that the human body is capable of are amazing. For
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken-mate
photos to catnip.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
A
nother week has gone by in the library and a few
more observations have come to mind.
Is it not torture enough to spend all the hours
the Good Lord sends in the library without hav-
ing to inhale the sweet scent of urination and faeces? I speak
of course about the debacle currently playing itself out on the
fourth ﬂoor. What started out as a small relatively insigniﬁcant
scent has recently enveloped the majority of the fourth ﬂoor,
leaving many a student aghast and gagging at the prospect of
experiencing the nasal equivalent of rape. Which brings me to
my second bug bear.
Now I appreciate that exam time is stressful and usual
habits of hygiene may go out of the window slightly. I mean
maybe foregoing the daily ritual of washing your hair every
day to leave it smelling of Amazonian rainforests as you or-
gasm in the shower. his does not excuse anyone from reeking
distinctly as if they had bathed (read: soaked) in the odorous
fourth ﬂoor gentleman’s tAilet. Not cool.
Finally I come to a small passion of mine. People’s dress
senses, or rather a lack of it. Now I appreciate that this is a
matter of personal taste but I’m the one writing this column
so my voice will rule. Two things I have noticed which don’t
quite cut the mustard.
1. Denim ¾ length jeans with a light fade rather reminis-
cent of George Michael in the bad old days together with a
botched pair of hybrid fusion workwear/suede/smart/casual
shoes. Any item of clothing that says hybrid tries to be a jack
of all trades, when it results in being a master of f*ck all.
2. Someone with their NHS lanyard tied around their waist.
Don’t be a douche.
Anyway that’s relieved some exam stress. I feel like a natural
woman, ahem. Time to unload on the toilets. I will continue to
be on the lookout for more interesting takes on library fashion
and etiquette. You have been warned: Photos will be taken!
With best wishes,
Gossip Boyo
Gossip Boyo Returns!
xkcd.com
xkcd.com

