24
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
F
inally, after months of issues
gone by, discussing our loves
and interests in Russian cul-
ture, my co-editor Caz Knight
and I decided to do a special on culture
from Russia: today and yesterday.
Expect no Red Squares or matryosh-
ka dolls here! Only thorough reviews
of some of the highlights in literature,
art, film and theatre to have come out
of both the USSR, as was, and Russia
today.
Showing currently at the Haunch of
Venison gallery in Mayfair is a survey
show of Non-Conformist art from the
1980s which is of great interest to my-
self and anyone else who appreciates
dissident art (think along the lines of
graffiti bandit Banksy). These artists
were frustrated with the strict and
heavy proscriptions of Socialist Real-
ism and so sought to mock it as a form
of liberation. The central banner of
these two pages features a cutting from
a work by two such dissident artists:
Komar and Melamid, whose work is
close to Socialist Realism in style and
content, but certainly not in meaning.
Further criticism of the parent state
comes through in the charming come-
dy ‘Irony of Fate’ - a fairytale film aired
in Russia every New Year’s Eve.
Finally, a more emotional account
of the events of the 1917 revolutions
is recreated in Bulgakov’s The White
Guard.
We hope you enjoy our special! пока!
Self-confessed
Russophile
RosieMilton
RosieMilton Arts Editor
T
he revolutions in Russia
of 1917 were meant to be
understood as a ‘George
and the dragon’ scenario:
the Bolsheviks charging
in and saving the victimised proletariat
from the clawed clutches of the bour-
geoisie. Of course it was never that
black and white; not every member
of the proletariat suffered. There were
the кулак (‘tight-fisted’) – a group of
affluent peasants, wealthy farmers, but
who were therefore somewhat unfairly
grouped alongside the bourgeoisie as
class enemies of the people, accord-
ing to Marxism-Leninism. Due to the
nature of the ideology constructed
throughout the Soviet period, the
revolution has always been portrayed
as a successful, celebratory event (until
much later in the 20th century). How-
ever, there were those of the bourgeoi-
sie – including many of the intelligent-
sia – whose lives changed overnight
and they themselves became victims
of their circumstance. Mikhail Bulgak-
ov who wrote The White Guard was of
the latter world and wanted to portray,
without too much sensationalism, the
sensitivity of a period where friends
and family were dying by futile scuffles
in the street and honour seemed to be
a lost cause.
What struck me in Andrew Up-
ton’s interpretation of this play was
how well the actors played ‘Russians’:
at times a little irrational, often fear-
ful, but intensely passionate – beyond
class or rank. The main protagonists
of the play are the well-to-do Turbins,
living in Kiev, the Ukraine. The broth-
ers Alexei (Daniel Flynn) and Nikolai
Turbin (Richard Henders) are officers
of the White Guard and live with their
sister Elena (Justine Mitchell) who,
being the only female presence in the
entire play, seems very lonely at times
and has to contend with the pressures
of the constant bantering and excite-
ment of a group of young soldiers who
pass through her door each day – all
of whom proclaim their love for her
at some point during the proceedings!
As a character she remains strong and
also passionate, however, taking a lover
– the very debonair Leonid Shervinsky
(played by Conleth Hill) and eventually
throwing her cowardly husband (Kevin
Doyle) out of her house.
The sets are absolutely realistic –
near to cross-sections of actual rooms.
The main set is the living room of the
Turbins, which is lit softly by lamps
and houses a table around which much
vodka drinking and harmonious song
rises to lift everyone’s spirits, including
the audience’s. There are a few other
sets that ‘move’ into position – the en-
tire stage moved back at one point so
that another could take its place. The
affluence of the National Theatre can
be experienced to a satisfying degree
with this particular production.
Returning to the tone of the play, as
you can imagine it is one of sympa-
thy, born out of the first-hand experi-
ences of Bulgakov who is said to have
based the Turbin family of the play on
his own. Through the play, we realise
not only should we sympathise with
the soldiers of the White Guard, but
for the victims of the reds, as well as
those under the German occupation
in Kiev and those at the hands of the
independent opportunists also. For
the people just trying to cope with liv-
ing through each day, knowing where
your allegiance lay was not only vital
to your survival, but also near impos-
sible. At many points in the play we see
confusion or a changing of allegiance
as quickly as is necessary. The soldiers
become disillusioned as to who they
are defending until they realise it is
only themselves they can protect.
What is interesting about The White
Guard is its history in the Soviet Un-
ion. The play was a favourite of Stalin’s
and ran for many years. This might
seem a little unusual, considering how
it portrays the two sides of red and
white in a reversal of victimisation.
However, if Stalin was to take some
pleasure in the story, it was probably
in its domestic scenes: those tender
moments between friends and lovers –
the White Guard literally showing its
pale, vulnerable underbelly. This twist-
ed view in Stalin’s mind appropriated
the strength and triumph of the red
revolution and after heavy censoring,
the play was allowed to run publicly as
a work of propaganda in the optimistic
oeuvre of Bolshevik art.
The protagonists of The White
Guard are not completely without
fault: there are those who express mo-
ments of violence and seek to blame
anyone through their vodka-fuelled
haze of rage – even a hapless woman
who is just trying to hold her family
together through this time of madness.
If I was in her place I would not know
how to find the strength – where would
hope lie when your leader had been ex-
ecuted and there were enemies crowd-
ing in on every side, whose intentions
you did not understand? If you want to
be moved and amazed at how people
can manage to smile and share a joke
even in the grimmest of times, this is
the play for you. It is both touching and
frustrating, but ultimately rewarding.
FELIX ARTS SPECIAL:
Mikhail Bulgakov: friendship is stronger than politics
Rosie MiltonreviewsAndrewUpton’ssublimereinterpretationofabigrevolutionarythinkerplay:TheWhiteGuard
THIS WEEK, ARTS EDITORS ROSIE MILTON & CAZ KNIGHT
REPORT ON RUSSIAN CULTURE PAST AND PRESENT
Elena easily succumbs to the charms of her military man, Leonid Shervinsky The White Guard is showing at the NT

