25
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
P
olitics… it seems to make the
world go round. Sadly. Al-
though, this decade’s first
General Election created quite
a furore, as what is usually a dreary
and tiresome set of events turned into
something which was followed avidly.
Facebook certainly did its bit to get the
youngest voters enthused. What a pity
that many had to be turned away owing
to over capacity at the polling booths:
not an ideal situation for a democratic
society to find itself in. This is a very dif-
ferent reality to what the Russian people
lived with for the best part of a millen-
nium. First came the Church, then the
Tsars and next the Bolsheviks: Russians
have not had an easy time getting their
voices heard or receiving fair treatment
despite Communism’s utopian promis-
es. But out of strife comes great art and
we hope to give you a small taste of what
Russia has to offer. Rosie and I have have
covered all bases: literature, art, thea-
tre and film. Get a taste for some of the
great Russian novels before taking the
plunge into one of them and see how
the oil and gas money has revamped its
film industry to give us the spectacular
Stilyagi. пользоваться! (Enjoy!)
Back in the
USSR
CazKnight
CazKnight Arts Editor
COUNTRY IN FOCUS
T
he Soviet Union in the
Fifties was a drab, sup-
pressive, colourless place.
Stalin had died in 1953
but had left in his wake an
empire that was still living under the
uniformity he had imposed on people’s
thoughts, self-expression and appear-
ance. Here in the “West” in modern
times we are still left with that grey im-
age of what communist life was like in
that time, and little is done to change
this conception. So it is with some sur-
prise that one beholds Valeriy Todor-
ovskiy’s 2008 film Stilyagi – the glossy,
shiny portrayal of this uniform and
characterless Soviet Moscow. Except it
isn’t quite colourless: far from it.
It is 1955 and bands of pretty, young
Stilyagi (literally ‘style hunter’, translat-
ed as Dandy) are shocking and enrag-
ing the conformists with their luridly
coloured snappy suits and ties, tight
trousers, Grease-lightnin’ hair styles
and American sex drives. They care
less for communist values and more
for jazz, swing, rock ‘n roll, boogie-
woogie and cavorting in dance halls.
Stilyagi does not, as most musicals
do, open with a song or any music.
Instead, what one sees is the steel-
uniformed Komsomol (Communist
Union of Youth) sneaking up on an il-
legal rave, bursting in and breaking it
apart, cutting off clothing, stockings
and braids as they do so. During the
chase, the wide-eyed Mels comes face
to face with the beautiful Polina, a.k.a.
Polly, who invites the young Bolshevik
to ‘Broadway’ the following day. Mels
turns up, has his named abbreviated to
Mel and so begins his lifestyle as a style
hunter, engaging in dark alley dealings
to procure garish suits, illegally made
vinyls printed on X-rays (“Bones”) and
saxophones: just as deadly in that con-
text as a ‘cold steel’ gun.
Stilyagi is beautiful to behold from
start to finish, looking every bit as
pleasing as any equivalent Hollywood
version would. The Stilyagi themselves
are gorgeous, sporting some truly
wonderful costumes and bringing a
hefty dose of fun and gay abandon into
their dreary and stifling historical set-
ting. The songs –words, choreography
and score – are excellent, with the lyr-
ics a lot more abstract and thought
provoking than the musicals we are
used to back in democracy (“Bounded
by one chain/ Connected with one
aim”). Viewers averse to them will be
spared any over-ecstatic dance rou-
tines, which can often break the flow
of the story and make the whole pro-
ceedings seem a bit farcical.
In addition to some wonderfully fun
cinema, one is treated to an interest-
ing insight into the day to day life in
that time from the large, bourgeois
flats that were converted into squalid,
communal housing for fifty, the risk
of being sent to a labour camp for 3-5
years for profiteering from the sale of
Western music, to the reality of the
Communist classless society when one
sees the flat owned by Stilyagi front-
man Fred’s diplomat parents. No small
detail is spared in the presenting this
snapshot of Red reality, including Mels
name: an acronym of Communism’s
founding fathers Marx, Engels, Lenin
and Uncle Joe Stalin.
Stilyagi brings together many ele-
ments of similar other musicals based
upon the youth of around that time.
The obvious comparison is with Grease
with its hand-jive dance moves and
cinched in waists, but in Stilyagi we see
elements of our favourite T-birds Kin-
icki, Putzy and Danny Zucko in Fred,
the chubby Bob and Mel. Another mu-
sical with which it shares clear links is
Hair (recently arrived in London from
Broadway) – young people with a de-
sire to be different and have control
while battling against what the gov-
ernment is trying to enforce. In Hair it
was the threat of being sent to ‘Nam.
Here it is Fred who faces his own ‘Nam
and moral dilemma: ditch the hair, the
clothes, go to America and return as a
Soviet diplomat or stay in Moscow as a
Dandy. Like Claude in Hair, he chooses
‘Nam.
Although Khrushchev’s “thaw” on
U.S.S.R. isolation from 1957 meant for-
eigners were thence allowed through
the Iron Curtain and the ban on jazz
was lifted, meaning the youth had no
cause to enjoy western culture in such a
rebellious and clandestine manner, the
Stilygi movement was pivotal in paving
the way for subsequent generations of
‘beatniks’ (punks, Goths, rastas) to ex-
ist more legitimately in Russia.
If you are intrigued by what else
modern Russian cinema has to offer,
check out vampire flick Night Watch
or Soviet War drama the 9th Company.
Boogie bones or dandies? Caz Knight reviews the spectacular musical ‘Stilyagi’
CULTURE
F OM USSIA
R R
The sensual poster for ‘Stilyagi’ ‘Bones’: a record burnt onto an x-ray
Nothing can hold these kids down, but how long will the colour and happiness last, here in the 1950’s Soviet state?

