26 felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2009
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
F
rom Pasternak to Solzhenit-
syn, the rich treasures of the
Russian literary mind are
ripe for picking in this selec-
tion of reviews.
*
Dr Zhivago by Boris Pasternak (1957)
Set during the 1917 Bolshevik up-
rising, the collapse of the Russian
provisional government and the Rus-
sian civil war that followed (Reds vs.
Whites), here is a slowly unfolding tale
about the idealistic doctor and poet,
tumult in Moscow in 1917 and life on
the front line with the red army inter-
twined with bouts of calm and simple
pastoral life. Yet even in peace Yuri
finds himself torn between the two
women with whom he is in love: his
wife Tonya and Lara.
This slow moving, beautiful epic has
one feeling as if one is moving along
with the changing seasons as the story
protracts over many years. Dr Zhivago
must be savoured patiently for one to
appreciate its beauty, unpredictable
twists and turns and recurring theme
of hope and resilience despite the mis-
fortune suffered by many of its charac-
ters. Inside we are also treated to Pas-
ternak’s talent as a poet through Yuri’s
evocative poems at points in the novel.
There is no doubt that Pasternak’s
Great will be classed among the ranks
of War and Peace and others in years
to come.
David Lean’s 3-hour 1965 film ver-
sion is the only version to watch (apart
from the novel, of course), starring
Omar Sharif as Zhivago and Julie
Christie as the beautiful Lara.
Pasternak’s is another story of author
vs. powers-that-be: the original manu-
script was rejected on account of its
anti-Soviet viewpoint. As a result the
first edition was published in both Italy
and Russian and only appeared in print
in Russia in 1988.
Ilya Repin’s ‘They Did Not Expect Him’ captures the mood of War and Peace
*
One Day in the Life of Ivan Deniso-
vich by Solzhenitsyn (1962)
Like Cancer Ward, this other Solz-
hentisyn gem was written in the Six-
ties but set in 1955 in the decrepit
and despicable environment of the
Soviet labour camp - the infamous gu-
lag. Drawing on his own experiences
in a Kazakh gulag as a miner, brick-
*
Crime and Punishment by
Fyodor Dostoevsky (1866)
Crime & Punishment (C & P) is
probably as famous as W & P by Leo
Tolstoy but is only half the size and
had this reviewer practically inhaling
it, finishing it in under a week it was
so gripping.
The novel is the psychological, blow
by blow account of a murder: the
run up to it, the 'execution' of it and
the aftermath in which protagonist
Raskalnikov has to deal with the en-
suing hellish flurry of emotions while
trying to sort out family issues and be
Knight in shining armour to the meek
prostitute Sonya.
The novel was initially published in
twelve monthly installments in The
Russian Messenger in 1866 and was
apparently the literary sensation of
that year according to "fine-writer"
Nickolay Strakhov.
The stream of consciousness style of
writing is well ahead of its time (a pre-
cursor to Gonzo journalism adopted
over a hundred years later by the likes
of Jack Kerouac and mentalist journal-
ist Hunter S. Thompson) and takes us
Yuri Zhivago, as he journeys thou-
sands of miles back and forth across
Russia first with his family, then with
the Red Army and next in search of his
love, Lara.
Entranced by life’s beauty and con-
vinced of the importance of individuals
over societal welfare, the sensitive soul
contrasts with the hardship and hor-
ror he undergoes throughout the novel
as he suffers the death of his mother
as a boy, the long journey across Rus-
sia with his wife and child to flee the
*
Cancer Ward by
Alexander Solzhenitsyn (1967)
Banned within one year of its pub-
lication in Russia, Cancer Ward is
Solzhenitsyn’s semi-autobiographical
account of life in a cancer ward in 1955
Uzbekistan. The ward is filled with la-
bour camp (gulag) veterans, civil serv-
ants and students alike: the tumours
afflicting them symbolic of the moral
burden carried by those who were in-
strumental in bringing millions sus-
pected of posing a threat to Stalinism
to their deaths in his Great Purge of
1937-8.
Solzhenitsyn’s underlying contempt
for Soviet state control is obvious.
Cancer Ward is also a commentary
on the state of Russia and its people.
Rather like the animals in the zoo that
protagonist and ex-con Kostoglotov
(literally, “bone-chewer”) visits upon
his release, the Russia people are no
longer fit to live outside captivity.
Slow moving and deliberate, one is
right there throughout the novel with
the patients, having their radiation
treatment, going through the agony of
injections, feeling the thaw of frost as
spring emerges and gasping under the
baking sun as Kostoglotov is set free
from the ward, only to find the outside
world gaudy and overwhelming. (Solz-
henitsyn also harshly criticised what
he saw as the ugliness and spiritual va-
pidity of the dominant pop culture of
the modern West).
Despite the feeling of malaise that
is presented so vividly throughout the
novel, there is also a strong sense of
courage, endurance and hope that sur-
vives – highlighted by Kostoglotov fall-
ing in love with medical student Zoya
and the doctor Vera Gangart.
Solzhenitsyn’s own experiences are
mirrored by the bone-chewer’s: he,
too, was sent to a labour camp un-
der Article 58 for writing derogatory
comments about Stalin in a letter to a
friend. After serving eight years in the
camp he was sent to internal exile in
Uzbekistan where he was diagnosed
with cancer and spent time in hospital.
After his time in exile, the winner of
the 1970 Nobel Prize in Literature took
up religious and philosophical posi-
tions and it is here that his life bears
an interesting resemblance to Fyodor
Dostoevsky’s own experiences, who
similarly came back after his exile in
Siberia having found his faith.
layer, and foundry foreman, Solzhen-
tisyn has us feeling as if we have also
served years in such brutal captivity.
This book has all the power of a tome
packed into 100 pages. It is impossible
not freeze to death while reading about
the stealth the prisoners in Stalin’s gu-
lags had to develop to survive arctic
working conditions in meager clothing
and on rations of gruel and black bread:
secretively sown into their mattresses
should they come by any extra scraps.
The novel tracks one day in said Ivan’s
life from sunrise to bedtime in the
'104th' and has us marveling at a hu-
man being's capacity to weather such
brutal circumstances for years upon
years. One of the few books of his that
was not banned... but his indictment
of the Soviet institution that was the
gulag lead to his eventual deportation
from the U.S.S.R. to the U.S.A. in 1974.
in minute detail through all Raskalnik-
ov's moral dilemmas and anguish.
Throughout, Raskalnikov battles
between a feeling of heightened sense
of self importance (comparing himself
to Napoleon) and one of self disgust,
reflected by his squalid surroundings
and unkempt appearance.
One is pulled through his jittering,
quivering madness and through the
underbelly of St Petersburg: Crime and
Punishment is depressing, intense and
malignantly riveting.
Dostoevsky wrote this at the begin-
ning of his "mature" period following
Siberian exile, narrowly escaping a
death sentence, for being part of a lib-
eral intellectual group (Tsar Nicholas
feared any group that could threaten
his autocracy).
His Siberia exile has parallels with
Raskolnikov's own final exile in Siberia
for his crime.
Film adaptations range from ones
made in the Twenties and Thirties to
Soviet, manga, modern day Finnish
and the rather half hearted sounding
US version Crime & Punishment in
Suburbia.
Yuri holds his faithful wife and childhood friend Tonya tenderly in his arms
Caz Knight reviews a selection of classics of Russian literature from 1866-1967
OUR FROM RUSSIA FEATURE CONTINUES HERE...
The author Fyodor Dostoevsky

