27
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2009
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
‘Glasnost: Soviet Non-Conformist Art’
Rosie Milton visits Mayfair to see a group of works far removed from the difficult times of 1980’s Soviet Russia
H
ere in the west we have
our holiday season tel-
evision watching tradi-
tions: Christmas, New
Year, Easter and Bank
Holiday weekends even – most of us
find ourselves watching an old favour-
ite on the box with our family at one
of these times in the year. I am going
to share with you a Russian holiday-
favourite, broadcast every New Year’s
Eve since its release on December 31,
1975. The film is Ирония судьбы, или
С лёгким паром! ('Ironiya sudbi, ili S
lyogkim parom!'), which translates to
‘The Irony of Fate, or Lightly Steamed!’.
The storyline is charming yet at the
same time loosely critical of the Soviet
system. By this, I mean the Soviet-style
architecture of the Brezhnev period
(mid-1970’s), where street names and
tower blocks were equally generic (and
frustratingly banal).
The key to the plot is that in both
Moscow and Leningrad (as was), ex-
ist not only a 3rd Builders' street, but
identical housing blocks, with identi-
cal flats right down to the wallpaper
and keys that fit both locks! A com-
ment upon poor production standards
perhaps? Of course, yet this charming
film turns it to the hero’s advantage. As
a result of this situation, our protago-
nist Zhenya, enjoying a drink (or two,
or three) at a local Moscow bathhouse
with friends manages to board a plane
and ends up in what he thinks is his
apartment in a totally alien city. The
offending intruder causes havoc in the
New Year’s Eve plans of 3rd Builder’s
Street, Leningrad’s Nadya Shevelyova
(played by the mesmerising Polish ac-
tress Barbara Brylska) who is hoping to
entertain her exceedingly suspicious
beau Ippolit that evening. However,
the winning charms of the charismatic
Andrei Myagkov, who plays Zhenya,
from the Russian Daywatch, Night-
watch vampire films and even more
of you might know from the Angelina
Jolie blockbuster Wanted, directed a
remake of Irony of Fate with twist.
The lead character is Kostya Lukashin,
played by Konstantin Khabenskiy – a
favourite of Bekmambetov, for he is in
all the aforementioned films. Kostya
is Zhenya’s son who apparently has a
drinking intolerance.
As you might guess the same plot
captivates your attention for the du-
ration of this two-part spectacle and
leaves you hoping that he will not be
thrown out into the cold too quickly!
Cyclical displays of machismo be-
tween Ippolit and Zhenya are punc-
tuated by lilting lullabies and chirpy
folk ditties performed by the two main
characters on their guitars, by way of
festive holiday entertainment.
In 2007 director Timur Bekmambe-
tov, who some of you might recognise
as the first film unfolds but two more,
senior characters are drafted in – the
original Zhenya and Nadya (truly!) Al-
though this updated version is not as
winning as the first, Bekmambetov has
certainly achieved something brilliant
by bringing back the original two ac-
tors and involving them in the story. It
is as if the film has taken on a life of
its own – not just as a production with
paid actors, but a true Russian fair-
ytale! - RM
A fairytale romance in Leningrad (or St. Petersburg?)
T
he Haunch of Venison gal-
lery is an impressive space
for works in the nature of
Non-Conformist art of
1980's Soviet Russia. One
can be in two minds about their suit-
ability in such a space: is the meaning
drowned out by the high ceilings and
palace-like halls, or is the art finally
saluted as its true intention serves: to
mimic and make example of the So-
cialist Realism that was close to ridicu-
lous in its pomp and superficiality?
Glasnost: Soviet Non-Conformist
Art from the 1980s features an array
of familiar symbols and messages: red
stars, sickles and politicians. However,
this is not official imagery and there is
a wicked slant to every piece of work.
Names of dissident realist artists such
as Komar and Melamid feature, as well
as works by conceptualists Ilya Kabak-
ov and Erik Bulatov. Works range from
sculpture to photographs and the most
gratifying: photo-realist paintings,
which demonstrate a heightened sense
of awareness of the power of painting
to move and persuade the viewer.
A series of paintings by Semyon Fai-
bisovich under the titles 'In The Line
for Vodka' and 'The Line for Vodka II'
highlight the banality and frustration
in Soviet life, in order just to gain a lit-
tle native pleasure.
Art of this period was produced
mainly under the radar and this ten-
sion and secrecy is missing in a survey
such as this. We are fortunate to be
able to witness such a large grouping of
Sergei Borisov, ‘Defile’ of 1987
Two visitors look on at Faibisovich’s snapshots of desperate times in Russia, where even small luxuries were infrequent
The original Nadya and Zhenya from the 1975 film in a more sombre moment The protagonists of the 2007 remake. Will their parents be reunited at last?
paintings here.
What is liberating about non-con-
formist art is how it manages to main-
tain or reinterpret the wit and genius,
perhaps, of artistic freedom, especially
under conditions of such a prescribed
format for making art as the Socialist
Realist style was.

