3
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
NEWS
O
ver exams, the library
on the South Kensing-
ton campus is notorious
both for being absurdly
busy and uncomforta-
bly warm. Deputy President (Welfare),
John James, noted the problem in his
report to Monday’s Union Council
meeting. Previously, College has made
an application to add air conditioning
or ‘solar shading’ to the fourth and fifth
floor of the library, as part of its recent
redevelopment. Planning permission
sands of students panicking into their
books over exams, the energy sav-
ing could go a long way to improving
the poor efficiency rating of College
buildings.
Monday’s Council meeting also chose
to back a paper submitted by President,
Ashley Brown, which officially gives
Imperial College Union’s support to a
Libel Reform Campaign calling for new
legislation that will avoid individuals
spending large sums of money defend-
ing themselves against libel lawsuits.
A prominent case cited by the cam-
paign is that of Simon Singh, an Impe-
rial Alumnus who has spent two years
fighting a libel suit brought against
him by the British Chiropractic Asso-
ciation, after he criticised their claims.
The outcome of the campaign may be
of interest to a number of felix editors,
who regularly run the risk of annoying
someone considerable richer and more
powerful than themselves. More infor-
mation can be found on the campaign
website: www.libelreform.org
Council was informed that the Biol-
ogy department will not count first
year marks towards their final degree
allocation, in a trial starting next year.
A number of Engineering departments
are considering doing the same. Stu-
dent academic representatives have
expressed concern that if students only
aim to study enough to reach the 40%
pass mark, the failure rate may increase
and a lesser understanding of first year
work will lead to students struggling in
later years.
Union to push for Library heat solutions
Union Council summon another rally for air-conditioning in the Central Library. Alice Rowlands reports
was declined by the local council, fol-
lowing objections from residents - a
somewhat controversial decision given
that one of the primary objectors was
also on the council.
Imperial Union Council have opted
to mandate John James to rally support
to ask College to raise a new applica-
tion or find a solution to the overheat-
ing that would not be opposed by local
residents. It was suggested that a com-
petition should be opened to students
to come up with innovative solutions
to the problem. If use could be made
of the heat energy, generated by thou-
It was suggested that a
competition should be
opened to students to
come up with innovative
solutions to the problem.
The world beyond College walls
By Tom Greany
South Korea USA
T
hailand’s red-shirt protest leaders surrendered
to the military.
Fires burned throughout the city on Wednesday
including at the stock exchange. The protesters
support Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, who was ousted
in a military coup in 2006. Protests have been occuring ever
since. In April 2009, the protesters caused the cancellation of
the ASEAN summit in Pattaya and also stormed a government
building. The protesters dispersed for one year, returning in
April of this year to form a massive protest in Bangkok, later
storming Parliament and other significant institutions. Ten-
sions between the military and protesters intensified when an
attempt to forcibly disburse the protesters ended in the killing
of twenty-five protesters, the majority of whom were peaceful.
The government ordered the protesters to disperse by the 17
May to avoid military action. By Wednesday evening, the lead-
ers and other protesters had surrendered and will face terror-
ism charges.
Thailand
T
he backlash against Facebook continued this
week. Pakistan blocked the site from the coun-
try after a popular group on the site held a
competition for users to submit caricatures of
Mohammed.
The group also encouraged carciatures of figures from oth-
er religions. Another backlash in the blogosphere, has been
brewing because the site changed the privacy settings of pro-
files such that the “Work and Education” and “Likes and Inter-
ests” fields, profile picture are now forcibly public. In addition
the site made moves to encourage website owners to integrate
their sites deeper into the social network, raising massive alarm
from privacy advocates. Facebook was rumoured to hold a
company-wide meeting over last weekend during which CEO
Mark Zuckerberg was supposed to be celebrating his birthday
in Mexico.
R
elations between North and South Korea wors-
ened this week.
The findings of an independent review of the March
sinking of the South Korean warship, Cheonan, con-
ducted by international experts were due to be released this
week, and are likely to conclude that the ship was in fact sunk
by North Korea. Leaked results from the report indicate that
the sinking was caused by a North Korean torpedo: a torpedo
propeller was found amongst the wreckage and explosives pre-
sent matched those recently found on another North Korean
torpedo. South Korean officials are likely to be pressured to re-
spond resolutely strongly; the South’s Sunshine policy is likely
to be less politically popular following the events. The North
Koreans have been relying on some experts’ opinions that an un-
exploded mine could have detonated near the disputed maritime
border. It is unclear whether the event will be raised to the U.N.
Security Council and how members, especially China and the
U.S., will react.
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
He’s sweating. He’s drenched. ‘It’s so hot in here’ he cries. Oh wait, he’s just about to launch an ‘crucial’ attack on WoW

