30 felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The beginning of an unjust friendship
Dylan Lowe investigates the ongoing class struggle that eludes behind Casablanca’s precocious façade
B
eguiled were we by the
crowd enclosing the Has-
san II Mosque Foundation
building, military personnel
glamorous in chevrons and
berets, placard portraits of King Moham-
mad VI hoisted like Roman insignias of a
disorderly legion. A schoolteacher led a
deafening chant that ruptured through
an already-existing cacophony of excite-
ment. The green pentagrams in its red
milieu flustered and aroused patriotic
spirits from every corner.
What was missing though, there and
then, was the King himself.
No better a parade could I have wit-
nessed than this extravagant display of
Moroccan attire’s changing face. Even
when discounting the guidebook-bound,
camera-clad tourists – whom frankly
weren’t difficult to distinguish from the
locals – the technicolor array of fashion
predilections could easily put Joseph’s
biblical counterpart to shame.
The traditional djellaba, the loose-
fitted robe with a baggy hood that en-
shrouded mostly Moroccans of the older
generation.
Ivory white trainers donned by juvenile
dirt-kickers, purchased from the ever-
persuasive street hawkers.
Designer sunglasses, Polo shirts, two-
pieces suits and ties, all conquests of
shopping sprees at the Western retail-
crazed high streets.
Yet the threads of fabric that intertwine
to provide clothing had also imparted a
metaphor that represented more than
mere vogue, as I would observe from
dusty alleyways and tarmac highways:
though unanimous in their affection for
their watchful monarch, the garments
spoke of difference, of a Casablancan
class struggle.
Contrary to public belief, the 1942 classic
Casablanca was filmed in a Hollywood
basement. Despite the presence of a
Rick’s Café against the walls of Casablan-
ca’s medina, the production team during
the movie’s making never stepped foot in
the eponymous city itself.
Neither a devoted fan, nor oblivious of
the city’s lack of actual involvement in
Casablanca, a pilgrimage simply couldn’t
be the reason for my having visited the
city twice.
It may have had an illustrious history
of conflict, disturbance, diplomacy – the
Allied leaders met here in 1943 to discuss
the possibility of an Axis unconditional
surrender – it still lacked the charisma to
arouse my inner history-fiend.
It couldn’t have been its architectural
charm, or culinary delight, both deserv-
edly eclipsed by its touristic neighbours.
What brought me to Casablanca –
and make the decision to return – was
The threads of
fabric had imparted
a metaphor that
represented more
than mere vogue
the attributes of the individuals.
My chance meeting at Tangier train
station with Suzanne, an Australian on a
gap year who had landed a job at a French
call centre, had me ended up at her boy-
friend Abdellah’s flat. When I came back
for a second serving of Morocco it was
Tori, my travel companion, who had be-
friended Soufiane in Buenos Aires and
arranged for us to crash at her Moroccan
friend’s place.
As Abdellah and Soufiane amused
their guests, their social status and at-
titude alluded the dual personality, the
dissociative identity, the syndrome as
suffered by their hometown.
Even the bricks laid down by this hy-
brid society told of a city’s progress – or
its struggle towards it – riddled with divi-
sions, contradictions and, quite evidently,
hypocrisy. Wandering through Casablan-
ca, it was the disorientation of ideologies
and politics that made my brows clench
in confusion, rather than disorientation of
orientation itself.
In fact, while navigating through dense
concrete jungles and labyrinthine kas-
bahs may leave me frustrated, the sheer
periodic and functional contrast of edi-
fices that occurred so regularly and un-
naturally made pinpointing oneself on the
map simple.
Upon exiting the walls that cradled the
Old Medina, and all those who loiter in
its gritty alleys, the sky-scraping giants
would materialise in an eye-blinking
moment from beyond those medieval
It was the
disorientation
of ideologies
and politics that
made my brows
clench, rather than
disorientation of
orientation itself
walls, not dwarfed and rendered passé
and incongruous. Chains of Occidental
influence flanked the streets shared with
fume-churning traffic, and MacDonald’s
billboards advertising ‘tagine burgers’.
Luxury apartment blocks rose from
the seaside development site; cranes and
workers ferried precious building mate-
rial in desperation against the howling
breeze and imminent deadlines. Directly
opposite, separated only by a hectic high-
The national flag of Morocco A section of the Old Medina’s wall

