36
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
x
IC String Ensemble’s first ever Tour
Ken Harvey describes the weekend away to Canterbury: inventive pieces, late nights, and a successful tour
O
n Friday the 19th of
March, the first ever
ICSE Weekend Away
for over two years com-
menced. As soon as
the rehearsal was over, fourteen of the
most intrepid members of the String
Ensemble started frantically packing a
minibus and John Sandall’s car with in-
struments, music stands and luggage.
In the capable hands of our driver (and
also the leader of the ensemble) Jon
Silver, we reached the YHA hostel in
Canterbury at about 11.30. We whiled
away the rest of the evening with a qui-
et game of Cranium, which had many
amusing moments, as well as several
quite disturbing ones.
Breakfast was at 8.00 in the morning,
and we saw various different interpre-
tations of that particular instruction
as ICSE members wandered into the
dining room anytime up to two min-
utes before we had to leave. The “early”
start was a sign of things to come, as it
would be a pretty intense weekend. We
immediately jumped back on the mini-
bus and set off towards our concert
venue - Abbeyfield Connors House
residential home, where we were wel-
comed by the manager of the tour,
Nicola Jee, and a fat, dozy rabbit.
We quickly settled into our rehearsal
room, and began the first of three in-
tense rehearsals. Our repertoire was
the music we were planning to per-
form that term: Mendelssohn’s String
Symphony no. 8, Stravinsky’s extreme-
ly challenging Concerto in D, Barber’s
powerful Adagio for Strings and Stop
Playing Homework and do your Video
Games by some guy on the internet.
This was our first look at the video
games piece, which was a collection
of classic (and mostly Nintendo) video
games ranging from Tetris to Zelda,
arranged for strings. It was a pleas-
ant change from the more conven-
tional repertoire, and for those of us
who know and love those games, was
a great blast from the past. Although
having only been with the ensemble for
a term and a half, our new conductor
Scott Wilson already knew how to get
the most out of the group, and it was a
productive, if slightly sleepy, rehearsal.
Naturally there were tea breaks to keep
us all happy.
Justafterlunchwehadourfirstchance
to explore the city properly. We were a
short walk from the cathedral, which
is where the more cultured among us
made our way to. Armed with a guide
of the cathedral, we made a vague at-
tempt to follow the route marked on the
plan, but sadly were unable to explore
the whole place when several areas
were suddenly and inexplicably roped
off. What we did manage to see ranged
from the spectacularly massive stained
glass windows to the huge collection
of crucifixes and chalices, which were
both breathtaking and at the same time
rather eerie. To complete our afternoon
of culture, we headed off in the general
direction of the castle, under the guid-
ance of Ingolf’s map reading skills. As
far as I gather, the rest of the ensemble
spent their free time in a teashop, lei-
surely making their way through tea
and cakes.
Eventually it was time to make our
way back to the residential home to
resume our rehearsal. On the way back
Sam took about two hundred pictures
of a river, and a few of a bus narrowly
making it through the city wall gate.
Focusing on the Stravinsky – easily
the hardest of the pieces – made it a
tough rehearsal, but ICSE people are
made of stern stuff, and we made great
progress that afternoon. When we got
back to the hostel, many of us were se-
riously ready for some food… and soon
we had it: massive amounts of pasta,
cooked by Toby and the ladies of the
ICSE committee. There was enough
for at least five helpings each.
The next important thing was to
find a suitable establishment to spend
the evening at. After spending quite
some time wandering around looking
for the best pub in Canterbury, we fi-
nally settled down to sampling some
of the more interesting looking local
ales, and generally recovering from
what had been a long and strenuous
day. The traditional sectional shots
were held at various stages throughout
the evening, starting with the classic
“cello shots”, and later on moving on to
some of John’s more dubious drinking
ideas. All too soon it was time to leave,
but a couple of cellists managed to get
themselves locked inside the pub, due
to being in the toilets while it was clos-
ing. We stumbled our way back to the
hostel, some of us looking forward to
the morning less than others.
Sure enough, breakfast was an inter-
esting time for some members of the
ensemble, although everyone was fully
recovered in time for the early morn-
ing rehearsal, where finishing touches
were put to the pieces, to prepare for
the concert that would follow in the
afternoon. As soon as it was over, we
immediately moved off to another
pub, this time for lunch. The return
to the residential home was quite a
rush, since we had waited a while for
food at the pub, but we quickly set up
stands in another one of the rooms,
and changed into our typically sombre
concert dress.
The concert was casual, but well-
received, although I’m not sure if many
of the elderly residents fully appreci-
ated the video games piece. We played
one movement of the Stravinsky, the
video games piece, and two move-
ments of the Mendelssohn, which went
down very well. It was a solid perfor-
mance, and it was particularly satisfy-
ing to see the results of the intensive
rehearsals paying off so soon. As soon
as it was over, we packed everything
into the minibus again, and set off to-
wards London.
This was our first of what will hope-
fully be many tours with our new con-
ductor, and everyone involved had a
great time. After the success of our last
few tours in the UK, we hope to expand
our horizons by touring on the conti-
nent this summer.
If you’d like to take a bit of time out
to listen to some light music, come
and see our Summer Concert in Holy
Trinity Church (next to the Union) on
Friday 18th June – we’ll be playing mu-
sic by Purcell, Parry, Mozart and Bach
and following it up with a barn dance
to end the evening in style. Hope to see
you there!
Finance Society take it to the next level in the Big Apple
I
n keeping with ICFS’s efforts
to continually broaden and im-
prove its events, the society took
a great leap from the usual for-
mat of a talk in SAF followed by
free condiments, to a 5 day trip to see
one of the world’s largest financial cen-
tres. Highlights included tours of J.P.
Morgan and Bloomberg headquarters,
tickets to an NBA game, a tour of Wall
Street as well as a free licence to roam
and discover the numerous attractions
New York has to offer.
Furthermore, to gather a true insight
into the strenuous life style of your av-
erage banker, a “strictly educational”
night was spent living the highlife in
one of the Marriot’s penthouse suits,
overlooking the Manhattan skyline. I
could go on and on but I don’t think
I could sum up the trip nearly as well
as some of the finance societies mem-
bers fortunate enough to go; Henry
McGowan “was so sad to leave I
couldn’t help myself from crying on the
flight home”. Vedish Bhatoolaul “expe-
rienced the proverbial ‘craning of the
neck’ to capture the tips of skyscrapers
and the sense of wonder and humility
while standing at their feet”. And finally
the society’s President Bradley Jones
surmised the experience: “this trip was
a real reminder that we are improv-
ing and expanding every year – I can’t
think of a better way to have celebrated
a year of such hard work by each and
everyone in the ICFS team. I look for-
ward to the year ahead!”
‘The Video Games
piece ... a collec-
tion of classic video
games ranging from
Tetris to Zelda, ar-
ranged for strings.’
IC Finance in New York, where they toured Wall Street and hopefully learnt how not to do finance

