38 felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SPORT
Kirsty Poore RSM Hockey
Omar Mustufvi Imperial Racing Green
RSM Ladies 1s 6
UCL Ladies 3s 2
Imperial Racing Green gear up for July trip to Silverstone
I
mperial Racing Green (IRG)
- our very own home grown,
cleaner and greener racing
team- have been hard at work
all year, producing some of
their most innovative designs to date,
setting out to impress at this year’s
Formula Student competition at Sil-
verstone in July. IRG will be entering
the design segment of the competition
with their latest car, the IRG04. The
IRG04 will succeed the IRG03 which
entered the tournament last year, set-
ting the standard high by bringing
home the award for Best/Most Inno-
vative Design at the event.
Many of the technical details of the
car are being kept under covers until
the competition day to prevent rival
teams from undertaking excessive ‘idea
transfers’, but a few early CAD images
have been leaked recently showing an
impressive new chassis design. The car
has been developed with an emphasis
on efficiency, achieved through the im-
plementation of technologies such as
regenerative braking. This technology
enables the energy usually lost dur-
ing braking to be harnessed in super-
capacitors which can then be used as
a power boost when overtaking; a fea-
ture not dissimilar to the KERS system
used in F1 cars.
IRG was started in 2006 being the
first project of its kind at a British uni-
versity to involve undergraduates in
fuel cell research, and has since rap-
idly grown, now involving over 100
students across all the engineering
departments at the university. The stu-
dents work on IRG projects as part of
coursework within their department in
teams of around five, working on areas
ranging from suspension design to fuel
cell cooling. IRG is also student run,
with a management team formed from
3rd and 4th year students.
Already developing their fifth car,
IRG have a wealth of experience under
their belt and hope to further branch
out into different industries to help
create innovative solutions to battling
climate change. An example of this is
the current development of a fuel cell
powered automotive vehicle to com-
pete with the G-Wiz around the inner
streets of metropolitan London.
If you would like more information
on Racing Green or how you can be in-
volved you can visit:
www.imperialracinggreen.co.uk
We know what you’re thinking. We hope the car looks in better nick by the time that July comes around too
W
e had been waiting
for this game for
a long time. It had
been rearranged 3
times due to UCL’s
inability to field a side, we techni-
cally could have taken a walkover, but
as they were the only other unbeaten
team in the league we wanted to beat
them fair and square. It was to be a day
of mixed emotions for Sammy and Mel
who’s last game in black and gold could
see the RSM ladies get promoted for
the first time since records began.
The big day did not start well; two
of our players dropped out so we were
down to 10 men. A frantic two hours
followed with many phone calls to our
friends at IC, but being the last week
of term and very short notice, nobody
could step in. The next logical step was
to look for sporty folk from within the
RSM. After a call to the netball captain
we ended up with McNugget getting
out of bed to join us.
We arrived on time to the pleasant
surprise of the opposition only have 10
players! Our plan to go out hard and
get early goals worked! The first ten
minutes saw goals from Sanghee, Ted-
dy and Laura - our force shocked them
to the core and whilst we were basking
in this unbelievable start the UCL girls
were starting to turn on each other and
letting their anger show. The next 25
minutes seemed to fly by and before we
knew it half time arrived with a relaxed
team talk. The main message was keep
up the good work, and that we did.
UCL came back much stronger in the
second half and although we scored again
they also snuck in an early goal. The pres-
sure continued and the game was begin-
ning to even out; they were a new team,
but still an angry bunch! They argued
witheachother,us,andeventheumpires.
More RSM goals followed as we
rose above the torrent of abuse, or at
least some of us did–not Angry Claire
though, who got involved in the fun
and games! The Korean twins were
also seen to be muttering rapidly under
their breaths but we can’t understand
them at the best of times, and amidst
the flying sticks we had no chance.
The game ended 6-2 with our other
goals going to Laura, Teddy and Alex.
Special mentions must go to: Matt
and Paddy for umpiring; McNugget
who played a storming game and won
Imperial hurlers victorious
Finian McCann Hurling
L
ast Sunday, Imperial Col-
lege’s hurlers recorded their
first victory since their in-
ception last year. After plen-
ty of drama in Beit Quad
trying to get our gear and with Chris
Farrell arriving 45 minutes late with
the bus, we eventually made our way to
St. Kiernan’s ground in Mill Hill to face
Cambridge University.
Taking advantage of a break in the in-
clement weather, the match got under-
way an hour and a half late. The first
few cagey minutes of play saw neither
team score, until Cambridge broke
the deadlock. However, determined
half-back sweeping by Neil Clancy
and Mark Jennings and stalwart full-
back Ciarán McGreevy settled affairs
in defence and soon the ball made its
way forward to Seán Dunne who el-
egantly slotted the sliothar over the bar
to score Imperial’s first point. Cam-
bridge’s midfield duo were moving well
and had soon knocked over another
two points and run in a goal past Far-
rell after some well put-together play.
Eventually a loose ball landed to mid-
fielder Finian McCann whose skyward
shot went straight over the Cambridge
keeper’s head for a goal. Imperial con-
tinued to press, with Eddie Fitzpatrick
and Padhraic Comerford working hard
to move the ball into Dunne and John
McDonnell, whose pressure was re-
warded with a goal for Dunne. Cam-
bridge managed to sneak in another
goal and point before half time how-
ever, Stevie Gallagher pulled one back
for IC, leaving the half-time score 10
points to 8.
Imperial took to the field in the sec-
ond half determined to turn the game
around. Cambridge were first off the
mark again, converting a free from
short range. Imperial’s fortunes soon
changed as a point attempt from Clan-
cy fell short and went over the keep-
er’s head for another goal. Cambridge
swiftly worked their way back up the
pitch to get another point, but Impe-
rial responded with McCann convert-
ing a free from fifty yards, leaving the
teams level on 12 points each. Imperial
continued to pile on the pressure and
after a goalmouth scramble in front of
the Cambridge net, the ball spilled out
and McCann drilled it below the bar
for another goal, followed by Clancy
adding a further point.
Imperial’s dominant defence had
blunted the Cambridge attack with
Eddie Fitz, pulling off some amazing
reflex saves. Centre-back Neil Clancy
pushed forward again to calmly send
the ball over the bar from long range.
McCann converted another two points
following a thwarted Cambridge attack
and after collecting a poor Cambridge
clearence following intense pressure by
Chris Farrell and McDonnell. When a
wayward shot from Sean Dunne was
deflected into the Cambridge net by
one of their defenders, it was clear that
Imperial were cruising to victory.
One final push from Cambridge
saw them convert a point, but Mike
White, Clancy and McGreevy made
sure it was their final score. McCann
added another point before McDon-
nell rounded off the scoring for the day
with a clever flick from close range past
the Cambridge keeper, leaving the final
score Imperial 25, Cambridge 13. The
match was well-contested, neither side
let heads drop in spite of the scoreline,
and it was a great achievement for the
IC lads as many had only picked up a
hurl for the first time last October.
Promotion for the RSM ladies
Man of the Match; Laura who scored
a cracking short corner to take Cham-
pagne Moment; and Bungey who sat
on the post all match and missed a
grand total of 7 open goals – obviously
Dick of the Day and proud wearer of
the luminous hoody.
So, the RSM ladies were promoted and
off we went to the pub, the real celebra-
tions were put on hold until the AGM!
Olivia was elected next year’s captain,
taking over from Kirsty. Good luck to
her and the team in the new league.
Saturday saw us once again conquer
President’s Day–RSM mixed won all of
their games, winning the overall tro-
phy of the day and the inter college cup
as RCS and C & G were pummelled
throughout the day. Congratulations
to the Chaps who beat both the 22s
and Links, making it the semis finals
before RSM knocked them out.
Look how happy they are! Especially the one on the left. Is that an octopus?

