39
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
F
ollowing last week’s inter-
view with Clare Harding,
captain of the Women’s fenc-
ing team, felixSport turns its
attention to Men’s Volleyball
who topped the felixSport league table
along with the Women fencers.
Both fencing and volleyball do not
command a high level of publicity over
in the UK, indeed when most people
think of volleyball it’s often the beach
version with the scantily clad women
and not the indoor sport. Each volley-
ball team has six players with the teams
separated by a net, one team begins the
rally by serving to the opposing team,
points are scored by grounding the ball
on the opponent’s side of the net within
the court area. The team that wins the
point then serves for the next point. A
set is won when one team is the first
to reach 25 points (by two clear points)
matches are played on a best of 5 set
basis, with the fifth set if necessary be-
ing played to 15 points.
The men’s volleyball team won all
ten of their matches played during
this season. felixSport caught up with
the captain of this year’s successful
Volleyball team, Marc to discuss the
achievements of this season. “The first
team squad this year was made up of
12 players; Edoardo Barengo, Marios
Chartosias, Domenico Corapi, Chris-
toph Datler, Gonzalo De Gisbert, Be-
noit Disch, Harry Fredheim, Alessan-
dro Galli, Ergument Karakoç, Nikolaos
Nikolaou, Platon Vogiatzoglou and
myself. Harry Fredheim, Allessandro
Galli, Nikolaos Nikolaou were new
additions to the squad this year and
played key roles in our BUCS success.”
Despite performing so well during
the course of the season it was not
plain sailing for the Imperial Volley-
ball team which was certainly apparent
when Oxford University travelled to
play them in a championship qualifica-
tion match: “We had expected to beat
the Oxford team as we had a stronger
squad, all of whom were at our dis-
posal. When Oxford arrived however, I
had forgotten to organise independent
referees to officiate the match as is re-
quired in our conference. I was able to
organise referees at short notice with
the game set to start an hour later than
planned. We offered the Oxford teams
several options prior to this in an at-
tempt to let the match proceed. Our
efforts were in vain as the Oxford team
left Ethos 45 minutes after the sched-
uled start claiming the default win.”
Such actions by the Oxford team not
felixSport talks to the table topping Volleyball team
Following last week’s interview with Women’s Fencing, we catch up with Marc Schäpertöns, Volleyball Captain
only appeared to be unsportsmanlike
but when they reached the finals in
Sheffield they succumbed to univer-
sity second string teams and ranked
a dismal 7th out of 8, losing all three
of their group stage matches with the
Marc confident that the Imperial team
would have fared much better in the
Finals.
Their final game of the season was
played this week against the Flaming
Six Aces. The season finale was victo-
rious, ending with a 3 - 1 win.
The second set was closely contested
ending 32:30 in Imperial’s favour, but
admitted the following set did not go
according to plan.
Name: Marc Schäpertöns.
Age: 20.
Subject: Second Year Chemical
Engineering.
Height: 1.85m
Length of Time Playing: 10 years.
Meet the Captain:
Men’s Volleyball 1sts
I
n keeping with the traditions
of the GAA and Ireland, this
report is a bit late! On a dreary
Friday evening in February, Im-
perial’s Gaelic footballers made
their way to Birmingham for the club’s
second appearance at the British Uni-
versities championships. After a good
night’s sleep, we made the trip out
to Coventry where finding the pitch
proved easier than initially imagined,
as the British University GAA repre-
sentative’s eye-brows were easier to
spot than Toby Davis’ ginger mop. Our
first game was against Aston Univer-
sity, who shocked everyone including
themselves by scoring an extremely
questionable first goal after only a
minute of play. However, a goal in
quick response from Man of the Tour-
nament Sean Dunne soon put things
right and a sideline score from Eddie
Fitzpatrick nudged Imperial in front.
The second half saw Imperial domi-
nate, with Padhraig Comerford in his
debut year and Phil Jakeman patrolling
the wings. After the final whistle Impe-
rial had won 9 points to 5.
Imperial’s second game against Stir-
ling had a cagey start, eventually Vinny
McGaughan linked up with former St.
Malachy’s teammate Frankie O’Neill to
drill the ball into the back of the net.
Stirling however, fought back, leaving
the half-time score Imperial 1-0, Stir-
ling 0-2. In a tough, physical game, the
second half was even closer than the
first and after a quick score from our
token Safa Paddy Heugh, the heroic
work of Chris Farrell and Neil Clancy
in defence ensured we were still ahead.
With Stirling continuously threaten-
ing, the game was not truly put to bed
until Finian McCann gathered a loose
ball on the halfway line, rounded three
men and duly dispatched the ball from
thirty yards. Imperial ran out comfort-
able winners.
Eventual finalists Sunderland were
next up, and showed themselves to be an
impressive outfit. Two well-taken frees
from Jimmy Haugh and some Trojan
defence work from Mark Jennings, Ed O’
Hare and Vinny McGaughan keeping us
in contention. Imperial’s fitness eventu-
ally let them down and Sunderland man-
aged to convert a broken ball in midfield
into a shock goal, and another well-taken
chance killed off the game for Imperial.
Our final game against Cambridge
was inconsequential but we were deter-
mined to go out fighting. After two stun-
ning goals from Meathman Sean Dunne,
combined with energetic off-the-ball
movement from balding Stephen Gal-
lagher, Imperial were 8 points to 7 ahead
with 4 minutes to play. Newbies Alan
Webb and Harry Evans had a baptism of
fire, with Webb unlucky to give away a
penalty. Jimmy Haugh pulled off a won-
der save to keep Imperial in front, but
the next Cambridge attack saw them fi-
nally score a winning goal, leaving Andy
Lavery’s late point as a mere consolation
as Cambridge went on to win 10 points
to 9.
It was a disappointing end to a day that
started so well; until next year!
Gaelic football report from the BUGAA championships
Finian McCann Gaelic Football
Short sleeves, short shorts, rolled down socks. It’s 1970s football, with gloves
“We then let ourselves down and lost
the third set to come back with some
nitty-gritty blocking by Harry Fred-
heim and Kees De Hoogh in set 4,” said
Schäpertöns.
The win means they have gained
promotion for next season to Division
1. They finish the season unbeaten on
court, but accidently missed one fix-
ture due to a combination of forgetfull-
ness and clerical errors.
Looking forward to next season,
there is little cause for concern: “The
only player that will be leaving us from
our starting line-up will be Platon
Vogiatzoglou, our opposite attacker.
We aim to build on the success that we
have enjoyed in BUCS this season and
qualify for the final 8s next year.”
The feat of our Volleyball players
should not be understated; with the
resources available to them as well as
the workload which dogs all Impe-
rial students, the team are competing
against Leeds Metropolitan University,
Bath and Loughborough, all of which
are recognised as being very sport fo-
cused. The prospects of the Volleyball
team look good for next season due to
the core of the team remaining.
“The Volleyball Club would like to
take the opportunity to thank Ashly
Black and coach Ercument Karakoç,”
said their Captain.
The volleyball team came joint 1st in the felixSports league.

