5
felix FRIDAY 21 MAY 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
he system that funds university courses
is due to be transformed in the coming
years, and students are of course central
to this. How much and the way students
pay are topics of intense discussion across
the country. Nerves are already shredding as universi-
ties are due to receive across-the-board public funding
cuts of £600 million from as early as next year, leaving
the onus of tuition funding on students themselves.
That is exactly what people are expecting to hap-
pen after a cross-party review on university funding
is completed this Autumn. The review, led by ex-BP
Chief Executive Lord Browne, will advise the Govern-
ment on how to overhaul the current university fund-
ing systems.
University chiefs insist students must contribute
more than ever before towards the cost of their degree.
They argue it is necessary to not only keep British uni-
versities amongst some of the world’s best, but also to
pull the UK out of recession.
felix focuses in on the current state of play in higher
education that are interest to current and future Impe-
rial students.
University. ‘’The taxpayer continues
to foot the majority of the costs of un-
dergraduate degrees and this is unfair’’
they mentioned.
‘’Higher fees are the only answer’’, the
Group emphasised. Cambridge Univer-
sity has warned that current fees are
too low for it to remain world-leading,
which has led to a dependency on in-
come from overseas students who pay
more. Piatt added that ‘’while the UK
was cutting University budgets by more
than £1 billion by 2013, China, South
Korea and Singapore were increas-
ing their public investment in Higher
Education’’.
The submission argued that ‘’the lack
of a real rate of interest on student loans
is a subsidy which imposes high costs
on the government and which exceeds
the requirements of ensuring fair access
to higher education.’’ The three ways in
which Universities could reduce their
annual deficits outlined by the report
were to either reduce staff, recruit more
overseas students or increase tuition
fees. This is accompanied by the sug-
gestion of allowing richer graduates the
ability to pay back loans earlier and at a
higher interest rate.
Sections of the submission outlined
the need for increased graduate contri-
butions to be additional to public fund-
ing, recognising that STEM subjects
S
tudents of the Aldwych Group have issued
a press release indicating that the Russell
Group’s proposals to lift the cap on tuition
fees is widely opposed by their students.
Emmanuel Akpan-Inwang, Chair of the Aldwych
Group said:
‘’I am appalled to hear that the Russell Group has
advised the Browne Review to raise tuition fees to
a level high enough to create a true market in the
sector. The Russell Group has failed miserably to put
forward any case which suggests that a rise in fees
would benefit access to or the quality of education.
In fact, the Russell Group’s suggestions jeopardise
fair access to higher education.’’
News of proposed commercial interest rates for
loans to students raised fears of mortgage style
debts. He continued to add:
‘’For the Russell Group to ask for the application of
real interest rates to repayments is short-sighted
andincrediblyregressive.TheBrowneReviewneeds
to ensure that there is a progressive restructuring of
the system that is both beneficial for universities
and students.’’
Students: We disagree
with lifting cap on fees
Aldwych Group Chair
Emmanuel Apkan-Inwang led a
march to the Russell Group offices
last week to protest against the
confidentiality of the universities’
suggestions to the Browne
Review. Now made publically
available, he has criticised the
Russell Group further.
What does Imperial College Union make of the Russell Group’s submission?
U
nion President Ashley Brown has com-
mented on IC Union’s stance on the
problem. He mentioned that the core
principles in the report unsurprisingly
outlined how Russell Group Universities need
more money and how graduates could contribute
more towards the cost of their education.
“The main issue,” he commented, “arises with
how the Russell Group propose to resolve the stu-
dent loans problem.”
The government currently provides loans at an
interest rate of 0%, such that the loan does not
cover the cost of providing the money; the Gov-
ernment loses money on every student it lends to.
The proposed solution is to fix the loan at the cur-
rent level, but to provide ‘’top up’’ loans with high-
er rates of interest, either through the Student
Loans Company, universities selling bonds or ar-
ranging for banks to provide loans. He continued
to warn that all three schemes rely on graduates
having sufficiently high salaries to pay back the
“It is clearly undesirable
for graduates to leave
university with upwards
of £60,000 of debt”
£60,000
The possible average
graduate’s debts after Review
£9,000
A proposed tuition fee
increase
Imperial College Union
President Ashley Brown
took part in the Aldwych
Group’s protest last week.
He has stated that the
Russell Group’s take on
tuition fees and loans is
not reflected by the Union
loans with interest.
On behalf of the Union, he said that ‘’IC Union’s
current policy on fees opposes any attempt to lift
the cap, so we are at odds with them on that point.
We do not currently have a policy on loan interest
rates, other than being supportive of the current
loan arrangements, but it is clearly undesirable
for graduates to leave university with upwards of
£60,000 of debt, most of it with a commercial rate
of interest.’’ He praised their recommendations
to increase the teaching grant for ‘’strategically
important’’ subjects such as Science and Engi-
neering, which would be paid for by reducing the
grant on subjects such as Law. “The introduction
of tuition fees (at £1,100) and then top-up fees (at
£3,000) saw students become more like consum-
ers, with corresponding higher demands. These
demands will increase with fees, so it is vital that
central government support is maintained, rather
than making students pay the full costs. Higher
Education provides benefits not just to graduates,
but to the economy and society as a whole.’’
are severely underfunded. Sugges-
tions included bonds directly linked
to graduate repayments and selling
University annuities. The latter would
result in smaller-risk premiums with
more money for universities to invest.
However, they would bear all the risk
if graduate repayments were lower
than expected and the cost of bor-
rowing depends on institutions’ cur-
rent financial security, rendering this
method unlikely to be feasible for all
Universities.
Sally Hunt, General Secretary of the
University and College Union, said
‘’we desperately need to overhaul how
universities are funded and move away
from the idea that the current review
of student funding is merely a question
of how much student fees go up by.’’
Arguably, the increase of tuition fees
will restore the view of elitism which
was once associated with universities
and the students attending them.
Aaron Porter, the president-elect of
the NUS has opposed removal of the
cap on fees and has said that this would
‘’expose students and their families to
the huge risks and potential calami-
ties of the market, abandoning them to
sink or swim’’. The Browne review will
report its findings in a few months.
Imperial College released a state-
ment to felix on affirming their posi-
tion of wanting to ‘’attract the best
students regardless of background
and means’’ to ‘’provide them with an
academic experience of the highest
international quality.’’ They say ‘’the
current mechanism of funding plus
tuition fee does not reflect the true
cost of teaching science-based degrees
to the high standard Imperial sets’’ and
that ‘’the College would wish to charge
fees that reflect the quality of the edu-
cation it provides’’. Commenting on
the situation, College said that it has
‘‘not yet considered any particular
option should the fee cap be lifted or
removed.’’
“The taxpayer
continues to
foot the majority
of the costs of
undergraduate
degrees and this is
unfair.”

