SUMMER ELECTIONS 2010
H
i guys! My name is Alex Dahinten and
I’m a 3rd year Bioengineer. Most of you
probably know me through RAG, which
I’ve been fortunate to chair this year. I
am also Secretary of the German Society and a
keen tennis player.
Over the last three years at Imperial, I’ve enjoyed
increasing amounts of responsibility, rising from
ordinary member to president of RAG. As DPE,
I can provide the Union with a healthy balance of
experience and a fresh perspective. My aim is to ad-
dress issues which are central to the student body
as a whole. These include introducing a maximum
number of coursework deadlines you can be as-
signed in one week and improving the coursework
feedback system. Past exam solutions should also
be available to all students, and not restricted to in-
dividual departments. Students should be allowed
to have a say in shaping their academic experience,
and therefore I plan on working closely with the
student media outlets to maintain transparency
and gather your inputs. I will also make it a priority
to ensure that strong postgraduate representation
is restored.
So why vote for me?
I’m approachable, hardworking, honest and most
importantly passionate about all positions I hold.
As RAG chair I’ve managed to more than double
our charitable donation from the last two years
counted together, and raise its profile by introduc-
ing a vast number of events like LOST. I also sit on
the central Union boards (Council and RWB) as the
chair of a President’s club.
Alexander Dahinten
A
s a second year student, there are 2 ma-
jor complaints I have with Imperial:
If one department is consistently getting
better SOLE results and higher student sat-
isfaction, why can’t all the others?
I have 2 weeks to produce coursework, why does it
take my department 6 months to get it back to me?
The College wants to change. They want to keep the
excellent academic reputation we have and improve
student experience too. We can help them make the
right choices by using a strong representation net-
works, people like you, your year reps, dep reps and all
the way to the union President.
This past year, the focus has been clearly defining the
representation network, something which was pre-
viously a bit of a mystery. Next year, I will work hard
with the President, DPW and union staff, by training
student reps and supporting them better so their voice
is listened to by College.
It is imperative you pick the right candidate who can
represent your views to college and be taken seriously.
I’m not promising anything I can’t deliver. For Imperial
to be an excellent university we need consistency of
grades, good feedback to students to show them how
to improve, and we need departments to share best
practice.
Please take 5 minutes to visit www.chrisdarby.com to
find out more information about my involvement this
year and how I plan to push college in the right direc-
tion next year.
Christopher Darby
I
have been much involved with many aspects of
the Union in my 3 years at Imperial and gath-
ered thorough understanding of how it works.
Now I want to give something back and rep-
resent the students’ voice with regards to academic
matters over the next year and make this an even
better place.
We all know that Imperial has an exceptional
academic reputation and attracts the brightest
minds from all over the world, but that doesn’t
mean everything is running at its best. The
student voice needs to be heard and commu-
nication with the teaching staff improved for
everyone to get the best out of their student
experience.
For this to happen, I will aim to improve the ef-
fectiveness of SOLE and increase tutor student
interaction beyond the pastoral care obligation.
Feedback is the best way for everybody to speak
up and productively influence teaching, yet par-
ticipation is low and so is the outcome, which calls
for improvement. Tutors are very important, but
even more underestimated than SOLE. I am sure
that both the teaching staff and the students, un-
der- and postgraduates, will profit from immediate
feedback.
I will seek to improve lecture notes and guidance
throughout your course and beyond the commem-
oration ceremony. A degree from Imperial is a great
achievement and deserves to have more value than
it has at the moment, which is a message that needs
to reach the companies you aim to be involved with.
So vote for me!
Stefan Bauer
The DPE is responsible for coordinating and training the
representation network, which includes all of the academ-
ic reps, and holding regular academic forums to gather
student opinion about issues related to their course. They
will sit on a number of college committees including those
relating to both undergraduate and postgraduate edu-
cation, e-portfolios, careers and the student experience.
Their purpose for attending is to represent student views
with the aim of making the academic experience at Impe-
rial one of the best in the world.
DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(EDUCATION)
I
f you thought elections were over, you were wrong. Last
term you elected a new Sabbatical team, and at the begin-
ning of this term you elected a new Government, sort of.
The Summer Term traditionallly elects positions of the
Union that are also vital to it’s running. These include Council
Chair, RAG (Raising and Giving) Chair, CAG (Community Action
Group) Chair, Equal Oppurtunities Officer, and an Union Enter-
tainments Commitee.
This year’s Summer Elections have been made that bit more
exciting after the Deputy President (Education) elected in the
Sabbatical Elections resigned early this term.
The candidate elected will take up the position on the 1st of
July and spend a full year tending to the educational welfare of
Imperial’s students.
Both candidates for this position in the original election have
ended up taking graduate positions at investment banks.
Student Trustee is the other position up for grabs from last
term also. This is another chance to fill the four trustee posts
available in the Union.
Voting opens 24 May at 00:01 and closes on the 27 May at
23:59. Votes will be counted and results will be announced 28
May. If nothing else, expect some more free sweets.
Summer
2010

