STUDENT TRUSTEE
M
y name is Salman Waqar, I’m a fourth
year medical student running for the
position of student trustee. I’ve got
lots of experience of working with the
College and and have been involved in many differ-
ent clubs and societies in my years here.. occupying
pretty much every position there is from Webmas-
ter, Publicity, Treasurer and Vice President. Fur-
thermore I and have held a place on Union Council
and presently hold the race campaigns portfolio on
the RWB. Outside Imperial, I have been involved
with nationwide charity work, helped to train stu-
dents in accessing and utilising their Students Un-
ions, been an active member in organisations that
represent Muslim students on a national and Euro-
pean platform and have also attended and helped
out at two NUS Annual Conferences
Salman Waqar
RAG CHAIR
H
ello everyone! My name is Naida
Dzigal and I’m currently a 3rd year
Physicist. I also happen to be the
only candidate for RAG Chair this
year as well(not considering Weasley though).
Some of you may know me through Tennis,
Volleyball, I might have been your fellow res-
ident at Southside or your Hall Senior. .You
may have met me as a member of the IC Un-
ion Court Committee (yes..Imperial has a ju-
risdictional system), at Political Philosophy
Society’s many events or you might remember
me as IC RAG’s Vice Chair 2 years ago.
Having been so active in the past, this year
I’ve decided to concentrate on the societies
that’ve interested me the most (you’ll still catch
me letting out my frustration at IC Tennis ses-
sions no matter what though). In my term as VP
of RAG, I’ve learned how the society functions
and am very much excited about demonstrat-
ing that RAG has room for improvement. That’s
why I would like for you to give me a chance
to show this as RAG Chair next year. Alex has
done such a great job and I’ll do my best to help
IC RAG get closer to its standard of 8 years ago
- when we raised just around 100k in a year!
Vote for me because I have the experience,
I have the dedication, and most importantly I
have the passion!
PS. I apologise I won’t be able to make it to
Hustings (I’m stuck in Germany, for an Erasmus
year).
Naida Dzigal
VOTING OPENS Voting opens 24 May 00:01 www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES OFFICER
H
ello, my name is Stuart Haylock, as
Equal Opportunities Officer I want to
promote equality, tackle discrimination
and give the necessary help and support
to the different communities at Imperial for their
awareness activities, such as black history month,
LGBT history month, national celebrations, and re-
ligious festivals.
I hope to promote the integration and collabora-
tion of all the different Imperial college units and
look forward to planning a campaign about the im-
portance of individuality, as well as a range of ac-
tivities and events to promote diversity. I also want
to start an equality column in Imperial’s own Felix
newspaper which will involve people with different
social, racial and sexual background to give their
opinions and will hopefully help to promote aware-
ness and understanding.
As next year’s welfare representative for IQ (Im-
perial College LGBT) and with the Equal Oppor-
tunities Officer position I will be able to provide
complete and undivided support to union equality
and welfare, and I will maintain a full “zero toler-
ance” approach to any form of bigotry, prejudice or
discrimination.
In short I believe that as Equal Opportunities Of-
ficer I will be able to provide development in the
field of equality and will ensure fairness in all uni-
versity life.
Stuart Haylock

