THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 13
24.10.2014
FELIX
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
I due Foscari at the Royal Opera House
As someone who hasn't seen the show yet, the reasoning behind this scene is unclear, but it seems exciting enough. Photo: Cotidianul
Connal O’Neill reviews the opening night of the new production
What’s on this week...
Friday,24th October: Monki and friends @ Fabric
Despite being only 21,DJ Monki has already secured
a regular slot on Radio 1 and is part of Annie Mac's
infamous AMP crew.Catch her tonight as part of a
promising line-up that includes hit-makers Redlight.
Saturday,25th October: St Vincent @ The
Roundhouse
Annie Clark brings her ethereal shredding to the
hallowed halls of The Roundhouse for a sold out show.
Beg,steal or become a groupie in time for a ticket to
what is sure to be part gig,part religious experience.
Monday,27th October: Raleigh Ritchie @ Heaven
Forget Finn Jones spinning discs in Metric,Game of
Thrones’Grey Worm moonlights as a singer-songwriter.
Performing as Raleigh Ritchie,he just collaborated with
Little Simz on the desperately cool Cuckoo and these
two London dates will presumably feature unheard new
material from his long-awaited debut album.
Thursday,30th October: Jungle @ Shepherds Bush
Empire
Until recently shrouded in mystery and often literal
darkness,Jungle return to their native Shepherds Bush
with catchy-as-heck tracks from their much hyped
eponymous debut album,which is hotly tipped to win
this year's Mercury Music Prize.
The Tings Tings @ XOYO
Shut up and let me go! We won’t judge you for partying
like it’s 2008.With a new album,Super Critical,out
later this month,this Mancunian duo's boppy brand
of electropop is sure to draw a nostalgic crowd to
Shoreditch on Thursday.Tickets still available.
Opening night of a new
production at the Royal
Opera House (ROH) is always
an exiting night, and this was no
exception, with world renowned
tenor (now baritone) Plácido
Domingo heading up the cast sheet.
This compact piece is one of Verdi’s
early works and has all of the themes
and idioms we have come to know
and love in his later works. In many
ways I due Foscari can be seen as a
precursor to Don Carlo.
The story is taken from the Byron
play of the same name (The Two
Foscari). Set in 15th
Century Venice, it
tells of an ageing Doge who has lost
most of his family to the plague. His
one remaining son has been accused
of murder and is to be exiled or
executed. Will the Doge follow his
duty as a statesman or as a Father?
Domingo is a singer I have always
wanted to see live; his powerful voice
so familiar from The Three Tenors.
While his voice is not the
glimmering beast of ten years ago, the
brilliance of timbre is still there and
still unmistakable. He was captivating
as the Doge and was missed whenever
absent from the stage. His acting,
phrasing and stage presence were
perfection, however, baritonal his
voice is not and his first couple of
scenes were crying out for a richer
lower register.
Meli plays the accused son of the
Doge. A good actor with a good
voice, his highs were beautifully
controlled. In the opening scenes his
performance was lacking a degree
of lyricism but this cleared up as the
night went on which may have been
the result of some opening night
jitters.
However, one persistent problem
was his lack of projection. His voice
did not feel big enough for the space
despite its tone being indicative of the
Verdi repertoire.
Agresta, playing his wife, was
captivating and entertaining, but like
Meli didn’t truly come into her own
until after the interval.
This piece is incredibly compact
for an opera. Its three acts clocked
in at under two hours (excluding
the interval) and as such there is not
much time for character development
with all characters either being
roughly painted or merely reduced to
stereotypes. Cue evil bass villain with
a penchant for power snatching.
Before each act a quick synopsis of
the action off stage was projected onto
the curtain, allowing mood and pace
to be maintained.
The production was hit and miss,
entertaining and original at times,
and at others rather non specific and
bland. Surely Venice does not lack
visual inspiration. It occasionally
had the feel of a smaller house’s
production stretched to fit ROH’s
colossal stage.
This is a good opera, with some
handsome tunes and a simple but
riveting plot. A must see for any
Domingo fans.
This incarnation of I due foscari
is running until 2nd
November. With
student ID tickets are £16. It is also
streaming live from the Royal Opera
House to ODEON cinemas nationwide
at 19:15 27th October.

