THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 15
FELIX
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The apocalypse will be televised
Giulia Gabrielli discusses TV’s new doomsday trend
It is universally known that television
and cinema feed from each other
for themes and topics. Therefore, it
comes as no surprise that a zombie-
obsession that started in 1968 with
the release of Romero’s epic Night
of the Living Dead and brought us
films like 28 Days Later, 28 Weeks
Later, the rest of the Romero saga and
Resident Evil: Apocalypse (I refuse to
acknowledge the rest of the series) has
massively hit the small screen.
More of the same medicine, some
might say, and there is some truth
to that. However, shows such as Z
Nation, Town of the Living Dead and
the more celebrated and raved about
The Walking Dead definitely have
something to add. Viewers even seem
to want more, as series focusing on
simple deadly epidemic scenarios, I’m
thinking The Last Ship or The Strain,
are also gaining popularity.
Z Nation and Town of the Living
Dead are both part of the network
Syfy’s Thursday night zombie-
fest. The first is a slightly less
sophisticated version of The Walking
Dead. Writers haven’t bothered
with providing a pre-zombie look
into the characters persona or the
ante-apocalyptic world in general.
Electricity still seems to be working
in many cases, with lifts casually
operating like an everyday Monday at
the office.
Don’t let these details bother you
however, because the show actually
provides excellent gore (admittedly
the zombie baby was a gross misuse of
CGI, and unfortunately it became one
of the promotional pictures…) and
interesting relationship plots.
Town of the Living Dead, on the
other hand, is a harmless attempt
at a living-dead-comedy-improv.
And why not, I say? Well, because
unfortunately, when you take the
drama out of the apocalypse, it turns
out that, as a situation, it is hard to
squeeze any comedy out of it.
The Strain is Guillermo del Toro’s
spin on the apocalyptic scenario,
and as such definitely has some
interesting moments. However,
vampire zombies is a bit much. The
Last Ship is a different story entirely.
Based on a ship sent out to see at
the beginning of an epidemic to
develop a vaccine, the show boasts
great performances by British actress
Rhona Mitra (who also starred in
the apocalyptic Doomsday, probably
the chavviest movie ever made) and
sex god Eric Dane. I am not kidding,
if you enjoyed his performance as
McSteamy in Grey’s Anatomy, you
probably won’t be disappointed to see
him in a uniform.
So, can we expect this trend to
decline soon? Eric Dane aside, the
end of the world is an attractive
scenario. The spread of an infection
points at the downfalls of our society.
Real monsters are often normal
healthy humans. Emotions are
heightened. Friendships are born
between implausible characters.
Power-struggles, desperate romances
and plots to save loved ones make
for a good story. Writers are going
to continue exploiting this source
of creative richness for a while. So,
as Jesse Eisenberg’s character is
Zombieland would say, “Fasten your
seatbelts, it’s going to be a bumpy
ride.”
Photo: horrorsociety
Photo: hollywoodreporter
Photo: thecalifornian
Photo: moviepilot
Coming soon in future issues of Felix TV...
Photo: screenrant Photo: screenrant Photo: deadline Photo: zap2it Photo: cinemablend
American Horror Story: Freak Show
Not exactly the most politically
correct title for a television show, not
that Ryan Murphy ever cared about
something like that. Once again,
followingthetraditionoftheAmerican
Horror Story anthology, the cast is full
of recognisable, talented names, and
the setting is suitably bloody, twisted
and downright bizarre. Will this
live up to the highs of Murder House,
Asylum and avoid the low of Coven?
Gotham
A prequel to the Batman saga, we
follow Detective James Gordon trying
to keep order in the dark, damp,
corrupt city of Gotham. Young Bruce
Wayne sees his parents gunned down
in the pilot episode, and Detective
Gordon is assigned to solve the case.
The show will also involve origins
storiesofmanyiconicBatman villains,
such as Penguin, Riddler, Catwoman,
Joker, Poison Ivy, Scarecrow, etc.
State of Affairs
Katherine Heigl, after starring in
disappointing rom-coms, returns to
what made her famous television. She
plays a CIA analyst who is responsible
for delivering “ The List” to the
President of the United States (Alfre
Woodard), containing the top ten
most critical threats the country is
facing. A political conspiracy thriller,
it is yet to be seen whether this will put
Heigl’s name back on the map.
Madam Secretary
Who says there is no good writing for
women in television? Téa Leoni plays
Elizabeth McCord, the new Secretary
of State who comes aboard after the
previous Secretary’s sudden death.
Each episode deals with interesting,
complex international crises of some
sorts, ones that the writers guide us
through, and Leoni plays the role with
enough serious, stoic energy, and just
the right amount of humour.
The Flash
The superhero genre is no doubt
saturated wherever we look, but
network channel CW is posting some
great numbers with The Flash, a
spinoff show from another of its hit
show, Arrow. A freak accident leaves
Barry Allen (Grant Gustin) with
superhuman speed, something he uses
to serve the public good. Will there be
a crossover between the two shows?
Never say never.
24.10.2014

