You can vote for a monthly guest ale for the Union Bar and the h-bar - all you need to do is take the poll
online. You can now choose TWO guest ales for the h-bar! There’s a choice of nine to choose from in this
month’s poll...which guest ales would you like to see in November? Visit imperialcollegeunion.org/food-
drink to see the selection and cast your vote.
You can also vote for a guest pizza for FiveSixEight. Visit imperialcollegeunion.org/pizza to vote! Will it be:
• Wild West: Pepperoni, baked beans and onion
• Mexican: Spicy Beef, Mixed peppers and onions
• Hawaiian: Ham and pineapple
• Spicy Tuna: Tuna, onions, mixed peppers and jalapeño chillies
imperialcollegeunion.org/food-drink
You can apply to join our Board of Trustees
We are a vibrant and dynamic charity with a bright future, and we are always looking for ways to improve
and to better serve our members, the students of Imperial College London.
A strong and active Board of Trustees is essential for us as we endeavour to build on recent successes and
continue to move forward. We recruit Student Trustees to our Board to help us do this.
If you’re interested in helping the Union move forward, you can apply to be a Student Trustee. You can find
information on our website at imperialcollegeunion.org/trustee-recruitment and download our recruitment
pack. Applications close midday 14 November.
imperialcollegeunion.org/trustee-recruitment
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Become a Student Trustee for your Union
The polls are back - vote for guest ales and pizzas!
Find out more about Imperial Plus at our briefings next week
Imperial Plus is our volunteer recognition scheme, and it’s now in it’s second year. Students volunteering
with or via Imperial College Union can register for either the Imperial Plus Volunteer Certificate or the
Imperial Plus Volunteer Accreditation. If you’re interested in finding out more about Imperial Plus and how
to apply, you can attend one of our free briefing sessions to get all the information.
• Charing Cross, Monday 27 October, 17:30 - 18:30, in Communication Skills Room A
• Hammersmith, Tuesday 28 October, 17:30 - 18:30, in Wolfson Seminar Room 1
• South Kensington, Thursday 30 October, 18:30 - 19:30, in Meeting rooms 1&2, Union building, Beit
Quadrangle
imperialcollegeunion.org/imperialplus
Change your course - vote in our Your Reps & Union Council Elections.
Get involved and make your student experience the best it can be.
Voting closes 12:00, Friday 24 October
Cast your vote online at
imperialcollegeunion.org/vote

