24 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
24.10.2014
Arts Editor Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Frieze – Where Art Goes To Die
Gagosian Gallery, Frieze Art Fair 2014 Photo: Linda Nylind/Frieze
Kamil McClelland is disgusted by this year’s Frieze
My Art: A Morning Exploring Shoreditch’s Art Scene
As I walked up the stairs at The Other Art Fair in
Shoredith,I was immediately overwhelmed by the
sheer diversity and amount of art that met me.The fair
featured 130 up and coming artists,each with their own
unique art space; but what made it unique was that the
artists were stood in front of their work,allowing you to
directly ask them questions about the pieces.
Among the artists,a particular favourite of mine was
Fran Giffard,who took to drawing and painting on the
pages of her Moleskine diary.What drew me to her
stand were the incredible selection of colours and the
intricacy with which the birds were painted.In contrast,
next to her was an extremely dark stand showcasing a
selection of medium-sized sculptures.As I drew closer,
I realized that almost all of them featured taxidermy,
including a piece called LittleLivesDream–a jar
containing a small mouse curled up asleep on a velvet
pillow underneath a tiny crafted lantern. This was the
work of Rachel Ann Stevenson conveying the fine divide
between the conscious mind and dream state.
The remainder of the works were equally eccentric:
an artist who used old wine corks to create large scale
pieces,a hilariously outré man who had several iPads
playing videos of him singing along to songs in locations
across the world,and a bizarre collection of modified
storm-trooper helmets.Not only did I leave this magical
place with armfuls of free stickers,posters and postcards
to put on my wall,but I was inspired by how innovative
the artists were.
The fair did what every exhibition–and every work of
art–should do: it inspired me to want to create my own
work and develop my own signature style just like them.
I highly recommend catching next year’s art fair,which
unfortunately only runs for three days each year around
October time.Meanwhile,I’m going to carry on checking
out new artists,and trying to find inspiration!
LIZZIE RIACH
2ND YEAR BIOLOGIST
"An
environment
more akin
to a cattle
market
than an art
gallery"
"This year's
Frieze Art
fair had
as much
personality
as a kitchen
showroom"
When men die, they enter
into history. When statues
die, they enter into art.
This botany of death is what we call
culture. These powerful opening
lines from the 1953 film ‘Les Statues
Meurent Aussi’ (‘Statues Also Die’) -
originally made as a critique of the
West’s consumerist attitude towards
African art – resonated with me as I
went around London’s 12th annual
Frieze Art Fair, where art exists only
as a commodity, a soulless husk.
I visited the fair last year and was
quite upbeat; there was an air of youth
and dynamism about it and you felt
as if you might be seeing the ‘next big
thing’. Of course, as with any fair, you
were aware that the art on display was
primarily there to be sold but you did
occasionally forget this. It was a truly
immersive art experience.
I wish I could be so positive this
year, but it seems that the view of art
as a mere asset has grown too strong,
like some kind of parasitic mould.
Frieze has lost its unpretentious spirit
and is now just another of the many
fairs around the world that exists only
for the super rich elite, out of touch
and irrelevant to everyone else. This
should have been obvious enough by
just looking at the ticket prices – £33
for adults and £24 for students –
simply not worth the money!
I am not saying that the art was of
poor quality, as there was undeniably
some excellent work on display that
was simultaneously exciting and
challenging – everything you might
want. But it was not allowed to shine
for the most part, crammed into
the 162 galleries from 25 different
countries vying for your attention.
Moreover, as you rounded gallery
number 100, the inevitable art
fatigue resulting from this sensory
bombardment set in, making it
difficult to appreciate what you
were seeing. The Frieze has swollen
to grotesque proportions, crammed
full of substance, like a bloated,
waterlogged corpse that has been
dragged out of the Regent’s Park
Boating Lake. The fact is that this is
not how art should be viewed, in an
environment more akin to a cattle
market than an art gallery.
But I can understand why the
galleries act as they do. Here, they are
in a highly competitive environment,
and so they are naturally going
to display their most famous and
valuable pieces because that is where
the money and reputation lies.
However, with that, the essence
of the art fair ceases to exist and
becomes a façade, just like the
immaculately dressed gallery owners
who sit with their espressos, much
too busy for anyone except the most
serious buyers.
There were certainly some standout
galleries; Hauser & Wirth and the
Gagosian Gallery in particular had
just the right mix of high quality
art and interactivity to attract your
attention and set them apart from the
crowd. Elsewhere, Jesus Rafael Soto’s
Op Art piece ‘Carré olive et vibration’
from the Galerie Perrotin proved
extremely captivating and quite
unique in a fair overburdened with
highly decorative works of synthetics
and acrylics.
In general, the works on display
seemed to fall into three categories:
the mediocre, big money pieces
that galleries were putting all their
hopes on, like Martin Creed’s (I still
have no idea why he’s famous) or
Tony Cragg’s; the less well known art
that bulks out a gallery’s portfolio,
providing the best and worst of what
was on offer; and finally the pieces
designed purely for the selfie – often
mirrored, always provocative, perfect
to show your social media contacts
just how artsy you are!
This final category is a perfect
illustration of the superficiality
of much that was on show. This
year’s Frieze art fair was a sorrowful
occasion, no longer a place where the
average art enthusiast can get a sense
of the shape of art to come.
It had as much personality as a
kitchen showroom: elegant and
skillfully crafted but nothing more.
And ‘more’ is exactly what art should
be: an experience, an emotional
catalyst that sticks with you for days
afterwards.
But one can’t deny that Frieze is
merely part of a bigger problem, as
the artistic heart of London is gutted
out, replaced by the shallowness of
foreign buyers and their veneration
for the famous.
Editorial: An Artistic
Drought Hits the Capital
London was thrown into a feeding
frenzy last week,as culture vultures
from around the world descended on
the city to feast on its artistic innards.
Yes,it was Frieze week,the (alleged)
highlight of London's cultural calendar!
But as quickly as it came,this tornado of
chequebooks and perfectly manicured
nails disappeared,to return again next
year.In our article on the fair,we reflect
on this white elephant of Regent's Park
and its implications on London's cultural
landscape.
However,just as we lament a lost past,
Lizzie Riach speaks with optimism in her
My Art piece about The Other Art Fair,
suggesting that there is still a vibrant
and very much alive art scene in the East
of the capital.As a fair aiming to exhibit
the 99% of artists not represented by a
commercial gallery,hopefully this news
from out east bodes well for the health
of the city's art scene.
Next,we turn our pessimistic gaze
to another of London's great art
institutions: the Turner Prize.Not scared
of a bit of controversy,we take a leaf
out of its book and suggest it's become
an almost irrelevant competition,
deliberately choosing‘out there’works
to force‘discussion’about art now.It’s
tiresome.
Continuing in this vein of misanthropy,
we come away from the Hayward
Gallery’s MIRRORCITY exhibition with a
feeling of bewilderment and frustration
as it tried to answer everything but fell
expectedly short.
Finally,to end this depressing editorial
on a slightly more positive note,we went
down to the HELIX Centre at St.Mary’s
Hospital.Part of Imperial’s Institute of
Global Health Innovation,they are an
amazing team of RCA-trained designers
working closely with doctors and
researchers to create design solutions
to common healthcare problems.So
whether you're interested in design,
medicine or just great ideas,check this
interview out!
FRED FYLES & KAMIL MCCLALLAND
ARTS EDITORS

