28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
24.10.2014
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
Five Guys Spice Ramen Burger
I mean, what's not to like? Pak choi, good. Ramen, good. Meat, good! Photo: Michael Chung; pop-culture reference, Friends
Michael Chung hacks the quirky food union
"Be
warned, it's
deceptively
filling for
one person"
Bored of having a conventional
burger with a bun? Well despite
what our parents have told us,
it is time for us to play with food!
How about a ramen burger?
The idea came from Keizo
Shimamoto and has been voted as one
of “The 17 Most Influential Burgers
of All Time” by Time Magazine. He
serves it at his restaurant, Ramen.Co,
in New York. Thankfully you don’t
have to travel across the pond to taste
it; it is actually very simple to make
it yourself at home, making this a
great and easy way to convince your
housemates of your culinary prowess.
Ingredients
• 1 pack of instant ramen noodles
• 2 free range eggs
• 350g of beef mince (make sure
it has at least 5%fat content to
ensure flavour and moistness)
• 2 spring onions
• 1 teaspoon five spice powder
• a knob of ginger
• Pak choi (or your choice of leafy
vegetables, e.g. little gem lettuce)
Method
For the ramen buns, bring a pot of
water to the boil and cook noodles
according to the timings stated on the
packet (anywhere between 2-5 mins).
Drain and leave to cool slightly for a
minute or so.
Beat an egg and toss the noodles in.
Put half of the noodle-egg mix in a
mould lined with cling film. Fold the
film back over the noodles and place a
weight on top to compress into a patty
shape. Repeat the wrapping-and-
weighting process for the other “bun” ,
then put them in the fridge for 15-20
minutes so they hold their shape.
For the burger patties, chop the
spring onions and ginger finely, then
mix it with the mince along with the
five spice powder. Shape the mix into
patties – there are many ways of doing
this, but the easiest is to first shape
it into a ball, then squeeze the mix
into something almost resembling a
hockey puck, ensuring it is roughly
the same size as the “bun”.
Fry the patties in a frying pan with
a shot of oil for 3-4 minutes on each
side to char and colour the outside,
and to cook right through to the
middle. Do the same for the ramen
burger buns so that they go crispy and
golden on the outside.
To assemble, pop your patty on one
of the ramen buns. Top the patty with
an egg that’s fried over-easy (yolk still
runny) and finish with pak choi to
retain the Asian-inspired flavours.
Pop your other bun on top and tuck
in! Be warned, it’s deceptively filling
for one person so you might want to
share as a snack between two.
Felix Food Protips
Bring it up to Level >9000 by
subbing the instant ramen noodles
with fresh noodles. In fact, it’s what
creator Keizo Shimamoto does as
standard at his restaurant.
Vegetarians can swap the patty
out for a stonkin’ good portobello
mushroom. Just fry for a few minutes
on either side and season...absolutely
juicy and good for you.
Mike didn’t use the seasoning
packet that came with the instant
ramen, however you can add it to
the recipe if you like. Either chuck
it in with the water when boiling
ramen for the buns, or add it to the
meat mix. Just be careful if you do
the latter, as you really don’t want to
over-season and make your burger
inedible!
On a final note about portion sizes...
feel free to adjust quantities to suit
your appetite, or split this up into two
smaller snackable burgers. You might
need to adjust cooking times if you do
this. Enjoy!
This issue is totally
buggered up - I mean,
burgered up
CAROL ANN CHEAH
SECTION EDITOR
Yeah,I make no apologies whatsoever for the awful
punnery present in that editorial title...so sue me.I
really do have burgers on the brain this week though;
yes,who'dve thunk that I have“junk grub”moments
like every other human being? It's interesting
how London’s love affair with the tarted-up meat
sandwich has reached crazy heights,and doesn't
seem like it will wane anytime soon...to the point
that even vegetarian/vegan options have flourished
as well,and some are pretty damn tasty.
On the subject of punnery...editor's personal
shout-out of the week goes to my lovely local-
delivery-recently-turned-employers,the Chosen Bun
(chosenbun.com) homeboys in Fulham (is it apt to
call your bosses“homeboys”,pray tell?!).Some of you
guys may have heard about their recent“out-of-this-
world”pseudo-space burger stunt,which recently
made both national and international press.I have
it on good authority that one of the Evelyn Gardens
halls procured a massive delivery during one of the
World Cup matches...for the curious,there's pictorial
proof on Facebook.
They're both science geeks and one of them's
actually a trained mechanical engineer,so I'm sure
Imperialites can find plenty of common ground
(hah!) there-they did,after all,go on an exhaustive
taste-testing trip around America (spiritual
homeland of the burger,of course) before setting up
shop.Gottta love a startup that loves their research,
especially if it's in the name of food.
But let’s not detract from their main offerings:
their burgers (made with a locally-supplied blend
of Scottish beef and wagyu fat for that flavour/
moistness balance) are ruddy good,as are their
American-style sides-I’ll happily admit that their
Mark and Cheese macaroni bites are one of the
fastest ways to my heart (and gut,duh). And of
course,the fact that they stay just as intact and
gourmet-quality when delivered,all thanks to the
packaging that’s heaven for a trainee engineer (read:
moi.It's been patented!).That's before you take into
account the witty branding and personable charm/
service,especially from Andy and Pete themselves.If
you do say hi,tell them Carol sent you!
Aside from the“vested interest”recommendation
this week,it would also seem that some of our
contributors have been equally burger-inspired.
Mike (fondly known as our“editor in absentia”) has
been tinkering with the oft-called-bizarre Ramen
Burger craze,and our lovely Travel Editor,Nam (no
actual relation to me,for the curious),managed to
hit the Broadway Market recently to sample a unique
seafood burger.
Sheesh,writing this editorial has made me go
into craving overdrive,especially since lunchtime's
a-coming.As always...keep on eating,laughing,
loving and living!
SPAAAAAAAAAACE! Photo: Youtube; pop-culture
reference: Portal 2 (Valve)
This post was brought to you by
the Sorted Food #beatmyburger
challenge,which aims to source
and share some of the best
burgers on the web.If you're
feeling inspired,feel free to head
over to sortedfood.com and see
what the fuss is all about!
#beatmyburger

