THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 29
24.10.2014
FELIX
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
Verdict: Crabbie patties >> Krabby patties, hands-down. The stuff of dreams, except they actually exist. Photos: Nam Cheah and The Food Connoisseur; pop-culture reference...we'll let you guess.
"A
luxurious
soft shell
crab
burger[...]
with four
different
choices of
batter"
Join us. Our editor-ess makes cute coffee like this...with no espresso
machine. She'll teach you how. Photo: Felix Food
What do we want?
FOOD WRITERS!
When do we want them?
ALL YEAR ROUND!
If you like ranting about the shoddy service you received the last time you ate out,curating“listicles”(list-
articles,Buzzfeed style) about the best things to make with pumpkin,or similar stuff...we want you!
First-time writers very much welcome; we take our time developing your ideas,writing skill,and style
with you.After all,we’ve been there before.All you need to start off is a burning passion for all things
foodie,and a decent command of English.GSAH (good sense of humour) is a bonus,as we like our column
to put a smile on faces; straightforward-funny and subtler dry wit both equally welcome.Not sure you
have it? We can curate that with time.
Simply email food.felix@imperial.ac.uk, and we'll take it from there.
Crabbie by name, not crabby by nature
Nam Cheah shacks up with some great unique street grub
Part of the street food festival
sensation KERB and the Red
Market, this unique burger
stand can be recognized by its long
queue accompanied by a mouth-
watering aroma of crabs drifting from
a bright yellow stall.
Founded by Folkestone native
Douglas in 2012, this former
fishmonger has brought the best
of his home town to the streets of
London. Selling five crab dishes, you
can opt for a luxurious soft shell crab
burger for £9.50 which comes in four
different choices of Old Bay batter for
the full experience.
The batter options are fennel,
almond, avocado and harissa; pickled
cucumbers, chili, coriander and
wasabi mayonnaise; samphire and
tartar sauce; or pomegranate, harissa,
red onion, coriander and red cabbage.
The likelihood is you will idle there
for a while, struggling to make one
of the hardest decisions of your life.
Alternatively if you are feeling too
broke or spoilt for choice, go for the
good old plain soft shell crab burger.
My personal favorite however is
the pomegranate batter burger. The
crunchy pomegranate seeds and red
cabbage complemented the soft,
buttery crab patty which melts on
your tongue, with the red onion,
harissa and coriander giving it a nice,
spiced kick. The buns are well-toasted
and fresh, accentuating the fillings.
If you cannot get enough of the
soft shell crabs, fear not – there are
small snacks up for grabs too. There’s
the innovatively named Admiral
Benson offering two crabs with
garnish; classic crab cake with nori,
apple, white cabbage, spring onion
slaw and saffron mayonnaise; as
"The buns are
well-toasted
and fresh,
accentuating
the fillings"
well as the Crabbie Kiev, which are
breadcrumbed and fried white crab
meat balls with a heavenly center
containing brown crab meat and
melted infused butter.
As a street food stall, it can be quite
hard to catch the Crabbieshack since
they move around London with no
regular spot. However, this all just
adds to the satisfaction when you
finally catch up with them and bite
into that delicious burger.
Nam managed to catch these guys at
KERB King’s Cross for this review. Keep
track of their current and upcoming
trading locations on their Facebook and
Twitter accounts, or alternatively on the
KERB website.
CRABBIESHACK
kerbfood.com/traders/crabbieshack
Facebook: crabbieshackUK
Twitter: @crabbieshack
Trading times and locations vary

