32 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
24.10.2014
Editor Cecile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Legendary designer Oscar de la Renta dies at 82
Fashion designer Oscar de la Renta in Panama City in 2005.
Photo: Reuters File
Cecile Borkhataria takes a look at the highlights of his successful career
On Monday 20th
October, the
world lost a fashion legend in
Oscar de la Renta, who died at
the age of 82. He died after battling
colon cancer for over 10 years.
De la Renta was most well known
for his glamorous red-carpet gowns,
and he could never be described as
avant garde or edgy. He was very
popular amongst celebrities and
other important figures, and his looks
were always feminine, elegant and
appropriate. His long and successful
career has seen him dress some of
the most prominent style icons in
the world, including Jackie Onassis,
Audrey Hepburn, Hillary Clinton and
Sarah Jessica Parker as Carrie in ‘Sex
and the City.’
Oscar de la Renta was part of the
fashion establishment. When it came
to his designs, he didn’t rock the boat-
but that didn’t make them any less
memorable.
He was born to a wealthy family
in Santo Domingo in 1932, and
emigrated to the US after living
in Madrid and Paris, working for
household names such as Cristobal
Balenciaga, Lanvin and Balmain.
Luckily for de la Renta, he remained
impeccably dressed throghout his
time living in Europe, as his wealthy
father used to send him money. His
trademark look was a dapper three-
piece suit. It was important for his
buisness and reputation to be well
dressed, as he would often entertain
his wealthy clients in his holiday
homes.
Whilst he was well known for
his gowns and skirt suits which
represented American high society,
his mainstream reputation grew
out of Sarah Jessica Parker’s ‘Carrie
Bradshaw’ in the hit TV series ‘Sex and
City’. In the show, Carrie’s Russian
boyfriend buys her a bright pink
Oscar de la Renta dress, with a tight
top and a full skirt. It became a cult
tv moment, and it cemented de la
Renta as a household fashion name
in popular culture. Off screen, Sarah
Jessica Parker also regulalrly wore his
designs on the red carpet.
He was, arguably, the king of the
red carpet. His flowing, opulent
gowns were worn by many women
during the Oscars and other red
carpet events, with Amy Adams
wearing a memorable grey ruffled
voluminous gown at the 2013 Oscars.
Most recently, he featured heavily
in the media for designing Amal
Alamuddins ivory lace wedding dress
for her wedding to George Clooney.
De la Renta’s big break as a designer
came when he dressed Beatrice
Lodge, who was the daughter of the
American Ambassador to Spain in
1956. She featured on the cover of life
magazine at the time, wearing the
gown he designed. Shortly afterwards,
he dressed Jackie Kennedy in the
1960’s, and in the 1990’s, he began to
dress Hillary Clinton, who credited
her signature suited style to the
designer. Hillary took to twitter and
said “ He’s been working for 20 years
to turn me into a fashion icon.”
As much as he was well dressed,
wealthy and versed in socialising
with the elite, he was not afraid to
criticise and engage in an argument
in the public eye. In 2009, he criticsed
Michelle Obama for wearing a J.Crew
sweater to Buckingham palace to
meet the Queen. Perhaps de la Renta’s
critcisms towards the First Lady
stemmed from her breaking the
White House tradition of wearing
the designers pieces, as she declined
to wear his looks for the past seven
years. Finally though, this month,
she wore an Oscar de la Renta cocktail
dress to a party after her White
House Fashion Education Workshop.
This was significant, because by
appearing in one of his designs, she
acknowledged his place as household
name in American fashion and
supported him as a designer.
Before his death, Oscar de la Renta
announced earlier this month that
he would appoint Peter Copping as
the new creative director of his label.
Copping, an English desinger, has
worked for Nina Ricci for five years
and is known for his elegant style,
which is befitting of the fashion
legagcy he must live up to. His first
collection will be shown in February.
No doubt he will pay homage to de
la Renta with glamorous red carpet
looks, whilst still catering to younger
high society with colorful gowns and
cleaner, structured silhouettes. Oscar
de la Renta will be remembered for
dressing the First Ladies of the White
House, ruling the red carpet, and
embodying the American Dream.
Sarah Jessica Parker as Carrie Bradshaw. Photo: agirlsbestfriendblog
Amy Adams at the 2013 Oscars. Photo: stylefrizz

