38 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
24.10.2014
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
The Boston Consulting Group is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, age, religion, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity / expression, national origin, disability, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected under applicable law.
The Boston Consulting Group is a global management consulting firm, which works with the world’s leading
businesses on their toughest strategic and operational questions. We are seeking exceptional candidates from
varied academic backgrounds to join our London office.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
APPLICATION PERIODS:
FULL-TIME APPLY BEFORE 01 NOVEMBER 2014
INTERNSHIP 01 JANUARY 2015 – 31 JANUARY 2015
VISIT:
IMPERIAL.BCG.COM
FACEBOOK.COM/BCGINLONDON
BCG IS RECRUITING THIS AUTUMN
In case you missed it... - The World Sport Column
In the Champions League, there
were goals galore on Tuesday
night, as Chelsea won 6-0, Bayern
7-1 and Shakthar Donetsk 7-0.
There was controversy in Moscow
as Manchester City’s game against
CSKA Moscow, which was meant to
be played behind closed doors, had
an attendance of 650, most of whom
seemed to be supporting CSKA.
In Wednesday’s football Arsenal
produced a last gasp comeback to
defeat Anderlecht 2-1. However,
Liverpool endured a miserable
night, ending up on the wrong end
of a Cristiano Ronaldo inspired
thumping. To add insult to injury,
Mario Balotelli was seen to swap
shirts with Real Madrid player Pepe,
sparking fury from Reds manager
Brendan Rodgers.
The psychiatrist who assessed
Oscar Pistorius during his trial has
said that he is “unlikely to compete
again”. Jonathan Scholtz said that
he “seriously doubts” that Pistorius
will return. Pistorius was sentenced
to five years this week for killing
his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp last
year. He was convicted of culpable
homicide, but was found not guilty of
murder.
In response to the West Indies’
players going on strike in cricket,
India has suspended all bilateral
series with the West Indies, and
has opened legal proceedings. The
damages bill? It’s expected to top $65
million.
Andrew Flintoff has signed a
contract for the Big Bash with
Brisbane Heat. The tournament will
be played in December.
England have announced their
squad for the upcoming Autumn
internationals. Chris Ashton, David
Strettle and Danny Cipriani have
missed out, whilst there are three
uncapped players selected.
Andy Murray has reignited his
campaign to reach the World Tour
Finals in November. After beating
David Ferrer on Sunday to win the
Vienna Open he has now beaten
Jurgen Melzer convincingly in
Valencia to progress. He is currently
eighth in the world rankings – only
the top eight will qualify.
In other tennis news, Serena
Williams suffered her worst defeat
for sixteen years, losing 6-0 6-2 to
Simona Halep. This came after a
controversy that resulted in Russian
Tennis Federation president Shamil
Tarpischev being banned from
the WTA tour for a year. He had
earlier referred to Serena and Venus
Williams as the “Williams brothers”
on a chat show.
In Formula One, the future of
Caterham has been thrown into
doubt again. After the company
that builds the cars went into
administration on Tuesday, reports
have emerged of a dispute between
Tony Fernandes and the new owners.
The route for next year’s Tour de
France was announced this week.
After seeing the route, which only
has 60km of time trial stages, Chris
Froome suggested that he may not
race, and instead choose to focus on
the Giro d’Italia and Vuelta a Espana.
Kunal Wagle takes a look at what’s been going on in the world of sport
Photo: EPA
Photo: Getty Images
Photo: Jan Kruger/Getty Images

