THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 5
24.10.2014
FELIX
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News Editors Kunal Wagle & Carol Ann Cheah
The worst form of torture is being locked out of Metric and being forced to sober up. Photo: Annabel Keeler
Fire alarm interrupts bar night again
Oliver Benton reports as students refuse to leave until Phil Power does
An action shot from one of the last games to be played at Teddington. Photo: Ben Lester, throughbenslens.co.uk
The Medics say goodbye to Teddington
The final day of sporting events
at Teddington Sports ground
took place last Saturday, 18th
October. Things kicked off at midday
and carried on late into the evening,
with matches taking place throughout
the day.
Imperial College London staff,
some of the officer trustees and
senior medical staff from Imperial
College School of Medicine were in
attendance, with many bringing their
children and pets. Deputy President
(Clubs and Societies), Abi de Bruin,
said that the atmosphere was very
pleasant. “It was very much a family
day – it was a great vibe.”
Sports games took place over the
day, including lacrosse, netball, and
the men’s and women’s rugby teams
playing. The Imperial Medics team,
the Legends, played against a team
of alumni players. The Legends,
captained by the ICSMSU President
Dariush Hassanzadeh-Baboli, beat
the doctors by around 20 points.
About 400 people were thought to
have attended the event in total.
The event represented a final send-
off for the grounds, which have been
used by the medical students since
1935. Lord Beaverbrook, a consultant,
bought the land in 1935 and gave it
to St Marys Hospital Medical School,
which went on to form Imperial
College of Medicine in 1997.
Despite initial protests to save the
Teddington grounds and ensure their
continued use after Imperial College
purchased Heston, this was the last
time medics will be playing on the
grounds.
Dariush said of the event: “It
was very sad to say goodbye to
Teddington, but the day was a success
and we would love to replicate it on
an annual basis, with many older
students and retired doctors in
attendance.
“It was well received and enjoyed by
all. There was great food and a great
social atmosphere.
I would like to thank Charlotte
Duggan, Leena Barret and the
sabbatical officers for helping to
organise it.”
From this point on, medics will be
playing matches at Heston, half an
hour’s drive away from Teddington.
Heston, home of the BA Members
club, is close to Heathrow airport and
features both indoor and outdoor
facilities for student use.
PHILIPPA SKETT
FELIX EDITOR
Hundreds of graduate students
were looking forward to
enjoying one last hurrah
treading the sticky floors of Metric
only for their revelry to be cut short
by fire alarms and the early closing of
the bars.
For the second time in two weeks
the fire alarm forced people to leave
the Union buildings. Stepping up
their game this week, the serial
anarchist triggered several alarm
points causing security to take over
40 minutes to deal with the alarms.
When the alarm initially sounded,
the Union Bar was four people deep,
and nobody moved. Such was the
desperation to quench their thirst
people were risking being burnt alive
to get their drinks. Only when the
lights got turned up and people were
threatened with being kicked out
did people eventually begin to move
outside.
The bar staff dealt with the angry
crowds by issuing paper slips with
numbers written on them to try and
preserve the queue at the bar; it is
unknown how successful this was.
Once outside, scores of people
immediately left for Eastside, and
those that remained tried to keep
warm by singing songs. As tensions
rose between several sports clubs,
glasses were broken and it looked like
the whole evening had gone to the
dogs.
After a stern word from Sam the
bouncer things quietened down, the
discontent merely simmering below
the surface. As it was clear that there
was no fire, people were loathe to
leave but nobody was being allowed
back in until the alarm was turned
off; this led to people urinating in the
quad as there were no other facilities
available.
While it’s clear the staff on hand
were doing what they could to reopen
the bar as quickly as possible and that
no members of the public could be
allowed to enter the premesis without
a working fire alarm system, those
40 minutes of cold are going to be
some peoples lasting memories of the
Union.
Eventually the multiple tripped
alarms were quietened, the bar was
restocked and the thirsty graduands
were allowed back in. This sweet sense
of relief was short lived however as
the bar closed at 1, the lights going up
immediately, unlike a standard ‘CSP
Wednesday’. Mutterings about the
lack of a late licence were short-lived
as patrons were encouraged to leave
quickly, which led to the quad filling
up fast and lots of semi-drunk people
desperately competing for Uber cars.
On the whole it was an enjoyable
evening, even if it was punctured by
a wannabe anarchist and curtailed
early.
A union spokesperson said to
Felix: "Unfortunately, during
CSP Wednesday, three fire alarm
activation points were falsely
triggered by people in the venue
which in-turn caused a full
evacuation of the Union building.
The time it took to check the
activation points, isolate them
and reset the alarm was around 40
minutes. A similar incident occurred
last Wednesday night, again causing
a full evacuation. As a result of these
incidents the Union is reviewing our
approach to access to the building on
busy nights and will also be increasing
the amount of security staff in the
venue and restricting access to areas
above the ground floor.
It is a shame that the actions of a
few had an impact on so many people,
however our first priority will always
be the safety of our members."

