6 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
24.10.2014
News Editors Kunal Wagle & Carol Ann Cheah
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Empower, founded by two fourth
year students at Imperial
College London, held its first
event last weekend, in the form of an
icebreaker at the Union Dining Hall.
Tea and cake were provided, along
with a surprise VIP appearance in the
form of Imperial’s new President,
Professor Alice Gast, who gave a
10-minute speech to the assembled
group of around 30 students. During
the evening, founders Sanya Patel
and Sophia Lewis set out their aims
for the group.
“Empower is a support network
aimed towards women”, says Ms Patel,
“We have three aims: to improve self
confidence and well-being by having
a positive environment where people
can set out goals and achieve them;
[the teaching of] professional skills;
and charity”.
While charity work may seem
incongruous compared to the
empowerment of women, the
founders see it as integral to their
mission: “through charity you can
be encouraged to learn skills such as
time planning, organisation, budget
management and leadership; and
raise money for charity, helping
support women in less fortunate
positions.”
The idea for Empower came about
“over falafel”; Ms Patel and Ms
Lewis both describe themselves as
“ambitious women”, however, Ms
Lewis noted that “a lot of things we
were being told in hospital [both
women are medical students] went
against this…the idea that girls can’t
be academic”.
So do they feel that things are
different for women in STEM
(Science, Engineering, Technology,
Mathematics) subjects compared
to those in other disciplines? “Of
course!” says Ms Lewis, ‘Oh you’re a
girl, you’re no good at maths; you’re
a girl, you’re no good at physics;
you’re a girl, why do you want to do
engineering? Why do you want to be a
surgeon, or…’ People will tell you this
your whole life.” Ms Patel agrees; “ we
are so lucky in the UK to be given a
lot as women, but there still remains a
baseline attitude of inequality.”
Within the group, which was made
up of people from a variety of years
and subjects, the focus seemed mainly
to be on personal goals related to self-
confidence, as opposed to overarching
aims relating to campaigning within
society. While some people have been
Empower: the new feminist society to
hit Imperial?
Fred Fyles attends the first Empower mingle of the year to find out
critical of the group, questioning its
necessity when Imperial Feminist
Society was founded three years ago,
both Empower and FemSoc agree that
their groups have different goals.
When asked for a statement,
a representative of FemSoc said
“I think that the roles of the two
societies are different; we’re more
about political discussion and
activism, whereas they’re more about
networking and professional skills.
However, there is plenty of room,
and we are more than happy for the
two societies to coexist and work
together.”
Empower is similarly friendly
towards FemSoc, and are open to
collaborating with them in the future.
“Empower is about collaboration,
about working together to achieve
goals, and it doesn’t matter whose
idea it is, or who’s organising what,
the point is addressing gender
inequality and imbalance,” says Ms
Patel. “We both want to achieve that,
and it doesn’t matter how it comes
about.”
Professor Alice Gast, who is the
sixteenth head of Imperial College
and the first woman to be appointed
to the role, has expressed support for
the group. As well as taking time out
of her schedule to attend the meeting,
she said “I think it’s terrific to have
interdisciplinary collaboration,
where students from different years
can come together to support one
another, share ideas, and become
mentors.”
Professor Gast was particularly
enthusiastic about the mentoring
scheme, which aims to provide
women students with support from
older years, saying “I think that [in
terms of mentoring] more senior
students benefit from it as much as
the younger students do.” During
her speech, she mentioned her
experiences in being both a mentor
and a mentee, and commended the
valuable contribution it provided to
her academic life.
However, not everyone has been
so sold on the idea of Empower. In
terms of criticism, the overwhelming
complaint has been that people don’t
know what the group aims to do;
with such a large range of goals, some
people feel that Empower may lack a
single focus.
Further controversy came in the
form of the promotional video they
posted on Facebook over the summer
that featured the girls in bikinis.
Sanya and Sophie were both aware of
this criticism, with Ms Patel saying
that those who were complaining
seemed to think that “a woman can’t
be ambitious and intelligent, and
wear a bikini at the same time”.
The group is also yet to have been
granted official society status, as their
application to the New Activities
Committee hasn’t gone smoothly.
Their application wasn’t accepted
in its initial form, and Empower
will be meeting with the committee
to re-evaluate their application in
November before reapplying.
The women behind Empower still
remain optimistic, both for their
group, and for the future of women at
Imperial. “Everything is possible”, says
Ms Patel, “and when you have a team,
a committee, a society around you, all
willing you to do well and to achieve,
there is no reason why you can’t!”
Professor Alice Gast talks to the members of Empower. Photo: Billy Liu

