THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 9
24.10.2014
FELIX
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rare cancer drug shows promise
Myeloma cells stained under the microscope. Photo: myelomapennstate
Utsav Radia looks at research at Imperial on DTP3’s therapeutic potential
Graphene sensors used to study brain activity
It seems there is no limit to the usefulness of graphene.
In the few short years since its discovery,scientists
and engineers have come up with countless ways that
this two-dimensional form of carbon could transform
our lives: graphene computer chips,graphene solar
cells,graphene drug delivery systems–even graphene
condoms.
A group of researchers at the University of Pennsylvania
have added to this list by devloping a device which
could significantly improve our current techniques for
studying the electrical activity of brain tissue.
To accurately investigate the cause of certain
neurological disorders,such as epilepsy,it’s often
necessary to obtain highly detailed information of the
locations and electrical activity of individual neurones
in a patient. This is usually done by placing metallic
electrodes on the surface of the brain,but these are
opaque and can obstruct the doctor’s view of the brain
tissue.
Using graphene electrodes solves this problem,as
graphene is so thin that it is completely transparent.
It's also one of the best conductors we know of,and so
produces very little noise in the signals received. And,
unlike metallic electrodes,they have the added benefit
of being invisible on MRI scans.
The authors of the paper,published inNature
Communications,used their device to obtain extremely
high resolution information on individual cells involved
in seizures in rats,although it could easily be scaled up
to look at larger regions of tissue.
This device could easily be used in implants,not just
in the brain,but also in to monitor electrical activity
the peripheral nervous system and the heart.And
because graphene is extremely inert,these implants
are expected to last longer than conventional metallic
ones.
DOI: 10.1038/ncomms6258
JAMES BEZER
Scientists at Imperial, led by
Professor Guido Franzoso,
have developed a new drug
to be used in patients with multiple
myeloma, a rare type of cancer
affecting 4,800 new people every year
in the UK.
Multiple myeloma results from the
proliferation of cancerous antibody-
secreting cells (called neoplastic
plasma cells) in bone marrow and
other tissues.
Physiologically, these plasma cells
are responsible for synthesising
protective immunoglobulins (a
family of proteins that include
antibodies) in response to a specific
antigen (which is usually foreign).
However, in a cancerous state, these
plasma cells start to secrete lots of
abnormal (and often immature)
immunoglobulin molecules, known
as paraproteins.
Patients with multiple myeloma
usually present with bone pain or a
pathological fracture. Others may
even present with symptoms of
blurred vision (that may result from
hyperviscosity of the blood due to
high levels of paraprotein), kidney
damage, anaemia or even infection.
Interestingly, in the early stages,
multiple myeloma usually doesn’t
cause any symptoms and it is usually
picked up after a routine blood or
urine test, when the presence of
the abnormal immunoglobulins is
detected.
The clinical and pathological
features of multiple myeloma are
mainly due to direct effects of the
tumour (bone invasion or fractures),
metabolic effects of the neoplastic
cells (high plasma uric acid and
calcium), the damaging effects of
the paraprotein (such as peripheral
neuropathy or renal failure) and
impaired immunity as a result of
reduced healthy immunoglobulins.
Currently, multiple myeloma is
treated with two aims in mind: to help
to keep the myeloma under control
and to help with symptom relief.
Treatment combinations to control
the myeloma usually consist of three
classes of drugs: a chemotherapy
drug (e.g. cyclophosphamide), a
corticosteroid (e.g. prednisolone) and
either thalidomide or velcade.
Unfortunately, often patients tend
to relapse in which case additional
anti-myeloma treatments have to be
given, adding to the plethora of side
effects that patients experience.
Researchers at Imperial have
reported laboratory findings that
show the new drug, DTP3, kills
myeloma cells in human cells and
mice without causing any toxic side
effects. The drug uses a completely
different mechanism of action
compared to other cytotoxic drugs.
DTP3 targets a biochemical step in
a process called the NF-kB pathway,
which is involved in switching off
the normal cellular mechanisms that
naturally lead to cell death, hence
prolonging (cancerous) cell survival.
Professor Franzoso, lead scientist
of the study, explained “we had
known for many years that NF-kB
is very important for cancer cells,
but because it is needed by healthy
cells, we did not know how to block it
specifically...blocking [this specific]
pathway with our DTP3...[that]
selectively kills myeloma cells could
offer a completely new approach to
treating patients”.
Further work is now being done
to commercialise DTP3 and other
candidate drugs based on Professor
Franzoso’s research to ensure the
quickest and safest way to administer
this treatment in patients with
multiple myeloma. A trial of this
drug, funded by the MRC, US
National Institutes of Health and
Cancer Research UK is due to take
place in late 2015.

