imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
The Union Awards celebrate the huge impact and hard work of our volunteers and showcase the best of Imperial College Union and our membership.
The awards which are nominated by students and then decided by students, are awarded at our gala event in June. Altogether there are 14 awards
across the board, each designed to recognise the great work that students do at the Union.
We need your nominations to help us shortlist students and groups for the Union Awards. Your nomination is supported by a short statement. This is
your chance to tell us why they deserve to win that award, so please include examples; reasons and any information that will help! Categories such as
Campaign Of The Year and Contribution To The College Life Award can be nominated in as many times as you want.
To login and nominate go to: imperialcollegeunion.org/union-awards
Sign up for Fieldwork First Aid course
The Union Awards - nominations close Friday 27 May
This Fieldwork First Aid course is designed specifically
to meet the needs of those undertaking fieldwork in
remote areas, since the outdoor environment presents
unique problems, both for fieldwork planning and first
aid. An ambulance could be hours away, so we give you
the advanced skills and confidence you need to care for
an injured or ill club member until external help arrives.
This fieldwork course is designed to go beyond basic
first aid and give our student volunteers undertaking
fieldwork the key basic & a; advanced first aid skills they
need in the outdoors. More importantly it will also give
them the confidence to use those skills effectively in a
fieldwork scenario.
WHEN: June 4 & June 5 2016, 9:00 - 17:30
WHERE: RSM Rooms G39 & G41
Find out more by visiting: imperialcollegeunion.org/fieldwork-first-aid
EU referendum - come to the debate on Thursday 2 June
The EU referendum is fast approaching. Haven’t decided which way to vote
yet? We’ll have campaign teams around College for the next few weeks
to give you all the facts you need to make an informed choice. We’ll also
be hosting a debate on Thursday 2 June at 18:30 in Skempton with
speakers arguing both sides if you still need persuading either way.
Register to vote by Tuesday 7 June if you haven’t done so already and get
out to vote on 23 June; you can also vote by post or proxy if you won’t be
around on the day. You can also vote by post or proxy if you won’t be around on the day but you need to make sure you apply for these separately.
If you are living in halls you will need to make sure you are registered because changes to voter registration mean you are not automatically on the
electoral register.
Who is eligible to vote in the EU Referendum?
A British or Irish citizens living in the UK A Commonwealth citizens living in the UK who has (or does not require) leave to remain in the UK
You can register to vote at www.gov.uk/register-to-vote

