PAGE 27
felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 27th
MAY 2016
TV tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A Eulogy for Shows No More
Henry Wild
Writer
This Week on Game of Thrones
On the plus side, Nathan Fillion’s schedule is free! Photo Credit: ABC
A
s the renewal period
for shows finally winds
down and writers once
more begin plotting
ahead, networks start to announce
which shows didn’t make the
cut. The major victims for this
season are the singing competition
powerhouse American Idol, the
country-music drama Nashville,
and a personal favourite of mine,
the Nathan Fillion driven, crime
procedural Castle. But, as much as
we mourn the recently departed, the
reasons why individual shows are
cancelled are quite varied.
The most common reason for
a cancelled show will be a lack
of viewer interest. It simply isn’t
drawing in the numbers, and more
importantly the advertising money,
that the network wants, and so off
with its head.This is especially true if
the lack of advertising money means
that the show is turning a loss for
them. After all, my future bankers,
why do anything if it doesn’t earn
you a good chunk of money?
Shows can also be cancelled due
to infighting about any number of
things, from the creative direction
of the show to conflicts between
some of the people involved. The
management might also decide to
axe the show in order to make room
for a hopefully better and more
profitable one.
Care in point, Star Trek was cacelled
after three seasons. However, due
to massive fan support the show
eventually returned to TV as Star
Trek: The Next Generation, and the
franchise is alive today with the new
series of rebooted films.
So, as much as we might get
angry at a network for cancelling
our favourite show, try and think
positively. For every great show
that stops being produced another
takes its place, and if that sucks,
who knows, we might get a reboot.
Unless that sucks as well.
Daisies, the fantastically absurd
story of a pie-maker with the ability
to resurrect the dead, and Firefly,
a ‘space western’ by Joss Whedon
with one of the largest and vocal
cult followings. Weirdly enough,
being cancelled often doesn’t mean
that content stops being made for
the show. It’s generally the case
that when a show with a large fan
base is cancelled, the staff behind
it will be bombarded with requests
for a renewal or for more content
in that universe. Occasionally these
fans get exactly what they wanted.
Anurag Deshpande
Writer
Now the tables have turned. Photo Credit: HBO
In war, even
the ‘good
guys’ can’t
stay good
for very
long
More satisfyingly though, some
shows are simply cancelled once
they’ve run their course.The writers
and director have told the story that
they wanted to tell, and so rather
than letting it go stale they just cease
work on it. While some executives
are of the ‘bleed it dry’ philosophy,
and will never cancel a show if it’s
still bringing in the green, that rare
breed of management who actually
believe in giving shows a satisfactory
ending crops up often enough that
the TV format is still going (fairly)
strong.
Some of the more famous
casualties of recent times include
gems like Arrested Development,
an award-winning sitcom about a
family of narcissistic idiots, Pushing
Why do
anything if it
doesn’t earn
you a good
chunk of
money?
I
t’s a fairly eventful week in
the most recent, unfortunately
weaker, episode of Game of
Thrones.Right off the bat,we’re
treated to perhaps one of the biggest
reveals in the series; the origin of
the White Walkers. The problems
start here, because this scene sorely
lacks the gravitas it requires and as a
result has nowhere near the impact
that it should. The fact that it just
sort of happens, out of nowhere,
doesn’t help.
Perhaps if it was done a bit later in
the series, with more time dedicated
to it and more questions answered
it would’ve felt weightier. In its
defence, however, there were a few
interesting things to be noticed in
this scene. In particular, one of the
Weirwoods having a serious case
of Max Von Sydnow face and the
fact that it is spring this far north.
In retrospect, this also raises some
further interesting questions about
the nature of the Walkers,but,at the
time, I was underwhelmed.
Funnily enough, my favourite
moments of the episode were the
relatively low-key ones. Jorah and
Dany’s reunion and prompt re-
separation was fantastic. This was
narratively a great place for Jorah’s
arc to go and, honestly, I wouldn’t
mind too much even if this was its
end. But, I don’t think we’re quite
done with him just yet (crazy theory
time: Jorah will end up meeting
Arya/the Faceless Men given their
and Greyscale’s mutual links to the
Doom of Valyria).
All things considered, it was nice
to see the Andal finally admit his
feelings out loud, and accept his
fate. Equally, it felt well-earned
to have Dany finally acknowledge
how much she values his friendship
and would be impacted by his loss.
The scene had beautiful pangs
of finality and regret, thanks in
no small part to Emilia Clarke’s
excellent performance. It further
serves to make her realise the folly
of arrogant tendencies; having
potentially driven one of her closest
friends to his death. Dany, for better
or worse, takes the world for what
she wants it to be rather than what
it is; reflected in her desperate order
to Jorah to find a cure for himself,
instead of a heartfelt goodbye.
Finally, there is the great tragedy
of Hodor; his life ruined just so
that he could die alone in the cold,
screaming, and so far from home.
The death itself was unusually
poetic and heroic for the series.
Though, to me, the origin of the
name felt incredibly cheesy. Poor
Willis’fate at the hands of Bran ties
back into the Children’s creation of
the Walkers; a grim reminder that
in war,even the ‘good guys’can’t stay
good for very long. Oh yeah, and
the Kingsmoot happened; but you
can tell how shit that was by how
little I’ve mentioned it.
Game of Thrones is available on
HBO Go
Digital illustrations are indicative only. Show Home photography is indicative only. Times and distances are indicative only and taken from www.maps.google.co.uk - Pricing correct on 25.05.16.
Live just a 27 minute commute from campus
Valentine Place is the perfect base for you to enjoy the vibrancy of central London living.
Apartments atValentine Place are ready to move into from this summer.
Book your appointment to visit us & fall in love with your new home atValentine Place.
SE1
1 beds from £735,000 | 2 beds from £965,000
3 beds from £1,175,000 | 3 bed mews houses from £2,195,000
1-19 Valentine Place London, SE1 8QH
Just a 5 minute walk*
fromWaterloo station,Valentine Place uniquely provides residents with a
secluded communal garden, offering the ideal retreat to come home to after enjoying busy London life.
Further benefits of buying atValentine Place include:
› Small, boutique development › Virtual concierge service › Some apartments with vista views of the
London Eye › 250 years leasehold › 10 year NHBC warranty › 2 year Crest Nicholson warranty.
0800 883 8032 | valentineplace@crestnicholson.com | www.valentineplaceSE1.com

