Day By Day
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS
P a g e 5
Wednesday 2nd
KGB Snatch back escape man
Russian defector, Alexander Istomin,
granted political asylum in Britain a fortnight
ago, was back in Moscow tonight.
Soviet K G B agents discovered his hideout
where British security men were shadowing
him for his own protection. First indications
are that they found the 31 year old journalist
on Tuesday night, subjected him to intensive
pressure and took him back to Soviet territory
... the Russian Embassy in Millionaires Row,
Kensington.
Alexander was a trainee with Novosty, the
official Soviet feature news agency with
London offices at Rosary Gardens in South
Kensington.
Russia's latest defector to the West, known
in Whitehall as 'Gutsy Galina' was still in
Britain after making a dash to freedom at
London Airport on Monday night. Galina
Orionova, an interpreter with the Soviet Folk
Dance Group agreed to meet the Russian
Embassy 'Heavy men' who try to persuade
runaways to change their mind. She told
them she would not go back to Moscow
whatever they said.
The WHO are back
The W H O made an emotional comeback,
tonight, with their first concert since the
death of drummer Keith Moon, eight months
ago.
It was the group's first stage performance
for three years: almost 4,000 fans packed the
Rainbow Theatre in Finsbury Park, London.
Thursday 3rd
General Election
A General Election was held today. There
was a 76% turnout even with bad weather in
the North of England.
Durham University president elect stands
down
Durham Student Union president elect,
Chris Johnson, resigned last week. Criticism
of Mr Johnson started after a 'highly
controversial performance' at N U S
Conference.
T h e D u r h a m s t u d e n t ' s n e w s p a p e r ,
Palatinate, describes how a motion to D S U
Council moved that Mr Johnson should be
censured giving the following reasons.
(1) He cast his vote for a 'joke' candidate in
the elections for a sabbatical treasurer in
NUS.
(2) He persuaded the delegation to instigate
an Emergency motion which, it transpired,
was inaccurate and even slanderous to
another student.
(3) He missed the last session of the
conference in Blackpool without informing
other members of the delegation.
Mr Johnson's supporters state that 'Chris
stood for President in the belief that what the
President did should always be relevant to the
ordinary student, that student unions often
take themselves too seriously and consider
themselves to be more important than they
actually are and he felt it important to rise
above all the petty political squabbles that
don't benefit anybody but waste a lot of time'.
Friday 4th
Conservatives win General Election
Britain's first woman Prime Minister,
Margaret Thatcher, leads a Conservative
Government that has an overall majority of
43.
33 million hamburgers
The first branch of America's oldest cafe
chain has had to close 'because it's just worn
out'. The Little White Castle, Indianapolis,
has sold 33 million burgers and 16 million
cups of coffee since 1927, and may even be
reconstructed at public expense as a
museum piece and landmark.
Cat causes power failure
A stray cat wandered into an electricity
sub-station in Hamilton, Ontario, stepped on
a live wire and caused a power failure lasting
25 minutes in the city. The cat was slightly
singed.
Saturday 5th
The New 'Old' Cabinet
The Prime Minister anounced her new
cabinet this weekend. The oldest member is
Lord Hailsham (71), the Lord Chancellor. The
choice of Lord Carrington as Foreign
Secretary has received favourable comments
from America and South Africa. William
Whitelaw, the new Home Secretary, is one of
the older minsters while the youngest is the
Minister of Transport, Mr Norman Fowler
(41).
The only other woman in the cabinet is Mrs
Sally Oppenheim the Minister for State,
Trade, Minister for Consumer Affairs.
Other Cabinet members include Sir
G e o f f r e y H o w e , C h a n c e l l o r o f ' t h e
Exchequer. Sir Keith Joseph has the task of
looking after industry and M r Francis Pym is
the Defence Secretary.
The vanishing white egg
White eggs, normally 1 p a dozen cheaper in
the shops than eggs with brown shells, may
eventually vanish from the shops. Poultry
breeders complain that public demand is so
low that they are losing moeny breeding
chickens to lay them.
Although white eggs taste the same and are
just as wholesome, housewives prefer to pay
extra for brown eggs.
Sunday 6th
Electrocution death at baptism
16 year old Gilbert Williamson moaned and
pitched forward during his total immersion
baptism in a 10ft long pool at the Church of
God at Galston Ayrshire. It is assumed that he
died by electrocution.
P o l i c e warn stately homes
The Bank holiday tomorrow is a good time
for the growing band of historic home owners
who let the public pay to come and visit their
property. However, police warn that some
visitors' motives are not to admire the
architecture but to come and case the ancient
joint.
Broughton castle was burgled last month.
Apparently theives had paid 70p to wander at
leisure round the castle giving them the
opportunity to get the lie of the land. The
owners say that most members of the public
behave impeccably with the odd exception of
the 'toucher and opener'who cannot bear just
to look.
Monday 7th
Tranquillisers linked with cancer growth
It has been claimed by a research team that
mild tranquilisers, used daily by millions of
people, may accelerate the growth of cancer.
They have found that diazepam, the active
ingredient in Valium and similar drugs, seems
to promote the growth of cancers in tests on
rats.
The Long Leave
A Germany based American soldier who
deserted in 1951 and hid in his fiancee's
Berlin appartment for 28 years, has given
himself up to the authorities. He had no
support after the woman died. He said 'I spent
all my time in one room, and never ventured
out.'
Nuclear protest
Opponents of nuclear energy are to hold
demonstrations in 11 European countries on
June 3rd. The protests will take place in such
places as West Germany, France, Britain and
Italy.
Tuesday 8th
Thorpe trial starts
Jeremy Thorpe, who lost his seat in the
General Election, is to stand trial in the Old
Bailey. He is accused of conspiring with three
other men to murder Mr Norman Scott, a
former male model. The trial is expected to
last up to three months.
Cloudless beer
Carlsberg have announced that they have
found out how to put an end to icloudy beer.
The firm's Research Centre in Copenhagen
says that cloudiness is due to substances
called polyphenols which are found in barley.
Carlsberg have found barley strains with no
polyphenols in them, so that beer will
naturally stay clear.
Radio Marathon
Broadcaster David Carter, helped by IC
Radio, ended a non-stop 48 and half hours on
the air after raising more than £10,000 for
charity. The money was raised from an
auction in which the listeners took part. The
marathon session; on B B C Radio London was
a w o r l d r e c o r d for " l o n g d i s t a n c e "
broadcasting.

