Page 8
R E V I E W S
Two Sides and Two
Cinemas
Often an evening spent in the dark
witnessing a director's work can offer
us an important insight into our
society. Such happened on two nights
last week. At the Curzon in Hotel ridden
Mayfair and then at the Odeon F i l m
centre, Bristol I saw O l m i ' s 'The Tree of
Wooden Clogs' and 'The Chant of
J i m m y Blacksmith' respectively.
The C u r z o n is U l t r a smooth, but amidst
the perspex decor and soft lighting a negro
stood upright dutifully taking our tickets.
Olmi's masterpiece explores the arduous and
spiritual life of peasant farmers, amidst rural
northern Italy at the turn of the century.
Here women are equal with men, animals are
slaughtered for the next meal and the
suffering in life is rewarded by a 'place in
heaven'. Yet it is also an age of the
landowner and change. This backdrop
provides O l m i with a rich texture of ideas,
incidents and messages. A young child has to
walk each morning to school because the
priest declares he is too bright to remain
uneducated. Those who remain behind strive
to have their tomatoes ready first for market,
or to save the life of a bull by prayer. It is a
study of a way of life now gone from Europe.
Technology has brought material wealth and
different life-styles. W i t h this in m i n d how
easy it is to realise the cause of so many of
society's problems. The vandal at the bus
stop is a symptom of a deeper trouble. Whilst
man may enjoy his 5.3 litre car or his 125
Inter-City trains some have rebelled, unable
to accept this destiny for man. The peasants
in the film worked the land, followed the
changes in the season and looked to G o d for
spiritual guidance. Today we press the digits
on our calculators for a living, follow the
league tables and look to the Costa Brava for
relief. O l m i clearly accepts that their lifestyles
were harsh, very harsh. But. 1 feel, like me he
senses something lost. M a n has the
opportunity for expression of belief and ideas
today like never before. We have time to
develop our minds, explore and understand
our universe, etc. etc. yet we are in danger of
losing the aspects of our character and
lifestyles once so precious and highly regarded
M a n y hope we can hold on to them, and it
won't be easy. O u r society, with all its index-
linked wages and neon lights, will crumble.
Perhaps we should not turn our backs on a
society where people still hold personal
beliefs, live for the good of a small community
and constantly improve themselves. This
cannot happen by being shut up in high-rise
council flats in front of A n n a Ford.
Jimmy Blacksmith is a half white, hall
aborigine youth caught amongst the
minefield of a vicar who says he is not an
aborigine, and ran look forward to a lile well
away from the likes of them, and the
employers; bigoted and prejudiced. Where
he seeks work he finds fear and resentment,
where he seeks justice he finds none. As one of
the players says it only takes a second to kill,
and how right that is, yet behind this
moment's action for Jimmy there has been
constant persecution throughout his life.
Finally it is the efforts of white women to
take his white wife and child away from him
that produces the anatomical equivalent of
the elastic limit jpfafc hacks 5 people to
death.
BRAM T C H A I K O V S K Y : Strange man
Changed man. (Radar)
Bram Tchaikovsky may be strange, and
since his days with the Motors he may even be
changed, but if this record is any indication,
he is also currently directionless. Despite
having said that, this album is exactly what he
thinks the band, also called 'Bram
Tchaikovsky' (for want of anything better?),
should be doing. Although it leaves him
uncommitted, half-way between pop and
solid rock, it is an impressive debut album
which demonstrates well the band's potential
and promises much for the future.
Well I'll save my other moans for later, let's
consider the music. 'Robber' is the first track
and despite the tight sound of this exciting
trio, which also comprises Micky Broadbent
on guitars and Keith Boyce on drums, it's not
very adventurous; 'He's a robber, he'll steal
your heart away.' - no wonder there isn't a
word-sheet included in the package.
The opening lines of the title track possibly
sum up the dilemma in which the group finds
itself: 'Ladies and gents let me introduce
myself to you, I'm not really sure what I'm
supposed to do...'.
It's a pretty good song though, but 'Lonely
dancer' into which it runs is better. There are
shades of the Beach Boys' 'Sloop John B' on
the intro to 'I'm the one that's leaving' but this
song of unrequited love degenerates. The
final track on this side, however, is superb;
'Girl of my dreams' the present single, with
Bram T. and Broadbent both on vocals, is the
kind of music to put a smile on the sourest
face. There's even Mike Oldfield on Tubular
Bells if you can find them.
Side Two is definitely weaker, possibly
because Bram T. himself has written all but
one of the tracks, the exception being a
headsdown version of 'lm a believer', and
'nobody knows' are readily disposable;
callous I know, but they are. The only feature
of note on 'Lady from the USA' is the bass
guitar and backing vocals of Motors leader
Nick Garvey, dropping in to help his old mate,
as he does on production - to its detriment. In
fact, it is probably this unwillingness to
separate himself from his past that stifles
Bram Tchaikovsky, both man and group.
Fortunately, these are all quickly forgotten
when 'Sarah smiles' and 'Turn on the light'
complete the album. Both are excellent, one a
commercial, bouncy pop tune, the other a
jarring rocker. But here again the lack of
direction comes in; 'Sarah smiles' is over-
produced - are they afraid of putting out a
straight pop song (apparently not - it was
their first single last July) and 'Turn on the
light' has all the sharp edges filed down, the
band on a tight rein.
Still, on the whole the songs are good, neat
hooks abound and they might even be
danceable. Do yourself a favour and get in on
the ground floor of what promises big things.
Jon Firth
At the triple-screened Odeon in Bristol this
film certainly isn't getting the audience it
deserves. They were up and down like yo-yos,
and were as noisy a group of cinema-goers as I
can remember. What was worse though was
that they were as bigotted as the Australian
posse in the film. It might seem an elitist view
but I reckon that the great majority did not
allow themselves to question the meaning
behind the film. They were more interested
in stuffing pop corn discussing the A A
patrolman rape trial, ice cream and putting
their hand as far as possible up their partner's
skirt. N o w there is nothing wrong in that you
cry and indeed there isn't really. However,
seeing films in London you are thankfully
spared the excesses of a provincial or
suburban audience.
Il'vou have seen the film try swopping the
location ofthe film from Australia at the turn
of the century to Brick Lane today and you
will see how real the dangers are. The ticket
collector at the C u r z o n has a job today but
tomorrow ... T h e n he might find himself the
victim of abuse, inequality and fear. The
crowd in Bristol would not go out oft heir way
to help him. Hopefully we would.
There can never be any excuse for voilenee
and murder. Yet when il happens should we
not attempt to understand the causes of it.
and how they could be eliminated. Only
when we have, can a decision be made as to
whether a more important priority is to
defend society with every punishment and
weapon available.
There arc two sides (or more) to the
problems I have raised above. As diverse as
the cinemas where 1 saw the films.
Both deserve your attention and thought.
Roger Stotesbury
S M A L L A D S
FOR SALE
R e ' s o n a t a a c o u s t i c g u i t a r .
Virtually new. £20 or nearest offer.
C O N T A C T : R. W h i t w o r t h ,
Linstead 532.
WANTED
Flat for S u m m e r V a c a t i o n .
Academic visitors require flat
from 16th June till end of August
or beginning of September.
Please C O N T A C T : Mrs. Younis,
Room 902. Electrical Engineering
Department (INT. Tel. 3122).
FLAT AVAILABLE
for quiet C O U P L E (no under-
graduates).
The flat consists of:
-large double bed-sitting-room
-large kitchen/diner
-bathroom
Location: near South Kensington
tube station.
Rent: £40.00 per week (returnable
deposit: 1 month's.rent)
C O N T A C T : Mrs. A. Konarski, Tel.
584 5545.
TO LET
Over the Summer. Rooms (5) in a
large house in Dulwich Village.
Singles and/or doubles. Price to
include gas and electricity, use of
kitchen, dining room, living room
and two bath rooms. Main line
station 2 mins walk.
TEL: 733 8137 and ask for Mike or
Paul.

