LCAREERS
Careers Fair 1984
•
The Industrial Society and the Careers Advisory Service are presenting
the Careers Fairon Wednesday October 31st. The Fairwill take place in
the Great Hall and Junior Common Room from 10.30am to 4.00pm
continuously.
There will be over sixty companies, many of whom will be looking to
recruit heavily for the first time in several years. There will be a
considerable range of activities represented at the Fair with large
numbers of banks and accounting firms as well as representatives from
the services and manufacturing and service industries.
The fair will require a considerable amount of organisation. If you feel
you would be able to spare some time either on the evening of Tuesday
October 30th or any time on Wednesday October 31 stand help to make
the Fair a success then please contact me via the chemical Engineering
pigeon holes.
John Martin
1. Air Products Manufacture and Sale of industrial glasses and process
plant equipment BNUOLMDH
2. Arthur Andersen and Co Chartered Accountants All Departments
3. Arthur Andersen and Co Management Consultants All Departments
4. Association of Certified Accountants
5. Bell Northern Research Research and development of
telecommunications equipment UEPO
6. Blue Circle Manufacture and Marketing of Cement, ceramics and allied
productsf All Departments
7. BOC Industrial and Medical gases, Medical equipment, vacuum
technology and computing BUEOMDHP
8. British Aerospace Dynamics Group Design development and
Manufacture of Guided Weapons Systems and Space Equipment
AUELMDPOH
9. British Gas Corporation Exploration, Production and Transmission of
Natural Gas All Departments
10. British Petroleum International Group engaged in Discovery and
Development of Crude Oil Resources, Manufacture and Marketing of Oil,
Petrochemical and associated products All Departments
11. British Rail Rail and Sea Transport All Departments
12. British Steel Corporation Production of iron and steel All Departments
13. Britoil Exploration, production and trading of oil and oil related
products All Departments
14. Beecham Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceutical Research production,
technical marketing and sales All Departments
15. Coopers and Lybrand Chartered Accountants All Departments
16. Courtaulds Textiles, Paints, Plastics and Packaging All Departments
17. Chevron Petroleum Oil Company All Departments
18. Civil Service Commission Recruitment for government scientific and
technical departments All Departments
19. Datron High technology instruments All Departments
20. Ernst and Whinney Chartered Accountants All Departments
21. Ferranti Development of techniques, equipment and software which
form the basic unit from which large systems are built UEMP
22. Ford Design and Manufacture of motor vehicles All Departments
23. GEC Power Engineering Mechanical Engineering Laboratory
Mechanical Engineering contracts, research and development
A0ELMDPH
24. GEC Turbines Ltd Design manufacture and erection of large steam
generators and power stations, AELMDHP
25. Gencor Mineral Mining and Processing of Metals BELDHJI
26. Her Majesty's Government Communication Centre Design and
development of advanced communications systems and equipment EP
27. Health and Safety Executive Health and safety of both employees at
their place of work and the general public All Departments
28. Hays Allan Chartered Accountants All Departments
29. IBM Design, development, manufacture, marketing, installing and
servicing information systems All Departments
30. ICI Manufacture of Chemicals and pharmaceuticals on a world wide
scale All Departments
31. Johnson Matthey Precious metals refiners Chemical manufacturers
and Paint Fabricators All Departments
32. Lloyds Bank Banking All Departments
33. Marconi Design manufacture of high technology electrical systems All
Departments
34. Marathon Oil Oil and Gas Exploration and Field Development
ABCUEDHI
35. Mars Manufacturing and Marketing of Confectionary All Departments
36. Mobil Exploration, production, refining, distribution and marketing of
petroleum products BNCUGOLMDJIPTAE
37. M-O-Valve Co Research design and Development of high technology
electronic devices with professional, military and information technology
applications NELDP
38. National Physical Laboratories Research and Development UELMDHP
39. National Westminster Bank Banking All Departments
40. Noble Lowndes and Partners Employee Benefits/Pension Consultancy
UM
41. Ove Arup Consulting Engineers ACDE
42. Peat Marwick Mitchell and Co Chartered Accountants/Management
Consultants All Departments
43. Plessey Development of high technology electronic systems
ANUEOLMDHPT
44. Pilkington Manufacturing of glass and associated products All
Departments
45. Pilkington PE Research, development and manufacturing of electro
optical systems ANUEOLMDPT
46. Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants All Departments
47. Procter and Gamble Development and manufacture of cleansing and
domestic products All Departments
48. Perkin Elmer Manufacture of high technology analytical instruments
BNUELMDF
49. Rank Xerox Design and development of reprographic machinery
UEMD
50. Reckitt and Colman Manufacture of household goods, toiletries,
pharmaceuticals, food and wine All Departments
51. Rolls Royce and Associates High technology mechanical engineering
All Departments
52. REME Support for the army's engineering AED and various
53. Royal Engineers Military Engineering All Departments
54. RAF National Air Defence of the UK and NATO All Departments
55. Royal Navy Maritime Defence of the UK and NATO All Departments
56. RTZ Services Ltd Mining, Metal smelting processing and fabrication
Chemicals, light engineering All Departments
57. Sauter Automation Environment controls, Building Automation,
Energy Management BUEFMDP
58. Schlumburger Inland Services Oilfield Service Company
AUEMDHJIPG
59. Shell International Petroleum Co Ltd All aspects of the oil and chemical
industry All Departments
60. Spicerand Pegler Chartered Accountants All Departments
61. Systems Designers Computer Real Time Systems House UEMDP
62. SCICON Computer systems, design and consultancy work All
Departments.
63. STC Laboratories Communications Research (the research centre of
Standard Telephones and Cables Ltd) BNUEFLMDHP
64. Touche Ross and Co Chartered Accountants All Departments
65. Unilever Manufacture, marketing and distribution of foods, detergents
and chemicals All Departments
Key
A Aeronautical Engineering
B Chemical Engineering
C Civil Engineering
D Mechanical Engineering
E Electrical Engineering
F Environmental Technology
G Geology
H Metallurgy
I Petroleum Engineering
J Mineral Resources Engineering
L Material Science
M Mathematics
N Chemistry
O Management Science
P Physics
R Botany
S Biochemistry
T Social and Economic Studies
U Computing
X Biology
Y Microbiology
Z Zoology
10 Friday 26 October 1984 FELIX

