CAREERS IN ICI
This year ICI is looking to recruit up to 100 Science and Engineering Graduates for a wide range of
opportunities. ICI is at the forefront of the world chemical industry, producing a broad spectrum
of products from bulk chemicals to highly specialised products for the electronics industry
The nature of ICI's business means that the Company requires highly motivated graduates with a wide
range of technical, commercial and managerial abilities
REPRESENTATIVES FROM ICI WILL BE AT THE INDUSTRIAL SOCIETY CAREERS FAIR
IN THE SHERFIELD BUILDING ON 31st OCTOBER 1984 AT 10.00 A.M. WITH MORE
-l
< INFORMATION ON THE OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE
r Your Future in Instrument Design
Datron Instruments Ltd is setting the pace in the design of
high technology test instruments — these currently include
Digital Multimeters, Calibrators and Data Loggers.
To maintain our technical leadership we require graduates
who can combine flair and innovation with aptitude for
design in any of the following disciplines:
Analogue — advanced circuit designs in the frequency
range DC to 1 MHz.
Digital — system design using microprocessors, gate arrays
and interface technology.
Software — real time measurement system management
and interface handlers using both assembler and structured
languages.
You will work within a highly skilled team on the development
of new products incorporating imaginative measurement
techniques and the latest technology. Training will be under
R U M E N T S
Datron Instruments Limited, Hurricane Way, Norwich, N R 6 6 J B .
the guidance of a senior engineer, supplemented by
special ist courses.
Datron offers an excellent working environment in a new, well
equipped Engineering Research facility. This is augmented
by an informal and friendly atmosphere. Based in ancient
Norwich, close to both the coast and Norfolk Broads, the area
offers excellent recreational facilities and low cost housing.
Your experience at Datron will give you an identity in a
company which has an international reputation for quality
and technical excellence. With current growth rates of
50% per annum there are opportunities for further career
advancement.
Highly competitive salaries will be offered; other benefits
include profit share, a transferable pension scheme and
BUPA. Assistance with relocation is available.
Final years students are invited to apply. For further infor-
mation please contact the Careers Advisory Service or meet
us at the Careers Fair.
• Leading in measurement technology
• 50% growth in turnover
• Plants in Norwich and Florida
• Technology Award Winners
• Full air conditioned laboratory
• Ambitious R & D Programmes
• Attractively priced housing
• Scope for career advancement

