CAREERS •
Interviews
How to
Succeed
Here are a few basic instructions which are
probably known to most of you but for the
few not in the know—
BE PREPARED
Employers are looking for motivation
towards the type of job for which you have
applied and for motivation towards their
company. Nothing irritates them more than
when you apparently don't know what you're
applying for or why.
Re-read the employer's literature the night
before and jot down any questions you may
have. Re-read your application form and
imagine the sort of question you would ask if
you were the employer. Practise answering
these questions. Think of the worst question
you might be asked and decide how you
would answer it.
'Where do you see yourself in five years
time?' 'What would you say were your
strengths and weaknesses?' (you don't have
to tell them the worst thing about yourself,
think of a 'positive' weakness!) What made
you choose this job (our company)? 'Have
you enjoyed your course at IC?' (Remember
you should be anwering positively!)
DRESS S M A R T L Y
First impressions are tremendously
important and we're told that some students
still go to interviews in jeans.
DRESS C O M F O R T A B L Y
Yes, you do need to be smart but its hard
to present your best image when your feet
are killing you or your collars stiff and new
and digging in.
DRESS APPROPRIATELY
Whilst the dark blue suit, white shirt and
sombre tie might be perfect for the firm of
accountants, it might look a weensy bit out-
of-place if you're going for a job in a disco.
D O N ' T BE L A T E
Allow plenty of time for the pre-booked
interview room to be changed to another on
the other side of the campus; for the train to
break down; or for you to have a wash and
brush-up so that you can arrive looking
smart and relaxed.
BE POSITIVE
Question: Do you have any experience of
computing?
Answer: Er, well, not really, I er, I only went
on a six weeks F O R T R A N course but I only,
sort of, urn, learnt the basics, not much
really...WRONG, lets try again
Question: Do you have any experience of
computing?
Answer: Yes, I went on a six week
F O R T R A N course which taught me the
basics. I enjoyed it (but only say this if you
did!)
Practice now making positive statements
about yourself trying to avoid negative
qualifications like, 'only, not really, just'.
M A N I P U L A T E
There may be some facts about yourself
which you think are particularly relevant to
the job for which you are being interviewed.
Make sure the interviewer knows about
them before you leave the interview room. If
you've had relevant vacation work, make
sure he's aware of it in some way, by perhaps
referring to it in your answer to a question. If
you've read their brochure, make sure the
interviewer knows.
BE POLITE, FRIENDLY A N D
INTERESTED
Treat the interviewer as you would a guest
in your home. If you shake hands, try not to
give either the wet-fish touch or the numb-
hand squeeze! Look interested in what the
interviewer is saying even if they're telling
you something you already know. Thank
them for their time as you leave but there's
no need to grovel!
S E C O N D INTERVIEWS
These are normally held on the employer's
premises and may include an evening meal,
group discussions, case-history exercises,
in-tray exercises, letter writing exercises,
psychometric testing and interviews with
managers, psychologists and Uncle Tom
Cobbley and all. One firm which I visited last
Summer reckoned that candidates could be
interviewed by as many as ten different
people in one day.
The Carers Advisory Service run a
seminar on second interviews in the Spring
Term and we also have a hand-out about
them, but here's a couple of tips to be going
on with:—
During the group discussions you get N O
points for saying nothing and you get even
fewer points for hogging the show and failing
to listen to the others.
Regardless of what employers might tell
you, they will be observing you all the time,
so try not to get drunk or throw your soup at
the managing director. Best of Luck!
Careers
advisers
Whilst I would never say that all careers
advisers are brilliant at their jobs I do think
that many are misjudged because of the
difference between the s t u d e n t ' s
expectation of our role and the adviser's view
of his or her function.
Elsewhere in FELIX is an article .about
career choice. Careers advisers can help you
at every stage of that process. We can help
you in many ways but we can't do it for you.
It's your job, your life, your decision.
Careers advisers are totally impartial. We
are not your parents or your teachers, we
have no axe to grind. We have knowledge of
the job market, of selection procedures etc
but we don't know a lot about you and you're
the most important factor in career choice.
Careers advisers can listen, ask
appropriate questions, help you find the right
sources of information, start you on the
process of decision making, suggest other
areas you can look at, help with applications,
give 'mock interviews', show you the
mechanics but we can't do the work for you.
You can meet the College Careers
Advisers in many places. We're always at the
ex-Students Careers Evenings run by the
College Associations; one of us is always at
the Lunchtime Careers Talks, anxiously
counting heads, looking at our watches to
see that the speakers don't overrun (or
trying not to look too cheesed off when the
speakers are appalling). We run the seminars
on Wednesday afternoons; one of us is
always in the library from 4.30pm to 5.30pm
to answer quick questions, glance over
application forms or CVs, or you can book to
see one of us for an interview. There's no
restriction on the number of advisers you
can see or the number of times you can see
them.
FELIX Friday 26 October 1984 13

