Mooney
prices up
Dear Sir,
Several weeks ago College imposed an
apparently small 2% refectory price increase.
It may seem there is nothing to complain
about, but few people can realise the
ridiculous way such increases are decided.
Wage rises are easy to identify, but College
has no way of analysing the cost of raw
materials. Until the end of last year College
used the Financial Times Shopping Basket
Index to fix their prices. This was not a very
reliable guide, as housewives use far more
eggs and less chips than the IC refectories,
but it was better than nothing. Unfortunately
the Index no longer exists.
When last year's sabbaticals tried to
oppose a price rise, arguing that some
sensible policy on pricing needed to be
developed, College ignored them. They had
no negotiating strength. College had made a
decision and would not change it. I guess the
same happened this year, although as I no
longer sit on the Refectory Committee I
cannot be certain.
College have tried to introduce a
computerised accounting system for the
refectories. Due to various mistakes, it still is
not used. The system could monitor the price
of raw materials and so indicate when price
rises are needed.
To make progress in this area the Union
must take a lead. It is no use expecting
College to solve the problem. It does not
harm them if prices go up by an exessive
amount. It only hurts students. College will
just continue to ignore the Union if we go into
Refectory Committee and ask nicely for
change. So I will be proposing a motion at the
next U G M instructing the Executive to call a
refectory boycott should College impose any
further price rises. This will hopefully
encourage the College to solve the problem,
because every time the Union has held a
Refectory Boycott in the past, the Union has
won. The College will not want the risk of
another defeat.
This motion should mark the start of a new
realistic approach to negotiating with
College. At present student representatives
on College committees have no real power as
College can always ignore their wishes. The
threat of militant action will make the
College listen to students.
Yours sincerely,
D Hugh Southey
Refectory Committee Rep 1983-84
Sub
Standard
Dear Sir,
Although this may appear to be both
embittered and spiteful I feel I must say a
word or two about our delightfully chummy
sub-aqua club.
This being my first year at Imperial I
decided I would take advantage of the
facilities and having some experience in
SCUBA diving felt I would join the college
club. So I ventured down to the introductory
meeting; on the whole a fairly pithy affair on
what is and isn't diving and what the club
does and doesn't do. From what I discovered
the latter of the two would be the fairest
assesment.
Having unwisely parted woth my money
(£3) I embarked on some polite conversation
with some of the senior officers of the club.
From the word go they outlined quite
emphatically, 'This is a social club! We like to
do a bit of training etc., but what we really
like to see is everyone together down the bar,
drinking pints, and talking wet suits... I've got
a big fat rubbery one, what's yours like?'
Having emphasised in the introduction on
the dangers of the sport and the need for a
responsible attitude (a point I totally agree
with) why did the majority of the club's
executive decide to turn up pissed, beer
glasses in hand, swaggering into the room
like a bunch of cowboys?
Talking to the club's diving officer about
club outings he said: 'We only have perhaps
three outings a term. Why don't you come
down to the bar later, se if you get on with us,
and if we allow you to join the 'team' (read
clique) you'll stand a much better (certain)
chance of getting on a diving trip. Due to the
number of unofficial members that tag along,
genuine Imperial College students stand little
chance.
Admittedly these are serious accusations
but let's consider these points:
a) Imperial owns what is commonly accepted
as one of the best equipped sub-aqua clubs in
the country
b) It recieves a considerable amount of
finance from the Union
c) This money seems to be squandered on a
very small number of people
The club is dormant (three trips a term is
not enough) and ill-managed by a bunch of
cowboys.
Yours humbly,
Everard Snivel
(real name supplied)
Dear Sir,
Contrary to apathetic belief, I would like
to announce that there really is a 10-pin
bowling club in existence at the college, and
that every able-bodied man, woman and ?
should come along. See random small ads,
posters, etc.
Yours sincerely,
Captain Fantastic
(real name supplied)
FELIX
Mascotry is one of the oldest traditions at
Imperial College and, like it or not, it is here
to stay.
At its best, mascotry promotes healthy
competition between the CCUs and provides
an outlet for high-spirited enthusiasm. It
should help to foster pride in the College and
its traditions.
At its worst it may lead to frightening
displays of violence and riotous behaviour
and the prospect of damage to people and
property.
To guard against this danger it is essential
that a clearly defined set of mascotry rules
exists, that each party plays to the same rules,
and that the rules are observed.
Those in authority in the CCUs should be
accutely aware of this responsibility and
should seek to make the position quite clear
to those they represent.
There are not many Colleges in the country
where mascotry would be tolerated to the
degree that it is at IC. Those who count
themselves supporters of mascotry should
guard this privilige as jealously as they guard
their mascots.
Students have found it more difficult than
ever this year to find flats and bedsits. What
were once cheap flats are now converted into
luxury appartments; students are starting to
squat in disused buildings.
These disturbing facts, coupled with the
impending closure of the Fremantle Hotel,
make it clear that an accommodation crisis is
looming.
Plans are afoot, it it true, to build a new
hall of residence, but this cannot be expected
to appear for a few years.
The College and the Union must start to
think seriously about how they are going to
house next year's Freshers, and how they can
avert a major crisis in the short term.
Acknowledgements: Thanks to Ajay, Dave
JonesfJon Jones, J Martin, Hugh, Diane (for
folding F E L I X every week), Grenville,
Damian, Andrew, Pete Coleman, Chris
Martin, Pete Hands, Rosemary, Tony,
Kishor, Richard, Neil Harris, Anne-Marie
Martin, Nigel, Pete, John Martin.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1984. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 26 October 1984 FELIX

