IN THIS
ALIEN ENVIRONMENT,
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
IS OUT OF ITS DEPTH
Inspecting underground gas pipe-
lines for faults may not sound like the
ultimate high-tech challenge. But, i n
fact, the task proved to be beyond the
'state-of-the-art' technologies previously
available — even in military and aero-
space applications.
PROBLEM:
Design a vehicle which can travel
inside the pipe, carrying equipment
capable of identifying any significant
defect, and pinpointing its position to
within a metre in a run of up to a hundred
kilometres or more.
SOLUTION:
THE INTELLIGENT PIG
The Intelligent Pig, developed by
the gas people, is a vehicle c a r r y i n g
highly advanced sensing, data process-
ing and recording equipment. Driven
through the pipe by the gas pressure
within it, the Pig can be used without
taking the pipe out of service.
What is more, it can not only pin-
point any defect on the inside or outside
of a steel pipe,but even describe its nature.
HOW?
Using strong magnetic fields or
elastic waves propagated at ultrasonic
frequencies, different types of sensors
can detect corrosion, cracks, impact
damage or distortion of the pipe. But
the real challenge lay in processing the
hundreds of millions of signals produced
by the sensors in an average run.
THERE WASN'T A COMPUTER
SMALL ENOUGH AND TOUGH
ENOUGH
Many of the pipes to be inspected
are less than 305mm in diameter. To fit
sufficiently powerful data processing
equipment into the tiny space available,
h y b r i d microcircuits incorporating
custom-designed silicon chips had to be
developed. And since the space restric-
tions also limit battery size and therefore
power, many of these highly advanced
electronic components have to operate
at the very limits of their specifications.
What's more, the environment inside
the pipe isn't exactly friendly. A l l the
highly sophisticated equipment carried
by the Pig has had to be designed to
tolerate or be protected from extreme
vibration, mechanical shock, dirt, and
gas pressure of up to 70 atmospheres.
A TOMORROW'S WORLD'TAPE
RECORDER
The sheer volume of data to be stored
inspired the development of what is
probably the most advanced ultra-
miniaturised tape recorder currently in
existence. Making extensive use of sub-
miniature hybrid microelectronics, new
types of recording heads and ultra-
precision mechanical engineering, this
little marvel can store up to 500 million
readings on a single reel of standard
one-inch tape,with an accuracy of better
than one-tbousandth of one percent!
FROM REEL TO REELS
Once the Pig has finished its run, the
next job is to prepare the data for analy-
sis by powerful, advanced computers
such as the V A X ll/780.There's so much
information in the Pig's tiny recorder
that many reels of computer tape are
needed to receive it, and many hours of
computer time to analyse it.
THE RESULT
Britain's underground gas trans-
mission network is a multi-billion pound
asset. And the technical pyrotechnics
we've just described have a thoroughly
down-to-earth end result—they help the
gas people to maintain this asset more
efficiently and cost effectively.
WHY THE GAS PEOPLE LIVE IN
THE FUTURE
The fact that gas is Britain's most
popular domestic fuel - a n d a powerful
and growing force in industry, too-is the
result of many years'foresight,planning
and massive investment by British Gas
scientists and engineers. And they're still
working for the future—to meet Britain's
energy needs in the next century.
THE GAS PEOPLE-
WORKING FORTOMORROW'S WORLD TODAY

