ECAREERS
Employers' Recruitment
Brochures
Every day at this time of the year, a large bag
of post arrives in the Careers Advisory
Service containing recruitment brochures
from employers. These range from the
glossy to the plain, from the informative to
the baffling.
The best ones include details of what new
graduates actually do within various job
functions. This kind of information comes in
different packaging; some as 'A day in the life
of Bill Brown' or 'Lizzy Locket's career so far'
or just as a job description. Y o u can be sure
that Bill Brown and Lizzy Locket are not the
worst graduates they ever employed and
Training
for
Engineers
Employers have many differing ideas about
training and this is particularly noticeable in
the engineering industry. Mechanical and
Civil Engineers are usually given a much,
more formal and structured training than
those of other disciplines. Some firms
impose their training programme upon you
ana ,.n others you have to keep asking if you
want to receive more training. Training
leading to the status of Chartered Engineer
usually includes induction workshop
practice, the application of knowledge and
techniques to processes, design, business
practice and 'objective training'. Induction
often takes the form of a short course to tell
recruits about the structure of the company,
its products, lines of communication and the
general philosophy of the management.
Many Imperial College graduates will have
already experienced workshop practice but
physicists, for example, entering the
electronics industry may well be sent on a
course at a local college to understand the
tools and techniques used in industry.
The next stage of training tends to be the
application of techniques to processes. This
naturally takes on different forms depending
on the industry concerned but requires some
involvement with the production side of the
business.
Some experience of design is considered
to be of critical importance these days and
includes an understanding of safety
considerations, cost of buying in
components or their manufacture.
Business practice is an introduction to
commerce and finance and often includes a
period of time spent in the marketing
department.
8
their rate of progress might be difficult to
match.
At least these brochures should give you a
flavour of what graduates doing specific
work in the organisation are about.
Details of the firm's training schemes are
usually prominent in graduate recruitment
brochures. Just as with brochures for exotic
holidays, the discerning reader can learn as
much from the omissions as from the
content. If training is not mentioned there is
unlikely to be any provided. Other important
information to be found in these publications
includes details of the business, the products
'Directed objective training' usually takes
about six months and is on the job training,
designed to prepare engineers for their first
responsible job. Many sponsored students
will have completed all but their objective
training before they leave college.
After that those wishing to become
Chartered Engineers must reach the ripe old
age of twenty-five and spend two years in a
responsible job. Anyone without the
necessary academic qualifications to
become a member of one of the Chartered
Engineering Institutions may take a little
longer. Increasingly institutions are insisting
on a written report of the training received
and a professional interview.
Research or
Commerce?
Ask many 35 year olds how they got to be
doing what they're doing now and the
answers will probably include something like
— 'I saw this advert, I met this chap, I knew I
did't want to work in 'x', so 'y' was all that was
left; I got bored with 'a' so I kind of drifted in
to 'b'; the interviewer was so gorgeous...'
All rather random and erratic with
apparently no long term plan. It's true that
they probably didn't consciously apply any
method but sub-consciously parts of the
career choice process have been happening.
There are five steps in the process —
orientation, self-awareness, market
awareness, matching and self-marketing.
You may not even be at stage one yet or you
may already be at stage five. Often success at
stage five is dependent on how well you have
done the other steps.
Orientation is just finding out what
'career choice' is all about, how you go about
deciding, who and what there is to help you
and what stage in the process you have
reached. In reading this article you have
Friday 26 October 1984
the company makes, and the locations of its
factories and offices. Job vacancies for the
forthcoming recruitment r o u n d are
sometimes included with an indication of
which degree disciplines they will consider
for each vacancy. It is interesting that one
third of the vacancies are for students with a
degree in any subject.
If you intend to make a serious application
to a company for employment, it is almost
essential to read their recruitment brochure.
Some companies, for example IBM and Peat
Marwick, are outraged if you have not. There
are always reference files available in the
Careers Library if all the other copies have
gone. Some employers have the habit of
producing their literature very late and many
students come to read these brochures on
the day when the company is visiting the
College. That is bound to be the day when
the supply runs out.
begun to orientate yourself!
Self-awareness. Before you can decide
what is the best course of action, you need to
know, for example, what you have to offer,
what you want out of life, what sorts of things
you would like to do in a job. This is one of the
hardest stages in the process of choosing a
career and often one which people skip, find
too difficult or believe they have already
done. At the end of this stage, you should
have a list which describes you and all the
things that you would like in a job or a course
and all the things that you would hate.
Marketing awareness. Now you need to
look at the choices. Analyse the
alternatives—jobs, courses, year off. Break
them down into their components. For
example, what skills are required? What
character traits are most suitable? Where
will it lead?
Matching. Now you look for the closest fit
between your list about yourself and the
characteristics of the jobs. Bear in mind,
however, that the re will always be something
wrong with a job — the perfect job is a rarity
which we all seek!
Self-marketing. A p p l y a n d be
interviewed. These are discussed elsewhere
in FELIX.
At all stages, you should 'test for reality'.
You might believe that you're a good leader,
but have you any evidence? Have you ever
been in a situation where you have had to
lead? If not, why not and what does it tell you
about yourself? Y o u want to work in the
North West of England but the job that you
want to do is only available in the South East.
Which is most important to you, the job or
the place?
Finally a word about environment — you
can research your choice of career and
arrive at the perfect job for you but if you
then find that you don't like the people that
you work with or the place of work is
depressing, you will still be unhappy. So do
try and see where you'll be working and meet
the people you'll be working with, before
making your final choice. O h , yes, and don't
forget your jolly old careers service, here to
help you at every stage.
FELIX

