THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 15
06.10.2014
FELIX
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Learning in lectures whilst sleeping – a dream come true?
UTSAV RADIA
SCIENCE WRITER
What you missed this summer in science
This guy's balance is no match for his musical skills Photo: Tumblr
James Bezer covers the latest research from Imperial and beyond
As you put in your personal
statement, ever since you were born,
you’ve had a deep and passionate
curiosity about the intriguing
wonders of science. Why not put this
to good use by writing for Felix?
If you’re desperate to tell the world
about your views on fracking, or a
fascinating new discovery in algebraic
topology, drop us an email and we’ll
add you to our mailing list. We’re
always looking for new contributors,
and as you’re currently reading this,
you’ve definitely shown more than
enough enthusiasm to make you
eligible to write for us.
Here are a few pieces of new
research to entertain you in the brief
lull between joining tea society [surely
you mean Felix membership? –ed] and
engaging in some responsible binge
drinking with your new best friends.
A group at Cornell have once
again confirmed our suspicions that
quantum mechanics is really weird.
In their paper, published in Nature,
they showed how it’s possible to make
an image of an object using light that
had never been anywhere near it.
They created pairs of entangled
photons by passing a laser beam
through a crystal, and sent one
towards the object (a picture of a cat,
in an homage to Erwin Schrödinger)
and the other towards a detector.
Because the properties of two
entangled particles are intricately
related, they could see what had
happened to one by analysing the
other.
As the two sets of photons can
have different wavelengths, this
technique could be used to create
images of delicate objects that would
be damaged by conventional imaging
techniques. Undetectable photons
of very low energy could be passed
through the object, while high energy
ones hit the detector and actually
generate the image.
Experiments on mice conducted at
Imperial have shown that inhaling
Xenon gas could limit the extent of
brain damage after a serious head
injury.
In the hours after a major impact,
neurological damage continues to
progress, with these secondary effects
often causing more harm than the
initial event. Unfortunately, there
are currently no drugs available to
prevent this.
Injured mice treated with Xenon, a
noble gas which also has anaesthetic
properties, demonstrated fewer long
term difficulties with movement and
balance than those in the control
group. The research builds on
previous experiments that showed
Xenon had beneficial effects on
injured brain cells in the lab.
The group’s findings, published in
the journal Critical Care Research, may
lead the way to future clinical trials in
human patients.
The 24th First Annual Ig Nobel
prize ceremony was held in
September to showcase research that
“first makes you laugh, then makes
you think”. Among the winners of
the prestigious award (accompanied
by 10 trillion Zimbabwean dollars in
prize money) was a group of Czech
scientists, who discovered that dogs
prefer to align their bodies with the
earth’s magnetic field, but only when
they urinate and defecate. This is the
first time that magnetic sensitivity
has been confirmed in dogs.
Other recipients include a group
from the USA and India, who
demonstrated that packing the
nose with cured pork is an effective
treatment for severe nosebleeds, and
a team from Italy, who showed that
looking at beautiful paintings can
reduce a person’s experience of pain.
The nutrition prize went to a
group of Spanish researchers for
their delightfully titled paper:
“Characterization of Lactic Acid
Bacteria Isolated from Infant
Faeces as Potential Probiotic Starter
Cultures for Fermented Sausages.”
It seems that between the
sensationalist science this summer
Scientists at the University of
Cambridge and the Ecole Normale
Superieure Paris working on a joint
research project have discovered
a new phenomenon of the human
brain: the ability to perform
automated tasks even whilst the
subject is unconscious.
The study, led by Dr Sid Kouider
and published in Current Biology,
showed that subjects were able
to classify words during sleep,
suggesting the human brain may
be more active than we previously
thought during sleep. Scientists
recorded the electroencephalogram
(EEG) – a procedure that tracks
and records the electrical activity
of the brain as wave patterns – of
the participants whilst awake and
asked them to classify spoken words
(e.g. Dog, Stamp) as either animals
or objects by means of pressing
a button (right hand for animals
and left hand for objects). The
procedure made it possible for the
research team to compute lateralized
response preparations (LRPs), which
are a neural marker of response
and preparation, by mapping each
category of words to a specific part of
activity in the brain.
The participants were placed in
an environment that would allow
them to fall asleep (a dark room,
in a reclining chair with their eyes
closed) but at the same time ensured
that they were engaged with the task
(listening to repetitions of the same
set of words with an interval of 6-9
seconds between words). However, the
set of words was changed during sleep
to ensure whether the responses were
based on the meaning of the word
itself as opposed to reactivation of a
stimulus-response association that
may have been established when the
participants were awake.
On comparison, the EEG patterns
computed whilst participants were
completely motionless and unaware
showed considerable similarity to
when participants were awake. This
highlighted that the same regions
of the brain were active (albeit more
slowly) when the study subjects were
listening to a different set of words
whilst asleep.
Dr Sid Kouider, from Ecole
Normale Superieure in Paris who
led the study, mentioned how this
study shows “the sleeping brain can
be far more ‘active’... than one would
imagine... [and] this explains some
everyday life experiences such as our
sensitivity to our name in our sleep,
or to the... sound of our alarm clock,
compared to equally loud but less
relevant sounds”.
However, he also added that (in his
view) only tasks which can become
automated may be maintained in
sleep, others will stop as sleep takes
over. So for now at least, it seems like
a while before we’re cramming our
lectures in our sleep the week before
exams.
Nevertheless, their research has
paved the way for further studies
into the processing capacities of the
human brain during slumber.
that you may have been fortunate
to miss, there were some of these
abstract but exciting endeavours. We
cover all science stories from silly
to serious, and if you want to give
science writing a go, do get in touch
with us!
Imperial professor to lead Ebola vaccine trial
Potective gear worn by those who are treating ebola patients Photo: UNICEF
Cécile Borkhataria on the race to develop a drug for the deadly disease
The current Ebola outbreak in West
Africa, which began in March 2014,
has afflicted Guinea, Sierra Leone,
Liberia, Nigeria, and recently, Senegal.
The death toll has now surpassed
2800, with the total number of cases
numbering 5864. The severity of this
outbreak is unprecedented; the virus
first surfaced in Congo in 1976, where
only 318 cases were reported at the
time.
The outbreak has spurred on a great
deal of aid efforts from international
health care organisations, with the
likes of Medecins Sans Frontieres
setting up temporary health centres in
the afflicted countries to safely treat
Ebola patients.
Currently, there is no known cure
for Ebola. The virus, which exists in
five strains, four of which can infect
humans, is transmitted by exchange
of bodily fluids, and it is thought
that the practice of washing the dead
in rural areas has contributed to the
rapid spread of the disease.
Patients are usually given
supportive treatment, including
balancing fluids and electrolytes,
as well as procoagulants to prevent
bleeding, and antibiotics to treat
secondary bacterial infections.
With the outbreak growing in
severity, there has been a frenzy
of efforts to develop a cure for
the deadly disease. A number of
pharmaceutical companies are
developing vaccines for the virus,
including promising candidates from
Tekmira Pharmaceuticals, Canadian
based NewLink Genetics and Inovio
Pharmaceuticals.
The most advanced vaccine
candidate is arguably produced
by Glaxo Smith Kline (GSK) and
consists of a T-cell based chimpanzee
adenovirus. GSK’s vaccine is the
first to have started human clinical
trials and it has already been shown
to protect against the virus in
chimpanzees. The vaccine has been
tested on humans in the US and the
UK, with the next arm of trials set to
take place in Mali and the Gambia.
The Wellcome Trust, the Medical
Research Council and the UK
Department for International
Development has donated a £2.8
million grant towards the efforts,
which has allowed a team led by
Professor Adrian Hill, Oxford
University, to test the vaccine in the
UK, and will help towards testing the
vaccine in the Gambia.
One of our very own, Professor
Beate Kampmann from the
Department of Paediatrics at Imperial
College London, is set to run the
Gambia arm of the trial. She is an
expert in infection and immunity
topics and has already had extensive
experience running vaccination trials
in the Gambia for polio, meningitis
and other diseases.
Said Professor Kampmann on
the trial, ‘The big advantage of
fast-tracking such an important
development is that the funding
becomes available more readily.”
The trial will recruit 40 healthy
volunteers in the Gambia. Professor
Kampmann has said that testing the
vaccine in West Africa is vital, as this
will take into account differences
between West African and European
populations with respect to the safety
Freshers’ Flu: the science behind the sniffles and snot
LAUREN RATCLIFFE
SECTION EDITOR
Freshers’ Week for most is a time
full of new experiences, stepping
out of your usual comfort zone and
meeting more new people than you
could hope to remember. There are
very few instances in your life that
you will speak to as many strangers
in such a short period of time,
turning awkward conversations
into friendships and introducing
yourself so many times that you start
to wonder who you are anymore. So
with your luggage unpacked and the
excitement building, you hold many
expectations for the week to come.
However, the anticipated roller-
coaster adventure that is your first
few weeks at University is also likely
to bring with it Freshers’ Flu.
You have probably heard it
described as nothing more than a
glorified hangover. Don’t be fooled.
Freshers’ flu is real, and there is a
90%chance you will get it. Despite
its name, Freshers’ Flu is a blanket
term to describe a bad cold rather
than flu itself; symptoms range from
person to person but usually include
a beautiful mix of coughing, sneezing,
headaches and a temperature.
So what causes this onslaught of
bed-ridden freshers? During the first
few weeks of university you meet
hundreds of new people from across
the globe. As good as your immune
system is, after being bombarded
with such a vast collection of foreign
invading pathogens, it is more than
likely to encounter one you are not
already immune to.
On top of this, moving away from
home and taking those first steps
to independence alongside so many
strangers can put a lot of stress on
your body and mind. Not to mention
the binge drinking, fast-food eating
and general unruly behaviour!
If you get struck down, my advice is
to rest – this may be the last genuine
excuse to miss a lecture, so enjoy it
and let your body adjust to the new
environment. Don’t feel you need
to arm yourself with facemasks and
an NBC suit, instead, if you feel
unwell perhaps skip the partying and
boogying for one night.
A sore throat and headache are
nothing you can’t handle after some
fresh lemon and honey tea alongside
a good night’s sleep. Vitamin C tablets
also work a treat – Berocca tablets are
my personal favourite cold-busting
cure, and great for hangovers too!
Don’t forget to register with Imperial
Healthcare Centre and make a visit if
you feel your symptoms persist.
It’s common year on year for
lecture halls and library study rooms
alike to bear the ultimate burden of
Freshers’ Flu: collective coughing.
However you will find that as the
term progresses, the noise will
quieten down, the germs will stop
spreading and you can proceed once
more to hear your lecturer instead of
the moans and groans of the invalids
around you. Just beware for next year,
when the new Freshers arrive!
and efficacy of the vaccine.
Professor Kampmann envisages
that the Gambia trials will start in
October, once her team has received
regulatory approval. It is hoped that
all trials can be finished by the end of
this year. This ambitious timeline will
depend on many factors, but some
comfort can be taken in knowing that
research efforts are well underway.
Only time will tell if GSK’s promising
vaccine will win the race in developing
an Ebola vaccine.

