THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
06.10.2014
FELIX
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk Tech Editor VACANT
16 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk Tech Editor VACANT
The top tech every fresher should check out
Spotify is a staple part of every student’s tech diet.
Photo: Spotify AB
Forgot your key apps? Max Eggl tells you whats hot
My thoughts on the
newest Apple Keynote
MAX EGGL
TECH EDITOR
To be honest, there isn’t one emotion I can consign to
thelatestApplekeynote.Thereweregoodparts,there
were bad parts and there were meh parts. Sadly the
meh parts much outweighed the good parts. Above/
Below you can see a review of the newest iPhone so I
shan’t bore you with that or in fact any of the feature-
heavy details, I mean there are several thousand
articles that describe that which you can browse at
your leisure.
Generally what Apple released this year seems to
be what the public have been craving for years now.
A larger screen iPhone, check. A phablet, check. NFC,
check. An iWatch (actually named the AppleWatch),
check. Now rather than defining a category Apple
seems to always come late to ones created by other
companies, and even then doesn’t really do anything
that amazing. The specs of the iPhone 6 and 6 Plus
are not extraordinary in any way, and while the
Watch does have this innovative new digital crown
(which honestly I feel is incredibly overhyped), it still
doesn’tseemlikesomethingImustbuy.Itdoesn’tadd
anything new to my life (apart from the messaging,
which seemed quite useful) and for more than £300,
something I frankly I don’t want to spend that kind
of money on, especially when we consider that Apple
hasn’t even mentioned how short battery life will be.
Sointermsofactualproductsreleased,theonlyone
that really interests me is ApplePay. It looks simple
and really useful, utilising the TouchID sensor seems
likeatoolIdefinitelywoulduse.However,guesswhat,
itsonlyavailableintheUS.Bummer.Sounlessyouare
currently an inhabitant of the United States, you will
be unable to use ApplePay. Furthermore we aren’t
even given a date when this feature will be available
to the rest of the world.
While I definitely believe that ApplePay while
finally get mobile payments off the ground, the fact
that it only available in one country in the world
definitely doesn’t help.
Theonethingthatreallydidstrikemeatthekeynote
was not actually any announcement or product, but
an action. When the AppleWatch video finished, Tim
Cook stood in front of the audience, wearing one of
his new products, basking in a standing ovation from
the journalists. A standing ovation. I mean, was I the
only one who thought this was slightly cringy? This
product, while cool, was certainly not deserving of a
standing ovation especially when we knew nothing
aboutityet.Ifithadaweeksbattery,amoreappealing
design,the ability to tap-dance and crap money,then
maybe it would have deserved a standing ovation.
What this showed to me,is the lowered expectation
we have now come to expect from Apple. We do not
expect groundbreaking innovation, in fact we are
quitehappyifwegetwhatwehavebeenaskingforfor
several year.We do not expect something that knocks
us off our feet, but just lightly caresses our face with
the satisfaction that we got something others have
beendoingforyear.Whilethisisnotnecessarilyabad
thing,it is definitely not Applesque.
Regardless of what I said above, I will probably still
get the iPhone 6, because at this point I am sucked
into its eco system, as well as believing that it is a
great phone, but still I am kind of disappointed. Oh
well,not every empire lasts forever right?
"Office is
free to all
Imperial
students."
Imperial Software Shop
Before you buy any software while
at Imperial, you should always
first check out the Software Shop
at Imperial just in case. They have
several things, like anti-virus and
matlab for example, for free and
others like maple discounted.
To get to the software shop just
google Imperial Software shop, or
alternatively visit the IT department
and enquire about software there. I
mean, it will only take about 5 extra
minutes, but could save you a pretty
penny.
Spotify
If you haven’t heard of this online
sensation, then I suggest you get out
from under that rock you have been
living under. Downloading music and
owning it is so 2010 and instead we
have Spotify. Spotify comes in two
flavours, free and premium.
As the name suggests, free is free.
You can listen to all the music you
want on your computer with the
occasional (very repetitive) ads
thrown in between. Also with the free
version you can use the spotify app,
but instead of being able to listen to
any song you want, you have to listen
to a shuffled playlist/artist/album
including the song. Given that you
only have a limited amount of fast-
forwarrds this means that you may
have to wait a bit to listen to the song
you want.
The premium one on the other
hand costs £9.99 a month (sorry
Imperial isn’t part of NUS so we can’t
get that half price offer), but instead
has higher listening quality, offline
playlists, no ads and allows for you
to play any song that you want on
your mobile. Given that most albums
cost £8 and upwards, this seems like
a good deal especially during exam
time when you just need to have a set
of songs to help you study.
Luckily enough there is a one
month trial period, where you can use
all of the premium benefits and then
decide if you want to continue.
Free Office
At university it is vital that you own
some kind of office suite. You will
need to write lab reports, work with
data and make presentations. Now if
you have forgotten to purchase a set
(or your parents forgot) then do not
fret dear reader.
Here are two suites that you can
choose between. Firstly we have
Microsoft Office. In the world of
word, processing, spreadsheets and
presentation software the Office suite
is undoubtably king. A great thing
is that Office is free to all Imperial
students (Mac & PC). To install it,
just go over to the Microsoft office
site, and log in with your Imperial
email. This will then redirect you to
an Imperial webpage where you then
verify that you really are at Imperial!
If this all sounds too difficult for
you, another option (and my personal
favourite) is OpenOffice. It includes
all the same basic functionality
(except Outlook) and does it almost
in an identical manner. Furthermore
it is also free! To get OpenOffice
just google it, and you will be able to
download it quite easily. The only
thing you need to keep in mind is
that this software has its own data
files, and if you want to work with
others who don’t have OpenOffice
you will have to force it to save it in
the standard forms.
Apple Student Discount
Ok ok I know what you are going to
say; “huge Apple Fan boi” and you
are probably right, but just hear me
out on this. Nobody can deny that
Macs, while slightly overpriced are
well-built machines that perform.
Furthermore you always have a good
port of call if anything ever goes
wrong. Lastly, they are pretty nicely
designed if I may say so myself. Now
the great thing is that Apple has up to
£200 discount on their macs, making
them almost affordable.
Furthermore because you are at
Imperial, Apple Care, Apple’s own
insurance is also 10 pounds cheaper.
To claim these discounts just make
sure you buy them while you are
connected to the Wifi and rejoice and
the shininess of your new laptop.
Netflix
Starting from £5.99, you can be
watching as many movies from a
wide selection as you want. Given
that downtime is absolutely vital to
survival, having a good amount of
quality (or not so quality) TV shows
to watch is paramount. Furthermore
the internet in halls is incredibly fast,
so for those of you lucky enough to
be living there this year, don’t worry
about buffering.
Another benefit is the ability to
stream Netflix from multiple devices,
so if you own a console, tablet or
smartphone, all of these can be
used to watch your movies. Just like
spotify there is a 1-month free trial,
so why not go ahead and try? Just
keep in mind that Netflix will send
you emails like an annoying ex-
boyfriend/girlfriend for a while later.
Latex
We discussed the more popular word-
processing options, but this would
not be the Newspaper of Imperial
College London if I didn’t get even a
little technical.
Therefore I unveil Latex.This is not
as much word-processing software
as a ‘language’ that compiles to form
your document. To write things like
\pi which then becomes the beautiful
letter π! Furthermore Latex is superb
with mathematical formulas, greek
symbols and formatting. That means
never again having to shout at Word
for messing up your entire document
when you move a picture a tiny
piece. Also the online community
is extremely friendly, so you will
definitely learn in no time.
I know that some of you will shy
away from having to learn this new
“language”, but trust me, not only do
the results look amazing, you will
impress your lecturers and colleagues
and have a new skill-set! To download
Latex, just google it. Its free and
available for Mac, Windows and
Linux.
Imperial Mobile App
The official App of Imperial College,
it is a free download for Android and
iOS that gives you useful information
as well as features throughout your
stay at Imperial. You have a map
of the campus, you can search the
library and check your library
account, see your time-table (only for
some departments though) among
many other things. Given that it is
free and yet quite useful, I would
definitely recommend it.
Yoyo
This is Imperial’s payment
system, which works through your
smartphone. You download the app,
connect it to your bank account and
then you can pay at various outlets
across Imperial. It is incredibly
easy and stops you having to wait in
line for cash. Given that it is a free
download for iOS and Android, this
is another app that I think every
Imperial student should give a try.
iPhone 6, would Steve approve?
Johannes Hoenigl thinks former Apple CEO Jobs wouldn’t have...
"Attempt-
ing to
reach the
back but-
ton is
completely
impossi-
ble."
"People
were quick
to mock
the phone
for catch-
ing up
with fea-
tures that
Android
sported
since 2012."
After 4 years with my solid iPhone 4,
your resident Apple fanboy figured
it was about time to upgrade before
any details of the iPhone 6 were even
leaked on the Internet. Hungry for
the jump in performance I was sad
enough to reserve one in store to get
my hands on the newest merchandise
on release day. Having used the phone
for just under a week, I’m battling
second thoughts.
It shouldn’t come as a surprise
that the specs have improved over
the 5s. The chipset is faster, the
screen is larger as well as brighter,
and the camera has got a shiny
new algorithm. This step up in
performance is huge, especially if
you’ve upgraded from an older phone
like myself. It’s beautifully designed,
but not quite as smooth around the
edges as one would expect.
People were quick to mock the
phone for catching up with features
that Android sported since 2012.
While criticism is justified they are
missing the point. Looking at the
product releases that turned Apple
into the company it is today is
revealing. The iPod wasn’t the first
portable MP3 player, the iPhone
wasn’t the first smartphone, and the
iPad wasn’t the first tablet either.
Yet they all came to define their
respective markets. Why?
Their products were quite simply
better at giving the customer what
they really wanted. This obsessive
attention to detail, especially when
it came to the user experience, ran
deep within Jobs’ DNA. The 6 is
disappointing because it fails to
fully deliver on that expectation.
There are two things that illustrate
this perfectly; one is the protruding
camera, the other is the larger screen
sacrificing ergonomics. Both would
have the man who once accused
Microsoft of having no taste and
making third-rate products turning
in his grave.
The camera is identical to the
hardware found in the 5s, but comes
with some new functions courtesy
of the new and improved chipset.
However, it sticks out the back
by about 1mm, a fact that Apple
sneakily attempts to hide in all their
marketing material and falsely
advertise the phone as the thinnest
iPhone yet (6.9mm or 7.1mm for the
6 Plus). In truth, both versions are
around about the same thickness
as the 5s. It seems as if there was a
thinner camera in the pipeline that
failed to materialise in time for
release. Otherwise, why wouldn’t you
give us a bigger battery to make the
back flush with the lens? At best this
is a nuisance hidden away in a case,
at worst it shows a lack of the very
attention to detail that made Apple
products stand out.
The biggest crime however is the
distinct sacrifice of ergonomics in
favour of more screen real estate.
Jobs once proclaimed 3.5” as the
perfect touchscreen size for phones.
Considering Apple has held out
against moving to larger screens
for so long, one would expect a
significant amount of thought would
go into designing the user interface
for one-handed operation once they
did jump ship. Apart from a half-
hearted attempt by introducing
‘reachability’, nothing of the kinds
seemed to have happened.
Whether this is a key issue wholly
depends on how you use your
smartphone. I almost exclusively used
the 4 one handed, without preference
for either my left or right. It was a
non-handed design, simply by virtue
of comfortably being able to reach
the entirety of the screen with your
thumb. It was going to be ergonomic,
no matter how stupidly the app
buttons were arranged on the screen.
This is no longer the case with
the 6. Take for instance the built in
messaging app. The keyboard along
the bottom of the screen is a stretch
and the phone sits nowhere near as
nicely in your palm as the previous
phones. Typing one handed on the
go you invariably end up fumbling
around, not a good combination
with the slippery aluminium back.
Attempting to reach the back button
is completely impossible without
either adjusting your grip or double
tapping the home button to activate
‘reachability’. Both are nothing more
than a workaround until an elegant
solution to the underlying problem
is found through app and OS re-
design. Having had a quick play with
a friend’s Android, they are miles
ahead in that respect.
So should you get it? It depends
on how you use your phone. If you
almost exclusively use it one handed,
sticking with your 5/s/c for another
year would save you from having
to go through the pains of an early
adopter, while the app developers
play catch-up.
On the other hand, if you’re already
in the two hands camp, by all means
go for it. The 6 Plus will probably be
a better fit; as long as you don’t carry
it in your trouser pockets, because
nobody likes bent phones.

