We have a huge number of Clubs, Societies
& Projects here at Imperial, and our Give It
A Go (GIAG) programme gives you a chance
to try out some of what our groups have on
offer.
Over the month of October (and a little into
November) many groups will offer free or
cheap taster sessions, events and activities.
You can attend these and get involved before
committing to become an actual member.
Many sessions are free or at a low cost. It’s
a great chance try out something new! You
can find events in our GIAG guide which will
be out during Welcome Week, and on our
What’s On Calendar online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on
This year we are electing Year
and Course Representatives, the
16 Ordinary Members of Council,
Campaigns Officer, Disabilities Officer
and the Graduate Students’ Union
Reps simultaneously.
This is a brilliant way to get involved
and be part of ensuring student views
are expressed to the right bodies
to make changes for the benefit of
students.
Nominations open at 00:01, Saturday 4 October 2014 and close at 23:59, 16
October 2014. To find out more about the positions up for election, visit our
website at the address below.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Interested in volunteering? Looking to make a difference and gain valuable
experience? Then our Volunteer Fair is the event for you!
The fair is on Tuesday 14 October, 11:30 - 14:30 in the Great Hall, Sherfield
Building, South Kensington campus.
Come along and Volunteering Fair to meet with projects and charities and find
out about the thousands of different volunteering opportunities you can get
involved with at Imperial, across London and overseas.
Organisations attending include Deafblind UK, Scouts, Hackney Pirates,
Science Museum, St. Johns Hospice, Action Tutoring, Imperial Hub, Imperial
Student Recruitment and Outreach, Action For Kids, RAG, Imperial Cooperative,
TEAM UP and CoppaFeel!.
More information about volunteering with and through the Union can be found
on our website.
imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering
Nominations open Saturday!
DRI is Imperial College Union’s first alcohol free club night. From 19:00,
FiveSixEight and Metric will be serving only non-alcoholic drinks for the rest of
the evening. Entry for DRI is free.
All students are welcome at DRI, including those under 18. It’s a great chance
to meet with new and old friends and have a chilled night out after Welcome
Week, whether you drink or not.
DJ Sue headlines the night, playing a mix of rock and roll, 60s pop/beat/
psych/soul, Motown, Northern Soul, ska, reggae, 70s punk, some indie and
sometimes even dance, disco and beyond. It’s the perfect soundtrack to sit
back and enjoy listening to, or dance up a storm!
We’ll also have giant games in Metric. Compete with friends on our giant
Connect 4, keep the balls from dropping in our giant Kerplunk, or see how long
you can stay on the mechanical bull!
Our food service and new food menu will be running from 17:00 till 22:00 as
well, so you can keep yourself thoroughly fed and watered throughout the
evening.
Give It A Go - try something new
Join us for DRI on 13 October Volunteering Fair, 14 October
#helloicu
crew
Keep a look out for our team of student volunteers
around campus all Welcome Week in their purple shirts.
They are here to answer any of your questions and help you have
the best possible welcome to the College and the Students’
Union! Also, lookout for the hashtag online - #helloicu.

