Games Editor Max Eggl & Calum Skene
Games
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 28
FELIX
Five Games Every Fresher Should Have
Bored of the library? Don’t worry, Calum Skene can help you out
A sacrifice many people have to
make when they come to university
is to leave behind their XBOX or
Playstation. Hopefully something
you have brought with you though
is a laptop, iPad or portable gaming
device that so far in your life might
have been unplayed in favour of their
larger siblings. This is a list of games
that should appeal to the young
student. They are all cheap, playable
on these portable devices and provide
many hours of distraction from your
future studies.
These games all have something
in common apart from being some
of my favourites. They are all indie
games which I have found as a
student are always a good purchase
and often entertain me far longer
than the big more expensive titles. I
have left out two great games from
my list that games editor Max Eggl
mentioned last year.
These are Minecraft and Portal 2
which in my opinion are essential
games for everyone and I recommend
you take a look at his article from last
year as well. Here then is my list of
games every fresher should have.
Super Meat Boy
Super Meat Boy is possibly the
greatest and most frustrating game
of all time. In many ways this game
is a lot like the old Super Mario Bros
games except you can jump further
and higher and will die a lot more in
some pretty graphic ways.
This game is not for those with no
patience. Each level is quite short
and can usually be completed in 20
seconds or less if you manage to avoid
all the saws, piles of salt and gaps
that will kill you. In reality each level
could take you 20 minutes or more of
repeated attempts, each time getting
a little closer to the goal.
This beauty of this game lies in the
lovely artwork and simplicity of the
controls. It takes minutes to learn
how to play and hours to master.
There is something for everyone in
this game, from trying to complete
the easy levels to trying to complete
the game and then mastering
it to speed run or collecting the
achievements.
For a student this game is easy to
pick up and play a little at a time or
waste an entire evening trying to
complete the games later levels. For
a cheap price this game offers much
gameplay for those patient enough to
persevere.
If you like this game I also
recommend picking up the Binding
of Isaac which is equally simple,
beautiful and addictive.
Thomas Was Alone
For fans of Portal 2 or other puzzle
and platform games Thomas Was
Alone is a great buy. In this game you
play as Thomas who is a red rectangle
who can jump and fall. Later on you
meet some other shapes who each
have unique powers and you must
successfully use these powers as part
of a team to complete the level.
This game has a charming art
style and a narrated story which
follows you through the games short
levels. This game is overall not very
long but will keep you entertained
as you replay through the story to
find hidden extras. The later levels
also provide a challenge in either
platforming ability or puzzle solving.
Again, like Super Meat Boy, this
game can be picked up and played
level by level meaning it can fit into
your busy student schedule.
Limbo
For me Limbo is the ultimate puzzle
game. The game takes place in a
very scenic black and white forest in
which you play a young boy searching
Flatland, is all about manipulating
the third dimension. Fez takes place
in a 2-D world in which you play as
the character Gomez who is bestowed
with a Fez. The Fez enables our hero
to rotate the world by 90 degrees (pi/2
radians). Traversing the world will
require platforming skills in the 2-D
world and puzzle solving in the third
dimension.
The goal of the game is to collect
cubes which come in the completed
form and also in the form of small
cubies that make up the big cubes. I
absolutely loved the PC version but
the game has recently seen a revival
for me in the form of the PSVita
version.
If you have some money to spend
the Vita is a great student gaming
tool and you can play all the games
in this list except Super Meat Boy
on it. Otherwise all the games are
Pavailable on Steam. With the Vita
also comes Playstation plus which
gives you free games each month and
is actually where I reacquired Fez.
The free games are usually quite
good and the subscription covers all
consoles meaning you will rack up
some great games to play on your
larger Playstation devices when you
get home.
for his sister. The game has very
few controls (jumping, running,
pulling and pushing items) but the
game manages to use these in a lot
of creative ways which makes the
later game challenging. The very
minimalist calm atmosphere together
with a few shocks makes the game
border on horror, but at its heart it’s a
puzzle game.
The game is quite long when you
first play it due to the challenging
nature of the puzzles but you will
want to play through it again and
again. This game offers a variety of
hidden items, a hidden level and the
very challenging achievement of
playing through it in 5 or less deaths.
This makes the game very replayable.
I have reviewed this game already
so check out that review for more
details.
For fans of horror check out the
free and terrifying Slenderman- The
Eight Pages.
Fez
This is another game I have reviewed
in the past but it definitely deserves
a mention here. Fez is another
puzzle-platformer that appeals to me
as a mathematics student. The game,
possibly inspired by Edwin Abbot’s
Deutsche Bank
db.com/careers
Agile minds beg to diﬀer
Global Graduate Programs
Life at Deutsche Bank isn’t about following the crowd. From the moment you join,
we’ll expect you to look beyond the obvious and approach problems afresh. Because
we’re completely focused on our clients and their needs are constantly evolving, we
continually have to innovate — with new product ideas, new investment strategies
and new technologies. And that can only happen if we’re prepared to ask questions,
think for ourselves, and challenge conventional thinking.
Discover graduate careers with a diﬀerence at db.com/careers
Do all investment bankers
have to think the same?

