THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 31
06.10.2014
FELIX
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Film Editors Ellen Mathieson, John Park, and Jack Steadman
30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Film Editors Ellen Mathieson, John Park, and Jack Steadman
On the Horizon: Autumn 2014
Jack Steadman gets excited about the best upcoming films
This Week at Imperial Cinema
Oh London,whilst you are amazing and exciting and
filled with lots of things to do,attempting to enjoy
said things on a meagre student budget is not the best.
Take the cinema for example; it’s not uncommon to
spend more than a tenner on a film without factoring
in popcorn,a drink and the cost of the tube.So what’s
the solution? Unlike a lot of universities,Imperial actu-
ally has it’s own cinema.
We are committed to bringing you the latest releases
at bargain prices and if we do say so ourselves,our
cinema screen happens to be one of the biggest in
London! As a Freshers week special,we’re showing two
sequels: HowtoTrainyourDragon2andX-Men:Daysof
FuturePast and we’re even giving away free ice cream to
viewers because we’re nice like that.See you there!
How to Train Your Dragon 2
Director: Dean DeBlois
Screenplay: Dean DeBlois
Cast: Jay Baruchel,Cate Blanchett,Gerard Butler,Kit
Harrington,Djimon Hounsou
BasedonabookseriesbyCressidaCowell
Journey back to Berk,where Vikings and dragons are
now living in harmony,five years after the war of the
first film.A restless Hiccup,unwilling to rise to the
role of chieftain his father insists on promoting him to,
explores the boundaries of the known world,until he
discovers destruction-and angry dragon-hunters.From
them,he learns of a new foe,one who threatens to take
away everything the people of Berk hold dear.A man
who can command the loyalty of dragons…Tuesday7th-
18:30,Thursday9th-21:15
X-Men: Days of Future Past
Director: Bryan Singer
Screenplay: Simon Kinberg
Cast: Hugh Jackman,James McAvoy,Michael Fass-
bender,Jennifer Lawrence,Peter Dinklage,Ian McKellan,
Patrick Stewart
BasedonastorybyJaneGoldman,SimonKinbergandMat-
thewVaughn
The X-Men series combines the original trilogy with
the FirstClassprequel in spectacular fashion,as the two
timelines (and casts) crash together in a desperate at-
tempt to prevent the extinction of all mutants.Wolver-
ine must journey back from an apocalyptic future and
prevent the assassination that started it all.To do it,he’ll
need a little help from some familiar faces-and some
new ones.Tuesday7th-20:45,Thursday9th-18:30
Tickets: Single films are £3 members/ £4 Non-members.
Double Bills are £5 Members/ £7 Non-members.All
tickets come with free ice-cream.
Find us at our freshers stall in Beit Quad or check out the
union website for more info on cinema membership.
"Dark,
brooding,
and a
brutally
insightful
demolition
of married
life"
Summer is over. So ends the
onslaught of big summer blockbusters
– an onslaught that’s seen the likes of
Guardians of the Galaxy, possibly the
year’s most entertaining film so far,
but an onslaught nonetheless.
As the next season of films
approaches, the time to start
throwing around phrases like ‘Oscar
nomination’ in relation to almost
any film that bears even a passing
semblance of quality creeps ever
nearer. The Autumn and Winter
of 2014 hold a glut of big names,
including more than a few genuine
- yes, already - contenders for the
big prizes come awards season. Cue
montage!
Apparently I can’t do montages
in print. That’s disappointing. Cue
excited list of big releases!
GONE GIRL
3rd October
The first film should already be
out by the time you read this, but
consider that a bonus - it means this
list has already begun. The quality
films are already here. Directed
by twisted genius David Fincher,
adapted from the novel by the actual
author Gillian Flynn, and starring
future man in a bat costume Ben
Affleck alongside Rosamund Pike as
the eponymous ‘girl’, Gone Girl oozes
potential. And if the whirlwind of
positive reviews are anything to go
by: it delivers. Dark, brooding, and
a brutally insightful demolition of
married life: it’s got Fincher written
all over it. Alongside the words ‘Must
See’.
THE MAZE RUNNER
10th October
Part of me contemplated leaving The
Maze Runner off this list, what with
it being yet another YA adaptation.
Then the other part of me pointed
to its strong cast, enticing trailer,
and the good-kind-of-mixed (from
‘good’ to ‘great’) reviews that seem
to suggest the film manages to pull
off its premise while dodging the
problem that befell the likes of
Divergent (couldn’t distinguish itself
JACK STEADMAN
CINEMA CHAIR
Need a cinema? Look no further...
ELLEN MATHIESON
SECTION EDITOR
Whether you’re a Fresher who has
just moved to London, or an expe-
rienced final year who can barely
remember what that felt like, you are
still reading the film section of Felix
and that means that you probably
have a bit of interest in films. So
where are the best places to see all
the latest cinema releases in London?
Read on to find out!
Firstly you’ve got your pretty
standard places. For those stay-
ing in Evelyn Gardens, you have
the Fulham Road Cineworld just
around the corner, probably less than
a minute away and the place that I
spent far too much time in in first
year. It’s one of two Cineworlds in
the area, and tends to show the more
blockbuster-y releases. If you prefer
more unusual films, check out the
Chelsea Cineworld on Kings Road,
which is only ten minutes away from
the Evelyn Gardens halls. For those
in halls nearer to campus, you have
the High Street Kensington Odeon,
only a twenty minute walk to the west
of College.
If this isn’t enough for you, then it
all depends on what you are look-
ing for in a film. If you are a mas-
sive film nerd, then make sure that
you check out some of the places in
Leicester Square. Packed with massive
cinemas equipped with the largest
screens you’ll find in the country,
this is where almost all of the UK film
premieres happen. Keep an eye on
premiere dates and get down early
enough and you could find yourself
seeing (or maybe even getting things
signed by if you’re super keen and
early) the likes of Jennifer Lawrence
or Emma Watson, or whoever your
current film crush is. In terms of
actual cinemas, you’ve got the enor-
mous Odeon which tends to host
most of those premieres I mentioned,
as well as a ton of smaller ones close
by that show everything from your
massive blockbusters to tiny artsy
films that you’ve never even heard
of. You’ve also got the Empire, which
used to have the largest screen in
Europe before they decided to cut it
in half. Visiting any of these cinemas
is an amazing experience so definitely
try to make your way there at least
once.
If you’re still on the search for a
stupidly, amazingly enormous screen,
then the BFI IMAX is the place for
you. It’s situated five minutes from
Waterloo station, a quick tube ride
from South Ken. With a screen that’s
twenty metres in length and twenty
six metres wide, this is now the largest
screen in Britain. In addition to this,
they’ve got the Nolan Batman trilogy
on 70mm (the standard IMAX film
print size), which they tend to do
showings of about once a term. This is
definitely the place to see your big sci-
fi films like Gravity and the upcoming
Interstellar.
If you are more of the sort of
person who goes out of their way to
watch any film people dub ‘so bad
it’s good’, then the Prince Charles
Cinema is probably the right place
for you to be. Once again it’s located
in the centre of London, very close
to Leicester Square. With frequent
showings of such classics as the Rocky
Horror Picture Show and The Room, if
you want to get your fish net tights or
your spoons out then this might be
the cinema for you. If you think that
you are too serious for that sort of
film, then they also show many cult
classics and do film marathons of all
your favourites including Star Wars,
Lord of the Rings, and Nolan’s Batman
trilogy. Name a film series and they’ll
probably marathon it at some point.
If you’re coming across from Asia
(or love Asian cinema) and are wor-
ried about missing all your local film
from The Hunger Games), or The Host/
Mortal Instruments/any other YA adap
you care to name (almost universally
hurriedly put together without much
attention to quality). Worth a look, it
seems.
NIGHTCRAWLER
31st October
There’s a line of comparison to be
drawn between Travis Bickle and
Lou Bloom, the amoral protagonist
of Nightcrawler, the latest flick from
Dan Gilroy. It’s a line that can mostly
be illustrated with psychopathic
tendencies, but if the early buzz
suggests anything it’s that it can
also be illustrated with the strength
of the performance. Already being
touted as Jake Gyllenhaal’s finest
performance - he even lost 20lb for
it, which (as Christian Bale will surely
tell you) always gets the awards panel
going - there’s a lot to recommend
Nightcrawler, not least the apparent
strength of its laceration of modern
media.
INTERSTELLAR
7th November
It’s at this point I actually stopped
writing to go and check if tickets for
Interstellar were actually on sale yet
(they weren’t). To say there’s a lot
of hype about this film would be an
understatement - and yet, as ever
with Christopher Nolan films, we
know almost nothing about it. Yes, it
involves space travel, yes, it involves
wormholes, and yes it stars Matthew
McConaughey on his continued
astronomical (that wasn’t originally
a pun, I promise) career renaissance.
That much I can definitely tell you.
As more information slowly leaks
out, Interstellar looks ever more
promising - but really, it’s almost
better not knowing. Trust in Chris
Nolan, buy your ticket as soon as
they’re on sale, and look forward
to what may well be the film of the
year. And hopefully - hopefully - the
film that finally sees Nolan get the
Academy recognition he deserves.
THE IMITATION GAME
14th November
Benedict Cumberbatch playing Alan
Turing. It’s okay, I can see you’re
sold already. An immensely talented
cast (Cumberbatch, Keira Knightley
- don’t make snide remarks, she can
act and you know it, Mark Strong,
Charles Dance) are set to bring the
tale of Alan Turing, the man who
helped save a country that later
persecuted him for his sexuality,
to the big screen. And it is set to be
incredible.
THE HUNGER GAMES
MOCKINGJAY PART 1
20th November
I couldn’t go and put a YA adap in
this list and then neglect to include
the YA adap, could I? Especially not
when The Hunger Games continues
to earn its wings - the second entry
was an even better film than the
first, despite fears that is much faster
turn-around could prove harmful to
quality. The third film - following
the now traditional trope of splitting
the final book into two parts - looks
likely to continue that upward trend,
with the likes of Julianne Moore
and Natalie Dormer joining the
cast, as well as all the returning big
names that were already in the series.
Including, of course, the late, great
Philip Seymour Hoffman. For that
alone, this is unmissable. Throw in
everything else this film has going
for it - only Interstellar can possibly
promise more.
THE HOBBIT BATTLE OF THE
FIVE ARMIES
12th December
The arrival of December sees the
final entry in the Lord of the Rings/
The Hobbit series, despite almost
everyone ever’s reservations about
turning a single children’s book
into three films. Despite that, Peter
Jackson and co have mostly managed
to pull things off with aplomb,
with last year’s The Desolation of
Smaug a far stronger entry than its
predecessor, featuring a show-stealing
turn from Benedict Cumberbatch
as the eponymous dragon. General
Hobbit film fatigue might make
this final film look less tempting
(the trailer certainly felt weirdly…
unappealing), but the series still holds
an undeniable draw.
OTHER FILMS THAT ARE ALSO
PROBABLY AMAZING
If you like your horrors, The Babadook
(24th October) is apparently a good
bet, with a combination of its well-
handled aesthetic and a terrifying
new creation in the eponymous
Babadook combining in what may
be this year’s best example of the
genre. Those longing for something
less scary might want to check out
The Judge (17 October), a rare serious
outing for Robert Downey Jr about an
attorney who has to defend his judge
father in a hit-and-run case.
Anyone looking for something
more action-orientated can head over
to David Ayer’s big-name cast in Fury
(22 October), his WWII tank epic,
while those looking for something
even quieter should be flocking to
Mike Leigh’s Mr Turner (31st October),
a biopic of the great painter starring
the ever-excellent Timothy Spall at
his most excellent.
Having just looked back at all of
those dates: October is a busy month.
Be excited.
releases back home, then check out
the Asia Centre. Found in West Lon-
don, they have a dedicated cinema on
site, and frequently host the UK pre-
miere of many Eastern films during
the Pan-Asian film festival that they
hold each year. It’s a great event and
a great chance to see films that might
otherwise pass you by.
If you’re a total cinema tech geek,
or looking for a more indulgent ex-
perience, head down to the Olympic
Cinema in Barnes. It’s one of the only
places in the country that you can
find Dolby Atmos, a sound system
that consists of shoving a ton of
speakers in the ceiling which means
that the film’s audio moves across
the room, effectively creating ‘3D
sound’. In addition to this, you’ve got:
squashy reclinable seats; foot rests for
the front seats; plenty of gratuitous
curtain usage, and sofas for cuddling -
making it perfect for a date night.
And finally, if you’re dying to catch
the releases that you missed in their
initial cinema run, then don’t forget
our very own Imperial Cinema
(which I may or may not be involved
in running), which shows films a little
while after the commercial cinemas
for a fraction of the price. Found on
the second floor of the Union build-
ing, it’s also one of those rare cinemas
that lets you buy a pint in the bar and
enjoy it whilst you watch the film.
The BFI IMAX is near Waterloo Station. Photo: Imperial Cinema
"Yes, it
involves
space
travel, yes,
it involves
wormholes"
"a rare
serious
outing for
Robert
Downey Jr"

