THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 35
FELIX
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
CANCER
VIRGO
This week during Freshers Fair,
inanarcanecorneroftheUnion
you find a society whose mem-
bersareallhoodedfigureschant-
ing in an ominous, unknowable
tongue. It seems fun, so you
decide to join in. Unfortunately
you being there has tipped the
balance,andonceagainImperial
College Necronomicon Society
hasmanagedtosummonCthulu.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week, you meet the girl of
your dreams in Tiger Tiger. You
gobacktohers.Itgetsbetter.She
voms on your dick and fulfils
your vomit fetish. You scoop up
some sick and leave, hoping to
see her again soon. Your dreams
are realised when you find she’s
your lab partner. You spend the
next 3 years swooning over her,
smellingthesavedsick.
This week you realise that you’re
now the Ex-President of the
Union. You miss all the bureau-
cracy of the Union so decided
to go around consulting people
about whether they want to be
consulted or not about the con-
sultationframework. Thegener-
alconsensusisthatnoonegivesa
fuck!#consultation
This week, you finally fulfil your
destiny. After reading a horo-
scope in the Metro months ago
that inspired you to come to Im-
perial,youarefinallyhere.What
is this? An Imperial College stu-
dent reading such unscientific
drivel like horoscopes. What are
you?AMedic?Disgusting!!
This week you move into halls,
bringing all your precious be-
longings with you, especially
Mr Flopsy, the bunny rabbit toy
your granny gave you when you
were born. Everything is going
well until you return to your
room in the middle of the night
to find your room-mate balls
deep in Mr Flopsy. You shrug
andjoinin.PoorMrFlopsy.
This week you show up on cam-
pus dressed in full Star Wars
Stormtrooper regalia. When
everyone starts laughing at you,
you realise that it’s not that kind
of Imperial College. You fire
your blaster at them. Unsurpris-
ingly, you miss. You cry, march
off to the West Basement to join
theotherSci-Finerds.
This week, you are seen on the
UnionTVscreensdrawingtrian-
gles in the air. You realise that as
DPW, you look the most idiotic,
by far. You slope off to 568 to
drown your sorrows. You end up
drunkrantingabouthowleftthe
Tory party has shifted. Bloody
poorpeople.
This week, you pull a random
guy in Tiger Tiger. You go back
to hers. After a night of subpar,
vomit fuelled love making, you
never expect to see him again.
That is until you realise he is
your lab partner. You spend the
next three years making awk-
ward eye contact over the Bun-
senburner.
This week you are halfway
through Freshers and you are al-
readyboredofstandingincircles
around the one girl in Metric. So
youdecidetoheadtoShopExtra
for a little…’Extra’. Instead you
end up with blue balls and a stu-
dent priced Twirl up your arse.
You spend the rest of the night
inA&E.
This week you wake up naked in
a halls that you don’t recognise.
You stumble around trying to
collect your clothes and piece
together exactly what happened
last night. Perhaps as the new
President of Imperial College
you shouldn’t have partied quite
sohardwiththeFreshers.
This week, your new roommate
steals your chicken out of the
fridge after a gym sesh, claiming
he needs all the protein he can
get. You complain to him. He
responds, “Do you even lift, bro?”
For revenge, in a drink fuelled
haze, you ejaculate into his milk.
Well he did say he wanted extra
protein.CREAMY!
This week at 3am, you put a piz-
za in the oven. To pass the time
you have a danger wank in the
kitchen. The post orgasm high
sends you to sleep, cock in hand.
The burning pizza sets off the
firealarmandwakesyouandthe
entirehallup;nofriendsforyou.
Youspendthenext3yearsinthe
social exclusion of the Felix Of-
fice.
Diary Of a Fresher, aged 18 3/4
Friday 5th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
I’m so scared to start university tomorrow! What if I’m not smart enough to be at the world’s 2nd best University? (Woooh Impbridge!!) I only have 5 A-levels. Some people on the Fresher’s
FB group have 7. Some of them have even been revising for their diagnostic tests we have in the first week. I haven’t. OMG…What if I fail? Will they kick me out? I’m going to email
my department to make sure. Then post about me emailing my department in the Freshers Group, just so everyone there knows I’ve emailed my department.
Saturday 6th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
I’m sitting in my new room at Imperial College London and I am so excited! Or, wait… is it called Imperial? Or just ICL? Who knows! Maybe I should ask the people on the fresher’s Facebook
group. I am currently unpacking, and skyping my mother just to make sure she got back to Croydon ok. I am also going to skype my new girlfriend later, she keeps missing my calls since
she started at Newcastle, I am sure she is just really busy. I’m worried about having a roommate because a) they haven’t shown up and 2) I am worried they are going to be cooler than
me, as I brought my Spiderman duvet (original artwork) to be cool but now it seems stupid. Tonight is the Mingle at the Union, in a bar called Five Hundred and Sixty-Eight. The nightclub
is called Metrics looool.
Sunday 7th October, 2014
Dear Diary,
Oh God, I’m so hung-over it is unreal. I reckon I had, maybe 3 whole pints of these purple snakekiss things, and even managed 1 and half Jüngfrau bombs after too!
Last night was absolutely mental though, I got so drunk at one point I thought those weird pictures of the people and the triangles were moving. One of them literally produced a triangle
out of thin air, maybe someone spiked my drink lol! I am going to have breakfast with people in my corridor later. We did predrinks last night and played never have I ever. Someone said
“never have I ever had sex”. It was literally the first question. Everyone looked awkward than drank. Then I drank too, even though I haven’t. I really think I’ve bonded with everyone on
my corridor. It’s only been like one day but it’s crazy how quickly friendships form when you live with people so closely, you know? Roommate still hasn’t shown up.
Monday 8th October, 2014

