Sports Editor: Kunal Wagle
sports.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Issue 1582
IC Gliding club takes to the skies
Photo: Gliding Club
GUY DUTTON
ICGC CAPTAIN
The Imperial College Gliding Club
got the year off to a flying start in
August. For the first time ever there
were four current students flying
in the UK Junior Nationals gliding
competition. Tom Arscott was flying
Imperial's own ASW-24 glider in his
third season and going for the win.
Johnny Paterson was returning to
competition flying in his DG-200
while Guy Dutton and Johannes
Hoenigl, having both started gliding
at Imperial were competing for the
first time in a pair of Discuses – one
owned by ICGC and the other was
hired thanks to a grant from Sport
Imperial.
In competitive gliding, pilots have
to fly around a series of specified
turn-points dotted around the course
in the correct order. This is known
as the 'task' and can cover distances
of over 300km, with gliders flying
at speeds of up to 160mph! The pilot
who completes the task in the least
time wins the day and the pilot with
the most points after 9 days wins the
competition. So what's the catch?
We don't have engines! A good pilot
uses thermal updrafts to climb,
then converts height into speed to
cover the distance required. A less
proficient pilot uses a few thermals to
hop along until he runs out of sky and
flops into a field.
This year there were 47 pilots
competing in the 'Juniors', as it is
known, with ages ranging between
17 - 25 and a wide spread of abilities.
Those competing for their first time
were simply trying to finish the
task, while the more experienced
competitors were aiming for faster
speeds. The Weather Gods were kind
and provided 8 competition days out
of a possible 9 - a vintage year! The
first four days proved tricky, day 3
even saw the entire grid of 55 gliders
land-out in fields! Nevertheless Tom
secured top-10 positions on most days.
Meanwhile the rest of us sampled
the various fields and airfields of the
South of England, culminating with
Guy and Johannes dropping into RAF
Boscombe Down for a cup of tea.
Performances improved during
the week as all four of us completed
a 300km task, a first for Guy while
Tom won the day with a blistering
average speed of 99.7kph. By the end
of the week Guy had made it into
the top half of the field and finished
23rd. Johnny cruised into 20th after
a consistent week and Johannes
managed to hang on to 18th despite
not flying the last day due to man-flu.
Tom put us all to shame and came
4th out of 47 competitors, a fantastic
achievement which may earn him a
place on the British Junior national
team for the next Junior World
Championships in Australia.
But you don't have to be a
competition ace to try gliding! ICGC is
the cheapest and most enjoyable way
to learn to fly while at University. Last
year Nick Tam, Arman Amirzhan and
Chloe Kirkpatrick all flew solo for the
first time having started from scratch
at the beginning of the year! Training
flights cost as little as £7 and we run
trips both days of every weekend
during term time. We have our own
fleet of high performance gliders, as
well as access to great instructors and
facilities at Lasham airfield, home of
the largest gliding club in the world.
We also organise Winter and Easter
tours to other sites around the UK and
Europe.
If you would like to find out more
and have a go yourself, come and
find us at Freshers Fair (we are the
club with the giant plane) or come
and meet us at the Union on Friday
lunchtimes!
Feeling Immortal this year?
American Football is fast becoming a hugely popular
sport in the UK because of its exciting nature,big
hits and show-stopping touchdowns–with their
accompanying dances.
The Imperial Immortals are Imperial’s own
American Football team and are made up of existing
undergraduate and postgraduate students,coached
by nine knowledgeable and experienced coaches. Last
season we remained undefeated throughout the regular
season: winning the London conference,promoting us
to the Premiership South,and taking us to the national
play-offs where we won two further games to reach the
National Semi-Final.
The team has lots of slots for Freshers to come and
make an instant impact in the most competitive
University American Football League in the South.
All this talk of sport and success doesn’t mean to say
that we don’t socialise together; we are always at the
Union on a Wednesday for Sports Night and hold socials
throughout the year,often with the Imperial Titans–the
cheerleading team.
If you want to try a new sport or carry on playing
American Football,the team is taking part in the‘Give it
A Go’scheme,by holding two Come and Try sessions.The
first will be on Wednesday 8th October at 2pm and the
second on Sunday 12th October.
No previous experience is required to attend these
events; most of the team had never played before
coming to University.
If you have any questions or want to talk more about
the sport and joining us,then come and speak to us
at the Freshers Fair where we will have a stall,or join
the Imperial College American Football Team 2014
Recruitment page on Facebook.
SAM HILL
PUBLICITY AND RECRUITMENT OFFICER

