r e v i e w s
This week's TV starts off with more
top quality motorsport as BBC2
brings extensive coverage of the
Lombard RAC Rally, the
final,deciding round of the World
Rally Championship. A half hour
preview (Saturday 10.20pm) is
followed by live coverage of the
Weston Park stage ( Sunday 10.35
am) and highlights every night until
the finish on Wednesday.
More sport on Sunday afternoon
with "Match of the Day Live"
(BBC1 3.00pm), featuring Derby
County v Chelsea from the Baseball
Ground. An alternative to the football
is offered by ITV with Peter Sellers
and Herbert Lorn in the hilarious
"The Pink Panther Strikes Again".
Ex-inspector Dreyfuss escapes from
psychiatric hospital and constructs a
vast criminal network in order to
exterminate Clouseau. The excellent
"Spitting Image" (ITV Sunday
10.00pm) continues to extract the
michael from the. Royals,the
government,the opposition,stars of
stage and screen and anyone else it
can think of !
It's nearly 20 years since civil rights
demonstrations precipitated the
division of Northern Ireland into two
sharply divided communities. Open
Space (BBC2 Tuesday 7.35 pm) talks
to two young people who have grown
up in this atmosphere.
The BBC2 season of Woody Allen
films features "Stardust Memories"
(Tuesday 9.00pm), said to be
Woody's favourite of his films. New
York director Sandy Bates (Allen)
finds himself mobbed by by a horde
of critics and fans and haunted by
memories ol previous relationships.
One of the most underrated series of
the moment is surely the brilliant
"Boon" (ITV Tuesday 9.00 pm).
Michael Elphick plays trouble
shooting despatch rider Ken Boon,
who this week helps out when a huge
wedding reception brings more than
Coaching Inn proprietor Harry
Crawford bargains for.
"Cry Freedom:The Inside Story"
(BBC1 Tuesday 10.15pm) goes
behind the scenes of Sir Richard
Attenborough's latestfilm.It tells the
story of exiled South African
newspaper editor Donald Woods and
his friendship with Steve Biko, the
black consciousness leader who died
in police custody.
ICI Agrochemicals has a number of vacancies for those
who wish to use their technical skills in a commercial
environment:-
- On ourTechno-Commercial Scheme, the successful
applicants will spend 1 -3 years in research and
development, followed by a transfer to a post in
international marketing.
- On our UK Sales training scheme, the successful
applicants will (after training) take up a position in UK
Agrochemicals Sales.
For further details, contact the University Careers
Advisory Service.
There will be a presentation for 1988 and 1989
graduates, and any interested postgraduates, on Monday
Friday morning sees another
episode of "Rainbow" (ITV 11.10
am) when the ever-youthful
Zippy,George and Bungle, with the
now ancient Geoffrey,Rod Jane and
Freddy, discuss Communication. The
annual "Children in Need" appeal is
with us once again (BBC1 Friday
7.00pm onwards) when Terry
Wogan, Sue Cook and a host of other
celebrities introduce and evening of
star studded entertainment to raise
money for the deprived and
handicapped children of the UK
Donations can be made by phone or
at any Post Office.
m
30th November 1987 at 7.00 pm in the Courtfield Suite,
Gloucester Hotel, Harrington Gardens, London SW7 4LH.
Refreshments will be available.
Applications should be received by Wednesday 13th
January 1988. Preliminary interviews will be held at the
Gloucester Hotel on Thursday 21 st January 1988.
Those seeking appointments in 1988 should apply (using
the Standard Application Form) to:- Ms D L Matthias, ICI
.Agrochemicals, Fernhurst, Haslemere, Surrey, GU27 3JE.
| 5 | Agrochemicals
16 Friday November 20th 1987 FELIX

