e r s
CP •
VATnot
forgotten
Dear Judith,
With reference to the letter that you printed last week
under the heading 'Slave Labour', you might like to note .
that all Summer Lettings Managers, except one, received
bonuses of between 86% and 90% of the possible
maximum. They also received a wage of £100 per week.
and free accommodation throughout the Summer Vacation.
The letter reiterated the suggestion that VAT on rents
had been miscalculated. This is not true. When the prices
were set it was decided that short stays should be charged
at a higher rate in recognition of greater overheads and
to increase income. Rents for the first four weeks of each
stay were increased by between 5.7% and 8.3% while,
rents for subsequent weeks were increased by between
3.8% and 5.5%.
VAT is chargeable at 15% for the first four weeks and
3 % for subsequent weeks. The difference in the inclusive
rate charged for the first four weeks and that for subsequent
weeks might be thought to be wholly attributable to the
different VAT rates. Clearly as a higher rate was being
charged for short stays, regardless of VAT, this wasn't,
the case. Nevertheless, one of the Summer Lettings.
Managers did the following calculation:
For example: Evelyn Gardens single rooms (inclusive,
of VAT)
First 4 weeks £45 per week. Subsequent weeks £39 .
Rent net of 15 % VAT based on £45 per week = £39.13.
If the difference really had been attributable to VAT.
alone, then the rent for the subsequent weeks should have
been £39.13 +3% VAT. It was therefore assumed that,
there had been a miscalculation.
Of course, the calculation should have been:
£45 net of 1
5
% VAT = £39.13
£39 net of 3
% VAT = £37.86
Therefore the residence account benefits by £1.27 per.
bed per week on short stays. Since we are letting over.
700 beds throughout the summer vacation, this adds up.
to a useful contribution to our efforts to keep down term.
time rents.
Yours sincerely,
Michael Arthur, Assistant Secretary.
Better
driving?
Dear Judith,
Daren Austin's article on better driving (FELIX 784),
while discussing the appalling standard of driving on
Britain's roads today, fails to mention the two underlying
problems:
1. Why isn't the 'ordinary' driving test more thorough
in its examination of learner drivers? It is scandalous that
within minutes of passing the test a driver can, without,
any experience, join a motorway where other vehicles are
travelling at speeds in excess of twice that which the new
driver is used to. Learner drivers also need to be taught
the principles involved in driving in adverse weather
conditions such as fog, ice and snow—and even night-.
driving techniques. (How many people know the correct
way to drive in icy conditions ie no sudden steering-wheel
movements—to avoid wheel spins ?...).
2. Why must the legal age of driving be as low as 17?
Why not 21 or 25? It is a sad fact that the under-21 age
group is the most likely to have accidents which results
in scandalously high premiums for motor insurance.
(Example: Last year I was forced to pay £520 to insure
a £600 car—and I have a clean driving licence).
This begs the question: Why should a 17-year old need
a driving licence? '
Yours,
John Berkenhead, Maths 2.
Bigotry of
WLC
Dear Judith,
I'd like to comment on an appalling piece of bigotry
written by Dave Thomas in Chi Rho last week.
The article I'm referring to is entitled 'Is Gay OK? Let's
Bash Gays' and reflects the personal opinion of someone
in the supposedly peace loving West London Chaplaincy.
There has been a lot of spiritual waffle in FELIX
recently, most of it disgustingly patronising, but that can
only be expected. However the very title of this article
is provocative and I think it offends not only gay people
at IC.
Homosexuals are referred to as 'sinners' throughout the
article, he constantly speaks down to us as if we are the
pits of mankind.
Well I should like to inform Mr Thomas that we don't
want his sympathy or help and the day we accept it will
be the day we lose our last piece of self-integrity.
Furthermore I think the few of us who have come out at
IC really don't want to 'repent our sins, be released from
homosexuality and become normal, heterosexual people'.
I wouldn't try to tell Dave Thomas that through careful,
consistent screwing of men, he could be released from
his Christianity to become a normal gay person!
Incidentally the same rag recently suggested that people
choose to be gay. This is another half-baked load of
rubbish and if I could choose I wouldn't want it any other
way. Indeed discovering you're gay is not an easy thing
to come to terms with, and with the present social
prejudices that exist, I can't see that one would choose
the most difficult option.
Personally I don't mind people having religious views—
everyone's entitled to believe in their own set of fairy tales
if they wish. However how dare they try to tell people
who are different from them that they are destined to the
most horrible end if they don't repent.
The pomposity and double standards of the Christian
church is quite remarkable on this subject.
Here's a few points that are no dafter than the rubbish
you're trying to convince the rest of us of: Was there
something odd about Joseph? He was married to Mary
for several years and she was still a virgin when
impregnated by an angel she wasn't even married to. Jesus
hung around with 12 blokes all his life and never took
an interest in women. Why is God always portrayed as
a white heterosexual male shape with a beard? She might
be a black lesbian!
Finally, has Mr Thomas noticed that the Sun recently
treated us to the case of the 'gay sex-change monk'—
what a lot of sin for you to condemn there.
Al Roberts, DOC 2.
S m a l l A d s
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Anyone expecting their Hall fees to
be paid by RAFC Cranwell—please call
into room 403a Sherfield. ASAP and
see Lesley.
• Join Grunt-Grunt-Groan-Soc.
Auditions held every night, 1am to 8am,
room 45 Garden Hall.
• Subwarden wanted for Evelyn
Gardens. Contact Student
Accommodation Office for more details.
• Lots of shared rooms available plus 4
& 6 person flats in Hamlet & Lexham.
Ring 3602 now.
• Want to win a bottle of MacAllan 18
year-old? Then come to a whisky
tasting, Thursday 6pm, Union SCR, €1.
FOR SALE/HIRE & WANTED
• Having a Christmas party? Book your
disco now to avoid disappointment. For
bookings contact Hans Beier on 870
8112.
• For Sale-Amstrad PC1512. Mono-
moniter, 2 disk-drives, 640k & Turbo
Pascal and other software, £450.
Contact Anthony Kisky via pigeonholes
in room 219 Huxley.
• For Sale-B&W TV in very good
condition. Phone int 5241, home 603
2923 (ask for Nahy).
• Party? Party? Hire the disco with the
power to satisfy. Systems up to 4kw
sound and 5kw lighting effects.
Extensive record collection. Very good
student rates. Hans Beier 870 8112.
• One Whitesnake ticket for
December 29, Wembley Arena for sale.
Call Jane on 452 8952 after 7pm £12.
• Wanted: One competent lecturer to
teach 2nd year electro-magnetism.
Apply to Dept of Physics.
SITUATIONS VACANT
• Chem Eng 3 Rep. Apply to S Casey
via Chem Eng pigeonholes.
PERSONAL
• Bruce—love you lots! Alex the Greek.
• St Thomas' Hospital engagement
stakes:
Dom and Emma 2-1 (on fav)
Toby and Yvonne 3-2
Charlie and Big Sue 4-1
Toby and Sue 7-1
Toby and anyone 33-1
Basil got lost in the maternity ward.
• Level 7—Lost for words for once,
girls??
• Beware, always wear slippers when
on Level 7. You never know who you
might wake up!!!
• Free van-bending service. Custom
bend your minibus. Apply Andy, Physics
22 Friday November 20th 1987 FELIX

