Small A d s continued
• Ra-Ra-Ra!! Heffie huggable again—
go for it!
• Edna, Edna wherefore art thou Edna,
Arnold xxx.
• Hark! Who can I hear {wearing a
suit) pas de deuxing above my head.
• Take your partners for the level 8
waltz
• Vous-etes ne quand? Fay Gl. (Dah
Fay Gay).
• Ho Gia' mangiato Milano, adesso
Phyllis e' la tua volta.
• Is there life after Catherine
Deneuvre?
• Watch out! Mark is on the shark this
weekend. If you're a tidier at a 21st
party on Saturday watch out.
• You don't have to be wet to join
Bumbly Soc, but it helps.
• Watch out! Thumper's about—hie.
• Bumbly Soc couldn't fight their way
out of a wet dustbin.
• Blah Blah Kenya blah blah servants
blah blah alarm clocks.
• Adventurous? Osnomic? Interesting?
If not, join Bumbly Soc and meet
dozens just like you.
• Anyone want to show Mike what a
condom is?
• Hey Mike we'll show what a
condom is. The Girls 127 HG.
• Did anyone find an electric water
pistol after the beer festival? If so
contact Dave Williams, Physics II.
• Mad Dan—I challenge you to a
game of Killer. The Caped Avenger.
• Join PK's airforce next flight, JCR
next beer festival. Occasional practice in
EM lectures, Wednesday's standards
were not good enough. The Penthouse
Club
• What's the difference between
rhubarb and a gooseberry? Find out
next week.
• Beware the Wellington Bomber
Sketch. The Penthouse Club.
• To the girl in the designer dress—we
liked your legs best. Love and kisses
from the Penthouse Club (formerly 130
HG).
• I need your body, Tina Turner. My
legs are newhere near yours. The
Chairman, the Penthouse Club
• Dai—occasional residence is required
for membership of the Penthouse Club
• Killer is only a game Mika You don't
need a doctor to sign the death
certificate. The Penthouse Club
• Angeles—tenias razon, te quiero
mucho mas de 10 que yo creia.
LOST & FOUND
• Lost during beer festival—Dunn & Co
cloth cap Probably too small for you. If
found please return to P Kendall,
Physics 2-REWARD.
Bad taste
letter
Dear Judith,
May I congratulate you on a highly amusing issue of
F E L I X last week. The letter entitled Tn the ear of the
beholder' was second to none in its 'politeness' and sense
of good fun; Ray Bradbury would, no doubt, have agreed
with M r Cholesterol's fatty acidic comments.
Broadsheet tries to amuse as many of its readers as
possible in order to stop them feeling 'pissed o f f ; if this
does not work for you M r Cholesterol, I'm sorry, there
is no accounting for taste. Maybe you should have written
to Broadsheet in order to display your great command of
the English Language, no matter, apathy rules, O K ?
While I'm putting pen to paper, I'd like to say a little
about the idea of Norman's selling condoms. Is Norman
serious? Are Imperial College students now expected to
restrict their sexual activities to lunchtime and early
evening, and will the current I C U policy concerning sex
in the Union Building have to be changed? One last
question; does this herald the world's first ever tandoori
condom?
Yours, in bad CCU taste and polysaturatedly,
Dave Smedley, RCS Broadsheet Editor 87/88.
who has had to make the decision and secondly I have
taken the trouble to talk to those people who have the
majority of the burden to bare—women!
I assume that the objection being raised is, not to all
abortions whether they be for physical or pschological
reasons but to those abortions on the grounds of 'unwanted
complications'. So what constitutes an 'unwanted
complication'? Poverty, illegitamacy, ambition, possible
handicap, you name it, there are loads of reasons all of
them very important to the individuals concerned—and
I think that this is the key fact that everyone seems to be
overlooking. There is always a danger that in laying down
the law for the majority, the needs of the individual are
ignored, but in a matter such as this, the needs of the
individual are overwhelmingly important. No responsible
woman takes the decision lightly, they always suffer great
agonies before deciding either way—so who are we to say
that we know better! We can answer for ourselves
(possibly) but God help us all if we lose that freedom of
choice.
And then there is the question of the exact point, during
a pregnancy, at which 'cell division' becomes child
growth. This is the pivot about which morality questions
must revolve. I would argue that this point occurs when
the developing foetus 'thinks' for the first time. We all
know of hypnotic regression back to the foetal stage, but
how far back does that memory go? Until this is answered
the debate will continue—I hope it is answered soon so
that a definite date can be given for the beginning of life.
Steve Mercer, Physics III.
Wharfdale Threats?
Dear Judith,
In reply to Simon Cholerton's letter ( F E L I X N o 784).
I have provided a little illustration which will hopefully
show that my Engish is not as degenerate as he would have
us believe. Take it away Wharfdale...
Yours sincerely,
Noel P Curry, Chem III.
P.S. I'd rather be 'pissed o f f than pissed on.
Opinionated
Dear Judith,
In last week's F E L I X , Hugh MacKenzie laid down
something of a challenge; to answer the question—'How
come a woman can choose to end the life of her child
simply because it is still in her womb?'. I would like to
take up that challenge.
O K , so what makes me different from all the rest of
the uninformed and opinionated dross who spout forth
voluminous quantities of rhetoric on what you should and
shouldn't do? Well, firstly I have 'been there' for someone
A letter received by FELIX earlier this week for the
special attention of the Guilds President, Dave Tyler.
Dear Dave,
If the attendance figures at the Carnival aren't what you
would have liked them to be, it's probably because no one
knows there actually is a Carnival. In an interview with
STOIC (and we still have it on videotape if you feel like
quibbling, so if I were you I'd keep my mouth shut) you
said that it would be impossible to move around Imperial
College without seeing publicity for this Carnival, Well,
I've been moving around College quite a bit, and I'll be
buggered if I can see one tiny speck of publicity. Actually,
that's not quite true. I have seen two posters. One was
hanging off the wall in the Union Building by a solitary
piece of blue tack, and the other looked as if a bird had
gone to the toilet on it. A bit prophetic, perchance?
Don't you have anything better to do except 'phoning
us up and ranting insane and utterly meaningless threats?
I seem to recall that this isn't our first brush with you.
Didn't you once threaten to take away all our funds? We
all had a good laugh over that one, I can tell you.
Having said all these nasty things, I would like to end
on a somewhat more sympathetic note. Brain cells are very
valuable things, and since you're so short in that
department, why don't you just abandon your attempts
at rational thought altogether?
And another thing; right after your first nasty 'phonecall,
you rang again asking for a video cassette player! A bit
two faced, don't you think? Anyway the answer is 'get
sodded, Tyler'. This being written'on Tuesday evening,
and I hope that you still haven't found a V C R !
Yours sincerely,
Charles Robin, STOIC Hon Sec.
P.S. Dave, you're not nice. That's why no one likes you.
FELIX Friday November 20th 1987 23

