HHIiliii
wm N e w s
Chas Brereton during the last hours of his
40 hour piano playing marathon
Elected
Thomas Anwell of the Department of
Civil Engineering has been elected
London Regional organiser for the
National Students Industrial Society
at their conference in Brighton
recently.
Planned
A plan to redevelop the Gloucester
Road tube station has been passed by
the Kensington and Chelsea Council's
town planning committee. The plans
include shopping facilities, offices and
a residential area.
Yummie!
'It's going to be wonderful'
So commented Norman Jardine, the
Union Snackbar Manager, on how
Norman's is going to receive a boost
from next Wednesday in the evenings
when an adventurous new menu is
introduced. In addition to the existing
dish of the day, pies and salads, now
omelettes and toasted sandwiches will
be served.
Customers will be able to choose
from a variety of fillings, and the
omelettes and toasted sandwiches will
be cooked to order. To minimise
queues, a new ordering system based
on cloakroom tickets is being
introduced.
Brainless
Guilds President Dave Tyler has
threatened STOIC, the student
television service, with damage to
their equipment if they broadcast
tonight.
STOIC started regular Friday
broadcasts with an all-nighter last
week, which attracted over 150
people. Dave Tyler has expressed his
worry that attendance of the Guilds
Carnival will drop if STOIC choose
to broadcast at the same time. He has
also threatened to fine the Society.
Rag Week
Exec Initiative
The Royal School of Mines Executive
fours boat crew won the Morphy Oar
on Wednesday. The result was later
disputed because the team only
included one member of the
Executive whereas both the Royal
College of Science Union and City &
Guilds Union had all three members
of their executives in each team.
Morphy Day
Rag Chairman Nigel Baker was left
stranded in Ashford, Kent when ICU
Honorary Secretary Chas Jackson and
Chris Davies stole their minibus
during the Exec Initiative Test earlier
this week. \
Ladder missing
Dramatic Society's ladder has been
abducted from the Union Lower
Lounge by members of the ICU
Executive and Guilds Union. They
have been told that they will only get
it back when they pay £20 to the
Guild's swear box. If they don't pay,
Guilds have threatened to sell the
ladder for scrap.
DramSoc lighting director Dave
Isherwood has slammed the
disappearance as stupid and lighting
may be affected at tonight's Guilds
Carnival.
Trying to break the record
Members of the Jewish Society have been persuading students to join their
letter writing campaign in the JCR. They are trying to break the world
letter writing record by writing 7,500 letters to one man in one day. They
have chosen Michael Stolar who is a Soviet Jew and who has been declared
a 'non-person' by the Soviet authorities.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright FELIX 1987 ISSN 1040-0711.
24 Friday November 20th 1987 FELIX

