Features
over the Strategic Defence Initiative
(Star Wars) for the INF talks but it
is unlikely to be as obliging in the
ensuing talks. There is a concenus
amongst scientist that SDI will not be
feasible, the Soviet Union are worried
that a partial defence system might be
possible. Under these circumstances
they see only one possible role for
SDI; to mop up a Soviet counter strike
when most of the Soviet missiles have
already been destroyed by an
American first strike. Nevertheless,
it is questionable whether Star Wars,
in its present form, will last beyond
President Reagan's term of office.'
In the wake of September's meeting
between Schultz and Schevarnadze,
the Superpowers have produced draft
START documents calling for across
the board Inter Continental Ballistic
Missile (ICBM) reductions of 50%.
It is likely that the Americans will be
looking for specific reductions in the
Soviet SSI8 stockpile, as these
missiles are preceived as a threat to
the US Minuteman Silos. Similarly
the Soviet Union will be looking for
reductions in the Trident II missiles
which threaten the SS20 silos.
Before any deals can be signed the
problem of verification must be
considered. How can one side ensure
that the other is not cheating ?
Inevitably this will mean that both
sides will have to cooperate and make
concessions, but this is not as unlikely
as it wouldfirstappear. The route to
cooperation has already been paved
by the Stockholm Accord, agreed last
year beteen NATO and the Warsaw
Pact. The accord calls for either side
to provide notification in advance
when it conducts military exercises
with over 35000 troops, and in this
way aims to prevent either side
launching a surprise conventional
attack on the other.
The Verification Technology
Information Centre (VERTIC) has
suggested possible verification
scenarios for both START and INF.
Any agreement must be followed by
an exchange of data between the two
sides on their missile facilities; the
number of missiles, launchers and the
capability of the missiles. The data
supplied to one side would be checked
with intelligence data obtained from
photoreconnaissance and
eavesdropping on radio
transmissions. Satellite technology
will come into play here, for example
with the American K series satellites
which can have an estimated
resolution of upto 50cm per pixel and
Signals Intelligence Satellites
(SIGINT) which can snoop on the
other side's telecommunications.
When both sides are satisfied that the
data is correct, steps will have to be
taken to monitor missile movements.
This will require on sight inspections
to ensure that all is fair and above
board.
The war heads, it is suggested, can
be disposed of in purpose built plants
operated by the monitored side and
supervised by the monitoring side.
Here the verifying country would
count the number of warheads going
into the plant checking to determine
whether they were genuine. This can
be achieved by passing a neutron
beam through the warhead and
monitoring the resulting radiation.
The fissile material would then be
removed, unobserved by the verifying
side, before re-emerging to be
automatically destroyed. The fissile
material could be destroyed in
commercial nuclear reactors or
alternatively held in safe storage
under the auspices of the Atomic
Energy Authority or a similar body.
A thorny question which still has
to be resolved concerns the fate of
mobile missiles such as the Soviet
SS25, the American Midgetman, the
US Tomahawk cruise missile and its
Soviet equivalent, branded the
"Tomahawkski". According to
Vertic, a complete ban on mobile
missiles is unlikely. These missiles
are problematic because they can be
merged into the countryside, and
hidden aboard ships and submarines,
making it difficult for one side to
know precisely how many missiles
the other side posseses.
In the past, arms agreements have
failed to prevent the escalation of the
arms race but have merely pushed it
into other directions. For example the
SALT 1 treaty stipulated limits on
missile launchers, with the result the
both sides developed missiles with
multiple warheads. Likewise the
Threashold Ban Treaty (1974) limited
test explosions to 150 kilo tonnes, and
both sides began to concentrate on
smaller, more accurate missiles.
The deployment of sea-launched
cruise missiles may similarly render
the INF accord ineffective, unless the
superpowers take action. The US
Airforce had intended to deploy 464
Tomahawk ground launched cruise
missiles by late 1988, and 200 of
these have alread been deployed.
Although these will be dismantled
under the INF deal, the American
Navy plans to deploy 758 nuclear
Tomahawks at sea. This will result in
one third of the US fleet being armed
with nuclear missiles, and the
situation is made more complex with
plans to place 3000 conventional
Tomahawks along side them. The
Soviets are expected to follow suit this
year with the deployment of sea
launched cruise missiles of 3000km
range. Hence, unless this aspect is
taken into account in the START
talks, argue Vertic, the INF deal will
become merely a codification of the
arms race. So far sea lauched missiles
have been given little discussion.
As mentioned earlier, mobile
missiles present particular problems
when it comes to verification. The
situation is exacerbated by the
combination of conventional and
nuclear cruise missiles at sea. If
limitions are agreed upon, stringent
verification methods will be required.
One of the requirements will be the
continuous monitoring of missile
plant perimeters. This could be
achieved by installation of tamper
proofvideo cameras at perimeter exits
to record the number of missiles
leaving the plant. The plants would
be monitored by inspectors from the
verifying side to ensure that the
cameras were not tampered with.
Radiation counters would be used to
check whether the warheads of the
missiles leaving the plant were
nuclear or conventional, and the
inspectors would have the right to
examine any piece of equipment
leaving the plant which could possibly
hide a missile.
Vertic suggest that a form of
electronic tagging might be used to
ensure that missiles are not being
manufactured in clandestine factories.
The technology exists to produce
tamper proof electronic tags which
would record the batch number and
place of manufacture of the missile.
These tags would be manufactured by
the verifying side and installed by the
verified side. During on site
inspections the tags would be
examined for tampering, and if any
missiles were found with
inappropriate tags or tags missing
then this would indicate a violation of
the arms control agreement.
Two types of tags have been,
considered by the military. Passive
tags would act as a unique identifier
for a particular missile. One such type
would make use of the random
patterns offiberglass in the missile
canister. This would be
"photographed" by a stereoscopic
camera or an acoustic hologram
imager. Another type of tag would
make use of an unreproducable
pattern offibre-opticcables which
would again be photographed. Active
tags would consist of a number
sequence stored in a microchip to
identify each missile. One possibility
is a tag which will make use of
NAVSTAR satellites to record the
position of the missile. The tags
would be read at intervals and the
recorded position of missiles be
compared to photoreconnaissance
photographs. If the two do not tally,
then this must be a strong indication
that a treaty violation must have
occured.
The technology for arms
verification does exist, and can be
applied to difficult areas such as
mobile and sea-launched missiles.
Whether or not the superpowers
possess the political will to use the
technology as a basis for arms
reductions remains to be seen. It is
important to remember that the INF
deal can only represent afirststep,
on the route to further reductions. If
these are not forthcoming then the
deal, impressive though it sounds,
will not reduce the escalation in
nuclear weaponry; it will merely
succeed in changing the emphasis of
the arms race. Beyond that, a
Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty will
hinge upon the question of SDI. If this
issue is not resolved, the prospects for
a genuine reduction in the arms
stockpile seem grim.
Thanks to Vertic and Jerry Legget
for invaluable help in preparing this
article, Reagan and Gorbachov for
being good sports, and Judith for not
starting the third world war.
FELIX Friday November 20th 1987

