Hello?
When I first accepted the post of
Lesbian & Gay Welfare Officer I
hoped that I would really be doing
something to help gay/lesbian/
bisexual people at IC, or at least
improve the atmosphere here.
Sadly, the only reaction I have had
to my article is that someone called
Bruce, in my year, has started
blowing me kisses! (If only he was a
hunk...).
I don't know if people realise but
you can contact me, completely
confidentially, through the
pigeonholes in the Union Office. I
have a pigeonhole (labelled Lesbian
& Gay Welfare Officer). So write me
a note, saying hi! or just to tell me
that you are gay and go to IC. Surely
I'm not the only bisexual person here,
even if I am the only one who has
admitted it.
Anyway, Judith is putting a (very
embarrassing) photo of me in this
week so now you can all come up to
me and say hi! or hurl abuse at me
in person!!!
BYE! James Papa, ME II
P.S. You didn't realise I was so
good looking did you?
Essential
Ents
We have a few rather interesting
things coming up in the next couple
of weeks all of which are somewhat
essential entertainment.
On Thursday November 26 perhaps
the best circuit band playing in the
London area—Howlin' Wilf & The
Vee Jays will be playing in the
Lounge. Their career started about
four years ago busking all the old
favourite soul/R 'n' B numbers
around Covent Garden, however,
such was the response they formed a
full band and began playing the club
scene. Over the years their following
has steadily grown to the extent that
packed houses are the norm. The
doors open at about 9pm and the band
are on stage at 9.30pm for about 45
minutes and then again at 10.45pm
for a second set, tickets are only £1
from Norman's, the Union Office or
Ents and £1.50 on the door. There
should be a late bar and of course
there will be a disco as well.
Next up, make sure you watch the
South Bank Show on Sunday
November 22 as the whole
programme is dedicated to an
amazing band the Real Sound of
Africa who are Zimbabwe's highest
selling act and also just happen to be
playing in the Lounge on December
3.
Finally, anyone interested in
joining Ents should come to the Ents
Office (the room above FELIX) at
lpm any Tuesday where we will all
be gathered.
ASSISTANT WARDEN, GARDEN HALL
Applications are invited for the post of Assistant Warden of Garden Hall. The
Hall has 87 male residents in accommodation varying from single to triple rooms.
The Assistant Warden is fully responsible for the day-to-day running of the Hall
in conjunction with the normal pastoral and disciplinary duties and reports to the
Warden in nearby Weeks Hall.
Although preference for the post shall be given to academic or post-doctoral staff
intending to remain at Imperial College for a period of at least two years, other
applications will be considered.
The post requires someone who can combine enthusiasm and initiative with a
responsible outlook. The Assistant Warden is aided by a resident Sub Warden.
Rent-free accommodation, ideally suited for a couple is available.
Applications with details of relevant experience and the names of two referees
should be sent to Dr K Burnett, Warden, Weeks Hall.
The closing date for applications for this post is December lst 1987.
Computer calculations
Until quite recently the Bookshop
carried an impressive stock of slide
rules and other paraphenalia. We are
currently lookint to modernise this
range of computational equipment by
entering into the supply of IBM PC
Compatible' Computers
The range of machines, which was
due to be reviewed this week by the
ICU. Microcomputer Society
(deadline for copy was Monday—ed),
has a number of VERY attractive
features.
1. The machines comprise an
exceptionally high proportion of
components manufactured in Japan
and the USA, in relation to those from
non-specific areas of the Far East.
2. A wide range of specifications
should be available to order, from
fully expandable 8MHz twin floppy
dirve machines with monocrhome
graphics to 'beyond' 15MHz AT's
with Super-EGA level graphics.
3. Each system in the range has
been engineered to provide a
balanced, high performance mix of
high quality reliable components eg.
NEC, Intel, Toshiba, Misubishi,
Miniscribe, Western Digital, Precise
(of Japan), and though they are
designed to run under PCDOS 3.30
(how compatible can you get?),
MSDOS 3.1 (+GW Basic) will be
available as an option.
4. The prices compare very
favourably with those of other cut-
price machines (such as Amstrad) in
so far as competing machines are able
to offer roughly equivalent
specifications.
5. Delivery, subject to ICU
approval of the equipment, should
commence this month.
How to be open-minded
(Seeing stars helps)
Astronomy is man's attempt to look outside the
confines of his own world.
With the naked eye we can see an
expanse of thousands of stars. With a telescope
and camera even more detail is revealed but still
the immenseness is unfathomable.
Religion is man's attempt to look outside
the confines of his own person and that of
society to a spiritual dimension which he
supposes exists.
The problem he faces here, however, is
far greater. There are no instruments available to
make measurements on the spiritual world.
Subsequently many people dismiss it as
non-existent while others invent their own
religion.
However, in Jesus, God gives us an
instrument through which we may see the
spiritual world. In Jesus we see God himself.
"Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father"
A series of events
in week eight, Nov 23-28
organised by Imperial
College Christian Union
6 Friday November 20th 1987 FELIX

