T H E B A R O N
! • miuirjicniuji'al
It was a rainy November afternoon in the land of Cheapskate. Derek Dash, the Baron, was preparing to take his wife, Mad Dash, out to dinner
to celebrate her birthday. (Her birthday was in April, but she liked to celebrate it regularly). He was about to leave, when Ian Bore, the Baron's
chief yes man and editor of the Cheapkate comic, Wetnerk, entered the room, furiously washing his hands with invisible soap.
'Hello Bore', said the Baron. 'How are you getting on with the latest issue of WetNerk?'
'Not very well, I'm afraid, Baron', said Bore. 'The citizens in the Phallix Office are still printing it; I don't think it will be ready for another month'.
'We really must do something about Phallix, you know, Bore', said the Baron. 'Not only does Judith Largeamounts keep on printing anonymous
letters, she says nasty things about Mad Dash all the time. And I really can't understand what any of the citizens have to complain about.
I have made it clear that anyone who does not like Cheapskate should come and have tea with me to discuss the matter. I don't know why
nobody has come to see me yet'.
'Perhaps all the citizens prefer coffee, Baron', said Bore, trying to be helpful as usual.
'Perhaps', agreed the Baron. 'Or perhaps they all think that Cheapskate is a very nice place really'.
At that moment, Arthur Michael, the good-but-good-for-nothing fairy, came into the room.
'Hello, Piggy', said the Baron. 'How are things going in the rent collector's office?'
'Well, we have some good news and some bad news', said Arthur Michael. 'The 'bad' news is that Cheapskate is going to lose 600 places
in the Yorrick Gardens dormitories, and so most citizens who have been in Cheapskate for more than a year will have to sleep under benches
in Seek Park'. Unable to control himself, Arthur Michael clapped his hands together in glee. 'Ahem...and the good news is that we're going
to make sure that all the citizens from far away get a place in the dormitories we have left, and this will mean more money for Cheapskate'.
The thought of all this extra money was too much for Arthur Michael and Bore. They were so excited that they broke into song:
Oh, the grand old Baron of Cheapskate
He had five thousand citizens
He marched them up to the top of the cliff
And pushed them off the edge
Hurray!
'Be quiet, you two', said the Baron. 'But this is indeed good news. Now I will be able to make even more pompous speeches about how
marvellous things are in Cheapskate. I think I'll call Whygate, the head citizen, and tell him the good news'.
The phone rang in the citizens' office just as Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks was zipping up Whygate in his new dress with sequins on it. Alan
Ego, the deputy head citizen, was opening letters and filing them. Ego's filing system was very effective. He stamped all the letters with
the date, then screwed them up and put them in one of three waste paper baskets, labelled 'Bar', 'Snack Bar', and 'Lesley's Love Letters'.
Takeiteasy, the citizen in charge of nothing very much, was asleep under a huge pile of invoices, cheques, and memos.
'You'd better answer the phone, Ian, dearie', said Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks.
'Answer the phone, Ego!', said Whygate, after a pause.
'Answer the phone, Takeiteasy!', said Ego, without looking up.
After a few seconds, Takeiteasy emerged from beneath the pile of invoices and cheques. He looked around sleepily, and eventually the
phone stopped ringing. Looking pleased with himself, Takeiteasy yawned went back to sleep.
'Do you think I look okay, Jolly, dearie?' said Whygate.
'You look lovely, dearie', said Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks. 'I'm sure you'll go down a storm at the burning concert. Now let's have some sherry!'
'Oh no!', screamed Whygate.
'What's the matter?', said Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks.
'I think one of my sequins is out of place', wailed Whygate.
'Don't worry, dearie', said Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks. 'I'm sure it won't matter. You'll be a long way away from all the citizens when you
get up on stage tonight. Anyway you're not likely to have your clothes on long enough for anyone to notice. But do remember to be careful
with your magic wand. Now don't forget you have to write a letter to John Secretary before you go'.
Mrs Jolly Hockey picked up a notebook and wrote as Whygate dictated.
'Dear John', began Whygate. 'I think it was very sneaky of you to try to get your grubby hands on the money from Gravlington rocks
to help pay off the Baron's huge debts. I am going to make sure that you never get even a glimpse of the cash, all of which is going to be
invested by myself. You were very lucky that I managed to convince all the citizens that I had brilliantly outmanoeuvred you. If the story
had got out that my "three months of intensive research" amounted to asking Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks where Gravlington was, I would have
made things very tough for you. Just remember-don't mess with Ian Whygate!'
'Oh, that sounds very masterful, dearie', said Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks. 'I'm sure John Secretary will get the message. Shall I send it over
right away?'
'Yes please, Jolly, dearie', commanded Whygate. 'I'm going to see to my hair'.
Later in the Baron's castle, John Secretary composed his reply. 'Dear Ian', he wrote, 'thank you so much for your admirable letter. It is
so nice to receive correspondence which is so clear and to the point, as well as being so elegantly penned. However, I'm sure that the problem
is not worth getting carved-up about'. John Secretary sharpened his carving knife and allowed himself a quiet chuckle as he wrote this. 'I
think that this matter would be best solved over dinner sometime. You must come round to my place soon. How about tomorrow night?
Kind regards, John'.
'This is impossible', moaned Whygate when he received the letter. 'I'm going out with Mad Dash tomorrow. You'll have to go, Ego!'
'Bog off, Whygate', said Ego. 'I'm going out to get pissed tomorrow'.
'Well in that case Takeiteasy will have to go to dinner with John Secretary', said Whygate, poking the slumbering heap with his magic wand....
What is on the menu at John Secretary's tomorrow night?
Will Takeiteasy wake up in time to go?
Are Bore's hands clean yet?
What does Whygate use his magic wand for?
Find out in the next episode of 'The Baron of Cheapskate'.
FELIX Friday November 20th 1987 7

