The
empire
strikes
back
A lot of scientists think that President
Reagan's Strategic Defence Initiative
is dangerous and unrealistic. There
are two good reasons for this: we
cannot write ,and test computer
software reliably enough to use in
spotting and destroying high speed
missiles; and even if we could, the
necessary weapons would be just as
offensive as the nuclear weapons they
are supposed to replace. The whole
project often seems just like an excuse
to gain a decisive military lead over
the USSR (or 'commie bastards' as
the proponents of SDI call them).
Those in favour of SDI point out
the basic morality of a system that
renders nuclear weapons obsolete and
removes the present threat of
Mutually Assured Destruction.
Presumably, if they were so driven
by moral considerations then they
would not have to lie to Congress
about the likely success of the
programme. Recent evidence
suggests they have been doing just
this.
The villian of the piece is Edward
Teller, the man most often credited
with inventing the idea of Star Wars,
although a certain religious figure
with horns and a forked tail has also
been mentioned. He is a very capable
scientist and invented, among othei
things, the Monte Carlo Method,
which is an efficient way of doing
physical simulations on computers.
He is not the most anti-communist
person in the USA in the same sense
that Ronald Reagan is not the
President. One of his frustrated
ambitions appears to be to establish
a League of Scientists and
Technologistsfor an Instant Nuclear
War. He claims, of course, to be
acting from the highest moral
principles.
Teller is the man who has to
convince congress that SDI is worth
the money. Recendy he told them that
work on the X-ray lasers, a vital
component in missile-screwing
weaponry, was proceeding extremely
rapidly and that a viable weapon
U N D E R T H E
MICROSCOPE
by Steve Black
Editor's bit—oops!
Part of last week's news story on Chaos got slightly mangled in the typesetting
and pasting up. Here is the part of the explanation in a slightly different form
(which is easier to follow and less likely to get confused in type).
The do-it-yourself investigation of chaos involves playing with the function:
f(n)=a.f(n-l).(l-f(n-l)), where n is the number of iterations and f(n) is the
value of the function after n iterations. This is called a recurrence relation
and defines, from any given starting point, a unique sequence of numbers
where each number is calculated from the previous number in the series. Values
of a between 0 and 4 produce the interesting results. Starting values of the
function (ie f(0)) should be between 0 and 1. If you have a programmable
calculator or computer, it is worth following the sequence for several hundred
iterations (plot a graph of f(n) vs n) If a is less than 3, the sequence will rapidly
converge on one number. For a between 3 and about 3.7, the numbers will
oscillate between several values. For a above 3.7 there is no discernable pattern
in the numbers: this is true chaos. Each series is an apparendy random list
of numbers, yet every series is completely determined given the starting
number.
I hope to have a more detailed exposition of chaos in a future FELIX. This
will include some very pretty diagrams and an explanation of what strange
attractors, catastrophe theory and fractal geometry have to do with each other.
I can be contacted via the Chemistry letter racks or on int 4642 if you have
any comments or suggestions about this column. Would anyone like to
volunteer as a reporter and interview members of staff about their work?
would be ready in a couple of years.
A senior worker, Roy Woodruff,
who was director of X-Ray laser
work, at the Lawrence Livermore
Laboratory, where the experiments
are done, complained that Teller's
presentation to Congress had ignored
all the snags and difficulties of the
project. He also complained that the
director of the Laboratory had let
Teller go ahead knowing that he was
telling whopping great fibs. Woodruff
is no crypto-commie pinko
subversive: he is perfectly happy to
make kill-cannons and X-Ray lasers:
he just doesn't want to tell lies to
Congress about the actual success of
his projects.
Woodruff was shunted into a non-
job for his complaints. Because the
American Official Secrets Act isn't as
good as ours, it only took him a year
to get a serious hearing for his
complaints. Congress are not
investigating the issue, and the
principle of the right to dissent
appears to have been firmly
•established. Other workers at the
laboratory, while not disagreeing with
SDI, are now pointing out that many
of Teller's claims are seriously
misleading.
Those who oppose Star Wars have
always believed that the proponents
of it had less than wholesome
motives. But, they have always
replied that they were acting from the
highest moral considerations. If this
was true, then they wouldn't have to
lie about the likely success of the
programme.
Any scientist who cares about
science or about the future of the
human race, should do his best to
prevent science from being hijacked
by those who are engaged in fanatical
crusades. We will all suffer if they
don't.
Green
tea
stops
cancer
We have always known that coffee is
bad for you in large quantities, and
there have always been some people
who argued that tea was better. Now
we have the definitive evidence: tea
stops cancer.
Caffeine is a natural insecticide that
kills insects by making them
hyperactive. Most students use the
high caffeine content of coffee to help
them get through exams (but not
many seem to suffer the same fate as
the insects). Coffee is about 30-50%
caffeine, and the other chemicals are
similar in type and taste but not as
good at killing bugs or keeping
students awake. Tea is a much more
complex mixture. The total amount
of caffeine in it is similar to coffee,
but much of it is stuck to other large
molecules that only let go of it slowly,
giving your bloodstream a chance to
cope with it and therefore not making
you hyperactive. Tea is superior to
coffee in other ways—it has a much
wider variety of chemicals in it for a
start. One of these chemicals has just
been shown to be a good inhibitor of
cancer.
The chemical, epigallocatechingal
late (or EGCG for those who want to
avoid severe strain of the tongue),
occurs in large quantities in green tea.
Some Japanese scientists investigated
it because people who drink green tea
in Japan seem to have a lower cancer-
rate than most Japanese. They
discovered that the chemical is very
effective in preventing tumours in
mice (though how the mice were
persuaded to drink tea I don't know)
probably because it sticks to some
delicate receptors on the cell surface
that are susceptable to attack by
carcinogens.
The only problem is this, there is
very little of the chemical in the black
tea drunk in Britain, and British taste
buds are not about to be weaned onto
the green stuff. Anyway more and
more people prefer to drink coffee,
which is mainly insecticide and
contains nothing useful for human
health.
8 Friday November 20th 1987 FELIX

