Imperial College is fortunate to
possess one of the best student
publications in the country. It is well
laid out, printed in house and contains
some well researched features. Few,
if any other universities can boast a
student publication which is read by
the staff as well as the students. For
many people FELIX is their only link
with the activities of the Union and
the only way they can learn of
developments taking place in College.
And now the shocking complaint
FELIX is biased—and not only is it
biased, it is biased almost exclusively
against the Union President Ian
Howgate. The reason for this is that
certain key people within the FELIX
Office simply do not get on with Mr
Howgate. As a result we have slanted
news stories, and editorials which slag
off Mr Howgate over trivia whilst
ignoring the work he has done.
What aplonkerIanhasbeenthisweek!
A biased FELIX does provide
interesting reading, but it also causes
damage to FELIX. Can we blame Mr
Howgate for refusing to co-operate
with certain members of FELIX on
major news stories, such as
'Harlington Gravel'? In the past he
has been quoted out of context and the
stories he has provided have been
slanted against him. Clearly this is
also damaging to FELIX. Mr
Howgate is not the only source of
news, but this year's lack of a regular
news editor has made it difficult for
people tofindthe time to pursue news
through alternative routes. The
problem has been exacerbated with
the decision of certain FELIX staff
'moles' not to co-operate with FELIX
until the paper starts being less biased
against Mr Howgate. You can get
round this problem by filling the
paper with stories about the
happenings within Union committees,
but to be honest this makes dull
reading.
I cannot say that I agree with Ian's
decision not to write a weekly piece
for the Union page, but I can
understand his viewpoint. Why
should he co-operate with FELIX
when FELIX appears out to get him?
An article in the RCS Broadsheet a
few weeks ago by a disillusioned
fresher illustrates the point. The
writer stated that he didn't have a clue
what, if anything, the President did
with his time and used this, albeit
illogically, as a basis for criticising
Mr Howgate's effectiveness. If this
opinion is representative of most of
the students, it is not surprising that
the average student shows little
interest in Union affairs. The attitude
continually expressed in the pages of
FELIX, that Ian is a wally, does little
to ease the situation.
Is FELIXReaUyBiased?
I have to include this section by means
of defence for the slagging off I am
going to get in next week's issue.
What follows are a few examples
which illustrate the point. I hope you
will bear with me if the analysis of
the stories becomes a bit technical,
but this is necessary. I am not out to
attack the people who wrote the
articles: I have talked to the people
Freshers' Week even better than the
best in London.
It is understandable that the writer
might mistake "that" for "it",
particularly when the interview was
played over the phone from IC radio
to FELIX, as was the case. However
the whole story was slanted. The rest
of it devoted a large space to John
Noble's response to his alleged
slagging off, quoted verbatim. If Ian
had been given equal column inches
and also quoted verbatim instead of
paraphrasing, the story would have
become much more representative of
the truth.
concerned and they genuinely believe
that their articles were unbiased. I am
also well aware that the FELIX editor
is often under a lot of pressure and
does not have time to check
everything that appears in FELIX. I
am not out to blame individuals.
Nevertheless some of the articles
which have appeared are below the
belt. I do not helieve I am alone in
this opinion; other Union officers
have said much the same thing and
even the Rector has commented that
FELIX is a unfair towards Mr
Howgate.
IrresponsibleIan,,,
Let's take a story from the Freshers'
edition: "Irresponsible Ian Attacks
Freshers' Week". According to the
story, Ian (speaking in an IC radio
interview) had criticised John Noble
for organising a poor Freshers'
Week. In fact, listening to the tape,
it becomes apparent that the opposite
was true. Ian had complimented John
on the work he had put in and
declared the IC Freshers' Week to be
one of the best in London, but—here
comes the crunch—added that it could
be made even better.
In the FELIX news story, Ian is
quoted as saying of Freshers week:
"it's not good enough". What he
actually said (and this is recorded in
the radio interview) was, referring to
Freshers' Week being the best in
London, "that's not good enough".
He went on to mention an idea he had
which could make Imperial's
Another subtleexample
Issue 782 included a story
entitled"Censors' Happy Ending",
which covered a motion calling,for
the ICU handbook editor to have total
editorial control. Let me quote a line
from the story: "This motion will
now be submitted to the next UGM
as an amendment to a previous motion
which had suffered many amendments
put forward by Ian Howgate." Here
we have a classic example of an
opinion coming across as though it
were a fact. The statement that Ian
Howgate's ammendments were
derogatory must be an opinion: Ian
Howgate was of the opinion that they
were beneficial, the writer that they
were not. Who was right?...well,
that's a matter of opinion.
Somemorerantings...
Bias against Ian has not been limited
to the news pages. In the editorial
pages, Mr Howgate has been
criticised for not telling anyone about
the postgraduate hall before the
UGM. Who was he supposed to tell?
He told told an Exec meeting on the
day he learnt of the proposal and
informed the students at the first
opportunity—the UGM, which took
place a week later. I suppose the real
gripe was that he did not inform
FELIX, but I have already explained
why Ian and FELIX are not on
speaking terms.
Disappointing,,,
In another editorial, Judith explained
how she had been easy on Ian, and
could if she wanted to slag him off
a good deal more. I was disappointed;
all that emerged were criticisms
which were either untrue or totally
trivial, some of which I have quoted
above. It is the duty of the FELIX
editor to criticise the President when
he or she is not doing the job
properly. Can we assume that, given
FELIX's apparent need to invent
criticism that Ian might actually be
doing a good job? Perish the thought!
Is it aUFELIX's fault?
The last time a Sabbatical was made
to look silly in FELIX was during
Carl Burgess' presidency. Carl
deserved the criticism he got: he was
rarely sober and did no work for the
Union. Ian, on the other hand, works
extremely hard, there is one
similarity: both Carl and Ian set
themselves up as easy targets.
I think that the way Ian has reacted
to bias against him in FELIX is
partially responsible for that bias
continuing. Ian's reaction was to
withdraw from FELIX and offer it no
co-operation, to the point where no
longer reads the publication. This is
a reasonable reaction. People often
forget that the Union President is as
human as everyone else—how would
you feel if you put a hell of a lot of
work into the Union, only to have
FELIX tear you to pieces every week
with stories which were more often
than not untrue? It is understandable
that Ian is upset, but in this case it
would be better if Ian stood his
ground. How can FELIX have a
chance of being less biased if the
President is reluctant to put his side
of the story? How can Jo Student
learn about the work Ian has put into
the Union, if he refuses to write his
presidential piece for FELIX?
Withdrawing only makes him an easy
target for the anti-Howgate faction.
You may not agree with everything
I have said in this article, but (even
ignoring the fine details of the
argument) it is apparent that there is
a problem between Ian Howgate and
FELIX and that it is harming both
FELIX and the Union. It was
necessary to point out the inaccurcies
in some of the FELIX news stories,
particularly since, as a result of
FELIX, many students believe that
Ian is incompetent. This is patently
untrue. Ian has accomplished more
for the Union this term than some
Presidents do in a whole year.
Hopefully bringing the problem to
light will be a first step towards
solving it. Both sides need to back
down.
FELIX Friday November 20th 1987 9

