The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Issue 1243
How fresh are you? Not
very, according to our
Alex...
Page 5
How things have
changed! Imperial
goes mountain mad.
Page 9
U n i o n s V o t e o n S t r i k e
The Association of University Teachers is one of
several unions to announce a strike ballot, due
to take place by the end of the month.
Ballot papers were due to be sent out yester-
day to AUT members to decide whether to
walk out over the current level 'London
allowance' - the extra money awarded to staff
for increased living costs in the capital. At the
moment, staff receive an allowance of £2134
every year but this has remained frozen since
1992. The AUT are campaigning for an
allowance of over £4000, and have decided to
begin industrial action due to the "intransi-
gence of employers" in negotiations. The
unions note that the average salary of Vice
Chancellors is £16000 greater in London than
outside, and feel that less senior staff are being
treated unfairly.
The University of London [Students'] Union
has been campaigning for an increase to the
student London allowance for some time, and
decided to back the action by university staff at
The generic 'ballot picture'
the ULU Council meeting held last week. The
Imperial College student delegation to the
meeting voted against support of a staff strike,
though two of the IC delegates voted in favour.
Despite the vote, Sen Ganesh, President of
Imperial College Union said he was "deeply
concerned about the situation", stating that
strike action would have a significant impact
on Union services if staff were to join in the
strike action.
At the end of 2001, Imperial College raised
the starting salaries of new lecturers by
£8000, which has been seized by staff unions
as an indication of the recruitment crisis in
London and further evidence of the need to
improve pay. Staff employed after 1992 were
recently offered an allowance increase of just
under 3% but this was unanimously rejected
by the trade unions.
The strike ballots close at the end of October,
and, if approved, industrial action will take
place on Thursday 14th November.
The result of the ballot, and headway made
by staff as a result of any action, will be care-
fully watched by student unions and may pave
the way to improvements in allowances award-
ed to students living in London. AW
Democratic DoC
A victory for student rule in aca-
demic departments was celebrated
over the Summer when students in
the Department of Computing
demanded that Apple's iMac com-
puters should be available in the
teaching labs.
The famously cute computers
appeared during the vacation when
the department's Computing
Support Group was running trials of
some Apple equipment. However, it
was under the express understand-
ing that the machines would vanish
before term started in order to
make way for three more IBM-
compatible PCs - the standard
machine used for teaching.
A petition was set up after some
students experimented with the
new hardware. It had the specific
aim of keeping the iMacs perma-
nently whilst expounding the obvi-
ous educational advantages of
diverse computing experience for
students.
As a result of the petition, the
iMacs are still in the labs and are
now awaiting full integration with
the department's systems. The
results of this exercise are expected
to influence the policy on non-
The iMac: But is it art?
Windows environments across the
campus, which would certainly
please Microsoft-haters. A Physics
petition to abandon general relativ-
ity is still undecided... AW
Toploader gets the Felix Music |
treatment. Ow.
A mostly harmless (oh guffaw)
review on the late great
Douglas Adams' most famous
trilogy....
What to do when things
wrong on your computer,
Dilbert. Strangely fitting.
The first set of sports reports
are in. Oh, what have we got
ourselves into?
11th October 2002
"Wave your willy at it. That's guaranteed to make it work!" http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/felix/ • felix@ic.ac.uk

