F E L I X N I G H T L I F E
N i g h t L i f e
System
Thrusday@Propaganda
It was dark; the darkest night I'd seen in this
town for a while. The joint looked classy. It
wasn't my usual hangout, sure - I am more
into rock n' roll - but the tunes were playing
loud and fast, so I just had to go in.
Ok, gotta 'fess up. I may not really be your
archetypal clubber - but then that didn't seem
to matter here, as everyone was welcome.
System is a pretty new night - I went to the
fifth one of the series - but it's fast establishing
itself as one of the capital's most exciting club
events. Apparently, according to 'my mate'
(who knows lots more than me), the music
was 'hard house / techno, without being com-
mitted as much to true innovation as real tech-
no'. I can't really say a lot more than that;
(although the resident DJ pulled off some truly
exhilarating shit) except to say that I had an
amazing time, and danced my legs off.
True, the night was a little on the slow side
- but we'll put that down it's youth and the fact
that I went in Freshers' Week. Overall a great
experience, and well worth going to if you
fancy something a little more sophisticated
than the usual student bollocks. Joe Parker
Thursday 17th October
Marco Carola,
Mark Broom,
and Adam Beyer
10pm-3am
£4 before 11pm, £6 after, NUS £5
Propaganda, 201 Wardour Street, Wl
systemclub@btopenworld.com
Cookies&Cream
Saturday@The Scala
Situated right next to King's Cross station this
is one of the leading R'n'B and UK Garage
nights in London; with its three rooms - a party
room, the main R'n'B room and a the UK
Garage room - giving plenty of choice.
The party room was the busiest room early
on the evening, playing pop-R'n'B such as
TLC, Usher and Destiny's Child. This was the
room to go to chill, with its very comfy sofas
making the perfect place for a drink and con-
versation.
I checked out the R'n'B room, and it was a
let down - it just had blokes lining the edge of
the dancefloor and very few people actually
dancing. Luckily the UK Garage room was
much better. Andy Lewis played some decent
tunes like Sticky's Boo and the remix of Shoala
Ama's Imagine. Thankfully the main R'n'B
room definitely picked up later with a set from
twice Mobo winner, Steve Sutherland.
The clientele was disappointing. It seemed,
oddly, teenage, and everyone had an attitude.
Yes, the girls were looking good, but they all
seemed very bitchy. The music made up for it
though. An okay night out. Oscar Lam
Saturday 19th October
Steve Sutherland, DJ Wylie, Andy Lewis
and MCs Kie & Delero,
and Gl Mo & Paz
10pm-5am
£10 before 11pm, £14 after
Scala, 275 Pentonville Road, Nl
www.scala-london.co.uk
Welcome
Rock over London.
If any of you are wondering why NightLife
looks a little smaller than usual, it's because
its a little cold in here. Honest.
Now, after all my bitching, people are start-
ing to join the NightLife fold. As good as this
is, it just isn't good enough. I will not rest until
every single Imperial student is going out and
writing reviews for me; so if you want to aid
my megalomaniacal quest, e-mail:
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
That aside, after the (relative) success of
last week's Welcome column, we have anoth-
er suggestion for how to get into clubs for free:
5) Claim to be in the So Solid Crew. (This
isn't as unlikely as it seems given that every
cat, dog and blade of grass with an SW11
postal address is in the band.) Security will
either a) just let you in b) duck for cover or c)
laugh in your face.
If you have any more ideas for fool-proof
blaggage, please e-mail NightLife.
Patrick
Correction:
Groove Armada are not playing Bridge &
Tunnel on 12th October, but on 10th
October. This mistake was in the official pub-
licity release and not just in NightLife as
reported in Felix Issue 1242.
Sorry, if this messes up your weekend plans.
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk Party up your ass.

