B O O K R E V I E W S F E L I X
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
A Trilogy in Five Parts
Ok, so we all know that the meaning of life,
the universe and everything is 42 but did you
know that the computer who calculated this
was called Deep Thought and was designed
and created by a pan dimensional species
that exist in our dimension as mice?
Douglas Adams' trilogy in five parts began
life as a radio show on the BBC in 5th April
1978, 12th April 1978, 24th December
1978 and 21, 22, 23, 24, 25 January
1980. After this it was (very) freely adapted
and extended to give the five books that
make up the trilogy: The Hitchhiker's Guide
to the Galaxy; The Restaurant at the End of
the Universe; Life, the Universe and
Everything; So Long and Thanks for All the
Fish; Mostly Harmless. Some of it has also
been made into a television show some time
ago.
Now I would claim that these are the best
set of books ever written, I've read them
many times, I've listened to the radio show
and although I have yet to see the TV show I
would claim to be one of his greatest fans
(never thought I'd say that about anyone). As
such I very highly recommend that any sad
individual out there who has still to be intro-
duced to the wonders of the world of Douglas
Adams buys these books. I say 'buy' because
you can never read these too many times, a
worthwhile investment if you enjoy reading,
and even (or maybe especially) if you don't.
The series begins with Arthur Dent, a
hangover and a big yellow bulldozer. Arthur's
hangover means it takes him a little time to
remember that the big yellow bulldozer is
there to knock his house down. This is
because the council wish to build a bypass
and neglected to tell Arthur. Well, they say
the plans have been there for months but
this doesn't exactly go down well.
'"You haven't exactly gone out of your way
to call attention to them had you? I mean like
actually telling anyone or anything.'
'But the plans were on display.'
'On display? I eventually had to go down to
the cellar to find them.'
'That's the display department.'
'With a torch.'
'Ah, well the lights had probably gone.'
'So had the stairs.'
'But, look, you found the notice didn't
you.'
'Yes,' said Arthur, 'yes, I did. It was on dis-
play in the bottom of a locked filing cabinet
in a disused lavatory with a sign on the door
saying Beware of The Leopard.'"
Having started the day losing his house
Arthur doesn't think it can get much worse
but soon discovers that his best friend,
inconspicuously named Ford Prefect, is actu-
ally from another planet and not only is his
house being demolished for a bypass but
today is also the day that the Earth will be
demolished for a hyperspace bypass. All in
all it is a pretty bad Thursday.
However, Arthur is actually quite lucky
(although he might not believe it) because
Ford manages to hitch a lift with the space
ship that is about to destroy Earth thanks to
some helpful domestic workers. From there
they are thrown out by the not-very-friendly
owners of the vehicle with which they
hitched a lift and picked up by the most
advanced, intelligent ship ever invented -
The Heart of Gold. Here they meet the only
other surviving member of the human race
Tricia McMillan, or Trillian, and Zaphod
Beeblebrox, President of the Galaxy. From
hereon in the trilogy follows the adventures
and misadventures of these four as they
hitchhike around the universe and through
time in a desperate bid to stay alive. The
unlucky foursome stumbles from one disaster
to another involving various alien life forms
none of which seem to be very friendly.
Now, as yet, I haven't mentioned the best,
most popular character - Marvin the
Paranoid Android. A robot with an intellect
beyond the comprehension of us mere mor-
tals he is also the most depressed individual
the Universe has ever seen. He is forced to
do menial tasks and makes sure that every-
one is clear that he hates doing them. With
a pain in all the diodes down his left-hand
side he moans, grumbles, whinges and com-
plains his way through the entire series.
Douglas Adams in fact tried to write him out
at one point but there was such uproar from
Marvin fans that he was quickly resurrected
in the next book.
Douglas Adams is also responsible for the
creation of Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective
Agency and The Long Dark Teatime of the
Soul. He has also written in conjunction with
Mark Carwardine (Last Chance To See), John
Lloyd (The Deeper Meaning of Lift) and Terry
Jones (Starship Titanic). I have read Starship
Titanic and would definitely recommend it
and the Dirk Gently books are also well
worth a read, but The Hitchhiker's Guide tril-
ogy remains my firm favourite. So go! BUY
BUY BUY! (Doesn't that word look weird
when you repeat it?)
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy is
available at all good bookshops.
Jenny
books.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

