C O F F E E B R E A K F E L I X
by Bobby Cyclops & Dr Hot Fudge
THE GREAT FELIX QUOTES QUIZ
T H E Q U O T E S
1. "1632 - Is that a date or something?"
~"No - it's your top score on Pole Position"
2. "That's a cute costume. Did your husband make it for you?"
3. "I like to starve myself. It keeps the fear up."
4. "Oh, this whole house is going to be full of romance, oooh, I am
going to put on my Liberace Records!"
5. "Around the survivors, a perimeter create."
6. "I eat pieces of shit like you for breakfast"
-"You eat pieces of shit for breakfast?"
7. "....go to work on the homes here with a pair of pliers and a blow-
torch. You hear me talking hill-billy boy? I ain't through with you by
damn sight! I'm gonna get medieval on yo ass!"
A N S W E R S T O G F Q Q 1 2 4 2
1. Maverick/Tom Cruise - Top Gun
2. Col. Sandurz/George Wyner - Spaceballs
3. Han Solo/Harrison Ford - Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back
4. Marty McFly/Michael J Fox - Back to the Future
5. Pete Venkman/Bill Murrey - Ghostbusters
6. Mikey/Sean Astin - The Goonies
7. Capt. Harris/G. W Bailey - Police Academy 4
W E B S I T E O F T H E W E E K
www.fatchicksinpartyhats.com
Synopsis: A Mexican teenager (Miguel Roya) takes photos of people
from their websites and then writes captions in broken English beneath
them. The results are hilarious.
Rating: One of the funniest websites we've ever seen. Takes a few pages
to get into but you'll soon be telling your friends they are made of ham
and surprising them with 'eat-attacks'. Ideal for short bursts of urine-
seeping amusement between lectures.
C o f f e e b r e a k s c o r e : 9/10
H A M M I N G S
You might say that the Felix Office is an archipelago of solitude at the
moment -1 am all on my lonesome, sifting through potential quotes and
lyrics, awaiting the arrival of Fudge and his authoritative nod of approval.
I'm trying to stray from the 80's time-warp that grips us whenever we
step in this office, investigating both older and newer films in our data-
base (aka-the-lnternet), but the sad truth is the quotes from the 80's are
of such high quality it pains me not to include them. I therefore apolo-
gise for the concentration of quotes from that golden era. I hope you
enjoyed the website of the week last time, and of course if you know of
any sick, depraved, wretch-inducing corners of the Internet be sure to let
us know at the usual email address! Bobby Cyclops
Hey fudge packers, GFQQ is back in full flight along with it's illegitimate
sprog GFLQ. Now I know the leaderboards look pitifully small at the
moment but that's because we're writing this on Monday afternoon and
last weeks issue only came out a few hours ago. So all you people who
sent in your answers after 4:00pm Monday, don't get your grundigs in a
twist when you don't see your name in lights on the opposite page. We'll
still add up your points and they'll be updated next week. So no com-
plaining, okay bastards? That's enough for now, enjoy 'Fat Chicks', I
know I do. Dr Hot Fudge
k BLOW
BY OUR TOP STYLISTS
£20 LADIES
£17 M E N
Normal Price £35
ACCESS VISA MASTERCARD CASH CHEQUES
'Still the best student offer!'
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW73ES
South Kmsinpon Tube)
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Film Quiz

