F E L I X C O F F E E B R E A K 21 [
( i F L G (THE FIRST ONE)
THE GREAT FELIX LYRICS QUIZ
LEADER BOi T H E LYRICS
GFLQ GFQQ 1
Name Score Name Score
o
Laura Borra Cross 11 Jennifer Williams
c.
8
Tom Badran 11 Samuel Jackson 8
Rosemary Chandler 11 Laura Borra Cross 6.5 3
Rosemary Chandler 6
Tom Badran 4
IJLTBALEAGUE
Name
Jennifer Williams
Samuel Jackson
Rosemary Chandler
Score
19
19
17
NOSTALGIA CORNER
This week, we revisit the Rainbow house. We shit you not...
Zippy: "One skin, two skin, three skin, four"
George: "Zippy, where is Bungle?"
Zippy: "I think Geoffrey is trying to get him up"
We see a view of the door and hear Bungle moaning from behind it.
Bungle: "Geoffrey, I can't get it in"
Geoffrey: "You managed it last night"
Bungle: "I know, lets try it round the other way. Ooooooh, I've got it in"
Bungle and Geoffrey enter the studio with Bungle carrying a hammer
and peg kit
Bungle: "Would you stick this on the shelf, George"
George: "I can't reach, you'll have to stick it up yourself, Bungle."
Geoffrey (to camera): "Hi everyone, today we're talking about playing"
Bungle.- "Playing with each other, Geoffrey?"
Geoffrey: "Yes Bungle, do you have a special friend you like to play
with?"
George: "Yesterday we played with each other's balls. Are we going to
play with our friend's balls today?"
Bungle: "Yes, and we can play with our twangers as well."
Geoffrey (to camera): "Have you seen Bungles twanger?"
Zippy.- "Oh I have, I showed him how to pluck with it."
Bungle: "It's my plucking instrument."
Geoffrey asks the audience if they can pluck like Bungle
Zippy: "I can, I'm the best plucker here."
George: "And I'm good at banging. My peg's hard isn't it Zippy?
Zippy: "Well of course it is, Your peg wouldn't go in if it was soft."
Geoffrey: "Let's get back to Bungle's twanger."
Enter R, J & F.
[Taken from http://www.ruth-forrest.org.uk/funnyrainbowscripts.htm]
basement."
"There's no time to lose, I heard her say. Catch your dreams before
they slip away."
"Gina works the diner all day. Working for her man, she brings home
her pay for love."
4. "Got my first real six string. Bought it at the five and dime. Played it
til my fingers bled "
5. "I stood where Oswald took his shot, in my opinion there's a bigger
plot. Costner's back and to the left, the picket fence a better bet?"
6. "Friday night they'll be dressed to kill. Down at Dino's bar and grill."
7. "It was Christmas Eve babe, in the drunk tank. An old man said to
me: 'won't see another one'."
8. "As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I take a look
at my life and realise there's nothing left."
9. "Go with the funk, it is said - that if you can't groove with this then
you are probably dead."
10. "You're a vegetable, you're a vegetable, you're a vegetable, you're a
vegetable. Still they hate you. Still they hate you. You're a veg-
etable."
A N S W E R S T O G F L Q 1 2 4 2
1. Chuck Berry - Johnny B. Goode
2. Vanilla Ice - Ice Ice Baby
3. Huey Lewis and the News - The Power of Love
4. Dire Straits - Money For Nothing
5. Queen - Bohemian Rhapsody
6. The Beatles - Back in the U.S.S.R.
7. Elvis Presley - Hound Dog
8. Righteous Brothers - You've Lost That Loving Feeling
9. Manic Street Preachers - Motorcycle Emptiness
10. Kylie Minogue - Love At First Sight
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Lyric Quiz

