C O L U M N F E L I X
By Students, For Students
In 1999, Imperial College entered
into a strategic alliance with four
of the best science and technolog-
ical institutes from across Europe
to form the IDEA' league. The
league consists of Imperial
College, Delft University of
Technology, ETH Zurich and
RWTH Aachen. This is sympto-
matic of the globalisation of edu-
cation and over the coming years
you are likely to see more
alliances formed not only in
Europe but across the world.
The Students' Unions of the
respective Universities have also
formed a strategic partnership to
ensure the views of students are
heard within the IDEA league. We
had our first conference in May.
One of the key issues that was
debated at the conference was
the Bologna Declaration. The dec-
laration was signed by Ministers
of Education from 32 European
countries including the United
Kingdom and in itself is quite a
complex and intricate document.
In essence the declaration is a
commitment between the coun-
tries to reform the structures of
their higher education systems in
a convergent way. It aims to cre-
ate a comparable and increasing-
ly converged system of graduate
and post-graduate
education across
Europe, in order to
maximize transfer-
ability and mobili-
ty within Europe.
One of the key objectives is the
adoption of a system of easily
readable and comparable
degrees. This will essentially be
based on two main cycles, under-
graduate and graduate. It will also
look towards establishing a sys-
tem of credits that can be used
between the countries signing up
to the Bologna Declaration. This
will allow for the free movement
of students across Europe.
In principle this sounds great
but the practicalities can have a
great impact on students here.
The proposed model for adoption
is a three year undergraduate pro-
gramme (e.g. BEng), followed by
a two year masters (e.g. MSc)
and a three year post-graduate
studies (PhD). As
you can imagine
this clashes with
our four year
undergraduate
masters degree and the one year
masters programme. One imme-
diate impact would be funding.
Currently the government is
committed to funding the first
degree for students. If you wish to
undertake a second degree you
are obliged to pay a fee that
varies from institution to institu-
tion. Luckily, an integrated mas-
ters degree is regarded as you first
degree and as such funded by the
government. If Imperial followed
the Bologna process split it
degree into the 3:2 format, stu-
dents would have to find ways of
funding the extra years and add to
existing pressures on student
finances.
It would also have implication
on quality assurance - such as
having to fill out a two year mas-
ters degree. These issues and
more besides will have affect the
future of higher education institu-
tions in this country.
Imperial College will have to
engage in a debate on whether we
will be following the principles of
the declaration or go our own
way.
This is likely to start over the
next few months and it is impor-
tant that the students participate
to ensure that best decisions are
taken for all concerned.
Sen Ganesh
President
Europe
Hello, chums. What a good wheeze it was to
get up early today instead of staying up late. I
may actually have succeeded in getting my
body clock back to some level of normality by,
get this, enforcing a wake up time of 6am! I am
pretty impressed with that, since the night
before last I only went to bed a 4am. So in one
fell swoop (and losing only minimal amounts of
sleep) I have put myself back on track with the
rest of the world: up with the lark, etc.
Interestingly, I have to admit that it wasn't as
unpleasant as I thought it would be. Very much
in the same way as I had a coconut freeze at
Wagamamas last night, did I discover that my
aversion was in fact entirely mental as opposed
to physical.
My point? Well, this is actually a life chang-
ing thing for me (not the coconut, incidentally),
since I had made the decision that I was never
going to get a nine to five job because I could-
n't bear the concept of a) getting up early, and
b) rush hour traffic.
So how has this all changed? Well, I actually
think I wouldn't mind getting up so early now:
it actually feels quite nice to be up and about
and know that the whole day lies ahead of you,
as opposed to getting up in time for lunch, and
then having to work all afternoon and evening,
packing in some drinks when you've got the
time, and then back to the old grind for a cou-
ple of hours until dawn! Sorry, I think I'm rant-
ing, but frankly I'm not used to feeling this
awake.
And secondly I was talking to a friend the
other day about his job, and he works in the
opposite direction to rush hour, so he occasion-
ally bumps into crowds going the other way at
railway stations and stuff, but for the most part
his entire journey is stress free.
Basically what I'm saying is that I'm going to
pack it all in and become an investment banker.
I never wanted to be a lumberjack anyway. No,
but seriously, I wouldn't give up Felix just yet:
after all you don't get free accommodation in
South Ken even if you do work at Accenture,
but my mother, and you, my dear dear friends,
may be glad to hear that I'm not going to be a
slacker all my life. Having said this, my father
recently found the telephone number of a
woman who runs a turtle sanctuary in Malaysia
(I'm determined to look after turtles for at least
a couple of months out of my whole life. No, I
don't know why), so maybe this temporary
insanity is indeed only temporary, and I will
wake up tomorrow morning (probably after hav-
ing fiddled with my computer till 4am) or after-
noon having decided that yes indeed I do still
want to be a professional slacker and to be hon-
est I don't know many better than I).
Which brings me to what I wanted to talk
about this week, which is jobs. Depressing as it
is, final year students should now be thinking
about what they are going to do with the rest of
their lives, and yes, that does sadly include me.
So go on, get out there, guys.
Sorry that was a bit weak, but I'm really not
used to being up this early.
PS. Felix is now using a new printing com-
pany, just so you know.
will
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

