F E L I X S O C I E T I E S Q 9 ^ ' {f^g
D o w n h i l l R a c i n g
Following a successful trip last year, the I.C.
Cycling club planned to revisit the French Alps
this summer for some serious downhill moun-
tain biking. Last year we found that the 'Portes
Du Soleil' region was ideal for what we were
looking for; plentiful chairlifts giving access to
up to 900 vertical metre runs of extreme
downhill courses and trails!
Upon our arrival at Geneva Airport the eight
of us were greeted by worse weather than
back home: pissing rain! This didn't put us off
though and after unpacking and assembling
our bikes on Sunday morning a few of us went
out riding. The next day the rain was replaced
with sun and rather than ride the local course
we elected to go into Switzerland using the
network of ski lifts. An excellent days riding
was had, taking in fast rocky fireroads, some
huge courses and technical back trails. On the
Wednesday we went from Morzine over to Les
Gets in the next valley to session the World
Cup course. More rain had turned the course
into a quagmire in places which meant that
many spent more time on their asses than on
their bikes!
Thursday was an eventful day which didn't
go to plan right from the start. We had intend-
ed to go back to Switzerland but as we were
getting close we saw that the weather in that
valley was bad. We headed back to Morzine to
ride the local 'Avalanche Cup' course and
found the weather back there to be fine and
sunny! This course was a favourite with plen-
ty of braking bumps, insanely steep sections,
muddy rooty wooded bits and huge ski jumps!
On my second run of the afternoon I made all
the difficult sections of the course but crashed
on a fast section at the bottom, going over the
bars. Pretty soon my arm seized up so I went
back to the chalet. Later on myself and Rob
decided we should go to the doctor to get our
injuries checked out, very kindly the owner of
the chalet next door offered a lift. We were
slightly concerned when we discovered she
was on first name terms with the doctors! We
both received the news we didn't want to hear,
me that I'd cracked my arm and Rob the scaf-
foid in his hand. That was undoubtedly the
unluckiest day of the holiday!
For the remaining week or so of the holiday
the guys who hadn't broken themselves or
their bikes continued to get loads of riding in
while also taking advantage of the cool local
nightlife, with plenty of clubs to choose from.
Even though there were less people around as
there would be during the ski season there
was always one packed club. The music was
an oddity, within one night varying from RATM
to crazy German-folk-music-style dance and
reggae, but with very similar sets from club to
club. Excellent entertainment though, espe-
cially after sharing a few 'giraffes' (5 pints of
beer in a tall container with a tap) in the
Buddha bar. We were such valued customers
we received a couple of rounds of flaming
sambucas on the house!
Overall the 2002 trip was a great success,
with everyone agreeing that the riding the
huge courses improved their skills and tech-
nique greatly. Although the weather could
have been better we definitely improved our
Monopoly and Risk tactics, also fitting in a
game of tequila/Jack Daniels Uno! We will be
back next year...
Stephen Wallis
r-\ i • r\ n i
Public Service A n n o u n c e m e n t
Insurance for Clubs and Societies Activities
You may have heard some talk within your societies of the need to get something called an "Activities Card" from the Union. This especially
used to apply to sporting and recreational clubs. The Union used to offer a level of personal accident insurance through this scheme, which is
very useful if you get injured playing sport or taking part in other club activity organised by the Union.
The problem with this system was that it was hard to enforce, hard to administer, and generally more headaches than the other alternatives. So
for the sake of less hassle, and more time to actually do the stuff that you want to do with your clubs and societies, we've gotten rid of that idea!
So are you insured now?
Yes!
Provided:
•You are a registered member of any club or society within the Union, which means you must have filled in a membership form for the club
who's activities you are participating in.
•You fill in an accident form (available in the Union Offices, Beit Quad) as soon as possible following your accident.
•The activity you are taking part in is organised by a club or society of Imperial College Union, for which the proper documentation has been
filled in, eg. Trip Registration Forms - check with the organiser if there is any doubt!
The Union has centrally organised accident cover for all of our members, provided they are participating in our activities. This cost has been
paid for centrally, and will not be passed on to members, or clubs and societies.
Sam Sharpe
Student Activities Assistant
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

