4
E V E R Y
F O R T N I G H T
No 118 IMPERIAL COLLEGE FEBRUARY 28 I9S8 jM
S E V E N T Y - H O U R W E E K
C O M E S T O feC
P R O F E S S O R B A R T O N E X P E C T S . . .
Students at this College have long been accustomed to the ory "
W
e must hare
more culture at I.C." Latterly another voice has appeared on the scene. It is
that of Professor Barton of the Organic Chemistry department, and he seemingly
will have no part of culture. This gentleman has demanded that his post-graduate
students should work Beventy f70^ hours a week. It does not take a post-graduate
student from the Maths, department to calculate that, i f one does not sleep, a
whole fourteen hours a day are left in which to eat, drink and he merry. This
is of course far too much; students
B O A N E R G E S I N T H E P U B L I C E Y E
The removal of Bo by four
Southampton students provoked consi-
derable attention in the National Press,
as well as causing I.C. one of i t s big-
gest headaches for many a long time.
The story of his disappearance i s now
widely known, and i t was rather astonish-
ing to find that the newspapers were in
general agreement as to the method of
removal.
The f i r s t indication in the press
of his loss was in the THE EVENING NEWS
and STANDARD of Friday Feb. LVth, both
blatantly stating that Bo was of French
origin. (One feels that this i s the
Chad touch.) The NEWS called him a
"1902 De Dion Bouton", while THE STAN-
DARD' s description was rather vague:
"a 1902 French Boanerges."
However, the next morning a l l
agreed that he was a James and Browne
model, and the majority had more or
less got the story. THE MANCHESTER
GUARDIAN put the Rag before that on
the Dounreay Reactor; THE TELEGRAPH
had a good report, and THE TIMES descri-
bed us as "rumbling with Batterings of
indignation." THE EXPRESS and THE MAIL
also gave prominence to the story, the
latter quoting Estyn Davies as saying
that Bo was an "old g i r l " , and the
raiders were variously described as
"blighters" by Estyn and as "rogues"
by Chad
By this time the B.B.C. had caught
the story, and the 1 o'clock news an-
nounced that Bo was on his way home,
with £15 expenses paid by Southampton.
In the evening both channels of T.V.
Included a short film of Bo's return
in the News. The evening papers pub-
lished photographs of his trixatphant
home-coming, THE NEWS announcing:
"Boneshaker ia back..... It's good to
see you too". There was some mention
of him in the Sunday papers, and then
he faded from the publio eyes, but
not those of I.C.
R.C.S. and R.S.M. promised to
in with C. 4 G. on the issue, and
on the Monday plans to descend on
Southampton were **•»"••', and coaches
were booked and filled. A meeting was
held in the Snack Bar where Dave Stevens
attempted to calm those, and there were
quite a few, who wanted blood. Bo was
at this stage going to Southampton on
the following day to participate in the
Rag procession, in order to attract
more money for charity. However the
final blow to any hopes of retaliation
oame with a phone call from the Vioe-
Chancellcr of Southampton, who stated
that Bo and his entourage would not be
welcome. He was afraid that i f too
many alien students descended on the
town, the procession would be wrecked,
and l i t t l e money be collected. He had
made a similar plea to Kings and U.C.
who had also suffered at the hands of
the Rag-raiders.
Continued on page 4 ...
would become bloated and decrepit,
and the standard of work would suf-
fer. Why on earth does Professor
Barton make such moderate demands?
This matter has been brought up in
FELIX before now. It deserves to be
re-emphasised, in view of the rather
different opinions expressed by another
member of staff in the approaching Phoe-
nix, and lest these questions be lost
sight of in a welter of rags and pan*
cake races.
S E E P A G E 4
How does i t happen that in an uni-
versity college a professor ean volee
such demands? On page 4 some critic-
isms are made of the system that per-
mits i t , and a remedy is suggested.

