z F E L I X
Tony Hodgson was b am i n Stockton-
on-Tees, jnd has spent most of his l i f e
in Harrogate. He oame to R.C.S. to
study chemistry in 1955, a raw youth
from the Yorkshire backwoods, and has
not yet recovered from the shock of
finding himself a well-known figure
in college l i f e .
He i s undoubtedly a man of many
parts, his interests extending from
athletics to Education, and including,
surprisingly enough, chemistry and the
history of science.
The Hodgson musical tradition (his
mother teaches the piano, and his grand-
father was the original "bloody organist"
of the well-known bar song ) produced
in Tony an interest and appreciation of
music at an early age, when he learnt
to play the alto-sax, five-string guitar
and the piano, and was reserve clarinet-
ist for the National Youth Orchestra*
Tony played for the I.C. traditional
group during his first two years here,
occupying the post of Jazi Club presi-
dent las* year, and at present plays
clarinet in a modern quartet. He says
that he prefers Brubeck to Barber, and
Bach to Brubeck.
Tony's interest in music i s better
known than his interest i n sport. He
was, however, opening bat for his school
first eleven, and secretary of the
school tennis club. He has run for the
I.C. second cross-country team., once
getting lost i n Richmond Park during a
race- i n fact "the only person I know
who has ever got lost there unintention-
ally.
As a member of the Mountaineering
Club, and la3t year's equipment offioer,
he has had a chequered career (so has
the equipment!). He started climbing at
the age of fourteen and by the time he
came to I.C. had had no l i t t l e experi-
ence i n rock climbing in the Lakes.
Penninos and Skye. During his first
summer here he went to the Alps with
the Earakoram training party, and last
summer was on the I.C. Norwegian Ex-
pedition. Of tl»e latter he remembers
l i t t l e . After less than a fortnight
of olimbing be f e l l some sixty feet
sustaining:
a compound fracture of the left tibia
and fibula
a complicated fracture of the right
femur
a collis fracture of the right radius
fracture of the nose, front teeth,
upper Jaw and left eyebrow
and a chip off t s * old pelvis
- he also broke a few banes.
The next twenty weeks were spent
pleasantly on his back in Narvik hos-
pital and St. George's comparing the
virtues? of Norwegian and English
nurses. He also learnt a few phrases
of coarse Norse. Expressions such as:
"Jeg ha de bare bra" - I'm a l l right
Jack.
"Vil du tomme meg flaske?" - It's full!
"Jeg v i l elske du for fjortende tag."
are useful for any climber intending
to have an accident in Scandinavia.
Since the accident Tony has put
his right foot forward(his right leg
being eighteen inches longer than his
left) and has never looked back.
(Physiotherapy, however, is slowly
eliminating this feult.) He hopes to
start olimbing again in July.
Perhaps Tony's most active inter-
est at the moment is in writing. He
was Social Editor cf Phoenix last year,
and is now, as Editor, concerned with
its modernisation in line with his
neurotic liking for taschist art which
one of his contemporaries, a well-
known but unpublishable poet, has
described as "The blue-black blobs of
pseudo-nothingness."
Tory, himself, i s subject to
spasmodic attacks of poetry, and is
compiling "Anthony's Anthology of
bad verse I like!"
His other activities include the
vice-presidency of R.C.S. (despite his
baritone voice), the Onion Library
and General Studies oommittees, and
the Chairmanship of S.C.C.
Next year he hopes to do research
in ehevdstry ^nd some more writing. Long
may his productiveness continue.
Com* and hear the
M A S S I N B M I N O R
( J . S . B A C H )
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E C H O I R
conducted by Dr. E. H. Brown
Wednesday March Uth
Tickets 3/6 & 5/-
7. «5 pm. in 0. A. H.
F O R A M U F E M E N T O N L Y
That the Royal School of Mines
delve in pornography is common know-
ledge, and they introduced no small
part of i t into their Carnival. The
flats designed and painted by a fe-
male art student, were such that even
Boccaccio would have approved of them
as illustrations for his notorious
Decameron, from which we print a r e l -
evant extract:
"At nira of ye clock on ye day
of Saint Valentine i n this year of
Faith, Hope and Poverty 1058, an ex-
ceeding Joyous ocoafion did take place
in ye moft Imperiale College in ye
parlfh of Kenfington.
"Ye delicately unattired maidens
and their fwine did affemble far a
feaft prepared by ye moft illuftrious
Baron de Moouey. Thefe victuals did
fuffice to tuftsin ye merrie throng
t i l l five of ye morn. Terrie of ye
Light Feet and an exceeding gaye band
of mufik makers did produce founds of
moderne mufik which did f a l l moft
fweetly on ye ears. Ye revellers did
partake of fack and of all kinds of
fpo-ort: of fang and danfe, and ye
ancient paftime of fnogging, which
did wax moft ardently i n all parts.
"When ye young men and maidens
did tire as they were wont, a band cf
Jefters did feek to amufe the crowd
with moft excellent wit. W_th mighty
fhout3 and coarfe geftures ye liftonerr
did greet thefs focls, t i l l 3uch a tir
that ye men became defirous of more
fack and fpo-ort. Ye maidens did oft
object, but 'twas no matter, for fack
does wondrous things to ftudents of
fcience. Many were ye hearts pierced
by Cupils' fhafts that morn.
"At laft ye morn in ruffet mantl
clad, walked o'er ye dew of ye Ser-
pentine, and delivered ye exceeding
tired fhower into ye arms of Morpheus."
S H E L D O N S H O R N
The R.C.S. Union meeting on Feb.llth
was au exceedingly lively one. Having
been refused permission to use the main
lecture theatres, for divers reasons,
the Maths lecture theitre waa acquired.
^uite early on, the Vice-President
of Guilds was discovered, quasi-incognito
wearing R.C.S. regalia, aod as a punish-
ment, one half of his luxurious herbaoeou
border was pruned. At the start of this
operation, Mr. Butters had his supra-
nasal epidermis neatly bisected by an
accurate scissor-throw from the back of
the hall.
It was thought necessary to have a
beauty (?) parade, and so 20 lowarians
were lined up for inspection. A Queen
of Jezebel was elected, and the Onion
decided that she should have a bikini
in R.C.S. colours. Offers to aasiat
in the mannfactore by Messrs. Butters
and Hodgson were graciously refused.
At this point, an obscene cn'nillt
by Mr. Sheldon oaused the publio re-
moval of bis trousers, at least one
R.C.S. Innocents being heard to remark:
"Obi is that what Gulldamn wear under-
neath?"
After further discussion, i t waa
proposed that Mr. Sheldon be escorted
back to Guilds, which he was. A l i t t l e
trouble waa experienced t i t h a deter-
mined Daimler, bat otherwise the Jcnjr—
Casrtlane* en pace S ..,

