F E U X 3
P H O E N I X R E V E A L E D
A preview of the Spring Issue.
In a few days i t w i l l he time for
a new bird to arise out of the ashes
of the old. What w i l l the new bird be
like?
The latest innovation i s a sixteen
page supplement on a particular theme
suitably chosen for each issue. The
Spring Issue has, appropriately, an An-
thology on Women. This i s both a aeriem*
and satirical account of woman. It i n -
cludes a humorous statistical analysis
"Does she love you?", and a cynical and
almost Lewrentian criticism of the I.C.
under-graduate's attitude to women,
which should arouse mixed feelings. In-
separable from women i s fashion and two
pages have been devoted to a discourse
on this, complete with photographs. For
those readers who, sheltered in I.C.
have had l i t t l e chance to meet the
fairer sex, an amusing synopsis of
several types i s given, accompanied
by illustrations. The middle two
pages of the supplement merit some at-
tention and laughter. In "Women in
Politics" some debatable points are
raised concerning the suitability of
women for this hazardous occupation.
The literary aspect of the magazine
is catered for by an excellent short
story "The Lake" specially written to
cater for the less subtle grasp of
psychology of the average technologist.
The central figure i s a monkey, but per-
haps not the monkey you may first think
him to be. "Paddy on the Buildings" i s
a lucid essay, with great humanity, por-
traying an Irish navvy. It will be i n -
teresting to note comments on another
M I N E S ' N E W M A S C O T
Mines are now the proud owners ef a new portable mas-
eot (act that Clementine i s completely immobile, of oourse).
Just over a fortnight ago Alan Lewis, as chairman of the
sub-oommittee taxed with the job of obtaining suoh a mas-
cot, obtained, by soma means or other, a Mlchelin man of
the type often seen riding en the tops of the company's
vans. After being painted i n suitable colours i t was in-
troduced to the Minesmen at their Union Meeting.
This meeting was unique in the history of the Mines
Union in that the President of Bedford College, Miss Mar-
ilyn Farr, the Vice-President, and sundry other members
of this illustrious college were present. After making
a short speech, addressing the meeting by "Mr. President,
Gentlemen and Lover Boy in the corner...'
Miss Farr christened Mitch, as the mas-
cot i s to be called, by pouring a pint
of bitter over his head. (The"Lover
Boy" i s naturally the fortunate gentle-
man who had the honour of being elected
the "Bedford Beau" last term).
well written article "Angel Station",
whioh i s a personal reaction to religious
philosophy.
The College? It i s mentioned. A
member of staff aims criticism at our
teaching methods and our undergraduates.
A series starts on "Imperial University
S.W. 7.", analysing and discussing the
case for and the arguments against a new
university in South Kensington, by under-
graduates particularly well qualified to
comment.
The activities of I.C. men? They
are here. An entertaining personal
account of the Social activities has
been synthesised from dull reports.
The Sporting events are summarised and
there i s a page on I.C. Sports Day.
There appears also an account of an
I.C. expedition to the Pyrenees.
A correspondence column has been
opened and a sharp exchange of blows
has already occurred.
This issue's final article i s called
•Down with Culture", but don't take this
too literally. Those who write for
Phoenix believe i n our cultural heritage.
Perhaps the pendulum has swung back in
this issue but equilibrum will be reach-
ed. The Editorial Board look forward to
your condemnations, critioisa and we hope
your praise. This i s a critical phase
in the history of our college. Student
opinion must be expressed and heard.
Phoenix and FELIX are the media. It i s
hoped you will not only buy Phoenix but
READ i t .
A.M.H.
... oontlaaed from page E.
ney proceeded without event. Meeting
only feeble resistance, an entry into
Guilds was secured, and a vociferous
Kangella echoed through the corridors.
Mr. Sheldon being delivered, R.C.S.
staged a strategic withdrawal, and were
amused by the sight of sundry Guild—asm
being wetted by their compatriot*, l a
the meantime two pairs of Guilds bags
were acquired without any resistance.
Bored by their easy task, the scien-
tists moved away to Queenie's whence a
charge was led through Guilds and Mines.
The noise made on this journey had some
effect on the inebriate Guildsmen, who
mustered up a slseable army. On their
return, R.C.S. immediately gave battle
and, despite being outnumbered by 2 to
1, lost only five bags and their Assis-
tant Secretary.
They them retired te the
ef their main building, pursued at a
•are alstanos by angry Ouildamem, thoa*
who were not acquiring fire-extinguishers,
that is. The resulting battle, in whioh a
fire hose was rather unfairly used, caused
considerable havoc, and the dampening of
a l i t t l e boy blue.
Several rather soggy
engineers were seen
in the gutters
ef Imperial Inst-
itute Read, having
been en the sharp
ead of the afore-
meatioaed hose. At
'this point an ar-
alstioe was called
sad the damage
surveyed. B.C.3.
Union officers
would like te
taaak these stal-
warts who cave up
aa afteraeoa's
work te clear ap
the mess, lasl-
eestelly, ao-ens
ever did seelare
the wee time
slowed.
The next day being St. Valentine's
Day, Mitch was presented with his first
Valentine, and with his first birthday
present. Some Miners are s t i l l mystified
by the significance or otherwise of the
cabbage, brush, and lemon, presented.
Two protectors having been elected,
the meeting broke up, and the jubilant
Minesmen went to show their proud new
mascot to the Guilds. The solid pha-
lanx ef Miners swept straight through
the Guilds, and back to Mines, carrying
one or two Guildsmen, or their trousers
with them. Unfortunately there appeared
to be more Guildsmen i n the R.S.M. than
in Guilds, and they resented the predi-
cament of some of their fellows. Thence
ensued the battle. The fighting mob
surged back and forth on the Mines' steps
until the spirits were dampened by a
solid sheet of water from one of too labs,
above. The battle waned, and most of the
combatants retired either to quench their
thirsts, or to lectures. However the
more resolute carried the battle to the
first floor where fire-extinguishers and
hoses were brought to bear. After a few
minutes of pitohed battle the soaked
lines and Guildsmen retired, leaving
someone else to clear up the mess.
It was rather unfortunate that Vis-
count Faimouth was to visit the R.S.M.
the next day, and in order to get the
place cleaned up properly a firm of of-
fice cleaners had to be called in.
Meanwhile the Bedford Beau, had been
kidnapped. He was asked to get a
taxi, and as he returned with i t six
young "ladie3* piled in on top of him,
and he was carried, not unwillingly,
away towards Regents Park. He returned
in one piece several hours later.
Now that the Mines have a rag mascot
too, the ragging will not be so one-sided
as before, but i t is to be hoped that the
rags will be more amusing than destructive.

