4 F E L I X
EDITOR :
PETER LEVIN
Frux
CIRCULATION
ISOO
P R O B L E M O F T H E O N E T R A C K M I N D
The problem of broadening the minds of I.C. students occurs again and again l a
FELIX and Phoenix. It is suggested that we amalgamate with the E.C.A., that compul-
sory courses In English and history be introduced; even now large sums of money
are spent on placing "arts-type" culture where we will f a l l over i t . Professor
Barton may express the desire that his post-graduate students should work a seventy-
hour week; most people will agree that i t is undesirable for students to devote them-
selves exclusively to their particular field and a problem thus exists because many
do. The universal remedy is to get at the student, to force the "arts-type" culture
upon him. Is this reasonable? The aim of this article i s to show that i t is not,
that the remedy lies elsewhere.
Those who have a hand in educating us may be divided into three groups - the
teaching staff, the governing and administrative body, and the General Studies Com-
mittee. Of these, the teaching staff have by far the greatest influence on students,
most of whom arrive directly from school and thus are at a relatively impressionable
age. What of these men who exert so much influence?
DON'T BLAME THE MORONS
Science in the university should be taught against the back-ground of the inter-
relation of science and society, with an awareness of the reason for scientific re-
search and how i t fits into modern l i f e . In this College i t i s not. What is the
reason? Either our staff have no interests apart from their work, or else they are
prevented from expressing them. Into the first category f a l l the men that Professor
Barton wants. The reason that such men are at I.C. i s that they are selected solely
on their ability to conduct research. (Certainly they are not selected on their
ability to stimulate the interest of their students, which should be the prime aim
of every teacher. Manifestly many of them are incapable of communicating facts, let
alone ideas.) Outside the narrow field in which they work, the development of their
minds has been completely arrested. The Oxford Dictionary defines such men as morons.
Obviously i t i s unfair to blame them for what they are. The system is at faulb.
OUR STREET CORNER PROF
Without doubt there are men i n this College who come into the second category,
i.e. who are prevented from making public their interest in outside affairs. For
consider: "It i s a mark of the Government's confidence that I.C. has been selected
to lead this massive advance in higher technological education." Now suppose that
one of our professors stood up at a public meeting and denounced the Government's
polioy of manufacturing the H-bomb. Does anyone seriously suggest that the gover-
nors of the College would applaud such a display of independence? They may not
literally have traded academic freedom of expression for marks of the Government's
confidence, but the staff are by no mean* as voluble as once they were. Two years
ago Professor Blackett drew an audience of four hundred when he lectured on the
military significance of atomic weapons. In this field there have been many deve-
lopments sinoe, but no mare lectures from Professor Blackett. Gone indeed are the
days when Professor Rankine spoke at street corners, when Sir Thomas Holland (then
Reotor) debated with Professor Levy whether "the Empire is a force for good."
(Incidentally, i s i t coincidence that the Maths, department, of which Prof. Levy was
until recently head, should be the only one with a course on the history and philo-
sophy of i t s scienoe?) Again the system is at fault.
SHOULD THE GOVERNORS GO?
What can be done to change the system, for changed i t must be unless the sole
output of Imperial College i s to consist of highly-trained morons? Any changes must
come from the top. It is questionable whether the governors recognise the faults
of the system, in which case they are incompetent and should either resign or be
forced to. If they recognise the faults and are unwilling to act, the same
appliea. We mast have a governing b ody willing and able to guarantee those of
our teachers who have keen and interesting minds the freedom to use them and to
express themselves; a governing body that will at the same time constitute a
professor-hiring CUB professor-firing squad, to hire more sen with character as
well aa strings of papers to their credit, and fire those without. Only then will
the College f u l f i l the purpose for which i t is intended.
GENERAL STUDIES TOO
Under these conditions the problem of broadening the scienoe student's mind
will disappear. In contact with men of keen and inspired thought, students will
automatically be stimulated into finding out for themselves the faaoination that
literature and history, for example, already hold for others. There will be no
need for four-year degree courses with compulsory lectures In these subjects.
Possibly even the General Studies Committee may be stimulated into providing store
than six lectures a term on the contexture of science and humanity. At present
i t i s the chief exponent of the "feed them culture" principle, nearly a
as that of Professor Barton and equally deplorable.
P.H. Levin.
Footnote:
The six lectures referred to above comprise the three already given thi» .
by Professor Andrade on William Gilbert, Robert Hooks, and Isaac Newton, and the
three to be given shortly by Dr. G.J. Whitrow on "The Riae of Scientific Method,"
THE BO AFFAIR
... continued from page 1,
However, there were those who did
travel to see the Rag, and they are re-
ported to have had a pleasant evening
with most of the female population of
that University. Indeed, some did not
return until the following day! U.C.
and Kings did not apparently heed the
7-C's words and much wanton damage i s
reported to have been caused.
But, what had been happening be-
hind the scenes a l l this time? As
soon as the loss was discovered, Dave
telephoned a l l of the London colleges,
in vain. Mr. Henry, the College's pet
bloodhound was called in, but he was
not much interested, so Dave called
in the C.I.D. It was rather disap-
pointing to find that the 'tecs were
very ordinary looking chaps (almost
like students in disguise). When
they heard the story they were somewhat
amused, and one felt that they were
about to pat us on the head and tell
us to run along like good l i t t l e boys.
To placate us they said that they
would alert every available oopper.
Little happened until much later
that evening, when Dixie Dean took a
call from Southampton. It was from one
of the raiders; so Dixie cunningly
suggested that the four of them should
go along to the police and explain the
situation. How happy we were to find
that they were shut up until the polioe
found that we did not wish to prosecute.
On the next day the centre of ops
was in the Union office, where Dave
spoke to Policemen, Presidents, and
an EVENING STANDARD female reporter
on the phone. Dave was muttering
things like "drip-feeds" and "seize-
ups" and "strip his box" into the
phone, advised by Chad, our lubrication
expert. However he managed to extract
a promise from the Southampton Presi-
dent that Bo would be returned the
following day (Saturday).
Near 1 o'clock that afternoon
Bo returned, greeted by Jezebel, a
crowd of s tudents, and reporters, and
Television cameramen. He was unloaded,
given a preliminary check up, and then
driven in triumph around the block f o l -
lowed by a procession of a l l manner
of vehicles, with bells a-clanging
-and hooters blaring, and many athletes
in full cry.
Single Roma Vacant Easter Vac at
16 Queen's Gate (100 yards frost the
union) very good terms: apply
D.R. ENNTBEUGB through the HalOB Rack.

