A .
I.C. JOINT WINNERS OF UL.CHAMPS.
THE I.C. BOXING CLUB TIED WITH KING'S COLLEGE FOR THE BLOTT CUP AND THE FIRST
PLACE IN THE U.L. CHAMPIONSHIPS. The closest contest of the evening was between
Jayler (U.L. Boxing Captain) and G.YORKE (I.C.). The referee had some difficulty
in deciding the winner after three very tough and exoiting rounds, but eventually
awarded the Light-weight title to Jaylor. GORDON HALSEY, the I.C. Captain, gave
an excellent exhibition of boxing to win the Light-welter-weight class, and I.C.
also won the Fly- (S.SCRIBHIBHAPM), Feather- (R.KIRPALANI), and Light-heavy-weight
(M.A.CLARKE) titles.
G U I L D S W I N R E C T O R ' S C U P
FIRST TIME IN 21 TEARS
AT LAST GUILDS HAVE LOOSENED THE MINES'
since 1936-37. The College Captains
had the usual difficulty in raising
teams! Mllce Clarke roped in 24 Guilds-
men, while Gordon Halsey persuaded 27
Miners to box. The Miners, without
their usual superiority of numbers,
were made to fight a l l the way, and
eventually, after one of the most ex-
oiting and close competitions ever,
Guilds ran out winners by 99 points to
88 (and R.C.S. 2).
One of the best bouts was the final
of the welter-weight contest; Williams
(C&G) showed much boxing ability, but
H.Smith (R.S.M.) with his greater
strength rallied in the last round to
win a very close fight, despite the
blood streaming from his nose. Williams,
however, was awarded the tankard for
the best boxer. Perhaps the toughest
and most exciting fight was the heavy-
weight final; J.Piatt (RSM) had the
better of the earlier exchanges, but
M.Clarke (C&G) rallied strongly in the
last round to take the title *
Other winners were:
Bantam- D.Wilbraham (C*G)
Feather - R.Klrpalani (C&G)
Light - G.Torke (C&G)
Light-welter -(1) G.W.Saw(C&G)
" (2) B.Whitley v.r.Wall(C&G)
(not fought)
CROSSCOUNTRY
In the S.W.E.T.C. team race, I.C. did
well to oome 2nd. to L.S.E. J.Collins
and J.Conway, finishing lst. and 2nd.,
excelled themselves in defeating Davis
and Batty of L.S.E. and D.Briggs of
I.C. new almost back to top form, was
6th.
0> loth. Feb., with the core of the
first team at Nottingham competing in
the Universities Championships, only 3
I.C. men turned up for an away fixture
with Mkt.Felloe, so the match was de-
elared void. The '2nd.' team which
opposed Brentwood Sohool at Petersham
was thus so weakened that the result
was another definite win for Brentwood.
On Sat. 22nd. a strong I.C. team was
narrowly defeated by an even stronger
team from Deptford Park. This match
was combined with a fixture between
Heme R i l l and Ranelagh, and the first
men hose in this latter event palled
out the best in the I.C. team, with
the result that Collins produced his
fastest time of ET m. 42 s. In the
poor conditions this performaaee was
truly amaslag. The international r o -
a r Barnard created a new eeuree reeerd
of 26 a. BT s.
The road relay t r i a l held on Wed.19th.
produced a very elese finish. With 200
yds. to go, there were three rammers
together and Landbeok 80 yds. down.
J.Ceaway produced a strong kiek to win,
bat Landbeok oasa through very fast to
pass the tiring Brians sad Colllas ana
finish second, Slase the tines ef the
first sea were a great improvement ea
these ef last year's t r i a l , I.C.
•howl* to wall ia teaerrew' • relay.
GRIP ON THIS CUP, WHICH THEY HAVE HELD
Welter - A.E.Smith (C&G)
Light-middle - D.Faulkener (C&G)
Middle -(1) G.Martin v. K.Jenkins(C&G)
(not fought)
" (2) N.Ebbsworth V. Fisher (RSM)
(not fought)
Light-heavy - T.Cowen (RSM)
R I F L E C L U B
VICTORY OVER BIRMINGHAM
I.C. shot very well to score 796 out
of a possible 800 giving them a clear
victory over Birmingham University,
who scored 783. J.Thurston, F.Boucher,
M.P.Singleton, N.E.J.Ebsworth and C.I.
C.Wishart a l l achieved the maximum
score for I ,C.
Interest runs high in the individual
College matches for the Courtman Shield,
the first round of which was held on
19th. Fob. when Guilds scored a narrow
win over tunes, leaving R.C.S. somewhat
behind. In this match in which the
best six scores out of a team of eight
are counted, Guilds obtained the
amasing soore of 599. Will they reach
the maximum of 600 in the next round?
R O A D
R E L A Y
This race, now the largest inter-
College athletic event in the country,
oontinues to grow more popular each
year. Fortysix teams have entered for
tomorrow's race, and there will be very
fleroo competition for the Sir Rodoric
H i l l Cup.
Southampton must bo considered
favourites to retain the Cup, but Lough-
borough and Liverpool are oxpeotod to
provide strong opposition, and new-
comers Exeter will probably finish in
the first six. Amongst the London
Colleges, U.C. are much weaker than In
reeent years and are not likely to bo
in the first ten, but the strong L.S.E.
teaa should do well. The strength of
ef the I.C. team is difficult to asssss
accurately, but five asabors of our
teaa ef six have had U.L. lst. teaa
experience.
A avw trophy is being presoated this
year; It Is the I.C. Daion Cap, and
Is for oearpetltloa between Colleges
having fewer thaw 500 Bale
HYJB FAX* TO! - S aa.
I .C. STORM INTO FINAL
With a fine display of open and
attacking football, I.C. defeated
C.E.M. by 20 points to 3 to reach the
final of the U.L. Rugby Football Cup.
They will now meet Kings' on 8 th.
March at Motspur Park.
The game with C.E.M. opened with I.C.
playing up the slope and against the
wind, but in spite of this they scored
quickly when Gilbert, backing up a
dribble by Phillips and Bruce, went
over after 10 minutes. The try was not
converted, but the score was increased
soon afterwards when Hearn converted a
penalty. The C.F.M. team then settled
down and held I.C. at bay for some time,
until a shrewd cross-kick by Hearn to
the right wing allowed Mllward to show
how dangerous he can be, when he gather-
ed cleanly and beat his opposite number
by sheer speed and went over in the
corner. This made the score 9 - 0 at
halftime.
Soon after the start of the second
half, Bruce, playing a vigorous game
at wing-forward, following quickly on
a defensive mistake, dribbled over the
C.E.U. line to soore. Hearn then made
a good run from the C.E.M. 25 line to
shake off three tacklers and score
under the posts. This he oonvertod,
bringing the soore to 17 - 0. The
final I.C. soore cams from a good
threequarter movement resulting in
Gibson going over In the corner after
a 30 yd. run. The C.E.M. score came
from a defensive lapse on the part of
I.C., due perhaps to playing too
easily, allowing the C.E.M. Yfinger to
burst through to score an unconverted
try.
ENJOYING A G
O
O
D SEASON
The Rugby Club has, for the first
time, consistently fielded seven sides
on a Saturday, and as its scope and
numbers have increased so has its
success. The lst. XV has reached the
final of the U.L.Cup, and shows a
respectable record for the season.
The 2nd. XV gives a measure of the res-
erve Btrength of the Club; of fourteen
games played, only one has boon lost,
and only 57 points have been conceded,
whilst 190 have been scored. The 'A'
shows a good points average and in
spite of losing numerous players, not-
ably their firet oaptain, Riley, with
a broken leg, they have managed to win
more than half their games. The 'Extra
A', under the vociferous leadership of
Dai Thomas, has an excellent maton
record and has scored 292 points with
57 against, probably due to the power-
ful running and conversions of their
fly-half Kitohenor.
The 'B' and 'CZ' teams, whilst having
a loss than 50 per cent, record, have
had a fairly successful ooason and show
good points averages. The 'CI' is at
the moment the only team whloh has not
lost a gaae this season, this being duo
in no email measure to the hard work
of oaptain Shakespeare.
Rugby Club record:
P W D L Por A*vt.
lst. 27 18 3 6 224 124
2nd. 14 11 2 1 190 57
'A' 14 8 0 6 187 82
'Ex A' 16 12 1 2 292 57
'B' 13 5 2 6 149 104
'CI* 9 9 0 0 176 37
'C2' 6 2 0 4 43 5«
R U G B Y C U P F I N A L .
MARCH 8 th
MOTSPUR PARK
RifcUfcoibe FELIX BOARD, Imperial CMkiOVMos, Lewson,

