A still view of our dynamic world
media media@imperial.ac.uk
Few things, to me, can capture emo-
tion better than photography. A thin
wisp of cigarette smoke backlit by
the sun against a black industrial
background; a child’s face, captured
in a moment of pure careless joy –
perhaps a reflection on the innocent
happiness left behind as we move
into adulthood; a barkless tree,
exposed by wind, rain, sea spray
and sand, side lit by a late afternoon
sun against a dark sky.
Black and white, colour, digit-
al, medium format, even camera
phones nowadays, each one has an
opportunity to capture these photos.
What becomes important, whatever
the method used, is the photo itself.
Wednesday afternoon was a mix-
ture of sun, blue sky and cloud.
Photosoc’s trip along the Thames
provided a great chance to capture
some dramatic images, perhaps
combining picture-postcard shots of
the famous landmarks with more
individual, unique elements and
compositions. The weather couldn’t
have been any better for high con-
trast, dramatic photography. The
following Saturday, on to Borough
Market to experience a completely
different flavour of photography.
You can see just a couple of the
results above and more can be
found on our website - click on the
Gallery link.
Photosoc runs regular trips like
these throughout the year - both to
take photos and visit exhibitions, as
well as running lessons and provid-
ing a great place to meet other peo-
ple with the same interests.
To find out more, visit our web-
site: www.union.ic.ac.uk/photosoc or
come to one of our meetings (12-1pm
on Thursdays in the Media Common
Room, West Basement, Beit Quad).
We’ll be organising a Photoshop les-
son on 12th November, so do look at
our website for more details.
There's more to Media Group than radio, television and newspapers. This week Peter Huth-
waite tells us more about Photosoc, Imperial's photographic society.
Thames River by Raymond Ng Borough Market by Herwig Peters
Last week saw one of the biggest
television events of the calendar
drop into the neighbourhood. The
National Television Awards landed
in the Royal Albert Hall and both
stoic tv and IC Radio were there to
cover the star-studded event.
stoic tv had several crews posi-
tioned along the red carpet to cap-
ture all of those drunken moments
the celebs would rather forget. Dave,
formerly of The Matt & Dave Show,
got to interview the cast of The Bill
– for the third year running (they
must be desperate for publicity!).
Meanwhile Greg and Francesca,
from stoic tv’s brand new light enter-
tainment show Foot and Mouth, got
to interview a wide range of stars
including Chris Tarrant, Sir Trevor
McDonald and in a national first, the
only interview in existence of Ant
without Dec! They even got a sneak
peak inside Billie Piper’s limo.
Whilst Doctor Who was the big
winner inside the Hall, stoic tv’s
crew seemed to be winners on
the carpet, with Greg getting his
bum pinched by Vernon Kay and
one of his crew getting a kiss from
EastEnders’ Nigel Harman.
A crack team from stoic tv also got
to go inside the Royal Albert Hall
as part of the event’s wild audience.
Here they saw awards presented by
couples as varied as Peter Andre
with Jordan and Tory leadership
hopefuls David Cameron and David
Davies – only one of these pairs was
booed by the audience, I leave you to
guess which! From here they were
able to pass out all the winner’s
names to the red carpet teams to
avoid any embarrassing questions
being asked.
IC Radio also graced the red car-
pet with the presence of the unstop-
pable (and god knows we’ve tried)
Martin Archer from the station’s
lunchtime show Liquid Lunch.
Martin got interviews with stars
from all the most popular soaps,
plus X Factor gossip from judge
Louis Walsh.
The interviews from the National
Television Awards can be seen on
stoic tv’s Foot and Mouth very soon
- check the website at stoictv.com
for details. And you can hear Martin
every weekday at midday by logging
onto the Liquid Lunch website at
icradio.com/shows/liquidlunch.
On the Red Carpet
Jamie Oliver received two awards for his School Dinners series Even host Sir Trevor McDonald could not escape our reporters
EastEnders’ Barbara Windsor clutching the soap’s award
Matt Cunningham tells us what happened when
Media Group went to the National Television Awards.
Photos by Louisa Evans
14
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 3 November 2005

