F
ront page coverage can never be bad.
At least now everyone has heard about
the ‘Stop Islamophobia’ campaign at
Imperial. Of course, what started off as
a good deed has turned into accusations of foul
play. What amazes me is that after talking to so
many people at Freshers’ Fayre, wearing such a
goofy shirt and getting so many signatures that
nobody had the kind decency to ask me what I
thought. It is not like I’ve had limited exposure
while writing weekly columns for the Felix or
running for Union Council too. It seems that it
is not just The Sunday Times that stoops to the
lowest levels of sensationalist journalism, with
no regard for consequences for those actually
trying to change circumstances for the better.
The notion of turning a petition against anti-
terror legislation, against curtailing legitimate
political expression (especially against foreign
policy) and against the atmosphere of fear
against the Muslim community into a form of
“terrorist recruiting” is laughable.
Unfortunately it is all expected in the current
Islamophobic climate. ‘Stop Islamophobia’ is
an independent campaign, founded to increase
awareness of baseless prejudices against the
Muslim community and to enhance under-
standing in British society. I am the campaign’s
National Convenor. I don’t actually care if you
go to our website, read our material or agree
with us, but if anything related to the campaign
enables you to talk to a Muslim or non-Muslim
about today’s climate of fear, then I will have
succeeded. All I hope for is candid dialogue. You
don’t need to be scared. Muslims don’t bite.
Unfortunately, any attempt by any Muslim on
the face of the earth to voice their legitimate
concerns is met with hostility. Prejudices have
surfaced yet again, amounting to a smear cam-
paign, even though many organisations agree
with the points on the petition. Lord Steyn, a
former Law Lord, ruled a three month detention
as unlawful, while Law Lord Lloyd of Berwick
called the offence of glorifying terrorism “a very
odd provision”. But of course, it doesn’t even
matter if there were two million Law Lords
against this Bill, for the government wants to
silence any possible criticism at home of their
formerly ‘ethical’ foreign policy. The Iraq war
though based on the dodgy dossier; though
opposed by swathes of Iraqis; though a new
constitution was ratified under occupation; is a
matter of pride for the Government and British
Military heads. Yet it is dubiously unpatriotic of
me to question the higher order, to even ques-
tion the nature of the War on Terror or even dare
to raise pertinent issues such as Palestine.
Michael Pittoni responded to me last week
on the viability of post Enlightenment joys.
Unfortunately the theoretical discussion on how
society should be is over. At a near religiously
segregated Imperial, it is too idealistic to hope
for any sincere discussion, the bigots have made
their minds up. What is happening now is that
the values of Voltaire are being swept aside, and
the Ancien Régime has dominated all discourse.
Keith Shilson, President of Middlesex University,
was suspended for even trying to engage in
open and fair discussion with the controversial
and (even according to the Home Office) non-
violent Islamic political group Hizb ut Tahrir.
Surprisingly in Britain it has the largest follow-
ing and attendance at conferences of any Muslim
organization – almost by definition making it
mainstream. How can we debate on banning
parties when all we know about them is lies?
Surprisingly the National Executive Committee
of the NUS is also opposed to the ban on these
“near fascist” organisations, citing that dialogue
is better than state repression. Anything less is
hysteria, bad journalism and itself bigoted when
one does not even want to talk to those on the
opposite side due to previous prejudices.
The right wing Professor Glees of Brunel
would have my kind under constant surveillance.
His schoolboy research has gained widespread
acclaim as incompetence incarnate. In the
words of NUS National President Kat Fletcher
it is, “inflaming a climate of racism, fear and
hostility” yet it’s backed by no evidence, except
that some individuals involved in previous terror
incidents have been to college. It is tantamount
to me saying we must nuke Manchester, for
there are four murderers there. Even academics
and professors have their knives out to stab the
Muslim Community. My dismay ever increases.
To Sir Richard Sykes, I know that you will have
pressure surmounting from Education Secretary
Ruth Kelly, and perhaps even higher, to clamp
down on those who wish to destroy and murder.
No one disagrees with this. I simply ask you
to help the good, law-abiding and productive
one point six million strong Muslim commu-
nity of the UK, some of whom are enormously
happy here at Imperial, and to not let their lives
become ruined.
‘I
t could be so different’; wise words there
from the prophets of the Lost. Not the
Lost filmed in Hawaii with the delicious
Matthew Fox, mind you. I quote their
lesser relatives from the land of the dead, more
commonly known as the Welsh valleys, where
shops don’t open on Saturdays since their takings
are too minimal to support the wage bills of the
Helens that work there.
In the pre-internet days I’d have felt for my
Welsh counterparts. Thankfully Ebay, Net-a-
porter and Topshop Online do a sterling job and
Howells’ is open on weekends, so fellow Dior
Addicts need not feel the pinch. A good job too,
since an epidemic of sleazy security guards and
construction workers happened to befall my
path this week – meaning that shopping outside
Zone One in our fair city, is a no-go area for me.
It’s a crime against the fashion police to do so
anyway. Did you ever meet a Russian oligarch in
Hammersmith? I rest my case.
I should really rest my head too, since
receiving, “I like your shape” as a chat-up line
from a fifty-year old Snoop Dogg analogy is the
last thing you want when you’re just about to buy
your Kotex for the month. Looking after sickly
babies at Northwick Park had put paid to the
pink sword of my tongue, so a haughty glare was
given, and off I went, running straight into sleaze
number two on the 72 bus. Balding, overweight
and distinctly prawn-like in shape and size,
this South African sweaty made me wretch. He
grinned at me in hope before opening with, “Do
we know each other?”. I replied in the negative
and turned to edge away from him. He put a
hand on my shoulder and came perilously close
to my ear, before I leaped off at the next stop to
the hollered strains of, “Fancy a fuck?”.
The whole bus turned to look at him, utterly
flabbergasted that his desperation had not paid
off. He should take heed of our film columnist’s
advice – matters of the pants are to be dealt with
delicacy and tact. At least the geriatric lecturer
had the good sense to ask me to play tennis with
him first! Sugar daddies are an avenue I’m yet to
exploit since pure vanity prevents me from doing
so. What self-respecting third year wants to take
the Rector’s assistant’s leftovers? Or that of the
security guard in the library for that matter? A
good friend of mine ended up at the Ivy with her
newly-retired GP tutor and his wife. Who knows
where that ménage-a-trois will take her, since
he declared he’d do, “anything for such a sweet
face”? A fertile imagination knows no bounds,
and as responsible scientists, we are duty bound
to develop and exercise our thinking muscles
every now and again.
‘F
oreigners should be sent back to
their own countries for their own
governments to deal with them as
they fit’ urged Iain Heaton on these
pages last week as he took a break from his
characteristic whinge that he had not been
able to watch Neighbours since graduating. His
column started innocently and inanely enough
before taking an inexplicable right turn into a full
on collision with the rights of asylum seekers.
Heaton highlighted the case of two Albanians
and a Lithuanian convicted of trafficking
Eastern European girls into Britain and forcing
them to work as prostitutes. Expressing more
outrage that previously two of the men had been
granted asylum from persecution than at the
crime itself, he went on to outline his solution to
crime in Britain: deport all asylum seekers who
have committed a crime.
Never mind that only a tiny fraction of crime is
committed by asylum seekers, a fact that even
Heaton grudgingly admitted later in his column,
his remedy is dangerous and prejudiced.
The right to asylum from torture, unjust
imprisonment and execution is an inalienable
human right common to all people. As with
every other nation, we have an international
responsibility to welcome asylum seekers, not to
greet them with Heaton’s contempt. The choice
they had to make was between staying in their
own country, facing persecution and possibly
even death, or leaving everything they had to
seek asylum.
Disturbingly, Heaton swapped loosely between
writing about asylum seekers, immigrants and
foreigners as if the terms were interchangeable.
The reality is that they refer to very different
things. There is a huge difference between
the political activist seeking asylum from
persecution and someone seeking to immigrate
for economic reasons. Whether Heaton would
deport ‘foreign’ tourists he didn’t make clear.
When Heaton argued that asylum seekers
should be sent back to their own governments
to be dealt with as they see fit he conveniently
glossed over any consequences. In countries
from which asylum has been granted, being
dealt with as the ‘government sees fit’ means
being sent back to torture, persecution,
unexplained disappearances and death.
Glibly repeating that old calling card of
hysterical journalism; that Britain is somehow
‘at bursting point’, unable to accept anymore
asylum seekers; Heaton demonstrated a
remarkably loose grip on the facts. In Britain
we take fewer asylum seekers per head of
population than our European neighbours; and
although we cannot hope to welcome unlimited
numbers, the reality is that we are not being
swamped or inundated. In truth it is developing
countries, close to the world’s flashpoints, which
host the greatest share of asylum seekers; 8
million alone in Africa with uncounted numbers
internally displaced.
Asylum seekers do not come to Britain out
of choice, indeed many desperately want to be
repatriated to their country as soon as it is safe
to do so. South Africans and Chileans who fled to
Britain during the 1970s left to return home as
soon as they were able.
For Heaton a bad day might be missing
Neighbours, but Iain, out there around the world
things can be a lot worse than not getting your
daily fix of the classic Australian soap.
Another day, another life. . .
Things can be worse than missing Neighbours
Stormy Woods
Alex guite
Omar Hashmi
Muslims don’t bite
16
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 3 November 2005
A response to Iain Heaton’s “I should write for the Daily Mail” in Felix 1332

