Coming to university is not only about studying, reading and solving problems. It’s a
whole process where students develop skills, find their niches and most importantly gain
confidence with their abilities. This is not possible of they don’t feel comfortable with
their surroundings and proud of their roots. Almost a third of our students are overseas or
from an ethnic background. We have given this cohort a considerable thought here at the
Union and have realised that the diversity these students bring to the College needs to
be celebrated.
The Union has finally got its act together and is taking part in London’s most widespread
student campaign, RISE Student Week. Previously titled “Respect”
, this campaign aims
to raise awareness of the cultural diversity among students in London universities. With
a predominant anti-racism aspect, this campaign celebrates multiculturalism with the
support of the Mayor of London. This year, with the unfortunate events of July 7th, we
have included an Islam awareness gist to it, to extend this celebration to another aspect
of discrimination.
RISE Student Week is happening from 7 – 11 November 2005
During that week, we have organised various events from film showings with the Afro-
Caribbean Society, an Islam awareness talk with the Islamic Society, a RAG fundraiser,
and a debate about Imperial’s multiculturalism with the Debating Society, and an Imperial
Football World Cup happening on Saturday 12 November organised by the Overseas
Societies Committee.
Other events will also follow such as a Model United Nations debate, an International
Food Fair and a Fashion Show organised by the Overseas Societies Committee.
Other London universities will also be having interesting events also publicised.
Look out for posters around campus and a JCR stall to
get more information, dates and times and do take part
in these events to commemorate this rising multicultur-
alism we have a privilege to revel in.
I’ve started to wonder how far people get into this publication before going, ‘no, that’s
enough’. Does anyone get as far as the union section?? In fact, has anyone ever read
it? If nobody does I wonder quite how controversial I can be. Not that I have anything
particularly controversial to say but I’m just a little curious that’s all.
Something I do want to talk about is last weeks commemoration day. That truly was
a spectacle. It was my first visit to Albert’s Hall and hopefully not my last. One day I’ll
graduate too, honest! The medics graduated alongside the Physical Scientists (or should
that be ‘Natural Scientists’?) and I imagine some of those got a little upset. There ap-
peared to be a rule that people can’t clap unless you win some award, now the new
doctors didn’t seem to stick to this rule and every single MBBS graduate got applauded.
Now there will be those of you that think this is ‘typical medic arrogance, not sticking to
the rules, blah, blah, blah’ but I see it a little differently. These people have been with each
other for six years, through all the highs and all the lows. They have been there for each
other when times have been hard, when consultants have bullied, when shifts have gone
on for twenty four hours, when they had to endure PBL, PCC and St Peter’s Hospital and
when it seemed the constant cramming of books into their grey matter would never end.
Wednesday afternoon saw the hugest achievement and test of stamina so rightly recog-
nised by the family they’ve grown up with over the past six years and at times like that it
makes you truly proud to be an Imperial Medic.
What’s happening at the ICSMSU?
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. T: 020 7594 8060 www.union.imperial.ac.uk
Danny McGuinnes - ICSMSU President
Union Building Redevelopment
Sameena Misbahuddin - President
Well you’ll be pleased to know that the Union Building will be redeveloped with work
starting towards the end of this academic year….
In response to the need to refurbish parts of the Union Building, make better use of the
space we already have and improve the facilities to a standard students can be proud of,
the Union started plans to redevelop the building last year. Flexibility is key in the design,
as there are so many needs from the building, which we will aim to meet.
Some of the proposed improvements to the building are refurbishments of the bar and
café areas (dBs and DaVincis), improved lift facilities, games room area, improved facili-
ties for clubs & societies (e.g. storage, changing rooms, student activity centre) and the
introduction of a coffee bar/social area.
The process started early last year, with a firm of architects being chosen and the sur-
veys and focus groups that were held last term. The architects gave preliminary ideas
which were then published in Felix and on the Union website and students were asked to
give their feedback to the proposals.
At the end of the summer term the architects proposed 3 options, which varied in cost,
and over the summer business plans were written to gain the support of College for this
project and pleasingly, College are supporting us in this project. It is a key improvement
that needs to be made to the campus facilities and we are working with them in this
project.
Currently the next stage of design is underway. This goes into further details of what has
already been proposed at Union Council (as mentioned above). Users of specific areas
are being contacted for this stage, at the end of which there will be more information and
designs for all students to give feedback on, which can then be incorporated into the final
design stage.
At the moment usage of the ground and first floors are being discussed in greater detail
to get a combination of facilities in these areas which will give maximum benefit to
students. Some ideas being considered are whether the coffee bar area proposed for
the first floor should also sell some alcohol or whether it should remain an alcohol free
social area. Other ideas are whether the public should be allowed into these areas as
well or perhaps only during the holidays..? When considering these, both the service for
the students as well as the need to generate income to subsidise the rest of the Union’s
activities are being considered and we invite any feedback you have.
If you have any feedback, want to get involved or have any questions, email:
yoursay@ic.ac.uk. We are also intending to give a presentation of the Building plans
and designs in the Union Foyer, so watch out for more information about this…In the
mean time, check www.union.ic.ac.uk.
Faculties of Life Sciences and Physical Sciences Merger
Tuesday morning I hear that the Faculties of Life Sciences and Physical Sciences are
merging to form a Faculty of Natural Sciences. Whilst I can see some reasons for Col-
lege doing this, the issue is that they did not inform the students before the decision was
made. They didn’t inform the Union who, had we known about it, would’ve informed
students and the reps affected and raised any concerns expressed.
Over the coming days myself and the officers for the Physical Sciences’ and Life Scienc-
es’ Union will be working to find out how this has happened and moreover what affect
this may have on students and ensure that the affect is not negative. There is already
talk about work to help relationships between the 2 Faculties so that when the Faculty is
fully merged next year, students feel united in the Faculty.
A Week to Rise...
Sarah Khatib - Deputy President (Education & Welfare
Think the Union Building needs a facelift?
Think that the building has potential that it just isn’t meeting?

