They cover every aspect of the natu-
ral world, the beautiful, the barbaric,
the weird, the tragic, the exotic and
the domestic. Walking through this
exhibition is like experiencing every
environment on earth.
There are 3 special awards and
15 categories, including the Young
Wildlife Photographer of the Year,
with winners chosen for both the
aesthetic appeal of the photograph
and its ability to affect the viewer.
The exhibition contains all the win-
ners plus runner up and highly com-
mended entries, and the standard is
high throughout.
I hate to say it, but despite the aston-
ishing artistic diversity that London
offers the student, every now and
then I still do wish that I lived in the
countryside. Call me idealistic, but
for me the charm of waking up to the
sound of the Heathrow flight path
over my house pales in comparison
to the charm of waking up to the
sound of birds singing outside my
window. If you too miss the coun-
tryside, fresh air and the occasional
chirp or squeak of wildlife, then this
is the perfect exhibition for you.
The Wildlife Photographer of the
Year exhibition is the cream of wild-
life photography from around the
globe. It has been running for 40
years, and this year received nearly
17,000 entries. This isn’t a collection
of clichéd images of rabbits next to
flowerpots. These are works of art.
Art on your doorstep
“As the sun rose, the
air became filled with
the song of birds and
gibbons, but the very
first noise I heard was
a distinct chainsaw.”
Thomas Endlein
arts arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Wildlife Photographer of the Year: and you don’t need to make an eﬀort to see it
Photography
Wildlife Photographer of the Year
With the BBC Wildlife Magazine
Natural History Museum
Until 23 April 2006
Tickets £6/£3.50
Each of the images absorbs the
viewer in their own way, but espe-
cially impressive were the entries
in the ‘Composition and Form’ cat-
egory. My personal favourite was
Alessandro Bee’s Dusk Flight.
The abstract motion of the bird is
mesmerising, and his clever use of
speeds enables him to describe the
essence of the form and the flight
whilst avoiding the irrelevant details
that would only detract from the
effect.
Another eye-catching piece is
Thomas Endlein’s Rainforest Dawn.
A beautifully shot serene piece; it is
memorable for the heart-breaking
caption which accompanies: “As the
sun rose, the air became filled with
the song of birds and gibbons, but
the very first noise I heard was a
distinct chainsaw.”
The overall winner, Manuel
Presti’s Sky Chase, is a powerful
and beautiful work. It is a graphical
piece, simple and peaceful yet ener-
getic, and it alone is reason enough
to visit the exhibition. Presti’s stated
aim, “to move emotions and so lead
people towards a greater sensitivity
to the natural world” is perfectly
accomplished in this piece and,
unlike many of the other pictures,
is wholly spontaneous. The ripple
effect of the presence of the per-
egrine falcon amongst the starlings
has perfect symmetrical beauty:
their dynamics are hypnotic. Presti
says of it, “I really felt the fear
and the need to survive of the star-
lings” and that’s exactly what comes
across from the images.
If you think all this arty stuff is far
removed from Imperial life, then
take comfort in the fact that Manuel
Presti is an engineer and takes pho-
tos in his spare time. The competi-
tion is open to amateurs and profes-
sionals alike and if you’re inspired
then the closing date for next year’s
entries is 31 March 2006.
The Wildlife Photographer of the
Year Competition is organised by the
Natural History Museum and BBC
Wildlife Magazine
Overall Winner: Sky Chase by Manuel Presti (Italy)
Great grey owl pounce by Jari Peltomäki (Finland)
Arts Felix needs you!
Enjoy the Arts scene in London but fed up with the extortionate prices?
We have lots of invitations to gallery events, theatre press nights and general arts events around London, but not
enough people to go! So if you fancy getting in for free and seeing your name in print, email us at:
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 3 November 2005

