ﬁlm film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Can ‘In Her Shoes’ live up to ‘There’s something about Mary?’...
Catch In Her Shoes for free!!
Love romantic comedies? Read on to ﬁnd out how you can get free tickets...
S
tay or sway, don’t come
and go like you do…
I remember the first
romantic comedy I ever
laid eyes upon. It was
While you were sleeping, starring
the funny girl-next-door Sandra
Bullock and the sensitive Mr. Nice
guy, Bill Pullman. It’s one of my
favourites, despite the fact that it
is just a story of a girl who meets a
boy, girl likes boy, girl screws it up
but love (as usual) proves itself to be
invincible and they live happily ever
after. How original - right?
Romantic comedies are a funny
sort of thing, don’t you think?
They’re predictable and it’s dif-
ficult to tell one from the other.
Nevertheless, if the lines at the cin-
ema for Elizabethtown are any indi-
cation, romantic comedies is still
the talk-of-the-town. Perhaps it’s the
feel-good factor, or it might just be
the amazingly cute lead actor. There
are numerous reasons why roman-
tic comedies still dominate the DVD
rentals charts. However, in this sea
of infinite choices, how do we tell the
bad from the good?
Let’s start off by listing the real-
ly bad romantic comedies. The
first that comes to mind must be
Intolerable Cruelty. Surprised? How
can anyone mess up a combination
of George Clooney and Catherine
Zeta Jones? Apparently, they can
and they did. I don’t know if it’s
Zorro’s leading lady’s complete lack
of emotion or the horribly un-engag-
ing script, but basically, at the end of
it, Intolerable Cruelty simply did not
make it to my must-buy-DVDs list.
And let’s not forget Sweet
November! Having starred together
in the thriller The Devil’s Advocate,
I was appalled by the complete lack
of chemistry between Keanu Reeves
and Charlize Theron. It’s a pitiful
story of a boy who meets a girl, falls
for girl but girl meets an unfair and
early demise. Boohoo - but the script
itself is the real sob story. Keanu
Reeves is just not a man for roman-
tic comedies (A walk in the clouds
should have been a good indication)
and if there’s one thing that makes
Classic Romantic Comedies
1. Before Sunrise
Starring Ethan Hawke, in his much better days (before he started
sporting the oh-so-ugly heroine addict look), this movie is both
romantic, sexy and realistic. It’s been a while since the movie was
released, but they still have it on DVD.
2. Bridget Jones’s Diary
Alright, I admit I hate her stupid-desperado lifestyle but you have to
give the movie credit for the really cute Hugh Grant and Colin Firth.
Plus, it’s really funny and it’s a classic watch-or-die movie.
3. How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days
Seriously, the title is such a joke, but it’s one of Kate Hudson’s best - at
least before she ventured into L
’Affaire (tres horrible!). It starrs the
oh-so-cute Matthew McCoughney and that by itself is reason
enough to watch the silly film!
4. My Big Fat Greek Wedding
Perhaps people might consider this more of a family movie than a
girly romantic comedy. However, it’s still a feel-good film and who
wouldn’t love the whole ugly-duckling and swan idea!
5. Boys & Girls
Seriously, I am such a teen flick addict! But this is one of the best...
Starring the likes of Freddie Prinze Jr. (who is Adonis in my book)
it’s funny and it’s sweet. And it’s actually based on students in
college, so how close to home can you get?!
“...There is Sandra
Bullock telling her
in-laws the story of
her one-testicled
fiancé in While You
Were Sleeping and
then there was Kate
Hudson with her
Photoshop-assem-
bled album of her
future children in
How to get rid of a
guy in 10 days...”
a bad romantic comedy, it’s a lead-
ing man with less than one facial
expression.
What makes Love Actually bet-
ter than the infamous ones listed
above? Firstly, it’s filmed in London
and that might appeal to the minor-
ity of us who love the dreary grey-
skied mornings. I mean, Bridget
Jones’ Diary was a real success
too! Secondly, it has an engaging
script and it makes the audience
care about the people in the story.
I mean, if the romantic comedy
doesn’t make you cry when they
break up and smile when they get
together again, what’s the point
behind it?
And then there are the minuscule
gags that give the story its cute
and quirky edge. There is Sandra
Bullock telling her in-laws the
story of her one-testicled fiancé in
While You Were Sleeping and then
there was Kate Hudson with her
Photoshop-assembled album of her
future children in How to get rid of
a guy in 10 days. These gags help
us to see the human-aspect of the
characters and endear them to us.
It might seem easy but then again,
there are some movies that overdo
it and end up as a comedy instead of
a romantic comedy. Must love dogs
was one of them.
This time around, Twentieth-
Century Fox is at it again with the
new romantic comedy In Her Shoes.
Starring Cameron Diaz, this movie
is entertainment-guaranteed. In line
with its release on 11 November,
thanks to Twentieth-Century Fox,
Felix is giving one lucky reader four
tickets to watch In Her Shoes and a
bloody fantastic goodie bag (includ-
ing In Her Shoes bag and beanies)!
Like it? If you do, just write to me
at film.felix@ic.ac.uk and tell me
the author of the book which In Her
Shoes was based upon.
Anyway, that’s my take on roman-
tic comedies. I believe guys hate
them (but I’ve been proven wrong
on many occasions) and girls love
them. Nevertheless, it’s not going
to die out soon and who cares, it’s
a good way to unwind on a rainy
Saturday evening. Now, it’s my time
to go. Ciao!
Yuen Ai Lee
Film Editor
9
felix
Thursday 3rd November 2005 www.felixonline.co.uk

