I-
4
E V E R Y
F O R T N I G H T
Ttu%
No I20 IMPERIAL COLLEGE FRIDAY MAY 2,1958
I.C. G O E S T O T O W N
LIVELY W.U.S. PUBLICITY
The R.C.S.Union ohose Speaker's
Corner for it3 meeting at lunchtime
on Wednesday, and the auspicious
gathering of some 200 scientists was
rapidly reinforced by interested mem-
bers of the public. After the meet-
ing Jezebel went off to Grosvenor
Square to meet Clementine and Bo,and
at 2.45 the three vehicles set off for
PiconAilly v i a Oxford Street and Re-
gent Street, Clem going ahead at a
great rate, having not too much steam
and wishing to get as far as possible
while i t lasted. Jezebel and Bo f o l -
lowed with a cortege of fancily dres-
sed attendants handing out Carnival
leaflets.
"On the afternoon of 29th. April,
I was proceeding along Regent Street
when I perceived a Bl..dy Great Steam
Roller a-'urtling m my direction."
It was at this point that Fate, i n the
shape of a big blue Inspector of Police,
took a hand. Clem was ordered down a
side street and the drivers told that
they would be charged for using a ve-
hicle "wholly for the purpose of adver-
tising." Clem was carrying a small
poster on her boiler door.
Chad and Graham King, President-
elect of Mines, went to Savile Row
Police Station and were told that
Clem would be reported. Apparently
fancy-dress processions for adver-
tising purposes are illegal — only
sandwich-board men thirty yards apart
may be employed.
Meanwhile a large crowd of stud-
ents had assembled around Eros, with
many members of the public looking on.
At the stroke of three Jezebel appear-
ed and triumphant clanging acknowledged
the cheers of the throng as she circled
Eros and sailed away i n the direction
of Hyde Park Corner.
Bo now arrived, and a loud and en-
thusiastic Boomalaka rent the a i r .
There were few policemen to be seen,
but they seemed quite interested and
carefully perused the leaflets handed
to them.
Back at the Union a Black Maria
was waiting. The occupants showed
great interest in the vehicular dis-
play and urged i t to depart with max-
W I N A P R O F E S S O R
Do you realise that for the meagre sura of One Pound from each student i t
would be possible to hold an Imperial College Sweepstake, the prize being one
year's individual tuition from the professor of the winner's choice? This i s ,
of course, rather far-fetched. Even so, i t seems that measures nearly as ex-
treme may be needed before long. Judging from letters received by FELIX, dis-
cussions heard around College and remarks made by members of staff, there are
some who feel very strongly that the education offered by thi3 College i s not
a l l i t should be. Dr. Hopkins of the Physics department asserts that "there
are many teachers who would find that, could they be compelled to listen to
their own lectures, they would not understand them." Dr. Weale even goes so
far as to suggest in the Phoenix that lectures might be scrapped completely.
So far, of course, i t i s the vociferous minority that has had i t s say.
But what i s your opinion? In an effort to gain a more representative selec-
tion of views, you are urged to f i l l i n the questionnaire inside. You need
not give a straight Yes or No, and relevant comments are welcome. Your name
is not needed. Just leave the completed questionnaire i n one of the collect-
ing boxes or in the Union Office, not later than May 14th.
imum haste. A few minutes later an
Inspector arrived — he had heard
about the procession on his radio and
had come along to join i n the fun,
suspecting that those outside were
from another college and trying to
gain admission. He too was handed
a leaflet: there ought to be quite
a sprinkling of the gendarmerie at
Bedford on Saturday.
PYJAMA PARTY
In the evening a seventy-strong
pyjama party, i n luxuriant night
attire, began their gay publicity
stunt from S. Kensington; to the
accompaniment of hot rhythm and
hectic jiving ( stationmasters
and reporters getting hep ) the
party deviously reached Blackfriars,
and thence proceeded to Fleet Street.
Here the law appeared gaily
whistling, attracting passionate
blown kisses from passing nightshirts.
On to Trafalgar Square, humming pat-
riotic airs, and provoking considerable
public interest. Here the skiffle
group provided musio for jiving in a
wonderful setting of floodlit foun-
tains — onlookers joining in.
But the law at last politely but
firmly intervened, informing the party
that they were contravening the "Sess-
ional law", as Parliament was then
sitting. The procession was forcibly
dispersed by 'A' Division but had soon
re-formed, and disappeared into the
depths of Green Park Station. The re-
vellers returned,as they went,to the
sound of strumming guitars.
S P O R T S D A Y
Coach tickets ( 2/-) from Bookstall
Buffet
M A Y I4th.
Bar
W H A T I T ' S A L L A B O U T
In spite of grumbling when money
is short, I suppose a l l of us realize
to a great extent how lucky we are to
be students in this country. We also
have some idea of the hardships and
difficulties that many overseas students
face i n their quest for learning, but
very rarely do we have the chance to
help these people, to supply money for
drugs, medicine, book3, equipment.
Tomorrow, however, the opportunity
does arise, for the World University
Service, with the help of most London
Colleges, including I.e., i s holding
a Carnival i n the grounds of Bedford
College, Regent's Park. A l l that i s
required i s for you to come and enjoy
yourself. There will be a Barbecue
Tea, Jiving, Jazz Band and Skiffle
Group Contests, West Indian Steel Bands,
Judo and fencing Displays, and a Beer
Drinking competition, as well as a host
of other amusements. Chad will also be
present sitting in a special chair sus-
pended above a tank of water, so i f
you have a secret longing to dunk the
President, here i s a splendid oppor-
tunity. The Carnival is from 1 p.m.
to 6 p.m., and is followed by a dance
at I.C., i n aid of W.U.S.

