4 F E L I X
EDITOR :
PETER LEVIN
CIRculction
I500
IS M A R R I A G E R E A L L Y N E C E S S A R Y ?
Earlier this year Professor Ubbelohde of the Chemical Engineering Department,
who i s a member of the Council of R.C.A. and a collector of paintings and objets
d'art, read to the Royal Society of Arts a paper on "The Marriage of Art and Science."
Unlike most would-be mind-broadeners he made out a convincing case for such a union.
Describing artistic urge as a creative human reaction to experience, he pointed out
that while technological progress had greatly amplified the range of human experience,
the reaction of art was towards unintelligibility and the abstract. Art thus pro-
vided no fundamental safeguard against the pressing claims of applied science,
which consequently became more and .lore starkly functional.
Every work of man has a social influence. A building replaced the "natural
inheritance of skyline, light and horizon, wind and weather, by a man-made artefact,
which generated new aesthetic experiences", and there could be no question that such
experiences 3hould be made generally ^leasing and elevating. Moreover, the inside
layout could impose on i t s users a sense of frustration and hurry, or a sense of
efficient living. Responsibility for the forming of "pleasing patterns or dull
trivialities in tue space-time curves of individuals in a building" was not to be
evaded by any "servile flight into 3tark functionalism."
The crux of t.iis argument is clear. The applied scientist will not f u l f i l
the social requirements of his construction without some access to artistic creation
while an artist w i l l miss much contemporary opportunity without some access to
applied science. These are the educational demands on the union between art and
science and these are the reasons why General Studies and Touchstone are a vital
part of our education at I.C.
F O O D IS N O S U B S T I T U T E
Taking with a pinch of salt press releases from the College that unctuously
refer to the General Studies lectures as a "bridge between different domains of
learning and interest," we should be grateful that one of our professors seems to
understand the reason for their importance. Unfortunately, on being asked "nhat
the Imperial College is doing to enable a rather homogeneous collection of scientists
to become acquainted with the Arts," Professor Ubbelohde could only plead that i t
was "difficult for me to reply oogently to that question, apart from quoting St.
Paul about the leaven in the lump." It emerged, however, that he i s promoting a
dining club to cement the marriage between the artists of the R.C.A. and the scien-
tists of I.C. This i s quite a bright idea and we may hope that something will come
of i t . But we cannot a l l discharge our responsibilities by joining a dining club.
I . C Y . H O L I D A Y
The newly formed cycling group of
the I.C.Y.H.A. made a six day tour of
the Lake District during the Easter
Vacation,meeting at the Crossthwaite
Hostel, whioh was both readily acces-
sible and a suitable starting point.
On the f i r s t day some rain occurred
at Bowness, but by the time that
Esthwaite Water was reached, suffi-
cient sun 3hone to make a very
picturesque scene.
The next day Walna Scar and Hard-
knott passes were climbed, the former
proving rather more difficult than was
expected, and a joint I.C./Bedford
party on a walking holiday was joined
at Eskdale Y.H. Two of the more energe-
t i c cyclists decided, amidst much scorn
to go 'over the tops' to Buttermere;
unperturbed, they made this journey
over Wasdale Head and Elacksail Pass,
arriving in pouring rain at the Butter-
mere Hostel,where they were met by the
others who had gone the longer and less
mountainous way. Rain continued a l l
the next day, which rather spoilt the
long and interesting climb up Honister.
A clay pigeon shoot provoked much
interest in the afternoon and several
members attempted to take seme photo-
graphs.
After staying the night in Keswick,
a Southwards course was set, amidst
picture postcard scenery, for Grassmere.
Attempts to find the Hostel nearby
ended with lost trails in a thick wood
near Langdale; this penultimate night
wa3 spent with the hiking party. On
the last stage over Kirkstone to
P O I N T S F R O M C O U N C I L
Apart from the reports from repre-
sentatives on coimittees, the agenda
of the last Council meeting wa3 quite
short. There were two announcements -
John Bell has taken over the Chairman-
ship of S.C.C., Tony Hodgson having
retired for health reasons, and the
proposed Easter conference was cancel-
led, due to the examination comr.iit-
ments at this season of Continental
Universities.
The question of carnival damage
was raided as a result of £30 worth
inflicted upon the front of the stage
during the R.C.S. Carnival. It will
be recalled that the Eastern staircase
was damaged by the headlong descent of
the bath used in the Guilds Carnival
cabaret. It wa3 felt that organisers
should pay, as a matter of principle,
for damage caused at or resulting
from such functions.
NEW - CHEM. ENG. SOC. TIE - NEW
ON SALE IN BOOK STALL
SILK & RAYON IhJ-, SILK £1.
Ullswater and ?enrith, the only un-
toward incident occurred when one
member decided to argue with the
dusty road; fortunately, he sustained
l i t t l e serious damage. After spending
the night at Garsdale Head Hostel,
voted the best of the trip, the party
split and went i t s several ways.
O H W O E !
At the end of last term the
Dramatic Society Easter production
of "Misery Me" by Dennis Cannan was
seen by those members of the College,
apparently few in number, who were
interested enough to investigate the
work of a College Society other than
their own. Finance can be no excuse
- one can attend for as l i t t l e as l/6d.
Although this was not the Society's
main production for the year, those
who did not go missed a pleasant even-
ing'3 entertainment even i f i t was
not of the high standard which the
Dramatic Society can^and do spas-
modically, reach.
If one member of the cast was
accidentally omitted from the pro-
gramme until the last minute t is
may have been due to his inaudibility
which made him lose character at times.
Unsuspected talent was revealed by
Janet Stevens who gave a very sincere
and sensitive interpretation of the
leading role; this i3 especially
creditable for, although in her
third year, i t i3 the first time Janet
has set foot on a 3tage as an actress.
Jake Spence gave the confident and
genuine performance which we have
come to expect of him; while Derek
Bayliss, a new-comer, gave ample
proof of his previous acting ex-
perience and will be a great asset
to the Society in the future. Sheila
Burbage obviously enjoyed her part
although i t did not greatly tax her
ability.
It was most unfortunate that the
producer also chose to act.
The set was good, i f rether in-
secure in moments of great crisis;
indeed the strength of one actor
proved too much for i t . It was well-
designed, creating an illusion of space
and demonstrated technical ingenuity
i f lack of artistic imagination. In
spite of the fact that three people
were in charge of publicity there was
not overmuch advertising, nor was i t
much in advance of the f i r s t night -
although one i s given to understand
that this was not entirely their
fault. Let us hope that this alone
was the reason for lack of support
from the College as no actor can per-
form well without the sympathetio co-
operation of an adequate audience.
NOT GOODENOUGH?
Sir,
Touched by an example of manners
bad even by the standards of Imperial
College, displayed in the recent ex-
amination of membership cards, I wish
to question the present system of in-
voluntary membership of t he Union.
Since I first came to the Imperial
College I have paid about £20 in tlnion
subscriptions. These have enab: 1 me
to mix socially with people I have no
wish to know, and have assisted a few
students to hold Union offices and, as
the number of bogus accents 3hows, to
become conscious of their social and
moral inferiority.
I su-^e3t that we either adopt the
Oxbridge system of selective member-
ship, or orovide the alternative of an
Upper and a Lower (Riijht or Left, i f
that is preferred) Union. Naturally,
but unfortunately, the Upper Union
subscription would nave to be consi-
derably the higher.
The latter system would enable
the more civilised section of the
present Union to avoid being annoyed
by the more brutal.
Yours faithfully,
K.F. Goodenough.

