BackChcit
The United Colours
of Sporting Rebellion
After spending his first sixteen years in South Africa, Peter Hain
moved to Britain in 1966. He studied Mechanical Engineering at
Imperial for a year before moving to Queen Mary College. He
became the Labour MP for Neath in 1991.
It is nothing to be terribly surprised about in
retrospect. I mean where else would you
expect to see Members of Parliament walking
around except outside the Houses of
Parliament. I'm actually there to interview
Peter Hain, the Labour M P for Neath but
being early I hang around for a while. Neil
Kinnock motors passed with a big grin and a
secretary in tow. On the other side of the road,
Gerald Kaufman sidles by. It's the first time
I've seen either man i n real life and despite
their numerous telly appearances, they look
somehow different in the flesh. Maybe it's that
they seem to have human traits instead of
being just party ciphers. Just then B i g Ben
strikes and it's time to go.
After several different doors, an X-ray
machine and two guard houses I'm in. I meet
Peter's secretary and we go into his office. It's
a cosy room, smaller than I imagined and the
dominant feature is the small tv screen bolted
to the wall. This appears to be for the purpose
of telling MPs when votes are taking place so
they can do their stuff whilst missing out the
boring speeches. However it doesn't seem to
change whilst I'm in the room so I can't be
positive about that. Peter's on the phone -
taking to some journalists as chance would
have it. So I get to look around his office some
more. There's a large poster of N e l s o n
Mandela broadly smiling and the new South
African flag in the background. A few pictures
of Peter in action are dotted around, probably
engaged in M P business. He finishes with the
phone and we get started.
Peter Hain was born i n Kenya but his
parents were leading activists i n the South
African anti apartheid movement who
happened to be out of the country for a year.
He grew up in South Africa in what could be
called rather trying circumstances. "Well it
was different," Peter says. H e still has a
definite accent and his voice is quiet and slow.
"But it was a very happy childhood, which I
think is a great tribute to my parents,
although it was unusual in the sense that they
were jailed for eleven days at one stage."
Indeed by 1964 both his mother and
father were issued with banning orders which
restricted their movements and eventually led
to the family moving back to the U K in 1966.
So did he experience political culture
shock on coming to Britain? "There was a
cultural culture shock", he laughs. "I mean for
a start it was cold and wet and I was surprised,
amnnmanmna
.Slil i n n n n
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil
k i u n n i
l|ininmiH[imi»Hffli
(iv**"'!''^"' •
<
it shows you the kind of romantic ignorance
involved, but I was surprised how rundown
London seemed." "Politically it just seemed
less serious" he adds, "politics seemed less
serious, it was not as life and death as it clearly
was in South Africa".
Following 'A' Level choices of pure and
applied maths and physics, it seemed that
Peter was well on the way to becoming an
engineer. Indeed before coming to Imperial to
do M e c h a n i c a l Engineering he spent an
apprentice year at Lucas. However he was still
active i n political circles especially i n the
Young Liberals Movement. So it was that
when it was announced that a (white) South
African Cricket team were going to tour
B r i t a i n , Peter, also a keen sportsman,
proposed that the Young Liberals should take
direct action to stop the tour taking place.
F r o m that point i n January 1969 things
developed very quickly and by August an
official group was formed. T h e Stop The
Seventies Tour (STST) committee was set up
to organise disruption to the tour. Peter was
initially only the spokesman but he soon
became seen as the chairman - at least the
newspapers said so.
However at the same time as he was
running around the country disrupting the
Springboks' rugby tour, Peter was also a
studying at Imperial. C o n s i d e r i n g our
reputation as a right wing college, what was it
like then? "Well, you know, I enjoyed my
time there" he says. "I had an excellent tutor
and people in my tutor group and my lectures
were always friendly although I have to say for
me Imperial was an academic sort of existence.
I never spent any time socially there".
However he did retain some affection for part
of the Mech. Eng building. "I'd spend my
lunch hour on the phone i n a call box just
opposite the mechanical engineering building
... I used to literally spend every lunchhour
with a couple of sandwiches, being phoned
back by newspapers all over the country and
by organisers all over the place."
Yet after one year Peter decided that
engineering and Imperial was not for him so
he moved to Queen Mary College and studied
Economics instead. However the S T S T
campaign had been a great success. A t its
height it had attracted over 3,000 protesters to
a single match and a total of 50,000 over the
period of its organisation. It gained the
support of major unions, caused international
concern about the status of the 1970
Commonwealth Games, created a political hot
potato w i t h i n the U K and then finally
fulfilled its aim. O n the 21 May, 1970 the
M C C finally withdrew their invitation to the
South Africans.
Twenty five years on, Peter Hain the
radical student has become Peter Hain the
respectable M P . Does he feel limited by the
fact that he has to work within the system
now? "I was never content with only holding
up a banner or pursuing a single issue
campaign" he says. "I always believed i n a
general political approach because that's the
way you change society". So are you still
inspired to get things done? "I think it's an
fantastic job" he ends. " M y colleagues find it
very frustrating but I think it depends as to
whether you have any illusions about it ... my
moto is you can only get disillusions i f you
have illusions in the first place." Q
F E L I X

