Feature
One Hundred Years After The
Destruction of Imperial
M i k e N e w m a n
c e l e b r a t e s t h e l i f e
a n d c h a r a c t e r o f
T . H . H u x l e y
One hundred years ago, 1895, three significant
events took place. As always, with events that are
chosen as triplets, they contained both
contradiction and irony. One was the birth of a
man as a writer; his first novel was published, and it
could be seen as one of the first great modern
science fiction books. In the same year his greatest
teacher died at the age of seventy. The writer's later
novels were to celebrate this teacher, a brilliant
scientist and educator.
The third event links the two; the disturbing
image of the first motorised flight. Two scientists,
intrepid inventors, Monson and Woodhouse, fly the
first aeroplane over London. As they pass over
Kilburn and Hampstead they lose control of the
plane and...
"So swiftly had the thing happened that
barely a quarter of the people going to and fro in
Hyde Park and Brompton Road, and the Exhibition
Road saw anything of the aerial catastrophe...
For perhaps half a minute, the pointed stem
of the big machine still raised vertically upward, the
screw spinning desperately. For one brief instant,
that yet seemed an age to all who watched, it hung
motionless in mid-air. Then a spout of yellow flame
licked up its length from the stern engine, and
swift, swifter, swifter, and flaring like a rocket, it
rushed down upon the solid mass of masonry which
was formerly the Royal
College of Science.."
The short story,
'Argonauts of the A i r ' ,
published in 1895 by an ex-
student of Imperial College,
ends with the devastated
ruins of the college and its
Student's Club as a
monument to the 'gallant
experimentalists' and to 'the
desperate struggle for man's
right of way through the air'.
The writer was H . G.
Wells, and his teacher was
Professor T. H . Huxley, Dean of the Royal College
of Science. The book was 'The Time Machine'.
Why did Wells celebrate the image of his
college by destroying it in 1895? This image of
destruction was a reversal of the view Wells had of
his aimer mater. To him the College destroyed
science by training students as technicians in the
skills of science, and cramming them with
knowledge, meanwhile destroying its heart and
soul. This heart and soul, was represented by his
two heroes, with their imaginative creativity.
'Argonauts of the Air' has true scientists accidently
destroying the threat to their science.
...it is true now, as
ever it was, that the
people perish for
lack of knowledge."
W e l l s ' image of science can be found
pervading nearly all his short stories and novels.
The background to this is his student days at the
Royal College of Science, then called the Normal
School of Science, and a place dedicated to
producing science teachers for the newly created
state school system. Wells was a trainee science
teacher, having won a scholarship while teaching as
a junior master.
T. H . Huxley taught Wells during his first
year. Their classroom and laboratory, described in
'Love and M r Lewisham', is situated on the top
floor of the 'Henry Cole Wing' of the V & A . This
building was the Normal School of Science. Here
Huxley taught with great enthusiasm, refusing to
accept more lucrative teaching jobs at other
Universities, and in America. He believed in the
future role and importance of Imperial College and
South Kensington.
In his teaching he used beautiful models,
made in Paris, that can still be seen in the College
Archives. He believed it was the responsibility of
the teacher to free the minds of students from
dogma and lack of thought.
'The politicians tell us, " Y o u must educate
the masses because they are going to be masters".
The clergy join in the cry for education, for they
affirm that people are drifting away from the church
and chapel into the broadest infidelity. The
manufacturers and the capitalists swell the chorus
lustily. They declare that ignorance makes bad
workmen; that England will soon be unable to turn
cotton goods, or steam engines cheaper than other
people; and then, Ichabod! Ichabod! The glory will
be departed from us. And a few voices are lifted up
in favour of the doctrine that the masses should be
educated because they are men and women with
unlimited capacities of being, doing, and suffering,
and that it is true now, as ever it was, that the
people perish for lack of knowledge.' - A Liberal
Education and Where to Find it, 1868 (Professor T.
H . Huxley)
He worked on Government committees on
education, he wrote textbooks, one of which was for
London schools, on how to use the local landscape
to teach geology, geography and human geography.
He believed you teach the child by starting with
what they already know, using what is familiar to
the child, and by the child actively doing things.
He was on the first London School Board, despite
protests from the Church. And he even successfully
threatened to resign if the Board agreed to fund
Church Schools. For this was the man that coined
the term 'Agnostic' for his beliefs. He believed in
the idea that truth was something you should
always be able to test, open to scrutiny and
0
1
2 F E L I X 2 0 J A I 1 9 5

