ultimately to verification. God and the afterlife
were not open to testing and therefore not a part of
knowledge.
After his first son had died at the age of four,
just after Christmas (indeed near the date when he
had been born - his name was Noel) and with
Huxley's wife being a devout Christian, Huxley
corresponded with the vicar and writer, Charles
Kingsley. K i n g s l e y , who admired H u x l e y
enormously, wanted to convert him and wrote soon
after Noel's death to this end. Huxley's response, a
few weeks after this tragic bereavement tells us of
the nature of this man;
" M y Dear Kingsley - I cannot sufficiently
thank you, both on my wife's account and my own,
for your long and frank letter, and for all the hearty
sympathy it exhibits... M y convictions, positive and
negative, on all the matters of which you speak, are
of long and slow growth and are firmly rooted. But
the great blow which fell upon me seemed to stir
them to their foundation... I have searched over the
grounds of my belief, and if wife and child and
name and fame were all to be lost to me one after
the other as penalty, still I will not lie.
... But the longer I live, the more obvious it is
to me that the most sacred act of a man's life is to
say and feel, "I believe such and such to be true."...
The universe is one and the same throughout; and
if the condition of my success in unravelling some
little difficulty of anatomy or physiology is that I
shall rigorously refuse to put faith in that which
does not rest on sufficient evidence, I cannot believe
that the great mysteries of existence will be laid
open to me on other terms...
As I stood behind the coffin of my little son
the other day, with my mind bent on anything but
disputation, the officiating minister read, as part of
his duty, the words, "If the dead rise not again, let
us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die." I cannot
tell you how inexpressibly they shocked me...
...As our laws stand, if the lowest thief steals
my cost, my evidence (my opinions being known)
would not be received against him.
But I cannot help it. One thing people shall
not call me with justice, and that is - a liar. As you
say of yourself, I too feel that I lack courage; but if
ever the occasion arises when I am bound to speak,
I will not shame my boy..."
Huxley represents a symbol of science as
enquiring of truth but reflecting upon what truth
means and how it affects the rest of our lives. He
was a great writer; a biography of Huxley was
included i n the series of volumes on ' M o d e r n
E n g l i s h Writers', published by Blackwood,
alongside George Eliot, Browning and Dickens.
His life is about the relationship between education,
science, art and politics. H e , of all people,
encompasses the history and meaning of the South
Kensington complex of museums and institutions.
His student, Wells, has left us the romantic legacy
of his novels and short stories that examine these
issues.
There can be no finer opportunity for
Imperial College and all the other institutions to
reflect upon themselves, their past and their present
relationships, through a celebration of Huxley and
Wells.
"The longer I live, the more obvious it is
to me that the most sacred act of a man's
life is to say and feel, 'I believe such and
such to be true/ "
I urge those students who are excited about ;
the nature of science and its relationship with i
human knowledge and creativity, as celebrated by I
the buildings, if not the institutions of South i
Kensington (read the inscription around the roof of j
the Albert Hall and you will be surprised!) to help i
organise events for next year. We need the re- j
starting of the Huxley Society, which I founded in i
1992. Leave your names i n the Students Union j
Office and sign a motion asking for the society to be i
refounded. It needs only 20 signatures, I think. ;
Michael Newman, Imperial College Alumni, Science \
Teacher, Teacher of English in Italy. (All references in j
this article, except those regarding the death of Huxley's j
son, can be found in a collection of Wells' writings \
about Imperial College, edited by Michael Newman \
called 'Breaking the Shackles', cost £2:00). I
2 0 « F E L I X MM

