POLITICS
FELIX
10
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
New Zealand
Two Iranian warships have entered the Suez Ca-
nal en-route to Syria, according to canal officials.
This has sparked concerns in Israel with the Israeli
Prime Minister accusing Iran of trying to expand its
influence in the region. However, Iran has dismissed
Israeli claims saying that it was a planned year long
training mission on intelligence gathering to prepare
cadets to defend Iranian ships from Somali pirates.
The two ships are armed with missiles and torpe-
does and have been allowed to transit the canal as
they do not contain nuclear or chemical weapons.
Although, the Suez Canal is an internal body of wa-
ter, Egypt is bound by the 1978 Camp David Accords
and the 1888 Constantinople Convention to guaran-
tee the freedom of passage of ships belonging to
all nations.
Iran
A magnitude 6.3
earthquake has struck
the city of Christch-
urch in New Zealand’s
South Island killing at
least 75 people. The
earthquake is New
Zealand’s deadliest
natural disaster in 80
years and struck dur-
ing Christchurch’s busy lunchtime hour. Sections of
the city, including the city’s landmark Christchurch
Cathedral have been damaged. Christchurch is built
on silt, sand and gravel with a water table lying di-
rectly underneath the city. This makes the city par-
ticularly vulnerable to the process of liquefaction of
the soil during an earthquake.
India
A special court in India has found 31 people guilty
of setting fire to a passenger train in the town of
Godhra in 2002. The burning of the Samarbadi Ex-
press killed 59 Hindu pilgrims and sparked a reli-
gious riot in India which left over 2000 dead. Tues-
day’s verdict supports claims that the attack was
a planned attack. An earlier national inquiry on the
incident, drew the conclusion that the fire was an
accident, although other official investigations dif-
fered in their findings. The special court also ac-
quitted 63 people of conspiracy and murder and is
expected to read out the sentences of those found
guilty on Friday.
We finished dinner around ten o’clock and the
shooting started perhaps ten minutes later. It
may be a cliché but the air really did feel elec-
trified as I hugged the ground to myself in the
pitch black night. Bullets were soon coming
across us from both sides of our camp but two
minutes later, twelve minutes after dinner was
finished, the shooting stopped. Battles are in-
evitably short when a bullet cost as much as a
day’s food.
We were in a village turned refugee camp in
Northern Kenya where perhaps 500 of the Tur-
kana people were taking shelter from a tribal
dispute with neighbouring Ethiopians. The
Ethiopian tribe was known to attack even this
concentrated group of Turkana – two members
of my adult literacy class had been shot dead
while fishing nearby just two months earlier.
But it soon transpired that this attack, break-
ing weeks of unprecedented ceasefire, was evi-
dence that the Turkana had a new enemy to con-
tend with- their own police. Drunk and heavily
armed, a group of Kenyan police (dispatched to
the area to cool tribal tensions) entered the ref-
ugee camp to take a group of women away on
invented claims of petty theft. When the men
of the village, some of them husbands to these
women, refused them permission the police
eventually drove away, firing drunkenly at the
camp as they left. When the refugees returned
fire, police camped beside us started to shoot
across our camp and into the village. Kenyans
were firing on Kenyans.
Only alcohol and low visibility prevented
anyone from dying that night and by morning,
though feeling uneasy, most of the Turkana
had shaken off the events of the night before.
Men were tending to their goats, women salted
fish for market and the children (those not out
working) went to school. But this return to nor-
mality wasn’t because no one cared. The only
way that a whole village of people can accept
the threat of rape and the knowledge that loved
ones were inches from death is if they have no
hope. Nothing will change, so just get on with
things. Injustice was robbing them of the little
they had.
The Turkana aren’t the only Kenyans to suf-
fer at the hands of their own law enforcers;
reports of extra judicial killings by the police
are all too common. In 2008, a report by Ke-
nya’s own National Commission on Human
Rights found that an estimated 500 young
men were killed or disappeared in a single
campaign by the police against the criminal
Mugiki group. According to the report, the
killings took place with the apparent support
of political leaders, including the internal se-
curity minister. Since its publication, one of
the report’s key witnesses has been killed and
several of the authors have had to flee abroad.
Yet its findings were dismissed by police
commissioner Major-General Hussein Ali as
being “rather infantile”.
Worryingly, killings such as these often en-
joy public approval; they are seen as preferable
to a slow and often corrupt legal system. Just
last month, photographs emerged in The Daily
Nation newspaper showing a plain clothed po-
lice officer execute three unarmed men at point
blank by the side of a busy road. The papers
and radio stations were full the next day with
ordinary Kenyans backing the use of lethal
force by the police as an acceptable alternative
to due legal process.
But the tide of public opinion is starting
to turn. Revelations that at least 400 of the
1,500 who died during 2008’s post election
violence were killed by Kenyan police have
made clearer to the public that not all vic-
tims of this ‘rough justice’ need be hardened
criminals. The burst of civic education in the
build up to the ratification of the country’s
new constitution last August has educated a
new generation of Kenyans about the impor-
tance of rights and accountability. The im-
mense popularity of the mobile phone means
that more and more Kenyans can make anon-
ymous complaints about the police. These
developments can only be a good thing and
must be encouraged.
But it remains to be seen how long it will
take for change to trickle through to the Tur-
kana people. Mobile phone masts don’t reach
that far into the country side and very few
adults have the minimum education necessary
to file a complaint. The Kenyan police alone
wrote the report on that night’s shooting – it
was all started, of course, by the refugees.
Changes in the public’s attitude towards po-
lice impunity as well as tools to fight it are
to be welcomed and can receive support from
the international community but it is hard to
see change on the horizon for the people of
Turkana. Ill fortune may have robbed them of
the health, education and prosperity given to
so many others but to see them robbed too of
hope is heartbreaking.
A plain clothed Kenyan policeman photographed shooting suspects on a busy road
“Bullets
were
coming
across us
from both
sides”
Rory Fenton
“Worryingly, killings such
as these often enjoy
public approval”
The Turkana people of northern Kenya
Friday 25 february 2011

