openly rejected the criticism, describing
Jerusalem as their capital, not occupied
territory. While being sure to guarantee
Israel’s security, Obama has, nonethe-
less, continued to push for a two state
solution.
Let’s be clear; this UN resolution, like
so many others, did not hold practical
implications but was one of principle.
The settlements are already deemed to
be illegal by the International Court of
Justice and there was no serious talk of
sanctions, let alone troops or peacekeep-
ers, against Israel if the resolution was
passed. In other words, it simply reflects
T
he Lib Dems have been
criticized by everyone and
their dog since they joined
the coalition last May – the
turnaround on tuition fees,
their complicity in the public sector cuts,
allowing the Tories in to Number 10.
We’ve all heard it before: the Lib Dems
are doomed, we’ll never vote for them
again, yadda, yadda, yadda.
But really, the Lib Dems have achieved
way more than most people give them
credit for. Yes, they have broken a mani-
festo commitment against raising tuition
fees, yes, they have gone into coalition
with the hated Tories but really, was
there an alternative?
The election delivered a hung par-
liament, and with a hurricane of debt
threatening to engulf Greece, the scar-
ily large deficit seemed to put Britain
at risk of having a debt crisis as well.
Sure, in hindsight, we weren’t likely to
get caught up by the same tidal wave as
Greece but we had no way to be sure
at the time. A stable government, able
to take the drastic measures needed, was
necessary.
So that ruled out the Tories going it
alone, or a Lib-Lab Coalition (the num-
bers just didn’t add up). This left two
options – either an unwieldy Grand Co-
alition of the Center-left, comprised of
every party except the Conservatives
and UKIP, or a Con-Lib coalition. With
Gordon Brown less popular than a pile
of dog turd, and the prospect of a 5+-par-
ty coalition with a whisker-thin majority
POLITICS
FELIX 11
Why I still agree with Nick
heritance tax threshold. There are also
more subtle influences: the “lock them
up and throw away the key” mentality
of the Tory right would have made Ken
Clarke’s position much harder (prison
reform that much more controversial),
defense cuts would have been less harsh
meaning more cuts in other services,
in the Commons, we chose the latter.
Political coalitions are common on
the continent, and they are ultimately
all about compromise. Both sides have
had to give up a lot, the Tory right is
just as, if not more, unhappy about the
coalition than the Lib Dems. But the
fact of the matter is the Lib Dems agree
with the mainstream Tories on many is-
sues – civil liberties, crime and prison
reform, how to improve public servic-
es, controlling the deficit and stream-
lining the welfare state. We might not
agree on specifics, and we support the
policies for different reasons, but ulti-
mately, that is fertile middle ground for
compromise.
In coalition, we have made changes
and introduced legislation that the To-
ries would never have done of their own
accord: increasing the personal allow-
ance by £1,000, increasing the rate of
capital gains tax to 50%, actually put-
ting in place a banking levy and stop-
ping the Tories from increasing the in-
there would have been more aggressive
with their cuts to welfare, more aggres-
sive to cuts to education and they would
have plowed ahead with the rise in tu-
ition fees anyway.
Ah yes, I bet you were wondering how
long it’d take for me to get around to the
elephant in the room - the rise in tuition
fees. The increases are a bitter pill to
swallow, and I certainly don’t agree with
such drastic rises, but it is just one pol-
icy (albeit a major one), and given Os-
borne’s determination to hack away at
university budgets with a battleaxe, it’s
a necessary one. If we voted down the
proposals, then the universities would
be in a quandary – they’d have lost their
government funding, but have no inde-
pendent source of revenue to make up
for it. There have also been measures
to temper the proposals – increasing the
loan repayment threshold, a bursary for
the poorest students, and keeping the
cap at £9,000 rather than having them
uncapped like many universities wanted
them to be. None of it is good – but it
could be a lot worse.
Before you call me a sycophant, I dis-
agree with the party and the coalition
on many things. I still don’t agree with
higher education cuts in the first place –
but given Osborne, we took the least bad
option. I feel we should have bargained
harder for good cabinet posts – particu-
larly the Home Office, so we’d be able
to better push through our agenda on
civil liberties. The defense cuts were
too small, and the NHS reforms are a
recipe for disaster. But on the whole, 9
months into the coalition, the Lib Dems
have made a substantial impact on the
running of the government. The polls
state the Lib Dems are headed for elec-
toral oblivion but the election isn’t for
another four years; things can only get
better.
Nick Clegg fondly recalls his night of passion with Katie Price
The Liberal Democrats are doing the right thing argues Tagore Nakornchai
Last week a UN resolution tabled by
Lebanon, condemning Israel’s settle-
ments as illegal, was vetoed by the Unit-
ed States. This came despite overwhelm-
ing support for the resolution from most
of the international community, includ-
ing the other fourteen Security Council
members – even the United Kingdom,
France and Germany did not abstain.
Rather, the representative of Israel’s Eu-
ropean allies, British ambassador Mark
Lyall Grant, described the settlements as
“illegal under International law.”
Considering the history of the USA
and Israel in the UN, this seems like
business as usual. After all, the USA
has vetoed 10 different resolutions con-
demning Israel since 2000. The tenden-
cy of other Western powers to support
or abstain from such resolutions is often
seen in Israel and the United States as
Obama’s muddled foreign policy
“The settlements are
already deemed to
be illegal”
a political populist move. Unsurpris-
ingly, the USA is seen as the only ally
for a country surrounded by states that
at best mistrust it and, at worst, want it
wiped off the map. However, given the
Obama administration’s general policy
regarding Israel as well as its fear over
protests rocking the rest of the region, it
is a strange political move.
After all, since coming to power,
the Obama administration has taken a
markedly less supportive view of Is-
raeli policy than under George W. Bush.
Obama and Israeli Prime Minister Ben-
jamin Netanyahu have openly disagreed
over Israel’s right to continue building
in occupied territory. In November, Hil-
ary Clinton said “The United States was
deeply disappointed by the announce-
ment of advance planning for new hous-
ing units in sensitive areas of east Jeru-
salem,” describing the new construction
as “counterproductive.” Netanyahu
Rajat Jain the current policy of the Obama admin-
istration.
It also comes at a time when Western
policy towards other countries in the re-
gion is coming under close scrutiny. The
potential transition from autocratic dic-
tatorships to popular democracy in the
Middle East and North Africa ought to
excite liberal democracies. Instead, Arab
peoples are asking why these govern-
ments, particularly the USA, so actively
helped prop up these unpopular leaders
whose ideology was apparently opposed
to their own. Unfortunately, the cynical
answers of “oil”, “money” and “to pro-
tect Israel” are popular.
The issue here is not simply whether
or not it is right to support the resolution
– it is what message the United States
wants to send to the rest of the world.
Openly disagreeing with Israel and then
not supporting this symbolic move will
anger both Israel and the Arab world.
This continued inconsistency has rap-
idly eliminated the United States’ cred-
ibility at a time when a trustworthy ar-
bitrator is vital for peace in the world’s
most unstable region.
“In coalition, we have
made changes and
introduced legislation
that the Tories would
never have done”
Sending mixed signals
Friday 25 february 2011

