12
COM M ENT
felix
W
hy did I choose to
stay at Clayponds
Village, the Imperial
postgraduate hall?
Easy: I wanted
to socialise and meet people. It’s been
great fun so far. Welcome Week was
packed with events, introducing me to
a new gang of friends. The major par-
ties, such as the recent Chinese New
Year, have run smoothly with loads of
people attending – a credit to the man-
agers, wardens and student volunteers
who made them happen. They’d be im-
possible without the amenities fund – a
central fund which uses 1–3% of the rent
from each Hall resident.
Why impossible? It’s a matter of risk.
Without a central fund to draw from,
events will only ever go ahead if they are
zero–risk, like getting together groups
for discounts on tickets to a musical.
However, a big event might require a
marquee, a band, food and drink – paid
in advance. What are the chances of get-
ting over a hundred students to throw
down a tenner on an event, six weeks
ahead, which won’t even go ahead if the
numbers don’t add up?
The issue of Hall rents, and measures
to bring them down, has cropped up re-
cently, and there’s a review to scrutinise
of the funding in the works.
Union president Alex Kendall men-
tioned in a recent Felix interview that he
believes “it is a fundamental principle is
that no alcohol should be funded from
the amenities fund... the fact that some
students are subsidising others to drink
alcohol is, I think, quite immoral.”
Immoral? Really? The choice not
to drink is up to an individual; for my
own reasons, I didn’t drink until I turned
twenty. However, it’s ridiculous to say
that central funds can’t be spent on
something if a small number of people
choose not to take advantage.
Sure, with clubs and societies, grant
money should be spent on the specific
activity of the club, not booze. Howev-
er, the specific purpose of an amenities
fund is to pay for social amenity in the
form of facilities and events, and many
people in halls enjoy a drink when they
socialise. Should we also make it a fun-
damental principle that we can’t have
karaoke at halls events, in case there are
people who don’t sing?
The argument also ignores the fact
that hall residents can have an active say
in the way the amenities fund is spent.
Don’t drink? Fine. Suggest and organ-
ise a cheap bowling night or theatre trip.
Most subsidised activities at Clayponds
are non–drinking; however, some of
those with alcohol provided have been
the biggest and best attended, by all
kinds of residents.
The character and safety of living in a
Hall is improved by the social cohesion
created when students know each other.
That’s facilitated by well–run events
Playtime is over
which are cheaper and more accessible
than those we can organise on our own.
When I took up my accommodation of-
fer, I expected that there would be ac-
tive encouragement of a community en-
vironment by the Hall. There has been,
and it’s because of the amenities fund,
along with a great wardening team.
The issue can be solved with greater
transparency, which I hope the review
delivers (and who would argue against
lower rent?). Why not show a typical
full rent breakdown – not just of the
‘non-fundamental’parts – on the accom-
modation website? If a student doesn’t
want to have £2 per week of their rent
going towards a year–long, openly
planned social program, they can choose
to find accommodation elsewhere.
For me, that £2 has been the best value
of my rent package by far. Where is the
rest going?
The social events provided by the amenities fund is the
best part of hall life. Why take it out of students’hands?
David Robertson
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
You can take away our amenities fund, but you can never take our sparklers
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
“”
It’s a matter of risk. Without
a central fund to draw from
events will only go ahead if
they are zero–risk.
“For me, the social
programme has been
the best value of my
rent so far”
History does repeat itself. Earlier this term,
the Union shut down the entire IC Radio
website because of the content of one
broadcast and last week the College shut
down an entire Union server because of a
single benign sentence and the use of a
couple of swear words; if we were to extrap-
olate by magnitude and ridiculousness, one
would expect the government to ban the
internet next week when a member of the
public is tagged in a particularly unflatter-
ing photo on Facebook.
Of course, while the nature of the Col-
lege’s response is irresponsible, their im-
pulse to blindly pull the plug at the first sign
of danger is not without rationale. They have
a duty to uphold Imperial’s reputation and
this includes ensuring that libellous, rac-
ist or unjustifiably offensive material isn’t
associated with this university or its mem-
bers. To suggest otherwise would be child-
ish – our degrees and research rely, in part,
on the good reputation of our university.
However, the College must also remem-
ber that it has a reputation within these
walls. The move towards an increased role
of alumni funding is dependent on stu-
dents today maintaining a positive attitude
towards their alma mater. This is not the
only reason to act fairly; as Deputy Presi-
dent (Clubs & Societies) Heather Jones
astutely points out, if Clubs & Societies
don’t believe that their online content will
be treated proportionally and fairly, they will
lose trust and move it off the Union servers.
Given that the reason to insist that all clubs
host their websites on the Union servers
is so that the College’s reputation can be
protected, this breakdown in trust is clearly
undesirable.
The College could simply hold their hands
up and say, “We made a mistake.” Indeed
the Rector has already apologised for the
reaction of the College and that apology will
go some way to maintain relations. But that
is not nearly enough. A better and clearer
understanding of the complaints proce-
dure, guidelines for removal of content and
process for appeal needs to be built be-
tween Clubs & Societies, the Union and the
College. Otherwise these farcical events
are doomed to be repeated.
FELIX
Lessons to Learn
David Robertson
Friday 25 february 2011
The Sherfield NatWest is closing and
though it’s difficult to feel too sad (one nev-
er leaves its dreary premises with a spring
in their step) the College shouldn’t alter the
use of the space. The Santander branch on
the walkway alone is not sufficient to serve
Imperial students. Another bank should be
sought; as long as it’s not a Metro Bank...
Ciao NatWest!

