A R T S
FELIX
14
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you read nothing else
this week...
Kelly Osborne recommends an
award-winning adventure story
which explores spirituality alone on
a boat with a tiger.
Which books will get us through to the end of term?
Tell us about your favourite in 300-400 words and
send it to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Looking for a thought provoking but comfortable and
easy read? Look no further. A book which should not
be rejected for having pi in the title. Don’t worry,
there’s nary a mention of the ratio of a circle to its
diameter between its covers.
Life of Pi follows the unusual adventures of the
hero Piscine Patel (named by his parents after a
parisian swimming-pool), through his childhood
and his later unsuccessful migration to Canada.
Not just a narration of the story, the book takes a
deeper look into philosophical issues, addressing
religion in its several forms.
Pi himself has dabbled in a selection of faiths,
illustrative of his inquisitive and progressive nature
that creates a character so likeable that the read-
er’s stake in the story becomes more than that of
a mere observer, Martel manages to completely im-
merse us until the character feels like a friend, in a
way that causes us to dangerously invest ourselves
in the story.
This may sound thoroughly pretentious and un-
interesting, but the addition of a Bengal tiger (aka
Richard Parker), an orang-utan and a long lived
shipwreck spices things up halfway through. The
second half becomes an epic journey through the
Atlantic and the realms of insanity before reaching
its both frustrating and deeply disturbing conclu-
sion, that (rarely for a book, I find) leaves the reader
satisfied.
The book won the Man Booker prize despite being
rejected by almost half a dozen publishers before
firmly lodging itself into print. This could be due to
the simplicity of the novel and possibly the slightly
ambling start – but those who put it down at this
early stage are as foolish as those who think that
bananas can’t float.
by
Yann Martel
Life of Pi
Will Prince
Personally, I thought Al Gore had flogged the
climate change donkey for all it was worth.
Most people recycle now, protesters have found
new things to riot over and we have a Liberal
Democrat as Minister for Climate Change – the
war seemed, to all intents and purposes, won.
Was I wrong? Is climate change killing us?
Will someone I’ve heard of ever play Metric?
Will we ever find out? Personally, I don’t know
but I’m sure the Rector has it all in hand.
One thing I can say with semi-certainty, is
that green plays are the new black on the the-
atre scene. After several years of mulling over
the issues during sweltering dog days and
grindingly cold winters, the playwrights have
put pen to paper and heralded the forecast for
2011.
The first among the new wave is The Heretic,
a play very close to the interests of Imperial
students. Not only is it showing at the ever-
reliable Royal Court, barely a post-code away
in Sloane Square, but it explores the story of an
Earth Sciences Professor and her struggles in
the face of a ruthlessly competitive scientific
community, the courtship of corporate spon-
sors and an equally volatile, vulnerable fam-
ily life at home. The key difference being that
Dr. Diane Cassell is a climate change skeptic,
swimming against the current, and confident in
her views. (Check Monday’s Daily Felix for
Greenland, the NT’s own stab at global warm-
ing on stage).
I’ll confess I was a little crushed upon real-
ising it was set in Yorkshire – not as close to
Prince Consort Road as I had at first hoped – but
I was quickly assuaged by Juliet Stevenson’s
authoritative performance as Diane Cassell, the
robust, assured scientist, as her life begins to
unravel after she receives death threats from
militant eco-activist groups. Through exchang-
es with her anorexic daughter, her hapless boss
and a bright yet emotionally delicate student,
we see a woman defend her principles in the
face of a world that disagrees with her, beyond
even the scientific.
Richard Bean and Jeremy Herrin, as writer
and director respectively, have crafted a very
economical piece in The Heretic. Its efficiency
with cast and set is worthy of commendation
and the script metes out tight punches of well
observed, sardonic comment that maintain the
flow of the piece throughout. The script’s tar-
gets are wide and varied, Richard Bean doesn’t
Do you believe in Science?
seem afraid to poke a bit of fun at anyone in
the name of humour – Muslims, media stud-
ies students and James Lovelock beware. The
cast are arguably suited to their characters;
James Fleet, famed for playing bozo Hugo in
the Vicar of Dibley (a smash hit UK sitcom that
defined a generation, for the international read-
ers out there), brings the same disarming goofi-
ness to Professor Maloney, the head of depart-
ment, and Johnny Flynn carries the satire of the
green-fiend student well, without ever pushing
the character into the ridiculous.
Whilst it is centred on climate change, the
play takes on more of the guise of a roman-
tic comedy – not to give too much away –
which makes Quentin Letts’ review tagline of
“Hooray! This will make the right-on brigade
hot and bothered” in the Daily Mail all the
more distressing. The Heretic isn’t going to
win round Al Gore, it wasn’t written to win
round Al Gore. It is thought-provoking and
heart-warming (what would a positive theatre
review be without those two?) but is by no
means scientific polemic and towards the end
has touches of fairy tale that would dissatisfy
the scientist in anyone. If you’re as of yet un-
convinced, go simply for the Jeremy Paxman
cameo. No joke.
At The Royal Court Theatre until 19th
March, £8 for under 25s.
The Heretic, a stone’s throw from Imperial, asks about
evidence and whether climate change is our new religion
“If you’re unconvinced,
go simply for the Jeremy
Paxman cameo. No joke.”
This character is the leading environmental researcher and climate change sceptic,and she’s explaining about polar bears apparently
Friday 25 february 2011

