LGBT HISTORY MONTH
FELIX 15
Friday 25 february 2011
Gay and
working at
Imperial
Homosexuality was decriminalised in the UK
in 1967; just 2 years later the earliest homo-
sexual rights groups start forming. The first
LGBT History Month took place in 2005, in
the aftermath of the abolishment of section
28, a piece of legislation that stated that a
local authority “promote the teaching in any
maintained school of the acceptability of ho-
mosexuality as a pretended family relation-
ship”. The first ever celebration included over
150 events nationwide, celebrating LGBT
people and the movement towards a more
equal and open society. The rights and laws
of the United Kingdom have changed dramat-
ically since decriminalisation; equalising the
age of consent, allowing civil partnerships
and adoption for same sex couples.
In more recent times, gay rights campaigns
have been taken much further afield, some
believe that countries where homosexuality
carries the death penalty should be the tar-
get of new, fresh campaigns, a belief that is
carried by many high ranking politicians and
human rights campaigners. In the UK the
battle for gay equality is not over, journal-
ists for reputable newspapers and the Daily
Mail have shown that homophobia still ex-
ists, some even suggest that “homosexuals
are pushing an agenda to turn children gay”.
The Daily Mail anti-journalist Melanie Phillips
seems to suggest that schools would teach
‘gaydom’ in every subject, including teach-
ing why gay people move from the country-
side to the city in Geography (a move that is
suitably explained by the homophobia they
recieve in the countryside).
Moving towards an equal and open society
It is estimated that approximately 10% of
the human population are LGBT and accord-
ing to the Felix sex survey that figure rises
to 15% at Imperial College; this may be be-
cause Felix attracts a rather skewed audi-
ence or because the gender imbalance cre-
ates some desperation in the crowd. In any
case the rights and safety of a minority are
taken care of by a number of groups in the
Union; firstly, the Union has a LGBT welfare
officer who ensures LGBT welfare; they are
also a point of call on LGBT issues and sit
on the Representation and Welfare board.
IQ (Imperial College LGBT) is Imperial Col-
lege’s LGBT society. Along with running so-
cial and welfare events, they have a welfare
officer who can provide advice and informa-
tion for any LGBT issues. IQ have been or-
ganising this month’s events and awareness
campaigns; you may have noticed a banner
of famous LGBT icons on the Sherfield walk-
way and the rainbow pride flag flying on the
Union flagpole (and no, the Union flagpole
is not a code word for Alex Kendall’s....).
They’ve also had an exhibition in the busi-
ness school, with a timeline of LGBT figures
and historical events spanning from Sappho
of Lesbo 600BC, all the way up to the recent
repeal of the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”.
For two years running Imperial College has
been in Stonewall’s top 100 employers due,
in part, to Imperial 600, who despite sound-
ing like a superhero group, is actually a net-
work of LGBT staff at Imperial College. They
run events, provide advice and ensure the
safety and wellbeing of all LGBT staff.
LGBT at Imperial
So first off, why did you want to re-
main anonymous?
Don’t get me wrong, I’m ‘out’ to
friends, family and most staff around
here, but I personally believe that staff
should maintain some distance from
their students. Though that being said, I
think you’d have to be blind not to see
my lesbian aura.
Haha. what is it like to be gay at Impe-
rial, you were a student here, so what
was life like as a gay student?
Well I met my fiancé in my last year as a
Biochemistry undergraduate, so I guess I
owe Imperial that. Imperial really is the
safest place I’ve ever been, I mean I didn’t
come ‘out’ to anyone until I got to my
third year here, and joined what was then
called “GaySoc” though you now know
it as Imperial Queers (IQ). They really
helped me through everything and while
I was afraid to come out to people, when
I did, I got no ‘stick’for it. I swear people
actually became friendlier towards me
and not in the ‘EUGH STRAIGHT BOY
LIKE LESBIAN’ brutish kind of way ei-
ther. That being said, Biochemistry is just
as full of gays now as it was back then...
sorry I probably shouldn’t say that as a
lecturer, should I?
Don’t worry; I don’t think anyone is
going to dispute it. So what’s it like as
a gay staff member?
As staff I can’t imagine anywhere as ac-
cepting as Imperial, it has really allowed
me to accept myself and really get back
all those years at High School where I
felt compelled to lie to myself for so
many years. Wow, I think I’m getting
emotional, come on, lesbians don’t cry!
Do you have any words of encourage-
ment for LGBT students here?
Well I would tell them to come to terms
with who they are, don’t fear anything,
don’t fear religion, don’t fear bigots or
idiots, don’t fear anything and accept
who you are and who you were born to
be. Do something amazing and come out
of the closet, trust me when I say you’ll
feel free and liberated!
Stuart Haylock speaks to an
anonymous member of staff
about being ‘out’
“I can’t imagine
anywhere as
accepting as Imperial” The LGBT Pride flag flying from the Union building
Stuart Haylock

