MUSIC
FELIX
18
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Radiohead
The King of Limbs
2011
The extremely hyped Radiohead’s first release since
2007’s In Rainbows has finally made it into the pub-
lic’s hands (and ears) and, as usual, it caused plenty
of agitation. Fans religiously waited for its entrance
in the cyber world and synchronously unveiled Thom
Yorke’s band’s 8th release and mixed emotions were
thrown in all directions. Ranging between brilliancy
and average-ness, consensus has yet to be reached.
This has also been caused by the step back attitude
taken by the Music Review behemoths. Therefore, I
decided to add to the pile of personal, uninteresting
and un-experienced reviews and controversy:
The King of Limbs is nothing new. For me it sounds
exactly like a dubstep mash-up of In Rainbows with
Thom’s solo album. It is short (four years to make
37 minutes??) and sounds like there are only two
songs (the first five and the last three). It is easy to
listen to but not that catchy. It is nicely done but way
below par for such a brilliant band. You forget it was
put together by the creators of OK Computer and Kid
A, you even forget you are listening to it at all. If the
physical release of the album brings nothing more to
this pot, my final verdict is that it is quite disappoint-
ing to see that the only band that has consistently
changed and awed the music world for the past 2
decades might now be losing it.
Not because the album is not good, it is (had it
been created by some xx-meets-burial’esque band
and it would be a revelation), but because this is
RADIOHEAD we are talking about! The day they stop
dazzling you is a sad day for music in general, it is
the same day you stop believing in it. Just like when
you realised that your dad is not the superhero you
thought he would be. Welcome to the real world,
jack-ass! Diogo Geraldes
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Mogwai
Brixton Academy
Friday 25th February 2011 (tonight!)
Energy can be explained in many different con-
texts. I put it to you that The Go! Team are the
musical embodiment of energy.And enthusiasm.
And pizzazz, joy and childlike wonderment.
They flew onto the stage with lead single
‘T.O.R.N.A.D.O.’ and immediately estab-
lished a raucous carnival atmosphere, with
band members bouncing all over the stage and
crowd members bouncing all over each other.
So much so that frontwoman Ninja even had to
gave detailed visual instructions as to how to
jump around without smacking into other peo-
ple. Her crowd engagement was particularly
impressive, as she encouraged people to dance
at the appropriate moments (a lesson The
Flaming “motherfucking” Lips could learn),
evoked call and response and even returned to
the stage to dance to the audience chants of
‘Ladyflash’ after the song had finished. Having
something exciting to watch on stage is a use-
ful way of turning a good concert into a memo-
rable concert, so having Ninja jumping all over
the speakers, strutting around the stage, high
kicking and pulling shapes certainly added to
the experience.
The setlist was a combination of the first and
latest albums and drew from the best of their
repertoire, using a concoction of distorted
guitars, chanting, hip hop samples, crashing
drums and charming woodwind solos. They es-
sentially only had two types of songs – cute,
mellow, childish songs sung by Kaori or Chi
(‘Secretary Song’, ‘Ready To Go Steady’) and
brash, shouty, bombastic songs rapped by Nin-
ja (‘Titanic Vandalism’, ‘The Power Is On’),
but that’s all they need for everyone involved
to thoroughly enjoy themselves. Whilst they
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Radiohead
2. James Blake
3. Kanye West
4. Arcade Fire
5. Muse
6. The National
7. Daft Punk
8. The xx
9. RHCP
10. The Killers
The musical emodiment of
energy rock Heaven
The Go! Team bounce around the stage and off each other
didn’t have space on stage for the full and var-
ied instrumentation of the albums, they were
still able to treat us to some delightful clavi-
chord, typewriter and harmonica solos (tbh,
there’s a reason why typewriters aren’t usually
employed for soloing...) They kept the momen-
tum going throughout, using noise freakouts to
fill the space between songs and finally finished
the set on ‘Rolling Blackouts’, which prompted
Ninja to mount several of her bandmates in an
attempt to steal their instruments (of course).
I can’t rate any other band more highly for
live performance and considering that there’s
been talk of this potentially being the last Go!
Team album, it’s an experience to see as soon
as possible.
When you go to see The Go! Team you don’t
expect to be lumbered with a dreary, wishy-
washy support band that barely look interested
enough to finish a song. But that’s what ‘Banjo
Or Freakout’ delivered, and they failed to sup-
ply even a single solitary banjo or freakout in
their set, a challenge easily met by The Go!
Team afterwards.
The surprise opening DJ set by Star Slinger
was cheery, laidback and the music was rela-
tively unmemorable, a common feature of most
DJs supporting actual bands. His most endear-
ing feature was the ‘slightly podgy Cousin It
from the Adams Family wearing a sweater
from his nan and throwing some hilarious
dance moves’ look that he was sporting. And
his mumblings in between songs about ‘treat-
ing your decks like your lover’ were made all
the funnier because he kept whinging that his
decks were too sensitive.
Friday 25 february 2011
The Go! Team
Heaven
8th February 2011
★★★★★
Tom Jennings
Competition time!
Win tickets to the
opening night of
PROUD2!
5 pairs of tickets to giveaway
The Millennium Dome once looked like a
giant white elephant towering over Green-
wich as a timely reminder of New Labour's
excessive spending binges. However
after a successful gutting and branding
from O2, the dome structure now houses
exhibition halls, gig venues and also a gi-
ant 'superclub'. Until its closure last year
this was the home of Matter, but has now
been fully redeveloped by the people of
PROUD and will be simply called PROUD2.
It will boast live acts and DJs set in a Las
Vegas style environment, so expect cir-
cus acts and performers too. They have
made efforts to rectify the transport woes
that plagued its previous incarnation with
shuttle busses from North Greenwich
tube, and when that closes they will be
running buses into central london which
will cost you a measly 2 quid. We are
offering you the chance to win one of a
set of 5 pairs of free tickets for their first
night on Saturday 5th March where HER
MAJESTY AND THE WOLVES will be play-
ing live, alongside DJs Scott Mills, Sneaky
Soundsystem and more.
What was the superclub at the 02 arena
called before its latest revamp?
A) MATTER
B) ANTI-MATTER
C) HIGGS BOSON
Answers to music.felix@gmail.com by 3rd
March. Winners will be notified shortly af-
ter the deadline.
Jaime Beeden
You can’t be serious? Every single arrow missed? What a fail...
Apology
The photo printed with the interview
“Tin Cans talkin’ Blues” (Issue
1483 – 18/02/2011) was not prop-
erly credited to Jennifer Caroline
Ellis. We apologise for this. Editor

