Monday 7 March
where are you going
to live next year?
l tips and advice on when and where to start looking for a place to live in
the private sector
l learning how much you can expect to pay on rent and other costs
l advice on how to deal with contracts and landlords and your rights as a tenant
l advice and tips for moving in/out
l exclusive opportunities to meet estate agents, landlords and other
accommodation service providers
Join us at the Private HousingTalkfor:
Monday 7 March 2011
16.30 Private Housing Exhibition
opens in the Queen’s
Tower Rooms
18.00 Private Housing Talk
in the Great Hall
19.00 Private Housing Exhibition
in the Queen’s Tower
Rooms continues
when and
where?
sponsored by
free prize draw at the event
Win an iPad!
sheets.
Second year started out with Buffy
the Vampire Slayer. I’d moved from
witches on to vampires, slightly annoy-
ing college kids, the best baddy ever in
the form of Glory, and a whole load of
extra features and ways in which to im-
merse yourself into the world of Buffy.
As if this wasn’t bad enough, I man-
aged to acquire a set of all ten seasons
of Friends. I’d seen it before (who
hasn’t?), but let’s face it – you can never
get enough Friends. More lab report
deadlines, a massive project written to
the Rembrandt’s theme tune and another
year successfully completed.
Third year found its entertainment in
the form of British Teen Drama, Skins,
Do people actually
revise without the tv
in the background?
I’m from Devon. Before then, I was
from Africa. To entertain myself, I used
to climb trees, go hiking, cycle to the
beach, and for a few hours a day, do
homework/music practice/mess around
on the computer. I never really watched
TV, and when I did, I always had some-
thing in front of me to keep me other-
wise occupied. The transition from col-
lege kid to student has shown a marked
change in my behzaviour. I’m in my
final year, and, thinking back on it, ev-
ery year has started and ended with an
addiction to a new TV show.
First year was Charmed. If you’ve
never seen it, eight seasons of witchy
goodness, starring Piper, Phoebe, Prue,
and later, Paige Halliwell. It’s innocent
good fun. I get a lot of teasing from peo-
ple for this one, but I don’t care. It kept
me occupied during long hours writing
lab reports, revising microstructures,
and doing those blasted maths problem
How TV has affected my degree
Angel, the partner series to Buffy, and
Big Bang Theory. Another huge project
and exams completed with some memo-
rable tunes in my head, and the associa-
tions these all brought.
Fourth year started off with Gilmore
Girls. Revision for January exams was
timetabled according to how many epi-
sodes I could fit into a 14 hour period,
and after these were over I discovered
Glee (and, of course, the new season of
Skins started). My flatmate recently got
the first five series’ of Grey’s Anatomy,
and we have started working our way
steadily through those.
So, what has this done to my degree?
Well, there are certain things that I can-
not write about/think about/discuss
without a flashback to what was on the
TV at that point in time. Wulff Plots are
forever associated with Janice and her
annoying laugh. Every time I have to
talk about Crystallography, I get a very
specific episode of Charmed in my head
(I won’t tell you which for fear of spoil-
felix
TELEVISION
Friday 25 february 2011
ers). In my January exam, I was writ-
ing about the cardiac cycle when Rory
Gilmore strolled into my head talking
about coffee (perhaps NOT the best tim-
ing ever, but hey).
A lot of my friends ask how I can do
it. They go so far as to say they would
never get any work done with all the dis-
traction. I’ve never really thought about
it – to be honest, I can’t actually sit down
and make myself work if there isn’t
something playing in the background.
Yes, this means that I don’t always catch
the action, and the finer detail of some
episodes is lost on me. It does keep me
sitting down at my desk, though, when
I would otherwise be tempted to get up
and go off somewhere for a little jaunt.
“I’ll go at the end of this episode, oh no
wait the next one looks really good, just
one more.” There is no motivation like
it.
Has it worked? Ask me in October,
when I will know if all the square eyes
paid off and I got the grades I wanted...
Just one more episode and then I’ll
go study... Honest.
Corrie Berry
19

