HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
LOL’nions of teh week
Hyde Park Relays RAG Week
Sir Keith pied as RAG
revive tradition
Finally! A Rector that isn’t afraid to take a pie to the face!
The annual pieing of the Rector, a tradition that was dis-
continued during the reign of Sir Roy Anderson (whether
that’s because he objected or due to lack of organisa-
tion is unclear), has been revived ahead of Imperial Col-
lege Union’s RAG Week which begins on Monday.
The devilish RAG Hit Squad assembled in the Sher-
field Building at around noon on Tuesday and began their
preparations. Whipped cream was the order of the day
– shaving foam doesn’t have the same feel – and just
after the hour they moved to their ambush location on
the steps of the Queens Tower.
Sir Keith O’Nions, who just happened to be walking
onto the middle of the Queens Lawn moments later,
smiled and laughed as the Hit Squad gave him three
well-placed pies to the face. He took the pies with the
jovial manner of, well, a man with a knighthood covered
in delicious whipped cream.
However, the RAG Chair, Naida Dzigal, was not to es-
cape pieing. The Hit Squad, after finishing with Sir Keith,
turned on their leader and ensured that she did not es-
cape unscathed. Go to felixonline.co.uk/gallery for more
photos of Sir Keith being pied.
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine
Bettany Charles Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso
Campos Politics Editors James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editor Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton
Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky
Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth
Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah
Thomas Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta Zainab Ali Joe Marinelli Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Illustrators Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Run! Run like you’ve just heard they’re selling discounted Justin Bieber
tickets in Leicester Square
Friday 25 february 2011
The 63rd Hyde Park Relays competition –
one of the largest student relay races in
Europe – is being held on Saturday 26th
(tomorrow). The annual race, organised by
members of IC Cross Country Club, pulls in
hundreds of runners across the UK and Eu-
rope and includes an after party in Metric.
The race follows an historic route through
Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens, winds
around the Serpentine lake, down to Hyde
Park Corner, and finally finishes up at the
band-stand. Students can continue to reg-
ister until 6pm today (Friday).
www.union.ic.ac.uk/acc/crosscountry/hpr
THE
DAILY
FELIX
It’s finally here.
For one week
only, Felix will
publish every day.
Read it online at
felixonline.co.uk
or on campus
from Monday
Robert Bishop
Monday – Arts supplement
Tuesday – Music supplement
Wednesday – Science supplement
Thursday – Technology supplement
Friday – Elections special
Christopher Walmsley
felix@imperial.ac.uk

