FILM
Beat the Bush
Administration
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director Doug Liman
Screenwriter Jez Butterworth, John-
Henry Butterworth
Cast Naomi Watts, Sean Penn, Sonya
Davison
Fair Game
John Park
Naomi just realised she left the back door unlocked
FELIX
20
imaginative ways, and the couple is branded as
being traitors of America. “Not supporting the
troops,” a popular saying used by right-wing
Bush supporters to criticise anyone who has
anything to say against the war, is also in full
use here.
It may come across as a touch too self-
involved, showing the trials of how one fam-
ily struggles back in their comfortable house,
whilst so many soldiers are dying. Plame’s
confidential informants are in danger as they
are left out in the open. We hear the news of
how a lot of them have been assassinated as a
consequence of her being outed: but none of
this is shown to any memorable level, and is
scarcely mentioned in passing.
This story was covered extensively in the in-
ternational media and for that, the film loses
the element of surprise, but under the steady
hands of Doug Liman, the director of The
Bourne Identity, he makes sure there are char-
acters for us to relate to. Plame may be an agent
who travels around the globe, but to balance
everything out, she has a loving family and
a domestic life for her to get back to. Watts
shows these two contrasting sides well.
Fair Game has that odd but watchable mix of
an inspiring biopic and politics. A lot of careful
explanation is given as to bring everyone up to
date with the Valerie Plame case and the film
is more than successful at stirring up a strong,
lasting feeling of discomfort and rage towards
the government, people of high authority, and
abuse of power. It’s clear where the lead char-
acters stand – they’re not unpatriotic. She was
a spy, and he used to be an ambassador. They
were trying their best to serve their country un-
til an unfortunate screw-up somewhere in be-
tween all the hushed conversations ruined eve-
Here is what happened: the United States gov-
ernment decided to invade Iraq for possessing
dangerous weapons supplied by the African
nation of Niger. An American international
consultant was asked to gather sufficient evi-
dence from Africa to prove that Iraq was in
fact buying these weapons. He found none, and
wrote a report that said exactly that. So when
he realised that his very clear report was com-
pletely ignored and The White House went to
war anyway, he wrote another article, this time
to The New York Times, about the invalidity of
the American invasion. Ill-advised of course,
but his conscience didn’t allow him to just look
the other way.
Is this a win for him, and the constitution of
free speech? Hardly, since on the next day, his
wife is outed as a CIA spy in a national news-
paper – as retribution for speaking out against
The White House. This scandal, which caused
quite a stir, is the “Valerie Plame affair” in
which Ms. Plame (Naomi Watts), an active
covert CIA agent mainly working in the Mid-
dle East with crucial informants, was publicly
identified, as a result of her husband Joe Wil-
son’s (Sean Penn) controversial editorial piece,
titled “What I Didn’t Find in Africa.” Soon
after the publication of Plame’s real identity,
their world comes crashing down. Several me-
dia outlets start spinning this story in the most
Classic Cinema
Casablanca
Casablanca, a black and white timeless masterpiece,
was released in 1943. The script for the unstaged
play on which the film is based fatefully found its way
to the desk of a Warner Brothers employee the day
after Pearl Harbour, and was rapidly adapted into an
iconic wartime romance set in the North African city
of Casablanca.
Casablanca during the Second World War was a
real melting pot for Europe. It was a holding point for
refugees from the Nazi regime and this is the prem-
ise for the film. A phenomenal mix of different char-
acters supports the signature performance of Hum-
phrey Bogart as Rick, an American who runs a “gin
joint” where most of the action takes place. Rick’s
resolution to never get involved with his customers is
broken when Ilsa Lund, played by the stunning Ingrid
Bergman, walks back into his life.
Despite its rapid conversion into a screenplay, the
script is outstanding. The small, understated quips
and witty dialogue are what really make this film
memorable. This is the source of one of the great
misquotes of cinema: Bogart never actually says
“play it again, Sam”. The Sam in question is Bogart’s
pianist and friend, who came with him from Paris and
is the first to recognise Ilsa when she enters Rick’s
with a famous resistance leader played by Paul Hen-
reid. Sam and his band provide a very well crafted
musical backdrop to the night club scenes as well
as the unforgettable “As Time Goes By”. This song,
coupled with the more overtly dramatic score and
the passionate rendition of the Marseilles, make this
film as acoustically impressive as it is visually.
Most of the film takes place in Rick’s, which creates
a very intense atmosphere at times – many of the
scenes are almost like watching a play rather than
a film. Made in a short time on a shoestring budget,
this film is a welcome break from computerised over-
blown special effects and shaky camerawork and is
a great example of how a great atmosphere can be
created just from a few locations.
This is a film which really deserves its reputation
as one of the best films ever made, and don’t let that
reputation put you off: it’s charming, thrilling and very
fun to watch.
Guy Needham
Don’t worry darling, Kadhim can’t hurt you now
Fair Game has that odd
but watchable mix of
an inspiring biopic and
politics
“
e in-
in-
oses
oses
eady
eady
The
The
char-
har-
Fair Game
Fair Gam
but watch
but watch
”
mix of
mix
opic and
opic and
Friday 25 february 2011
rything. They are the victims here, and Liman
lets us know it. Dealing with a subject that is
still painfully relevant today, it’s an admirable
effort to get the story out there.
Watts and Penn, paired up here for the third
time, showcase strong performances once
more. Penn has less to do, and his character is
less well drawn than Watts. He is the angry, be-
trayed citizen who is being hounded by those
around him for doing the right thing. Undoubt-
edly though, the star here is Watts whose subtle
performance, grasping the frustration and fear
that surround the challenges she needs to face,
is more than enough to carry the film all on her
own.
It’s not a 100% unbiased effort. Some of
the villains are almost written to the level of
caricature, and if you want a broader scope
on the Plame scandal you would be better off
reading about the whole thing on Wikipedia.
But what articles won’t tell you is how the
incident affected Plame on a personal level.
Don’t be mistaken into thinking this is a politi-
cal spy-thriller – the trailer wrongly oversells
on this point. But it’s a promising, touching
family drama with some good old-fashioned
Bush-Administration-bashing.

