GAMES
FELIX 21
Finally, a SimCity destroyer?
Friday 25 february 2011
C
ities in Motion is a com-
plex transport simulator
based on a simple concept
– you have to build and
manage the public trans-
port system in a city. While this isn’t the
type of game I’d usually opt for, I de-
cided to take the plunge and take a look
at what it had to offer.
But first, I have to make a comment
about the specification that this game
demands – I had major problems get-
ting the game to run smoothly (or
at all). On my laptop (powered by a
2.27GHz i5) the tutorial crashed ev-
ery time and the campaign was utterly
unplayable – the screen updated about
once a second. Even when I installed
the software on my gaming rig there
were still huge issues. Enabling anti-
aliasing would cause masses of slow-
down if using the mini-viewport (an
area of the window where you could
monitor a selected point on the map),
and disabling it caused display prob-
lems with some vehicles – I was pre-
sented in places with a blank, white
space that would only be drawn when
and where the vehicle intersected with
it. Disabling HDR lighting solved the
problem, and while the game looked a
lot dimmer and less dynamic without it
on it was the price I had to pay to have
a fully functioning game.
With all the settings sorted, Cities in
Motion is a very good-looking game.
The textures are detailed, with realistic-
looking buildings and interesting varia-
tion between individual cars. The behav-
image of your company. It all adds to the
experience, making it fuller and richer
through the realism and immersion.
Alongside the campaign is the sand-
box mode which, when coupled with
the quite frankly amazing and compre-
hensive map creator, is where enthusi-
asts will probably spend most of their
time. You can use one of the existing
maps from the campaign, or one of your
own creations, to build a transport sys-
tem from scratch – with no restrictions
other than the budget you set yourself.
The lack of objective may not appeal to
all, but those looking to form the perfect
transport system will surely be challeng-
ing themselves in this mode.
I have to say, Cities in Motion im-
pressed me. It was a lot more feature-
packed than I expected it to be, and once
it was working properly it provided a
mostly enjoyable playing experience,
especially with the little features that
made everything feel that little bit more
immersive. It’s certainly a game that I’ll
be picking up again soon, even though
it may not have made me a convert to
the genre.
Felix Games would like readers to be
aware that we played a pre-release
build and the graphical problems
encountered are likely to have been
fixed in the release edition.
Cities in Motion is available now from
Paradox Interactive and Collosal Or-
der for PC.
Chris Bowers reviews Cities in Motion, the most detailed mass transit simulator yet
“You’re given a lot
of freedom when it
comes to deciding
how best to run your
system”
It quickly gets more complicated
however. Cities in Motion has complex
underlying mechanics that make it not
only more interesting but also more
challenging. Customers will soon be-
come dissatisfied with things like hav-
ing to wait too long for a bus (I cer-
tainly know that feeling…), and this
will damage your company’s reputation
– an integral part of keeping people us-
iour of the water particularly impressed
me, especially with accurate-looking
reflections that get perturbed by the
ripples in the water. Overall, the game
presents a very pretty spectacle.
Of course, the gameplay is a lot more
important than how good the game
looks. The tutorial gives a good intro-
duction to the various aspects of the
game, even with the slight niggle of
having to click a green question mark
button at the bottom of the screen to see
the ‘objective complete’ message and
then again to look at the next objective.
Once I had finished with the tutorial, I
was ready to delve into the game proper.
The main objective is to have a well-
equipped, customer-satisfying and prof-
itable public transport system running in
your city. With transport options includ-
ing buses, trams, and the metro (which
can run on up to three underground lev-
els, at ground level, or elevated above
ground level), you’re given a lot of free-
dom when it comes to deciding how best
to run your system.
“Those looking to
form the perfect
transport system will
surely be challenging
themselves here”
ing your transport links. As time rolls
on, you are offered objectives that, if
taken and completed successfully, will
give you a reputation boost as well as
a healthy cash bonus. These add more
direction to the game and help to keep
play flowing.
In between these objectives I had time
to notice the little things about the game
that made a big difference. The attention
to detail in the game is excellent. Occa-
sionally a fire will break out, requiring a
fire engine to go out to the scene, traffic
will start to build up in an area, which
causes irritated drivers to start beeping
their horns, and more besides.
The realism doesn’t stop there: fare
prices and staff wages can be altered for
each method of transport, with obvious
effects on your happiness if set incor-
rectly. You can look at the global econ-
omy growth on a map, apply for a loan
from a bank if money is tight, and even
start a marketing campaign (with dif-
ferent types of campaigns appealing to
different society groups) to improve the
All we need now is a giant lizard and Matthew Broderick and we’ve got ourselves a blockbuster
Football and an athletics track? Ah man, I wish the London 2012 stadium was gonna be this good...
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

