As Greek as it gets
FOOD
FELIX
22
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Gastronomical Musings
Dana says:
Look for this voucher every week to enjoy kickass
waffles at Wafflemeister for the next month – you
know you want to...
This ain’t no normal apron, no no...
Friday 25 february 2011
T
here are many students in Imperial
that love Greek food and I am not
talking solely about the Greeks!
Traditional Greek cuisine is full of
incredible smells and tastes: from
the salty feta cheese; the tempting meat meze
with the refreshing tzatziki; the thick pita bread
and the skewers, the unique mousaka and many
many more traditional and attractive dishes.
If you want to experience traditional Greek
night and you are near Earl’s Court, then you
should visit the traditional tavern As Greek As
it Gets. Great food, reasonable prices, a happy
and friendly atmosphere and the best Greek
music to cheer you up.
Highly recommended dishes are the pan-
fried kefalotyri cheese with sesame seeds for
starter and the mixed grill selection and gyros
with mustard and tzatziki for the main course,
which is best enjoyed together with a glass of
Ouzo (or possibly more!). You shouldn’t leave
the place without having a Galaktoboureko
or Baklava for dessert with a relaxing cup of
Greek coffee frappe.
The tavern is not only a great night out with
friends, but it seems ideal for parties and a lunch
in between lectures during the week. If you’re
in a hurry, there is always the option to take out.
As Greek As It Gets was given the Food &
Drink Award 2008 for ‘Best Greek Restaurant’
by The Times. Warning: This place is not rec-
ommended for those who are on a diet! Καλή
όρεξη!
233 Earl’s Court Rd, SW5 9AH. Open Mon–
Fri 12.00-15.00 and 17.00-23.00 and Sat–
Sun All day: 12.00-23.00.
Anastasia Eleftheriou reckons this is the real Greek deal
Computing students have given their stamp of approval, will you?
Mixed grill with mustard & tzatziki, yum!
Next week, check out
THE DAILY FELIX
Established in 1947, Daquise Restaurant on
Thurloe St. never fails to transport alumnis
down memory lane. Mr. Gessler, a prominent
figure in the restaurant scene in Poland, has re-
cently acquired into one of the longest serving
Polish restaurants in London where impeccable
food quality is coupled with a homely ambi-
ence that makes for a most enjoyable meal.
Polish cuisine, well known for its scrumptious
meat, lives up to expectations with the world
famous steak tartare. The visual impact of the
head chef preparing the well-seasoned meat
made to order by your end table completes the
dining experience. Another exceptional starter,
the marinated herring - soft and tender cured fish
drizzled with linseed oil simply melts on your
tongue. Another classic is the dish of dumplings
with the golden ratio of soft white cheese and
potatoes sprinkled with chopped parsley and
bacon, which has scored a respectable 9 out of
10 in dumpling wars. The two-course Espresso
lunch offer for £9 (£7 with iConnect!) has a gen-
erous portion of soup and classic Polish chicken.
Well roasted, with a strong home-oven scent and
stuffing, the quartered chicken served with car-
rots and mashed potatoes beats Nando’s hands
down in both quality and price. The meat is a tad
dry but the delicious mash more than makes up
for it. Other mains include huge thinly breaded
pork chop, fried to absolute perfection. The sau-
teed sour cabbage at the side is, again, done to
the right taste. Make sure you leave room for the
delicious cheesecake that has a crumbly home-
made pastry crust and soft cheese filling that is
to die for.
Having the Chef serving your meal is a rare
experience so make sure you grab the chance
to dine here with the 20% iConnect discount on
all food on weekdays. Smacznego!
Nigel Kheng Wei Hehn, Tadek Kurpaski and
Sheena Lee
Check out the Espresso Lunch Discount at
www.iconnectimperial.com
Gessler at Daquise
MasterChef. Nothing quite like another cooking pro-
gramme to shove down our already gagging throats.
Except MasterChef’s been with us for almost twenty
years so we can’t exactly blast it for old time’s sake.
After creating various spin-offs to make celebrities
think they can cook, in Celebrity MasterChef, and
make young ones feel like there is meaning in life
as they can always aspire to appearing on Junior
MasterChef, the show has undergone a revamp. A
revamp that is as tasteless as Cheryl Cole’s fake
tan. Because that is exactly what it felt like, an X
Factor for the chefs. Taking a prime-time 9pm slot,
I’m forced to watch as wannabe chefs sweat and
glow a certain shade of ruby under the pressure of
the new Masterchef kitchen. Bye bye white simplis-
tic kitchen. Hello to tacky dramatic music when John
and Gregg say yes or no. Now I’m just waiting for
Wagner to turn up...
Daquise Restaurant:
A South Kensington gem
where we’ll be ruminating over
more exciting cuisine like this
to whet your appetite...

