TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 25 FEBRUARY 2011 23
In this edition of Priya Garg’s tales, we find her off the track in Argentina’s
answer to the Lake District, uncovering hidden beauties and inner tranquillity
The underrated sound of silence
A
bus took us round mean-
dering long corners and
sharp curves on our way to
San Carlos de Bariloche,
which rests at the foothills
of the Andes, until we finally reached
Argentina’s answer to the Lake District.
Snow-capped mountains lay in the dis-
tance as we rumbled towards our desti-
nation, huge geographical reliefs loom-
ing in the bright blue sky. The chill of
the air began to cut through our clothes.
However, the undisputed masterpiece of
the area, an unbelievably beautiful lake
named Nahuel Huapi, quickly removed
us from this vapid distraction.
Bariloche town centre revolves
around this vision of the lake, with its
log cabins, chocolate shops, youths in
snowboard gear with backwards caps,
women in high-class winter knitwear,
and countless schoolchildren stumbling
in to buy huge boxes of bonbons. How-
ever, if you step out of this clamour of
distraction and noise and walk only ten
minutes to the edge of the lake, you can
be beside a wrecked jetty, parts of which
have broken off in the charging waves,
or sit on a swing watching windsurfers
navigate the choppy water.
was a stunning view across the land. As
we wearily pedalled slowly back to the
bicycle rental shop after completing the
distance, wheels wavering with fatigue,
a sense of achievement filled our being.
Becoming one with the surroundings,
breathing the mountain air, sweating
on the peaks of the hills and letting our
future be carried by two tyres bouncing
over the rocky ground underfoot, we
felt a sense of freedom unsurpassed by
that experienced within a city bound-
ary.
In the evening we decided to try the
local nightlife. Think small bars sitting
on rocky mounds surrounded by a dis-
used beach, decorated with fairy lights,
housing a strange reggae music scene
where local Argentineans, schoolchil-
litter the beachfront outside in dirt piles
beside the water’s edge, incongruous
with the natural beauty. There were too
many people: it felt incredibly claustro-
phobic. Dodging drunken over-amorous
affection we ended up slipping out to
find peace in the night air.
We eventually slept, and the next
morning decided to hike up to the sum-
mit of Cerro Campanario, a viewpoint
situated seventeen kilometres outside
of Bariloche. After climbing a short yet
steep hike for forty minutes we stag-
gered up to the peak. From the top we
were compensated by a view of expan-
sive forestry and tiny houses clustered
“We felt a sense of
freedom unsurpassed
by that experience
within a city
boundary”
Quit ruining Priya’s travels: she’s on a voyage of self-discovery, dammit!
Hey, do you hear that? What do you mean “no”? It’s the sound of silence – don’t you get it? It’s supposed to be ironic, or figurative, or deep, or something...
Priya manages to escape the douchebags (left) and get some country air
“At the pinnacle of
each hill we rode up
was a stunning view
across the land”
on the edges of large bodies of water.
The sun sat high in the sky, causing the
water to sparkle around us. Enclosing
the scene were a full house of majestic
snow-covered mountains.
Here, we took a moment to perch
upon a rock and gaze upon what lay be-
fore us. With the world at our feet and
the trees in utter stillness beside us, it
became apparent what we had gained
the most from Bariloche, a new-found
appreciation for that most elusive of
elements, something we had been seek-
ing for a while: the simple sound of
silence.
On our first full day we decided, per-
haps foolishly, to attempt the ‘seven
lakes challenge’ – a twenty-four kilome-
tre bike ride cutting through the Argen-
tinean National Park. Given that it had
been the best part of ten years since I
had ridden any form of bicycle – and this
was a circuit involving a sharp incline,
several exhilarating turns and equally
dangerous downward slopes – this was
definitely risky. At the very start I doubt-
ed several times whether I could do it
and was soon cursing my saddle sores
and unfit muscles. Yet whether getting
off to push my bike uphill, or letting the
air fly through the vents in my helmet as
we hurtled downhill, I motivated myself
to ride around this gruelling circuit. The
reward was breathtaking.
Snow peaked between the pine trees,
with pink cherry blossom forming a
fringe at the top of our perspective. At
the pinnacle of each hill we rode up
dren and tourists sway to Bob Marley
remixes. The smell of marijuana drifts
throughout the vicinity. Used condoms
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Priya Garg
Priya Garg
rastadude/flickr

