Scorpio
This week, you decide to try and stick one
of your toes up your arse. It’ll take years
of yoga and at least three tubes of lube.
Finally, as an old wizened hermit, you
achieve your goal. Mid ‘toeing’you have
a heart attack and die. Your gravestone
reads: “LAD”.
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS Horoscopes
Aries
Recently, you attended the Reynolds
Pokemon Bop dressed as a slutty
Pikachu. You realise your aim to ‘Catch
‘Em All’ has come true as your STI test
results come in. Team Rocket come to try
and steal your ‘Pokemon’. You use your
STI Attack and splaff them away!
Taurus
This week, you listen to the new
Radiohead album. It’s good but the
spiders crawling on the ceiling distract
you. They swarm over you, engulfing
your body. You scream and wake up in
R Kelly’s bed... He touches you and you
wake up in your bed. Damn happy pills...
Gemini
This week, you go up to a small boy
in the street, grab his balls and scream
“MARRY ME!” in his face. He cries and
you relent, releasing his underdeveloped
gonads. He can’t take the pressure. The
wussy little twat isn’t tough enough.
Clearly not marriage material.
Cancer
This week, you challenge a grown man
to a game of “Eye Spy”. He’s not very
good at it, he keeps drinking coffee and
talking about his relationships. No mat-
ter how hard you try, he refuses to stop
being a boring twat. You stab him in the
eye with a unicorn. LADADADADA!
Leo
This week, you are the Rector. It’s total-
ly cool because you’re legally allowed
to bang any College staff member when-
ever you want. Oh, you hadn’t heard of
that rule? It’s always the way. You never
find out about the “Rector Rectum Reg-
ulation” until it’s too late...
Virgo
This week, you hope that nobody finds
out that The Daily Felix is a complete
hoax. It’s like April Fools but more sub-
versive because we’re doing it in Feb/
March. On every page we’re actually
just printing the word “LOL” beneath a
picture of the Rector getting pied.
Libra
This week, you hoped to be done by 12 on
Wednesday night but good Horoscopes
require patience. Like letting a fine
whiskey ‘air’ or waiting for that girl you
like to leave her house before you follow
her down the alleyway and BAM! you’ve
revealed too much about last night...
Sagittarius
This week, you scrap a Bieber related
horoscope because it was shit and instead
focus on that sensation on your knee. Oh
God! Justin Bieber is licking my knee!
What do I do? Can I keep him? (In an un-
related matter, if you have a cellar going
spare, email felix@imperial.ac.uk)
Capricorn
This week, you cook a big bowl of
spaghetti, shove as much slippery pasta
into your mouth as is physically possible
and wake your girlfriend up by trying to
go down on her. She screams and tries
to wriggle away before accepting the
bolognesy goodness...
Aquarius
This week, it’s you against the clock.
The clock’s just edging ahead. He’s
a total charmer and the girl is about
to fall for him. It’s time for drastic
manoeuvres. You take off your shirt,
beat your chest and say, “ME MAN,
YOU WOMAN.” It doesn’t work.
Pisces
This week, you’re out late at night. The
streets are empty. It’s eerily quiet. Your
friends are wearing hooded cloaks. “It’s
time,” they say, “to stop playing WoW.”
You have no say in the matter, they ritu-
ally sever your arms. You’re like “WTF
DUDE? chill out! jeez...”
National Rail pledge to use rulers
when laying train tracks
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
This is one of those awesome situations where the guy playing the prank ends up looking like a bigger douche
than the person being pranked. What’s the thumbs up for? Are you ‘going in’?
FELIX 25
Friday 25 february 2011

