CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
28
What’s On
RCC Night Hike - Saturday 26th
Still early in the night we were full of energy, bound-
ing through the wood, with only moonlight to guide
us... and our torches. The four of us were well
stocked with chocolate to munch on, believed we
knew how to use a map, and much good banter en-
sued. Perhaps too much, as soon we were facing
the fence at the edge of a country house’s garden,
the only problem being that we were on the wrong
side of the fence, having somehow ended up in their
garden by accident! The night flew by, we raced our
way to checkpoints, passing other teams dressed
as ancient Romans, construction workers, glow rav-
ers and the like! Tired but wide grinned we returned
to the night hike base in time for a hearty cooked
breakfast and prize winning...
The night hike is an annual event organised by the
RCC (Recreational Clubs Committee), but it’s open
to anyone, as long as someone in your team (of
3-5) is a staff, student, PhD or alumnus of Imperial
College. You get driven from Beit Quad (the Union,
London) out to the great British countryside, armed
with a map of various checkpoint locations you de-
cide your own route – and you can go to as many
or as few as you like, as long as your back on time
before day light. Of course, the more checkpoints
you visit the higher your score, but prizes are on
offer for things like best fancy dress too. The night
hike is always a good laugh with friends, and a bit of
healthy exercise.
This year’s hike is tomorrow, Saturday 26th Feb-
ruary, and based amongst the rolling hills of Great
Windsor Park, Berkshire; navigate your way through
woodlands, over hills and between moon lit lakes.
There’s still time to enter a team – just visit the web-
site for more information:
http://www.union.ic.ac.uk/rcc/nighthike/
This year prizes will be given out at the RCC bar
night, this coming Monday 28 February from 7pm
in the Union Bar, with great drinks deals on offer.
Joseph Rumer
Apply to be a Hall Senior
With Hall Senior applications now open across
the Imperial halls of residence, we thought it
would be appropriate to fill you in on what it
is really like to be a hall senior and our favou-
rite experiences at Wilkinson Hall Eastside.
As final year undergraduates at Imperial, we
can honestly say it is a worthwhile experi-
ence. What first attracted us to apply here was
the joie de vivre that seemed to emanate from
Wilkinson! It was a hall that was clearly having
fun. From the countless numbers of amazing
people we have met to the epic events we have
thrown, living in halls as a senior is an experi-
ence not to be missed!
Being a member of the warden-senior team
is a unique experience and not everyone has
the required skills-set to fulfil the role. A lot of
hard work is put into being a senior and we be-
lieve the ethos of the halls is built from a strong
warden-senior team, reflecting positively on
the students who live in the halls. It is really an
opportunity to welcome in freshers, share your
experiences and make them feel confortable in
a new city, starting a new era of their lives.
The Wardening team at Wilkinson is one of
the friendliest to be found in all of Imperial
(and no, they’re not bribing us to write this!).
They are incredibly supportive of first year
students and have a great sense of humour. It’s
during Senior Week that you really get to know
your team and in our case, we bonded over
Laser Quest and played rounders in the rain in
Hyde Park. Moving in day was so much fun
Mevani Jagodage
to prepare for, especially painting our amazing
Wilkinson logo. We had to also organise a jam-
packed schedule of events throughout the year
to cater to different tastes. A small sample of
events: Coming-up dinner at the Rembrandt;
trips to the theatre (Les Miserables, Lion King
and even Cirque du Soleil!); casino night with
professional croupiers; overnight trip to Bel-
gium; free Sunday breakfasts and monthly but-
teries for the foodies.
So what skills are needed to ensure you sur-
vive as a senior? The most important is com-
munication! Throughout the year you will be
speaking to a lot of students, whether it is about
their course, what to do in London or simply
trying to persuade them to come to a hall event.
Enthusiasm is also key, especially when it
comes to ticket selling! Creativity is needed
for poster making; organisation when planning
events; but simply being able to work in a team
and get along with the many different types of
people you will meet is essential.
If you think becoming is a hall senior is for
you then the deadline is approaching soon. We
would definitely recommend it to anyone inter-
ested but remember it is not just a way to live
in halls for another year; we look for serious
candidates and only the best are chosen. If you
want to make a few hundred new friends and
live in a fun environment, this is definitely the
place to be! We wish you all the best and look
forward to meeting you at the Eastside inter-
views.
P.S. In case you don’t know, Wilkinson Hall
is located in Princes Gardens, a stone’s throw
away from the gym and the college!
It’s always nice when the title of an event pretty
much tells you everything you need to know
Friday 25 february 2011
Picocon 2011, the verdict: Fantastic
Last week I attended my first Picocon, Impe-
rial College Science Fiction and Fantasy Soci-
ety’s annual one-day convention. Having seen
committee members preparing for months and
having read accounts of previous Picocons my
expectations were understandably high and I’m
happy to say that I wasn’t disappointed.
The day began with fascinating talks from
each of the three guests of honour. Kari Sper-
ring, a medieval historian whose debut fantasy
novel was published two years ago, spoke about
her early influences from Tolkien and Dumas,
and how she set out to become a writer. Paul
McAuley, the acclaimed hard science fiction
writer, talked about how he wrote his books
‘backwards’, starting with a setting and adapt-
ing his story and characters to fit it. In particu-
lar he concentrated on the outer Solar System,
the setting to his landmark novel “The Quiet
War”. Juliet E. McKenna, the prolific fantasy
author, also talked about her writing process,
focusing on how SF and fantasy authors need
to do large amounts of research to make their
settings, and whatever magic or science they
chose to use, seem plausible to the readers.
This was followed by a heated panel discus-
sion on the topic “Steampunk, Harmless Fun
or Silly Self-Indulgence?”, which was joined
by previous guests of honour Amanda Hem-
mingway and Jaine Fenn. The panel was quick
to condemn modern examples of the genre as
being simple nostalgia for the nineteenth cen-
tury, ignoring the poverty, dirt and disease of
that time. They compared them with earlier
authors who used steampunk to highlight prob-
lems with society and treated the genre more
seriously. It was pointed out that many people
don’t even consider this new wave of works
to be steampunk, preferring to call it ‘gaslight
fantasy’.
For me the highlight of the day was the tra-
ditional Destruction of Dodgy Merchandise,
where convention attendees bid at a charity
auction for the right to take the aforemen-
tioned dodgy merchandise home or see it de-
stroyed by liquid nitrogen, bolt cutters and a
large sledgehammer. A notoriously bad Star
Wars TV-movie starring the Ewoks was saved
from the destruction, with the winner promis-
ing to send the society pictures of the reaction
of the person they were going to give it to as a
present. One of the highest bids, £40.30, was
for scriptwriter and past guest of honour Paul
Cornell to destroy a figurine of the Hulk on
a quad bike. The successful bidder dragged
Cornell out the Union Bar and he performed
his task quite admirably, shattering the Hulk
into tiny pieces.
Other activities throughout the day included
a LAN gaming session, which concluded with
a tournament on the acclaimed nuclear war
simulator DEFCON. DEFCON’s designer,
Introversion, which was founded by Impe-
rial students, provided tins containing its entire
games catalogue to the three winners. Metric
was filled with stalls selling official Picocon
T-shirts, books, live action role playing equip-
ment and copies of the award winning anthol-
ogy magazine “Murky Depths”. The day fin-
ished off with a fiendishly difficult quiz.
I spent more than ten hours at Picocon, sure-
ly the best indication of how good it was. All
of the record number of over 200 attendees
seemed to share my opinion. If you missed out
this year be sure to check it out next time. You
won’t regret it.
Maciej Matuszewski
It’s a great chance to be part of a fun community
You get to hang out with hot, young Freshers AND avoid the real world? Sign me up!
Disha Dewan

