29
felix FRIDAY 25 FEBRUARY 2011
Time to bring The Bottle home In Monday’s
Issue...
Bottle Match reports
BUCS Tennis
ULU Hockey
Yes that’s right, if all goes to plan
then we should have reports from
the games being played this week-
end. With the mighty RSM bring
the Bottle back to its rightful place
behind the Union Bar? Find out on
Monday. If any of you are taking
photos this weekend, we would love
you long time if you sent some good
ones to us.
The Men’s 1st team are away to
Exter for the BUCS Trophy. Can the
boys build on their amazing perfor-
mance over the last two seasons?
The Men’s 1st team play King’s Med-
icals in the ULU Premiership this
weekend. Can they get a repeat 4-3
win from earlier this season, or will
Captain Ewan Quince and the rest of
the boys give them a good trashing?
Yes, you did read that correctly, our
next issue is on MONDAY!
Imperial Gaelic footballers travelled
down to Birmingham to meet their coun-
ter parts from across the Isles to compete
in the biggest event on the calendar – the
British Universities Championships.
The infamous weekend of football
began with high spirits and an appro-
priate meal on the Friday, the general
mood calm and collected, this with the
knowledge of a strong and deep squad
furthered any previous prospect of vic-
tory. A DVD of one of the greatest dis-
plays in footballing history, the 2005
All-Ireland final, was the catalyst of
choice for the evening. Tournament co-
ordinator, Shane O’Hanlon, phoned and
informed captain Fitzpatrick of some
registry issues, IC had to forfeit three
pivotal players, Sean Dunne, Will Seez
and club stoat, Frank O’Neill. Though a
scar on the face would not damage any
desires for IC, the reliable squad mem-
bers Paddy Heugh, Luke Johnston and
Toby Davies stepped in and ensured a
strong starting team for the morning.
A 5am start is never a pretty experi-
ence, throw in some Baltic conditions,
a driver who hasn’t heard of a clutch or
gears lower than 3rd and an angry Yettie
McCann - it’s not anymore prepossess-
ing. Having said that, the sky became
a lighter shade of grey and tunes were
banging as the men powered up the M1,
the humour loudened. Like wizards they
arrived precisely when they meant to,
ready for the tournament of the year.
In the draw the night before Impe-
rial were pulled out of the hat alongside
Lincoln, Sterling, Rennes and Teesside.
Having no idea of what the competition
was like, even having played Sterling
the previous year, nobody can guess
what the turnover of players is like; it
was imperative to watch all the games
and devise some tactics from the side-
line. So it began, game one.
Lincoln 0:00 – 0:03 Imperial
The awkward debacle of the two teams
sporting royal blue was resolved by a
coin toss forcing IC to play in an un-
spoilt, all-white away kit. McCann and
Roche harmonized to win the initial tus-
sle at the throw in, a ball was delivered
directly into the arms of Niall O’Hara,
McCann followed on and his work was
rewarded with a fine score from 20
yards. This early dominance and net-
working between the midfield and for-
wards tamed the opposition for a while.
Fitzpatrick floated one over from a set
piece, thereafter was replaced by Luke
Johnston due to a niggling hamstring.
The rest of the first half was more of a
tennis rally with no team able to pen-
etrate the others defense.
With IC only two points up going into
the second half, it was imperative to get
more scores on the board as a goal for
Lincoln would have put them in the lead.
The solid wall of Clancy and O’Driscall
in the full back line cancelled any scor-
ing opportunities that arose for Lincoln.
Imperial’s all important score came
when an accurate kick out from Harry
Evans was won by the determination of
Doolan; rising above his man, beating
him and laying it off to playmaker Niall
O’Hara whom after selling a handsome
dummy pointed from distance.
Changing back to Blue, Imperials next
opponents came in the form of Scotsmen
Sterling 0:00 – 2:03 Imperial
Unable to win the opening battle, Ster-
ling got in on the breaking ball from
the throw in – a shock to system for
the Blues however the defense bounced
back and disposed the Greens. The IC
defense governed the play in the first
half, Mick McGarvey, O’Hare and
James S. snatching any loose balls com-
ing their way, coinciding with the strong
hands and determinant runs from player
of the tournament, Paddy Comerford,
the IC forwards could do some dam-
Gaelic Sports: Football
go to Birmingham
age. Introducing danger man Heugh into
the full forward line ensured two robust
goals from his left boot, conserving his
reputation.
The adversaries were ruthless, though
dirty in their tackling so gave away many
fouls and those closer to the goal mouth
Ed Fitzpatrick confidently, could ease
the frees between the posts and over the
black spot.Doolan eventually added the
terminating point to the scoreboard with
Evans keeping yet another clean sheet.
The following game would best go
unmentioned even in The Times. Op-
ponents were in the form of the well-
travelled French team minus one or five,
roll up the Rennes Ten.
Edward Fitzpatrick
Find out how they did in the rest of the
tournament in next week’s Daily Felix
What’s that? You want to know what happened next, find out next week
A
s another year quickly
slips before our hands, it
is already February and
for the Royal School of
Mines it is one of the
most important months of the year. It is
the month when the Bottle Match falls
and is a weekend looked forward to by
all past and present Miners, but what is
the Bottle Match and where did it start
from?
For those not in the know, the Bottle
Match is actually quite old…to be pre-
cise it is 109 years old this year and is
the 2nd oldest university varsity match
in the country after Oxbridge! The match
is between the Royal School of Mines
against their constant rivals in Cornwall,
Camborne School of Mines. The match
began in 1906 on 16th December 1907
with the two sides battling it out on the
rugby field for respect and glory for their
institution. It wasn’t until 1926 that the
varsity match got its name, when some
RSM students stole a 3 ft Bottle from a
Bass Brewery lorry (showing students
have always been badly behaved…in
contrary to many newspapers’ views of
students) and this was adorned with the
two colleges’ crests and presented as a
trophy for the winners of the match. The
Bottle Match was born!
With time the match slowly started
to incorporate more sports to show the
diversity of the colleges with football,
mens & ladies hockey, squash, and golf.
There are trophies for all the sports rang-
ing in age from the Sharpley Cup pre-
sented by a RSM alumnus in the 1950s
for the Mens hockey winner to the Gold-
ers Cup that was presented by the Gold-
ers Association in the 1990s. This may
seem like the match is stagnant but new
sports are being added to the varsity
match and helping to invigorate the at-
mosphere with new blood. Netball was
added last year and this year Basketball
is being trialled for the first time.
Last year was a disappointing year for
the RSM with only the newly formed
Netball team winning their game against
CSM. Even the Royal School of Mines
Rugby team that tends to always retain
the Bottle, with them winning the bot-
tle 12 out of 14 years that included a
10 year winning run from 1997-
2006, went onto lose 13-0 in a
bitter boggy game. However with
last year in mind, all of the RSM’s
teams have being training hard for the
Bottle Match with some success stories
throughout the season including ladies
hockey coming second in their league
and vying for promotion again. The foot-
ball team making it all the way to their
ULU division cup final. And finally the
rugby team looking stronger, faster and
more deadly than ever before (I’m sure
Martin Johnson will enforce the England
rugby squad to watch the Bottle Match
for tactics and inspiration before their
crunch game against France that day).
So we look forward to the weekend
when over 180 players will com-
pete, more than 200 sup-
porters will
attend and
h o p e f u l l y
the chant “Oh
RSM” will be re-
sounding well into
the night at Metric.
Schedule
FRIDAY 25TH FEBRUARY
Basketball - 18:00
Netball - 20:00
SATURDAY 26TH FEBRUARY
Ladies Hockey - 09:00
Mens Hockey - 10:30
Football - 12:00
The Bottle Match - 14:00
Aftermatch party in Metric
from 21:00
SPORT
Ben Moorhouse previews the 2011 Bottle Match

