Election nominations disrupted by shutdown
NEWS
FELIX 3
Friday 25 february 2011
Hall survey delayed Kendall criticises
teaching review
Further details about the ongoing Life
Sciences undergraduate teaching re-
view have been provided to students,
with Union President Alex Kendall
voicing concerns over the review’s re-
lationship to the planned departmental
restructure.
An e-mail was sent on Monday, 14th
February, to students in the Department
of Life Sciences from the co-chairs of
the review, Professors Andy Purvis and
Murray Selkirk, thanking students for
over 200 responses to a questionnaire
which provided the review group with
information about undergraduate de-
grees and teaching.
As previously reported last month, in-
dividuals were critical of the 3 day time
frame for submitting responses and of
the questionnaire itself.
In their e-mail to students, Purvis and
Selkirk were praiseworthy of what they
considered to be “excellent suggestions
and comments that are shaping [the re-
view group’s] thinking as the review
process continues.” Acknowledging
queries for further details about the re-
view, the terms of references used by
the review group and a timetable per-
taining to the process were also pro-
vided.
The terms of reference follow the
main principle of aiming “to review un-
dergraduate teaching in Life Sciences
and make recommendations” with re-
spect to 13 guidelines. Such guidelines
include investigations into the “overall
coherence of each degree,” the “use of
assessment and provision of feedback”
and “implications on student satisfac-
tion, applications, and position relative
to competitors.”
In terms of the timetabling of the
review, the related information corre-
sponds with previously reported state-
ments, with the review period stated
as lasting from January until March.
A draft review document is due to be
completed by early March, with the co-
chairs explaining in their message that
there will be a further period of consul-
tation. “Anonymised” student responses
will be attached as an appendix to this
document.
Following this, a response to the re-
view document will be completed in
early April. Mid to late April will see a
deadline for proposals to be submitted
to the Science Studies Committee ahead
of the panel reporting to them on May
17th. The final process will be a senate
meeting on June 17th. It is hoped that
the new intake of student in October
2011 will be the first to see changes dur-
ing their degrees.
However, not everyone is satisfied by
the responses provided by the review
group. In his online sabbatical blog on
February 11th, Union President Alex
Kendall responded to the impending
release of the terms of reference, noting
particular concern in the fact that they
would not contain any reference to the
planned restructure of the Life Sciences
department: “The teaching review ap-
pears to simply be taking a long view
about teaching without trying to fill in
the 25% loss in teaching time in both de-
gree streams, or replace any of the lost
administrative positions.”
Kendall was previously critical of last
month’s questionnaire and its lack of
mention towards the restructure.
Felix contacted Purvis and Selkirk
about the relationship of the restruc-
ture towards the teaching review and
received the following statement: “The
review of teaching that is currently
underway is something that all depart-
ments do from time to time, in order to
make sure their degrees remain relevant
and up-to-date.” The co-chairs then cat-
egorically stated that, “It is not part of
the restructure.”
This will no doubt raise some ques-
tions amongst opponents of the restruc-
ture, many of whom held the expecta-
tion that the teaching review would
have some bearing on impending job
losses.
Matthew Colvin
President attacked for amenities fund comments
Imperial halls of accommodation were
the subject of much heated debate this
week following the Union’s announce-
ment of a survey to see how the rent for
Halls could be reduced. In particular
Union President Alex Kendall’s com-
ments about the halls amenities fund,
which is paid from rents and used to sub-
sidise social events, have been roundly
criticised with students forming a Face-
book group to resist the scrapping of the
fund. The survey has been delayed until
a “a full breakdown of costs [can be re-
ceived] to put the other measures in per-
spective,” according to Alex Kendall.
In an interview with Felix last week,
Kendall argued that “no alcohol should
be funded from the amenities fund” and
went on to say that it was “immoral” that
some students were subsidising others
to drink. His comments were met with
a vehement response that highlights the
importance the matter holds to students:
“I don’t believe he fully appreciates that
the funds are there to support socialising
and for the vast majority this involves
enjoying a drink and food,” wrote Adam
Cribbs, a hall committee member at
Clayponds. (Letters, Page 13).
Kendall responded to the criticism
by saying that he had not called for the
amenities fund to be abolished, “what I
am against is it being spent on alcohol,”
he said. However, he said that the point
of the survey was to gauge student opin-
ion on such matters and that he would
never “impose [his] opinion without stu-
dent support.”
From the initial debate, it doesn’t seem
likely that there will be student support
either for scrapping the amenities fund
or for prohibiting subsidising alcohol.
Opinion so far suggests that students
believe that the money spent makes a
critical contribution to life at halls. Craig
Court, creator of the Facebook group “I
am against scrapping the Imperial Ame-
nities (social) Funds”, voiced his con-
cerns that “without the amenities fund,
[…] large events that are provided for
residents to make new friends and meet
new people (especially in the welcome
week) could not be provided.”
Some hall wardens like Dr Dan Read,
believe the best method to cut down
costs is to look at the budget as a whole,
“to ensure that the costs are justified
and that money is not being wasted on
expensive outsourced cleaning, mainte-
nance contracts etc.”
Cuts have previously been made by
abolishing hall senior discounts; John
James, Deputy President (Welfare) last
year warned that “In this economic
climate we have to make cuts and [...]
funding Hall Seniors is not sustainable”.
Similarly a wardening review is due to
take place to address the costs of Hall
wardens and negotiate a deal.
Overall, the measures to try and reduce
rent have been positively received; how
this will be realised, conversely, is a con-
tentious issue. Excluding the overheads
for utilities rent when broken down is
dependent on 5 factors; as Alex Kendall
outlined: “Ethos, the Amenities Fund,
Cleaning, […] the contract length and the
cost of wardening.” Reduction in one or
more of these costs will have the desired
effect of reducing accommodation costs.
Kendall argues “students are con-
cerned about hall rents, so the Union has
a duty to at least make them transparent,
if not reduced.” The union’s decision to
conduct a survey is to understand stu-
dent opinion and then tackle the issue of
steep hall fees. “I was approached by
several wardens […] who raised con-
cern that Ethos was part of the rent but
no one knew about it. […] Regardless
of our personal beliefs, it is right to ask
students about the amenities fund.”
The greatest fear is that the social
aspect of living in halls and university
will suffer as a result of reduced funds
to reduce rents. If the amenities fund is
indeed scrapped, then socialisation may
depend on residents’ willingness to pay
extra for events. So far, the College has
declined to comment, saying that they
will wait for the results of the survey.
But as it has been delayed, students will
have to wait a little while longer to have
their say about this contentious area.
Madhura Ghosh
Correction
The correction printed last
week (Issue 1483 – 18/02/11)
did not include Nigel Kheng
Wei Hehn’s name in full. Felix
apologises for this.
Editor
Kendall says subsidising alcohol from the amenities fund is “immoral”
Miles Robertson
Matthew Colvin
author of the article, criticised the Col-
lege’s response saying: “I thought it was
a bit over the top, there wasn’t anything
bad in the article and it certainly wasn’t
libellous!” He said that it was “ridicu-
lous” to take down the entire server.
Heather Jones warned that the events
would make it more difficult to persuade
Clubs & Societies to host their websites
on the Union’s server, as required by the
Union’s web policy: “It is impossible to
persuade clubs to host websites with us
if College can’t be trusted to allow them
access when it’s required,” she said.
Earlier this term, IC Radio was shut-
down after a complaint was made to the
Rector’s office about the use of a racial
slur on air. In that incident, the com-
plaint was passed to the Union, who
then made the decision to take down the
entire website to show “how seriously
[the Union] considers racially offensive
language”. The website was back online
within 24 hours.
The Rector has apologised to the Union
for the reaction of the College. The Union
have said that they are working to form “a
more coherent procedure for the future if
a member of the public complains about
content on the Union website.”
...Continued from Front Page
“It is impossible to
persuade clubs to
host websites with
us if College can’t
be trusted to allow
them access”

