Last Wednesday, senior members of the College
met with postgraduate students to discuss their
concerns and experiences with accommodation.
In an email to student reps announcing the meet-
ing on Tuesday, Deena Blumenkrantz, President of
the Graduate Students’ Association (GSA) told stu-
dents that “College has heard our cries that their
housing is too expensive”. Jane Neary, Director of
Commercial Services, Denis Wright, Dean of Stu-
dents and John Anderson, Chief Executive Office of
the College Fund were present at the meeting with
around 20 postgraduate students.
The general feeling after the meeting was posi-
tive. PhD student Mikaela Smit applauded the Col-
lege for reaching out to postgraduates, saying:
“it is great to see staff are seeking out students’
views.”
Postgraduates at the meeting told College that
they would prefer to live with other postgrads, in
“family-sized” accommodation. This amounts to
having a bathroom between 3 or 4 people, and a
kitchen for every 4-6 students, rather than studio
apartments with en-suite facilities.
The issue of cost was brought up at the meeting,
with those attending saying that they paid up to
£130 per week and that they would prefer to cycle
than pay a premium for living closer to campus.
The GSA has said that they will be creating a sur-
vey based on the discussions to discover if these
views are reflective of the wider postgraduate pop-
ulation. Haralambos Dayantis
NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Is the future nuclear?
Rory Fenton
On Thursday 17th February, three of the UK’s
leading experts on nuclear power came to Im-
perial to discuss their pet subjects in a debate
organised by A Global Village; Imperial’s
global affairs journal. Joining the debate were
Prof Jim Skea OBE, Director of the UK Energy
Research Centre, Prof Gordon MacKerron, Di-
rector of the Sussex Energy Group and Chair
of the UK Committee on Radioactive Waste
Management and Neil Hirst, Senior Policy Fel-
low in Energy Mitigation and Climate Change
at the Grantham Institute at Imperial.
Although the title of the debate was ‘Is the
future nuclear?’ all three experts quite clearly
did agree that the UK’s future would require
increased nuclear power capacity. The real
question was, how much should we invest in
nuclear and how far do we have to go to make
it safe? Prof. Skea started by stressing that the
need to decarbonise the UK’s electricity supply
is undeniable, targeted to be completed in 20
years. However, he insisted that while nuclear
power had its role to play, renewable should
make up a significant part of the energy mix.
He was sceptical of the role that fossil fuels
could play in a low carbon energy future for
the UK, pointing out that Carbon Capture and
Storage (CSS) was ‘yet to be demonstrated’.
Neil Hirst took a much stronger stance,
saying that we need nuclear power in order
to achieve Copenhagen’s “fantastically dif-
ficult” target of limiting global warming to 2
degrees. He quoted figures from the Interna-
tional Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) which
projected that ruling our nuclear power would
cost the world’s governments an extra $6 tril-
lion by 2050 in order to meet current climate
change accords. Once new generation reactors
are built, he said, nuclear will be the cheapest
source of energy for the foreseeable future,
with the occasional exception of gas. As for
the issue of waste management, he insisted
that “properly managed and regulated forms of
waste disposal are safe”, admitting that “win-
ning support for waste solutions remains a big
problem”.
Prof. MacKerron presented a markedly more
sceptical view of nuclear power. His own in-
troduction to nuclear came in the 1970’s when
he conducted a study showing that coal was
cheaper than nuclear power. Although he ac-
cepted that new generation plants should be
more efficient, he pointed out that they seldom
stick to projected costs. A new reactor in Fin-
land, he pointed out, was 50-70% over bud-
get and already 3 years behind schedule. He
also took a stronger stance on waste disposal,
quoted the late Lord Flowers, former rector of
Imperial, “there should be no new project with-
out a sustainable waste plan”. He also said that
industry should be made to pay for any nuclear
waste cleanup operation.
Much else was discussed at the debate. It was
pointed out that while nuclear power does in-
crease the UK’s energy security, most of our
gas doesn’t actually come from Russia, as is
often thought, but from much friendlier Nor-
way. If nuclear was to be used as effectively as
possible, the experts agreed, the way in which
we use our energy must change. Cars which
run on petrol cannot be run by nuclear power
and yet contribute to a significant amount of
CO2 emissionl; only when more cars are elec-
tric will nuclear power succeed in reduce emis-
sions from this carbon-intensive sector of the
economy.
Professor McKerron duelled with members
of the audience who accused nuclear power
plants of having a huge hidden cost; that of de-
commissioning. He argued that decommission-
ing should cost around 10% of the total invest-
ment required in a plant and should be funded
by companies setting aside a pot of money
for this purpose. Neil Hirst was keen to stress
that the only danger posed by nuclear reactors
comes from those built in less stable countries
with low quality research and regulation but
that this is simply not the case in the UK.
Following a lively Q&A session with the au-
dience, a vote was taken. Is the future nuclear?-
the overwhelming majority of the audience said
that yes, it was. Hardly a surprise at Imperial,
perhaps. But as to how much to use and how to
deal with the waste; these issues were left to be
discussed over the free after-event orange juice
and beyond.
I’m concerned about the colour scheme that
they’re using here...
...Continued from Front Page
Friday 25 february 2011
In Brief
College meets with postgraduates
to hear accommodation concerns
Beit cash machine removed
loss of the on-campus branch. Sharon Bolton,
Head of International Student Support at the
International Office, is concerned that only one
bank on campus isn’t sufficient to serve inter-
national students. Although there are a range
of banks close to campus, these branches do
not have the same student (and particularly
international student) expertise and close rela-
tionship with the College. In the International
Student Barometer survey, for students start-
ing in 2010, sorting out bank accounts was the
least satisfying experience for international
students; a problem likely to be exacerbated if
banking services on campus are reduced.
The closure also affects the Union, who hold
two accounts with NatWest, one of which is
for Clubs & Societies. They are looking into
other precautions such as hiring a security firm
to transfer cash from their commercial services
– the bars and club – to other NatWest branch-
es. Deputy President (Finances & Services),
Ravi Pall is also considering the idea of let-
ting Clubs and Societies pay into the Union “to
avoid the unnecessary risk of students carrying
large amounts of cash to South Kensington or
Gloucester Road.”
Other banking services on campus were re-
moved last week. Lloyds TSB took away the
cash machine from the Union building, citing
low profitability according to a Union spokes-
man. The Union say that they offered to pay
for the cash machine service but were unable to
persuade Lloyds to keep it. They are currently
From left: Prof Gordon MacKerron, Neil Hirst and Prof Jim Skea OBE
Christopher Walmsley
searching for other banks to replace the ser-
vice, with Barclays expressing interest. Until
a replacement is found, students will have to
walk to the Sherfield building or get up to £20
cashback from the Union bars (providing they
reach the £5 minimum card spend).
The International Office say that they are
making extra efforts to work with branches
near campus to ensure that they are sensitive
to student banking issues. The impact of the
loss of a NatWest branch that has such a close
relationship with the College will inevitably
be a big one, but with different options being
considered by Imperial College and the Union,
here’s hoping that the effects won’t be too seri-
ous for Imperial students.
NatWest declined to comment on the closure.
Tom Welch
Union elections hot up
The number of students running for positions has
ballooned in the last week. Maamoon Hussain is
now challenging Monya Zard for Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies) while three candidates (Jehan
Pasangha, Mevani Jagodage and Nicolas Massie)
have decide to run for the previously uncontest-
ed Deputy President (Welfare) position. There is
clearly a lot of interest in the election with three
candidates already receiving over 100 nominations
each. Nominations close on the 28th of February
at 23:59.
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/elections

