SCIENCE
FELIX
6
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Nipple Transplant
Slimming Technique
Cute Animal News
Science Hoax of the Week
Polar bear necessities
As well as melting vast swathes of their habitat, cli-
mate change has been held more directly respon-
sible for the decline in polar bear numbers. In the
early 1990s, nearly one third of pregnant females
in the Hudson Bay region of Canada failed to give
birth to cute polar bear cubs. Researchers from the
University of Alberta modelled the polar bear popu-
lation mathematically to predict how it would be af-
fected by melting sea ice. Their work, published in
Nature Communications, has shown that if sea ice
breaks up a month earlier than usual, the number
of female polar bears failing to reproduce could rise
to 40-73%. This is bad news for polar bears (and
people that like cute pictures of them).
“Why would you want to diet? It’s hard! You can’t
eat what you want when you want!” It’s an appealing
case made by the website of Dr Zizlesse. However,
this hoax website gives a rather unappealing alterna-
tive to dieting: nipple transplants. The theory is that
by transplanting nipples onto rolls of fat you tap into
societies fixation with breasts, turning the obese
into multi-mammary Jordan-esque glamour models.
It declares in their emails that “Fat is only ugly until
you put a nipple on it!” Thankfully Dr Zizlesse and
the ‘Nipple Addition Surgery’ are completely fabri-
cated having been made up by persistent internet
satirist and prankster Hyperdiscordia. What a boob.
Charlie Harvey
A new type of vaccine for pneumonia based on
genetically engineered bacteria has been devel-
oped, and may help in the fight against many
other infectious diseases.
The vaccine, which protects against a viru-
lent form of the bacterium Streptococcus pnue-
moniae, works by introducing a modifed form
of the bacterium that produces less pneumoly-
sin — a toxic protein that damages blood ves-
sels in the lungs and interferes with the immune
system. Researchers, from the Albert Einstein
College of Medicine, identified the genetic se-
quence that codes for the pneumolysin protein,
and using computer algorithms created a modi-
fied gene which would decrease the amount of
toxin produced.
Mice exposed to the modified bacteria experi-
enced significantly less inflammatory symptoms
than those exposed to the wild type. Most im-
portantly, 80% of mice exposed to the modified
form survived a later exposure to the wild strain.
Traditionally, vaccines are created with ei-
ther dead or attenuated organisms, with the aim
of inducing an immune response, but without
the disease inducing properties. Attenuation in
bacteria has, up to this point, come about by
injecting the bacteria into a foreign host. Natu-
ral mutations will allow the bacteria to grow
well in the host, but subsequently will grow
less well when injected into humans. The new
technique bypasses this process by designing
the mutations using a computer.
While this technique has been succesfully
used to reduce gene expression in viral patho-
gens, the research, published in the Journal of
Infectious Diseases, is the first to succesfully
attenuate bacteria.
Currently, two vaccines have been created
for different forms of Streptococcus using
this process. However, as lead researcher Dr
Pirofski points out “the vaccines don’t cover
all strains of disease-causing pneumococcus –
some of which have recently emerged and are
very virulent.”
The researchers are confident, however, that
the technique they have developed may lead
to new vaccines. Dr Pirofksi says: “this idea
opens up all kinds of possibilities in develop-
ing vaccines, not only against pneumococcus
but other organisms as well.”
“What a prick”, cried the little boy
Friday 25 february 2011
Genetically engineered vaccination
Kelly Oakes
You might not be able to tell from wherever
you are reading this, but black holes in the dis-
tant universe just shrunk down to as little as a
tenth of their previous size. This is not some
cosmic disappearing act; a new analysis of su-
permassive black holes at the centres of active
galactic nuclei has revealed that their masses
were previously overestimated by up to a fac-
tor of ten. The paper was published in Nature
last week.
Active galactic nuclei, or AGN, are among
the most luminous objects in the universe and
are powered by massive black holes millions of
times the mass of the Sun. Gas clouds, known
as “broad line regions”, surround the black
holes. These gas clouds range from a few light
days to hundreds of light days across; they are
much wider than our solar system. Astrono-
mers have been studying these clouds for over
thirty years, but until now many of their proper-
ties remained a mystery.
Wolfram Kollatschny and Matthias Zetzl
from the Institute for Astrophysics, at the Uni-
versity of Göttingen in Germany, looked into
the relationship between the shape and width of
spectral lines observed in the emission spectra
of AGN. Spectral lines are spikes in the emis-
sion spectrum of a luminous object, and rep-
resent a peak in intensity of light at a certain
wavelength.
However, for the broad line regions, it is not
quite that simple. The regions are spinning very
fast around the central black hole, and the light
emitted from them is subject to the Doppler
effect. When gas rotates around a black hole,
the frequency of the light appears to change
because some of the gas is moving away from
the observer and some is moving towards the
observer. This makes the spectral line astrono-
mers observe broader — an effect known as
Doppler broadening. This is the reason the gas
clouds are called “broad line regions”.
Kollatschny and Zetzl looked at 37 active ga-
lactic nuclei. They worked out that fast rotating
AGN created broader spectral lines, and slower
ones made more narrow lines. They also saw
that faster rotating AGN had flatter gas clouds
surrounding them, and slower ones had more
rounded gas clouds. As they now knew how
fast AGN were spinning, they were also able
to come up with new, more accurate estimates
of the masses of their central black holes. Pre-
vious estimates used just the spectral lines to
estimate masses. This is a problem, particularly
for very distant AGN, as astronomers can usu-
ally only see one spectral line from these.
The new black holes masses came out be-
tween two and ten times smaller than the previ-
ous estimates. While this isn’t going to cause
any major problems for the black holes them-
selves — they’re still the most massive objects
in the universe — it may pose a problem for
astronomers studying the formation of black
holes.
Active galaxy M82 has a supermassive black hole at its centre, and is very pretty
Black holes cut down to size

