felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you have an issue with a silicon based master
race, you might want to start hunting around for
a welcoming hippie commune, because things
just got serious. In three rounds of the Ameri-
can game show Jeopardy, based on participants
mastering wordplay to answer general knowl-
edge questions, a pair of skilled human contes-
tants were roundly defeated by a machine - a
testament to the distance artificial intelligence
has come since chess Grandmaster Gary Kasp-
arov’s epic six game battle with Deep Blue in
the late 90’s.
The conclusion of half a decade’s efforts,
the victory by IBM’s ‘Watson’AI program is a
massive achievement, one that was considered
virtually impossible in 2005. The complexity
of Watson’s system lies not in the knowledge
of trivia; Watson has been endowed with a 4
terabyte data repository (that’s roughly 512
Wikipedias, for reference).
Conquering the complex wordplay that the
game show is based on, often requires contes-
tants to draw together pop culture references,
puns and even slang to merely understand the
question. For example, ‘This term for a long-
handled garden implement could also be used
to describe an immoral pleasure seeker’. (The
answer, if you are wondering, is not ‘What is
a hoe?’, but ‘What is a rake?’. Look it up on
Wikipedia.)
Watson proved to be more than able at this
task, breezing through the three rounds hav-
ing amassed a grand total of £47,923 (£30,000
more than his nearest human challenger). At
each stage when the question was revealed to
the contestants, a text file containing the ques-
tion was sent to Watson. On opening the file,
Watson would run through a series of algo-
rithms in parallel to try and discover the an-
swer, with his confidence in his response de-
Free App of the Week
iOS - Beluga Messenger
There are quite a few chat apps on the iPhone, but
Beluga does one thing the iPhone’s not great at:
group chat. It’s free, cross-platform. Sorted
Beluga Messenger on Android means you can chat
to friends on iOS or any phone or computer with a
browser. Group chat done right.
Android - Beluga Messenger
AI geek bests human rivals
Feroz Salam
You’ve got a laptop bag, but what about an
iPad bag? It might seem like an odd concept
to have a bag just for your iPad, when you can
fit it in almost any bag you’re likely to be car-
rying. But that hasn’t deterred be.ez from re-
leasing an iPad version of it’s LE rush line of
laptop bags, the En Ville.
Made from pretty sturdy nylon, and avail-
able in three colours, the En Ville is about the
same height and width as an iPad, but almost
four times the depth. There’s a nylon non-re-
movable, but length adjustable shoulder strap
for carrying the bag, which feels just like a
seatbelt, and is attached at the sides.
The main zippered pocket has a separate
iPad compartment, a middle section for other
things, plus two slip pockets for ancillary stuff.
The front of the bag has a Velcro pocket with a
zippered pocket inside it, containing two slim
slip pockets, two more separate slip pockets
Got a laptop bag, how about a tablet bag?
Samuel Gibbs
pendent on the number of algorithms that came
to the same conclusion.
How Watson compared to his human rivals
is a matter of some debate. Watson’s circuitry
meant that he could often buzz in dramati-
cally faster than his two distinctly fleshier op-
ponents, and his vast data bank was optimised
solely for the purpose of playing Jeopardy. Yet
in his defense, he had none of the decades-
long training in natural language that Jeopardy
champions and opponents Ken Jennings and
Brad Rutter enjoy simply by being human. In
that aspect, it’s probably fair to argue that Jen-
nings and Rutter were playing a completely dif-
ferent game to Watson; the former testing their
trivia skills while the latter tested his English
language skills.
So what does IBM have planned for the
young linguistic master now that his Jeopardy
days are over? Watson more than served his
original purpose, convincing the US public
that IBM are still at the forefront of solving
some of the world’s toughest computing prob-
lems. Yet running Watson as is in any other
situation would probably be highly impracti-
cal. For the moment, IBM has announced that
they will be exploring the use of similar soft-
ware to aid medical diagnoses and legal re-
search. The truly exciting possibilities of the
software lie well in the future though - many
personal computers today can play more ef-
ficient chess games than specialist chess com-
puters of the 90s.
For a six year old idiot savant whose only
skill is an American game show, Watson’s
domineering performance has served to bring
AI and robotics back to the forefront of our
imaginations but his legacy will lie in how far
his performance goes towards bringing com-
puters that understand the intricacies of speech
into our homes. We’re used to chess-playing
computers, but if things go to IBM’s plan it
may be time to prepare for your GP being a
copper and silicon box somewhere in Iceland.
and a keychain clip. While you can’t fit any-
thing particularly thick in there, the bottom of
the pocket expands a little from its streamline
appearance, accommodating something about
the same size as a wallet. The back of the bag
features a slim poppered pocket, ideal for
something you need quick access to.
The sides and bottom of the back feature
some thin but quite robust padding, helping
keep the contents secure if you happen to drop
the bag, while the nylon construction proves to
be fairly weatherproof.
Of course the En Ville is quite small as
shoulder bags go, and you can’t fit a whole lot
in there, but if you just want to carry your iPad
and a few bits and bobs, the En Ville is about
as accomplished as an iPad-only bag could
be. On whether anyone really wants a bag just
for your iPad, the jury’s still out. But if you’re
after one, the LE rush En Ville is a solid con-
tender, despite the obscure name. Yours for
around £30.
Friday 25 february 2011
8
So what if ‘Watson’ won? He’s still not made from a single piece of aluminium. The
MacBook Pro, now that’s a computer that a fanboy can really jerk off to

