Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX 9
BUSINESS
Will the BoE raise its rates?
Fears about central bank inflationism have now come to the UK. Will it cause the
Bank of England to change course? By Sina Ataherian
A
mid growing concern
over the Bank of Eng-
land’s focus on and
commitment to keeping
its inflation targets, one
more committee member joined calls to
raise interest rates.According to minutes
from the latest monetary policy meet-
ing, three members now find “the case
for removing some monetary stimulus”
compelling.
Of the other six members, five (in-
cluding Governor Mervyn King), want
to keep the base rate at its current 0.5 per
cent, whilst one, Adam Posen, wants to
increase stimulus spending by £50 bil-
lion.
On the pro raising rates side of the
debate, Andrew Sentence, the first com-
mittee member to start calling for this,
argued that, “there was mounting evi-
dence that firms were able to pass on
cost increases to the prices they set, and
noted also that nominal domestic de-
mand had been growing for some time at
near to the top of its typical range prior
to the recession.”
In other words, consumer demand has
now returned to levels where, even ac-
cording to static analyses that typically
favour inflation in the monetary base,
the danger of this causing inflation in
price levels is imminent.
Moreover, “Of those members not fa-
vouring a rise in bank rate, some thought
that the case for an increase had never-
theless grown in strength.” Even Adam
Posen indicated he is getting more wor-
ried about inflation for similar reasons,
“a sustained upward trend in global
demand prospects, or a shift in senti-
ment against sterling, could outweigh
the domestic forces pushing down on
inflation.” These fears were summed up
in the minutes as, “one possibility was
that the recent increase in commodity
prices, which in many cases had been
associated with strong growth in emerg-
ing market economies, would continue.”
On release of the meeting minutes,
which indicate the likelihood of higher
interest rates on Sterling in the medium
to long term, the value of the Pound
relative to the US Dollar rose by almost
one per cent, before losing half of these
gains.
This was partly due to the Bank of
England Governor Mervyn King’s
warning to investors against assuming
that the Bank would raise rates to limit
inflation. Instead, he suggested that in-
flation is currently being caused by the
recent VAT increase from 17.5 to 20
per cent, rising commodity prices and a
weaker pound.
Whilst investors may have reasons for
jumping on the news of a third man call-
ing for fiscal tightening, as observers of
the US Supreme Court have found over
the years, no changes are certain until
you can count to five. However, ana-
lysts are already predicting that Deputy
Governors Charles Bean and Paul Tuck-
er may be the next members to stand
against Governor King’s resistance to
raising rates in the midst of a still weak
economy.
Concerns over central banks’ per-
ceived cavalier attitudes towards infla-
tion are not restricted to this side of the
Atlantic. On the same day as the latest
monetary policy meeting of the Bank
of England, George Melloan, a former
deputy editor of the Wall Street Journal,
wrote in the paper, “The Fed is financ-
ing a vast and rising federal deficit, fol-
lowing a practice that has been a surefire
prescription for domestic inflation from
time immemorial. Meanwhile, its poli-
cies are stoking a rise in prices that is
contributing to political unrest that in
some cases might be beneficial but in
others might turn out as badly as the
overthrow of the shah in 1979. Does any
of this suggest that there might be some
urgency to bringing the Fed under closer
scrutiny?”
Meanwhile, rises in oil prices that
have resulted from the recent unrest in
the Middle East have not help ease fears
over accelerating price inflation. Lon-
don Brent has already neared the $110
per barrel mark at the time of Felix go-
ing to press. Worst still, the investment
bank Nomura is now predicting that,
“If Libya and Algeria were to halt oil
production together, prices could peak
above $220 a barrel and OPEC spare ca-
pacity will be reduced to 2.1 million bar-
rels a day, similar to levels seen during
the Gulf war and when prices hit $147
in 2008.”
Despite reassurances from the Saudi
Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi that
OPEC (Organisation of Petroleum Ex-
porting Countries) would tap into its
spare capacity of 5 million barrels a day
(one and a half times the combined pro-
duction of Libya and Algeria), Nomura
maintained that its call may even be an
underestimate. An analyst at the bank
even went as far as to compare the situa-
tion for the petroleum markets with that
during the Persian Gulf War.
Despite the varying opinions on how
the inflation rate will change in the
near future, there is broad agreement
amongst analysts that the next three to
four months will reveal whether uncon-
trollable ratchet effects are going to kick
in.
Friday 25 February 2011
The estate of Lehman Brothers lost a
law suit on Wednesday against Barclays
over the sale of its investment banking
and brokerage businesses to Barclays.
The sale was made in September 2008
in the same week that Lehman filed for
Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The company
received $1.85 billion and was claiming
in its law suit that the figure should have
been higher. Attempting to raise funds
to repay some of its $360 billion debt
to creditors, Lehman has also sued J. P.
Morgan, Bank of America, and Cana-
dian Imperial Bank of Commerce over
similar complaints.
Lehman’s case was that Barclays had
misled the original sales hearing, but the
Federal Bankruptcy Judge in New York,
who oversaw the suit, rejects that claim.
Judge James Peck wrote, “the court was
not deceived in a manner that should
now be permitted to upset the integrity
of the sale order.”
The Judge also took into account the
urgency of the situation and the per-
ceived gravity of systemic risks at that
time, adding, “the sale process may have
been imperfect, but it was still adequate
under the exceptional circumstances of
Lehman Week.”
Barclays responded that it had done
the best it could given the unusual lack
of time for due diligence on both sides.
The Judge agreed that “the court still
would have entered the very same sale
order because there was no better alter-
native and, perhaps most importantly,
because the sale to Barclays was the
means both to avoid a potentially disas-
trous piecemeal liquidation and to save
thousands of jobs in the troubled finan-
cial services industry.”
Lehman is currently considering
whether to appeal the ruling, and a
spokesman refused to comment further.
Lehman loses law suit in US against Barclays
Unlike the Federal Reserve in recent years, the Bank of England is unused to direct criticism of its policies

