ECLUBS
Bookshop New
McGraw-Hill Publishers will have a selection
of their titles on show in our Window for the
next two weeks. If you want to inspect any of
the books, ask any member of my staff and
they will take them out of the window.
Christmas is only a few weeks away. Don't
forget we have a wide range of new titles
suitable -for presents, including fiction,
cookery travel and humour. Also a wide
selection of Christmas cards.
We have a small number of the Academic
Year Desk Diary £2.95 now in stock.
Hardback Titles
Fiddlers Moll Diana Menuhin Weidenfeld
& Nicolson £10.95
Fred Trueman's Yorkshire Fred Trueman
Hutchinson £9.95
The Particle Connection Christine Sutton
Hutchinson £8.95 (New Scientist Review
25.10.84)
De Alfonce Tennis J P Donleavy
Weidenfeld & Nicolson £8.95
Moon Books Jon Pertwee Elm Tree books
— £8.95
The Diary of a Nobody George & Weedon
Grossmith Elm Tree Books £10.95
Sparks Fly Frank Chappie Michael Joseph
£10.95
Entering Space Joseph P Allen Orbis
Books £15.00
The Adrian Mole Diary 1985 Methuen
£4.95
Paperback Titles
The Torch Bearers Alexander Fullerston
Pan £1.95
The Fate of the Earth Jonathan Schell
Picador £2.50
All about Home Satellite Television Rick
Cook Foulsham £12.60
The Twelve Apostles William J Coughlin
Pan £1.95
King of the Roses V S Anderson Pan £1.95
Lucas make the L Test easy Chris Go//ey
Foulsham £1.75
Ten killing Fields Christopher Hudson Pan
£1.75
The Abolition Jonathan Schell Picador
£2.50
Foulsham's Universal Cookery Book
Foulsham £0.80
Quick & easy Chinese Cooking Kenneth
Lo Pan £1.95
Richer than all his Tribe Nicholas
Monsarrat Pan £1.95
The Story of Esther Costello Nicholas
Monsarrat Pan £1.75
Women beware Woman Emma Tennant
Picador £2.50
My Computer doesn't Love Me Mollusc
Chalk & Cheese Publications £1.95
Tarbuck on Golf Jimmy Tarbuck Fontana
£2.95
The Word Processing Handbook
Katharine Aschner Pan £2.95
Dictionary of Management Derek French
& Heather Saward Pan £4.95
BALLOON
Blyth
Spirit
What am I doing on a cold October Saturday
morning at 3am outside the Southside
Garage?...Balloons. The Imperial College
Passing Wind Club is what I am talking about
— my first flight in the club's hot air balloon.
Anyway after having dragged ourselves away
from beds, parties etc at 3am we discover
that conditions in Nottinghamshire are not
suitable for flying so we'll leave later in the
morning. Back to our beds etc.
We assemble once again at 8.30am andset
off for Blyth in Notts. After a long
uncomfortable journey in the back of a union
minibus, shared with a hot-air balloon, we
arrive and pile into comfy padded seats in our
H Q for the weekend, ie a pub. The local brew
goes down well and soon disolves the
numbness from our buttocks.
What about the ballooning? The wind is
still too strong and we sit and watch the trees
thrash about outside. There is a possibilty
the wind will die down for Sunday so we
remain hopeful. Not all of Saturday
afternoon is spent in the pub, an expedition is
made to a local forest to look for (tasty)
edible fungi. It is really amazing the number
of different species/type of fungii one can
find, as one staggers about, in just a small
patch of woodland. Some specimens are
fried up and prove to be quite tasty.
Having survived the mushrooms/
toadstools(?) back to the ballooning. The
whole idea of zooming up to Blyth is to join in
with a Pennine Region balloon meet (a
balloon meet is where lots of balloons meet).
At the A G M and supper we are told
prospects look good for flying on Sunday.
This means waking at 6am on Sunday!
7am Sunday and suddenly I find myself at
the morning briefing. The weather is good so
we set off for the launch site. The balloon is
soon unpacked, inflated and ready for take-
off. Only two new members are present so
we are given priority and prepare for our first
flight (really my third because I am an ex Bath
University Balloon Club member).
Up, up and away. We soon reach 2000
feet. The view is breathtaking. Apart from
the occasional roar of the burner there is a
deafening silence. We spend one and half
hours drifting across the Notts countryside
over villages, power stations, farms etc.
Everything looks different in plan view. 'No
sign of the retrieve van'. Our pilot decides to
tag along with another balloon for the last
part of our journey. After a while we find
ourselves directly above the other balloon —
out comes the camera — we spiral around
each other for several miles. Finally the pilot
decides it's time we landed and a field is
chosen. A ditch runs directly across our
path. The pilot and other passengers use me
a a cushion on landing (landings are not the
most comfortable part of ballooning) and the
ground gives us a warm welcome. Now we
wait for the retrieval van. Another pub lunch.
The wind stays around 10 knots for the
afternoon and we are able to fly again. Off
they go, ' O K who's got the van keys?'... 'I
dunno'. You've guessed, the keys have flown
away with one of our club members who shall
remain nameless (he is our club chairman).
How was the balloon retrieved? That is
another story.
JAZZ
Jamming
sessions
The Jazz Club will be holding further
jamming sessions for members every
Monday from November 19 onwards. The
first session will be for those interested in
playing jazz or jazz funk, the following one
for rock or blues, and from then on it will
alternate each week between the two.
Members and non-members alike are
welcome to come along, bringing their
instruments if possible. The evening will start
at 7.00pm and membership is £1.00.
PHOTO
No colour
printing
It is with great sadness that the committee
have to report the death of the Durst M700
Colour Enlarger which passed away
peacefully in its sleep sometime last week.
Although its demise was not unexpected (it
has had one foot in the grave for the last five
years at least) it will come as a shock to those
members who will want to do some colour
printing between now and mid-December,
which is the earliest possible time at which it
can be replaced. If and when we do get a new
colour enlarger members will need to be
especially careful with it, 'cos we won't be
able to get another for at least ten years.
On Sunaday (18 Nov) there will be a
photosoc trip to the London Butterfly House
at Syon Park. Anyone who wants to go
should turn up at Beit Arch at 10am, (the
committee will be going even if no-one else
is). Macro equipment is not necessary, but
you should bring flashguns, tripods and fast
film, as the light may not be too good. It costs
£1.50 to get in, (although if ten or more
people turn up it's only £1.30) and the bus
fare is probably about a quid each way. I
hope we get more people this time than the
number who signed up for the Bradford trip
(an integer between zero and two).
Finally, a message for our Darkroom
Officer come to the committee meeting
today or you'll get the sack!
10 Friday 16 November 1984 FELIX

