CLUBS"1
BALLOON
Humbcr Meet
The Balloon Club will be attending the
Humber Bridge meet on the weekend, 1 and
2 December. Leave Balloon Garage 5.30pm
November 30th. Return: Sunday night. If
interested, come to the meeting in Southside
Upper Lounge at 12.45pm, Thursday 22
Cost: accommodation B & B less than £101
optional camping free. Travel less than £8.
CONSERVATIVE
Our Willie
The term has got off to an excellent start
with its programme of invited speakers and
draws all readers attention to the next
speaker meeting on December 11 with Lord
Whitelaw.
The Society's membership is still growing,
and anyone who would like to join should
contact Gayna Sammon (Life Sci 1). All
members receive our regular newsletter,
reserved seats at speaker meeting and the
opportunity to hear speakers in the House of
Commons, through our affiliation to London
Conservative Students. We are also
producing a magazine 'Blueprint' which
members will automatically receive.
The latest issue of 'Campus' magazine is
now on sale throughout College, or from
Roger Cracknell (Chem I) to whom 20p and a
large envelope should be sent. This
magazine has been banned at many
Universities and is an excellent antidote to
lectures!
INDUSTRIAL
Forging ahead
One of the most efficient steel producers in
the world. British Steel Corporation,
believes that it has now turned the corner in
profitability. Despite operating in the face of
a vigorously international market which is
beset by problems of over-capacity and over-
production, B S C increased its energy
efficiently by 10% last year, reduced man-
hours per tonne of steel by 23% and cut
losses dramatically from £869 million to £256
million.
How was this achieved? Find out at an:
Informal Presentation by British Steel
Corporation
with Free Buffet and Wine
Thurs 22 Nov at 5.45pm, Sherfield Ante-
Room
Your opportunity to question senior
managers from B S C about:
•Latest energy-saving techniques in the
steel-making process.
•Progress towards profitability — still on
course after the effects of industrial unrest?
•Attitude of employers towards planned
privitisation of the industry.
•How to find out what the customer wants
and produce it at the right price.
•Newest stainless steels in the Research
Dept.
If you would like to go to this presentation,
please send a £2 cheque (payable to Imperial
College S C C ) as a returnable deposit to Tim
Bird, Mech Eng 3
Limited number of places.
BRIDGE
Yes! Imperial College does really have a
bridge club. Whether or not you saw us at
Fresher's Fair, why not come up to the top
floor of the union building any lunchtime for a
game! W e cater for all standards and provide
everything you need including free expert
tuition for beginners. No need to bring a
partner — and at only £1.00 for the whole
year, it must be the best value contract
bridge in London. Hope to see you soon!
BREWING
O K — own up. Who went to find Brewsoc at
the Fresher's Fair? If you found anybody,
well done, 'cos they weren't there!
However, all is not lost because several
keen brewers in the first year have got
together and have re-formed Brewsoc. They
are now looking for new members.
If you have read this far, then you might be
considering joining, and therefore be
wondering just what we do. Brewsoc is for
anyone who is interested in Very Cheap
Beer, or Very Cheap Wine, or anything else
that we can brew,(not distill). Just as an
example, you can make beer as cheaply as
6p a pint. Better Beer costs a little more, but
even Dogbolter (a Firkin brew) can be made
for about 20-25p per pint.
We have our own Brewsoc 'cellar' and a
fair amount of brewing kit, for wine and beer.
We are hoping to invest in some more kit this
year, but first we need you to join.
If you're interested, come along to the first
meeting, which will be in Southside Upper
Lounge on Wednesday 21 November. If you
can't come, contact Duncan Lowe, via Elec
Eng pigeonholes, with your name and
department, and we will get in touch with
you.
CANOE
Eskimo Roll
The Canoe club has recently run two
excellent weekend trips to Wales. The first
canoe surfing on the Gower Peninsula and
the second to the River Dee in N Wales.
Both trips provided plenty of thrills and
spills and above all plenty of fun. Two or
three more trips are planned for this term.
If you fancy having a go at canoeing,
learning the basics and how to eskimo roll
and then putting it into action on the rapides
or in the surf, or if you are already a
competent paddler, come along to our pool
practice sessions and get the low down.
Pool sessions every Tuesday, 6.30pm at
the College swimming pool, Princes Gate
with social chat and drinks afterwards. No
expense or gear necessary.
This isn't only a man's sport so come on all
you girls, you won't be the first. Canoe club shooting the rapids
FELIX Friday 16 November 1984 11

