Tinker
A group of aeroplanes is based on a small island. The tank of
each plane holds just sufficient fuel to take it halfway arou nd the
world. Any desired amount of fuel may be transferred from the
tank of one plane to the tank of another whilst the planes are
airborne. The only source of fuel is on the island, and for the
purposes of the problem it is assumed that there is no time lost
in refuelling either in the air or the ground.
What it the smallest number of planes that will ensure the
flight of one plane around the world on a great circle, assuming
the planes have the same constant ground speed and rate of
fuel consumption and that all planes return safely to their inland
base.
Solutions to me at the FELIX Office by Friday 23 November.
G R A D E 3
Last fortnight's puzzle only really required the solver to
visualise the first and second letters as co-ordinates of a grid.
Each two letter combination then fills a two by two square in the
grid which is 'closed' at the sides.
The problem may then be solved quite quickly by simply
fitting five two by two squares into the grid.
The Solution AA, B C , C E , D B , E D is depicted below, the nine
other solutions being translations and reflections of the same
thing.
Of the ten correct solutions Neil Thornton of Maths 2 was the
lucky winner and may collect his £5 cheque from the FELIX
Office.
FEATURE!
fi B C D E
A
B
C
D
E
WHISKY GALORE!
The winners of the
Glen morangie whisky competition are as follows:
1st: Victor Gembala (Elec Eng)
2nd: Martin Passingham (Chem Eng)
3rd: Robert Marsden (Rock Mechanics)
Watch this space to see when
you can collect your whisky from the FELIX Office.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
THE JUNIOR COMMON ROOM;
SHERFIELD BUILDING
PRINCE CONSORT ROAD ;
SW7 2AZ Tel: 589 8882
/IK) i ,. ' , (\
s i m
ROOM BOOKINGS
When a club or individual books a Union room it is
important to note and obey the following points.
1. A substantial cash deposit may be demanded (and
must be paid beofre the event) and a room hire charge
may be levied.
2. The general public are not to be admitted to the
building at any time. The only people allowed in the
Union are IC students, staff, students whose institutions
have reciprocal agreements with ICU and people on
official business (for example aspeaker at a meeting). No
one else is allowed in.
3. The only alcohol which may be sold in the Union
Building is from the Union Bar. This rule must not be
broken, as to do so would jeapardize the college liquor
licence which would mean no Union Bar, Southside BAr
etc, for a long time.
4. The person applying to use the room is responsible
for making sure that there is no trouble, the room is
vacated by the set time, the room is cleared up and
returned to a clean and tidy state.
In the event of any trouble or complaints the Deputy
President or any member of the Union Executive
Committee may take charge of an event. This means that
in the event of any trou ble the D P has the power to halt the
proceedings.
If you are booking a room for a club or society please
read the back of the booking form. It could save you, and
us, a lot of trouble.
Finally, anyone booking the Concert Hall or any room
requiring additional lighting should contact Dramsoc (int
3531 or Union Office) at least two weeks in advance.
Without this notice equipment cannot be guaranteed.
Dave Parry
FELIX Friday 16 November 1984 13

