Imperial College
Major Projects Symposium
Securing Britain's Future
How can we create a climate in which major projects can be implemented?
How can we best harness our financial and human resources to achieve
major large-scale projects which will benefit future generations?
How can we reliably calculate the return on investment and how can we
best quantify environmental factors to the satisfaction of both private and
public investors?
These and other questions will be discussed at a
symposium to be held in the Sherfield Building,
Imperial College, London on Friday 4January 1985.
The Lord Flowers, FRS, The Rector of Imperial
College and Chairman of the Committee of Vice-
Chancellors and Principals, will introduce the
day's programme and the keynote speaker will be
Norman Lamont, MP, Minister of State for Industry.
The Lord Ezra, M B E , will chair the morning session
and David Crouch, MP, Chairman of the All Party
Group for Energy Studies will chair the afternoon
session.
Papers on past, present and proposed major
projects will be presented. The Severn Railway
Tunnel, completed in 1886, is still producing substantial
revenue for the descendants of its shareholders. The
Dinorwig Pumped Storage Power Station is already
contributing to the provision of cheap electricity and is
expected to recoup its capital cost of £400m in eight
years. The Severn Barrage Tidal Power Station could
provide cheap, non-nuclear power for generations to
come.
Professor Sir Alan Harris, C B E , will outline an
action plan to implement major projects following open
discussion in the afternoon.
Organised by the Old Centralians, the association of
former and present students and staff of the City and
Guilds College, the symposium is co-sponsored by
the A l l Party Group for Energy Studies and the old
students associations of the Royal College of Science
and the Royal School of Mines.
The Speakers
J A Catterall PhD ARSM DIC FIM FInstP -
Secretary, Science and Engineering Research Council
R J Collins BSc(Eng) ACGIFICE - Divisional Civil
Engineer, British Rail (rtd) - Member of Council,
Institution of Civil Engineers
J A Derrington FEng BSc(Eng) DIC FICE FIStructE
FCIArb - Director, Sir Robert McAlpine and Sons Ltd
- President of the Institution of Civil Engineers
J C Judson BSc(Eng) ACGI FICE MIMechE -
Director of W S Atkins Group Consultants - Chairman,
British Consultants Bureau
D M MacPherson BSc FICE FIHT - Senior Partner,
James Williamson & Partners
Who Should Attend
All those with the vision to instigate major projects and
all those with the skill or resources to implement such
projects, including representatives offinancialand
political institutions, the engineering and construction
industries, local authorities and nationalised industries,
environmental and sociological groups.
The Cost
The fee for the symposium is £120. A special package is
available which offers a ticket for the symposium
combined with a ticket for the City and Guilds College
Centenary Dinner at the Guildhall on 26 February 1985
at a cost of £145 to early registrants.
Imperial College Major Projects Symposium
Registration Form
Please send me:
further information \__] a ticket (
Name
>£120 • a ticket® £145 •
Designation _
Organisation
Address
. (office). . (home)
Telephone no
Cheques to be made payable to Imperial College and sent with this form
to: The Honorary Secretary, PO Box 38 Sevenoaks TN13 3LN.
Imperial College Major Projects Symposium. 4 January 1985
Imperial College of Science and Technology, London SW7 2AZ.
Details for name badge

