ELETTERS
Think again
Mr Snivel
Dear Sir,
The lightening wit and devastating
cynicism of our friend Everard has again
been seen in these columns. It does seem that
he is more interested in creating a response to
fill the letters page than in saying anything
specific. Not wishing his efforts last week to
be in vain, I would like to take up one point
with him.
It is all well and good sinking to the depths
(excuse the pun) of criticising a certain
recreational club or any other group in
college that needs exposing. It is another
thing to slander the name of someone who
takes a prominent role in the lives of many in
College calling themselves Christians,
meaning one who identifies and lives by the
teaching of Jesus and even more, proclaims
him as did the early disciples as Lord and
God.
In view of this it came as a surprise to me to
see this man who taught and showed the way
to God, who healed the sick, who condemned
religious hypocracy and was finally prepared
to face death for that which he believed,
referred to as a 'confidence trickster,
freeloading food, transport and women'!
Really, M r Snivel, please think again.
Yours faithfully
Roger Preece
Brown bore
writes
Dear Sir,
I was interested to hear other students
comments on my proposals concerning
student loans. For Messrs Hooper and
Winterton it is easy to pontificate about the
merits of grants, cushioned as they are by
industrial sponsorships. For many students
the financial dependance upon parents is
both intolerable and unjustifiable. For their
information, Con Soc is affiliated to the
Federation of Conservative Students, which
represents some 12,000 students in over 100
educational establisments, and it is this body
which is proposing loans as a replacement to
grants to the Government.
Perhaps M r Atkins has failed to realise that
his democratic right to criticise would not
exist, given that Britain abandoned its
defences as he suggest, and under a
totalitarian state he would most certainly be a
corpse by now.
I would say however, that the caption to
his letter needs some explanation, as its
relevance is beyond me. Peter Brooke M P has
stated that higher education and grants are a
privelege and not a right, as M r Atkins
suggest. Implicit therefore, is the need for it
to be cost-effective.
I firmly believe that the best system of
Government is no government —
bureacracy, inefficiency and socialism are
great evils and must be fought in all their
guises. I still remain in favour of loans, but
welcome all comments.
Graham Brown
Con Soc Chairman
Boolery Woolery
wrong again
Dear Sir
In last week's Boolery Woolery column
you criticized I C C N D for trying to make
political capital from Remembrance Day.
Perhaps you should have been admiring them
for taking a leaf out of our glorious leader's
book, who last year tried to make political
capital by attempting to prevent D r Owen
and Mr Steel appearing at one Remembrance
Ceremony at the Cenotaph.
Yours faithfully
Julian Shulman
Physics 3
Dear Sir
I found some of last week's comments on
the selling of white poppies in remembrance
of war victims confusing.
I strongly disagree with the banded
phrases, 'those who gave..' or'who sacrificed
their lives to ensure that future generations..'.
Surely this is a euphemism for 'those who
lost..' or 'were sacrificed..'. Speaking as a
person who is terrified of the thought of
'serving one's country' in time of war, I do
not comprehend that anyone willingly steps
in front of a bullet. That bravery, although
laudable, is mainly the result of situational
circumstances ie irrational action through
high levels of adrenelin. I prefer hiding
behind the skirt of a nuclear deterent.
The fascination many middle-aged persons
have with the second world war is abhorent.
It is fuelled either by the mind protecting
itself by remembering only the good things in
war time eg comradeship, or more
dangerously by the generation, who were
children during the war, feeling they have
missed some valuable experience through not
being older. Hence the assured success of
most war films.
Whether one buys a white or red poppy
seems less relevant than symbolising personal
remembrance of the futility of previous wars
and the waste of resources, human and
physical.
Yours faithfully
G Purdom
Chem Eng II
F E L I X
Later this month College and Union officials
will interview for the post of Union Welfare
Advisor.
When this post was created the Advisor
was paid by the Union and gave impartial
advice on welfare matters such as rent
rebates, rights as tenants, supplementary
benefit, consumer rights, and so on.
After a subsequent rationalisation, the
College began to pay the Advisor who was
based in Student Services in Princes Gardens.
The Advisor then spent much time
assisting Student Services in the
administration of the Halls of Residence.
This is not to detract from the excellent
welfare work done by the last Advisor, but
merely to point out the dangers of too close as
link between Welfare and Student Services,
which is, after all, a part of the College
administration.
The College and Union should think long
and hard about the responsibilities of the
Welfare Advisor. Above all, the person
appointed must not be seen to be just another
arm of the College administration.
Letters received suggest that some of you
think that the Editor writes and agrees with
everything in F E L I X .
I can tell you that if I only published what I
believed myself, F E L I X would be very
different; but it would be the newspaper of
me, not Imperial College Union.
I shall continue to publish controversial
material, in the belief that it is only by
discussion that sound ideas will prevail and
erroneous views will be exposed for what they
are.
To do otherwise would be to be guilty of
intolerance and tyranny.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Nigel,
Peter, Ajay, Hugh, Martin, Luke, Rich,
Grenville, Dave, Jon, Nick, Richard, Patrick,
Rosemary, Tony and all the collators.
Felix is published by the Editor tor and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, PrinceConsort
Road. London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 19X4. ISSN 10140-0711.
JCR BAR
Budweiser
50p per bottle
Monday 19 to Friday 23
While stocks last
2 Friday 16 November 1984 FELIX

