ELETTERS;
continuedfrom page 2
Miners
Dear Sir
With regards to the letter about Socialist
Society's mining dispute meeting.
Firstly, the society completely refutes the
claim that there was a mob, of any kind,
present at the meeting. This claim is not, and
cannot be, substantiated with fact and the
society expect the claim to be withdrawn.
Secondly, a collection was not made at the
end of the meeting. No tin was passed round
and shaken under people's noses. People were
free to make donations as they thought fit.
The fact that the author of the letter wishes
to remain anonymous reflects either
unprecedented levels of paranoia, or more
realistically that the author simply wants
total freedom, without recause, to smear
Socialist Society, the striking miners, and
others at the meeting.
We are disappointed that you, as Felix
editor, freely published such a far-fetched
letter and more importantly withheld the
author's name without good reason.
Yours
Robert Turner
Paul Simpson
Right to speak
Dear Sir,
I refer to the anonymous letter in last
weeks F E L I X concerning the SOC-SOC
meeting held on November 1 to which
speakers from the N U M were invited.
It is amazing how one's perception of the
same events can be so different. I wonder how
many people present agree with my
summary?
The miner, a face worker from
Betteshanger in Kent began by describing
how his family first moved to his village after
the 1926 General Strike and how he had
learnt at an early age that his job was loaned
to him for his working life to be passed on to
the next generation in the mining
community. He then gave a picture of the
present situation in the Kent minefields and*
finally the problems with the Police that
began with the arrival of people connected
with the National Association for Freedom, a
far right group who appear to be closely
involved with the W o r k i n g Miners
movement.
The Chairman thanked the speaker and
called for questions — a young lady in the
audience got up and attacked the speaker for
not recognising young ladies were present
when he gave his address. He apologised
immediately by indicating that where he
worked, at the 'face', there were not many
ladies present and that he was not used to
speaking to students. Not content with this
the young lady in question continued to make
further statements and ask further questions
— the speaker attempted to reply, each time
the young lady intervened. After about ten
minutes of this I asked the Chairman, with
his permission in the traditional manner — ie
I indicated with my hand I wished to speak —
whether other people would be able to ask
questions as well.
It was clear that the young lady did net
agree with the Chairman's decision and
promply got up and left.
Whether you agree with the striking miners
or not, surely they like other speakers invited
to Imperial College have a right to put their
view. I am not sure whether it is normal
practice at 'students meetings' to harangue
the speaker, I have always thought it is
common courtesy to allow a right of reply.
One wonders then, which 'mob' the
anonymous writer is referring to!
Yours sincerely
John Fecamp
for the millions
Dear Sir,
I write in reply to last week's letter 'Coal or
Food'? The 'Lady' who 'stood up' against the
N U M was given the chance to ask questions
and make accusations (including some quite
sharp insults) repeatedly, and not content
with this she persistently interrupted the
speaker who answered her questions
pleasantly and completely. Having received
an intellectual thrashing she walked out, of
her own accord.
Why should the author of the letter be so
'astounded' by the support shown for the
miners? We recognize that in the long run the
miners' fight is everyone's fight: as the
speaker said, until we 'make our first million'
we should have no illusions about being
anything but working class. What is
incredible is that so many students, like the
poor confused woman in question, should
decide to line up with their own enemy
against their own class (unless, of course, her
daddy is managing director of some multi-
national company?).
As'for the money: yes, people did donate
appreciable sums and over £130 was
collected. What right does anyone have to
assume that those who have contributed to
the miners have not also contributed to the
Ethiopian fund? And if you really are so
concerned for the Ethiopian people why
don't you organize a meeting and raise some
money, if you have not already done so? And
whilst you rally round your government
against the miners, remember that for a long
time they deliberately witheld aid from
Ethiopia hoping that a famine disaster would
bring down the Marxist government. And
just as they were prepared to use the
Ethiopians suffering to their own political
ends, they now try to starve the miners into
submission.
It would make a great deal more sense for
you to leave behind your misconceptions and
confusion and line up with those who are
fighting for a society run for the millions
instead of for the millionaires.
Yours
Julian Bammer
Civil Eng 3
Fool
Dear Sir,
We were at the Miner's Support Group
meeting referred to by 'Name withheld by
Request' last week. The lady who 'stood up
against them' (the two Kent miners speaking
at the meeting) was not at all courageous. She
was self-righteous, pompous and insisted on
monopolizing the discussion, continually
butting in on other people's contributions to
preach about violence on the picket lines. The
student who was acting as Chairman
admittedly didn't help matters by saying so
brusquely 'I think we've had enough of this
topic'. After about ten minutes, but the lady
concerned only made a fool of herself by
marching out of the meeting. If she had
stayed she would have head some interesting
' contributions (not all supporting the miners)
about the real issue of the strike, which is not
violence or the picket-lines (whether from the
police or miners), but the right or otherwise
of Government to inflict untold violence on
thousand of British people by closing pits,
d e s t r o y i n g l i v e l i h o o d s and whole
communities in the process.
If only the lady could have taken off her
blinkers and imagined herself in the miners'
postion for once. The miners are scared,
scared of losing their jobs their friends, their
whole way of life. When people are boxed
into an intolerable situation they fight back.
This Government, with its 'elective
dictatorship' and 'government by standing
ovation', seems to regard the miner's stride as
a Holy War akin to the Falklands War. But
you can't run a country by destroying the
lives of its citizens — that's what we call 'mob
rule'. The Government is there to serve all of
the country's people, not to create alienation,
anger and despair through the tyranny of its
ideology.
We contributed several pounds to the
miners fund (and several pounds towards
Ethiopian famine relief, as advised by your
correspondant last week). We are proud to
have done so. The government has finally
woken up to the crisis in Ethiopia after years
of claiming the famine was being overstated
by the regime there which 'just happens' to be
Marxist. When will they wake up to the crisis
in our own country? What levels of
unemployment and poverty do they need in
Britain before they decide we're 'taken our
medicine'?
Yours angrily
A R Atkins EE III
NMArran EE III
Friday 16 November 1984 FELIX

