OPINION^
Take your
partners
IC Dance Club is one of the very few clubs in
College which can boast an almost 50-50
male female ratio, mainly because it attracts
many students from other colleges.
If you have ever fancied yourself quick-
stepping around a dance floor, but on
account of your three left feet, haven't yet
plucked up the courage to come along, don't
worry. Our professional teachers can cope
with anybody. From those who have 'got de
beet', to those who wouldn't know rhythm if
it jumped up and bit them!
If you are a complete beginner then the
classes for you currently run on a Tuesday
and Wednesday at 8.00pm. These classes
are taught by two charming young ladies
called Christine and Kim, who aim to teach
the basic steps and turns of the waltz,
quickstep, cha-cha, foxtrot and jive. Later
some rhumba and samba is included.
To begin with everyone is tripping over
everyone else, dancing into other couples,
and generally chaos rules supreme! Soon
everything calms down and you manage to
control both feet at the same time. These two
classes are usually a lot of fun as everyone is
out to have a good time, and most succeed.
The classes normally start with a couple of
simple progressive barn dances, so everyone
can get to know each other, and partners are
constantly changed around during dancing.
Next term there will be a new beginners
class starting, so if you are interested keep a
look-out for the posters.
Those of you who have danced before, but
not become particularly advanced, or have
had a break since dancing, may find the
intermediate class on Tuesdays at 7.00pm
the one for you. Here you will learn more
advanced steps to build on your basics, so
you will really be able to impress your friends.
The third latin/ballroom class is held on a
Monday at 7.30pm, and is for more advanced
dancers who have gone through the
beginners and intermediate stages in
College, or who have danced for 6-9 months
outside. The class is taken by a gorgeous
young man know as 'Peach', who also
dances professionally in shows and
competitions.
The fourth class run by I C D C is intended
for those of you who really fancy yourselves
in the discos, and want to 'Strut your funky
stuff all over South Ken.lt is the jazz-funk-
disco class which 'happens' on a Monday at
6.30pm .As well as learning to dance you get
to keep very fit and listen to some good
music.
All the classes last for an hour, and
membership of I C D C is open to anybody, a
snip at £2 for the year. Each class costs
between 50 and 75p pence, so it works out a
very cheap way of having a lot of fun. If you
are interested and want to know any more,
come along on a Monday, Tuesday or
Wednesday to the J C R in the Sherfield
Building and have a word with any of the
committee.
Although our primary aim is to teach people
to dance socially, some of our members want
something more. Thus, we have two teams
which compete at'University level; our first
team, consisting of the more experienced
dancers, who enter both the Southern and
Inter-Varisty competitions, and our second
team who enter only the Southern.
Each team consists of up to four couples,
each dancing one of the four dances waltz,
quickstep, cha-cha-cha and jive. In addition,
there are 'open' competitions for which we
can enter three or four couples over and
above team members. There is also an
'offbeat' section, where each Dance Club
gets the chance to present something
different, on the general theme of dancing.
Examples include the origins of some dances
eg Pass the Duvet (Paso Doble), Dance of
the tea ladies (cha(r) cha-cha) and take-offs
of adverts eg Heineken. This year we hope to
involve those people who attend our jazz
funk classes, by choosing a subject and
choreographing an appropriate jazz routine.
Any suggestions for a humourous subject to
Neil McCluskey Chem Eng 1.
indeed a colourful sight.
Come the big day, the team and its
supporters board the coach bound for one of
the other Univeristies which hosts the
competitions. On arrival, the team go to
change, the others to forage food. Dancing
usually begins at 5.00pm, and the main
competitions are interspersed with general
dancing. There is always a professional
demonstration, to show us how it should be
done and by 1.00am everybody is ready to
leave, clutching any trophies they may have
won (or mascots they may have stolen!).
Our track, or should I say floor, record has
improved dramatically over the past few
years. Last year was our best year to date,
coming fourth overall in both the Southern
and Inter-varsity competitions, and winning
the cha-cha-cha at the Inter-varsity.
This year, we have two full teams who are
already practising hard for their first
competition, which takes place here at
Imperial. The dates for your diary are:
November 17: London Ball, 6.30pm-
— 12.00pm, J C R
November 26: London v Cambridge,
Guildhall, Cambridge.
December 7: Annual Dinner and Dance,
7.30pm-1.00am, J C R
February 22: Southern Ball, Oxford
March 9: Inter-varsity Ball, Cambridge
Team members take lessons with top
London teachers in their spare time, as well
as practising their routines during club
nights. We try to encourage team spirit, and
there's nothing better after an evening's
work than to relax with other club members
in Southside and recall past successes (or
failures!).
The club provides the outfits for the
teams, which cost hundreds of pounds, but
dancers must provide their own footwear.
For waltz and quickstep, the girls wear the
traditional sequinned dresses, incorporating
yards of nit (very dangerous!) whilst, the men
don tail suits, dress shirts and bow ties. For
cha-cha-cha and jive, the girls wear what can
best be described as not a lot, and the men
wear catsuits and coloured shirts. When the
Imperial College team goes on parade, it is
Anyone who wants to come and support
us is most welcome, we take a 50 seater
coach, so there's plenty of room! So, if there
are any more budding world champions out
there, contact Annabel Mak now, either at
our classes or via the Chem Eng Letter
racks.
Finally, it only remains for me to thank our
teachers Peter Townsend, Geoffrey
Clapham (latin), Eric Donaldson (ballroom)
Christine Norman, Kim Graves (general
instructors) for all the hard work they have
put in, and to wish this years' teams all the
best.
This years committee: A Mak(Chairman),
C Yates (Junior Treasurer), F Kondowe
(Secretary), I Maxted (Publicity Officer), N
McCluskey (Jazz Team Captain) D
Caballero (Team Captain).
FELIX Friday 16 November 1984 5

