FEATURED
SCAB W
I
G
H
T
A Cocktail of Entertainment
While most people are aware of what Guild's
Carnival involves, and the beer festival has
no difficulty in informing its potential
customers of what is on offer, the same
cannot be-said for S C A B night. S C A B stands
for Social, Cultural and Amusements Board,
which is merely a committee which overseas
the running of the performing societies
within IC Union: Chamber Music, Choir,
Debating, Dramatic, Jazz, Film, Operatic
and The Orchestra. All of these societies,
with the sole exception of The Choir, are
joining together to produce a night of
entertainment as a part of Rag Week. Each
society provides a light hearted contribution
to make up one of the most varied evening's
entertainment of the year.
The evening commences with the
Operatic Society's performance of 'The Zoo'
by Sullivan and Rowe. Set, not surprisingly,
in London Zoo the Chorus arrives to
discover a love-sick youth, Carbody, trying
to hang himself because he believes his love,
Laetitia, to be dead. Unlucky in death as he
seems to be in love, he fails to kill himself at
which point the Chorus - representing the
great British public - walk off in disgust. With
the traditional storyline established, its
complications are introduced through a
medley of clever verses, with quick-fire
action involving the hopeful lovers and their
other, potential suitors. Despite yet more
attempts at suicide, Carboy survives and -
surprisingly enough — manages to marry
Laetitia and all ends happily. The amusing
dialogue, rapid action provides S C A B night
with a promising, and cultivated, start to the
evening. This show was a storming success
on Tour this Summer and a polished
performance is assured.
While The Orchestra are simply too large
to fit upon the Concert Hall stage, they have
produced a trio, playing wind instruments,
who will be performing'Teddy Bear's Picnic'.
This is followed by the Debating Society's
Balloon Debate in this type of debate, there
are three characters who, it is imagined, are
all in a balloon which is sinking and in danger
of crashing. To reduce the weight and hence
prevent the death of these occupants, two of
the three must be thrown out of the balloon.
Each of the three characters make a short
witty and humourous, too,it is hoped -
speech to justify to the audience why they
Saxophone and silk shirts from
Kool Skool
alone should survive. The audience are then
able to ask questions and finally to vote. This
year there is an appearance by author,
homosexualist and chat show favourite
Quentin Crisp and Michael Newman will
make his now regular performance as Jesus
Christ; modesty, as ever, prevails!
After the interval, the Dramatic Society
are performing 'Play It Again, Sam'. Woody
Allen, that six foot two inches blonde
bombshell has produced another rip-off of
other peoples scripts, with this particular one
taking characters from 'Casablanca', 'Play It
Again Sam' concerns a young journalist
whose wife has deserted him so now he is
looking with a little help from Humphrey
Bogart, for. a nymphomaniac, a swinger, or
even a salesgirl from Woolworths. In fact he's
after anyone, as long as they are bright, witty
and perceptive and have a bottom into which
he can sink his teeth. Woody Allen's script
provides never fails to deliver the laughs.
The Chamber Music Society concerns
itself with a diverse range of music and for
S C A B night is providing a Barber's Shop
Quartet.
The music continues, in a different vain,
with Jazz-Funk from Jazz Club's 'Kool
School' The group have been playing at a
variety of venues in London over the past
two years. They have developed their range
and will be playing an energetic or exciting
jazz fusion of numbers, complemented with
loud and tasteless stage costumes. Kool
Skool outclass mediocre jazz-rock outfits
such as Weather Report with powerful
renditions of such classic tracks as
'Streetlife' and 'Rio Funk'.
Film Society, such that it is, providing the
final part of the evenings entertainment with
Richard Pryor - Live in Concert. Richard
Pryor is an American comedian, who has
also acted in a number of films, who tells rude
jokes very well, in the style of the more
recently famous Eddie Murphey.
Throughout the evening, until 11.00pm,
there will be a bar at the entrance to the
Concert Hall serving beer and spirits.
Hamburgers will also be on sale.
S C A B night is a most varied cocktail of
entertainment, provided by societies who
are very well experienced and able in
performing. The event begins at 7.30pm in
the Union Concert Hall (Beit Building, off
Prince Consort Road). Entrance for the
whole event is £1.50 and £1.00 for late
arrivals who merely wish to watch the film.
All profit goes to IC Rag Charities.
SCAB NIGHT
Timetable
7.40 The Zoo
8.30 Teddy Bear's Picnic
8.40 Balloon Debate
9.05 Interval
9.25 Play it again Sam
10.40 Barber's Shop Quartet
11.00 Kool Skool
12.00 Richard Pryor Live
FELIX Friday 16 November 1984

