CFEATURE
RIFLE AND
PISTOL
CLUB
-a club of calibre-
The College Rifle Range is open for business again after a lot of work by
the Holland Club and IC Rifle and Pistol Clubs. Here the new facilities are
described to whet the appetite of all budding marksmen
Sorry for the delay but will be pleased to hear
that this was due to the range being
reconstructed to allow fullbore pistols to be
used in it. This means that we can now
provide facilities for shooting anything from a
popgun to a 0.44 magnum. Over half a ton of
armour plating was carried into the range by
members of the Holland Club and ICRPC
committee to construct the new butts. The
range was completed and certified last
Tuesday by the Military. In case any of you
potential new members out there have lost
the information sheet given out at Freshers'
Fair the range is in the College sports centre
in Prince's Gardens, not more than five
minutes walk from any lecture theatre. It is
open every lunch-time throughout the week
and all afternoon on Wednesday. Joining the
club is only a matter of coming along one
lunchtime and paying the yearly membership
fee of £2.50 to one of the range officers.
The shooting week is broken up into rifle
on Mondays and Fridays, pistol on Tuesdays
and Thursdays and both disciplines on
Wednesday. Naturally, since most new
members will have had little or no shooting
experience, coaching sesssions will be held
each day for the first two weeks and will be
available at any time during the year to
anyone interested. We also hope to be able
to arrange for a professional coach to
provide training from time to time.
The club can cater for a wide variety of
disciplines for both the rifle and pistol
shooters. The main rifle discipline is the
prone position (that's lying down) but for the
more dedicated, and masochistic, there are
the kneeling and standing positions. We have
a large selection of match quality Anschutz
and B S A 0.22 rifles for general club use.
The pistols disciplines this year will include
standard pistol, that is two strings of five
shots, each in ten seconds, two strings of five
shots, each in twenty seconds and ten
rounds precision. We also hope to construct
some turning targets to practice duelling in
which the target is only exposed to the
shooters for three seconds in every ten,
during which the shooters must raise their
pistol and fire one round before lowering it
again. We can provide a fair selection of 0.22
pistols and will have access to fullbore pistols
such as 9mm Brownings and a Colt 357
magnum many of which are of match quality.
As well as the regular full-bore pistol
sessions the club will be organising a number
of full-bore rifle trips to Bisley Camp. There
will be a Freshers' trip either near the end of
this term or the begining of next term,
followed by two trips in March during which
the inter-CCU competitions will be held.
Past experience has shown these trips to
be extremely popular despite the fact that
Bisley has a weather system unique in the
country; one of torrential rain and gale force
winds most of the year round. Having said
that, the rare exceptions like during last
years inter C C U competition show that
Bisley can provide glorious sunshine.
The rifles, while tacky and rented, are in
7.62mm calibre and have displayed
surprising accuracy out to and beyond 600
yards. At times these rifles have shown a
mysterious, metaphysical self-aiming ability.
One rifle in the hands of an R C S team
member struggled valiantly, against all the
odds, to provide 9 consecutive bulls, but was
unable to hold out against said team
member's subsequent nervous breakdown,
finally yielding a score of 49/50.
(It has been noted that the various Bisley
bars do quite good business on these
occassions).
On a more serious note, during the
summer session the University of London
has regular competitions at Bisley and
Imperial College usually contributes a
number of shooters to the team.
(NB all the above mentioned Bisley trips
are heavily subsidized).
However, enough of full-bore. The
majority of the club's activities centre around
the small-bore rifle disciplines. In the past
years the club has entered several leagues,
with both A and B teams, but due to the delay
in starting our shooting season we have only
managed to arrange one regular league this
year, the league of London Colleges.
To compensate for this lack of
competition we will be arranging a number of
head-to-head matches, entering a number of
national competitions and running a club
ladder. The competitive instinct is usually
brought to the fore during the inter C C U
small bore competitions in March.
Again, for the more ambitious (and
capable) shooters the University of London
runs two teams, and this is the only known
route to a U L shooting Purple.
In the past the pistol shooters in the club
were labelled as cowboys or latent Clint
Eastwoods, but although that part of our
nature occasionally rears its head, we
become much more successsful last year.
The pinacle of our success came with the
inclusion of three of our members in the
University of London Pistol Squad, which
won the nationwide interuniversity Pistol
Competition last year, even though the U L
Pistol Club was not officially recognised as a
club, and hence received no grant. Hopefully
that position has now been rectified and we
hope to continue our representation in this
successful squad.
On the Social side we hope to organise
several events during the year including one
or two club dinners held at restaurents or
hotel in the South Kensington area. The club
dinners last year at The Rembrandt Carvery
and Chompers, were great successes.
As a final inducement, over the past two
years we have developed strong links with
the French rifle club, A T C La Rochelle. Two
years ago an Imperial College team spent a
week of very enjoyable competition in
France, and last year a team from the French
Club competed with us here in London. Not
surprisingly the French won on their home
territory and we won on ours. We have been
invited back to France this year, (hopefully in
late June early July) and with a change in
strategy, and a collection of suitably cunning
tricks we hope to thrash them this time.
Any potential members who are good
enough shots and speak Freanch would be
gratefully added to our team, since none of
the French speak any English, and non of us
speak French.
So whether you speak French or not, or
have never even seen a gun before in your
life, come down to the range and give it a go.
Christmas Dinner
—as advertised last w e e k -
closing date for
bookings is
1.00pm Friday 30 November
UNION BAR
PROMOTION
Monday 19 November
Courage Best Bitter
Only 45p per pint
Friday 16 November 1984 FELIX

