Wielding the
mighty organ
T
his week has seen the first censure
against a sabbatical officer for more
than twenty years. In a draining four
hour Council meeting, we sat and lis-
tened to accusation, counter-accusa-
tion, defences, apologies, and what
some present termed “untruths”. We
debated, calmly and coolly (for the
most part), on an elected officer’s conduct.
Though I’m sure the vast majority of the student popu-
lation couldn’t give a flying fuck, it was actually an im-
portant moment. No longer could sabbaticals sit in their
rosy little tower, safe from harm no matter how inept
they may be (a certain ex-DPGS springs to mind). John
Collins may have bleated in his governance review (no
more!) about holding officers to account, but Monday
was proof that this year’s sabbaticals and other officers
are willing to take the steps necessary to prevent an-
other Luis Hui (oops, named him) situation developing.
In Shama’s defence, however, she spoke well and con-
fidently despite what must have been a harrowing ‘trial’,
but often refused to accept what seemed to be indefensi-
ble points from the floor, earning her little respect from
some present. Certain thorny topics, notably attendence
and her (dis)appearance at Freshers’ Fair, may have
turned many volunteer officers, who sacrifice a great
deal of time for very little thanks, against her.
As far as I can see, the furore over the bars appears to
have died down; it seems no-one took issue with John
Collins’ reply to Mez and Jess’ article last week. Either
that, or you’ve simply stopped caring.
It’s elections time again, as I mentioned a couple of
weeks ago. This is now less a call for people to stand,
and more a call for thinking before voting. I know that
you may feel compelled to vote for a candidate you know,
but that is a terrible reason to elect someone to an office
where they have significant power.
Instead, look at the candidate’s record. If a person has
zero experience with clubs, will they make a good Dep-
uty President (Clubs & Societies), for example? Though
many people imagine the sabbs to be ineffectual, point-
less positions, and a waste of Union money, in day-to-day
business they are incredibly vital, dealing with the cri-
sises that arise almost daily. If you elect someone with
no experience, how can you be sure they’ll do a good
job? If someone has spent four years as a club chair,
then you can be sure they have a good understanding of
how clubs work.
And don’t take the “that’s what training is for” line,
as one of my opponents did when I was elected. Just
like driving and sex, I’m afraid there’s no subsitute for
experience.
Right, I’m off to the bar. Have a good weekend.
Chicken or the egg?
What difference can ethical careers make, asks Freya Summersgill
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,360, Friday 20 October 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Deputy Dog Tom
Roberts | Managing Editor Alex Antonov | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Business Editor Michael
Olymbios | Music Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny
Gibson, Tom Whitson | Film Editor Andrew
Sommerville | Games Editor Mike Cook | Arts Editor
Emily Lines Rocks | Fashion Editor Sarah Skeete
| Comment Editor Stephen Brown | Environment
Editor João Vitor Serra | Clubs & Societies Editor
Kirsty Patterson | Copy Editor Edmund Henley, Besart
Robo | Pornographer Emerson Vigoureux | Fluffer
Josh Levine, Hobag’s cousin, Kim Doolan |
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
It’s that perennial question again, what
came first, the chicken or the egg? Do
individuals shape society’s beliefs and
actions, or does society shape individu-
al’s beliefs and actions? Why does it
matter you may ask?
Imagine a situation where you have
been accused of a crime you did not
commit. Now imagine that there is no
evidence, circumstantial or otherwise,
to back your case. If found guilty, you are
likely to face life in jail. Would you accept
defeat? Equally important, would you
want those who believed in you to give
up? Now imagine if you may, injustices
happening millions, no billions of times
over... Injustice in pay, social exclusion,
damage to the environment, human
rights violations... Would you rather be
the passive on-looker or the active ad-
vocate of justice and truth?
No, you do not need to go on street
protests, chain yourself to fences or
hug a tree to be an active advocate of
justice (unless that is something you’re
into of course, in which case you may
continue to do so). You can follow an
ethical career that allows you to ad-
dress environmental and social issues
both locally and on a global scale. On
the 21st of February, there will be an
ethical careers exhibition here at Im-
perial, which will allow you to discover
the potential that you are able to offer
as an individual.
The idea of an ethical lifestyle often
conjures the images of consuming fair
trade coffee or chocolate and wearing
organic cotton shirts. However, the
possibilities to make a visible differ-
ence are endless. Ethical careers can
be as viable in law, media, social devel-
opment, government, engineering, en-
terprise and many more sectors. It is a
common misconception that an ethical
career will pay less, when in fact, such
jobs can be just as rewarding financially
and even more so morally.
Additionally, the culture within your
workplace is more likely to be friendly
and open due to the nature of your job
and like-minded collegues.
Ultimately, choosing an ethical career
is about choosing to be an active propo-
nent of justice. You may not be the per-
son who saves 800 million people from
going hungry every day, but at the very
least, you have realised that society is
shaped by individuals and it is the in-
dividual choice that you make, which
will lead to change and improvement
worldwide.
Missives directed to the editor
The Ethical Careers Exhibition will
be held on Wednesday 21st Febru-
ary, 11:30am-4:00pm, The
Great Hall: http://www.union.
ic.ac.uk/ethicalcareersexhibition/
Sir,
One has to wonder whether Adil Hus-
sein actually conducted any research
before writing last Friday’s article. If
so, he would have found that, regretta-
bly, there *are* a great number of indi-
viduals and organisations calling for a
Sharia state in Britain. This is shown by
polls and research across the political
spectrum, from the Guardian to the Pol-
icy Institute (neither of which can rea-
sonably be dismissed as obscure). This
fact should worry both secular Muslims
and non-Muslims alike, but cannot be
tackled by pretending that the problem
(and it *is* undoubtedly a problem for
anyone concerned with our social cohe-
sion) does not exist.
Yours faithfully,
Anon
[Please note that I am at Imperial but
would prefer to remain anonymous
because, regrettably, even comments
such as the above - which are intended
to be a rational contribution to a very
important debate - have had a ten-
dency to be misconstrued by a small
minority].
Guess who?
Outraged of
Tunbridge Wells
Sir,
I would like to express my outrage (par-
ticularly in response to the letter from
the “guys at office 307a” and the reply
from a certain “pornographer-in-chief”)
over the current state of Felix’s Page 3.
Felix Page 3 was revolutionary when it
began! No matter how ugly, pretty, fat
or thin, male or female, as long as you
could take off your clothes for the visual
enjoyment of the rest of us, it was all to
the good. No more! For the last three
issues, Felix has featured ACTUALLY
ATTRACTIVE PEOPLE! I ask you,
what is going on??? Before, Page 3 was
a wonderfully democratic and enjoyable
dig at the real porn industry. But now
actually pretty girls (not even naked I
add) drape themselves across our page
in the manner of a lingerie advert, re-
inforcing all the negative connotations
that the original Page 3 so successfully
mocked.
Society degrades and sexualises
women enough as it is; these values
are not something that a student pa-
per should endorse. The real pleasure
of the old page three was its message
that anyone could be sexy. Now we
have reverted to the old, depressing
view that impossibly beautiful women
should take off their clothes for the
base gratification of men such as “the
guys at office 307a” and some arrogant
twerp who seeks only “the most beauti-
ful models” for his centre spread.
What a waste of a genuinely original
and groundbreaking idea.
Disappointed,
Ms Frances Smith
Andy Sykes replies:
Ah, our first serious complaint about
page 3!
Though the points you make a val-
id, you’ve taken the comment made
in the paper a little too serious. That
was written by me, and as a tongue-
in-cheek statement (and written about
ten minutes before deadline).
The truth of the matter is that we’re
as democratic as ever - see the first
Riding Club page 3 for an example of
people who aren’t “conventionally”
beautiful. We will take anyone who
wishes to be naked, and portray them
in the best possible light. You wouldn’t
ask us to make them look bad, would
you?
Just to reiterate the point; we will
take anyone. The photographer this
year is very talented, and uses both his
lighting and his make-up artist friend
to make the people look as lovely as
possible, more for their benefit (isn’t
it a good feeling to have photos where
you look good?) than for our reader-
ship’s benefit.
They’re not supposed to be degrad-
ing, or only focussed on women. The
truth is we’ve taken everyone who has
applied so far this year; we’ve even
had to run stock photos because no-
one was applying. We’ve had no males
apply yet, though we’re promised one
from the rugby lads (as is traditional).
I’m sorry you took the comment to be
offensive; it certainly wasn’t meant to
be.
And lastly, I had complaints when
I removed the centrefold (because I
wanted to... improve the tone of Felix, I
think), and I have received complaints
now I’ve bowed to public pressure and
reinstated it. You can’t win, eh?
Sir,
I have an idea for you:
How about an investigation into how
green imperial college is. I am sick to
death of reading all these proclama-
tions on the IC website and in the re-
porter staff paper, about how we are at
the forefront of environmental science
etc. In reality, there is barely any recy-
cling facilities on campus, and energy
waste is astronomical. I work at the
charing cross campus and we have to
do our own recycling and take it to the
public bins.
Imperial should be setting the gold
standards. Do we even have an envi-
ronmental policy. Are all the new glass
buildings environmentally sound? Do
any new developments incorporate so-
lar panels, wind turbines etc. Do on site
franchises have to adhere to environ-
mental policies?
Yours faithfully,
Jack Kerr
Imperial College is
green? I think not
Andy Sykes replies:
You know, I was just thinking about
this. While touring the campus distrib-
uting this mighty organ with a young
American acquaintance of the female
variety, she happened to comment on
the dearth of recycling bins around the
College. It seems that with Green Week
approaching, now would be the time to
ask what College is doing.
5
felix
Friday 9 February 2007
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

