On Tuesday 30th January 500 balloons were released
from the Beit Quadrangle to mark the launch of the
Imperial College Centenary.Since then over a dozen
balloons have been found by members of the public
and posted back to the Union.
Balloons have been retrieved from a variety of
locations across East London, Essex and Kent
and the students and staﬀ who sponsored these
balloons will win prizes ranging from IPod Nanos to
Centenary Wine.
The ﬁrst prize weekend break in Paris for two goes
to the student who sponsored Balloon number 239.
This special balloon somehow found its way to
Oberzeuzheim, 590 kilometres away from London
in West Germany, outpacing its rivals by over 500
kilometres.
Congratulations to all those who took part. The
event raised in excess of £1800 for the Centenary
campaign. And remember, you can still buy
early bird discount tickets for the Centenary Ball
at our Imperial College Centenary Ball website
imperialcollegeunion.org/centenary
Are you worried about student debt? Completely
fed up with paying £3,000 fees? Worried about the
prospect of even higher fees? Do you want to tell
your MPs exactly what you think?
The Aldwych Group - which represents students in
the UKʼs leading universities (including Imperial) -
is organising a lobby of parliament to let MPs now
exactly what students think of Top-Up fees. As part
of this we are looking for 10 Imperials students -
and especially freshers - who care about the fees
they pay to join us in Parliament to make their
voice heard.
The lobby will happen on the afternoon of
Wednesday 21st February, so if youʼre interested
please contact Ben Harris for more information.
The Union will make sure you get to Westminster
and back in one piece, and weʼll also give you
advice on how to make the most of your time, and
get your MP to listen to you.
unionpage
Tell Your MP What
You Think Of
Top-Up Fees
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Balloon Race Results Announced
Roochi Solanki
Eirini Spentza
Richard Jones
James Millen
Ryan Bowen
Danushi de Silva
Hugo Doyle
Michael Powell
Fred Van Den Driessche
Aziz Bilgrami
Jad Marrouche
Jennifer Grunwell
Christopher Millsom
Weekend break in Paris
Ipod Nano
IPod Nano
£50 Primark Vouchers
Centenary Wine
Centenary Wine
Centenary Wine
Centenary Wine
Centenary Wine
Centenary Mug
Centenary Mug
Centenary Mug
Centenary Mug
And The Winners Are...
Tickets are now on sale for two of this yearʼs biggest
events. The Centenary Ball is the biggest event of
the year and takes place on campus on Saturday
16th June. A champagne reception will be followed
by a three-course meal with after-dinner speeches
by famous faces. Magicians, comedians and high
proﬁle DJʼs will perform throughout the event,
fairground rides, street entertainers and chillout
venues and an exclusive alumni and VIP lounge.
Tickets are available to students, staﬀ and alumni
and are currently at an “early bird” discounted rate,
so make sure you get in early!
Also available are tickets to this yearʼs Centenary
Varsity Day; culminating in the Centenary JPR
Williams Cup Match between the Medics and IC
rugby teams. Tickets for the match and the travel
to and from are available online now.
imperialcollegeunion.org
Buy Your Centenary Events Tickets Online!

