Look outside! Global Warming!
A solution to the world’s energy crisis, and global warming, brought to you by the letter H and the number 2
As the weather gets weirder, news
reports get gloomier, and even Dav-
id Cameron decides to join in the
fun, it seems that when it comes
to fossil fuels and climate change,
we’re pretty much screwed.
Barring those who have had their
heads buried firmly in the sand for
the past 12 months, virtually eve-
ryone has grasped by now that in
order to avert the most serious ef-
fects of global warming, it is time to
reduce our carbon emissions, and
fast.
But for all the promises of a hy-
drogen future, the majority of re-
search has so far proved unfruitful,
leaving us with an uneasy choice
between traditional renewable en-
ergy sources and nuclear power.
Help may be at hand however, in
the form of a collaboration between
Professors Tsuchida and Komatsu
from Waseda University, Japan,
and Imperial College London.
The scientists used the tools of
synthetic biology to synthesise a
large molecular complex, made
of the blood protein albumin and
haem component porphyrin, which
can use solar energy to split wa-
ter molecules into hydrogen and
oxygen.
At present, the most commonly
discussed methods of producing hy-
drogen to fuel a hydrogen economy
are electrolysis, which is so energy-
intensive as to make it economi-
cally unviable, and extraction from
natural gas. As natural gas is itself
a fossil fuel, this process is also ulti-
mately unsustainable.
But by replacing the iron atom
normally found at the centre of por-
phyrin (involved with carrying oxy-
gen around the body in the blood as
a component of haemoglobin) with
an atom of zinc, the team managed
to modify the structure and chemi-
cal behaviour of the molecule. On
fusion with genetically modified
albumin protein, the resulting com-
plex was found to possess remark-
able hydrogen-generating powers.
“It’s very exciting to prove that we
can use these biological structures
as a conduit to harness solar energy
Krystyna Larkham
Science Editor
With pressure constantly mounting to find sustainable energy, is this a sign of of the future?
(It better be snowing outside otherwise that title is going to flop...)
8 felix Friday 9 February 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Polonium-210 was on the menu last
Thursday evening at the Dana Cen-
tre, with a panel of experts serving
up the audience plenty of food for
thought concerning this singularly
unpalatable isotope, once again in
the news as further claims in the
Litvinenko case emerge.
Yet who did what to whom was not
at issue – indeed, one of the panel,
Dr Michael Clark, the science
spokesman for the Health Protec-
tion Agency (HPA), was naturally
very loathe to discuss these sorts of
Dispelling the Po-210 myths
details, as they related to an ongo-
ing case of his. Instead, the aim was
to elucidate the science of the case,
from the source of the poison, how
it affects the human body, to details
of clean-up operation.
Professor Dennis Henshawe
(Bristol), started the presentations
with a few basic facts about this iso-
tope of Polonium. Although it has a
short half-life (roughly 130 days) it’s
maintained at a constant level in
the environment, as it’s produced
by the decay of uranium, which has
a half life of 4.5 billion years. In fact,
as uranium’s relatively common in
the crust, at a few parts-per-million,
polonium’s as ubiquitous as radon,
and contributes to half of the back-
ground radiation dose.
Building on this introduction,
Professor Nick Priest (Middlesex)
continued to the effects on the body.
He pointed out that since Po-210
emits alpha particles, which have
a very short range, it has to enter
the body before it can do any real
damage. Litvinenko seems to have
taken it up in a cup of tea, a rather
unlikely poisoned chalice.
Yet this mode of entry was well-
suited to Po-210: whereas other al-
pha-emitters are relatively poorly
absorbed in the gut (1 part in 10000
for plutonium), as Po-210 passes
through up to 60% is absorbed into
the bloodstream. Once there, it cir-
culates around the body, causing
especial damage to parts which
produce new cells, such as testes,
hair, gut and skin cells.
Litvinenko’s dose was so high
much was concentrated in his liver,
leading to jaundice too. Both Priest
and Clark, who spoke later, high-
lighted the difficulty in identifying
poisoning by Po-210. The initial
symptoms – feeling nauseous with-
in hours – were far more likely to be
due to gastroenteritis. Only as oth-
er symptoms slowly emerged were
other possibilities investigated.
Po-210 was finally diagnosed due
not to its emissions – the hospitals
aren’t set up to detect the short-
range alpha radiation – but due to
the symptoms of Acute Radiation
Syndrome (ARS) Litvinenko exhib-
ited. Priest noted this was the first
case of ARS from an alpha-emitter;
the Curies had also died from expo-
sure to alpha radiation, but years
later.
Numbers aplenty were provided
by Dr Paddy Reagan (Surrey) whilst
he examined provenance. He point-
ed out that since the alpha particles
are very energetic, compared to the
chemical bonds they damage with-
in cells, very few suffice to provide
a lethal dose. A deadly 500 million
Becquerel (decays per second) can
come from a few microgrammes
– an invisible speck. To create this,
the most likely contender would be
a high-flux nuclear reactor. Expos-
ing a sample of (stable) bismuth-
209 to 1014
neutrons per second
would convert a sufficient quantity
to Bi-210, which decays to Po-210.
This is relatively easy – even he’d
made some with this method!
A further advantage is that as only
Bi and Po are present in the sam-
ple, there wouldn’t be a geographic
fingerprint; it would be impossible
to pinpoint the source of the poison.
These advantages would outweigh
the difficulty in separating the Po-
210 from the rest of the sample
swiftly, before too much decays.
Yet if creating it yielded difficul-
ties, cleaning up after was fraught
with even more, according to Mike
Clark. Once police advisers had
identified Po-210 as the culprit (us-
ing methods he didn’t care to dis-
cuss), the HPA found a trail of con-
tamination in the hotel rooms, bars
and offices Litvinenko had visited
before being hospitalised. Large
numbers of staff, including nurses
at the hospital, had potentially been
caught in this messy wake, and the
problem of ensuring their safety
was compounded by the lack of a
standard monitoring procedure
– almost no-one works with Po-210.
In the ensuing discussion, he sin-
gled out the HPA’s medics as play-
ing a key role in interviewing the
naturally concerned staff, and in
getting them to provide crucial 24hr
urine samples.
It transpired those most affected,
other than the victim, had been
Litvinenko’s family and some of the
bar staff. They’d received doses of
10s of milliSieverts (a measure of
radiation’s effect on the body), not
an unusual dose. In fact it’s impos-
sible to distinguish its health ef-
fects as it’s equivalent to the accu-
mulated dose from 10 years of living
in southern England.
But humans weren’t the HPA’s
only responsibility. The trail had
to be cleaned up by contractors,
as affected materials, effectively
low-level nuclear waste, need to be
stored for a few years until they’re
no longer a danger. Yet why was the
trail so messy?
It seems Po-210’s a keen traveller:
not only does it spread by touch, but
also by a process known as recoil. A
glass of Po-210 in solution, though
it initially seems inert, will swiftly
contaminate a whole room through
diffusion: the significant energies
imparted to the solution as decay-
ing nuclei recoil allows others to
escape the glass too. This property,
shared with tritium, means Po-210’s
been used to practise training with
difficult materials
The discussion closed on a chilling
note – although melatonin, used in
treating jetlag, had been mentioned
by the panel as a possible treat-
ment (it’s an anti-oxidant capable
of entering the cells and mopping
up damaging free radicals created
by the alpha particles) Litvinenko’s
dose was far too high for this to be
of any use; once in his gut, nothing
could be done.
And though Po-210’s messy trail
makes it by no means a perfect
murder weapon, it’s undoubtedly a
nasty one, more than enough to put
other dissidents off their lunch.
to separate water out into hydrogen
and oxygen,” says Dr Stephen Cur-
ry, a structural biologist from the
Division of Cell and Molecular Biol-
ogy at Imperial College London. “In
the long term, these synthetic mol-
ecules may provide a more environ-
mentally friendly way of producing
hydrogen, which can be used as a
‘green’ fuel.”
Imperial College’s Alexander
Fleming once changed the course
of history with his little discovery,
Penicillin. Could it be that we are
about to do it all over again?
Edmund Henley
All the talk about Polonium-210 became rather intense
A deadly 500
million Becquerel
can come from
an invisible speck

