Itaught first
www.teachfirst.org.uk
TeachFirst’sgraduateprogrammeisauniqueopportunity
tobedifferentandtomakeadifference.It’saninnovative
combinationofteachingwithmanagementskillstrainingand
leadershipdevelopment,plusunparalleledinternship,
networkingandcoachingopportunities.
Whateveryouaimtodowithyourcareer,TeachFirst.
APPLY NOW
DEADLINE: 30th March 2007
(including Deloitte Teach First Scheme)
SUBJECTS: MATHS, SCIENCE,ICT,
DESIGN AND TECHNOLOGY
UK HOME STUDENTS
Are you experiencing
financial hardship?
If you are, and you are a registered student, you may be eligible for
assistance from the Access to Learning Fund.
POSTGRADUATE If you are a self-financing postgraduate
you will need to be able to demonstrate that you made realistic
provisions to fund your studies. Applications must be submitted by
24 August 2007.
UNDERGRADUATE You must have applied for your maximum
student loan entitlement and have received the first instalment.
Applications must be submitted by 18 May 2007. We can accept
applications after this date from medical students in their clinical
year or other undergraduates in exceptional cases.
FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATION FORMS:
Download an application form from the Student Finance pages at www.imperial.ac.uk/sfo
Please direct enquiries to p.worley@imperial.ac.uk, telephone 020 7594 8130.
College Hardship Fund
College Hardship Fund
Overseas and European
Students
Are you experiencing financial hardship?
Do you have any unexpected or
exceptionally high costs that you cannot
afford to pay?
If the answer is yes to either of these questions you may be eligible
for assistance from the College Hardship Fund.
The closing date for this term is 26 February.
Please note that the funds we have available are limited and we
cannot assist with payment of tuition fees.
FURTHER INFORMATION AND APPLICATION FORMS:
Download an application form from the Student Finance pages at www.imperial.ac.uk/sfo
Please direct enquiries to joanne.harding@imperial.ac.uk, telephone 020 7594 8122.

