The rhythm of Jazz is against the normal psychological needs of
HOW TO DISTINGUISH DECADENT SONGS—The Peoples Music
Press, Peking, China
Capital
Something odd is happening to my bathtub. I mean its clean
and everything, Flash took care of that, and the soap is- still in
the soapholder that my aunt gave me when I went camping in
Boliva, and as far as I can remember the hot tap is still on
the left and the cold one still judders when you in turn it on,
but the overflow; the overflow plays a saxaphone. I thought it
was my, downstairs lodger at first I went down and asked him
whether he could turn it down a bit, but he said his toaster
plays the trumpet It can't be the rats in the attic; they only
like Wagnerian operas. Its not only the bath, either; my razor
whistles Miles Davis tunes and my toothbrush is starting to do
syncopated rim-shot riffs on the edge of the tooth-mug where
my neighbour washes his brace in Steradent I caught them all
tap-dancing in the basin this morning. I told them all that if
they didn't behave I chuck them all out and wash in the
kitchen. I don't tRink they got the message though. Have you
ever tried reasoning with a toothbrush?
May be I'm just not getting enough sleep. With the Fourth
Annual Saxaphone Festival at the Bloomsbury Theatre all'
this week I've getting to bed quite late. Only two days to go
though. Little can beat the collected plumbing of the Loose
Tubes, playing with the Sean Bergin Trio tonight at
8.00pm Five hard and fast horns pitch battle with a receptive
audience, showering them with hot and cold running riffs.
Bring your lufer. Saturday is Charles Austin Day. A talented
flautist as well as saxaphone player, he takes part in an
improvisation masterclass with John Surman in the
afternoon, and teams up with the New Orchestra at 8.00pm
featuring the much acclaimed keyboard work of Django
Bates. Seats at £3.50 (concession). Bathtubs not admitted.
If you hated Absolute Beginners as much as I did, you'll
be as pleased as a porcelain punchbowl to know that
Moontwist are trapped in the basement of the Rock Garden
tonight and wont be allowed out until three in the morning,
when all decent minded people are safely tucked up bed. This
jive-based collection of youths, led by the sort-of-dulcet tones
of Ruth Rodgers-Wright, tucked away a nice little earner with
'Sight and Sound' earlier this year, (now conveniently lost ,
somewhere down the back of my bookcase). Nice groundwork,
it must be said, but they do go on so.
To be sure, I shan't be short of a light catching the night
bus home on Monday night either. The Terence Higgins
Trust are holding a candlelit vigil for victims of AIDS,
gathering in Trafalgar Square. A staggering 1.7 million
people are carriers of the AIDS virus; upwards of 10 to 15
percent of these will probably develop the disease. The death
rate is about 100%. Bring care, concern and a candle.
Frighteningly close to the Cornflake shop lies the
Paramount City cabaret Great Windmill Street. Billed as
The Alternative Variety Show', the line up for this week is as
follows: Richard Digance on Thursday and Friday; Richard
Digance over the weekend and starting the week (as you
mean to go on), the amazing Richard Digance will be your
host every night until Wednesday, joined by Arthur Smith
(of Channel 4 fame) to take the edge off a bit. Hot sweaty,
pricey and as alternative as my bathtub.
• 1 w

