TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
16
Tips & Hacks
Technology Editors: Feroz Salam
Chris Bowers
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 30 september 2011
Waterstone’s eBook foray
Hot on the heels of Sony announcing a new eReader
range and the launch of their own eBookstore here in
UK, Waterstone’s has announced plans to enter the
British eBook market in early/mid 2012. With the
sector seeing strong growth thanks to some highly
competitive prices, it looks like a good time to invest
in one of the devices. Amazon’s own Kindle range of
eReaders starts at £111 and comes with access to
Amazon’s unrivalled selection of books, magazines
and newspaper subscriptions. In comparison, Sony’s
new offering is similarly priced but it remains to be
seen how extensive their collection of reading mate-
rial will be, despite their support of the ubiquitous
ePub format. Where Waterstone’s own brand will
compete is an open question as yet, but it’s a bold
move from a brick-and-mortar retailer with no prior
experience in electronics.
While human augmentation and neural prostheses
are enjoying a flurry of media coverage post Deus
Ex, out in the real world science is slowly starting to
mimic science fiction with the addition of piezoelec-
tric generators to a beetle that capture the kinetic
energy from its vibrating wings and turns it to usea-
ble electricity. Why would a beetle need a power sup-
ply, you ask? Only to power the neural implants that
allow researchers to direct it’s movement, of course.
The beetle, which could also be extended to use
thermal and solar generators, might play a useful
role in lending camera access to dangerous areas
where human investigation is impossible. The tech-
nology marks the rapid strides that scientists have
made in interfacing the brains of simple insects with
microchips; while we are a long way from realising
anything similar in humans, the possibilities of such
bioengineering can’t be overstated.
Cyborg beetle goes green
W
elcome to Imperial!
You’ve done well to make
it here; for the next few
years you will get to ex-
perience extreme levels of
stress, a rapidly receding hairline and the ef-
fects of excess Red Bull consumption (seizure,
in the case of one of my housemates).
Despite this, there’s much to be said for
studying at one of the world’s leading univer-
sities in one of the world’s most interesting cit-
ies; if you’re interested in something, you’re
going to be able to pursue it to your heart’s
content.
That brings me to what we do here at Felix
Technology. Our section involves covering a
wide spectrum of topics, from artificial intel-
ligence and robotics to the latest tablets and the
fierce industry competition that drives them to
market. Do get in touch with us if you’d like
to try your hand at contributing (our email ad-
dress is right at the top of this page). It really is
just easy as a single email.
This week however, we’re getting you set
up here in London: whether you’re new to
the UK or live an hour away by train, living
at university means you’ve had to leave your
massive CD collection behind and replace that
40” TV with a 15” laptop streaming American
TV from dodgy Chinese websites; university
doesn’t get better than this. Thankfully, we’re
here to make the experience slightly more
bearable.
Media
Your internet is provided by one of the fastest
providers in the country, so the sky’s the limit
when it comes to streaming quality HD con-
tent straight to your laptop. For your terrestrial
television needs, BBC iPlayer (http://www.
bbc.co.uk/iplayer/) and Channel 4’s 4oD
(http://www.channel4.com/programmes/4od)
are going to be your new best friends. For
American television shows however, you’re
going to have to make wise use of Sidereel
(http://www.sidereel.com/). Be smart about
where you get your media from however: the
College actually enforces its piracy policy.
If you’re more worried about your music,
then you’ll be pleased to know the situation is
much better. On one hand you have Groove-
shark (http://grooveshark.com/), a huge music
library that’s free to access if you don’t mind
relatively mediocre sound quality, while on the
other you have Spotify (http://www.spotify.
com/). Despite Spotify’s free services being
limited, the huge collection of music it offers
you for five pounds a month is well worth it.
Getting Work Done
There will undoubtedly be times when you
need to get a file from halls to uni, whether
it be coursework or the ticket for that all-im-
portant night out. Sure you could take a flash
drive, but you might forget it. And emailing
stuff to yourself is so last decade. Cloud stor-
age is the ideal for this, giving you access to
your files wherever, whenever.
Dropbox (http://db.tt/4FhV4rO) is a great
online storage service, with apps for all major
platforms and smartphones, and web access
in case you can’t get to either. With 2GB of
storage from the off (2.25GB if you follow the
link!) and its simple and easy interface, Drop-
box is highly recommended.
Another good service to use is Google Docs
(http://docs.google.com). The main feature of
Docs is that you can create documents, spread-
sheets and presentations for free, entirely in
the cloud. That alone makes it great for work-
ing from multiple locations, and its collabora-
tive editing works well too. But on top of that,
you also get free file storage. You can store as
many Google Documents as you want, and
you also get 1GB of storage to keep whatever
you want on their servers.
Apps
You may also want to invest in a remote-
locking app. In case you lose your phone or it
gets stolen, these apps at least give you some
peace of mind as you know whoever has the
phone won’t be able to get at your stuff. Just
make sure you can unlock it in case it turns up!
A quick search finds Anti-Theft for Mobile
(http://bit.ly/obwngF) for Android, Windows
Phone 7 and Symbian, while iOS and Black-
Berry OS both come with their own services
(Find My iPhone and BlackBerry Protect,
respectively).
Online
There are also some great online services to
help you get things done easily. Transport for
London should be your first port of call when
looking up anything public transport related
across the capital. The Journey Planner is ex-
cellent. It may not have the best interface for
advanced searches, but it will do pretty much
everything you want it to. You can also look
up which buses have either 24-hour service or
night routes (essential for nights out), or even
first tubes home (for those really late ones...).
Another tremendously useful service is Sky-
pe (http://www.skype.com/). Its main selling
point is that you can make both voice and vid-
eo calls to other Skype users for free. So if you
can get your friends to sign up, there’s a lot of
money to be saved. That’s not all though, as
Skype actually offer very good rates for calling
landlines and mobiles all over the world, so it’s
worth a look for phoning home too.
At Imperial
Also worth a mention are the excellent services
hereatImperialtomakeyourlifeeasier.TheICT
office (http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/ict) in the
Sherfield building offers free, professional help
with getting your computer set up in addition to
troubleshooting for any problems you may have.
ThecollegehasabunchofTwitteraccounts,with
@imperialcollege and @imperiallibrary
providing useful information on events across
campus. The Imperial File Exchange service
(https://fileexchange.imperial.ac.uk/) is very
useful for transferring large files, saving your
email from doing the heavy lifting. Finally,
we’re not above some cheeky self-promotion
here at Felix, with both the @feliximperial and
@felixtechnology accounts well worth a follow
while you’re at it.
Finally, have a great Freshers’ week and an
even better year ahead!
The Felix Tech Guide 2011
Feroz Salam and Chris Bowers get you up to scratch

