FOOD
17
felix FRIDAY 30 september 2011
Make a meal of it
S
o, I’m sitting in the Union,
and the Felix editor comes
up and says, “Hi, would
you like to go and review
Giraffe?” And I say yes, es-
pecially as the restaurant is paying. But
now, all I can think is “Oh shit”. You
see, I’m stuck. I just don’t know how
to write a proper food review – I mean,
where do I get the training for this sort
of thing? I’ve never played this game
before. Sure, I’ve always rather loved
nosh. Yes, I can tell the difference be-
tween fried and poached eggs, vomit
and ratatouille. I’ve even eaten in a few
Michelin-starred restaurants. But when
it comes to expressing my taste sensa-
tions in writing, I’m lost.
Around Imperial, between South
Kensington and Hyde Park, there is a
cluster of decent restaurants. How do
I use words to differentiate between
them? Am I supposed to use those bi-
zarre clichés that seem to engulf the
restaurant blurbs in the Sunday papers?
Where everything is “by turns ingenious
and divine” and “as rich as it is light”.
Or should I do a Michael Winner? Do
I need to be snooty and sniffy, should
I embrace my inner cynic? Should I
declare, whatever the true experience,
that the restaurant is a waste of time, the
food like bombs of filth exploding in the
mouth? Do I snidely ridicule the cheery
ambiance, unnecessarily belittling it
with pompous irony? It just seems so
unfair to patronise a place for what it is.
How can I write a eulogy to a steak?
It requires nothing except buying, and
a brief introduction to heat. Perhaps I
need to find some of that French je ne
sais quoi. A bit of wit, bonhomie, and
banter. A succulent vocabulary, where
I can harp on in lyrical prose about the
deep egginess of the fat, the delightful
whiff of griddle lines. I need to hit the
satirical button. Those blokes off Mas-
terChef have it easy. All they have to do
is eat a few chunks of grub, look pen-
sive, and mumble a few “eurgh’s” and
“mmmm’s”. No need for the Oxford
English Dictionary.
Or do I need to be philosophical? We
are what we eat, and what we eat makes
us who we are, and all that gibberish.
Am I supposed to put the restaurant into
context? Should I chuck in some guff
about how London is the perfect place
for an eatery aspiring to serve “world
cuisine” to the tune of “world music”?
And how the place provides the per-
fect retreat from the frantic pace of the
capital? Am I supposed to mention the
prices, or investigate the quality of the
toilets?
I just can’t do it. No, I just can’t.
Aaaaaargh! I just have to forget the stu-
pid tried-and-tested methods, the corny
metaphors – in truth, they tell you noth-
ing about a place. I just need to stick
to the point. I went to Giraffe with my
good friend Eileen. During the meal, we
had a brief chat.
“Eileen,” I said. “This is quite a good
little restaurant.”
She replied, “Yes, it is.”
And that’s that, really. The food is
perfectly good – we had Japanese ti-
ger prawns (decent), edamame (over-
seasoned), a lamb focaccia burger (very
good), and the Chef’s favourite duck stir
fry (not bad). For pudding, chocolate
chunk brownie (hearty and sweet) and
fruit crush sorbets (refreshing blackcur-
rant and apple flavours). Eileen is from
New Orleans, so we were hoping to try
out the Jambalaya, but unfortunately
they had run out. The fruit smoothies
were delicious, the atmosphere is re-
laxed, and the staff were friendly (I’ve
been reliably informed that all good res-
taurant critics use the rule of three). You
get well-made food in a nice room sur-
rounded by nice people. And that’s all
I want to say on the matter, forget any
star-rating nonsense.
Giraffe 7 Kensington High Street Lon-
don W8 5NP
. Students with valid Im-
perial ID can recieve a 25% discount
on food all day Monday – Thursday
and on Sunday after 6pm.
Charles Betts wrestles with existential angst as
he attempts to review restaurant chain Giraffe
To be honest, we don’t know our fried
eggs from our filet mignon here at
Felix Towers. If you feel you’d be up
for guiding Imperial’s culinary palate
over the next academic year as a
Food Editor, drop us an email at
felix.imperial@ac.uk.
Take a chance on Giraffe, or even... stick your neck out...eh, eh? I’ll get my coat

