Simple, lazy, great
T
he Americans are really
good at it. American Pie,
Dude, Where’s my Car?,
Bill & Ted’s Excellent Ad-
venture. The Brits tried it
once – Kevin & Perry Go Large. And
then four pubescent, awkward, goofy,
and weird teenagers popped onto the
scene to deliver the summer’s funniest
movie.
Just like you Freshers, they have just
spent their last summer together, hav-
ing finished school for good. And so
they trotted off on a Mediterranean jol-
ly with plenty of high hopes for some
of that elusive minge. As they put it,
“it’ll be like shooting clunge in a bar-
rel”. The Inbetweeners Movie is, as the
name suggests, the movie version of
the much loved TV sitcom series.
The film follows the bog standard
ship-the-tv-series-guys-on-a-long-hol-
iday-in-a-foreign-country format with
plenty of boobs, vomit, and embar-
rassing situations. It’s a simple, lazy
format. You know what you’re get-
ting beforehand. But sometimes that’s
enough. You know what you want,
and you get what you want. The crude,
crass jokes are aimed at our lowest,
most basic level of humour and are
very fond of willies, poo, and hard-ons.
Much has been made of the film’s
similarities and differences to Harry
Enfield’s Kevin & Perry Go Large,
which at the time of its release was bad-
ly received by the critics. The problem
is that these films haven’t been made
to be clever, observant, well-written,
or judged by monocle-wearing hacks.
They are made to tickle our inner child,
our core which will always remain the
same whether we become dull, func-
tional academics or even duller, more
functional accountants. How can you
critically acclaim one teen comedy and
An Immature Critic is won over by the biggest
comedy of the Summer
You can tell London Fashion Week is coming... work those smouldering pedalo looks, guys
FILM
Film Editor: Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX
18 Friday 30 september 2011
then trash another? They’re all junk.
They’re a basic recipe, like The X Fac-
tor or The Only Way is Essex.
Yes, it’s a cheap movie, a shameless
milking of the cash-cow before Si-
mon Bird and Co. get too old. But in
a summer of regurgitated super-hero
garbage (X-Men: First Class, Captain
America: The First Avenger, Thor,
Green Lantern, and at least 5 others I
can’t remember or will be coming out
in due course) The Inbetweeners Movie
was the best picture around, a welcome
respite.
Everyone has a genre of harmless
faeces they enjoy watching. Romantic
comedies, cheap action thrillers, gory
horror flicks, Pixar animations, and
pseudo-pretentious art house numbers.
A chacun son gout. Movies where im-
mature kids do a number two in the bi-
det and the bad guy gets a poo on his
nose are mine.
If you haven’t seen it yet...
Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy
Gary Oldman leads a stellar cast in an adaptation of John Le Carré’s classic
novel. Of course, we’re not just recommending it because they filmed some
of it right here on the South Kensington campus, oh no...

