FELIX Friday 30 SEPTEMBER 2011 19
TELEVISION
Television Editor: Matt Allinson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Welcome to the TV section
Back in my day, Television was a massively heavy box that did mad things when
you put a magnet near it. Now it’s even better, writes Matt Allinson
X-Factor was totally bollocks now Cheryl had left.
Follow us on Twitter
Are you so 21st century web 2.0
hipster awesome cool that you
use the social network designed
for people have way too much to
say and not enough people to
say it to? WELL SO DO WE!
If you want up-to-date retweets
letting you know exactly what
Vinny from Jersey Shore is up to,
or links to Tumblr posts of homo-
erotic slash fiction of Bunk and
McNulty from The Wire, then you
should probably follow us.
Writing as a crusty PhD student it be-
hoves me to harp on about how when
I was a fresher moving in to halls way
back when, some people still bought
televisions with them to have in their
rooms. Of course nowadays with all
your iPads and 20p Laptops with more
processor power than the space shuttle,
you freshers have on-demand HD view-
ing experience right there in your room
with nothing but lab reports and social
events to get between you and the best
television out there.
So yeah films are all fair and good, in
fact some are better than that, they’re
amazing. But Hollywood’s retreat into
lowest common denominator 3D shock-
and-awe Michael Bay shitfests has re-
sulted in the flight of exceptional talent
into television. Look for example at the
average output from HBO, from their
mini-series such as Generation Kill to
their full blown goliath epics like The
Sopranos, television gives you the nu-
anced depth of character so rarely
achieved in film.
But lets not get carried away here,
television also does the amazing com-
fort belly laugh material too. Call me a
television addict –most people do– but
I am equally content sat in-front of the
x-factor as I am in-front of Boardwalk
Empire (well, depending on the mood)
So go on, write for us.
My Mum can’t work out why I’ve now become an avid viewer of Strictly Come Dancing.
More importantly, if you want to
know up to date information on
new TV series and get involved in
the production of this page and
the rest of the paper, Twitter is the
way to go.
Find us @Felixtelevision
Or smartphone users can scan
this QR Code...
It’s better than real friends

