HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2 Friday 30 SEPTEMBER 2011
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
What’s on
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alexandra Nowbar Features Editor Katherine Bettany Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Science Editors
Kelly Oakes Alex Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editor Will Prince Eva Rosenthal
Mena Music Editors Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto Stephen Smith Film Editor Ed Knock TV Editor Matt Allinson Games Editor Laurence Pope Online Editors Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Puzzles Captain
James Hook Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Charles Betts Kadhim Shubber
Special Thanks Alex Nowbar, Kadhim Shubber, Charles Betts, Miles Robertson, Matt Allinson, Tim Arbabzadah.
Lolcat of teh week
Welcome Week
The first week of the rest of your life, allegedly. You
probably know what’s been organised off by heart by
now. If not, check out http://bit.ly/r5t0RE.
One standout highlight, year in, year out, is un-
doubtedly Freshers’ Fair. Make like Supermarket
Sweep and grab all the freebies you can. Why not
join a few clubs and societies while you’re at it? All
the information you want about Freshers’ Fair 2011
can be found on Pages 11 – 14
Union Meetings
Over the next few weeks or so, the Union will be
holding the following meetings: you’re entirely free
to attend!
Union Executive – Thursday 6 October:
If it’s day-to-day Union activities you’re interested
in, head along to this!
Union Council – Monday 10 October:
Want to find out all about Union policy? Or perhaps
you just want an old-fashioned debate?
Imperial Events
If it’s lectures from top academics you’re after...
well, you’re pretty eager aren’t you. Luckily for you,
there’s a whole website dedicated to listing the
latest seminars and conferences, the majority of
which are open to Imperial students. Topics usu-
ally end up pretty diverse, from quantum physics
to nanotechnology. You usually need to book these
in advance, so don’t leave it until the last minute.
Head over to the following website to take a look
at what’s coming up over the upcoming weeks and
book – you know, if you’re the really eager beaver:
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/events
WIN FREE STUFF
Sudocrem Skin Care Cream (SSCC) are offering one
lucky student the chance to win a fabulous Student
Survival Kit to help kick start their year!
Sudocrem’s Survival Kit contains an 8G USB Stick to
back up university work (and music), a £20 book vouch-
er, a pack of jelly beans, white tac, a frisbee and a tube
of Sudocrem skin care cream to help take care of spot
prone skin and keep you looking good after late nights.
All this comes in a handy bag and is worth £50.
For your chance to win simply send an email to felix@
imperial.ac.uk with the answer to the following ques-
tion:
As of November 4 2011, how
many editions of Felix will have
been produced since 1949?
Front Cover Photo by Alex Nowbar
a) 97
b) 1,500
c) 20,000
d) What?
e) Huh?
Competition closes
Wednesday 5 October
00:00. The winner will
be randomly selected
from all correct en-
tries. The Editor’s deci-
sion is final.
I know, I know – you should be getting out
there, mingling with your new hallmates and
all that. But just think about it, you need
some kind of generic music to get that
kitchen conversation flowing. For this and
some fantastic tips on getting your laptop
or desktop ready for some serious higher
education and some not so serious casual
use, take a trip to this week’s Technology
page.
EDITOR’S PICK
The best of Felix this week
Page 16
The Felix Tech Guide
2011-2012

