FELIX
20
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 30 september 2011
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Unattractive fresher overwhelmed by male
attention
On Saturday an anonymous female who goes
by the name of Emma Gable was surprised to
be the sudden recipient of hitherto unknown
numbers of guys being friendly to her, receiv-
ing multiple offers to help unpack her Hello
Kitty suitcase as she prepared to move into
her room in Pembridge Hall. Miss Gable, due
to start Biology lectures this week, has been
described by her peers in native Manchester
as “a bit rough” and “a land whale”, with one
shocked acquaintance confessing she thought
she was a man, while she loaded a harpoon
during the interview.
“I don’t think I ever saw her use the girls’
toilet. She probably just relieves herself on the
go, which would account for the smell. Don’t
tell her I said that, though. She punches like
Mike Tyson.”
However, the males of Pembridge have al-
ready seen past her numerous flaws, with the
guy in the opposite room rumoured to have
already made a move on this piece of hot prop-
erty. It would appear that her daily beauty regi-
men has finally paid off: every morning Gable
first scrubs her body with a Brillo pad infused
with carbolic soap, which aids in cleansing the
build-up of dirt between folds; this makes the
twice-weekly full-body wax easier. This is fol-
lowed up by a daily dose of acyclovir to keep
her herpes in check, which may otherwise
prove to be a deal-breaker among the young
men of Imperial.
“I also make sure I shave my eyebrows every
fortnight because I’ve been told that really ac-
centuates my eyes, which are my best feature
to be honest.”
Further investigation revealed that the source
of this solitary compliment to be Gable’s best
friend, who panicked when she couldn’t think
of anything else to comfort her with after being
rejected by the year’s ugliest guy again. This
resulted in Gable replacing her Facebook pro-
file picture of a smiley-face drawing with that
of a close-up of her iris.
Guy who forces everyone to play long drawn
out drinking games
Drinking games are fine, but not every single
time you go out. Subscribes to the Interna-
tional drinking rules (using weaker hand to
hold drink, etc – presumably to keep the other
hand free for wanking). Hey, fuckface, here’s
a drinking game for you, it’s called taking sips
of you drink while talking and then getting
another one when finished. It’s revolutionary;
you should try it some time.
Guy who has a girlfriend
Uses the fact he has a girlfriend to prove he
isn’t a nerd, nice try. Probably to be found in
the corner on the phone, gently weeping, say-
ing: ‘haha, answer phone again. I guess you
forgot to charge your phone again. By the way
the pictures of you and that guy are hilarious.
It really looks as if you are getting with each
other, brilliant’.
Girl who thinks she is fit
Caked in make-up and growing ever more
frustrated that, in a male dominated university,
she still isn’t getting the amount of attention
she wants/thinks she warrants. She even spe-
cially bought denim shorts so short they could
pass for y-fronts. It appears you can Photoshop
and crop a carefully chosen profile picture,
but you can’t Photoshop real life. All the guys
are half squinting at her thinking ‘I swear that
looks like that hot one I saw post something,
but less fit.’ I give it roughly two months be-
fore desperation sets in and the guys drop their
standards. And here starts the Imperial and
normal rating system.
Girl who is actually fit
‘Meet’ is a strong term. You will know her
presence, mainly because she is the eye of a
storm of guys encircling her. Rarer than find-
ing a good N-Dubz song.
Guy who was popular in school
He thinks that means something here. Probably
says things like: ‘Yeah I mean it doesn’t really
matter how many Facebook friends you have,
I don’t count’. The end of that sentence would
be: ‘every week, I count every day’. When
talking he will be on his Blackberry BBMing
people. Assumes University is like school, and
that he will be the cool kid.
Guy who wasn’t popular in school
Or to put it in other terms, most of the peo-
ple at Imperial. Hoping to make a fresh start
and jump right to the top of the social ladder.
Friend count that applies to the Guy who was
popular in school also applies here.
Guy who has already identified all the at-
tractive girls in the Facebook groups
Carefully combing through the Freshers’
groups, he has his targets already identified.
A bullet point list of their likes and possible
dislikes in his head. Ready to pounce, thwarted
only by the people who don’t advertise their
lives online. A true pro will have also found
their Twitter. You have, haven’t you?
People that you will meet in Freshers’Week
The eyes are the windows to the soul.
It’s a shame that the surrounding
house is a dump. Note: picture con-
tains visual metaphor.
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE
WEEK
HANGMAN
When asked James Murdoch said he
had no direct knowledge of who he
met during Freshers’ Week.
Balls of steel? Could you
be the next Hangman?
Think you’re some satirical ge-
nius? Hey, guess what? You’re
not!
Prone with crippling self-doubt
in your own comedic poten-
tial? That’s more like it.
Hangman needs some willing
protégés to massage our ego
and perhaps even write stuff
that you find funny but no-one
else does. They’ll appreciate it
once you’re behind bars.
If you think you’re hard
enough, start up News of the
World again and hack the
Murdochs, then get in touch
with hangman.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
“Oh man, check out that nectar-y goodness. I’ll just
have the one, mind. I’ve got lectures starting at
9am tomorrow.”
DRUNK PICTURES PLS, always ask for their per-
mission before sending them in.

