Over 60 years old and
nearly 1,500 issues in...
First off, the warmest of welcomes to
each and every one of you. You’re at
one of the UK’s top universities, you’re
in London and you’re a Fresher. It
doesn’t really get much better than that.
Say hello to Felix – Imperial’s very
own student newspaper. A lot has
changed ever since we first went to print
all the way back in 1949: we’re a little
bigger than an A4 pamphlet and you
don’t have to pay ‘threepence’, let alone
anything, for a copy.
What hasn’t changed, however, is our
commitment to entertain and inform
you about the latest student news and
goings-on about your new university.
From the highs to the lows, we will be
there throughout the year, examining
the issues that matter to you. The ru-
mour goes that we were named after a
particularly popular student, but we’ve
grown into something that truly aims to
represent all students.
The newspaper is entirely created by
students, and we’d love you to join us.
Come and visit us at Freshers’ Fair this
Tuesday. Get in contact with us at fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk. Take a look around
the Felix Office if you’re ever near the
Union. We’re based in the West Base-
ment of Beit Quad, come and say “Hi!”.
We go to print every Thursday night;
you’ll be able to find copies around
campus just in time for any Friday
morning lectures. If you see me roll-
ing copies around during the day, and
want to come and tell me what you like,
what you don’t like and everything in-
between, feel free – I’m forever open to
criticism and want to make the paper the
best it can possibly be for you all.
Felix is a true showcase of Imperial’s
creative side, showing that we are by
no means hindered by our solely sci-
entific background. From physicists to
computer scientists, from engineers to
medics, students from across Imperial
break free of academia to contribute tru-
ly brilliant written pieces, photography
and illustrations every week. It really is
a testament to everyone involved that a
paper full of original and entertaining
content is produced, without a single
english degree anywhere in sight.
Anyway, I won’t keep on. I know
you’re probably excited and anxious
in equal measure about the upcoming
week – you’re going to have a great
time. Let me just take the opportunity
to say this: go ahead and contribute; we
will never reject any of your contribu-
tions. Besides, it’s always a buzz see-
ing your name in print. Ultimately, the
paper belongs to all of you. We would
never go to print every week if it wasn’t
for the many, many people who take the
time outside of academia to contribute
something that matters to them. Bring
on Issue 1,500.
YOU AIN’T SEEN
NOTHING YET...
Matthew Colvin
3
felix FRIDAY 30 september 2011
ARTSBUSINESSFASHION
GAMESMUSIC
SPORT
Like what you see? Email felix@
imperial.ac.uk to get involved

