SCIENCE
FELIX
6
In other news
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 30 september 2011
Potato genome sequenced
This summer, the humble potato became the first
major UK crop plant to have its genome sequenced.
Before it had its genetic make-up studied in detail,
new varieties of potato took between 10 and 12
years to breed. This process should now be sped
up considerably thanks to an international collab-
oration of researchers, which included a member
of the Department of Life Sciences at Imperial: Dr
Gerard Bishop. The all-important details were pub-
lished in the journal Nature in July.
In the UK we each eat, on average, 94kg of pota-
toes a year. They are becoming more popular across
the world, too, especially in Africa and some parts of
Asia — upping the role of the potato in global food
security. By 2050, 9 billion people
are expected to be living on the
planet. Engineering a potato with
greater water uptake and disease
and drought resistance will be-
come increasingly necessary
as the world population
grows and there are more
and more mouths to feed.
Having the potato ge-
nome is going to make
doing that a whole lot
more feasible.
Kelly Oakes
While you’ve been busy travelling the world,
waiting for term to start, the staff at Imperial
have been pushing the boundaries of human
knowledge. The keen students amongst you
may be aware of what headlines Imperial has
been making over the last few months. But
for those of you whose New Scientist sub-
scription was ended abruptly as soon as you
got your offer, we’ve got a round up of some
of the most interesting and important sci-
ence coming out of the College this summer.
Smart materials make
proteins form crystals
Scientists at Imperial teamed up with the
University of Surrey to develop a new meth-
od to enable the formation of crystals from
proteins using ‘smart materials’ which are
able to maintain the shape and characteristics
of the molecules. The method should boost re-
search into new medicines, assisting scientists
in working out the structure of drug targets.
Developing new drugs involves identifying the
structure of proteins associated with a disease
and designing molecules that can block their
function. The researchers developed an effec-
tive means for crystallizing proteins using Mo-
lecularly Imprinted Polymers (MIPs), which
intrinsically bind together around the outside
of a molecule, leaving it with a strong likeness
to the original target shape when the molecule
is extracted.
Previously, scientists have obtained useful
crystals for fewer than twenty per cent of pro-
teins identified as potential drug targets, the
number of which is increasing exponentially.
The ability to remember attributes of mol-
ecules make the MIPs ideal nucleants, making
it easier for protein molecules to bind and form
crystals. The research, led by Professor Naomi
Chayen from the Department of Surgery and
Cancer at Imperial, was funded by the Engi-
neering and Physical Sciences Research Coun-
cil and the European Commission.
The researchers found that six different
MIPs induced crystallisation of nine proteins,
providing results in conditions that would
otherwise not cause crystals to form. Profes-
sor Chayen commented, “[MIPs can produce]
better crystals than we can with other meth-
ods. This is a really significant innovation that
could have a major impact on research leading
to the development of new drugs”.
Most distant quasar
discovered
Light from a quasar 13 billion light years away
reached the UK Infrared Telescope in Hawaii
late last year during an infrared deep sky sur-
vey. A light year is the distance travelled by
light in one Earth year, so we’re seeing the
quasar as it was 13 billion years ago — only
770 million years after the Big Bang. It’s the
most distant quasar ever discovered. The find-
ing was announced in a paper in the journal
Nature in June. Lead author on the paper was
Dr Daniel Mortlock from the Physics depart-
ment at Imperial.
A quasar, or “quasi-stellar radio source”, is
the active nuclei of a distant galaxy. It sur-
rounds the central black hole of the galaxy
and is powered by a disk of material accret-
ed on to the black hole because of its huge
gravitational pull. The material, mainly gas,
becomes very hot and emits a considerable
amount of ultraviolet radiation. As the radia-
tion travels across the universe to us it be-
comes stretched due to a phenomenon known
as redshift. This shift in wavelength allows
astrophysicists to calculate how far the light
has travelled.
The newly discovered quasar, known by the
catchy name ULAS J1120+0641, is 2 billion
times as massive as the Sun and lies in the con-
stellation Leo in the night sky. It is a hundred
times brighter than anything else discovered
around the same distance away, meaning it
will be able to give us a unique insight into the
universe when it was just beginning.
Statins found to reduce risk
of death from infections
Unexpected findings by researchers suggest
that statins, medication for reducing choles-
terol and lowering the chances of suffering
heart attacks and strokes, may stop deaths from
infections and respiratory illnesses. Professor
Peter Sever, from Imperial’s International Cen-
tre for Circulatory Health, presented the results
at the annual congress of the European Society
of Cardiology on 28 August. Professor Sever
and his research team inspected the death
certificates of nearly 1,000 people who were
among 10,000 volunteers with high blood
pressure testing atorvastatin, a type of statin,
for the Anglo-Scandinavian Cardiac Outcomes
Trial (Ascot). They found that eleven years af-
ter the trial, deaths from infections and respira-
tory problems were 36 per cent lower than with
those given a placebo. The statins appeared to
reduce the production of inflammatory agents
in the blood that are toxic and stimulated by
infections.
Professor Sever said, “this study is going to
make people think more about the non-car-
diovascular benefits of statins”. It is suggest-
ed that patients with a high risk of developing
pneumonia could be prescribed the drugs, and
Professor Sever added that there now was an
“emerging evidence base for statins protect-
ing against infections” while warning against
widening statin prescriptions based on one
study.
Studies have shown statins have potential
side effects such as muscle weakness and liver
and kidney problems. The death rates from
cancer within the Ascot study showed no dif-
ference. At the same time, Professor Sever
mentioned he has “no reason to believe ator-
vastatin is unique in these non-cardiovascular
actions”. The drug is taken by up to seven mil-
lion people in Britain.
Kelly Oakes
While you were away...
Alex Karapetian
Lord of the Rings 3000 was a controversial move, but ultimately way more bad-ass
Identity-shifting neutrinos
Neutrinos are slippery particles by nature because
they do not interact with matter, generally pass-
ing through it completely undetected. Now particle
physicists might have found another side to their in-
herent elusiveness: a new way to shift their identity.
Results from the T2K neutrino experiment in Japan
show a new type of “oscillation” that would allow
neutrinos to change type in a way not seen before.
While looking at neutrinos from the Sun in 2001,
physicists finally proved suspicions they had held
since the 1960s that two types of neutrino oscilla-
tion can occur. There are three types, or flavours, of
neutrino in all. One is paired with the electron and
known as the electron neutrino. The other two are
paired with the muon and tau leptons, fundamen-
tal particles that are identical to electrons except
for larger masses. Electron neutrinos had been ob-
served changing into muon and tau neutrinos in the
2001 results. The transition physicists think they
may have just seen would complete the set — it is
the only transition that is thought to be possible the-
oretically but that has not yet been seen in reality.
But, it’s not quite that simple. There is still a small
but not insignificant probability that the results seen
occurred, not because of a new oscillation, but sim-
ply by chance. This means that, though the results
do indicate that this third type of oscillation did
occur, they do not show an outright discovery. Im-
perial’s Professor David Wark, who leads the UK’s
involvement with the T2K experiment, said that on
a scale ranging from “maybe” to “probably” to “al-
most certainly”, the new result puts us somewhere
between the latter two. The results were published
in Physical Review Letters in June.
Kelly Oakes
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alex Karapetian

