“
FELIX
8
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Sam Horti
Tim Arbabzadah
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 30 September 2011
M
esdames et mes-
sieurs, meine damen
und herren, ladies
and gentlemen, bien-
venue, wilkommen
and of course, welcome – To Imperial
College.
Please wipe your feet.
I am addressing the Freshers amongst
you. To returning second years and
above, welcome back. We can remi-
nisce about our summers in the Union
Bar later but first let’s offer a warm invi-
tation of friendship to those whom this
is their first Felix. Just look at them, so
bright-eyed and fresh-faced!
Like chipmunks with graphical
calculators.
I find it hard to believe this is the start
of my fourth year here at Imperial. It
seems like only yesterday I dressed in an
ill-fitting suit, marvelling at the Queen’s
Tower as I waited for my admissions in-
terview. But that was such a long time
ago. Age and time are creeping up on
me with cudgels in their hands.
I do feel like I’ve been mugged, or at
least short-changed. I left school four
years ago and I’m now halfway through
my degree after three years of sleep,
tequila and supposedly some study,
as well as a gap year (an unavoidable
machination of curious fate). All that
time, those memories and experiences,
feels as if it’s passed with a snap of
the fingers. Four years for the price of
seconds.
But when I think of all I’ve seen and
done and accomplished in that time,
maybe I haven’t been cheated. I’ve
made friends (more than I’ve lost) and
I’ve learned things (more than I’ve for-
gotten). If I had really made that kind
of progress in mere seconds, it would
be nothing short of miraculous. Tempus
fugit, truly*.
If my time is filled with the kind of
adventures that I’ve had and hope to
have more of, I don’t mind if they seem
to pass with the speed and cunning of a
leopard with a grudge. My real problem
is when I stop and think how fast time
has flown. It makes me feel old. That
makes me feel uncomfortable – I feel
I should start being sensible and buy a
Ford Mondeo. Being sensible is worse
than being dead.
It doesn’t help that all around me
my friends are growing up. Most have
graduated now – those that went to
university. One friend is a teacher now
when just a short while ago she was but
a student. Another one of my friends has
come to London to practice law. He also
has a beard, another hallmark of matu-
rity. Meanwhile, here I am, cocooning
myself in academia as a bubble against
the outside world. Each new wave of
freshers is the universe’s way to drag-
ging me from my shell and shoving my
face in grim reality. But my cocoon can
take a few more waves yet.
Freshers make me feel old as well but
I handle them. They add new breath to
The clock is ticking
Imperial, infuse it with a fresh joie de
vivre. Freshers are the antidote to living
sensibly. So then, welcome Freshers,
welcome! I hope you enjoy your time
here and that you thoroughly make the
most of it. Imperial has given you three
years of carte blanche. Join a club, learn
to unicycle, punch a bear in the face.
You may be here for years but don’t
squander them.
They may be the best the seconds of
your life.
* Tempus fugit is actually the species
name of the Time Fly. It flies around in
circles of Thursday mornings and feeds
on the seeds of what will be rotten fruit.
It is usually eaten by the Carp Diem.
It turns out that time waits for no man, or Fresher
Rhys Davies
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
On and on it ticks, exams are only about 8 months away – just sayin’
”
All that time, those memories
and experiences, feels as if
it’s passed with a snap of the
fingers
“Join a club, learn
to unicycle, punch a
bear in the face”
Although you attend a university blessed
with a truly culturally diverse student body,
you are, in one way, less diverse than you
may care to believe. Home and internation-
al students alike, you are all united by the
changing face of education.
This time last year we could merely at-
tempt to predict the findings – and the
consequences – of the Browne Review,
the much publicised study into the future
of British higher education. The following
threefold increase on the cost of a degree
for next year’s UK student intake, a devel-
opment that was not wholly unexpected.
The real surprise was heralded by the turn
of November, as the country was gripped
by a wave of protests held, for the most
part, by students taking a stand against
the proposed rise in fees. This altogether
was an unprecedented activity, even from
a community with a long history of political
interest and activism. At its best, it was a
reminder to those in authority to stay true
to their pledges.
All of you are now on the cusp of drastic
changes in the world of education. For inter-
national students, unaffected by the UK’s
changes to fees, the issue of reducing stu-
dent visas is likely to resurface soon. There
is no better time than this moment to take
a pause for thought before you all take the
significant leap into university life. Consider
the changes still to come for those still to
embark on their path through higher educa-
tion, and duly make the most of your time
here.
Imperial is assuredly seeking to ensure
that all future education is most certainly
worth the money, with but a couple of ex-
amples including the implementation of a
new, deservedly praised bursary scheme
in reaction to increased fees, alongside a
keen interest in improving assessment and
feedback – a source of particular dissatis-
faction amongst many students here.
The most significant factor in determin-
ing your own satisfaction here at Imperial
rests with your individual actions. You ap-
plied to a top university; you should expect
an excellent education in return. If you are
dissatisfied with any aspect of your course,
talk to classmates or discuss concerns with
your representatives. You shape your own
personal university experience, and leave a
legacy for years to come.
Felix, in its capacity as a newspaper serv-
ing you, the student, will continue to inform
and entertain you throughout the year as
this situation inevitably develops. Take an
interest in the stories that surface both
here and elsewhere, if not for yourselves,
then for those following you into a very
changed world next year.
FELIX
Education is changing,
make the most of it now

