FELIX Friday 30 september 2011 9
COMMENT
Aemun Reza
Why didn’t we riot?
“Perhaps you
shouldn’t wear your
Currys uniform when
you’re about to go
and loot... Currys”
I
’m young. I’m a student. I’ve
grown up with today’s Brit-
ish Culture and I am a part of
‘Today’s Generation’. So why
didn’t you see me running
around London setting fire to furniture
stores and stealing carpets? Oh that’s
right, because I’m not a complete and
utter idiot.
What started out as a protest turned
into a catastrophe only two months
back. Windows were smashed, shops
were looted and hoodies were worn. So
why weren’t we (the Imperial student
body) a part of this? I mean hey, free
stuff – who doesn’t want that?
Firstly, let’s be honest: every single
one of us did consider it for that tiny
second. You took a lingering look at
your old hoody and thought, “A new
Macbook sounds nice, let’s head down
to my local Currys and see what I can
come back with.” At least we’re sen-
sible enough to realise that perhaps you
shouldn’t wear your Currys uniform
when you’re about to go and loot…
Currys.
But after the brief moment of temp-
tation, your logic kicks in. We are ci-
vilised individuals and well, frankly, we
have a bit more than an ounce of self-re-
spect for ourselves. We know the differ-
ence between right and wrong and the
difference between breaking windows
and breaking the law.
You hear people blaming our ‘sick’so-
ciety on parents, gang culture and a lack
of community. To some extent I agree,
there were many factors. But they for-
got to blame the actual kids themselves.
I mean, I’m pretty sure an 11 year old
knows what he’s doing when he walks
into a rioting crowd with a hammer.And
I’m definitely sure a guy knows what
he’s doing when he steals something
from the backpack of an injured boy.
That’s beyond sick and twisted; you’re
entering the stages of mental psychoses
if you’re willing to go that far.
The truth is that half our generation,
the half we like to make fun of, ‘the
chavs’, have lost their moral compass,
their sense of dignity and their minds.
When you hear some of the reasons
these people came up with – like show-
ing the police ‘we can do what we
want’, or ‘cos the government is crap
innit’, or my personal favourite ‘cos
everyone else is doing it’ – it actually
blows your mind. Are these people for
real? (And did no one ever teach them
of the infamous saying ‘well if every-
one jumped off a bridge, would you do
it too?’)
I’m not trying to say that we are su-
perior to the hoodies, but we are living
proof that we have grown up in this
day and age as relatively normal hu-
man beings. Instead of going out on a
rampage against the law every night
we stayed in and ‘liked’ funny Face-
book pages about it. We signed peti-
Intelligence Officers
£24,750 + benefits UK based
Analysing information. Spotting connections. Making decisions that
really matter. This is what MI5’s dedicated and focused Intelligence
Officers do every day. Working together, we help safeguard the
security of the nation.
This is challenging and vitally important work that demands strong
communication, analytical and organisational skills – not to
mention a good deal of patience and attention to detail. If you
enjoy solving problems, becoming an Intelligence Officer is one of
the most rewarding and interesting career paths you could choose.
Make sense of it at www.mi5.gov.uk/careers/intelligence
To apply you must be over
18 and a British citizen.
Discretion is vital. You should
not discuss your application,
other than with your partner
or a close family member.
tions to bring in the army, to support
the police and to help clean up the
streets of London.
So when politicians look back on why
these riots started, they shouldn’t be so
generalised. We shouldn’t be clumped
in with the rest of ‘Today’s Genera-
tion’ just because we were raised in the
same era. Politicians should focus on
the differences between the split within
our generation. Why do some people
turn out as ‘chavs’ and others turn out
like us? They should know that when it
comes to growing up in this society, at
least some of us got it right.
It’s not all writing and that. Felix
needs keen Illustrators and Pho-
tographers to make sure that these
pages have at least some colour
occasionally. Email felix@imperial.
ac.uk if you want to get involved
Are you a bad enough dude
to be a columnist?
Got opinions, huh? Think the rest of
Imperial wants to hear them? Send
your comment pieces to comment.fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk. 600-800 words,
please.
Got opinions on our
comments?
If something about Imperial or this
newspaper warrants complaining
about, send a letter to us at felix@
imperial.ac.uk – we love em’.

