10 Clubs and Societies
The Infamous Bottle Match Is Back!
Concerts, Collections and
Condoms
Come and bathe in the euphoria, as the Royal
School of Mines RFC battles against Camborne
School of Mines R F C for the 1994 Bottle
Match, in what is the second oldest varsity
match in the country! This highly prestigious
event for players and spectators has a reputation
for the activities through the tour.
Departure is on 25th February at 8.30am,
returning at midnight on 26th February after the
legendary post-match bar session.
The cost will be approximately £30 which
will include travel and accommodation in the
picturesque seaside town of Newquay, ideally
situated near Camborne itself.
This event has been enjoyed by all who have
gone on the trip and is by no means solely for
the RSM. A l l IC students are welcome to take
part in what is undoubtedly the most important
sporting event on the IC calendar.
If you want to take part in this orgy of fun
and excitement, sign up outside the R S M U
Office (ask for directions if you don't know
where it is).
Famous quotes from previous tours:
'It wasf***ing awesome' - an ex-chemist
'Best weekend I've had in three years here' - Mr
R 'Chunky' Clemmy, infamous funster
'Match? What match...' - someone at the last
bottle match.
In case you hadn't noticed, we are now into a
New Year and that means that R A G is back with
avengeance. Some of us even went to the
National Rag Conference here in London while
the rest of you were still recovering from your
hangovers so we now have even more fun, out-
rageous events planned for you to take part in!
What would you rather do this weekend:
a. Write up your lab report/essay that was due in
last week or,
b. Go on a trip somewhere interesting?
If the answer is b) then join us in Beds on
Saturday. We are taking a minibus of fun-lov-
ing students on a Rag Raid in aid of WWF so if
you go you could win juggling balls, a T-shirt or
even a holiday to Egypt as these are their col-
lecting incentives! If you would like to go then
sign up at our meeting today in the Ents lounge
at 1.10pm
In February we have the following things
going on: On the 6th and 13th there will be a
fierce battle taking place between C & G and the
RCS, but its all for charity, mate! These are the
dates of the C C U Challenge when on different
days collectors from the different CCUs will be
going to Covent Garden to compete for the pres-
tigious title of 'Best Collecting C C U ' . The pro-
ceeds will go to Turning Point who will be giv-
ing away a years supply of condoms as the prize
for the top collector. For more details see us in
the Rag Office.
Finally, for the moment anyway, we, along
with RCS are organising a Rag Tour which will
start on the 18th February. This is a great oppor-
tunity for you to escape from London for the
weekend and discover other parts of Britain
whilst meeting and partying with other students
from these places. The places we will be visiting
include Leicester, Nottingham, Sheffield, Leeds,
Manchester, Liverpool, Keele and Birmingham
and there may be more. There will be two
minibuses going on this tour so there are plenty
of spaces for those who want to go. If you would
like to be part of this magical, mystery tour and
it is open to anyone and is FREE, then come
along to our meetings, or see us in the R A G
Office, for more details.
Stop Press
We have just heard that the Forum Hotel have
pulled out of the Sponsored Abseil on the 12th
February so that won't be going ahead. However
we are trying to organise another hotel where the
event could be done on the 12th March. For
Marie Stopes. For this the deposit will be £30
which will be refunded if you raise £50 in spon-
sorship money. If you signed up to do the abseil
then please see us in the Rag Office or come to
one of our meetings
Thats all for now, but don't worry, we shall
be back, for even as I am writing this article
there are more exciting, original events being
planned for your amusement!
Men With Big
Guns
When was the last time you fumbled around in
the dark, sweating heavily, with twenty other
people? Okay then, when was the last time it
cost you only £4? Now you too can indulge in
such pleasures courtesy of the Quasar Club (as
in 'Quasar' the laser combat game if you're still
confused).
We run fortnightly trips to the Ladbroke
Grove Quasar Centre, where we spend two
hours generally blasting the crap out of each
other with laser guns (as you do) to score points.
Obviously, there is a lot more to the game than
this, but I can assure you that it is excellent fun,
and the best way to find out more is to experi-
ence it yourself. We have already held two suc-
cessful trips - the next is scheduled for
Wednesday 2nd February and will cost a one-
off reduced price of £3 per head instead of the
usual £4.
So, if the idea of getting your hands on a
solid 12 inches of laser weaponry appeals to
you, be sure to attend our meeting on Monday
31st January at 12.30pm in the Brown
Committee Room on Level 3 of the Union
Building. We will give you all the sordid details
of our laser-related activities, and you should
feel free to ask us any questions you may have.
Enquiries may also be directed to Ozzy Mir
or Neil Jackson at their respective E - M a i l
addresses miru@ph.ic.ac.uk and jcksnnrh®
ph.ic.ac.uk.
The diary lists many of the clubs' regular meetings and events

