Clubs and Societies 11
Bring It All Back - The Etiquette of Barfing
Ever bent over the porcelain temple and prayed
to the great god of the toilet? Ever called for
those two long lost brothers Ralph and Huey?
Yes, I'm talking about that most basic of func-
tions vomiting, barfing, the technicolour
yawn...you see, there's this guy and he does it all
the time. His name is Stevie Starr, and his trade-
mark isn't downing fifteen pints of Guiness and
then delivering his dinner all over the floor.
He's a little more sophisticated than that, he'll
devour anything from lOp pieces to Rubic Cube
(he can even turn the sides in his stomach!) and
bring them back.
Believe me, if you go and see this guy, make
sure that your you've eaten a long time ago and
your stomach is well and truly settled, if the
actions don't get you, the sound will make your
skin crawl. He recently appeared on the Emma
Freud show on Radio One, and the gurgling
wretching noise was a thing to witness. Stevie is
a bit of an expert though so there's no need to
worry, starting when he was only four years old,
there have been a few years of practice to hone
this rather peculiar talent. Among the stunts that
Stevie performs, is swallowing a bowl of dry
sugar followed by a glass of water, and (don't
ask me how he does it) he brings the sugar back
up completely dry. Now, that's what I call a
party trick, imagine this guy in the sixth form!
If you want to witness his rather strange tal-
ents, he is coming to Imperial on Friday 4th
February. He has appeared on T V and radio,
and it isn't really surprising when you think that
there's no-one else out there who can do this
type of thing. Considering what it must do to his
stomach muscles that's probably not such a bad
thing. He has been checked over by whole bus
loads of doctors and the secret of his talent
remains to be discovered.
It is quite a sight to behold, at the front of the
stage, with some of the most disgusting noises
you have ever heard hanging in the air, to see
him swallow everything in sight from a ring to a
light bulb to a snooker ball. It is said that the
only way men could appreciate the pain of child-
birth is to pass out a bowling ball, perhaps
Stevie Starr is going to be the closest the male
population is ever going to get to that?
Welsh Soc A Credit To IC
Women's
Football
IC 1 - 6 London Hospital
By all rights the match should have been a
blowout. Based on last term's results the score
should have been 15-0, against! But we came
out strong and surprised the other team, not to
mention ourselves and were soon up 1-0, thanks
to a great run by Paula who picked up the ball at
the halfway line and carried it herself by the
defence to the box and scored with a far post
shot. London Hospital didn't know what to do -
they only made it out of their own half once in
the first twenty minutes. But they pulled them-
selves together and by halftime the score was 2-
1.
We had the wind against us in the second
half (not to mention our fitness, or lack thereof).
Despite numerous goal scoring opportunities we
began to feel the pressure of playing the top
team in the league. By 35 minutes into the half
we were down 4-1. London Hospital topped it
off with two goals in the last ten minutes to
make the final score 6-1, a respectable score
given the opposition.
Anyone interested in playing Women's
Football should contact Christine DeWolf via
the Union pigeonholes.
Happy New Year, or should I say Blwyddyn
Newydd Dda! After a fairly lively first term for
this newly created Society, Welsh Soc is organ-
ising its future events. There will be the usual
once a month (last Friday thereof) trip to the
London Welsh Club. The next one will be on
28th January, meeting in Southside at 7.30pm.
On the 'overseas' front, the Society is plan-
ning a weekend in Brussels for the end of
February (travelling overnight of course) and is
also planning to attend the Welsh University
Intercollegiate Eistedfed on the weekend of the
10th-12th February. This not only involves par-
ticipating in the more cultural events but also in
the 'Pub Eistedfed', at which I am sure we will
do very well.
We are also hoping to be introduced to the
Houses of Parliament by one of the Welsh MPs
and will have a stall in the JCR in the forthcom-
ing 'SCC Week'. Volunteers to run the stall are
being sought. Finally, for those that would like
to see a major sporting event, we will be going
to see Wales vs Norway at Cardiff in March.
Tickets will be on a first come first served basis
so come along on Friday to put your name
down. Contact Nefyn Jones, Elec Eng on 8138
or Krista Jones, Biophysics ext 6894.
UCL Seconds 2 -1 IC Thirds
With more than slight apprehension, IC Thirds
(London League Division 3) went into the
London Cup Quarter Final to face an unbeaten
U C L side, top of division 1 and cup favourites.
James Diss' Third XI battled bravely and a
goalless first half saw a beautifully worked
move on the left, revolving around the dazzling
Roddy Herds, ending with Richard Salter's flick
cannoning into the U C L post. A l l seemed under
control at the other end with Crispian Lord and
Vice-Captain Ed Jenkins solid in defence, whilst
the watchful Rob Franolie was quick to drive
forwards for the midfield.
Mid-way through the second half U C L
scored at the third attempt - twice being denied
by man of the match Guy Williams. Guy contin-
ued to impress with a series of magnificent
saves. Three minutes from time, IC levelled
with a cannonball free kick delivered by Ed
Jenkins turned in by the head of Richard Salter.
Super-sub Maddy came on for extra time,
which ended with U C L snatching the winner
three minutes from a penalty shoot-out with a
deflected shot looping over a helpless Williams.
A credit to IC, the team was: Guy Williams,
Ed Jenkins, Rob Franolie, Lawrence Stolworthy,
Richard Craig, Crispian Lord, Roddy Herds,
Anthony Clerc, Peter Linney, Javier Madurga
(Maddy), Richard Salter and James Diss.
It can be found in the centre pages of every issue of Felix

