14 Features
Alison shopped at Top Man.
A fact that only really sank in after ten min-
utes of besottedly trailing her through aisles of
burgundy coloured shirts and novelty underwear.
Yes I was surprised, but quietly confident that
she knew what she was doing.
Alison, you see, could do no wrong. She was
the girl with whom I shared views on the mis-
management of the economy, the rape of the
National Health Service and the perversity of
inner city degradation and homelessness. She
was the girl who had asked me if I liked the
Smiths, and what did / think of Billy Bragg?
This was the girl that understood that the way to
beat Big Jack's Irish strategy was to play two
conventional wide wingers against the four four
two system as it would tie up their full backs so
much that they would never cross the halfway
line. This was the girl that had heard of Fredrico
Fellini. Yes, she was at least as boring and pre-
tentious as me. The Ideal Woman.
Standing in the yak-fleece scarf section
watching shop assistants stare down fourteen
year old tie dye burglars, I realised for the first
time that in this arena, our paths diverged to
some significant degree. A n explanation was
required, and that little piece of Hercule Poirot
that occupies some tiny corner of us all
defrocked and waxed his mustache.
It was not a wind up, she was doing far too
well. Sardonism (particularly in poetry I recall)
was not her strong suit. Neither was economics
to blame, she never went out and her rent was
cheap. It had to be some anti-posessionist socio-
economic statement that was going way over my
head.
My Paul Smith coat (which I had gone hun-
gry for three months to buy) was now glowing
scarlet as a hot poker, showing me up to be the
rich possessionist Nazi that deep down inside I
always knew I was. "Baby Killer! Baby Killer!"
I could see the hate behind her eyes. It was like
walking down the Falls Road whistling God
Save the Queen.
My guilt was thankfully dispelled several
days later when she christened one of my best
friends 'Jumper Man'. The relief was blissful.
Actually, 'Sharing eternal damnation down on
the seventh level with Judas Iscariot and Claus
Barbie' would have eased John McCarthy's tor-
pid little volume off the hostage biography best-
seller spot with the style and grace of Lord
Tebbit onto any recently privatised company's
board of directors. The real relief therefore was
that she was as least as big a style fascist as the
rest of us and worse, that she shopped at Top
Man because she thought the clothes were worth
buying.
Still, a girl as pretty as Alison could look rea-
sonable in anything. And I'm certain that flow-
ery dungarees will come back one day...
Glyph
Union Minibus Users' Update
During the Autumn term there was considerable
media attention on the subject of minibus acci-
dents. As a result of this, the I C U minibuses
have come under close scrutiny. Meetings have
taken place between ICU and the Director of the
Safety Unit, Pro-Rector, and other senior
College staff. ICU in the future will be purchas-
ing 16 seat minibuses instead of the 13 and 17
seat minibuses we have at present. These will
have forward facing seats and two small benches
at the back with cloth trim and seat belts.
Minibuses will have the Imperial College
Students' Union and College crest on either side.
We will aim to keep minibuses looking smart.
Past experience has taught us that we need a
tightening up of our policy on damage claims.
We will invoice persons responsible for damage
and expect prompt payment so that minibuses
can be repaired. Any damage that you notice
should be reported immediately.
Failure to report damage that has occurred
during rental period could lead to a life ban on
driving the minibuses. Last year, one minibus
had its steering badly damaged. This could have
led to a serious accident. It was not reported by
the person responsible and was only noticed two
hours before the minibus was due to go abroad.
Any minibus that has been damaged must not be
used until it has been inspected by the Transport
Officer or a Sabbatical.
Last December, two members of the Union
attended courses on Driver Assessment &
Training, Fire & Evacuation, Minibuses & The
Law. As a result of this and discussions with the
Director of the Safety Unit, we have decided that
as of the delivery of the new minibus we will be
operating a N O S M O K I N G policy in all the
minibuses. We have also changed the format of
the minibus driver assessment (a.k.a. the van
test), making it slightly longer.
Please tell us if and what you use from the
first aid kits (you will not be charged) so that we
can keep them topped up.
ICU minibuses are all operated under 'small
bus permits'. This means that we are able to
charge for usage. It also means that we have to
obey certain regulations, such as The Road
Vehicle Lighting Regulations 1989 No. 1796,
which states that if a minibus is parked on the
public highway (i.e. not applicable when on
campus, private drive, in a field etc) between
sunset and sunrise the sidelights must be left on
(not the interior light, which seems to be the
craze at the moment). Once the sun has risen,
though, please switch them off. It's also a good
idea to fold in the door mirrors to save them get-
ting lopped off.
P.S. Please remember to shut absolutely all of
the windows and take all your belongings with
you when you leave the minibuses. Lost proper-
ty is (sometimes) kept behind the Union Office
desk (for a short period of time).
Safety Notice To All Minibus Drivers
• all doors must be unlocked while the minibus is in use (for evacuation purposes)
• all passengers should have access to at least two exits from where they are sitting
• the front passenger bench seat tips forward to facilitate evacuation (catch on near-
side)
• a gangway of at least 300mm must be left clear to all the exits from the minibus (for
rear doors this should lead to the off-side door which opens first)
• speed limit for minibuses is 50mph
• on motorways the speed limit is 70mph (50mph i f towing)
• do not overload the minibuses (payload = maximum load of passengers + equipment,
is printed on spec, sheet on dashboard)
• make sure you have re-registered with the Union and received a green driver's card.
(If you still have a white driver's card come and see us a.s.a.p. with your driving
license.) You will not be allowed to drive without doing so
Sabbatical reports for the UGM can be found on page 21

