Reviews 15
The Transformed Cell
(Unlocking the Mysteries of Cancer)
by Steven Rosenberg, PhD
For anyone who wants to know what research is
all about and what can motivate someone to
work fifteen hours a day all year long, then
Steven Rosenberg's biography is the perfect
book to read.
Steven Rosenberg is one of the most famous
cancer researchers and surgeons working at the
National Cancer Institute, which is a part of the
National Institute of Health, in the States. His
fight against this disease started 25 years ago.
As a young surgeon, he encountered the case of
a man who cured himself of a "terminal cancer".
From this, he decided that it should be possible
to stimulate the bodies own immune defence
system to kill cancerous cells.
He spent the next 25 years of his life devel-
oping this idea (and he still does). The first step
involved extracting tumours from patients, trans-
planting them into pigs, collecting the white
cells produced in response by the pigs and
injecting them into the patients. He then went on
to culture white cells found in tumours with
Interleukin 2 (a growth factor) and injected them
into patients. The current research is based on
gene therapy, where the gene for a tumour sup-
pressing factor is inserted into the genome of the
patient.
In his biography he relates all the laboratory
work by his team as well as the clinical trials.
He takes the reader through not only the exalta-
tion felt when an experiment works (we all
know how uncommon this is!) or when a patient
is responding to a drug, but also through the des-
peration and feeling of uselessness after the
death of patients he had got to know. Although
no cure has yet been found, he has obtained
results that no other treatments have achieved.
But more than just the summary of his
research, the book is the story of a team fighting
against a disease and the everyday life of this
quest for a cure.
For those who don't know anything about
biology or biochemistry, don't let it worry you
as all the scientific words are explained in basic
words, so that anyone (anyone around College at
least) can understand what he is going on about.
Add a slice of humour to all this every now
and then and you get The Transformed Cell, a
great book in all of its aspects.
The Frog
Published by: Phoenix
Price: £5.99
Directory of
Volunteering
by Jan Brownfoot and
Frances Wilks
If you are interested in working for a charity
either voluntarily or full time then this is the
book for you, as it includes both voluntary and
employment opportunities.
The directory is a comprehensive guide to
over 500 major voluntary organisations ranging
from Help the Aged and NSPCC to the Family
Planning Association and national association of
City Farms. The book also includes museums,
charity shops, law, counselling and holiday
schemes. So if you are keen to do something
good for nothing but a good feeling then this is
the book for you.
The book is easy to use, having a clear layout
and a helpful section on how to apply for volun-
tary jobs. There's lots of good advice as well.
I would recommend that you buy this book if
you are very keen on working for charities or on
a voluntary basis. If you are only slightly keen
then have a look at someone else's copy (this
one lives in the Rag Office).
Jane
Published by: Directory of social Change
Price: £7.95
My God Is Better Than Your God...
Just a few yards from College, something wierd
is going on. Nobody knows what it's going to
be, but they do know where. The Serpentine
Gallery nestles in the heart of Hyde Park and
beneath its picturesque and innocent facade is a
veritable torture chamber of the most avant
garde of modern art - last summer it made the
headlines by showing Robert Gober's somewhat
literally titled 'Genital Wallpaper'. For those
who dare to venture beyond the comforting
womb-like surrounds of College during their
lunch hours, they will find a typically unusual
display on show at the moment.
The first thing that you notice on entering is
that nobody is looking at the paintings, but they
are all watching the walls instead. This appar-
ently bizarre phenomenon makes sense when
you realise that the walls are the art. Wall to
Wall is an exhibition by various artists who paint
directly onto the spaces they occupy rather than
using canvasses. The six artists on display here
have each been provided with their own personal
space with which they were free to do whatever
they wished. What they wished to do proves to
be rather obscure. The word 'challenging'
springs to mind...or perhaps 'challenged', con-
ceptually challenged. What does it all mean?
Baumgarten has painted words on the walls
of the central room, using the lantern in the ceil-
ing as a central feature. The words them-selves
seem unimportant, and possibly came from a
Kodak brochure - but who knows?
Michael Craig-Martin (who once shocked the
cultural tourists by declaring a glass of water to
be an oak tree) has given the Serpentine Gallery
another example of his latest one-man-bandwag-
on. He paints the walls in day-glo colours, blank
sheets of lurid greens, purples and blues. Onto
these are overlaid simplistic images of house-
hold objects - books, radiators, filing cabinets.
Why? Niele Toroni has spent the last 27 years
making regularly spaced marks on walls with a
brush. He has done the same here.
Lawrence Weiner, on the other hand, writes
sentences and equations. His wall says: A ROPE
(OF HEMP) + A CABLE (OF STEEL) + A
THREAD (OF SILK) & BRAIDED (ALL
TOGETHER).
The other two artists are women. Whilst the
men have lapsed into their navel gazing obscuri-
ty, the women have gone the other way. They
make obvious statements in obvious manners.
Jessica Diamond's comment on Zen Buddhism
could only be amusing to those who know noth-
ing about Zen.
Barbara Kruger has painted every surface of
her room with violent tirades of self-love and
hatred. It deserves recognition just because of its
arrogance but, apart from that, it is rather crass.
The difficulty with this exhibition is its
ambiguousness. The art could easily be
described as the most important work of the
time, startlingly original and intellectual, whilst
also being witty and challenging the everyday
view of painting. However, it would be just as
easy to describe it as a worthless waste of time.
Unfortunately, just this once you'll have to
decide for yourselves by making the oh-so-stren-
uous journey to the Serpentine Gallery, because
the critic can't decide (although he does admit to
liking the Weiner).
M A
Wall to Wall: 19th Jan - 27th Feb. Serpentine
Gallery, Kensington Gardens. 10am - 6pm
daily. Admission FREE!
There is a Singapore exhibition on 2nd February in the Great Hall

