Reviews 17
Housework is such a drag
Mrs Doubtfire
Starring: Robin Williams, Sally Field
Director: Chris Columbus
You've no doubt seen all the clips already and
know that this film's selling point is Robin
Williams in drag. Apparently, this is the only
aspect that all film reviewers have been waiting
in eager anticipation to see. Williams does
indeed perform 'brilliantly', but that doesn't
really tell you much about the film.
The film starts with the breakup of two par-
ents: the impulsive, irresponsible father
(Williams) and the precise career-woman mother
(Field). Due to the father's unreliability, the
court awards custody of the three kids to the
mother. Williams, unable to face being separated
from his kids, dresses as an old Scottish lady and
gets a job as the children's new nanny, Mrs
'Doot-fire'. Apart from just dressing in drag he
performs this incredible transformation with the
aid of his brother, the make-up artist (convenient
I know, but this is Hollywood).
The resulting make-over is spectacular and
you easily find yourself forgetting that this
nanny is actually the kids' father. I was a little
sceptical before the film started as to how any
kid wouldn't be able to recognise their own
father, even if dressed up, but the transformation
is so good you can believe it with ease.
iiiiiii
H E A V E N
E A R T H
Le Ly is blindfolded and led away
As you would expect, the comedy is rich and
centred predominantly around Williams. Gags
are sharp and the ideas fresh. However, the film
could not have worked without a strong support;
Sally Field is great as the wife and her woman-
to-woman chats with the nanny are a joy not to
be missed. The kids are also a boon to the film,
all realistically showing their grievances at the
parent's separation. The best of the three is the
Starring: Hiep Thi Le, Tommy Lee Jones
Director: Oliver Stone
Films like Platoon and Bom On The Fourth Of
July have given Oliver Stone a reputation as a
bit of a man's man. The portrayal of women in
his movies has been at best questionable and at
worst downright insulting. So cynics had good
reason for concern when Stone announced his
final Vietnam movie would be told from the
viewpoint of a native woman. In Heaven and
Earth, adapted from the true story of Le Ly
Hayslip, the gruff, all-American director gets in
touch with his feminine side.
Rural Vietnam, the early Fifties. A young girl
stands in a paddy field with her parents, the
landscape an oasis of calm and beauty. It is a
land subjugated for a hundred generations; by
the Chinese, the Japanese, and now by the
French. None of this disturbs the continuity of
the village, unchanged in a thousand years.
Young Le Ly and her siblings have the sort of
happiness only appreciated when gone.
Years pass and Le Ly watches her brothers
go off to fight while her village becomes a war
zone. Her life changes further when she joins the
VeitCong. She ends up in immoral Saigon where
she meets Sgt. Steve Butler. They marry and
move to the US, but how well will Le Ly adapt
to this alien culture?
youngest, portraying that blunt simplicity only
found in a young child.
Even without the comedy this is a solid tale
of a marriage breakup and the effect it can have
on both the parents and the kids. The film's mes-
sage looked like being a load of sloppy mush
right up to the last, but salvaged itself with style
and eloquence to make a real point.
Sphen
Beautiful and moving, Heaven and Earth is
the finest creation of a great film-maker. His
politics aside, no-one can fault the visual perfec-
tion Stone has created here, handling the philo-
sophical synchronicity of the plot with surpris-
ing subtlety (circularity and coming full circle
are central to the narrative structure).
The film suffers from newcomer Hiep Thi
Le's inexperience and too much time is spent on
seemingly useless plot development, but the
stunning performance of Tommy Lee Jones is
above any criticism. He, along with the excellent
Joan Chen and Haing Ngor who play Le Ly's
parents, anchor the film and carry into our
hearts. Tommy Lee Jones seems to get better
every time I see him and hopefully this role will
realise the full potential of his seemingly limit-
less talent.
Heaven and Earth is very much a woman's
film in its emotional focus, but this should not
deter men. Retelling America's most filmed
nightmare from the other side provides a vivid
contrast to Stone's other two Vietnam films and
it deserves to be watched as part of a trilogy
which now resonates with the director's new
message: War produces no winners, only vic-
tims. Film students will devote pages to the eerie
similarity of Le Ly and Ron Kovic, which is the
greatest tribute Stone could ask for.
Tony
Schwing!! Wayne's World2 is reviewed next week

