Reviews 19
Kristin Hersh
Hips and Makers
It's no surprise that the half-sisters who once
comprised the Throwing Muses can handle
themselves alone. Together they made grown up
music, now apart both Tanya Donnelly and
Kristin Hersh prove their childhood was not
wasted. Yet where Donnelly's 'Star' is seen as a
friendly open face feeding trees an'll, 'Hips and
Makers' has quickly been cast as the dark side
of the mirror, tense and twisted.
Certainly this is a sparse sounding album;
acoustic guitar, cello and Kristin are as ornate as
it gets. Another cliched route opens up for us,
remember her topless N M E cover? It's a writer
laying herself bare, exorcising her demons, blah-
blahblah. So much of music journalism plays
this game, true or false, just join the dots to
pigeon-hole the artist. Yet even a cursory hear-
ing of 'Hips and Makers' brings out so many
flashes of brilliant phrase.
Words that sparkle, words that are not drenched
in shadow ridden corners. String them together
and wear them like a necklace. The centrepiece:
"don't kill the god of sadness, just don't let her
get you down". And this is where we see the liv-
ing triumph. Unlike the tortured messiahs who
glory that they can wallow, Kristin accepts and
then overcomes. That's why this is worthy of
your time and money. So I haven't mentioned
the songs, firstly because I'm not sure what they
all mean, but mainly because it doesn't matter.
Kristin said she wasn't sure if this was the kind
of material that's suitable to release because it's
so personal to her. Still, we can grasp enough to
know she cares and that's all you have to believe
to make this album work.
To mention just one song, though, the title
track comes out last, to calm our nerves and
we'll end with it. It's not a feminist snarl, 'cos
we all have hips and makers. We are all part of
the sphere. Birth cycles death, rebirth continues.
Don't go down, the joy is to keep dancing, the
dance of life. Be extraordinary. (9)
Tintin
if 11 11If! 111111111!
11I l l ' s 1M mi
Cell
Living Room
Cell first appeared in the U K on the back of rave
reviews for their debut LP, 'Slo-Blo', a melan-
choly collection of songs about being alone. But
touring with Sonic Youth saw them comprehen-
sively upstaged by Pavement and the public's
attention soon moved elsewhere.
A year and a half later their second album
arrives and, while still based around similar
themes, the tone is altogether brighter. Guitars
are allowed to rage occasionally and the vocals
vary from the sorrowful norm. The overall
sound comes across as some kind of Smashing
Pumpkins/Dinosaur Jr. hybrid, but without quite
reaching the high points of either.
Their existing fans will buy it and love it, but
it's unlikely to significantly increase the band's
support. (7)
Ridley Dash
When granny baked those apples pies, didn't
you feel good? I saw you take the jug and pour
out that hot steaming custard. And now look at
yourself; not slept for a week, hair the consis-
tency of emulsion, what a mess. Who's gonna
make it all better? Swervedriver for one are
leaving you to your doom. They're taking the
'Last Train to Satansville' (Creation). '"So as
this fagged out tinseltown waves so-long to the
sun, I lay here calmly on my bed...' You what?
Actually this is not really a good choice of sin-
gle. It works better in the context of the rather
cool 'Mezcal Head' album. Still it has the usual
hallmarks; fuzzed up guitar, latent melody and
the general in transit feel."
In a similar vein Blaggers I*T*A feel the
need to 'Abandon Ship'. "It kicks off with
swirling guitars amidst keyboard atmospherics,
before launching into a funky section awash
with big horns." Do I hear a music reviewer get-
ting too near his edge?
Currently attracting some peachy cream
media attention are the Flamingos. Their cur-
rent release on Rob's Records is 'Original
Colour/Inner City Blues'. "Everything about
this record is smooth, right from the tickling
piano intro on 'Original Colour'. This is a classy
act and carries on the tradition of U K soul."
Eponymous single time comes thanks to
Renegade Soundwave (Mute). "R.S. have
regenerated with a new mask. Guitars and
snatches of Serge Gainsbourg rub shoulders
with their earlier dub stance and include remixes
by Leftfield. Superb." And you can't say fairer
than that.
Do you blame us if we're smitten? Kristin again.
Garage bandsters in our midst will rejoice
that Anna have their 'Coming Down' EP falling
out on Free Records. In that eversoclever way
we have of reviewing records, a story is spun.
" A self descriptive 4am swirl. So convincing,
it'll be just as good at 6pm. And then on for
some sleep..."
Well time to wash up all those hardening
plates. Reviewers respectively were: Vik, Vik,
BEA, Camille and Camille again. I'm Tintin.
"...never was a baritone, 'til you stepped in..." K.H. 'Teeth'

