20 Imperial College Union
Elect Yourself!
Who are we electing and what do they do?
The sabbaticals are overly responsible for every-
thing that happens inside ICU. They are respon-
sible for our clubs and societies, the Union Bar,
the Bookstore and the organisation as a whole.
They are responsible for the academic represen-
tation inside College, for representing our views
as students to those outside College, for staffing
issues within the Union, for the Felix you are
reading; in short if it happens through the Union,
the sabbaticals are eventually responsible for it.
It is only with the sterling work that all the
other student officers put in that our Union suc-
ceeds.
What posts are available?
The posts to be elected are the President, Deputy
President (Finance & Services), Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies) and the Felix
Editor & Print Unit Manager. These posts are
sabbaticals. That means that if you are elected,
you take a paid year from your studies. But
before you get the idea of £20k salaries, each
post is paid an equivalent of a postgraduate
grant. What each job specifically entails will be
gone into in more detail in next week's Felix
with a article on and by each sabbatical.
Who can be elected?
The posts are open to all full members of
Imperial College Union. If you are a student of
IC on a full time course of study or research,
then you are eligible. If you're a first year, a
fourth year, on an MSc or a PhD, then you can
stand for a sabbatical post.
How do you get elected?
Easy. In the middle of February, the nomination
papers are put up in the Union Building. If you
want to stand, you sign your name up; you need
a person willing to propose you and twenty peo-
ple who want to second you. The 'papers' stay
up for two college weeks. After these two
weeks, all the candidates proposed and fully sec-
onded are in the race. Then the election starts.
There are two weeks when the candidates cam-
paign hard for your vote around College and
then, crunch time - we decide who to elect for
next year by voting. There are two days for vot-
ing and the results are known late into the
evening of the second day.
When does this all happen?
The exact dates have yet to be set, but the provi-
sional dates for the 1993-94 ICU sabbatical elec-
tions will be:
14th February Papers Up, Nominations Open
25th February Papers Down, Nominations
Close,
14th March First day of voting
15th March Second day of voting, results
due late that evening
Remember Four Easy Steps To Getting
Elected:-
1. Sign up on the nomination papers, get your-
self fully seconded and proposed.
2. Spend two weeks hot on the 'campaign trail'.
3. Spend a worried evening waiting for the
result.
4. Celebration-cum-commiseration.
Want to know more?
Next week in Felix, there will be an full piece on
each post and what it entails so keep your eyes
peeled. If you want more in the mean time, just
pop into the Union office and ask to see one of
the sabbaticals. They can tell you all that you
need to know.
1. Minutes of the last meeting
2. Matters arising
3. Reports:
(i) President
(ii) Deputy President (Finance and
Services)
(iii) Deputy President (Clubs and
Societies)
4. Executive Report
5. Reports from other Union Officers
6. Presentation: Student Represen-
tative Council
7. Any Other Business
(Union General Meeting)
Ents Lounge 1pm
Today, 28th January
iCV
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION

