Imperial College Union 21
What Have They Been Up To?
Deputy President Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
(Finance & Services)
Finance
The biggest thing happening in the fun world of
money at the moment is budgets and five year
plans. For those fortunate enough not to have
anything to do with them, the budgets for each
club or society's expenditure is set annually and
five year plans are a way of planning for irregu-
lar items of expenditure. All this fun is going to
be happening in a Union Finance Committee
meeting near you in the near future. All club and
society chairs/treasurers should get a budget
claim for 94/95 to their sub-committee as soon
as possible. Five year plan claims should find
their way into my office by 14th February.
Remember - no claim, no dosh. If anyone needs
any help with preparing all this then the cheerful
Finance Office staff and myself will be delight-
ed to give a few words of advice (i.e. "you want
how much?!").
Minubuses
We will (very soon) be buying a new minibus
for the first time in a couple of years. This will
bring the total back up to seven vans. Unlike the
other six, this one will have forward facing
seats, as recommended by the college Safety
Director and lots of other safety-type gadgets so
it should be the pretty safe. (We haven't worked
out how to make the drivers safer yet, but we're
thinking about it.) Subject to successful applica-
tions to various sources of funding, we may be
getting another one to replace one of the older
of our current ones.
Trading
The bar and catering side of things are ticking
over reasonably, although not likely to exceed
last year's excellent year. The Bookstore is still
doing really well, showing that you can keep the
prices down and be financially sound at the
same time (British Telecom take note). The
manager and staff deserve congratulations.
Sabbatical Elections
The elections for next year's set of hard working
and dedicated sabbs are coming up and I for one
am looking forward to them, as this time I don't
have to spend the best part of a month being dis-
gustingly nice to people. As far as I can tell,
no-one seems to be interested in my job next
year (is there something I should know?), but if
anyone wants to know more about what I do,
then please come in and see me in the Union
Office. Remember - one of the perks of the job
is getting to write a really interesting report to
every U G M . That'll have people queuing up to
do the job I'm sure.
Sport
I have received a limited response from the
Sports Questionnaire, but I shall be tabulating
what information I have and presenting it to
College. There is a meeting with the Estates
Division to discuss sport and the information I
have received will form the basis of my response
as to what students require from Sport and
Sports Facilities.
The U A U national championships are pro-
gressing with only Mens' Winter Tennis and
Mens' Squash left in the running from Imperial
College. This year's results are somewhat disap-
pointing and I will be looking into increasing the
opportunity for sports teams to practice.
ULU Societies
I am currently involved in developing a inter-
collegiate society cooperation programme. This
is aimed at getting societies from different col-
leges to participate in activities together. A basic
example would be an intercollegiate league for
President
Election Fever
Watch out, there's an election about. Spring
term, a time when a young student's thoughts
turn to fun, laughter, sheep frolicking in mead-
ows (speak for yourself) and elections. Yippee!
This is the term when we elect Union officers
to run the Union and to represent us all in all
walks of College life. The first set of elections
coming up are the I C U Sabbatical elections.
These are detailed on the opposite article.
Training
Once elected, our officers need training. This is
an area which we as a Union have neglected in
the past. For our student officers to be truly
effective, we need to train them, to support them
in their work. This term, along with other stu-
dent officers, I am drawing up a full training
programme for all Union Officers, from Club
Chairs to Sabbaticals, from the Accommodation
Officer to the Departmental Representatives.
However this will cost money, quite a bit of
money. There is some good news, this may be
funded through Government Education
Initiatives. If this works, it will set our Union on
the road to being highly effective in its work for
you, the students of Imperial College.
Reviews and Reorganisation
Last year, a review of the organisation of ICU
led to the drafting of a new constitution for our
Union, the document that sets out how we work.
After being passed by the Union, it had to be
approved by the Governors of College. They
Chess and Bridge, which currently does not
exist. This will eventually provide the same kind
of organisation as sports teams currently receive.
Society News
The Social Clubs Committee are currently plan-
ning a week of events to publicise what these
types of societies have to offer. The programme
will include films, a Brazilian Nite, stalls in the
JCR and potential heated debate. Religious and
political issues will form the centre of this week
commencing 7th February.
The Operatic Society are in the middle of the
performances of Chicago. The polished end
product is a culmination of months of work and
planning, all of which was done by IC students.
The list of people involved is far too long to go
into, but they all should be congratulated on
their efforts. If any of you reading this report
have not been to see Chicago, tonight and
tomorrow are your final chances.
could not pass it as it stood due to a number of
points, some omissions and a need for clarity in
some points. We have negotiated for it to be
passed as a working document, allowing the
Union's clubs and societies to run, ensuring all
the Union's activities take place. In the mean
time, the Executive have been working to
answer the Governors' points and to make the
constitution a more cohesive document for the
Union. We are working on a new system of gov-
erning the Union, to make it more democratic
and more accountable to us all. A l l the results
should be reported today. This will help to make
the activities and services of our Students'
Union more relevant to everyone at Imperial.
Tuesdays
In a club? Want to practise sport at lunch times?
Tuesdays has always been a time where a lot of
student activity happens. In the last few years,
the amount of time available seems to have been
whittled away. The result? Our sports teams can-
not train as much, not all clubs work as well.
Along with Andrew Montgomery, A C C Chair,
we are working to see what can be done on this
and other sporting problems. More on this as it
unfolds.
I hope to see you at the Union General Meeting,
Friday 28th, 1pm, Ents Lounge. If anyone has
anything they would like to discuss, please come
and see me, Andy Wensley, in the Union Office.
Until Friday, amigos.
Unsure about UGMs? Any sabbatical will be glad to help you

