22 Opinion
Editorial
If you've looked at the previous two pages, you
will have noticed that there is another U G M
happening today. Looking at the agenda, it looks
as if it will be as fun-filled and interesting as
ever!
Sorry for the touch of sarcasm, but the last
three UGMs haven't exactly filled me with a
burning desire to go to this one. I've spent the
last term trying to be as enthusiastic about them
as possible to as many people as possible, but I
can only do so much. It's important that every-
one goes along to them because they need to
know what's been going on in the Union. But
what happens when you get people to go and the
meeting is as uninspiring as the last few? In
short, they don't bother coming again.
Can it be that difficult to make them a bit
more interesting? The U G M that sticks in my
mind was the one where the Third World First
Society put forward a motion to boycott Nestle
products within the Union. They succeeded and
it became policy for the Union and any of its
trading outlets (Bar, D a V i n c i ' s and the
Bookstore) not to buy any Nestle products for
the next three years. This may seem boring to
you, but it prompted discussions and people
could actually see the that their decisions had
changed the way the Union did things.
They could even be made fun (perish the
thought!). A couple of years ago, a motion was
proposed which, if passed, would have meant
that the sabbaticals would have had to wear
Thunderbirds costumes. Unfortunately, it never
got as far as being discussed because someone
called 'Quorum', but it sparked off interest in
the U G M and people were actually turning up to
it. I can't see the same level of interest being
generated by a load of reports or a discussion
about a new constitution.
But maybe the presentation on Student
Representative Councils (SRCs) will spark off
some debate. As far as I can make out (and I
could be wrong), the idea is to replace UGMs
with a smaller body of students. The last time
anyone tried to do away with UGMs, the JCR
was packed with people opposing it. It would be
good to see a similar sort of response if this idea
for SRCs goes any further than the presentation
today.
But enough ranting about the Union (I've had
enough people calling me a 'hack' recently). On
a much lighter note, the 1000th edition of Felix
is looming ever closer. It is due to come out on
Friday 13th May. Sounds fated already, doesn't
it?! Hopefully, it will be a commemorative issue
of some description, but we are open to sugges-
tions. If you have any ideas of what form it
could take or what articles you would like to see
in it, let us know.
Another piece of advanced warning: We are
planning a travel special for March, so any arti-
cles on travel or work abroad or in this country
will be gratefully received.
Letters T o Felix
You must show your Union card
when submitting a letter to be
printed in Felix. Unless this has been
checked, the letter will not be printed.
Names will only be withheld from
letters under extreme circumstances.
2)
9H 6
A reminder that the
Valentine Edition
of Felix will be
coming out on 11th
February.
You can send a mes-
sage to the love (or
hate) of your life free
ofcharge through
Felix. Just make
sure they are put
into the Valentine
pigeonhole in the
Felix Office by 4th
February.
BAN/ AMIMAL i f e PAPK KNIGHT'S 5
m 1 1

