24 Puzzle Page
Elimination by Sphinx and Shark
Eliminate two words from the right hand columns for each clue on the left.
Which word is left over?
a Not bloody complimentary ! i Fee 22 Circle
b Two homophones 2 Pot 23 Double
c Malicious revolution ? 3 Wit 24 Granny
d Two suggesting United 4 Call 25 Medium
e A jolly psychic ? 5 Done 26 Reigns
f " is the soul o f " (Hamlet) 6 Five 27 School
g Two synonyms 7 Luck 28 Singer
h Dubbel 8 Open 29 Square
i Two with field 9 Reef 30 Weight
j Chance upon a drug fortune ? 10 Roll 31 Brevity
k Two anagrams 11 Take 32 Vicious
1 Rest the fingers on one hand ? 12 Toot 33 Kingdom
m Two words going with circuit 13 Wait 34 Marshal
n Cerebral surf! 14 Wave 35 Nations
0 Two palindromes 15 Well 36 Opinion
p Two going with white 16 Brain 37 Playing
q Coolest way to fit a curve ! 17 Civic 38 Wedding
r Two joining with public 18 Dutch 39 Academic
s Register the bread order ? 19 Happy 40 Elephant
t Two knots 20 Least 41 Training
21 Charge
Cracking Cryptic Crosswords
Introduction
I don't mind telling you, this causes me some
considerable degree of pain. Unveiling the secret
world of cryptic clues is like publicly demon-
strating the free-mason handshake - that's the
one with the white pinny and the garden trowel,
brother.
True, by following this crash-course in clue
solving you'll miss out on the enjoyable process
of teaching yourself. However the aim is to
instruct our unenlightened readers on the types
of clue that exist and then how to distinguish
them from each other. One compensation for me
is that in future I can stop insulting your intelli-
gence with the easy clues that have appeared in
crosswords past.
Although there are (unwritten) rules for solv-
ing cryptic clues, qualifiers like "nearly always"
and "more often than not" are inevitable because
making absolute statements about these clues is
dangerous. It is safe to say one thing though:
clues need not mean what they say but they
must say what they mean. A good clue is writ-
ten in such a way as to imply something com-
pletely different from - or irrelevant to - the
intended answer.
A general rule of thumb is never to read the
clue literally (well, almost never). Secondly,
C r a c k i n g C r y p t i c C r o s s w o r d s
remember that if you can solve the quick/coffee-
time crossword puzzles then you can also solve
cryptic clues. They always contain a straightfor-
ward definition or synonym of the answer (well,
almost always). In fact most clues will contain
two ways of getting the answer making them
easier than quick crosswords! Follow these
guidelines and you'll be armed with an effective
arsenal of clue cracking techniques, dazzling the
ignorant Philistines that never progressed from
coffee-time clues.
So, what can you expect in this space in the
weeks to come? In short - a Pandora's Box of
hints and tips, illustrated with examples of types
of clues previously printed in Felix. Bear in
mind though, that although I will be isolating
different clue types, real life clues will often be
an amalgamation of two or more styles. If you
have any sense, you'll hoard all the relevant
Felices too so as not to give anyone else an
advantage over you in the ensuing Easter 3D
crossword. Mind your mind.
a lottery. Therefore, a cryptic clue can be com-
posed of two different meanings of the word
'DRAW' such as:
Design a tie (4) or Pull off the raffle (4)
The clue doesn't just have to contain two syn-
onyms (one for each meaning). A synonym can
be replaced by a brief description or implication
of the word. Take the word 'TERM':
An 11-week condition (4)
Here are some I prepared earlier...
1. Disapproves of things (7)
2. Enjoy dressing (6)
3. Metal press (4)
4. Positive image slip (5)
5. Hurry to get some grass (4)
6. Arrive unarmed and own up (4,5)
7. Wire and paper (9)
8. Consider this a delicacy (5)
Undress a long thin one (5)
Smash the rest (5)
9.
10.
Lesson 1. Double Meanings
Many words have more than one meaning or can
imply quite different things. For example
'DRAW' as a verb can mean to sketch, to pull
or to tie (in a contest); as a noun it can also mean
>(ii3Ja '01tfuJS'6 S M I '8 :qdi!j33px 'L '""sp 011103 '9 'Msn» S:
=PHS f : u 0 J
I '£ 'MS
!PH 'I ^sioafqo 'I :sj3Aisuy
P a g e 1
FELiX Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union
Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (Tel: 071 225 8672).
Editor: Rebecca Land, Business Manager: Simon Govier, Advertising Manager: Steven Newhouse.
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Copyright Felix 1994. ISSN 1 040-0711

