4 Feature
No Need for Martyrs in the Master Class
There is life after your first degree - but problems too, says Don Adlington,
Imperial College Student Counsellor in this, his second welfare article.
Advanced course students, from a student coun-
sellor's perspective, are seen as a rather special
population. Special in the sense that they are
more immediately at risk when things go wrong
than other student populations, such as under-
graduates or research students.
Why is this so? What are the factors that
make one-year advanced course students poten-
tially vulnerable?
A common pattern of such courses at
Imperial College (with a few exceptions) is two
terms of intensive teaching culminating in exam-
inations followed by a major piece of project
work. Clearly, any disturbing life-event coincid-
ing particularly with the heavy teaching compo-
nent of the course, can have a quite dispropor-
tionate impact on a student's academic progress.
An undergraduate or a research student dealing
with exactly the same sort of problems may,
other things being equal, be able to absorb a
period of academic under-performance, simply
because there is time to do so.
Many masters degree students have returned
to University after an extended break from acad-
emic study, usually after a period of employ-
ment. It is not uncommon for people who have
previously had a successful and buoyant acade-
mic experience at ' A ' Level and at first degree
level, to be very surprised at the extent to which
they have slipped out of the academic mode and
to find that the necessary adaptation is a good
deal more hazardous than they had expected.
A high proportion of advanced course stu-
dents are self-financing, and have taken on quite
large debt commitments to pay college fees and
living expenses for a full twelve months.
Occasionally students take on these extra debts
before they have had the opportunity of clearing
debts incurred while they were undergraduates.
Older students, sometimes with onerous family
obligations, have often given up well-paid work
to come back to college, but find that state provi-
sion for the family is inadequate.
Students sometimes use Masters degree
courses to vindicate something in their past. For
example, someone who achieved a class of first
degree lower than he/she had expected, or who
had been disappointed at not obtaining admis-
sion to the University of their choice after ' A '
Levels may well have, as a perfectly valid com-
ponent of motive, a powerful need to prove
something to him or herself. In these circum-
stances the prestige and standing of Imperial
College can be highly seductive, but conversely
the fear of failure can be very disturbing.
For a significant number of students returning
to University after a protracted interval, a
Masters course coincides with other major
upheavals in life. It may indeed effectively be a
vehicle for hopes and ambitions for the future
which go well beyond the conventional notion of
acquiring an extra qualification. This 'fresh-
start' component motive is entirely valid and
healthy in itself, but does imply that any worry
about completing the course successfully carries
an extra charge of anxiety.
Students on a Masters degree course are like-
ly to be far less homogeneous than the average
departmental undergraduate intake. People of
different ages and background, from different
countries, different disciplines and different uni-
versities. This sometimes means that peer-group
support, or indeed the normal opportunities for
friendship, are not so assured. This, and the pres-
sure of work, may effectively exclude the stu-
dent from a balanced social life.
any disturbing life-
event ... can have a
quite disproportionate
impact on a student's
academic progress.
This coincidence of short, highly intensive
courses and a fair proportion of students with
complex personal and family obligations (as
well as complex motives), seems to me to give a
certain urgency to dealing with problems if they
arise. Masters degree students need to feel
secure in the decision they have made, to feel an
underlying confidence both that the course is
what they wanted when they enrolled and that
they will be successful in it. It is, I think, normal
to feel a certain reticence about 'asking for
help'.
Postgraduate students, almost by definition,
are coping, competent and successful people and
it certainly goes against the grain to have to
acknowledge that one is having difficulty. But
once the little barrier of pride is overcome and
there has been a proper dialogue with the right
people, the rewards can be immediate and con-
siderable. If, for example, one particular part of
the course is proving worryingly difficult, there
is a real danger that the anxiety will halo over on
to other parts of the course unless the matter is
properly discussed with academic staff. Students
often perceive academic staff as being over-
whelmingly busy - which may be objectively
true - but it is also quite often a rationalisation
for a fundamental reluctance to face up to poten-
tial trouble.
there is a real danger
that the anxiety will
halo over on to other
parts of the course
So far as academic worries are concerned, the
key people are the academic staff teaching the
course. Every department in College has a
Postgraduate Tutor, who has an overriding
responsibility for the pastoral care of graduate
students in just the same way that the Senior
Tutor has for undergraduates. The College
Tutors, Dr Gareth Jones in Physics and Dr
Margaret Goodgame in Chemistry, have a
College-wide responsibility of the same kind and
may be approached directly.
However, there are other people in College
on whom you can make demands - the Student
Adviser in the Union (especially about any legal,
financial, state benefit or Home Office prob-
lems), the doctors and nurses in the Health
Centre, the Student Accommodation Office and
myself. My work is entirely confidential. I can
see people quickly, usually on the same day and
I am paid to do nothing else but talk to students.
I strongly believe that talking is very important
in a crisis. It is a relief in itself to talk through
one's anxieties - to share the worry if you like -
in a safe place. It is a way of identifying prob-
lems clearly and it sometimes throws up new
ideas for dealing with difficulties.
Don Adlington's office is at 15 Princes Gardens
and his telephone extension is 3041.
The final article by Don Adlington will be in next week's issue

