A Little Shop Of Horrors?
Phill Henry investigates the queerfolk in the heart of Covent Garden.
I had gone to great pains to avoid black cats, lad-
ders and elderly washerfolk, but on the day I
went to meet Simon Patten of Mysteries, a
Covent Garden occult shop, I was jinxed.
Firstly, my dictaphone broke down. No problem,
I thought. I borrowed a second. It too failed.
Then my progress was further hampered by a
security alert on the Northern Line.
When I finally got there, the first thing
which struck me on entering was the perfume of
exotic incenses. The slow, New Age music qui-
etly playing added to the calm and slightly
dreamy atmosphere. Although books take up a
large part of the wall space, the shop exhibits
many other delights for the enthusiastic or wil-
fully unwary consumers. Moonstones, crystals
and colourful Tarot packs are stocked along with
virgin inks and wax for spell casting and invoca-
tions. As I browsed I noticed a small vial con-
taining a red liquid with 'Dragon's Blood' writ-
ten on the label.
"It isn't real Dragon's Blood!" laughed
Simon. "It is just a mixture of ingredients used
by some people to perform their ceremonies."
Simon is quite obviously very enthusiastic
about the whole occult scene. A likable and
chatty man in his thirties, certainly not one to
stand on ceremony, he completely lacked the
immediate aura of mystery which I could not
help expecting. Although tall with alert blue
eyes, his manner was calm and laid back.
This is just as well. "We get people coming
in who think that they have been cursed," he
said. "Ninety nine times out of a hundred they
are just imagining it. We calm them down, give
a little reassurance and then they go away.
Occasionally, we meet people who are genuinely
harassed - they wake to find black, dead roosters
hanging from their doorposts. Then it becomes a
matter for the police."
I asked him about his more bizarre clientele
and whether he gets Satanists prowling around.
"Yeah. They dress in black robes and stare a
lot," he said contorting his face to illustrate.
"They are strange. We don't get them coming in
very often. This is not the kind of place for an
abject Satanist. But when they do come in, you
can spot them a mile off."
"You would be surprised who comes in here.
Sometimes we get witches walking in - they are
just normal women who really dress the part.
Other times we get Fundamental Christians
protesting on our doorstep," he sighs. Nothing in
the shop is anti-Christian. He goes to great
lengths to explain that all world religions are
catered for.
Witches and satanists are not the only cus-
tomers. Indeed, I saw no black cloaked strangers
staring disconcertingly at all. I asked him what
the usual people who shop at Mysteries are like.
"We get all sorts, though there is definitely a
bias towards female customers; about 70 percent
are female, I would say."
Since it was now approaching lunch time the
shop was filling up with power dressed women
and city men in grey suits. Most of them were
perusing books on psychology, mainly stress
management and relationship improvement.
These books are largely American and focus on
down to Earth self-improvement programmes.
"Californian hippy stuff," Simon disdainfully
calls them, looking at the throng.
"New Age thinking has always been
around," he explained. "But, thanks to the sixties
and an even more recent revival, it has come to
the fore."
Mysteries was founded in 1982, largely for
no other reason than a gap in the market existed.
Since then, there have been many other
occultists who have set up shop in the West End.
Despite this and the recession, Simon declares
that sales have not dropped dramatically. It
appears that New Age-ism is here to stay.
It is, perhaps, unsurprising that London has
such a large magical industry since its history is
full of ancient religions and secret sects. Many
churches and other religious buildings are built
on the sites of pagan temples. Few Londoners
know that Westminster Abbey is constructed on
the remains of a Druidic college or that St Paul's
is built on an ancient Roman temple dedicated to
Jupiter. Ley-lines, the supposed invisible lines of
force joining sacred sites, traverse the city by the
dozen making London one of the biggest junc-
tions in the world.
"London has got a fairly good occult and
pagan scene with a reasonable number of discus-
sion groups," Simon told me. A few yards away,
in Neal's Yard, an office advertises all sorts of
events from hypnotism weekends in Inverness to
Tarot workshops in Acton Town.
The most popular books on sale are about
astrology and Tarot reading. Mysteries has
seized upon this public interest and offers a per-
sonal divination service. The Tarot reading ser-
vice is performed by Simon himself. "I would
not like to comment on the accuracy of my for-
tune telling," he said. However, he did tell me of
his last attempt. "I suddenly said to the customer
that they had spent the last six months in the
African Jungle. It actually turned out be the
Indian Jungle but they were still impressed."
Spooky. Is he frightened by such unusual
things? "No. I have never been frightened by
anything which people would call supernatural."
"Magic is all around us," he says with a
smile. "I shocked a friend when I told her that
we all perform ritual magic now and then.
Before we go out for a night 'on the pull' we
often have a scented bath, put on our best clothes
and maybe take a lucky charm. This is no differ-
ent from the love rituals performed by pagans
thousands of years ago."
I smiled that people still believed such super-
stition. Then, after buying my Sandalwood bath
salts, rose incense and love talisman, I headed
homewards.
A series on solving cryptic crosswords starts on the back page

