Feature
Goodwill in the Season of Greed
You've probablyforgotten Christmas now...too muchfood, telly and too man
superfluous presents are hardly the stuff of memories. But volunteering for
homeless helpers Crisis gave Shaun Joynson a yuletide to recall with pride.
When Jesus fed the five thousand, he got by on
five loaves and a few fish. When, some 2,000
years later, the Crisis team tried the same trick
with a smaller number of London's homeless
gathered to celebrate his birthday, the logistics
were a little more involved.
For an idea of the scale of the operation -
feeding, clothing and sheltering London's home-
less for seven days, start by working out what
one person needs for a single day's comfort dur-
ing the festive season. Next, multiply that by
seven and then by a couple of thousand. Just
thinking about the sheer size of the task would
be enough to ulcerate the stomach of even the
most experienced Trust House Forte executive.
Crisis manage the task with 'Volunteers',
people who, in the season of goodwill, give the
most important gift of all: their time. Three years
ago, thoughts about the real nature of Christmas
prompted me to become one such Volunteer.
Nowadays, I could not think of spending
Christmas any other way.
Crisis at Christmas started in 1986 when an
important gap in the Christmas market was spot-
ted. Throughout the year the needy and the lone-
ly were helped by a multitude of charities. But
then, come Christmas, these charities closed,
casting hundreds overboard from the ship of
merriment into the cold sea of London's streets.
The strongest might manage to tread water, the
weakest drowned.
Crisis began with a food run. Three years
later, it opened its first Christmas shelter, gradu-
ally expanding to provide food, clothing and
shelter for up to a thousand people a day during
the Christmas period.
The 'Open Christmas' has grown each year.
Some tub-thumping politicians may blame this
on Government policies, but it is probably more
likely that homelessness has always existed on
this scale, but only now
is it being realised. Crisis
operates all the year
round now, so the ' A t
Christmas' bit of the
charity's name was
dropped a couple of
years ago.
During the 1993
'Open Christmas' (so-
called because all in need, not just the homeless
are welcome), the Times ran a feature comparing
the Christmas of guests at the Lanesborough,
London's most exclusive hotel with the guests at
the Crisis centre, another exclusive but not near-
ly as expensive hotel in South East London.
I reckon that the guests at Crisis probably got
the better deal. The Lanesborough guests might
have walked in wearing expensive clothing, but
Companionship is
the best thing a
volunteer can offer
a Crisis guest
when many of the Crisis guests who'd visited
the clothing store left, they were able to
favourably compare their clothes with those
owned by the Rolls Royce driver. And, should
any Londoner wonder why people sleeping in
doorways are wearing expensive hiking boots,
Gucci Loafers or Church's brogues, it's because
as a former cobbler, I got great satisfaction from
ensuring they got them while working on the
Crisis footwear operation.
The first thing a Crisis Volunteer learns is
that those people, whom
Sir George Young might
step over coming out of
the opera, are humans
with interesting stories to
tell. Those who want to
talk will and those who
don't won't. Simple as
that. One's psychic sense
is quickly honed in such
circumstances, with the extra sensory antenna
soon letting you know who you can chat to, and
who'll give you a mouthful of abuse or a right-
hander if you so much as look at them.
I find the olde-worlde charm bit works best.
The guest seeking information is greeted with a
smile and a polite 'yes sir or madam'. And if one
promises to do something for them, one has to
stick to it, come hell or high water. It's no good
being all goody-goody and adopting compas-
sionate poses with the guests because they can
spot patronisation faster than they can spot a
copper when they're out begging.
As our shift leaders always say, companion-
ship is the best thing a volunteer can offer a
Crisis guest. For fifty one weeks of the year
they're out in all weathers, ignored, sneered at -
even hated by some. So the chance of a good
natter with a friendly face is looked forward to
by some guests even more keenly than the lash-
ings of hot food on offer.
Those 'good natters' reveal some interesting
and sometimes harrowing secrets. However,
though such revelations might make good read-
ing, one has to remember that one has been
adopted as a friend by someone usually friend-
less and so I always ensure that things I'm told
by guests remain confidential.
I found myself worrying about the guests
after my first shifts. Even now, the biggest diffi-
culty I have is getting to sleep after a duty. One
experiences a sort of buzz. Energy flows at a
rapid rate around one's body, so much so that
after that first duty ended around midnight, I
marched from the Crisis site in South East
London back to my home in Ealing, some fifteen
miles and four hours away. When the buzzing
stops, the switch between hyper-consciousness
and oblivion is instantaneous. One sleeps round
Fancy being President for a year? Find out how on page 20

