Feature 7
the clock until it's time to start again.
That's the down side of being a Crisis
Volunteer. The up side is much greater, far
longer lasting and often wrapped in some very
humourous situations. One night, I was on the
gate greeting the incoming guests. The rules of
the Open Christmas are simple: no drink, no
drugs, no weapons and no
pets are to be brought
onto the site. The vast
majority of guests stick to
these rules. Because a
very tiny minority don't,
the gatekeepers have to
frisk visitors which, for
diplomatic reasons, is
best done by women.
One night, we turned a
bottle of scotch out of
one guy's pockets and a lively discussion ensued
in which we had to tell the unfortunate fellow
that he couldn't bring it inside with him.
Worried that it would be swiped if he hid it
outside, he asked us to mind it. We couldn't.
Volunteers can't look after guest's possessions,
because they're regularly moved between jobs,
so a temporary stalemate was reached - until the
guest sorted the problem out for us.
Realising that he could not get in with the
scotch ON him, but that he could with it IN him,
he promptly unscrewed the cap and sank the lot
in one go! As soon as the last drop had slid
down his throat, he tottered through the gate in
triumph, leaving me holding the empty bottle!
Then, there was the guest who was last to
leave on the final day. This was a 'shouter', a
harmless old soul who barked unintelligible
abuse at any Volunteer who went near him.
'Shouters' are rarely violent, but kid gloves and
a bit of inspiration are needed to deal with them.
Enter Ted, a great, bearded bear of a Volunteer
and a fine actor. "Don't look at him, just leave
him to me," he told the knot of Volunteers who
were gathering around.
Approaching the man, he got the same abuse
as all the rest. So, adopting the same crouched
pose as the man, he simply mirrored his gestures
and shouted abuse back at him. It worked a treat.
Within a few minutes, Volunteer and Guest hob-
bled out the door, each trying to out-eff and out-
blind the other!
A nigh club bouncer could learn much from
the way that Crisis staff handle the occasional
punch-ups, which, it must be stressed, are no
more frequent than those that might take place in
any other 24-hour club with several hundred
customers. Brawn counts for little when dealing
with a fight that might be taking place between a
drunk oblivious to pain and a mental patient
who's inner turmoil keeps him fighting long
after a sane person would stop. In those circum-
stances, brain power wins every time.
If one cannot talk about the guests' problems,
what about their personalities? The media and
the pundits may have their own views on the
subject, but the best general description I've ever
heard came from a guest during the wee small
hours of a night shift. He was a true 'knight of
the road' who admitted that, after twenty years
of living out of a gunnysack as a merchant
'Care in the
Community' is proof
that this government
really does have a
sense ofhumour
sailor, he could not live in a home, even if he
was offered Buckingham Palace.
There were, he surmised, three types of
Crisis guest. The first was the 'temporarily
down on their luck' ones. My first year at Crisis
coincided with the recession beginning to bite in
the building game and a good number of guests
were chippies, sparkies
and brickies - highly
skilled craftsmen, who'd
enjoyed past good times
but were now suffering.
The next type were
ones like himself: drifters
and wanderers, those with
an ingrained urge to keep
moving. In many respects
the drifters are the most
interesting of the lot.
They tell some wonderfully funny stories about
the people who have given them lifts over the
years and have in their heads a knowledge of
Britain's road network
too vast to ever put onto
a computer.
The final type are the
saddest of all: the alco-
holics, drug addicts and
the mentally ill. The drug
addicts and drinkers can
only be helped when they decide to help them-
selves. The mentally ill though are a different
story.
They have fallen through the gossamer thin
net that the government insultingly calls 'Care In
The Community'. I once used to work for a top
Tory and my political sympathies still lie vague-
ly in that direction. That said, while working at
Crisis I've seen enough to realise that 'Care in
the Community' is proof positive that this gov-
ernment really does have a sense of humour.
Actually, it's not a very funny policy, it's simply
There were, he
surmised, three types
of Crisis guest...
a ridiculous one. It does not work at all and
needs to be reversed el pronto.
If that sums up the guests, what sums up the
volunteers? Is it their occupations? Not really,
for one could stop a hundred people at random
in Oxford Street and find the same job descrip-
tions among a Similar number of Crisis
Volunteers. Is it their religion? No again,
because for everyone who thinks they're there
doing God's work, there is another who does not
give a damn for faith of any kind. They all do it
for different reasons which, for the most part,
they prefer to keep to themselves.
When I get back to work, the inevitable sto-
ries about the Christmases of my workmates will
start doing the rounds. No doubt people will ask
me what I did in my holiday. It will be easy to
tell them but difficult to explain the emotions
behind it. This year, as my last shift came to an
end, I was standing in the middle of the hall,
recalling the time two Christmases ago, when I'd
stood in the place spot and heard the strains of a
guitar coming from a cor-
ner of the hall.
Moving closer, I lis-
tened for a while to the
sound of Ralph McTell's
song, 'The Streets of
London', being sung by
the very people it was
about. Coming back to the present, I paused long
enough to give a belated Christmas gift of a
woolly hat I'd worn all week to the fourteen
year-old homeless girl with enough personality
to fill a tower block. She'd set her heart on it.
Then I left, hoping that the sticking plasters I'd
managed to apply to the wounded souls of some
of the people I'd met this year would stay intact
long enough to do some good.
Our thanks to Deborah Pack at Crisis for the
provision of the photographs.
Photo: Andrew Johnston
Witches, satanists, yuppies - Mysteries sees them all on page 5

