Clubs and Societies
Sex and
Explosions
It's Monday night, it's David Bowie night. This
week ICSF presents two videos projected for
your further enjoyment in Chem Eng LT1. At
6pm, The Hunger, adapted from Whitley
Streiber's novel of decaying vampires but prob-
ably more renowned for its bloodletting lesbian
sex scenes (blatant advertising ploy, anyone?).
At 8pm we present Nicholas Roeg's multi-
faceted The Man Who Fell To Earth, another
book adaptation. Bowie stars this time as an
alien come to Earth bearing great scientific
knowledge in an attempt to save his dying
planet. ET this certainly isn't as he is discovered
by the government, indulges in surreal and
totally gratuitous sex with a woman he met in a
lift and slowly degenerates into a drunken alien
sot.
Both films are free to I C S F members.
Membership costs just £3 and gets you free
entry to our video projected double bills, the
chance to borrow over 3,000 books, videos and
graphic novels from our library in the corner of
Beit Quad and reduced entry to our 35mm pre-
sentations including your first film free.
On Tuesday at 7pm in the Concert Hall, we
have the explosive SF action comedy
Demolition Man. Tough cop Sylvester Stallone
is in the 21st century, thawed out from a cryo-
genic sleep sentence (for a crime he did not
commit) to combat a psychotic criminal who
was also frozen in 1996. Stallone's character has
to deal with a rampaging Wesley Snipes with a
silly haircut, aswell as contending with the new
morals of 2036 society: no swearing, no smok-
ing, no sex and everyone humming 'classic'
advertising jingles. Nigel Hawthorne (of all peo-
ple) also stars as the benevolent dictator of 'San
Angeles'. Into a world where violence has been
eradicated come some very big explosions,
bringing with them a sense of irony more finely
developed than in most Joel Silver productions.
Things start exploding in the Concert Hall (sec-
ond floor, Union Building) at 7pm.
Admission is £1.50 to ICSF members and £2
to non-members. Membership costs just £3
(details above) and includes your first fdm free.
Ban On Chewing Gum
Chicago of the 1920s was not a nice place to be
with gangsters and sudden death just around the
corner. Chicago, the musical, has all of this plus
a little bit more.
Chicago starts with Roxie Hart murdering
her one night stand as he tries to walk out on
her. She is then arrested after attempting to
frame her husband and is kept in jail to await her
trial. One of her fellow prisoners is Velma Kelly
who is also waiting for her day in court where
she will be charged with the murder of her hus-
band and sister.
Both women are being defended by Billy
Flynn, a lawyer of dubious reputation, who has
never failed to get an acquittal for any of his
women clients if given five thousand dollars. He
does this by manipulating the media and then the
jury.
In agreeing to represent Roxie he is forced to
push Velma, currently Queen of the Chicago
headlines off the front page. The battle for the
front page and freedom has started.
Chicago is an amateur production but per-
fi IMJ 8.BIMIMF IUT PIHI III
formed in part with the slickness of a profession-
al show. The set is very creative and used very
effectively. The on-stage band, which has a very
strong jazz sound to match the era, performs
admirably. A l l the musical leads are excellent,
especially Kirsty Bennett as Roxie Hart and
Marlaine Anfelides as Velma Kelly. However,
the big dance scenes are occasionally hampered
by a lack of space.
A l l in all, an excellent, enjoyable and, in
places, funny show.
Review by Steven Newhouse
There are only two
days left to see Chicago.
It is showing tonight and tomorrow in
the Great Hall. Doors open 7pm.
Tickets are £6 (cones £4) from the
Imperial College Union Office.
No, there is not going to be any ban on chewing
gum here and neither is there any proposal for
such a move. The ban has, however, been put
into force in Singapore. Surprise, surprise! But
whereabouts is of this place called Singapore. Is
it in China? No, though it's closer to China than
it is to London. Singapore is just north of the
Equator, at the southern tip of the Peninsular
Malaysia. Being a tropical island country, it is a
much warmer and sunnier place than London.
Little is known of the early history of
Singapore. According to the colourful and vivid
Sejarah Melayu 'Malay Annals', Singapore was
supposedly discovered by a Malay ruler, Sir Tri
Buana in the 13th Century. Caught in the storm
at sea one day, he was forced to land on the
island to seek refuge. On sighting an animal
which he mistook for a lion, he decided to estab-
lish a settlement there which he aptly named
Singapura ("The Lion City').
Modern Singapore was founded in 1819 by
Sir Stamford Raffles, a Britain. Singapore
became part of a British settlement and then a
Crown Colony. It gained independence in 1965
and it was on its way to establishing itself in the
international scene. (Are you still thinking about
the chewing gum ban? It made headlines in the
German papers.) Changi International Airport,
voted best airport in the world, is a result of
meticulous planning and hard work. The pace of
economic growth refuted doubts from the inter-
national community about the survival of a small
country devoid of natural resources.
A cosmopolitan country, Singapore surprises
many with the harmony between its various eth-
nic groups. While maintaining their own unique
cultures amongst Western technology, the har-
mony has created a melting pot that merits the
remark that it is a place 'where the East truly
meets the west'.
Find out more about Singapore at the exhibi-
tion 'Swing Singapore'. It will be held in the
Great Hall, Sherfield Building, from 9am to 5pm
on 2nd February. See you there!
See Demolition Man for only £2 on Tuesday in the Concert Hall

