g Student Services...
% Who, What and Why!
The Student Services Office can be found tucked away
between Weeks and Garden Hall at 15 Princes Gardens,
across the park from Southside. The Office is divided into
two sections, the Welfare Centre and the Residence
Office, which overlap and work as one team. Don
Ferguson, the recently appointed Student Services Officer,
manages both sections. Don's main job is to co-ordinate
the administration of the Student residences; he is also
available to deal with any student problems.
The Welfare Adviser, Lesley Gillingham, is based on the
ground floor. Lesley can advise on any practical problems
you may experience whilst at College to do with your
grant, state benefits or how to find a local dentist. She can
also help you find accommodation in the private sector or
tell you if there is a vacancy in college accommodation.
The Welfare Centre also stocks a wide range of leaflets
and is a reference centre for all sorts of information.
The Residence Office, on the first floor, deals with all
aspects of college accommodation. This includes room
allocation for Halls, Houses and Head Tenancies. If you
were wondering where your college accommodation bills
came from, the person responsible for issuing them is
Dave Parry, the Finance Assistant. The Senior Residence
Assistant, Ma Tsang and the Residence Assistant, Julie
Burke are also on hand to help you with any enquiries to
do with college accommodation.
The Student Services Office has one principle aim, to be
able to help you. Even if you haven't got a problem, call
in, pick up a leaflet and say 'hello'.
Home Office visit Imperial
College...
(Why spend a day in Croydon
renewing your visa, when it can
be done in 15 minutes at Imperial
College)
Any Overseas Student whose 'leave to
stay' in Britain expires before the 31
October need not travel to Croydon this
year for a renewal.
The Home Office and the Student
Services Office have agreed a scheme
whereby Home Office staff will spend two
days at Imperial College renewing visas.
All students who need extensions (and
their dependants) should call into the
Student Services Office and register their
details before 18 October. Lesley
Gillingham, the Welfare Adviser, will then
arrange a time for an interview with the
Home Office officials to renew visas.
T H E N O R F O L K
A V E N G E R S A Y S
...REAL ALE IN
THE TAVERN...
HI CITIZENS, THIS
IS YOUR GREEN
CROSS CODE IF
YOU DON'T CHECK
THIS PLACE OUT,
I'M GONNA GO
GREEN, AND I'M
GONNA GET CROSS
Monday 30 September F E L I X

