Fresher's Week is the ultimate test of initiative and stamina. The
Carousel of parties, rag-stunts shopping, cooking and lectures
never seems to stop—it just carries on spinning until its
occupants fall off, tired, dizzy and usually just a little hung-over.
Fresher's Week is a traumatic experience for the newcomers, an
ego trip fo those who have seen it all, done it all and managed
to pass their exams afterwards.
6
F R E S H E R S ' V E E K IS T H E U L T I M A T E
T E S T OF INITIATIVE & STAMINA
Monday begins with the Rector's Reception, an event to which
everyone goes and then spends the remainder of their time at
College wondering why they bothered. As practise for things to
come, queues form outside the Great Hall from 9.30pm. This
year provides the super-novelty of a new Rector and hence an
amended speech from the stalwart of the past ten receptions.
The Union sabbaticals always manage to say a few things
wrong, usually to the embarrassment of audience and speaker
alike.
The remainder of Monday morning is spent trying to register
and obtain a Union card. Those in the know will have done it
already or will wait until Tuesday. Large queues from in the
JCR, with the student television station STOIC providing
irritating commercials; the incentive being that one can only
obtain a grant after obtaining a union card or registration slip.
All this excitement is mixed with a visit to the department at
sometime during the day. The odd face will be familiar from the
interview. After sampling a College lunch for the first and
probably last time, you are expected to divide along tribal lines
and to go to your CCU's (Crackpots, C**ts and Unwashed)
UGM. It is here that you will learn to worship lumps of metal,
chant mindless drivel and, if you are really mentally deficient
enjoy it. Most do not and hence don't get involved in any
subsequent C C U activities.
IF YOU HAVEN'T F b u N D S o M E O f V g T O <
S
O
\ro THE N E W YEAT^ PAINTY WITH
THEV ecu off YoW{ BACKSIDE..."
The evening finally arrives. Hopefully, we now know someone
well enough to troll along to the New Year's Party with them. If
you have't then get off your backside. It is usually fairly dark at
ENTS gigs, so you do not notice the lack of women as easily.
Tuesday morning comes about four hours too early but if you
are lucky then you'll remember where you are; if you are
exceptionally lucky it will be in someone else's room. The
morning is spent in a series of boring tours of departments—all
designed to get you into the true College routine. Livelier things
await in the afternoon at Fresher's Fair. All the Union Societies
try to impress you into joining but they cannot take any money
off you on-the-spot, so just sign up for anything that takes your
fancy-there is nothing to lose however your pigeonhole will
up pretty quickly.

