(4)
Items to be insured against 'All Risks'; continue on separate paper if necessary.
N.B. - Max. under this Section is £l,500;max. one item £500, if over consult the Brokers.
- Describe jewellery etc. clearly. Give maker's name of HI-FI, CAMERAS etc.
' - Main exclusions: theft from unattended vehicles; damage to sports equipment whilst in use; contact lenses;
- spectacles; records & tapes; the first £15 or £25 of any claim as detailed in (a) on page 2.
ITEM ESTIMATED VALUE
(Now calculate the premium £ 4 per £200 or part, and enter at II.2 on
T O T A L V A L U E £
Please indicate (for our Records purposes) which of the following categories account for 20% or more of
your total insured value - i.e. including items you have specified separately.
Ohi-fi/cassettes/records O musical instruments C
] photographic
DECLARATION - (to be signed by every applicant for this insurance)
I declare that the statements made in my application are to the best of my knowledge and belief correct and
complete, and I agree that this proposal shall form the basis of the contract between me and the insurer and I
will accept and abide by the terms of the policy to be issued. For a major part of the 12 months to be covered
by this insurance I expect to be a student and
in the year of a - year course at College/Hospital
School/University
Date: Signed:
Please send me further copies of this leaflet, to give to my friends.
and for useful free information, choose from these boxes:
A. Travel Insurance (Medical Expenses etc.) for weeks starting in
(month) in (countries):
B. Motor Insurance (vehicle) value as from
(renewal date) Present no-claims bonus: %
C. P R E P A R I N G F O R H O M E O W N E R S H I P , if you wish to start a regular
savings scheme for this or any other purpose (or a life policy for Family
Protection etc.) tick our box to have FREE ADVICE, before committing
yourself. HARRISON'S Student Advisory Service has been in operation
for 30 years.
(by post-nobody will call unless you invite them).
D tick here only if you object to receiving details of any further concession schemes.
Printed by: Evenlode Press Ltd, Tel Witney 74595.

