Railway Dispute
Due to the RaiIwaymens' dispute,
a number of students have been unable to
get in and out of college. If you live very
far away and are having difficulty, Crash
Pad is open for anyone who wants to use it.
Please see Malcolm in the Union Office as
soon as possible to give us some idea of the
number of people likely to be involved.
We would also be very grateful if any-
one living out of London who commutes by
car who would be willing to give anyone liv-
ing nearby a lift during the dispute would
tell Annie in the Union Office. Int: 2232.
Crash Pad Open
Page 11
Your Rights as a Licencee, Tenant etc.
Now that you have found somewhere to l i v e , you may occasion-
ally wonder what your chances are of staying there i f your landlord
takes a sudden d i s l i k e to you. ( a n he just put your belongings out
into the street and change the l o c k s , or is there more to it than that?
Parliament, through a series of Rent and other A c t s , has evolved
a system of protection which varies in strength with the kind of a c c -
ommodation that you occupy, but unfortunately it i s often difficult
to decide which particular category you fall into.
The two main categories of accommodation for this purpose are
licences which can be terminated with very little notice after which
you have no protection at a l l , and tenancies where there are varying
degrees of protection.
L i c e n c e s include rooms in hotels and hostels, genuine bed and
breakfast arrangements and places where the landlord or his agents
have free access, without reference to you, to a l l parts of the
accommodation that you occupy. If you are given an agreement
which c a l l s itself a licence, this does not necessarily make you a
licencee but if the arrangement of the accommodation i s such that
you don't have a room to yourself, and the agreement contains a
clause to the effect that the landlord has the right to move one of
you out and move in a replacement and if each sharer signs a sep-
arate agreement, then i t i s quite possible that this would make you
a licencee. Rooms in a h a l l of residence are also usually l i c e n c e s .
When a licence is terminated, you become, in effect, a squatter.
T h i s means that although the landlord cannot use force to evict
you, there is nothing to stop him changing the locks while you are
out.
A l l other types of accommodation count as tenancies which means
that your landlord can't get rid of you without a possession order
from the courts. In addition you are entitled to adequate notice of
the landlord's intention to rescind his arrangement with you, so,
except in the case of a tenancy for a fixed period, the landlord must
give 28 days notice in writing before he can even start applying for
a possession order. Any other attempt by the landlord to exclude or
harrass you constitutes a criminal offence for which he can be pro-<
secuted by the local council.
So, what are the chances of the court granting a possession order
to a landlord who has given you a valid notice to quit?
There are a number of cases where the court will almost certainly
give an order. These include tenancies of places which used to be
the landlord's residence and he wants to live there again or wants
it for members of his family who used to live there or if he bought
the house as a retirement home and now wants to retire there. In
both cases the landlord i s meant to notify you of any such intention
at the beginning of the tenancy, in writing, but the court can d i s -
pense with this requirement. Other cases are where you signed an
agreement to stay for a period "of less than eight months in an out
of season holiday letting or if the letting is for the purpose of a
holiday (though you might sometimes be able to argue that it was
clearly not let for any such purpose). The same applies to student
lettings where the landlord i s the college or university; places with
a very high rateable value or extremely low rent and council and
housing association owned property. Another example of this is
where the landlord offers you suitable alternative accommodation.
If you are a tenant and your landlord lives in the same building
(so long as the place i s not a purpose built block of flats) the court
w i l l grant a possession order unless you apply to the rent tribunal
before the expiry of the notice period. T o find out how to do this
contact the welfare centre or the housing department at your town
h a l l . The Rent Tribunal can grant you an extension of up to six
months. A t the end of that period you can reapply but once the
tribunal protection is exhausted a possession order w i l l be granted.
There are a number of cases in which a court might graut an order
depending on a l l the circumstances - usually where you are in breadi
in your tenant's obligations. F o r example, if you fail to pay rent,
break a condition in the lease, damage the furniture, sublet or a s -
sign without your landlord's permission, allow the place to be used
for i l l e g a l purposes or if you annoy the neighbours by making too
much noice or some other anti-social act. Other instances are where
you have given notice that you intend to leave to the landlord and
then changed your mind, if as a result of your not leaving the land-
lord would lose out and where the landlord (who didn't live there be-
fore) wants the place for himself or for a member of his family.
In this case, however, an order will only be granted if the court
thinks that greater hardship would be suffered by the landlord if you
were allowed to stay than would be suffered by you if you had to
look elsewhere.
In most other cases than those outlined above you would have
security of tenuie for as long as you wanted to stay there so long
as you fulfill your obligations. Owing to the complexity of this
subject, the above can only be a rough guide and if you are threa-
tened with eviction you should seek advice at the Welfare Centre
with reference to your particular circumstances.
Michael Arthur
Welfare Adviser

