Page 6
The Brain
Drain
Hope you a l l had as good a Christmas as I did, it was nice to
escape back up to Newcastle for a while. T h i s was the location of
one of the years' major social events, the Newcastle Rjb C r a w l ,
which w a s attended by 25 people desprte s i x days' heavy rain, snow
imminent, and flood warnings in the area. Mark Corrigan and myself
each had a pir,tof Scotch (Scottish and Newcastle Breweries best
bitter, " S c o t c h " to the natives) as promised, and followed them
with many more. The Pub Crawl only managed two stops due to
heavy rain, but it was a worthwhile outing which I hope will become
an annual event.
Lower Lounge
Has now been redecorated, my apologies to anyone who wanted to
use it during the holidays. Unfortunately, it will have to be closed
again for a while at Easter when a carpet i s fitted. I need hardly
remind people that anyone making any mess on the w a l l s after all
the work that's been done w i l l find themselves in front of D i s c i p l i n e
Committee with me in the Chair, breathing fire!
Whilst in Newcastle I saw an electronic amusement machine c a l l -
ed " B r e a k o u t " , which I couldn't beat (despite many attempts) and
got rather annoyed at. I hope to have one installed in the Lounge
next week.
Crash P a d
Is open again (as if it really ever closed) due to some people
being thrown out of their flat. My apologies for any inconvenience
caused to people using the ICWA lounge for meetings etc., but
I feel that this i s an important and widely appreciated service.
Piscatorial Society
T h i s was set up last year by a few people who for various
reasons (exam failures, involvement with the Union and other s o c i -
eties) have not been able to keep it running this year. There's
plenty of support in College for a fishing club, and the possibility
of having matches with other London colleges, so if you would like
to help come and see me in the Union Office any lunchtime, or
Malcolm Clarke ( R . C . C . Chairman).
Incidentally, if you have any interests which are not covered by
a Union Society and which you think should be, set up a society
yourself (which will be financed by the Union). It's really not dif-
ficult, if you want to know how to do it come and see me in the
Union Office sometime.
Noise
I've been getting more complaints about noise in the Union
building again, both from residents in Beit and beside the Albert
H a l l . I'm looking into the possibility of having the Concert Hall and
Senior Common Room soundproofed, but meanwhile please keep the
noise down during parties and when leaving the building, especially
after midnight.
Malcolm Brain
ICU Deputy President
R E M I N D E R
All money outstanding
from the Pram Race
last term, has to be
in to Muscular
Dystrophy by 16th Feb
at the VERY latest.
MATHS GARDEN
GNOME PARTY
FRIDAY JAN 19th JCR
8pm till LATE
TICKETS 40p
Disco • Bar - Free Food • Prize
for best Garden Gnome costume
CHEM ENG SOC
35th ANNUAL DINNER
on February 16th
Tickets price £4 Students
£5 Staff from
D. O'Connell, C h e m E n g 3
The return of
Mel Kinkie
j don't know if my article is going to be illustrated this week or
not - I'm not sure if having the face of '79 is worth two consecut-
ive illustrated articles. Last week's photo was dishonestly obtain-
ed - I've got much more interesting photos than that which might
be worth printing.
Now onto the interesting stuff.
Sports Centre
If you have played squash this term you will have noticed that
when you book a court you have to pay in advance. T h i s has been
made necessary by people persistently booking courts and then just
not turning u p - m e a n i n g the sports centre loses money because
somebody else could have booked it; and this has reached such an
extent that this move has had to be made. A l s o if you do cancel
there is no refund - a l l you can do is find somebody t o play your
time and then pay you the 20p. So next time you book to play
squash, be ready with the readies, if you see what I mean.
V.M.
As Gary Warren, the Mineral Resources Engineering Dep. R e p .
has resigned, I have to elect a new one for the rest of this session .
The papers went up on Monday and will remain up for another week.
I'm hoping to have the hustings on Tuesday 30th January somewhere
in Mines and the election on Monday 5th Feb., which is by ballot
box. So if you're in M i n . R e s . E n g . then think about standing for Dep.
Rep. - also remember the Dep. Rep. elections for next year are also
nigh, with papers going up on 5th February.
Club Insurance
At the moment I'm chasing up a l l clubs as to what insurance they'
ve got, so there is some central record of it - I've sent out letters
to a l l you club captains/chairmen and if you haven't replied to my
letter yet, then pull your finger out and do it, for i t ' s most impor-
tant.
UGM
Your big chance to exercise your democratic right comes on
Tuesday with a UGM at 1pm in the Great H a l l ; and is packed with
such goodies as the election of a chairperson and a motion on
student housing and the possibility of naked bodies writhing on the
floor is an eternal ecstasy; although the latter isn't confirmed yet.
Well that about wraps it up for this week, so I hope to see a l l you
people at the U G M ; stay c o o l ,
Mel Kinkie (anag.)
E . C . Cushion (anag.)

