Page 10
A S T A T E M E N T
by Professor S. Eilon,
Chairman of the Refectory Committee
The boycott of the Southside Refectory on February 8th was
called for the purpose of expressing students' dissatisfaction
with the quality of food and services. I very m u c h regret that
the U G M found it necessary to take such action, since blanket
disapproval of a service is singularly unhelpful, and it is only
through constructive criticism and positive suggestions that
improvement in quality can be made.
D u r i n g the last two months, the President of the U n i o n was asked on
five separate occasions to compile a list of complaints and suggestions
and to discuss them with the Domestic Secretary and the Refectory
Manager. W h e n the list was eventually submitted, it consisted of brief
surveys carried out by students of the three union refectories. Some of
the information in these surveys is undoubtably useful and is being now
considered; some of the suggestions are inevitably contradictory, and it
is noteworthy that not all the comments are critical; it would certainly
be erroneous to conclude from the surveys that the majority of the
refectory customers are dissatisfied.
But the point that I must make is that these surveys were sent to the
Domestic Secretary three or four days before the boycott took place,
and obviously after it was announced. H o w can the boycott possibly be
justified when we had no opportunity to study the list of complaints, to
discuss them, and to take action where- appropriate?
In a leaflet distributed by pickets on February 8th, appealing to
students who even like the food at Southside to support the boycott, a
list was given of eleven alternative restaurants " o f comparable prices"
in the vicinity of the College. O n what evidence was such a statement
made? If the President of the U n i o n conducted a survey of prices at
these establishments, why did she not submit the evidence to me or to
the Domestic Secretary? I have grave doubts whether it can be shown
that prices at these places compare favourably with ours for the same
type of food. But if anyone has information to the contrary, I would like
to have it, and I would certainly investigate the matter.
So, what has the boycott achieved? First, it had a detrimental effect
on the takings in the refectory, and in this respect the adverse publicity
and the sustained unwarranted attacks on the refectory are possibly
more damaging than the one-day boycott. The result is that the
financial position of the refectory account is being undermined, and
since the account is not allowed to be run at a deficit, the burden in the
long run will fall on the customers.
Secondly, the boycott has dealt a severe and unjustifiable blow to the
morale of the refectory staff. Although attempts were made to explain
that the boycott was not aimed at Southside staff, they - and indeed the
refectory staff as a whole - inevitably regard this action as a criticism of
their work, particularly as the publicity campaign waged at the U G M
and elsewhere has specifically centred on the quality of food, on its
preparation and on the standard of service. This demoralising effect is
most unfortunate, since I can vouch for the fact that the refectory staff at
all levels have been sincere in striving to provide as good a service as
possible. If they perceive that their efforts are not in the least
appreciated, it would not be surprising if some become cynical and
apathetic.
Thirdly, I believe that the credibility of those who have waged this
campaign has been seriously tarnished. They appear to be motivated
by action rather than reason, with deplorable consequences.
I therefore appeal to all those who use the refectory facilities to show
good sense. The food and service are, of course, not perfect. Perfection
cannot be attained at mass-feeding outlets at popular prices, and
although some people expressed in surveys a willingness to pay more for
better quality, this will not suit the majority of refectory customers. I
believe that quality has greatly improved in recent years, but we are
certainly not complacent There is room for further improvement, and
we are constantly examining means for achieving it. The customers can
obviously make a contribution to this process by making their views and
suggestions known to us, but my plea is: be constructive. Vicious
criticism and blanket disapproval - as expressed in the recent campaign
- do nothing but damage.
THE MEANS TEST AND YOU
The ICU grants campaign is now under
way. In the next few weeks, informative, and
hopefully useful, articles will show the main
injustices and anomalies in the present
system and point out courses of action which
you as individuals and collectively can take to
rectify these.
The focus of action presently is the means
test. The large response to Michael Arthur's
articles on covenanting, and to the present
N U S campaign, are an indication of the
importance of the subject to both parents and
students. A Government survey in 1974/5
showed that 75% of students did not have
their award made up to the full amount by
their parents. There is no legal obligation for
parents to make up this amount. Especially
for London students, and in particular IC, life
JUSTA GIGOLO
I wonder why Marlene Dietrich (now 78
years old) chose this film for her first screen
appearance for 17 years? Apparently she
found David Bowie (who plays the 'hero') a
"very interesting star" - quite a fair comment
about someone who has renounced the rock-
star world and who now describes himself as
"a quiet chap who travels a lot"!
The film is set against the background of a
tortured yet decadent Berlin during the
period 1918- 1928andtracesthestruggleof a
young gentleman (David Bowie) who arrives
at the Great War just as it ends - too late for
him to perform with honour and is thus left
with no clear sense of purpose. Returning to
Berlin from France he discovers that his
family's elegant town apartment has been
turned into a seedy Boarding House; his
father has suffered a stroke upon hearing that
the war is lost and his mother (Maria Schell) is
working in undignified circumstances at the
nearby Turkish Baths. What hope can there
be for an officer trained for battle and heroism .
is expensive enough on a full grant, and
therefore even harder with less. Our parents
already pay for our education through
taxation, as we will for the next generation. So
why should they pay twice?
The parental means test applies to all
students, receiving mandatory awards from
their local authority, who have not been
financially self-supporting for the previous
three years. Since most students spend at
most one year in industry after leaving
school, the majority are subjected to the
means test. It seems strange that legal
minority lapses at the age of 18, with the
exception of students. It can not be right for
an adult to be compelled to depend on
financial support from his/her parents. The
decision is to pursue a further education
in a land of unemployment and inflation?
However, all is not lost for one whose
v u l n e r a b i l i t y m a k e s h i m d e s p e r a t e l y
attractive to women, and we see Kim Novak
introducing him to the kind of sophisticated
elegance that only an older woman can
provide, while an upper class prostitute
(Erika Pluhar) gently instructs him in the art
of flexibility and adaptation.
His old army captain (David Hemings)
persuades him that he must join the new
movement to the right - the path to a new
Germany - but to no avail.
By chance, while moping over the loss of
his childhood girl friend (Sydne Rome) he is
offered an opportunity to escort an elderly
woman, and almost without realising it, he
becomes just a gigolo, under the command of
Marlene Dietrich.
The film, directed by David Hemings, was
clearly intended to be a moving tragedy (with
a hint of comedy) about a confused and
uncertain young man desperately turning
about to find a direction in life, and unable to
conceive how others could adapt so well, so
course clearly should be the decision of the
individual alone with the guidance of parents
and teachers, and not dependent on parental
approval and finance.
In recent years, grants campaigns and
demonstrations have lost direction, losing
the support of the students and the impact on
the P r e s s a n d e d u c a t i o n authorities.
Cynicism and apathy have left activists going
on marches which degenerate into '-'days-
out" in London, with the majority seeing the
whole issue as a pointless exercise. This year
special attempts are being made to show the
relevance of the campaign to all students,
culminating in a demonstration in London on
March 9th. As Mary has said, an IC float is
being arranged; anyone interested should
contact Tim Hillyer (Maths 2) or Sheyne
Lucock in the Union Office.
Tim Hillyer
External Affairs Committee
quickly. By taking the line of least resistance,
he is continually swept along subject to the
whims of others.
Bowie is undoubtedly well-cast and is
required to say little throughout the film
reminding us of his past involvement with the
art of mime. I couldn't help thinking, though,
that his speaking voice was just not quite
right- and it was therefore good that he didn't
have to say much.
However, like so many other films, this one
never quite made it. The impressive opening,
the stunning location shots (it was filmed
entirely in Berlin) and the moving theme
together with fine supporting actors, led one
to anticipate far more than the film was
capable of giving. It was like one long
appetising introduction to something that
didn't come. Suddenly, the film was over with
what was surely intended to be a climax - but
wasn't. As a result it left me with no positive
lasting impression - save one of acute
disappointment. The story was good, the
acting was good, the setting was good - but it
never got off the ground.
Sheyne Lucock

