REVIEWS!
Not many people know this but last month
Genesis played a low-key London concert for
the benefit of Spanish anarcists. Mr. Genesis
P. Orridge is a member of a wonderful little
group called Throbbing Gristle.
Recently the music press has printed much
intellectual rubbish about T.G. so here, if
you're interested, is what they are really like.
T.G. consist of Genesis on violin, bass,
vocals (?) and effects; Cosey Fanni Tutti on
guitar mutilation; Peter Christopherson
(sleazy) on tapes, electronics, radio and
digital clock; and Chris Carter on T.V. tapes
and electronics. Quite a selection and you
should hear them play them.
T.G. say they play 'Industrial music for
Industrial people' and this only takes place a
few times a year so every period of
industrialisation is different and eagerly
anticipated.
This particular exhibition took place in a
freezing deserted old school and started with
a film 'After Cease to Exist' for which T.G.
provided the eerie soundtrack. Its main
theme seemed to be castration and was a bit
different to say the least. Throughout, T.G.
had just sat on stage watching and chatting.
They then decided to start the demonstration
unannounced, Gen started the occasional
strumming, Cosey plucked the odd string,
still sitting down and wearing her coat. Chris
and Peter with their backs to everyone began
to play with the radio and T V . and the
electronic clock was started.
The first piece lasted a few minutes, then
there was another, then Genesis went to the
microphone for a while, I saw his lips move
and a sound came out of the speakers.
T.G.have released two albums and a hit
single. I don't think they played anything from
any of them, and if they had no-one would
have recognised it as everything was
deliberately low-fi with plenty of echo and
distortion.
Everything seemed pure inprovisation; no-
one clapped, T.G.would have been offended
if anyone had wanted to; no-one danced, the
odd poseur tried and failed. Mouths were
open, eyes just observed, occasionally a
muscle twitched as some random rhythm was
noted.
A few more pieces passed, a few more
vocals, even a disco track, then they'd
finished all they wanted to play and the clock
showed 57 minutes. But a normal rock
concert lasts one hour so the show must go
on. All implements were turned to full and
tortured to produce the most mind blowing
white noise ever experienced.
Then exactly one hour after they'd started
they stopped, again to raptuous non-
applause and apathy. A tape of Abba was
C O N C E R T S
p l a y e d over the P.A. a n d e v e r y o n e
instinctively headed for the door back to their
everyday mundane lives.
But wait! Genesis is at the mike again and
you can even hear what he's saying, "Some
people missed the film so if you want we'll
show It again." Thank-you T.G. but not today
please.
Throbbing Gristle are unique inovators and
infiltrators in rock and make everyone else at
work in the medium look obsolete. If you've
been to some concerts go to see T.G. for the
ultimate rock gig, let's just hope that fame
doesn't finish them.
I'm still not sure if I enjoyed the experience
yet. Maybe I'll find out before I die or maybe I
won't. That's all.
Peter S. Mash
(How about it Ents?)
Punishment of Luxury are a Newcastle
band formed in late 7 7 and have, already
acquired cult status in London, being almost
every music critic's darlings. One of the first
people who recognised their potential was
dear old John Peel himself who invited them
on his show when they were still non-entities.
(This is how I became acquainted with the
band-dashing out next day to catch them live
at the White Hart pub, Acton, where they gave
a devastating performance).
Punilux are: Brian Bond (vocals), Jimmy
G i r o ( b a s s ) . N e v i l L u x u r y ( g u i t a r )
MaLacabella (guitar) and Jeff Thwaite
(drums) and play powerful rock augmented
by a subtle but extremely effective use of
theatrics. Their live rendition of their single
"Puppet Life" is astonishing; no dry ice, no
lasers, no back projections, no lights - a bit of
choreography, mime & genuine emotion/or
calculated lack of it make up for the multi-
million dollar presentations of the "name
groups".
Punilux have recently signed with United
Artists and their first album is in the making-
world beware! Catch them in the intimate
atmosphere of IC's Concert Hall, next
Sunday, February 18th - in a few months you
might be queuing outside the Rainbow or the
Hammersmith Odeon to see them.
J . Malathronas
Ents Ass. Publicity Officer
"The Changeling" by Thomas Middleton
and at the Aldwych Theatre (Royal William
Rowley Shakespeare Company).
The play, written in 1622, is one of the
better known of its era. Even by modern
standards, it has all the right ingredients;
humour, tragedy, lust, revenge, murder and a
cataclysmic finish.
It is set in Alicante, and I assume the date is
supposed to be contemporary with respect to
the time of writing.
The matter of the play concerns the
changes in fortune experienced by certain
individuals in inversely parallel situations,
and the ultimate balance attained.
The production is impressive, with strange
lighting arrangements which change the
atmosphere from complacency to stark terror
in seconds, music (directed by Gordon
Kember) which is equally versatile, and a
p o w e r f u l s e n s e of v i s u a l m e t a p h o r
throughout which has become one of the
trademarks of the R.S.C. The stage has an
offworld look to it, and at times it seems as if
the play is set inside a glowing furnace,
particularly in the opening sequence, when
the players process along the stage, some
with masks, serving to give an impression of
cursed misery, one and all moving like
puppets, tied by the cutting threads of terrible
fate. Cheerful? The rest of the play is
completely overpowering, but with the
occasional break for humour to allow one a
gasp for breath, even then the humour has
sinister or ironic overtones.
The criticism which could well be raised
above all this is as to whether the play itself
merits such a stunning production. I believe
so, because the director (Terry Hands) has to
produce the play to its best advantage, and
M i d d l e t o n a n d R o w l e y , whilst b e i n g
exceptional a times, do not possess the wit,
continuity or consistency of Shakespeare. I
do not believe that a play is overproduced
unless it actually detracts from that which the
author has written, and in "The C h a n g l i n g "
the converse is true.
Diana Quick played the part of Beatrice, the
paragon of virtue who fell into wickedness
and vice. If actors and actresses really do
become the part they play when on stage, I'm
surprised she survived the first week. She
portrayed such tragedy and inspired such
pity that at times one was struck senseless.
Emrys James, an actor whose work I have
always admired, was as well suited to-the role
of De Flores, the wretched servant and
accomplice to Beatrice as any could have
been.
The fools inthe madhouse were well played
too, and their keeper Loilio (Barrie Rutter)
was exceptional.
All in all. this is a rivetting production and
very well worth seeing.
DEBATING SOCIETY
The lirst in a scries of mini-
debates was held in M e c h E n g
lecture theatre ' J ' .
The motion proposed by M r
Berry was that the house did not
b e l i e v e i n p r o p o r t i o n a l
representation. His long and
intricate speech outlined how
disastrous such a system would be
for the democracy of this country
and how it could lead to the total
destruction of our civilization.
This motion was immediately
followed by a vigorous defence of
proportional representation by
M r . H u n t bach who quoted many
cases where such a system seems to
be successful and gave statistics to
support his argument.
T h e voting heralded the end of
exhaustive discussion from the
floor with M i . Berry having to
answer more than his fair share of
questions.
The result of the show of hands
was a 60% support for the motion.
At the next mini-debate on the
2 2 n d o f F e b r u a r y i n M e c h E n g
340 the motion will be, " T h i s
House defends the Right of Every
Student to R e m a i n Aloof F r o m
The Activities of Their Student
U n i o n . " The speakers include
Chris Fox and Bernard Smith so it
promises to be a great success.
J o h n S h u t t l e w o r t h
P u b l i c i t y O f f i c e r
GO CLUB
F o l l o w i n g the s u c c e s s f u l
tournaments held at the end of
term, G o Club is holding another
Handicap tournament on Sunday
the 18th of February in Southside
Upper Lounge (i.e. this Sunday)
starting at about 2 30 p.m.
The tournament will have 3
rounds and free refreshments
will be available to those who
enter.
The entrance fee (all of which
goes into the prize fund) is 25 p.
All are welcome to enter and
entries may be sent or given to me
(or J o h n Winfield Physics 3) at
any time before thetournament or
alternatively turn up on the day by
2.30 p.m. promptly.
R.J. Cant Physics PG H512A

