Page 14
SOCIETIES' PAGE
MEDITATION-it could help you to study better!
How would you like to get rid of stress, strain and anxiety, and at the same time
increase your concentration, perceptiveness, creativity, self-confidence, mental
productivity, and learning ability?
A quote from a student meditator - "Nothing is really hard any more, either at home or at college.
When something comes up, I figure out what the desired results are, how to accomplish them and than take the
ncessary action. The energy and creativity is there and I use it. No problem!"
Would you believe that this can be j
achieved by a simple natural mental '•
technique, which can be easily learnt by
anyone, in a few minutes? Transcendental
meditation ( T M ) is a systematic procedure,
practised for 15-20 minutes twice daily,
sitting comfortably, with the eyes closed. The
T M techniqi"-
allows the mind to settle down
to a less excited state. The person experiences
quieter and quieter levels of thinking till he or
she arrives at a state of complete mental
stillness. In this state the attention is said to
have gone beyond, or transcended, the
everyday level of thought - hence the
description 'Transcendental Meditation'. It
requires no changes in diet, philosophical
outlook, or life-style. Nor does it involve (
escape or withdrawal from life - on the1
contrary, its purpose is to make activity
more dynamic and enjoyable.
It all sounds a little far fetched, doesn't it?
Perhaps, but can you be sure?
Whatever our reaction to Maharishi
Mahesh Yogi, the H i m a l a y a n sage, who
introduced T M to the World in 1958, over 2
million people, in all walks oflife, have learnt
this technique. With about 92,000 meditators
in England, and around 1,500 learning per
month. T M is being used extensively in many
different fields: education, business, med-
icine, governmental and even military
programmes all over the World. Kaiser
A l u m i n i u m Company, the U.S. Army,
Strategic A i r Command, scientists at
Houston Space Centre, the Illinois House of
Representatives, Canadian Civil Service,
and the U.S. Dept. of Health, Education and
Welfare and many 'big name' academics
have thrown their weight behind T M . Over
600 research studies at major universities in
Europe and the States, have shown reults are
not only subjective but can be objectively
verified.
Well just what are the benefits?
Increased Intelligence g r o w t h rate!
Intelligence measured as I.Q. has hitherto
been thought to reach its peak in the late
teens and then remain constant or even
decrease. Students practising T M regularly
were found to show a greater increase in
intelligence than among control students.
Other benefits such as clear thinking,
i m p r o v e d c o n c e n t r a t i o n , m e m o r y ,
iricrea sed well-being and reduced anxiety-
have all been measured at scientific research
centres all over the world. As any student
knows, learning ability depends on the state
of mind. A dull mind comprehends little, but
a clear alert mind results in maximising
learning ability.
The practice of T M produces a deep level
of rest and relaxation, releasing stress and
fatigue from the nervous system, and
resulting in a general improvement of health.
Over 100 medical practitioners in England
have written to the Dept. of Health and
Social Security suggesting that T M should be
on the National Health Service and in the
U S A , 14% of professional baseball and
football players have taken up T M to
improve their game.
W i t h a clearer mind and a fresher body,
meditators found social behaviour becomes
more harmonious; friendships become
deeper and easier to make. As T M dissolves
tensions and fatigue we have more of
everything, including energy, to live life to
the full and give more to everyone.
O n the level of society, studies have shown
that as little as 1% of meditators in a
community is enough to reduce negative
tendencies to a measurable extents e.g. road
accidents, hospital admissions and crime
rates have been reduced by, on average, 17%
compared to control cities, where the crime
rate was still increasing at the national
average.
A society consists of a collection of
individuals. The increase of coherence and
orderliness found in individual life will be
reflected in society. Even in Britain, suffering
from strikes and social turbulence, if a
sufficient number of people begin to practise
the T M and T M - s i d h i (more advanced
techniques) programme.
I . C . T . M . Soc., was started to tell as many
people as possible about T . M . Here in IC in
the last 10 years hundreds of students and
staff have learnt T . M .
In the T.M.Soc. we have regular talks
about the technique, meetings, discussions,
parties, outings, and plenty of opportunity
for meeting people.
The next and last introductory talk this
term will be held in Mech. Eng. 664 at 5.30
p m on Monday 19th February and will
last about 45 minutes. Those interested (and
those sceptical etc!') please come along and
find out more or come just to eat and drink
the free tea and biscuits.
Jon Rees
IC T M Soc.
W A T E R P O L O
On Thursday 8th our 1st team played a
game in the U.L.U. league against university
college.
IC started off very well with hard play, this
enabled Steve Taylor to score with a very well
placed lob shot. U.C. pushed back, but close
marking thwarted their attempts and with a
fast turn in play Steve was able to score
another goal. U.C. broke back and put in a
good goal. Play went backwards and forward
until Philip Mills scored a goal with a hard
shot from the right wing. In the second
quarter U.C. with a few substitute changes
started a concerted attack and scored two
goals, Steve scored his third goal with
another lob and then U.C. broke back to make
the score 4-4. In the third quarter Steve
scored another goal and Dave Dunstone
scored a goal from very close in. U.C.
however also managed to score three goals.
The final quarter showed up our weakness
with U.C. scoring another couple of goals and
Steve scoring our final goal, making the final
score 7-9.
Urania's Sauai
part pj..
IN sefffcH o r A COMMUNICATIONS C E N T R E / '
k 6USSFUU* 0MftWAJ£ " M V f t C RHkGfiKttON \S:
COURSE- - AND T ^ M P T I X Loses, w<& WAY AGAIN..
WoU SA\b ^fbu,
jkMEW How 16
(Fcf THrS -TH1U6I
I CAN D(2AKe,A
i
^RfcUNcj, 60TALW
'-rftose UTTI-£^T4££
CTHGRC.THeEC DA&UNC,)!
ATTENTION I WHILE
4.0U LOT WERE
•PRfrTTlNG RW3UNU
I FOL1NJD THE
PLRNET MH5ELF.
WE RRE NDU1 IN
£3EQ5TRTiOMHR4 OWP
RfiUVE THE CONTINENT
WHERE THE FeDeKflT10fi<
V- AND JON'T C A L L
M E "DA^UNQ" —IT'S lftMYvJAY|So WHAT If WE
6AT>ftR PtSUPU^ElJtoRE UST?WWfflErSHE _
nR&ieaim swtof'ro^4: O M H U N 1 , Z R T I O N S
NftKgAk£,siR,f&kK6%u\m6n
5fT IS
UPPfl5£D
pa

