Page 17
W H A T A C U P - T I E
IC V 3:3 M I D D L E S E X H O S P I T A L
IC V 4:3 M I D D L E S E X H O S P I T A L
After two tense and dramatic games with Middlesex
Hospital the Fifths, showing great determination, finally won
their way through to the semi-finals of the U.L.U. Cup.
In the first game played on Saturday at Chislehurst a very close-
fought game was marred only by a poor referee whose knowledge of
the rules was non-existent, positioning disbolical, and fitness pathetic.
The referee capped his performance by booking the Fifth's captain
A l a n Cable (the mild-mannered sweeper who often quotes lines from
Shakespeare at opposing Forwards). O n the credit side the Fifth's
always looked in command in this first match and Aled Phillips
produced a storming performance making the first goal for John Healy
and scoring with two other spectacular efforts.
It was with this in mind that the lead when Bob Dhillon broke up a
Fifth's looked forward to the Middlesex attack and laid the ball
r e p l a y at H a r l i n g t o n o n out to D a m i o n Kelly who ghosted
Wednesday, (several players past three defenders before
seeming far happier to be going to passing the ball to J o h n Healy
the ground by coach than who was left with the simple task
someone's car). This match was of slotting the ball past the keeper
however to prove one of the most from about thirty yards,
dramatic ever seen at Harlington. w i t h I C n o w a h e a d Middlesex,
The early running was made by true to the spirit of this cup-tie,
the Fifths and two fine early goals came charging forward and for
only served to spark Middlesex the last twenty minutes play
into action. The first goal by flowed from end to end with both
Dennis Cook, a very handy one, teams having several chances to
coming from a Stu Dillon corner score. In fact in the dying minutes
and the second an unstoppable a Middlesex forward did break
drive by A l Cable. For the through the IC defence, and it
remainder of the half Middlesex was only a breathtaking save bt
were doing most of the attacking Steve Veats that maintained IC's
and only some fine defending by lead.
IC kept the score to 3:2. When the final whistle was
At the start of the second-half b l o w n b o t h
teams departed in the
IC substituted Steve Kaye who, certain knowledge that they had
despite having played very well, competed in a very fine and
had to make way for an extra sporting match,
forward. This seemed to bring the T e a m
(Sat
) A l Betts
> M
- Foster, S.
Fifth's back into the game and Ka
ye
> D
- Cook
< A
- C a b l e
(Ca
P0, M.
after good work between Steve Clegg, A. Donaldson, A. Esberger, J.
M c P h a i l and M a r k Clegg, A d a m Healy, B. Dhillon, A. Phillips, sab:
Esberger hastened onto the pass D. Mallet.
and seeing the keeper off his line Team (Wed): S. Veats, S. McPhail,
chipped a super lob over the S. Kaye, D. Cook, A. Cable, M.
keeper into the top corner of the Clegg, D. Kelly, A. Esberger, B.
net. The Fifths were now moving Dhillon, S. Dillon, A. Phillips, sub:
into top gear, and finally took the J. Healy.
F O U R PTS. F O R
F O U R T H S !
Four vital league points rested on the result of this away game against
Guy's seconds. With only ten men the Fourths played their best and
most enjoyable game of the season.
It started badly, however, with Guy's taking the lead very early on. A
minute later Hanke headed in from O'Kelly's free kick.
Guy's scored from a rebound later on during one of their rare sorties
up field. The IC equaliser that followed was surely the best goal of the
game; Hanke volleyed a loose ball from outside the area into the top
right-hand corner giving the surprised keeper no chance whatsoever.
IC snatched the initiative and went ahead when Porter knocked the
ball past the keeper after O'Kelly had dazzled Harry (theirfullback) with
an amasing run and sent in a viciously curving cross.
Just before the interval the IC defence were outnumbered and a low
hard shot made the score at half time, 3-3.
The second half began well with Rake and Hanke combining neatly
on the right wing and O'Kelly popped in the fourth goal.
Guy's started to apply the pressure and Marten, who had performed
well in an unaccustomed position was unlucky when the referee
(otherwise perfect) pointed to the spot. Thankfully Veats saved
miraculously but the pressure was sustained.
Full-backs Caffyn and Morris kept IC in the lead by making many
heroic faskfes, and overlapping usefully to make the extra man for the
IC 2nd'S R E A C H
FINAI A L M O S T
Last Saturday IC 2nd's played their cup semi-final against QMCII and
their luck run out when they were beaten 2-1 after extra time. On the way
to the match, spirits were high in anticipation of winning and of the
ensuing celebrations. After changing, Phil Niccolls cigars were
ceremoniously laid on the dressing room table for consumption by the
goal scorers after the game.
The conditions were ideal forthe game; a firm pitch and a fairly strong
cross-wind giving no particular advantage to either team. IC lost the
toss and were soon under pressure from Q M C with Al Betts producing
the best saves of his season and Neil Price having to clear off the line for
the third match in succession. However this early pressure paid off for
Q M C when following a very long throw in (to the 6-yard box!) Barry
Hatton was adjudged to have elbowed the Q M C centre-forward in the
back when challenging for the header. Despite polite protests from
Chris Beer mainly consisting of " O h no!, O n no! etc." the penalty was
given and Al Betts, although diving the right way, stood no chance of
saving the kick.
Following this setback, IC played better football and instead of
passing to their opponents so often, began to create good moves which
produced a few shots at goal. Q M C missed a few easy chances of
increasing their lead with IC's defence still playing a bit shakily, but
following one of these misses IC scored their equaliser. Phil Niccolls
collected the ball in midfield and bolted a ball to Dave Higgs who beat
the two defenders to the ball and chipped the ball overthe goalkeeper's
head. The game consisted, until half time, of a series of attacks from
both sides with no more real chances being created by either side.
IC played their best football of the match for the first 15 minutes of the
second half. Alistair Lenzcner, being fed by balls from Adrian Clarke,
continuously beat Q M C ' s full-back and, crossing the ball, creating
chances for Dave Higgs and Paddy Leaney (substitute for John
Demnitz). There were several goalmouth scrambles with Adrian Clarke
hitting the crossbar, Phil Niccolls hitting the goalkeeper's"legs and
several balls being cleared off the line. After those frenzied fifteen
minutes the game degenerated a bit with Q M C ' s 'smooth self centred'
centre-back and extremely beefy right-back doing 2 footed tackles on
anything that moved, and N. Price trying to even up the casualties
donned his leather gloves to keep his 'delicate' hands warm, and kicked
the ball as hard as possible in the Q M C midfield player's face.
Unfortunately he only stopped playing for a couple of minutes.
IC continued doing most of the attacking,and Alistair Lenczner
remained cool after being visciously hacked down - in fact so cool that
he froze into the background for the rest of the game. Indeed the only
event at any mention from then on to full time was N. (Price's attempt to
do an 'overhead scissor's kick' which resulted in nothing but great
embarrassment.
When the full time whistle went, it was decided to play extra time,
fifteen minutes each way, however the referee only played ten minutes
each as we discovered having lost. Anyhow two minutes into extra time
Q M C were making a rare dangerous attack with Chris Beer and Neil
Price running back covering two forwards. Chris Beer, in clearing the
ball, kicked it straight at Neil Price's face, who, remembering what he
had done to the Q M C player earlier in the game, put up his hands to
protect his face. In doing so he patted the ball down in the path of one of
the Q M C ' s forwards who then miskicked the ball over Al Bett's head.
The ball hit the crossbar and went in the goal and Chris Beer summed
this up saying 'Oh, really'. IC now began desperate attacks with Clive
Whiteside hitting roof of the net, but time had run out for IC with only ten
minutes each way. IC were out, Neil Price had been let down by the rest
of the team and is now seeking a transfer. IC trooped back to the
changing rooms, Phil Niccolls' cigars were unceremoniously crushed in
the ashtray, Barry Hatton re-applied his hairspray and donned his
shades, Chris Beer disappeared for a sherry party and in his quaint
Birmingham manner, Paul Barnet summed up'the day 'So near and yet
so far'.
Team: - Betts, Barnet, Hatton, Beer, Price, Clarke, Niccolls, Whiteside,
Higgs, Demnitz (Leaney), Lenczner.
Al Betts Brother
IC IST XI 6 V 1 Q M C 7 F E B .
IC IST X I 8 V 2 G U Y S H O S P . 10 F E B .
Last week saw IC gain two further wins in league games. This now
puts them in a very strong positiion. second in the table to Bedford
College. The only notable fact to be recorded is the scoring of the team's
50th league goal in Saturday's watch against Guvs.
P.R.
;busy midfield.
The danger relented and with Reeve'.s sensible influence as sweeper
IC pushed forward and when Rowley chipped through for Hanke to
complete his superb hat-trick, the result was beyond doubt.
Team: Veats, Caffyn, Morris, Reeve, Marten, Rowley, Rake, O'Kelly,
Porter, Hanke.

