iPage 7
Day By Day •
A ROUND-UP OF LAST WEEK'S NEWS d&TwM
!
• J i l H y
Wednesday 7th
Longbridge shutdown
10,000 workers walked out at the biggest
British Leyland plant, Longbridge, in a row
about a productivity bonus. Car production
was brought to a standstill.
Cases of TB found at school
Two children are seriously ill in hospital
and seven others are being treated for
tuberculosis at home in Uppingham, Leics.
Other children from the same town are being
tested for the disease.
Warning over pain killers
Pain-killing injections given to football
players and other athletes to help them carry
on despite painful injury could cause great
harm, and lead to osteoarthritis. Dr. Man
Adams of St. James's University Hospital,
Leeds, said that continuing to play or take
part in athletics after injury could alter the
mechanics of the affected part of the body.
Thursday 8th
Pickets blockade hospital
Militant pickets imposed a 'blockade' on St.
Mary's Hospital, London, turning away fuel
oil, drugs and meat deliveries. Doctors, and
other volunteers worked to keep the hospital
going. One senior consultant said he would
be cleaning floors at the weekend.
Callaghan interviewed on T.V.
The Prime Minister admitted that the
Government had "stumbled this winter" in an
interview on Thames Television's 'TV Eye'. He
admitted also that he had misjudged the level
of wage demands, "but I am not an
archangel".
More girls
There has been a marked increase in the
number of girls going to Universities.
Statistics show that nearly four women to
every six men are studying for degrees. The
trend was described by UCCA as among the
most "marked social features of our times".
Men still predominate in faculties of
engineering and technology (II,662 men, 75I
women) as well as agriculture, science,
veterinary science, social and business
studies. Women outnumber men in
languages, and literature studies. (7,671
women, 3,882 men) and in other Arts
subjects (3,375 women, 3,154 men).
Friday 9th
Leyland vote for peace
Shop stewards' demands for an all-out strike
at British Leyland have been rejected by more
than 2-1 in plant-by-plant voting. Strikers are
staying out at Longbridge, and barbed wire
barricades were put up to stop contractors
entering the plant.
Successful Fallopian tube transplant
The transplant of a Fallopian tube into a
woman of 30 which took place last October is
believed to be the first successful operation
of its kind. The operation could offer hope to
thousands of women who are at present
unable to have children.
Francis signed for a million pounds
Trevor Francis was transferred to
Nottingham Forest from Birmingham City.
Forest will have to find 1,180,000 pounds in all,
including VAT and 5% each for Francis and
the League Provident Fund, which helps ex-
footballers.
Saturday 10th
Police bungle Chelsea raids
The Metropolitan Police Commissioner ,
Sir David McNee, ordered a full inquiry into
why 20 detectives smashed theirway into two
Chelsea homes and held five people at
gunpoint, by mistake.
The police have apologised for the raids in
Chelsea that were carried out earlier this
morning. Scotland Yard had been searching
for a French gangster and as the time factor
had been essential they had to break down
the doors of suspect houses where they
believed he was hiding.
Contraceptive vending machine confiscated
Students at University College, Dublin are
to take legal action against the College
authorities for confiscating the country's first
contraceptive vending machine. The
machine was installed a week ago and the
President of the Students Union, David
Wadell, said the machine was sold out almost
every day.
It is still illegal in the Republic to sell
contraceptives either from a machine or over
the counter. The Dublin Government has
introduced a Bill to permit married couples to
purchase contraceptives but only on doctors'
prescriptions.
Sunday 11th
Khomeini triumphs
The Iranian Prime Minister, Dr. Shapur
Bakhtiar, resigned and disappeared today. At
an emergency Cabinet meeting, Dr. Bakhtiar
decided to hand over power to Mr. Mehdi
Bazargan, the man appointed by the
Ayatollah Khomeini as Prime Minister -
designate.
Dr. Bakhtiar had spent a month trying to
calm Iran but the uprising continued. Today
there were gun battles between troops and
armed rebels supported by men of the navy
and air force and thousands of ordinary
people.
The collapse of the Shah's last stand and
,the triumph of Ayatollah Khomeini mark a
'shattering' defeat for Western influence and
prestige in the Middle East. Historians believe
that the defeat is the greatest since Suez.
"The political consequences are that a
country of immense strategic and mineral
importance, in fact the world's second largest
oil exporter, has been changed from a bastion
of Western influence into a no-man's land on
the borders of the Soviet Union."
Monday 12th
Heat-seeking missiles bring down airliner
Russian-built missiles fired by nationalist
guerrillas brought down an Air Rhodesia
i Viscount airliner shortly after it took off from
the lakeside resort of Kariba today. All 59
people on board were, killed. The missiles
were Sam-7. Rhodesian intelligence have
known that Mr. Nkomo's Zipra (Zimbabwe
Peoples Revolutionary Army) have been
supplied with the missiles. Air Rhodesia
planes and other civilian aircraft 'have been
taking elaborate precautions against missile
attacks. On short flights they hedge-hop after
take-off and before landing to lessen the
chance of a hit from a missile.
Peanut thrower fined 400 pounds
An 18-year-old Leeds United supporter
admitted throwing a peanut into the crowd at
Saturday's match with Birmingham. The
supporter was told to pay the fine at once or
go to prison for 30 days. His mother drew her
life savings out of the bank to pay the fine.
Tuesday 13th
No cure for fatal virus
Health officials in Italyadmitted that the
diseas killing infants in the Naples area was
an incurable syncytial virus. The disease has
i already killed 65 babies. Experts are studying
the epidemic but meanwhile local authorities
are considering an emergency plan which
would include bringing in military sanitation
squads and the possible temporary
conscription of local paediatricians.
University to build space probe
To-day saw the start of the construction
Surrey University's 150,000 pounds space
satellite. The craft is expected to be launched
from Cape Canaveral irt two years. Experts
from the University are building the satellite
with the help of scientists from industry. The
i aim is to show how the earth's atmosphere
interferes with long range radio
: transmissions.
i Marriage game
An increasing number of men and women
obtain great satisfaction from marrying the
oddest or most distant non-blood relative
they can discover. A victor matrimonium
would be a man who had sought out his ex-
wife's sister's daughter's daughter's second
husband's mother-in-law, a woman who
proposed to her dead husband's grandfather
would be a star. Their feats will be legal if
Baroness Wootton of Abinger succeeds with
her marriage enabling Bill, which passed its
second Lords' reading tonight.

