Page 8
A STATEMENT
by M s . M . Attenborough,
President of Imperial College Union
The statement issued by Professor Eilon claims that our Refectory
boycott was not a useful action. However, it was very largely Professor
Ellon's uncooperative attitude in refusing to believe that there was large
scale dissatisfaction existing with the refectories which forced us to
hold a boycott.
It is not true to say that we have not attempted to put forward
c o m p l a i n t s a n d s u g g e s t i o n s to the Refectory c o m m i t t e e .
Representatives of the Union sit on the Complaints and Suggestions
sub-committee of the Refectory committee and have constantly
expressed a wide-scale dissatisfaction. Also, the Union's Permanent
Working Party prepared a report for Captain Lindley after he suggested
that he was unaware of those aspects that people were dissatisfied with
in the refectories. However, it seems strange that the Refectory
management should turn solely to the Student Union in order to
discover the dissatisfaction with the service provided and in order to
find what .improvements should be carried out. Surely it is the job of the
management to constantly explore such dissatisfaction and to carry out
their own investigation. The Student Union, after all, is very much
overworked and has a whole number of areas of concern to students
that it has to d o work o n .
The boycott was also held to show the large scale dissatisfaction with
College's pricing policy and at this point in time, the use of the
regulator. T w o price increases have occurred during the last three
months, totalling 3.3%, and more, it appears, are now on the way. While
on the subject of prices the leaflet distributed by the pickets on
Thursday listed alternative places to eat at "comparable prices". The
leaflet was not intended to advise people to eat outside the College on a
regular basis. We believe that it is better to improve the service at
reasonable prices given by the refectory at College in order to give a
better serivce to everybody. This is one of the terms of the Refectory
Club's own constitution. A boycott is merely a way of making a point
against current policy and it is hoped that by taking heed of our
suggestions and the feelings of the College something positive will be
done which will, in the long term, increase trade to the refectories.
I went to great pains to explain to Southside refectory staff that our
action was not aimed at them. I would certainly hope that the good
relations that do exist between students and those people that work in
the refectories will continue.
I therefore appeal to all of the Refectory management, to the
Refectory Committee and to the Rector to show good sense. The food
and service are, of course, not perfect. More can be done, however to
achieve popular prices and get better quality to suit the majority of
refectory customers. To constantly up prices on the basis that small
increases will not be noticed by most people is, in fact, my definition of
complacency. We are the customers and we are calling for action now to
improve quality and stop the vicious and blanket price increases as they
do nothing but damage.
Mary Attenborough
PGTips -
Most postgraduate research students have not completed their
degrees three years after registering at Imperial College and half have
not finished after four years.
These disturbing facts come from figures made available to the
College's Board of Studies last week and indicate that all is not well
regarding postgraduate research at IC.
The statistics cover students who entered College in 1974-5 and in
1975-6, and state the position as at October 1978.
Of 237 students admitted for research in 1974-5 only 118 (49.9 per
cent) had been awarded a higher degree. 9.3 per cent had withdrawn,
13.0 per cent were still at College, 27.4 per cent had left College but were
still registered, and 0.4 per cent (one student) had failed.
These students had been The statistics show that very few
registered for Ph.D, MPhil, DIC or achieve this. Once students no
a combination. The majority (177) longer receive a grant they are
were registered for Ph.D and DIC often forced to earn their living by
and of these only 79 (44.6 per taking part-time teaching jobs
cent) had been awarded both w h i l e c o n t i n u i n g to a t t e n d
degrees. College. Also since they are not
T h e s i t u a t i o n r e g a r d i n g P a
y i n
9 f e e s t h e , u
" facilities of
students who had completed an t h e l r
departments may not be
advanced course in 1974-5 and available to them,
s u b s e q u e n t l y p r o c e e d e d to The situation is especially
research is far worse. Of the 71 unsatisfactory for students who
students in this category only 18 do an M.Sc. before proceeding to
(25.4 per cent) had been awarded r e s e a r c h . A l t h o u g h s o m e
a research degree, 40.8 per cent departments encourage students
were still at College and 3I.0 per to do this, the Research Councils
cent had left but were still still award only three years'grant,
registered. It is clearly not sufficient.
Certain questions need to be
Turning to research students answered. Do postgraduates not
who entered College in 1975-6 work hard enough? Is too much
and had therefore completed expected of them for their
three years' research, the figures degrees, or do they themselves try
show that only 18.5 per cent had to do too much before submitting
been awarded a degree. Of the their thesis? Is it a good thing for
rest 41.1 per cent were still at students to take an advanced
College and 35.5 percent had left course before starting research?
but were still registered. If S o should not the Research
Of the 32 students who had C o u n c i l s c o m e t o s o m e
completed an advanced course in agreement with the universities to
1975-6 (usually an M.Sc. course) award a four year grant in some
and subsequently proceeded to cases?
research none at all had been Remember the postgraduate
awarded a degree. bar night on Tuesday 20th
Postgraduate students receive February from 6.30 pm at Stan's
a grant for three years' research Real Ale bar, Southside.
and are expected to be able to Sonia Hochfelder
complete their work in that time. PG Affairs Officer
A Lobby a Day Keeps the Fees Away
Perhaps I'd better start by explaining exactly what it is we're
after, and how m u c h it will cost the College. A s you m a y know,
the Government requires the College to supplement its income
by charging each student a fee for tuition, and at present,
overseas students are charged m o r e than home students for
the same education. T h e Government has announced that
tuition fees should be increased for next session supposedly to
keep i n lime with inflation. What we are trying to do, therefore,
is to persuade College not to implement any increase, thus
defying the Government, as Bradford University once did. T h e
purpose of all this, ultimately, is to change Government policy,
which is where the lobby of M P s comes in.
If you take the difference between the income the College would receive
from increased fees, and the income they would receive by keeping fees
down and charging overseas students the same as home students, then
this comes to just over £400,000. So, effectively we're asking the College
to do without that amount of money next year - which is going to take
quite a bit doing.
That's why we've organised a campaign on the scale we have, as was
reported in F E L I X last week.
T h e most important thing you can do is help with the L O B B Y - A -
D A Y a n d the S P E A K - I N , which are both designed to draw the
attention of the media to our campaign. L o b b y i n g your M P at the
House of C o m m o n s needn't take longer than about 20 minutes, and if
you've never been inside the House before, then it's quilt: a worthwhile
experience. (We provide you with a briefing sheet and a list of simple
questions to ask him!)
S P E A K - I N
This is to take place at Speakers' Corner on Sunday 25th February,
hopefully all through the day. What we need are as many people as
possible to take it in turns to read a short speech about the fee increases -
just about 10 mins long - hopefully alternating English with a fair
number of foreign languages, so we need plenty of overseas students to
take part too.
H A R D S H I P
If you think you may not receive additional income to cover any
increases in Fees, or you know anyone in that position, then we would
like to know about it (anonymously if necessary).
H E L P
If you'd like to help with either the lobby-a-day or the Speak-in, then
come into (or ring) the Union Office (int. 3915) and ask to see Jen
Hardy-Smith, (see the advertisement in this week's F E L I X ) . A full
briefing for all those involved or interested will take place on Tuesday
20th February at 6 p m i n the Green Committee R o o m , Union
Building.
Sheyne Lucock
External Affairs Officer

