F E L I X 3
F e l i x
The Imperial College
Circulation 1
2
0
0
Cm$rs BILL HUWm
The disclosures last ween of plans for rebuilding
"island site" have been reoieved with mixed feel-
by the national press. Several suggestions have
made to preserve the Colloutt building and tower,
and although these will no doubt be considered, i t ie
enllkely that any great ohange will be made In the
present plans.
The remarkable feature of the reoonstruotion is
the retention of the Royal College of Music and the
houses in Queens Gate by Imperial Institute Road. The
former is rumoured to be preserved by metual oonsent
of a l l oonoerned beoause of the Royal Patronage the
College reoieves. Sinoe this area was never considered
for the expansion, i t should not effect the College
materially, but the London College of Secretaries
building and Alexander Court region may influence
Imperial College Union considerably.
The Reotor has pointed out that the Zoology and
BBtany departments will now have to remain in the
Beit Building. One of these departments is to occupy
space originally intended as hostel accomodation
this summer, so that instead of the Beit Hostel
increasing even more in size, i t will not now be as
large as originally intended. Nevertheless, the
availability of $he temporary gymnasium and the
Senior Common Room'this summer should enable about 30
new rooms to be added to the accomodation. This will
be the first stage towards the 1^00 extra residents
mentioned by the Reotor in his Inaugaral Lecture,
bet i t appears the Union will have to wait a very
long time before the whole of the quadrangle is
cleared of builders materials and is completely
residential.
When will Imperial College have 1000 residential
students? This figure was ^recommended* by the I.C.
president four years ago- when there were only 1500
students at the College
1L1I1 HUM
The 8TUDENT of LEISURE BREAKFASTS
Many bachelors inhabit single rooms and by a process of
t r i a l and error have devised for themselves a routine far the
painful daily process of waking, dressing and breakfasting.
Having bedded down at 3a.m. resolving to be up aj„the
oraok of dawn to do the work that had not been attempted on the
previous evening, the alarm goes unheeded at 6.30 am» In time
the sleeper develops a suboonsious actios of swiping the olook
so that the button is driven firmly into the works before the
alarm'has run far one second.
Two hours later oortBQidusneas , slowly returns to the
repumbent form which then remains awake but unable to open
his eyes {or some time; whanhe finally does the room is
s t i l l gyrating as drunkenly as when he kipped down.
The next process is oonneoted with preparing a frugal
repast for an unreoeptive stomach. Without exposing more torso
than absolutely necessary the gas fire is l i t and the loaf of
bread retrieved from the mouse hole whence the other inmates 1
of the room have dragged i t . A slice of dry bread Is propped
against the fire to char. The next operation is to brew some
lubricant for this Meal. Coffee, i s employed universally
beoause Its prepaeettian requires fewer unit operations than tea.
The gas ring is invariably on the further side of the fire from
the bed. A cracked oup and a dirty spoon, which suffioe as .
crockery and cutlery are retrieved from under the bed. The
sugar has to be collected from the floor beoause the bag burst.
At this point the remnants of te-ead are removed from the grate
and doeoked. The gas runs out before the water bolLs and a
Season far the necessary coin for the meter is occasionally
successful. During this stage in the proceedings the toast,
impregnated with butter and jam travels down the bed between the
sheets.
At this poAat the clock ia again noticed, having ranched
the other side of the room with fits internal motion arrested.
The tins, calculated by extrapolation, gives trre -result that
there are barely five minutes in which to shave, dress and
complete the twenty minute journey to college to be Sm time for-
th* first lecture; the gentleman therefore relaxes in bed and
after leisurely ablutions-arrives at has place of learning with
tin* for coffee before the third lecture, further Instalments
may relate the bachelor* evening seal* and ouiaine attempted when
entertaining female guests on an insubstantiallocal atrthortty
.went.
A MATTER OF EEGRE3S. Prom the abbreviations of the 15th
edition of Cassel's New English Dictionary:- A»R»S.M. •
Associate of the Royal School of Mines (now Royal College
of Science)
WHEN THE RED REVOLUTION COMES. The only I.C. student I have
met who is opposed to the demolition of the Imperial Insti-
tute is, oddly enough, John Cox. As we can safely assume
this is The Party Line, readers will be Interested to hear
that they have no plans for the building in their sahens baSf
merely wish to preserve the torture facilities in the base-
ment recently developed for Chemists who want to take Wed-
nesday afternoon off.
OURS IS W
O
T A RIO CARNIVAL. There was a strong smell of
ether along one of the hostel oorridors an the night of the
Carnival.
THE SCIENTIFIC MIND. So R.A.F. Bomber Command are illus-
trating the Flying Safely Review with pin-ups to encourage
pilots to look at i t more frequently. Should I.C. be afraid
to stoop to this - why can't we have picture books of Wind-
mill girls tattooed with differential equations. Alas, I
i doubt i f this would reduce the f a i l rate but[ provide just
another arbitrary division for examination purposes - those
who can't tear themselves away from the book and those who
oan't tear themselves away from the Stage Door of the Wind-
mill.
R.C.S. MATHEMATICAL AND PHISICAL SOCIETY, tried Whitbread's
for their brewery visit this year, As this company are
rather more generous with samples than the usual Watney's
and Guinness, the visit was the most successful for some
years.
A W
O
M
A
N FOR THE CARNTVALi Our report on the Carnival contains
an estimate of the number of man hours spent on preparations.
| This makes me wonder how many man hours are expended on the
acquisition and pre—treatment of partners. W
e heard of one
E.'C.S. Cassanova who started looking for a partner at the
previous Saturday's hop but his Sstaady" (whom he didn't want
to take) turned up so he had to put thing* off to the jiving
class on Monday where he was unfortunately turned down
twice. Thus frustrated, he accepted an offer to fix him with
a blind date; 3he oculdn't go but said she had a friend
who wanted to, but as thi3 friend turned out to be one of
those who had turned him do-.m on Monday, he fled and decided
to try an ax. The ax. wasn't having any and our poor friend
^was no nearer and loosing considerable face, until he was
"ixed on another blind a few hours before the Carnival
started. The alternative is to have the thing arranged a
few weeks before hand. This necessitates a lot of time
spent politely keeping in touoh and, for the oareful man,
pre-treating her for the event. I suppose some will lecture
on the advantages of a steady girl friend, but is this a
reasonable solution?
UNO DONG MERRILY. Amongst those at the meeting to preserve
the Imperial Institute a week last Monday, was a small ~
~
hostel contingent who like to hear the sound of the bells
in S. Kensington.
THE SCANDINAVIAN MYTH. As Sweden takes more English students
for vac. work than any other foreign country, there are
quite a number in the College intimately oonneoted or very
interested in certain aspects of Swedish life. They -,-ill be
interested to hear that a member of our staff recently
received a newspaper cutting headed "Engelska sexualmoralen
tyoks sla alia i-ekord."
PROGRESS. Many who attended the Rector's lecture an the new
oollege were disappionted in not hearing where a new Planning
Department is to be housed.
ISOLATION D0CTSINE. Guilds having passed a motion deploring
the action of the Mines in discussing N.U.S. before the
I.C. meeting, i t is now only left to the R.C.S, at their
coming discussion of the natter, to pass a motion deplorlnc
Guild's attempt to interfere in the affairs of another coUeon
"Keen your hands to yourself.

