The deoiding match of the Sparkes' Cup i s being played
this afternoon between the Royal College of Science and the
City and Guilds College.
The rsults of the other two matches played so far in
this series are:
R.C.S, 6
C.& G. 6
R.S.M. 0
R.S.K. 5
R E A D I N G R O W I N G R e h e a r s a l
The Heading Head of the River fiaoe, held last Saturday,
March 17th, was entered for the first time by the I.C.B.C.,
represented by their first and second vTH4» .Both crews had
good rows, but unfortunately were impeded in the narrow cuts
where they were foroed to drop their rating to give way to
the crews leading them.
The first VHI, starting 49th (being a new entry) went
off the start extremely well and by the 4th minute was over-
lapping crew No. 48, Clifton College. Unfortunately, at the
mouth of Rat Cut the Clr.fton crew s t i l l had a lead of a
oanvas and the I.C. creir were requested by the umpire to
give way. The Clifton crew, no longer hard pressed, slackened
off here and the I.C. crew were almost "paddling light". On
ooming out of the out the I.C. orew dealt promptly and
effectively with their opponents and were soon welliin the
lead. By this time however, No. 47, Christ's (Camb.) were
out of sight and the 1st T i l l rowed alone to ths finish.
The seoond VIII had trouble at the second (Fisheries)
out where they were the outside crew of a bunch of four
raofng neck and naok to the cut whioh was in a right hand
ben'". Not only had they to give way as the group converged
01 the cut but, being the overtaking crew, on coring out of
the cut were forced by rule to pass on the left which was
the outside of the bend. However this must have spurred
.hem on, for the final result showed the 2nd VIII finishing
26th just three seconds ahead of the 1st VIII.
R I F L E C L U B o n the M A R K
Although tilt Club is not meeting with the same amount
of soooess as i t last year, a high standard of shooting
is being maintained.
In the Inter University League the'A' and'BHteams
each finished 4th. in their respective leagues, while the
tCj team easily .to', theirs.
The 'A' and '3' teams in the 1st. division of the London
University League are finding some very strong opposition,
but both are oop-'ng well. The 'A' tean has so far won five
of its eight or .ches; but even so i t appears doubtful whether
we shall ret- j> the Engineers' Cup. The 'C and 'D' teams
are each wt J. up in their respective divisions, while the
Novioes'Lee --e is providing useful ..'atch experience for the
younger w „•<.•».
Future fi.-.arf include a match .against the Metropolitan
Polioe at Thame" P.tton and the University Open Meeting at
Twickenham.
D A R T S C L U B
H A N D I C A P P E D
One of the m st handi-
capped Cl\ft>s dur ing the last
two sessions hs 1 been the I.C.
Barts Club.
Without a ^tae ground on
which to lean, and no subsidy
owning from the U'd.on to
patronise local '.anilities,
this Society has become almost
defunct, A little training is
s t i l l dene at Harrington on
Wednesday and Satjrday even-
ings, but there .a ne. doubt
that peat skill have been
lost, and a gr at deal tf
training will nave to bt dene
next session '
-
o re-enquire
We are glad that the
Seorwtar of the Union has
ehampir ,ed the Club and oV-
"tainea worthy facdlitie-- in
fee VM Union.
"M*. MMS-TWTh? My Ht.
smith to. ee utte M. »«
*SSONS «££>ny >rts f£S <m
H O C K E Y S E A S O N D i s a p p o i n t i n g
The last match «f the season was played on Saturday 17th.
Kerch. The First Xl defeated Staines 3-2 while the Seoond and
ThtedsXl's lost their matches 1-2 and 0-2 respectively. The
records of the teams are as follows:
W D L F A
ist n 28 10 if 12 58 57
2nd. XI 15 3 2 10 29 38
3rd. XL 14 4. 2 8 19 31
The first XI average of just over two goals a matoh is enough
to ensure a fair season and they have finished almost all:square,.
The side has Improved this term and during the last fcir games
the forward line has been more effective and has scored twelve
goals. It is a pity that the full first XI cannot be kept
together to play in the Festival at Teddington, but with the
addition of several enthusiastic members of the Seoond and
Thiijd teams a fairly sound team should, result.
Tne reoords of the Second and Third XI's leave something
to be desired. The seoond team have had a settled side for most
of the season but the third team has had to be run on a rota
system to provide games for all. JMe disturbing feature has been
that with more than 4k playing members, several Third XI games
have been cancelled Owing to lack of support.
A side from Grcningeri University is arriving on Thursday
29th. March and are staying until the following 7/ednesday. A
happy and inebriated time i s anticipated. Owing to a black-
eye and other injuries sustained in a recent tussle with a
young lady from Q.E.C. John Sherwood has been appointed
non-playing drinking captain.
C O N W A Y - J O N E S slips a g a i n
The reoent heavy weather has given
great scope to the sailors of I.C,
With the aid of a 3rd place
(M.Collyer) on 4th £arch and a firs
place (j.M.Conway-Jones) on 11th
Karoli, FsjhuIuh is nor in 2nd place
to Seagoon (U.C.) i i the Inter-
Collegiate "i"class . oints Trophy.
Seagoon (U.C.) has a J point lead, but 11 is hoped (on
present form) that I.C. will be successful in he last race
of the series to be held on 18th March and win the Trophy.
Famulus (H. Jackson, ?. Fisher, J. Smith) h s also been
very successful in the "B" Series and is an easy winner on
points.
Stop Pi-ess. 18th March . .
Famulus was "beaten into second place by Seagoon^TT.C.)
and so finished seoond in. the 'A' Class series.
In the individual helj.isman1
s cha/ipionslr p3 E, Kranok
(i.e.) rsas fourth in the Lr.dr.ei Trophy, M. Collyer four*':
in the 7ae Trophy, and. J.?'. Conway-Jones second in tie
IT1
Ion Single-Handed Trophy. The two latter were wen \
J. Clark(K.C.) and A. 3penoe(R.J».»T,} won the Ladies Trooi\y.
1.C S W I M M I N G G A L A
At smith St. Baths last Friday the- Foster Swimming _
Trophy waevfon by R.CS, with 24 points. Guilds were seoond
with 17 points end Mines 3rd. with lA pclrita. The R.C.S,
main strength was in their members being aide to vdn both Kelay*
whereas Guilds won 4 out of the 6 individual events. Clerk of
R.C.S. won the 100 yards fre-r.tyle aid ion y;-rds Backstroke,
MoChesney of Guilds won the f 0 yards freestyle and 5C yards
butterfly. Hobinscn won the 1C0 yards breast-stroke for Guild'1
Snellook the diving.
In the water polo following, H.C.S. von both their niatohes,
Guilds andB»S.M» drawing in the other.
T A B L E T E N N I S T o u r s C a m b r i d g e
The Table Tennis Club has enjoyed a svccessful season.
In the University League the 'st team have played well, winning
8 matches and losing only 2. The. 2nd tean have found the 1*jt
division of the. league rathe:- strong but i l l the other teams
have held their own and the 4th team have only lost 1 match.
The season was oomdluded with a short tour of Cambridge.
In the first match Selwyn College narrowly defeated the 1.0.
teen-6-4, (Cjx 2). Fitwilliaw>Oollege, Oambridge University
ahampions, rare beaifn 6-3, (Wilson 3, K w>es".2), ana in the
final matoh Christ's College were defeated 7-2, (Wilson 3, Cox
2, Reed 2 ).
P e r s o n a l A d v e r t i s m w t t s
D HI i MUSIC -The Bead for all Oooasions
K.P .BEARS (X.C.Uhion)

