14th November, 1972
NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
F R E E ! ISSUE No. 318
The University of London is, to say the least, a complex institution. The changes listed under "In a
Nutshell" will convey to you that the Murray Committee has recommended some drastic changes to
University structure—but space in " F e l i x " does not permit us to explain more fully what all the changes
mean. W e have deliberately only printed a list of some of the 199 proposals of the Committee to give
you an early insight into the Report—"Felix" is the first student newspaper in London to be published
after the embargo on the Report came off at 24.00 hrs on Monday night (or 00.00 hrs this morning).
Blessed along with the rest of the student press in London with advance copies of the Report (only the
Vice-Chancellor saw it before us!) we have instead joined forces with every other member newspaper
of the London Student Press Association in producing a special newspaper on Murray, which will be on
the " F e l i x " news-stands tomorrow morning. This paper will explain more fully the proposals in nice,
simple English and without expecting you to already have a working knowledge of the University
structure. It will tell you how it affects students, staff, the colleges and the central administration. This
paper will be free; 20,000 copies are being printed and rushed at top speed to every School of the Uni-
versity. Please try and obtain a copy and read it, because Murray concerns every one of us, and those
that come after us.
Once again our apologies for not giving the full picture in "Felix"', but we are sure that you will
agree that a joint issue is a better idea. Next week we will be publishing reaction within the College
and the rest of the University (by arrangement with other member newspapers of the LSPA) on the
Report—Felix naturally welcomes readers' comments also.
The federal system of the University should be
maintained.
* * *
King's College and University College should be
encouraged to apply for their own charters, and thus
become separate universities.
* * #
Bedford, Queen Elizabeth and Westfield Colleges
to merge.
OR
One of these to move to Egham and merge with
Royal HoIIoway and the other two be merged.
OR
Join Bedford College to University College and
Queen Elizabeth College to Westfield College and
expand Royal Hofioway.
* * *
Imperial College to be treated in the same way as
other Schools as regards grants from the University
Grants Committee.
* * *
Wye College might join University of Kent if there
is an expansion of Biological Science there.
The Institute of Education may become an inde-
pendent School of the University if no major changes
in its function occur as a result of the James Com-
mittee's recommendations.
..v'- $ * *
Goldsmith's College shovJ'd be given independent
legal status as a self-governing body but should not
become a school of the University.
In a
Nutshell
Students of the Colleges of Music should have faci-
lities to register as External Students of the University,
and special arrangements made for their students to
go to courses and lectures in the University.
Facilities to register as external students to students
of Jews' College: the college should not be made a
school of the University.
The external examination system for full-time stu-
dents in public educational institutions to be phased
out, but to continue for the time being for part-time
students, and also for students in private educational
establishments and private students working at home.
* ,
$ *
Drastic limitation of facilities for registration of
Overseas students as External students.
Inter-collegiate co-operation and rationalisation on
an academic as well as afinanciallevel to be pro-
moted.
* * *
Fulllest possible participation by academic staff as
representatives in academic organisation and govern-
ment of the University.
I.C. to lose
UGC grants
access
Imperial College will lose its right to go direct to
the University Grants Committee for its money if th»
Murray Report on the Governance of the University of
London, published today, is implemented.
At present, Imperial is treated differently to other
colleges of the University, whose grants are determined
by the Court of the University. Until now, we have gone
direct to the UGC independently of other colleges. This
was because the Government gave the college national
responsibility for the development of scientific and
technological teaching.
The report says:
"We understand that
this treatment (direct ac-
cess to the UGC) has been
extended by the Univer-
sity Grants Committee to
the end of the 1972-77
quinquennium butt is then
to be reviewed in the light
of our Report. Unless
there are grounds of Gov-
ernment or University
Grants Committee policy,
such as were mentioned in
Sir John Wolfenden's let-
ter in 1966, for continuing
this treatment, we can, for
our part, see no special
reason why Imperial Col-
lege, as a constituent
School of the University,
should be treated differ-
ently from the other
Schools whose grants are
determined by the Court
of the University."
It has been on the cards
for' some time that this
recommendation was
likely, and it seems im-
probable that it will come
as much of a surprise in
the College or University.
The system for the obtain-
ing of grants from the
UGC by the University in
general will be rational-
ised. At present colleges
prepare individual sub-
missions, send them to
the Court who collates
them and forwards them
to the UGC. This will in-
evitably change with the
new Joint Committee of
Senate and the Court for
Planning and Develop-
ment.
At the time of going to
press (Sunday 8 p.m.) the
Editor of Felix was the
only person in the Col-
lege to have seen a copy
of the R e p o r t . It
is not easy to judge what
the reaction will be. In
early 1971, Judith Walk-
er, then President of
I.C.U., sent the Murray
Committee a strongly
worded letter saying that
"Imperial College fought
hard for this privilege and
would not wish to sacri-
fice this independent posi-
tion."
In the same letter Miss
Walker decried the "cum-
bersome, over-bureaucra-
tic machinery" of the
University and said that
"the seemingly unneces-
sary constraints imposed
by a federal structure give
rise to much anti-London
University feeling." She
suggested that the most
important recommenda-
tion of the enquiry would
be an extension of the
Saunders' Report's philo-
sophy of defederalisation.
However, in the report,
the Murray Committee
say that "It is a striking
feature . . . that there is
practically unanimous sup-
port for the maintenance
of the federal system . . ."
and they have recommen-
ded, its continuance.
Student representation to be given at Senate and
Boards of Studies level. Student representatives to
have had prior experience of participation in academ-
ic affairs at college level, but no student representa-
tion on Court at this stage.
Academic leadership in the University to be
achieved by making the Vice-Chancellorship a full-
time post, and the Principal to become responsible to
the VC as the administrative as well! as the academic
head of the University.
* * *
All members of academic staff (including Heads of
Schools) to be entitled to membership of Convocaticm.
.* s
f
c *
Boards of Studies to have responsibilities increased!.
H
e * *
Academic advisory boards to be abolished.
* $
Present system of Senate Councils to be abolished:
academic pollicy to become responsibility of new Sen-
ate working through subject area committees.
* *
f
e *
Collegiate Council to be reorganised.
* * *
Court to be established as supreme governing body.
>
* % *
Senate to be reconstituted as an academic body.
Collegiate Council to be reconstituted as an inde-
pendent body represented on Court and Senate.
* * *
Convocation not be represented on the new Senate.
* * *
Joint Committee of Court and Senate for Planning
and Development to be set up.

