Page 8 FELIX November 14, 1972
SPORT SPORT SPORT SPORT SPORT SP(
Rugby
THE BEDFORD INCIDENT starring John Mc-
Donough, Roy (The Big Lad) Matthews .and . . .
wait for it. . . ALJ ! !
On Saturday, November 4, IC made their annual
pilgrimage up the Ml to play Bedford Wanderers
(2nd XV) and were narrowly defeated by 10 points
to 8. This was yet another tremendous game for IC,
considering that Bedford are one of the strongest clubs
in the Midlands. Having won the toss, IC elected
to play up the slope in the first half and were hoping
to contain Bedford. This they did with every member
of the IC team running and covering. It was only a
break from the scrum that led to the only score of
the first half when the Bedford outside half scored
wide out — the conversion failed. Although Bedford
won a lot of ball they failed to use it whereas the
ball won by IC was often moved along the line for
wingers McDonough and Hunt (to make a lot of
ground. So with the Bedford pack tiring at the end
of the first half, IC turned round reasonably confident
that the score could be levelled.
At the beginning of the second half, IC pressurised
Bedford into their own 25 but could not find the
final opening to score. An injury to a Bedford player
left IC with an additional advantage when he left the
field and IC made good use of this. From a line out
Osborne made the initial break and with Adams
in support drove to the Bedford 25. The resulting ruck
was won by IC and the ball moved out for Cotter
to take and feed inside for Smith to crash over. This
try was the catalyst IC needed and from another ruck
in the Bedford 25 the ball was moved out to Hunt
who scored in the corner.
Bedford, realising they were losing with very little
time left (also back to full strength) resorted to "strong
arm" tactics and as a result Ian Elenor had to leave
the field to have stitches in a cut above the eye. IC
managed to hold on until a late disputed try (the
ball was passed a yard forward) brought the scores
level. The Bedford full back then put in a magnificent
kick from the toucbline to win the game. This final
try left IC sick as they had worked hard enough to
at least gain a draw. It was, as Bruce might say, "A
bag o's***"
Team: D. Rimmer, M. Cotter, R. Stern, J. McDon-
ough (Capt.), A. James, C. Flanagan, I. Elenor, P.
Ranson, B. Bradley, R. Matthews, A. Walton, D.
Osborne, M. Adams. ;
Scorers: TRIES: Hunt, Smith.
On Wednesday, November 8, IC played LSE away
and won by 15 points to 3. LSE loudly proclaimed
at a meeting earlier in the term that they were the best
team in UL this year but as can be seen from the
result 15 people at IC disagree with that statement.
The game was a repeat of the Gutteridge Cup Final
last season and was therefore a hard fought match.
Bruce had to be spoken to by the referee but this
had no bad effect on either side and several punches
were thrown, but IC still scored all the points. The
first try came when the ball was moved to Cotter who
cut in to touch down — Rimmer converted and also
kicked a penalty later on in the first half. A penalty
under the posts awarded to LSE brought the interval
score to 9—3.
After the Interval James decided he'd 'had enough
and flaked but it made little or no difference to IC,
with Matthews expertly reshuffling the hacks con-
sidering he is a 2nd row forward. IC held out and
late on increased their lead when Adams sold a
dummy and went over for a try which Rimmer con-
verted. The final whistle was soon after, LSE some-
what demoralised considering their earlier boast.
As it was McDonough's 21st birthday the Marloes
run was undertaken with James slowing the pace
down or being carried depending upon whether or
not the lads were thirsty. Naturally McDonough got
drunk, but then so did everyone else so he was not
alone and a good night was had by all.
Team: D. Rimmer, J. Hunt, M. Cotter, R. Stern,
N. Osborne, A. James (for one half only), C. Flana-
gan, B. Bradley, P. Ranson, C. Wrigley, R. Matthews
(Capt.), A. Smith, M. Adams, D. Osborne, A. Wal-
ton.
Scorers: TRIES Cotter, Adams; CONV Rimmer
(2); PEN Rimmer.
PS All rumours that McDonough is now orbiting the
earth and Hames has gone deaf following the Bonfire
party at Harrington are false!
Football Golf
On Saturday, November 4, IC visited Birkbeck
at Greenford. Expecting a hard game the IC side
started at a great pace and although Birkbeck hit
the bar early on, the first half was generally dominated
by IC. After several near misses, the visitors went
ahead through Billy Milne following good work by
Alan Williams who seems to enjoy making life diffi-
cult for centre-halves. From the start of the second
half it was apparent that the IC team had dropped
down a couple of gears and Birkbeck began to con-
trol the game. It was some time before the opposition
took advantage of -their control, and when they did
it was predictably their centre-forward who scored,
after some hesitancy in the IC defence. Even the
"shock" of this goal failed to stir IC although it
worked wonders for Birkbeck who had several more
good attempts before being awarded a suspiciously
offside goal. This second goal had the reverse effect of
the first and although IC never really dominated the
game they came back strongly. Birkbeck had trouble
in deciding with corner kicks and from two of these
Byron Smith and Billy Milne went close with volleys.
As the game progressed, IC seemed less and less
likely. Then with about five minutes to go a long
ball out of IC's defence found the Birkbeck centre-
half who rose magnificently above Alan Williams to
head past his own 'keeper.
Also on Saturday, the 3rd team travelled to the
National College of Food Technology and although
the game was boring (an easy 5
—
1 win) the food after-
wards is reported to have been superb, and since that
is the only reason the 3rd's went to NCFT (guess who
the fixture secretary plays for) everyone was quite
happy.
Wednesday, November 8 was not a good day for
IC. The first team played very poorly and allowed
UC to rush them instead of using the large Harlington
pitch to better advantage. Thefirsthalf was only saved
from being a total disaster by UC's inability to shoot
straight. The second half was slightly better, bult even
so only Gerwyn Edwards and Alan Williams played
as though they wanted to win.
Imperial were fortunate to go ahead when Alan Wil-
liams was needlessly knocked down. Pete Lonnen
converted the spot kick with no trouble. This goal
brought IC back into the game and when Pete Lonnen
had beaten most of the UC team and was just about
to send a scorching drive into the far top corner (or
so he tells me) he too was chopped down. Pete then
made it 2—0 and a UC player left thefieldfor express-
ing dissent (that's putting it mildly).
Still at Harlington the 2nds lost to UC II for the
first time for years. Leading 2—0 at one time the
traditionally strong 2nd team defence apparently made
a hash of the rest of the game. The thirds were held
to a 2—2 draw by UC HI and since last week they
beat UC II they have made a good start to their league
programme.
At Shenley the 4th drew 1
—
1 with UC IV and the
5th, with only 10 men, went down 3—1. Rob Carty's
Circus Team (the fjths) provided another nail biting
finish in beating QEC III by 7
—
-
6 (they still haven't
cured that defence, but what a forward line!).
The IC Golf Club plays at the Royal Mid-Surrey
Club at the Old Deer Park, Richmond (in Kew Gar-
dens, opposite Richmond tube).
The cost is a nominal subscription to the IC Club
plus a charge of 25p per round to Mid-Surrey — the
only restriction being Monday to Friday play only.
The membership is restricted to 25 by Mid-Surrey but
there are still plenty of vacancies.
To establish a flourishing club with fixtures and
competitions throughout the year these places must be
filled.
If you are interested, please contact S. Robertson,
Chem Eng 2 or 1. Read, Chem Bng 2.
Lacrosse
ELSIE WINS AGAIN
A competent team display by I.C. Lacrosse Club
last Saturday, brought them even nearer to clinching
the SEMLA League Title (3rd division!). ICI domi-
nated the game from the face and a 5-goal blitz in the
first quarter showed the true goal-scoring potential of
an experienced (?) forward line. The result appeared
to be a formality until a 3-goal flourish from the Lee
team destroyed IC's complacency in the last quarter.
However, the defence managed to regain control of
the situation and inspired by the midfield's example,
held out to ensure that the Imps maintained their 100
per cent record in the league with a final score of
11-4.
Postscript — The captain disclaims all responsibility
for the above report, obviously written by a couple of
ego-tripping forwards!
small
a d s
AERO 2 proudly announce
the engagement of John
Chitty (Aero 2, would you be-
lieve) of Sheffield, Yorks.,
to Judy Blair of Cardington,
Beds, (oops! sorry, Freudian
slip), Bedfordshire.
ARE you a red-blooded male
or female? Are you able and
willing? Are you the editor
of "Felix"? Do you want to
be paid for it? Can you make
it all night?
Help is wanted on Friday
evening (17th Nov.), for col-
lating (i.e. putting papers in
envelopes, etc.), prior to an
important meeting on the
Saturday. The pay is 30p
per hour and there is a pos-
sibility of working all night,
££££ (Three to be exact).
So if you're interested,
eonte'cit Alartyn Hart, Elec.
Eng. 3, via.Elec. Eng. Letter
Riaak or Internal Mail.
MUSICIANS wanted for TV
work. Felix Box 0001.
WANTED. Old Pushbike,
about £5. Must be unfashion-
able. Sid Amor, Felix or Ents.
letter rack.
FELIX no 318 Tuesday, November 14, 1972.
Edited by Oliver F. Dowson, with contributions
of words and labour by (in alphabetical order):
Philip Amodio, Sid Amor, Bob Carter, Peter
Crawford, Derek Cummings, Dave Gribble, Dave
Hobman, John Horsefall, Paul Hosking, Andy
Mafeld, Ross McBeath, Colin McCall, John Oli-
ver, Gerry O'Prey, Colette Robertson and the
rest of the cast of millions.
Contributions for "Felix" are always welcome
and should be addressed to the Editor, (resid-
ence Weeks Hall 14).
National Advertising contractors are Univer-
sity Press Representation, Grand Buildings,
Trafalgar Square, WC1, 01-930 1322.
London advertising by Felix Advertising, Im-
perial College Union, London SW7 2BB, 01-589
5111 Ext 2229.
Printed by F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley,
Gloucestershire.
Published by the editor for and on behalf of
the Imperial College Union Publications Board.
All material copyright © 1972.
"Felix" is a founder member of the London
Student Press Association.

