CND
END
SANA
An information guide to Peace Groups at IC
compiled by Zoe Saunders
CND
Run at IC by undergraduates
and PGs. Activities include:
Monday: CND Bookshop JCR
Thursday: Weekly meeting
Beit Discussion group.
Organise a Newsletter
Speaker meetings
Films eg 'The Bomb'
Discussion groups
Publicise peace events at IC
and for national CND
CONTACTS for CND at IC:
Alex Christou (Maths 2)
Clive Harries (Mech Eng PG)
Robert Kelsey (Civ Eng 3)
What a Nuclear Attack
Really Means
Written by Research Scientists at IC
END
Formed Spring 1980
Non-membership organisation which extends the movement
for nuclear disarmament to incorporate all of Europe—East and
West.
Founded on an APPEAL to all European countries to work for a
NUCLEAR FREE EUROPE. The many signatories include:
Alva Myrdal (Nobel Peace Prize 1982)
Kurt Vonnegut European Conventions
Fenner Brockway Brussels 1982 Publishes END Bulletin
Bruce Kent Berlin 1983 END Papers
SANA
Scientists Against Nuclear Arms
Founded in March 1981 at Milton Keynes. This is an independent organization
formed in response to the escalation of the Arms Race and the consequent danger
of nuclear war. Its membership includes natural and social scientists, engineers
and technologists, statisticians and psychologists.
Its purpose is to provide reliable and objective information on technical matters
concerning nuclear arms and other weapons of mass destruction. It seeks to serve
all sections of the peace and disarmament movement, Members of Parliament,
local Councillors, Church and Trade Union leaders and to inform the media and
the general public. It maintains contact and exchanges information with groups in
other countries having similar aims.
SANA consists of local Working Groups, whose members research and publish
papers, reports, factsheets, speakers notes, bibliographies, media reports and
books, such as London After the Bomb. Publications cover such topics as Nuclear
Weapons and Delivery Systems, Civil Defence, Disarmament, Nuclear Power,
Psychology of the Arms Race.
SANA runs advisory/briefing/consultancy services for Local Authorities, medical
and religious committees and other similar organizations. For example, SANA
members expertise aided the BMAEnquiry into the Medical Effects of Nuclear
Weapons, due to be published in 1983, provided factual information for the
Chairman of the Church of England Committee on The Church and the Bomb, and
undertook critical computer analysis providing detailed casualty figures for the
CND Hard Luck Civil Defence Simulation.
CHAIRMAN : Mike Pentz Dean of Science Faculty OPEN UNIVERSITY
CONTACTS for END and SANA at IC :
Tom Kibble (IC Physics)
David Caplin (ICPhysics)
Mike Barnett (ICPhysics)
Keith Barnham (ICPhysics)
Norman Barford (ICPhysics)
Philip Webber (IC Physics/Co-author of London After The Bomb)
Work for Peace
at Imperial College
PagelOl I November 26, 19821
&oo4, 6ve*ui\jJ -
r W do j o * i d° ?
I am frm Me
'f- doesn't- ofa s h o
iecqqie / keep a lou pn>f,le
IFELIX

