Black Balls
and Exiles
Four Hundred Pounds by Alfred Fagon
and Conversations in Exile by Bertolt
Brecht, adapted by Howard Brenton,
director Roland Rees, Royal Court
Theatre Upstairs. Foco Novo Theatre
Company.
A double-bill, each piece featuring the same
two black actors Gordon Case and Stephan
Kalipha. The plays have the themes of exiles
and the game of pool in c o m m o n . Four
Hundred Pounds concerns two black partners
who play pool for a living, surviving by
gambling on their game. The story begins with
a dispute between the two, which threatens
their long friendship. Tecee (played by Case)
has deliberately potted the white ball with the
black at the end of a frame which carried a
stake of four hundred pounds, thus losing both
the game and the money.
The heated argument continues, with Tecee
displaying his disillusionment at his hand-to-
mouth existence. He feels that he must pursue
a more stable and worthwhile lifestyle. Bees,
his partner, cannot believe or understand this
change in Tecee, and has a different attitude to
coping with being black in Britain. He prefers
to stay out of the system, he's a survivor who
is content to scrape a living playing pool.
• I R E V I E W S H i
The second play, Conversations in Exile,
was written by Bertolt Brecht and adapted by
Howard Brenton (who wrote The Romans in
Britain). In this production Case and Kalipha
play Kalle and Ziffel respectively, two exiles
from Nazi Germany who meet in a bar in
Finland. As in the first play, the two characters
have different viewpoints and attitudes—Kalle
is a socialist and Ziffel a capitalist businessman
and physics researcher. They begin a game of
pool and as their evening progresses they
discuss topics such as freedom, passports,
fascism and cockroaches. Often Kalle and
Ziffel agree but each arrives at his conclusion
via a different route from the other.
The importance of the pool game in the
action of Conversations is negligible. More to
the point, what chance would there be of
finding an American pool table in a bar in
Finland in 1940? None! Presumably this pool
table which has travelled in time and/or space
•is part of Howard Brenton's adaptation of
Brecht's original work. The playwright of Four
Hundred Pounds is obviously not a pool player
either since his characters refer to 'reds' in a
pool game. Evidently he is confusing snooker
with the a f o r e m e n t i o n e d A m e r i c a n poor
imitation.
Possibly the most important reason for
showing these plays as a double bill is that they
present black actors in one play which features
blacks as characters (Tecee and Bees) and in
another play which doesn't. Historically there
have been few theatrical opportunities for
racial minorities, for example blacks would
Acting
and Overacting
Man and Superman by Bernard Shaw,
directed by Patrick Dromgoole; Theatre
Royal, Haymarket.
In last week's review of Major Barbara at
the Cottesloe Theatre I mentioned that the
play was one of three by means of which Shaw
c o n v e r t e d the t h e a t r e i n t o a p l a c e of
provocation and debate. Man and Superman,
which has just opened at the Theatre Royal,
Haymarket, is one of the others (the third
being John Bull's Other Island).
Peter O ' T o o l e takes the part of J o h n
Tanner, the play's central character. Tanner is
a rather cynical bachelor who has earned
mistrust and contempt because of his little
book Maxims for Revolutionists from the
Revolutionist's Handbook and Pocket
Companion by John Tanner M I R C (Member
of the Idle Rich Class). A will entrusts Tanner
with the guardianship of a beautiful lady by the
name of A n n e Whitefield (played by Lisa
Harrow of B B C T V ' s N a n c y Astor), but this
has to be done jointly with Octavius Robinson,
a delicate and aspiring young poet (Timothy
Ackroyd), who has a naive understanding of
life and women. The plot is too complicated to
elaborate here but the character of Tanner is
quite clearly Shaw's mouthpiece. John Tanner
turns morality upside-down and exposes the
grasping cunningness of women when it comes
to love and marriage. Man and Superman is an
e x t r e m e l y clever play, full of c o m i c mis-
understandings and superb jokes.
The production is an accomplished one, but
one did have one's doubts at the beginning,
namely, M r O ' T o o l e . After the first five
minutes of the play, which comprised some
excellent acting, M r O'Toole burst upon the
stage shrieking at the top of his hoarse voice
Peter O'Toole as John Tanner
like a distraught warthog eyeing a stampede of
rhinoceros approaching in all earnestness. His
speech was often incoherent, with the ends of
his words frequently slurred, and he staggered
about the stage, his feet not knowing where
they were going and his long slender legs
looking as if they were going to give way any
second. Anyone would have thought the man
was p i s s e d . Y e s , his a c t i n g was a l m o s t
embarrassing. Success and fame have clearly
gone to M r O ' T o o l e ' s h e a d , m a k i n g him
behave like a male prima donna. However,
after this initial outburst, things did seem to
improve a great deal (unless I was getting used
to it). When M r O'Toole spoke in a quiet
m a n n e r he did hold the stage and one's
attention magnificently.
The acting from the rest of the cast was
excellent. Particular mention must go to Lisa
Harrow, James Grout as Roebuck Ramsden,
and Michael Byre as Henry Straken, a motor
mechanic. Despite Peter O'Toole's excesses,
this remains a very commendable production.
Nick Bedding
Gordon Case in Pot Black pose.
only be cast parts in productions such as Loue
They Neighbour or Mixed Blessings or be
called upon to play the stereotyped black. The
number of black Macbeths or Hamlets is small.
That is, actors from ethnic minorities have not
been judged on merit. Some progress is being
made to recognise the talents of black actors.
Y o u may have noticed the token black
syndrome in advertisements recently. That is,
if an advert features more than say six different
people then one of them must be non-white. In
this way the advertising media pays lipservice
to ethnic minorities—they acknowledge they
exist. But in how many adverts featuring only
one person is that person black? I can only
think of one and the character in that advert is
Lenny Henry who is already well-known.
Nick Hill
Camelot—the film
My first reaction on hearing that Camelot was
a musical based on the legend of King Arthur
was skepticism. M y suspicion was increased
when it became apparent that the model for
the story was T H White's The Once and
Future King whose subtle blend of gentle
humour and pathos would, I thought, transfer
poorly to the more brash medium of song and
dance. But, on leaving the cinema I felt it could
have been much worse. Vanessa Redgrave
adds some sparkle to the acting and the
c o s t u m e s a n d the s e t s l e n d a feel of
authenticity and a certain excitement to the
overall spectacle. The generally turgid dialogue
is improved by the odd sharp one-liner and it
makes a gallant attempt to tell the whole story
(not an easy task).
However, now to the less savoury elements;
the songs are only noteworthy because of their
immemorability. As for the story, it starts well
enough but falls to pieces, not seeming to
know which way to go in the last hour, and the
film as a whole suffers from the Hollywood
conception of England and the English. It also
suffers (with a few exceptions) from a lack of
imagination with the camera, and I got rather
tired of seeing close-ups of the face of Richard
Harris (Arthur) complete with furrowed brow
when he's about to make some (supposedly)
profound statement.
In short, it's worth a look at if you're a fan of
musicals but otherwise unremarkable.
FELIX November 26, 1982 P a g e l l

