bookaxiomatic
g r e g e g a r w i s
Sometimes when you
read a book by a familiar
I author, you realise that
this is the result they were
aiming to produce in their
previous attempts.
Although this book is a
collection of short stories
as opposed to a novel,
Greg Egan has definitely
hit the mark here.
Nineties science fiction has tended to find
itself in the doldrums when it comes to new
ideas based on science as opposed to sociology.
(Cyberpunk is in general the latter.) Egan has
come and shown that there are plenty of things
still to be played with, although this is not to say
he ignores the social aspects of his fictions.
The stories are a combination of the older
areas of weird cosmologies and quantum effects,
and the newer areas of genetics, nanotech, and
the mathematics of chaos, and most of them
have a heavy streak of questions of 'self'. To illus-
trate, the title story concerns the use of nanotech
to manipulate the brain, giving a person a new
'axiom' of behaviour, whilst 'The Moral
Embryologist' discusses morals in the age of
AIDS and 'The Hundred Year Diary' has a set
up aUowing information, induding personal
diaries, to be received from the future.
Egan is an up and coming Austalian author
and this, his third book (in paperback), is his
most readable so far. If you chucked SF because
everything you read could be traced back to
Clarke or Asimov, this collection will renew your
interest in the genre. If you have never tried SF,
then this is an ideal introduction.
playone knightsiin thurston-gordon
The fear of the armed maniac is a devil which sits
menacingly on the shoulder of every seriously
guilty individual, whether arrested by the state
or not. 'One Knight', by Simon Francis frighten-
ingly depicts such a nightmare situation. The
"hostage", played by Henry Dunn, can't believe
that he's been caught, because the hysterical
"kidnapper" (Ben Shockley) is not part of the
official legal-police-religious merry-go-round.
The "hostage" treats his kidnapper with
concertic symphony
orchestra
Copland: Quiet City
Britten: Piano Concerto
Sibelius: Symphony No. 2
The rehearsal time for third term concerts is less
than half that for the previous terms.
Nevertheless, this very substantial and ambitious
program was performed with assurance, preci-
sion and zest.
The original version of Quiet City was com-
posed in 1938 for trumpet, saxophone, clarinet
and piano as incidental music for an experimen-
tal drama of that name intended for New York's
Broadway. Steve Hick's controlled and sensitive
performance showed that Copland's concern
was kind but superfluous; however, it gave us the
opportunity to experience the matching control
of Daniel Elsen on the cor-anglais.
That same year, 1938, Copland visited
Britten at the Old Mill at Snape in Suffolk,
where they formed a firm friendship and where
Britten played him the first version of Britten's
Piano Concerto. Only three years before, Britten
had lived, as an R C M student, in a minute room
at 173 Cromwell Road. In that period he had
written a lot of incidental music for the BBC, for
documentary work, and for theatre works by
W H . Auden. The piano concerto is of that time.
Britten gave the American premiere at the
Carnegie Hall in New York. To restore the
Transadantic balance, forty years later, Copland,
conducting an 80th birthday performance of
Quiet City in the Royal Albert Hall, had to aban-
don the stage when the elderly heating system (it
was winter) began to rattle and thump with a
volume approaching that of the orchestra.
Sibelius wrote most of his second sympho-
ny in the congenial climate of the hills behind
Rapallo in northern Italy. The "Mediterranean
Lyricism" of Walton's orchestral writing comes
from a similar location and also the formal struc-
ture of his first symphony owes much to
Sibelius. His "Valse Triste", which turned him
into a cult figure, had originally been written to
accompany a scene in a play entided "Death" by
his brother-in-law. His theatre work was well
established before the composition of the sym-
phonies and crucially augmented his formal abil-
ities.
There have been recent studies (reported in
Nature) suggesting that musical experience and
ttaining cross-fertilizes other mental skills. If this
is true, the dismissive Government attitude to
music in schools needs reassessment. The mem-
bers of ICSO, following Dickens, Ash scholar-
ships, Exhibitions and the joint IC/RCM course,
form a unique group with their abilities in sci-
ence as well as in music.
Axiomatic L
s out now in
paperback from
The Union bookshop has
copies.
For more uitbiTnatioji on
Greg Egan see web page
hitp:,'/ivuni'.sattutnath,
eUu.ch/%7EpkeUer/
Vgan-Vaxehtm}
complacent contempt, as ifhe is a naughty child,
because he knows that the kidnapper is com-
mitting a criminal offence and will be punished
for it. The difference between their respective
successes and failings in life turns out be their
perception of Elvis Presley's end! "Hostage"
understands him to be an obese failure while
"kidnapper" sees him as the King. This is a very
watchable and worthwhile play, that makes you
wonder what happened the night after the
inevitable end.
One Knight
'11K- Man in the Moon
392 Kings Road, Chelsea
Symphony O n lustra,
conducted by Kkhurd
Dickens with Stephen
Tarhon (piano), Fridav
24th Mav 1996

