simon baker
Nay, nay and thrice nay.
It's a lie, a vicious lie. OK, I
had had a skinful, but
'can't dance for toffee' is a
heinous libel. Once my
lawyers had stopped
laughing, I decided to take
no further action. Under
normal circumstances, I
dance like a demon. Honest, guvnor, and if you
want proof I shall be out this very night bopping
away to that new-fangled sound the young peo-
ple call techno, location as yet unknown, but in
the presence of witnesses. And as for you Ms
Editor, one embarrassing moment and Uncle
Simon's down on you like a ton of the prover-
bials!
After nearly eight months of my weekly
elaboration of sound ideas (ranting) with virtual-
ly no response from anyone, it was heartwarm-
ing to see, as with London buses, two come along
at once. Richard Halls' letter about the mobile
phone ban was satisfying on its own - you're on
my Christmas card list, Richard - but to receive
correspondence from the Academic Registrar is
more than a humble scribe such as myself ever
hoped for. Modesty forbids me replying to the
initial comparisons with Private Eye (flattery will
get you everywhere), but I must apologise to
Vemon McClure for demoting him and to Nigel
Wheatley lor overbilling his part. Since you will
both be processing my degree this month, I can
only say that you are both wonderful, the best
people for the jobs, and I'd appreciate those
Geneva bank account numbers I asked for.
Making excuses, the head count was not made
by me, but what I said about qualifications was
that the 'place of study of your degree' was what
you wanted to know rather than where the
application is being made to. I took it for granted
that the application wouldn't end up at
Aberystwyth. This is a petty point, since the real-
isation that not only do people in high places read
my column but listen to what I say too, fills this
embittered old hack's heart with joy and makes
it all worthwhile.
Now down to business. Sleaze, albeit in
small measure, caught up with the Government
again last weekend when one of the Welsh
Ministers resigned over an alleged affair. While it
in no way affects his ability to conduct his job, it
was good to see that he took the most hon-
ourable course, of action. In the same week, the
Whitewater affair across the Atlantic resulted in
three convictions for fraud. In each case the star
witness was Bill 'inhalation only' Clinton, and his
testimony was completely rejected by the jury.
Put simply, they believe the President to be lying.
It must be remembered that the last time the
President was caught telling porkies, he (Richard
Nixon) was forced to resign. If Clinton continues
like this, he may well follow the same path.
Additionally, the man who dodged the draft in
Vietnam is now using the immunity from prose-
cution granted to a serving soldier to avoid a sex-
ual harassment suit, by
virtue of him being com-
mander-in-chief and thus a
member of the armed
forces. In Italy, former
prime ministers Andreotti
and Berlusconi have been
charged with corruption,
along with huge numbers of
governmental, industrial
and judicial figures. Before labelling the mother
of modem democracies rotten and corrupt, it is
worth putting into perspective the behaviour of
wife-swapping, toe-sucking politicians.
Nobody's perfect, but in this case the grass is
greener on this side.
The BMS building seems to be ticking along
nicely (although the Chemistry building is
vibrating ridiculously at times), but the Library
project is verging on the farcical. I am one of the
lucky ones: work started the day after my last
exam, and I have sympathy for those trying to
secure their employment prospects in there at
the moment. It is certainly true that the really
noisy work is done before opening, and when
they say noisy, they are not kidding - it involves
smashing concrete and cutting steel with angle
grinders. The fact of the matter is that no work
should be undertaken on this project during the
week. You cannot excavate buildings quietiy, and
the College should not sanction any activities
that can potentially damage the prospects of its
students. A little imaginative planning from
College Estates and Schal could undoubtedly
ensure that the job could be done at weekends
and early in the holidays. Yes, it would cost more,
but if the relevant authorities had stipulated in
the contract that Schal could not throw money
away on things such as the thoroughly pointless
Hard Hat' pamphlet and the ever-increasing
signs around the site perimeter (if these signs
were at the behest of my good friend Mr
Caldwell, I apologise). I appreciate that you can-
not make omelettes without breaking eggs, but
such scant regard for students at such a critical
time is just not on. If the project had been prop-
erly managed, work would have begun last
October, and I would love to hear why this was
not done. All I can say is that life here in the six-
ties at the time of all the major redevelopment
must have been awful. Or perhaps students
were not viewed as those annoying little sods
who limit the scope for conferences in those
days.
It would seem that English football is again
dogged with the problem of hooliganism, the
twist this time being that it is the players who
have committed the misdemeanours. Mr
Gascoigne was apparently the protagonist in the
wecking of the team plane, damaging a couple
ofTVs. For my money, if they win Euro '96, they
can trash the entire Cathay Pacific fleet and I'll
pick up the tab. In that event, there will be one
columnist sobbing so uncontrollably with joy
that the Thames barrier will have to be raised. -

