MILLIONS oftouristshave been photographed doing it, Superman
did it once but changed his mind, now, John Burland, Professor
of Soil Mechanics at Imperial College, hopestostop the famous
Tower of Pisa from leaningtoofar. Sarah Tomlin reports.
> i n
T h e S k e w f r o m t h e T o w e r
T
he leaning Tower of Pisa has been
closed to the public since 1989, when
another tower in Pavia collapsed,
killing four people. Because of the historic and
tourist value of the tower, the Italian govern-
ment immediately set up a commission to
investigate ways to save it. The commission
now believes the tower could topple over at any
time. The overhang is already 4.5 meters on the
south side and it leans a millimetre more to the
south every year. The weakest point of the
tower is the compressed masonry near the base
on the south side, which is under enormous
strain and is in constant danger of exploding
outwards.
The reason why the tower leans in the first
place is a lesson for construction engineers
everywhere. The source of the problem is a
layer of very soft clay about ten meters below
the tower. Professor Burland compared it to
building a tower of bricks on a very soft carpet.
On the south side of the tower, the clay layer is
very slightly more compressible. This is why
the tower leans to the south, although accord-
ing to Professor Burland, the tower would have
ended up leaning anyway.
You may find it surprising that the tower
has survived to the present day intact but it is
nothing short of a miracle that construction of
the tower was completed in the first place. The
tower owes its very existence to the changing
fortunes of Pisa. Work was begun in 1174, but
construction was held up several times when
Pisa ran out of money, or needed it for more
important concerns, likefightingwars. If it had
not been for these breaks during construction,
the tower would have fallen over a long time ago.
Fortunately, building work was stopped each
time just before it became critical, and the pass-
ing years allowed the tower to settle down in the
clay. In fact, the tower was already listing to the
south when the bell tower was finally added two
hundred years later. The builders tried their own
cosmetic surgery on the tower by slanting the
bell tower to the north. Today there are six steps
to the bell chamber on the south side and four to
the north, giving the tower an overall banana
shape.
If the architects of the 12th century were
bananas to try to build their tower on a layer of
soft clay, drere have been many equally crazy
attempts to save the tower, some
which have done more damage
than good. In the 1930s Mussolini IX
pumped 80 tonnes of cement into the founda-
tions, causing it to tilt even further. In 1991 there
was a proposal to chop the tower off at the base
with a diamond saw and then straighten it out
with hydraulic winches. A number of less
destructive measures were taken in 1992. To
prevent the stonemasonry from bursting out-
wards, the lower walls were wrapped in steel
cables. And in an effort to counterbalance the
tilt, 600 tonnes of lead weights were placed on
the foundations on the north side. Professor
Burland seems pleased with the results so far.
"We have reduced the inclination by 2cm and
the overturning moment by 14% - in other
words, the tower is 14% safer." However these
are only temporary measures to prevent damage
to the monument occurring before a permanent
solution can be found.
In 1993 Italian and British engineers began
tests near the tower to evaluate the viability of
two different techniques. Both hoped to solve
the underlying problem in the layer of soft clay.
Carlo Viggiamo of the University of Naples
planned to drain water from the clay on the
north side using electro-osmosis. If the clay
could be dried out in this way, it would shrink,
allowing the tower to sink back down
on this side. Tests in the laboratory
looked promising, but engineers who
tried this technique did not meet with
success.
The other technique on trial
involved the removal of some of the
soft clay beneath the north side. The
main difficulty with this method is
the precarious state of the monu-
ment; clay has to be extracted from
under the tower without gready dis-
turbing it. The soil extraction tech-
nique developed by John Burland and
his colleagues uses specially designed
drills, which have external casings only
twenty centimetres in diameter.
These can be inserted into the ground
with the minimum of disturbance,
and clay can be extracted one cubic
centimetre at a time. It is hoped that
removing the soil in this highly con-
trolled way will allow engineers to
monitor the stability of the tower at all
times. If the work goes ahead and is
successful, they will reduce the 5.5
degree inclination of the tower by
around 10%. Not enough that the
average tourist would notice according to
Professor Burland but he is optimistic about the
future of the tower: "If we are allowed to do the
soil extraction we will save it, extending its life by
another 500 years." And if no work is done? "It
will fall over! We don't know when, but it could
be as soon as 2 or 3 years".
If you have a civil engineering problem,
Professor John Burland of soil mechan-
ics can straighten it out.

