FELIX
TRIAL BY JURY
Gilbert and Sullivan is a standard choice
for the Musical Society and can be, at its
best, most entertaining, if a bit archaic. It
was interesting to see the Producer, Mr. Peter
Rodway, had got away from the D'Oyly
Carte prompt book to some extent, though
it is debatable whether increasing the num-
ber of people on an already crowded stage
is a step in th© right direction. We were, of
course, subjected to the male chorus in line
abreast on the apron of the stage, but apart
from purely personal dislikes, the whole pro-
duction was treated in exactly the spirit and
the overall effect was a very entertaining per-
formance.
Once again the Wagnerian approach crept in
to some extent, particularly with the leading
soprano, but most of the time lead roles were
performed and sung in very much the right
manner, although there were times when hum-
orous byplay detracted somewhat from the
main action. The orchestra seemed very much
more at home with Sullivan's music and per-
If. Karnac
(books) Ltd.
N E W BOOKS
S E C O N D H A N D BOOKS
and now . . P A P E R B A C K S
Visit our new paperbacks shop at 56,
Gloucester Road, where a comprehensive
selection of general technical and
scientific paperbacks are on display.
Gloucester Road,
S.W.7
formed most creditably, although the timpani
and strings were occasionally overpowering.
The set suffered once more from overfilling
the stage and the painting of it appeared a
little bizarre. The lighting, designed presum-
ably to tone with the colouring of the set,
was also rather unusual, but, in the back-
drop effect, did succeed in being most effect-
ive. The most notable performances were
those of Maciej Smolenski as the Usher, Neil
Murray as Counsel for the Plaintiff and Dave
Rymer as the mcfct Learned Judge. These
three carried the piece along with spirit and
great humour and were ably supported by the
remainder of the cast. The Public and the
Jurymen, although there seemed to be an aw-
ful lot of them on the stage at once, entered
fully into the general entertainment of the
production. Mention should also be made of
a charming performance in the interval by
the stage crew, much appreciated by some
sections of the audience at least.
BASTIEN
and BASTIENNE
This opera, written by Mozart at the age
of 12, must essentially be performed in a very
light manner. The orchestra's tendency to plod
on some passages, and the somewhat Wag-
nerian interpretation of soprano, did not help
this conception. The tenor voice seemed more
suited to the mood of the piecet, but was
unfortunatelly, often inaudible, and, although
the characterisation seemed correctly orient-
ated, the result was not entirely successful.
The part of the Magician, Colas was effect-
ively sung and performed, but with a regret-
ably tendency towards pantomine demon
king, without the correct costume. The hat
gave a faultless performance; but the costumes
in general " — entirely unsuited to the piece.
The set, though well and robustly constructed,
with a particularly impressive tree, appeared
to clutter the stage to such an! extent as
to leave no room for the performers. It looked
pleasantly rustic and was very well lit, but
there was just too much of it.
FILM
T H E T H R O N E O F B L O O D
7 p.m. Fri. March 2nd Concert Hall.
In T H E THRONE O F BLOOD Kurosaura has
taken the plot of Macbeth and used it in a
Japanese setting. It is inevitable to compare
this film with Shakespeare's Macbeth since
Kurosaura has been so faithful in his inter-
pretation — Dashizu (the counterpart of Mac-
beth) murders Tsuzuki (Duncan), Asaji (Lady
Macbeth) tries to wash the blood off her hands
— yet at the same time it is no imitation;
rather have both Sheakespeare and Kurosaura
used the original in Holinshed. In the 16th
century Japan was in the turmoil of civil wars
with continuous feuding between the war
lords. It is this period that Kurosaura has
used convincingly for his tale. Without the
poetry of Shakespeare, the crudity, treachery
and violence are more obvious and the result
sometimes hysteria. This is emphasised bv
Lord Washizu's death — a barbaric act in
which he becomes pincushioned with arrows
until he is almost split apart. The acting is
different but good. Kurosoura has used many
of these actors before and like Bergman and
Ford prefers to keep his cast together. The
tradition of the no play has produced its own
style of acting in which amotions are shown
with the eyes and body whilst retaining an
expressionless face. Japan has a prolific film
industry making more feature films than anv
other country (1958, Japan 516, America 288)
yet only Akira Kurosaura's films have con-
sistently appealed to the western eyes. His
ability can be assessed from his films:
RASHOMON, S E V E N SUMARAI, T H E HIDDEN
FORTRESS,-
and I would place THRONE O F BLOOD
second after S E V E N SUMARAI.
A J . W A L K E R
DRAMA
W I L L E S D E N D R A M A F E S T I V A L
Having won the U.L.U. competition with
an extract from "A Sleep of Prisoners" by
Christopher Fry, John Webb chose, the latter
part of the same play as the I.GD.S- entry
for the Willesden Drama Festival in the hope
of emulating that success.
Once again the hghting and sound effects
help the cast considerably. The set was ex-
tremely simple and effective. The two lecterns
in the church (used by the prisoners of war
as a billet) aided the grouping of the actors.
The main part of the extract consisted of
a dream about the burning of Shadrac, Meshac
and Abendego in the furnace; the characters
were represented by the corporal and the two
privates (Mike Combs, E d Ffield) who played
the scene in a shaft of red light. Meadows
(David Cain) provided the link connecting
dream and reality, but it was the forceful port-
rayal of the corporal by Tony Forey that high-
lighted the production.
The Festival ends on March 6th; this pro-
duction should come high up in the final
choice of the Adjudicator.
The Dramatic Society are presenting
"Arsenic and Old Lace" on March 13th to
16th inclusive; it is hoped that you will enjoy
this production . . . when you come . . .
BRYAN HOOPER

