FELIX 3
I N T E R C O L L E G I A T E D E B A T I N G C O M P E T I T I O N
Guiids win agal
The Intercollegiate Debating Competition
for the Imperial College Debating Challenge
Trophy was won by Guilds again this year.
Guilds beat RCS by 279 to 256 points and
also beat R S M (303-219).
The first debate was on the motion "This
house believes that Americans worship false
gods." The RCS team of Christine Bradford,
Jon Bareford, Bob Finch and Finlav Macpher-
son proposed the motion, while Si Lyle, Srini-
vasani, John Simpson and Asit Chandmal op-
posed it for Guilds. In her opening speech,
Christine Bareford failed to really attack
American gods, and she had a tendencv
to be facetious, usually fatal in a serious de-
bate. She also read a great deal of her speech,
as did Simpson and Bareford, and this too
is fatal especially in a compdtition. Si Lyle,
who started by saying that he had great pleas-
ure in at last doing something for his con-
stituent College, spoke well but rather slow-
ly and sppeared to tail off suddenly when 8
minutes were up. Srinivasan has the potent-
iality of a good debater, and he spoke well.
The only criticism of his speech was that he
haltekl noticebly between each of the points
he was making, instead of leading smoothly
from one point to the next.
The last three speakers were the experienced
trio of Bob Finch, Asit Chandmal and Finlay
Macpherson. Finch spoke in his usual manner,
but unfortunately he too tended to be face
tious, did not bother to refute any of the
points of the opposition. His speech seemed
to suffer from a lack of adequate preparation.
So, as the judges said, it was only the last
F E L I X INVESTIGATIONS INC.
U N D E R C O V E R W E D D I N G
E X P O S E D
I.C. PRESIDENT
I N E X T R I C A B L Y I N V O L V E D
IN M A R R I A G E .
two speakers who really got their teeth into
the motion. Asit Chandmal, summing up for
the opposition, made a very good and witty
speech CManroe and Mansfield merely repre-
sent the excess sugar of a diabetic decade') and
he very successfully ridiculed and refuted the
proposers' arguments. Perhaps, the one fault
in his summing up was that he spent a little
too much time tearing up his opponents' arg-
uments and not enough summing up his own
side's. McPherson made a brilliant speech.
At one point it looked as if he would swing
the vote, but it was impossible to make-up for
the inadequacies of his side. Perhaps, two
charges could be levelled against McPherson,
wrong order of speaking of the team and neg-
lecting the possibility of including an Ameri-
can or Canadian to replace one of the first
two speakers. These tactical mistakes do not
detract fro mhis extremely good summing up,
but at the same time, probably lost R C S the
debate. \
The second debate, in which Guilds pro-
posed the motion that "This House fears the
future", was practically a walk-over for
Guilds. Each of their speakers was better than
his opposite number and Guilds were
far better organised. Lyle proposing, spoke
of the dangers of 'getting soft' in the Affluent
Society, and the very real dangers of the
'misuse of the Machine Age'. He quoted from
am article by Prof. Minsky of NOT, and in gen-
eral convinced the audience that machines were
terible ogres with fiendish designs on hum-
anity. Lyle's speech was excellent. Simpson,
speaking second, spoke of the dangers of nu-
clear war and of nuclear arms spreading over
the world. Srinivasan, speaking third for
Guilds, spoke of the dangers of over populat-
ion. He said that this was an extremely ur-
gent and almost insurmountable problem,
which birth control alone could not hope to
solve. 'Using contraceptives is like eating a
ciiocolate with the wrapper on, or taking a
bath with gumboots on, and in any case, the
only certain method of preventing conception
is a glass of water, taken not before or after,
but instead of.' The Mines team were rather
badly organised, did not put up many argu-
ments, and with little evidance. This may have
been due to the fact that they thought their
first speaker would be asked to sum up, in-
stead of their fourth speaker. The speaking
on the Mines side was good on the whole
and their first speaker certainly has the pot-
entialities of a first rate debater. Asit Chand-
mal, summing up for Guilds started his
speech nervously but soon warmed up to his
accustomed easy wit ('Hope always goes
hand-irtthand with ;, iuth, but in the case of
the members of the vpyosition this hand-hold-
ing has reached the climax of a passionate
embrace').
On the whole, these two debates were ex-
tremely enjoyable. The President of Debates
is to be commanded on his handling of the
Debates, and his method of arranging the hall
similar to the U . L. U . Debating Hall in an
improvement. In his summing he aptly said
that fthe Debating Competition had been won
by the New Delhi branch of the Old Central-
ians'. The Judges, Wilson, Tomlinson and
Weale performed their hard task in an ad-
mirable manner and deserve all the thanks
andgratitude of the Debating Society.
SCRUTINY
The latest issue of Scrutiny is a consider-
able improvement on the last one, which
displayed an almost neurotically aggresive
attitude towards Council and the Union Es-
tablishment. In his issue, however, the Union
and its officers get away with practically no
criticism, and one wonders whether Scrutiny
has not become part of the Establishment
after all. The departure of John Cox from
the College must have left a considerable gap
gap in the ranks of the anti-Union brigade
and the Editor may have come under the in-
fluence of our President's powerful person-
ality during his visit to the Union Office.
Stirring apart, this issue has many com-
mendable feaures. "College Social Affairs"
has some relevant and well-judged obser-
vations to make, and the identity of the com-
mentators is at least hinted at by their init-
ials. A n interesting euphemism occuns on
page 5, where unruly behaviour disrupting
lectures is termed "somewhat eccentric"
'Juvenile" or"Offensive" might be better ad-
jectives.
Bob Finch counterbalances John Cox's
pro-Communist article in the last issue with
a more critical approach to the same subject,
and Mr. Levitt delivers a concentrated and
effective broadside against Mr. Kubba's anti-
Israeli article in particular and the Arab
League in general. Mr. Kubba is cut down
to size even further by what is perhaps the
best article in this issue, Mr. Sekey's "The
Patern of Propaganda". Levitt and Sekey
have contributed the sort of articles that just-
ify Scrutiny's existance, for one can't help
feeling that in the case of several of the pol-
itical-religious articles, the subject is covered
far better elsewhere.
However, the Editor and his staff are to be
congratulated on the issue, which goes to-
wards filling a gap in the range of student
publication available. Next issue, perhapis.
we may return to the critical attitude of th2
previous issue combined with the factual ap-
proach of this one. How about a searching
and factual article tearing Felix to pieces,
Mr. Pearson?
GILBERT
LAMLEY'S
T E C H N I C A L & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
A R T M A T E R I A L S
D R A W I N G I N S T R U M E N T S
S T A T I O N E R Y
P A P E R B A C K S
1, 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD, S W.7.

