imk to tk Cdget
Dear Sir,
Looking through the S M A L L ADDS, column
of 'Felix' this week reminded me of a series
of adds, which appeared in a local weekly
paper some time ago.
I quote;
Sept. 8th F O R S A L E .
Slightly used farm wench. In good condition.
Needs to be well oiled to work.
Phone 367 A . Cook
Sept 15th C O R R E C T I O N MISSED O U T .
Due to an unfortunate error, M. Cook's
Ad. last week was not clear. He has an
excelent WINCH for sale. We trust this will
put an end to the embarrassement cause to
Mr. Cook, and his Housewife Mrs. Feathers,
who loves him.
Sept. 22nd NOTICE.
My WINCH is not for sale. I've smashed it
up. Don'tbother to call my number. I've had
the phone taken out. I am not living in sin
with Mrs. Feathers. Until I can find a new
housekeeper, she is carrying on with me.
Yours Apologetically,
PETER JENSSEN, Phys. 1
Dear Sir,
In view of the criticism I have incurred
in certain quarters, I would like to clarify
my position concerning my letter of the last
issue.
I have never suggested that the captain of
the Rugby Club was failing in his duty to
the first XV, and would congratulate him on
having reached the final.
Yours sincerely,
S.P. GARDINER
Dear Sir,
I read with interest Mr. Abdul Ben Moh-
amad's letter in your last issue concerning
interesting Lancashire Hot-Pot. I fully agree
with him about the noise made by these in-
teresting creatures when in full cry; it really
isawesome. The wild variety are now very
rare, but I can well remember seeing one
running in Blackburn just after the war. As
Mr. Mahamed says the noise was terrible and
it did a considerable amount of damage,
knocking over two tramcars and carrying of
a couple of mill-girls.
Blackburn was always a favourite haunt
of the wild Lancashire Hot-fots, no aouot
because of the Superstition widely believed
by the somewhat backward inhabitants of
that town, that they brought success to the
local football team. On the latter's performan-
ces this belief did not have a very sound
fundation.
D. GILBERT
S M A L L A D S .
F O R E S A L E : Four 450x 17 tyres in good
condition. Also good Morris '8' Engine and
many other Morris '8' accessories. Any offers?
J. Gordon, Weeks Hall.
M A Y B A L L , 1962: Application forms for
tickets for this year's May Ball are now avail-
able in the Union Office. Tickets this year
are only 45/- double.
Dear Sir,
Si Lylefs proposal that an I. C. Honours
Society (surely a better name could be
found!) is an idea that requires serious
thought by Union members. At present, how
is appreciation shown by the College to a
student active in College affairs? The Union
General Award has no popular appeal and
certain extra College Clubs award their own
seal of favour by conferring membership on
selected individuals who meet their specific-
ations by being of a certain type.
There is, therefore, no way in which we
can recognise the efforts of those who have
given service to the Union but don't belong
to any clique or grouping within it.
The eslabiishn ent of a f'a'ernity or society
for which people become eligible as the re-
sult of service, of a sufficient level, to the
Union is a basic necessity in this College.
What is a sufficient level of service is difficult
to define but surely it can be resolved so as to
be acceptable to the majority and not to pan-
der to the limited sense or values of a small,
but influential, section of our Union.
Yours faithfully,
WILLIAM P. MACMIL1 AN
316, Muster Road,
Dear Sir or Barron,
It is not Asservation,
It is not Assevaration.
It is nots Assavation.
It is ASSEVERATION.
Yours Frustratedly,
note; what about "them as want
to but are never asked?"
N E W H A L L S O F R E S I D E N C E
There is cause for much jubilation at the
moment, the New Hall on South Side is to
be opened next year and soon some more
halls are to be started on North and East
Sides.
It is now a good opportunity for a little
reassessment of the situation preferably dis
passionately. This is what the writer has set
out to do.
The Government has decided, quite arbit-
arily, that it would be a grand idea to pour
millionsof pounds into technical colleges. As
I. C. is the closest to Westminster it was the
obvious choice for the largest share to be
given.
This share takes the form of some £20 mil-
lion or more. The College authorities, poor
benighted technologists that they were, were
naturally bewildered by this vast sum. They
looked around and compared the "amenities"
offered by this College with those offered by
Oxbridge and saw one glaring omission:
Halls of Residence.
It was also noted that the products of Ox-
bridge got on in the world, becoming Prime
Ministers, Managing Directors, Stockbrokers
and successful tax dodgers. Whereas the ex-
I. C. students became simple engineers, scient-
ists and hole diggers.
It was obvious, putting these facts together,
that residence in a Halls of Residence while
at Collge is the key to success in the after
life. Thus, we have the reason for the build-
ing of the Halls of Residence.
Now for the excuse.
A student living in close proximity to his
fellow students, of all classes, nationalities,
ideas and ideals will naturally take part in
discussions about the world situation, relig-
ion, ethics, politics, philosophy and the latest
plight of Jayne Mansfield and also broaden
his outlook and learn to live with his fellow
creatures.'
It will also be easier to a Union spirit if
a large number of students all live close and
together.
In fact the actual results are that the aver-
age person ignores everyone with a different
outlook and background and spends his timt
drinking coffee until 3 a.m. to the detriment
of his degrc~ his attendance at morning
lectures. Either that, or getting drunk in the
bar -and returning home bending lamp-posts,
making unholy noise, being sick on the stairs
and pouring beer and water over those sen-
sible enough to go to bed early but who left
their doors unlocked. There are of course
those who are considerate enough to spena
the night in the nick.
Present conditions show that the ideal
picture painted above will never come into
existence.
The other idea, that students in Halls of
Residence will take more interest in Union
affairs, is also false because the only people
who can get into Halls of Residence (after
the 1st year) are those who take an interest
in the Union activities.
Why can't the authority face the simple
facts, which are self evident. Interest in Union,
academic societies and clubs, general studies
and so on is very small and will stay that
way.
The average student here is far more inter-
ested in his work than all these hearty "Let's
play at politicians" games or becoming a
pseudo intellectual so he can talk rubbish
about anything.
One is far better off trying to master his
subject, be it engineering or action painting
(riding bicycles over canvas). Rather than
trying to become a good citizen just because
it is expected of one.
Please let us have less nonsense about
spending thousands of pounds on Halls of Re-
sidence but let us have more money for lab-
oratories, research or scientific libraries for
the true students of this College.

