C O L C U T T
Wonder if he made it. Suppose he must have
done — somebody always gets you there in
the end. I don't think I've ever seen quite so
vociferously canned before. None of this "re-
luctant as I am" business; we just could not
get him off that table. That beer race was
a bit harsh, though. After all, a six-pint jug,
even if it is only half full, is not really fair
game for a yard. But at least we let him
think he was drinking beer. Thank goodness
the bar does not stock an assortment of liqu-
eurs. Still, it was a good send-off and we
wish Si and Mrs. Si every happiness.
It seeims to have been a busy week-end
one way or the other. That was a really fab-
ulous effort by the I.C. runners; they must
be really dedicated people, these runners.
Didn't see any of them in the bar after about
seven o'clock. Plenty of other runners around,
though. I do wish thel Refectory Committee
would pluck up enough courage to invest in
a reserve stock of pint glasses. Perhaps, thev
think that if they stock enough glasses to sell
out of bebr this is enough. But I was thor-
oughly fed-up with trying to explain to
drinkers whv they could not have a pint, and
no doubt Howard and Arthur are completely
chocker. When you think about it. eight gal-
lons is an awful lot of beer to serve in half-
pint glasses.
These Music Soc. people reallv are the lim-
it! Is nothing sacred? I should have thought
that was one door that was not suitable
for advertising, firsdy from the purelv. shall
we say, aesthetic angle, and secondly that
there is such a thing as word-association. And
in that context, what a tide — "Bastien and
Bastienne"!
Thinking along those lines reminds me of
those puerile little people who attacked Mrs
Robinson and removed her personal, not
SI
Union trophies. If this paper does circulate to
other Unions, I hope the people concerned
will have the decency to return her property,
preferably accompanied by an apology.
Since I disagree with most of what Si said
in the last issue, that makes me a reaction-
ary. It does seam to be rather dragging up
the dregs when you have to try and label
any criticism with a nasty word even before
it is made. Funny too how many so-called
visionaries assume they are the first to have
ideas about improving any present system.
I will not bore you with a breakdown of Si's
proposals and my opinions of them, but 11!
just humbly try to give a little information
combined with an appeal, not from reaction
but from experience. Every year the retiring
president of the I.C. Union writes a report
on his year as President. These reports are
confidential and intended for the next Pre-
sident. Please read them, Si, and try to base
some of your actions on their experience.
They re-ally did know this Union and its
students, and neither changes very much.
T O U C H S T O N E W E E K E N D
THE VERY DEVIL
The last Touchstone! Weekend held at Sil-
wood Park on February 10th-11th was on
"The Very Devil" — The Problem of Evil,
and was introduced by the Rev. Charles
Davey. The number present was not large,
possibly because people were frighjtened either
of the subjej or of being addressed by a
clergyman. In fact it was a fascinating topic,
affording unlimited scope for discussion and
argument, and nobody could object to the
excellent manner in which it was presented.
While it is a pity that so few take advantage
of the opportunities given them, it must be
admitted that smaller number do make for
a more intimate and enjoyable weekend, and
a better discussion.
Some of the main questions arising were:
What do we mean by Evil? It is perhaps a
power of Bad as 'God' is a power of Good?
What constitutes a bad or evil act, and can
we produce a generally acceptable definition,
or some from o(P absolute standard? Also,
what and why is a feeling of guilt? If it is
the consequence of an uneasy conscience, then
what is conscience and why does it work so
differently for different people?
Consideration of these points led to the
conclusion that, evil was a personal thing.
though precisely what we mean by 'personal'
was another problem. Essentially a third party
was involved, and furthermore a knowledge
of right and wrong and a conscious misdeed
seemed to be implied. In attempting to find
an absolute standard of morality, 'Do as you
would be done by" was generally accepted as
a basic criterion, but anv attempt to go be-
yond this produced a rift between Christian
and atheistic fanctions present. This contro-
versy, rapidly broadened into the perential
issuet 'Why believe in God', which was pro-
prolonged to the early (or in some cases, not
so early) hours of Sunday morning, and sub-
sequently confirmed, but not concluded. Of
course neither side convincarl the other, but
it was good fun, and by no means useless
Touchstone weekends are not devoted en-
tirely to serious discussions, and Sunday mor-
ning was completely free, so with weather
nearly perfect for the time of year, Windsor
Park was a popular venue for many of us.
while others made up lost sleep, or relaxed
with the Sunday newspapers. Most of us con-
verged eventually on "The Cannon" and.the
"Thatched Tavern". The proceeldings con-
cluded on Sunday afternoon with the present-
ation of the discussion groups' conclusions
and the speaker's summing up.
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E B O O K S T A L L
S A L E O F T I E S
Reduced from 10/6 to 5/-:
I. C. Full & Half colours.
C. & G. Full & Half colours.
R.S.M. Full & Half colours.
R.C.S. Full & Hall colours.
Chaps Club.
Links Club.
Felix Staff.
For 2/6:
Riding Club.
I. C. Full Colours.
22 Club.
R.S.M. Half Colours.
Reduced from 8/- to 4/-:
22 Club.
ALSO
A few odd sweaters.
I. C. Scarves-shorter length — 27/6.
Typing & Duplicating undertaken.
We are pleased to order
B O O K S N O T I N S T O C K

