— 6 FELIX
Why
Climb mountains
Two weeks ago the I. C. mountaineering
club set off to Snowdonia to answer the quest-
ion once again — "because they are there".
Of the party of 19, 12 went in the Dormobile
and the remaining 7 in two estate cars.
Scheduled to leave around 6.30 p.m., it was
nearly an hour later when with all the gear
loaded we departed (the time had been well
spent "practicing" on the Union arch until
the warden stepped in). "Bobs" was reached
in good time and several plates of sausage,
eggs and* chips were consumed; the plebs eat
other delicacies.
On rl.e outskirts of Shrewsbury it was de-
cided we needed more petrol, so in we drove
to find a garage; Oh, what fun!!! Anyone
who is contemplating a trip there in the near
future) can obtain composite travelling in-
structions free of charge. The result of our
trip was several precious pints of petrol lost,
and almost an hour wasted. Our last stop
was an A . A . box, with no success, so after
a short "ceremony" we drove off.
At 40 miles from our destination the pet-
rol gauge showed empty, and continued to
do so until we ground to a halt at 5 miles
short. Half a gallon, originally for the Primus
was poured in the tank and off we went a-
gain. This took us to almost the top of the
Llanberis pass, so after a "short" push we
free-wheeled down. After unloading, the party
split into '?them as were" and "them as were
not". The latter went to the climbing hut,
and the former pitched camp.
The following morning the trials and trib-
ulations of the night before seemed well worth
it. For the Llanberies Pass being the most
forbiding of all in North Wales makes the
scenery majestic; the cliffs of Snowdon were
snow capped and sombre, while the otner
side of the vallley was bathed in sunlight.
Breakfast over it seemed a good idea to ob-
tain some petrol for the Dormobile. We free-
wheeled until we ran out of "slope" and were
then towed to the nearest habitation by a
milk-float. A brief telephone convesration with
the nearest garage in Llanberis left no op-
tion but to hitch-hike to pick-up some petrol.
A member of H . M . Forces did the necessarv
and after a dice with death the machine was
drivable.
On returning to camp we found that most
of the party had already set-off on the various
climbs (one notable exception was "man
mountain" who had been waiting for the Dor-
mobile to cornel back, he was "rather upset".
The standard of climbing in the Club at the
moment is of high-standard and the* cliffs of
Llanberis make a good training ground, there
being a full range from difficult to extreme
Each man knows his own standard, and
until he knows he has improved, keeps to it.
Conditions varied; on the sunlit side the
wind made things a little tricky, whereas
snow and ice made climbing on the other
side hard work. Saturday evening was spent
at the P.Y.G., and after several pints and the
inevitable discussion of deeds done and deeds
to come we retired to bed.
Sunday thanks to good wheather, gave us
plenty of climbing. In the early evening we
loaded up and set-off back to London. Nor-
mally such a report as this finishes up with
I i. JLAli fo.y3
. . . and they returned back in the early hours
on Monday, after an uneventful ride." How-
ever, with a few miles gone a rattle-ing was
found to be the exhaust pipe which had
broken loose; Welsh wire solved that prob-
lem. Just outside Llangollen we were witness
to a car accident and to crown it all our
driver (known to the Staffordshire Police as
Dr. Dobson) was booked for speeding. We
did arrive in the early hours though.
This year seems to have become one for
proposed changes. Fortunately most of the
proposals have been flatly rejected by the
reactionaries that Mr. Lyle criticises. It seems
to have been forgotten that before a change
is adopted the two questions, 'fls there any-
thing wrong now!" and "Does this change
provide a remedy!" must be answered affir-
mativaly.
Usually the answer to the former question
is assumed and that to the latter ignored.
Of course, i f lanybody looks hard enough
they can always find something wrong with
any system. It seems a pity that this year's
top men spend too much time looking for
small wrongs while a greater one is being
created. The time that the President and the
Secretary spend in the Union Building is very
small. They can hardly even be available for
a chat over a few beers, which is a method
adopted by some of the more approachable
past Presidents.
When its disadvantages have been pointed
out there is « ^ defence forthcoming. They
have no arguments in favour and have ig-
nored the possibilities of arguments against.
Since the proposal for a Deputy President
has already been brought up in this paper
it seems fit to mention it here. "There is too
much at the top; we need someone who can
C. & G. M O T O R C L U B D I N N E R
The annual dinner of the motor club was
this year noteworthy for being the best at-
tended in the history of he club. This was
partly accounted for by the large number of
guefcts present, the ladies obviously finding
motoring a necessary evil of their male
companions. It is possible that the attendance
was in some way representative of the strength
of the club, being probably the largest in
Guilds with a membership of over 130.
The guest speaker was John Bolster, tech-
nical editor of Autosport and a man with a
wealth of driving experience. Dressed for the
occasion in a deer-stalker and a Sherlock
Holmes overcoat he found driving Bo from
the 'Rose' in Fulham Road to the Union more
than a match for his skill. The Rose is incid-
entally worthy of Felix Pub Guide, as many
motoring enthusiasts meet there to discuss
their weird machinery over a pint.
Replying on behalf of the guests to the
president's introduction, M r . Bolster told
something of his experience in motor racing,
mainly in connection with 'Bloody Mary' a
'special' which was conceived while still a
schoolboy, but which raced successfully un-
til post war years despite its vintage origin.
His career as a racing driver, he said culmin-
ated with an unfortunate accident in which
he broke his neck.
It was disclosed during the course of the
speeches that the president of the club, M r
Moore, was leaving the College for five years
to become Professor of Mechanical Engineer-
ing at New Delhi University. This is indeed
a great loss for the club as Mr. Moore has
been president for the past sixteen years and
it is onlv due to his leadrship that the club
has attained its present popularity.
After the dinner, conversation continued in
the senior common room giving opportunity
to talk to the people on the inside of the
motor industry, such as Leonard Rootes of
Singer cars and to the guests from the rac-
ing side of motoring.
take over from the President should he for
some reason become incapacitated." Thus, goes
the argument. I think it would be a good idea
to have one man whose duty it was to be
deputy president thus saving undue work for
the Vice-Presidents who have enough to do.
However, is the basic premise of the argu-
ment correct? Is there really too much work
for these people 0?res. Sec. & Clerk). I have
it on good authority that the Clark has never
had a lazier year than this, and in the years
when the Clerk has been hard worked there
has beejn little, for the Secretary to do. It
seems that two people's work has already
been spread over three, and I think it unnec-
essary to increase this to four. T o cover the
second point of the argument all that is nec-
essary to change the name of the Hon. See's
post to that of Deputy President, which, in
effect, is what ha is already.
Under this scheme the Clerk would still
do the secretarial work and would once again
be fully employed. The President and Secret-
ary could share the committee.work between
them instead of duplicating their work, as 'it
present. In fact, little would change except
that there would be no doubts as to the person
to represent the President in his absence. The
scheme has the advantage of being simple and
effective.
A l l Change

