- 8 FELIX
L U C K Y V I C T O R Y
On the 21st of February the I. G. R. F. C.
travelled to Shenley to continue the battle to
see whether or not they or U.C.R.F.C. should
meet Vets in the final of the Gutteridge Cup
(the first game at Harlington the previous Wed-
nesday had ended in a nil all draw) I. C. lost
the toss, and had to play against the wind;
of time running out Dave Howard followed'
his example, a beautiful kick dropped just
by the posts, was fumbled and Johnson was
sent over to put I. C. back in the game. John
Fairfield's boot has seldom let us down, and
his conversation from ten yards in gave us
the lead, and the much needed shot in the
Mm
0 T
from the start it was all U . C. and soon play
was in our 25. From a tight-scrum the ball
came out to the U . C . stand-off whose kick
ahead bounced well, and their wing gathered
and went over for the first try, the kick was
unconverted and after five minutes play U . C.
held a 3-0 lead. The play was really scrappy
and several minutes later they nearly went
further ahead, but Orman, covering well,
touched down in goal. A t this stage the play
of the backs was atrocious, the scrum half
ran too much, his kicks were knocked down
and his service to the fly-half was horrible.
Equally at blame, when the U . C. backs came
through, the centres seemed to run in every
direction but the right one, but Edwards at
full back was in brilliant form. When the rest
of the backs let us down he rose to the sit-
uatio well; quick tackling and fine an-
ticipation kept the line in tact. It was left
to skipper Kehoe to get play back in the op-
ponents half, but not jfor long. Soon the I. C.
team were doggedly defending their line
Within the space oj four minutes four penal-
ties were awarded against I. C ; a pretty good
example of the low standard of play to which
we had sunk. One of the kicks right in front
of the posts was thankfully missed. It was
Edwards who stole all the glory and praise;
a brilliantly jugded tackle by him nipped a-
nother U . C . scoring effort in the bud. So at
half time we were down by only 3 points,
but how lucky we were, it could well have
been many more.
The second half started with Ravno, after
catching, running some 40 yds. before being
stopped. This was just the tonic we needed
and for a moment things began to click. How-
ever, it didn't last, and play soon degenerated
to the first half fiasco. Bad passes, intercep
tions, failure in playing the ball; all quickly
resulted in Orman and Edwards being worked
overtime, and the touchline supporters almost
gave up. Mrs. Vine kept morale high, and the
willing voices once again pleaded with their
team. A Ravano "up and under" showed how
advantageous a high kick was; with the sands
arm. Suddenly we seemed on top; an ortho-
dox passing move gave Johnson another great
opportunity, but the pass was bad and he
knocked on. Then U . C. pulled all the stops
out and played switched dramatically to the
I. C. end, but man mountain Edwards was
there again (how well he played) and play
reverted back to the U . C. end. A set-scrum
some ten yards out gave I. C. the chance to
showed just how superior their pack was, and
they did this in no uncertain manner, a well
controlled push, and Smith had the ball over
for try number two. Fairfield's kick was just
short (8-3). The last seconds ticked by and
it was all over, we were through; to complete
another part of the amazing last decade of
I. C. successes .
POST M O R T E M
J . E D W A R D S — Enough said.
B. ORMON — He too was magnificent.
A, B U T L E R — A big disapointment.
P. JOHNSON — Redeemed his early errors with
a try (just).
R.'RAWLINGS — What he had to do he did
well enough.
A. SMITH — His worst.
D. HOWARD — Dependent of scrum half it
follows that his game was not all that good.
B. RAVANO — A little of the fire was gone.
M . VINE — Poor start, but good final (51-2).
K. WRONSKI — Hampered with teeth prob-
lems, could have been the reason why he was
not as his best.
R. P L A C E ; — A tireless worker, but seemed
out of things.
J. FAIRFIELD — Tried hard, but in Beckham,
was playing against a man tipped as a future
England player. But that boot made the day.
M , WILLCOX — Tackled like a trouper, but
must remember that he is not scrum-half.
R. MILLWARD — An indifferent game; but ah
most fautless.
J. K E H O E - captain the responsibility for
victory or defeat rested on his shoulders, and
as a result his game was affected.
GENERAL SYNOPSIS. Must improve March 10th.
S O C C E R C L U B
With the season three-quarters gone the
club's success is still very much in the bal-
ance. The 1st X I could have won the Premier
Division of the University league last Wed-
nesday by beating Kings, but a goal in the
last five minutes only just earned I. C. an un-
deserved draw, 2-2 and the outcome of the
league will have to wait until the last match
in a fortnight's time with Goldsmiths. This
poor display against Kings followed two good
league victories over U C and Q M C but last
Saturday saw Southampton University beat
a lethargic IC side 4-1.
The second X I after a moderate start this
term again have a good chance of winning
their division of the league by virtue of 3-i
win over Kings II last Wednesday. The 3rd
X I who were leading Division II (R) of the
league at Christmas also made a bad start
this term but may yet gain promotion. They
completed their league fixtures with wins over
U C I V and Q M C III by 3-1 and 2-1 respect-
ively. The 4th X I are still without a league
win, but the 5th X I seern certain of winning
Dvision III (R) of the league, having won
their last 8 league matches, the latest being
3-0 and 5-1 victories over Northern Poly II
and Chelsea II, respectively, but lost 9-2 to
Brunei College I on Wednesday, their only
defeat this term. The 6th X I have suffered a
lot this term from cancelled fixtures but won
their only game in the past fortnight, 5-0 a-
gainst City Bank. On Saturday the 7th X I
beat Barclays Bank 3-2 which atones some-
what for their narrow defeats in the two pre-
vious matches. The) Extra 7th X I lost their
2nd match of the season on Saturday by 4-1
to Polytechnic, after an excellent performance
the previous week when they held West Ham
College 1st to a 1-1 draw in Hyde Park.
Tomorrow sees the climax of the season
at Motspur Park when IC meet Q M C in the
final of the U L Knock out Cup. Victory
would mean that the Cup would come to IC
for the fourth successive season, so why not
come and help cheer us on?
D . H .
I.C. T H R A S H E S O X F O R D DOLPHINS
Fielding very much a second string team,
Oxford University Dolphins were well beaten
in the Swimming and soundly thrashed in
the Polo. Cambridge Tadpoles paid us the
compliment of swimming several varsity
match players but were still downed in
the Polo. The strength of the College's
swimming and water polo teams can be
gauged from their excellent record against
other University First teams.
Swimming Water Polo
Cardiff Univ (A) D 28-28 L 8-4
Cardiff Univ. (H) W 37-21 W 4-3
Bristol Univ. L 34-26 D 3-3
Southampton Univ. W 34-28 L4-2
Oxford Dolphins W 35-25 W10-1
Cambridge Tadpoles L 33-27 W 3-2
The first team is still undefeated in the
U L water polo league, excellent wins against
N C L and St. Mary's have us fairly confident
of the Gold Medals. Battling along in 3rd
place in a tough 2nd Division League are
the 'old lags' whilst the freshmen team in the
3rd Division is also lying third.
The EasteP Foreign Tour of the Guilds
Swimming Club and the match against R M A
Sandhurst will wind up what has been a great
year for a very enthusiastic and high spirited
club.
W . M .
Published by F E L I X BOARD, Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

