Is you is, or is you ain’t my baby?
Who’s single and over-eager to mingle? Who’s up for datin’ and/or fornicatin’?
Again, shattering stereotypes of Imperial students, the minority of respondents find themselves
lonely at night with no one but their pillows for comfort. This is, of course, assuming they don’t
sleep in the library.
Of the 1104 respondents to this question, 45% of survey respondents claimed to be single and
ready to mingle. 46% of you claim to only have one person in your lives, whilst 4% have more than one main course
on your plate. There were a few of you who seemed to be confused as to your relationship status, such as those of you
in ‘situationships’. Of course, there’s also the small contingent of you who might be married, but you didn’t say so we’ll
assume you’re still free as birds.
How do Imperial students find a hot date? The majority of you don’t,
apparently, if we’re going by your use of dating apps. But maybe we’re
wrong, and you’re more of a face-to-face person yourself, with your
charms and social skills…
Of the platforms used, Tinder is the campus
favourite, with Bumble following up a bit
further behind in second place (can you really
blame the women here though?). Hinge and
Grindr are equally popular - suggesting the
number of people searching for a meaningful
relationship is the same as the number of gay
people looking for a hookup. It’s basic science.
How do single people
rate themselves?
How do taken people
rate themselves?
6.7
7.4
18% Yes
72% No
What do Imperial students consider cheating? Thank you to the number
of you who said ‘plagiarism’ and ‘taking your phone into exams’; we
appreciate you staying on brand. The rest of you who have been better
socialised generally ….
Interestingly a few of you don’t agree that penetrative sex doesn’t
constitute cheating, which is rather interesting - no judgement, though.
It’s just, interesting.
About 22% of respondents have admitted to cheating - this is a tricky one, as the definition
of cheating differs between individuals and relationships (so some of you who said no might
actually be adulterers in denial).
Of course, your reasons for cheating are very different - here are a few of your excuses:
"I forgot I was technically dating the guy, he was fuming when I walked into where he works with
another guy"
"My gf was a lesbian"
"I forgot I was technically dating the guy, he was fuming when I walked into where he works with
another guy"
"Mind your business" (a lot of you said this, which begs the question, do you understand the point
of a survey?)
Single
42%
Taken
44%
It’s complicated
14%
Grindr
Sex
Songs
Favourite porn category?
Why did you cheat?
"I forgot I was technically dating the guy, he was fuming when I walked into where he
works with another guy "
"I fucked one of my best friends, my gf wasn't happy but he had a huge cock, I'm a
naughty boi"
"I fed another person by sicking down their throat like a mother penguin"
"My gf was a lesbian"
60fps
"The ones where the people look nice"
"female friendly - because normal porn is boring"
"i don't enjoy it, i just watch anything in the hopes that i'll feel something"
"I really don't have to watch porn and I won't even bother getting a VPN for that."
"The videos of Hezbollah"
The Pokémon Theme
Song
Ding Dong Song (You
Touch My Tralala) -
Günther
Anything by The
Weeknd
‘The sound of her
moaning’
Use Me – Bill Withers
Promiscuous – Nelly
Furtado
Thank u, next –
Ariana Grande
Penetrative sex
Removing condom
Sexual touching
Handholding
Kissing
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Female Male
Have you ever been sexually harrased on campus?

