ctitOTiaj
The Estates Section
The inefficiency of the College Estates Section has always
been a standing joke in both College and Union circles. It
takes them months, if not years, to repair even the most
minor fault. It is a miracle if work on a project is begun
within six months of the date specified. This latest £ 7 7 0 , 0 0 0
cock-up really does take the biscuit. Tiles were seen falling off
the Electrical Engineering building over six years ago. Only
now has work begun on it.
The delay is probably due to the bureaucratic inefficiencies
and lack of communication we have come to expect from
College Administration. Maybe the building might have been
repaired sooner had the eye sore been visable from Sherfield.
I think that after years and years of mistakes, poor
decisions and inefficiency on the part of the Estates Section,
the Rector should seriously consider the performance of the
people in charge.
Bot Zoo
At last students at Imperial College are beginning to question
lofty decisions taken from on high.
T h e B o t a n y Z o o l o g y C o m m o n R o o m used to be
immensely popular with everyone in the department. Despite
this, it was closed to save 0.25% of the department's budget.
If the tea room is not reopened when every single member of
staff and all the students have expressed their wishes so
strongly then it makes y o u wonder whether student
representation amounts to bugger all at this place.
Rag
With people turning up in their hundreds to Rag events and
over £ 3 0 0 0 being raised for charity, this must be one of the
most successful R a g Weeks ever. Congratulations to those
who organised the events and to those who participated.
It was a shame that F E L I X was not brought out daily as I
had hoped. This was due to apathy, illness, laziness and
cowardice from most of the ex-Editors. Thanks all the same
to Mark Smith for doing an issue; he still hasn't lost his
t o u c h
Credits
Many thanks to J. Martin Taylor, Simon Neild, Lynne James,
Jon Jones, Guy Riddihough, David Jones, Hugh Southey,
Carolyn Aldred, Peter Rodgers, Peter Dawson and Maz
Fellows.
A special thanks to Matt Fawcett for practically living in
the F E L I X office this week to get pictures for Rag Week and
Pat Baker and Diane Love for emergency typesetting.
Pallab Ghosh
The Triangular Duel
This week's puzzle was first shown to me by my
friend Olympus last term. It involves a gunfigtit
between three men, A, B and C. They draw lots to
determine who fires first, second, third and stand at
the corners of an equilateral triangle. They fire
single shots in turn, and continue to fire in the
same cyclic order until two of them are dead. With
each shot, the man firing may aim wherever he
pleases. All three know that A is 100% accurate, B
is 80% accurate and C is 50% accurate.
If all three adopt the best strategy, and no-one is
killed by a wild shot not intended for him, who has
the best chance of surviving , and what are the
probabilities of each of the three men winning?
Good luck, everyone.
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1pm on Wednesday, please. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for the randomly selected
winning entry.
Last Week's Puzzle.
The numbers are all the number 15, written in
different bases. The first is 15 in base 15, the
second in base 14, etc. down to the last which is
fifteen in base 1. The missing number is therefore
15 in'base 3 which is 120. Many people have voiced
doubts about base 1, but it is correct and I've seen
it done in puzzles before.
This was harder than the last two, and the
number of correct solutions was down to 21. The
winner was Ken Morrison, a Chem Eng PG who can
collect his £5 prize from the FELIX Office after
1.30pm on Monday.
Next Week's Puzzle
At long last, and at the right time comes the
Collins University Crossword. Collins have
specially commissioned a crossword which is
similar in style to the Everyman crossword in the
Observer and they claim will reflect knowledge
similar to that required for University Challenge.
Send you entries to the address which will be
given (not to me!) and the first two correct
solutions from FELIX will receive a copy of the
Collins English Dictionary. The winners from all
the Universities taking part will then be pooled and
the first drawn will receive £100 worth of Collins
books of their choice.
If anyone has any puzzle? or games for me to set in
the end of term issue, would they please drop them
in my box in the FELIX Office in the next week or so.
There are still cheques waiting to be collected by
Barry Franklin, Robert Macrae and Richard Fox.
They can collect them any time after 1:00pm on
Monday.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Unmn Print Unit Prince Consort RaIS W7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertismgManager:HughSoutheyCopyrightFEUX1983

