It's Carnival time on the FELIX music page.
Tonight is generally considered the best and
longest night of the year. The expanded
music staff (of three), write, rave and rant
about the Chamelons, International Rescue
and Attila the Stockbroker.
KARNIVAL C H A M E L E O N S
j "~> ~
j
International
Rescue are go
Having been restricted by managerial
problems since signing to Polydor
Rescue are now at last getting some
attention with a college tour and an
appearance on The Tube tonight (C4).
By far the most exciting prospect in
a recent revival in the E A S T
Y O R K S H I R E M U S I C S C E N E they are
establishing a wide following with their
feverish live set. Their tense, energetic
rock/pop is hard to categorise: the
sharp melodies and offbeat paranoia
are remiscent of early Talking Heads
although this belies a satirical humour
more akin to Devo whilst front man
Steve Skinnies rapid behaviour should
have him confined to a straight jacket.
Minor classics to watch out for
include The Shining (based on the film
of the same name), Opportunity
(rumoured to have been a Polydor
single although the band admitted
even they couldn't get hold of a copy)
and the reflective Women at the Bus
Stop.
Tonight is a chance to see a fresh,
exhilarating band before they have a
chance to discover 64 track studios,
12" extended club mixes and Swiss
bank accounts.
J o n Cottom
Poet's Corner
Attila the Stockbroker, alias J o h n
Opposition, the 'Sounds' writer, is a
ranting poet with rather extreme left-
wing tendancies. He is also extremely
funny and talented. Y o u may not have
guessed, but he actually used to be a
stockbroker! His disgust towards
stockbrokers etc is reflected in Death
in Bromley a poem about the very
small difference between dead
commuters and live commuters. Other
poems to listen out for are the classic
Russians in MacDonalds, The Oracle
which is a "tale oHortured testicle",
Flappin' in the Wind a very funny piss-
take of the long-mac brigade to the
tune of the B o b Dylan song and Hands
off our Halibuts an ode to Captain
Kirke which contains more abuse than
any other song I've ever heard! How
about You slimy, shitty, Froggy, scum,
just stick your trawler up your bum,
for starters. Finally, I must mention his
greatest moment, the hysterically
funny Willie Whitelaw's Willie, which
never fails to bring the house down. I
can't confrim this, but apparently "You
will never see anything quite as silly as
Willie Whitelaw's Willie". H e really is
worth seeing, and his album Ranting
at the Nation (more poems about flat
fish and Russians) is also worth a
listen.
J o h n Scott
"This is the hottest I've been since the
Sex Pistols" shouted Mark Burgess at a
recent Chameleons gig in Soho's
Marquee Club. The truth is the
Chameleons owe more to the spirit of'79
than that first bleak winter of punk seven
years ago. Their sound is an amalgam of
the thrusting vitality of U-2, the dense
bass notes of Echo and the Bunneymen
and Joy Division when they rocked on
Unknown Pleasures.
This is understandable as the second
wave started in their home territory of
the North West (Manchester in
particular). However the latest manifes-
tations of this new wave, Big Country
and the Alarm, have added their own
ideas to the original, the Chameleons
aim has been true.
Although the band currently lack the
one song to focus their abundant energy
and enthusiasm they're doing very well
on the live circuit—they were able to sell
out the Marquee with a crowd of loyal
fans who knew the names of all the
songs when the band asked what to play
next. Split in Two was what everyone
wanted to hear and although I thought
Trick of the Light was much better it took
all my will power not to shout for / Will
Follow.
The only major criticism of the band is
the over-relaiance on building up a
crescendo (kicking up a storm in
journalese) and then abruptly stopping
for the vocalist to sing plaintively over
the gently throbbing bass and jangling
guitar.
The band are on Statik and have an
album Script of the Bridge on release.
Peter Rodgers
FELIX Friday, 25 November, 1983 Page 5

