snort ^mmmmmWmmmWmWmmmmJmmWm
EDITORIAL
Quote of the week from our leader: "ACC
exists for the purpose of eating curries."
Couldn't have put it better myself. Sorry to
those clubs missed out last week. If it comes
to the crunch, those articles that are both
entertaining and informative will be put in.
Gabby has asked me to remind ladies to
volunteer for the ladies football game vs
Digby Stewart on 4 Dec.
SPORTS
CENTRE
OPEN ON
SUNDAYS
9:00am-12:30pm
for swimming and squash
Normal admission prices.
Mixed 2 v UC won 6-3
The three games we lost were due to only two
ladies playing. The two pairs won all their
games. Chimney, sorry, Jane, is now not
alone in the elite club of ladies -.v...' have
played two consecutive games. Congratula-
tions to Anne, who has now played three
consecutive games. She can't play in the next
one though. God, I hate nice comments in the
sports page, it's time for a change of tone: Pen
Portraits.
Martin (Roscoe): The Club 'Upper-Class
Twit' likes pheasant shooting, visiting cake
shops, impersonating beached whales, and
curries. His Surrey upbringing stands out a
mile, who else says 'solid' and 'dings dodges'?
Anne: Another Chem Eng skiver. Can't
stop eating.
She has admitted to being a 'Lounge Lizard'.
Dislikes being mentioned in FELIX and me
after this.
Alison: Martin's sister, a microbiologist.
Fortunately she hasn't got Martin's weight
problem. He needs a macrobiologist.
Me: Likes Chicken Phal, Hartleys, Bod-
dingtons, slagging off people in FELIX. Dis-
likes: chemistry, afterburn (see Chicken
Phal), Chess Club and being caught snogging
in Southside by members of the Badminton
Club. Oh, and I like women again now, cos
I've just split with the girlfriend.
The EGM is tonight at 6:30pm in the Vol-
leyball Court. It will be reasonably short, cos
I'm chairing it, but it's dead important as I
want to change the constitutuion for a bit of a
pose. After badminton there will be a social in
Southside. These have been known to lead to
curries in the past, but Chinese etc might be
considered. In fact we'll have a vote at the
EGM.
Page
This week's report concerns Chris. Who.
annoyed by the reference last week to NG as
team l's star player, has been extolling his
virtues to me.
Under his captaincy Team 1 this week
vanquished the team representing the rest of
UL!! Not only that but recently, due to
negligible turnout by team mates, he took on
a whole team by himself and succeeded in
gaining a creditable two games.
Hero worship sessions available on
requiest.
AOB:
Team 3: no game this week. Pity as Wladek
has been looping well recently.
Team 4: Nigel and Gerson ventured forth
alone, fearless of Trinity House YC and lost
but not without a fight. Leong, where are
you?
Team 5: Had a hard match this week. Well
played Mark! 4-5 is not bad, especially versus
the Met.
Graeme
PS; Spot the ball had nothing to do with us.
We play on tables with small, white round
ones.
Spot the bum! Another 'Womens Institute in
Science and Technology' mass orgy.
IC Ladies Rugby travelled North this
weekend to play their first match of the
season against Keele University. Despite the
inexperience of our team, not to mention the
lack of players we did extremely well, holding
them off to a 0-22 defeat.
We are very grateful to Adam, our long-
suffering driver and two intrepid supporters
whose cheers and encouragement egged us
on. Thanks boys! We expect a better turn out
at Harlington for our next ma'ch against
QMC on 4 Dec—so be there—oi we'll send
the girls round!
Anyone wishing to play in this match
please come to our practices—we meet in Beit
Quad at 12:45pm on Tuesdays and
Thursdays.
Well done to all who played—and better
luck against QMC.
It' C
O St Marys 58 (match abandoned)
The match was abandoned with seven
minutes lo go since the situation on and off
court was deteriorating beyond control. It all
stemmed from the fact that St Mary's
•Official' was in fact one of their players, and,
surprise, surprise, was incredibly biased.
With this against us we still built up a
twelve point lead by half time helped by a
thirty foot shot from our imported guarcf
right on half time (which even brough a smile
to the lips of the 'Iceman'!). The only time St
Marys got into the game was when their
referee helped them along.
In his debut match Panoyotis Stratinakis
made a three point play with hisfirsttouch at
of the ball and then proceeded to get fouled
off.
Tpp scorer was Scott Broderick (24 points).
r
C a n o e
Contrary to last week's editorial which
suggested that the canoeists would be towing
the skiers, we would like to point out that our
idea of water skiing is for the canoeist to be
towtd by the ski boat—see photograph.
Canoe Club: Anything for a bit of publicity.
[Friday, 25 November, 1983
IC 6ths vs St Marys 2nds: 3-1
After being on top for much of the first
twenty minutes the sixths paid for a catalogue
of missed chances when bac' marking on the
IC left allowed the opposition to take the lead
with a cross shot past a pensive Akis in goal.
However relief was to come before the
.interval as quick thinking between Paul and
Colin put captain Dave clear to curl the ball
into the far corner with the keeper helpless.
After the interval a stunned, Mary's defence
struggle to contain tl'e lively front three of
Paul, Rick and Dave J. The breakthrough
eventually came as the opposition keeper
stayed on his line for a low cross and Paul
brought his seasons tally to three, placing the
ball inside the far post.
After a couple of scares at the back we
wrapped up the points as Dave J left with just
the keeper to beat to put the ball into the roof
of the net.
tomommoMomommomommmFEux
\

