IC V 6 vs KCH II 1
Following a bleak week in Europe Bobby
Robson finally had something to smile about
last Saturday. Dave Bradley, a traditional
centre-forward from Barnsley, scored a hat-
trick for IC fifths to consolidate their mid-
table position. All scored in the second half,
the most impressive was the second which
Dave struck whilst lying flat on his back on
the six yard line, the shot going in off the
underside of the bar. Other scorers were Neil
McManus and John Kerendi who got two,
prompting captain Julian Westcott to say 'It
came like a bolt from the blue, I went rigid
when John scored'.
FELIX
FOOTBALL
After our warm up 10-1 victory, the all-stars
had moulded into a fluent football machine,
capable of beating just about anybody except
perhaps Blackpool FC.
Our strategy was simple. We kept the ball
in the air, knowing that the Ents poofters
wouldn't dare head the ball in case they
ruined their hairdoes! The perils of pretend-
ing to be hip. With Pallab playing and the
superhero Sports Editor John Scott in the
side, the hapless Ents team were always going
to be in for a damn good thrashing. Trouble
was, the perverts enjoy a good beating. Matt
the Cat's goal was as safe as the Bank of
England. The Ents forwards tried until they
were blue in the face, but they were only ever
any good at posing.
If John Motson had been watching, he'd
have had an orgasm at the sight of the ram-
pant Felix forwards running circles round the
outclassed opposition, scoring 14 goals with-
out reply. Oh, by the way, the Sports Editor
scored 9 of these goals, just thought I'd men-
tion it in passing
Blackheath 'A lot' v IC 'Not Too many'
As Dave McGee's 'boys' jogged out of the
changing rooms on to the dust bowl, that
Blackheath call a rugby pitch, and saw the
opposition's muscle bound backs rapidly ap-
proaching the speed of sound during their
warm up sprints, whilst casually flicking the
ball to one another across the pitch, it became
apparent that the match to follow was not
going to be a barrel of laughs.
In fact this almost premonitionary feeling
of 'this is a fucking stupid idea' was apparent
as early as.9:15 when the team started to
assemble in Beit Quad. Due to the All Blacks
match in the afternoon, the kick off had been
brought forward to a ridiculously early lime,
which resulted in the usually lively banter and
general joie de vivre being replaced by the pale
face and pityful groan of the hangover.
Not even the efforts of Pete Hardie could
raise the lider enthusiasm to the required
level, and so, as lambs to the slaughter,
Imperial were soundly thrashed by a team
who were, bigger, stronger, faster, fitter and
more skilful.
However, not everyone played particularly
badly. Mark Hassell kicked a very nice
penalty, and Miles Thompson gave an
impressive display of tactical kicking,
culminating in the one over the stand and into
the greenhouse. Alas, his efforts were in vain,
the ball was retrieved and the tide of
Blackheath attacks continued until the final
whistle.
Even allowing for the early kick off and the
team being depleted by wimpings out, this
was definitely a lack lustre performance. So
what was wrong?
Did the team need Dave McGee to tell
them that 'this is the one boys'?
Should more Tango have been consumed
before the kick off?
Were too many people trying to identify
the colony of fungus on Jason's shorts?
Or, had the changing room air been so
poisoned by the noxious gases emerging from
Mark Hassel's bowels (gases so dense, that it
was a miracle they weren't visible!) that any
physical activity was severely hampered?
Anyway, England beat the All Blacks, thus
'providing the necessary excuse to drink some
beer'.
Gutteridge Cup
IC 36 Guys Hospital 0
IC went through to the semi-final of this
competition with a devastating win over
Guys. The IC forwards tore into the
opposition from the start and Guys spent the
first twenty minutes mainly on the floor on
the receiving end of some ferocious rucking.
Points were quick to come under this pressure
and at half time. IC were 20-0 up.
In the second half the team continued to
perform and Guys ended up 36 points down at
full-time. Tries came from Steve Philips,
Steve Thompson, Andy Ralph (2), John
Exley, John Wuirr and some other players.
Mark Hassle kicked the conversions and
penalties.
By full time the supporters and substitutes
had fallen over under a heap of Swan cans.
Thanks to all those who came along.
No-one won the 'Spot the Ball' competition
as it was a trick question and the ball was, in
fact, out of the plane of the page.
ICSC vs Kent Won 2-0
Last weekend the team travelled to a gravel
pit near Cantebury to sail Kent.
The Imperial team took to the water with
their usual enthusiasm and left Kent sorting
out the remainder of the boats on the shore.
As this was going to be hard fought match, IC
had decided that a pre-race practice session
was required and disappeared to the far end
of the lake to try out some new manoeuvres.
The team were soon improving their roll
tacks in the light airs, and practicing some
sophisticated team racing tactics to try and
'psyche-out' Kent before the start. However
Kennedy was trying to be too coo! with his
roll gybes and, much to the amusement of
everyone else, managed a complete body
immersion before the first start. He capsized.
Kingston Small Boat Head
At the crack of dawn last Sunday morning
members of the Boat Club senior squad set
out in search of glory in distant Kingston. The
first division of the Kingston Small Boat
Head started at 9:00am and was held over a
2'/2 mile course on the Thames at Kingston.
The main aim of the IC crews was the defeat
of some crews of the British National squad
who were competing as part of a trials week-
end.
In all Imperial College won seven events
including the two fastest coxed four times
each winning the Senior A and U-23 sections
respectively. The third fastest four was from
Oxford University and included two of last
year's winning boat race crew.
In the pairs event, the fastest two of the IC
pairs, of Griffiths and Downing, and O'Brien
and Hunt came 1st and 2nd in Senior A
coxless pairs, both beating several of the
British squad pairs. Steinlechner and
Bowden, the freshers pair was 3rd fastest and
won the tankards for the Senior B section.
The dynamic duo of Wells and Hartland
won the Under-23 coxless pairs section with a
devastating row beating the only other crew
entered, the fifth IC pair of Harding and
Thorp, by ten seconds. Both pairs had some
difficulty with equipment failures!
In last week's nailbiter the Cricket Club fell
into a ditch. Read on, if you can:
Captain's Log
Star date 25.6.83
10:00am woke up to discover the delights of
Torquay.
10:05am Went back to bed.
12:00pm Conceded to Bell at Crazy Golf but
beat Eastland, who thought he was on the
pitch and putt course. Helsby meanwhile
visited a massage parlour, returned with a
glazed look and moaned about his back—a
result perhaps of the famous Torquay twist
and pull enema.
8:00pm Beat Plymouth ColWge staff, whilst
watching Plymouth CID hunt for a double
murderer (no kidding). Only Kelly didn't
have an alibi. Shaw took five wickets, all
bowled. Bell incurred the skipper's wrath by
dropping the said skipper's third successive
slip catch. Bell was replaced at slip by the
skipper himself, whose accompanying grasp
of anglo-saxon syntax amazed all around
him. However the intrepid skipper in the next
over proceeded to break a finger, diving at
first slip for a wide ball bowled by Bell!?
Will the word'enema' be mentioned two weeks
running?
Will anyone read the article to find out?
Find out in next week's exciting episode.
FELIXl Friday, 25 November, 1983i Page 9

