10 felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Drop us a message at
Drop us a message at felixonline.co.uk
felixonline.co.uk
Drunken-mate photo of the week
xkcd.com
With Lemon and Lime Fairy Liquid and Salt going into the mix, this guy’s scalp
is only one ingredient away from the perfect Tequila Slammer!
Got a picture of
your mate being
an absolute waste
of oxygen? Well,
get your camera
out and email your
drunken-mate
photos to catnip.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
Lack of Coffee is
‘Snow’ Joke
Hello felix,
I would like to say how disappointed I am after a recent treasure
hunt. Not the festive Easter kind, where all participants are
eager and willing to enjoy the ‘thrill of the chase’ for that
desirable golden (or chocolate) egg, oh no. I have just completed
a treasure hunt on South Ken Campus looking for a cup of
coffee and a flapjack!
Like most (diligent, neurotic, anxious – delete as appropriate)
students the week before spring term, I have been on campus
revising material I had promised myself I would learn-as-I-go
back in October, and had decided to schedule in a break with
a course mate. After visiting the Electrical Engineering cafe,
Mechanical Engineering cafe, Business School cafe (yes, I tail-
gated) and Mining School cafe, I found all were closed, it was
clear that something was going on! That’s right, once again the
fragilities of London are brought to a standstill by 2cm of slush,
as the signs at the cafes read ‘Closed due to severe weather’.
As far as I am aware, coffee machines and till registers still
function when the temperature outside is below zero degrees,
so during these academically troublesome times, is this drastic
action to close our caffeine-fuelled refuges really justified? I
think not. These cafes were due to close at 4pm anyway (no
great hardship for employees), so was it really so severe that
students be denied a late afternoon pick-me-up? Again, I think
not. Undoubtedly most of them travelled home easily by tube
unaffected by the weather and certainly no different to if they
had left at 4pm, apart from the swathe of disgruntled students
queuing in the Library for the only hot beverage on campus.
No doubt this was a decision made by the powers that be, but
it would have been nice to see some staff/student solidarity or
if nothing else some good old British resilience in the face of
adversity. I, for one, think so.
Will
SEF Msci Student
This is an issue close to Cat-Nip’s heart. We love treasure
hunts!However,thelackofprizesisonlyoneproblemraised
by this letter. Along with the question of understaffing,
we want to know why there wasn’t a coherent advertising
campaign beforehand. With so many students ‘jones-ing’
for caffeine daily, we fear the organisers have severely
missed the potential of The Traditional Coffee Cafe Quest.
For Shame!
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
SNOW: WINTER WONDER OR WICKED
WHITEOUT?
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text:07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
Students given ‘cold shoulder’

