12 felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FEATURE
FOOTBALL’S COMING HOME
A
s I follow IC GAC
throughout their tour
of Dublin, it is clear
that their captain An-
drew Lavery is taking
on-field performance seriously and
looks to establish Gaelic Football
amongst the rugbies, footballs and
the hockeys of Imperial’s sporting
frontline.
Both the Mens’ and Ladies’ matches
against Dublin’s premier university,
Trinity College, showed they refused
to lay down and get beaten in by play-
ers way beyond their own experience.
Two weeks prior to the departure to
Dublin, I put myself amongst the rough
and joined a weekly training session to
get a feel of this budding sport at Impe-
rial. Immediately, I see Lavery has long
lost his ‘nice guy’ off-field manner and
is leading the Ladies’ team with char-
acteristic militancy. It is a trait which
refuses to cease as I follow the team’s
progress for the next month.
In a brief moment when he takes his
eyes off a flowing practice match, he
spots the men’s team arriving and is
quick to remedy idle legs. He ‘suggests’
a warm up leg around Hyde Park’s Ser-
pentine Lake and IC GAC’s Chairman
Edward O’Hare gladly agrees to lead
the troops. There’s no waiting around
and as soon as we have put our bags
down, we commence on a demanding
three kilometre exercise.
On completion of the warm-up that
could have constituted my monthly
work-out, it is explained that the team
needs to reach ‘championship fitness’,
and that these warm-ups should be-
come less gruelling, and in time will
eventually become standard practice.
By the time we jog back to the train-
ing pitch, the Ladies’ team are packing
up and seem to be in good spirits about
their upcoming match against vastly
superior opponents in Trinity College.
As Edward O’Hare tries to explain
the game of Gaelic football to me in
three minutes, I experience Lavery’s
determination and drive for the game
first hand. He wants me to get stuck
straight in at the deep end but O’Hare
thinks otherwise. Lavery isn’t having
any of it, but the situation is resolved
when he notices the boys waiting be-
hind him for further instruction.
*
A WOMAN’S TOUCH
Legs and heads rested, the team were
in an upbeat mood upon their arrival
in Dublin. There is a sense of trepida-
tion as I talk to some of the girls, but
they’re sure they can give a good ac-
count of themselves on the pitch the
next day.
For the Irish members of the team,
a sense of familiarity harboured, and
there was a poignant feel in the Dublin
air as these players came home to test
themselves against some of Ireland’s
best college-level football players with
an essentially English team.
The Ladies’ team played first but
there wasn’t much time for pleasant-
ries before the match. Being ushered
into their dressing room on their ar-
rival to the ground, their march onto
the pitch saw them meet their impos-
ing opponents for the very first time.
Trinity casually warmed up and it was
immediately obvious that their evident
physical strength would make Impe-
rial’s day one of hard graft.
Imperial’s line up featured plenty of
pace throughout the side. What they
lacked in experience and technical
ability, Imperial’s rapid progression up
and down the field caused problems
for Trinity all afternoon.
Imperial’s pace nearly paid off shortly
after kick-off when left half-back Jackie
Fok started the first of many counter-
attacks for the team, which nearly
resulted in a shock lead. However,
Trinity’s ex- perience counted
for more this time and stifled
the attack on the goal line.
The game quickly settled down
after this flurry of activity, and soon
enough Trinity’s solid team struck
three points and netted a goal in quick
succession. As Ladies coach Phil Jake-
man blew gaskets on the touchline,
Imperial responded with a goal of their
own. After a few minutes of solid de-
fensive play led by centre-back and
captain Katie Cullen, Imperial slowly
pushed the equilibrium away from
their own half, and eventually found
themselves in the right half once again.
Though messy in front of goal, some
poor Trinity defending allowed a goal-
mouth scramble to end in the back of
the net, with Chloe Mckeon claiming
the final touch and making it 1-03 1-00
to Trinity early on in the half.
Trinity attempted to continue in an
expected onslaught of points, but were
regularly answered by their opponent
minnows.
Despite going in at half time behind,
Imperial took the positives out of
their brave first half performance and
pushed on in the second. A frustrated
Fiona O’Connell voiced her concerns
in no uncertain terms about the lack of
defensive organisation, leaving her job
as goalkeeper an impossible task for
long periods of the first half.
Though not quite solid enough to
counter Trinity’s strength in the cen-
tre of the park, the midfield pairing
of Chloe McKeon and Carla Mulas
proved fruitful in front of the posts.
Man-of-the-match McKeon saw a sec-
ond green flag raised for her when she
found herself one-on-one with Trin-
ity’s goalkeeper, who did well to get a
leg to a powerful strike. McKeon, how-
ever, kept her composure and followed
the looping deflection under the bar
and into the back of the net. Mulas did
Imperial an important service by strik-
ing three points, including one from
a well-taken free kick, in a fashion
that made it look like she’d be
playing Gaelic football for
years.
Half-forwards, So-
phie McLaclan and
Eileen Brandley,
took on the unglam-
orous yet extremely ef-
fective role of mopping
up IC’s desperate clear-
ances from defence, and
A BEGINNER’S GUIDE
“Fok’s particularly
impressive speed
did her team many
favours, allowing
sporadic penetration
of a well-ordered
Trinity team.”
Clockwise from lower left: Carla Mulas strikes a point in
Coach Phil Jakeman bark orders from the sidelines, th
Trinity, Chloe McKeon slots home her second goal,
• A centuries old Irish sport, somewhat li
far the most popular game in Ireland th
mainstream in Britain, the USA and Eur
• Played 15-a-side on a large rectangular f
posts, only with a football-like net on th
• The object is to score either a point (be
goal (putting it in the net) which is equ
2-07 to 1-04 (goals-points) means the f
• Progress is made by passing the ball by
very difficult skill to master and involve
running at full speed.
• You’re not allowed to throw the ball or
must be kicked up into your hands from
skill to learn.
• Tackling is quite physical and although
see plenty of hard hitting. The idea is to
in a 50-50 situation you can get away w
• Football’s sister sport, hurling, is very s
bat the ‘hurl’ and a small ball called a ‘s
PHOTOGRAPHY BY DAN WAN

