13
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
FEATURE
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
GAELIC FOOTBALL IS A QUICKLY BUDDING GAME ON IMPERIAL’S SPORTS SCENE; IC GAELIC
ATHLETIC CLUB BOASTS FULL ROSTERS FOR BOTH MENS’ AND LADIES’ TEAMS THIS YEAR.
DAN WAN FOLLOWS THEM ON THEIR TOUR OF DUBLIN AND EVEN GETS STUCK IN HIMSELF
in turn, created several chances that
could have evened out the scores.
Imperial’s forwards also benefitted
greatly from their team’s speedy play
on the wings as they added to Impe-
rial’s score with points of their own.
Xenia Snetkov, Catherine Parkinson
and Scarlett Gillespie were especially
able to move forward and try their luck
on goal several times throughout the
60 minutes, yielding a combined five
points between them.
The soloing pace of Sarah Jean and
Jackie Fok out wide set up several at-
tacks which resulted in points that
Imperial desperately needed in the
second half. Fok’s particularly impres-
sive speed did her team many favours,
allowing sporadic penetration of a
well-ordered Trinity team. Afterwards,
even the Trinity players conceded that
during moments of the game, Impe-
rial’s two quick wide players were a
thorn in their side.
Trinity never really ran away with
the game despite being in command
for most it. Imperial’s lack of experi-
ence transferred to periods of loss
of concentration during the second
half when Trinity glady notched the
handful of points and few goals that
won them the game. However, Impe-
rial’s keeper in the second-half, Tabit-
ha Skinner, had considerably less to
do than O’Connell’s first- half, again
thanks to Cullen’s individual unyield-
ing performance keeping Trinity’s best
County-level player in check.
For a team that was only established
this year, winning against one of Ire-
land’s most respected Ladies’ univer-
sity teams was always to be a very tall
order. Despite the defeat, Imperial put
up an energetic fight that saw them
largely mitigate a game led by their
Irish counterparts.
The Ladies’ 18-strong team is largely
inexperienced in the game of football,
with most of them taking up the sport
as an entirely new experience. The next
few months would concentrate on de-
veloping their game in time for Febru-
ary’s national championships held in
Manchester; no doubt that the match
in Dublin has taught them more than a
term’s worth of training sessions could
have.
*
BOYS IN BLUE
As for the men’s match, it was a
much more even affair and resulted
in a closely fought game either side
could’ve won. The game started with
an intense period of pressure from
Trinity, with the Imperial defence and
keeper being tested, but equal to al-
most every challenge. Jamie Sanders
and Padhraic Comerford acquitted
themselves well in this period and were
responsible for many clearances down
the left and right wings respectively.
Nevertheless Trinity managed to nab
themselves a goal and three points to
the good in this prolonged period of
possession.
The boys in blue were in no mood
to lie down though with club talisman
Danny Wilson providing the opener for
Imperial after 20 minutes. Drawing on
his soccer skills, Wilson half volleyed a
loose ball straight into the back of the
net, leaving the keeper no chance. The
referee wasn’t as impressed however
and overruled the legitimate score for
an alleged foul moments before. The
impetus was with Imperial now and
the boys won two frees which Ruairi
O’Neill ably converted from some dis-
tance. Halftime score 1-03 to 0-02 to
Trinity.
The second half began with Imperial
retaining much more of the posses-
sion, despite the hangover from last
night really beginning to take it’s toll.
Their profligacy in the next 15 minutes
would come back to haunt them as
all but one of several scoring chances
drifted agonisingly wide. The defence
held strong though and worked hard
to create chances for the forwards, but
were cruelly caught out when a specu-
lative looping effort from the Trinity
half forward caught the underside of
the bar and dropped in giving them the
ascendancy that would be difficult to
catch in the remaining time. Imperial
upped their game though and showed
a will to win, knocking over another
free and a fine score from play by Rob
Fitzpatrick. Trinity responded again
and the frenetic display of counter at-
tacking football from both teams was
cheering up the cold supporters on
the sidelines. In the final minutes Im-
perial were rewarded with a goal of
their own as their half-forward thun-
dered a shot on goal which the keeper
somehow managed to initially block,
but could not prevent a calmly-taken
rebound reaching the back of the net.
The final score read 2-07 to 1-04 to
Trinity, although it was remarked by
the hosts that the score line did flat-
ter them somewhat. Imperial’s display
of character to fight back despite go-
ing down early in the match certainly
bodes well for their upcoming BUSA
Championships.
As I finish off this tour report, my in-
box lights up and there is a new email
from Andrew Lavery sent to all the
players at IC GAC. He signs off in a
manner that gives no indication that he
plans to let up on his vision of making
IC GAC one of Imperial’s most nation-
ally successful teams.
“Seriously lads, this is it. Last term
was for messing about in the ‘League’
but this term is what playing Gaelic
Football at IC is all about. 100% com-
mitment and a Championship victory
for the taking. It’s up to you now. See
you at training, Lavery.”
TO GAELIC FOOTBALL
the first half, Team Captain Andrew Lavery and Ladies
he Ladies’ team warm up prior to the match against
and the Mens’ team deliberating tactics during half time.
“Imperial upped their
game though and
showed a will to win”
ike a cross between rugby and football. By
hough beginning to become more and more
rope.
field with goals at either end like rugby
he lower section.
etween the posts over the crossbar) or a
uivalent to three points. So a score line of
irst team won by 13 to 7.
kicking, fisting or a solo run which is a
es bouncing the ball of your foot whilst
pick it clean up off the ground, the ball
m the deck - another not so straightforward
not as heavy as rugby, a good match will
o tackle the ball as opposed to the man but
with a fair bit of that too.
imilar but played with a wooden
liotar’.

