14
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor
Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs
Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
Consumer Electronics Sho
the year’s biggest gadget
T
he year has only just got going but already CES, the biggest gadget orgy
of the year, has been and gone. The world’s biggest, brightest and best
were on hand to show attendees their wares, generate buzz and all
the while hoping that they’re the next big thing. For those of you not
familiar with the buzz, hype and flat out lunacy of CES, it’s THE event in the tech
calendar and takes place every January, kicking off the gadget year with a bang in
Las Vegas, the city of sin, sun and cold hard cash. Enough of the blurb, you’ve got
the idea, so what has 2010 got in store for us?
Tab
CES might have been the year of 3D TV and
manufacturers from making an appearance. Of c
mythical iTablet the ‘Slate’ everything with a tab
HP is no exception letting Microsoft kick off it’s
Slate. Steve Ballmer was wielding the prototype
reader app. The tablet is multi-touch capable a
taking great delight playing Frogger in front of th
later this year.
Lenovo made more of an impact with their I
this seemingly ordinary laptop has a pretty slick
multi-touch display. The laptop half of the com
with a 128GB SSD holding Windows 7 Home Pr
about this little beauty is that the slate itself is po
a touch-screen version of the Skylight smartboo
and you’re away.
T-Mobile also showed off something fancy
Android tablet. Powered by Nvidia’s Tegra 250
of Android 2.0, the Vega is tailored towards th
you’ve got an easy to use internet tablet with s
T-Mobile SIM pre-installed. The Vega also pack
support built-in, although the Vega’s 15” screen
yet to be fleshed out but expect some sort of sub
T-Mobile 15-inch ICD Vega Tablet, Android fam
3D TV
Onward the march of 3D! Not content only to smash its way back into the big
screen, 3D is infiltrating our homes and poking its finger right into your face.
Sony was there with its pretty incredible 24.5” OLED 3D Bravia boasting incred-
ible blacks and colour vibrancy, even if the 3Dness reduces the available colour
gamut.
ESPN announced it would be showing World Cup games in 3D for all to behold.
It won’t just be football though with the Summer X games, NBA and of course
NFL hitting America in the 3rd dimension. DirecTV also showed off its 3D wares
at CES which the company is set to roll out in June this year. In this country
BSkyB has already made its intentions clear about 3D with Sky1’s Gladiators
already being recorded in stereoscope. If you’re a Sky subscriber and you happen
to be packing a 3D HDTV, then look out for the roll out sometime this year. If you
haven’t got a nice big 3D HDTV just yet, you might want to consider an LG, who
were on the scene at CES with two 3D LCDs, 55” and 47” models, which will be
available around April this year.
Of course most of this 3D technology still requires the use of polarized glasses
like those you have to wield whilst in the cinema for Avatar and alike. Intel
however showed of its glasses-free 3D tech. Using a coating applied to the screen
of the HDTV and specially recorded 3D video it’s possible to create depth without
resorting to wearing specs. The only problem with it is that there are only about
eight specific places one can stand to experience the effect and the resolution
the demo was running was sub 720p. I don’t know about you, but for me no-
glasses 3D trumps the spectacle requiring variety, so I hope content producers
and providers take note.
Not to be muscled out, Panasonic was also on show at CES with some serious
pieces of kit. How about the world’s first integrated Full HD 3D camcorder. OK,
it’s not your average pocket shooter, but the ‘Professional’ camcorder packs
everything you need to record 3D in one package. Up for order in April and
carrying a price tag of $21,000, you better have a pretty good reason for wanting
to record your kid brother running into a window in 3D.
Now available
in stereoscope
W
ell there goes Christ-
mas! Hope you all had a
cracking break and got
some awesome gadg-
ets. But if you’re like me and money
is all you’ve got to show from the holi-
day season, apart from a larger gut of
course, then this week you might find a
few things to prise that cold hard cash
out of your hands.
The start of the technology year al-
ways kicks off with what’s arguably the
biggest and most important exhibition
in the consumer electronics calendar.
CES, which is only open to industry
types, journalists and the movers and
shakers of the world, holds a treasure
trove of innovation, bizarre technology
and a load of gadget-lust inducing gear.
This year, although we’re in the midst,
or tail end depending on who you be-
lieve, of a recession, the manufacturers
still turned up with some impressive
tech.
We’ve taken the time to go through
the total information overload that is
CES for you, to pick out some choice
and outstanding products that you
might just see on your virtual shelves
sometime in the near future.
3D played a massive role this year at
CES. One could say the third dimen-
sion is definitely ‘in’. For better or for
worse, depending on what your posi-
tion is on the whole 3D being the fu-
ture thing, the TV and film industry is
trying it’s hardest to shove it into your
media enriched lives. Of course 3D
not only means new TVs, new PVRs
and boxes, but glasses. Yep, glasses.
Great, so now not only have you got
to wear glasses all day whilst trying to
read things, but when you get home
and relax you’re going to have to don
another pair of spectacles just to watch
the damn TV.
OK, so you can probably tell by now
that I’m not such a huge fan of 3D.
Don’t get me wrong, a 3D hologram
projected in front of me would be to-
tally awesome, but 3D from TV and
film in my opinion rarely adds to the
experience. A recent trip to the cinema
to watch Avatar, cemented my view. Al-
though 3D cinema might add to some
things, especially walking through the
giganto-smurf forest, for the most part
I could do without it. It doesn’t help
that the 3D glasses are cheap and hurt
your ears after a while, something I
found particularly annoying in Cam-
eron’s two hour 30 minutes plus effort.
Still there’s bound to be custom specs
available in the near future.
SamuelGibbs
SamuelGibbs Technology Editor
Transparent screens will soon be making their way out of science fiction movies
and into our lives, with a major story out of CES being Samsung’s new transpar-
ent OLED displays. The technology promises to offer up to 40% transparency, a
large and very obvious improvement over older transparent display technology.
Samsung is planning to release an MP3 player and a phone that make use of this
technology later this year. While the resolution of the OLED screens leaves much
to be desired, Samsung is obviously betting on the novelty factor attracting cus-
tomers, with the phone priced at £620 even while lacking a camera.
While the technology unquestionably has applications in many fields, the most
important being true heads-up displays in full colour, it’s questionable exactly how
useful the technology is right now. The 40% transparency isn’t enough to embed
them in automobiles, and being able to see through your computer monitor is
more a detriment than anything else. A lot more work will be required before
Samsung can market these products as anything more than a pricey novelty for
early adopters.
Great, more distractions from work, essential student gear this.
Transparent Displays
Glorious colour and the 3D’s optional. Sony’s onto a winner here.
This is what $21,000 buys you in 3D camcorders. An ugly beast.

