15
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk TECHNOLOGY
ow 2010 - Our highlights and picks from
exhibition straight out of the City of Sin
Talking of Android, the growing maturity of the platform as an operating system
for low-end computers and smaller devices was quite obvious at CES, with a slew
of new Android-packing devices announced. Aside from Google’s own Nexus
One ‘superphone’, announced just before the start of the exhibition, AT&T an-
nounced it would carry five new Android handsets this year, with LG and Mo-
torola also announcing new smartphones running the Linux-based OS.
The Android story didn’t stop there either, with HP, Dell and Lenovo announcing
netbooks and tablet PCs running the system. The emergence of Android at what
is traditionally a Microsoft stomping ground is very noteworthy. Android could
prove to be what many die-hard Linux enthusiasts have been waiting for: a widely
adopted, consumer targeted, open source OS promoted by a major company. With
at least a dozen new Android products on the way (and more to be announced
at the Mobile World Congress in February), the OS looks like it’s on the way to
be truly competing with Apple and Microsoft for market share across platforms.
The quest to make the humble sheet of paper obsolete continues with vigour this
year at CES with the launch of yet more e-readers. The main focus for designers
this year seems to not be on actually reading books but instead on what else they
can do, with many new offerings able to play HD video, synchronise calendars
and emails and even browse Twitter. Plastic Logic’s QUE proReader pushes the
envelope with its broad feature set which also includes opening most Microsoft
Office documents, but unfortunately like most e-ink devices on show it suffers
from really sluggish response and loading times. One company with the answer
to that is display designer Pixel Qi, who comes to CES this year in Notion Ink’s
impressive ADAM tablet flaunting a new dual unit that sports a unique LCD that
can be either full-colour and backlit or standard monochrome. Oh, and it actually
gets easier to read in sunlight. The huge advantage of this is the ability to switch
between the two at will, making it easy to view colour images or video and then
switch to black and white for text reading that is just as crisp as Amazon’s Kindle
e-reader, which by now is looking rather long in the tooth.
Ah yes, the iPod dock. Once the must-have gadget for people with too much
money, these glorified speakers now litter the electronics market and nowhere
more so than CES. The whole iPod idea hasn’t really changed much since last year,
so the focus has been on innovation, which, as is typical when creativity is left un-
checked, has produced some truly bizarre bits of hardware. This even winds up
being ridiculously impractical in some cases, particularly with Branex’s iTamTam
docking stools. Putting aside for the moment that it’s named like a women’s sani-
tary product, this ‘funky’ 60s-style stool’s docking point is right on the edge of the
rim making it too easy to sit down and simply snap your iPod in half. Sony’s Trik
is another offering which is a bit of an odd choice in the design department, be-
ing reminiscent of massive 80s boom-boxes that got carried on shoulders. It does
feature changeable skins though, and the speakers provide a not-too-shabby 75
watts. The true winner of weird this year though goes to Seiko with their ‘Ocean
Theatre’ iPod dock. Its main selling point, in addition to the alarm clock and iPod
attachment, is its ability to project marine life, such as whales and seaweed, onto
your wall. If that wasn’t lame enough, it does so with crappy pixelated images and
at about five frames per second, which puts it on par with about 1980s technol-
ogy. What it’s doing at CES 2010 is anybody’s guess.
USB 3.0 finally seems to be making its way into consumer electronics, with the
first officially certified USB 3.0 products set to hit shelves later this year. The
specification, a fully backwards compatible successor to USB 2.0, makes use of
a noticeably chunkier cable to offer data transfer rates of up to 3.2 Gbits (even
with other overheads taken into account), an order of magnitude faster than the
speeds USB 2.0 was supposed to provide.
While your standard USB 2.0 cables will still work on these newer ports, you’ll
be unable to take advantage of the speed boost - and your new USB 3.0 cables
will not work on older ports. Is investing in the new standard worth it? Sony,
Apple and Intel would like you to think otherwise - they have been working on
a completely different technology, dubbed “Light Peak”, that promises to offer
faster speeds than USB 3.0 while connecting a much larger range of devices.
Whether this will be enough to convince consumers to pay for the complete
wiring overhaul that Light Peak requires is yet to be seen; there are no Light Peak
devices due in the near future while USB 3.0 ready laptops from HP will be hitting
shelves in the coming months.
USB 3.0
lets
eBook readers, but that didn’t keep the tablet
course now that Apple may or may not call their
blet form factor is getting labelled with the term.
s press conference with the unveiling of the HP
stage, showing off Windows and the PC Kindle
and can even play games of a sort with Ballmer
he audience. Look for this one hitting the shelves
IdeaPad U1 Hybrid. The clue’s in the name but
party piece in the form of a detachable resistive
mbo device harbours an Intel CULV processor
remium, pretty standard fare. The unusual thing
owered by a separate Snapdragon CPU running
ok OS. Pull out the slate, switch over to Skylight
at CES in the form of the ICD Vega 15-inch
chipset and running a heavily customised build
he family market. In reality what that means is
shared calendars, SMS/MMS messaging and a
ks WiFi, an FM radio, on-demand TV and 1080p
n is only 1366x768. Pricing and availability have
bscription to be involved.
mily computing and we’ll even get it in the UK!
Android eReaders
iPod Docks
Could this be the one cable to rule them all or is Light Peak going to kick ass?
Careful where you sit, it could be expensive.
Google’s Android powered ‘superphone’ the Nexus One.
The QUE makes Amazon’s Kindle look like a not-so-cheap plastic toy.

