17
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
‘I’m the King of the World!’ declared
James Cameron after the box-office
smashing, Oscar hauling, behemoth
of a film that was Titanic. With Hol-
lywood wrapped around his little fin-
ger, Cameron looked poised to pro-
duce many a hit-film from his throne,
but quicker than you can say Terrence
Mallick, he disappeared. During the
decade-long absence of his highness,
many a young pretender has arisen
to steal his crown, and whilst Michael
Bay and Roland Emmerich’s mediocre
blockblusters have filled the void, the
return of King Cameron seemed to
herald the revitalisation of the action
film genre. So just what has JC been
doing for the past eleven years? We
were promised the biggest revolution
in cinema history since the Jazz Singer
and a revolution he has certainly start-
ed, just how big it will be, only time
can tell.
Avatar employs a new motion cap-
ture technology developed by Cam-
eron and co. that allows the director to
view the actors’ performances with all
the special effects added immediately,
thus moving CGI closer to conven-
tional filmmaking. However, murmurs
of discontent were heard as soon as
details of the film emerged. Criticism
of the ‘photorealistic’ effects and the
very familiar plot were hurled at poor
James, even meriting a whole South
Park episode dedicated to highlighting
the similarities to Dances with Wolves
(smurfs). Interestingly JC didn’t rise to
the bait, confident with the knowledge
that he had made something special.
But has Cameron managed to break
the recent trend of directors becoming
carried away with CGI and ignoring
the real substance of their films? Well
yes, just about.
Avatar is spectacular to watch; the
alien Planet of Pandora is vividly im-
agined with incredible attention to
detail. Fantastic plants and luminous
flowers populate the dense forests
whilst vicious six-legged beasts roam
the undergrowth and brightly col-
oured dragons swoop amongst float-
ing mountains; Salvador Dali would be
put to shame. What is amazing is that
every part of the planet has been ren-
dered on a computer but not once does
the environment feel fake. This illusion
is only slightly shaken by scenes in-
volving the natives of the planet – the
Na’vi – but I attribute this more to the
fact that we are not used to seeing blue
people instead of imperfections with
the CGI.
The Na’vi resemble Native Ameri-
cans in most aspects including a spir-
itual link to nature. But their perfect
existence has been threatened with the
arrival of the sky-people, aka humans.
Far from a dying Earth, a mega-corpo-
ration has employed a private army to
help them exploit Pandora’s recources,
specifically a rare mineral conven-
iently named ‘unobtanium’. The film’s
hero Jake, a paraplegic ex-marine, is
enlisted to join the ‘Avatar Project’ in
which human’s pilot home grown Na’vi
bodies so they can breath the toxic at-
mosphere and interact with the locals.
Unintentionally infiltrating the local
tribe, Jake’s loyalties slowly switch from
the classically unhinged colonel (played
with menacing glee by Stephen Lang) to
the Na’vi as he falls in love with their way
of life and also a special lady alien.
The latest big discovery, Sam Wor-
thington (Terminator Salvation), really
comes to life when he’s transformed
into his 12 foot alter ego. His portrayal
of a regression to an almost child-like
state due to a new lease of life, in con-
trast to the depression of being crip-
Dry-humping aliens; only in Avatar
pled, is very convincing. Zoe Saldana,
last seen in Star Trek, gives the strong-
est performance of the film as the
beautiful but fierce Neytiri, who’s sent
“Brightly coloured dragons swoop
amongst floating mountains; Salvador
Dali would be put to shame”
into a cascading dilemma of conflict-
ing emotions and loyalties. The motion
capture technique picks out Saldana’s
every subtle movement and expres-
sion, helping make Neytiri seem the
most human character in the film. I’m
not ashamed to say that her Na’vi ac-
cent and cat-like actions when angry,
make her one of the sexiest characters
to grace our screen in years.
Fittingly, the central two characters
are the most developed and help keep
Avatar focused however, the rest of
the cast seemed to have wandered in
from a variety of films. We have the
gung-ho Colonel Quaritch, who is
simply Colonel Kilgore plucked from
the horror of ‘Nam’ in Apocalypse Now
and thrown into the year 2154. Cam-
eron even shamelessly acknowledges
this by placing a mug of coffee in his
hand during the gunship attack scene
(only this time, there’s no Wagner).
When you need a macho woman these
days, Michelle Rodriguez is top of the
list but she struggles with some of the
weakest lines in the script and her part
is underused. Sigourney Weaver is reu-
nited with Cameron for the first time
since Aliens, her headstrong scientist
is such a maverick that she smokes in
space! And so the list of stereotypes
goes on and on...
But James Cameron is the first to ad-
mit that the plot contains everything
but originality. However, avant-garde
films are not his craft and where he ex-
cels is in his attention to the structure,
pacing and general tidiness of his films.
When it comes to the story, we are in
traditional Cameron territory; a love
affair interrupted by the inconvenience
of the threat of death and a finale cli-
maxing with a duel between our hero
and villain. So the plot may be slightly
dull but he makes up for this with ex-
pert direction; there are no stupid ‘ac-
tion’ camera tricks to confuse the au-
dience or repetitive fight scenes which
take up half the film. The carefully built
set-pieces are masterfully handled; ex-
pert pacing combined with precisely
fluctuating levels of suspense ensures
that our attention is held throughout.
Most importantly, at a running time of
Director James Cameron
Screenwriter James Cameron
Cast Sam Worthington, Zoe Saldana,
Sigourney Weaver
Running Time 162 mins
EdKnock
EdKnock Film Editor
Avatar
Essential James Cameron
Filmography
The Terminator defined the
80’s and put Arnie on the map.
The special effects were, at the
time, cutting edge and Cameron
continued to push the boundaries
in every one of his subsequent
films. The imaginative action
scenes combined with visceral
violence gave the sci-fi genre a
much needed boost. Arnie said he
would be back and he was, with
the arguably greater Terminator 2.
Feminist cinema had always been
long winded affairs involving
strong willed women who strive
to be viewed as equals in blah
blah blah. With Aliens, Cameron
showed everyone how to empower
the fairer sex: shove a fuck-off
massive gun into Sigourney
Weaver’s hands and let her blow
the crap out of dozens of vicious
xenomorphs. Awesome and
politically correct, what else do
you want from a film?
“Though somewhat
far-fetched,
downloading
yourself into the
universal conscience
of the planet and
praying to a giant
glowing tree makes
perfect sense”
2hrs 40mins, this film is never boring.
His screenplays have never pushed
boundaries but they are usually quite
solid. Unfortunately Avatar’s isn’t so,
and this is where the film falls flat.
The weak script is peppered with cli-
chés and the dialogue feels unnatural,
preventing the characters from gain-
ing any emotion depth. This was a big
shame as I felt the wooden characteri-
sation hampered the cast, who would
typically have given stronger perform-
ances. There’s the Na’vi language to
consider as well, of which Cameron
is apparently very proud, although it
soon turns out that it is basically re-
dundant as all the aliens speak English
anyway. The film’s mythology wisely
sticks to a familiar fantasy format and
thus avoids alienating audiences with
technological jargon made infamous
by the Star Trek films. Though some-
what far-fetched, downloading your-
self into the universal conscience of the
planet and praying to a giant glowing
tree makes perfect sense.
However, not even the meanest of
scrooges will be able to sit sour faced
through the film, grumbling about the
script. The sheer magnificence of the
visuals will elevate you to a state of ec-
stasy, pushing any thoughts of the film’s
faults way to the back of your mind.
But to experience the film’s maximum
beauty I strongly advise seeing it in 3D.
Instead of being a gimmick, the 3D
helps immerse you more into the ka-
leidoscopic world of Pandora. Ignore
my negative criticisms; I’m just being a
film snob and if you haven’t seen Ava-
tar yet then skip your next lecture and
head down to the nearest cinema; you
won’t be disappointed.

