24
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
x
A New Year in the Scottish Highlands
It may have been -120 but the Fellwanderers made the most of their Winter Tour to Glen Nevis, by Ande Elliott
O
n the 27th of Decem-
ber, 11 Fellwanderers
set off, ready to start
our epic journey to the
snow covered north.
We got our first views of the West
Highlands driving past Loch Lomond
and through the famous Glencoe. We
arrived at the bunkhouse at 10:30, after
a 13 hour drive. However, in the great-
est traditions of Imperial, we decided
to start drinking. We then went to bed
slightly bemused, but sort of ready to
brave whatever Scotland threw at us.
After little sleep and no hangover
on behalf of Nathaniel (the man is a
machine) we started our first day. We
got up at 7 and started walking at 8, to
maximise the 7 or so hours of daylight.
After a short drive in the minibus, we
started on the first hike of the trip, a
nice horseshoe around a ridge.
We started on a nice gentle path,
then using the ‘right to roam’ land to
its full awesomeness, cut our way up
a steep slope in the snow using the ice
axes and poles to their full extent.
After this effort we felt a break was in
order, and stopped at the top of the hill
admiring the awesome views of Ben
Nevis in the snow. We had a snow ball
fight at the top of the hill, and wres-
tled in the snow, (no gayness involved
honest). Then we continued along the
ridge in snow varying between several
inches and 2 feet.
Whilst waiting for everyone to catch
up, Ande, learning to map read (‘I’m
sure there should be a forest around
here’) decided that putting a plastic
map case on an icy slope was a good
idea. It slid all the way down the hill
we had just climbed, and he had to run
down to retrieve it while everyone fell
around laughing.
Continuing on, we climbed the pin-
nacle and progressed to our first Mun-
ro (special Scottish mountain above
3000 feet) Stob Ban. On the way down
from Stob Ban we had our first survival
bagging of the trip. For those uninitiat-
ed in the ways of the Fellwanderer, this
involves taking a thick plastic orange
sack, that you can sleep in if you get
stuck in the mountains, and using it as
a sledge. Unfortunately the snow was
too powdery and we didn’t get very
much speed on the slopes. Progress-
ing around the horseshoe we climbed
another Munro, Mullach Coirean, then
descending into a forest. The sun was
setting and with a howl from the north,
the first monster of our trip emerged, a
Polish person with a new head torch.
Rafal took large amounts of enjoyment
from blinding anyone at the wrong
place at the wrong time, (working on
the principle that When Mister Head
Torch is not on, Then Mister Head
Torch is not your friend).
Getting back to the bunkhouse, we
enjoyed the first of many Morrisons-
based meals with their yellow good-
ness. Luckily we had the excellent chef,
Heather, in charge and so the Spag bol
worked out very well. Our pet veg-
etarian and president Alex even said
to everyone’s surprise that the veggie
mince (that you have to boil rather
than fry!) was nice.
After our rather epic first day we de-
cided to do something that in Alex’s
words was low level, so we started very
low and ended up at the summit of the
seventh highest mountain in the UK.
After a short minibus ride, we set off
walking, and ignoring the danger sign
on the side of the path we proceeded
along an icy track through a forest.
Emerging from the forest, we walked
through a valley admiring the snow
covered hills on either side of us. We
climbed up to the foot hills of Aonach
Beag with cries of ‘They’re taking the
hobbits to Isengard’, traversing around
a smaller hill to get to the saddle point
of Aonach Beag. However, we didn’t
realise that the hill was so slippery. So
even with ice axes, several people re-
quired help from the cramponed Nath-
aniel to get them across. We stopped
for lunch at the saddle only to realise
that the smaller hill we were going
around had been protecting us from
the bitter wind which started flicking
up powder snow into our faces. Then
after the shortest lunch in the history
of man, we set off on the ‘final ascent’
to Aonach Beag. We continued to the
top and were rewarded with awesome
views of the winter wonderland that
surrounded us. Continuing down, we
reached the icy sections in the dark,
convincing ourselves that moonlight
was better than torches.
With ice on the roads there were a
few worried looks from the Fellwan-
derers as the bus skidded around cor-
ners. We finished the day with another
excellent meal of bangers and mash,
followed by more of Heather’s cake
(cutting it with several impressive re-
bounds from a spear).
The fourth day was our rest day,
with an optional walk to see the north
face of Ben Nevis from Coire Leis. As
a testament to the Fellwanderers or
possibly because of the pictures of the
face on the walls of the kitchen, all but
4 did this epic walk. We started from
the hut and walked up to the saddle of
Ben Nevis. Once we hit the saddle we
were again hit by strong winds throw-
ing powder snow in our faces, so much
so that we had to face the other way
when the wind gusted. We then tra-
versed around to get into the valley of
the north face. Once we got there the
strong winds intensified, funnelling
through the valley and making walking
more difficult.
Continuing along the valley we no-
ticed a flare going up on the north face
and a rescue helicopter flying over to it.
Thinking there must be a training exer-
cise on the mountain we continued on
losing the path in the deep snow. Alex
started making a new path through the
snow for us all to follow; suddenly, we
all heard a loud crack as the ice under
Alex’s boots broke, leaving him in a
foot of icy water. Then Chris, thinking
he had found a better path through,
also sunk into the water. Apparently
even in frozen Scotland we cannot get
away from the Bogwanderers.
When we finally reached the hut and
got changed, Ande took stock of the
kitchen. Despite getting there a lot ear-
lier than everyone else he still wasn’t
finished making shopping lists. Alex,
amid protests from Heather and Ande,
claimed he knew exactly what to buy.
This seemed to amount to need-
ing ‘lots of hand waving’ amounts of
potatoes, pasta and other food. So
with pained looks from the physicists
and mathematicians we set off to Fort
William for our afternoon off. We
had 3 hours to relax there. However
there really was nothing to do. We all
eventually ended up in the Morrison’s
café, while Alex, Ande and Heather
shopped, finding that Alex’s hand wav-
ing actually meant he had no idea.
Alex, frustrated with stupidly specific
instructions from Ande such as ‘We
need 1.125kg of rice’ wandered off on
his own to find the Haggis. Nathaniel
bought two more bottles of Whisky.
We also had to say goodbye to
Yvonne that day as she was going to
meet some of her friends for New
Year’s. She was replaced by a new Fell-
wanderer convert Beccy. Getting back
we discovered to our delight that the
veggie meal planned had been can-
celled and replaced by Fajitas. After
the meal we chatted to some of the
other people staying in the bunk-
house, to discover that the helicopters
we had seen earlier had been called to
try to rescue a party of 3 climbers on
the north face. Only one made it back
alive and it was a sobering to think how
quickly the mountains can turn against
people who were less than a ½ a kilo-
metre from us.
Waking up the next day, we fol-
lowed the same route for the first half
mile looking at the steep hill we had
climbed earlier; thinking about how
much worse it looked now the snow
had been blown off it.
Upon reaching the top of the valley,
we had the most epic survival bagging
session of the trip, which then degen-
erated into a snow wrestling match.
This, I must point out, despite being
described as ‘erotic snow play’ by cer-
tain members of the party, was com-
pletely heterosexual.
We then followed the West High-
land Way along for several miles, go-
ing through a forest in the dark ending
up on a hill side overlooking the lights
of the bustling metropolis that is Fort
William.
Starting our New Year’s Eve party,
Chris, Alex and Nathaniel became
improvised Scotsmen by constructing
kilts out of survival bags and towels
and running around shouting FREE-
DOM! We then started a game of ‘Fell-
wanderers’ ring of fire. This turned
into less of a drinking session and more
into a cross-dressing party, ending up
with Chris wearing a tight top and
pants, and Ande in a low cut top and
leopard skin leggings!
Luckily New Year came and every-
one got distracted by the countdown
and afterwards didn’t seem to remem-
ber anything. With the new year seen
in we all headed back to the bunk-
house, with the more extreme people
staying up to continue ring of fire. We
were joined by an awesome Scottish
guy, who traded our President Alex’s
jeans for a kilt, and I can confirm for
all of our female readers that he did go
full Scottish, swinging his underwear
around his head before throwing it
away Full Monty style. The game con-
tinued for a while with large amounts
of good whisky mixed with ‘olde Eng-
lish’ cider being consumed by all until
we all stumbled off to bed.
The next day, we split into 3 groups;
one group did a river walk, ending up
in a pub where we waited the previ-
ous day, enjoying hot chocolate. Ande
and Heather did a short walk into Fort
William, and our beloved president
stayed in bed all day recovering from
his pains. Towards the end of the day
we managed to convince him that
there was more to the world than his
duvet, and he joined us for dinner and
more drinks. Due to our president’s
illness (vegetarianism not being hung-
over), we finished the day with our
sole veggie meal Cous Cous, to Chris’
displeasure.
On the last hiking day of the trip we
finally managed to make it up Ben Ne-
vis. We flew up the first few sections
that we had walked before to the sad-
dle. As we were climbing the next few
sections the clouds started moving in
around us, giving us brief glimpses of
the amazing panorama around us. We
reached the top in good time, and had
first lunch there. Nathaniel brought up
beer to the top and had the highest can
of beer in the UK. We reached the sad-
dle early and decided to do a bit more
walking. We climbed Meall an t-Suide
which is on the Ben Nevis ridge, our
last walk of the trip.
I would just like to thank all of the
people that made this trip amazing:
Alex who did an excellent job organis-
ing this trip, Heather who did an fan-
tastic job with the food, the minibus
drivers, and quite frankly everyone for
putting up with me. I regret that I can-
not mention everyone by name in arti-
cle. We all really enjoyed this trip and
I hope you enjoyed reading about it. I
hope to see you on a Fellwanderers trip
in the future!
There’s nothing like an ice-axe fight to keep you warm

