25
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk C & S
felix
HinduSoc put Hinduism under trial in ‘Why Do We...?’
W
hy Do We...?
There are many
speculations about
Hinduism – for ex-
ample, why do Hin-
dus worship idols and why do Hindus
have so many creation stories? So, for
one evening, Imperial College Hindu
Society put Hinduism on trial.
The renowned guest speaker Rishi
Handa stood proud in the court room
to defend Hindu Dharma. In this inter-
active workshop, Rishi answered to the
crimes on behalf of all Hindus, giving
answers to questions that no one had
dared to ask before. Hindus are guilty
of many acts; many are not even aware
of why they do them.
When entering the lecture theatre,
you could instantly feel the atmosphere
swimming with questions. There was a
huge turnout for this event, by people
of various cultures, religions and races
all having a certain curiosity around
the unanswered questions surround-
ing Hinduism. It was time to under-
stand why Hindus have a caste system
and why they are still male-dominated.
The lawyer, Anand Pandit, accused
the defendant of being guilty to the fol-
lowing crimes: worshipping idols, be-
ing polytheistic, being ignorant in light
of the suffering of others and segregat-
ing society according to heritage and
gender. The defendant argued from his
perspective, sometimes adding quotes
from sacred books. For example, when
arguing the polytheistic nature of Hin-
duism, he quoted Krishna: “Those
who are devotees of other gods and
who worship them with faith actually
worship only Me... but they do so in a
wrong way” (Bhagvad Gita - chapter 9,
verse 23).
As the jury, the audience had the
opportunity to probe the defend-
ant further, turning the event into an
open-floor discussion. Many of the
audience were intrigued with the topic
surrounding male dominance and why
women are seen as being impure when
menstruating.
This was then followed by a Q&A
session, whereby members of the audi-
ence asked various questions, includ-
ing whether or not sex before marriage
is seen as acceptable in the Hindu cul-
ture. The defendant stated that how
someone perceives sex before mar-
riage is a value judgement. However,
it is regarded as highly spiritual in the
Hindu culture as it is the joining of two
people, both physically and mentally,
in a completely new respect. Rishi’s
beliefs are that you should only have
one sexual partner in your lifetime –
and this should be your spouse. Hav-
ing sexual partners before marriage
and then marrying someone different
cheapens the spirituality of sex – espe-
cially as the person who is not a virgin
can be seen as ‘impure’.
To help encourage the audience to
ask questions, there was a prize for
the person who asked the best or most
inquisitive question. Co-president
Minesh Parmar had a brilliant ques-
tion about why all of the priests have
dreadlocks! He had been planning to
ask it for about 2 weeks but unfortu-
nately, on the day, his nerves got the
better of him and he was unable to fol-
low through. Para was awarded with
the best question inquiring about the
inequality of women within Hinduism.
In my eyes, Rishi was able to justify
the actions of Hindus from his own
perspective of Hinduism and its obli-
gations. However, as the answers were
his views and his interpretation of the
scriptures, I feel that for the audience
to have benefited the most from this
event, they needed to have had their
own opinions on the topics.
This would have helped to decide
whether his answers were put into the
correct context, thus allowing a deep-
er understanding of the issues raised.
After all, the audience were the jury
and so the final verdict rested on their
shoulders.
After the event there was delicious
Indian food available for all those who
attended – samosas, dhokla and a va-
riety of fruit juices. It was deemed a
complete success because of all the en-
quiring questions the audience asked
and the variety of faiths that attended.
The hard work that the Hindu Soci-
ety’s committee had put into the event
was evident, and it is an event that the
committee is definitely considering
holding again. This way, even more
unanswered questions will have their
answers revealed.
Email: hindu@imperial.ac.uk
D
uring the holiday period,
Imperial College Gliding
Club visited Portmoak,
Scotland to sharpen up
our skills. Whilst visiting
Scotland during the winter may sound
stupidly cold, the airfield we flew at
has certain features which recommend
it: notably the two ridges of Benarty
and Bishop. For the record, it was stu-
pidly cold.
Now, it may not sound like a sensi-
ble thing to fly around large crashable
hills, however gliders can use them to
stay airborne for far longer than any-
thing possible at our home airfield of
Lasham, in winter. There is some
method to our madness. Portmoak is
also incredibly pretty.
The tour started with an excessively
long and boring journey on the 27th of
December followed by the ritual visit
to Mr Chan’s Chinese restaurant. We
can but recommend it.
The next day saw our first flights,
with our instructor, Andy Cockerell,
taking the lion’s share for his instruc-
tor check-flights. During the evening,
we watched the film Avatar at the lo-
cal cinema. Not to ruin the plot, but
nice graphics, pity about the plot: al-
though I appear to be in a minority in
my judgement of this film. Apparently
glider pilots are the jackdaws of avia-
tion with a great love of shiny things.
The 29th saw the first flight of the
club members – weak wave condi-
tions over Loch Leven allowed us to fly
most of the students – offering flights
longer than most had ever had before...
Indeed in this day we managed to fly
for longer than the sum of all last year’s
flying.
Regrettably, the next day was un-
flyable as a result of strong winds: to
occupy ourselves, some of the club de-
cided to climb the Bishop – and feel-
ing that the path was too horizontal,
we opted to ignore it and take a more
vertical route up the hill. Sadly, some of
the members of the group opted not to
climb through the metre or so of snow
at the summit: Ryan, man up. Those
that opted to climb up had the fun of
rolling down – and that much at least
made the ascent worth it; although the
random gentleman wearing nothing
save shorts at the top of Bishop at least
reinforced just how strange Scotland
is: I would like to draw attention to just
how cold it was.
In the evening, the group chose to
see yet another film, Sherlock Hol-
mes... where club members spent time
checking the historical accuracy of the
buildings featured in the film; never go
to the cinema with Imperial students.
New Year’s Eve saw more flights, and
a visit to the Edinburgh Hogmanay
festival. This was an interesting experi-
ence – with the most unlikely person
in the group getting groped by ladyfolk
of Scotland, police kettling and a disap-
pointing lack of alcohol (amongst the
students) who were all keen to fly the
next day.
The highlight of the evening, mid-
night, showed us the true depth of
humanity: Auld-Lang-Syne was sung,
fireworks went off, and some random
person in the crowd got hit by a bot-
tle of human waste. Much fun was had
by all.
New Year’s Day was another day of
excellent flying, where everyone was
able to fly and Miles was able to get
a free, two hour flight; he’s not re-
motely smug about this. The next day,
we made our journey back to London,
which was excessively long (due to
traffic) and very dull.
Broadly speaking, we had a superb
tour in Scotland. The club managed
to get at least 3 times as much airtime
A Gliding Club Winter over the lochs and hills of Scotland
in compared to last year, visited a very
pretty area of Scotland and celebrated
the New Year in style.
Special thanks must go to Andy
Cockerell (our instructor), Rory Con-
don (our guide) and John Davey (our
driver) and the University of Edin-
burgh for lending us their glider for a
week.
The club had a lot of fun, flew a lot
and can heartily recommend Port-
moak (and gliding): if you want to
learn more about our club, visit http://
www.union.ic.ac.uk/rcc/gliding/ .

