w
3
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
£4,000 for 800 words? Easy as π!
T
he Royal College of Science
once again kicked off the an-
nual Science Challenge on
Monday night, and is prom-
ising to be the biggest and best yet.
All Imperial students are eligible to
answer the four questions with an 800
word essay but 2010 sees the Science
Challenge move with the times by al-
lowing video submissions. These video
pieces must not exceed six minutes
and will challenge alongside against
the 800 word essay submissions for the
top prize of £4,000.
Once again the Science Challenge
boasts a team of prestigious and re-
spected judges who will announce the
author of the winning entry on the
26th of March, at the Grand Final.
New Acting Rector Sir Keith O’Nions
shall judges entries upon the question
he set about the possiblity of extra-
As the Science Challenge launches this week, felix guides you through 2010’s competition: its questions and
judges, and talks to its organiser Afonso Campos about this year’s vision. Editor-in-Chief Dan Wan reports
w
w
w
w
w
w
w
w
w
Online
For full
Science
Challenge
details
sciencechallenege.org
terrestrial life. Mark Henderson, Sci-
ence Editor at the Times looks to the
future in medical science, whilst both
Andrew Harrison of principal spon-
sor Shell, and UNESCO 2009 Woman
Scientist of the Year Athene Donald
set questions on the highly topical UK
green agenda.
The Science Challenge was the
brainchild of the Royal College of
Science Association chairman John
Sanderson in 2005, taking the prize
money from his own bank account
that year. His aim was to extend sci-
entific vision outside of taught causes
and raise awareness of scientific topics
in the greater public. 2006’s Science
Challenge was opened up to secondary
schools with bursaries to Imperial Col-
lege as prizes.Submissions will be ac-
cepted from the 18th of January till 7th
March on sciencechallenge.org
R.C.S.
Afonso Campos, Science Challenge Organiser
WHO WILL DECIDE THE WINNER?
THE FOUR QUESTIONS
FORMING THE CHALLENGE
Mark Henderson
He graduated in modern history from Oxford University in 1996. After
a brief spell working for the Sunday Express he joined The Times. He
spent time as a general reporter and a leader writer, covering health
education and social affairs, before being appointed Science Editor in
2000. As well as covering science for the news pages, he writes the
Saturday Junk Medicine column and has authored ‘50 Genetics Ideas
You Really Need To Know.’
Andrew Harrison, Shell
Currently Fuels Innovation Manager at Shell’s Technology Centre
in Thornton, near Chester. He is a respected ambassador for Shell’s
work in Innovation and Technology both within and outside the R&D
community. Between 1990-93 he was based at one of Shell’s research
centres in Canada leading R&D activities on fuels, engine lubricants
and bitumen. He has expertise in combustion science and extensive
knowledge of all aspects of automotive fuels and vehicle technology.
Professor Athene Donald FRS
A professor of Experimental Physics at the Cavendish Laboratory
and Deputy Head of the Physics Department at the University of
Cambridge. Professor Donald is an expert in the field of soft physics
and her work has opened up possibilities for the formation of new
biomaterials that can be used in the repair of tissue and bone. A Fellow
of the Royal Society, Professor Donald won the UNESCO Woman
Scientist of the Year 2009 Award.
Sir Keith O’Nions FRS is an earth scientist holding a PhD from the
UniversityofAlberta,Canada.Between2000and2004hewastheChief
Scientific Advisor to the Ministry of Defence. He has been a member
of the Council of Science and Technology as well as the Chairman of
the Natural History Museum. He became a Fellow of the Royal Society
in 1983 and was knighted in 1999. Sir Keith joined Imperial College in
July 2008 to set up and direct the Institute for Security Science and
Technology. He became the College’s Acting Rector on 1 January 2010.
g
g
g
g
g
g
g
"What are the prospects for finding life on other
planets?" Sir Keith O'Nions, Acting Rector, Imperial College
4 the felix view
This is an exciting and very open question. A good answer would not only require ‘hard scien-
tific fact’ but also a healthy dose of imagination and an ability to envisage the implications of
such a discovery. Historically, the idea of finding life outside Earth has attracted a great deal of
interest. Even today it remains a topical subject, with the discovery last December of planets
orbiting the stars 61 Virginis and 23 Librae - planets thought to be similar to those found in our
solar system and perhaps capable of harbouring life forms.
Brigette Atkins
Science Editor
3"Can renewable energy sources solve the UK's
energy problems?" Athene Donald, FRS, UNESCO 2009 Woman
Scientist of the Year
the felix view
Athene Donald has proposed a more general question about the environment than Andrew
Harrison. Whilst this encourages individual interpretation and should generate many answers
varying widely in topic direction, it does introduce the danger of allowing answers which are
too general to be interesting. A good answer to this question would most likely require the
writer to think outside the box to ensure their essay stands out from the crowd. As renewable
energy is very much an ‘in Vogue’ topic for science at present, there is no doubt this question is
going to be a popular choice.
Brigette Atkins
Science Editor
1 "How will genetic advances change medicine and
society by 2020?" Mark Henderson, Science Editor, The Times
Nathan Ley
Science Editor
the felix view
This question pretty much leaves everything up to you. There are several routes you could
go down with this. Critically, how do you define ‘genetic advances’? Are we talking about
annotation of genomes? Sequencing projects? Or are we thinking more along the lines of gene
therapy and applications? Either way, the medicine and society aspect of this question allows
you to take it wherever you like. By 2020, will a human’s phenotypic fate become determined by
access to money?
2"The Climate Change Act 2008 commits the UK to an
80% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050- can
technology alone deliver road transports' share of this
reduction?"Andrew Harrison, Shell
the felix view
Personally I doubt many of you will be having a stab at this, but for those who do, feel free to
try and persuade us all that we humans can carry driving our gas guzzlers with no regard for the
consequences. What’s going to save us? Hydrogen powered 4x4’s? Alternatively, be a cynic
and preach to us about how technology can’t save us, and that we’ll just have to change our
habits (and all commit to a worldwide lift-share scheme).
Nathan Ley
Science Editor
“I am hoping to build on the Science Challenge's already outstanding reach and reputation.
I genuinely believe that it is an event everyone should in some way or another be involved,
even if it is just attending the Grand Final.
While the Challenge is a brilliant way for anyone who knows they have an aptitude for communicating
science to gain some invaluable experience, I believe it is just as useful for those waiting to unleash
talents they never knew they had.
This year the Challenge has a few differences as well as a few surprises and I urge you to visit our
website on www.sciencechallenge.org and find out about the news we have this year, including the
brand new “Media” prize that is now part of the competition.”

