felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
15.01.10
Continued on Page 31
Fencing grab the gold(s)
It was a weekend of mixed fortunes for
the IC fencing club at the BUCS indi-
vidual championships in Nottingham.
Held annually, the competition brings
together the best university fencers
from around the country. Last year
Imperial had three podium finishes,
with Hannah Bryars taking the gold in
women’s foil. Could we do better this
time?
The sun had hardly risen on Friday
morning as the fencers crammed into
a union minibus and made their way
north to Nottingham Uni for the first
two events : Men’s epee and Women’s
sabre. Stumbling off the bus and into
the sports hall, the competitors still
managed to shine, with Marcello Co-
lombino building on his silver medal
from last year by emerging as top seed
after poules. Fellow 1st-team epeeist
Ed Gilhead also got off to a promising
start, and hopes were high going into
the knockout rounds. However, after
a relatively easy progress through the
early stages, they both faltered in the
last 16 and lost their matches by the
narrowest of margins, 15-14. Ultimate-
ly, Colombino finished 9th and Gilhead
16th, with Chris Gilliam also finishing
39th out of 118 participants (not bad
for a foilist!). At the same time, Clare
Harding grabbed the 17th spot in the
Women’s Sabre. No podium finishes,
then, but a good effort by Imperial on
the first day.
Saturday dawned, and the trusty
minibus ferried the bleary-eyed
bunch to the hall for the second day
of competing. It was the men’s foil and
women’s epee this time, with ICFC
providing 6 foilists and 2 epeeists. Gil-
liam breezed through his poule and
topped the seedings, displaying some
very good fencing in the process. The
other foilists also posted fine perform-
ances, with both Rob Shaw and Colin
Auclair winning all their matches and
no-one losing more than two. Unfortu-
nately this success in the poules did not
translate very well to the direct elimi-
nations as Ed Collier, Indy Leclercq
and Alex Morris all got knocked out in
the round of 64; Auclair in the 32 and
Shaw and Gilliam in the 16. A disap-
Men’s first team miss out on top spot at Oxford
A
week after the individual
championships in Not-
tingham, the men’s first
team drove up to Oxford
for their initial round of
Premiership matches. This was the
first major test of the season, facing
up to the Oxford, Cambridge UCL and
Bristol teams.
The day began against a somewhat
ragged (not to mention late) UCL
team. Despite a slow start, the IC
fencers made short work of their fel-
low Londoners, winning by relatively
large margins in all three weapons.
Imperial’s first victory in the Premier-
ship was clinched on a final score of
135-78. The next match up was againt
Bristol, who on paper were going to
be a tougher test. Good fencing by the
foilists set the stage for the sabreurs,
trailing by a single point; the epeeists
wrapped up the match nicely, domi-
nating their bout all the way through.
In high spirits after their two suc-
cessive wins, the fencers then took on
Oxford. A nail-biting sabre match saw
Imperial score the final hit to win 45-
44; the foil match was even tighter and
lost by a single point.
With the score evenly tied, the
epeeists had to wait for the following
morning to finish the match, and did
so emphatically, sealing victory with a
nine-point advantage, 133-124.
All that remained was Cambridge,
however with Ratneswaran absent the
sabre team suffered a heavy loss to the
experienced Cambridge side, and vic-
tories in the foil and epee could not
overturn the deficit : the IC fencers
lost by seven points in the end, 122-
115. Imperial came away from Oxford
with a well-deserved second place and
confident that they could beat anyone.
Next up : the return leg of the tourna-
ment, at Ethos on the 30-31st of Janu-
ary. With the top spot firmly in sight.
Indy Leclercq Fencing

