4 felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
WOULD YOU LIKE TO HELP WITH ALLERGY RESEARCH?
Department of Allergy
Royal Brompton & Harfield NHS Trust
Imperial College London
If you are interested in taking part in a clinical study to investigate a new form of treatment and if you are
between 18 and 60 years old please go to our website:
www.hayfeverlondon.net
Please forward this information to anyone you think may be interested.
For Further Questions please email your contact details to allergy@imperial.ac.uk
This advert has been approved by Trent Research Ethics Committee.
DO YOU SUFFER FROM HAYFEVER IN SUMMER?
I
am a Pakistani by origin and
therefore doomed to a life of
constant insecurity and fear
and perhaps an equally terrify-
ing death at the hands of the so-
called ‘Protectors of Islam’. All this be-
came cruelly apparent to me a month
ago when our beloved friend and
brother, Mohammad Bilal Riaz, died in
a barbaric act of terrorism in Pakistan
on 4th Dec 2009.
Bilal came to Imperial in 2008 for
his MSc in Communication and Signal
Processing at EEE, and after submit-
ting his dissertation went back to Pa-
kistan to get married to his fiancé on
15th Dec; little did anyone know that
he would breathe his last just ten days
before his wedding. On 4th Dec gun-
men attacked a mosque in Rawalpindi
during Friday prayers; Bilal was there
with his five-year-old nephew. He hid
his nephew underneath him to protect
him from the bullets, was shot and died
on the spot. I am recounting these
gruesome details so that I can let peo-
ple know that even in the face of death
he was brave and sacrificed his own life
to save another. In that miniscule mo-
ment we lost a friend, a brother, a son;
in short a truly loved one. No conso-
lation is enough for his loving fiancé,
bereaved parents, siblings and friends.
They face an irreparable loss and their
lives will never be the same again.
Life is cruel…yet so beautiful - his
own words so aptly describe his short
but fulfilling life. To an observer it
would seem that Bilal had the best of
everything; he excelled in every field
of life be it education, extracurricu-
lar, family, friends or love and died a
martyr’s death which we will always
remember. But there were dreams and
aspirations to fulfill, promises to be
kept and moments to cherish and all
these died with him and so did a part
of us.
I am not interested in the many con-
spiracy theories as to why Pakistan –
an extremely strategic piece of land -
Bilal Riaz was a victim of December’s barbaric terrorism in Pakistan. Friend Sana Ahmed
pays tribute to a courageous man who died saving the life of his five-year old nephew
Life is cruel, yet so beautiful...
is on the brink of civil war. All I care
about is that my fellow countrymen are
dying for no reason at all, our lands are
stained red with the blood of innocents
and I have had enough. Above is an
example of just one heart-wrenching
story, you will find one in every cor-
ner of my country. World leaders and
politicians condemn these attacks and
urge Pakistan to ‘do more’ but only we
mourn; words are but lame excuses to
mask hidden agendas. All this is a gross
violation of basic human rights and yet
what we see around ourselves is indif-
ference towards the plight of others. I
hope that in time we will open our eyes
to these cruelties around us and real-
ise that life is sacred and precious and
hence should be treated as such.
I just want to get this message across
that we don’t hate anyone: we just love
our country and wish to live in peace.
My thoughts and prayers will remain
with those who lost their lives and those
who lost their loved ones. Rest in peace
Bilal, you will live in our hearts forever.
May God bless you with the heavens.
“...even in the face of
death he was brave and
sacrificed his own life
to save another.”

