6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
W
ell done terror-
ism – you’ve won
again. A single guy
is discovered with
(potentially) explo-
sive underpants and now millions of
pounds of taxpayers’ money is being
spent on full body scanners in airports.
Initially, there was a fuss over liquids,
which are still banned until 2011. Pre-
sumably someone somewhere in the
world was discovered with a bottle of
liquid which was apparently part of a
wider bomb plot. As a result of that,
millions of travellers not only have to
endure excessively long queues but are
left baffled every day when their bot-
tles of juice and plastic bags are confis-
cated by security personnel. Terrorists
around the world must be rubbing their
hands together gleefully at the thought
of the millions of pounds we’ve been
forced to spend on largely meaning-
less and useless crap every time there’s
even a whiff of suspected terrorist
activity. I wouldn’t be surprised if the
terrorists who plotted the daring un-
derpants raid had shares in these body
scanner producing companies.
I mean, what’s the big fuss over any-
way? When the daring underpants raid
unravelled, news stations worldwide
were reporting the plain and simple
facts – that some Nigerian radical had
tried and failed to blow himself (and
others) up on Christmas Day. In the
UK though, our newspapers had to
point out his time at UCL as if that fact
was somehow related, almost as if he
was radicalised during his time in the
UK. Once again, freedom of speech
in universities came under fire, if but
briefly, even though universities quite
simply don’t create extremists. It’s
ridiculous to say that Cambridge is
somehow responsible for Nick Grif-
fin or that David Irving, who wrote for
felix while at Imperial, was radicalised
during his time here. However, we can-
not possibly ignore the fact that a grad-
uate engineer has failed to blow him-
self up. I mean, what kind of a graduate
engineer cannot even blow himself
up? How can we possibly continue to
advertise our world class education? I
believe an immediate enquiry should
be made into the academic standards
of UCL.
Coming back to the full body scan-
ners I mentioned earlier, well, there
have now been some pretty point-
less attacks on this technology on the
grounds that it is now a threat to child
rights. The images can apparently be
classed as child pornography so eve-
ryone under the age of 18 cannot be
scanned on this legal technicality. As
I see it, government is going to find a
way around this. As an added bonus,
the hysteria of the child protection
agencies, in pointing this out, have just
possibly rather ironically encouraged
child perverts to queue up for these
jobs at airports – getting their rocks off
on these images. So, the safety of our
children has just been further compro-
mised. I mean, don’t get me wrong, I’m
very much against these new scanners
anyway because I feel they’re a point-
less waste of money to placate irra-
tional public fears. If you’re too much
of a paranoid grapefruit to fly because
of those laughable terrorists, then by
all means leave the skies to those with
enough backbone and self-respect to
say no to the ridiculous measures tak-
en in the name of anti-terrorism.
My point is that the attack on body
scanners on the basis of some kind
of a pervert charter is quite frankly
silly. Child protection groups seem
concerned that a child’s genitalia will
show up in these full body scans. How
erotic... Why are they not equally con-
cerned if some kid turns up in A&E
and has to get an x-ray of that region
because some other kid has kicked him
in the balls in the playground during
break time? Surely it’s all about how
the images are used – I mean, if you
browse through a catalogue of kids
swimsuits, that’s fine but if you have
a scrapbook of thousands of images
of kids in swimsuits, then I wouldn’t
be surprised if you were prosecuted
for being a weirdo. Isn’t it time that we
stood up to these terrorists instead of
overreacting? What the hell happened
to British backbone, or are we still go-
ing to run to mummy every time.
ChengZhangcongratulatestheworldofterrorism
“Leave the skies to
those with enough
backbone ... to say
no to the measures
taken in the name
of anti-terrorism.”
F
irstly, welcome to 2010!
Please wipe your feet.
Last year, nothing much
happened. Specifically, rep-
resentatives from all the
countries of the earth met in Copenha-
gen, argued back and forth about Cli-
mate Change for ten days and then...
nothing. An “agreement” that not eve-
ryone agreed on. Bravo!
And this was a shame as global warm-
ing seems like an important issue.
I’m not too fussed on it myself but it
bugs me how it has transformed the
state of the weather into a valid topic
of conversation. “So what’s with this
weather?” is supposed to be a last ditch
attempt at communication, usually af-
ter the catastrophic revelation of one’s
political or sexual preferences. With
it now taking the keynote position of
after-dinner chitter-chatter, how can
we possibly hope to shatter the silence
imposed by “Actually, I find Nick Grif-
fin in suspenders quite attractive”?
I can deal with the floods, the frosts
and the fires (coming this summer to
a forest near you...) but I will not sit
back and watch as the bedrock of po-
lite conversation is eroded before our
eyes. Accordingly then, I have devised
a few measures which should put glo-
bal warming back in its place, in the
darkest recesses of late night chit-chat.
They say that an area of rainforest equal
to Belgium is cut down every year. This
obviously has a considerable impact on
the environment. My suggestion is that
we cut down Belgium instead. Surely
no-one will miss it. Goodness knows
the atmosphere doesn’t need all that
hot air from Brussels! However, this
barely scratches the surface.
Cows are a much bigger problem than
Belgium. Agriculture contributes
about 14% of the world’s greenhouse
gases, which is nothing to be sniffed
at. What’s more, a significant portion
of these emissions is methane, which
is twenty times more potent that CO2
,
and a single cow, through the most
ignominious of farts and burps, will
produce 300 litres of the stuff a day.
It’s clear that they’re a bigger threat
to the environment than even Jeremy
Clarkson.
So what can we do? I originally planned
a mass corking program but prelimi-
nary studies showed that the cows had
a tendency to explode. Doctors like
to term this an “adverse event” and is
something best avoided. I went back
to the drawing board, but not before
passing the cork cow-exploder idea
on to the Ministry of Defence. (France
won’t know what hit it!)
There are more than 1.5 billion cows
in the world. That’s more than the en-
tire population of China – and, for the
record, China is massive! “But why do
we need so many cows?”, I pondered
over a beefburger in the Union. “You
eat them all,” my friend retorted, “If we
were all vegetarians, we wouldn’t need
so many cows and could reduce their
beefy burpy emissions.” “But cows
are vegetarians – in fact, they only
eat grass,” I argued, “and they’re the
problem!” But this got me thinking. If
vegetarianism isn’t the answer, maybe
carnivorism is!
So, there are too many cows. Cows are
vegetarians. If we could get cows to eat
other cows, we would have fewer cows.
Fewer cows are good! Q.E.D. But how
to do it? I’m all for a bit of sirloin but
cows, for reasons unfathomable, don’t
seem too inclined to take the bait. We
need to make cows more palatable to
other cows. Therefore, I propose that
we paint the cows of Britain with MSG,
to enhance and accentuate their natu-
ral flavour. It doesn’t hurt either that
MSG is the one thing more addictive
than crack cocaine.
You may scoff but this plan is so mad,
it’s brilliant. There are 10 million cows
in Britain, all of which need painting
with MSG. And 3 million workers will
need 3 million buckets and brushes,
not to mention the gallons of MSG re-
quired, and all the sundries beside. The
purchase of these goods will revitalise
the economy and stimulate growth
faster than ProPlus snorted off a £5
note.
That is how we fix global warming and
the economy in one fell swoop. Every-
body’s happy, except The Daily Mail,
which, by definition, is never happy.
RhysDavies’viewonglobalwarming
“...this plan is so
mad, it’s brilliant...
10 million cows in
Britain, all of which
need painting with
MSG.”

