7
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
COMMENT
comment.
I
t’s good to see that all of you have
safely made it back to college.
Whether by plane, train, sleigh
or snowplough, or thanks to hav-
ing hitched a ride on the back of
a frisky reindeer, you’ve finally made it
back to the warm embracing arms of
college. Some of you have had to fight
snow and ice, cancelled flights and end-
less news reports about snow and ice,
while others have had to suffer height-
ened security at airports following the
attempted terrorism on a flight bound
for Detroit on Christmas Day.
It’s become very easy for us to believe,
as we put our shoes in metal detectors
around the world and travel in ever
more secure modes of transport, that
we are the main victims of terrorism.
That the global war on terror is a case of
‘us’ against ‘them’
, where the ‘us’ repre-
sents the Western World and its liberal
values and the main threat to our secu-
rity comes from the ‘them’ – turban-
clad, scimitar-brandishing cave dwellers
of Victorian fantasy.
As convenient as this image may be
to us as we lace up our shoes and re-
place our belts, it is a gross and tragic
oversimplification. The automatic as-
sumption that the West is under at-
tack from Islamic terrorism is deeply
flawed – it is Muslims who are under
attack from Islamic terrorism, Muslims
who make up the majority of its victims
and Muslims who are forced to suffer its
consequences.
Students of history are in the habit
of referring to the ‘long’ 19th Century
as the period between the American
Revolution in 1776 and the outbreak
of the First World War in 1914. This
period was then followed by the ‘short’
20th Century, which spanned the rise
and fall of fascism and ended with the
collapse of communism in 1991. In that
case we are due another long Century,
one whose opening number has so far
been mostly concerned with the rise of
international terrorism.
The great ideological battle of these
years of the long 21st Century is not
between the liberal West and the fun-
damentalist Muslims. It is between the
vast majority of peaceful Muslims and a
small but ever-expanding radical fringe.
The rest of us are merely the bullet-
proof vest being battered between a rock
and a hard place.
Those of us who live in enlightened
democracies are mercifully safe from
the consequences of extremist rule. A
woman in London is allowed to drive;
– a basic right denied to her sisters in
Saudi Arabia – while a homosexual man
in Paris or New York can escape the
lashings which await him in Tehran. It
is the Muslim population which suffers
most from many of the sanctions appli-
cable in their home countries, sanctions
instituted and defended by extreme in-
terpretations of Islamic law.
Just as the Second World War was not
fought against the evils of Germanic cul-
ture or Western European civilisation,
but against the way in which they were
abused, the war on terrorism must have
as its principal target the abuse of Islam
and its teachings. Because explosive de-
vices on the roads of Iraq and Afghani-
stan and suicide bombers on planes over
America or the United Kingdom are not
distinct phenomena. They are all indica-
tions of the tremendous power held by
fundamentalist clerics and leaders over
the minds of their followers. Many who
are willing to blow themselves up in
the name of Allah are poor, but others
are rich and well-educated. Some have
never left their rural villages, whereas
others were educated in prestigious
London universities. Some are peas-
ants and farmers, but others are doctors
or engineers. The only thing they all
share is a tragic receptivity to the dan-
gerous words of ruthless and fanatical
preachers.
As much as we have suffered at the
hands of terrorists, our losses are noth-
ing compared with the international
Muslim community. Well over 90% of
the terrorism casualties since 2006 have
been Muslim. Some have been collateral
in the attempt to attack a greater West-
ern target, but all have been victims of a
school of thought which regards human
life as a negligible factor in the great
equations of morality.
Even those Muslims who have not
been personally affected by such trag-
edies are unable to escape their conse-
quences. The automatic assumption of
guilt by virtue of religious or ethnic as-
sociation is something that haunts all
those with a Middle Eastern passport
or appearance. Spot checks at airports,
suspicious stares and unprovoked dis-
plays of fear or aggression are among the
effects felt by millions of Muslims as a
punishment for having done absolutely
nothing wrong.
But it is no longer enough to enjoy a
clean conscience in silence. In the same
way that Jews around the world feel
obliged to criticise Israel in order to
clear themselves of any perceived guilt,
and Americans by the thousand joined
facebook groups entitled ‘George W.
Bush is not MY president’
, the tide of an-
ti-extremist rhetoric and actions must
now come from the millions of moder-
ate Muslims who are currently silent.
By refusing to distance themselves
from the fundamentalists, ordinary
Muslims are encouraging the growth
and popularity of xenophobic, racist
and even violent groups who are more
than happy to spray all Muslims with the
grapeshot of abuse. When we think of
those organisations who are most vocal-
ly opposed to the rise of Islamic extrem-
ism, the Daily Mail and the BNP should
not be the names that spring to mind.
No individuals have more to lose un-
der the rule of a fascist caliphate than
those who will be seen to have ‘thrown
in their lot’ with the infidels or kafirs. On
Tuesday’s episode of NewsNight, Anjem
Choudary (the leader of the Islamist or-
ganisation Islam4UK) pointedly refused
to answer the more moderate Maajid
Nawaaz’s questions about what his fate
would be under a Sharia tribunal, sinis-
terly hinting that Nawaaz ‘knew the an-
swer already’
.
When moderates refuse to push back
against extremism, the tides of fear and
aggression drive ordinary people further
and further to the political right. It is
fear of this sort that led to the Swiss ban
against minarets last year, and the recent
decision by the Home Secretary to de-
clare Islam4UK an illegal organisation.
If we are to make it to the end of the
21st Century, long as it is is likely to be,
those who have most to lose must take a
stand against those who are most likely
to take it away. Moderates of all back-
grounds need to lead the way if extrem-
ism is to be fought.
Gilead Amit appealstothemoderates
“Those who have
most to lose
must take a stand
against those who
are most likely to
take it away”
Tell us what you think:
felix@imperial.ac.uk
or leave a comment on the new
article discussion feature
felixOnline.co.uk relaunches
It’s taken a while, but we’re finally online. Properly.
It’s a brand new website, created from scratch by us.
We need your opinions. There’s a little bit more to do, as you’ll
see when you’re on there, so we want to hear your comments
to help us produce a more polished version.

