9
felix FRIDAY 15 JANUARY 2010
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
Chagas disease kills more Latin Amer-
icans than Malaria, so why do so few
people know of its existence? It is en-
demic in 21 countries across South and
Central America, and is increasingly
being seen in the US, Europe and Ja-
pan in migrant populations. It is a si-
lent killer with millions unknowingly
infected.
Caused by the parasite Trypano-
soma cruzi, the symptoms of Chagas
can lie dormant for many years. In
the chronic stage (developed by 25-
30% of the infected) Chagas causes
irreversible heart and gastrointesti-
nal damage. The two available drugs
against the disease were developed 35
years ago (in investigations not aimed
at Chagas) and there has been very
little focus on research and develop-
ment. The laboratory manufacturing
Nifurtimox (one of two drugs avail-
able) is no longer marketing the drug,
only donating limited supplies. This is
justified by claiming a lack of demand
for the drug, but Chagas affects an
estimated 14 – 16 million people and
kills 20,000 to 50,000 every year. The
drugs also cause unpleasant side ef-
fects which are common in patients,
meaning that many sufferers do not
complete their course of treatment.
One hundred years
of anonymity. Happy
anniversary...
Emily Clifford
Emily Clifford Frustratingly, 80% of cases are trans-
mitted by a vector (an insect, shown
below) that lives in the walls of rural
dwellings made from basic materials,
making Chagas a disease of poverty.
Although in many Latin American
countries there are prevention pro-
grams involving pest control, these
are expensive and are currently not
effective enough to eliminate the dis-
ease. Transmission can also be blood
borne, from mothers to children or
though transfusions/organ transplan-
tation, making this a disease that could
be seen globally. Although a screen-
ing test has been approved for use in
North America, not all blood banks
screen for T. cruzi. With up to 50% in-
fection in blood banks of some cities
in South America, and increasing mi-
gration out of Latin America, you have
to wonder how soon it will be before
people start contracting the disease in
western countries.
Simply put, Chagas seems to be a dis-
ease in which, pharmaceutical compa-
nies have little interest, endemic gov-
ernments deem unimportant, and the
diseased have little knowledge. Why?
I cannot help but wonder whether an
increase in cases in the more verbal
western world eventually sparks an
interest in Chagas? And if so, what
would that say about current attitudes
towards the affected?
Cause and effect: the assassin (or kissing) bug responsible for Chagas disease
(above) and a girl with an acute form of the disease (below)
Imperial College is renowned for its
scientific prowess and a student’s keen-
ness to succeed by whatever means
necessary, and this was no doubt ex-
emplified on the night of Thursday
27th November 2009. Following the
successes of PotMed, ISCMSU Muslim
Medics embarked on a new journey
by holding a symposium to signify the
hard work and dedication of a typi-
cal medical BSc student. In front of a
packed out audience, these presenters
fought tooth and nail to ensure they
were crowned winner of Young Scien-
tists’ Symposium 2009.
In its third year running, YSS grew to
a somewhat unprecedented level this
year. A lot of interest for presentations
on various scientific topics was gener-
ated and this was further highlighted
with the adjudicators present on the
day. Dr Steve Gentleman, reader in
Neuropathology, and an old advisory
from the first YSS, was kindly joined
by Dr Kevin Murphy (lecturer in Gas-
troenterology) and Miss Noor Jawad
(the winner of the previous YSS). In
addition, it was an immense honour to
welcome the Deputy Principal of the
Faculty of Medicine and previous head
of the National Heart and Lung Insti-
tute, Professor Sir Anthony Newman.
The judges were accompanied by the
audience, composed of invited sixth
formers and Imperial students from all
year groups.
One of the aims of the night was to
create excitement about science and
research in general, especially within
the younger community. This was ful-
filled by astonishing the audience on
the importance of research in various
medical professions from cardiovascu-
lar sciences to endocrinology. Tailoring
the advanced research to an audience
of teenagers presented the first chal-
lenge. In addition, the art of delivering
a speech to the respected panel was in
fact probably the defining feature of
YSS, and it was through such coherent
yet scientifically astute methods that
the victor was selected. The victor did,
coincidentally, make a thoroughly well
received joke about Viagra!
At this moment, it is important to
illustrate the exemplary nature of Im-
perial students by not only having the
confidence to present but in one par-
ticular case, having the ability to be
unnerved by the occasion and chair-
ing the whole affair. Aamir Shamsi, a
co-ordinator for YSS, welcomed many
his seniors in a confident and insight-
ful manner. It is this self-assurance that
is undoubtedly present in many of our
colleagues, which will hopefully take
us places around the world.
Giving ‘power to the people’ this year
came in the form of an audience vote;
awarding Mohammed Al-Hairi a prize
after he an interesting talk regard-
ing psychological morbidity amongst
mental health staff i.e. the mental
health of mental health staff. But, the
main prize of the day was awarded to
Zubair Sarang, a 5th year medic, who
delivered a captivating presentation on
the role of endothelium-derived nitric
oxide on the development of aortic
valve calcification, which could have
implications when designing tissue en-
gineered heart valves.
Imperial has once again succeeded
in creating scientific aptitude, but I
believe there is a sting in the tail, and
one that I feel that should be under-
lined. For all the successes, it is very
apparent that there is failure when it
comes to how students succeed. Like
I said earlier, students will often fight
tooth and nail in order to accomplish
their goals. They will let nothing stand
in their way, be it getting published or
winning a prize, and often use tactics
to get ahead of their peers and col-
leagues. You can’t just be ordinary at
Imperial, you have to show that you’re
ahead of the game, when in fact trying
to be ahead of the game is just part of
the norm. Other peoples’ work and
achievements should be respected
and appreciated, not just looked at
and despised. But maybe this can be
regarded as a success in itself as it al-
lows students to prosper into their
own niche, whereby everyone is good
at something. This constant reminder
that you have to be of use, might actu-
ally encourage students to take part in
university life and achieve the unach-
ievable. Who knows?
Young Scientists’ Symposium was
definitely a success, as illustrated by a
member of the audience, who thanked
Muslim Medics ‘for organising such
an inspirational event,’ (with a little
smiley face at the end if I may add). It
was a pleasure seeing so many young
students genuinely interested in sci-
ence, and hopefully this shall continue
in years to come. However, this notion
of fair-play should never be forgotten
and everyone’s achievements should
be recognwised. We are all extremely
lucky to be where we are today at Im-
perial College and hopefully this luck
will serve us well in the future.
An evening of inspiration
Umar Chaudhry
Umar Chaudhry
ISCMSU Muslim Medics celebrate the hardwork of the ‘typical
medical BSc student’ with a Young Scientists’ Symposium
Mohammed Al-Hairi’s talk on psychological morbidity won the audience vote
The role of endothelium-derived nitric oxide on the development of aortic
valve calcification was the subject of the winning talk given by Zubair Sarang

