SINGLE REVIEWS
Wow! This is without doubt a song
to go absolutely nuts to; an eclectic
mix of frantic guitar chords accom-
panied with the deepthroaty yell of
Bjorn Dixgard and a crazily catchy
chorus makes forawesome light
rock which will most definitely get
you up and dancing,screaming “...
down in the PAST!” at the top of
your voice.
Prophesised to become as big
as Oasis, this manically energetic
bandcomprising of Gustav Noren,
Carl-Johan Fogelklou, Samuel
Giers, Mats Bjorke and Dixgard
originates from the town of Borlange
in Sweden,forming at the tender age
of sixteen in a desperate attempt,
so Noren claims, to escape the high
drug and murder rate. Through
years of dedication to their music
(thank God!) and with their gritty
background they have provided us
with two almost certainly amaz-
ing albums, the current being
Hurricane Bar, released in 2005 and
from which this track is taken. After
recently supporting The Bravery in
concert, Mando Diao stepped into
the limelight to headline their own
acclaimed tour in October 2005.
A seemingly little known wonder,
I am shocked that I know and have
heard so little about them. Go and
buy Hurricane Bar now! Their last
tour tickets were at a maximum of
£8 - a drink and rocking tunes all for
a tenner? It hardly seems fair with
a quality of music this brilliant: we
have to get this band known! Forget
The Hives. Mando Diao should now
be the band blasting their Swedish
sounds in your ears. Put on Down In
The Past, crank it up to full volume
and let the magic begin!
Priya G
Yes they’ve been causing quite a
stir lately, yet seem to have appeared
out of nowhere like an underground
cult that’s secretly been planning
world domination and has suddenly
revealed its hideous and evil form,
everywhere, in a single night.
When The Sun Goes Down will be
the last single they release before
the arrival of their highly anticipated
debut album. It’s not your standard
song material either. The song, as
far as I can tell, is a compassion-
ate look at the story of young girls
forced into prostitution for one rea-
son or another, and the scum-of-the-
earth (hence “Scummy”) pimps who
drive them. The song begins with
a single guitar strumming the odd
chord and sorrowful vocals on top
introducing the character of the girl
and the scummy man: “...I said he’s
a scumbag, don’t you know?” And
then there is a full-blown cymbal
crash as the rest of the instruments
come in, building slowly up and up,
and at the climax seamlessly falling
into the main riff, which, in all of
its bassy glory, is one of the coolest
I’ve heard in a while. The drums,
as in previous songs (most notably
Bet You Look Good…), are fabulous,
with more funky rolls and fills than
you can shake a stick at, and give the
song a real sense of pace. The lyrics
are well thought out and convey
a very clear picture, although the
song is in fact quite short and ends
abruptly. All instruments suddenly
stop save the guitar, which goes
on to play the intro once again and
finishing with a lovely, very befitting
series of plinky chords.
All-in-all, the single is a unique and
fantastic song. Whether we’ll hear it
being used on dancefloors remains
to be seen, but I think that is where
it’s full glory would be finally real-
ised.
Priya G
Singles club
Shock horror as very long byline precedes page with only two singles on it, due to the massive
advert below; stay tuned for further boring updates
music music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 19 January 2005
Mando Diao
Down In The Past
(EMI)
HHHHI
Arctic Monkeys
When The Sun Goes Down
(Domino)
HHHHH
Editorial
We’re back! Apologies for the
dearth of music recently; what
with exams and all, I spent most
of my time in a foetal position and
whimpering about biological syn-
thesis when not avoiding work
by spending eight hours play-
ing Tetris on my housemate’s
Gameboy. Fun. Anyway, expect a
bumper issue next week to make
up for it.
Transport for London Open Day
Join us at Glaziers Hall (Central London)
30th January 2006, 11:00 - 15:00 or 15:30 to 19:30
There is probably only one thing that everyone in the capital has in common. They
all have to travel. And whether it’s by road, bus or tube, taxi, bike or river, it’s
down to us to make sure they can all get where they’re going, safely and on time.
We’re responsible for running the urban transport network of one of the world’s
largest cities. We face challenges unlike those of any other company, which is
why a career at TfL is like no other.
Our open day will give you the chance to learn more about TfL and the graduate
schemes available.
There will be presentations by senior managers from our key business areas,
you’ll have the opportunity to find out what life at TfL is really like by talking to
our current graduates. And you never know, you might just end up beating them
at their own game on our giant, specially adapted Scalextric track. We’ll be
awarding a prize for the fastest lap time.
To find out more and register for our open day visit www.tfl.gov.uk/graduates
We want to be as diverse as the city we represent and welcome applications
from everyone, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, faith or
disability.
11 million people
travel around London
every day.
How would you keep them moving?
Transport for London
MAYOR OF LONDON

