Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. T: 020 7594 8060 www.union.imperial.ac.uk
Union
Union Building Redevelopment
With the plans for the Union Building redevelopment progressing, a number of you have asked about the Energy Efficiency options that have been looked into
and that will be incorporated into the redeveloped building. Whilst not everything that we’d ideally want can be incorporated, due to structural reasons, costs,
planning permission (we are in South Ken after all), various areas have already been looked into and are continuing to be investigated.
College will be taking an Energy Audit of the proposed redevelopment and will make recommendations to be incorporated into the building plans to improve
energy efficiency e.g. better carbon management. But for now, below is a summary of what’s been investigated so far.
Sameena Misbahuddin
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Energy Efficency
Water Efficency Metering of the water consumption will be introduced to the building and will help in monitoring it, allowing for reductions in usage. Direct
mains toilet flushing will also be used instead of cisterns to reduce water consumption. We’ll be working with College’s Framework Energy Working Group who
address the issue of water conservation in new building and refurbishment projects on campus.
Heating Efficency There’ll be a good level of heating monitoring and control with thermostatic radiator valves being fitted and central climate control where
possible, to prevent over-heating in rooms or heating at times when areas aren’t occupied.
Electrical Efficency The engineers will be investigating the monitoring of electrical energy consumption, through metering, to reduce the usage. Currently
College Estates are assessing the impact that redevelopment will have on energy usage.
Lighting Efficency An energy efficient lighting solution will be developed for all areas of the building to suit the activity of each space. Types and sizes of
lamps will be standardised, energy efficient long life lamps will be used throughout as well as dimmable controllers. The lighting control system proposed will
include presence sensors and daylight sensors to control the electrical light output. Using natural light as much as possible will be key in the building.
Carbon Efficency We’re working with College’s Energy & Environmental Manager in improving carbon efficiency and using low carbon technologies where
possible in the Union Building.
Renewable energy options that were investigated initially included, Wind Generation, Photovoltaic (PVs) and Solar Water Heating. These could all be suitable for
50% funding from various grants. These are not currently being included, but College investigating them further. However, though 50% funding could be sought,
funding for the other 50% would significantly increase the cost of the overall
building project, sometimes not bringing the equivalent benefit. If there was a way to gain full sponsorship or more funding for these aspects, then we‘d be keen
to revisit these options…
More Feedback
Thank you for those who have emailed already. If any of you have specific energy efficiency ideas, let us know and then we can see if they’ve already been
addressed (and what the result was) or investigate the feasibility of the new idea. If any of you know possible companies that would be interested in fully
sponsoring energy efficient technology then let us know and we can pursue it together....
Many years ago, in a union far, far away...enough for a
dramatic beginning?
In case you are wondering who I am, let me introduce myself,
I am Sid, the President of the City & Guilds College Union,
the student’s union for the Engineering students. I take this
opportunity provided by Felix, to inform and gauge the views
of students in the Engineering as well as other faculties.
First thing this month, the City & Guilds will be holding a
faculty-wide consultation on the 23rd of January with all its
Year and Departmental Representatives numbering more than
a hundred, covering nine departments including the RSM. This
is a continuation of our attempts to have a frank and regular
dialogue with our reps. If you have an issue you wish to raise,
speak to your year or departmental reps. and ask them to raise
it with us on the 23rd of January or any other time they can.
City & Guilds have also announced their 11th annual 5-a-side
Football tournament, teams from all departments and faculties
are welcome to participate. If you wish to play, please register
your team by emailing vpa@cgcu.net.
I know, Sameena (above), always writes about the issues
facing the union, I would like you all to consider the work put in
by all your representatives at all levels, including the Sabbatical
officers and if you are unhappy with the state of your union or
education, feel free to raise them. You are paying the Sabbs. to
work for you, make sure you are getting your money’s worth.
If you have an interest in the running of the union or would
like to know what is going on with Union re-development or
website, there are other places (other then this page), come to
Union Council, next one is scheduled for the 26th of January,
starting 7pm in the Union Dining Hall.
In the meantime, if you are an Engineer and would like
to to raise any issues, please contact your departmental
representative or email me at president@cgcu.net.
Sid Singh
City & Guilds
College Union
President
president@cgcu.net
Sameena Misbahuddin: Union President president@imperial.ac.uk
Simon Matthews: Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) dpcs@imperial.ac.uk
Sarah Khatib: Deputy President (Education & Welfare) dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Tim Aplin: Deputy President (Finance & Services) dpfs@imperial.ac.uk
Luis Hui: Deputy President (Graduate Students) dpgs@imperial.ac.uk
More information can be found on www.union.ic.ac.uk
If you have any questions or feedback, you can email me and the other Sabbs, or pop into the Union Building, 1st floor.

