L
ast week Felix ran an article about the
lack of British minorities attending
Imperial. While this is a concern, I think
people are over-looking a much bigger
issue. Over the past few weeks I have been more
and more observant of the issue and have come
to this conclusion: Imperial is prejudice against
socially-able students. I personally find this bla-
tant discrimination appalling and am shocked
any university could over look such a horrifically
corrupt admissions procedure.
An anonymous insider revealed to us that
the admission tutors had come together with
the computer science department to create a
computer system which scans through UCAS
application forms and filters out applicants
whose personal statements contain any of the
following phrases: “When I’m not studying
I enjoy…”, “In my spare time I like…”, “My
non-academic interests include…” and so on.
A newer version of the program, version 1.04a
beta, is currently being developed. This will
allow the previous phrases to be overlooked
on the condition they are followed with any of
the following: “playing dungeons & dragons”,
“updating my online diary” or “buying more
science fiction novels for my collection.”
It was also revealed that the science fiction
club had played a central role in these sinister
goings-on. A recent attempt by an undercover
outsider to infiltrate their head quarters ended
in catastrophe. After being sent off into the
unknown, the young volunteer was not seen for
weeks, until, on be spotted scurrying across the
Beit quad, showed no sign of recognition to his
old friends and was heard to mutter: “Leave me
alone, my epic ogre-warrior is almost a level
thirty-two!” before climbing under a rock (or
going back to the science fiction room).
I will conclude by asking you all to give a
few moments thought for our fallen comrade
and leave you with this: If you seen anyone
approaching you sporting a “There are 10 types
of people in the word, those who understand
binary and those who don’t”, then flee for your
life!
I
n last week’s Felix, Ammar Waraich set out
his view of the legacy of Ariel Sharon and
what the future may hold for the middle
east.
Although in all a well-written article, Ammar
falls foul of the most common attack on Israel
when he refers to “the racist nature of the
Jewish-only state”. This inflammatory language
not only detracts from his argument, but it is
also wrong. Jewish-only? Israel is indeed a
Jewish state but it is far from being Jewish-only,
with twenty percent of Israelis being of non-
Jewish (and predominantly Arab) background.
Racist? Israel is a multicultural society, with
freedom of religion and all citizens treated
equally under law. The one exception is its
immigration policy, which while open to all gives
automatic citizenship to Jews. This is brought
about by the exceptional circumstances of
Israel being the only Jewish state in the world,
providing a unique haven to Jews denied their
rights elsewhere. But if you were to brand this
policy as racist, you would need to label almost
all immigration policy as being bigoted - even
the UK’ s favouring of commonwealth citizens,
let alone the restrictive migration laws of most
other countries in the middle east.
Aside from that assault, the article laid out a
well written account of recent events and offered
an intriguing suggestion as to the motives
behind Sharon’s decision to leave Likud to form
the new Kadima party – to counter the “rising
popularity” of Avoda, Israel’s Labour Party,
which elected Amir Peretz as its leader on
November 9th.
However, while an interesting idea, it is rather
doubtful. Ever since the pull out from Gaza last
summer, it has been an open secret that Sharon
was planning to form a new party. The split in
Likud was not mere “infighting” - it was a funda-
mental disagreement about Sharon’s unilateral
strategy of withdrawal.
It is misleading to suggest that Kadima is
nothing more than “a new Likud”. While it is
indeed dominated by former Likud members,
Kadima’s support for further unilateral with-
drawals is a complete upheaval of Likud’s policy
of continued rule of the occupied territories. This
has given the Israeli voter three distinct choices
in the upcoming general election - continued
occupation with Likud, a return to peace talks
with Labour, or further unilateral withdrawals
with Kadima.
As a supporter of peace and the formation of
a viable Palestinian state, my heart lies with
Labour. I was very enthusiastic when Peretz
was elected and emphasised tackling poverty
and improving public services. However, the
sad fact is that after years of failed negotiations,
many Israelis have given up the idea of final-
state peace talks. At the same time, the majority
of Israelis do not support the continuation of
occupation and settlements. Because of this,
Sharon’s plan struck a chord with many people
across the political spectrum. It is now expected
that he will not return to politics even if he does
recover. But this will not mean the election of
Labour as Ammar predicted. Kadima is anything
but stranded and is likely to be by far the biggest
party - despite Ehud Olmert only just taking over
as its leader.
The reasoning behind the support of the uni-
lateral approach is the wish of the majority of
Israelis to give up occupied territories towards
peace and security, while despairing at the
failure of doing this through negotiation with
the ineffective leadership of the Palestinian
Authority. The international community must
recognise the vast ramifications this has on
future peace talks. Further withdrawals from
occupied territories should be supported, but it
is crucial to make sure they do not prevent the
future establishment of a Palestinian state or
its viability. It is uncertain when a return to the
negotiation table will be made, but it is some-
thing we must continue to push towards.
A
n MTV-sponsored report, enti-
tled Statistics of Trendy University
Discrimination (STUD), has singled
out Imperial as having very few cool
students. Officially only 12 students attending
Imperial qualified as “cool” with another 34 man-
aging to score “hip”. Concern has been raised
over the 2 students qualifying as “dangerously
uncool”. Although IC scored highly on “geek
chic”, it unfortunately scored even more highly
on just pure “geek”.
The STUD report was a nationwide survey
compiled over November 2005 in which uni-
versities across the country were compared
on aspects such as trendiness and coolness. 5
young officials from MTV spent time on campus
ranking the students for their coolness. They
measured such things as walking style, fashion
sense, weight of worn bling, hair style etc, to
come up with an overall cool percentage for the
university.
The coolest university in the UK was the
Institute of... The students there were too cool to
agree to name their university. Courses featured
in their prospectus include “Funkology” but
unfortunately, as IC students, we were unable
to understand the rest that were listed. They
scored a cool rating of 98.2%. This contrasts
sharply with Imperial College, now officially
the least cool university, even being beaten by
Cambridge with a score of 1.7%. It is speculated
that Cambridge got such an impressive score
solely because of their recent Hendrix Institute
of Rock ‘n’ Roll that was opened to students last
October.
Although Imperial is the least cool UK uni-
versity, things may be about to change. The
purpose of the MTV report was to find a worthy
university to participate in the first UK version
of the state-side show “Pimp My College”. The
changes to college will start in February and
will give an added boost to the planned Union
refurbishment. Official announcements will be
made over the coming weeks about the changes
students should expect as the MTV crew moves
in. The project and accompanying TV show will
be hosted by Michael Jackson (who’ll earn a six-
figure sum) and should last around 4 months.
Most topical of all will be the new dress code.
Students will be required to wear as many hoods
as they can and a minimum of 2kg of gold and
silver medallions. Swipe card lanyards will be
replaced thick gold chains and swipe cards will
become diamond encrusted. While filming is in
progress, any student seen in shot not wearing
the correct attire will be removed by security.
More sweeping changes involve the abolition
of the physics and maths and their replacement
by the Brian May Institute for Rock ‘n’ Roll. This
thinly veiled attempt to follow Cambridge’s path
to glory will result in the unemployment of 300
researchers. Those who remain will be expected
to learn chords, riffs and showmanship. The
Electronic Engineering department will become
The Exotic Entertainment department and
Geology will be toned down to “Rocks for Jocks”.
A physics student, who did not want to be iden-
tified, said “Yo dwag, I fink dem derr is excellent
plans. Me ‘n me bitches will be pluckin’. Aai?”
Pressed upon this point, he further elucidated
that: “Well, actually. I’m not terribly ‘cool’ as
they say, but I’m trying to go with the flow. You
know?”. A female medic proclaimed: “I’m really
cool. Last night I ginned 3 of my friends. Aaaii?”
As we walked away, she proceeded to chug a lit-
tle gin bottle.
The Mayor of College has agreed to lead by
example and wear a huge white fur coat, a dia-
mond cane and grow a goatee. He has given his
go-ahead for the painting of go-faster stripes
down the side of Sherfield as well as begrudg-
ingly agreeing to allow the pimping of the logo
from Arial font to Times New Roman.
The Brown Couch team has also reached
agreement with MTV about transforming the
JCR. All the seating will now be plump leather
brown couches for staff and students to enjoy.
Pimp my college
Alon Or-bach
Brown Couch
Omnipotent One
20
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 19 January 2006
Sharon and his recent pursuit of peace
In reply to Ammar Waraich, Felix 1339
Socially-able at Imperial
Liked it or loathed it? Send your ideas and opinions to comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

