NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
felix
Thursday 19 January 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk
was a target above other halls. It
was alarming to think that anyone
could just walk around our halls
unnoticed, stealing things.”
The Committee also raised con-
cerns regarding the permitted
access of unsupervised workmen
to the halls within Evelyn Gardens,
particularly as many of the items
had been stolen from locked rooms.
This has led to some speculation
amongst residents that a temporary
cleaner may have been to blame for
the wave of burglaries. However,
such claims are unsubstantiated and
have been widely dismissed by the
majority of residents questioned, “I
have heard nothing of a temporary
cleaner being responsible for any
thefts. My cleaner is very friendly
and often quite helpful,” responded
Richard Arkless, “the thefts that
occurred at the start of last term
were down to a professional thief
who knows how to target halls and
took advantage of the freshers not
knowing better.”
Whilst it seems highly unlikely
that employed staff are involved in
the recent thefts at Evelyn Gardens,
particularly given the fact that the
thief hasbeen recorded on CCTV and
cannot be identified, such in-house
crimes are not unknown. Earlier
this month Ian Bartlett, a warden
at Oxford University, received a
five-year sentence after pleading
guilty to a total of 115 counts of
burglary taking place in 18 college
halls. Bartlett, it emerged, had been
employed as a care-taker despite
“previous spent convictions”.
A spokesperson for Oxford
University blamed “existing legisla-
tion” preventing “refusal of employ-
Cash & laptops stolen
ment on these grounds.” Such
statements led Felix to query the
safeguards met by Imperial College
when employing staff and to further
question whether there had been
any staff dismissals due to thefts in
the past.
Nick Roalfe, Assistant Director
of Estates, dismissed claims that
thefts at Evelyn Gardens were car-
ried out by a temporary cleaner
citing “CCTV evidence which sug-
gests that the suspects are not
student/staff related”. Mr. Roalfe
urged students with any evidence
to the contrary to “report suspi-
cions immediately to the security
department at the earliest conven-
ience.” Mr. Roalfe could not confirm
or deny past theft-related dismiss-
als although commented that “no
records suggest this has been the
case.”
Felix queried the vetting proce-
dures used to employ staff, and
College assured us that Extracalm,
the agency through which cleaning
staff are employed, “undertakes the
same level of vetting as is applied
by the College for general staff.”
The College security department
also monitors “keys and access con-
trols.” Overall, we were assured that
the security of students and staff
was taken very seriously and the
department remained “extremely
pro active regarding safety and
security, constantly looking at ways
to improve on this.”
Dr. Martin Jackson, the Warden’s
representative for security issues
at Bernard Sunley Hall, feels that
security risks at Evelyn Gardens
have been exaggerated. He told
Felix that “the frequency of inci-
dents is no different to those report-
ed in Prince’s Gardens or the outer
lying halls.” The outlandish thefts
in Evelyn Gardens contrast signifi-
cantly with other halls, which have
reported only a few minor instances
involving the “stealing of food and
cutlery from kitchens”.
The installation of safes at
Bernard Sunley Hall suggests that
there is a specific problem in Evelyn
Gardens. The College security
department denies that Imperial
has acted in response to known
threats, stating: “The reason that
hotel-type safes have been installed
in Bernard Sunley Hall is purely
a crime prevention exercise, act-
ing on advice from Kensington and
Chelsea Police.” Safes have been
piloted in this particular building, as
Dr. Jackson explains, “simply due
to the halls relatively small size (84
beds)” making it the obvious hall in
which to carry out a trial.
The pilot scheme has so far
received a mixed response. Whilst
many are pleased with the added
security, others, such as Arkless,
are wary of the costs involved,
“Personally I wouldn’t want to pay
extra for having a safe in my room.
Hall fees are already extremely high
and they don’t need excuses to make
them any higher.” Earlier this year,
Southwell Hall Committee opted
against the measure after it was
decided that, as well as increasing
room prices significantly, the safes
would be fairly easy to remove and
would also let thieves know precise-
ly where valuables were located.
A decision (largely dependent on
student feedback) will be made later
this year on whether to install safes
throughout other halls in college.
Bernard Sunley Hall, where safes have been fitted in every room to combat a series of thefts in Evelyn Gar-
dens. If the trial proves successful, it will be extended to all halls. Photo: Vitali Lazurenko
ter than expected”, but appealed to
students to respect this facility and
help provide a cleaner, more inviting
atmosphere for everyone.
Both College and the Union are
devising various short-term plans to
combat last year’s problems, includ-
ing improving the cleaning system
in light of the littering problem and
the possibility of providing late night
catering outlets in the Anteroom
(the small room next door to the
Sherfield canteen) so students can
eat there instead of in the library.
Library staff have met regularly
with Union and departmental rep-
resentatives to draw up a student
charter which will cover what is and
is not acceptable behaviour.
Redevelopment of the Central
Library will start this year, aiming to
provide more study space, improved
digital and wireless technology as
well as improved working conditions
by the introduction of air-condition-
ing. The initial phase will start in the
summer, after term ends, and will
include the transfer of books from
the Science Museum collection.
Jenkins told us that “the build-
ing has not been upgraded since it
was first built… I am pleased that
we have a commitment to fund the
renovation.” The reconstruction will
be “more suited to a larger student
population and will have better zon-
ing for quiet and group study.”
While the exact details of the
works are still being finalised, a
summary of the proposal shows that
both levels four and five will be
renovated. Particular efforts will be
made to improve ventilation on level
four by introducing air conditioning
and level five will become a special-
ist area for the humanities. In turn,
the business department will move
down to level two.
Library redevelopment
Continued from page 1
Continued from page 1 Work in these areas will be
restricted to times when many stu-
dents will not require access to the
collections, such as during the sum-
mer holidays. College is presently
looking at options for an alternative
study space so students wishing to
study during the holidays will not be
disturbed by building works.
As reported in Felix last week,
the redevelopment plans include the
relocation of infrequently used items
from the Science Museum collection
as the Museum has “found itself
unable to afford the library configu-
ration”. The Rare Book Collection
will move to the Science Museum
Buildings at South Kensington,
whilst other materials will be moved
to buildings in Wroughton, Wiltshire.
However, all material not in the
Central Library will be available
through a twenty-four hour call back
service, accessed online, by phone
or through the library. These plans
will help provide more study space
within the library.
The proposal drawn up by the
Science Museum regarding its
relocation also requires “appropri-
ate public access to electronically
stored information.” Ceri Davies,
Head of Security, assured Felix
that “this would make no difference
whatsoever to security. The library
already has a booking-in system
for members of the public. Security
in the library is provided by the
Science Museum and is not part of
the College’s security services.”
Student response to the proposed
plans seems quite positive, although
the closure of departmental librar-
ies last year was met with protests.
The estimated date for the comple-
tion of the works is, as yet, unknown,
but the library staff hopes that the
redevelopment will be finished by
2008.
The library will be open 24 hours again despite complaints last year of
students ‘moving into’ the library and brushing their teeth in the toi-
lets. Photo: Vitali Lazurenko
Leader, page 21

