Get involved in the next
issue of I,Science.
E-mail i.science@ic.ac.uk
In the wintry doom and dark-
ness of South Kensington, there is
a place where pasty-skinned, vita-
min D-deprived Londoners can
seek sunlight and solace. For the
past week and a half Londoners
have been pouring in off the gloomy
streets and into the Dana Centre,
and leaving twenty minutes later
feeling distinctly more cheery. The
reason for the new state of Nirvana
in this corner of London is the ‘Light
Lounge’; a pure white room in the
Dana Centre with comfy sofas,
fluffy pillows and four rectangular
light boxes mounted on each wall
to beam positive vibes at all comers
and eradicate all traces of the winter
blues.
The Light Lounge coincides with
a Dana Centre debate on Seasonal
Affective Disorder (SAD), a form
of winter depression that Jennifer
Eastwood, founder of the SAD asso-
ciation, says affects more than half a
million people every year in the UK.
As a person living with SAD, Mrs
Eastwood is more than familiar with
the effects of the condition. “It was
impossible to get up in the morn-
ing…I was very ill; I had to be put in
hospital. And tThen they turned the
light therapy on me and it started
to work”. That was 25 years ago,
and now Mrs Eastwood controls her
SAD symptoms with medication and
the use of a light box in her office in
the Imperial College Department
of Environmental Science &
Technology. The number of people
who contact the SAD association
every winter, when the days become
shorter and light quality poorer, sug-
gests that SAD is more than just a
need for a holiday or a bad case of
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
felix
Thursday 19 January 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk
Don’t feel SAD
Lilian Anekwe enjoys a light therapy session
Visitors enjoying the Light Lounge at the Dana Centre.
Reclining on
the sofa, lazily
flicking through
Marie Claire and
enjoying the
silence, does
unsurprisingly
make me feel
better
I
nvestigators are looking into the pos-
sibility that Professor Lord Robert
Winston’s moustache is fake, following
a statement by a colleague from his
television series Child of Our Time.
The claims are the first to be made on
record, following months of rumours
which have dogged the respected scientist and
broadcaster.
Karen Flotilla, the researcher who made the
claims, described the crucial moment when
she became aware of Winston’s apparently
fraudulent facial hair: “We’d just wrapped on
a day’s filming near Bristol when I was told by
the producer to deliver the next day’s script to
Lord Winston in his hotel room. I knocked and
he called for me to come in – he was locked in
the bathroom, freshening up. He told me to
leave the script on the desk; he sounded flus-
tered. Then I saw it. It was on the floor. At first
I thought it was a hairy caterpillar, maybe the
Giant Leopard Moth larva, but then I looked
closer and noticed a small patch of double-
sided tape. It was definitely the moustache.”
Dr Ezekiel Peabody, author of The Cult of
Winston (Palgrave, 2004), pointed out that if
the allegations were found to be true, Lord
Winston’s career could be ruined: “I’ve long
maintained that his curious allure is built
largely from his fascinatingly thick ’tache.
As Samson’s locks were to his strength, so
Robert Winston’s moustache is to his intel-
lectual standing and on-screen personality.
Without that bushy growth he may well be
finished.”
Supporters of Winston are said to be reel-
ing from the news, but Sally-Ann Slocombe,
founder of the Ealing-based Bob’s Fan Club
(BFC), is defiant: “Sure, the moustache means
a lot to us, but it isn’t the be-all and end-all of
Lord Winston’s appeal.” Slocombe went on to
point out that Winston is also a highly-respect-
ed medical expert, having sat on numerous
high-profile government advisory panels, and
that he has hosted dozens of documentaries
and authored just as many books. As Twiggy
Teather, a BFC member, said: “He’s demon-
strated not only his expertise in the sciences,
but also his thorough understanding of theol-
ogy in his latest book and TV series. And, of
course, there’s that lovely, thick barnet.”
The world of television moves on quickly
– it seems the position of cuddly bewhiskered
expert is up for grabs. TV producers have
apparently discussed the possibility of bring-
ing in another man to fill Winston’s shoes
before he has even been formally investigated
and Ladbrokes has started offering odds on
the front runners to be the next moustachioed
media scientist. Heinz Wolff is third, at 22-1;
Adam Hart-Davis is next in at 11-2 but the
favourite is Sir David Attenborough, at 5-2.
Jim Badger, celebrity barber of New Bond
Street, commented on the potential of the three
men: “Wolff has good follicles, but he’ll have to
be dragged out of retirement first. Hart-Davis
has just trialled a beard on Balderdash and
Piffle, but I’m not confident he’s got the right
top lip for the job. As for Attenborough, I love
the guy, but I think his bristle-density isn’t
going to be up to scratch. The field’s wide
open.”
Lord Winston’s moustache was not available
for comment.
Winston’s
moustache
Duncan
McMillan
the winter blues: “It seems that light
is the main thing. Medication does
help but that’s more for the depres-
sion side, what the light seems to
alleviate is the very characteristic
SAD symptoms of overeating, over-
sleeping and lethargy”.
In the luminous glow of the Light
Lounge, I met Lauren Gildersleve,
the press officer at the Dana Centre
who had the idea for the Light
Lounge: “SAD is something that
comes up in the media every year,
there are always stories on it but
they’re always quite samey. So we
were looking for a way people could
have some free light therapy, to get
people into the centre and get them
engaged in science, and a way they
could learn a bit more about SAD
through the debates and talks run-
ning here at the same time.”
There is a valid scientific theory
behind the light therapy offered at
the Dana Centre. SAD is thought to
be caused by a biochemical imbal-
ance in the hypothalamus, due to
the shortening of daylight hours and
the lack of sunlight hours in winter.
Light therapy can be effective in up
to 85% of cases when light boxes
that provide 10,000 units of light
energy (lux) are used. This is the
same light intensity beamed out by
the light boxes in the Light Lounge;
by comparison a grey winter day in
London provides a miserable 200-
500 lux.
The Light Lounge has met
Lauren’s vision perfectly (“I’d envis-
aged this white, relaxing chill-out
room, where it’s quite comfy and
laid-back”). Reclining on the sofa
lazily flicking through Marie Claire
and enjoying the silence (oddly,
no-one speaks during my time in
the lounge, afraid of ruining the
peacefulness) does unsurprisingly
make me feel better. When I leave
twenty minutes later, I feel serene
and happier in a way I can’t quite
put my finger on. I’m not alone in
having had my mood improved (“I
feel well chilled now”, announces
one happy guy to his girlfriend) and
several people leave the lounge and
head straight to the front desk to
book another appointment. This
is common, according to Lauren
Gildersleve: “A lot of people are feel-
ing very relaxed when they come
out and they’ve said it made a dif-
ference. We’ve seen a lot of the
same faces, a few people I know
have come back three or four times
already. We’ve had so much demand
we’ve extended the event for anoth-
er week”. Good news for these punt-
ers, who are disappointed to hear
the lounge is booked solid for the
next two days.
But even my twenty minutes in the
lounge may not be enough according
to Jennifer Eastwood: “One thing
that one has to be clear about is that
no matter how much light you get
from an artificial source, it doesn’t
beat the real thing. That’s why I’m
off to Lanzarote next week”. I can’t
afford to go on holiday again, so I’ve
booked another two sessions next
week.
The Light Lounge at the Dana
Centre is open daily from 12pm to
8pm until Friday 20th.
The
Newer
Scientist

