No 126 THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 21 1958
T H E M O R P H Y M U D L A R K
FIERCE FIGHTING O N THE H O M E FRONT = •
Di d you return from Morphy Day perfectly dry and/ or oomplete with trousers?
I f so you were indeed fortunate. An abnormally high Spring-Tide, coupled with
a surfeit of enthusiasm resulted i n one of the wettest Morphy Days far years.
In contract to the usual haphazard brawling, there was evidence this year of efficient
organisation, which allowed the m
m
m
i
m
n
m amount of harmless (1) enjoyment for the
combatants and obviated the intervention of the local police.
Mines, handicapped as usual by numerical inferiority, evolved a plan X to ensure
the safety of their mascot Mich (see Fage-+ for further details). R.O.S. were dis-
playing their newly christened thermometer Theta for the first time. Guilds' faith-
ful Spanner was again braving the fearsome elements - the primeval forces of Nature:
Pire(works) Earth(olods) and "ater(buokets of) together with the ingenuity of E.C.S.
The day undoubtedly went to Guilds,
partly by superior tactics and partly
by sheer weight of numbers. In addi-
tion to the inevitable barrage of flour
and mod, R.C.S. were further discon-
certed to find themselves subjected
to an ignominious assult from decaying,
fly-blown pears. Indeed, some of their
number taking exception to this putrify-
ing presence, were rather glad of their
impromptu bathe i n the swollen Thames.
The Presidents were transported
as usual to the scene of the crime by
their respective chariots Bo, Jez and
Clem: the advent of the latter was
followed by the most amazing sight
of the afternoon. Graham King, the
Mines President, began to wade knee-
deep into the water, with umbrella aloft
( i t wasn't even raining at the time)
and perched upon a fence, the flood-
waters swirling about his feet. This
peculiar behaviour was motivated by the
arrival of the Miners' launch, which
eventually took him aboard. Unfort-
unately Graham i s endowed with l i t t l e
sense of the dramatic, for he did not
fall i n : anyone with the merest
streak of artistry would have done so.
An official declaration of war,
and the 'Battle of the towpath bridge"
began. After bitter fighting, Theta
was oaptured by the Guildsmen, who then
staged a strategic withdrawal, trium-
phantly flciurishing their booty aloft.
A truce was called on this unholy strug-
gle for the purpose of oheering the
crews i n the Lowry Cup race, i n which
R.C.S. pipped Guilds by a small margin.
The activities i n the intervening period
between this and the Morphy race might
adequately be termed "aqua-sport".
Fortunes varied from the sublime - Mr.
Leston flung bodily into the Thames,
emerging, and being flung back again;
to the ridiculous - a pathetic figure
clutching two halves of a pair of sod-
den jeans and protesting weakly: "It's
not cricket, you know." How right he
was.
Xandra, the lovely Queen of Jez,
could resist the advances of the deter-
mined Guildsmen no longer and was spir-
ited away into their alien midst.
Enraged at this dastartly move, R.C.S.
launched a vicious counter-attack,
and even the superior numbers of the
Guildsmen could not withstand the fury
of the onslaught. Dave Clark was
isolated and ceremonially jettisoned
THE S E Q U E L
If any of you happened to be
walking along KxhibitionRd. at
7.0 a.m. on the 13th, you would have
witnessed a strange sight - the Pres-
ident of R.C.S. pulling a handcart,
pushed by Mr. Gamett, who, i n turn,
was pushed by the Editor. Obvious-
ly some pertinent explanation i s called
for.
Tho previous night, i.e. Morphy
night, a band of R.C.S. revellers
were racking their besotted brains for
seme appropriate method of ending the
celebrations. Quite by chance they
came upon an old car resting wearily
against the Roderio H i l l Building.
How nice, they thought, i f this could
be overturned in front of Guilds.
Accordingly, they propelled the veh-
icle thenoe and swept i t into a tidy
heap on the steps. To complete the
operation, they roped off the area,
planted a few pickaxes amongst the
wreckage and surrounded i t with red
lamps; then the culprits disappeared.
A l l was silence - the lamps tint-
ing the stream of petrol meandering
lazily i n the direction of the Under-
ground Station.
The advent of the porter was
followed by the police and a fire-
engine, to wash off the petrol from the
pavement. A dishevelled labourer, who
professed ownership of the car informed
the officer that he thoughtit must have
been a student prank - as i f they needed
telling!
At 6.40 a.m. that Thursday morning,
the first floor'phone shattered the
delicate silence of the Hostel: the
night watchman wished to inform the
President that, unless oertain ropes,
pickaxes and lampsw g r e returned by brea-
kfast time, I.C. was going to be pros-
ecuted - Hence the unprecedented early
morning exercise.
into the unfriendly Thames.
dripping Presidential coat gave a few
curt orders and, i n next to no time, the
opposing President was spewing fi3h and
fungi from the same waters.
Dave Clark, perhaps feeling that
he was unsuitably attired for a fur-
ther dip, changed his clothes and was
accordingly returned to the overstocked
r i v e r . The lot of a President is
indeed arduous.
The end of the Morphy cup race
appropriately terminated the afternoon'3
Entertainment.

