2 FELIX
GENERAL STUDIES THE CHANCELLOR'S SPEECH
Mr. Heathcoat Amcry, in his su-nnary
of the economic outlook at home and ab-
road, presented an optimistic picture
of our future prospects, but at the
same time he stressed that we mist not
lapse into complacency.
All efforts of the Governments
3ince the war to put our economy on a
firm basis have been frustrated by
inflation, until recently: the rising
crisis last Autumn was largely due to
influences abroad, but i t was count-
ered by the l*h bonk rate and the top
priority given to the elimination
of inflation. There has also been
a f a l l in import prices which has
more than balanoed our f a l l in exports,
and the result is the best situation
for sterling since the war: our gold
and dollar reserves have risen by £47CM
during the last year (partly achieved
by a loan of £70M and by a lapse of
payments to the U.S. and Canada), and
sterling debts have been reduced?by
£300M.
Internally, the Chancellor's aims
are threefold:
a) to maintain the strngth of sterling
b) to keep prices stable.
a) to maintain the highest possible
level of production and employment.
Hare he took the opportunity of
appealing to his audience to stop
eating potatoes, as these were the one
item rao3t likely to rise in price due
to the bad crops this year!
The greatest danger is the increase
of wages, dividends and profits: the
former have risen by 4$ over the last
year, whioh is a higher figure than
that for the cost of living or the rise
in production: i f this occurs during
the next year we are likely to be
priced out of the world markets, for
at the moment industrial produotion
is lower than last year, and i s
unlikely to improve in the next few
months.
L O R D M A Y O R S
S H O W
Fewer Guildsmen than usual part-
icipated in the procession this year,
as the majority of the floats were
manned by the Territorials. Bo and a
supporting company assembled, as they
are wont, on Ludgate H i l l where they
entertained the crowd in the inimitible
fashion we have come to erpeott to
quote the DAILY EXPRESS " a crowd of
students on Ludgate H i l l put the sold
iers out of step....."
The new Lord Mayor received the
loyal greetings of City and Guilds
College through the sonorous medium
of a Boomalaka.
After the procession, C * G paid
a visit to that small place in the
Strand, but finding l i t t l e of interest,
left for L.S.E. But not before Mary
and Jane had casually removed the King's
flag, and a trouserlens resident had
been looked into the girls common-room.
Also, the national figure
of 2.3^ for unemployment is low in
comparison with that for most other
oountries. This is a serious prob-
lem because of i t s concentration In
certain areas such as South Wales and
Mersey side: on tnis subjeot Mr.
Amory said that while the "overnment
extended grants to industrie. settling
up in areas of high unemployment, rie did
not think i t was his responsibility to
maintain the 3ize of any particular
industry - we must develop new ind-
ustries according to demand with the
labour force from the old ones, end
leave the s i pie manufacturing processes
to less developed oountries.
In answer to a question on Gow
ernment controls, the Chancellor
replied that direct oontrols lead to
hoarding and hence achieve a diff-
erent result to that intended: i t was
better for him to encourage the prod-
uctive industries rather than the
consumptive ones, and to reduce the back
rate as far as possible.
To another question about agricul-
ture, he gave three reasons for the fact
-that i t (in coming with steel) is a
favoured industry: in two world ware
we have nearly starved to <ieath, the
economic consideration dictatsd by
an un-balanoe of payments, and the
social reason of maintaining a bal-
anoe between town and country. The
Government subsidy ensures thai the
Public doesn't pay mare than worid
prices for food*
In conclusion Mr. Amory repeated
his belief in a free economy: dec-
isions are better taken by the men in
oontrol of industry than by a minister
in Westminster.
S A B O T A G E
THE GUILD'S FLOAT
Seeing the maddening horde approac-
hing, L.S.S. barred their gates and so
the Guildamen retired to the Enbankment
An advance party infiltrated into the
enemy's camp and a determined attack
was made on their Union. Fierce fight-
ing ensued but the entrance to "Beaver"
was blocked by an impregnable wall of
fire-extinguishers. Finding that their
strength was being wasted, the attackers
withdrew, and after a few Parthian shots
descended upon a hostelry for purposes
of recuperation.
Hews was later received of the un-
fortunate Guildsman who became isolated
from the main body during the fighting-
He was transported, trouserless, into
Picadilly Circus and released therin.
His appearance provoked considerable
speculation among the residents, but
their worst fears were oonfounded when
he immediately caught a taxi back to
I.C.
The annual conflagration and hope-
ful burning of "Chubby" (in effigy only)
was overshadowed by the I.C. Lunar
Probe - a splendid, gleaming machine
installed on a launching pad in the
centre of open ground.
The rocket launching was complete
down to the last detail - periodic
announcements over the loudspeaker
systems were accompanied by realistic
taped sound-effects, intended to build
up anticipation towards aero-hour,
9,30. They were also necessary to
warn people away from the infernal
machine - considering the contents and
the preparations that went before i t ,
a vmry necessary precaution, as denizens
of the f i r s t floor Had come to know for
some 14 days previously.
Between them, the Chairman of the
Entertainments Committee and an ex-
President of the Dram. Soc, produced the
biggest smog ever known at I.e., to-
gether with periodic detonations
which left shattered nerves and black-
ened ceilings. Finally whan the ex-
perimenters were satisfied the rocket
was assembled - the main charge being
a waste bin of gunpowder (and, i t i s
rumoured, 2 gallons of petrol).
Hence the warning.
When the long-awaited count-
down was oarrled out, the rocket
produced very l i t t l e i n the way of a
show - the sound effects far surpassing
the visual. After a hurried invest-
igation, an announcement was made that
a re-test of the rocket would be carried
out: before most people had a ohanoe
to look in the right direction, Har-
lington, (and probably London Airport
too; was shaken by an explosion that
Woomera would not be ashamed of.
Why, after suoh preparations
and calculations, had the rocket mis-
fired? It was not the fault of
button-pusher John Sheldon, be assured
of that. Sabotage was the answer.
The button closed the circuit not to the
Probe, but to an inferior version strap-
ped to i t s side - attached by person or
persons unknown, under the impression
that i t i s vary funny to ruin the result
of hard and devoted work, and a l l the
more funny when suoh sabotage is carried
out xlth such a large and appreciative
audisnce.
To those who made the Probe, oon-
grat-ilations - at least the final ex-
plosion was spactacular enough ; to
those who attempted sabotage, try to
show more intelligence and a sense of
occasion.

