The first df zcx: live discussions from British Universities begins on
BBC—1 on December l+th. Once a month Robin Day w i l l visit a University to question a
leading public figure before an audience of faculty, staff and students.
On December kth, Robin Day w i l l be i n Norwich at the University of East Anglia
talking to the Rt, Hon,, Roy Jenkins M.P., Chancellor of the .Exchequer.
After talking to the Chancellor about his ideas on the future of Britain's
democratic institutions, the discussion w i l l be thrown open to members of the audience
for them to state their views. Says producer Tony Smith: "In these programmes we
shall be looking at the universities as factories for ideas, to find out what ideas
they are producing on certain subjects* Those taking part w i l l not only be students,
and our audience w i l l include staff, research workers, cleaners - everyone in fact,
who works in the University3 "
"University Forum" i s at 10„45 p.m. on BBOi on Wednesday December Vfch,
Further information fran Miohael Colley BBC-TV Publicity
01-7A3-8000 Ext. 2859-6-ti
SERGEANT MISGRAVE'S DANCE
This play grows from the metamorphosis of Sargeant Musgrave from f
the hardest
sergeant of the line1
to a violent pacafist0 This i s caused by the reprisals taken
against civilians for the murder of one of his fellow soldiers.
We follow Sergeant Musgrave, with the body arid three fellow deserters, to the dead
mans home townc. In the strike-bound town they are i n i t i a l l y mistaken for strike-
breakers. The local w
h
o
r
e approaches the party and one of the deserters attempts to
leave with her - and i s brutally murdered,
This i s revealed at a 'recruiting rally1
which the mayor persuades Musgrave to
hold. While Musgrave harangues the people with his own twisted pacifism the whore
escapes from the room i n which she lias been locked and turns the crowd against them.
In the penultimate scene.-the Dragoons, called by the Mayor to quell possible
riots, arrive to prevent one of Musgraves comrades fran turning a Gattling Gun on the
now hostile crowd.
We finally see Musgrave and comrades examining themselves and their motives. This
critique of pacifism provides a worthwhile evening.
WIIATS. OH
Monday 25th Nov. to Sunday 8th Dec. 1968
Phot, Soc* Exhibition on People
in Ilaldane Library Also Photographic
materials available at about 3
0
$ off tax
free price, on Mondays and Thursdays 1-2 p,m.
in room 222 Chem Eng, Bone Buildings.
Monday 2nd„ Dec<, 7»30p»m« Union Upper Lounge
Methodist Society and Indian Society
Films and discussion on non-violence
Tuesday 3rd Dec lt . 15p.m. Chemistry Theatre A
RCS Union mmetlng.
Thursday 5th Dec 7
.
3
0
p
.
m
. Elec Eng A06
Methodist Society and Buddist Culture Society
Speaker and discussion on Buddism and
Christianity.
Friday 6th Dec Falmouth Hall Party.
Thursday 28th Novc 1.0Qp»m* I.C. Union
SMALL ADS
WOODEN HORSE ORGANISATION
Reopening under new management Thursday 28th
November 7f30p.m. Upper Refectory Union
You need know nothing about mascots to come
along and be a member,
CAMERA FOR SALE. Super Paxette 2L 35mm
good nick .£19. Contact P, Rotheram
Tiaardjyg,
THESIS TYPING
Experienced Typist.
2/- Quarto Sheet,
other sizes quoted.
STENCILS YffiLCOMED
Mrs. Thomas 675-1115
Z
r s
meetinso NEWTHINK 3 i s out now 2/6 d
3
m
r
c
PEE JURGO-C0UNCIL ICE TING
On Monday 2/3 of council discussed what to put forward at the next JURGO (Joint
Union and Rectorial and Gubernatorial Organisation) meeting to be held 1 week later.
Discussion was based on the Joint Statement grora the Committee of Vice-Chancellors
and Principals and the N.U.S. released (with a flop) i n October, and the Disciplinary
Procedures report submitted by the College.
It was generally felt that the CVCFNU3 document was weak, vague, ambiguous and f u l l
of platitudes. Some of councils decessions were:- PARTICIPATION - Student
representation was highly desirable on most subjects - including staff appointments
MANDATING - Students representatives to the admin should be modated when necx.
COURSE CONTENT - We should be consulted and want to see innovations.
Decission of the discipline report were : DOUBLE PUNISlttlENT i t was decided that
there were instances when people could be disciplined i n College after being dealt with
by the law,
DISCIPLINARY COMLilTTEE - The present nebulous and vague arrangements should be swept
aside and replaced by 1 committee of staff and students, to consider misconduct
perforated, anywhere i n the College though Union's premises Council need not always refer
"sinners" to the proposed canmittee.
Due to production difficulties Piers Corbyn's map i s s t i l l not ready.

