F E L I X 2 7 N o v e m b e r 1 9 6 8 9
IN THE YEAR
OF THE PSG
" A s soon as I heard of American independence, my
heart was enlisted " . . . So said Joseph Alson in 1776 and
so begins a new film " In the Year of the Pig " (Institute
of Contemporary Art, Thurs., Fri., Sat. and Sunday—6.00
p.m. and 8.30 p.m. from Nov. 22nd.) The film traces, with
meticulous care, the last forty years of the history of
Vietnam and as such is the only documentation so far to
appear on the big screen of that woeful saga—unhappily
not yet complete.
As in all good documentation the story is laid before us
in two parts—a summary of the recent history of the
country and an insight into the present conflict. The two
cannot be separated of course, and to his credit director
Emile de Antonio has sifted through newsreel, old and
current, interviews with generals, soldiers and journalists
and public speeches by statesmen of both America and
Vietnam and at no time does he lose a sense of continuity
or relevance of a scene to what either precedes or follows.
Ho Chi Minh went to Paris in 1917, became a devout
Marxist and set up a successful left-wing newspaper. This
was at a time when most of his countrymen were at the
yoke of a rickshaw wherein sat French generals or diplo-
mats. By 1950 Ho was the natural people's leader through-
out most of the country, North and South, and the film
rightly stresses the attraction which this man had, and still
has, over the peasants and workers. Then came General
Giap's legendary rout of the French at Dien Bien Phu
which was not so much a military victory as a public
relations triumph for Ho which had a profound and lasting
effect on world politics. The wretched division into North
and South at Geneva in 1954 is well-known but the film
serves as a useful reminder to those of us who would be
barely ten at the time, of the installment, by the Americans
of a puppet ruler in 1956—the vulnerable President Diem
whom President Johnson hailed as " the Winston Churchill
of South East Asia." There is no doubt that had the
elections, which the North was calling for, been held, H o
Chi Minn would have swept in and the blocking of this was
the Americans' fundamental mistake to which the present
strife can be traced. There followed the futile rule of
Diem who, corrupted by his wife and brother whose lust
for power was " little short of pathological," finished his
days in the back of a lony : f
h his throat cut. And when
the American " military advisorsa
were sent to " advise "
the Government of the South it was really a question of
" what Government?"
The film's account of the war is done, again, entirely
through interview, in the same light as the previous history.
To begin with we have a Senator stating that Kennedy really
wanted to let the South Vietnamese fight and lose before his
country's involvement reached the present scale. We hear
the incredibly misinformed rhetoric of Generals Curtis
Lernay and Mark Clark — the latter's explanation of
America's reluctance to invade the North taking the biscuit
. . . " We don't want to risk the lives of 100,000 American
Boys against 100,000 of theirs—y'know, they don't really
care how many they lose.!' We have a sonar operator on
board the " torpedoed " Maddox stating that as far as his
equipment could tell there wasn't a submarine or a torpedo
in the Gulf of Tonkin at the time! And finally there is
Colonel Patton emotionally recounting the scene in the field
chapel as the soldiers mourned the loss in battle of some
colleagues. " Their faces were determined but reverent. . .
and a bloodv eood bunch of killers they are.too! "
Many people will see this film and reject its claim to
be a documentary feature. Biased," " Anti-American "
they will say. It is unquestionably anti-American and this
point was put to the Director—de Antonio—after the show.
" How can you remain objective when you see B.52s bomb-
ing villages or soldiers mistreating old women?" was his
reply. There is the other side of the coin of course—
bombing embassies, machine-gunning shoppers—which was
admittedly omitted from the film. But this simply was
not meant to be a film to leave you neutral—even if such
a film could ever be made. If a documentary has the func-
tion of " telling it like it is " then here is a documentary.
There is no narrative—the dialogue is that of Senators,
statesmen, reporters, soldiers and historians—and their
feelings and sentiments shape our impressions. There are
no actors no fabrications-—when M.P.s pacify a suspect
with a boot in the stomach, he feels it. When Senator
Mpreton describes Ho as the " George Washington " of
Vietnam we are simply bearing what he doesn't tell the
Press and when we see the spirit of the North Vietnamese as
they shoot down an American plane or when we hear U.S.
soldiers referring to the South Vietnamese as " slat-eyes "
we simply perceive what Time and Reader's Digest don't
print.
De Antonio expects difficulty in recouping the $ 111,000
it cost him to make the film. " N o big companies will touch
i t " he assured me. And so to anyone wno thinks he knows
the whole story, go and see this important film—and see if
somewhere there isn't a slight failure in communication.
J O H N SPENCE
record
review
The Incredible String Band.
Wee Tarn and the Big Huge
Electra E U K 74036/37
Everybody seems to be
producing double albums
these days : the Pentangle,
thg Beatles, and Jimi Hen-
drix, to name three. Plus,
of course, the Incredibles.
It is a pity, as fewer copies
will be sold ; I suppose the
loss of sales is more than
recompensed by the in-
creased price. It also allows
for better presentation of
the artists.
" Wee Tarn and the Big
Huge " continues the theme
of "The Hangman's Beauti-
ful Daughter " : songs of
nature, the earth, and a
mystical viewpoint. Robin
Williamson appears to be
largely responsible for the
latter, with songs like " The
half-remarkable question "
or "Jobs Tears." On "the
other hand, the music itself
is more approachable to
those who are not already
admirers of the Incredibles,
and this seems to be Mike
Heron's influence. "Greatest
Friend" has a Dylan-like
symplicity, and with plain
guitar and harmonica back-
ing is perhaps the most
striking song on the album.
Heron's " A i r " is very good.
Even Robin Williamson's
songs seem musically more
attractive—or maybe I am
just becoming more used to
them.
It is very hard to criticise
the Incredibles—for want of
standards, as there is no one
really comparable with them.
Perhaps their own previous
work is the best standard,
and this album is certainly
better than the "Hangman "
—it may well attract new
followers to the Incredibles'
already large band of ad-
mirers.
Morning again - T o m Paxton
This is Tom Paxton's 4th
L.P. and has been released
to coincide with his annual
British tour which finishes
on 25th November. In
other words, hard luck, you
have already missed him.
However, Paxton devotees
will have heard all the tracks
on this L.P. already as they
were his " new" songs as
performed last year at Cam-
bridge Folk Festival and
later on the full scale tour in
November.
Paxton's popularity is
based on the superb atmo-
sphere and professionalism
of his concert performances,
and on the beauty and sim-
plicity of his melodies.
He always seemed to sound
a little flat and anaemic on
his earlier records, where he
lost his concert atmosphere;
a criticism which can be
levelled at many folk
singers.
This latest L.P. is basic-
ally similar to his earlier
work, with the major excep-
tion that on many tracks he
has dropped his solo guitar
The Incredible String Band
in favour of a small backing
group. His melodies are as
good as ever, but his style
has changed very little; it is
the mixture as before, with
orchestral padding. He has
grown fatter, balder, and
more prosperous and in
doing so has lost the sharp-
ness of his first records,
without improving and pro-
gressing. He is stagnant.
His protest songs are as
effective as making love by
post, and he still cannot do
talking blues. I have always
thought Paxton was better
when doing his intensely per-
sonal and beautiful love
songs, although here his
constant fight with the back-
ing makes even these a little •
disturbing. The better
tracks included " So much
for winning," " Morning
again," the title track, and
"Now that I've taken my
life." A good L.P. spoilt by
bad production; rather dis-
appointing.
Fred Neil/Bleaker and
Macdougal
Elektra EKS7293
" If you are very hip and
very aware," says the hand-
out, " you may just have
heard the rumbling from
across the Atlantic about
Fred Neil." I must admit
that I don't seem to be hip
enough, as this L.P. is my
introduction to him. Fred
lives in the Florida orange
groves, where he is suppor-
ted by Tim Buckley and the
Mothers, and isn't involved
with the world of showbiz.
A l l but one of the songs
were penned by Fred, and
have a distinct blues feel.
Perhaps because of this,
most of the material is not
strikingly original. He is at
his best with slower numbers
like " Blues on the ceiling,",
"Little bit of rain," and
"Other side to this life,"
all of which are very good
songs indeed, and suit his
deep brown, immensly re-
laxed voice. Other songs
are pleasant enough but
rather unexceptional, and
the harmonica B (by John
Sebastian) while good in it-
self, is perhaps overdone.
The rollicking " Travelling
Shoes " is the one fast num-
ber which really comes off.
Parts of this L P are very
good and we will probably
hear a lot more of Fred
Neil in the future.
CARNIVAL
WALK
December
6th

