Thursday, 10th February, 1972 F E L I X Page 5
'In p l a c e o f ' F E L I X
—part one of a four-part series
Everyone in imperial College knows that the best
publication available to them is none other than this
paper, FELIX. Nevertheless, there are only ten alas all-
too-infrequent issues a year, and most readers will want
to read something else during the year. Your choice is
between books and magazines. There are already too
many book reviewers in this world, and you do not need
one here. I'm going to look solely at magazines, which,
regrettably, are going through a thin time. They cost too
much to produce, and there are too many of them—
which means that hardly any of them make any money.
Most of the few I look at this week are exceptions to
this rule. They are intended solely as a general selec-
tion to whet your appetite (or otherwise) for the rest
of the series.
Magazines have always held great fascination for
me, ever since I first opened one at the tender age of
about three or four. I think it was a copy of 'Jack and
Jill', bought for me by one of my sisters, who took great
delight in those days in giggling (as girls in their early
McLOOGE SPOUTS
PRESIDENTS PIECE
The now immortal Consultative Document has sown
many seeds, from those of a tidal wave of student acti-
vity to those of impassioned NUS Conference debates
and more. It has caused Unions to stand back and ex-
amine the role they are fighting for and the organization
they are fighting with. It is these seeds that shaved up
the first saplings last Monday, 31st January, when, at a
time that the Union is committed to fighting and expos-
ing the Consultative Document and now the James
(Teacher Education) and Rothschild (Postgraduate
Education) reports, to pressing for an increase of £3
in the Union Fee from £7, he holding a referendum on
especially the role of the Constituent College Unions
and I.C.W.A., to formulating a new Union Discipline
procedure, two papers were presented—one present-
ing a new concept of the role of the Union, are present-
ing a new concept of the organization of the Union.
Enough to completely destroy the bureaucratic bung-
lings of Council one would think. But no; perhaps the
most concentrated and illuminating of all Council dis-
cussions took place and though the end result was pre-
dictable (you've guessed—a Union Structure Working
Party), the ideas that have been broached are ones
that are unlikely to be dismissed lightly and ones that
will need the support, in terms of discussion at atten-
dance at UGM's to decide on ensuing constitutional
changes, of all members of the Union.
These ideas included:—
—The creation of a post-graduate affairs officer, to
spark and fight for more P.G. involvement and aid with-
in ICU.
The creation of a weekly Union newsheet.
—The creation of a weekly Felix on a '24 Hour' produc-
tion basis, even a sabbatical Editor and an USK
Newsheet.
— A new attack by the Union to enjoy and effect the
balance of power within the College through more effec-
tive departmental representation.
— A new co-ordination of all Union publications media
—less erratic bumph, more co-ordination (expansion of
STOIC into a true ICUTV was also discussed) of all
communication media of the Union,
and many more.
A Union can very easily get lost, its leaders isolated,
its stalwarts disillusioned, its members cynical and un-
interested. The second term is traditionally a time for
this—the involvement rate drops and it can be a case
of writing out the elections to see what's going to hap-
pen next year. But here are ideas and ideals to fight for,
and the need of an effort from the Union as a whole; the
like of which was only seen in my College time 4 years
ago when changes to Election of the President and
Secretary by Union Ballot and many other concepts
were brought about.
Perhaps the best way of fighting the Consultative"
Document is to work to lay the basis for the Unions
strongest year ever in 1972-73. It's up to you to join in
—your participation is meaningful. Its essential. And if
you've any radical ideas—come to the Union Office.
Behind a wad of Green Papers the winds of change are
stirring.
START AT THE U G M TODAY.
teens do) at their brother's early attempts at reading.
It was the great delight in actually being able to read
the first caption on the first page that really kindled my
enthusiasm for reading, which meant that I was hardly
ever seen without a book or magazine under my nose
for many years to come.
I regret to say that I graduated to more sophisticated
tastes rapidly, but having examined a recent copy of
the same comic, which seems hardly changed from
when I first saw it 14 years ago, I remain convinced that
it is the ideal start to a reading career. I would heartily
recommend it to anyone at college just beginning to
read or wishing to use a refresher course.
If you are afraid of the effect that copies of 'Jack and
Jill' strewn about your room may have on visitors who
have already learnt their basic English and are up to
'Eagle' or 'Mandy' standard, you could do worse than
counteract the effect by leaving a copy of 'Penthouse'
on display. Seldom have I seen the FELIX staff so ex-
cited as when I imported the review copy into the office,
and a colleague informed me that, having placed the
same mag in a prominent position in his room, it be-
comes the focal point of the attentions of all his visitors.
Having exhausted the resources of the focal point (all
11 pages of it) in the centre, and turning to the literary
content, one finds a rather boring article on what the
man in vogue should be wearing, driving and doing
with his spouse. The magazine is evidently written for
millionaire Casanovas (like me!—Ed.). Buying the
magazine in the first place isn't cheap—35p. But per-
haps it is worth it just for the classic selection of letters
to the editor, of rather a different nature to those writ-
ten to Felix, which you are certain to find there. In the
last issue these range from miniscule errors made in an
earlier article on Hi-Fi to one from Japanese scientists
engaged in measuring the length of stallions' sex
organs (perhaps they're trying to miniaturise them,
now!). I must finally mention the cartoons—some
people must have a terribly gruesome sense of humour.
If, however, your tastes are more puritanical, perhaps
you had better try, if you haven't already (for \ \ million
copies are sold every month), the 'Reader's Digest',
written by good Christians for good Christians. Yes, the
R.D.A. are those people famous for their observance
of mail-order Christian ethics. However, the excellence
of their magazine cannot be doubted—every issue a
virgin example of the Jackdaw's art. Without doubt the
handiest-sized magazine around—ideal for travelling—
and the safest to leave around when there are people
at large, except for Country Life (to be reviewed in
article No. 4).
Well, if you feel that I've not been terribly original this
time, I promise to do better next. The line-up for the
next three articles is as follows:—
(a) The Musical press—in all its varied forms, from
Rolling Stone to Music and Musicians and from N.M.E
to Fabulous 208.
(b) Current Affairs magazines—from Oz and Ink to
Time and Newsweek.
5. When Harold had managed to wriggle out of the tube he
had another idea. "It looks something like a coal scuttle. I will
put some coal in it," he said. "Stop!" shouted Dicky. The card-
board tube had no bottom in it and all the coal would have gone
on to the floor.
(c) The Glossies.
Until a fortnight hence, I leave you with the thought
that if all else fails, and even if it doesn't, you should
go and buy a Rag Mag. It's good value as mags go,
after all, and its in a worthy cause. And it'll refresh your
mind for anticipation of the next issue of 'Felix'. Happy
reading!
Bibliography
"Jack and Jill"—IPC Magazines Fleetway, weekly 5p.
"Penthouse"—Penthouse International Inc., monthly
35p.
"Reader's Digest"—Readers' Digest Assn. Ltd., monthly
25p.
"Suk Rag Mag'—U.S.K. Rag Committee, annually 15p.
"Felix"—I.C.U. Publications Board, fortnightly during
term, free.
Distributed By BLACK INK FILMS (U.K.) LTD.
now showing P
A
R
A
M
O
U
N
T
LOWER REGENT STREET 839.6494

