Page 6 F E L I X Thursday, 10th February, 1972
R E V I E W S
Is there a need for film
censorship? This point has
been debated throughout
the seventy year history of
the cinema. The discus-
sion has again reached a
fever pitch over the sub-
ject of ultra-violence parti-
cularly in films such as
"The Clockwork Orange"
and "Straw Dogs". Un-
fortunately, due to the ex-
cesses of the advertising
industry I have failed to
see "The Clockwork
Orange" and have seen
Sam Peckinpah's "Straw
Dogs". Sam Peckinpah has
spent the 1960's making
Westerns culminating in
his 'meditation on viol-
ence', "The Wild Bunch";
perhaps one of the first
ultra-violent films, yet "The
Wild B u n c h " did not pro-
duce as much condemna-
tion as "Straw Dogs", per-
haps because of the less
sexual context of the vio-
lence in "The Wild
Bunch" than in "Straw
Dogs": this is just one of
the obstacles that the
cinema must cross in the
process of growing up.
The film stars Dustin Hoff-
man as the inoffensive
mathematician on a year's
sabbatical to write a book
on Cosmology, who comes
to Cornwall for the peace.
Susan George plays
Amy, his wife, whom he
has to neglect while he is
writing his book.
The film concerns his
regaining her love, but
only after killing seven
"The Decameron"
Films
men. The violence in the
film is very horrific and
treated with all the 'lyrical'
techniques used in "The
Wild Bunch". Yet the
story-line and characteris-
ations are too unreal to
support such realism.
Dustin Hoffman repeats
his role in "The Graduate"
and Susan George as the
sensual, neglected wife in
a role that has been done
better in other films.
The story is set in and
around an isolated village
and unfortunately Sam
Peckinpah has made the
villagers into the archetyp-
al villagers as portrayed
in dozens of films of simi-
lar type: there is a village
idiot, the sensible but
thick-skulled local squire,
a stupid parson and the
quota of local farm boys
with more muscle than
brain.
Sam Peckinpah has fal-
len into the trap of being
the American Director in
England. The 'handy' ar-
rival of a thick fog was in
the best tradition of British
thrillers of the 1930's and
40's. For a director of
Sam Peckinpah's calibre
this film was a very great
disappointment: his previ-
ous film "Monte Walsh"
was a very good film a step
back for Peckinpah from
"The Wild B u n c h " and,
hopefully, his next film will
be another Western of the
standard of "Monte
Walsh".
I don't know how many
people were, like me,
bored when Filmsoc
showed Pasolini's "Theor-
e m " last term, but when I
received a ticket to see
Pasolini's latest film " T h e
Decameron" I was expect-
ing yet another boring
evening, but I received a
very pleasant surprise.
"The Decameron" is
based on Boccaccio's
tales of the 14th century;
and in Pasolini's film the
bawdiness and humour
comes over very well and
Pasolini has injected a
great deal of unity into the
essentially short story
framework mainly by ex-
tending t w o stories
throughout the film. Most
of the cast are people from
Naples, yet they don't
seem to be amateurs;
Pasolini appears as the
painter Giotto; and overall
Pasolini has produced a
good visual impression of
the people in the Decam-
eron.
The state of marriage is Rupert Street. Peter Nich-
a fairly thorny business ol's'Neither Up Nor Down'
these days, and it is mar- jPlAVS is a sort of sexual fantasy
riage in New York that is * T . . ^ ... . . o o
. . . , . , . m
—I hope this is not as
the subject of the latest .
Hal Prince musical to cross married, another getting the lines of Manhattan and autobiographical as most
the Atlantic—the exuber- divorced—and as varied the occasional choreogra- o f n i s
(excellent) work—
antly stylish 'Company' are Robert's three girls— phy (Michael Bennett) is featuring a couple working
(Her Majesty's). the excited Martha, air as good as any I have seen their impotent way through
A 35-year-old bachelor, hostess April and the on stage. There are good a s e x manual n 0 > nobody
Robert (Larry Kert) is un- energetically erotic Kathy. performances too, from the actually takes all their
sure as to whether the joys This original idea for a original Broadway cast, clothes off, and, yes, the
and company of marriage musical is well served in though one wonders what j 0 k e s are crude in all
would outweigh the burd- production. Stephen Sond- will happen when they are senses. Uggh. The other
ens thereof, and so con- heim's music is easily able replaced by natives. And p | a y j 'From the First Day
suits five of his married to carry his cuttingly witty when, oh when, will there out' by Chris Bailey could
friends, and I don't think lyrics ('People you annoy ° e a British musical as n a V e been subtitled 'the
that I am really giving any- together/Children you des- good as this American eternal triangle comes to
thing away if I say that troy together') and George output? A fresh and hugely Skegness' and was prob-
Robert and the issue are Furth (he was Wilcox in enjoyable show. ably steeped in philosoph-
as unresolved at the end 'Butch Cassidy') has pro- So, from the superb to ical innuendo and mean-
of the play as at the begin- duced a script both point- the rather dreadful, dread- ing. I merely found it ex-
ning. The five couples are ed and funny. Boris Aron- ful being an unfortunately cruciatingly boring, and if
very varied—one couple son's set, a welder's apt adjective for the cur- there were deep insights
trying suburban pot, an- dream of mobile steel rent lunch-time offering at flying around I just let
other couple just getting scaffold, cleverly suggests the Almost Free Theatre, them fly. Yawn.
Discs
JEFF BECK GROUP; "ROUGH AND
READY" (Epic)
As I compose this review, listening to this
record, you have no idea of the temptation that
surrounds me. Records by Yes, Frank Zappa, Pink
Floyd and Soft Machine that I would dearly love
to play instead of "Rough and Ready" by the Jeff
Beck Group. But listen to it I must and the fact
emerges that this is a very ordinary album.
When Jeff Beck first came to prominence it was
with the sadly under-rated Yardbirds, who also
"discovered" Eric Clapton and Jimmy Page. The
Yardbirds "Shapes of Things" is one of my favour-
ite singles of all time and on that song in particular
Jeff Beck's work was way ahead of its time. The
two albums by the Jeff Beck group (featuring Rod
Stewart on vocals!) were way ahead too. Beck was
one of the pioneers of the wah-wah pedal in those
days, while now that pedal is just another boring
gimmick. Then he disappeared for two years or
more and in the meantime lots of groups like the
Yardbirds or the Jeff Beck Group have sprung up,
and guitarists copying his style from those far-off
days — for example Ritchie Blackmore of Deep
Purple — are regarded as the innovators.
After his exile, partly self-imposed and partly due
to a car crash Beck is back with a group consist-
ing of himself, Bob Tench on vocals, Cozy Powell
(Beck's double?) on drums, Max Middleton on
piano and Clive Chaman on bass. It would, I feel,
be reasonable to expect something different —
perhaps a progression from "Beck-Ola"? But no,
this is just another rock album with various ex-
changes between guitar, piano and vocals which
say very little. In fact the vocals, apart from being
monotonous, make almost every track sound like
a Tamla-Motown "heavy attempt". "Got the Feel-
ing" has some unsubtle wah-wah which was
original in 1966 but still sounds as though Beck's
just discovered it, and the other songs chug along
without sounding much different from hundreds of
other bands that don't have the ready-made fol-
lowing that this band will have. Actually, "Raynes
Park Blues", the only song that doesn't have that
choppy pseudo-soul sound is O.K. An instrumental
with tasteful guitar and piano which really seems
to go somewhere. But is eight minutes of good
music enough to justify an album?
If this album had come out in 1968 or 69 it might
have sounded better, coming before the wave of
heavy groups. A s it is, Jeff Beck has missed the
boat. Now forward to some music for the Seven-
ties.
The Byrds; "Farther Along" (CBS)
Back to the roots and good good old rock 'n
roll with this strange album from The Byrds.
There is deep social comment, a couple of
kneeslappin' foot-tappin' Square-Dance numbers
with a tasty banjo lead, and " S o Fine" a take-off
(I hope) of Frank Zappa's greasy bebop love
songs.
It's a treat for "Byrdmaniax" and it will sell well
and give a lot of people a lot of pleasure which is
what pop music is all about.
Godspell Mk II

