10 felix Friday 26 January 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Chemical warfare – biobricking it
As developments in synthetic biology advance, should we concern ourselves with potential bioterrorism?
“Synthetic biology is like genetic
engineering on steroids,” says Dr
Doreen Stabinsky of Greenpeace
International. Although the first in-
ternational conference on synthetic
biology occurred as recently as
2005, the field has already attracted
a lot of outside attention. Synthetic
biologists talk of the advantages
their discipline promises to bring.
Greenpeace and others worry that
the science is too dangerous. The
future of synthetic biology rests on
whether the public decides that the
benefits outweigh the costs. And
the battle for the public’s hearts
and minds has already begun.
At the heart of synthetic biology
are ‘biobricks’. Each biobrick reli-
ably performs a function, be it as
a generator, a terminator, or any-
thing in between. By connecting a
number of these biobricks together,
and inserting them into the genome
of living cells, synthetic biologists
can produce an organism that car-
ries out a specific function. The
potential applications are numer-
ous: living organisms designed to
produce medicines cheaply, manu-
facture biofuels, even dispose of un-
wanted industrial waste.
That’s the theory, anyway: until
recently synthetic biology was con-
fined largely to the page. That has
now changed. In November last
year, synthetic biologists, includ-
ing a team from Imperial, met in
Boston to mark the culmination of
iGEM 2006, an international syn-
thetic biology competition. “The
big thing that happened [in Boston]
was that the central question, ‘can
you build biological systems from
standard parts?’ got a resounding
‘yes’,” says James Brown, a syn-
thetic biology PhD student at the
University of Cambridge and an
ambassador for iGEM. “The fact
that stuff works now is a really big
deal,” he continues.
Many of the competing teams had
advanced beyond the theoretical
stage and succeeded in producing
practical working models. Most im-
pressively, those working models
were the results of just a few weeks’
work over the summer holiday. This
highlights one of the major advan-
tages of the new science. Little
expertise is needed to produce so-
phisticated systems. Biobricks are
glorified Lego blocks. The manner
in which each biobrick work is un-
important; the researcher needs
only to stick them together. This is
plug-and-play science.
But it is precisely this advantage
that is the cause of so much con-
cern elsewhere. In 2005, synthetic
biologists managed to reconstruct
Krystyna Larkham
Science Editor
the 1918 ‘flu virus from its DNA. Re-
search using the reconstructed vi-
rus will inform any strategy to fight
avian ‘flu. The latest promising re-
sults were published in Nature last
week. Ultimately, millions could be
saved from the effects of a global
‘flu pandemic, but at the cost of
resurrecting one of the most lethal
viruses on record. And, as Jamie
Shreeve commented in the New
York Times last year, “The wonder,
and for some the fear, is that they
could [resurrect the virus] with so
little effort or expense.” The con-
cern is that bioterrorists might
also desire to construct deadly
pathogens along the lines of Span-
ish ‘flu. Synthetic biology could
provide them with the means to do
so, without the need for specialist
knowledge.
“Synthetic biologists do scare
people,” James Brown admits. “We
should be willing to talk about that
and stand up and be responsible.”
And to their credit, this is exactly
what the synthetic biologists are do-
ing. An entire day of a recent seven-
ty-two hour conference (‘Synthetic
Biology 2.0’) was set aside to debate
ethics. The result was the adop-
tion of a code of self-governance to
guard against malpractice, similar
to that adopted by the pioneering
genetic engineers in the 1970s.
“It’s a very open science. We’re
trying to steer clear of any images
of ‘mad scientists’ creeping around
in a cave, to avoid attack by jour-
nalists,” says Matthieu Bultelle, a
member of Imperial’s iGEM team.
But is this self-regulation enough?
Some are not so sure: a host of or-
ganisations, including Greenpeace,
tried to discourage scientists from
signing the self-governance docu-
ment (which, in any case, is a vol-
untary code) arguing that what is
needed is official regulation by na-
tional government. They worry that
scientists acting alone will be un-
able to regulate such a potentially
sensitive field.
The debate continues. A recent
report by the Sloan Foundation is
the latest to address synthetic biol-
ogy. Interestingly, the Sloan Report
was commissioned by the scientists
themselves rather than by worried
campaign groups. Evidently the
synthetic biologists are not pre-
pared to surrender the PR initia-
tive just yet. Instead they are steel-
ing themselves for the moment that
synthetic biology registers on the
public radar.
It is the response that the sci-
ence receives in the wider commu-
nity which will determine its future.
And, according to James Brown,
the scientists are ready for the
fight: “We want public debate. We
want the world to know about this
because it’s so important. I genu-
inely believe synthetic biology is
going to have a big impact.”
An H5N1 influenza carrier – not so cute after all. However, can biobricks help prevent this guy from slaughter and the next global pandemic?
Greenpeace activists, possibly campaigning against the dangers of synthetic biology

