kneeling on a bed. Like many of his
photos, he seems to be mocking the
fashion industry, highlighting the
discomfort women endure for fash-
ion. Newton's photo's can easily be
seen as misogynistic, however if you
look closer Newton's photos show a
more complex truth. While his im-
ages are shocking, perhaps rather
than being an illustration of his
opinion on where women should be
in society, he is exposing the place
society encourages women to be.
In Europe his photos were gen-
erally uncensored by magazines,
whilst American Vogue only pub-
lished the least risqué of his pho-
tographs. Newton commented that
"the term 'political correctness' has
always appalled me, reminding
me of Orwell's 'thought police' and
fascist regimes." Helmut's photo-
graphs hold a mirror up to society,
and though his photographs, with
overtones of sadomasochism, are
politically incorrect, provocative
media is needed for society to ex-
amine itself.
Challenging political correctness
Sarah Skeete remembers Helmut Newton, fashion's most controversial and sadly deceased photographer
11
felix
Friday 26 January 2007
FASHION fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
started taking the photographs
which would create a new genre of
fashion photography. His new pho-
tographs were raw and unapolo-
getically, aggressively sexual. Many
were inspired by his work, not only
in photography but also cinema.
Many violent film noirs cited New-
ton as inspiration, although he him-
self defended his fashion photogra-
phy as erotic rather than violent.
Many feminists dispute this claim,
and see Helmut and his work as
blatant misogyny.
His photo "Pension Dorian",
HelmutNewton'sinnovativephotog-
raphy confronted social taboos and
explored sexual dynamics, chang-
ing the face of fashion photography.
Newton was born in Berlin in 1920
to a wealthy Jewish family. He was
sensitive as a child, prone to faint-
ing spells, and he often felt emascu-
lated by his mother's insistence on
dressing him in effeminate velvet
suits. He grew up around luxury,
often holidaying in exclusive Euro-
pean spas, though his brother often
took him on day trips to the seedier
parts of Berlin. By 1938 Newton was
working on underwear catalogues,
"The happiest days of my youth in
Berlin".
Helmut saw his mother as a "tow-
er of strength", and it was with her
help that he fled from the Nazis in
1938 to Singapore. There he worked
as a photojournalist, as well as
spending a year as a gigolo for an
older woman.
In the early 1940s he moved to
Australia, where he met his wife
June. Although he enjoyed living in
Australia, he found there was a lack
of inspiration, and in 1957 moved
to London. However he found this
"equally sterile and unproductive."
He found the environmental stim-
uli he needed in Paris, moving there
in the late 1950s. Newton comment-
ed, "The moment I hit Paris I knew
it was for living and taking photo-
graphs. The life was in the streets,
in cafes, restaurants. Beautiful
women seemed to be everywhere."
It was after suffering a major
heart attack in 1971 that Helmut
shows a model standing with her
hips thrust forward, wearing only a
leg cast and neck brace, and hold-
ing a cane. Feminists found this
offensive, arguing that it shows
that Newton feels women should
be vulnerable, and are the weaker
sex. However it could also be inter-
preted as admiration of how strong
women can overcome adversity.
The woman is weakened by the cast
and brace, but she stands strongly.
Indeed in his fashion shoots Helmut
favoured athletically built women,
telling Vogue's fashion editor "Don't
send me any of your scrawny under-
nourished models". A contrast with
many fashion advertisements and
editorials today, and also during the
heroin chic period, which favoured
malnourished passive 13-year-olds
staring blankly at the camera. It
can also be seen as a critique of
fashion, how women hurt them-
selves in their pursuit of fashion, or
indeed a critique of consumerism in
general. Another signature of New-
ton's photos is that there is never
any eye-contact between groups of
women. You can see echoes of this
in recent advertisements by Dolce
& Gabbana; like in Helmut's photos,
the men do not make eye contact
with each other. They all compete
against each other, not daring to
acknowledge that anyone is more
attractive than themselves.
One of Newton's most controver-
sial images is of the saddled woman

