Wielding the
almighty organ
I
have finally decided to print something on the
restructuring of the Union bars. Originally,
the vast majority of what is referenced oc-
cured during the summer period, as we sabbs
were just being trained / indoctrinated / get-
ting drunk every evening. I’ve held off writing
something for a while until it became apparent
that the changes that have been made have af-
fected students (a number of people have approached
me about it - thanks to those that eventually convinced
me), and that they didn’t understand what had hap-
pened and why. Hopefully, the news piece on page 2, and
the comment piece on the left hand page should tell you
exactly what happened in a (reasonably) fair and bal-
anced way.
And now for something completely different. Elections
are approaching. I know that this typically elicts a sigh
of despair from your common-or-garden student, as god
knows you hate being harrassed in your lunch hour by
a bunch of over-keen and under-washed student politi-
cians. BUT WAIT!
If you whinge about the way the Union is run, and you
didn’t vote, then tough. If you don’t like the current gag-
gle of sabbs, and you didn’t vote, then tough. If you think
you can do better, then you should damn well stand. The
job of a sabb is pretty thankless for the majority of the
time; no-one ever notices when you’re doing a good job,
but they will wreck you up if you’re doing a bad job. It is
the only way you can make a difference in the way things
are run round this corner of town.
My third point is about Felix. If you don’t like what
you’ve seen here over the last term and two weeks,
then you need to tell me. I’m not psychic. We’ve made
a few changes this term, based on the comments we’ve
heard around campus. It seems you like the horoscopes
and the extra sudoku, and that the centrefolds are nice
to have back but a bit... off. I’m saying no more on that
subject.
I’ve got fill this space now, and I’ve got surprisingly lit-
tle to say for a change. I could do what I normally do,
and use these last few lines to relate some horribly trag-
ic lovelife story, thereby purging myself of all residual
emoness, or I could moan about how I’m getting old
and can’t understand the music the kids like, or I could
whinge about how my hearing is going and everything is
more expensive than it used to be.
I can’t do the lovelife story, as a dear, dear friend of
mine told me a far better one involving a young lady who
happened to be into members of her own sex, yet he fell
horrifically in love with her. It’s so fantastic you can’t
make it up, and it made anything I could say look like a
big fat load of teenage whining.
That’s it. Sorry for wasting your lunch hour.
Staff-student protocol explained
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,360, Friday 20 October 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editor Tom Roberts | Science
Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics Editor Omar
Hashmi | Business Editor Michael Olymbios | Music
Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny Gibson, Tom Whitson |
Film Editor Andrew Likes Men | Arts Editor Emily
Lines | Food & Drink Editor *cough* | Fashion Editor
Sarah Skeete | Nightlife Editor Gregory Mead |
Comment Editor Stephen Brown | Environment Editor
João Vitor Serra | Clubs & Societies Editor Kirsty
Patterson | Copy Editor Andy Mason, Edmund Henley,
Besast Robo, Jesse “Not The Body” Ventura
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief
Continued from left-hand page
“Staff members may not take part in
public discussion of ICU policy nor give
public expression to views contrary to
ICU policy within the Union.
Staff members shall not comment on
ICU policy to representatives of the
College media except to answer factual
questions which come within their area
of work.”
and
“The officers of the ICU shall not per-
mit discussions relating to the condi-
tions of employment, performance or
conduct of members of its staff in arti-
cles, correspondence or other publica-
tions produced under the auspices of
the Union.”
This is effectively censorship of the
media and free speech. Since it is
an integral part of ICU employment
contracts, it is nothing short of legal
censorship.
I believe that the continued badgering
of the student press towards individual
staff members is wrong and shouldn’t
happen. Staff are not voted for by the
student body and should not directly
be accountable to them. However, SSP
has taken the rather worrying step of
banning all discussion relating to ICU
policy (by staff) and ICU staff (by stu-
dents). If a staff member has acted in-
appropriately or been made redundant
then these facts should be available to
the wider student body through media
outlets such as Live! and Felix.
Naturally, decisions to hire and fire
staff should not be influenced by the
student press. SSP can still work to
ensure this. However, preventing facts
from being published and discussions
to be started is an insult to democratic
values.
Ultimately the Union is run for the
benefits of the student body and no
one else. If a part of the Union is los-
ing money then that means less money/
services available for students. This
should not be hidden away from pub-
lication. I believe these facts should
be allowed to be printed. Ents and the
Union Shop lost an awful lot of money
last year. Under SSP discussion of why
this should be the case (for example in-
dividual acts booked by the Ents man-
ager, losses from writing off stock in the
Union Shop) is not allowed.
SSP can still protect the “democratic
practise” of the Union by preventing
staff actively interfering in Union poli-
cy, but it should not censor or ban staff
from making comments on the way the
Union is run. Staff comments can be
a valuable asset to a body such as the
Union.
In most cases staff have a great deal
of knowledge that would be invaluable
as suggestion. Of course if an elected
student wishes not to take that advice
then that is his/ her right to do so. How-
ever, the right of staff to voice opinion
should be exist and so should the right
to publish that opinion.
According to the Editor of Live! it
is all right to say what you like about
members of staff who no longer work
for the Union. However, the employ-
ment contract of current Union staff
protects them from criticism by the stu-
dent press. This means that if I were to
make comment about one of the perma-
nent members of Union staff it would be
censored.
I have every faith that the new man-
agers and new bar staff will get better
in time and that things will be the same
if not better than they were. But until
that time I believe that discussions and
comment should be allowed to take
place.
The Union may not respect the views
of students and staff in this context, but
they should respect their right to voice
their opinions.
“I know why there’s no noise… I know
but I can’t tell you” said Jade to Shilpa
as she left the Big Brother House. En-
veloped by an eerie silence due to the
unusual absence of any live audience,
this rare exit has come about follow-
ing fears for Jade’s safety after the
most controversial week in the show’s
history.
Lets not forget that this is the same
person who has in the past frequently
come out with gaffes such as “they
were trying to use me as an escape
goat” or “Rio de Janeiro, ain’t that a
person?” Now this is not about taking
a highbrowed, stiff upper lip swipe at
the eloquence of chavs or their lack of
class and education. These are things
largely out of their control and a fault of
the unequal opportunities offered by the
system. But the very first quote is either
a surprisingly deep foresight from Jade
or more likely, the unwanted product
of coaching that escaped her lips dur-
ing the live broadcast. Similarly, coolly
declaring that “I don’t see people for
the colour that they are, or where they
come from. I don’t want to make a pen-
ny from this. I don’t want money from
something that is wrong” seems to be a
suspiciously PC and coherent response
from someone who once expressed that
she “looked like a state”.
Honestly looking at it, I do not think
Jade was being overtly racist. I think
she was out to intimidate someone who
she felt was better than her on all levels;
someone who was vulnerable and easy
to single out; someone who threatened
her ego and her sense of celebrity. This
caused her to act as the alpha bully
against Shilpa, against the backdrop of
two nefarious accomplices. It is some-
thing that as kids we have all seen on
playgrounds. Besides, Shilpa was there
out of choice, as Bollywood filmmaker
Mahesh Bhatt said in a Mumbai news-
paper: “I believe no-one can insult you
without your permission. Shetty has
paid the price for trying to desperately
seek the approval of the West. It is pa-
thetic how we can go on bended knees
and lick their boots in an effort to be
part of their world”.
Regardless, the point is not whether
Jade was being racist or not. What has
been shown on Big Brother has been
unacceptable, full stop. Channel 4 and
Endemol have been trying to excuse
themselves with justifications rang-
ing from ‘its just bullying’ to ‘we are
provoking debate’, but the truth of the
matter has been succinctly put by an
anonymous but successful TV produc-
er in the following quote: “they must be
unable to believe their luck. The Prime
Minister, the Chancellor and the Lead-
er of the Opposition all in one day. You
can’t buy that publicity”. Knowing fully
that they would be able to get away with
it, they have been making profiteering
entertainment out of the worst mental
torment and possibly discrimination
that Britain has to offer, conveniently
trying to patch things up in the end by
blatantly coaching the contestants on
what to say to calm things down.
No regard was given to the well be-
ing of ether Shilpa or Jade, who has
now truly been made the ‘escape goat’,
when instead it should have been Chan-
nel 4 and Endemol. Jade is now at the
risk of developing mental health prob-
lems, and her children fear “rejection”,
but Channel 4 has finally seen a healthy
increase in profits. The image of Brit-
ish society and culture abroad has been
significantly damaged with a threat to
our inward investment, but Endemol
may finally have convinced its parent
company Telefonica not to sell its con-
trolling stake. Moreover, the attention
this has drawn in India will probably al-
low Endemol to export Big Brother to a
huge emerging market and Channel 4
to make massive profits from the spin-
offs, advertising and 24 hour channels.
Ultimately though, the major chunk
of the blame lies with us, the audience.
We have been the ones who have made
this celebration of stupidity and arro-
gance the success it is. Television like
this has been a huge success in insulat-
ing the masses and we have been the
ones switching on and boosting ratings
for this sorry episode. I mean there is a
reason why Jade’s perfume was a best
seller and that she became a million-
aire through her ‘career’ of TV shows,
magazine deals, an autobiography, and
remarkably, fitness DVDs! I myself
am sorry to have given Big Brother
even the limited publicity I have done
through this piece. Please people, just
switch it off. Enough is enough.
Big Brother piggy pig
Ammar Waraich rakes Jade Goody and Channel 4 over hot coals
Jade Goody: “Am I minging?” Yes. Yes you are. God almighty
5
felix
Friday 26 January 2007
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

