We may only be ﬁve months into this academic year
but already attention is being turned to who will
lead the Union next year.
Nominations for Imperial College Unionʼs Sabbatical
Oﬃcer elections will open on January 30th. But why
should you be interested in running for one of these
positions?
Students stand for Sabbatical Oﬃcer for a variety
of reasons; most want to give something back to
the Union that has served them so well during their
time here as a student, others want to achieve
positive change in their Union and help it serve its
members better, and some want the experience of
managing an organisation. There are, of course, CV
points at stake and there is no doubt that taking
on so much responsibility at such a young age is a
great experience.
Elections for ﬁve Sabbatical Roles (President, most
of the Deputy Presidents and the Felix Editor)
will take place this term. Elections for the Deputy
President (Graduate Students) role will take place in
the summer term.
What are these roles like? Well, I can really only speak
for mine (President) and in good time I am sure the
other Sabbatical Oﬃcers will provide you with their
insights. For the time being, I have produced the
following summary:
The Felix Editor is responsible for ensuring that
we all get an entertaining and informative edition
of Felix on a weekly basis during term time. As
anybody who has ever worked for a newspaper will
tell you, this is no mean feat! That said the rewards
are generous, and many past Felix Editors have
found their way into the murky world of media and
done extremely well for themselves.
The Deputy President (Clubs and Societies) is the
defactochiefofall300ImperialCollegeUnionʼsclubs
and societies. This is a bit like herding 300 Siamese
cats and can be frustrating at times. Aside from
day-to-day management, he or she is responsible
for designing and implementing club policy and
delivering projects, such as recent improvements to
the website, that make life a lot easier for club chairs
and club members. This is a real “grass roots” role
that involves a lot of interaction with club chairs
and members.
The Deputy President (Education and Welfare) is
responsible for co-ordinating internal and external
representation by managing all of Imperial College
Unionʼs academic and welfare representatives. He
or she is responsible for developing internal and
external relations and co-ordinating academic
and welfare campaigns. There is also a casework
element to this role and it is important that caring
and sympathetic people are elected to this post.
Next year the holder of this oﬃce can expect to play
a high proﬁle role in the NUS, which promises to be
an exciting and entertaining project.
The Deputy President (Finance and Services) is
responsible for overseeing the business aspects
of the Union, namely our bars, shops and catering
outlets. He or she is also responsible for all ﬁnances
of the Union and can expect to approve hundreds
of events and tour budgets throughout the year.
In theory the holder of this position is responsible
for a turnout in excess of £5.5 million pounds. If
ICU is lucky and wins approval from the College to
move forward with the next phase of the building
masterplan, then this turnout can expect to rise
to nearer £9 million pounds. Anybody interested
in a career in ﬁnance or business should seriously
consider applying for what is clearly one of the best
graduate ﬁnance jobs in the market.
The President is ultimately
responsible for everything
listed above, and more.
In particular, he or she is
responsible for staﬃng,
governance and high level
representation. This job is
not for the faint hearted and
considerable leadership
experience and a resilient
ego are highly desirable.
The holder of this oﬃce can
expect to go head-to-head against the Rector, the
government and, unavoidably, other senior Union
oﬃcers. The President gets blamed for everything
that goes wrong in the Union and occasionally gets
blamed for things that happen outside the Union
and are completely beyond his or her control. There
are, of course, serious perks to this job and I must
admit I enjoy the kick of being in charge of an
organisation and interacting with interesting and
inﬂuential people. Aside from running the Studentsʼ
Union, The President is also a governor of Imperial
College, which in itself is an important and very
interesting role. Most people who have held this post
rarely enter into mainstream graduate jobs and it
should be considered one of the best management
fast-track graduate schemes in town.
If you are interested in standing for any of these
roles then please do not hesitate to contact the
sabbatical oﬃcers.
unionpage
Election time again!
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Centenary Launch Event
Tuesday 30th January, Beit Quadrangle
The Imperial College Big Band.
Juggling and skating teams performing.
IC Radio broadcasting live!
Ride Bo’ and Jez, our mascot vehicles.
Queens Tower tours.
Centenary Balloon Race.
Centenary Cake will be cut.
Winter Pimms, Hotpot & Tea served.
and much more...
Centenary Balloon Race Competition
We will be running a Centenary Balloon Race and
each of the 500 balloons we plan to release at 1pm
Prizes include:
An all expense paid trip for two to Paris!
Two iPod Nanos
£50 Primark vouchers
Wine and chocolates
Special edition Centenary Mugs

