imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Student Experience Survey – Phase Two now open!
Last term saw the launch of a new Student Experience Survey at the College. Phase One
focused on students’ welcome to the College, and Phase Two contains a wide range of
questions about your experience of College support services and the Union.
Feedback will be used to shape the College and the Union’s services, and your answers will be
vital in helping to do so. If you’re an Undergraduate student in your penultimate year of study, or
second year Postgraduate research students, you will be sent an email inviting you to take the
survey which will be open till Sunday 3 April.
Further information can be found on Imperial’s website imperial.ac.uk/students/academic-
support/student-survey.
The Leadership Elections 2016 - our biggest turnout yet!
Voting closed in the Leadership Elections 2016 last Friday, and we have
set a new record for student participation and turnout - not just for
Imperial, but for England & Wales. An unbelievable 7,966 students,
45.47% of our members, took part in the election of Imperial’s student
leaders for 2016/17. That’s 700 more students than last year, an amazing
increase of almost 10% year-on-year.
The turnout has been incredible; Imperial students are the most
democratically vibrant and engaged in the nation. Not only that, a
higher percentage of women voted than men for the first time ever
and MSc student participation also exploded, from 12.4% in 2014 to an
incredible 28.6% this year. You can see all of the results on our website
imperialcollegeunion.org
shop
Get your personalised graduation gifts
Our partners work directly with you to craft the ideal rings, watches, frames and
plaques.
Find the perfect gift to celebrate your graduation in the Union Shop.
With our unique range of personalised graduation gifts, you are certain to find a gift
that marks this exciting event.
Ask for more details in our shops or go directly to our website
imperialcollegeunion.org/shop to see all of
our Graduation gifts and place an order.
imperialcollegeunion.org/shop

