PAGE 8 PAGE 9
FRIDAY 18th
MARCH 2016 felixonline.co.uk felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 18th
MARCH 2016
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
felix@imperial.ac.uk
SEX
SEX felix@imperial.ac.uk
Being a virgin
isn’t a big deal
anymore
We need to talk about contraception
Anonymous
Writers
O
ut of all my friends I
was set to be one of the
first to lose it, and by it I
mean my virginity.
I don’t really know why. I guess
it’s just because I had a series of
boyfriends, quite a few guy friends
and used to be pretty flirty with
them all. But for some reason it just
didn’t happen, and now I’m sat here
as a 20 year old still holding onto
my “precious flower”.
One thing I have realised is that
there’s a lot more of us virgins
out there than most people think,
whether it be due to religious,
moral, or spiritual reasons or not.
There’s one in my kitchen in halls,
and two in my friendship group on
my course.
I’ve also realised that it’s not
something that is frowned upon as
much now that I’m 20, compared
to when I was 17. I used to lie and
make excuses for why I never took
T
he trusty condom, or ‘Venus shirt’, as they say in
Portugal, is probably the most popular form of
contraception. I’ve always found them to be a reliable
friend. They’re cheap – often free (can stock up by
the wheelbarrow-load from any good student union), easy, and
effective – both in terms of not having babies (they’ve done me
proud so far) and in avoiding nasty diseases, something not found
so much in other contraceptive methods.
I know a lot of guys complain they don’t “feel as much”
when using them, which I don’t think should be written off as
just selfishness – it’s a legitimate gripe. But for convenience,
effectiveness, and lack of side-effects, I don’t think you can go
wrong with rubber.
Safe sex should be
something to shout about
I
n the UK, we’re lucky
enough to have access to free
contraception, regardless
of who you are. The NHS
provides 15 different methods,
ranging from the provision of free
condoms, to implanted devices, to
sterilisation procedures, which have
varying rates of effectiveness up to
more than 99%.
As long as you’re making sure
you’re being safe, there’s no right
or wrong type of contraception,
and which method suits you best
will depend on your body and
lifestyle. For some, taking the pill
is a perfect solution, and for others,
it’s just impossible to remember.
It’s important to remember that
contraception has two purposes
– preventing pregnancy, and
preventing STIs. With the nasties
that are being passed around
becoming increasingly antibiotic-
resistant, it’s always better to be safe
than sorry, use a condom, and get
tested regularly.
Getting tested can be a daunting
experience, particularly when you’re
going there already feeling guilty
for being a bit irresponsible. All
those horror stories about umbrellas
up your urethra are nothing but
that – stories. Most STIs are very
treatable, particularly if you catch
them early – there’s no reason to
Condoms The implant
T
he procedure for getting the implant seems
unnecessarily sadistic: you have to pick the thing
up yourself from a pharmacy, and the transparent
packaging leaves you with no doubt as to how gigantic
a needle is soon to be thrust into your arm.
Despite the intense dread after staring at the blade for about
a week, I made it to my session, and the only thing I felt was
the prick of the anaesthetic (and relief at my new immunity to
babies). The implant works for me because I literally don’t have
to do anything for 3 years (when on the pill I forgot it on more
days than I remembered), and, apart from a weird month-long
one to start with, it completely stopped my periods. A warning to
the squeamish, though: I can totally see/feel it through my skin.
The pill
T
he pill. A tiny, revolutionary, sugar-coated (literally)
ball of pure lady hormone. Or maybe they’re synthetic
(actually don’t tell me, if it’s grown in pigs like insulin
as that’s definitely not halal and the premarital sex is
bad enough). The concept is simple – you pop a pill everyday, or
maybe 21 days out of every 28, and suddenly have full autonomy
over your fertility, periods and life. Go you!
I’d recommend this to any womb-bearer who wants a fuss free
way to stay baby-free, or anyone who’s about to go travelling and
doesn’t want to get their period at a Full Moon Party. You might
have heard horror stories – anything from changes of mood
to getting a bit chubby, but your first dalliance into hormonal
contraception is much like when Harry Potter first arrived at the
wand shop on Diagon Alley. Some aren’t going to suit, and may
well fuck shit up, but you can keep trying different brands (there
are hundreds) until you find one that makes beautiful Patronuses.
T
here are a few things to consider about the IUD.
1: Getting one. This is annoying. You’ll need a
cervical smear and to wait weeks for the results. Then
you need to go in and get your cervix forcibly dilated
and the IUD inserted.This is not at all fun.They tell you to take a
painkiller. Do it. I then felt awful for the rest of the day.
2: Having one. So, my periods got heavier and more painful. I
had to get prescription painkillers for this. Also, the strings can
spike a guy’s boner – be warned.
3: Why bother? It lasts five years, it’s “always on”, has an
amazingly low failure rate and doesn’t mess with your head even
a bit. I can’t take the Pill and have a latex allergy, so it’s about all
that’s left. At the same time... I don’t have to worry, at all, about
pregnancy for five years.That’s pretty sweet!
The IUD
The morning after pill
T
he morning after pill is intended to be an emergency
solution rather than a planned contraceptive – but,
for reasons best known to my 18-year-old self, one of
the two occasions on which I used it was decidedly
planned.
I didn’t get pregnant (yay) or get any of the possible side effects
(like nausea or abnormal periods),but I did have to pay £22 to buy
it online and walk all the way to Superdrug when it was raining.
The other time was actually a last resort and involved doing
some Googling, going to a pharmacy that’d give it to me straight
away and being briefly interrogated by a doctor before getting it
for free. I’d probably buy one to keep around if I weren’t on other
contraception now,just in case I couldn’t get to a pharmacy or just
didn’t feel like talking to a doctor.
I
took the mini-pill when I was younger, but the hormones
didn’t gel well with the combination of my teenaged body
and polycystic ovaries, and I ended up spending months
soul searching over about why I was so depressed all of a
sudden. Needless to say, that didn’t last long.
Wanting to avoid anything that would mess with my brain again,
I used condoms for years, but eventually took the step towards
five years of worry-free sex, and got the Mirena coil installed.
Having it put in was a bit of a hassle (no one enjoys having their
legs in stirrups in front of the doctor and assisting nurse), but it
wasn’t particularly painful. Unfortunately, I did suffer an unusual
reaction, causing me to go into shock, meaning it did take a week
or so before I was full back to normal.
In the three years since, I’ve never had a period, had severe
cramps, or had to worry at all about getting pregnant. And I
still don’t need to think about it for another two years. Should
everyone be getting a coil? I think yes.
The IUS
Find that someone who makes you feel shiny and new. Photo Credit: Sire
Records/Warner Bros
be nervous. London has so many
fantastic sexual health clinics (some
of which specialise, if you want
to talk about something specific)
which are friendly, non-judgmental,
and completely anonymous. By
not getting tested regularly, you’re
putting yourself and anyone you
have sex with at risk, so make sure
that you take the time to get it done.
As well as treatable STIs, there
are some that become life-long
conditions, such as HIV or hepatitis
B. These days, there are post-
exposure treatments to prevent
infection, as well as methods of
managing them long-term, should
you be diagnosed. The NHS
provides many widely available
types of support, both in terms of
treatment and emotional support.
If you have been diagnosed, or feel
that you may be at risk, seeking
advice as soon as possible can really
make the difference.
And if you do find yourself in the
position of having an unplanned
pregnancy, the NHS also offers
support for all of your available
options, whether or not that means
ending the pregnancy. Either way,
your GP or a GUM clinic can refer
you to the right people, and again,
it’s better to know sooner rather
than later.
Sex is one of the most fun ways to
pass the time between lectures, and
I encourage all who want to do it, to
do it as much as they like, as long as
it’s safe and consensual. Have fun!
Anonymous
Writer
the plunge, but now I accept that
everything happens for a reason.
I still haven’t found out what that
reason is, but I think there probably
will be one.
Personally I now just accept it
and don’t shy away when people
ask, “how many boys have you slept
with?” Instead of making it a big
deal, I just make a joke out of it,
because now I’ve accepted it, why
shouldn’t other people?
I don’t have anything against
people who go out and have one
night stands, and I don’t judge them
for it – I just know that’s not the kind
of thing I want to be doing. I don’t
think I’m missing out too much; it’s
not like I don’t have any experience
with boys. I go out, get drunk, and
kiss boys just like everyone else – I
just don’t end up going home with
them at the end of the night.
At the end of the day it really
isn’t as big a deal as everyone makes
out. Whether it happens tomorrow
or when I’m married, it’ll happen
when it happens and I’m fine with
that.

