One of the few enduring life lessons I learnt
during my time in halls is that some guilty
pleasures are more acceptable than others.
Even in the relatively tolerant enclave of Im-
perial College, pulling an all-nighter in the
kitchen with your mates playing StarCraft until
dawn will still draw some rolled eyes and tuts
under the breath.
Making my way to the Festival of the Spo-
ken Nerd, an unabashedly geeky comedy night
run by three science grads, the memory of the
StarCraft viliﬁcation was hard to shake. But, in
the time it takes a femtosecond laser to pulse,
my nervous pre-occupations were allayed and
I found myself wallowing with aplomb in an
oasis of geekiness.
FOTSN cater for the full spectrum of nerds
from, as they put it, the ones who code for a
hobby, right through to those who just like
The Big Bang Theory. Most notable out of
the troupe is ukulelist Helen Arney, an ex-
Imperial physics student, whose ditties weave
astute (scientiﬁc) observations in amongst
their cheery chords. As reading some of our
competition-winning π-kus she shared the all-
too-oft-quoted Imperial maxim, “the goods are
odd, but the odds are good”, I’ll admit I had
my head in my hands. But having convinced
the audience to sing-a-long to a googol (if not
googolplex), she’d restored my faith in Imperi-
al. Joining her on stage were Blue Peter’s very
FELIX
Friday 15 june 2012
14
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Seven bells that ring out loud,
Ring into the night.
Seven seats, upon which sit
The seven silver knights.
A distant time ago forlorn,
Forlorn amongst the roans.
Sat and pondered the timeless one
The sage of Barden Roams.
The candle burned down its wick
Wick cut short and stubby
It gave no thought and bore no ill
Perched within its cubby
Writhing high into the sky,
The sky obscured by smoke
Which twists and forms in shapeless dreams
Borne only by its stoke
A meeting summoned in hushed tones
Hushed tones so anxious
To conceal the plot and ne’er reveal
The plain and simple precious
For seven years and three long months
Three months filled with awe
The seven solid soldiers sat
And little action saw
Then came the air to snuff the light
The light of sweet respite
The candlestick now frozen for
No smoke would now alight
The sage he knew what was to come
And come it surely did
Ringing in the distant shadow
Surpassing all it hid
When at last the knights did gather
Those pail knight-at-arms
To vanquish such a zealous foe
And wash away all qualms
But when they met upon the sand
Sand so pearly white
They could not defeat their vicarious foe
For never would it have been right
For the end to arise so quickly
In the fight against inevitable,
Self-created,
Fright.
Untitled
by Pavitar Singh Devgon
Not for standing awk-
wardly in the corner
Comedy for nerds of any experience
own resident science expert, Steve Mould, and
Matt Parker, a man of contrasting talents, de-
scribing himself as a stand-up mathematician.
One of the early surprises of the night came
as they asked the audience not to turn off their
phones and I found myself leaning in for a
double take. My ears weren’t deceiving me but
rather, all three of the hosts being big in the
twittersphere, they encouraged live tweeting
throughout the show. In what might’ve been
something of a mixed blessing, this meant that
at times when your attention span was running
short you could readily reach for your phone
for distraction and it introduced a novel vein
of audience interaction that I’m amazed isn’t
used more widely.
The dynamic interplay between the trio
maintains the evening’s high-tempo; the dead-
pan style of Matt Parker is counterweighted
by the mischievous Mould whilst Arney adds
a touch of down-to-earth charm. Never at any
point in the night did I feel overwhelmed by
the science, making the experience a pleasant
break from lectures. Instead what it offered
are short digestible skits that draw on science
enough to leave you feeling stimulated whilst
tapping the comic potential of the day-to-day
science we commonly know.
To call it revision might be something of an
exaggeration, but what it lacks in applicable
exam knowledge it makes up in more subtle
ways. I don’t think I’m alone in having had
my love of science tested during the trials and
tribulations of an undergraduate degree. I came
out of FOTSN with my chest puffed out and
ﬁlled with that fuck-yeah feeling that physics
hadn’t sparked in me for some time. We’ve all
got a geek inside of us and it pays to indulge it,
at least once in a while.
You can see FOTSN at this year’s Edin-
burgh Fringe Festival from 1–7 August.
Will Prince
I used to loathe dancing. I was one of those peo-
ple who stands in the corner looking awkward,
refusing to join the dance floor. However, in a
moment of daring I tried Latin American danc-
ing and not that long after I found myself travel-
ling one Sunday morning to the south coast for
my ﬁrst competition.
The day got off to a bad start. I arrived at the
Hove Dance Centre with relative ease, rather
smug at having successfully negotiated National
Rail’s replacement bus service. But as soon as I
arrived I started to notice that something was not
quite right. The building was very small, its door
was locked, the lights were off, and the only
sound I could hear was that of seagulls -- there
was evidently no dance competition here. After
a few frantic phone calls I ascertained that yes, I
had got the right date, but no I wasn’t at the right
place; I was meant to be at the town hall over 2
miles away. When I ﬁnally arrived, I knew I’d
made it. Women in blindingly-bright sequined
dresses and thick layers of makeup were rehears-
ing their moves in the lobby. I panicked. Not
only did they look terrifyingly good at dancing,
but I also realised that I was both under and over
dressed for the occasion; underdressed because
I hadn’t stuck sequined jewellery on my fore-
head or greased back my hair, and overdressed
because I was obviously wearing far too many
square inches of clothing. I was then issued with
a marathon-style number to put on my back and
from then onwards I was just ‘96’.
When it was time to dance all my apprehen-
sion vanished. As the music started playing I
was transported to Brazil and I remembered
how much I loved this type of dancing. Samba
is a ‘progressive’ dance which means that you
describe a circular shape around the room as you
dance. Rather inevitably as we (my teacher and
I) ‘progressed’ in front one of the adjudicators,
my routine ‘progressed’ out of my brain caus-
ing me to come to a rather embarrassing halt.
Needless to say I did not get through to the next
round. However, spirits remained high since the
‘pairs’ event was yet to take place. I had been
paired last minute with a charming Parisian
whom I was to Cha cha cha with. Seeing that the
individual events were taking some time, I took
the opportunity to take a stroll along the seaside
and get something to eat. Hove looked beautiful,
bathed in the ﬁrst sunshine of the summer. Too
beautiful perhaps, as on my return it emerged
that I had embarrassingly missed the pair event,
my ﬁnal chance to dance. I set off for home, de-
jected but convinced I should redeem myself at
another competition.
Was the whole day worth it just for two
minutes of dancing? Deﬁnitely. It was great to
see so many dancers of so many ages enjoy-
ing themselves (there was a whole section for
50 plus age group), and I picked up some tips
about how I should dress. I also saw dancing
of the highest standard which was truly incred-
ible. I certainly no longer have any inhibitions
on the dance floor. That is, when I make it there
on time.
For schedules of classes and competitions
http://www.hovedancecentre.co.uk
Cha cha cha
near the beach
Stephanie Walton
Keeping up with the Imperial ratio with FOTSN
Felix Arts is constantly look-
ing for new poets. If you want
to see your work appearing
here, do get in touch:
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“The dynamic interplay
between the trio maintains
the evening’s high tempo”

