MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 15 June 2012
18
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Tom Vek
Leisure Seizure
Island
2011
I fell in love last week. I was standing in the Now
Wave tent at Parklife Festival in Manchester,
when all of a sudden Cupid’s Arrow pierced my
ears. I turned to my friend beside me, and point-
ed towards the stage with my right hand, and
said, “That is the coolest man I have ever seen
or heard.” The 1st class students among you will
have read the subtitle and figured out that I’m talk-
ing about Tom Vek.
This will hardly be news to many of you. In fact
my friend’s response to my hero-worshipping bab-
ble at the gig was, “You’re an idiot. How do you not
know Tom Vek?” (Presumably he was also thinking
in his head, “Why am I friends with this fool...”) So
let me put my hands up and apologise: I never no-
ticed Tom Vek when he first burst onto the scene
in 2005 – hell, I’m pretty sure I was still listening
to 50 Cent in 2005. Furthermore, I had no idea
that he disappeared for six years and I didn’t prick
up a single ear when he finally returned in 2011
with Leisure Seizure. But here I am, in June 2012,
saying that it’s my Totally Hot Album of the Week
– yep, that sentence sounded as pretentious as I
thought it might…
The reason I’m risking hearing the words “Dude,
where have you been?” for the next week is that
Tom Vek’s set at Parklife was just incredible. I felt
like I was in the Scott Pilgrim film and Vek was
blasting awesome from his guitar. He looks like a
perfectly proportioned wax copy of himself, with
perfectly proportioned black glasses, a perfectly
cut white t-shirt, and hair that looks like it’s been
nicked from a Ken doll. Whereas bands had been
struggling all day with poorly amplified vocals, his
deep but youthful voice cut through the tent like
a broad double-edged sword. And he danced like
he would if he was recording in his studio, like you
would if you were listening to his album in your
bedroom.
But that’s enough about Tom Vek, what about
the music. I can sum this album up in one sen-
tence. It’s the musical equivalent of meeting the
girl who pushes every single last one of your but-
tons.
If you think that Tom Vek’s earlier stuff was bet-
ter, tweet “Hipster till I die” @kadhimshubber. Fail-
ing that, tweet @Tom_Vek and advise him to get a
restraining order out on me…
it is definitely a welcome addition. As soon as
I climbed the rickety stairs and started talking
to the intriguing clientele, I knew this was the
type of totally cool place, full of character,
which Central London was sorely missing.
With a free triple rum and ginger ale accompa-
nying the very reasonable ticket prices (£3 to
be exact), I was more than happy. For any of
you looking for a different night out, you need
to check out Hotel Street. Notable gigs com-
ing up soon include Crocodiles, Dee Dee from
Dum Dum Girls and Bo Ningen. For any of
you out there who are tempted, I urge you to
throw away your bunting, shoo away the cor-
gis, put your leather jacket on and pay a visit
to Hotel Street.
some dinghies on the River Thames this defi-
nitely was not. It is a long time since I have
been to a hardcore gig or a punk club and from
the intensity of the show and the atmosphere
of the whole night I am sure that my next ap-
pearance will be in matter of days rather than
months. I would recommend DZ Deathrays
to all of you if you want to let your hair down
after exams; down some shots of whisky and
go mental to the call to arms anthem of Rad
Solar.
Now I have extolled the virtues of the band,
let me explain to you the virtues of the newly
opened venue. Hotel Street, owned by Sailor
Jerrys Rum, is the latest shoe-box sweatpit /
dive bar / alt punk club to open in London and
O
ver the past few weeks articles
gushing about Queen Liz, ex-
plaining how the royal fam-
ily represent everything good
about Britain and basically
celebrating the bloody grandness of the jubilee
have been abound. This is not one of those
articles. During the past two weeks of media
overdrive, which has been the build-up to the
jubilee, I have been reminded that I am in no
way a monarchist. It was in this context that
while others were painting union jacks on any
surface in sight or buying up extremely over-
priced royal themed tat, ranging from cupcakes
and tea-towels to condoms, I was attending a
fantastic anti-jubilee party at the newly opened
Hotel Street venue on Charing Cross Road.
This party in question saw the Australian
hardcore band DZ Deathrays headline to a
small room full of enthusiastic punks and chin
stroking hipsters. From watching their set and
a few clips on Youtube, it is very easy to com-
prehend what DZ Deathrays about: two re-
ally nice guys who love playing loud, visceral
punk music, love to drink and, most of all, love
to party. If you doubt any of these things check
out the video for The Mess Up where a whole
bottle of Jagermeister is consumed in under
three minutes. Their frantic set included some
fantastic songs such as Teeth and Gebbie Street
which really caught my attention. Some of the
tracks, particularly some of the newer mate-
rial, I could hear the band retreating slightly
from their hardcore roots to something more
familiar with Death From Above 1979.
The flailing limbs in the mosh pit attested
to the energy which DZ Deathrays brought.
Everything which the band threw at the crowd
was met with exuberant response with the floor
vibrating heavily under the sheer excitement
of it all. Let me tell you: a cold day watching
Their cameraman was never really that steady a shot
I beg your royal pardon
Mark England watches the anti-jubilee celebrations go off with a bang
Killer Mike
R.A.P Music
Hot Chip
In Our Heads
Clams Casino
Instrumental Mixtape 2
Currently on repeat
Simon Hunter’s favourite records of the past month
Write for Felix Music!
music.felix@gmail.com

