MUSIC
FELIX Friday 15 June 2012 19
T
his Saturday 16th brings the fifth
Felix Music Night since the concept
began just over a year ago. For
this one we’ve pulled our socks
way up and are bringing you no
less than three headliners!
Warming things up, one of the
founders of Music Tech all
those years ago, Phrij, will
be spinning some fine
platters of jazzadelic funk
and swinging bass action
to loosen your bones to.
Bringing the jazz from
the booth to the stage, SpankAl- ley move
to some flashy grooves of cosmic disco funk
heavily inspired by the 1970s R&B legends
Chic.
Cracking a cocktail of jangly and angular
(read: jangular) noise rock, nascent Nipples
bring a burst of punk-funk inspired by Talking
Heads, Shellac and pfunk pio-
neers, the Minutemen.
Operation Midnight Cli-
max return for their last ever
gig. Expect explosive ska rock
and possibly ballads inspired by
Russian homosexuality.
Evermean will scare the sun away
with an infectious blend of future funk and hip
hopping bass undulations. His live electronic sets
kicks off the trio of XVI Records artists making
up the ridiculous main act of the evening.
Sun Glitters is flying in from Luxem-
Diggidy Dawg! It’s tomorrow!
Oh, the 90s: the hair, the tracksuits, the trauma
I
f you’ve been to a club re-
cently you’ve no doubt noticed
the comeback – in a big way
- of a certain chemical that had
been missing off the scene for
a couple of years. While it was gone,
I prayed for its return, thinking that
anything had to be better than the
mephedrone-fuelled roiders sadly so
common on the Cardiff scene at that
time, and to some extent Bristol, the
beautiful last bastion of the rave scene.
Sadly, someone forgot to tell the
new kids that the beauty of E in the
90s was the love and magic. A gen-
eration of teenagers whose views on
drugs have been distorted by the “get
caned, do it hard” mentality brought
on by the crystal-meth level fiendish-
ness of mephedrone – at the time justi-
fied with cries of “but it’s legal, it must
be fine” – are now bombing half grams
of MDMA and rolling around on the
dance floor, eyes in the back of their
heads, sweating buckets.
Mephedrone not only changed the
club culture at the time, but perma-
nently altered it. It has changed the
way that the young approach drugs.
Nothing manages to hit the highs that
the rush from drone provided, resulting
in frequently ridiculous use of MDMA
and other chemicals in the dreams of
ever getting that high again. There’s no
denying that drug use has always been
an intrinsic part of the rave scene since
its inception, but respect was also an
inherent part of the scene up till even
2 years ago; now, this bread and but-
ter of the community has all but disap-
peared.
Apparently everyone has forgotten
about PLUR. Peace, Love, Unity &
Respect – the founding principles of
the early 90s free party scene. Nowa-
days, especially in London, the free
party scene seems to be populated by
scumbags of two varieties: those who
want to get so hellishly muntered they
can’t even dream of doing it in the
public eye, often on hard drugs; and
those who want to steal from and at-
tack such muntered people.
Bristol remains one last fragment of
the original free party scene. In Bristol,
the people who own the rig control the
drug flow, and people help each other,
not hurt each other. Only soft drugs
are sold; LSD and MDMA are most
common. Ketamine is huge in Bristol,
which is maybe less justifiable, but
certainly doesn’t lead to comedown
induced rage. It’s a sad night if you
see a fight at an illegal rave in Bristol,
yet they are commonplace in London.
I think it speaks volumes that it is nec-
essary to have outside security to con-
trol the London raves, even with a rave
populous of only 100 or so.
I hope the return of Ecstasy has
changed the illegal rave scene. So sick-
ened by what I have seen, and burnt
out after 4 years of clubbing/raving
every weekend, I do not attend such
events any more. Nowadays I spend
my Saturday nights playing bridge
and doing problem sheets, not waiting
with bated breath for the party line to
go up. As such, I will never find out.
I hope, however, that in this one area,
where ‘the heads’ are so hardened that
mephedrone didn’t even begin to touch
their drug use or change their mental-
ity (nobody wanted any link with that
new, unresearched, legal rubbish), the
return of MDMA has lead them to re-
member the good old days. I hope it
brings back the more innocent days of
the rave scene: when raves were about
people coming together, united by
dance, a hatred of their jobs, and a ha-
tred of the society that repressed them.
Ecstasy’s big comeback
Sir Mandy Dimitri comments on the state of the today’s drug scene
Who’s on when?
7:00 - 8:00 Phrij
8:00 - 8:40 Spank Alley
8:50 - 9:10 Nipples
9:20 - 10:00 Operation Midnight Climax
10:15 - 11:00 Evermean
11:15 - 12:00 Sun Glitters
12:15 - 1:00 My Panda Shall Fly
bourg to infuse our ears with blissful beats
doused in melodramatic atmospheres. Closing,
My Panda Shall Fly turns the soul up to teach
us a thing or two about dancefloor aesthetics be-
fore the moon takes us elsewhere.

