Home Box Office’s horrible histories
John Park
Director Jay Roach
Screenwriter Danny Strong
Cast Julianne Moore, Ed Harris,
Woody Harrelson, Sarah Paulson
Game Change
Senator John McCain, Ms. Sarah Palin,
ladies and gentlemen of the American
Republican Party, please stop bashing
HBO’s latest TV movie Game Change,
a portrayal of the fascinating 2008
American Presidential Elections. We
all know Sarah Palin wasn’t the best
candidate for the Vice Presidency. We
have all laughed at some of her worst,
most ridiculous answers during inter-
views and debates. Tina Fey of Satur-
day Night Live absolutely ripped Palin
apart and then Governor of Alaska was
an international laughing stock. Now
it’s understandable for Palin to not
want to be reminded of such unflat-
tering events, but branding the film as
“reductive,” and blaming the left-wing
Hollywood for making propaganda
is ridiculous and does nothing for her
already diminished reputation. If any-
thing, she should be grateful to HBO
and Julianne Moore, for painting such
a human, balanced, and sympathetic
behind-the-scenes story of what must
have been an extremely difficult period
in her life.
McCain (Harris) winning the Repub-
lican nomination to run for the 2008
Presidential Race was an incredible,
unpredicted victory for the Arizona
Senator. Facing stiff competition from
big names such as Mike Huckabee,
Mitt Romney and Ron Paul, McCain,
the Vietnam war hero, was about to face
a relatively unknown young, inexperi-
enced Senator of Illinois. But Barack
Obama, his opposing Democratic can-
didate, had charisma, the star-power
and appeal; something that was steal-
ing away women, the independents,
Afro-Caribbean, and first-time voters.
McCain’s senior campaign adviser,
Steve Schmidt (Harrelson) realises that
what their camp needs is someone who
will bring back their spotlight, a game
changer, a woman.
And so the search begins, and they
find Sarah Palin (Moore), the Governor
of Alaska. She’s attractive, conserva-
tive, Christian, has five children, a son
about to be deployed to Iraq, and upon
meeting her, Schmidt is impressed by
her love and support for McCain and
his campaign. This is where every-
thing starts to go wrong. The initial
excitement starts clouding their judge-
ment and their short-sighted ambi-
tion neglects to properly vet the Vice
Presidential nominee. It normally takes
weeks to carry out a proper background
check. They finish in days, and settle on
the popular consensus that she embod-
ies exactly what they need to make it
to The White House. The Republican
Convention in which she formally ac-
cepts the invitation from her running
mate is an instant hit with the political
pundits and crowds alike and the team
is more than ecstatic to hear that CNN
has put them on equal level with the
Obama-Biden camp.
Nicolle Wallace (Sarah Paulson), an-
FELIX
Friday 15 June 2012
20
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM FILM
FELIX Friday 15 JUNE 2012 21
other senior advisor of the campaign
however, is not convinced and is sure
that the Governor struggles on answer-
ing foreign policy questions. Palin
cannot answer why North and South
Korea are divided, she is unaware of
the fact that Queen Elizabeth II is not
the head of government in the United
Kingdom, and she believes that it was
Saddam Hussein who was behind 9/11.
It would be safe to say that she doesn’t
quite know the difference between the
Iraq war and the war in Afghanistan.
But is this really her fault? She was a
small-town Governor with hardly any
foreign-relations experience. The fact
that she was thrown into the spotlight
within days, being under pressure from
nationally-broadcast interviews must
have been an unimaginable challenge.
The excessive load of information
and endless long hours take their toll,
something Palin simply was not pre-
pared for. She tries her best for the most
parts, and yet the 24-hour news cycle
brutally destroys her image, naming
her as an incompetent, inexperienced
idiot, constantly undermining her ev-
ery move. And Moore, not only look-
ing and sounding almost to a freakish
level as the Governor, also captures the
complex person behind all the media
coverage. The pain of being away from
her family for a long time, harassed by
the media who love making fun of her,
the difficult questions she faces from
interviews all build up to an inevitable
series of mini breakdowns.
She wasn’t ready for this mass media
showdown nor was she prepared for
a campaign of this major scale, and it
was a reckless move to include her in
the first place. Throughout the film she
cannot stop focusing on Alaska, clear-
ly missing the only state she has ever
known, and her obsession for her ap-
proval ratings in her home state begins
to interfere with the campaign. Her
longing for her home, her “babies” may
seem stubborn and selfish, but at times
can be heart-breaking to watch. Mc-
Cain may have lost the Presidency, but
Palin was the ultimate victim, unfairly
dismissed and played as nothing but
an advertising face for the Republican
campaign. Moore is simply outstanding
here, in a very fairly written role, and
is successful in bringing out the untold,
yet completely understandable back-
ground story that gives a fuller picture
of the one-sided, Palin-bashing version
of the election we’re all used to by now.
Palin does have her highlights how-
ever. Immediately after the announce-
ment of her candidacy, the donations
for the campaign sky-rocket, women
and mothers love her, and she even
holds her own in the first and only Vice
Presidential Debate against the more
experienced opponent, Joe Biden. The
successes bring her ambition and she
becomes less cooperative in certain ar-
eas. She knows how important she is,
and this makes her unpredictable, “go-
ing rogue,” which incidentally is the
title of Palin’s autobiography released
after the 2008 elections.
Although anchoring mainly on
Moore’s award-worthy performance,
Game Change has impressive support-
ing players who should also be getting
some attention come awards-season.
The ever-so reliable Harris is convinc-
ing as the worried candidate being
associated with the not so flattering
legacy George W. Bush has left for him
to pick up. And the hilariously serious
and often foul-mouthed but straight-
shooting Harrelson is spot-on as the
ambitious campaign director. Paulson
is also excellent as the only other no-
ticeable female in the group, quickly
sussing out Palin’s problems and being
upfront and honest about it, rather than
trying to sweep the problems under the
rug.
What is more striking about Game
Change is how honest it is about the de-
piction of modern day politics. It’s shal-
low, superficial and utterly misguided
in places. They love Palin one minute,
and hate her the next. Even the cam-
paign staff changes their minds about
her frequently. She does one good in-
terview and they flock to her, applaud
her, and call her a genius. She makes a
misstep, they’re all against her, with se-
cret meetings behind closed doors criti-
cising her in the most unflattering ways.
It’s no wonder she struggled to keep it
together throughout – it must have been
a tricky environment to settle into, not
knowing who your friends are, and how
unpredictable the public response can
be. How truthful all the events that are
depicted here are still up for debate. But
the important thing is Game Change
offers a new perspective on a story we
all thought knew well. And so please, if
you’re only shunning this film for po-
litical reasons, open your mind a little
and be amazed and surprised by how
engrossing and fair the film really is.
John Park
Director Philip Kaufman
Screenwriters Jerry Stahl, Barbara
Turner
Cast Nicole Kidman, Clive Owen,
David Strathairn, Molly Parker,
Robert Duvall, Parker Posey
Hemingway & Gellhorn
Time to play spot the difference......
Ernest Hemingway (Owen), love him or
hate him, is regarded as one of history’s
greatest, most respected authors of all
time, and is a name that will be heard
many times over. But HBO’s new am-
bitious television film Hemingway &
Gellhorn instead puts its focus on the
other more prominent name in the title;
Martha Gellhorn (Kidman). Starting
with a close-up shot of a barely recog-
nisable Kidman who has clearly been
given a heck of a lot of fantastic make-
up, the grumbling, low-pitched voice
of our film’s heroine kicks of the nar-
ration. This story is about wars. And
there were oh so many of them. Their
passion started during the Spanish Civ-
il War, and it was a chance meeting that
was to change their lives forever.
For a magazine writer with no expe-
rience in a war zone, what gets Gell-
horn interested in war correspondence
is her firm belief and passion in jour-
nalism, and it has very little to do with
Hemingway or anyone else who em-
bark on the trip with her. She is deter-
mined to tell the story in the point of
view of the victims, the tragic loss of
innocent lives that happen in any bat-
tlefield. Hemingway, married, although
not too happily, to his second, devout
Catholic wife (Parker), is pressured to
sit this one out. The ever-so outgoing,
masculine author however is immedi-
ately taken by the sassy, brave and keen
woman, so willing to put herself in the
line of fire for the purpose of reporting.
Before you know it, the passionate af-
fair starts in the midst of an air strike
of all places.
It is a true testament to HBO and its
obvious high-standard reputation that it
managed to attract such talented, inter-
nationally acclaimed stars for the icon-
ic lead roles. And in those challenging
roles, the pair does not disappoint. Kid-
man, resembling her real-life character
in terms of their shared uniquely tall
stature, doesn’t pay too much attention
in trying to mimic the smallest ges-
tures or mannerisms of Gellhorn, but
is always the class-act in portraying the
somewhat naïve and impulsive courage
in a wholly new environment. Women
are bombed just the same as men, is
her philosophy, and firmly establish-
ing herself as one of the, if not the first
female war reporters, was a pioneering
work in journalism that everyone was
so rightfully impressed by. Kidman,
one of very few working actresses who
has the ability to use her old movie star
glamour to full advantage especially in
past-setting films like this one, does so
with plenty of grace and beauty.
Owen, always hilariously waving
around a bottle of any alcoholic drink
that captures Hemingway’s notorious
drinking capacity, is always a large,
overbearing presence on screen, domi-
nating with his brute, masculine charm.
His disdain for snobby critics, terrible
Hollywood adaptations of his novels,
are all resoundingly clear, as is the wild
passion the two share. Eventually his
divorce from his second wife is final-
ised, and it appears the pair could expe-
rience a lifetime of happiness.
Their doomed love affair originally
starts in Spain, but Gellhorn’s passion
for war correspondence never ends
there. Her rise in popularity, although
always overshadowed by her status of
being Mrs. Hemingway, takes her to
places such as Sweden, China, and to
the important battlegrounds of the Sec-
ond World War, much to the dismay of
her newly wed husband. He does ac-
company her to China, but he pushes
things too far when it is revealed he
tried to hijack her assignment in Eu-
rope. He is dissatisfied that his woman
is travelling all over the globe for such
long periods of time, neglecting her
own husband, whereas she is not the
type to let anyone get in the way of her
true calling; a volatile combination that
has no realistic chance of surviving,
which explains how Gellhorn was the
only wife of Hemingway (he had a to-
tal number of four) to outright ask for
a divorce.
Even as a television movie with a lim-
ited budget, the intensity and authentic
look of the film, its intricate focus to
details make this two-hour-and-a-half
adaptation all the more worthwhile.
There is a lot of grainy documentary-
style footage shots incorporated into its
storytelling, and although this lacks the
explosive or large-scale action scenes
that may be a gold-standard require-
ment for a film set during many dif-
ferent wars, the film makes the clever
choice of never actually showing the
audience any direct war-related vio-
lence, but only its terrible aftermath,
and surrounding the central characters
in noise, dust and general chaos.
The fact that this spends so much
time on the less well-known Gellhorn
may be a put-off factor for some: be-
cause even here, Ernest Hemingway
comes across as the more dynamic,
complex and unpredictable figure, with
Gellhorn merely painted as a victim
of her husband’s many eccentricities.
The struggles of being married to such
a competitive intellectual who drinks
like a fish are told with heartfelt convic-
tion backed by a stirring performance
from Kidman but the same old ideas do
grow thin, and there is a noticeable lack
of mention in Hemingway’s literary ca-
reer. He credited Martha Gellhorn as
his inspiration in completing his novel
For Whom the Bell Tolls, and yet the
only glimpse of the book the audience
gets to see is Hemingway frantically
typing away at his typewriter during
his time caught up in the Spanish Civil
War.
Diving into Gellhorn’s character is
mostly done through the convenience
of many voiceovers, always completed
in sweeping scenes of grandeur. Gell-
horn explains the fall of Spain to the
hands of the Nationalists (the side she
and Hemingway were desperate to
oppose and overthrow), and what the
Germans left behind in one of the con-
centration camps towards the end of
World War II were the two key events
that made her lose faith in humanity.
Although the film does everything it
can to show the more human aspect of
the iconic literary couple, what it truly
lacks is insight into their much lauded
and accomplished careers. So she goes
wherever there is war. But once we
place the protagonists in a war zone,
we witness very little actual journal-
ism but more of the bickering couple
escalating towards total meltdown. The
film is more interested in covering the
passion, the ups and downs in the fiery
couple. In summary what we are told
in yet another voiceover is that they
needed wars in their lives to survive
and to stand one another. Because it
was in a war zone that brought out the
best in both of them. Without one, they
just went on to create their own self-
destructive ones.
So anyone expecting a deep, ana-
lytical exploration of Hemingway’s or
Gellhorn’s writing methods and styles
will find nothing of use here. Instead
try settling for a handsome, lavish pro-
duction that chronicles the brief but
turbulent and at times estranged mar-
ried life these two fascinating people
shared. The rich and colourful setting,
convincingly evoking the many scener-
ies of the 1940s, adds a superbly pris-
tine and polished look to a sumptuous
and highly risky, expensive-looking
piece. And it’s a gamble that almost
pays off thanks largely to the brilliance
of Kidman and Owen. Now if only a
fraction of its healthy running time had
been better spent, branching out further
into themes not involving love and re-
lationship, the film could have been a
more dynamic ride.
Spot the difference round two: this one is slightly easier

