FELIX
Friday 15 June 2012
22
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM FILM
FELIX Friday 15 JUNE 2012 23
2012: Summer in Cinema
The Bourne Legacy – 13 August
The fourth installment in the legendary Bourne series (based on Robert Ludlum’s Ameri-
can spy novels about Jason Bourne), The Bourne Legacy is actually based on a later
Bourne book written by Eric van Lustbader. Although the plot of this latest movie has
been kept tightly under wraps, a couple of trailers and some teasing quotes from the
films production team have given us a few facts to work with. It has been revealed that
Matt Damon – who played Jason Bourne in all three of the previous Bourne films – will
not be returning, and the stars of this film will include Jeremy Renner, Edward Norton and
Rachel Weisz. Directed by Tony Gilroy, eponymous hero Aaron Cross (Renner) is left to
fight for his life – as well as many others’, probably – against baddie Byer (Norton). Cross’
mission leads him to meet beautiful scientist (there’s always a beautiful scientist) Marta
(Weisz), who is involved in Byer’s program. It seems that she and Cross head off on their
mission, involving huge risks, death-defying actions, hints of a romance and several
references to Jason Bourne. Renner promised that this installment would be bigger than
the previous three installments even though Damon isn’t around. “It’s the same tempo
and pace but more expansive and bigger. The differences are pretty vast but you’ll know
it’s a Bourne movie,” said the actor.
This is it. Term is finished. No more coursework. Exams completed. Money coming in from jobs. It’s
time to bask in the wonder of the summer. Oh wait – it’s pissing it down. Luckily for you, we have
compiled a selection of the films to watch this summer. Film then pub?
The Dark Knight Rises – 20 July
Definitely one of the most hotly anticipated upcoming films of the summer – the long-
awaited Batman sequel is almost upon us. Directed yet again by Christopher Nolan, the
latest film promises to be just as epic as his previous attempts. Set eight years after The
Dark Knight, The Dark Knight Rises follows Batman’s return to Gotham City after his time
on the run from the Gotham City Police Department (who think he is guilty of committing
Harvey Dent’s crimes from the last film... remember?). Back in his hometown, Batman
(Christian Bale) encounters the villainous Bane (Tom Hardy) who plans to destroy Gotham
by methods most horrible – makes a change, eh. Nolan said, “With Bane, physicality is
the thing.” This is clearly true as the trailers show a brutal, bulked-up Hardy crashing
his way through several fights. Also around is Bane’s ‘associate’, the mysterious and
somewhat feline Selina Kyle (Anne Hathaway), who is very catlike and a woman. Hint hint.
Michael Caine, Gary Oldman and Morgan Freeman also reunite to form the old team in
this epic new adventure.
Moonrise Kingdom – OUT NOW
This new comedy-drama from director Wes Anderson (Fantastic Mr. Fox) opened the
Cannes Film Festival this year, so it must be good. Set in the sixties in the USA, two
twelve-year-olds in love, Sam (Jared Gilman) and Suzy (Kara Hayward), run away from
their New England island town, prompting a wide search led by the town’s Sheriff and
Suzy’s parents. Sam is an orphan who visits the island while on a ‘Khaki Scout’ summer
camp, while Suzy is on holiday there with her dysfunctional lawyer parents, Walt (Bill
Murray) and Laura (Frances McDormand). Sam and Suzy meet during a performance,
and remain penpals over the following year. When they meet again the following summer,
they discover they are in love (aged twelve?!), and run away together on the island. The
subsequent hunt involves flashes of humour and teary emotion and you just that feel-
ing its going to be a ‘happily ever after’ type of ending. The ensemble cast includes big
names such as Bruce Willis and Tilda Swinton, as well as the twelve-year-old newcomers
Hayward and Gilman. Consistently good reviews have led to this film being widely antici-
pated as the top family feel-good film this summer.
Lawless – 7 September
Lawless is a western crime film directed by John Hillcoat with an all-star cast starring
Shia LaBeouf, Tom Hardy, Gary Oldman, Jessica Chastain and Mia Wasikowska. The
screenplay was adapted from Matt Bondurant’s novel The Wettest County in the World
by the excellent Nick Cave, and has been met with excellent reviews after competing for
the Palme d’Or at Cannes this year. Lawless is an embellishment of the true story of the
Bondurants brothers, bootlegging siblings who are keen to take the law into their own
hands. The youngest, Jack (LaBeouf), fancies himself the next Al Capone. He ambitiously
takes the family’s small-scale moonshining operation to the bigger leagues, to impress a
gorgeous but extremely off-limits Amish girl. The middle brother, Howard (Jason Clarke),
is the muscle, and eldest brother, Forrest (Hardy), reluctantly accepts the changing times
with grit, leading the family with determination against the beginnings of corporate greed.
An enigmatic and stunning Maggie (Chastain) comes to town with a secretive past, cap-
turing the interest of Forrest. As their legend grows, so does the danger, and it’s not long
before the brothers must face the consequences of their transgressions.
Brave – 17 August
Brave is the new Disney Pixar collaboration effort, and involved a major overhaul of Pix-
ar’s animation techniques; the Pixar animation system was rewritten for the first time in
twenty-five years to accommodate this film’s special effects. Brave was written by Mark
Andrews, Steve Purcell, Brenda Chapman and Irene Mecchi, directed by Andrews, Chap-
man and co-directed by Purcell. Princess Merida (voiced by Kelly MacDonald), strong-
minded daughter of King Fergus (Billy Connolly) and Queen Elinor (Emma Thompson),
lives in the Scottish kingdom of DunBroch. A skilled archer, she is betrothed to one of the
sons of the three Lords of DunBroch: Lords Dingwall (Robbie Coltrane), Macintosh (Craig
Ferguson), and MacGuffin (Kevin McKidd). Not keen on her arranged marriage, the prin-
cess is determined to be a free spirit, and when she defies one of the kingdom’s oldest
traditions by sabotaging an archery contest between the three lords, she inadvertently
causes controversy and chaos throughout the land. In an attempt to try and sort things
out, Princess Merida turns to an old wise woman to help change her fate, and, unfortu-
nately, a curse is inflicted on Merida’s family and kingdom. Merida must use her archery
skills and her bravery to break the spell and save her family and kingdom. Clearly this is
going to be a film packed with family fun and is definitely the one to take small kids to.
Safety Not Guaranteed – 9 August
From the producers of Little Miss Sunshine and director Colin Trevorrow comes this won-
derful little gem of a film, which was screened at this year’s Sundance Film Festival
where it won the Waldo Salt Screenwriting Award. The story follows three highly cynical
Seattle magazine employees, Jeff (Jake Johnson), Arnau (Karan Soni) and Darius (Aubrey
Plaza), as they investigate an advert they see which reads: “Wanted: Somebody to go
back in time with me. This is not a joke. You’ll get paid after we get back. Must bring
your own weapons. I have only done this once before. Safety not guaranteed.” Together,
the journalists embark on this very funny, smart and unexpectedly heartfelt journey to
find the loveable loner Kenneth (Mark Duplass), the paranoid checkout guy at the local
supermarket who is convinced he has solved the riddle of time travel and is preparing to
depart into the past again soon. Writer Derek Connolly keeps the story fresh, with lots
of laughs and touching surprises, and a sterling performance from Plaza makes the film
one to put on the summer list.
The Amazing Spider-Man – 3 July
This reboot of the Spider-Man franchise goes back to Peter Parker’s roots, showing him
struggling as a teenaged social outcast as his super powers are evolving in high school.
Peter (now played by Andrew Garfield) spends his days attempting to uncover the mys-
tery of his parents’ hidden lives and his own past – while also trying to win the heart of
his high school beau, the charismatic and rebellious Gwen Stacy (Emma Stone). Peter
discovers a mysterious briefcase belonging to his father, who abandoned him when he
was a child, which leads him to his dad’s former partner, Dr. Connors (Rhys Ifans). The
discovery of his father’s secret leads to Peter’s understanding and acceptance of his
destiny as Spider-Man, and brings him face to face with Connors, who becomes the
vicious and vengeful Lizard. Due to the extremely high expectations surrounding this
movie, there was a strong possibility that this one wouldn’t deliver – after all, a reboot is
always a risk. But despite the difficulties pleasing a vast number of comic book nerds,
The Amazing Spider-Man has an ace, fresh-faced cast, a brilliant soundtrack and amazing
special effects: this film is bound to be a winner.
The Campaign – 28 September
Seeing as it’s the latest Will Ferrell movie, you just know it’s going to be a good’un – after
all, this is the genius that brought us Anchorman. Not only does it have Ferrell, but it also
stars Zach Galifianakis (of The Hangover fame). When veteran congressman Cam Brady
(Ferrell) commits a serious gaffe before the upcoming election, two vastly wealthy CEOs
draw up a scheme to put a rival candidate up against Brady in order to gain influence over
their North Carolina district. They choose the slightly hapless and very naïve Marty Hug-
gins (Galifianakis), director of the local Tourism Center. With the help of the CEOs, a ruth-
less campaign manager and his family’s political connections, Marty soon becomes a
contender to worry Cam. As election day draws closer, the two are locked in a dead heat
and it seems that all they care about is burying each other, in this mud-slinging, back-
stabbing, home-wrecking comedy from director Jay Roach (Meet the Parents) that takes
today’s political circus to the next, hilarious, level. While many critics have commented
that the characters are stereotyped and somewhat immature… we feel they have totally
missed the point. This film is amazing. Watch it.

