Lolcat of teh week
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Editor-in-Prowling Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Alexander Karapetian Aemun Reza Features Editors
Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Business & Finance Editors Will Prince Deepka
Rana Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark
England Ross Gray Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy
Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Philip
Kent Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor Online Copy Editor Jack Hewitt
Win festival tickets
worth £100 each!
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 15 june 2012
2
Nothing planned for the summer
yet? You could do worse than
this...
We’ll be seeing out the term next week with
a special edition of Felix, but you could get
your summer off to a flying start by winning
our latest competition.
We’re offering one lucky individual the
chance to win a pair of tickets to the
Nova Festival in Sussex. From 5-8 July,
experience music, art, theatre, and comedy
in one big field.
Email arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk with your
best festival story in under 20 words to
be in with a chance of winning. With each
ticket valued at £100 there’s nothing to
lose!
Editor
What’s on
Sound and Alchemy
G16 Lecture Theatre
South Kensington Campus
20 June 18:30-20:00
Innovation for global
health
Two-day meeting exploring
how innovation can be ap-
plied to developing coun-
tries to improve global
health. Email wcadmin@
imperial.ac.uk to register
for specific events.
Huxley Building, LT 311
South Kensington Campus
20-21 June 09:00-17:00
Fun in the Sun – Touch
Rugby Tournament
Sport Imperial are holding a (free) mixed, 7-a-side
touch rugby tournament in Hyde Park. Open to
all students and staff. You can enter as a team
(minimum of 7, maximum of 10 players) or as an
individual. Register by Friday 15 June by down-
loading and completing the entry form with your
team details, or letting us know if you’d like to join
a team. Email your form to Hannah Blandford at
h.blandford@imperial.ac.uk.
Hyde Park
20 June 13:00-16:00
Sha Xin Wei, Ph.D. is the Canada Research Chair
in media arts and sciences. Here, he discusses
sound and Alchemy, the art and science of trans-
muting base matter, which has enjoyed more than
six centuries of practices in Europe, the Middle
East, and China. First come first served, email
grace@exhibitionroad.com to register interest.

