SCP-173: personnel KIA,
survivors left gruesomely
by
Any class D personnel are to stop reading this
article immediately. Further reading with re-
sult in immediate termination.
Many of you won’t be familiar with the SCP
(Secure, Contain, Protect) Foundation, a wiki
dedicated to the cataloging a huge range of
fictional paranormal objects. These range from
‘Safe’ level objects, such as an indestructible
pizza box capable of instantly creating the
opener’s favourite pizza (SCP-458), to ‘Keter’
level objects, extremely dangerous paranormal
hazards such as SCP-035, a sentient porcelain
drama mask capable of warping the minds of
anyone close to it. The wiki alone has kept me
occupied for hours, and represents an amazing
array of creativity and imagination from the
various authors. It is certainly worth your time.
SCP – Containment Breach is a free, inde-
pendently created game that is currently in its
alpha stages, and includes several of the SCP’s
found on the wiki. The main SCP is 173, pic-
tured, a Euclid-level ‘object’ — Euclids have
unpredictable behaviour, but do not pose the
same threat as Keters.
SCP-173 is much like the Weeping Angels
from Doctor Who – unable to move when di-
rectly observed, but capable of sudden, violent
motion when out of line of sight. Its favourite
hobby – and likely only hobby – is causing
death through neck snapping.
Containment Breach involves just that: SCP-
173 escapes its holding cell, and you’re left
alone to escape the facility. Problem is, SCP-
173 has other plans.
Gameplay is very simple – all you have to
do is escape. No weapons, just you. Oh, and
a blink meter. That’s right, every 5 seconds or
so you have to blink, momentarily closing off
your vision. As mentioned above, SCP-173 is
fast, and blinking in its presence leads to a very
sudden *CRCK* of your neck. Turning your
back on it has the pretty much same effect.
Containment Breach is a scary game. As you
Psychout
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/596834
Last week it was sentient oranges – now it’s sen-
tient lumps of jelly-like substance.
Take control of a jelly collecting thunderbolts
whilst trying to avoid other, far more hostile jellies
trying to annihilate you. Why are they attacking
you? Why are you collecting thunderbolts? Who
knows? All I know is that Jelly Escape is a good
escape from reality. Give it a go.
“EHHhheehhehaHHEhehhhehhh....”
Welcome to Psychout, where you assume the role
of a madman who’s trying to... escape?... a series of
padded cells. At least, I think he’s trying to escape...
Things start off pretty simple – find the key and
get out. Soon things take a twist, and the rules of
logic and physics cease to be obeyed. Can you stay
sane as you navigate the twisted universe created?
FELIX
Friday 15 JUNE 2012
24
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Free Web Games
I really am spoiling you lot this week. EIGHT games
last week, and yet I know that wasn’t enough to
sate your Flash-game addiction. Anyway, take a
large snort of these two totally awesome web
games that you can play right now in your web
browser. In order to play these you’re going to
need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in, which can
be installed from http://get.adobe.com/flash-
player/
Jelly Escape
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/596537
“Containment Breach
captures the essence
of what is almost
universally scary — being
stalked in a dark place
by a very dangerous,
unpredictable assailant.”
Don’t blink. Blink and you’re dead. Don’t turn your back. Don’t look away. And don’t
blink. Good Lu *CRCK*
Laurence Pope
An EXCLUSIVE E3 Review
Eh. Could’ve been better to be honest. 4/10
may remember from a few weeks backs I took
a look over at horror, and my gripes with it.
For however basic Containment Breach may
be, it manages to capture the essence of what
is almost universally scary – being stalked in a
dark place by a very dangerous, unpredictable
assailant. However weird SCP-173 may look,
nothing can stop you jumping when it sudden-
ly darts up behind you as you turn around to
close a door. It’s the suddenness of attacks and
appearances that sets you constantly on edge,
the inclusion of the aforementioned blink me-
ter keeping you from relaxing. Trust me when
I say there’s nothing in Doom 3 or Dead Space
that rivals the tension created as you try to skirt
round an immobile SCP-173 before your blink
meter runs dry and your neck is snapped like a
shard of dry pasta.
Trouser wetting is at times completely justifiable and nothing to be ashamed of
Containment Breach isn’t the first game
derived from SCP Foundation creations, with
two other games, SCP-087 and SCP-087-B,
simply involving you walking down a set of
darkened, never-ending stairs. Random events,
such as noises and moving shadows, are ran-
domly generated, as is what level you ‘finish’
on. Play it to see what I mean, ideally with all
the lights out. Wear a nappy if you’re of weak-
er disposition.
Ultimately, SCP-horror games are not so
much games as they are scare experiences, and
I admit it is unfair to compare them to main-
stream titles, which inevitably have to offer
more to sell to a larger audience, sacrificing
a large degree of the scare in doing so. Still,
SCP-games provide in pill-concentrate form
what many horror games lack, and ought not
to be passed up simply on the basis of their
seemingly basic and low-key nature.
Pay a visit to http://www.scp-wiki.net/ and
http://scpcb.wordpress.com/ for more SCP
Foundation information and downloads. If you
dare.

