FEATURE
FELIX Friday 15 JUNE 2012 7
FEATURE
FELIX
Friday 15 JUNE 2012
6
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
Volunteering: why should students get involved?
With the upcoming launch of the Imperial Hub next week, Caroline Wood discusses volunteering opportunities at university
ning before a dead-
line... The point is,
lack of time is really just
a poor excuse. The real issue
is that doing things of social value is
not currently embedded in our univer-
sity culture. It is not yet the norm and
so only those who are super pro-active
are getting involved.
So should this change? Should social-
ly beneficial activities be an important
part of student life? Well, after think-
ing about this for a while (a few days),
I’m actually struggling to find reasons
not to get involved in socially benefi-
cial activities. In the name of balanced
argument, if anyone can think of some-
thing please let me know, but otherwise
I am just going to go ahead and list the
reasons why we should all be social
warriors. (Yeah I used the term ‘social
warrior’, what of it?)
• To improve things and help people:
Blindingly obvious. Doing something
that is good for the world makes you
feel good. Everyone’s a winner. In fact,
95% of students who do volunteer have
A
s the academic year
draws to a close, final
projects are handed in,
and the last few exams
are sat, it’s only natural
to reflect on the year gone by. Most of
us have clocked up more library hours
than we care to remember and spent too
many nights in Metric that we wish we
remembered more of. We’ve all made
a new friend, learnt something new
and had a new experience. As Imperial
students, not only do we grapple with
some of the most academically chal-
lenging university courses in the UK,
but collectively, we also find time to
run over 300 different clubs and soci-
eties ranging from IC Rugby Club to
DramSoc to CheeseSoc. As if this point
needs restating, but contrary to what
your academic tutor might tell you,
university is about much more than just
getting your degree.
However, are we somewhat overlook-
ing an important aspect of university
life here at Imperial? Ask yourselves
this simple question: have you done any
volunteering or other socially beneficial
activity over the past year? I know some
students do an absolutely awesome job
in terms of fund raising and volunteer
work, but are enough of us doing our
bit? I, for one, must hold my hands up
and confess to not having directly been
part of any socially beneficial activity
over the past academic year.
So this begs the question, why don’t
more of us get involved in social activi-
ties? And more to the point, should we
be getting more involved?
It’s not hard to work out the number
one reason students give for not volun-
teering: “I don’t have the time”. In a
national survey on volunteering (per-
formed by the National Co-ordinating
Centre for Public Engagement), 79 per
cent of all non-volunteers asked said
their main barrier to volunteering was
a lack of time owing to study pressures.
I could spend the rest of this article de-
bating the time pressures on students
and discussing what activities should
take priority but, to be frank, that would
be boring. Only the enviable minority
possess that illusive skill of being able
to successfully time manage. The rest
of us, however, will forever be doing
those all nighters in the library the eve-
said this is their number one motiva-
tion.
• Developing skills: The number and
type of skills that can be learnt through
organising or being part of a socially
beneficial activity are endless. Further-
more, the icing on that cake is that talk-
ing about things you learnt whilst eg.
volunteering is interview conversation
heaven. Employers love this kind of
shit.
• Gaining work experience / develop-
ing CV: Competition for internships
and summer work has never been more
fierce. If you didn’t bag that invest-
ment banking internship, what better
way to spend a summer than by get-
ting involved in some charity work? I
bet you’d learn just as much, probably
more.
• Meeting new people and making
friends: Self-explanatory. Who doesn’t
want more friends?
• To enhance learning from your uni-
versity course: Why not tie in some
socially beneficial work with your stud-
ies. Hey, we’re all fairly good at science
and maths, why not get involved in a
mentoring program and share your pas-
sion (or ‘passion’as the case may some-
times be) with some younger people?
So this all sounds great. Well, at
least I’ve convinced myself that I
want to volunteer some of my time
to a good cause and hope, to some
small extent, I’ve convinced you too
consider doing so too. And so, apart
from “lack of time”, why are lots of us
not already involved in these kinds of
activities? Well, other commonly used
reasons include lack of connection
between volunteering and academic
studies or careers, and also lack of
awareness about how to get involved.
However, here at Imperial that’s all
about to change…
The Imperial Hub has arrived on
campus and is here to revamp the im-
age of student powered social action.
The Imperial Hub will be the new
‘go-to’ point for students interested in
doing some kind of socially beneficial
activity. It will be linking up existing
societies in this area, setting up new
projects and making it more fun, and
easier than ever before to get involved.
In October we’ll be welcoming the
first set of students paying fees of
£9000 a year through our doors. The
pressure to perform academically will
be greater than ever before. However,
this shouldn’t mean the quality of stu-
dent life is compromised. Universities
have a vital role to play in supporting
social, intellectual and cultural life
of students, alongside their academic
studies.
Student activism has been the life-
blood of organic change in our society
and it’s down to us to make sure this
continues. So whilst you’re lazing on
a beach this summer, why not take 10
minutes to think about how you can
get involved in some kind of socially
beneficial activity next year? Let’s
send a resounding message to the in-
coming freshers of 2012 that here at
Imperial students are about more than
just the science.
“Are we overlooking
an important aspect
of university life?”
History of the Student
Hub
Student Hubs was founded in 2007,
originally in Oxford, by a group of stu-
dents who had become frustrated at the
lack of support for student volunteering
and social action. A network of student
groups formed, each focussing on dif-
ferent social and environmental issues
– such as climate change, development,
poverty, education, and homelessness.
It wasn’t long before the Oxford Hub
model was re-interpreted and tested in
other universities, where students felt
the need to boost the culture of giv-
ing back and social action. In early
2008, Cambridge Hub, Bristol Hub
and Southampton Hub were founded.
More recently, in 2010 and 2011 both
a Brookes Hub and Warwick Hub were
launched. And now, in 2012, Imperial
College will be the first London Univer-
sity to launch a Student Hub.
About the Imperial Hub
Imperial Hub provides support to stu-
dents and projects, aiming to be the
complete guide to events going on at
Imperial of an ethical, charitable or so-
cially entrepreneurial nature.
Every Sunday Imperial Hub sends
out ‘The Week’ to students subscribed
to the Imperial Hub mailing list. This
is an email summary of all the events
on campus with an ethical or charitable
focus, from talks to campaign actions,
society meetings to conferences. You
can sign up by going to the Imperial
Hub website: http://www.imperial-
hub.org/
Over the next year Imperial Hub will
be organising weekly talks, setting up a
number of activities for students inter-
ested in social enterprise, and, in No-
vember, will be holding The London
Climate Forum, an entirely student-run
conference on Climate Change and
Sustainability here in the Great Hall. If
you are keen to get involved in these,
or any other activities then get in con-
tact with the Imperial Hub Manager,
Rhiannon Horsley (manager@impe-
rialhub.org) or one of the interim Im-
perial Hub Co-ordinators Steven Tran,
Pauline Vaskiou or Caroline Wood.
Imperial Hub will have a big pres-
ence on campus from October on-
wards, but if you want to find out
more before about what it is before the
summer break, come and join us at the
Union on the from 5pm on Thursday
21 June for the Imperial Hub launch
event.
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
79.2
41.0
28.1
26.5
21
19
17.7
15.5
15.5
12.8
12.7
8.5
8.4
7.6
3.4
Illness or disability that prevents me
Negative experiences in the past
I just don’t want to volunteer
I’d achieved the award or
certificate I set out to
I don’t feel part of the community here
My family/friends are not involved
I think I’ve done my
fair share of volunteering
I lost interest
Not enough time – due to involvement
with other clubs, sports or societies
I don’t think I can afford to volunteer
I don’t know what I could offer
I‘m not sure how to get involved
Not enough time – due to family
commitments
Not enough time – due to
pressures of study
Not enough time – due to paid work
Percentage of non-volunteers who did not volunteer because of this reason – Base: 1,141 (All non-volunteers)
You may have heard from friends at other universi-
ties that RAG is kind of a big deal for them, especial-
ly at universities such as Loughborough and Bristol.
RAG, standing for Raising and Giving, is a student-
run charitable fundraising organisation. Students
across the UK raise vast amounts of money for char-
ity with their university RAG society every year. But
where’s the Imperial RAG presence? Well, there are
a few student groups that run RAG fundraising ac-
tivities, namely the Medics and the Islamic society.
But generally student participation on RAG activities
is poor.
Current RAG Chair Jack Hewitt listed the follow-
ing possible reasons for low student participation in
RAG activities: lack of tradition, poor publicity, time
constraints, and a general ‘can’t be bothered atti-
tude’ of some Imperial students. However, he also
went on to note “Dave Goldsmith (next year’s RAG
chair) is bringing some new ideas forward, and with
the expansion of CAG (Community Action Group) and
stable running of the RAG projects, the appropriate
steps are being taken for next year to be a big one!”
If you want to get involved in fundraising and volun-
teer work, RAG is a great place to start!
What about RAG?
Facts and stats (from a study performed by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement)
63 per cent of students have taken part in formal volunteering since starting university
38 per cent of student volunteers are introduced to volunteering through their university or students’ union
48 per cent of volunteers give their time to formal volunteering activities that benefit the wider community but
without receiving any support from their university.
51 per cent of recent graduates under 30 years old who are in paid work say that volunteering helped them to
secure employment

