S
canning the list of papers in the
International Journal of Bio-in-
spired Computation, a few strange
phrases jump out. ‘Neuro-fuzzy-
based’, ‘cuckoo search’ and ‘bat
algorithm’ are particularly good examples.
Swarming appears to happen quite frequently.
And even more intriguingly, I’ve just noticed
a paper about slime. It appears that computing,
stereotypically the domain of the digital, has
acquired a life of its own.
Bio-inspired computing is not, however,
a new discipline, with founding father Alan
Turing basing his work on the fundamental
question of whether a computer could ever
think like a human. The idea that evolution
could provide a framework for computational
problem solving has been around since the
1950s. Less of a strict field than a philosophy,
bio-inspired computing refers to a network of
interrelated areas of study including robotics,
artificial intelligence and evolutionary compu-
tation. These areas and the people who study
them are blurring the boundaries between na-
ture and computer.
In this field, it is the computer that takes con-
trol. Rather than the programmer telling the com-
puter what to do (the top-down approach), a bot-
tom-up, decentralised system allows computing
systems to employ ‘survival of the fittest’ prin-
ciples to create their own solutions to problems.
Which brings us back to slime. Andrew
Adamatzky is from the appropriately named
International Centre for Unconventional Com-
puting at the University of the West of England
in Bristol, where in a recently published pa-
per he showed that the slime mould Physarum
polycephalum can be used to help calculate the
shape of a polygon linking on a surface. This
task is essential for the development of sophis-
ticated graphics in gaming and films.
Using ‘Kalms’ sleeping tablets as an unusual
attractant for the slime to spread its tentacle-
like protrusions across a plastic plate, the slime
has to use as little expenditure as possible to
cover as many points as it can – essentially,
the mould is playing a game of connect the
dots that can be translated into computational
efficiency. “Plasmodium’s foraging behaviour
can be interpreted as computation,” explains
Adamatzky in a recent press release, “when
data are represented by spatial configurations
of attractants and repellents, and results by
structures of protoplasmic network.”
It seems that computational systems derived
from biological principles have found their
niche in the graphics, art and gaming spheres.
Various scientists have used the principles of
evolutionary computation for aesthetic effect,
from Maarten H. Lamers, whose ‘hybrid bio-
logical-digital’ games integrate real biological
organisms inside computer games, to Simon
Colton at the Computational Creativity Group
at Imperial College London. Colton’s work, re-
cently featured on the BBC’s Horizon, showed
that computers could be used to make artwork
so complex it appeared to have been created by
a human. The main aim of the group at Impe-
The future is unconventional
FELIX
Friday 15 june 2012
8
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
Inspired by Iron Man
A first year Physics student at Imperial has applied
for a patent on a new way to make electricity. Felix
Science caught up with inventor Marvin Tan Xing Haw
to find out all about his (as yet hypothetical) device…
Could you tell us a bit about your invention?
It produces electricity, with power output between
that of a betavoltaic battery and a nuclear fission
reactor. The power output is unknown because no-
body has published the results of its computational
simulation yet. It works very much like a fission reac-
tor and a betavoltaic battery.
Fission reactors sustain a chain reaction by using
neutrons to induce the fission of Uranium-235. This
in turn generates even more neutrons. Betavoltaic
cells utilise the beta radiation from the natural decay
of beta-radioisotopes like Tritium, and these beta
particles transfer their energy to electrons in a diode
and thus induce a voltage and current.
The use of a semiconductor diode to convert en-
ergy from beta particles to electricity is analogous
to using a diode as a solar cell (converting sunlight
to electricity). Combing fission and betavoltaics,
neutrons are used to artificially induce fission in the
beta-radioisotope, forcing the latter to produce more
beta particles than it would if it relied purely on beta
decay. It’s analogous to force-feeding a goose that
lays golden eggs so that you get more eggs!
How did you come up with the idea?
I was really inspired last year after watching Iron Man
and Iron Man 2. The world needs a small but power-
ful energy source like Tony Stark’s Arc Reactor. How
are vehicles going to be propelled after petroleum
runs out? After daydreaming long and hard about the
current technologies that can approximate Stark’s
Arc Reactor, I thought of combining the best of both
from fission and betavoltaics.
How far into development are you?
The design needs to be perfected via computational
simulation to find the optimal thickness and concen-
trations of the isotopes. Then, it needs to be tested
experimentally. I don’t have the resources to carry
out these two modes of research, so I’m stuck at the
conceptual stage.
Have you had any interest from scientists who
think this could work?
Some scientists told me that the idea is interesting,
but they said they’re too busy with their own work
and hence don’t have the time to explore it. Patent
publications are not as widely read as research jour-
nals, so until a journal article has been published
on my work, it’s hard to capture the attention of the
scientific community.
Finally, do you have any tips for any students who
might have an idea they’d like to develop?
Keep it top secret until your patent specification has
been published. It’s stressful to balance your time
between writing your patent specification and study-
ing for an undergraduate degree, so time manage-
ment is important. Also, use an image editor with
layering capabilities (like Adobe Photoshop) to draw
your patent diagrams.
rial is in fact to create software that can take on
‘creative responsibility’, either autonomously
or in collaboration with humans, to create art
and science projects.
However there are many other applications
for this rapidly diverging discipline.As research
fellow Cameron Browne, from the Computa-
tional Creativity Group explains, “Computa-
tional creativity applies to any creative field.
At the International Computational Creativity
Conference in Dublin a couple of weeks ago,
we saw all sorts of applications including com-
puter-generated poetry, jokes, Mexican legends
with automatically illustrated codices, even au-
tomatically generated recipes.”
It is an easy scaremongering tactic to employ
that the closer we get to true artificial intelli-
gence the bigger the risk that the machines will
turn against their makers. However it seems
that as we use natural mechanisms to improve
the efficiency of computing, art and cultural
products made by computers may become the
norm. As Adamatzky puts it, “Unconvention-
ality’ is relative. What is ‘unconventional’ to-
day will be ‘conventional’ tomorrow.”
Helen Wilkes takes a look at computing inspired by biology
New microbial lifeforms have been discov-
ered on the slopes of high-altitude volcanoes
in the Atacama desert, South America, an area
previously thought inhospitable. Temperatures
range from -10°C to 56°C, and incident ultra-
violet radiation is twice that at sea level in the
extremely arid areas where researchers from
the University of Colorado took soil samples
at over 6000 metres above sea level.
Surprisingly, DNA analysis of the samples re-
vealed bacterial and fungal lifeforms, although
far fewer and with less diversity than what is
found in other soils. The lifeforms, which have
not yet been fully characterised, are at least 5%
genetically different from other species, and ex-
press no genes known to be involved in photo-
synthesis nor contain chlorophyll, leaving their
metabolism a mystery. It has been suggested
that they may feed off gases such as carbon
monoxide and dimethyl sulphide, and remain
dormant except for the rare occasions on which
water is provided by snowfall.
The terrain of the Atacama region has been
described as “Mars-like;” however, as Mars
lacks an ozone layer, the level of UV radiation
its surface receives is much greater than even
high-altitude points on Earth. Nonetheless, in-
vestigation into the metabolism of these new
lifeforms may give clues as to how life may
survive on other planets, or be a starting point
for designing life to survive in spacecraft or on
Mars in projects such as the NASA Institute of
Advanced Concepts mission to engineer plants
which could provide food and oxygen to astro-
nauts on future journeys to Mars.
DOI:10.1029/2012JG001961
Extremophiles found in Atacama
Keir Little
The Atacama desert
Slime mould grows to find an optimum networks and tends to mirror transport networks

