V
ideo killed the radio
star, tape was hailed to
be a killer of music (yes
tapes, origin of the term
mix tape and sole inven-
tor of yet another use for the pencil) but
now is digital content and cloud saving
killing nearly all forms of art?
Since the internet’s birth, informa-
tion has become more and more readily
available and accessible to nearly every-
one on the planet.
Older generations are now in touch
with the internet as closely (if not more
so) than the more recent generations
who were responsible for driving its suc-
cess, but with this constant demand for
access, media and the way it is shared or
sold has gone through a big change and
quite possibly suffered for it.
Now I’m not going to trail through the
history of the internet and illegal down-
loading as I’m sure everyone is now
more than aware of the past and what
has led up to our current market, but lets
think about the current state of music as
a starting point.
Programs such as Spotify offer you
the chance to listen to anything you
want completely free, any artist’s whole
back catalogue at your finger tips with-
out having to search anywhere other
than Apple’s Spotlight and move noth-
ing other than your eyes.
Top companies such as Apple offer
better exclusives for choosing to down-
load an album from iTunes as opposed
to physically buying the CD.
So how has this affected us? How has
the landscape changed?
This year is set to be the year CDs will
die out, with many major labels back-
ing the idea that albums will only be
available through download and stream-
ing, leaving CDs to only be created
and available in limited edition forms
and only for the next four to five years,
Amazon has supposedly won a deal to
be the prime retailer of these limited edi-
tion runs of physical albums.
Is this a good thing though? Do we
really favour a filled hard drive to a
stacked shelf?
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
For all of the major labels and com-
panies behind the music industry, sure
this step forward would be great, as
their costs would be kept to a complete
minimum, money would only be spent
on album production and none spent on
physical creation or stock storage, prof-
its would rise greatly especially consid-
ering downloading has caused the land-
scape to change once before allowing
labels to take a much bigger chunk of an
artists touring revenue! But what about
the rest of the industry and the greater
community?
Firstly, album artwork would take a
hit, (in my opinion) leaving everything
to be covered with that cursed bland
grey square and black music note for
everything (thank you iTunes). How-
ever, on a bigger scale, this would ruin a
lot of shops on the High Street, from big
retailers such as HMV who already have
trouble paying the bills, to smaller more
pure record stores who won’t be able to
win a fight with Amazon for the right to
stock limited edition albums.
As an old fashioned kind of guy (I’m
still only 22 in body, just maybe not in
mind) I despair at this leaving behind of
CDs; how can you not love that feeling
of buying a new album, flicking through
Ben Rayner ponders the future of printed music and the dominance of downloads
TECHNOLOGY
FELIX Friday 15 JUNE 2012 9
its finely printed book with art spilled
from someones mind and poured all
over it, before placing the disc into your
player or computer to hear what’s new?
With downloads are we really getting
a better deal? Fair enough its quicker to
access, but once the CD is erased from
memory, whats to stop the big compa-
nies pushing up the price and charging
the same for a download as they would
a physical disc?
We’ve been at the edge of this battle
before, of course. When the CD first
came out it threatened to destroy the vi-
nyl, luckily the vinyl survived through
purists keeping the demand high.
The humble CD may not be so lucky
in this age however, with the past and
future generations so focused on the
speed at which they can get new infor-
mation I believe they may just not care,
it is quite normal now for people to get
Viva la Digital Revolution?
an artist’s top singles and never even at-
tempt to hear the whole album meaning
quite a lot of music listeners are begin-
ning to miss the point! (Wave goodbye
to the concept album.) Albums can no
longer be a journey but instead each be-
ing forced into a greatest hits, with noth-
ing more than a short punchy pop song,
over and over again.
This problem isn’t exclusive to music
unfortunately, with movies being ever
more popular in the digital form and the
next generation of consoles being con-
sidered for cloud devices that don’t al-
low for discs at all!
Even home computers are starting to
phase out optical drives to save on space
as apparently when surveyed less than
30% of people even use their disc drive
any more!
I, for one, do not trust everything I
own being stored on a server far from
my reach.
Now obviously these are just my
thoughts and just my point of view, all I
am hoping to share is my love for music
and its printed formats, vinyl is the king
of music with the CD its prince in my
mind but I’d love to know: what exactly
does everybody else out there think?
I really hope I am not alone!
“Do we really favour
a filled hard drive to
a stacked shelf?”
“With downloads are
we really getting a
better deal?”
The annual Silhouette Photoshopping Competition was in full swing

