N o S a l v a t i o n
off or returned in a matter of days. Rob
Northey, Refectories Manager, said that
" it's been one of the hardest things I've
ever done."
Of the stock purchased, 40 gallons
of cream was returned and Imperial Col-
lege Union bought some of the remain-
ing stock for the Snack Bar. The re-
mainder of the food was used by replan-
ning the menus offered to the delegates.
Out of the 67 staff that were to cover
the event 47 were laid off. All these were
temporaries booked for the week. None
of the 14 permanent refectory staff were
effected and 6 temps were kept on.
The Refectories catered for around
2000 people a day instead of the ex-
pected 5-6000 originally planned for.
This number increased towards the end
of the week as delegates moved away
from using the catering facilities at
Wembley. The Salvation Army agreed
to underwrite the losses as long as the
Refectories made every effort to sell ex-
cess stock.
Multiple Thefts
In the first three weeks in July the Salva-
tion Army held a joint conferance bet-
ween Imperial and Wembley. The Refec-
tories planned catering'for the Salvation
Army conferance, held in the first three
weeks of July, fell into dissarray. Around
2900 registered delegates from all over
the world attended the conference
together with an English contingent of
upto 25000 on some days. Jointly held
at Imperial College and Wembley Con-
ference Centre, the expected attendance
for meals at the College Refectories fell
drastically short of the numbers that had
been prepared for. Some of the food had
to be sold off or returned and most of
the temporary staff booked for the week
were laid off.
The confusion was caused by the
Salvation Army's organization of meal
tickets for the event. The common prac-
tice of issuing tickets redeemable only
at the conference venues was not used.
Because of the problems imposed by a
split site and the large fluctuation of
delegate numbers, Luncheon Vouchers
were issued instead. This enabled con-
ference attenders to purchase food from
many outlets in London.
After 18 months of organisation
some of the large stocks had to be sold
In a series of thefts over the summer
period to date the Union Building has
suffered a number of losses.
The Union Bar was hit with a total
of £38 being taken from the till. A
camera belonging to the Bar Manager
was moved by the thief but not finally
taken.
An office rented out to International
Enrichment,pic had a panel forced out
of it's door allowing a cash box to be
removed containing £300. The burgler
did not manage to make off with any of
the larger items contained in the office
as the hole in the door was too small.
The door has since been repaired but
more secure measures are being taken
to safeguard this area in the future.
Tread marks similar to those found
on the soles of Martial Arts shoes were
discovered on the forced panel, but it is
not known whether this was the method
of removal.
The STOIC studios lost one of their
video cameras during a daring raid
which appears to have taken place while
members of STOIC were present. The
studio is split into two rooms; a filming
area and an edit suite. Society members
were working in the edit suite at the
time it is suspected that the theft took
place.
Dead
Pigeon
A dead pigeon was found in a water tank
on the west side of Beit Quad at the
beginning of August. The body was
already partly decomposed and the mat-
ter was dealt with by the estates section
who repaired the covering doors. The
tank was drained and disinfected.
It is thought that the doors were
damaged in the January storms. No
health threat was posed as the water
tank did not feed any drinking supplies.

