S a l v a t i o n L o s t
During the Salvation Army Conference
a float of £250 was taken from the old
kitchen on the 2nd floor of the Union
Building.
The theft occured on Tuesday 3rd
July at around 4pm. The entry pro-
cedure used by the thief was similar to
that of the break - in at the Union office
on the 28th January and it is believed
that the two cases are related. In both
incidences beading from around a win-
dow was removed and the glass taken
out.
A good set of prints have been taken
from the glass and the Police are confi-
dent of finding the culprit. Security, at
cost price, which was offered to the
organisers by the Union, was turned
down.
Passers and Failers
Next years three Union Office Sab-
baticals have passed their final examina-
tions and gained Degrees.
President, Paul Shanley, gained a
3rd in Mathematics, Deputy President,
Benjamin Turner, gained a 2-1 in
£15,000 worth of platinum crucibles
have been stolen from a safe in the
Materials Department. The theft was
discovered on Monday 2nd July, but it
is possible that the crime was
perpetrated upto two weeks earlier.
Mr Geoff Reeves, Chief Security Of-
ficer, said that the safe had been open-
ed with the key. The suspect obviously
had a good knowledge of the working
practices of the department, as the
crucibles are only used, on average,
every two weeks.
The crucibles, used for reaction
Sacked
Laurens Alexander, the Bookstore
Manager, was sacked on Saturday 28th
July, after only five and a half days of
employment. His dismissal was due to
'unacceptable conduct' which included
turning up late to work.
At the start of his appointment Mr
Alexander took out a £200 advance and
Chemical Engineering and Honorary
Secretary, Murray Williamson, gained a
2-2 in Mechanical Engineering.
Chris Stapleton, Felix Editor, failed
to pass his final year in Aeronautics and
testing due to their inert properties, have
a scape value of £10,000. Insurance on
the safe will cover the loss. Procedures
for obtaining the safe key are being look-
ed at.
The Police have been issuing
statements to metal dealers requesting
them to be on the look out for any
suspicious exchanges of platinum. Geoff
Reeves commented that these things are
very difficult to follow up. There are a
lot of casual deals that go on within the
metal dealers markets, where often no
questions are asked.
currently owes the Union £2.37.
Last years Union President, Neil
McCluskey, has been appointed on a
short term contract to replace him. The
appointment started from 1st August
and will last for 6 months, while a per-
manent manager is sought.
is therefore not a sabbatical during this
year. He has been employed on a short
term contract to act as Print Unit Pro-
duction Manager until the end of
November. This allows the Union to run
another election for the post in October.
Managers
I hope you will taking an interest in the
news stories that appear this week.
Some interesting things have been hap-
pening. In particular spare a thought for
Desmond Heatherington, currently lying
in Westminster Hospital suffering from
Asbestosis. Don't just have pity on him,
think about how he got into that condi-
tion. If you don't then probably a lot
more people will fall foul of the same
problem and the next time it might be
you. Much more on that issue in a FELIX
of the future.
Chris Stapleton (Manager)
Credits
Many many thanks to Andy Thompson
for staying up as late as I did to produce
this issue. Particular thanks for not even
shouting a bit. Other than the two of us
thats it for the team.
FELIX is published by the Manager for and on behalf of Imperial
College Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial Col-
lege Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (TEL
071 - 5 8 9 51 11 ext 3515). Manager: Chris Stapleton.
Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising Manager: Chris
Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
Material Theft

