C e l l n e t I m p a c t o n I C
On the 3rd August Cellnet, one of the
portable telephone coonecting com-
panys begin using a ground station bas-
ed at Imperial. The deal organised by
Paul Docx of the Impact group means
an income for the college of £25,000 a
year.
The C02 and Nitrogen recovery
plant in the basement of Physics has
been re-organised to make space for
the operation and Aerials have been
placed on the roof of the building.
Initially many of the research groups
in the Physics department feared the
consequences of operating the transmis-
sion aerials due to the sensitive nature
of their experiments. A number of tests
were carried out to ensure that no
disruption occured to research.
During the initial tests some in-
terferance was observed in the Solid
State Experimental department. The
follow up tests sorted out these pro-
blems. Omni-directional aerials placed
on the roof to begin with are now not
going to used inless the express permis-
sion of the college is first sought, com-
mented Mr Docx.
Some people had also been express-
ed concern on the health and safety
aspect of these aerials because of their
close proximity to the weather station.
During a meeting between Cellnet, Im-
pact, a Health and Safety Officer from
college and a research student from
Physics, it was established that no
danger was present. The matter is now
irrelevent as these particular aerials
were not to be used.
The interferance problems were
solved by using directional aerials fac-
ing away from the building. The Physics
department still has problems running
some experiments during transmissions
from the embassies on Queens Gate.
Unrregulated frequencies are used by
some of the embassies but no legal
measures can be taken as the buildings
constitute foriegn territory.
Mr Docx said that the decision to ac-
cept a deal with Cellnet was taken after
much consideration. It was " better
within and controlled rather than
without and uncontrollable." he said,
after he explained that other possible
sites around the college area would have
meant the college being in the path of
transmissions.
Asbestos Attack Crisis
Desmond Heatherington who worked in
the Chemistry department for around
five years is lying in hospital suffering
from Asbestosis. His condition, which
'mushrooms' after nine to ten years was
diagnosed three months ago.
Mr Heatherington worked as a fitter
in the department, often dealing with the
heat exchangers in the basement. He
eventually left the college five years ago
due to back trouble. During his service
Andy Knight was sacked from the Union
Bar staff last Wednesday following his
failure to lock up the front door of the
bar on the previous night.
The incident followed earlier
in-action when he did not secure the
safe after closing up. At that time a
repremand was issued and it was stated
that further action or in-action which
with the department he often complain-
ed about the spread of asbestos rubble
and dust that occured during descaling
of the exchangers. The contractors were
repremanded for the mess caused dur-
ing there work but no further action was
taken.
Another employee of the depart-
ment, Mr Alfie Winston, died three years
ago, after suffering for a long time from
respiratory problems.
could lead to finacial loss would result
in instant dismissal.
The problem of several losses from
the Union due to thefts has highlighted
the situation. The Union President refus-
ed to comment on the occurance as it
was a personnel matter.
The Union Office was in turmoil on
Wednesday this week. The main power
circuit for the front office was off due to
a tripped fuse box.
Although a key was available that
fitted the lock and turned it would not
fully open the fuse box. None of the
computers, tills or photocopier could be
operated. Said Mr Shanley, the Union
President, "it's a nightmare, I'm just
waiting for Freddy to appear from Elm
Street!".
Complications ensued when- the
photocopier engineers appeared to ser-
vice the machine. An extension lead had
to be pulled through from the back of-
fice and when they were looking at the
copier they discovered that several parts
were completely missing.
On that point, high technology
doesn't seem to be the Unions forte this
week. On passing the passport photo
machine, two service engineers were
seen to be in action. Acting much like
gynecologists, one turned to the other
and said "let's face it, it's fucked innit".
Assistant Sacked

