Photo Feature - centre pages
C O N T R A C E P T I O N
I S T H E
W H I T S T M I I S M I
PHOENIX GOES TO CAMBRIDGE
"This will cause a stir in high quarters," President Price
mumbled as the motion that " Phoenix be donated to Churchill
College, Cambridge," with the amendment, " and be replaced as IC
mascot by the Queen's Tower," was carried at the Union Meeting of
Thursday, 5th November.
The Phoenix question had been sparked off by a point of order
—why was the mascot not present ? Des Kearns, President of Mines,
thereupon proposed that it be presented to the Cantabrians, in whose
possession it already was, describing it as " a grotty mascot totally
unworthy of Imperial College." Continued on p. 16
CONCUSSION HITS FRESHER
Wednesday, 4th November
A first-year Physics student,
David Royle, brought a sudden
halt to the traditional festivities
on the towpath at Putney to-day,
when he hit his head on a stone
and remained unconscious for ten
minutes. With blood streaming
down the left side of his face he
was carried to an ambulance and
rushed to hospital believed to be
suffering from concussion.
A grim end to what was gene-
rally considered one of the best
Morphy Day punch-ups. Attend-
ance was poor—120 RCS, 120
Guilds, 30 Mines. The wind was
strong and cold off the river at
high tide. These two facts were,
perhaps, main contributors to the
best towpath revelries for at least
three years.
PUBLIC RELATIONS GOOD
The police did not intervene
until asked for, and then only to
deal with the injury. Throughout
the fight three constables stood a
hundred yards away with a crowd
of onlookers.
Public relations showed an im-
provement. Many, in particular
London Transport staff, showed
indignation, but the majority ap-
preciated the rag as something
of a joke.
BIAS AGAINST MINES ?
Guilds won not only the fight
for the tyres (they collected 4
against RCS's 3 and Mines' 1) but
also both the Lowry and Morphy
boat races. In the former they
beat Mines by two lengths (RCS
trailed far behind).
The start of the Morphy was
delayed half-an-hour while the
river was cleared ot snipping.
Soon after the start, however, the
Mines crew lost their rhythm
saving their boat from dissection
by an oiltanker. In failing light
Guilds again narrowly clinched
the cup from Mines, who main-
tained that the race should have
been restarted.
All's w e l l . . ,
A hospital examination on Dave
Royle confirmed concussion.
His parents were informed and
came to London, but he was back
in college the next day.
D.I.W,.
Dr. Eleanor Mears' summing-up that " The Church, of neces-
sity, has to lag behind public opinion," was well exemplified at Thurs-
day's disappointing Union Debate. For Father Corbishly, SJ., could
offer only conscience as an alternative solution for the motion that
" Artificial contraception is not the answer to the world population
solution." The house defeated the motion by 113 votes to 42 against,
with 35 abstentions.
While' Dr. Mears exhibited the dignity expected of her sex and
Father Corbishly of his profession, their seconders snarled like starv-
ing dogs over the scraps and loose ends of the other side's case. Only
Dr. Mears could offer any concrete answers, being, as a member of
the Family Planning Association, intimately involved in research on
oral contraceptive pills and their most recent success, plastic intrau-
terine devices. The F.P.A. have been alone in surveying the popu-
lation problem; in the words of Lady Gaitskell, " It doesn't wait
for politicians and prelates"
NATURAL AND MAN-MADE SOLUTIONS
The " natural" alternatives appeared to be to let " All these
tiresome people . . . keep on multiplying " and then feed their hungry
mouths with divine providence.
Continued on p. 16
MASCOTS IN DISPUTE
Friday, midday
An extraordinary Union Gen-
eral Meeting has been proposed
to contest the decision of 5th
November to adopt the Queen's
Tower as IC mascot. Dick Conn
and John Baker suggest that a
Victorian gas lampost, mounted
in concrete and painted in IC
colours, be placed in the middle
of Beit Quadrangle!
Support will no doubt be ob-
tained in their petition for the
meetings and later with the Union
members accepting the change
of mascots. But it is highly un-
likely that the Governing Body
will give official sanction to the
move. So IC, it appears, will be
mascotless, as Des Kearns origi-
nally moved in the last Union
Meeting.

