12 F E L I X
Microspanner
• f 0
O l d r u b b i s h
Dear Sir,
What a load of old rubbish D.
G. Bishop gave out in last fort-
night's Felix. He is yet another of
those sickeners who try to run
everyone else's lives for them. It
is well known that toddlers
brought up on the " Look at the
chuff-chuff " type of training have
all this guff to unlearn before
growing up. SIMILARLY, stu-
dents who have to suffer a " cul-
ture-monger " tutor constantly
grilling them to ensure that their
" ideological standpoints " con-
form to the norm, are handi-
capped when dealing with real
people.
I always thought that the main
purpose of a dinner was to fill the
stomach, anything else being in-
cidental. Even Granny said that
Religion and Politics must not be
discussed at the tea-table as they
may play havoc with the digestion.
What does D. G. Bishop think
Freshers' dinners are for? Surely
sitting at a dining table with a
stranger while inviting polite chat
is friend-destroying rather , than
friend making. And what "friend"
processes his chum's mind? I
OBJECT TO BEING TREA TED
LIKE SO MANY OUNCES OF
CHEESE.
Yours etc.,
D. D. WILLIAMS
A r e p l y
Dear Ounce of Cheese,
Having struggled through your
Danish blue, which seems to offer
little constructive criticism, I feel
obliged to reply. I was amazed
that you assume that tutors are
inclined to crush students into
preconceived moulds. I advocate
that tutorials be a place where
students make their own moulds
—create their own " ideological
standpoints "—and develop them-
selves.
Most dinners are intended to fill
the stomach. Club dinners are
social gatherings, and certainly
not occasions for "inventing polite
chat." Guilds Freshers dinners are
not meant merely to fill the
Stomach—and even Granny would
agree that Religion and Politics
are rarely mentioned at these func-
tions, and if-you are so lacking
in social skills that you can't
talk intelligently for a few hours
at dinner, then by all means just
fill your stomach . . . but then
bread and cheese will fill the
stomach.
D.G.B.
W e l l d o n e
Dear Sir,
1 would like to congratulate
you and the Felix staff responsible
for the article on the Rover Crew
Derbyshire weekend.
You certainly improved the
article from the rather ungram-
matic state it was originally in.
If you continue this approach
to articles in FeliR as outlined in
your editorial we shall be only too
pleased to write several more
articles during the course of the
year. We will certainly have no
more complaints.
Thanking you for your endea-
vours,
I am yours sincerely,
W. N. WHALEY
(Chairman, Rover Crew)
Dear Sir,
As you reported in your last edition of Felix, the President of
Guilds Union has a small replica of Spanner. This is not usually seen,
because it's main function is to accompany the President, or his
representative to Old Centralian Dinners, Spanner being far too un-
wieldy to travel on British Railways.
Microspanner is not a mascot, and is on a par with a photograph
of Theta. He was taken down to Brighton on Bo, to be present at the
Motor Club Luncheon. He came back in a small suit-case along with
the President's coat. This case was in the back of Bo on Morphy
Day, and Microspanner was stolen by a gentleman of R.C.S. from the
car. Thus we were unable to take him up to last Friday's Old
Centralian Dinner in Middlesborough.
Instead, a grotty piece of paper was pushed under my door,
containing a series of numbers, this presumably being a " clue." As
this has no official R.C.S. Union backing, I suggest that he, who has
Microspanner, return it either to Kish Sadhvani or Chris Evans, or
directly to me.
Yours faithfully,
D. G. BISHOP
(President, C&G Union)
Misogyny
Dear Sir,
I wish to express my disgust
with the beery " men" of the
Union Bar, who, on Saturday
(1th) night, repeatedly hurled ob-
scenities at the women who inad-
vertently entered that hallowed
place. Although I frequent the
Bar, I rarely do so on a Saturday
evening, so I do not know whether
this kind of thing happens often
—/ suspect that it does. I find
the whole idea of a" males only "
bar a little pathetic, but if this
must be so I am sure the rudeness
that I observed is unnecessary. I
suggest that the people concerned
either grow up or shut- up,
Yours sincerely,
B. J. BULL (Bot. 3)
Mascots
Dear Sir,
We are writing to complain
about the incredibly juvenile
nature of I.C. Union, in that a
motion such as that proposed by
Mr. Kearns can be passed, as it
was, on a wave of emotion.
Surely the average I.C. student
is not so stupid as to just throw
away the mascot when another
college has taken it. If not, it is
regrettable that he can be per-
suaded to vote it away on an
impulse. If he will vote like this
on a relatively unimportant mo-
tion, the situation seems to have
developed whereby all that is ne-
cessary to get a motion passed is a
couple of jokes and a quick vote
during the ensuing laughter. This
seems to us to be a dangerous
precedent for future, more vital
motions.
Yours faithfully,-
R. W. SAXTON,
J. C. STOCKBR1DGE, E.E.2.
Folk Club
Dear Sir,
We read with dismay your Late News article on the Hootenanny
of 29 October. While we appreciate the writer's concern at the
cramped conditions of the Television Room, we must add that such
an atmosphere is, in fact, beneficial to both audience and performers.
The former will be more inclined to come again when, perhaps, it is
less crowded and artistes sing better in an intimate atmosphere than in
a huge bare room where acknowledgement comes through as merely
a whisper. Also, when Bill Clifton last came the ICWA lounge was
only half-full.
The club committee felt that the bar was in the most advantageous
position. It must have been—it went dry\ It had to be awkward for
someone, particularly* if he happened to be in the far corner of the
room. But the other corners constituted exits, at one tickets were
sold, the other two were adjacent to the stage. Surely, those stalwarts
who need multitudinous lubrication to join in the choruses with gusto
should place themselves nearer the bar.
Finally, whose opinion was this? If, as we suspect, it was the
LN Editor's, then we appreciate his plight. There he was, positioned
equally well for our bar or the Union's (" banned " to him by the
hordes of Guildsmen) and dying to let his voice soar above all the
others. But, next time you express an opinion, please sign it.
Yours faithfully,
IAN WILLIAMS (Sec. 1CFSQ
ROGER FROST (Vice-Pres. ICFSC)

