2 FELI X
POST W A R EUROPE
The sight of the Main Physics Lecture Theatre
filled to capacity every Tuesday this term with
members of I.C. listening to lectures on modern
history has been a remarkable testimony to the
abilities of Michael Howard, Professor of War
Studies at King's College London. His magnetic
personality, his excellent speaking and his per-
fectly logical presentation of what could easily
have been merely a confusing array of facts have
made his series of talks on " The Shaping of Post
War Europe " an unforgetable experience for all
who attended them.
This is a period of history through which we
have all lived, even though we may not have been
conscious of the dramatic events happening around
us. Professor Howard has led us expertly through
the jumble of political controversy and international
crises which is modern history to present us with
a very clear picture of the origins of the present
world situation.
With speakers as good as this, General Studies
could become a very useful and important part of
life at I.C., and would be attended by a far greater
proportion of the college than supports the normal
run of often rather mediocre talks organised at
p r e s e n t
- C. A . L E G G .
GENERAL
STUDIES
<
s
>
OBSERVERBRIEFINGS!
"She may have had something other women
haven't, but nothing in this wet film suggests it"*
"A witty demonstration that what you lose on the
marriage roundabout is easily picked up on the
adultery swings"**
Every Sunday, The Observer in its two briefing
pages gives a lively consumer guide to enter-
tainment and the arts—the when and where
of what's good, what's new and what's coming.
You can read short, sharp reviews of re-
cords, paperbacks, television, art, theatre,
pop, pubs, films, night-spots, music, opera—
everything that is part of modern culture.
And Observerbriefing backs up the reviews
with comment and background information.
Try it this Sunday.
In T H E O B S E R V E R every Sunday
* The film 'A House Is Not A Home'
** The play 'A Severed Head'
A N ATHEIST'S NEEDS
The irreligious can be just as much in need of
spiritual solace as those who believe, according
to Miss Marghanita Laski, who addressed a
crowded General Studies meeting last week.
Mis. Laski, a guest of the Huxley Society, said
that there are two kinds of people: those with
emotional needs which have traditionally been
satisfied by religion and those who are not oppres-
sed by the loneliness, guilt and imminence of death
which are the human condition. These needs have
universally found expression in the " rites of
passage," celebrating birth, maturation, marriage,
and death; even atheists appoint godparents ior
their children and cremations are accompanied by
" services."
Miss Laski's answer to the atheist's need is to
accept the actual content of religious, specially
Christian, ritual; the technique of prayer, the
beautiful music, the poetry of the Bible, and even
"religious experience," while rejecting their "over-
beliefs," which are denied to him.
In question time, Miss Laski wisely refused to
counter ontological proofs of the existence of God,
and broadly concurred with the easy-going attitude
of a humanist who confessed that he disbelieved in
God, not on the evidence, but because he found
it more satisfying. That should strike a chord
in the heart of every Huxleyan.
CHRIS COOPER
JAZZ
AND POETRY
" Man, we only had one prac-
tice—I'm worried," said Fred
Wheeler. Fifteen minutes later
he was reciting poetry to the ac-
companiment of the Jazz Con-
gress, a sextet of talented musi-
cians who play in a modern vein.
The occasion was the I-C. Jazz
Club "Jazz and Poetry Concert"
of Nov. 11th. This ambitious
programme did not attract a very
large audience, which is a pity
because the evening provided
both entertainment and food for
thought, not to mention some
very good jazz.
The entertainment was mainly
provided by Robin Riddihough,
whose expressive and humorous
poems were a great hit with the
audience. Fred Wheeler's recita-
tions were mostly in a more
serious vein and occasionally
suffered from inaudibility thanks
to I.C's superb amplification sys-
Robin Riddihough
tern. Never mind, I for one look
forward to more of this: my
initial scepticism is gone: I am
converted.
B.J.B.
HUXLEY AND MARX
That Britain is not a good ex-
ample of a "free" country was
opined at a joint meeting of the
Huxley and Communist Societies
held in Tizard Hall two weeks
ago.
Proceedings began with an
unexpected episode, whose sig-
nificance is still in dispute. Keith
Cavanagh, chairing for Com-
soc, moved that 'the meet-
ing send a telegram to South
Africa House expressing its dis-
gust at the imminent execution of
three trade unionists for sabo-
tage. The meeting assented by a
narrow majority and though it
appeared later that the charge in-
volved murder, they were in the
excellent company of U Thant.
The discussion on " The needs of
the individual and thfe require-
ments of the State " was attended
by about 30 people. The human-
ists charged their Marxist friends
with adherance to a rigid, oppres-
sive, and out-dated system of
ideas and referred to repression
in Eastern Europe.
The Comsoc members defended
their principles vigorously and re-
ferred to the undemocratic power
of the English press and the semi-
censorship of D-notices, which
prevented publication of news of
persecution, of Roman Catholics
in Northern Ireland and the Civil
Defence Regional Government
plans.
The role of the State as educa-
tor and creator of opinion was
discussed; and the Guardian and
Worker intellectuals present
agreed that the Sketch and Mirror
masses should be released from
their intellectual chains.

