4 FELIX
GENTLEMEN OF MINES
Morphy Day
Minesmen certainly made their presence known and felt. We
came close seconds in both the Morphy and Lowry, practically losing
sight of RCS behind us, and worrying Guilds to the end : an excel-
lent effort by both our crews.
On the towpath a small party of Minesmen stout of heart and
broad of shoulder, fully prepared with rotten, fermenting fruit and
vegetables, obtained from Covent Garden market a few days pre-
viously, faced an overwhelming number of Guildsmen. We gained
one tyre, which working on the principle of proportional represen-
tation makes us clear victors. Later in the afternoon the President
congratulated all Minesmen and further humiliated RCS by handing
back one of their official President's coats, stating that it was noi
now fit to be in Mines possession-
Mines Night
At Wapping L.T. Station the porter's cheerful cockney cry of
" I know where you lads are going " indicated that the Prospect of
Whitby was indeed renowned. Once Mines were inside the Prospect
beer sales rose considerably, and, by 8.30 p.m., when the Hawaiian
band arrived, our vocal cords were suitably moistened. The smooth
music soon induced us to vent forth with full bass volume " Cats "
Clementine, etc. A t first the band was perplexed, they even tried
to compete, an impossible and foolhardy task, as they soon realised.
In the end both band and Minesmen were in unison rendering ver-
sions of popular songs not often heard in public.
Clementine II
Running beautifully, reports the Motor Club. This was proved
on her run down to Brighton escorting the veteran cars and Bo. On
the South Downs a really proud moment came as Clementine II
swept past J. Surtees and B. Maclaren, who were driving a Sunbeam.
Clem, has had several runs since then, on Morphy Day she
carried the tyres and Mines armaments to the battlefield ; more
recently Clem, went to Silwood to carry flats for the Mines-Guilds
Carnival.
Mines-Guilds Carnival
Mines-Guilds Carnival, 20th November, one of the greatest
nights of the year. Fancy dress : this year's theme is " The Roaring
20th or Black Your Bottom" There is also dancing and cabaret
and in the later hours of the morning the film " Some Like It Hot"
is being shown. Tickets 25/-.
Guildfinger
The column born of our age,
replacing the old Spannerama.
The column that gives you the
news and views of Guildsmen.
Freshers' Dinners
Gentlemen, in fact two old
gentlemen, have been to six din-
ners, and noshed well over 700
of Mooney's best fare. The
Electricals lived up to their name,
and blew all the fuses at their
dinner. The ladies of Guilds were
also entertained by the Executive,
but it is one of the biggest prob-
lems in Guilds and I.C. that there
are so few girls.
Morphy Day
First—Guilds; first—Guilds;
first—Guilds. That was how we
finished in the Morphy and Lowry
Races, and in the " Tussle of the
Tyres on the Towpath." All three
victories were only gained after a
hard fight, and to finish with a
triple first means that this was one
of our finest hours. Well done
everybody, especially the gent
with the grey hair who organised
the Zebra Crossing crossings.
(Thousands were not killed as re-
ported in " Sennet").
Carnival
The Union Building will once
more ring to the happy tune of
bullets flying as the " Valentine
Massacre II " roars away on 20th
November. In other words,
Guilds have once more organised
the Guilds-Mines Carnival for the
20th, theme " The Roaring 20's,"
Tickets only 5 dollars from Joe
" Lefty " Collins and his hench-
men. Like Hot Some It!
Film
There are not so many "social"
functions in the second term, so it
has been decided to invent one.
On a certain Saturday in the
second term Guilds and Guilds-
men will be making their very
own film in Hyde Park. Every-
body will be featured, so start
thinking of good stunts that can
be recorded for posterity.
mr
Morphy Day
Congratulations, R.C.S., on our victory on Morphy Day (on the
towpath not the boat races). Guilds will indubitably claim victory
but we had to get our tyres whereas Guilds only had to sit on theirs.
Also the surplus trousers ratio was five to one in our favour.
One thing most people agree on, it was the best Morphy Day
for years. I wonder what the police think ?
The last word I think should come from Dave Royle (the
casualty) who on being asked if he was going to Morphy Day next
year replied, " Of course."
Smoking Concert
To-morrow week. One free pint of beer, and subsidised rates
after that. With tickets at only 3/- you can't lose. Scripts should
be in by now—but don't let this prevent you from handing in any
more masterpieces-
Union Office
The R.C.S. Union Office (Room 20 Chemistry building) will be
open on Thursday lunch-time (1—2 p.m.) from to-morrow. If you
want any information, or have any queries, just drop in.
Swunming Gala, December 11th
Tends to get a bit like an indoor version of Morphy Day. Any-
body who can swim is requested to contact S. R. Rowe, 103 New
Beit. (If you are in doubt about entering, here is a word of advice.)
All the competitors get wet and so do a fair proportion of the on-
lookers. The difference is that the former are not fully dressed.
Union Meeting
The next one is probably on December 1st. Should be pretty
good, with the postponed trial, and something else which I am not
at liberty to reveal.

