6 F E L I X
felix
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
E D T T O R
ASSISTANT EDIITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dave Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Sales Andrew Mayo,
Jocelyn Mackintosh
N. J. WALKER
Business
Cartoonists
Photographic
Editor
Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barry Pichler
Brian Bull,
Chris Wright
John Cawson
MASCOTS
"The amorphous mass of I.C." said H. G. Wells many years
ago. Times have changed, but from the motion passed at the Union
meeting on 5th November, it appears that the attitude of I.C. students
hasn't.
Perhaps it was because no one had enough courage to stand up
and speak against Des Kearns that Phoenix was given away to
Churchill College, Cambridge, and the Queen's tower substituted as
mascot. A mascot is meant to be the focus of Union Spirit. Do we
now have to hold the Union meetings on the central site, or have
I.C. at last withdrawn from " mascot pinching."
Last year, the first for many years, I.C. pinched mascots from
other London colleges, and, as a result, the general London student's
opinion of l . C rose. We had begun, at last, to take an interest in
the many other colleges in London.
During the Autumn Term all students who wish to partake in
sport can do so in IX1
.. with Freshers' dinners, Morphy Day, the
swimming gala, but what of the rest of the year ? Not everyone is
a sober individual who does nothing but work! Surely indulging in
visits to other colleges is not to be banned because the LC. student
knows what he wants but won't go out of his way to get it.
UNION CLERK
The Union Clerk has arrived, on Wednesday of each week. If
any club or society wishes to utilise her, please band in all letters,
stencils, reports or whatever you want, typed by the Tuesday night,
and we will endeavour to get them typed on Wednesday.
Felix hopes to have most of its copy typed on the Wednesday
prior to publication, so will all contributors please note new copy
deadlines:
7.00 p.m. Tuesday All letters, general articles, small ads.
12.00 noon Wednesday All.club and society news excluding sport-
7.00 p.m. Wednesday All news. All Sport.
Please try and keep to these times—if articles are subscribed
late we will try to publish them but we CANNOT G U A R A N T E E .
FELIX
Once again Felix is 18 pages (including the Late News). This
makes us the largest London Student Newspaper and twice as large
as most.
Felix depends on you. If you are to continue to get full value
for your money then we must hear from you about any news you hear
(including any society meetings you attend).
ULU REVITALISED
" This is the sort of thing U L U should do and can do well," said Tony
Berry, IC's President 8f U L U , following the success of the first London
student journalists' seminar on Saturday, 31st October. He intends that this
event and others like it will take place each year.
It aimed to improve university and college publications. Fifty repre-
sentatives came from London colleges and the universities of Essex and Sussex
to exchange ideas and benefit from the experience of three past Editors of
Sennet, now professional, and Mrs. Jill Platford, of Educational Publicity,
Felix's advertising agency. There was also an opportunity to harangue
Sennet's Managing Director on the running of the U L U newspaper.
PURPOSE
A college newspaper has three main
tasks :
1. Be a forum for views.
2. Present an information service.
3. Communicate between Union
and students.
Two speakers opined that it should
be controversial, should not resort to
sensationalism, and must avoid any
suppression of news stories. Thus,
creating a good image, it will attract
both staff and readers.
If readers are to believe in the
newspaper then they expect profes-
sional standards. So the staff cannot
plead amateurism for either mistakes
or lack of information. But no stu-
dent newspaper apart from LSE's
Beaver can claim sufficient staff.
" Some sacrifice of Union funds is
necessary to create professionalism in
the newspaper." Further, the Editor
should not be tied down by the Union
hierarchy in determining his policy.
Felix has shown remarkable growth
in advertising in the last two years.
Due largely to Mike Combe's contro-
versial Editorship, it has risen by
over 30 per cent, on last year's figure
(national average 10 per cent.).
OUT O F PLACE
Reviews and feature articles do not
c
o
L
c
u
T
T
THE LITTLE DEBATE
The Debating Society, we are told, is making its
n'th attempt to get back on its feet again, but at-
tendances remain dishearteningly low. One long
term remedy, that of giving people public speaking
lessons, is, 1 am glad to say, materializing. How-
ever, in the meantime, I think that more well-
known outsiders should be brought in to speak, in
the hope that more people will come to hear them,
and perhaps even be moved so far as to make a
speech from the floor. Certainly it needs more
action than we've seen so far to counteract the
vicious circle of decline that set in three years ago.
One has a sneaking suspicion, however, that the
crux of the matter is that most people have very
few ideas on subjects outside their work, and are
certainly not prepared to submit them to public
criticism. In which case, tomorrow's technocrats
are going to be a very dull race of people.
5 . 1 - 1
TO PUTNEY—BY TUBE
Morphy day was one of the best examples of
an enjoyable, non-alcoholic, student rag, that I
have seen in London. The Law was co-operative,
there were very few cases of stroppiness amongst
the students, and the vice-presidents had the or-
ganization fairly well worked out. Consequently,
a good time was had by all, with very little incon-
venience to the general public. Can this perform-
ance be repeated for the Swimming Gala? If so,
it should be worth going to.
LATE " NEWS "
I would suggest to the Late News staff that
their job is simply, to present news. The publica-
tion was never intended as a competition to the
features and discussion in Felix, and is completely
unsuited for this job for several reasons. Inci-
dentally, I have no doubt either that some of the
blame for the content of ,the last issue should be
shouldered by people who make no attempt to
make newsworthy stories available to the Editor.
Some humour, yes, but no more pyjama stories
please! ! !
belong unless they have a specific
connection with the college. While
the " Presidents Column " was out, a
diary on Union personalities could be
interesting and informative. The
newspaper should not tackle any sub-
ject for which it is not equipped—like
a women's column written by men.
Articles must have a firm basis—
Sennet's feature on IC's telephone
swindle was quoted as a bad example,
based on false figures—and should
not exceed the boundaries of the col-
lege unless there is some overlap (as
with Blackett). The Editorial should
also reflect this—" Who wants to
know the Sennet Editor's opinion on
birth pills ?"
"There must be a consistency of
approach in presentation." Complete
rewriting is therefore advantageous.
This makes two jobs—the reporter to
dig up facts ; and the subeditor to
knock the copy into shape.
The real stories come through the
reporter and his personal contacts, es-
pecially the " in-between^." men. The
news writer must be better informed
than his readers, must not show any
bias and must omit his personality.
An article should be set out so :
1. Punch line—get out the story
angle immediately — one quote
may suffice.
2. Background.
3. Details.
4. Quotes by relevant people, fully
titled, and other sides to the pic-
ture.
" You can count the dots in I I
columns," said a speaker on photo-
graphs. Ideas are generally lacking
in this field, but any picture worth
printing is worth printing big.
What impressed us most about our
evening visit to the Sunday Times
was the vast number of people stand-
:
ng around doing nothing as nine
batteries of machines roared, printing
on " paper made at our mills in
Canada" three sections of the mor-
row's news—all 56 pages of it ! On
the other six days of the week eight
are idle. One prints The Guardian.
As our guide said, "Mr. Thomson
has plans for the others."—The Sun
perhaps ?
D.I.W.

