6 F E L I X
Imperial College Expeditions
Above and opposite: the Bolivian "ghost city"
of San Antonio d e Lipez which an I C expedition
will visit this summer. Photos b y courtesy of
Tony Morrison of Nonesuch Expeditions L t d .
This year Imperial College is sending
four expeditions abroad. They are going to
almost all parts of the world. The mountain-
eers are going to freeze in Greenland and
lite zoologists to boil in Nigeria. A party of
the Underwater Club will be based on
Malta whilst another group is looking for
lost mines in Bolivia.
Snout t o be surveyed b y Mountaineering; C l u b
The mountaineering club is going to
Greenland to study the Mount Furel group
of peaks in Eastern Greenland. They hope
to make a particular survey of the Snout
which has not been covered before. Their
main difficulty will be with transport be-
cause the area is situated quite a long way
inland on a tricky route. They will be flying
to Kulusak where they will be faced with a
journey of about a week, if all goes well,
into the interior. They have been lucky in
arranging an airdrop of supplies which
should help to remove a lot of the humping.
Tnis is the only expedition f o r a couple of
\ ^ars; which will be ' operating in what used to
be the traditional larea for expeditions from
Imperial College. F o r many years there was an
unbroken succession of expeditions which went
to Arctic areas but in recent times the explorers
have preferred wanner climes.
Grasshoppers i n Nigeria
female zoologist Irene Ridinig is leading a n
_ fit-member party into the forests of Nigj&ia
to study grasshoppers. They have been invited
by a zoologist at the University of Ife to work
under him. While they are there they will try
to fit statistics to grasshoppers and to study other
parasites. Nigeria a n d the rest of West Africa,
have attracted many College expeditions in the
past.
Physical phenomena of Malta
Once again the Under-Water C l u b hasi picked
the plums of the climates and is going to spend
the summer swimming off Malta. Unlike previous"
Under-Water C l u b expeditions this one will riot
be biologically based but will be studying
physical phenomena. Diving has been developed
to a great extent now ana pne of the limiting
factors in further development is the ability or
divers to communicate. This\ expedition under
Brian Ray, a physics Post-Graduate, will be
trying apparatus for communications using voice
frequencies. They will also continue investigation
of. some caves in Malta which were discovered
by the College in 1963. This group,have • spent
most of this year building » lot of the apparatus
that they will h*ed.
Most of the firms which ad-
vertise jobs for university grad-
uates are pretty big. A career
in such a firm should be secure
and well-ordered. But British
industry also contains a vast
number of small and medium
sized businesses, many of which
are now beginning to recruit
graduates. Some of these are the
most rapidly growing firms in
the country—they try harder and
they have more room to grow.
Such a firm offers advantages
to compensate for a less orderly
career. There is a god chance
of getting an interesting job
more quickly and seeing the im-
pact of your own contribution to
the company's management. In
such a firm the atmosphere is
different; within a couple of
years you should know almost
all the managers—many closely—•
and you will be able to see howl
decisions are taken.
Crane Ltd., is a medium sized
engineering company (employing
about 4,000) which meaks boilers,
central heating equipment, valves
and pipe fittings. It has plans to
increase its size three-fold in a
few years, and it is backed by
American money and technical
expertise.
We are now recruiting gradu-
ate trainees in significant numb-
ers for the first time. Those who
join us now should have a chance
of an exceptionally rapid career.
We need engineers (mechanical
or production) most urgently,
but there are vacancies for
mathematicians and economists,
and irts graduates for sales or
personnel work. Starting salaries
are £1,000 a year.
You can get details from
your Appointments Board or
bv writing to The Assistant
Secretary. Crane Ltd., 15. Red
Lion Court, Fleet Street;
London, E.C.4.

