Microsoft Student Deals
Office Pro 97 OR Office 4.2 for MAC only
Visual Basic Pro AND Visual C++ Pro only
NowAt...
£85.00 + VAT
£85.00 + VAT
lit
CCS SHOP
Level 4
Mechanical Engineering Building
ext. 46953 "
ccs-shop@ic.ac.uk
9 . 3 0 a m - 5 . 0 0 p m ( W e d 1 0 . 0 0 a m - 5 . 0 0 p m )
What's the BEST way to make a difference?
Ever sat in a lecture theatre, mesmerised by the singular tonality of an octogenarian orator? Ever won-
dered whether somewhere in a lecture theatre in Budapest students were being similarly entertained?
Ever thought (cynically, privately or otherwise) that you could never change these things? Well then,
BEST may be something for you!
BEST (The Board of European Students of Technology) is a non-political, non-profit network ofstudents
from 21 different European countries. It was founded in 1989 with the aim of 'promoting Europe
amongst Europeans. Local BEST Groups (LBG) keep in contact via the Web.
Summer Programme (as the courses have come to be known collectively) is just one of the events organ-
ised by BEST. Under the same terms you might attend a one week Short Intensive Training (SIT) in
Helsinki on a non-technical topic such as management, marketing or presentation technique, or a one
week intensive language course in Krakow. You might also participate in a cultural exchange between
two LBGs, each undertaking to outdo the other in intricacy of local custom, and no doubt, the ability to
consume obscene quantities of fermented hops! And if that's not enough then you can always go skiing
in Tignes, mountaineering in the Alps or canoeing on the Rhine... Where's the catch? Although IChas in
the past been a part of the BEST network we have since lapsed into a state bordering dangerously on sus-
pension because... well frankly... we haven't organised a single event for the past two year. There are
now a few of us who plan to resurrect BEST as an ICU Society. Naturally, as with all these things, we
need your support. Specifically, we need to make a list of at least twenty people who would be interested
and are also looking to mobilise a group of committed individuals to form our committee - a President,
Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, Publicity Officer, Web Manager (very important) and an Industrial
Liaison Manager. So, if this article has whet your appetite for more, if you really want to make an impact
in the future of YOUR engineering/science education at a European level, if you want to travel and meet
people from many new countries... then please get in touch with us soon by e-mailing
d.pieter@ic.ac.uk.
HAIR SALON
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington London SW7 3ES
(1 Minute walkfromSouth Kensington Tube)
C U T & BLOW DRY
B Y O U R T O P S T Y L I S T S
£ 1 5 LADIES
£ 1 3 M E N
Normal Price £30
M f e
Telephone 0171 823 8968
A C C E S S V I S A M A S T E R C A R D C A S H C H E Q U E S

