FICTION 27 February 1998
From the author of Raising Demons, Caspar von Wrede, comes another dark tale from the edge.,
He can see the sky and it is the most beautiful
thing he has ever seen, a vast d o m e of infinite
blue. H e can see the sun. It has gradually, imper-
ceptibly, crept across the heaven. In the begin-
ning he had to strain his eyes to the left as far as
they would go to see it and now he was begin-
ning to have to strain them to the right. They
ache from the constant light but that doesn't
bother him. The sun is still w a r m o n his face,
even though it must be getting late. H e can't
remember when it last shone but he imagines it
was a very long time ago; maybe he never
noticed it.
Some clouds formed earlier o n in the direc-
tion of where his feet must be. Long, thin tenu-
ous clouds that appeared out of the air to drift
peacefully away beyond where he could see
them. Sometimes a billow of smoke will pass
over him and his world will briefly be cold with
shadow. The smell of cordite will sting his nose
and sometimes clods of m u d will patter around
him. thrown up by the explosion. But then the
smoke passes and again the delicious sunlight
caresses him.
He can hear every shell as it shrieks earth-
wards and each time he wonders again whether
one of them will end its brief, violent flight
through the air on him. But none of them d o .
Some fall so far away that he can barely feel the
mud around him shiver as they detonate. Others
hit the ground only tens of feet away, tearing
deep wounds into the soil and showering him
with the fragments. Endlessly they fall from the
blue sky, bearing their loads of destruction. But
never on him, not yet. He's glad that they don't.
He is in no pain. He can watch the sky and the
sun in its timeless orbit; maybe he will even see
it set.
He must be losing blood. H e cannot move
anything apart from his eyes. H e cannot feel his
legs. A n d his m e m o r y is gone. His mind is blank,
wiped; he does not know his name or what has
happened to him. H e just knows that he is lying
here in the m u d , between bodies and craters,
and long coils of barbed wire. Waiting.
He is living in the present. His past is gone,
as is his future. There is just the timeless present,
and he can feel that it is infinite.
Someone was close to him, very close. He
could hear their breathing, long and slow, as if
they were asleep. H e would have been able to
touch them if he could have m o v e d his arm. The
breathing was with him for a long time, very reg-
ular, s o m e h o w intimate. H e listened to it and
breathed with them. But then the breathing had
stopped, without warning, from one breath to
the next and he was alone. Further away some-
one had been saying a name. Franceses, over
and over and over again. A normal voice. A s if
they were mentioning the name in conversation,
again and again, no change in the tone or the
speed, like a record needle stuck in its groove.
But they too had stopped suddenly. A shell
probably got them. If he could speak would he
be saying someone's name? H e might have a
wife, children even, but he can't remember. H e
doesn't mind, it wouldn't change anything now.
He feels like he is part of the m u d already.
Gradually it has been o o z i n g into his tunic, cold
and alien on his skin. But n o w he cannot feel it
anymore, maybe his body temperature has
warmed it, or maybe he is too numb to feel it.
This m u d will swallow him and maybe he will
never be recovered. There are so many others
out here, each once a person, with a face that
had smiled and cursed and cried, w h o had
breathed and felt pain. Each had been loved.
Each with a story to tell, but not anymore. H e is
almost like them; he has forgotten his story.
Strangely he does have one last memory
though, one lone recollection amongst the
emptiness in his mind. It is the memory of a
room.
The room is small, rectangular, and contains
only a sink, a bed, and a cupboard. The walls are
made of smooth w o o d , painted light yellow, and
there is a door opposite the bed. Another wall
has the sink, of white porcelain, attached to it.
There is a lamp hanging from the ceiling, with an
opaque white shade. It has a wick that glistens
with oil and a long fluted chimney of glass. But
better than this the room has a window. A n d
through this w i n d o w he can see a field of long
grass, and beyond it a flat body of water that
stretches almost to the horizon. O n the horizon
are dark rolling hills and above them, the sky,
dark blue and filled with towering stacks of white
cloud. He does not know what is beyond the
door. W h e n he tries to open it there is only that
emptiness that has swallowed the rest of his
memories.
This room must have meant something to
him, for its memory to survive whatever it was
that left him here bleeding into the m u d . O r
maybe it was just luck that he has one meaning-
less last recollection whilst everything else was
purged. What happened in this room? H e will
never know, but he can savour its memory.
Suddenly he can hear shouting. The gunfire
seems to have increased. He can hear the whine
of bullets as they cut the air overhead, briefly
intruding into his world. A machine gun is firing
somewhere in quick bursts and its explosive
chatter is making unremembered fears stir in his
mind. There is a machine gun nest close to him.
W a s that what they were trying to take out?
There are screams and more shouting. A n d sud-
denly something flies through the air, thrown by
an unseen hand, and lands beside h i m .
Adrenaline erupts into his blood. Even though he
saw it for only a fraction of a second, he knows
it is a hand grenade.
Damn, Damn, Damn, why does the end
have to be like this? H e tries futilely to move, to
crawl away. But his muscles are not responding,
they are betraying him. He doesn't want to die
so soon. It is far too early. H e should have been
allowed more time than this. H e stops trying to
move, and closes his eyes. Tears are streaming
out from under his eyelids.
He forces himself to breathe slowly, to try to
order the thoughts in his mind before it is per-
manently extinguished. Time slows d o w n so that
its passing is barely perceptible. M a y b e his mind
knows it is about to be vaporised, he thinks,
maybe it is slowing d o w n his perception of time
so that he can have a few more moments. Any
second now...any second. His whole body is
shaking. This anticipation is killing me, is the only
thought in his mind. H e would have laughed
insanely had he been able to d o so.
The moments pass, and he is still alive. It's
a dud, it's a bloody dud. For many minutes he
lies with his eyes closed, maybe even for as long
as half an hour. H e cannot think but continues to
cry silently.
Then there is a new sensation, warmth
around his breast, for the first time an ache. I'm
bleeding, I must have opened a wound. He
realises that this time it really is the end. He
feverishly tries to think of his past, someone he
knew, anything, but it is useless. There is noth-
ing. Sounds are becoming more distant, the sky
darker, but he realises that the darkness is only
in his mind. He is dying.
He re-enters the r o o m , searching for a
memory that he might have missed but there is
nothing new. H e looks through the w i n d o w
scanning the glorious vista, but he's seen it all
before. H e turns round and suddenly there is a
cot in the middle of the r o o m , a simple w o o d e n
cot, painted white. It is occupied. Ever so slowly
he bends over and delicately moves a blanket so
that he can see into the child's face. With an
overwhelming certainty he suddenly remembers
that he is a father, and that this is the child
w h o m he never saw, w h o was born after he
began his service at the front. He is transfixed by
its beauty, its innocence, its peacefulness, but he
dares not touch it in case he wakes it. Very slow-
ly he leans forward until his face is almost touch-
ing the child's curls. H e can smell it's freshly
washed skin. Remember me, he whispers softly
into its ear. Then he straightens up, opens the
door and without looking back steps into the
yawning void.
His corpse is smiling.

