C
°Ur e r s
S m a l l A d s
FOR SALE & HIRE
• U s e d TS-160 dual-cone car radio Pioneer
speakers and unused Philips car radio alone
(not FM) plus almost new Sanyo portable de-
luxe black & white TV. Contact int 7416.
• Gents Raleigh Bike 5 months old, quick
release wheels, high pressure valves, lock and
chain, bicycle pump, rainbow colours. Contact
Gerry int 5233.
• Ents Disco for hire £25 per night. Contact
Ian Morris via Ents in the Union Office
• Saxophone-1920s with case, needs a little
work but a bargain at £70. Contact Peter
Darling (Mining III) or 2 2 8 8892/874 4964.
ACCOMMODATION
• Wanted: Single room in central London, will
pay up to £40 p/w. Contact Cain Harris, int
3670/5917.
• Required by two professional people 12
single rooms). Please contact P Galley (Chem
LOST & FOUND
• Lost—Backgammon set from Union Bar in
red/brown, zip-up case, may have name 'Harry
Bryce' on it. Reward for return. Contact Sarah
Butcher (Applied Biology IV) via pigeon holes
or ring 3 7 3 8307.
PERSONAL
• Hi Spence you funky sex monster! Love
from your three pussy cats
• Timmy, don't forget your appointment at
our hair and beauty salon, love Rusti.
• Desert Island Disques. Listen to Michael
and Jason and join the Pina Colada set.
• Broadcast directly from the sun-drenched
Southside Beach. Desert Island Disques for the
discerning listener.
• Where was Scotty last Wednesday night?
Has someone taken a PRESIDENT over Lotti?
• How did Jackie GATE the Civ Eng buffet. T.
• The Caped avenger wants your votes. He
doesn't need them, of course, he's a
super-hero.
• Alfred the redbin seeks female receptacle
for mutually filling relationship Reply to box
130 Hamlet Gdns.
• Williams' Shades—Sunglasses customised
to your design, or break your own. Reply to
130 Hamlet Gdns.
• Found—one broken phonecard (40 units)
£200 or would exchange for Brigitte Nielsen's
legs. Flat 130 Hamlet Gdns.
• Lost—'trendy' IC Radio DJ. Last seen
through the bottom of a pint glass in a brandy
glass. Description impossible as we've only
seen him once this year, answers to most
names, if found please direct to 130 HG.
• What's yellow & smells of banana?
• Episode 2..level 7..mega blah..mega
blah..mega yawn..private French lessons..blah
blah blah blah..ha ha ha..bunch of wet optical
fibres..xxx.
• Simon uses condoms on his flexible friend.
• For sale—pure mink hat. No licence but
extremely bad taste needed. Possibility of hair
lice 15p ono. Contact MJV, 130 HG.
Not bothered
Dear IC Students,
I am sorry that no one has taken up Chris Martin's
suggestion in F E L I X 781 for a London-wide campaign
on accommodation. I have long been advising potential
students to go for northern universities, unless they have
special reasons for wanting to study elsewhere, because
of the differences in accommodation costs. I find it difficult
to get by in London on my research assistant's salary, so
how you students survive, I don't know.
However, from the apathetic response to M r Martin's
letter, I assume you all either have rich mummies and
daddies buying you yuppie pads, or you couldn't give a
toss if next year you're sleeping on the streets. As someone
who has several years experience compaigning on housing
issues, I was going to go on and give some advice and
suggestions (eg why not link up with younger staff
members like myself who have been squeezed out of the
housing market). But as you apparendy can't be bothered,
neither can I.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Huntbach (Department of Computing).
No bigotry
Dear Judith,
In last week's F E L I X , the letters page was dominated
by the anti-abortionist point of view as expressed by P A T A
supporters. By asking a couple of questions of the authors
of the letters in question, I would like to offer an alternative
viewpoint that neither condemns, nor supports, abortion.
When Paul Rice says... 'unless people are aware of the
destructive effects of abortion on mother and child...',
does his use of 'people' mean parents, family, friends or
society in general? Personally I would prefer the word
'mother', for in the end, only she can decide what is best
for her, not 'people'.
Hugh MacKenzie asks, in an extremely condemning and
arrogantly self-righteous letter...'What concept of rights
is in use that makes independence a clinching factor?'.
To M r MacKenzie I would ask, 'Does a woman, on
becoming pregnant, lose the independence that gives her
the freedom to decide the course of her own life?
There are many people with strong views on abortion,
and I suspect that the majority, both those for and against,
are bigots, not willing to consider an alternative viewpoint.
After all, how many women, especially here at IC, have
had to decide between life and death, how many men have
'been there' during the deciding?
So, let's have less indoctrination, less bigotry and more
compassion and understanding.
Steven Mercer, Physics III.
No imposition
Dear Judith,
Contrary to what was implied in a couple of last week's
letters, I do not deny the dangers of abortion. However,
I believe that rather than taking a stance which seeks to
impose one section of the population's moral views on
. another by law, the following points should be addressed:
1. Performing a late abortion is dehumanising for both
the doctor and the mother, not to talk of dangerous. Rather
than make it illegal for the few desperate people who need
late abortions, the legislation should be changed so that
a woman who has considered her own personal
circumstances and has decided to have an abortion should
| be able to get it within a week of her request. Such a
speeding up of the system would substantially reduce the
number of late abortions and make David Alton's Bill
unnecessary.
2. One source of late abortions is underage, girls who
have been too frightened to do anything about their
condition until it became obvious. This could obviously
be prevented by adequate sex education and also by doing
away with the hypocritical morality that does not allow
a girl who is mature enough to realise that she may need
contraception to obtain it.
One of the last week's letters mentioned a talk organised
by P A T A on October 15. I fail to see the effectiveness
of the chairman of the society advertising a cheese and
wine in F E L I X three weeks ago and the secretary
revealing, after the event, that it was actually a talk in
disguise! In fact, the only P A T A event I have seen
advertised was some time last year and it was a talk given
by a so-called 'victim' of abortion. I am afraid that a talk
given by someone who denies responsibility for her own
actions and allows herself to be called a victim is of no
interest to me. While we're on the subject, I didn't notice
any dissenting voices from P A T A at a pro-abortion talk
arranged by another society last week.
Finally, I must apologise for the sexist assumption that
only a woman can feel empathy for a pro-choice stance.
Yours sincerely,
Kemi Adenubi, Civ Eng III.
Not related
Dear Judith,
I wonder if either of your readers have noticed the
similarity between Moore Lyttle, ex-Union Bar Manager,
and Norman Jardine, Union Catering Manager?
No? Well, I must confess that they do not look alike
at all which makes it all the more surprising to discover
one of your ace newshounds conducting the e n , r
of his
exclusive 'Norman Jardine' interview (Felix , oi) with
none other than M r Lyttle. (He was sitting in the S^ack
Bar after all...).
Oddly enough, Moore knows little about the price
increases affecting the Snack Bar as he has n *ver worked
there.
Should you be planning any more in-depth probes into
Union pricing policies I would, of course, be more than
happy to answer any questions or even point out members
of Union staff. However, I should hate for one of your
hapless hacks to confuse me with Bryan Adams. *' e
dreadful Canadian singer, to whom I am alleged to
a passing resemblance.
I wonder if, by any chance, we are related?
I think I should be told.
Yours sincerely,
Alan Rose, Deputy President, Imperial College Union.
FELIX Friday November 6th 1987 IS

