U N D E R B * THE
MOOSJSCOPE
by Steve Black
I would like to thank Jason Lander for the article on the new Acorn computer.
Anyone else is welcome to submit articles of a similar nature. If you are not
confident of your linguistic abilities, don't worry I can clean up whatever
you send. I am easy to contact via the F E L I X Office, the letter racks in the
Chemistry foyer, or by phone (int 4642). I also welcome ideas even if you
don't have time to investigate them yourself, so if you want to see something
explained, drop us a line.
Next week: is the earth a gas planet? and chaotic uses for pure mathematics.
E R R A T U M : last week the labels on the chemical diagrams got confused
during the pasting up, it's not that my knowledge of chemical nomenclature
is completely up the creek.
The influence of
cars on wildlife
The car has complei ;hanged the
way we live. Many .ychological
studies have shown us ::hat we value
the car as a status sym ol and as an
outlet for violent emc ns: getting
from A to B is a relative minor use.
The influence of cars i i how we
appreciate the environment has not
been much studied; that is until now.
American Roger Knut on has just
published the definitive guide to how
cars influence the environment and to
how drivers can appreciate the
wildlife on the road. The book is
called Flattened Fauna: a Field Guide
to Common Animals of Roads, Streets
and Highways.
Normally, drivers miss e joys of
nature on the road because aey may
have the stereo turned up too much
or they may not be watching where
they are going. Knutson's book offers
those drivers a chance to appreciate
the nature they would otherwise miss
(or hit as the case may be). As he says
in the book: ' A Sunday drive can
become a safari into a new habitat
populated with animals unlike those
you have seen before.'
The book is filled with wonderfully
clear silhouettes to aid with
recognition of the animals. There are
also some interesting zoological
speculations on the usefulness of
mimmicry in flat animals, however it
is not clear how these fit in with
conventional Darwinism: it is not, for
example, easy to explain the
similarity of rusty hubcaps and the
painted turtle in terms of convergent
evolution.
A l l things considered the book
makes a wonderful departure from the
highly unnatural and contrived view
of nature presented to us by the
Attenboroughs of this world. I mean,
when was the last time you saw a 3-D
hedgehog? (Nature 329 p498)
Jason Lander looks at RISC
Why less means
more for Acorn
Computese, the language of computer
buffs, is laden with initials such as
R A M , R O M , E P R O M , and now
RISC. RISC, standing for Reduced
Instruction Set Computer, is a field
in which Mike Mullen of Acorn
Computers is deeply involved and
about which he talked to the Micro
Club on 15th October.
The idea behind RISC is simple:
design a computer chip that can do
less but can do what remains much
faster. A s always, however, the
reality is different. Exactly what
constitutes a RISC machine is a
subject of much heated debate. Purists
hold that any machine capable of
doing more than the very simplest
computing tasks is just not RISC.
Others, including Acorn, say that
almost any machine that has been
trimmed down should count. A s an
argument, this should run and run.
But just because a RISC chip has
fewer instructions does not mean that
it is inferior to any other type. A
RISC chip can do anything other
chips can do, but a RISC chip takes
several instructions to do what other
chips can do in one. However, most
instructions are simple ones, and the
RISC chip is optimised for these. The
gain in speed on the simple
instructions more than makes up for
the extra steps needed to emulate
complex instructions. Since all this
happens at the machine-code level, all
the user notices is a faster computer.
Users working with F O R T R A N or C
or the much maligned B A S I C (all of
which do the dirty work of translating
your formulae into machine
instructions) will notice no difference
except the increase in speed.
Acorn's own RISC chip is called,
unsurprisingly, the Acorn RISC
Machine or ARM (oh the imaginations
of our computer designers!) and is nt
the heart of their new Archimedes
microcomputer.
The Archimedes was designed
partly as a replacement for the ageing
B B C M i c r o , which is rapidly
becoming the computing equivalent of
the dinosaur. But Acorn also have the
profitable business market in their
sights as they are releasing I B M
emulation (software and hardware)
for the machine.
The original plan was to build their
computer from other people's
components, but they found this
limiting and expensive and so was
born 'Project A ' . The main aims of
the project were to design their own
chip (they had a lot of experience
from designing the gate arrays on the
BBC) and then to build a very fast
computer around it. The Archimedes
is the computer.
In terms of brute power the system
is impressive. It is, at the moment,
the fastest micro in its class. It is
capable of handling three million
instructions per second (3 MIPS in
computese) on average, with a
maximum of 8 MIPS. That is, one
instruction in the time it would take
a beam of light to cross London.
The graphics are good too. It can
display up to 256 different colours to
a resolution of 640 by 256 pixels, and
can produce animation at a sizable
fraction of the speed of film. It can
be programmed to produce eight track
stereo sound of Compact Disk
quality. A l l of this is enough to turn
the average micro owner an
unpleasant shade of green (which the
machine can probably display easily).
But the A R M is not alone. Other
more powerful RISC machines are
already on the market such as the
Inmos Transputer, which, unlike most
other chips, can do several things at
once at RISC speed.
The Archimedes is, however, the
first such micro to enter the
mainstream computer market (Atari
have announced a Transputer-based
machine, but this won't be off the
drawing board before next June even
according to their estimates). The
A R M also has the advantage of being
extremely cheap compared to rival
chips. But the others may catch up
and how long the Archimedes
survives will depend as much on
advertising and luck as on its
exceptional computing power.
Jason Lander, Physics 1
Friday November 6th 1987 FELIX

