5. What is the most
embarrassing thing that
has ever happened to
you?
Paul—
"Getting asked stupid questions by
you!"
Richard—
"In ULU, going to the concert thing.
My friend started swearing at the
"One time I got really drunk and
threw a pint ofbeer over someone that
was really getting on my nerves. Linzi—
"Being photographed with my hair
flat and no make-up on!"
Justin—
"Missing a whole term oflectures
T H E B A R O N
Whygate was going through one of his
temperamental phases. He was quite
temperamental all the time, of course, but
just at the moment he was particularly bad-
tempered. The reason was straightforward:
he could not find anyone to take him
seriously over his plan to set up the
'Whygate finishing school for new citizens'.
Whygate was proud of this idea. (In fact
he was proud of all his ideas, especially
when they involved his name). He was very
concerned that none of the Cheapskate
citizens knew how to behave properiy at
public occasions, and thought that if any of
them did not know how to pass the port correctly it might affect them
for the rest of their lives.
Whygate had been to a lot of formal suppers since the new citizens had
arrived in Cheapskate. All the citizens, he observed, seemed to take great
pleasure in drinking beer with salt in it and then vomiting all over the table.
Some of them did not even know how to use a knife and fork properly.
Worse still, some of the people from the Baron's castle were almost as bad.
Whygate concluded that the citizens ought to be properly trained in table
manners and general etiquette so that they would be well enough behaved
to have dinner with him. The first stage of his plan was to produce the
'Whygate's guide to eating with the President; the dos and don'ts of formal
dinners', which he would send to all the new citizens before they arrived
in Cheapskate. This would give lots of useful information to the uncouth,
beer-swilling new citizens, including 'no smoking before the Queen's toast',
'no footsie with the female citizen sitting opposite', and 'no pissing out
of the window'. The guide would, of course, give the green light to
removing all clothes in the citizen's bar and spanking female citizen's
bottoms, both of which Whygate did whenever he got the chance.
Whygate had suggested that his special guide should be included in the
'Citizen's guide to Cheapskate'. When he put this to the last editor, Pippa
Trout, the citizen in charge of other citizen's happiness, she had said that
she did not think this was 'quite the right sort of material' for the Citizen's
guide. Unfortunately, Whygate was too thick to realise that in anybody
else's language this would have been 'piss off, you moron'. (Trout was
very good at her job. She spent most of the day asking citizens if they
were all right, and was very upset and keen to help if anyone was feeling
miserable).
But Whygate was not very good at listening to any opinion other than
his own, and was not going to pay any attention to Trout or the other
leading citizens. He was taking the same attitude over the Tis Soft and
Sell Spock dormitories. Whygate wanted to throw all the young citizens
out of these two dormitories so that all the very old citizens could live
there. In fact this had not been Whygate's idea at all: it had been suggested
to him by Arthur Michael, the good but not very useful fairy. Arthur Michael
knew that Whygate was as much of a self-publicist as he was, and so
had convinced Whygate that the project was a good one by promising
that the name of the dormitories would be changed: they would be
collectively called the 'Michael-Whygate home for senior citizens
Whygate thought that this would be an excellent bit of PR for himself
and was not remotely concerned that several hundred young citizens would
have nowhere to live. It had not occurred to him that the only reason Arthur
Michael wanted to turn the dormitories into an old folks home was that
it would persuade lots old citizens from lands far away to come and live
in Cheapskate, bringing lots of money with them. But then brains had never
been one of Whygate's main assets....
Will the senior citizens be able to cope with the stairs?
Will Whygate bother to ask Dr Starsky, the guardian of the Tis Soft
and Sell Spock dormitories, if he thinks it is a good idea?
Will Dr Starsky be able to stop laughing?
What does Whygate look like with no clothes on?
Find out in the next episode of The Baron of Cheapskate.
FELIX Friday November 6th 1987

