IC 5ths vs RSM 2nds: 3 - 2
Birkbcck 1st vs IC 5ths: 1 - 2
With two thrilling and entertaining matches on Wednesday and Saturday
which both produced nail-biting finishes; the fifths collected yet another four
points to improve their chances of a late bid for the title.
Wednesday's match against R S M 2 was a superbly refereed, well balanced
game with either side looking capable of snatching the points until 'Big' Dave
Dean, covering a lot of ground to run onto a Damian Kelly pass, placed an
unstoppable shot out of the reach of the Mines' keeper. Earlier in the match
the fifths had taken the lead when Nick Matthews was sent clear by Russ
Gilbert and made no mistake with his shot. A n d it was Nick Matthews who laid
on the second goal for John Healy after Mines had equalised his earlier effort.
With Mines equalising just before half-time to set up a thrilling second half it
was no surprise that even after the fifths winning goal Mines continued to apply
pressure on the IC defence to get another equaliser. Great credit must go to
defenders, Pat Chown, Phil Lakin, Nick David and Bill Caffyn for withstanding
this pressure with great skill and composure. A n d a special mention must be
made the fifths goalkeeper Duncan Brown who produced four 'world class'
saves to deprive the opposition at vital moments.
O n Saturday the fifths faced yet another daunting prospect against a
Birbeck side who had won their last ten games. One of the main problems was
found to be transporting players to the ground. With Mark Clegg the fifths
captain, and tactical genius, unfortunately absent with flu, the fifths were
deprived of an extra car which would have proved invaluable. Paul Gohil's late
arrival, with car, eased the situation, but Dave Brannan, Steve Simms (one m),
Pat Chown and Dave Griffiths were still forced to sample the delights of
London transport.
However, when the match did finally kick-off the fifths proved that they had
not been disheartened by these events or Quentin Merrit's navigating, and in a
goalless first half the fifths were unlucky not to score on several occasions,
particularly Quentin Merrit who after a fine run through the Birbeck defence
was robbed of a certain goal when he was cynically uprooted by a Birbeck
defender whose crime went completely unpunished by an otherwise excellent
referee.
In the second half Dave McPhail started to show his true class and was
consistently causing the Birbeck defence trouble, even before, he sent a
rasping thirty yard shot into the roof of the Birbeck net. A n d it was he who
made the second goal for Nick Matthews shortly after, following some fine
work between Steve Sims and Dave Brannan (playing his first full game of the
season). With Birbeck getting a goal back from a fairly harsh penalty decision,
it was left, to what has now become a very solid fifth team defence, to hold out
for what seemed a very lengthy last ten minutes. It came as no surprise when
Paul Gohil, Pat Chown, or Dave Griffiths, and Nick David did this with
consumate ease. Once again Duncan Brown was also on hand to make several
vital, breathtaking saves in the dying minutes. A special mention to Russ
Gilbert who when Duncan was beaten once from a corner was 'on hand' to
make a very handy score.
The continuing saga of the famous
ladies rugby team Last Friday the Imperial College Ladies Rugby team were featured
on the L o n d o n and S.E. section of N A T I O N W I D E . T h e film featured
the IC vs U C m a t c h at Harlington which ended in a 0-0 draw. T h e
cameras focused on all aspects of the game including the boat race in
the bar afterwards. T h e film was spliced with interviews with both
captains and Eddie. Everyone in the team w h o saw it said that they
enjoyed it. It was a pity that the B B C couldn't let us k n o w the
screening date! T h e team have also hit the press (again!) notably the
Evening N e w s ' centre pages. T h e article was rather tongue in cheek
and featured a picture of a s c r u m . T h e continuing interest in Ladies
Rugby has also been noted by the B B C W o r l d Service.
Caroline holds on
IC 1st XI vs London Hospital 1st XI
Their winning ways having suffered a setback in their last game IC firsts
took the field against London Hospital 1st XI in the mood to put things
right and settle a few scores^fearlier in the season. The IC team settled
well and took a stranglehold on the midfield which was to be crucial, Andy
Haralampous in particular was forceful and full of running, one of his
crossfield passes found Ian Stevenson too busy admiring it to do anything
with it, about the only thing Ian did wrong all afternoon. The considerable
control IC were able to assert was by virtue of good team play from the
back all the way through to the forwards. Half time arrived with feeling
that it was only a matter of time before IC scored. The wait for the first
goal was not a long one. James Roley intercepted the first pass from the
kick off and jinked his way unchallenged through the entire London team
to beat the goalkeeper with a shot which rebounded off a post. The only
doubt was whether the ball had crossed the line, but the Captain's
persuasive powers worked on the referee again and the goal stood.
Fortified by this deserved success, IC again dominated. The forwards looking
particularly threatening with Graham Rickard prompting the ever-running
Dave Dean and James Roley. It was however Chris Hendy who scored
the second goal. He seemed slightly surprised that the ball reached him at
the far post through a crowd of three London players. Rising to the
occasion he thrust the top half of his person at the ball and managed to
thrust it towards the open goal. IC appeared to consider that two goals
were enough and eased up slightly, which provided Steve Veats with more
work, he made one fine save tipping the ball round the post whilst
horizontal, thank heavens he didn't have to catch it!
Two-nil was perhaps generous to London who had experienced one of
IC's best performances so far this season.
Team: S Veats, J Gamble, M Curran, M Kenrick, K Reeve, C Hendy, A
Haralampous, I Stevenson, J Roley, D Dean and G Rickard.
IC 2nd XI vs Barnes HCW: 2-1
We expect you're all wondering why the IC hockey 2nd XI never gets a
mention in this illustrious publication. Well, we think that it stems from a
vicious rumour that maintains that we never win! This remarkable state of
affairs was put right on Saturday when a Barnes team of average age 34V2
was well and truly hammered into the ground by the ruthless tactics and
effective hockey that so typifies the play of the seconds. (Actually, we
managed to scrape through 2-1!).
We overcame the first hurdle with some ease by persuading the 1st XI
to take captain Gordon Baxter off our hands. From this point on, the
team could do not wrong. Arriving at the ground forty-five minutes before
the opposition, Dave Cornwell managed to get an excellent snapshot of
one member of the side relieving himself of the pre-match tension!
Once on the pitch we proceeded to con Barnes into thinking that we
were the 3rd XI. They were so taken in by this that Gordon wylie was
able to carve through their defence and score from a narow angle. A
second goal soon followed, as a defender helpfully kicked Mike Chew's
shot inside the post. In the second half, the team never quite recovered
from being 2-0 up and allowed Barnes to score late on. However, thanks
to good defensive work and Martin Shaw's umpiring, we hung on to
record an historic victory.
Thanks must also be expressed to keeper Martin 'Banks' Cooper for
only touching the ball twice — once to pick it out of the net!; to Steve
Rampton for effectively body-checking their right-wing whenever he could;
and to Gordon Wylie for not getting a green card this week!
Andy Stoomer and Simon Gray
Falmouth beat Keogh
Falmouth Hall beat Keogh in the football match held this morning in
Hyde Park. Two spectators watched the match, equalling the crowd
attendance record, but they left when Falmouth were leading by five goals
to nil. There was no violence, except for a couple of minor fouls, which
resulted in a very clean game; however, in another sense, the game was
extremely muddy, in fact the ball virtually refused to bounce and stuck in
the mud quite a lot. One player described the game as being more like
water polo, and Harry Jingh wore goggles for part of the match.
Mick McNicholas was the major scorer for Falmouth with three of the
six goals; Huddersfield scored one of the two Keogh goals, the second of
which went in while the Falmouth goalkeeper, Charles Rich, was leaning
against his goalpost in the closing seconds of the match, waiting for the
final whistle.
Having beaten Keogh 6-2, Falmouth's next game is in a week's time
against Linstead who beat Willis Jackson House 4-2 last Sunday.

