Featura FELIX, Friday October 3 1986 11
r
'own& o
D own & Out is yet again looking
forward to forthcoming events
around London. There are many
events taking place in the next
seven days and D&O takes a quick
look at the best of them. These
aren't necessarily the most
expensive and some of them are
free. Like, er, on Saturday 4th:
sold on the door for Monday 6th.
Manchester's leading Indie band (since the
Smiths signing to EMI) never seems to break
through into the main stream proper. They
have kept up a low live profile this year but
return with the new term and this gig is not
worth missing.
I
X he Men They Couldn't Hang are playing at a
FREE Anti-Fascist Rally on Cable Street, E l
at 5pm. Though not on a par with the Pogues
in terms of record sales, they easily match
• them live, with there version of Rawhide
I needing to be heard to be believed.
1 here are some very good bands playing this
week who don't charge the earth, such as The
Hank Wangford Band, a gyneaologist with one
hell of a stage act, performing at the Half
Moon, E15 for just £3 on Saturday 4.
O,
'n Sunday 5, at the Marquee, plays The
Larks, (who are incidentally playing in College
on October 23 thanks to Uncle Dan, the Ents
man), it costs just £3.50, they have a few things
to say about the world and when I saw them
everyone had a really good time. Honest John!
1 here are still a few hundred £5 tickets left
for New Order concert at the Albert Hall to be
mustn't forget my favorite group of the
moment, the Housemartins, who are playing at
my favorite venue of the moment, The
National Club, on Kilburn High Road, NW6.
Also soon to be appearing there are the Smiths
and Billy Bragg. Er, back to the
Hotosemartins, sorry. Easily the fourth best
band (in Hull) with an absolute monster
album behind them, deservedly I say. I
thought their album, London 0 Hull 4, was not
overly publicised by Go! Discs, but didn't
appear to matter as it charted on its own
strength. The highly original video to their
single, Happy Hour, certainly helped them
break through to the Top Ten and
wider public recognition, but they
deserved it. Since they came up
through the clubs, and weren't a
product of a record company's
imagination, they know how to
entertain their audience, and create
a superb atmosphere when playing
live. Well worth going north on the
Jubilee Line next Thursday
(October 9th) at only £4 (£3 cones).
Lega events to look forward to over the
coming month include Everything But The Girl
at the Royal Albert Hall on the 14th. ZZ Top at
Wembley Arena for 4 nights from the 20th.
The Smiths are at the National Club on the
23rd, the Brixton Academy on the 24th and the
Palladium on the 26th. Ifyou really want to see
The Smiths, buy your ticket quickly as they're
nearly sold out on all three dates. The
Stranglers are at Wembley Arena on 3rd
November. For a mere £7 or £8, it could be
something to tell your children in years to
come as they never cease to excel when playing
live and should be well worth the visit.
went to see then when theyfirstcame out such
as A Private Function, Brazil, and * with a
Stranger. Much as it might seei :aze of
concrete, Cinema One in the Barbican is quite
easy to find as long as you don't take the short
cut down the corridor to your right, up the
steps and along the walkway because you
usually end up where you started, or more
likely, somewhere you've never been before.
Students can get in for £2 and you can always
find something entertaining to watch there, if
only lots of people lost, looking worried and
wishing they could remember how to get out.
IP or the Arty Farty ones among you, and
there is no reason why you should exclude
yourself from that description, there is an
exhibition over the road at the Royal College of
Art, who also serve very nice food by the way,
showing the role of post-war design, paying
particualry attention to a exhibition held at the
V&A 40 years ago to encourage high
standards of design. If you feel more energetic
and can get further than Kensington Gore,
you could make tracks over to Trafalger
Square and visit the National Gallery for
FREE. They're showing (until November 23)
140 paintings, drawings and prints of the early
years of Dutch landscape called Dutch
Landscape: the Early Y^ars s rpri gly. You
might not think this is your < isut, how
can you tell till you get over there and see it
yourself, all it takes is some of j jur time.
If you fancy going down the South Bank
before Sunday, ie Saturday, there is the last
night of the National Theatres excellent
production of Animal Farm but never fear if
you can't make it, it will return after its World
Tour. But taking its place is Pravda, the
funniest play in town, so don't feel any reason
not to boogie on down there, ie near Waterloo
Tube station, or somewhere in that
approximate vicinity.
You might of noticed that I didn't menton
the Hawkwind Autumn Tour at all, unlike
some. I just thought I'd point that out.
Good burrowing
The Mole
o
'ver at the Barbican, they're showing_
what I consider some of the
wackiest films in recent
times, and well worth seeing
again, or for the first

