The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
Sudden Reshuffle At
Student Services
Former Welfare Adviser Lesley Gillingham has been promoted to
the position of Student Accommodation Officer, replacing Don
Ferguson, who was previously Student Services Officer, and has
taken up a position in the College's Finance Section. The changes
were made in a sudden reshuffle in the last few days of the
Christmas term. The Student Services Office has ceased to exist, as
has the position of Student Services Officer. Ms Gillingham's new
post gives her responsibility for the allocation of College
accommodation. Invoicing for residences will be passed to the
College Finance Section. College administration is intending to
appoint a new Welfare Adviser shortly, though this will not be dealt
with as part of the Student Accomodation Office.
The long term plans for Student introduction of computers had been
Accommodation Office are
uncertain. College Assistant
Secretary Michael Arthur, formally
Student Services Officer himself,
will have a "watching brief over
student accommodation in the early
stages. Mr Arthur told FELIX that
the restructured service may be
absorbed as part of the Conference
Office, which has control of student
residences during the vacations at
the moment. The welfare service is
also to be reorganised.
There has been pressure from IC
Union for some time for the welfare
service to become seperate from
Student Services. The re-
organisation was introduced when
Mr Ferguson expressed an interest
in a position in the Finance Section.
He is now working in personnel and
administrative services. Mr Arthur
denied that the reorganisation had
been precipitated by Ms Gillingham
applying for posts elsewhere.
Ms Gillingham will continue to
act as Welfare Advisor until a new
appointment is made. The bulk of
the work as Student Accommod-
ation Officer will not be directly
welfare-related, however. Financial
Assistant Dave Parry, a former
Deputy President of IC Union, will
be transfering from Student Services
to the Finance Section as part of the
reorganisation.
Don Ferguson was interviewed
by F E L I X on Wednesday.
Reviewing the progress that the
Student Services Office had made
under his leadership, he said that the
the major step forward. The Student
Services Office, he said, had become
one of the major users of the
College's data base and processing
facilities. There had also been
certain problems with the
computing facilities, though,
particularly on the communications
side.
Mr Ferguson said that the
College's accommodation was "no
better, no worse" than it was 18
months ago. IC is about to lose a
fairly high proportion of the Head
Tenancies in Hamlet Gardens,
though College will be trying to
replace this elsewhere. The stage
had been reached, he explained,
where rents near to College were so
far above what students can be
charged that "no reasonable
amount of subsidy would make
them viable". Efforts are now being
made to locate accommodation
further away from IC, where rents
would, hopefully, be sufficiently
cheap to offset the additional
transport costs.
Mr Ferguson said that he thought
the Student Services staff had got on
pretty well in the last six months,
and had worked together well as a
team. He added, though, that the
staff were under great pressure,
particularly at "peak times". He
thought that the average student's
opinion of Student Services has
been fairly high.
When questioned about whether
the College would in future have
difficulty providing rooms for all
Lesley Gillingham
Don Ferguson
students who were guaranteed
places, particularly in light of the
problems at the beginning of the
academic year, Mr Ferguson said
that the situation would be difficult
but not impossible. Urgent
consideration was now been given
to finding new accommodation. He
concluded that Ms Gillingham will
do "as well as she is allowed to" in
her new post.
Free Friday January 9th 1987 No. 758

