F E L I X
'You can shout at me later, do it again!' said Mad Dash, trying not
to lose her temper with Arthur Michael. 'You're not putting any effort
into the part; you must develop the character so that you're
believable.'
'But how, what sort of character does a pumpkin have?' bleated
Arthur Michael faintly. Ht^knew any form of protest was hopeless.
\ They had all been at the rehearsal for
more than eight hours, and Mad Dash
was so strict about everything that
they were still working on the first
Act.
Everyone was practising for the
Cheapskate pantomime, Cinderella.
This was another one of Mad Dash's
pet projects, so nobody had a chance
of getting out of taking part. As soon
as they got the dreaded phone call,
they knew they had to do what Mad
Dash wanted. Unfortunately the cast
were not very happy with the parts
they had been given. Derek Dash, the
Baron, was playing the lead role, Cinderella, and was having a
particularly tough time of things. The worst thing for Derek was that
he had to dance with John Secretary, who was playing Prince
Charming, and the slipper fitting scene was certainly putting a strain
on their professional relationship. John Secretary thought that his
tights showed off his legs particularly well
whereas The Baron had to cope with a huge|
dress and two oranges and looked even sillier
than usual.
Arthur Michael was particularly upset not
to have been given the part of the Fairy
Godmother, which had gone to Mrs Jolly
Hockey Sticks: Mad Dash had decided that
he was best suited to an inanimate role.
(John Secretary had realised this years ago,
but had decided to hang on to Arthur Michael
just for the entertainment value.) As usual,
however, Arthur Michael was insisting on
taking everything far too seriously. He was
trying to persuade Mad Dash that it was old fashioned to have a coach
and horses as the transport. He wanted to bring the production up
to date and have Cinderella travelling to the Ball in a boat: he even
knew a man in Oxford who would do a very reasonable deal. But Mad
Dash had insisted that they stick to the original script, and had
explained to Arthur Michael that he had to make the transformation
into a coach and horses as visual as possible. The best Arthur Michael
had come up with had been to shout loudly; 'I've just turned into a
coach and horses'. Mad Dash concluded that she had a lot of work
to do with her actors.
'You're not using your imagination', said Mad Dash, losing her
patience with Arthur Michael. 'Just remember, for the first half of
the scene you have to look like a vegetable. Now what do you think
is the best way of going about this?'
Arthur Michael looked confused. 'You've got to think like a
vegetable, stupid', screamed Mad Dash.
'That shouldn't be too difficult', said John Secretary under his
breath.
While Mad Dash was giving Arthur Michael a hard time, Derek
decided to slip away to a quiet corner and write a letter to Father
Christmas. He always seemed to get exactly what he wanted when
he wrote to Father Christmas, and was beginning to suspect that there
must be something going on between Father Christmas and Mad Dash.
This year he had decided to stretch his luck a bit and ask for the things
he really wanted. 'This will test the old man', he thought as he began.
G r ^ s t t e - ;
^^^Chii. bore. Ior. UK^3«dX w-en&WUj
10 Wednesday 16th December 1987 FELIX

