F E L I X
2.
CJk&sis U t u n A ^ f W 4 y o U L t f r « , ethos*f*maL
U r g e a g o f i t f ^ . UsjKteT, so -^v«fc I
ugliness, while Whygate was really enjoying the opportunity to wear
a dress again. Takeiteasy was a bit of a disappointment to Mad Dash,
however. She had decided that his modern interpretation of the third
ugly sister was a bit unusual, but he seemed determined to play the
character as someone who was permanently asleep.
All the cast took their places, and
Derek began his first speech as
Cinderella: 'Oh woe is me!' he
cried. 'Where, oh where, will I find
someone to help me go to the Ball
tonight?'
'Behind you', called John
Secretary, beginning to enjoy
himself in a big way.
There's nobody behind me',
replied the Baron, not thinking very
quickly.
'That's another way of putting
it', chuckled John Secretary to
himself.
'Be quiet everybody!', shouted
Mad Dash at the top of her voice.
'Let's get on with the rehearsal!'.
Mad Dash just about managed to
keep John Secretary quiet and
the rehearsal continued.
Meanwhile, some of the cast who
had nothing to do until the scene
at the Ball were beginning to get a
bit irritable. The three clowns,
Dave Braincell, Clare MacUseless and Jumping Jehosofat were
particularly bored. Jumping Jehosofat was playing the doorman at the
Ball: all he had to do was bow very low whenever anyone came in.
As far as he could see his part was completely unecessary, but Mad
Dash had been particularly keen that there should be a very prominent
bow at the side of the stage when any of the guests entered, so that
the audience would notice that they had arrived.
Clare MacUseless had an even less important role: she had to rush
forward when Derek picked up Cinderella's slipper, claiming that it
was hers. Not very much of a role, she thought but at least she did
have a few lines to say, unlike Braincell. This had been an inspired
bit of casting by Mad Dash. Braincell was playing the clock which
struck midnight to signal that it was time for Cinderella to go home.
All he had to do was shout 'dongl' twelve times.
Meanwhile, there was a bit of disturbance in the Phallix Office. On
the stroke of midnight one of the Phallix minions had thrown a
typewriter across the room, shouting: 'That's enough! I'm not writing
any more of this bloody 'Duke of Sluicegate' column! I'm going out
to get pissed. Merry Christmas!
Derek re-read his letter. It was one of his best letters ever, he thougt.
He put it in an envelope and wrote 'Father Christmas' on it. Derek
was never sure what postbox was the right one for letters to Father
Christmas, so he always gave his
letters to Mad Dash to post:
apparently she knew exactly where to
send the letter, or so she said.
No sooner had he sealed the
envelope than Derek heard Mad Dash
calling out for him in her usual raucous
voice. He hurried over to the stage,
not wanting to put his wife in a bad
mood before giving her his letter for
Father Christmas. Mad Dash was
preparing to run through the whole
pantomime from start to finish, which
meant that Derek had to be on stage
to do the opening scene with the three
ugly sisters, played by Whygate, Ego
and Takeiteasy. On the whole these
three made a very good set of ugly
Will Michael Arthur turn into a
water melon just to wind up
Mad Dash?
How come Ego is playing one of
the ugly sisters when he's
pissed off to Malta for a
holiday?
Find out (perhaps) in another
installment of 'The Baron of
Cheapskate'.
FELIX Wednesday 16th December 1987 11

