F e a t u r e s
FELIX DEBATE
BETHLEHEM UNIVERSITY
Tomorrow's
Extraordinary Union
General Meeting
was called after the
Friends of Palestine
Society managed to
gain enough
signatures to call for
a second reading of
their Bethlehem
University motion.
At the last UGM,
this proved to be a
contentious issue so
FELIX has devoted
some space to the
motion and the
opposing views
from Friends of
Palestine and the
Jewish Society.
Firstly S Alami
from Friends of
Palestine puts the
case for their
motion.
On October 26 1987, Palestinian
students at Bethlehem University
were gathered to commemorate the
Kafr Kassem massacre. Israeli army
units surrounded the area and charged
into the demonstrators with tear gas
and live ammunition. Is'haq Abu Srur
was then fatally shot in the head by
an Israeli army sniper using a 0.22
inch Baretto rifle. The students had
no intention of confrontation. Nothing
happened until the Israeli soldiers
attacked, only then did the students
respond with stones.
The real concern arises from the
fact that the shooting is not an isolated
incident. Since December 1986, 15
Palestinian youths, including 4
university students, have been shot
dead and a further 106 wounded, the
majority in the chest or head. The
extensive firing, the violent beatings
and the harassment of young
protestors has reached an intolerable
level. The use of sniper rifles marks
a new and sinister phase in the already
obvious shoot-to-kill policy.
The Israeli daily Ha 'aretz reported
an Israeli official saying that 'the gun
would be used to shoot at selected
targets such as the leaders of
demonstrations and those who hoist
Palestinian flags'. So hoisting the flag
is now a crime not punishable by 1
or 2 years in prison but by a summary
execution.
In the words of Joel Greenberg of
the Jeruselem Post, 'the new rifle has
become recognised and legitimate,
enabling soldiers to pick off protest
leaders with methodical precision and
deadly accuracy. Thus the
commanding officer is given the
option of arbitrarily selecting
individuals for summary execution.'
Or, in the words of Israel Shahak of
the Israeli League for Human and
Civil Rights in Jerusalem, 'the new
weapon is a method of assassination
of those Palestinians who appear to
be leaders of a demonstration'.
On the second day of the shooting,
Bethlehem University was ordered
closed by the Israeli occupation
authorities for 3 months. This not
only constitutes severe disruption of
academic life and education but is a
collective punishment forbidden by
international law.
This closure clearly contravenes the
Geneva IV Convention (Annex, Part
I, article 3; Part II, articles 27, 32 and
33; Part III, articles 47, 64 and 68
plus the corresponding parts in the
ICU
Attacks on Bethlehem University
. That on Wednesday, October 25th 1987. Israeli soldiers attacked students
at Bethlehem University in the Occupied West Bank, who were
commemorating the anniversary of the Lafr Kassem massacre, in which
49 Israeli Arabs were shot dead by Israeli forces.
. That during the attack live ammunition was used, and amongst the injured
was Issa Abu-Srur who was shot in the head.
That two days after the shooting Issa died in hospital from his gun shot
wound.
That during his stay in hospital untilhis death Issa's family were prohibited
from visiting him by military order.
5. That following the attack on Palestinian students Bethlehem University
has been ordered closed for a period of three months commencing 29.10.87.
ICU believes;
1, That Palestinian students have a right of access to education, academic
freedom and freedom of expression and that Israeli attack- and closures
of Palestinian universities are a serious obstacle to peace in the Middle
East as such actions constitute a serious violation to any people's basic
human rights.
ICU instruct the Executive:
1. To write letters of support and condolence to Issa's family and to the Student
Council at Bethlehem University.
2. To write a letter of protest to the Israeli Embassy and to ask for the
immediate reopening of the University.
3. To participate immediately in a high-profile campaign against shootings
of Palestinian students and against the military-ordered closure of the
University through;
i) A national press conference on the closure of Bethlehem University with
an invited speaker from the University itself.
ii) A national petition."promoted in the mailings publication COM at IC
addressed to the Israeli government calling for the immediate reopening
of the University and for the cessation of violent attacks on Palestinian
students (especially the use of ammunition).
in; An information pack on Academic freedom under Occupation to be
distributed to students.
iv) A letter-writing campaign to British MPs asking them to put pressure
on the Israeli government so that it reopens the University and allows it
to function free of military attacks.
Hague Convention) thus violating the
right of access to education and of
academic freedom.
It is important to establish the
following:
1. The Israeli soldiers did attack
first and the killing of Is'haq Abu Srur
by a sniper bullet was willful.
2. Not a single report from any
source claims that live ammunition
was used by the Palestinian students.
3. The closure of Bethlehem
University is illegal.
4. Access to education, academic
freedom, freedom of thought and
expression are universal rights and
should apply to Palestinian students.
5. The freedoms 'granted' in the
ammendments are regularly violated
by the Israeli military.
Thus any ammendment which
violates one of the above rights is
unacceptable.
Finally it must be stressed that
Palestinian students throughout the
occupied territories in the West Bank
and Gaza Strip are continually
subjected to a number of restrictive
harassments and a denial of basic
rights. This motion specifically
addresses the serious recent incident
at Bethlehem University. It is neither
a criticism of Israeli policies nor a
discussion of the solution to the
Palestinian/Israeli conflict.
S Alami (Chem Eng PG).
22 Wednesday 16th December 1987 F E L I X

