Our Page 3 Man this week is Cute Rob the Good-but-not-
very-happy fairy. Rob was bought by the IC Union Office
at the City & Guilds Slave Auction last month for £21.
Yesterday he was made to dress up as a fairy, chair a meeting
of the Athletics Clubs Committee and collect for Rag. He
made the Union £35.21 for their Rag total. Rob said that
he didn't 'come cheap'. Neil McCluskey, Recreational Clubs
Committee Chairman said later he looked 'even cuter than
usual'.
INI e w s
Staff bitter over fine
Nick Marchant, a mines student, has
been fined £25 by the College
Disciplinary Committee and £15 by
the Royal School of Mines Union for
breaking a glass over the head of
Union Bar Manager Adrian Johnson
last month. He will also be banned
from College bars for one year.
The incident occured during a
Mines barnight on November 4th. M r
Johnson was badly cut and had blood
'pouring out' from the back of his
head but it healed without stitches. It
was decided by M r Johnson and
Mines President Geoff Parsons that
the police would not be called for at
that time.
After the fine was announced both
Union President Ian Howgate and
Union bar staff condemned it as
trifling and not harsh enough for the
crime that was committed. The
regular Wednesday casual bar staff
have announced that they are not
willing to work in the bar for the next
Mines barnight which takes place
tonight because they did not feel there
was adequate protection as the fine
was too small to be a deterrent. M r
Howgate said yesterday that if no staff
could be found to help M r Johnson
and his assistant Peter Hartley then he
would be forced to close the Bar this
evening.
M r Johnson said yesterday that he
'regrets the fact that the bar will not
be open but he can see no way round
the current situation'.
Party
violence
The Falmouth-Keogh Hall Christmas
Party held last Saturday in the Union
Building was marred by violence
from a gate-crasher. Subwardens
attempted to keep out people who
were not from Falmouth-Keogh and
hadn't paid. Beit security were called
after one gate-crasher assaulted
Assistant Subwarden Chris Owen
who was taken to hospital with
suspected injuries to his eye and nose.
Students
Appeal
Students accused of causing trouble
in Evelyn Gardens had their cases
taken before the Residence Tribunal
yesterday. Two of the students
appealed against a fine and reprimand
issued by the warden of Holbein
House.
Verdicts about their cases have
been reached but they have yet to be
informed in writing.
Two disciplinary hearings were
adjourned until next term, in order to
allow time for further statements and
information to be received.
Assault 2
A n assault in which a member of
jDramsoc was alledged to have hit
(someone over the head with a bottle
in the table tennis room of the Union
Building last Friday evening at about
10 o'clock. The Dramsoc person was,
wearing a Greek costume at the time
the incident happened as he had just
come off stage mid-way through the
production of The Flies and it has
been suggested that an unflattering
comment was passed about this.
Beit Security were contacted and
the police were phoned at 10.05pm
at the insistance of the 'victim'. T w o
policemen arrived and agreed to wait
until the alledged attacker came off
stage before they had a 'word' with
him. Charges of actual bodily harm
and malicious wounding will appear
next month.
The President of Dramsoc gave the
following statement 'we extend
sympathies to the victim of the attack
and condemn it as dangerous and
irresponsible'.
Champions
IC Water Polo team have won the
South of England U A U
Championships after playing Surrey
(4-3), Bristol (9-3), Bath (6-1) and
Southampton (4-4). The team will go
to represent Imperial in the National
finals in February.
F E L I X is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London, S W 7 2 B B (Tel 01-589 5111 ext 3515). Editor: Judith Hackney. Business Manager: Chris
Martin. Copyright F E L I X 1987 ISSN 1040-0711.
F E L I X Wednesday 16th December 1987 3

