The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
Election turmoil as Howgate pulls out at last minute
Who cares wins!
The election for ICU President will have to be rerun next term.
Election committee decided last night that the candidates for
President had contravened election rules, and so the election
was invalid. In the contests for the other sabbatical posts, Chas
Jackson was elected as ICU Hon Sec and Judith Hackney is
next year's FELIX editor.
The decision to rerun the
presidential election brings to an end
two days of speculation, sparked off
by the shock decision of Ian Howgate
to withdraw. Mr Howgate pulled out
on Monday, leaving Bill Goodwin,
the only other candidate, returned
unopposed as ICU President. Later,
Grenville Manuel lodged an objection
on the grounds that Mr Goodwin and
Mr Howgate had each broken election
rules by producing a joint poster. This
was upheld by a special meeting of
elections committee, which was
convened late yesterday afternoon
before the count took place.
Mr Howgate had pulled out of the
election in protest over the "Abstain
for President" campaign, which he
felt was detrimental to IC Union. He
announced his withdrawal in a press
statement which he circulated on
Monday lunchtime. The news was
broadcast on IC Radio at 1.00pm,
before most of the ICU Executive
were aware of his decision. Mr
Howgate argued that the late
emergence of the abstain campaign
affected the way that both he and Mr
Goodwin ran their campaigns. The
full text of his press statement is
printed on page 2.
In the objections he brought to
elections committee, Mr Manuel said
that there was a clear breach of the
rule which states that election
publicity must not refer to any of the
other candidates In his view both
candidates, by cooperating, had
devalued the election procedure.
Representing Mr Goodwin to the
committee, Sarah Allsop, his
proposer, said that ICU Hon Sec
Dave Colley had permitted the joint
publicity to be distributed, and that
the election had not been affected by
it. The committee decided to uphold
the letter of the election rules, though
there was a general agreement that the
spirit of the rules had not been
broken, and declared the election
invalid. Unless Mr Goodwin makes
a successful appeal to ICU Executive,
there will now have to be a second
election next term.
In an interview with FELIX earlier
yesterday, Mr Howgate said that he
had discussed the position with Mr
Goodwin when it became clear that
the abstain campaign could be
successful. He had suggested to Mr
Goodwin that he (Goodwin) should
withdraw, hence negating the
abstentions, and that if Mr Goodwin
declined to pull out, he (Howgate)
would withdraw himself.
Mr Howgate said that if the election
had to be rerun he would be prepared
to stand again. He added that he still
thought he was the best candidate for
the job, and that if there was another
Next year's sabbaticals (so
far): Deputy President,
A l a n Rose; H o n S e c , C h a s
J a c k s o n ; F E L I X Editor,
J u d i t h H a c k n e y
Ian Howgate
abstain campaign during the next
election he would run his own
campaign with a view to defeating the
abstentions. Mr Howgate thought that
he had conducted his publicity in a
proper manner, bearing in mind that
his only opposition had been a joke
candidate, Mr Goodwin. It was
important, he felt, for the electorate
to appreciate fully the significance of
an abstention vote, and that this had
not been made possible because the
abstain campaign had begun so late.
He concluded that he would like to see
AB Stain made a full member of ICU
so that he/she could be put forward
as a candidate in any election, with
Bill Goodwin
the normal publicity rules applying.
After the ruling of election
committee had been announced
yesterday, Mr Goodwin told FELIX
that he had not yet made a firm
decision over whether or not to appeal
to the Executive. He confirmed that
he had discussed the effects of the
abstain campaign with Mr Howgate,
but said that Mr Howgate had
overestimated the support for it. He
did not think Mr Howgate had made
the right move in resigning. He was
particularly unhappy with the
performance of elections committee,
continued on back page
W e d n e s d a y M a r c h 11th N o . 7 6 7

