F E L I X
I M P E R I A L H O N O U R S
S//? REGINALD
Breakfast i n the Union Building can be
a dull routine on the best of days, and
usually only the head-lines in the 'Tele-
graph' or the adventures of Flook serve
to relieve the monotony. However, far
those students who were here on January
1st, there was the attraction of reading
through the columns of closely printed
names in the 'Times'; the recipients of
the New Years Honours. For most of us
they are, at the best, a name we might
have heard of, a business acquaintance
of our father* s, or a distant uncle on
the Town Counoil at home. In fact, i t
is only rarely that we oan claim to know
one of them personally, and, in our own
small way, share i n the pleasure.
This year, however, there i s one
whom we a l l know personally; someone
who first oame to Imperial College as a
student of Chemistry in 1920, and re-
turned later as the Professor of Org-
anic Chemistry - none other than the
Reotor. His extensive academic and
scientific achievements are well-known
and occupy more than the average amount
of space in Who's who, but i t is not
thus that the students of I.e. think of
him.
To the more fortunate ones, who
have come to know him since 1955 when
he was appointed, he is a sympathetic
and understanding friend, only too
willing to listen to the problems of
the students. He has been the driv-
ing force behind the expansion of the
College, not only academically, but also
along social and recreational lines, as
witnessed by the development of the
Princes Gardens site.
It is for this reason that the
Rector and Mrs. Linstead have earned
the respect of a l l the students, and we
offer him our heartfelt congratulations I
upon the well-deserved reward of a knight
hood.
R.B.T.G.
Congratulations are also due to Mr.
H. R. Hewer, Asst.-Prof of the Zoology
Department. His organisation of the
International Congress of Zoology, last
summer have already won him internation-
al praise. Members of his department are
very pleased to see that this popular
figure has bean awarded the O.B.E.
M.R.H.
IC DRAMATIC SOCIETY
CHRISTMAS PRODUCTION
T H E M I S E R
Moliere was a master at depicting
oharaoters, and in THE MISER - one of
his many satires on an immensely
shrewd middle class i n 17th Century _
Prance - he has used them with excel-
lent effect.
Moliere'3 plays are firmly
rooted i n the theatre, Whether they
are flatly acted, or produced in trans-
lation, the plays are sure of success
because the playwright has foreseen
and overcome many of the obstacles of
theatrical production. Nevertheless,
i t should be borne in mind that the
plays were written for audiences which
could see sections of their own com-
munity portrayed upon the stage: the
plot was a neoessary, but definitely
a secondary, consideration. Hence the
predominant atmosphere throughout "The
Miser" is healthy, and one can enjoy
the mockery of ridioulous excess, but,
as on this occasion, the unravelling
of the plot at the end is often .greeted
with awkward amusement.
This may be accounted for by
the fact that the devil, in this case
Harpagon, i s an old and harmless
favourite i n comedy, and when his vio-
tims appear on the stage one likes to
feel sure that their writhings are
merely simulated. In Moliere's com-
edy, unlike tragedy, the dream which is
broken at the end has been seen by
the audienoe to be foolish from the
outset, and i t s breaking i s a matter
for laughter in whioh the dreamer must
appear to join. Hence the arbitrary
and a r t i f i c i a l denouements for whioh
Moliere is renowned - they result, not
from an inability to handle plot, but
from a theatrical necessity to escape
the logic of characters which must
otherwise lead to the tragic.
The production at the end of last
term by the I.e. Dramatic Society was
excellent, and showed a marked improve-
ment over some of their other recent
plays: while i t i s always possible to
find, fault with anything, let i t be
said that any mentioned here are inten-
ded as suggestions, and did in no way
detract from the good of the whole.
Cleante (Michael Spence) holds forth to
an attentive audienoe.
A scene from Leslie Allen's produotion
of Moliere's comtfy last term.
l b * *i»«r (Derek Baylies) listens
vary carefully to Cleante (Michael
Spenoe.
Derek Bayliss, as the Miser, gave
his best performance yet, and his
diatribe on discovering the theft of
his jewellery, probably the most dif-
ficult soene of the play in which to be
convincing, was a sheer delight to
watch. Harpagon's son, Cleante, was
given a very creditable performance by
Michael Spence, and his daughter, Elise,
was well portrayed by Sheila Burbidge
(she has improved since "The First-
born" into quite a polished actress).
Others who cannot be forgotten,
even in a very swift glance, are Leslie
Allen us a scintillating La Fleche,
and Peter Bowden as the hopelessly
confused Justice of the Peace: also
we were-
given a wonderful, and most
enjoyable, piece of acting by Shelagh
Hocking as Proisine, a soheraing woman,
except that her interpretation of the
part was too pert and saucy to be in
keeping with such a person in Moliere's
time.
The actors were supported by a
well-designed set and effective light-
ing, although no impression was given
of the different times of day depicted
(admittedly this would have been
difficult with the painted window):
the costumes were good and compre-
hensive, but in some oases too modern
for the period, and muoh credit i s due
to the members of I.C.W.A. who helped
in their making.
For a most pleasant evening's
entertainment, thanks are due to the
producer, Leslie Allen: may there be
more productions of similar calibre in
the future.
P.J.C.
FELIX PHOTOGRAPHS
The photographs in this issue are
FKLDC photographs - and you oan have a
oopy of one of them, should you wish i t .
Unfortunately there are s t i l l some
unclaimed prints from last term.
In both connections, contaot Paul
Porgeas, Room 90, 01B Hostel, or Room
119, Chem. Eng.

