Union Page
Free food samples at Shop Extra
Postgraduate Wine Tasting Register to vote in the General Election
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Explore the wonderful world of wine in our latest tasting session - this
month’s theme is Origins of Malbec.
Whether you have a love for wine, or want to expand your knowledge,
this event is for you. Our expert tutor will take you on a truly delicious
tour educating you on a selection of fine wines.
The event is exclusive to Postgraduates and will be held on Monday 18
October in the Union Bar, 17:30-19:00. Tickets are £6.50 per person,
or we have a group saving option of £20.00 for 4 people.
Buy your tickets at imperialcollegeunion.org/wine-tasting
Come down to Shop Extra where you can sample some of our food
found in the shop. Drop by the Sherfield Walkway from 12:30 every
Friday, and you can try a different selection of foods each week, from
muffins, pastries, flapjacks and sandwiches.
While you’re there, make the most of the meal deal at Shop Extra. For
£2.95, you can treat yourself to a sandwich, snack and drink (selected
products only).
Don’t forget, you can also purchase hot drinks, confectionary,
newspapers and magazines, as well as everyday essentials at Shop
Extra.
Sign up for a Rep Induction session
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Are you a an Academic orWellbeing Rep?We have a series of induction
sessions to provide you with the tools and knowledge to represent
your peers, meet your fellow reps, and to induct you into your roles.
Upcoming Rep induction sessions available are:
Academic Rep Network -Year Rep Induction
Wellbeing Rep Network - Dep and Faculty Rep Induction
Academic Rep Network - Dep and Faculty Rep Induction
Wellbeing Rep Network -Year Rep Induction
Academic Rep Network -Year Rep Induction
Academic Rep Network - Postgraduate Rep Induction
Book your place at imperialcollegeunion.org/rep-induction
A General Election has been scheduled for Thursday 12 December -
with that in mind, we are encouraging all students who are eligible to
register to vote.
As a student, you are able to register to vote at both your home
address and your term time address, however you can only vote in
one place. Get prepared for this election and register to vote in both.
You need to make sure that your voice is heard and the best way to
do this is by voting.
Register to vote at www.gov.uk/register-to-vote - it only takes a few
minutes.

