9
FELIX
The people, films and books taking part in the largest Humanist conference ever.
Blasphemy, Reag
Decade of ^ o f W o m e n
FELIX
Greed
• i
5 '
I have become an apathetic cynic. My
intellectual exercise is that of finding the
right button on the remote control to see
Kilroy lean with sympathy. It was not
always like this. I marched at Barrow and
felt the tarmac along with thousands of
others as we 'died in'. I was a young
revolutionary. How arrogantly sick are
those who tut tut and tell the young they
will grow out of their dissent. Well there is
an antidote.
Barbara Ehrenreich makes me mad. She
writes like I would like to think. Her new
book 'The Worst Years of Our Lives -
Irreverent Notes from a Decade of Greed',
published on 25th April, examines the
values and issues in the Reagan years.
This book should be stripped of its cover
and sent to every bigot in this country. The
cover being glued to placards, or billboards,
or windows - any public place will do.
There is no better way to change society.
Even if we fail we will have challenged,
and they will have been forced to see the
joke - themselves. Of course it is too easy,
and arrogant, to think of them and us, one
reason for reading it before sending it to
your favourite pisshead.
Barbara converts social comment into
lines that destroy their target with every
wry smile and laugh. Who said women
rights, gay rights, the politics of justice
were dead and boring? This series of short
essays puts boredom where it belongs, with
those who do not care and make a crude
joke about it. Read it, laugh and enjoy
revolution.
I have yet to want to hug, cry and share
a moment of my life with a journalist.
Luckily I will be meeting Barbara soon.
She has helped to revitalise one lounge
potato. Why read a newspaper or book? To
remind you of hope, hope for a world in
which Reagan could only be a cartoon
character and Thatcher his mouse.
'Illustrations' is a new book by the novelist,
poet and playwright Maureen Duffy, to be
published next month. For those of you
who need a popularist reference point for
names; the dramatic television series 'First
Born', about a cross between a human and
a gorilla, was based upon one of Maureen's
novels.
This time she tells the story of two
women, separated by time, but joined
through the words of historical documents.
Letters tell the loneliness of a woman sent
over to Germany to convert the 'heathens'
to Christianity. It is the eighth century and
women can rule the Abbey; teaching,
translating, studying, discoursing and having
power. Hilda reads these letters, helping her
to find her own power in the discovery of
that of the writer. On travelling to Germany
she decides to delve deeper.
A love affair begins with a young
German woman, Helga, the privacy of their
relationship interrupted by anti-terrorist
police who suspect Helga of terrorism
because of her political activities. The
historical letters, in Latin, are read as coded
messages between subversives.
Maureen portrays the beautiful sensuality
of lesbian sex within a novel that helps
reclaim another piece of history for women
and examines the replacement of religious
doctrine with political. How does one
escape the social framework that defines
you through the chains it forges? The most
important thing to Maureen is hope, the
drive to find solutions.
Banned for Blasphemy
On 18th September 1989 the British Board
of Film Classification wrote a letter to the
film maker Nigel Wingrove informing him
of their decision to refuse to allow the
release of his film 'Visions of Ecstasy'. An
appeal failed to overturn the .banning. The
sole reason given was that it would 'outrage
the feelings of Christians', that it was
'contemptuous of the divinity of Christ' and
therefore 'that the video is blasphemous'.
This is the first and only film banned
from sale or public showing because of the
law of blasphemy. It is an erotic
interpretation of the dreams and feelings of
the sixteenth century Carmelite nun, St
Teresa of Avila. To the powerful beat of
music Teresa struggles with the sexuality of
her visions, the pain of Christ and her own
love for him.
With the support of the international
freedom of expression pressure group
'Article 19' Nigel is taking the British
blasphemy law to the European Court of
Human Rights. Bringing this case, on his
behalf, is the Solicitor Mark Stephens,
founding partner of Stephens Innocent, a
law firm that concentrates on arts and the
media. The submission was made on 31st
October 1990.
Mark is honorary solicitor to the
Contemporary Art Society, and the Public
Art Development Trust. He has successfully
defended JSG Boggs - an American artist
who painted pound notes - from attack by
the Bank of England, advised on the display
of Robert Mapplethorpes' images in this
country and has recently taken the 'Foetal
Earrings' case to the European Court of
Human Rights. He is freeman of the City of
London and a past President of the London
Law Society.
This historical film is available on VHS
for a donation of £25 towards the European
Court costs. In return for the donation you
will be sent a copy of 'Visions of Ecstasy'.
Cheques/Postal Orders should be made
payable to 'Visions of Ecstasy Campaign'
and sent to Flat 7, Dewhurst House, 3/6
Winnett St, London W1A 4XG. Allow 14
days for delivery. Or you could obtain your
copy and meet both Nigel and Mark on
Saturday 27th April.
an, Dicks & God
Wicked Power & Censoring
Gavin Image Charity
If you have never bought a poetry book by
Gavin Ewart, and there are a large number
of them, you may have a faint recognition
of his name. Your memory probably relates
to a rush hour crush, boringly looking
around for something of interest, checking
the map, counting the stations. Ah, there's
a poem. Gavin is one of those poets
honoured by having his work displayed on
our tube trains. It is about a cat.
Gavin is known for his wicked humour
and the vast range of his style and subjects.
His short poems are great pick-me-ups on
grey mornings, whilst his war poetry
examines the relationship between target
and person, the confusion causing massacre
and useful statistics on the effectiveness of
fire-power. His most recent decade of
poetry has now been published in one
volume. A wonderful menagerie of images,
feelings and jokes crafted from poems by a
master craftsman. He is not only a good
read he is a brilliant reader. Come and
listen to his poems celebrating wickedness
and the art of expression.
At least one art college photography
department (Sir John Cass') includes the
following in its notes for students:
'Work of a sexist and racist nature may
not be produced.'
The 'alternative' photographic culture of
the likes of the Polytechnic of Central
London, Camerawork and The
Photographer's Gallery regard the erotic
photographs of Helmut Newton as sexist, as
degrading to women. This same culture
values the work of Martin Parr and Chris
Killip, which portray working people as
powerless, defeated and passive.
In this workshop we will be looking at,
using illustrations, Newton's glamorisation
of power in contrast with Killip's
celebration of powerlessness. The question
will be posed why is it that a culture which
believes itself to be 'radical', 'critical',
'alternative' prefers images of defeat to
images of power.
David Murray - a visiting lecturer at City
University, private maths tutor and a
photographer and photographic artist.
Banned for Wrinkles
"1
The penis appears to be gaining greater
acceptability, what with Wicked Willie
doing great business in books, mugs,
underwear and as a cuddly toy on the
shelves of our high street shops. More and
more we are seeing the naked buttocks and
flash of male genitals on our television
screens. Yet...
What happens when you reduce poor
Willie's size, lose the face with that nose,
add the wrinkles and foreskin - where
appropriate - and unkempt hair. This
appears to lose its family marketing appeal.
Maybe parents can no longer explain it as a
cuddly sausage. What happens to that great
phallic power symbol, the American senator
astride the polaris? Men can not be that
vulnerable or funny, can they? But will they
let us laugh?
Jo Menell made 'Dick' as an attempt to
use the flaccid penis as a focus of
entertainment. The film sets one thousand
black and white stills to music and the
comments of one hundred women. Time
Out described it as 'seriously funny,
humane, surprising stuff...I defy a member
of either sex to remain unboggled'.
Despite the film being within the
broadcasting law, as none of the penises are
erect, it has been banned from public
broadcasting. Jo, an American presently
visiting this country, will be talking about
the reasons for and responses to his film, as
well as answering questions. Come and
meet him and see 'Dick'.
Copies of the video, T-shirts, badges, car
stickers and posters will be on sale at the
event.
As the PR officer for the cancer charity
Quest for a Test, some five years ago, I
met with several instances of censorship
imposed on our attempts to promote public
awareness of Quest's work. Quest is a
national organisation funding non-animal
research into the early detection of cancer.
It has developed a new cervical cancer test
and is working on breast, nasal and bowel
cancers.
Due to its policy on not using animals in
its work we decided to respond to a letter
selling advertising space in a catalogue that
would accompany an arts exhibition called
'A World's Waste'. The exhibition,
organised with the help of the Cumbria Arts
Council, included several artists' images of
the effects of pollution, including that
caused by nuclear power stations. It was to
go on a nationwide tour. We had decided
that those people interested in buying the
catalogue would also be interested in
supporting Quest, if the advert had the
appropriate image. To the delight of the
editor I booked a page of space.
Using Raymond Briggs' couple from
'When the Wind Blows', who die from
radiation poisoning, surrounded by a collage
of newspaper cuttings about Sellafield leaks,
leukaemia clusters and Chernobyl the advert
made a very powerful anti-nuclear power
image linking it with the importance of
early cancer detection. The editor thought it
was highly appropriate for his catalogue,
but was having problems with the
committee. Next thing we heard was that
our advert had been banned and the editor
was on 'sick' leave. I was told that it was
too powerful an image in the context of the
catalogue and exhibition!
Money raised from the Party Against
Censorship is being donated to Quest, as
well as Article 19 and the European Court
Case against the blasphemy law.
10 11

