^^/lut)S•••••••••••••••••
Death Race
For those of us not familiar with
motorcycles, any mention of a bike club
conjures up thoughts of Hells Angels
getting together to reek havoc and
destruction.To dispel such myths Nick
James, the chairman of the ACC Sporting
Motorcycle Club, helps to gives an insight
into the activities of a bike club..
The IC club has a membership of fifty
plus and offers both social and sporting
events throughout the year. Members of
the club tend to be those students who
either previously owned a motorbike
before coming to IC or those who have
joined to consume their passion. These
members are always willing to learn
more about motorcycles through the
events run by the club.
For those who own a bike, the club
runs a workshop specifically designed to
help with the maintenance of
motorcycles. It provides tools which the
bikers could not otherwise easily acquire
and enables them to keep their bikes in
good condition. For mechanical faults and
any other such problems, advice is freely
available from the experts who run the
workshop.
A successful project undertaken by the
club in association with the Police is the
Advanced Driving Test. It consists of a
few lectures plus a four hours riding
experience on the roads. The practical
part of the course involves the students
driving at speed through London
accompanied by a Police motorcyclist.
This may seem dangerous, but it actually
teaches the student how to control the
vehicle in extreme conditions, so at
normal speeds they are able to handle
their vehicles efficiently.
Another event organised biannually by
the club is the Auto-Test.This is when
they commission the IC car park for the
day, and test their skills of manoeuvring
by hurtling round as fast as they possible
can.Apparently this help to make the
bikers better drivers, but somehow I think
this is just an excuse for them to have a
good time!
During the summer the club arranges a
party of bikers to go to a major racing
venue. There, they are given the chance
to hire a 400cc bike together with all the
equipment, and then to participate in a
race around the track. The braver one
actually reach speeds of lOOmph plus, but
the sharp bends of the circuit act as a
limiting factor for the bravado shown.
Brans Hatch (in Kent) used to be the
venue hosting this event, but last year it
was held at Mallory Park (in
Leicestershire), and plans are being made
to go to Cadwell Park (in Lincolnshire)
this year.
On the social side, members of the club
get together on Thursday evenings and
go out onto the streets of London for a
ride. They then meet up at a pub for a
drink. What else! However, I am
reassuringly told, that the vast majority
only drink orange juice, so when they
eventually leave for home on their bikes,
there is no chance of them coming into
trouble with the law!
A final service operated by the club is
legal advice. The club is proud to have
the services of a reputable lawyer who
specialises in 'Bent Metal' cases. This is
the legal jargon used for traffic accidents
involving motorcycles. The life
expectancy of the biker is said to average
7 years - not a lot eh! So any member,
unlucky enough to be involved in an
accident, is able to establish what his
legal rights are without any financial cost.
Fun Run
Well the Marathon's over! But the real
Fun Run has yet to take place...
On Saturday May 18th, the 100 mph
Charity Fun Run is being held to raise
money for cancer charities. For those
who want to have a go, the idea is to jog
as far as you can in 1 hour and to get
your friends to sponsor you for each mile
run. If you're either a real quick runner,
or have got very generous friends, we'll
hopefully raise loads of money for the
cancer research and relief charities.
The run is being organised by ICS &
WPC and is open to anyone who wishes
to participate. To join in the fun:
1)Pick up a sponsorship form from the
IC Sports Centre
2)Gets loads of people to sponsor you
3) Turn up at the Sports Centre by
10.30 am to register to run
4)From 11am, try to run as far as you
can!
That's how easy it is to have a go, and
This is exactly what happened to one
member recently, when he was hit by a
bus. With the legal advice provided, he
was able to take his case to court, and
was awarded the maximum damages of
£3000.
Verdict:This club is a paradise for any
motorcycle enthusiast. It is responsibly
run by 'Uncle' Nick, with many various
events organised. A newsletter is also
published regularly to keep the members
informed of what is going on. Those of
you who think this is an activity for guys
only will be surprised to learn that the
clubs leading biker is a female. The only
drawback is the cost of participating in
the events, which can mean forking out
as much as £100 or more. So if anyone is
interested in joining the club, go along to
one of their meetings on Wednesdays at
12.30pm in the Southside Lounge.
PIMLICO
CONNECTION
No obligation
introductory
meeting—come and
find out more about
tutoring in schools
Mech Eng 313A
12.45pm
Tuesday April 30th
FREE TEA AND
BISCUITS
if the weather's fine it should be a great
way to help cancer sufferers.
The ICS & WPC is sponsored by Salomon
Brothers International Limited and
Cooper & Lybrand Deloitte.

