....and Societies A
Oxfam Youth, HA
'Oxfam believes in the essential dignity of
people and their ability to overcome the
problems and pressures which can crush
and exploit them. These may be rooted
in climate geography, or in the more
complex area of economic, political and
social conditions' (Field Director's
Handbook).
The West London Chaplaincy is
currently running an Oxfam lunch in
College every Tuesday lunchtime from
12.30pm-1.30pm. the idea is to come
along and eat a simple meal consisting of
bread and cheese. For this we ask for a
donation of £1 and the proceeds will then
be given to Oxfam—a charity
organisation which is committed to
working alongside people internationally
on a wide range of development issues eg
concerning the environment, human
rights, economics and education.
Having left the problem sheets and lab
reports far behind, eveven members of
the group arrived beside Loch Torridon
in Wester Ross, Scotland to begin our
Easter camping trip, On the first few days
we made the most of the great weather
and clear skies to explore the mountains
of the area, including Beinn Alligin and
Slioch.
With the morning porridge ration inside
us, just the thing to get you moving, we
were ready to tackle Slioch. The first part
of the walk involved going along the
band of Loch Masee and then lunching at
a waterfall. From there the treck upwards
began and on walking up a gulley to
reach the mountain ridge we came across
a group of deer. So it was out with
cameras for the great nature shot before
they raced on. At the top (3215 ft) the
view was amazing; mountains interwoven
with lochs and out to sea glimpses of
Skye and the outer Hebrides.
With these hills behind us the major
peaks of the region were tackled, Beinn
Eighe and also Liathach, the towering
mountain which rose from the campside.
On these tops, though, there was much
snow and low cloud giving a completely
different atmosphere.
Not all the time was spent up in the
hills. One day we were over the sea to
Skye. The crossing however was very
disappointing with neither pipers nor mist
but just five minutes on a floating bridge
leaving the mainland beside the scenic
fish factory. On another day we did a
coastal walk where, -in the middle of a
boggy wilderness, with only seals and
goats nearby, we found a remote hostel.
The warden called us over, gave us a cup
of tea and told his life story.
On the last night we stayed in the
palatial Loch Lomond hostel. This was a
great place to have our last meal in
Scotland which of course was Haggis.
Meaty, Beaty, Big and B o u n c y
When Chris Akabusi, the top international
runner, was a lad he had three very good
school mates. One was Tommy Smith, a
no-hoper who died at the age of twelve
from treading on a drawing pin, one was
Mick Robertson, who became a top ITV
presenter on Magpie, the other was
Monsieur Mange-Tout, the great man who
eats everything, he had very poor table
manners then and in fact in general he
had Bad Manners.
Coincidentally the main act at the
Carnival tonight is Bad Manners, back by
popular demand Buster Bloodvessel and
the boys are back in a big way after a -
two year absence from IC. They need no
introduction but rest assured there will be
a barrage of those classic Bad Manners
reggae hits from yester-year, such as Lip
Up Fatty, Walking in the Sunshine and of
course The Can Can. An act definitely not
to miss.
Playing downstairs is the truly
wonderful Tommy Chase Quartet. Their
mix of jazz with hard driving rhythms
will bring even those who have not had a
'good boogie' in years to their feet. Also
on the bill is top indi-moptops Jefferson
Airhead. Their first single Congratulations
is soaring up the indi-charts so you should
catch them at IC now before they are the
next big stadium band. The final band on
the bill is the Cuckoos. After a previous
appearance here last year they are
attracting a lot of press and seem to be
on the verge of a breakthrough.
As well as the great bands the now
famous Ents Disco will be pumping out
loud all night with super DJ Dom-o-nick
playing the latest and greatest of all kinds
of popular and underground tunes. As
well as this there will be the Monte-Carlo
type casino where you can win all sorts
of pointless objects you never needed or
wanted. There is also a late bar so to aid
your enjoyment of the night you can get
really pissed and not remember a thing
about anything. And for those whose
livers are tired of living there will be
cocktails served on the top floor.
The whole event will cost you £4 in
advance (or £3 with Ents card) and if
there re any tickets left, £5 on the door.
The event kicks off at 8pm and please
remember to bring you Union card
otherwise entry will be denied.
No free entry to Union after 8pm.
BJ, Ents Chairman.

