MLSIC
Julian Cope
- East Easy Rider EP
Julian Cope! The very same! A song
about cars! It funks! It throbs! It bobs!
Most car songs are shite! Gary Numan's
Cars! This car song is good! It's not a
celebratory car song! Cars are crap!
Julian likes buses! I like buses! One of
Julian's favourites is the 2B! My favourite
is the 14! Hurrah! Long live the bus! Long
live Julian! This song is good! Buy it and
believe! Better still buy the album! You'll
love me forever!
Dominic.
Harriet
- Woman To Man LP
Sheila E
- Sex Cymbal LP
Having wrestled my record deck back
from Jo, who was sweet enough to keep
it intact over the break, I skipped into the
Felix office and there it was.... Sex
Cymbal. What a pathetic title. Sheila E.
comes from Prince's backing band or
something. But you don't need me to tell
you that. Pick any track off this album
and it becomes blatantly obvious to the
most tone-deaf ear. There's also an advert
for ECO, 'to receive additional
information on how YOU can save the
planet, send $2 to...' and a drum solo
(Pretentious? Moi?) called 808 Kate. Is this
something to do with the Manchester
ravers (Now with added SugarCube) or
just the drum machine. Stuff like this
should be put on the inner sleeve, if
there was any room left. I really want to
give this a right slagging, but its sheer
innocuousness (?), a cross between Prince
and Gloria Estefan, leaves so little to pick
at, and gripe about. It's dinner party
music, music which you hear but never
listen to. Makes a change from Dire
Straits, I s'pose.
Lise Yates
Harriet is a Sheffield born 2.4 year-old
with a truly sweet voice that is both
strong and seductive. Veering from soul
(like the excellent mid-tempo opener and
former single Temple of Love) to power-
pop, her debut album is a strong
showcase for her singing talents. Though
some of the songs do show heavy handed
production which tends to make them
sound somewhat empty, Harriet's
songwriting ability (she co-wrote most of
the songs on the album and Quincy Jones
used one of her songs on his Back on the
Block album from last year) is never in
doubt. Most of her songs may be love-
tracks for late in the evening, but her
voice constantly shines through. This
girl's star is most definitely on the rise
and though Britain is proving slow to
catch on to her, she is currently enjoying
Stateside and European success. For the
most sophisticated amongst you.
Dominic.
Candyland
- The Marquee 12/3/91
Candyland are following me. I'm not
paranoid. This is the fourth time I've seen
them, and the first time I've wanted to.
They must be growing on me. Lovely T-
shirts too.
BUT They only played about eight
songs - Come on, 40 minutes for the main
band isn't much, and they played the
Brits weekend, so Jonathon King prob'ly
likes them, and they supported EMF (
'nuff said ).
BUT They also supported my favourite
pop donuts, whose name I'm not allowed
to mention, and their songs are quite jolly
"indie dance crossover" sort of tunes.
Yes, jolly is the word.
Lise Yates
Neds
Atomic
- T&C 12/4/91
c
Looking rather knackered and pissed off,
John (still wearing the same shirt) and
mates rounded off the 'Happy' tour with a
show that ranged from the lifeless to the
brainless.
Two bands prompted a response similar
to that seen after taking sixteen packets
of blue smarties washed down with a few
bottles of orange squash. The reason for
this was completely mystery, perhaps I
missed something?
Taking the stage amidst a plume of
smoke like creatures from the blue
lagoon, the Ned's produced a live set that
was energetic and vibrant, drawing on all
their experience and sending the crowd
into a sweated frenzy of dancing. They
lasted only two songs before the chants
of 'we want Happy' prompted them to
perform the track that has caused their
renaming as Ned's Polished Dustbin.
Taking it in the context of the rest of
their performance it did seem slightly out
of place and maybe a touch subdued.
Once the crowd's cravings had been
satisfied they continued their set
concentrating on the more tried and
tested with only one new song. After the
initial explosive antics of the crowd they
seemed content simply to try and bounce
their way through the floor.
At the end of a rather disappointingly
short set, rounding off with a lively
rendition of 'Throwing Things', T-shirts,
drum sticks and finally, a member of the
band (wearing a particularly sexy pair of
boxer shorts) all found their way
crowdbound. Surprisingly he managed to
crawl back onstage, still inside his shorts
(shame).
A n n a B and Slapper

