Encyclopaedia Psychedelia
Just how much does today's dance
culture owe to ageing hippies that
hang around herbacious borders and
'dig gardening'? We at Felix fearlessly
investigate...
Psychedelic: a. (of drug) hallucinatory,
giving illusion of freedom from limitations
of reality; suggesting experience or effect
of such drugs. (The Oxford Dictionary).
Thus psychedelic music was born.
Originally used to describe music which
tried to recreate the LSD experience,
either though the sound or the lyrics of
the songs, it soon became an all-
encompasing term which included psych-
punk, folk-rock and acid-rock.
San Francisco was the centre of this
new music which, with its pre-existing
radical students and the onset of the
Vietnam war, gave rise to a new youth
group: the dreaded hippy. Hippies, with
their pathetic ramblings about being at
one with the cosmos etc...were doomed
from the start but at least they raised
green issues and gave us some shit-hot
music. Early SF psychedelic bands like
the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane and
Country Joe and the Fish were folk, blues
and jazz based but as LSD became more
widespread (through Ken Kesey and his
Merry Pranksters and Timothy Leary's
preachings) so their music evolved. Tom
Wolfe's book The Electric Kool-Aid Acid
Test documents Ken Kesey's exploits and
Seal
The first track exudes taste, a classic
velvet vocal over a soothing melody
combine to produce something far greater
than the sum of its parts. Put it on and
relax, let it wash over you, let its warmth
and peace flow through you.
On the flip side (after all and EP is
is a great read.
Elsewhere in the USA psychedelia was
also developing, notably in Los Angeles
and Texas. From LA came folk rock with
bands like The Byrds, The Turtles and
Buffalo Springfield (from whence came
Neil Young and CSN&Y) who were more
political and hippy than their SF
counterparts. Also from LA were The
Doors, Love and The Seeds, bands who,
in the late 60s, became prominent with
their acid-rock though all their surviving
members are somewhat brain-dead.
From Texas came the first true
psychedelic band The 13th Floor
Elevators as well as Doug Sahm with his
freaked-out blues and. The Mysterians
who brought garage-punk to prominence.
Out of Detroit came the Godfather of
Punk (Iggy Stooge) and other heavy
pscychedelic rock bands like SRC, and the
Amboy Dukes and the legendary MC5.
These heavy bands, along with the likes
of Iron Butterfly, Vanilla Fudge and
Steppenwolf were the original proto-
heavy metallists, laying the foundations
for the 70s hard rock boom and,
unfortunately, progressive rock.
Psychedelic music in Britain tended to
lack the improvisation and looseness of
the American bands, but had tighter
lyrics with a more commercial slant. The
Beatles, through their involvement with
Eastern mysticism, gave us two of the
best albums ever (Rubber Soul &
Revolver), though the Rolling Stones'
flirtation {Their Satanic Majesties Request)
—Future Love EP
supposed to be as a whole) are two tracks
that complement each other perfectly
(rhubarb and custard). 'Violet' is a cool
mellow track that rounds of perfectly a
quarter of an hour of shear pleasure.
A n n a B
wasn't such a success.
Pink Floyd and the Soft Machine were
R&B based to begin with but soon grew
their flares and flipped their wigs.
Likewise Donovan and Traffic (led by a
younger Stevie Winwood) were folk-based
but the acid experience transformed their
style.
Psychedelia has also had a big influence
on fashion with its colourful designs,
images, posters and paintings. Witness the
80's Acid House explosion and its use of
bright fashions and the trance-like quality
of its music, coupled to the increase in
Ecstacy use.
Sixties garage-punk, along with the
Stooges, was the major influence on most
of the late 70s punk bands. The tell-tale
jingle jangle of the Byrds' Rickenbacker
guitars influenced most of the 80s indie-
pop bands, whilst there is a distinct 60's
feel to bands like the Stone Roses and
The Charlatans.
So pop-pickers next time you feel like
some new tunes to buzz around your
head, stop for a second and think of
some old hippy and his groovy music,
BUT only for a second as you know you
have to kill him and then what the hell
buy the record anyway 'cos you know
you'll love it and do your ears a real big
favour. Ladies and Gentleman the MC5
were the cooooooolest band ever and
you gotta check them our right now or
your soul will never be cleansed. The
End.
Dominic.
The Hypnotist
—Rainbow in the Sky 7"
Imagine a nail being driven into your
skull, the end blunted and covered in
acid. Feel the pain as its connected to the
national grid, feel the power rush through
your mind, feel yourself. This track drives
along like a blind man in a Ferrari, you
never know where its going but it'll get
there bloody quick.
A n n a B WWSk

