Scribblers' Corner
Seasoned Rebuke
Dear Andy,
As probably one of your longest
established readers, I have been at various
times informed, amused, irritated and
confused by FELIX over the years. Seldom,
however, have I ever felt it necessary to
contribute to your correspondence columns;
but the misunderstandings and
misconceptions which pepper your editorial
on the proposed changes to the careers
service (FELIX edition 900 page 35) has
induced me to break the habits of a
lifetime.
What prompts the unjustified conclusion,
which runs through your comments, that
there is some sort of conspiracy to damage
the careers service? Does it not cross
anybody's mind that we might be trying to
build a stronger, better careers service for
the students of Imperial College? As
someone who has been involved for many
years in developing the careers service, I
take it amiss. It was me who brought the
ULCAS advisers into the College 20 years
ago—against, I might say, opposition from
a number of the then departmental careers
advisers. In the early years, students were
not allowed to see the U L C A S careers
adviser, unless so recommended by their
DCA. It took a little time to change that
attitude. When I took over responsibility for
the administration of the College careers
service (and the ULCAS advisers are
responsible to me now as well as under the
future arrangements), there were no
interview rooms, no careers information
room and a limited 'milk-round'; interviews
were often held in corridors, frequently on
a Wednesday afternoon and in the case of
one department, on Saturday mornings! We
have come a long way since, then and I am
certainly not involved in knocking all this
down.
I was a user myself of U L C A S when I
graduated from U C L (it was called the
University Appointments Board in those
days) so I was aware of its value to
students when I argued for its services
being available in the College. However,
times and circumstances change; but now
that a revised organisation is being proposed
it does not mean that the service is to be
downgraded. There is no question of a
'direct labour policy' as you describe it.
The aim will be to provide the most
professional service possible, with a
comprehensive range of careers guidance,
information and counselling—but avoiding
the second tier management structure which
now exists. No one disputes the
professionalism of the U L C A S careers
advisers. But there are 40 odd university
careers services round the country, also
independent of ULCAS, all of whom
reckon they are giving a pretty professional
service to their students. Why should this
not be possible at IC? In any case, although
independent of ULCAS, we do still live on
the same planet and we are still talking. I
have already had discussions with "the
Director of U L C A S , with a view to IC
participating in training courses and
seminars, and to IC students accessing the
Gordon Square careers library and the
Gordon Square milk-round. The difference
is that this will be paid for on the basis of
usage, not on the basis of a charge for the
entire overheads in Gordon Square
calculated on our total student numbers. (70
IC students used the Gordon Square milk-
round this year).
There are no 'start-up' investment costs
of which Angus Fraser is unaware. The
estimated costs of our own careers service
include provision for accessing facilities at
Gordon Square; and although cost is not the
ultimate determinant, it will be cheaper for
us to provide an enhanced service rather
than paying the University for the existing
provision—at a cost which has just been
City & Guilds
M A Y B A L L
Swallow International Hotel
Friday 10th May
£47 per double ticket
*Champagne C o c k t a i l *
• T h r e e Course M e a l *
•Coffee & Petit F o u r s *
• L i q u e u r s *
• D i s c o until l a m *
TICKETS F R O M GUILDS OFFICE

