'I
Dr Gillon Critisised
Doctor Raanan Gillon, Director of the
College Health Service, has been critisised
by the Evening Standard Newspaper for
his attitude toward prescription.
Dr Gillon had been consulted as part of
a question and answer session in a health
journal on the ethics of allowing students
to obtain beta blockers to help them
through examinations. His response had
been that there was nothing wrong with
the prescription provided that the patient
knew the effects. Beta blockers are drugs
which block adrenalin, reducing stress
and anxiety which could affect
performance.
The Evening Standard article was of the
opinion that Dr Gillon was urging people
to take drugs and that the advantages
given to those willing to take the beta
blockers were unfair. Dr Gillon informed
Felix that he was not encouraging
anybody to take beta blockers, merely
that he was making a legal drug available
to calm people whose performance in
examinations would suffer due to anxiety.
He added that side effects were minimal
and that allergic reactions very rare.
On the question of unfair competition
Dr Gillon commented that people should
be able to sit examinations without
extreme anxiety affecting their
performance, and that any question of
unfairness was merely due to
conventional thinking.
For those suffering under the stress of
exams, the health centre is running an
exam stress management group on the
next two Wednesdays at 1.15pm. They
should be contacted in advance on
internal 3099.
IC Survey Careers Resignation
The Union is bringing out a market
research questionnaire this Tuesday. The
questionnaire, which will be used to
improve the facilities provided by the
Union, will be handed out in departments
throughout the day. A SI.00 voucher has
been included in each booklet as an
incentive for completion. The voucher
will be endorced when the questionnaire
is returned.
•.••'••;--:vV:r'
Imperial College is to disaffiliate from the
University of London Careers Service
(ULCAS) as of the 31st July, if ratified by
the Board of Studies. The decision was
taken by the Management Planning
Group and ratified by the Heads of
Department.
The withdrawal will mean that students
wishing to use the ULCAS library for
careers information will then have to
spend the £5 charge levied at non-
members. The frequency at which this
will be necessary remains to be seen,
depending on the improvements made to
IC's currently inadequate library.
John Riding, the Union Bar Manager,
resigned on Wednesday and gave four
weeks notice. He is, however, willing to
remain in the job until a suitable
replacement is found, as he does not
want to let the students down.
John, who was a student in the Royal
School of Mines before becoming the
Union Bar Manager in September last
year, will be sadly missed by the Felix
Office and all who know him. We extend
our thanks and wish him all the best in
the tuture.
7 Censorship Explored
The largest student conference organised
at Imperial College will take place
tomorrow. With the help of the producers
of Channel 4's 'Banned' series and the
Spitting Image puppet Ronald Reagan, the
T.H. Huxley society has managed to
invite twenty two speakers, amongst
which are the key figures in this
country's censorship debate.'
Apart from the leaders of pressure
groups against censorship, speakers will
include the film makers whose works
Channel 4 could not show. Jo Menell will
be explaining why his film 'Dick' was
made and giving his reaction to it's
banning and Nigel Wingrove will talk
about 'Visions of Ecstacy', the first and
only film ever to be banned for
blasphemy, in this country. Both films will
be shown at the conference.
Other contributors are Peter Jylueita,
prosecuted for displaying freeze dried
fetus ear-rings as art, Dr Halstead,
geology lecturer at Imperial critically
analysing the commercialism of science
and museums and Terry Sanderson, the
Media Watch columnist for Gay Times,
who successfully campaigned against The
Sun's reporting of gays and lesbians.
Michael Newman, organiser of
'To Boldly Go', tomorrow's event.
The Event has attracted the support of
many campaignig groups and already
seems to be gaining the interest of the
national press.

