Mail Van Stolen
Thieves stole a mail van during the
vacation when it was left unattended for
a short time. The vehicle, taken on the
15th April, was found by Police in
Southwark the following day. The mail
had been removed and the van dumped.
The driver had nearly finished his
round, delivering to fifteen points around
College, when he left his vehicle to pick
up some samples from the Health Centre.
This was different from his normal
routine at the other stops where a signal
is given for someone to collect the post.
This ensures that the mail is not normally
left unattended.
On leaving the Health Centre, the
driver, who had left his keys in the van,
saw the it being driven off. Security told
Felix that the man had been chastised,
but that he was a good driver and that
the theft was 'one of those things'.
Fortunately, most of the mail had been
delivered, though internal and external
mail to the following departments may
have been affected; the Royal School of
Mines, Pure and Applied Biology, Physics,
the Huxley building and Aeronautics.
Sentence Extended
Chris Stapleton — seventh year at IC
Cat Burgler
A seven foot leopard called Mary was
stolen last week from Queen Mary and
Westfield College (QMW) as part of
mascotry. The Royal College of Science
Union (RCSU), who carried out the raid,
were quickly contacted by QMW as they
wanted Mary back for a ceremony to
rechristen it as their mascot.
The RCSU were persuaded to loan Mary
back to QMW with the reassuring
knowlege that a £200 cheque would be
given as a deposit.
It is now known, however, that Mary
has been concreted into place, and that
the cheques have been reported as stolen.
The Print Unit Manager, Chris Stapleton,
is to be allowed to retake his final year of
Aeronautics. Mr Stapleton hit the
headlines last year as only the second
Felix editor sabbatical to fail his finals.
Since he was not allowed by College
rules to be editor, Felix was split in two.
A student editor, Andy Butcher, was
elected and Mr Stapleton took over the
Print Unit.
Mr Stapleton's request to repeat a year
passed through Dr Finley, the Senior
Tutor and Professor Bearman, Head of
Aeronautics. Dr Finley declined to
comment on Mr Stapleton's retake, stating
that it was an 'academic decision'.
Professor Bearman was unavailable.
Mr Stapleton, who is twenty five today,
said that he was not too old to return to
college. 'You're as young as you feel,' he
commented, 'and I'm a toddler.'
Snippets
• Rumours have filtered through to the
Felix office that the Union lift is to be
fixed this weekend. The lift, just inside
the main entrance to the Union building,
has been out of action since before
Christmas. We live in hope.
• The Union Snack Bar (Caterpillar Cafe)
has broken even for the month of
February, the first month that it not made
a loss in the four years that it has been
open.
• The Government has decided that VAT
should be paid on subscription fees for
clubs and societies. According to
Benjamin Turner, Union Deputy
President, this will definitely apply to last
year's fees but it is not known yet how
far the tax will be backdated. He declined
to comment on the source of money to
pay for this.
• Paul Shanley, Union President, has
been found by the courts to be liable for
his Poll Tax but has said that he does not
have the means to pay it. He has agreed
to a liability order, allowing for the
deduction of the tax directly from his
salary. Contacting his employer to obtain
permission for this may prove difficult
since the President is employed by the
UGM, 6000 students, the list of whom is
confidential.
• Dr. John Finlay, warden of Beit Hall,
was evicted from Union Administrator
Jen Hardy-Smith's leaving party last
Saturday. He was asked to leave by
Stephen Goulder, the organiser and past
Union President, as he had not been
invited. People at the event later
commented that he had been making a
'bit of a nuisance' of himself.
• Paul Shanley, Union President, has
been barred from the Holland Club after
arguing over the price of a measure of
Bailey's Irish Cream. The President had
claimed, in no uncertain terms, that the
drink was overpriced and measures were
very small at 1/6 gil. His membership
card was then requested and he was
asked to leave.
C a s u a l Staff
Required in the
Union Bar
P a y &3.20 p e r h o u r .
See J o h n R i d i n g
B a r M a n a g e r

