Hamlet
F
Chief, Chief, is it nobler in the mind
to bear the slings and arrows of
outrageous fortune, or what?
The concept of Mel Mad Max Gibson
playing one of the Bard's greatest
characters has been sending ripples of
amusement through the serious critical
community for months. This shows the
depth of misconception many people
have about film adaptations. Zeffireli was
not producing a film version of a stage
play. He was producing a film derived
from a play text (subtle difference).
To make a four hour long play suitable
for the screen a lot of changes have had
to be made. Vast swathes of the text
have been cut away to leave exposed the
bare bones that form the basis of the
play, indeed, some have estimated that
only 20% of the original text remains.
Some of the crucial speeches have been
moved around, and scene's characters
changed. The Shakespeare scholars will
be up in arms. But it works.
What we have is two hour's worth of
murder, and revenge, lust and passion,
life and death (mainly death). Gibson's
Hamlet treads the line between the
athletic and the academic. He can
outclass Laertes in a duel, and dance
rings round Polonius (Ian Holm) in a
verbal game. His almost legendary eyes
manage to convey both the madness and
the pain in the character's soul. He also
has a remarkably silly beard and a snog-
up with his mother (Incest is Best).
Glen Close's Gertrude is slightly less
convincing, choosing to play her as a
somewhat flighty female, who is
desperate for the 'love' (tact, tact) of her
late husband's brother (Alan Bates, who is
not in the slightest young and virile, so
quite why Ms.Close lusts after him is a
complete mystery).
Helena Bonham-Carter manages to go
mad (and drown) prettily and Paul
Schofield is sufficiently Ghostly Ghost.
The lovely scenery shot around the UK,
is an equally good actor, who can look
mean and moody, or just impressive,
almost exactly to cue.
Silliness apart, this is actually a
remarkably enjoyable film. While purists
will not regard it as 'good' Shakespeare, it
retains the driving tragic force, and
crucial plot conflicts that made the play
what it is. It makes for an absorbing two
hours viewing, which should bring the
genius of the Bard to a whole new
audience.
Pendragon.
LSO
HThe eloquence and emotional
intensity of Dmitri Shostakovich's
first violin concerto and eighth
symphony were exposed by the assured
conducting of his son Maxim, ably
abetted by the expressiveness of the
American violinist Nadja
Salerno-Sonn enberg.
Shostakovich composed the violin
concerto in 1947-48, but it was criticised
by his contemporaries as self-indulgent
and unfashionable and was therefore not
performed until 1955. In this
performance, Salerno-Sonnenberg
maintained a balance of interplay with
the orchestra which showed that
Shostakovich's 'self-indulgence' had
produced a passionate and exquisite
piece.
The eighth symphony was composed
rapidly in 1943 and is Shostakovich's War
Symphony. It captures the bleakness of
the war years combined with heroism,
and reflects the 'epic' nature of that time.
The LSO displayed their strength in both
soloist and ensemble playing. Particular
credit should to to timpanist Kurt-Hans
Goedicke and trumpet Maurice Murphy.
My only criticism of the concert is that
the combination of two pieces of such
intensity made excessive demands on the
audience. The stamina of the LSO in
tackling both in the same programme is
to be commended.
Liz W
Look Who's Talking Too
•
Since all of the best gags went into So, it's not much of a plot, but that's
the first film, there had to be a not why you're going to see it, is it?
good reason for making a sequel Anyone who enjoyed the antics of Mickey
(apart from the money that is). What's the in Look Who's Talking will probably like
wonderful new plot line? you cry. A little this film as it contains much the same
sister called Julie is the answer, enabling type of humor - wry insights into the
Mikey, the diminutive star of the first views of children on aspects of life we
film, to stop talking to himself and hurl take for granted.
abuse at someone who'll answer back Sadly I was a little disappointed when
(with the voice of Roseanne Barr). some of the ideas from the first film were
That's not quite enough material to used again, but there are some funny
make a whole sequel from, so let's add a scenes involving Mikey and Julie. The
bumbling and gun happy relative who potty training scenes, whilst making me
overstays his welcome and looks shifty all laugh and cringe at the same time, were
though the film, make Mollie (Kerstie possibly the highlight of the film. Mel
Alley) loose her temper a couple of times, Brookes takes on the voice of a toilet
and let James (John Travolta) look for a demon who eats... no, surely not.
new job. Toby.

