Green Card
The annoying thing about being a
reviewer and film buff (apart from
editors) is the fact that you start to
get critical about any film that you go to
see. Small inaccuracies or scenes which
could have been done better start to
niggle, then you irritate the hell out of
people by ranting copiously about various
things ('Fritz Lang would have done it
better' etc.)
Not so Green Card. It is among the few
perfect films, which leave you wishing
that they could go on when you are left
with nothing but a memory. But I'm
ranting. On with the storyline. Bronte
(Andie MacDowell) wants a flat which is
only available to married couples. George
(Gerard Depardieu) wants a work permit;
a Green Card so that he can get a job
and stay in America. So, two people who
have never met before in their lives, get
married, never expecting to see each
other again.
Unfortunately the government is not so
amenable to their schemes, and sets out
to 'investigate' the marriage. George and
Bronte therefore decide to fake a happy
marriage so that each of them can keep
their gains. From the start they realise
that they have nothing in common, but
start to learn all they can about each
other to get past the separate interviews
that they have to face. As is obvious from
the film trailers and advertising, the two
of they fall in love, playing many
extraordinarily good comic scenes along
the way.
I think that Gerard Depardieu is the
sexiest man I've ever seen and Rose says
she likes the flat. A film to seduce by.
Murph with a little bit from Rose.
Salome
O Salome, the beautiful, exotic, erotic
step-daughter of Herod, dances for
the titilation of the Judaean court
and claims as payment the head of
Jokanaan (the prophet John the Baptist).
She is a powerful symbol of the
corruption and decay of the ruling classes
at the time of Christ.
Yet Richard Strauss's opera, based on
the Oscar Wilde poem, makes it clear
that Salome is also a victim. When she
makes her first entrance, she is fleeing
from the unwelcome gaze of her step-
father. She is fascinated by Jokanaan,
although she does not understand him,
and she is trapped into revenge by her
anger when Jokanaan rejects her sexual
advances.
The Straus opera is unevenly plotted.
While the captain of the guard,
Nabarroth, is given ample time to express
his infatuation with Salome, his despair
and suicide over her lust for Jokanaan is
dealt with rather perfunctorly in the
score. Salome's obsession with Jokanaan
seems to develop equally abruptly.
However, her exploitation of Herod's lust,
through her dance, to gain her revenge
on Jokanaan is carefully constructed so
that we see Herod's increasing excitement
lead him into his foolish oath to give her
anything.
Kristine Ciesinski and Dimitri
Kharitonov carry off the central roles of
Salome and Jokanaan extremely well,
both in terms of singing and acting. They
share the talents of a strong, rich voice
and excellent diction (although occasional
lapses into her native American accent by
Ciesinksi were rather offputting). Above
all, Ciesinski handles Salome's dance in a
way that is both salacious and dignified.
Alan Woodrow, as Herod, combines
bluster and lust in equal measures in a
way that suggests he is incapable of
controlling either his kingdom or his
passions.
The staging is good, although not as
outstanding as some productions this
year. While most of the costumes neatly
captured a sense of period and style,
Herodias's page looked irritatingly
inelegant. The ENO orchestra was of the
usual high standard and crisply conducted
by Richard Armstrong.
This is a good revival and an enjoyable
evening and, at 1% hours, not overlong.
Be warned, however, that your taste in
opera has to verge on the Wagnerian to
fully appreciate it.
Liz W.
Desperate Hours
F A jailed murderer forces his way
out of a tribunal hearing and into
the lives and home of a normal
American family with two lovely kids and
access once a week.
The mode of escape for Mickey Rourke,
our psychopathic killer, is a curious one.
He seems to be aided by his lovely lady
attorney, who sets up an escape car and
smuggles a gun into court. During the
escape, of course, she must play the
victim. This she does well. So well, in
fact, that one is confused as to whether
she was actually involved in the escape at
all.
We now come to the All American
Family. A young, likeable son and a
rebellious teenage daughter, a caring
mother who doesn't seem to do much
(when a splendid dinner appears in the
middle of the madman's reign of terror,
there is only the barest hint that she,
somehow, had the nerves required to
cook it) and a father who ran off with his
secretary but got homesick and likes to
take the kids out.
How this family cope with a lunatic in
their midst forms the meat of the film,
and it's slightly overdone. Mimi Rogers
and Anthony Hopkins, the couple held
captive by Rourke, try hard to be scared
but as they scheme against him, they
become rather too willing to risk their
lives on crazy schemes. Perhaps this film
is really saying that downtrodden
suburbanites are heros after all.
Toby.
8

