9
FELIX
How do we know what is true? Do we rely upon trust? Is this
really important to us?
Party Against Censorship
As scientists and engineers what is reality, or
at least how we see it, is a vital part of our
work. Afterall how can we discover any new
knowledge if we can not judge that it is true?
Jacob Bronowski, the presenter and writer of
the famous television series called 'Ascent of
Man', believed very strongly in the importance
of criteria to judge truth.
He wrote several books about the
relationship between science and our values.
To Bronowski, a Humanist, science was a
subject that helped us to construct our ethics
and understand why we have them. A quote
from one of his books sums up the importance
of understanding the nature of knowledge and
truth to how we see each other.
'When we discard the test of fact in what a
star is, we discard it in what a man is. A
society holds together by the respect which
man gives to man; it fails in fact, it falls apart
into groups of fear and power, when its
concept of man is false.'
To examine the issues of knowledge, its
nature, what can affect its creation and
communication, the T.H.Huxley Society has
organised a massive conference on Saturday
27th April. This is called 'To Boldly Go -
freedom to explore' and examines issues as
varied as the commercialisation of knowledge
in our museums to the effect of defence
funding to the horrifying effects of censorship
worldwide and the responsibility of journalists.
Top experts in their fields will be talking and
leading discussion groups.
The event has been promoted throughout
London with the help of Felix and London
Student. If you want to celebrate the recent
Channel 4 series 'Banned' and meet some of
the people involved come along to the
mm*
Students' Union building at 10:30 tomorrow.
You will even get a chance to meet Ronald
Reagan - well at least his Spitting Image
puppet!
To raise money for the first case to bring the
Blasphemy Laws to the European Court of
7:30pm. It only costs £3:50 with cabaret by
Ruby Venezuala, two bands and a disco.
During the conference you will meet those
people involved in the court case.
This will be the biggest and most exciting
event of its kind this college has seen come
Human Rights a fund-raising party will start at along and be a part of it.
27th APRIL TIME-TABLE
10:30am
Registration - free, but please bring union cards if you are a student (very important). You
will be given a free information pack with magazines and leaflets
11:00am
Barbara Ehrenreich, award-winning American journalist opens conference
11:15am
Maureen Duffy, poet, novelist and playwright, reads from her work including her new
novel 'Illustrations'
11:30am
Film: 'Visions of Ecstasy', banned for blasphemy
12:00
Speakers Forum on Blasphemy, and Journalism & Responsibility
1:00pm
Gavin Ewart reads poetry from his new book, 'Collected Poems 1980-90'
Break for lunch. Superb selection of foods available from Union
2:30pm
Workshops run by the speakers you heard in the morning. There will be limited space for
each so please sign up during lunch
3:30pm
Film: 'Dick', banned from British television. Followed by discussion with the film's maker
Jo Menell
4:00pm
Speakers Forum on The Politics of Image examining the portrayal of sex, gender, class,
homosexuality and lesbianism, and culture
Speakers on Art, Science and Education looking at the image of science, its funding, the
commersialisation of museums and knowledge in schools, the corruption caused by
enforced Christian worship and teaching in schools, the censorship of art, the use of dance
as political protest, the environment and health propaganda wars
5:00pm
Gavin Ewart reads more of his poetry
5:30pm
Workshops with the afternoon's speakers
6:30pm
Conference ends. Food will be on sale in the Union Snack Bar
8:00pm
Party with live bands 'Fetch' and 'The Unloved', a disco and cabaret featuring Ruby
Venezuala and her troupe from Madame Jo Jo's. Ending with a sing-a-long to 'Always
Look on the Bright Side of Life' with special guests
•
Ruby Venezuela (front) with stars (from
left) Jay, Jason (Choreographer) and Issy
Van Randwyck. All of whom will be
appearing at the Party Against Censorship.
Films from Channel 4's series 'Banned' will be shown during the day. There will be an
exhibition and stalls representing a wide number of charities and pressure groups with free
information aswell as selling merchandise. Coffee and soft drinks will be on sale
throughout the day. A bar is open in the evening. There is a cafe and an area to picnic or
drink outside.
Organisations and individuals taking part include Nigel Wingrove (film-maker), Mark
Stephens (solicitor for artists), Nicholas Walters (director, Rationalist Press Assoc.),
Michael Jones (producer of 'Truth About Lies' series on Channel 4 'Banned'), Helen
Derbyshire (press officer ARTICLE 19), Andrew Graham-Yooll (journalist and editor of
'Index on Censorship'), Denise Searle (journalist and editor of 'Socialist'), Teresa Stratford
(Vice-chair of Campaign for Press and Broadcasting Freedom), Terry Sanderson
(Mediawatch columnist Gay Times & campaigner), David Murray (lecturer and
photographer), Dr L. Beverly Halstead (geologist, editor of 'Modern Geology'), Dr Sue
Mayer (Director of Science for GREENPEACE), Dr Martin Dace (GP, family
practitioner), Dr Harry Stopes-Roe (Humanist philosopher), Jo Marshall (Network Officer
for Communist Party of GB), Oxfam, Survival International, National Secular Society,
Spare Rib, British Humanist Association, Gay and Lesbian Humanist Association, Scientists
Against Nuclear Arms, Medical Campaign Against Nuclear Weapons, Tribune, Rouge,
Campaign Against Pornography, Amnesty International, Peace Now...Other organisations
are still joining the conference at time of press.

