Export Strength
Imperial College has won the Queen's
Award for Export Acheivement 1990 .
The award recognises the increase of
income by £4.5 million derived from
foreign research contracts and overseas
student fees during 1987/89.
The college's official figures show that
the numbers of overseas students rose by
21% to 1229 (about 20% of total student
numbers) and fee income rose to a total
of £7 million.
Revenue from research contracts rose
by 141 % to £4.8 million over the period.
The college is making headway in the
USA and Japan for such contracts, and
research groups in the college are
continuing studies into healthcare and
ecological issues for third world countries.
Vote for IC
Imperial College Union will be putting
forward candidates for the local
government elections on May 3rd. The
candidates standing will be Dr John Finley
and Dr Chris Owen for the Knightsbridge
ward of Westminster City Council, and
Ken and Paula Young for the Courtfield
ward of The Royal Borough of Kensington
and Chelsea.
Dr Finley, Warden of Beit Hall and a
tutor in the Aeronautics department, said
that he was not standing on dogmatic
views.' I think I can listen and be human',
he said. He added that he thought the
college needed a voice in the local council,
but though there were potential problems
in being a local councillor as well as his
two other posts there would probably be
no clash of interests. This is because most
of the council meetings were at about
6.00pm and, he said, 'being a warden is
not very time consuming .... one just has
to be available'. Dr Finley said he had
been at the college for 23 years.
Neil McCluskey, President of IC
Union, was asked by Felix to comment on
the candidature. He said 'read the article'
and yawned. In the article he says that if
all the students at IC vote for 'the IC party'
the candidates will have a very good
chance of winning. He says that at the
moment the college has 'virtually no say
in its own planning' and has to seek
permission from the local council which
'has been refused time and time again'.
Creative cookery
The IC Union Snack bar has lost £12,647
since August. This compares with the
deficit of £1,114 for the previous year.
Union Deputy President, Dave
Williams, said that this was due to the
'downturn in turnover' of the outlet, but
he added that there was no plan to close
the facility, at least for the next few
months. He explained that he thought the
Snack Bar had attained the 'right formula'.
It no longer sells tasteless food and now
persues a 'dynamic' approach he said.
Mr Williams added that the union
intends to advertise the facility to attract
new customers.
Dave Peacock, Union Manager, said
that there was 'no chance' of the Snack
bar being closed, and again blamed the
deficit on a low turnover. ICU President,
Neil McCluskey told Felix that the idea
was 'a load of bollocks as far as I'm
concerned.'
Mr Williams claimed that there was no
official projection for the deficit of the
Snack Bar at the end of this year. The
Union has put £30,000 into the Snack Bar
over the last three to four years to keep
it afloat. M r Williams said the Snack Bar
would never be able to repay this and
added that the debt would be written off
sometime this year.

