DEP. PRESIDENT Spenser Lane proposed by S. Parkus
Spenser has a strong personality which is competent,
imaginative, and compromising. He has been involved
with countless student activities, and previous
responsibilities have included representing his year on
the staff-student academic affairs committee,
assistant manager at ICR, and external secretary of
Wellsoc. This year, his work as SCC HJT has been
outstanding, with his likeable and understanding
nature enabling club treasurers to learn the new
procedures. Above all, Spenser is hardworking,
approachable & the most responsible person for DP.
S. Parkus (SCC Chair)
I aim to introduce fresh ideas benefiting student
finances and welfare, whilst upholding personal safety
and liberties. Its all very well being vociferous, but I
aim to enact student views.
BETTER SECURITY:- I will take precautions to
rapidly decrease the theft and violent crime occuring
in College, and press College to accept their
responsibilities for student safety in halls.
responsible for ensuring better off-campus services
by writing to shops in Kensington (eg Tower Records)
to negotiate discounts for IC students, and liase with
ULU to start campaigning for student rates on London
Transport.
BETTER UNION OUTLETS:- In light of increasing
inflation and decreasing student finances, I will
endeavour to make union establishments the most
economical for students. And for committees that I
chair, to bring in new ideas gained from working
externally in bars, bookshops, and catering
companies.
BETTER TIMETABLING:- Before the new academic
year starts, I will check all student timetables to stop
illegal timetabling.
BETTER SABBATICAL:- As a member of the exec,
I will ensure that student views are heard at all
relevant levels and that action is taken.
BETTER EXTERNAL SERVICES:- I will be KEEP SMILING-FRESH IDEAS FOR A FRESH UNION.
DEP. PRESIDENT
With four years at I.C. behind me I can honestly say
that I have had enough experience of the college and
the union to be able to do the job of DP effectively.
Good working relationships with several of the people
that I will have to deal with, if elected, already exist.
They will make my job easier and allow me to devote
more time to you, the cuddly student populace (don't
be too sick).
Without wanting to appear egotistical, I feel that I
am simply the best suited candidate for the job.
Why? -
Because of my ability to get along with people-
this is surely a prerequisite of being a sabbatical.
Because I have no blatant union 'pedigree' but
know what goes on.
Because I have no bias towards or against any
particular group
Because I am an efficient administrator without
being too supercilious
I am a serious and committed contender for this post.
If elected I will simply do my best for the union and
you.
Graham Littler proposed by Doug King
Before I finish I'd like to say this. At a time when
the Rector doesn't accept that your Union is
representative of student opinion perhaps it wouldn't
hurt if as many of you as possible voted. Whoever you
vote for doesn't really matter, though obviously I'd
prefer you to vote for me. Every vote will be for IC
Union so please support the only representation you
have.
DEP. PRESIDENT Benjamin Turner proposed by Dave Osborne
in four years at Imperial College, Benjamin has been
heavily involved with student life. He is the Athletic
Clubs Committee Chairman, was the Captain of a
successful sports team and has made invaluable
contributions to Union Council and Finance
Committee. He represents Imperial College externally
as Vice-Chairman of the Southern Universities Athletic
Union.
All those Union members who have had contact
with Benjamin admire him for his efficiency and
efforts. Following the last election, the Felix Editor
described him as 'the best Deputy President candidate
for a long time.'
I hope that you will agree with me and vote
Benjamin Turner 1.
Dave Osborne.
The Deputy President is responsible for a turnover of
over £2 million. You must choose a candidate who
will be able to manage this business. I have the
background and ambitions to do this, and have ideas
for development and expansion of the Union's
facilities. These include adding new outlets,
preventing the closing of the Snack Bar and
developing it into a complement to the Union Bar, and
turning the Ents Lounge into a facility students want
to visit during lunchtimes.
I intend to reduce the emphasis on the Union's
management sub-committee structure where time is
wasted on petty issues-this will allow trading outlet
managers to get on with what they are good at.
I will tighten up the security of the Union Building and
the personal security of students attending functions.
I want to see Harlington reinstated fully and
developed for letting out to clubs when students are
not using the ground. Proposals for a Health Suite and
a Sports Hall in Princes Gardens are being discussed,
and I want to see these instigated for general student
use.
To support future development plans, vote for our
representatives in the forthcoming Council Elections.

