The friends of Tito
by Craig Kenny
Long before the astonishing changes in Eastern
Europe, Yugoslavia had a reputation for being the
most liberal of these states. Signs of this were
everywhere: shops full of food, fashionable clothes,
graffiti and even pornography in the newspapers. The
only shortage I noted was of the famous bread
queues. There is also a burgeoning tourist industry,
bringing in hard foreign currency. They need it:
inflation runs at a crippling 2,000%. To give you some
idea, 20,000 Dinar is worth just 40p! If you want a
room, take some dollars, sterling or marks. And
though you don't need a wheelbarrow for your
Yugoslavian notes, a big, fat wallet helps.
Loadsamoney indeed!
The political situation is far from idyllic, as ethnic
violence and Serbian nationalism blight this beautiful
country; a nation fabricated after the Great War from
various Balkan states, formerly of the old Austro-
Hungarian empire. On the walls, one slogan persists:
and accordingly dull. Undeterred by this, the good
citizens would travel miles out of their way to lead us
to places we were looking for, taking us to bars on
the way and trying to teach me their impossible
tongue. Most young people spoke some English,
which surprised me, as I had been warned that only
German (and Russian) was in common usage in the
Eastern Bloc. But youth culture, we must remember,
is written in American.
Our next destination was Yugoslavia's Adriatic
coast and the magnificent medieval walled town of
Dubrovnik. En route, the train was suddenly stormed
by hoardes of chanting youths, who packed into the
cars. Expecting something like the xenophobia of a
Newcastle United supporters club outing, my
companion and I sat in tactful silence by the window.
The young boy next to me offered me a cigarette. 'We
are going to join the army', he explained. 'This is very
exciting for us'. The natives were friendly, but mad,
at the darkness.
The next morning they were gone. In their place
was a student, who wanted to know if we were
Americans. His way out of the monotony of life and
unemployment was to be a steward on an ocean liner
in the Carribean. He was highly critical of the Yugoslav
economy and the country's leaders, though he
confessed to know no remedy. Then he said
something that would make a cold war-monger's ears
prick up. 'Have you read any Lenin-The Dialectic of
Nature'?', he asked, betraying his education.
'Didn't Engels write that?', I said, betraying mine.
He seemed delighted and began to argue philosophy
with me, always cosier than politics.
Most young Yugoslavians were desperate to see
something of the world. Unlike me, they weren't full
of questions about what life was like under a different
political system: they only wanted the freedom to go
and see for themselves. As is the case in most of
- ^mmmn1 mini
i
t •
• • H i
lillliliilllil
'Duge Tito' which means 'friends of Tito' someone
explained to me. Most Yugoslavians see their present
difficulties as beginning after his death and he remains
a genuinely popular figure. Every shop seems to bear
his portrait, frowning serenely, or flashing his superbly
white teeth. I took this at first for an enforced
personality cult (as was true of the then living
Ceausescu), but soon realised that he stands as a
unifying figure in a deeply divided country. Tito was
no Gandhi-ruthlessly massacreing thousands of
opponents after the war-but he still seems to have
friends.
The people of Zagreb are perhaps the kindest in
South-East Europe. Despite its exotic name, it is a
clean modern city somewhat in the German mould,
I decided. A young French traveller decided to speak
up for la liberte. 'How can you say this', she protested,
'the army is about killing. They treat you badly. If there
was a war we would have to kill each other.'
'Yes', the lad agreed, a budding Svejk if I ever knew
one. 'But we get to see places we haven't seen
before. Then we must return after a year to our towns
to work and probably won't travel again for a long
time.'
The army satisfied their curiosity for travel. Better
watch it, I thought, since armies don't usually take
kindly to Wanderlust. So we shared cigarettes and
bottles of water with the six green conscripts
throughout the hot Mediterranian night. At every
station, they would lean out of the window and wave
Eastern Europe now, these restrictions are no longer
Bureaucratic, but financial. My steward friend had
been lucky: one girl told me her father earned the
equivalent of just £60 a month. They wanted to see
and to be there, not just read about it in newspapers,
even if what was printed was more truthful now. Just
like young Europeans, and you can't argue with that.
The next day we caught a coach to Dubrovnik;
jewel of the Adriatic, a beautiful resort, maybe too
beautiful to make interesting reading.
Craig Kenny.
Page 13

