Deputy President
Term Planners
Hopefully everyone has picked up a term planner this
week. They are a fairly new venture, both IC Union
and the production company are testing the water this
term and we hope to extend the project next year. As
such any feedback would be very useful.
Bar
I am sorry that the bar had to close over Easter but
the manager desperately needed a holiday and it was
only fair. We are still trying to recruit an assistant for
him. I have every confidence that the bar and snack
bar should be able to remain open during the summer
vacation.
Over Easter prices went up in all College bars due
to the Budget price increases. The College bars are
keen to implement a further price increase to cover
a forthcoming wage increase, however considering
the level of surplus that the College bars are projecting
this year £60-70k (a 30% increase on last year) I
believe that the prices should be held as they are.
Although it is yet to be confirmed, it should be possible
for the Union Bar to hold with just Budgetry price
Snack Bar
The new 'freshly-made-sandwich' project in the snack
bar is meeting with overwhelming approval. They are
certainly the tastiest food in College (a far cry from
the carpet burgers in QT!). Queues are sometimes a
problem but why not come during a free period or
between lectures, the sandwiches will remain fresh
until at least late afternoon. For those of you sick of
the stale, noisy atmosphere of the MDH or QT sitting
out in the sunshine in Beit Quad makes for a pleasant
summery change. What could be better than a fresh
butty, a cold beer and an afternoon of sunshine?
Bookstore
Recently the bookstore half-year accounts were
received by the Bookstore committee. The figures
showed that the heavy investment made by the Union
last year are beginning to pay off. It will be a couple
of years before we see a sizable real return but it is
in a much healthier condition. An area for expansion
we are considering is a student stand-by ticket office:
seats would be available from 10am the day of the
performance. We are also starting a mail order
programme to sell alumni t-shirts, ties, etc. Feed back
on these ideas would be appreciated.
Union Building
This summer will see a large redecoration programme
covering the top floor of the Union Building and a re-
fit of the Concert Hall. This will finish a four year
programme of renovation/redecoration which means
it will be time to start again. I am constantly
disheartened by the level of simple-minded vandalism
which takes place in the Union. Toilet lock, internal
windows and toilet fittings all become targets; is this
really the behaviour to be expected from a population
with an IQ of 140 + ? The state of repair of the Building
reflects on you the student and how outside visitors
perceive Imperial College. The cost of repair is also
reflected in the cost of beer, the cost of food and how
much clubs and societies are subsidised.
Academic Affairs
In the last issue of FELIX a considerable degree of
disquiet was expressed by 3rd year students in
Biochem. Investigation on that specific issue has
resulted in a promise of a change in the allocation
procedure for next year, but that does bugger all for
the people this year.
The more people I speak to, who have experience
of the Biochem department tell me of feelings of
despair, at the lack of concern for the feelings of
undergraduates. Most express dismay at their sense
of abandonment which the academics within the
department leave them with.
It is time the department started giving a damn
about its students, time it started a structured tutorial
programme instead of the sham that exists at the
moment and time that proper consideration was given
to timetable consideration in the whole of the Life
Sciences.
Dave Williams, ICU Deputy President.
There are only a few things this term in the Rag
Timetable: Firstly if we can get the people together
we will be running the casino at tonight's Carnival,
if not enough people are interested it won't happen.
The only 'big' Rag event in May is the 'traditional' Rag
Fete.
This was previously on May 12 but unfortunately
there are several problems with this date (mainly it
clashes with several other things). May 12 is also the
Lukeamia Research London flag day so if we could get
a decent group of collectors we could probably raise
more money for less hassle doing this. So anybody
with any views on the subject please turn up to the
Rag meeting today (12.35pm) in the Union Lounge-
again if nobody shows any interest nothing will
happen and no money will be raised.
Hal Calamvokis, Rag Chair.
ULU Lesbian and Gay
Thanks to a very active committee, last term saw a
varied and full programme of events for the ULU
Lesbian and Gay Society, which included 15 speakers,
4 videos, 2 trips and a partridge in a pear tree.
The videos we saw were: Jubilee, Derek Jarman's
portrayal of a future Britain where anarchy and pop
rule; Law of Desire a Spanish film about a gay director;
Hairspray, a John Walter comedy attacking 50s
American racial segregation and showing you don't
have to be anorexic to have fun or go out with the
lead actor; and Dirty Rotten Scoundrels, a comedy
with Steve Martin and Michael Caine (not all the films
seen have a message).
Mixed in with these videos were various speaker
meetings: Paul Hegarty came from the bookshop
Gay's the Word to tell us about the problems his shop
encountered when trying to import a number of
American books. A couple of weeks later, Derek
Jarman, director of films such as Carravagio and
Page 14
Jubilee, spoke about his life, work and living near a
nuclear power station. A group of five men who are
living together in a polygamous relationship came to
tell us about how such a relationship keeps going, their
basic philosophy of life and who does the washing up.
Speakers representing the four main political parties
(Conservative, Labour, SLD and Green) came to speak
about the future of lesbian and gay rights in Britain.
We also had a discussion about Haringey's 'Positive
Images Campaign' by a Conservative councillor and
prospective Labour councillor from the area. The
group also went out for an Indian meal, and to a
lesbian and gay disco at City University.
Next term's events will include a talk about safer
sex. A gay Christian and humanist will discuss what
the Bible has to say about homosexuality. Hopefully
one of the producers of Channel 4's 'Out on Tuesday'
and Matthew Parris (former Conservative MP and TV
presenter) will both come to speak to us. Various
videos will undoubtedly be shown (subject to what
is in the video shop) and there will probably be a group
meal and party towards the end of term.
The meetings usually start with either a video or
speakers, followed by drinks and a chat. The society
is open to all, students and non-students, lesbians,
gays, bisexuals or anyone. We meet from 7.30pm on
Wednesday evening in the University of London Union
building in Malet Street—the room is advertised in the
building on the right, as you enter. To enter the
building either have your ULU card, or say you have
come for the lesbian and gay society, and the
stewards will let you in.
For more information either go to one of the
meetings or write to Gaysoc Pigeonhole, ULU, Malet
Street, London WC1E 7HY or ring Peter Brent on
extension 6705.

