The Union
Sometimes I despair of this College's student union.
Deputy President, Dave Williams summarised his
position quite clearly this week. He said that the Union
Snack Bar did not need any bad publicity. He argued
that the students should not be told how much money
the snack bar is losing, in case it disuades them from
eating there. I believe that the food in the union snack
bar is now both good value and good quality. I also
believe that students have a right to know if it is losing
a lot of money. The snack bar is owned by the
students who constitute the union, and as
'shareholders' they should be told of its financial
predicament.
Dave has written a report in this issue which is really
a PR exercise. He seems happy to mention the
predicted surplus for college bars as £60-70k, whilst
failing to mention how the union's bar has performed.
He makes no mention of the snack bar losses.
The Deputy President's job is not one of Public
Relations, it is one of management. At the beginning
of this year, Dave blamed a large part of the snack
bar losses upon the incompetence of his predecessor.
After two terms, this is no longer credible. Although
the changeover to a sandwich bar style outlet has
been a success, the snack bar is still operating at a
deficit. The union does not, and should not, have any
intention of closing the snack bar. It does not have
any clear plans or ideas for combating the deficit
either. When we asked Dave Wiliams for projected
losses for the snack bar, he said there weren't any.
This is an atrocious state of affairs. The union employs
a finance officer and a business manager, and yet it
still does not ask them to compile projected losses and
profits for its outlets. Mr Williams is running outlets
for which he has no plans it seems. The sad matter
is that if the union snack bar continues to make a loss,
the people who stand to lose their jobs are the
permanent staff, not the sabbaticals, who will leave
at the end of June.
Elections
You have a chance to do something about the snack
bar losses by voting in the election for Deputy
President. Do not pick someone who is likely to spend
the first part of the year blaming his predecessor for
the faults in the union, vote for someone likely to
knuckle down and rectify the situation. This may be
the last chance you will have to save your snack bar.
If we have another poor DP, the outlet will be run into
the ground, along with its staff.
Local Council
Having complained about the union, I should like to
praise it for standing candidates in the local council
elections. The idea is a simple but good one, which
Tom Yates and Neil McCluskey have worked very
hard on over the Easter. Please vote in the elections,
and don't forget, you must mark the paper with a X,
rather than a number in the local council elections.
The Day Nursery
I give up! All of the information contained in the news
story in issue 866 was obtained from staff working
in the day nursery. I refute Saskia Daniel's closing
comments with this very point. As for the letter from
the parents of children in the day nursery, what a
waste of ink. The letter only repeated the points raised
in the original article and was signed by, amongst
others, the very person who came to FELIX
complaining at the state of the day nursery. (I would
add that he is also the bore from whom Paul Shanley
and Neil McCluskey fled through the window of the
FELIX Office.)
Staff Meeting
There will be a staff meeting on Tuesday at 1pm in
the FELIX Office.
Credits
Firstly, good luck to everyone taking exams at the
moment. Thanks to the following from City and Guilds
Union for collating last issue: Cath Drake, Ralph
Greenwell, Christie White, Chris Home, Chris Browne,
Mike Mullen, Steve Farrant, Martha Black, Tim
Newton-Smith, Kevin McCann, Gavin Pearson, Cath
McClay and Henry Marshead. Thanks also to Sarah
for collating and helpig deliver the last issue and to
Jeremy and Ian for helping collate. Thanks this issue
to Shadi Khoroushi, Simon Haslam, Ian Hodge,
Jeremy Burnell, Richard Eyers, Adam Harrington,
Toby Jones, Adam Tinworth, Kenneth Bryliantine,
Mike Tarry, DEL and Stone, Don Adlington, Andy and
Rose, and Craig Kenny. Lastly a big thanks and
apology to:
Steve Meyfroidt
who designed and produced the cover to the Easter
Issue. (I forgot to credit him.)
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
MAKE A
Flying START TO THE
NINETIES . . . .
from
PARIS
BERLIN
MADRID
NEW YORK
LOS ANGELES
T E L AVIV
HONG KONG
SINGAPORE
o/w
£40
£60
£65
£106
£150
£89
£264
£240
rtn
£65
£89
£108
£198
£300
£149
£528
£480
SKI - O N E W E E K from only £79
W E E K E N D BREAKS from £65
Don't MISS OUT THIS SUMMER -
Seats TO ASIA AND AUSTRALASIA SELLING FAST
Book NOW TO SECURE YOUR' SEAT
ULU TRAVEL
S H E R F I E L D BUILDING
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E
ULU TRAVEL
Page 15

