He's back...
In a final desperate bid to understand the concepts
behind the Poll Tax, FELIX asked the Rt. Hon. Kenneth
Bryliantine, the minister responsible for stapling
together the original Green Paper, to explain.
'Firstly, fundamentally, foremostly and principally
let me first say this. It is not, I repeat not, a 'Poll Tax'.
It is the Community Charge and it's the best thing
since sliced bread.
'Indeed, like sliced bread, the Community Charge
may have been ridiculed at first, but it will be
accepted. I repeat, it will be accepted and I will repeat
this repeatedly until you accept the inherent
acceptability of the scheme, OK. I mean, why should
you eat a thin, pasty and overpriced socialist loaf
when the Conservatives can provide a chunky
wholemeal loaf at a fraction of the cost. And it's
better for your health!
'So why, if the Poll Charge is so wonderful, are
people rioting in the streets about it. I will tell you,
this tiny minority, a couple of millions at most, have
been mislead by the evil, yes that's the word, evil left
wingers in the press.
'I believe that the BBC has deliberately ignored all
the thousands of pro Community Tax meetings which,
I'm sure, have been happening throughout this great
country of ours. Left-wing infiltrators MUST HAVE
deliberately sabotaged the leaders in the Daily
Kenneth Bryliantine
Telegraph when it proclaimed, against all the
evidence, that 'the Poll Tax may not really be such
a good idea after all'
'Even this prestigious magazine is not blameless.
Not once, have you published an article describing all
the benefits of this wonderful scheme. This distortion
of the truth is typical of the kind of thing one would
expect from the Guardian and the rest of the REAL
gutter press.
'And let me just say this. If Labour had tried to
introduce the Community Charge when they were in
government, in real terms, they would have been
much less efficient than us, which just proves my
point.
'Listen to me, do not believe those few million
anarchists and Militant readers, who quite deliberately
set out to burn all those Porches and smash all those
windows of all those nice shops, while pretending to
hold a peaceful demonstration. Something must be
done.
'I personally myself have been in favour of the
scheme since I was first told to be and you all should
be too. In fact, I am so in favour of the scheme that
the deputy under minister at the Department of the
Environment has told me that I can accept all the
credit for the scheme in future. Isn't that good news.
Competitions
A £100 travel voucher,
generously donated by STA
Travel, could be yours if you
can answer ALL the following
questions correctly:
•
1. What is the capital city
of Liechtenstein?
2. What is the capital city
of Denmark?
3. What is the capital city
of Finland?
4. What was Tanzania
formerly known as?
5. What was Zimbabwe
formerly known as?
6. What was Sri Lanka
formerly known as?
7. What is the name of the
highest navigable lake in
the world?
8. How long is the Great
Wall of China?
9. The summit of which
mountain in Ecuador has
the distinction of being the
point furthest from the
centre of the Earth?
In the event of a tie the winner
will be the first out of the hat.
Entries for both competitions
should reach the FELIX Office
no later than 12.30pm on
Wednesday May 2.
The Editor's decision is final
and no correspondence will be
entered into. The competition is
open to all full members of
Imperial College Union,
excluding the Editor of FELIX.
Here is your last chance to
enter the two competitions
featured in the Easter issue of
FELIX last term. Firstly we are
offering some J e s u s J o n e s
goodies courtesy of Streets
Ahead, including 3 copies of
their latest 12" single, 3 copies
of their promo video and 3
copies of the band's debut
album. All you have to do is
answer the following question:
Name one of the other
British bands that joined
Jesus Jones in their recent
'British Rock for Romania'
tour.
Page 16

