Ideal Holmes?
Dear Dave,
In FELIX issue 865, the last issue before the Easter
break, a letter from Craig Holmes (ME3) was printed.
In this letter Mr Holmes wrote at length about his
opinions on the CCUs and made several wild
comments about their role in IC. We found this letter
worrying to say the least and would like to point out
that most of the information was incorrect.
The CCUs do have a real role to play in Imperial
College and between them provide academic
representation, many social events, the Balls, sports
and social clubs and activities for ALL students at the
College. Examples of the different ways in which the
CCUs represent their students include the campaign
by Guilds to protect the ACGI, the letter writing
campaign by the RCS on the loans issue and the
Mines' Foreign Students' Week. Next year this role
will be strengthened as fire regulations are forcing us
to hold the Freshers' Reception on a Constituent
College basis.
The student officers (the 'hacks') work hard to
ensure that the CCUs run smoothly. This is no mean
task when trying to keep up with a degree. Most
officers give up their lunchtimes and many evenings
to do this work and from personal experience, the
CCU presidents often spend over 30 hours a week on
Union business.
Cheap motors
Dear Dave,
I am curious to know how Mr Holmes arrived at his
figure of £5,000 a year budget for each of the CCU's
motorised mascots (FELIX 865, page 31 refers). The
budget I have for the renovation and upkeep of
Clementine is about £1,500 this year and I know that
both Bo and Jez receive a grant which is similar in
value to Clem's (in fact l e s s ) - £ 5 , 0 0 0 is easily more
than all three of our budgets put together.
It is not just Rag which warrants the ownership of
our vehicles. Many people take immense pleasure
from being involved with the upkeep of Clem, Bo, Jez
and Derrick (and have done for the past 30 or so years
Clem and Jez have been at IC and the 55 years that
Bo has been here). In this respect, the three motor
clubs are no different from any other IC society. Why
should those students have to finance their particular
interest, especially as they frequently spend their own
free time (and often money) preparing the vehicles for
events that will raise money for Rag? I suggest that
nobody is going to join a society if they have to pay
for everything themselves and certainly far fewer
people would be involved in raising money for Rag if
they had to pay all to do that. The mascots provide
an excellent means of representing the College to the
Of course some students take up union posts for
CV points. This is true for any club or society and is
almost impossible to prevent. What surprises us is
that Mr Holmes wrote his letter in spite of the fact
that he is the Mech Eng Society Chairman and
therefore an officer of Guilds with direct input into
how the unions runs its affairs. During this year Mech
Eng Soc has gone from being one of the most active
departmental societies in IC to having virtually no
activities. The only event which we are aware of was
the 'Revue' which was organised by a group of
students who were not aware that Mech Eng Soc
existed. We hope that one of the organisers will have
the strength of character to rebuild the Society next
year.
Hopefully Mr Holmes' letter will stimulate interest
in the CCUs. If you want to know what they offer then
visit one of the CCU offices any lunchtime and ask-
do not rely on secondhand information! May we finish
by reminding Mr Holmes that people in glasshouses
shouldn't throw stones.
Yours,
Chris Home, President C&GU
Rob Row, President RSMU
Carol Luscombe, President RCSU
Rhydian Hapgood, President SMHMSSU.
public both in charity raising events and other College
activities.
Mr Holmes also appears to have a misconception
about the owners of the mascots. They are not the
College's, they are not ICU's; they belong to the
students of their respective CCUs. If they were sold
(or self-financing) the money raised wouldn't go
anywhere near getting a new careers librarian, it
would just go back into the Union to fund another
Union activity.
If you take away the motorised mascots you are not
just losing four old vehicles you are taking away an
excellent means of collecting for Rag, you are taking
away part of the history of the students at IC and an
opportunity to be involved, as a student, with
veteran/vintage vehicles, an opportunity unique to IC
and one which will most probably not occur again
after leaving College. In short, you are losing a
valuable asset to the students of the CCUs. After all
isn't it part of your education to be able to be involved
in activities which you will never have the chance to
do when you enter the working world?
Yours sincerely,
Stephen Laing,
Captain of the RSM Motor Club.
Day nursery rebuttal
Dear Dave,
As the parent of a child in the Day Nursery and as
the non-academic staff parent representative on the
Day Nursery Comittee which advises on the running
of the Nursery, I should like to take issue with your
headline 'Day nursery is a health hazard' which topped
the article on page three of the last edition (21.3.90).
The information contained in your article does not
justify this headline. As your article itself states, the
Nursery passes safety checks frequently and complies
with all the necessary Health and Safety regulations.
It therefore is not a health hazard. Your headline only
reflects the sensation-mongering attitude prevalent in
the tabloid newspapers and is not good journalism.
Your article consists of unconfirmed reports and
claims which the headline presents as fact. If you had
bothered actually to do some proper research for the
article you would have discovered that the real picture
is very far from that presented in your story. Our
children play happily in the good conditions provided
by the Nursery. They do not sleep on mattresses on
the floor, but on special folding cots and are cared for
by people who deserve more than to have the
corrections they would have made to this article
ignored.
Vours sincerely,
Saskia Daniel, Registry.
See editorial for reply.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Juggling; interested in JugSoc? Demonstration
on the Queen's Lawn Monday 12.30pm (if fine) or
contact Yant Maths PG (ext 5769) or G Keogh,
Chem 1.
• Naff term planners available from the Union
Office. Tastefully reproduced in illegible grey.
PERSONAL
• Whichever bastard stole my bike on Tuesday
outside Haldane, I will find you and you will die—
from the very pissed off owner.
• Doctor requires estate agency minded
accountant for busy Herts practice. Must enjoy
beer, good wine, black olives and eating! Please
ring for an appointment.
• Gauntlet requires desperate heros for dangerous
work. Contact Maths 'S' pigeonhole.
• IQ of 140 + ? more like 40.
• TLMB where are you?
• Sunglasses from Milan, beard by Jacobs. Tres
chic!
FOR SALE & WANTED
• IBM compatible XT PC III machine, 640K ram
memory, 20 Mbyte hard disk and controller card,
5.25" floppy drive, 14" super 5 resolution green
monitor. 101 keys AT keyboard, 8087 math co-
processor, witty serial mouse and control card,
multi I/O card, printer port and software, installed
with virus immunise. The whole lot for £650.
Phone 0372 726140 ext 2189 (ask for Jack) or
0372 274074 (evening).
• Wanted Any sub 125 motor cycle, suitable for
a learner. Contact Dave Williams ICU Office ext
3502.
• Bicycle for sale. £40 including chain and lock.
Ring Andreas on 727 3095.
• Elderly drunk for sale. Answers to a simple
grunt of 'ib'. Contact 'The Queens Arms,' for
further details.
N
I
N
O
of I
t
a
l
y
offers a special price for students of
Imperial College
Men (short hair) Shampoo/cut/dry £10.00
Ladies (longer hair)Shampoo/cut/dry £12.00
Offer available Monday and Tuesday from
9am-5pm. All other times a 20% discount
will be offered on the following:
Perm Waving • Straightening * Bleaching
Tinting • Highlights * Lowlights
and a 10% discount on the following:
Waxing • Facials * Manicure
Eyelash Tinting • Turkish Steamer
NINO OF ITALY
38 THURLOE PLACE, SOUTH KENSINGTON
TELEPHONE: 01-589 1054

