Our day
nursery is not a
health hazard
Dear Sir,
RE: Day Nursery is a health hazard (FELIX 865)
As parents of the children who are currently
attending the Day Nursery we were absolutely
appalled by today's front page article purporting to be
an accurate description of the conditions in the
Nursery. The Day Nursery is NOT a health hazard.
1. The Nursery premises are maintained by the
College and any necessary repairs are carried out as
soon as is practicable.
2. Any infestations by insects are dealt with
immediately. Since the building is old this is not
unusual and regular visits are made by Rentokil to
avoid any possible health problems.
3. The amount and type of space provided for the
children has been approved for their use and is
considered adequate by the local authority which
licenses the Nursery.
4. Those children which have a sleep in the
afternoon do not sleep on mattresses on the floor but
on small camp beds in an area which was approved
for that use on the recommendation of the local
authority day-care adviser.
5. The fact that the children go to sleep soon after
their lunch is perfectly normal for active young
children as they are all between the ages of 18 months
and three years.
6. The staffing levels are above that required by the
local authority and the Nurse-in-charge has a
supernumerary post to cover staff sickness etc.
7. During the lunch break half the staff are always
present in the Nursery.
8. As you observed there are adequate fire exits and
the Nursery can be evacuated in three minutes
considerably quicker than most buildings could be.
9. The parents already spend considerable time and
effort in fundraising to buy the necessary books, toys
and equipment and consider that painting the
premises is the job of the College authorities as it is
their building.
We would agree that the premises are not ideal and
are not up to the palatial standards of some modern
workplace Nurseries which benefit from the
employers being able to subsidise the costs. However
our children are very happy and are looked after by
a dedicated band of Nursery nurses who could quite
easily get far better paid jobs elsewhere.
In the meantime inaccurate articles such as yours
do not help the Nursery in its constant battle to stay
solvent by putting off prospective parents of children
who might otherwise have considered sending them
to it.
By all means start a campaign to re-locate the
Nursery, we would support you all the way, but please
get your facts right before you start.
Yours sincerely,
Ann Maconnachie, Mech Eng; K Rudlin, Residences;
J Dowley, Lyon-Playfair Library; A Curley, Elec Eng;
S Daniel, Registry; B Costello, Chem Eng; S des Clers,
Env Tech; S Essery, Life Sci; I Malsanda, Min Res Eng;
Nizam, Civ Eng; C Boey, Maths; C Pantelides, Chem
Eng; J Kilner, Mats; CLowe, Biochem; P McDermott,
Queen's Gate; J Pretty, Civ Eng.
See Editorial for reply.
Easter
rip off
Dear Dave,
Today a notice was put up by the Housekeeper of
Southside, informing all students to return the Easter
Vacation forms stating if they required
accommodation or luggage storage facilities over the
Easter period. There is no objection to requesting
students to do the above; the part which I found
offensive, was that which informed students that if
they did not return their forms it would be assumed
that they would be staying in their rooms over the
vacation! This I believe is in contradiction to the
contracts that we all filled out before taking up
residence in October. The reason, I believe, that we
have been told to return the forms, is so College can
make money out of students who do not give in
completed forms. These residents assumed the same
procedure as at Christmas would be followed. This
money will contribute to bailing College out of its
financial difficulites (re. accommodation deficit).
From para' 35 of the College 'Terms and Conditions
of Residential Lettings, 1989 ed' it says that the
student must leave when the letting has terminated,
unless alternative arrangements have been made. The
periods of lettings are, as from the yellow contract,
box F, as quoted below:
'Noon Saturday 30.9.89 to Noon Saturday 16.12.89
Noon Saturday 6.1.90 to Noon Saturday 24.3.90
Noon Saturday 21.4.90 to Noon Saturday 23.6.90'
From this it can be seen that the note posted to the
students is in violation of the above contracted letting
periods. Therefore the College can not bill students
for the Easter period unless the student has
specifically requested to stay for the Easter vacation.
I would therefore like College to not bill students
who do not return forms concerning residence over
the Easter period. This letter has been circulated to
the Rector, Prof G New, Miss L O'Callaghan, Mr R L
Chandler, Miss K Rudlin, Falcon and FELIX.
Yours sincerely,
S S West, RSMU AAO.
More
hack-biting
Dear Dave,
After my hack-baiting letter in the last issue, it has
come to my attention that I made an error regarding
the sums of money for running their inviolate mascots.
I admit my error and I apologise most humbly for it.
Instead of the £5,000 per vehicle that I originally
quoted, I should have said that both Jez and Bo each
get about £1,200, and Clem (the Mines-mobile) has
a budget of £1,500. The extra money being used to
cover the extensive overhaul that Clem is receiving
at present.
However, despite my error, the points that I made
about the CCU's still stand and I do not apologise for
those. I would like to say as a final note on the subject
that some good has come out of the last letter. I have
heard on the grapevine that there has been some
positive interaction between the CCUs, and that they
have actually agreed with each other about
something...THEY DON'T LIKE ME VERY MUCH.
Yours, in exile,
Craig Holmes, 3M.
Having a
dig
Dear Dave,
RE: Banning of Diggers Club from Union Facilities
I was rather shocked today when I read your article
about this year's Diggers Dinner.
The dinner took place on a Thursday and not a
Friday. One member of the Club did vomit on the table
after one spoonful of his starter.
Your reporting of the incident involving Mr Harbour-
Bridge was inaccurate and I feel your informant may
have had his/her memory clouded somewhat.
Mr Harbour-Bridge was initiated into the Club that
night. He removed his shirt (as must any new initiate)
and then proceeded to drop his trousers and boxer
shorts, before downing his pint with consumate ease.
He then made a fatal mistake. He challenged one of
the more vocal members of the club to be more
disgusting than himself (as he produced his dick for
all to see). It was then that the urinating incident
occured.
Your article failed to point out that we cleared up
after the dinner so that the UDH was in pristeen
condition. Mr M Williamson (Duty Officer for the
evening) said that the condition of the UDH
afterwards was totally satisfactory.
One of the catering staff commented that 'this
dinner wasn't as bad as RSM's'. I hardly think the
Union will be in a hurry to ban them.
I was rather surprised that the Union has not written
to me regarding the incident. I would have been
prepared to come and discuss the events of the
evening with the Union officers.
However, having to hear of their decision through
FELIX was inconsiderate to say the least. In the last
few years the Union has consistently shown a
negative attitude towards social clubs and I think this
article confirms this.
Diggers was formed 14 years ago (when most of
the Union officers were playing conkers in the school
playground). It has maintained a consistently active
role within the hall and the clubs' members help out
considerably with the smooth running of Southwell
Halls' social events.
Yours, ready for a DIG,
Nick Blades, President Diggers Club 89/90.
Red & cross
Sir,
A Bailey misses the entire point of my letter,
however, that is'his problem. I will take him to task
on his statement 'Patients are dying every day due
to the ambulancemen withdrawing their labour'. This
is a gross insult to all the Army, Police, Red Cross and
St John's Ambulance units who attended over
13,000 calls in the Chelsea area alone whilst the LAS
crews were locked out of their place of work. Perhaps
he/she could furnish me with details of how many
people died who otherwise wouldn't have?
By the way the College Ambulance did 1,200 road
hours and 2,600 man hours service and attended to
over 600 patients during the dispute. The 'Imperial
College Ambulance Fund' is to raise £20,000 for a
new vehicle as the existing one is now 17 years old.
Yours, with 240 hours voluntary ambulance
service,
Mr Nicholas Royall, Geology.

