Cutting
comment
Dear Dave,
It has come to my attention that Nick Blades has
written to FELIX regarding my involvement in the table
wetting incident at the Diggers Dinner. I am afraid I
cannot deny my involvement as a key character in the
scenario that led up to an individual urinating on the
table. I must point out that it would appear Mr Blades'
memory has also become clouded. For Mr Blades has
unfortunately got the sequence of events somewhat
muddled and it would appear that he also misheard
the challenge that I laid down to the incontinent
individual. I was merely asking him to recount a story
of his revolting behaviour. I do not blame either of
them for mishearing my request as it was very difficult
to hear anything at the time as most of the room was
either goading me into removing my underwear or
pleading with me to put my legs away and not make
a speech.
The whole incident was very embarrassing and
unpleasant and I must hold myself partly to blame. I
feel it is rather unfair of the Union to ban a group of
individuals in a case where the actual culprits, and in
that I include myself, are so easily identifiable.
The Union has carefully outlined disciplinary
procedure that should have been used. Is Mr Blades
aware that the Diggers are entitled to appeal against
a decision? I feel that they should, as it seems
unreasonable that Diggers cannot hold a dinner again
whilst the individual concerned could attend, for
examble, his Rugby Club dinner next week and behave
in the same manner.
Whatever might be determined as fair and
reasonable punishment in the end I believe a good one
might be to make the table wetter wear a large nappy
for the whole of next year's Rag Week and collect
money for a charity related to people with bladder
problems!!
Yours sincerely,
Sydney Harbour-Bridge.
Pain
O'Polltax
Dear Sir,
I was walking past Southside Bar the other day
when I was shocked to see a poster saying 'Pay no
Poll Tax!' I wondered if the Union knew this?
The poster belongs to Haringey Anti-Poll Tax Group.
It is not surprising that Haringey has an anti-poll tax
group, because they have the highest Community
Charge in the country. This is because the council
wastes money on such 'worthy' causes as 'Gay black
lesbian babies against the bomb'. If this council was
more efficient, like Wandsworth or Westminster, they
too would have a Community Charge of under £200.
Back to my original question. Does the Union know
about this poster? if it doesn't, may I suggest that they
get it taken down because the Community Charge is
fair and just and everyone should pay it.
It is not for any person or Union to encourage others
to break the law, and if the Union do know about this,
what law-breaking activity will they advocate next?
'Mug the elderly', perhaps or even 'A Murder a Day
Keeps the Doctor Away'. Where will it end?
Yours,
Alan Bailey, Chem.
Poll cat
Dear Dave,
In the last issue of FELIX a member of the
Conservative Society in the difficult position of
defending the indefensable poll tax chose to deride
the use of a local income tax (LIT) to fund local
government. How can it be unfair to ask people to pay
for local services based on their ability to pay? Whilst
I agree that people who pay nothing towards rates had
nothing to lose from electing a high spending council,
there are more equitable means of getting
contributions. Why is it that when I leave Imperial I
shall pay just over 3% of my income in poll tax, whilst
my sister will have to give up over 10% of hers? Does
the Conservative ethos really run like this: graduates
etc work harder by getting their 17 year-old sisters
(and pensioner grandparents) to pay their contribution
to local services. Well I shall not further take up
readers' time discussing a tax system which shall fade
away like the Prime Minister who introduced it.
However, whilst the whole argument of local
government funding is under question I would like to
make the point that poll taxes, roof taxes, and floor
taxes are unworkable and very often unfair. The crux
of the matter is that we do not all have the same
incomes. LIT-is nothing new, it has been used in
Philadelphia since 1939 and other States in the US
as well as Sweden, Japan and Denmark. So I wonder
how long it will take the other two parties to borrow
this piece of Liberal Democrat policy?
Regards,
Andrew M Waller.
No more!
Dear Dave,
I hate to harp on about the 'Asian Soc Issue' but
I think Mr Bartendu Vyas' letter of last term (FELIX
865) deserved an honest reply.
I am a 'real' member of Asian Soc and I have no
connection with either Mr Vyas or Anil Loadwa
(whoever he/she may be) so I cannot really comment
on Mr Loadwa's letter, but Mr Vyas' was in parts
almost laughable.
To quote Mr Vyas 'Election papers for every post
including president for this year's committee (89/90)
were put up on November 27 and every member of
the Society was informed of the exact time and place
of the elections about two weeks prior to this!'
I do not know where exactly these posters were put
up but I certainly did not see or even hear about them.
And to suggest every member was informed of this
event is downright annoying, considering I got a leaflet
in my pigeonhole two weeks after the event informing
me of it and telling me that 'my vote is important' and
that it is essential I attend. (With publicity like this no
wonder Mr Vyas was voted in President!)
And that leaflet I hasten to add is the only thing I
have ever received from Asian Soc after joining (I
know the internal mail system is bad but it can't be
that bad!!) where has my £1.50 gone?
But I do have to admit that at least Asian Soc wrote
to me telling me where and when I could give them
my money, I mean 'join', which is more than India Soc
did.
I signed up at the Freshers' Fair and have heard
nothing from them since.
Yours,
A 1st year who doesn't give a damn anymore if
Asian/India Soc write to them.
Name withheld by request.
No more correspondence on this please-Ed.
'Sausage'
award
Dear Dave,
I am disgusted by the attitude the College
demonstrates in applying for an award for export
achievement for its teaching and research work. The
announcement that we have won an award is not
cause for celebration, but cause for deep worry as to
the motivation of the College authorities.
The attitude this award demonstrates is that the
College sees overseas students (and probably
students in general) as a product, in just the same way
that Bowyers sausages are a product, and the export
of an 'educated' student after receipt of fees is the
equivalent of shipping a crate of these sausages
abroad. The same is also true of College's attitude to
research.
The award, says the press release, is due to the
increased earnings the College is receiving from
overseas students and collaborators. It says nothing
about the quality of this export commodity, nor how
well the students coped or were treated during their
time here. The students are not people they are boxes,
and to make more money you must ship more boxes.
It is therefore not surprising that complaints from
overseas students about their treatment are on the
increase. I saw plenty of these as Post Graduate
Officer last year, and have seen other problems much
closer to hand. As the College says, there are 'no
degrees for sale here' (yet) but there are certainly
places for sale, and once here a foreign student is
often left to sink or swim with little or no support from
department, lecturers or supervisors.
And there is another side to the coin. In their
continuing desire for 'export income' the standards
for entrance of foreign students to the College seems
to be dropping. The tales of 'simultaneous
translations' from English to Chinese in Computing
lectures, and my own experience with some
undergraduates clearly demonstrates that the College
is not applying suitable entry standards in spoken
English.
The reason people come here, and the reason that
IC graduates are in demand is not because of the
quality of the current product. It is because of the
quality of the IC product over the past 10 or 20 years.
This reputation is currently being strip-mined by
College to boost student numbers, and thereby,
increase short term income and 'profits'. Doing this
at the same time as reducing the staffing level will
inevitably lower our standards and shatter our
reputation. It is time that the Rector, academics,
students and governors started looking after the long
term interests of IC. There must be new appointments
of young, innovative lecturers to replace those lured
away to America and Oxbridge. Students from
overseas must be selected on quality, not ability to
pay, and must be given adequate, if not excellent,
support while at the College. The same is really true
of home students as well, and every effort should be
made to reduce the costs to all students of studying
at IC, rather than having them milked by the
refectories and residences (and in some cases by the
Union as well).
In some areas IC's reputation is slipping already.
Unless some action is taken soon, we may merge with
RHBNC in ten years time with our science
departments in as poor a state as theirs.
Dave Clements, Physics RA, PGAO 88-89.
Page 19

