Transfusion Closing
The next mass blood transfusion will take nlacK in
Silenced
The next mass blood transfusion will take place in
Southside Gym on May 8th. Anybody can sign up
at the City and Guilds Union (C&GU) office or in
the Junior Common Room on May 1st.
Chris Home, president of the C & G U , said that
there had been 130 donors last time, and all these
donors would be welcome again. He said that the
transfusion should take half an hour for each person.
Passing on
The head of the Mechanical Engineering Department,
Professor Tom Hubbard, will be resigning his post
at the end of September.
Professor Husband told Felix that he had been very
happy at Imperial College and had left to become the
Vice-Chancellor of Salford University.
Professor Husband's successor will be decided by
the Rector, Sir Eric Ash, in the near future.
New books
Mr Michael Newman, a zoology graduate from IC,
launched a collection of writings by H . G. Wells over
Easter. H . G . Wells was a biology graduate of the
college during the last century.
The book, called 'Breaking the Shackles',
condemns current education policies and continues
the debate into free and liberal education. The book
is available from the IC Union Bookstore at £1.95,
the profits from which will go towards a conference
on 'bullying.'
Two students from St Mary's Hospital Medical
School, Gerard Short and Nick Stafford, have been
given the go-ahead to compile a book entitled
'Studying Medicine—a Student Guide to Medical
Schools in Britain'. It will be published this summer.
Gerard Short was elected to the executive of the
'National Association of Medical Students' just before
Easter. This is a new organisation set up to 'increase
communication between medical schools in the
country', said M r Stafford.
Marathon
Night Security superintendent, M r Bob Dickens,
completed the London Marathon last Sunday in 3
hours 50 minutes. He was running for the Imperial
Cancer Research Fund.
More misery
Students will cease to be eligible for housing benefit
as from next September. In addition, no provision for
special repayment conditions for disabled students will
be given, despite four amendments made to the
Student Loans Bill by the House of Lords.
The bill passed through Parliament on Monday and
now awaits the formality of a Royal Assent. The bill
has made its journey largely unaltered with the four
amendments overturned by the Commons. Two of
these amendments applied to the continuation of
housing benefit for students. Any alterations are now
up to the Government which promises to add an
amendment allowing the Education secretary to award
provisions to disabled students as he saw fit.
The Department of Education and Science
announced its intention last month to increase student
support funds by £10 million, which they claim is to
aid students in financial difficulties, particularly those
living in high accomodation cost areas.
Ward closures at St Mary's Hospital starting on 4th
August and lasting until 1st September, and possibly
further closures for 2 weeks in the winter will lead
to the postponement of all non-emergency operations
in the hospital. There are claims that this could badly
affect teaching.
Neil Goodwin, General Manager of the hospital said
that the move was expected to save £400,000. The
hospital has been set a savings target of £2 million
for next year, with a budget of £50 million. He said
that clinical acitivty had increased by 20 percent in
the last three years, but that the cutbacks would not
affect the teaching of students in the adjoining Medical
School.
A spokesperson for St Mary's Hospital Medical
School said that the closure would affect teaching as
students are taught all year round, though the
spokesperson admitted that as the budget had been
overrun, 'nothing can be done'.
Theft
One of the two computers stolen from the Mechanical
Engineering Department before the Easter vacation
(Felix 865) has been recovered. Two men have been
arrested in connection with the theft.
The editor of last year's Felix, M r Bill Goodwin, was
fined £5000 plus costs for contempt of court this
Easter. The House of Lords, the final appeal court
in the country, decided that Mr Goodwin was acting
illegally in not handing over documents to the court
which could reveal the source some of his
information.
Dave Peacock, the Union Manager, and Toby Jones
of Elec. Eng 1 won £20 each from the 'Free Bill
Goodwin' sweepstake by guessing the penalty
correctly.
Homeopathy
The College Health Service will offer a homeopathy
service from this week. Ms Helen Phillips will be
giving consultations every Tuesday afternoon at 14
Princes Gardens, the Health centre.
Ms Phillips told Felix that she thought her expertise
would be welcome in the college, and she explained
that homeopathy was a method 'to stimulate the
immune system' by administering remedies tailored
to personal needs.
The service's other alternative practitioners include
Ms Hla Myat Saw, an acupuncturist, Ms Pauline
Wetherell, an Alexander teacher and Mr Colin
Henshaw, an osteopath.
The RCS May Ball
will be held on Friday
May 4th !
in College
and the I
Queens
Tower
Only
a s
i
n
g
l
e
£20 t
i
c
k
e
t
The cheapest and the
Best of the CCU Balls
'Phone 8675 or come
to the RCS Office for
details and tickets.
I

