Film
Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure
First, the conclusion. If you want to see a film make
a fool of itself and at the same time have a good laugh,
this is that film.
I had to put the conclusion first in case you didn't
make it through the review. Quite simply this is an
everyday story of two young idiots who want to form
a band. Unfortunately they can't sing nor play the
guitar. This doesn't stop them, however, from
becoming a new cult religion that everyone looks up
to...if they pass tomorrow's history test that is.
This is where Rufus comes in. He comes from the
future to ensure that they pass (otherwise civilisation
as he knows it disappears). He gives them the ultimate
cheat sheet, a time-travelling phone box (sounds
familiar?).
Our two 'dudes' take off into the past. From
Ancient Greece to the Wild West they kidnap all sorts
of people and bring them back to modern day
American to see the sights and to help with their
history presentation.
Of course, things get predictably out of control, as
Joan of Arc takes over an aerobics demonstration and
Napoleon eats his way through a bowl of icecream.
What can I say about this film? It's so ludicrous that
it grows on you: I think that the ending is a bit too
long and some of the gags were repeated too many
times. The device 'If tomorrow I go back in time I can
get us out of this situation' was amusing once but
three times in succession?
Theatre
Pericles
A question mark-l kid you not-learned historians
see this play as barely Shakespeare. Indeed if the
great bard new the RSC's Pericles I'm sure he too
would wish to disassociate himself from it. As usual
with the RSC, no expense is spared; costumes are
extravagant and the set innovative. The RSC
squanders technical expertise on a script ten times
more tedious than Neighbours but given the full
Hamlet treatment. The company with few exceptions
threw itself whole-heartedly into some really abismal
'ham' Shakespearean acting. Pericles is very
miserable.
Anna Teeman.
Still, most of it is funny, and the effects are pretty
good. I just wonder how they got the two heroes to
be so dumb? As a complete mickey-take of time
travelling teen adventures, this wins first (or last)
prize.
Don't forget 'Be excellent to each other'
Toby Jones.
Uncle Buck
Film
Buck Russell, played by John Candy, is a carefree
bachelor who uses any excuse he can not to do any
work. In fact, if it wasn't for his brother asking him
to look after his nephew and two nieces for a few
days, he might have had to work for his girlfriend
(Amy Madigan). That was close. He drives to his
brother's in the moving trash-heap he calls a car and
wakes all the neighbours. Uncle Buck is the last
person you'd want as a baby-sitter but he pulls
through admirably.
At first he has some trouble with the house and
kids, for a start he can't remember their names! The
nephew, Miles Russell, assaults him with the longest,
quickest running question session before accepting
Buck as a role model. The youngest niece, Maizy,
thinks he's cuddly and the elder niece, Tia, thinks he's
a slob. This is not surprising as his eating habits put
mine to shame! Have you ever seen a six foot pancake
before?
As Tia tries to avoid him, Buck takes special care
to look after her. This makes her hate him even more,
especially when he insists on driving her to college in
his wonderful car. Tia's boyfriend, Bug (he's that type
of guy that makes you wonder what she sees in him),
tries to interfere 'Ever heard of a tune up?', 'Ever heard
of ritual killing?' comes the reply before a cloud of
smoke covers Buck's exit.
All the charades are well cast, especially Macaulay
Culkin as the eight year-old Miles. He's a likable kid
who has some great lines. When Buck comments on
Miles noticing the hairs in his nose, he replies 'I'm a
kid. That's my job'.
Mostly though the humour comes from John
Candy. No one else could have 'filled' the character
as he does. He has the sort of humour you either can't
get enough of or find a bit tiresome. I thoroughly
enjoyed it. Any film that can make ME start to shed
a tear must be worth watching!
Toby Jones.
Page 3

