Film
A ShortFilm Monsieur Hire
About Love
This film is of the type sometimes referred to as a
'study'. That means that the plot, such as it is, is not
the main point of the film. It is the characters and the
film's observations that matter. Filmed in Polish, it has
English subtitles, but for once I found that the sense
of detachment added to the film. Aptly, we are
studying the characters from a distance.
Tomek, a young post office worker, has been
spying on Magda, a thirty year old woman in the block
of flats opposite, for over a year. He phones her up
without speaking, sends round gas men when she
brings home boyfriends and intercepts her mail. When
one of her many men leaves her crying over spilt milk,
he finally confronts her and tells her what he's done.
At first she dismisses him violently but finally they
meet in her apartment...
At first, the film revolves around Tomek. We see
Magda only through his telescope-the audience
themselves become the voyeurs. The only sounds we
hear are from the boy's apartment-the only sounds
that reach us from the woman's apartment are her
voice on the telephone when he phones her,
otherwise she inhabits a silent world. This enforces
the feeling that they are completely separated,
mututally incompatible.
It is to prove this to him that Magda leads Tomek
to her apartment. She maintains that he cannot be in
love with her as love does not exist, just biological
reactions. She can make love but can not be in love.
Tomek as her opposite, cannot take the place of her
other men and flees her. She is both right and wrong.
Love is a biological reaction, but what are we but
animals dependent on love, as necessary as food and
as crippling if not sated?
As the film draws to an end, neither happy nor sad,
we feel no emotion towards either Tomek, a pathetic
if disgusting figure or Magda, a cdld, manipulative
woman. Perhaps this is to show that there can be no
feeling after all.
If you go to this film just because it is an 18, you'll
be disappointed. I think this signifies that anyone
younger wouldn't understand this film (there's no car
chase). I'm not sure I understand it consciously
myself, yet it touched on something that made me
sad. A personal film.
Toby Jones.
Society would class M. Hire as a pervert. He has a
conviction for indecent exposure and spends his
evenings watching the girl in the flat opposite through
his window. He is hated by his neighbours, but he
doesn't care. He is a man who prefers silence and
solitude. Then one evening he sees something happen
in Alice's room that will change his life...
Made by a Frenchman whose past films have in
general tended towards comedy, it is a dark and
disturbing film. M. Hire lives in a room into which light
rarely falls. He never switches on the light and spends
his evenings indulging in his voyeuristic tendencies to
a background of Brahms. Alice lives in a lighter, airier
environment and lives a fairly normal life - if you ignore
the fact that her fiancee is a criminal. Slowly the two
begin to merge, we see new facets of the characters
and our perceptions begin to change. The plot is
simple, the pace is slow but the developments
intriguing.
Michel Blanc's portrayal of M. Hire is perfect,
bringing across the necessary elements of both threat
and despair that are inherent in the character, while
leaving him as a human, albeit an unusual one. Alice
is less well portrayed, her emotions and motivations
never becoming clear. It is difficult to tell though,
whether this is a failing of the actress (Sandrine
Bonnaire) or of the script.
The few other characters in the film have little in
the way of personality - they are merely devices to
allow plot development. The film is primarily one of
relationships, but fails on one simple count. One
cannot feel any sympathy for (or empathy with) either
of the central characters. The viewer is always the
outsider looking in on a situation that is of little
relevance to his/her life. Thus while it provides an
interesting 80 mins it has little lasting appeal.
Adam T.
Film
The Hunt for Red October
Before the USSR began to crumble, the naval games
which continue today were played out with fleets of
similar ships and subs. Stalemate. But what would
have happened if one side had discovered a silent
propulsion system? A devastating first strike would
be possible. But what if the commander of the first
sub to be fitted with this major advantage decided to
steal it?
Markus Ramius (Sean Connery) does just that. He
steals the Red October, the Soviet's latest submarine,
and sails it towards America. Strangely he informs his
superiors as to his intent and they deploy everything
to get him back or blow him up.
Back in the USA, VIA analyst Jack Ryan (Alec
Baldwin) is called upon to brief senior Whitehouse
officials on the latest sub technology and to explain
the strange behaviour of the Soviet Fleet. He decides
that Ramius is trying to defect. If he is right, the
Amercans will have their hands on the latest
technology. If he is wrong...Someone must intercept
Ramius and learn his true intent. Good old,
expendable, Jack Ryan.
Even though we live in a post-glasnost era, this
thriller hits the mark. Connery plays Ramius with ice
in his veins contrasting with the eager but
inexperienced Ryan played well by Baldwin. Crew
members on the UPS Dallas are all played by authentic
Navy submariners giving a touch of reality to the
faithfully copied sets.
As for the underwater effects, Industrial Light &
Magic used a combination of smoke and computer
graphics and a 500-foot model of the Red October.
As expected, they are superb and seem perfectly
natural.
Director John McTiernan {Die Hard) has kept up the
suspense throughout, only letting us relax for some
wisecracks. You can tell how keyed up everyone is
when a quite funny joke gets a huge response from
the audience. It's quite a long film at two hours
sixteen minutes but I certainly didn't notice.
Quite simply, a film that I urge you to see as much
as I did Black Rain.
Toby Jones.
Page 4

