ADVERTISEMENT FEATURE
How to win elections and
influence people
JOHN FINLEY X CHRIS OWEN KEN YOUNG PAULA YOUNG
You should have your poll card soon, if not already.
You will also have had your poll tax demand. You must
have seen the posters about the elections for the local
Council. What are you going to do come polling day,
on May 3rd?
Well, you could turn out and vote. To forestall
questions about this, consider the following thoughts.
Why will my councillor do me any good? The local
Council directs the expenditure of the very large sum
of money raised from personal poll tax, business rate
poll tax and the Rate Support Grant. This adds up to
a significant fraction of a billion pounds a year, and
apart from blanket services like refuse collection,
students (who pay like everyone else] see surprisingly
little of it. Whether this is because the local Council
never gets to hear our views, or actually doesn't want
to, is unanswerable. But whichever block exists, it
could be removed by direct representation.
Planning and licensing are also dealt with by the
local Council, and if you've ever been annoyed by your
hall's inability to get a bar, or your inability to get a
hall place because there aren't enough, then you
might think about getting yourself a voice. We don't
claim that a couple of councillors will work miracles
overnight, but do you know whether people spoke on
your behalf the last time a planning application was
considered? Or whether they were heard if they did?
A couple of local Councillors dedicated to putting over
the world according to Imperial College could help a
lot. Who should I vote for? ICU has got it's finger out
and assembled a team of candidates for the two
wards with most students in them:
Knightsbridge Ward, Westminster (all of Prince's
Gardens, Montpelier and Beit) and Courtfield Ward,
Kensington and Chelsea (Evelyn Gardens).
Knightsbridge will be contested by Dr. John Finley
(Aero. Eng., Warden, Beit Hall) and Dr. Chris Owen
(Space Physics, Sub Warden, F-K Hall), and Courtfield
will be contested by Ken (Warden, Southwell Hall) and
Paula Young. Candidates were selected primarily on
the basis of their record of working for students, as
well as ability to communicate and put their point
across.
What are they standing as?
They are all standing as IC Party candidates, which
will be abbreviated to ICP on the ballot papers. Many
people ask why they should vote for an independent
candidate, when a party candidate will at least have
his or her fellow party councillors' votes. This is true,
but the only way a party with a majority on a Council
can get things done is to ensure consensus between
all members before the Council meets, then require
all members to vote with the agreed result. And when
they're talking about the various issues that the
Council will discuss, how high on the agenda do you
think the problems of IC students will come? The only
way to get a particular voice to the level of the Council
meeting is to have a candidate who specifically stands
for that voice. There are other independents, but a
vote for them loses the backing of a party vote
without increasing their voice on your behalf-if
anything, it decreases it, because even independents
stand on platforms dedicated to a particular group,
and if you're not within that group it may be hard to
get your councillor's ear. The bottom line is that party
political votes have always been wasted at local
Council level, because nothing the local Council can
say or do will affect policy coming down from
Westminster. The wise vote in local elections has
always gone to whichever candidate seems to be able
to do most for you; we hope that the choice is clear
for you.
When, where and how can I vote?
Polling is from 8am to 9pm on Thursday, May 3rd. If
you're in Prince's Gardens, Montpelier and Beit you
can vote at Linstead Hall, and if you're in Evelyn
Gardens, you can vote in the Armenian Church on the
corner of Cranleigh Gardens and Evelyn Gardens. You
don't need your poll card to vote, but it makes it
quicker if you do have it on you. You also have several
votes; two if you're in Westminster and three in
Kensington and Chelsea. In Westminster we ask you
to cast those for John Finley and Chris Owen, in
Kensington & Chelsea to cast two for Ken and Paula
Young and to withhold the third - any use of the third
vote will make it harder for Ken and Paula to get in.
You can vote on the way into college or the way
home, it takes only five minutes, and it could be the
best spent five minutes that day.
Why me?
Primarily, why not? You've had to pay for your vote,
you may as well use it. But also, we don't have a huge
voting base in college. Certainly, if all students turn
out and vote ICP then we should be able to swing the
election our way; but it's a close run thing even if you
ALL turn out, so we need every eligible student to
appear on the day and cast their vote for ICP. Really,
seriously, every single student, or the day is lost. Any
further questions? Please feel free to address enquiries
or comments to ICU (internal 3500). But if your
questions have been answered, then please vote IC
Party X on May 3rd
Published by Neil McCluskey and Tom Yates (Imperial
College Union, SW7 2AZ)

