Phil Collins
'Phil, we love you' they screamed and they did. Phil
Collins is a man with a cult following of ten million.
This is frightening. As one of the heretics who queued
for tickets on the door, I was treated to extensive and
detailed coverage of the great man's bald spot.
Glinting like a silver football in the light he thundered
through the instrumental opening. The granny
contingent went wild; the yuppies in their £500 a time
touted seats yahed appreciatively. Phil rode
roughshod through Who Said I Would before slowing
to the all-time misty eyes fave Against All Odds.
Funky sax. Soulful backing vox. Phil galloped into
Doesn't anybody Stay Together Anymore amidst a
truly awesome drum farrago from Chester Thompson
and then dropped three gears into another slowly.
Don't Lose My Number boomed out triumphantly; Do
You Remember reduced the front six rows to gooey
candyfloss. Something Happened on the Way to
Heaven was greeted with joy; Another Day in Paradise
was prefaced with a worthy word or two on the
subject of homelessness (humourous no less) and was
probably good for a few thousand quid to the Prince's
Trust buckets outside.
Phil dueted mournfully for Separate Lives before
launching like a diminutive guided missile into a drum
battle with Chester which packed more energy in than
Kylie's entire career to date (not saying much really).
Royal Albert Hall, 22.4.90 Carter T.U.S.M.
101 Damnations LP
That's Just the Way it is closed the 'not an enormous
hit' section of the concert before we arrived at One
More Night which was the only one which left me
cold, but it went down a storm with the rest of the
audience. Colours did the, by now, obligatory redress-
in-South-Africa bit before In the Air Tonight brought
the house down. In the Air Tonight was awesome.
You Can't Hurry Love segued neatly into Two Hearts
at which point the crowd bursted out of their seats
and wholesale invasion of the front of the hall took
place. The place went mad. Wild women tried to
mount the stage and were forcibly restrained. Phil
started to drown in flowers. Two Hearts finally ended
(audience swaying side to side uncontrollably) and
Sussudio demolished any remaining reserve in the hall.
Even your floppy-fringed reporter was driven to his
feet to clap aimlessly (oh the shame of it) and then
with a cataclysmic shriek of bereavement Phil was
gone.
He came back of course (phew! thoughts of an
iminent riot clear) and he did ,4 Groovy Kind of Love,
closing like a demi-god with the mighty roll of Take
Me Home.
Phil was very good. This has been a very hard
review to write.
Stone.
The Beat + Friends of Harry +
The Trudy + Goat
Finished your exams and need to let your hair down?
Maybe you need a night off from that hectic revision
schedule? Can you think of a better way of spending
tonight than to come to the Exam Blues Ball in the
Union Building? No I thought not! There will be bands
galore, disco frenzy, cocktails, late bar, burgers, films
and maybe a casino.
Topping the bill in tonight's carnival is The
International Beat, formerly The Beat. Yes, they have
reformed and play their first UK gig tonight at Imperial
College. For those of you who don't know The Beat,
maybe when you were young, pop music was just
something that happened to other people, they were
a very successful ska band in the early 80s with such
songs as Mirror in the Bathroom topping the charts.
The line-up is very similar to the original with only two
members leaving to form Fine Young Cannibals.
Supporting them upstairs in the Concert Hall is
Friends of Harry, a pop, reggae, jazz, funk fusion band
with an excellent soiree of danceable ditties
guaranteed to get you on your feet and wear away
the soles of your shoes.
Headlining downstairs in the Lounge is The Trudy.
These out of this world manic popsters are coming
to present their own inimitable style of crazy pop/rock.
The final band on the bill is Goaf.
But of course to be the best fun and value for money
for miles around (£3.50 advance from the Union
Office and £4.00 on the door (if there are any left))
we don't only present bands. We have the Lounge
Disco pumping out those Scallie tunes, plus some
songs from other parts of the country until 3am. Also
on offer is a selection of films, burgers in the Quad
and maybe even a Casino. If by chance you need a
Page 6
Imperial College Union, Tonight
little liquid stimulation, come on-this is Imperial
College, we have a late bar until 2am and some lethal
cocktails served up by those very friendly Rugger
boys.
But to ensure entrance to this most magical of
evenings you must (a) have bought a ticket (most
important) and (b) bring your Union Card (also most
important). If you follow these two simple instructions
a great night will be had by all.
Finally, if you are genuinely interested in helping out
on the Carnival tonight and joining the Ents Committee
free of charge, then meet at the Union Lounge at
1.30pm today.
Competition
We are now in a position to offer someone two free
tickets for tonight's Exam Blues Ball. All you have to
do is answer the questions and tie break (in no more
than 20 words) and give your answers to Michelle in
the Union Office before 1pm today. The prize will be
given at 1,30pm in the Lounge so make sure you are
there. The Ents Chairman's decision is final.
Question 1: Name the two front men of The Beat who
are now with the International Beat?
Question 2: Name the two bands that initially emerged
from the break-up of The Beat (the International Beat
is not one of them)?
Tie Break: I would like to go to the Exam Blues Ball
because
(not more than 20 words)
Lyrical inspiration of The Smiths. Energy and fun of
early Fuzzbox. Danceability of the best Scallie bands.
They're rather good, get some.
DEL
Sinead O'Conner
/ do not want what I haven't got LP
Proven by its position at No1 in the charts for weeks,
this album really is good.
The overwelming beauty of this album is in Sinead
O'Conner's voice; on every track, however she
applies it, it always sounds strong and to the fore.
From the politically activated Black Boys on Mopeds
to the sparse vocal title track / Do Not Want... all of
the songs are from Sinead's heart, sung with true
emotion. The track everyone knows for its chart
topping success, Nothing Compares to You is still
brilliant, but seems out of place. A beautiful album.
DEL.
NECROPHILIACS GUIDE TO GRAVE DIGGING
Friday April 27
CORPSE OF THE WEEK:
The Trudy + Imperial College Union
Ultra Vivid Scene Borderline
Saturday April 28
Faith no More + Prong Bixton Academy
The Quire Boys Hammersmith Odeon
Phil Collins Wembley Arena (all week)
Ultra Vivid Scene Borderline
Monday 30 April
The Trudy Subterrannia
Tuesday 31 May
Felo-de-se +
Meltations + The
Strange +
48 Hours Lady Owen's Arms, Angel
Wednesday May 2
The Soupdragons Subterrania
Thursday May 3
My Bloody Valentine ULU
Friday May 4
My Bloody Valentine ULU

