Intrepid FELIX reporters Tony Drambuie and Ed de Menthe reveal details of the recent governme
on a potentially secret projectile launching system...
i
Queen's Tower in
satellite scandal
Over Easter the Queen's Tower, Imperial College's
prestigious symbol of fertility, has been seized. HM
customs, acting upon classified information to the
effect that QT was to be a new military satellite
launcher, took control and pronounced a 20 metre
exclusion zone around it. Following delays in both the
American and European space programmes potential
was seen for a reliable and cheap land based launcher
for satellites and other projectiles. Government
experts are thought to believe QT a prime candidate
with its good road and rail links, discreet location and
fast access to Europa Foods.
The government agency MIS has had Imperial under
close scrutiny since the appearance of a giant 'candle'
some 16 months ago. Under the pretext that this
would be built and lit in order to raise money for
charity, it is supposed in fact to be a scaled down
prototype for the, now possibly installed, system in
QT. FELIX has obtained confidential blueprints of the
design when the tube was attatched to the side of
the Mechanical Engineering building. This
experimental version was used to test access for
satellite or cargo loading and determine the length of
the fuse for detonation, known under the codename
'wick'. Apparently a consortium, the British Unilateral
Launcher of Low-orbit Satellites and High Industrial
Technology, has so far provided funds for such a
costly venture. This is composed of several industrial
concerns, the Temms Water Authority and the
recently formed IRC for Missile and Bomb curious
people. The Baron of Cheapskate was unwilling to
comment on the matter.
A potential carcinogen and dangerous poison, Cadmium, is still commonly used for household pr
Manufacturers will have to decrease levels to remain environmentally friendly in the '90s rep
Khoroushi.
Heavy metal
The concern over the presence of heavy metals really
started after the Second World War, because of
accidents occurring in, for example, Minamata, Japan
and the better understanding of their effect on man's
health and his environment. Cadmium occurs
naturally, but as ever the problem starts when man
and industry are involved with its manufacture.
Cadmium is generated during zinc manufacture
either as a by-product or a fraction of the waste. Over
the past 40 years cadmium has been used as surface-
coatings, pigments, in rechargeable batteries,
stabilizers in PVC as well as detergents and fertilisers.
In all these areas substitutes are available, but
cadmium with its high stability and resistance to heat,
cold and light seems to be the ideal choice for the
manufacturers. With detergents and fertilisers
cadmium occurs as an impurity in phosphate rock
formations. This heavy metal is removed during the
production of detergents but not fertilisers.
Cadmium can get into the ecosystem via air, water
and soil. It moves through the environment and is
finally deposited in the soil, where it is taken up by
plants and enters the food chain. Over the years
emissions of cadmium into air and water have been
controlled but now this leaves food as the major
source of exposure to the general public.
The environmental impact of cadmium is not
significant and so efforts have been concentrated on
protecting man. Cadmium accumulates in the kidney
and if its concentration rises above 200 parts per
million then it can cause damage to organs and lead
to chemical complications. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency considers cadmium
oxides as a potential carcinogen, but they are still
prevalent in working environments. Studies have
shown that cadmium does not influence the health of
cattle or their milk. There might be a problem with
sheep as they eat large amounts of soil, but this has
not been studied yet. Plants on the other hand take
up cadmium through the soil. The acidity of the soil
is important, as the more acid the soil the more
cadmium is taken up. The type of vegetable is also
important. Lettuce and spinach take up more
cadmium than cabbage, cauliflower and beans.
Smoking and poor health both increase susceptibility
to the effects of cadmium.
The Acceptable Daily Intake level for cadmium is
400 micrograms per day, while in Britain the average
daily intake is about 140 micrograms. However this
intake level is increasing all the time. Another factor
is that cadmium concentration is usually 2 to 3 times
higher in the home. Therefore any control programme
has to involve lowering emissions, as well as the use
of cadmium in products. The EEC directive bans the
use of cadmium in many plastic products, as
stabilisers and plating of metallic plants and
equipment. The aim of the ruling is to make companies
seek alternatives to cadmium.
A few manufacturers (mainly European] have
started to decrease the levels of cadmium in their
products, although Britain seems to be lagging behind.
With 1992 approaching the companies substituting
cadmium are bound to be in a much more favourable
market position as well as being regarding as
environmentally or maybe it is more appropriate to say
humanly, friendly.
Shadi Khoroushi, Life Science 3.
Page 7

