Sailing Challenge
The Imperial College European Sailing Challenge
(ICESC), with six members from IC, went to France
and competed in the Spi Dauphinne Regatta over
Easter. The idea of the regatta being each team
consists of two boats, one sailed by the university
students, and the other by the team sponsor. The
ICESC had two main sponsors, Symbol MSI, a High
Tech company, and Sema Graph, a CAD Engineering
firm, as well as sub-sponsorship from IC, Douglas Gill
and DPSC International.
The team quickly earned a good reputation with the
race organisation. In fact, after Rory Barrett and Pierre
Grosgogeat free-climbed a 55 foot mast to pose for
the cameras, the ICESC was voted best
representative for their sponsors in the regatta, by Le
Figaro the biggest French national newspaper.
Conditions varied greatly, with winds between 0 and
60 knots. The race was tremendously well organised
with a night race, a 24 hour relay race, one day race
and one Olympic race. Conditions were perfect giving
everything from roaring 16 knot spinnaker runs, to
critical light wind beating.
Next year the syndicate hopes to raise more than
the £15,000 it was worth this year, and is aiming to
win the Spi Dauphine 1991.
Eastern Orienteering YHA
Easter is a vacation for orienteering. This year we
went to Southampton to run the British Student
Championship, and to Scotland to run an international
event.
In Southampton it was more important to enjoy
yourself than to win. But we did win something,
Shaun West got the wooden spoon (after spending
over 7 hours in the forest!) and again we won the boat
race-this time by the girls.
The weather was on our side, and most of us
managed to get sunburnt after two days running.
During the Easter weekend we ran in Perth in
Scotland, competing with national stars from Norway,
Sweden and the UK. William Power did the best run,
ending up as number 7 in his course after being 2nd
the first day. This was really good, with the hard
competition and the difficult orienteering. Both Dave
Knight and William Power had good runs for the men's
first team in the relay, but they couldn't take up the
hard Scandinavian competition.
IC Rifle and Pistol
beat Holland Club
At the end of last term we shot a combined rifle and
pistol match against the Holland Club. Rifle and pistol
shooters from each club were paired according to
ability and then shot against the corresponding pair
from the other club. The winner was taken to be the
club who won the most pairs.
ICR&PC Pairs
S Cane 195
R Hambleton 194
S Taylor 193
Lachlan 182
T Griffiths 179
A Menzies 176
T Griffiths 175
J Hurr 171
S Taylor 166
R Hambleton 158
Holland Club pairs
Rifle
N Royal 193
S Turner 181
C Raves 180
P Woods 168
W Bodinksi 167
Pistol
P Hems 185
J Pilner 176
N Royall 171
C Raves 163
V Brashko 163
So ICR&PC won 4 pairs and the Holland Club won 1
pair meaning that ICR&PC won the match, although
the aggregate scores were quite close (1750-1789).
Could all members of the club please note that this
term the range will only be open on Wednesday and
Saturday afternoons as we have to do at least a
couple of hours revision before our exams.
The cold morning started with a bowlful of porridge
and a dash of treacle (we feeble sassenachs couldn't
take the traditional salted porridge). Then the
discussion of where to walk today. After the fun job
groups soon emerged; those who were going on the
long walk, and those going on the short one.
The long walk was a fifteen mile one around a
fractal coastline. As fate would have it, this included
crossing a raging torrent. One member of the group
thought he had found the perfect route but suddenly,
he was neck deep and being swept into shark-infested
waters (a little exageration perhaps, really it was a
gentle stream, he was waist deep, and the waters
were infested with seals).
The short walk actually remained on the beach and
turned into a 'beach bum' party. This included such
delights as throwing stones at other stones, attacking
each other with pieces of seaweed, and (of course),
taking in the atmosphere of the Misty Isle. We did
have our exercise of the day, though -the 200ft walk
back to the van was uphill!
At the end of the day, after the evening meal of
haggis and swedes/potatoes, it was off to the pub to
discuss the day's exertions over a glass (or two) of
the local whisky, Talisker.
All in all, a pretty successful day in our 10-day trip
to the Misty Isle. I can't wait for next year's Easter
trip.
Page 8

