Go fly a kite
*^ by Mike Tarry
Having been involved with the Hang Gliding scene for
the last three years I have watched the increase in
popularity of paragliding with both interest and
concern. The latter results from the inevitable
swamping of 'our' sites by 'them', those lucky
buggers who each time they fly down to the bottom
of the hill only have to carry 3kgs of sailcloth back
to the top, whilst we struggle under 30kgs of glider.
There's no prizes for guessing who sweats the most!
This weekend the former of these two factors got the
better of me, so I paid my £ 3 5 for a one-day hang
glider to paraglider converson, and off I went in the
direction of the South Downs (W Sussex).
My instructor was the same guy the IC Club has
been using to teach our members to hang glide for the
last few years (with no accidents so far!), ex-SAS, ex-
mercenary, easy-going Eddie Bilous-CFI Free Flight
Hang Gliding School.
Saturday started with blue skies, and I started at
the bottom of the hill learning how to 'ground-handle'
24 square metres of sailcloth—possibly the hardest
part of this new sport. As the temperature crept up
to 22°C I slowly crept up the hill, ten feet per flight,
always under the watchful eye of Eddie. Eventually
I found myself at the top of the hill. Helmet, harness,
check the risers (strings), airspace clear, tug the front
risers, CRACKI-the canopy inflates above me,
quickly onto the breaks, check inflation, canopy
stable, breaks off, run to the edge. 10m, 20m, 30m,
50m the ground drops away beneath me. Below,
people shrink from six feet tall to the same number
of centimetres. Unfortunately I fly out of the lifting
air from the hill, and sail down to the ground. People
begin to grow back to their normal size. The grass gets
nearer-feet together, progresive pull down on the
breaks, and my toes touch the ground with less force
than jumping off a 2ft wall. If only hang-gliding had
been this easy!
Several flights later the day ended with me being
awarded my F1, the first licence (of three) which says
I'm not a complete nutter with kamakazi tendencies.
Sunday started much the same-blue skies and a
gentle up-slope breeze. Today was a day for
converting onto a higher performance glider-the
much talked about (in these circles anyway) ALIEN.
The increase in performance was stunning, and with
this beauty I ended up right down the bottom of the
valley. In fact I was so impressed, 'I bought the
company'. Actually I didn't, but I did place an order
for an ALIEN of my own, and at £1,300 a time shows
just how much fun paragliding is.
The IC Hang Gliding Club still has some training
money left in its account, and anyone interested in
joining the club and possibly getting subsidised tuition
onto paragliders had better get in on the act soon,
because I can see all our ££'s disappearing quickly.
Eddie will be available for training throughout the
Easter break, and will take you any day of the week,
but will especially love to see you on weekdays. He
charges £35 a day and unless you've got a good few
hours flying hang-gliders, it'll take more than a day
to get your F1.
Since paragliding has only been around for about
a year, no club exists at IC (to my knowledge), and
no club has the relevant equipment. I shall be talking
to RCC to see if we can raise any money to buy a
suitable canopy, but we'll have to wait and see.
If you want to have a go, here's how to do it.
1. Call Eddie the night before you want to go. Mention
my name, that you're from Imperial and want to learn
how to fly a paraglider. If you intend going down by
train, tell him to collect you at Portslade (between
9.30 and 9.45am) the next morning. His number is
0273 411239 and it's best to call between 6.00 and
7.00pm to catch him in.
2. The trains go from London Victoria to Hove (then
to Brighton) at 8.20am everyday. Get off at Hove
(9.23am) and change onto the west-bound train
(9.28am) which goes through Portslade (and onto
Worthing).
3. Eddie will pick you up in a small light blue Bedford
van at 9.30am with hang-gliders on top of it.
4. To get back to London follow the reverse process.
You should be back in the smoke by 8pm.
5. If you want any chance of a subsidy from the
Union, get a receipt off Eddie on something that looks
rather more like a receipt than an old chocolate bar
wrapper.
I can see a great future in paragliding. It's a fantastic
sport. If you want any more information my home
number is 01-352 4007, or get in contact via the Aero
3 pigeonholes.
So put those books down, for a few days, forget
exams and 'sky out'. It's the best high I've had for
a very long time. Good luck and happy flying.
Mike Tarry, ICHGC Chairman.
Page 9

