Attempts on her Life
Royal Court TheBtrep r e
Pa r e t o b e c
°n f t j s e d w i t h t h i s
p| a
y-| t
starts with peo-
ple lined up on either side of a
smoke-laden runway, with a
television in the centre show-
ing footage of men running
round with machine guns. In
the background, you can hear
a succession of increasingly
hysterical answering machine
messages. As if that wasn't
confusing enough, it is then
replaced by an interrogation.
Well, more like a segment of
the interviewee's life: he just
kneels there while his inter-
rogators never stop talking.
And then that's replaced by a
group of writers discussing a
play.
At first, "Attempts on her
Life" appears to be a collection
of irrelevant, bizarre and
unconnected scenes. There's a
music video, a car advert (in
two languages simultaneously) and a lengthy monologue
by a cripple, to name but three. Individually a little
SrrtM
1085/1
strange, when put together, they begin to make no sense
at all. The name "Annie" is mentioned a couple of times,
but you have no idea of who this "Annie" person actually
is.
But this is just what makes the play look so astounding-
ly well done. After a while, things begin to come together.
Although she never actually
appears, you get a good idea
of the kind of person Annie is,
what she's done with her life
and exactly what all the fuss is
about. That really odd scene
half an hour ago begins to
make perfect sense and you
realise how it fits into the big
picture and adds a great deal
to it.
Having said that, not every-
thing fits in perfectly. One
scene keeps cutting to a man
haloed in green light reading
out a list of seemingly random
words, then back to the main
action of a group of art critics.
It just seems to distract from
the main scene without
adding anything to it.
Once you get to the end,
everything is crystal clear. But
then when you think about it
some more, it still doesn't make total sense. It's certainly
open to interpretation in a number of places. Overall, it's
one amazingly well written play. Andy Royal
Went Down to the Crossroads
liy PhiliP GOUldinO It seems that each time I go to the theatre,
the audience moves closer to the stage and
vice-versa...
The Courtyard is situated as its name suggests; it
is a tiny theatre in a small country-like house. Although in
the 'not-so-dodgy' part of King's Cross, as it faces the side
of the station, it is nevertheless stuck between a garish
and uninviting fastfood outlet and an abandoned looking
house. Heaps of litter lay strewn about the pavement here
and there and one would not really venture alone at night
too much further up the street...
I know that the purpose of a review is really to discuss
the performance but its rather unusual setting deserves a
little more than just a passing mention and contributes a
lotto the atmosphere and personal impressions of this
intimate little theatre.
There was nothing really striking in the play itself.
An ordinary young man, Davy, a little idle, but without a
precedence of delinquency, goes down to the crossroads
not very far from his home and shoots at random eight
people passing by, in less than two hours.
The search for him, his capture and consequent impris-
onment are in fact subordinate. What the author puts the
emphasis on is the 'psychological penetration' of the mur-
derer ; what the motivations behind the massacre were,
what his current feelings are, etc. The scenes follow
seamlessly one upon the other, given a framework by the
art and theatr
everpresent jour-
nalist, who does-
n't represent the
tabloids however,
but questions Davy's relatives and members of the neigh-
bouring community.
The play revolves around the one question: WHY?
I still cannot clearly see the purpose of writing such a
play. Maybe it is that everyday, everywhere, we watch,
hear or read about slaughter, ignominious events, but
they remain remote and do not touch upon our lives.
However, they can happen in the 'real' world, in our 'nor-
mal' world too. In my opinion, this pseudo-psycho-analy-
sis of the murderer is rather pointless. It is developed by
means of everlasting interrogations, of himself, his mother
- 'how could my son have done this?' -, the girlfriend (with
whom there is a relatively 'hot' scene, by the way) - 'he
was such a nice boy' -, of the farmer, etc... who express
their dismay and incomprehension towards the event. It is
not a question of hiding from a reality which, sadly, does
exist, it is only that I feel it unnecessary to act out current
events or events that have, most unfortunately, more than
once made the news headlines on stage. If one wants to
denounce this kind of violence, which I am not sure was
the prime aim of the play anyway, one should approach
the subject from a different angle.
There is definitely something that disturbs me both with
the choice of theme and the way it has been dealt with.
Finally, it has to be said that there was nothing out-
standing in the acting, although Darren Charlton, as Davy,
did fit really quite well in his part. Danuta

