Elizabeth Horoscy-a Polish Artist
Established in London
Elizabeth was born in Warsaw and came to London in
1968, where she studied Fine Art at Guildhall University.
The exhibition JUXTAPOSED features her work along with
that of another Polish artist and two British artists.
For this event, she wanted to develop two themes in her
work.
The first series, for which she has made extensive use
of diverse found materials, such as aluminium foil, plas-
ter, string, sand and PVA, is inspired from the Greek myth
of lo.
The story tells how Zeus fell in love with her and
changed her into a heifer to escape detection. Suspicious,
Hera, Zeus' wife, asked for it as a present and, as soon
as the unfortunate heifer was in her possession, she
entrusted it to the care of Argos, the giant with a hundred
eyes that never slept at the same time. However, Zeus
asked his son Hermes, protector of thieves, to steal her
away. He lulled Argos to sleep with his pipes and killed
him. Hera was very upset. In remembrance of Argos, she
put one of his eyes in a peacock's tail and in revenge she
sent a gadfly to torment lo. She fled throughout the world
until she was finally released from her torment in Egypt.
Elizabeth's second series has been named " Of
Dreams, Lovers and Ancient Myths" which is the result of
a new idea of a painting on steel. She has chosen to work
with metallic, iridescent paint, in order to achieve a " sur-
real colour quality", as well as aiming at creating a "ten-
sion between glossy paint and rust".
Elizabeth's other works have a number of inspirational
sources which include mythology again, but also,
amongst others, archaeology, the encounter of conscious
and subconscious, in her most abstract canvasses and
her extensive travelling.
Amongst my favourites, is the series of Cat Women, with
its near-to Baudelairean evocations. The artist has indeed
been inspired by the cat as a symbol of femininity but also
as a nocturnal animal. She seems somewhat fascinated
by the mysticism and the occult symbolism which sur-
rounds this individualistic feline. She reveals that in her
dreams she has been a cat, that she has been painting
herself as a sort of imaginary cat and that it is as this ani-
mal that she would wish to be reincarnated.
And indeed, her cat women always have a particular
hairdo - long, curly red hair - strangely reminiscent of
someone, until we realise that it is in fact that of the tall
Slavic artist...
Elizabeth, always cheerful and lively and whose enthu-
siasm cannot but quickly be reflected on whoever gets to
know her, will be exhibiting at the Ashford Library lend of
June), Place des Vosges, in Paris and at Nieborow, in
Poland (September 97).
Danuta
juxtaposed
Polish Cultural Institute
34 Portland Place
until 30th April
Mon-Fri 10-4
except Thur 10 -8
Oiscovering the Italian Baroque
Although the exhibition is entitled Discovering the Italian
Baroque I feel that perhaps it ought to be named
Rediscovering the Italian Baroque. In the
eighteenth century, Baroque art was all
the rage with the British aristocracy who
admired and attempted with more or
less success to imitate the savoir-faire of
such artists as Guercino, Guido Reni,
Domenichino, Luca Giordano, Pietro da
Cortona and Johann Liss. However this
flamboyant style fell out of favour in the
nineteenth century and has only recently
experienced a revival.
Indeed the very first thing that strikes
you as you enter the exhibition is the
richness of the colours. You can almost
feel the different textures be they wool,
velvet, silk or even skin. This visual satu-
ration is at complete odds with the func-
tional, minimalist, pared-down style that
most post-war painters seem to favour
and that you find in trendy, up-market
pied-a-terres, restaurants... Perhaps the
renewed interest in the Baroque is a
backlash against the drabness and
sterility of modern art.
The subject matter is usually drawn from the Bible of
The National Gallery
Trafalgar Square
until 18th May
Mon to Sat Warn - 6pm
Wed Warn • 8pm
Sun 12pm - 6pm
Entrance is free.
Enquiries:
0171 7472885
from Greek and Roman mythology. Herein lies one NatlOflSl G 91161*V
of the greatest paradoxes of the Baroque: sacred,
religious scenes and sacrilegious, pro-
fane scenes painted with equal fervour
and dedication, the Holy Family with the
Virgin Teaching the Child the Read
alongside the Mythological Landscape
with Nymphs and Satyrs. The same con-
trast can be found in the artists them-
selves: while creating work of incredible
delicacy, they often led violent lives,
Schedoni dying young in mysterious cir-
cumstances.
I am particularly in awe of the way
they handle light and shadows, bringing
their work to life in a way that no mod-
ern artist creating two-dimensional
paintings can. I know that photography
has to some extent taken over the role
that Baroque painters occupied, but
there is still a lot of scope for modern
artists to explore. The Baroque period is
a period of contrasts, between light and
shadows, the Bible and Greek mytholo-
gy, peacefulness and violence. This
exhibition brings out the richness and the paradoxes of
this time. Emma
art and theatre

