SALAD
Dingwalls
So here they are again, four years down the
line, playing a mid-sized indie venue, and not
much has changed at all. A string of singles,
indifferent press, and a small but loyal follow-
ing. They have songs, sex and talent in abun-
dance, and yet have remained resolutely
minor, overshadowed by others far less worthy
i.e. Sleeper. Certainly the similarities are unde-
niable, from the spiky guitar pop to the fact that
the band are marketed entirely on the strength
of a photogenic female singer. And yet while
SFTW
Sleeper appear to have been very single-mind-
ed in their bid for fame- adopt a sound
(Blondie), acquire a glib media image (female
PJ O'Rourke), write an album of the same song
twelve times over- Salad have wandered a
{more eccentric path.
Sure, the straight pop songs are
here tonight. New single Cardboy
King could be any old reject from a
l&JJlsJj'Shine' compilation, but it's also a
pretty good song, and bouncy as hell live.
Similarly, Drink The Elixir has a chorus that
should have propelled it to the highest reaches
of the charts and which, tonight, prompts a
L I V E
vicious bout of pogo mayhem. But it quickly
becomes apparent that Salad are wilful experi-
mentalists, prepared to reject a cosy middle-
eight flavour of an extended Pixies guitar burn
out, or some Pram-like keyboard plonking. On
The Sky's Our Terminal, shoes are gazed at
with aplomb, and it reminds me of why Ride
were so powerful live, infusing wall-of-noise
guitars with a crystalline beauty. Marijne herself
is in fine form, voice piercing and clear one
minute, throaty growling the next. She fends off
breast related heckles with a withering gaze,
and displays an admirably self-deprecating wit
on Foreign Cow, introducing it as a song about
"...a really horrible person....that's right, ifs
me". She quite clearly loves performing, and is
a terrible show off. But then thafs what pop
stars are meant to be, isn't if?
Norm
DREADZONE
Brixton Academy
A turbulent and expectant crowed gathered in
the mammoth cavern of the Brixton Academy
to enjoy a marathon nine-hour session of tunes
from headliners Orb and Dreadzone and
assorted Dj's in support.
After a desultory performance from the sup-
port Dj, who's appearance nobody noticed and
who's departure nobody minded, the multi-
dreaded members of Dreadzone took the cen-
tre spot. This,' we thought, 'was more like it.'
The bassist bounced on, hidden amongst his
hair and thumping his guitar with a most
pleasing result. The crowd below us moved up
a gear and matched the strobes and lights
beat for beat and watched themselves on a
screen live from an onstage camera. The
drummer came on and sat in his arena,
revealing little, at first, of the incredible energy
with which he was going to batter his skins.
Music: indierockhiphop; Venue: dark, capa-
cious and weird (is it meant to look like an
English Alhambra?|; Scene: riots of people
enjoying themselves with a good band on
stage.
The songs carried enormous energy, with the
bassist whirling like a dervish, the drummer
panning seven kinds of shit out of his gear and
the singer rousing the crowd for song after
song. The band never seemed to grow tired,
with every song bursting with energy and the
only relief coming from the intra to Little Britain.
As a nice counterpoint, the band were joined
for a few songs by a sylph-like chanteuse who
had a lovely voice and a mesmerising waist.
This was fantastic, energetic stuff - everything
that you want from a live band and we weren't
disappointed. I would definitely go and see
them again if only to feed on the energy of the
music. The Orb, however, if anyone is interest-
ed, were crap and annoying. They soon tired of
the crowd who soon tired of the Orb's barrage
of bizzare sounds. They were only on for one
hour out of nine: this is no way to treat their
large following who had paid £15 a ticket to
see them. However good the group are, fans
don't like being patronised.
Anyway, c'mon me hearties...
Ralph
Hurricane #1 - Step Into My World
Ex-Ride member Andy Bell is back with his new
band and this fantastic track that floats into
your head with its glorious, soaring guitar
work. •
Primal Scream - Kowalski
They've ended the rock phase of their previous
albums and have dived straight into bass-
heavy experimental dance.
Audioweb - Faker
Surely this is the single that must launch them
into the big time with its summery melody and
dub-heavy production.
Orb - Asylum
A delicious mixture of sounds melting together
their typical ambient laid-back style with slight-
ly harder ingredients. An interesting mix.
Raissa - Your Summertime
This funked-up, jangly guitar-laden track
comes complete with the dream-iike vocals of
the Sundays. Jason
Bis - Everybody Thinks That They're Going to
Get Theirs
The much-maligned bis return with an impres-
sive array of styles, from ska to Beasties dope
beats. Fortunately, Manda Rin keeps the most
abrasive voise in the world in check.
E s s e n t i a l C h o o n
Intastella - Skyscraper
Their collaboration with Shaun Ryder a couple
of years ago has obviously left its mark. Stella
comes on like a fame-hungry Mane siarlet mo
change there, thenl, who 'really want1
:1o go
to the USS of A'. With the future of Black
Grape looking uncertain, Intasteta may just
(ake over the mantle of supreme purveyors of
funked up riff-heavy pop.
DJ Pulse meets TDF - Rip Stop
Imagine, if you will, a land where Steve Vai (in
a more sensitive, introspective moment) is sud-
denly consumed by the spirit of the ultimate
selector. Yes, its a wind-swept rock/jungle
crossover, and nowhere near as bad as it
sounds on paper.
Jai - / Believe
Seven different remixes can'tr make up for the
fact that tis is a George Michael song and no
amount of breakbeat nonsense will disguise
this fact.
Dante and Roberts - Never Had A Love Like
This Before
Oh, so its one of fhoise loves that forces you to
churn out cloying, saccharine soul tunes til! you
choke on your vomit? Hmmm, nasty.
Espiritu - Man Don't Cry
if you've ever thought that the world was a
nicer place after a truck ioad of Valium, then
buy it. Me? I don't, I haven't so I won't. Pretty
good drum 'n bass remix, though.
Mouse on Mars - Cache Coeur Naif
Feeling under-promorted? Need some instant
recognition? Then try new laetitia from
Stereolab', she's guaranteed to add credibillity
to any old bag beeps and squeaks. Thing is,
Mose on Mars were just fine before the make-
over. Norrri

