A L B U M
"OR OWN H(ILE~
Electro-beats, whistles and fuzz. A-ha, the SI
Chemical Brothers ore back in t
o
w
n brandish-
ing their new album, Dig Your Own Hole With
the recent popularity of all things dance-y, and
the Chemicals' high-publicity collaboration with
Noel Gallagher, the album comes highly-rec-
ommended by most of the music press. And
they are not an ounce wrong if they do.
Kicking off with the recent single Block
Rockin'Beats, their acidic style comes barging
through. A cool little sample and drums that
remind me, at any rate, of the Prodigy's
Breathe make the tempo trip along a nice old
rate. The title track, Dig your own hole, will
keep you easily satisfied with its reminisces of
Life is Sweet if you can't let go of the last
album. There's frantic loops of sounds over-
laying the usual beeps and clicks but the hard-
as-fuck drums are what make it great. Near
the middle section, it cuts to what sounds like
a pre-match warm up for the beautiful game
but this subsides again and breaks back into
50,000 B.C.
Shudder To Think
The album begins with three radio friendly gui-
tar blasts of pop that are akin to the sound of
the Gin Blossoms in many ways. From the lead
singer's quavering vocals to the mix of distorted
and jangly guitars that inevitably lead to at
least one solo per song. Following this is 77ie
Saddest Day Of My Life that signals the serious
side of their song writing, a beautiful semi-bal-
lad with flamenco style leanings throughout.
What comes next is a dramatic change from
the hum along tunes before. You find yourself
nearly cringing at the unexpected sudden
chord changes in The Man Who Rolls, a discor-
dant cross with '80s rock air guitar championed
by the likes of Bon Jovi and co. This all seems a
little dated today, unlike the more classic influ-
ences of the '60s and 70s that somehow have
managed to stay timeless. Next it's back to the
straight guitar pop ballad of Resident Wine and
if the album contained more of this type of style
Shudder To Think would probably be enjoying
reasonable success in America as mainstream
rockers rather than alternative no hopers.
Listening to She's A Skull you begin to see
where the problem is with this album. I'm not
trying to pigeon hole them but they seem to
stuck in some sort of musical quagmire, uncer-
tain whether to go for the soft rock/country and
western approach or just to go all out 'RAAWK'.
At the moment they are trying to do both and
at times sound like they are dying to unleash
themselves from the invisible constraints they
the in-yer-face techno, Wow. Tv
,Pikuwhfchhnsfnotoffacing noc
and is just as cool as the last one but is a
much more laid-back tune with'TOoygh going
on tO:keep.yoy.intefeste#pius a little bit at the
end which makes you think that"your CD play-
er is broken. With barely a second's
pause after this track comes the wicked pile-
driver that is Setting Sun. I don't want to men-
tion Noel Gallagher twice in one review
(damn...never mind) but if you haven't heard
this, then you must have been on Mars, right?
The said Mancunian is not the only one lend-
ing his vocal talents to the album. Beth Orton
appears on Where do I Begin, a mellow and
subtle song which mutates into a monster of
Godzilla proportions. The second half of the
album is much quieter and more ambient in
nature but retains all its latent Chemical fury - if
that makes any sense. The last track, especial-
ly, The Private Psychedelic Reel'is totally cool.
The Chemicals are back and they are defi-
nitely rocking. Now, I'm just waiting for the
Prodigy album...(8) Alok
have put on their music. The album ends on
Hop On One Foot, a discordant guitar night-
mare that squeals into oblivion.
Half the album is disturbingly influenced by
'80s guitar 'RAAWK' while the other half is
pleasant enough straight up rock tinged with a
bit of C&W. Album of the year. I shudder to
think. (3)
Jason
THE BARN TAPES
Arnold
Who are Arnold? The name conjures up visions
of a guitar driven trio of 17 year-olds from
Basingstoke. Their album cover gives no clues
except that they are signed to Creation, which
isn't a bad start. And The Barn Tapes? To start
with there are only 8 tracks, which isn't such a
good start as I'm always a little suspicious of a
band that don't feel they've written 10 or 11
good songs to date. They aren't even 8 memo-
rable songs at that but a succession of soft
folksy indie ballads with unnecessarily lengthy
guitar exits - not consistent with the teenage 3
piece theory. The songs are pretty with a
spacey, floaty quality to them - an ambient-
indie cross over vibe achieved by the liberal
use of acoustic guitars and a haunting male
vocal.
The production is lo-ft and the lyrics are a bit
of a weak point. The problem is that it just isn't
exciting, it fails to capture a specific mood - too
slow to get your head nodding, but too upbeat
me anti
IN IT FOR THE MONEY
Supergrass
Hmm. The difficult second album. After disap
pearing from our gaze for the best part of
eighteen months after / Should Coco (give or
take news about Gaz's haircut, or the anti
media snipe of last February's
Going Oufi, the 'Grass are
back with what can only be
described as a very grown up
sound. The immediate thing
that strikes you about the
record is that it is bereft of anything remotely
resembling Alright, the song that made the
hirsute ones famous. In its place is a darker
exhibition of those traditional second album
topics of cynicism against the record industry,
and of course missing the woman back
home. There is a much starker backbone,
based around much improved guitar playing
and the welcome addition of
Rob Coombe's organ. It would
. be wrong to say that the album
J H L ML has nothing to offer; aside from
jfl BBthe excellent singles Going Out
WmmmM 1 and Richard The Third, there are
other gems on both "sides", notably Sun Hits
The Sky and Ifs Not Me, but it is
painfully obvious that this album
could have been made thirty years
ago. Gone is the playful, youthful
exuberance of Coco, replaced by
an overworked seriousness.
Like Oasis, the slicker, horn-
tinged, and indeed better
written second album lacks
that which brought them to
the fore initially. This is a very
good record, make no mis-
take, but you get the feeling it could have
been so much more. Again, like Oasis, this is
a better record than the first, but not half as
good to listen to, and I'm really annoyed that I
can only give it a generous. (7)
Mr. Trout
in places to zombie out to. You can't help feel-
ing that they should head in one direction or
the other. The songs very much melt into one
another and it is hard to pick any one that
stands out, although strangely the odd num-
bered tracks such as Windsor Park and Float
my Boat seem better than the even-numbered.
Overall, this certainly wasn't what I expected,
and maybe there are too many teen-c pop
bands about, but I'm still left wondering who
Arnold are/is - my current theory is that there is
a bloke called Arnold living in Norfolk. The
album is unobtrusive, planet vanilla, great wall-
paper music and would probably be great to
revise to. (Unlfortunately I've finished my
exams. (5)
Speedy
S F T W
1G83/1I

