CINEMA GUIDE
Virgin Fulham Rd.
The English Patient
1.40, 5.10. 8.30
Return Of The Jedi
12.20. 3.05. 6.00. 8.55
The Saint
1.10. 3.45. 6.25. 9.05
Jerry Maguire
12.15. 3.15. 6.15. 9.15
Liar Liar
1.20. 320. 6.20. 9.20
Virgin Chelsea
Scream
12.55. 3.40. 6.35. 9.20
Donnie Brasco
12.40. 3-30. 6.20
020597
The Empire
Liar Liar
11.00. 1.00. 3.05. 5.10. 7.15.
9.30
The Saint
12.40. 3.20. 6.00. 8.40.
11.30
Dante's Peak
1.30. 3-55. 6.20. 8.45. 11.30
The Plaza
Scream
1.10. 3.40. 6.20. 9.00. 11.30
The English Patient
I.00, 4.30. 8.00. 11.15
Romeo and Juliet
12.30. 3.15. 6.00. 8.40.
II.20
Jerry Maguire
2.30. 5.30. 8.30. 11.30
D O N N I E 0
B R A S C O
You've been an undercover FBI agent in a Mafia gang for
the last seven years. Your best friend is a run-down old-
time mobster who's only still in the game because he
can't do anything else. He introduced you to the mob
because he trusted you and loved you like a son. But
now it's time to turn them in, and you know the man who
took you under his wing will be executed by a hit-man
for being conned by a cop...
Thafs the situation Joe Pistone faces in this true tale of
loyalty amongst thieves starring Al Pacino and Johnny
Depp (looking frighteningly like Freddie Mercury at times).
In the name of justice, Pistone (Depp) leaves his family
behind and takes on the persona of gangster Donnie
Brasco, infiltrating a Brooklyn mob by gaining the confi-
dence of an aged hit-man, Lefty (Pacino). Lefty is different
to the stereotypical gang member we are used to from
Goodfellas and The Godfather. After twenty years he is
still on the bottom rung of the Mafia ladder and suffers
as the butt of his colleagues' jokes. He has to resort to
raiding parking meters to supplement his ventures and
has a life of talking about fast cars rather than driving
them. It is these circumstances that make him look for a
gateway to success by adopting Brasco, a seemingly
smart, young crook with plenty of ideas. Hard-bitten and
brutal as he is, Lefty enjoys having someone look up and
care about him, and in his vulnerability he makes a
crucial mistake - he trusts Donnie Brasco.
The film charts the fall of Brasco's marriage as he gets
sucked further and further into mob-life. Gradually, it
seems he begins to forget his true role in the operation
and, as his friendship with Lefty deepens, he is required
to conform to what the gang expects of a member. He
kills and tortures for them and as time passes this seems
to trouble him less and less. The audience never knows if
this is due to him hiding the effects from the mob or his
falling for the gangster's way of life. Depp gives a great
performance of this deep character and doesn't try to give
away too much of the agent's psyche.
Al Pacino achieves the difficult in creating in Lefty a hit-
man that the audience actually pities and cares for. His
hardened assassin is insecure in life, knowing nothing
about life outside the Mafia and living by its codes and
rankings. He is not as intelligent as the usual Pacino or
De Niro hoodlum and seems gullible, the sort of person
that needs a true friend so much that he doesn't see the
wider picture. The audience finds itself hoping that Brasco
doesn't turn the criminals in, just because of the effect this
will have on Lefty.
This quality acting is combined with some excellent
scripting and directing. The over-familiar fast and wise
conversation of most mob films is thankfully avoided,
replaced by dialogue that is actually necessary for the
plot. Some of the scenes near the climax of the film are so
memorable that you'll be left pondering this film for
weeks.
Superficially, this film is no different from many other
Mafia films - it even has Bruno Kirby in the high-pitched,
violent "Joe Pesci role". Yet it is fundamentally a film about
friendship and the appeal of the wrong side of the law,
portraying the effects these can have very dramatically. It
never tries to explain Depp's conversion to crime and this
is just as well, for this is a true story and it would be
wrong to try and explain a real man's actions unless all
the facts were known. Instead it leaves the audience to
decide why Brasco, when accused by his wife of becom-
ing just like those he is trying to convict, answers "I'm not
becoming them, I am them." chris
LIAR LIAR
Jim Carrey makes a return to
all-out comedy after his com-
mercially disastrous stab at
black comedy in The Cable Guy. In Liar Liar he plays a
successful lawyer whose five-year-old son gets tired of his
continuous lying. So, when his father is a no-show at his
birthday party, he makes a wish that for 24 hours his
father cannot tell a lie. Miraculously this wish comes true
and the repercussions for Carrey are pretty catastrophic.
Carrey has really played safe here with all the usual
Hollywood cliches present and correct. He is divorced but
naturally his ex- still has feelings for him despite the fact
she is due to move to another city (with annoying cute
son) along with her oh-so boring boyfriend who she
doesn't really even like, let alone love. The day he has to
tell the truth is also the day when he must lie to win a
prestigious alimony case and the outcome will decide
whether he is promoted or not. This is the cue for Carrey's
unique brand of humour. When he cannot help but tell the
truth there are some very funny moments where he
embarrasses himself and those around him, however the
jokes usually follow two patterns - either he tells the truth
when he would be better lying or just keeping quiet after
which he looks aghast at himself, or he tries to tell a lie
but ends up just stammering something incomprehensi-
ble. Unfortunately, the film is
bookended by some very sac-
charine moments especially
the beginning which sets up the fact that Carrey is really a
good man who loves his son and is just overworked and
harassed by his boss (Amanda Donahoe). Carrey's acting
style (if you can call non-stop mugging acting) is ill suited
to these serious moments and it is distracting. You are just
waiting for the moment when the real comedy starts.
Luckily when the comedy does come there are some truly
funny moments. However, your enjoyment of the film real-
ly rests on whether you enjoy seeing physical comedy
(and Carrey is one of the most physical comedians you
could wish to see) being taken to its limits.
Katie

