Paul Weller - The Unauthorised Biography
Steve Malins
Paul Weller - The
Unauthorised
Biography is published
by Virgin, Price £9.99.
• V . T
8 2 0 5 0 ?
This book, although unauthorised, gives a very frank and
detailed look into the life of Paul Weller. We are told how
he lost his virginity, the ups and downs of his marriage
and of course about the bands and music. From The Jam
through The Style Council to his solo work we get to hear
about his twenty-five year career in minute detail.
At school, "where I decided I would show the bastards I
didn't need their rules or their education", Paul Weller
formed The Jam. A rapid ascendancy to stardom fol-
lowed, which in retrospect was too sudden for the young
band members. Break-up of The Jam highlights one of
the Paul Weller character traits which is often touched on
in the book. His sudden break with the past left the other
ex-Jam members feeling ostracised and marginalised, a
feeling he was to engender in his once-friends throughout
his career.
Feelings of isolation from the Weller camp are height-
ened by the fact that Paul's father, John, has always been
his band manager. Although John's record industry
knowledge is questionable, he has never been persuad-
ed to leave his son's side as "Paul likes his family around
him". This tight circle has caused both personal and pro-
fessional problems - the Wellers were recently sued for
royalties it was alleged the father had stashed away.
Money has been a powerful influence in Weller's
career. When the final album of The Style Council was
rejected by Polydor (who had paid a £1 million advance
for it), the Weller family thought they could dictate terms to
any record company. This proved not to be the case and
his current label Go Discs! were the last resort.
Weller has always moved on and tried to be fashion-
able, although this has often caused him to be accused of
plagiarism. He himself said what would seem to be the
kiss of death for any self respecting artist; "I'm not both-
ered about originality. I don't even think about it."
Experiments with live house music in the early 90's have
luckily given way to his more soulful, thinking and in fact
original current voice. His recording now is always live
and unedited, the lack of click track adding an extra raw
edge, which causes consternation to the American mar-
ket he has so far failed to crack.
In this biography, Steve Malins goes into great depth on
the whys are wherefores of Weller. His lyrics are dissect-
ed, relationships perused and clothes picked over. Malins
writing is lucid but is just too detailed for all but the hard-
ened fan. Although fair and by no means positive
throughout, the detail is just too much -1 skipped numer-
ous passages that seemed unnecessarily bogged down.
To sum up, this is only for the hardened Weller fan. If
you are merely interested in him, save the tenner this
book costs and buy a Weller album instead. I strongly rec-
ommend his recent solo efforts Wild Wood or Stanley
Road. Hot Lips
Learn to type the multimedia way
Touch-type Trilingual and Keyboard Master
BVG's Keyboard Master
and Touch Type Tri-
lingual
Min req: PC CD-Rom,
Windows 3-1, 4Mb mem-
ory, 5Mb disk space
Keyboard
Master
It is odd that, although I am a educated, computer-liter-
ate, academic product of the modern age, I have never
learned to type. All those essays, their paragraphs and
their words were produced with a technique that was
really just a refined version of the two-finger stab.
The problem is, as computing students are only to keen
to inform you, the Qwerty keyboard is actually designed to
make typing difficult and hence slow. The old mechanical
Olympias would jam if you tried to type more than Iwo let-
ters per second so it was necessary to make things hard-
er for the long-suffering corporate secretaries.
This throwback is the reason why typing practice simply
does not lead to perfection; the illogical key layout
means that the hopeful typist has to adopt a rigid
system so that they may eventually move their eyes
from their fingers to somewhere more useful.
Unfortunately, early attempts at computer typing
tutors have been fairly dire; I spent many hours with
the tacky Mavis Beacon package with no noticeable
improvement. Two of the latest programs are BVG's
Keyboard Master and its euro-centric big brother
Touch Type Tri-Lingual, and they are a big improve-
ment.
Keyboard Master is simple and quick to use, offering a
variety of lesson lengths as well as exercises. It still suffers
from the usual 'dad's a sad salad lad' ennui, but the well
structured program moved quickly enough to prevent
extreme boredom. You are entertained with fancy graph-
ics and midi classics such as Tears before Christmas'
while the essentially subconscious business of hand-eye
co-ordination takes place.
Tri-Lingual is more involved and harder to use. It offers
the exercises, display and translations in English, French
or German, theoretically helping your language skills and
typing simultaneously. I experienced some problems run-
ning this software, with 'garbage' screen fonts and unpre-
dictable behaviour. The extra sophistication is, as usual, at
the expense of 'payability'.
There is no doubt that these programs work. Admittedly
being a musician and an accomplished crap typist made
me an easy subject, but I found that I was touch-typing
reasonably well after only a few hours. Once you start,
any typing is essentially practice so the programs do
become redundant fairly rapidly.
In summary, a bought, borrowed or stolen copy of
Keyboard Master as a low effort tutor and, just like me,
you will soon be able to type withour withour wothout
looking at you fingers. David Ross

