18 INCEST - F E L I X FRIDAY 2 N D M A Y
auseforthought, or the
ast great abomination?
Ngozi Dozie takes a [r] evolutionary view
I
ncest. This word never fails to conjure up
strong emotions, normally those of revulsion.
But why? What a stupid question to ask I hear
you say. Nonetheless it is noteworthy that
| nine times out of ten, the only argument against this
'mother of all taboos' is of the genre, "it's just
wrong", "that's so disgusting". The list is endless. I
suggest that for the majority of us, our supposed
natural revulsion, is a result of social conditioning.
From birth, it has been ingrained into our con-
sciousness that incest is a vile act performed by
social deviants. As difficult as it may be, I urge you
to clear your mind of such thoughts. Objectivity is
scntial if any progress is to be made in this high-
1 ly controversial subject. By the end of these ram-
y blings of mine if you see the light then perhaps there
| is hope for Society.
Now since the beginning of time, there have
been incestuous relationships. This cannot be
denied. It is also accurate to say that it has also been
regarded as an abominable act. My question is
why? Why is this "mixing of blood" denounced
unequivocally by society as a whole?
The most obvious response is that incest results
in deformed babies. Surely this is enough to
convince us of the vile nature of the act. However,
let us examine this point in a bit more detail. It is a
scientific fact that because members of a family
have the same genetic makeup, any defect in chro-
mosomes may be multiplied through an incestuous
relationship. This is a biological fact and cannot be
contested. The first point I would like to make is
that early civilisations could not have been aware of
this phenomenon. Most probably, the numbers of
incestuous relationships were outweighed innumer-
ably by the so called 'normal' ones. Thus, the sci-
entific evidence for a high proportion of deformities
would have been lacking. There is however, a flip
side to this coin. The effect of dominant genes that
benefit the individual can also be multiplied, indeed
some babies born out of incestuous relationships
have been prodigies. Now I can already hear some
say that since the number of deformed babies out-
number the geniuses, the law of averages is trying
to tell us something. Still this does not address the
issue as to why incest is wrong. In any case; let's
proceed.
The media has been lull of cases involving the
unfortunate sexual abuse of children by their
parents. This I would imagine is the sort of image
that is on the minds of most people whilst reading
this essay. 1 think that this clouds the issue as we
arc now bordering on paedophilia and exploitation
of children so I proposewe keep it simple. Think
of two adults. Male or female, it does not matter
which. If the combinations you have chosen arc of
the same sex, please ignore any opinions you may
have on homosexuality, it just clouds the issue. The
couple arc borne of the same parents and more
importantly, they are both consenting adults. Now
give me a good reason why they should not do as
they please! Fire away.
Deformed babies!! OK, the couple use a con-
dom, girl's on the pill, guy gets a vasectomy-
the possibility of a baby is virtually negligible.
Now where is the problem? I know those of the
Catholic faith believe that all form of contraception
is wrong but for those not of this religious disposi-
tion, think hard. Why cannot this brother and sister
(for example) live together without suffering from
the revulsion and scorn of the rest of society? There
are those who regard sex as a means of expressing
one's love to another, or maybe it is solely for plea-
sure. If you are of this opinion, then I put it to you

