F E L I X FRIDAY 2 N D M A Y THE CHOICE FOR THE NEXT GENERATION? 19
that you have no argument against incest. This cou-
ple is behaving no differently from millions of oth-
ers across the world in stable relationships who use
contraceptives. Obviously they enjoy the sex or
they would not be doing it and as brother and sister,
who can say that other couples have a greater love
for one another. With regards to brother-brother or
sister relationships, are these any different to those
enjoyed by homosexual couples? It seems to me
that to discriminate against the former must lead to
the same treatment against the latter. I am sure you
will agree that the issue is not so clear cut anymore.
I don't have the answers, the question is what do
you think?????
If you still have not come up with a credible argu-
ment, then your conclusion has to be that there is
nothing wrong with incest. It may disgust you but
then that is just your opinion. Using myself as an
example, (and at the risk of trivialising the issue) I
personally detest boiled cabbage hut 1 do not think
it is wrong for others to eat them!! If we just go
back to the case of parent-child incestuous relation-
ships, logic tells us that if we accept brother-sister
relationships then we have to accept the former only
if the child is of the consenting age. I can imagine
that the majority of you might be feeling nauseous.
If however you have not given yourself any rational
reasons, then you should not be nauseous, in fact
you have no right to be.
Call it what you will, be it peer pressure, ignorance,
or just stupidity. One can not escape the fact that |
society has taken upon itself, a sheep-like mentali-
ty. Think of all the people at schools who begin to
smoke and drink because everyone else is doing the
same thing. Right from an early age, we are scared
of speaking our minds and respond as people
expect. It's hip to be rude to teachers, drink until
comatose, try and pull everything that moves. The
list is endless.
Iam not trying to judge any of these activities,
lust for me record, 1 abhor incest but for my own
personal reasons which have been formed after a lot
of reflection on the subject. What 1 am saying is
that before doing anything, you owe it to yourself to
justify your actions. The unfortunate thing is this.
All through our lives, the majority of us cannot
seem to shake off the pressure of living according
to people's expectations. BE your own master and
not a victim of Pavlovian conditioning!, with your
personality being dictated to you by others.
Between every stimulus and subsequent reaction,
there is a moment in which wc can determine our
response. Many just let the moment pass, thereby
wasting the opportunity to do something beautiful.
Each time you conform to someone else's ideal you
give up the last of the human freedoms. The right to
choose how things affect you. When that goes, you
become another addition to the increasing number
of the living dead. You have become a zombie.
The point I am trying to make is that we have
come to a point where we let others form our
own opinions. Incest has been the topic but there
are so many other issues that cause us to react with-
out pausing for thought. For a race that prides itself
on being the most intelligent in the animal king-
dom, this sort of behaviour is quite unbecoming.
1. Pavlov was a psychologist who did some famous
experiments with dogs- each time he fed one of his
dogs he would ring a bell. Soon it reached the point
where the dog would begin to salivate on hearing
the sound of the bell in anticipation of food, even j
though there was none coming!!!

