2 NEWS F E L I X FRIDAY 2 N D M A Y
Presidential elections damp squib
J O N A T H A N TROUT
At time of going to press, the re-run
of the 1997 ICU Presidential
Sabbatical Election was looking to
be another low key affair. Following
last term's overwhelming vote for
new election, only three candidates
have put their names forward, Clare
Buston of Biology and Managment,
Oily Newman C & G Academic
Affairs Officer, and A l Hussein, a
third year physicist.
So far only one of the candidates
has been fully seconded, with only
one of the other two looking likely to
achieve the full twenty seconders
necessary to ensure full candidature
before the papers come down later
today.
This year's incumbent, Eric
Allsop, expressed his surprise at the
lack of "high profile" candidates, and
rumours abound that one of the can-
didates did not understand the term
"constitution", whilst another was
unaware of the existence of the ICU
Council, and also of the name of the
present President.
The usual rumour-mill surround-
ing the Sabbatical Elections has been
quiet this time round, suggesting no
"big names". Could we be looking at
another New Election? We could not
possibly comment...
ABA into
receivership
continued from frontpage
Societies, though I expect they dam-
aged the departmental reprographic
facilities business. My sympathies
lie with the staff, who have lost their
jobs. 1 can only say that it serves
College right for not putting the job
out to tender in the first place, A B A
just arrived on the walkway with no
consideration to anybody."
S T O P PRESS STOP PRESS
STOP PRESS STOP PRESS
At a meeting of the Undergraduate
Studies Committee late yesterday a
resolution was passed strongly rec-
ommending that the examinations in
the last two weeks of this term be
relocated back to the Great Hall. The
committee concluded that the Estates
Department "should have listened to
what the Biology and Biochemistry
candidates said about the noise in the
Reed and Pippard lecture theatres
last term."
SOUTHWELL HALL
ASSISTANT WARDEN
The College invites applications for the position of
Assistant Warden of Southwell Hall which will be
available from October 1997. This is a new post,
which recognises that the Hall will effectively be split
into two blocks by the refurbishment programme
starting this summer.
The Assistant Warden will receive rent free family
accommodation in return for helping the Warden with
pastoral duties. S/He will assume a large measure of
the responsibility for one part of the Hall.
Any non-undergraduate member of the College may
apply, but the post is particularly suitable for staff with
some experience of student pastoral care, and who
want to live in a student environment.
Further details and application forms can be obtained
from Janet Jones, Office Services Manager, Room
512 Sherfield Building, extension 45536, e.mail
Janet.Jones@icac.uk
The closing date for receipt of applications is
Thursday 15th May.
Tory landslide predicted
DAVID ROBERTS
An exclusive exit poll conducted for
Felix yesterday predicted a majority
of 255 for the Conservatives in the
General Election.
Figures collected outside Linstead
Hall Polling Station indicated a sharp
swing, against all national expecta-
tions, away from Labour. This will
almost certainly leave Peter Brooke
holding a sweeping majority in his
Cities of London and Westminister
seat (already one of the safest Tory
seats in the country).
Results of exclusive Felix exit poll
Peter Brooke (Conservative) 61.8%
Kate Green (Labour) 18.4%
Mike Dumigan (Lib Dem) 15.3%
Alan Waters (Refferendum) 1.7%
Jerry Sadowitz (Rainbow) 1.0%
Nick Walsh (Loony) 0.7 %
Richard Johnson (Nat Law) 0.7%
Gordon Webster (Hemp) 0.3%
Colin Merton (UK Indep) 0 %
Patricia Wharton (Barts) 0%
In 1992, Mr Brooke took 25,512
votes, compared to 10,368 for
Labour (figures adjusted for bound-
ary changes since the last election).
This equates to a 35.2% lead over
Labour. However, yesterday's
polling indiates an increased 43.4%
lead - a 8.2% swing from left to right.
If this result was to be extrapolat-
ed across the entire country, assum-
ing a uniform swing (the basis of the
Swingometer utilised by Peter
Snow), a notional Tory majority -
and remember this is only for fun - of
255 is formed.
Although this poll surveyed only
one polling station, it is interesting to
note that a swing towards the Tories
was found at a ballot taking place in
a College Hall. This reflects the opin-
ion of pollsters that IC students are
evenly split amongst the three main
parties - firmly bucking the per-
cieved feeling that all students are by
their nature dyed-in-the-wool social-
ists and radicals.
Felix Predicts
the result of a 8% swing
If the 8.2% Labour to Conservative swing were to be reflected across the
country, the Tories would secure 457 scats, compared with a meagre 170 for
Labour and just 11 for Paddy Ashdown's Liberals. John Major would return
to the Commons next week with a 255 seat majority, the Labour Party would
collapse, and the Tories would rule well into the next millenium.

