20 COLUMNS F E L I X FRIDAY 2 N D M A Y
The Alternative Candidate
Leave blatant bias for the national press. This week Ashton McGregor responds
to Simon Baker, and explains why it's "New Labour, No Danger"
Simon Baker is one of Felix's more
entertaining writers. Here is a man
who arouses the most amazing pas-
sions in me. Fascist he is not, but he
IS Harry Enfield's (the "Bollinger
Bolshevik") poor misguided Tory
Boy.
Contrary to Mr Baker's economy
boasts, the latest OECD study shows
our country's relative decline in pros-
perity and an 8 per cent fall in manu-
facturing investment last year. We
have some of the worst living stan-
dards in Europe. The Tories have
made improvements in some aspects
of micro-economic policy but these
worrying findings alert us to the fact
of their poor macro-economic man-
agement and a failure to tackle the
alarming education and skills gap
with our competitors.
We are surfacing from one of the
worst recessions in our history, and
on the brink of another dangerous
Tory boom and bust. Growth is heav-
ily consumer-led, a phenomenon
described by economists as unstable
and unsustainable. They would pre-
fer an investment-led recovery, with
companies re-investing in this coun-
try. The U K is the only country
whose expenditure on research as a
proportion of its G D P has not
increased since 1979. The party that
claims to be the party of low taxation
has actually increased the overall
burden of taxation.
The Tories trumpet their low
unemployment figures as a huge suc-
cess yet a report by the LSE revealed
that 20 per cent of households do not
have anyone who is working. Since
1979 they have reclassified the term
"unemployed" no less than 32 times.
Now, unemployment benefit is
denied to all 16 and 17 year olds and
those in temporary work or training
are not included. In 1979, there were
just over 1 million people that were
jobless. The Unemployment Unit
recently calculated that 28 per cent of
the working population in Britain are
unemployed and there is a now real
demand for 5.4 million jobs.
Mr Baker's assertions that the min-
imum wage and Social Chapter
would be damaging to Britain are so
misinformed that he would be per-
fectly at home on the Tory front
bench. The CBI and TUC support
both measures. Intellectual argument
and academic opinion is swinging
behind the minimum wage. Two
leading US labour economists have
concluded that if not set too high,
minimum wages have positive
effects on employment raising the
supply of labour and therefore pro-
ductivity and profits, while the
opportunity to extract profits, by low-
ering wages and employment will
disappear. Due to changes in the
labour market, such as more flexible
contracts, less collective bargaining
and more performance-related pay,
as well as company reorganisations,
employees are unlikely to mind about
differentials and would adapt to the
introduction of minimum payments
for their lower-paid colleagues. The
Employment Policy Institute argues
that the Treasury would also benefit
from a minimum wage. For example,
a modest minimum wage of £3.40
would have helped the Treasury to a
tunc of £1.2 billion in 1995-96. The
national minimum wage must be
seen as part of a wider "welfare to
work" strategy involving changes in
benefit so the low paid are removed
from the poverty trap. Under Labour,
"the minimum wage will be intro-
duced in a way which promotes the
competitiveness of business and
ensures fair competition". The deci-
sion on the level of of the minimum
wage will involve significant repre-
sentation from members of the busi-
ness community and unions.
According to the National Institute
of Economic and Social Research,
Britain has been overtaken by France
as the prime European destination for
inward investment. The biggest slice
of the investment in France - heavily
regulated, high cost France, the coun-
try that John Major denounced last
week - comes from Britain. British
firms, such as Tesco, Kingfisher, ICI
and G K N have been investing in
France since 1990, despite the fact
that the country operates a minimum
wage and adheres to the Social
Chapter. While the U K has been
quite successful in attracting labour-
intensive projects, it has lost out over
money to start businesses heavily
dependent on capital and R + D. In
fact it is EU membership itself - not
the U K ' s flexible labour market
alone - that has made the UK a prime
nation in Europe for inward invest-
ment. Anything - including standing
aside from E M U - which puts that in
jeopardy could cost the country in
terms of lost jobs, new productive
capacity and innovation.
Announcements by companies such
as Toyota and Unigate confirm this.
It has taken almost two decades for
the adjectives "divided, incoherent,
reckless and spendthrift" to adhere to
the Conservatives rather than to
Labour. Recently, several prominent
businessmen stated that "Britain can-
not afford another five years of weak
and ineffectual leadership....a New
Labour government is essential to
our future prosperity".
Far from being radical, the Tories
are sticking to their old chestnut -
public bad, private good. There are of
course privatisation successes, but
there have been huge disasters. The
electricity, gas and water companies
exist in a pseudo-competitive envi-
ronment, with no real choice for the
consumer. The rail companies are
existing on subsidies by taxpayers
that have doubled since privatisation,
whilst providing worse service.
Labour has learnt to acknowledge
that not everything that the Tories
have done should be reversed but that
cannot conceal the scale of recon-
struction. For me there is a gulf of
difference between the two parties. It
is the distance between Blair's state-
ment that "we achieve more together
than we do alone" and Baroness
Thatcher's enduring credo: "There's
no such thing as society." Her legacy
has been to leave in her party a deter-
mination to rid us of our faith in any
sort of collective society. We have all
become infected with the virus of
Thatcherism, and now any social
activity is suspect if its end result
cannot be quantified. The views of
new Labour are the same as that of
Kier Hardie or Clement Atlee, but we
live in a completely different world
to then. "Labour tragically became
stuck with the same policies while
society moved on. We got ourselves
into a situation where we no longer
seemed to be a party of aspiration."
Labour appeared to represent those
who were poor and unemployed and
rightly so, but the party has recog-
nised that it must champion the
whole nation. The Tories believe
"there is no such thing as a one nation
Tory". They are dinosaurs - politi-
cians wishing to run the world as they
would like it to be, rather than it is.
That is why yesterday I voted for a
party led by man who believes we
achieve much more together than we
do alone.
Mr Baker will undoubtedly refer
to me as a cliched, naive, idealistic
airhead so please allow me to get my
insult in first - SIMON BAKER IS
M A D M A G G I E ' S FILTHY
SPAWN, so there!
The Weekly Poem
supplied byToetIC
One
Like one lost soul,
In a world of "you and me",
I am the one that let you go,
I am the love that's been set free.
I am a flower in a bed of snow,
I am a ship that's lost at sea,
Will I ever see the shore again,
And will someone rescue me?
--Sarah- -
PoetIC is the creative writing society of Imperial College,
and is always happy to greet new members. For more
details contact Ed Sexton (e.sexton@ic.ac.uk). Phoenix,
IC's creative arts magazine is also looking for creative writ-
ing for this year's issue. For more details contact Ed
Sexton, Jon Trout (j.trout@ic.ac.uk) or phoenix@ic.ac.uk

