F E L I X FRIDAY 2 N D M A Y LETTERS & EDITORIAL 2 3
read the self confessed
Conservative's rantings as to the
merits of the Tory Party and his ideas
as to the relative short comings of the
Labour Party. While it would be gen-
erous to suggest that his outpourings
have had any effect on the result of
the General Election, the abandon-
ment of almost fifty years of Felix
neutrality is regrettable.
Maybe next time Mr Baker opens
his mouth he will have more consid-
eration for the historical impartiality
of his student newspaper and of the
ability of IC students to make up
their own opinions.
Yours disappointedly,
Ben Weir
Hopefully page twenty's column,
written by a leading member of the
Labour Club in response to M r
Baker will redress the balance.
Three into two won't go
Dear Felix,
I was intrigued to note that Ian
Taylor, Minister for Science, repeat-
ed a line I have taken issue with
before, that the 'three main disci-
plines of science, engineering and
technology are alive and well". This
implies that there are those three well
recognised and distinct fields of
equal standing. I am an engineer, and
find that people define engineering in
a number of ways but with a large
measure of agreement. Similarly, I
have studied some science and
worked with scientists on a number
of projects, so could define the field
reasonably well. However, the impli-
cation that technology is an equiva-
lent and distinct field, I find difficult
to comprehend. I have not found any
uniform definition of the word; there
are no degrees, research councils,
and few job titles, which will claim
the field as their own.
There seems to be no way to clear-
ly distinguish the word technology
from either, or both, science and
engineering, since it often used inter-
changeably with them. My jaundiced
view is that people tend to use it in
recent years when they are not really
sure what professional engineering
is, so choose 'technology' as a neu-
tral, non-offensive word. This simply
reveals a lack of understanding of the
true nature of engineering and a
need, as if we didn't already know, to
educate the public and the politicians
as to its importance. I say all this in
full awareness of the word in the
name of this college. It must have
seemed like a good idea at the time.
Colin Ledsome
Industrial Training Programme
Too much of a good thing
Dear Felix,
If I get one more of my friends
telling me I go to 'The PG Tips' col-
lege, I'll just cry.
Who's idea was it to have our
name all over the tube, associated
with this new gimmicky whatsit? I'm
never going to live it down.
Yours sincerely,
E. Kellow (Biochem II)
Letters may edited for content
or length.
The deadline for letters to be
published in the next issue of
Felix is Tuesday 6th May.
Letters may be e-mailed to our
address: felix@ic.ac.uk
>^Ff.ltx.
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
E d i t o r Alex Feakes / A d v e r t i s i n g M a n a g e r M a r k Baker
This morning, the country will be
waking up under a blanket of recy-
cled analysis from yesterday's
General Election. Though not all of
the constituencies will have declared
yet, the general picture will have
begun to emerge, or so the psephol-
ogists will have us believe. As our
admittedly poor (we did it more for
fun than serious comparison), exit
poll shows, the extrapolation of
local results across the entire coun-
try can have wild and unexpected
results. A Tory majority of 255
would 'paint the map blue' and at
the same time provide our remaining
hospitals with an awful lot of busi-
ness from disaffected voters.
Closer to home, the descent of A B A
Copytech into receivership has left
many people photocopierless and
confused. It does rather leave the
College in a difficult situation, as
they now have to renegotiate a new
contract for the site, that is if they
wish to entrust such a vital resource
to vagaries of external companies'
financial instabilities. I hope that
more care might be taken to investi-
gate the longevity of any future
manager of Imperial College's
images' capital.
About this tent. When Felix sounded
out the opinion of Imperial
College's peers in the higher
Education market, we received, as
expected, a number of titters, giggles
and unprintable expressions of dis-
belief. One has to wonder if IC's
famous desire to maintain and pro-
tect its reputation may have shot
wide of the mark and let its members
speculate, once again, as to the pri-
mary aims and objectives of this
institution.
Finally, the second election for next
year's ICU President is nearly upon
us. Papers come down this evening,
but at the time of going to press there
were no fully proposed and second-
ed candidates, though there were
three names up. Are we going to
have to limp on to a third ballot?
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
©Felix 1997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
N E W S : R O B I N ; F E A T U R E S : A F U A ; W E B E D I T O R : L E O N ; P H O T O G R A P H Y : L I U ;
G R A P H I C S A N D L A Y O U T : D A V I D ; G O L E M : S A R A H ; A R T : E M M A ; M U S I C :
J A S O N ; F I L M : C H R I S ; B O O K S : W I L L I A M ; C O L L A T I N G L A S T ISSUE: E D .
ICU H a n d b o o k 1997
Advertising Manager
Free for 12-16 hours a week in June? Want to
earn £400 for 60 hours work?
We need someone to bring in and coordinate the
advertising for the 1997 ICU Handbook, starting as
soon as possible. Good communication and negoti-
ating skills, a professional and efficient manner, and
the ability to set and keep to deadlines are essen-
tial. IT skills are important, but training will be avail-
able.
Features Editor
We need a features editor to commission or write
10-12 articles for this year's Handbook, to introduce
freshers to the College, the local area, and London
in general. An imaginative, creative and humourous
turn of phrase is essential, as is a fluent and infor-
mative writing style. The possition will also neces-
sitate a thorough knowledge of IC and it's facilities,
and good computing skills.
£300 will be paid for a minimum of 48 hours.
Write, detailing your experience and suitability for the position, to ICU, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, SW7 2BB.
Further information can be obtained by calling in to the Union Office, or phoning Michelle on 0171 594 8060.
Applications for both positions must be recieved by May 23rd 1997

