F E L I X FRIDAY 2 N D M A Y N E W S 3
continued from frontpage
White also advised students to make
a note of any major disturbances that
took place while they were in the
exam, for example, roadworks, high
pollen count, or particularly hot or
rainy weather. If a protest was to be
made, she suggested that "The more
people that keep a record of any [dis-
turbances], the better, as organisation
will count in favour."
Susan Johnson, Academic
Registrar of the University of
London, assured Felix that students
can appeal against their results only
on grounds of 'maladministration' -
administrative error or the exam not
being conducted in accordance with
University of London regulations.
She also made it clear that if any stu-
dent feels they have a genuine cause
for making an appeal to the
University of London, they should
write to the Academic Registrar at
Imperial College. If they decide that
the complaint is worth upholding,
they will consult with the Board of
Examiners who will then consider
whether to adjust final marks or offer
the student a chance to re-sit the
exam.
Ms Johnson emphasised that "the
examinations board will bend over
backwards to assist you. However,
an en masse appeal won't help any-
"...And in the Big Top, the main attraction will be starting soon, ladies
and gentlemen. Please get ready to give a big hand to Johnny Schal and
his Synchronised Drill-men..."
body, least of all those with a genuine
problem."
This emphasis on individuals who
may be affected more than most was
echoed at the Imperial College
Union's Council meeting on Tuesday
evening. A motion was passed,
instructing "the Union officers con-
cerned with academic affairs to make
it clear to the appropriate College
authorities that the Union regards the
whole farcical exercise is unaccept-
able, and ensure that special provi-
sion is made for those that would oth-
erwise be disproportionately disad-
vantaged by the relocation of the
exams."
It appears that the drilling in the
library was not originally planned to
coincide with the examination peri-
od. The subsequent relocation of the
exams at short notice was due to the
discovery that building work on the
library was behind schedule.
Rumours abound that the reason for
this is that one of the lift shafts is "the
wrong shape." Sarah White suggest-
ed that Imperial College Estates
Department must have known the
project was behind schedule. At the
moment, it is unclear who is paying
for the marquee, the air conditioning,
and the extra security. Sarah White
explained that if College was footing
the bill, that would hit students dou-
bly hard, as they would be paying
indirectly. "I hope the project con-
tractors are paying in cash, resources
and facilities," she stated.
Local Authority planning officers
have declared that the marquee falls
within planning constraints provided
that the building has no other use and
remains for the duration of the exams
only.
Piers Williams, Deputy President
for Finance & Services, said that he
was "surprised that the College
authorities had not considered relo-
cating the exams to the Senior
Common Room or the JCR", the
next two biggest rooms on campus
after the Great Hall. The College was
unable to comment on this sugges-
tion although they did say that split-
ting the examinees into several dif-
ferent rooms had been considered but
discarded as being too cumbersome.
The University of London is said
to be "concerned" with the cunent
state of affairs.
Manuals, books and "old" versions of software
available at very low prices.
(while stocks last)
For example
Xess Users Guide £2.00
Aldus Pagemaker v5.0 - Getting Started £2.00
WordStar v6.0 document set £3.00
Borland C++ v4.5 document pack £5.00
WordPerfect Windows v5.1 document set £5.00
Expressionist for Mac v3.0 (full copy) £15.00
...plus lots more
(A full list of what's available can be found
at the CCS Shop counter)
C C S SHOP
Level 4
Mechanical Engineering Building
ext. 46953
ccs-shop@ic.ac.uk
9.30am - 5.00pm (Wed 10.00am -5.00pm)

