cAnd onthe seventh dug...
r~or seven days during April, Federal Court 23C in
ISydney, Australia was packed out for a civil trial over
alleged breaches of fair trading laws. The unusual size of
the audience was not because of any huge sums
involved; the company being sued had gone into volun-
tary liquidation a week before and the other parties were
already bankrupt. No, the reason the international media
had flocked to Sydney was to witness a battle of ideas
between science and religion.
A Professor of Geology, Ian Plimer, from the University
of Melbourne, has already sold his house to take a group
of creationists to court. He intends to stop them from mis-
leading consumers with their "gospel of deceit". The case
centres on the claims by Dr Allen Roberts of Sydney and
his organisation Ark Search Inc. that the remains of
Noah's Ark have been discovered in Turkey. Ian Plimer
wants to prevent Roberts from using "junk science" to
back up his claims about the Ark in brochures, tapes and
videos that have been sold to raise money for expedi-
tions. He is joined in court by a former creationist who is
suing Allen Roberts for using drawings from his book The
Ark of /voa/i'without his permission.
The trial is the outcome of a highly publicised war of
words belween Professor Plimer and Dr Roberts. Roberts
first came to media attention in 1991 when he was held
captive by Kurdish guerrillas while in Turkey. After his
return in 1992 he began a lecture tour of Australia to raise
funds for Ark Search Inc. as their 'archaeological research
consultant'. Plimer was thrown out of three lectures when
he tried to ask questions about the nature of the scientific
evidence for the Ark. The courts first got involved in May
1992, when Roberts sued Plimer for remarks made during
a Melbourne Radio program.
In 1994 Plimer visited the site of the alleged Ark near
Mount Ararat in Turkey. He subsequently published his
own book, Telling Lies for God', in which he accused the
creationists of scientific fraud.
The controversial boat-like structure first appeared dur-.
ing an earthquake in 1948 and it has been known for
years that it has the same dimensions as Noah's Ark
detailed in Genesis. Plimer's geological studies led him to
conclude that it was an unremarkable rock formation
caused by folding of the ancient sea floor over 110 million
years ago. He found no evidence of petrified wood, iron
rivets, stone anchors and fossilised animal dung and hair
that Roberts and Ark Search say they discovered at the
site. Plimer hopes the courts will denounce the assertions
by Roberts that he has carried out any scientific studies.
Plimer and Fasold have tried to extend the scope of the
trial from the narrow limits of commercial law by calling
witnesses from religion and education. Plimer fears that
creationists are misleading young people with their
'pseudo-scientific nonsense'. He says he was motivated
to take the case to court by surveys that show one in five
Australian science students hold creationist views.
On the first day of the trial the Judge ruled out state-
ments by an American anti-creationist campaigner.
Nonetheless Plimer hopes a favourable judgement will
draw attention to the growing number of private funda-
mentalist Christian schools that teach creation theory.
Religious supporters of Plimer include the Anglican
egins in the famous
illenges Creationist
0 years old.
Archbishop of Brisbane who wrote in a preface to
Plimer's book that creationism is "anti-knowledge, anti-
religious and anti-science". Another Anglican rector and
physics graduate, was ready to argue in court that sci-
ence cannot be used to 'prove' the existence of God. But
theological arguments were not allowed by the Judge.
The nature of scientific enquiry and evidence were cen-
tral to Plimer's case against the creationist idea that evo-
lution is unproved 'theory' and not fact. During discus-
sions about the methods and philosophy of science, the
Judge made sure the court had lessons in Darwinian
evolution, Lamarckian inheritance and Karl Popper's the-
ory that science advances by falsification. Plimer also
attacked Roberts' academic credentials. It was revealed
that his doctorate in Christian Education came from a cor-
respondence Bible College in Florida, that is not accredit-
ed. Roberts admitted that he had not personally carried
out any scientific tests at the Ark site. He also tried to dis-
tance himself from claims made by Ark Search Inc. by
denying any knowledge of the sale of their products at
his lectures. However he had to admit that the company
was registered at his home address.
The trial hearings ended on April 17th and the Judge is
expected to give his conclusions in a few weeks. If the
judgement goes Plimer's way, it will be the first time cre-
ationist beliefs have been challenged using consumer
protection laws. The authorities have always been reluc-
tant to prosecute traders who make dubious scientific
claims, because of the difficulty in deciding whether
statements are given as fact or opinion. A positive result
for Plimer may have an impact on new age crystal heal-
ers as well as creationists.
Few observers in the Federal Court are prepared to
predict the outcome of the trial. On the last day the Judge
questioned whether the law should be used to settle dis-
putes of this kind and if Plimer's case was an attack on
freedom of speech. In his defence Plimer says he got sick
of being sued for expressing his views (eight other writs
have been served and withdrawn by creationist groups)
and decided to go on the attack, "You shouldn't treat a
crazy, religious cult with kid gloves". In fairness, Roberts'
had little respect for freedom of expression during his lec-
ture tour, throwing out anyone who challenged his views.
Whatever the result of the trial, the battle between cre-
ationists and evolutionists will continue to rage. Ever since
the world-famous 'Scopes trial' in 1925, when John
Scopes, a teacher from Tennessee, was convicted for
teaching evolution, both sides have made frequent trips
to court, but it seems unlikely that the dispute will ever be
settled in a court room. Sarah Tomlin
Creationism is "anti-
knowledge, anti-reli-
gious and anti-sci-
ence"
Anglican Archbishop
of Brisbane
1
SFTW 1
1
iiHiKTill
1
7
1
"You shouldn't
treat a crazy, reli-
gious cult with
' kid gloves"
Professor Plimer
Noah's Ark...?
the golem and other stories

