were quintessential^ clubby, and some of the designs
reminiscent of the established British designer: Katherine
Hamnelt. Both collections were modern and brilliant fun.
The Dragana Perisiccollection was corf%nporary, ele-
gant yet sexy. Colour and light silky, shiny materials were
used with chiffon. The design and ./psentation was
excellent, and to add to the excitement, an Imperial
College girl (Biochemistry/Chemistry joint Honours stu-
dent) contracted with a modelling agencyjfauntered
down the catwalk in one of their designs.
The 2 RUDE FOR YOU label was extrirnely brave, they
had impressively used a range of unconventional materi-
als and the results were anarchic. There seemed to be a
futuristic, military, hookertheme and nil ot the clothes
were unwearable BUT the ideas were very inspirational.
The unabandoned and Innovative use of form, shape
and texture was reminiscent of the Japanese designers
Yohji Yamamoto and Comme des Garcons' Rei
Kawakubo. Boundless rivers of creativity were on show- H
maybe too many different ideas, ensured that none werg
professionallypursued; it would be really exciting to see™~
a tailored coliiction j n the same vain- which would natu-
rally be more wearable. They shJBMforAsider the
intellectual intensity of the Japanese dgsic^ab
As expected some designs were disappointing, such
as those by Renegade, who claimed to be inspired by
Charlie Chaplin, dandies, and androgyny. The whole
concept is fascinating; the designs were not. There was
a goodie of colour, the design and cut of the clothes
was sparse and unremarkable. Better tailoring would
make th@i||gnegade label more resilient.
One of the worst collections was by Hakim &
Williamson, who displayed handprinted garments. The
presentation was awful, the desidjns were pretentiously
simplistic. Maybe the prints were of a high quality, but
fashion is dot niteiy not the right arena for these people.
Overall the best$oll|ction was by Nuala McGj
iibctan Winierwear, using oriental cut and fol
and shelpskin. It was a beautiful, modern colt
assymetrje lines were used, and they had ambitiousi
made heavy materials sensual. It was an immensely
artistic and unique collection which was unintentionally
marketable. This designer deserves serious interest and
investment.
SnrfAf
1085/18
alternative fashion week

