12 Music 24 May 1999
Albums
PROLAPSE
Ghosts of Dead Aeroplanes
MISHKA
Mishka
I
t's funny how you pick up an album
of an unknown (or let's just say rel-
atively low-key) band and expect to
be talking about how their debut album
is going to affect the music world only
to find out that it's actually their fourth
album. Well that's the case with the six-
strong Scottish Prolapse and I have no
idea what their earlier works sound like,
Prolapse spot another Jumbo going down
although I have reason to believe that
their style is Stereolab-ish and The Fall.
The opening track of Ghosts Of
Dead Aeoplaneswasn't as loud as I was
expecting but a very slow, mellow,
almost instrumental tune. The vocals are
strongly accented but that's not the rea-
son why they do not complement this
track at all. just music would have been
much better. Talking of accents, co-vocal-
ist Linda Steelyard has a thing about
them,- so she likes Oasis from Man-
chester but hates Blur.
Anyway, their recently released sin-
gle Fob.Com Is a very catchy number.
The other vocalist Mick Derrick sounds a
bit like Ewan McGregor on Choose Life.
Indeed the lyrics are sung in that fashion.
Linda's sharper vocals adds a little fresh-
ness to a melody that, perhaps, has
already been heard.
There's very little potential for future
singles on this album with most of the
tracks being un-movlng, monotone dri-
vel. But they have to release something
so I guess they could possibly get away
with One Illness, which at least has a lit-
tle life. They are strongly advised to
quickly retire to performing live where
they can take the emphasis off their
music and onto their manic stage acts of
the vocalists. Prolapse are reputed to
perform astoundingly on stage.
Musically, this album is difficult to
categorise. Let's just settle with soft-rock
plus indie-pop. This isn't a combination
that works for me and apart from
Fab.Com (which is a fantastic tune) there
is nothing else on this album to make
you rush to the record stores. H
Asad
LAMB
Fear of Fours • ***
Fear of Fours? They're safe
watching England then.
W
hy Is the internet so crap? I
went for a bit of a surf on the
subject of Lamb and ended
up with reams and reams of rubbish
about how wonderful Polydor Is and
did I want to buy albums by Hovercraft,
fambkin and Bush? I really don't under-
stand it.
As it turns out, Lamb are a Mancun-
ian pair in the form of Andy Barlow and
Louise Rhodes who specialise in the
mellow grooves of the slowed up
drum'n'bass favoured by such bands as
the Sneaker Pimps. Their first, self-titled
album was met with much admiration by
those in the know and subsequently
their debut single Cotton Wool was
remixed more than once. But what of
Fear Of Fours'? What indeed.
The opener is a track called Soft Mis-
take that is anything but. It's a laid-back
instrumental that sets the scene for the
mood of the whole album. That mood is
generally a relaxed one although there
are some classic jungle stylee booty
shakin' frantic beats. That's okay, we can
let them slide because we've got such
crackers as Bonfire, Five and the current
single B-line. The flavour of the album
has a distinct Eno sound about It: In Fear
Of Fours there's a very prominent bass
sound that Is characteristic of Eno, as is
the whole theme of chilling out. If you've
never listened to Apollo by Brian Eno I
suggest you do.
The only niggle I've got is that
although the tracks on Fear Of Fours
are undoubtedly an excellent selection,
all of them stick to approximately the
same formula. The intro is a swirly mix of
strings, angelic vocals and soft beats fol-
lowed closely by rolling breaks, low-
down tummy rumbling bass and acid
jazz vocals. I know that almost every
band adheres to some kind of formula,
whether they are conscious of it or not,
but I noticed it in particular here. It also
came as no surprise that track four is
non-existent (fear Of Fours?).
I surprised myself by actually admit-
ting that it was good, rather than just
okay. The use of samples is about right,
the vocals are spot on and the produc-
tion is excellent. It's still not my cup of
tea, though it would be an asset to any
music collection. H Christian
H
e's got the obligatory dreads
and beard but not because
they might be cool, just
because. He lived on a boat, sailing
round the Caribbean from the age of
three. He competed for Bermuda in
the world windsurfing championships
twice. He lives on the island of Nevis,
where Alan McGee 'discovered' him.
He's not your usual recording artist. So
sure, he's going to get all the attention
because he's on the same label as
Oasis and he's a white man singing
what sounds like reggae. But don't
judge Mishka until you've heard what
he has to play.
When you do hear It be prepared to
enjoy it and to be surprised. This album
is such a change from what's in the
charts at the moment that everyone
should listen to it at least once, but
once may not be enough. You'll either
love it or force yourself to listen a sec-
ond, then a third time until you do. It's
the kind of music that grows and grows
as you absorb it more until you find
yourself feeling incredibly at ease. For-
get all your Fatboy Slims and your Steps,
this is the quiescent sound of the sum-
mer. It's so laid-back and relaxed that
nothing will phase you when you're lis-
tening to it. Perhaps it has something to
do with the husky, slightly melancholic
voice like on the current single Give
You All The Love, or maybe it's the
stripped down guitar and harmonica on
One True, or it could even be that reg-
gae organ on Lonely. Whatever it is,
Mishka is a supremely chilled album
containing tracks that Marley would be
proud of.
On the first listen when you're not
'with the vibe' (man), the tracks do seem
to have the annoying habit of sounding
the same. On further listening though,
it's the clever nuances between tracks
that make them stand out, like the
church bells, the subtle use of synth
and harmonica. Okay, the songs are
mostly all on the same subject of love
and cither how great it is or how crap it
is, but the way it's sung, you don't care.
Mishka has all his shit together, and his
debut album might help you get yours
together, too. 131 Christian

