24 May 1999 Music 13
Albums
MOBY THE ROOTS
Things Fall Apart • • • •
R
ichard Melville Hall is the great-
great-grand nephew of Herman
Melville, thus the moniker Moby
and the impetative need, for the sake
of originality, to avoid the use of any
maritime similes or metaphors to
describe this whale of an
album arrrh, bugger!
A whale of an album it is though; a
plethora of styles spreading across 18
Moby-thrilled to bits.
tracks of epic vision and substance. Pre-
vious misdemeanours with techno and
trashy rock have been honed and further
infused with blues, folk, bluegrass,
gospel and the kitchen-sink to create an
electronic cornucopia.
There's the gospel tinged Why Does
My Heart Feel So Bad?, whilst Find My
Baby is The Rolling Stones with drum
loops. Honey is a sassy piano-driven tune
with hip-hop beats and slide-guitar and
the closing song My weakness sounds
like an aural Ascension.
It's an album of blissed-out, mellow,
ambient tracks interspersed by glorious
dance tracks; and that's dance in the
sense that you can dance to the music,
there being lateral rhythms to which you
can glide; not dance in the sense that to
dance to the music one must assume
the actions of a chicken-necked android,
whilst vainly trying to pick out a melody
that has all but been bludgeoned to a
messy pulp by a deranged drum-
machine.
That's not to say the album is par-
ticularly forward looking. Many tracks
echo the sound of Robert Miles (this is
very bad), others could have been lifted
wholesale off the Tim Booth and Angelo
Badalamenti collaboration Booth and
the Bad Angel (this is very good) and
many tunes could be passed off as sur-
facing during the second summer of
love in 1988 (which isn't such a bad
thing either). Now if that was the long
and short of it we'd be looking at maybe
four stars but at various junctures it all
gets a bit ugly, that confounded-bastard-
son-of-House Techno shows its pitiful
mug and objectivity is debunk, rational-
ity is cast to the wind; so in the interest
of not exhausting my well of spiteful
polemics we'll leave it at that. _ _
Chris
M
ake no mistake, this is hip-
hop. These are musicians.
These aren't some bunch of
guys who got lucky and busted there
way into the studio, made a funky
video and got to number one. This is all
about stories and beats and rhyme.
This album has all in abundance and
more. Put simply this is simply the best
hip-hop album I have heard all year.
Standout tracks. Well, it's very hard.
The problem with a band like the Roots
is that they arc in real danger of burn-
ing themselves out - with each track
you wonder if it can possibly get any bet-
ter. At a push, I would pick You Got Mc
(featuring Erykah Badu) with its wicked
jungle dying moments, Act Too (The
Love of My Life) which is just too smooth
and Dynamite! - that last one just swings.
fhe production is a breath of fresh
air in the increasingly electronic sound-
ing industry, this sounds fresh and real
-The Roots have managed to translate
their live sound into a recording.
The only gripe with this album is
that its purchase wil! inevitably make
the rest of yout collection sound poor in
comparison. This is a great yardstick for
aspiring rappers and all to aim for - The
Roots have set the pace for 1999 - can
anyone match them? CI
Joel
Singles
Charlotte - Skin
This song brings back memories of those half-pop,
half-dance numbers with a yelping female singer
on it that were all the rage when I was about fif-
teen. So, it's alright, but a bit behind the times.
Snow Pony - Easy Way Down
Some really relaxed indie rock that mellows you
out and seems to include bits from just about
every Stone Roses song I know. And somewhat
strangely, the singer is a woman. Even weirder, it
works.
3 Colours Red - This Is My Time
There was a bit of a stir going on when Beautiful
Day was released at the beginning of the year. It
certainly appeared that 3 Colours Red were going
to have a successful year. However, the subse-
quent release of their more traditional rock-metal
efforts was met with general apathy. So, it's back
to the 'slowies' in the search for that elusive top
ten hit.
Jamella- So High
A bit like Shola Ama but with nowhere near the
vocal talents and with some Missy Elliot-style ad
libs thrown In. So just your basic R 'n' B track really.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Supergrass - Pumping On Your Stereo
Judging by the critical acclaim but poor sales for their last album, it's
hard to gauge the ensuing reaction to this single. It's described by
the band as being in the vein of Rebel Rebefeta Bowie, but that's
only half the story. Like so many Supergrass songs, this track is alive
with energy and extremely enjoyable to listen to.
Blondle - Nothing Is Real But The Girl
Their comeback single Maria proved that Debo-
rah Harry could still sing and the band could still
play, but the general disregard for the accom-
panying album showed that the public thought
it just a one-off. And they were right too, for this
song is weak and dull and the vocals are stran-
gled and flat.
Stereophonies - Pick A Part That's New
The obvious joke is to say that it's hard to pick a
part that's new from this song. That's the prob-
lem with the Stereophonies, their songs are all
very similar. We're becoming familiar with the
now cliched Kelly Jones vocal, that stretches out
the last word In each line.
Laptop - Nothing To Declare
For a band with a rather modern name (unless
referring to some seedy strip joint) these guys are
firmly stuck fifteen years in the past. This song
perfectly mimics Talking Heads, even down to
cunning lyrical twists such as the line 'I've got
nothing to declare, except my loneliness.' Retro
but great.CJ
EdJ.

