24 May 1999 Sport 19
KENDO
New comer Imperial takes gold
For those of you who are unfamiliar with
Kendo (and that, I should think, would be
most of you), it is a Japanese martial art
type sport fought between two people
using bamboo swords. It has gained
popularity in Europe over the past few
years and the ICU Kendo club was
founded this March, thanks to much
running around by Koichiro Yoshida and
his dedicated committee. Around 40
members (which is amazing considering
how new the club is!) are currently train-
ing every Wednesday and Friday from
8.30pm to 10.00pm at Southside Gym.
So, what results can an only-just-founded-
club bring near the end of the academic
year? On Saturday 1st May, the Annual
University 'Taikai" (Championships) were
held at Cheltenham & Gloucester College
and both individual and team competi-
tions were fought throughout the day.
This year, seven universities (IC, UCL,
Oxford, Cambridge, Sheffield, Kent and
Cheltenham & Gloucester) took part.
While the other colleges arrived on their
minibuses on big teams, it was Koichiro
Yoshida from Imperial who, having got
up at 5.00am and travelled for 3 hours
from Victoria on coach, won the Cham-
pionship title with an outstanding per-
formance. He also contributed in
bringing the Silver medal to the Imper-
ial-Cheltenham & Gloucester combined
team.
It was such a shame we couldn't stay for
the buffet afterwards since we had to
catch the last coach back to London
which surely would have been gone had
we been another 30 seconds late. Hope-
fully, next year, we'll have one, if not
more, teams of our own and make the
buffet as well as winning the medals
and trophies!
With one of, if not the best university
kendo player in as founder and president
of the club, the ICU Kendo Club is sure
to flourish and continue to be success-
ful in the years to come. If you are inter-
ested in joining us, contact HYPERLINK
mailto:koichiro.yoshida@ic.ac.uk
koichiro.yoshida@ic.ac.uk or come along
to one of our training sessions. We
hope to see more of you next year!
A couple of weeks ago a report was
submitted about a pool tournament
between Southside and the Union. Sur-
prisingly I do have standards for what
gets into the Sports pages, and while
they are quite low, this article didn't
reach the minimum. Suffice to say that
Southside won 9 - 6 .
From the Sidelines
So Manchester United have won the
Premiership and are one third of the
way to fulfilling my prediction of their
treble chances (Felix 1143). By the time
you read this of course the outcome of
the FA Cup final will be known (my pre-
diction was Newcastle to win in extra
time) and the build up will have begun
to the European Cup Final on Wednes-
day evening in Barcelona (I have M a n
United winning that one). Before any
of you think it, I am not a Man U fan
(even though I was born in London,
which seems to be where most of their
fans come from), but I think we should
take a moment to step back and look
at how well Alex Ferguson has done
with his teams. In the 7 year history of
the Premiership, Man U have won the
league 5 times out of 7. They have an
unending supply of youthful, British, tal-
ent and one of the best managers in
the game for the next 5 years. However
much you love or hate the team, you
have to respect the ability to keep
churning out the quality players. Con-
trast this with the fortunes of one of the
other two teams to win the Premiership,
Blackburn Rovers, who will being endur-
ing 1st division football next season.
But while all this football is going on,
"even though the season has ended,
don't forget there is a World Cup on in
this country at the moment. Yes that's
right, it's my weekly plug for the cricket
world cup. It so far is looking to be a
good tournament with England win-
ning their games against Sri Lanka and
Kenya, and I was at the Oval on Satur-
day to watch them take on South Africa
(hopefully they won).
The ticketing system under which I
obtained those tickets, however, is
rather odd, in that I had to submit my
request for them over a year before the
start of the tournament. Last year's
football world cup in France was an
event selling a much greater number of
tickets to a much bigger world-wide
audience, and the tickets for that didn't
have to be ordered a year in advance.
Also this is the last world cup in this
country for a generation. You would
have thought the England and Wales
Cricket Board would be shouting about
it from the rooftops, but I have yet to
see a single TV advert (other than the
ones for Sky). Still a much larger num-
ber of people seem to know about it
than I expected, and the arguments
over what should be on the tele in my
hall look set to continue for the next
couple of weeks at least.
Anyone purchasing a Summer Ball Ticket will now be entered into a weekly draw, where the
following fabulous prizes could be yours:
• 14" Colour Television (Courtesy of ICU Catering)
• Two Person Tent (Courtesy of the YHA store)
• Dinner for Two at Luigi Malone's (Courtesy of Luigi Malone's)
• Your money back on the cost of Two Tickets $
iCU
IMI'IKIAI.COI.liniMiNK IK
Free Suit Hire (Courtesy of Youngs Suit Hire) * T V Y A V H R A
Free Haircut (Courtesy of Anne Russell Hair) ^ p / v L A C F ^
The sooner you get your Ticket the MORE YOU CAN WIN!
Ticket deadline Monday 7th
June All students £55 (Subject to proof)

