2 News 24 May 1999
Nightline to Hold Band Night
On June 1 ULU and London Nightline
are holding a band night at ULU with
all proceeds going to London Night-
line. Coldplay, an up and coming Indie
band, are headlining the event; their
first single received critical acclaim
from much of the music press, and
they recently supported Catatonia for
Radio 1. All the band members are
London students and this will be the
first gig they play after completing
their finals. Two more student bands,
The Fantastic Super Foofs and Hal and
Roger, are supporting.
XFM are sponsoring the event,
with DJ John Kennedy playing a set.
The evening will finish off with sets
from student Djs until closing at 2am.
Tickets will cost £3 for students in
advance (ULU ticketline 0171 664
2030), or £4 on the door (non-students
£5/£6).
The event is being held to publi-
cise a n d raise money for London
Nightline, a telephone helpline run by
students for students. Nightline offers
a confidential listening and practical
Information service from 6pm to 8am
every night of term. It has been run-
ning for 28 years, originally starting in
response to a number of student sui-
cides here at Imperial. Covering 31
institutions across London, Nightline
provides a service for 150,000 students.
For further information about the
bandnight or about London Nightline
call 01 71 636 71 95 or email coordina-
tor@nightline.freeserve.co.uk
24 May 1999
Editor: Ed Sexton
Films Editor: David Roberts
News Editor.- Andy Oforl
Music Editors: Dennis Patrickson
& Jason Ramanathan
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Clubscene: Giles Morrison,
Gurminder Marwaha & Joel Lewis
Want to Join an LT Hunt? Behind the Pay Dispute
Last Monday was a
special day for any-
body with any sort of
interest in "aliens", it was the inauguration
of SETI@home ("SETI = Search for Extra-Ter-
restrial Intelligence"). The ambitious pro-
ject Involves thousands of volunteers
downloading, installing and running a
screensaver that processes a chunk of
data from the massive Arecibo telescope
in Puerto Rico, the largest radio tele-
scope in the world. SETI@home will run
for a period of two years, analysing a sec-
tion of the sky. Scientists and engineers
attached to SERENDIP - Search for Extrater-
restrial Radio Emissions from Nearby
Developed Populations - have pioneered
this project based on their belief that
the best chance we have of discovering
lifeforms on other planets lies in the
analysis of radio signals; as the website
for the project proclaims, "there's a small
but captivating possibility that your com-
puter will detect the faint murmur of a civ-
ilization beyond Earth".
The program has been designed to
run as a screensaver in order to ensure
that it does not eat into volunteer users'
"work time" (it is also available as an ordi-
nary program with no graphics that com-
putes all the time), and runs on PCs,
Macs and various other formats. For secu-
rity, the server from which the screen-
saver can be downloaded has been kept
separate from the data server, which
does not feed out any executable code,
moreover, the software can be set to
request permission from the user before
posting the results of any tests; the results
can also be sent automatically the next
time the user is online. Enough data can
be downloaded via a 28.8k connection in
five minutes to keep the average PC
busy for a few days. The screensaver
itself displays a three-
By Suilll Rao dimensional graphi-
cal display portraying
a chart of the signal; participants also
have the opportunity to view a map dis-
playing the area of sky being analysed at
the time.
The data recorded from the Arecibo
Observatory telescope is essentially
placed onto 35 gigabyte tapes daily- these
tapes are then mailed all the way to
Berkeley where they are split into down-
loadable chunks about a quarter of a
megabyte each in size. Fundamentally,
the project involves a search for strong
singals in a narrow band, and will analyse
signals an order of magnitude weaker
than any previously done. Measures are
in place to detect deliberate forgeries
and any "positive" results noted will be
checked back at Berkeley, though, of
course, the user on whose system any
discovery is made will be credited as a co-
discoverer.
Those working on the project hope
that by the time SETI@home has run its
course, better approaches and newer
telescopes will have been made avail-
able. As Louis Friedman of the Planetary
Society says, this is the first time ever in
the history of the human race that the
opportunity has been made available for
anybody anywhere in the world to join
"the scientific search for intelligent beings
elsewhere in our universe". Many might
be sceptical but as Dan Wertheimer, Chief
Scientist for the project puts it, "you can
argue all day, but unless you do the
search, you will never know".
The SETIOhome home page is at
http://setiathome.ssl.berkeley.edu/, while
the paper from 1997 announcing the
project can be found at http://setiath-
ome.ssl.berkeley.edu/woody_paper.html.
The reasons for
tomorrow's strike
stretch back to a pay
dispute that has been ongoing for sev-
eral months, and were outlined in last
week's issue of Felix. In a letter to David
Hellard Ms Barker explained "the aim of
this action is to persuade the employers
to improve their offer of a 3.5% salary
increase." According to AUT ptess
releases, average earnings in Britain have
increased 40% in real terms (i.e. above
inflation) in the past eighteen years,
while academics have only seen a 3.1%
increase. In contrast, vice-chancellors'
have seen their pay increase by 7% a
year for the past three years.
Anothet issue of importance to
Imperial AUT members is London weight-
ing, a system that attempts to compen-
sate London academics for increased
living costs in the capital. There has been
no increase in this figure since 1992. Ms
Barker voiced London academics' con-
cerns; "we are angry that the employers
refuse even to discuss this element of
our pay claim."
A third sword in the AUT's attack
concerns the amounts examiners are
paid. According to a news release dated
29 April, over 17% of external examiners
are paid less than £3.60 an hour, a fig-
ure which prompted David Triesman,
the AUT's General Secretary, to com-
ment "you can get more for responding
to the words 'Big Mac and French Fries'
than to the words of a learned science
PhD."
The decision facing students is
whether to support the strike by staying
at home, and thus risk penalisation from
college for missed exams or deadlines,
or to pass the picket lines and come
into college. David Hellard has said that
the union will be
By Ed Sexton open, and will publi-
cise the strike as and
when necessary. He also offered moral
support to the AUT, thinking "they've
got a just reason [for striking]... they
aren't getting paid enough." Ms Barker
urged students and ICU to do more,
however; "I would hope that Dave could
give more active support... we would
welcome the support of ICU".
Clearly most students are unlikely
to support the strike by boycotting
exams. Ms Barker appealed to those stu-
dents to "look at the bigger picture",
suggesting that the quality of future stu-
dents' education could suffer if the pay
dispute was not resolved. Given that fur-
ther action is planned for the next aca-
demic year she may well be right, but
whether or not that means students
should actively support the strikers is a
difficult question, and one each student
will have to answer for him or herself
Imperial College Union's
Annual General
Meeting
will take place on
Friday 28 May at 1 pm In the
Union Dining Hall.
ALL students are welcome
and encouraged to attend.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens, London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040 - 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1999. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

