24 May 1999 News 3
Latest Fees Fiasco at Leeds
Following incidents at Sussex and
Oxford, not to mention within fon-
don, it's now the turn of students at
Leeds University to protest against the
introduction of tuition fees. Thirty-nine
first-year students at f e e d s have
received ominous letters warning
them that they shall not be allowed to
continue their studies following the
summer vacation if they do not pay
up.
Leeds University Union (LUU) is
meanwhile campaigning for the
defaulters to stay on to continue their
education next year, their efforts tak-
ing the form of what appears to be a
successful postcard-signing campaign,
attracting over three hundred signa-
tories by Monday 1 7 May. The cam-
paign, which aims to induce University
administrators to withdraw their
threats, has also received media atten-
tion across the nation, being featured
on the BBC web site, on Ceefax and
Teletext and in both local and national
press (Yorkshire Post, Yorkshire
Evening Post, London Metro, Look
North and The Guardian). The Univer-
By Sunil Rao
sity itself has shown little by way of
signs of relenting, however.
Protests at Leeds aren't exactly a
new thing, with last years' day-long
occupation of a lecture theatre by
over a hundred protesting students
acting as a poignant reminder of stu-
dent protests from May 1968, led by
the then Leeds University Union Pres-
ident, a certain Jack Straw, though
those protests had in reality more to
do with battling controversial right-
wing attitudes than with more down-
to-earth issues.
The tone and timing of the letter
from university management, sent out
on the eve of the annual end-of-year
examinations, were described by Anna
Richards, Communications Officer at
LUU responsible for liaising with the
media, as being "very intimidating".
Most of the students involved would
now probably be feeling "ten times
worse" about their financial problems,
given that this is the reason cited by
most of the protesting freshers for
their non-payment, though an intrepid
few have refused to pay on principle.
Leeds remains a popular university
with applicants, attracting more UCAS
applications than any other institution
in Britain, and the university adminis-
tration had previously expressed its
disapproval over the way the fee sys-
tem is currently being handled, and
had anticipated that a number of stu-
dents would be worried about run-
ning up large debts and might even
seriously consider "withdrawing from
courses because of financial hard-
ship", feeds University has stated that
it has not made it its policy to forcibly
evict students from courses for not
paying fees, and that every case will
be treated on its own merits.
Meanwhile students refusing to
pay fees at University College London
(UCL) still face an uncertain future,
with both college authorities and
students showing little sign of
compromise.
Humanities
Competition
As part of its humanities programme,
Imperial College is to hold a "Technical
Presentations Competition". The com-
petition is for undergraduate students,
for the best technical presentation to an
intelligent lay audience, and is being
organised by the Science Communica-
tion Group at the Rector's suggestion.
Each of the competing depart-
ments, which includes engineering dis-
ciplines, sciences, the medical school
and the management school will be
fielding one individual or project group.
Each presentation will last for 15 min-
utes, with 5 minutes for questions. A
panel of college governors will judge the
competition, which has a first prize of
£500 and additional prizes totalling £300.
The competition will take place on
Tuesday 22 June from 2pm to 5.20pm In
Lecture Theatre 408, Level 4, Elec Eng.
Prof Sinclair Goodlad, Director of the
Humanities Programme, encourages
members of the college to attend the
event.
Enquiries should be directed to him
at s.goodlad@lc.ac.uk or on (0171 59)
48752.
The Pit Stop Challenge
Friday, 28 May 1999,11.00arrw5.00pm,
Beit Quad
You are invited to experience the pressure of the
Pit Stop using a real Formula One Williams car...
All you need to do is to enter your name, college and
four team members on the application form and
return it to the Union Office before Friday, 21 May.
Just pick up an application form at the Student Union.
What it takes: - ability to work under pressure
- ability to work within a team
- ability to display a good sense of humour!
www.ac.com
Prizes BBQ Bar Scalextric

