4 Letters 24 May 1999
Travel or LT cards?
Dear Felix,
I would like something clarified with
regard to the London Transport Student
Discount scheme, namely what sorts of
tickets we can get a discount on. You
refer throughout your news article (as
does Dave in his Presidential talk-back) to
"travelcards". I was under the impression
that the scheme only covered LT cards
and bus passes. The distinction is impor-
tant: Travelcards are valid on tubes, buses
and trains, whereas LT cards are only
valid on tubes and buses - not trains. For
those of us who live south of the river,
train and tube is often the only option
(Kingston to college by train and tube: 45
minutes, cf bus and tube: 1.5 hours!).
Please could you be more specific in
your wording in future, as I'm currently
paying ~400 UKP p.a. more than I'd need
to if the student discount applied to trav-
elcards.
helen-louise.
Physics PhD.
You aren't the only one confused -
neither ICU nor the London Transport
website were able to explain It to me
accurately. It Is true, however, that the
cards CAN N O T be used on trains, as the
deal Is only with London Transport, and
not the regional train companies. The LT
website states
"[Youth LT cards] cost 30% less than
the equivalent adult rate Travelcard Sea-
son, but cannot be used on most
National Railways services (except on
joint routes where there is inter-avail-
ability) or for Underground journeys to
and from Bakerloo line stations north of
Queen's Park... [they] give unlimited
travel on Underground, London Trans-
port Buses, including N-prefixed Night
Buses and Docklands Light Railway ser-
vices within the zones selected."
So there you have it. Exactly which
routes have Tnteravailabllrty' I don't know.
Anyway, I apologise for any confusion
caused. More Information can be found
at www.londontransport.co.uk/travel/
2_4_11.htm -Ed
Pit Stop Challenge
Dear Felix,
So how many of you have watched the
Grand Prixs on the telly recently, watched
the pit stops and thought "I'd like to give
that a go"?
Well, if you have now'syour chance.
The Union have got together with those
very nice people from Andersen Con-
sulting to present the Pit Stop Challenge
this Friday in Beit Quad. Basically, this
involves getting the wheels off and back
on a Formula 1 car in the fastest time.
There's big prizes for the winning
teams (last year the winners got a day's
free go-karting), and prizes for the run-
ners up and losers.
This year Andersen have invited
teams from some of those other London
colleges, so there'll be a special edge to
the competition.
If you want to enter, there's still time
- all you need is a team of 4 and a team
name. You can either enter by filling in an
application form in the Union Office, or
on the back of the flyers or by emailing
me on m.horne@ic.ac.uk. Entries must be
in by Wednesday evening to be guaran-
teed a place on the starting grid.
For those of you who don't feel so
energetic, there'll be a barbecue, the bar
will be open and there'll be the biggest
scalextric set you've ever seen in dBs.
Hope to see you all there.
Mark Home
Events & Marketing Manager
All Students - £55
Dear Felix,
The Summer Ball Team would like to
apologise to A. Warman for the lack of
clarity over ticket prices for students. We
would like to thank him for bringing this
issue to our attention. Tickets are £55 for
ALL STUDENTS upon production of some
form of proof; Alaistair will of course
receive a refund subject to the above cri-
teria. The union encourages all students
whether home or international to attend
the Summer Ball and look forward to
seeing them at Alexandra Palace for the
single biggest catered event run by any
UK Student's Union.
The Summer Ball newsletter is out
now and gives details of all the prize
draws occurring in the next few weeks.
Remember that tickets are only on sale
until Monday 7th June and the sooner
you buy your tickets the more prize draws
you will be entered into. Members of a
group of ten, booked before Friday, will
enter our draw for a free two-man tent or
a meal for two at Luigi Malones.
We appreciate that everyone is busy
with exams but taking time out NOW to
book your place at the most phenome-
nal end of term party, will ensure that you
celebrate the end of your year or uni-
versity life in true style.
Kind Regards
Summer Ball Team
Stomach G M Foods!
Signs I saw in Da Vinci's this lunchtime dis-
turbed me; written on a piece of lami-
nated catdboard was 'We cannot
guarantee our food to be free of G M pro-
duce'.
Quite why, at this college, a veritable
centre for genetic research, anyone
would want this to be the case, is beyond
me. It is sad that we appear to have so
little control over what we can and can't
do/eat, even on our own campus - rather
than sound scientific minds being lis-
tened to, the ignorant rantings of the
tabloid press appear to be prefered.
At such a centre for research as Impe-
rial, surely we should be leading the way
and supporting G M foods all the way. I
shall never be taken for a ride with all this
'organic' rubbish the supermarkets are set
to make a killing on this summer.
Support research. Vote with your
stomach.
S.W. Cooper
Regulating the Internet II
Dear Felix,
I am writing in response to Mr Tse's let-
ter "Regulating the Internet" in the last
issue of Felix. I believe the basis of his let-
ter was that if we expose children to vio-
lence through media, they become
violent. I do wonder if such an assump-
tion is true? If any readers have observed
seven year-olds watching an episode of
Power Rangers, I'm confident they will
agree with me when I say that it is accu-
rate to a small degree (different children
respond differently). However, regula-
tion is not a simple case of Good versus
Bad, as the aforementioned author
seems to believe.
The wonder that is the Internet is that
Joe Bloggs can come along and tell the
world what he thinks. This power is some-
thing very few of us have ever had
before. A soapbox in Hyde Park won't
reach more than a hundred. A book has
greater potential, but it spends its life on
a shelf in Waterstones (and only once the
author has persuaded a publisher to pub-
lish it). The Internet is the only medium
where anyone can say what they want,
unaltered, to a world-wide audience. Reg-
ulation would take this power away.
Is this such a bad thing? If we pretend
that last week's issue of Felix is a regu-
lated Internet, and that it's regulator is the
editor, Mr Tse has no control over the
appearance of his letter. I doubt whether
Mr Tse would be a happy man if he spent
hours writing his letter, only to find it
wasn't there. Of course, it is easy to say
we'll "only regulate the porn" or "ban the
fascism". All this simply means is that the
regulator's morals get forced down the
author's throat. Is it ethical to impose
your morals on someone else?
At the end of the day our capitalist
economy is driven by money. The adult
entertainment businesses invest enor-
mous amounts of money on improving
network connections and developing
technologies such as streaming video.
Indeed, Real Networks' biggest customers
are adult websites. Online credit card
processing was invented by a Canadian
pornographic website. The sad fact is
people want their porn: 90 - 95% of all
male net users have visited pornographic
sites. If children and the Internet are
incompatible, it is far more cost effective
to remove the former rather than regu-
late latter.
Martyn Whitwell.
(Physics I)
Eat, Praise, Have a ball
Sir,
I read with interest "In brief" (Felix, 17 May
1999), and in particular the Director of
Estates' proposal to renovate the SCR. I
note that the entire project is still waiting
for funding confirmation - why? It's a
catering/conference outlet! There is surely
no question here - John Foster and
Annette de Lima will benefit, so they
should dig deep into their voluminous
pockets and stump up the cash. Alterna-
tively, Mr Caldwell should turn the whole
space into a food hall (Burger King,
McDonalds etc) and move the SCR to the
Rector's flat at 170 Queen's Gate. The
mystery of the SCR still evades me - why
are staff happy to pay inflated prices for
the same food which is served cheaper
at the M D H downstairs? Hmmmm, and
they say our academic staff are the best
in the land. I remain to be convinced...
And before you put this down as
another letter from a cranky old hack, can
I take the opportunity to congratulate
Dave Hellard on a largely successful year
at ICU? I must admit to being sceptical
when he took over, but he has proved to
be a competent and popular President. I
only hope Natasha Newton manages to
keep up with the momentum he has
established...
Finally, can I urge everybody to
attend the ICU Summer Ball? It's a fan-
tastic event, so great that I still can't
remember what happened last year... so
go. See if you can get the College Sec-
retary drunk - it'll be worth it...
I remain, Sir, your humble and obe-
dient servant,
Andy Heeps
Deadline for letters for
is 12noon Wednesday.
Letters may be edited for length, but
will not be altered in any other way.
Letters need not be signed, but a
swipe card must be shown when sub-
mitting anonymous letters.

