Feature 24 May 1999
Cycling in Nepal
From personal experience Oliver Hawkins describes the pitfalls of cycling In this hilly and logistically difficult country
Described as "the Mecca of world mountain biking", the
Himalayan kingdom of Nepal offers lots of challenges
to adventurous cyclists. Unlike its two sprawling neigh-
bours, India and Tibet, much of the country and sights,
including ancient Buddhist and Hindu temples and
views of Mount Everest, are in easy reach from the cities
of Kathmandu and Pokhara. Also, it is said that you are
ten times more likely to be involved in a car crash in
Nepal than in Britain, and only limited areas of the coun-
try are open for trekking. Cycling allows close contact
with the famously friendly and tolerant Nepalese peo-
ple, as well as affording greater freedom than buses and
cars in where to go, making it a very attractive option.
Therefore, with the help of some of the pupils at the
school in Kathmandu where I was teaching, and along
with four other British volunteer teachers, I bought a
mountain bike from a local shop. From the many expe-
riences we had and mistakes made, here are the things
to be avoided...
1 Cheap Bikes
Our first trip was a steep learning curve and a les-
son in the false economy of buying cheap. Between
us, we suffered eight breakdowns of some form or
another in two hours, although we persevered until
a friend was thrown in a somersault over his han-
dlebars, fortunately escaping unhurt. Although the
many cycle shops are helpful and virtually free, they
are not equipped for geared bikes and on several
occasions they used a brick to hammer handlebars
into shape. My advice would be to spend the extra
rupees and hire a much more reliable bike, such as
those from 'Himalayan Mountain Bikes' in Thamel,
Kathmandu.
2 Guide Book Authors
Our guide for some of the trips we made was James
Giambronie, through his book 'Kathmandu Valley
Bikes and Hikes'. We got some good ideas on places
to visit, but his "intrepid routes" invariably ended in
a dead end or a path washed away by the teccnt
monsoon, a problem c o m m o n to even the major
roads in Nepal. Getting lost is not all bad though, as
long as it is not getting dark, as you can find your-
self in places off the beaten track and more fasci-
nating for it. People were often very willing to invite
us into their homes, allowing an insight into rural
Nepali life. The reality for most Nepalis today is
complex and varied, not as simplistic as the 'moun-
tains and mysticism' portrayal in some tourist publi-
cations. Noticeable aspects include the rapid
modernisation, distributed unequally thtough the
country, alongside harsh rural poverty and a strong
influence of tradition, family and religion.
3 Natural Disasters
must be taken with care. Two of these we took
were almost a kilometre height difference between
the top and the bottom, and on one, a friend
crashed at speed after his brakes locked, and he was
incredibly lucky to escape with only cuts and a few
bruises.
5 Cows
Cows are sacred in Nepal where the majority of the
population are Hindus, and killing a cow can result
in jail sentences of up to 10 years. Avoiding a colli-
sion is therefore very much advisable, although the
cyclist would probably come off worse. Nepalese
cows are mostly urban animals, preferring the busy,
dirty city life, where they can scavenge the roadside
rubbish heaps, to the peaceful countryside, so traf-
fic can become a slalom around the animals on even
the crowded city streets.
Obviously good to avoid, but il should be remem-
bered that the contrasts in the climate are great in
Nepal, with only two seasons, the Monsoon and the
Dry Season. Getting caught cycling in a M o n s o o n
downpour can be very dangerous, especially on
mud paths. However, you can usually see the rain
coming, sometimes literally as an advancing wall of
water, so you have time to find shelter.
Freak weather can also happen during the dry
season. On one occasion, one of our bikes broke a
few hours into a three-day journey to a remote vil-
lage called Palanchowk Bhagwati, in the foothills
near the Tibetan border. As we started to look for a
repair shop, we noticed that a tornado had formed
close behind us, so we quickly flagged down a pass-
ing truck, threw our bikes into the back and climbed
onto the roof. This was probably no safer than stay-
ing near the tornado however, as we spent the next
ten miles hanging on to the single roof bar to avoid
getting thrown off as the truck sped around corners.
4 Admiring the View
The reward of struggling to the top of one of the
Himalayan foothills is incredible views of some of the
most spectacular scenery in the world. However, the
mountain roads often have drops of hundreds of
metres off one side, with no protective barriers, so
the descents, which can be very fast and exciting,
6 Buses
My only crash was into the back of a stopping bus,
at about 5 to 10 miles per hour. Buses are renowned
for their aggressive driving and for being so full that
people often hang on to the outside or sit on the
roof. Sitting on the roof with the luggage tied on is
often more comfortable than inside, especially in hot
weather, although it is in theory illegal and danger-
ous as there is usually only a roof rack to hold on to.
Buses are however frequent and ridiculously cheap,
costing as little as 3p for a five-mile journey, and
when your bike has broken or the hill is just too long
and steep they will take bikes for about 50p extra.
y..: Chinese Tibet
al / Kathmandu
•r' \ Mt Everest
-* ' ^ ,
India
— — " /I. * %
* * / ~ V
' V . „ \ }
Roy; 1 t-W\ M O /
*
i

