Page 4 FELIX Thursday, March 11, 1971
HALLS A N D HOUSES A FELIX REVIEW
Southside
I n ijgf'
Student Bouse
•••CI *' I l i p *
* | ? * m m
n1J..................
• f l hi*
m m
Old Beit
Thanks to all those who let us photograph their rooms,
especially those we couldn't find space for.
§jys TS °u,ck
Re,,efir
°mfatisue
'
_ _ _ _ boredom, examlnitlsl Take
n C TS N U S T S f o r c h e a p s p e e d
y
f ft S TI Remedial Sunspots.
\JIQSTRAVEL SERVICE, C
I
H
t
o
n Haute, 1
1
7 Euston Road. L
o
n
d
o
n W
W
1
Z
S
X Tel: 01-387 3
4
5
8
N o r t h L o n d o n ' s S e x
S u p e r m a r k e t ?
B I R D S & B E E S
16, T h e B r o a d w a y Parade N 8
Write NOW for free price list
Garden
The majority of those reading this will M l into three
categories: (i) Those who live in hall/house, (ii) Those who
used to Ive in hall/house, and (iii) Those who are hoping to
get in next year. It is towards category (iii) that this is mainly
directed — before I arrived in hall I had no idea of what
life would be like. Everyone appears to want to live in one
of the college residences, although perhaps for many different
reasons. Hall politics have recently been appearing frequently
on the news pages of Felix, but this epistle is simply an at-
tempt at a general description of the stacks of bedrooms
which are second (or first) home to about a thousand of us.
Beit: Redbrick section.
The oldest riving quarters built for the college are the
Beit halls in the Union building, whose rooms are in conse-
quence very homely places, arranged along corridors in
hotel fashion. Counting the millions of holes in the ceiling
certainly whiles away one's idle moments! Another feature
of life in Beit is that it is at the moment the only hall in which
women are allowed to live. Strangely enough, however, this
puts them further away from any available bar than any
other residents, as they are not exactly welcome in the no-
torious Union Bar. Living in the Union building of course
gives one easy access to its dwindling facilities, including the
amazing all-afternoon buttery, gymnasium, press-room
(waste-paper dept.), etc. It also places you within uncomfor-
tably easy earshot of the Saturday hops, Jazz club practice
room and output from the above mentioned bar.
Garden: Making the best of things
Next in seniority is Garden Hall which was converted
from old houses on the north side of Princes Gardens in
the early 1950s, and is now the most individual and pro-
gressive of all the halls, and prototype for the recently-opened
student houses. Under the leadership of Dr. Hardwick and
the inimitable Roy Francis, watched over by the immortal
Lord Garden, this hall has progressed from a place to stay
to a complete way of life. Rooms are regarded almost as
communal places where everyone sits around drinking tea
until late into the night, cementing the foundations of a true
community (!).
On the political side, Garden have successfully applied a
system whereby anyone who turns up at a committee meet-
ing is automatically made a temporary member, and have
also introduced a random selection scheme for prospective
residents, except reapplicants. This progress has, however,
been made in the face of (because of?) difficulties such as
an abundance of double and triple rooms and the lack of
social facilities. At one time Garden residents shared in the
operation of Weeks hall bar, but this system has now been
abandoned, although the bar is still conveniently close.
Weeks: All Mod. Cons.
The first to be built of the new "Building Block" halls
was Weeks, which was paid for by Vickers Ltd. and is used
by them as a training centre during vacations. Because of
this, and its having been built at a fairly prosperous time
(1959) Weeks has bigger rooms and more lavish facilities
than more recent constructions. The lift, for example, al-
though slower, stops at every floor, and the telephones are
fitted in proper booths rather than under useless hoods. A
definite strongpoint of Weeks Hall is the bar, which, although
small, serves the cheapest and best beer in college and has
a dartboard which is the right height and properly lit (Lin-
stead please note). Since acquiring their colour , television,
the residents have gained a reputation for inhospitality, par-
ticularly around 10 p.m. on Tuesdays, although personally I
must say that I have always been made very welcome.
New Beit
Southside: Monolithic living.
Biggest hall is Southside (or more correctly Selkirk +
Keogh + Tizard + Falmouth), which, Mews residents not-
withstanding, rests along the south side of Princes Gardens,
enabling three distinct periods in architecture to be observed
within a short distance along the same street. It/they houses
about 400 of us, but character and interest do not appear to
be proportional to size, although perhaps I am just uninfor-
med ("That's right", you all reply). Living in Southside pla-
ces one directly above the notorious Mooney Refectory, about
which I can only say that just before writing this article I ate
a Mooney-Southside meal, and that's my excuse. Also con-
veniently situated is Southside Bar (Women permitted !),
supposedly the college's "smooth" drinking place . . .
Linstead; new ideas.
Most recently built hall of residence (1968) is Linstead,
again in the now familiar 'pile of matchboxes' style, but
built on a smaller budget, resulting in smaller rooms and an
inconveniently shaped common-room area, with an enor-
mous concrete pillar blocking the view of the TV. What sets
Linstead apart from the other halls, however is its system of
inclusive evening meals, Monday-Friday. Although made in
the Southside kitchens, these meals have often been known
to be edible or even Good, and save one the bother of d-i-y
cooking after a tiring day of hard work at college (lifting
all those heavy cups of coffee . . . ). Linstead also has a bar,
which, unlike Weeks,' looks like a bar, although it hides
ashamedly behind yet another concrete pillar. Two residents
comprise the nightly staff, at a wage of 0.25 pints of beer per
hour (before tax).
Politically, Linstead is also relatively progressive. A new,
fairer, system of electing the hall committee has been in-
troduced, and it is now legal for a male guest to sleep on
your floor, if he can find the space.
Student Houses; semi-detached.
Finally, last but not least, etc., in this vague survey come
the student houses, which are converted Victorian terraces
in Evelyn Gardens, somewhere down the Brompton Road.
The venture was initiated by the union a few years ago, the
intention being to provide, at a cheaper rate, accommodation
similar to the bed-sitters in which many students reside. In
addition, they are now beginning, due to the efforts of en-
thusiastic committees and wardens, to develop a spirit of
their own. Although most rooms are shared, it is often
possible to choose your room-mate, and there is, in at least
one of the houses, a highly flexible overnight guest system. If
you fancy painting a mural on the common-room wall, or
would like to live in a place slightly detached from the hurly-
burly of the college campus (with megaphone accompani-
ment) then life in student house may well be your cup of
tea/coffee.
Finale.
Such, then, are the halls and houses. Living here will allow
you to take advantage of the many cheap social activities,
and make a lot of (too many?) friends. The zero travelling
time will of course allow you to do more work. An obvious
disadvantage, though, is the social isolation. How many
people who are not science students do you meet in a place
like this? — very few, unless you actually go out of your
way to do so. Another disadvantage, its severity depending
on your own tolerance, is the incidence of unusual disrup-
tions, such as nocturnal chants of "Chem-eng three," sounds
of smashing glass, etc. Indeed, I was once menaced by an
unfriendly gorilla at 1 a.m. on Linstead upper gallery . . .

