Page 8 FELIX 11th March, 1971
E L E C T I O N C A N D I D A T E S
John McCullough
Graham Oubridge
Presidential Candidate]
Presidential Candidate
John is at present a third year Geology student and a
floor rep. on ICU Council.
He has seen a wide spectrum of ICU and IC whilst being
active in Academic Affairs, Accommodation, Refectories,
External affairs and Carnival.
He is standing for President because he wants to do the
job and also because he knows he can do it in such a way
as to give the greatest possible benefit to the union.
The job of President, he sees as one of leading and co-
ordinating all Union officials in their attempt to serve, and
make, a stronger ICU. The President now has the time
especially if prepared to delegate responsibility, to direct
his not inconsiderable influence into pressing forward strongly
on a certain number of fronts and hopefully to achieve
greater progress for the benefit of ICU.
As President of ICU, he hopes to fulfil one major aim,
from which he sees all detailed aims will automatically
follow. This is the aim to see a more organised form of
policy-making and policy-fulfilling within ICU. As integral
parts of this scheme he would like to see firstly, at the
start of each term, meetings of a nine or ten man executive
body from ICU Council who would decide in which areas
progress is most needed within ICU e.g. refectories, repre-
sentation, state of the union building, etc. This body would
then present its reasons for its priority list to Council and
the union early on and then try to formulate a policy for
THE VITAL QUESTION
By the time you read this the campaign for I.C. Union
President will be well under way. If you have read the
bumph sheets scattered around the College you should now
have a pretty good idea of the policies of the candidates.
Many of these policies you may well have seen before,
some may be quite new. Either way you may now be asking
'Who will be the best man to achieve these things?'
Although it is often thought taboo to mention personality
in an election, and I would be the last to want the campaign
to become a slanging match, I do believe that there are
certain personal qualities which a successful President must
possess. Every President has a different personality and
hence a different approach, and it is the approach as much
as the policies which is likely to determine the achievements
of any President.
One essential quality is the ability to bring out the best
in the people he works with. To achieve anything the Union
as a whole and Council in particular must work as a team,
and one of the biggest parts of the President's job is to get
this team running smoothly and effectively. The President
you elect must be someone approachable, someone you can
trust, and someone you would go out of your way to do a
favour for.
Another vital attribute is the ability to take the broad
view. A l l the Union policies are intrinsically linked and if
they are to work they must be seen as a whole. We can
never get diversification without the necessary degree of
representation.
Representation on College committees cannot achieve
very much without students having an effective voice in the
departments. No representation will work in your interests
Pete Lambert
Presidential Candidate
Our candidate stands on a platform to defeat the Tory
Government and force it to resign. No-one should under-
estimate this right wing Tory Government, representing a
clique of Landlords, Bankers and Monopolists. Since their
election last June the Tories have hit out at all the basic
rights of students and workers — wages, jobs, education, food
prices, cheap council housing, the National Health Service,
and Academic Freedom. They aim to "Change the course
of History" (Heath quote) and bring in a new form of
dictatorship with unions chained to the state.
Driven by the ever deepening crisis of the capitalist system,
soaring inflation, sharpening trade war and huge bankrupt-
cies — like Rolls Royce, Vehicle & General Insurance Co.,
and possibly Concorde, the Tory Government is determined
to drive the Working class back to the conditions of the
1930's.
At the hub of the Tories' attack is their legislation against
the rights of the Trade Unions and shop floor built up
through 200 years of hard struggle. The Industrial Relations
Bill and the Immigration Bill can and must be defeated. But
this means defeating the Tory Government. This Immigra-
tion Bill is designed to encourage the racialist attacks on im-
tages of this he sees as, firstly, the initiation of action very
early on, and secondly the combining of the major spheres
of influence within the union e.g., I.C.U. officers, C.C.U's.
Clubs committees, etc., to arrive at such decisions as one,
fully unified, body.
He believes we can only strengthen the union by combining
all factions within it, instead of trying to ignore and thus
antagonise certain factions, a disastrous policy that leaves
such obvious open rifts in I.C.U. that the college admin, can
try and turn to their advantage.
Complementary to the above he would like to see union
meetings being less of a chair reporting session to the union
body, but more of a meeting where council presents its policy
ideas to the union and receives comments and a mandate
from the union on those ideas.
Also he believes I.C.U. can play a fuller role within N.U.S.
especially in using N.U.S. as a contact with other unions
and thus in the tapping of the Nationwide Student experience
in dealing with the many important problems specifically
relevant to students, e.g. Student Representation, Student
Refectories, etc.
And so, through teamwork and a positive sense of direc-
tion, John believes we can successfully carry out the policies
outlined above, thus furthering the cause of I.C.U., that of
serving its members as is best possible.
John would like the chance to lead the attempt.
Chris Holden,
Proposer.
if only Council is represented, and there is a lack of com-
munication with the ordinary Union member. Similarly
throughout the fields of welfare, academic and external
affairs no one policy can work in isolation. The President
must have the vision to see the picture as a whole and hence
deploy his forces in the most effective manner to fulfil his
and the Union's aims.
There are many other essential qualities to make a good
President. He must be perceptive and responsive to the needs
of the Union members, and ensure that the Union is never
out of touch with its membership. He must be capable of
dogged determination in sticking to his aims and principles,
but he must combine this with a necessary degree of flexi-
bility to achieve results. He must be vigilant in seeing that
the advances we have made are not undermined by arbitrary
decisions by-passing committees, and he must be energetic
in pursuing the objectives still to be gained. His basic con-
cern at all times must be the interests of you, the people he
represents.
I hope that you have seen the policy statements which I
have issued and will continue to issue, and 1 hope you will
consider both these and the basic issue of who is best suited
to lead the Union next year, before placing your vote on
Monday or Tuesday. If you have any questions about the
campaign I will be pleased to answer them at the hustings
or in the J.C.R., College Block on Friday. If you live in
student house or hall and I've not yet visited you, I hope
to do so in the next couple of days. My first priority during
this campaign has been and continues to be meeting as
many of you as possible so that you may judge for your-
selves how well I am suited for the job of I.C. Union
President.
migrant workers in order to split the working class with
racialism.
The whole bloodstained history of British Imperialism and
the brutal methods used in N. Ireland today should warn us
that the British ruling class will not hesitate to turn to
Fascism when necessary. The march of 200,000 Trade Un-
ionists through London on Sunday 21st February in defence
of the Unions was the biggest march since the chartist move-
ment of the last century, and the resolute fight of the post-
men and Ford workers shows the determination of the work-
ing class to defend their rights in contrast to the betrayals of
their reformist leadership.
Millions of other workers and sections of the middle class
stand behind them. Cleared of their reformist leadership a
whole revolutionary struggle of the working class can burst
forward. Student plights are not separate from those of the
working class. The capitalist class in crisis cannot allow
"free speech" for Dutschke any more than they can afford
to increase grants, or expand higher education.
We must take up our stand with the working class. A l l
those who preach reformation of the system like the Stalin-
ists mis-lead students and betray their interests. We must
build as mass Young Socialists to lead the Working Class
forward. This is why we call on all those students, who wish
to fight to bring down this Tory Government and fight for
Socialism, to come to the Young Socialists' 11th Annual
Conference at Scarborough on the 3rd and 4th April.

