Thursday, March 11, 1971 FELIX Page 9
S P O R T S FELIX
I. C. Lose Gutteridge Cup
Last Saturday, March 6th,
I.C. 1st X V failed in their
effort to retain the Gutter-
idge Cup when they went
down to QMC. On paper and
reputation both teams
seemed evenly matched but
the class of the QMC fly-
half Mel Hepple who plays
for North Eastern Counties,
proved too much for I.C.
cover.
The game opened with a
flash of scoring which brigh-
tened up the terrible condi-
tions of driving snow. From
the kick-off, I.C. gained a
line-out, 5yds from the QMC
line winning the ball for fly-
half James to calmly drop
his ninth goal of the season
3-nil up and QMC hadn't
even touched the ball! Touch
it they did, however, and, a
few minutes later, their in-
side centre, taking a perfect
pass from Hepple, burst
through to score near the
I.C. posts. The kick failed
but, some time later, Hepple
made no mistake with a pen-
alty kick from 30yds.
This score of 6-3 remained
until half-time, the rest of
the half seeing I.C. defend
grimly for most of the time
with back now covering an
enormous amount of ground.
Swinnerton, barracked by the
crowd, narrowly missed with
three kicks in to the wind.
However, I.C. came back in
the last 10 mins. and seemed
set for a good second half.
This was certainly the case
for a period of about 20
mins. I.C. camped on the
QMC line, both scrum-half
Harrison and no. 8 Icely
coming within inches of
scoring twice. However, since
we didn't, the conditions
changed to brilliant sun-
shine, the wind dropped and
QMC came back to score
their best try. Hepple going
over between the posts.
I.C. were now well beaten,
letting the QMC centre run
through for another try in
the dying seconds of the
game. This time I.C. were
beaten by a good side, but
oh! it could just as well have
gone the other way !
TEAM: Deolin, Anderson,
Conolly, Marriot, Hunt,
James, Harrison, Hollings-
worth, Michael, Widelski,
Owens, Matthews, Swinner-
ton. Icely, Adams (Capt.).
Hockey Final Defeat
l.C Women's Hockey XI 1 Q.M.C. 6
Playing in conditions suitable for skiing rather than hockey, I.C. went down to QMC
in their bid to win the University Hockey Cup for the second year running.
Cheered on by a large contingent of inebriated I.C. supporters, I.C. began to find
style. Centre-forward Lynne Benyon raced through the middle taking the ball to the
edge of the circle and scored
a superb goal by shooting
into the corner of the net.
However, QMC hit back
quickly to equalise and to
go one goal ahead soon
after. Slack marking by the
I.C. defence let another goal
in to make it 3—1 at half
time.
Conditions gradually wor-
sened and the game seemed
to lose much of its interest,
neither side really getting on
top. I.C. seemed to be very
much worried by the wea-
ther and did not play half
as well as they are poten-
tially able. QMC scored their
last three goals in the last
few minutes of play to flat-
ter themselves.
On the whole, rather a
sad day for I.C. sport.
TEAM: C. Morris, J.
Manfield, M . Diggens, H.
Lewis, A. Puris, C. Brown,
B. Dilley, S. Thompson, L.
Benyon, H. Rowson, C. Cul-
shaw.
Hyde Park Relay
Despite the rival attraction of Julie Ege at the Carnival
fete on Saturday 20th February, Imperial College Cross-
country Club's annual relay flourished successfully in Hyde
Park. In the cool and damp conditions 78 teams were
started at 3 o'clock from the traditional lampost (No. 442) on
Rotten Row. Following their unheralded arrival at lunch-
time on Friday the team from Hamburg University again
surprised us by leading the field for the first two laps; the
first time a continental team has provided such a strong
challenge, sadly they slipped to 13th position at the finish.
Ray Smedley took over the lead for Birmingham Univer-
sity who were never seriously challenged again for the
remaining four laps. Their running time of 84 minutes 54
sees provided a new course record. Second were Leeds Uni-
versity and third Borough Road College who again won the
trophy for the fastest small college. The fastest lap was run
in a record time of 13 mins 27 sec by Jack Lane of
Southampton University who stormed past 32 other runners
on his way round! I.C. came an undistinguished 34th . . .
After the tea Lady Roderick Hill presented the medals
and trophies to the winning teams.
We would like to thank all those who have helped us in
the organisation of this event, especially those Hall resi-
dents who allowed their room to be used to accommodate
members of foreign teams.
Men's
Hockey
Southampton University 1
I.C. 0
Both teams started off
with great verve and I.C.
could have scored in the first
few minutes but for the
Southampton goalie who
made a good save. South-
ampton, who were superior
in many aspects of the game
found it hard to penetrate
the I.C. defence where Sim-
on Tyrell (still only a fresh-
er) played with superb cool
and confidence.
The goal came midway
through the first half direct
from a short corner. How-
ever, I.C. never stopped
fighting and were unlucky
not to score from a couple
of long corners late in the
game.
St. Catherines Cambridge 0
I.C. 5
I.C. started off with a goal
within two minutes from a
short corner by Dave Wil-
son. The pitch, although
slightly slippery, played re-
markably well, and the I.C.
team worked hard during the
first half constantly attacking
the Cambridge goal. In the
last minute of the half, Pete
Bates and Dave Richman
(?), linked up wet for Dave
to score his ninth goal of
the season.
In the second half I.C.
continued to score freely and
Dave Wilson completed his
hat-trick, with a fine reverse
stick push—thus bringing his
tally to seventeen this sea-
son.
Don't forget the I.C.H.C.
dinner on March 22nd. 7.30
p.m. in the Union—eat
now—pay later.
Editorial
If this column appears to have been written in a rather
dazed state, I apologise—surrounded by so much copy I
begin to doubt my limited experience of editing!
The athletic side of I.C. seems very much alive judging
from the cross-country club reports and also the formal
report of the Hyde Park relay—incidentally one must con-
gratulate the student organisers for enabling everything to
go so smoothly, so well in fact that many people at I.C.
hardly noticed this annual 'national' event. (Still, I seem
to have read that before somewhere!)
I apologise to the soccer club for having to edit the
report on their match with the Institute—one doubts the
authenticity of some of their exploits; are you sure it was
football you were playing, Star? On a more serious note,
with the 1st X I struggling to reach their final, the 6th X I
have shown the way!
Congratulations to the Boat Club on overcoming inter-
nal strife and doing so well in the Head of the River race,
also for having so much talent in depth. In conclusion,
one hopes to be able to report some final successes for
other I.C. clubs in the next issue as the term draws to a
close.
Boat Club Success
The Boat Club took its first event of the season by
force last Wednesday (February 24) when six crews took
part in the University of London Head of the River Race,
held over a four mile course between Mortlake and Putney
—the reverse of the Oxford and Cambridge Boat Race
course. Conditions for the race were ideal—a medium
istream with a slight following breeze over most of the
"horseshoe" shaped course.
The College first VIII, yet in an embryonic form, owing
to the recent difficulties within the Club, had a disappoint-
ing row, being placed second of seventeen College eights,
behind U.L. II (who were not officially competing!) and
Guys Hospital I, the Head crew.
Only one second behind came I.C. Ill, Head of the
Junior Division, (I.C. Ill) easily the fastest crew in this
division, and faster than many of the Open crews. This was
an excellent row by eight determined and enthusiastic
oarsmen, all of whom learned to row at the College. A l l
credit too to the novice crews whose performances were
all creditable.
One of the difficulties the Club is trying to overcome,
and which has been causing us a great deal of inconveni-
ence, is the shortage of intelligent, quick thiinking, light-
weights for coxes, without which the Club cannot function
properly. If you fit this description, or know anyone who
does, please contact me (Weeks 67) or drop a line in the
Union letter-rack. This is a very rewarding occupation for
those who are masochistically inclined, and enjoy a feeling
of power.
Offshore Sailing at l.C.
Scene—somewhere in I.C. Date: Summer 1971.
1st student 'Anybody for sailing to France.'
2nd 'How jolly but isn't it frightfully expensive?
1st 'No, actually because I sail ICTHYOSAURUS.'
2nd 'What's that old chap?'
1st 'A meyoyoic marine animal, I.C.'s yacht!'
Imperial College owns a sea going sailing yacht, which makes us the only University
college in England to do so.
She is the 27ft., 5 ton sloop ICHTHYOSAURUS, a Folkdancer class cruiser. The
design is similar to the popular Folkboat but with masthead rig, improved accommoda-
tion and built in fibreglass.
In Icky's first 18 months she has logged over 3,000 miles in visiting seven countries in-
cluding Norway and Sweden, she has also been sailed on 25 weekend cruises on the
South Coast. This year she will be moored on the Bast 'Coast giving a vast range of
local sailing and putting France, Belgium and Holland within easy sailing.
Icky has accommodation for
five in two cabins and a full
range of safety and naviga-
tional equipment. She per-
forms well in heavy weather
and has made many fast runs
so she is capable of any cruise
the skipper and crew are keen
and experienced enough to
attempt.
As mentioned above cruising
is not expensive—a week will
cost you only £8 each SO' a sail-
ing hoiliday can be one of the
cheapest and definitely the most
interesting around. There will
also be opportunities to learn
how to sail and tuition to en-
able you eventually to skipper
a yacht.
The cruising depends on skip-
pers, who must obviously have
considerable experience, so if
you consider yourself to be
competent, to handte a yacht
or would just like a sail, con- Departure for France Summer 1970
tact one of us. What about a •„, . „
sail to Belgium at Easter? Skipper: Henry Shaw

