food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 20 March 2009
Food
Food Editors – Rosie Grayburn & Afonso Campos
Rosie Grayburn
Food Editor
Have a happy,
saccharine Easter!
thing I didn’t enjoy was the lack of fel-
low females around. The place reeked
of testosterone and the demographic
was worse than an EEE lecture theatre.
I was the only girl tucking into a plate-
ful of food and others were nervously
holding a dainty soup spoon in hand,
while watching their male companions
scoff. So in conclusion, what the MDH
needs is a MASSIVE salad bar and a
makeover. Answers on a postcard.
I needn’t rip the Union food to
shreds. We all know its crap, so how
can we make it better? I was at War-
wick University last week visiting Lit-
tle Rosie (sister, not daughter) and we
treated ourselves to a meal out at their
Union. In a space no bigger than Da
Vinci’s, they managed a nice looking,
well cooked plate of food for a fiver. I
was very impressed. Sure, it was just
a small step up from Wetherspoon’s
food, but the portions were immense,
as was the choice of food on offer.
Students were packed round tables
sharing piles of steaming wedges and
tucking into steak baguettes or lasa-
gne and salad. No doubt it would be a
logistical nightmare for such a simple
idea to come to fruition at the Union
but Warwick’s utopian eatery did make
me wonder…
When I saw David’s recipe for this
week’s food section my mouth imme-
diately started watering. I have tried to
avoid that cliche for so long, but when
you’re faced with a photo of glistening
pasta with shiny peas and scallops it’s
impossible to resist. This dish would
be perfect to cook for your loved one
this Saturday night. For fish-sceptics,
just omit the scallops or replace it with
more bacon. James ‘I eat your soul for
breakfast’ Copley went to Hell this
week. From what I can tell from his ac-
count, in Hell there are lots of Austrai-
lans plying you with very spicy pizza. I
think we can expect to see more of Hell
in the next few years as this Antipode-
an franchise of spooky pizza takeouts
expands onto British soil. Don’t worry
- Hell is just like Dominos with more
chilli and bats!
I can’t believe it’s the end of term
already. You may insert a cliche about
time going as fast as a fast thing, here.
Happy Easter, folks. See you next term!
In Hell, there are Kiwis
Road), through dreary old Fulham. If
the underworld is this innocuous I re-
ally ought to start sinning more often.
So, what makes this place so hell-
ish then? Basically, it is your stand-
ard pizza joint, but with all manner of
demons, fire and bats lurking about
the walls and ceiling. The pizzas are
given suitable names, seven named af-
ter the deadly sins. Interestingly, ‘Lust’
contains only meat toppings, whereas
‘Sloth’ inexplicably is based on tuna
and mushrooms.
Elsewhere there is the standard half-
arsed array of pastas and salads, but
this is really all about the pizza. Which
is what makes the fact that the pizza
tastes exactly like Domino’s all the
more disappointing. Hell Pizza claim
to be all about “big flavours” and not
about “old Italian recipes”, but this is
their downfall. The pizzas are irritat-
ingly thick and the toppings piled on
with abandon, raping the taste buds.
Several pizzas are available on a Nan-
do’s style spice scale, but be warned:
stereotypes of Australasian machismo
stand true. Opting for the second hot-
test option, the auspiciously named
‘Ring of Fire’ for my ‘Mischief’ pizza, I
was confronted with obscene amounts
of barely cooked chilli. Perhaps this
was to mask the fact the supposed
chorizo had the texture of a frankfurt-
er. Elsewhere they use sauces to similar
effect: the ‘Mordor’ arrives saturated
Hell Pizza HHH
369 North End Road
Fulham, SW6 1NW
08456 666 999
www.hellpizza.co.uk
Best: Hellish decor and match-
ing coffin pizza boxes
Worst: Antipodean chilli scales
on a mild, British palate
Price: All you can eat pizza for
£6 on Tuesdays. Snack pizzas
from £4.50 and giant ones from
£9.
Takeout: Hell delivers to most
places north of the river. Batter-
sea dwellers dispair.
with a barbecue sauce that could have
been made of pure treacle.
Hell Pizza came into existence in
the mid 1990’s in New Zealand, and
though the food served is (very loose-
ly) Italian in origin, the ethos could not
be more antipodean if you named it
Bruce. Now the second largest pizza
restaurant chain in New Zealand, they
are spreading their damned seeds
around the western world with outlets
soon to open in Ireland and Canada.
Some gentle Wikipedia research sug-
gests that they are famous on their na-
tive continent for controversial adver-
tising campaigns including giving out
free condoms with their ‘Lust’ pizza
and, brilliantly, using “the skeletal re-
mains of Heath Ledger and the Queen
Mother dancing on their gravestones”
for their Hallowe’en campaign.
These reservations aside, on Tues-
days Hell offer a £6 All You Can Eat
deal which is excellent value if you
happen to be in the Fulham area with
a group of friends and have already
started drinking. Arrive hungry, gorge
yourself, and be damned with the inev-
itable stomach ache. Also, highly com-
mendable is the takeaway packaging - a
coffin shaped box ‘For Your Remains’.
Lol. Provided you’re not expecting
good food, the Hell experience can
be quite good fun. Infintely superior
pizza is widely available elsewhere, but
I would wager nowhere has bats.
A
s a treat this week, Fe-
lix decided to send me
to Hell. Naturally, I had
some initial reservations.
Fire and brimstone are
just a touch strong for my delicate pal-
ate. However, this was before I was told
Hell contained pizza. Homer Simpson
sold his soul for a measly donut; this
was a bloody big pizza.
Eternal damnation notwithstanding,
I ventured down the Highway to Hell
(previously known as the North End
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 20 March 2009 felix
Food
James Copley finds Hell on North End Road. What’s new, eh?
O
ne month and count-
ing… I’m still waiting
for that bunch of re-
duced roses promised
to me for Valentine’s
Day. My stubborn Mr Rosie vetoed
Valentines Day this year because he,
as a bloke, felt pressurised into being
romantic and loving. I do agree with
him on some level – men find it hard
enough without large pink signs re-
minding them on every corner about
that inevitable day when everything
has a ‘love’ premium.
So as a consequence of his anti-
Valentines Day anger, I was promised
roses when they were reduced but even
on Anti-Valentines Day (14th March),
they hadn’t arrived. This fabled day
among the romantically suppressed
men of this modern society is also
known as ‘Steak and Blow Jobs Day’. In
my opinion, all these ‘feast’ days have
gotten out of control – in both these
cases (14/2 and 14/3) we should live
life like the Mad Hatter does. Life is
too short.
I risk doing an ‘Imperial Girl’ if I
carry on talking about matters of the
heart. The next sentence might have
contained the word ‘orgasm’ and I’d be
faced with an inbox of hate-mail. Let’s
stick to food – it’s safer.
What with all these elections that
have been a-happening in the previ-
ous weeks, a lot of promises have been
made concerning our welfare and eve-
ryone on the election wagon seems to
be concerned with the quality of food
that we’re ingesting at Imperial. I will
admit that the Union food stinks, but
I really think we should be more grate-
ful for resources such as the MDH. I
rediscovered the MDH the other day
after a 2 year lapse in Sandwich Shop
and SAF limbo. No, it is not haute cui-
sine, but I think we all forget that we
are students and we should be thank-
ful that for £4.40 we can eat ourselves
silly in the Sherfield Building. This gets
you a large portion of hot lunch and as
much pudding and custard as you can
cram into your bowls (it’s £3.30 if you
just want the main course).
I loved the food at the MDH and was
pleasantly surprised at the number of
people sitting down to eat. The only
Serves 2
100-150g frozen queen scallops (200g bag of frozen MSC certified scallops available from Tesco
for under £3!)
Olive oil
3 rashers streaky bacon or pancetta (preferably smoked), cut into 1cm thick strips
2 – 3 cloves of garlic, squashed and finely chopped
A cup full of frozen Peas
Juice of half a lemon
50 ml Double cream
Good handful of flat leaf parsley, finely chopped
Linguine, enough for two
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Freshly grated parmesan cheese
Heat 1 tablespoon of olive oil in a frying pan over a medium-high heat and cook the bacon until
the fat turns golden and starts to crisp. Remove to a plate and keep warm.
Turn the heat down to medium-low and, adding a bit more oil if necessary, add the garlic and fry
very gently for 2-3 minutes until soft. This requires your full attention as it is important to take care
not to let the garlic burn. Add the garlic to the pan off the heat if necessary.
Once the garlic is softened, drain the contents of the pan onto the same plate as the bacon and
keep warm. Cook the linguine in well-salted water until al-dente or according to the packet’s
instructions.
Meanwhile, wipe the frying pan clean before adding another tablespoon of oil, and return over a
medium heat. Add the scallops to the pan and fry for 5-7 minutes, turning occasionally.
Whilst the scallops are cooking, heat the peas in the microwave, with a tablespoon of water, for
2-3 minutes and set aside.
Once the scallops are cooked, return the bacon, garlic and cooking juices/oil to the pan and add
the peas, lemon juice, cream and chopped parsley. Twist in a few turns of black pepper and give
a quick stir before also adding the drained linguine to the pan, making sure to toss everything
together until thoroughly mixed.
Check the seasoning, and add a squeeze more lemon juice or cream if needed. Sprinkle on the
parmesan, give another twist or two of black pepper and serve immediately, preferably alongside
a glass of dry white wine.
Written and Created by David Wallis
Linguine with scallops,
bacon and peas
Meet Houdini, the Amazing Escaping Chick. He gets out of the shell
then eats it whole, but we don’t have a picture of that. Shame.
Never Mind the Scallops…
Scallops enjoy a somewhat lofty position among the pantheon of luxurious and
decadent foodstuffs and, as a financially crippled student, you may well be hor-
rified by my apparent fiscal contempt and brazen snobbery in producing such
a recipe. But at just over £2.00 a serving, and by using scallops sourced from
sustainable fisheries, this dish is as economically and ecologically friendly as it is
unutterably delicious. So there.
Position starting May 2009.
The Subwarden will assist the Warden in the running
of the Halls, particularly social activities, pastoral
care and discipline. The Subwarden receives a rent
free room in the hall.
Bernard Sunley Hall is an undergraduate residences
in Evelyn Gardens; about 15 minutes walk from
College.
Applicants should be either Postgraduate / senior
Undergraduate students or staff at Imperial.
Application form available:
http://halls.imperial.ac.uk/vacancies/

