travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editor – Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
28 felix Friday 20 March 2009 29
Friday 20 March 2009 felix
Dylan Lowe
Travel Editor
What should
I write?
A rough guide to Lagos, Nigeria
One week, two crashes and some bartering later, Tosin Ajayi explains why Nigeria is worth your time
A
couple of weeks ago, I
went on a week-long trip
back to Lagos, Nigeria.
This was a trip unlike any
of the others I have taken
to my country of origin. For one, it was
for my dad’s 60th Birthday. And this
time I travelled back with my brother’s
fianceé, who is white and Welsh – you
could say this was a typical fish-out-of-
water scenario.
Let me explain why this is a big deal.
I used to think: if you are thinking of
going to Nigeria but don’t happen to be
Nigerian, unless you are adventurous
and have someone who will whisk you
away the second you hit the tarmac at
the other end, don’t bother! Nowadays
the requirements are different. You
don’t actually have to be Nigerian.
Nigeria is just not ready for tourists,
and backpackers are just asking for the
trouble.
With this in mind, I took it upon my-
self to be a tourist guide of a country
that has yet to discover what the word
‘tourism’ means. In the words of my
soon-to-be sister-in-law, “I went to
Borders to find a Lonely Planet guide
about Nigeria, and there was nothing…
there was one for West Africa with a
paragraph on Nigeria, which basically
says ‘don’t go there’.”
So the following is, in part, my pro-
spective entry for the Lonely Planet
Guide to Nigeria.
The first sight you get to see when
going to Nigeria actually takes place
before you even depart – the airport.
For those who walk in and think, “I’ve
flown before, I know what happens
at the airport, why should this be any
different?”, expect to be struck the
frustration of standing in the check-in
queue for many hours. Once checked
in, frustration does turn into amuse-
ment when watching Nigerian women
(and their husbands/bellboys), who
have already gone to the counter and
have been informed that the baggage
allowances are ‘2 bags, 23kg each’ not
‘3 of 32kg each’, furiously repacking
their bags by the queue in hope that
it will make them 10kg lighter. As for
the extra suitcase, it is handed to the
next person they know who is board-
ing a plane to Nigeria with express
instructions.
Another staple of the check-in queue
is the last-minute mobile-phone guy.
This particular stereotype usually
comes across as having £5 credit re-
maining on his T-mobile (it is the Ni-
gerian network) sim card and, leaving
England for good or just for a month,
finds it outrageous to let “the British
Government take his money”. To use
up his credit, everybody in the phone-
book gets a call, and the pidgin Eng-
lish starts (translation in parentheses)
“Ol’ boy, wetin dey happen?” (-“Hey,
how’s it going?”), “How body?” (-“You
good?”), “I jus dey oh” (-“I’m chilling”),
“I dey for airport, dis queue neva fin-
ish” (-“I’m at the airport, standing in
a long queue”). “Wait, wait, wait…
when you go next go home?” (-“Hang
on, you’re going back to Nigeria soon
aren’t you?”), “How many suitcase you
fit carry?” And so on.
The flight itself is pretty uneventful,
although you are always guaranteed
that at least 10% of the passengers
will be under the age of one (we had
to become the most populous African
country somehow). Which might be a
problem if you were planning to sleep
my ward some unruly behaviour on the
flight, everyone stayed in their seats
(talk about progress).
When you eventually step off the
plane into the welcoming/suffocating
arms of the heat, you are faced with
final obstacle to entry to the hallowed
country – the infamous border control.
“Best to steel yourself,” I thought, “to
hear the words, ‘Ah, oga sa, wetin you
bring for us now?’ (-‘Hello, sir, what
did you bring for us?’)” . But no such
advance was forthcoming, at least not
until baggage collection, when I could
smile and say “Ah, it’s not like that” and
walk off.
As you leave the airport, you are
greeted by what is seemingly the big-
gest tourist attraction that Lagos has
to offer. Just like the Table Mountain
in Cape Town, everyone who comes to
Lagos leaves having spent a fair chunk
of time looking at it, and talking about
it. Oh yes, the Traffic (not traffic, but
Traffic).
Traffic jams are ingrained into the
psyche and life of the Lagosian, should
you be in it or making a living out of it.
During our two-hour drive across the
city (50 km?) we spotted CDs, DVDs,
drinks, food, TV aerials, fans, radios
and – I have seen at one point – pup-
pies being sold in the traffic by car-to-
car vendors. When it seemed to have
settled an estate car – originally meant
for people – went past us, packed full
of plantains; there was about enough
space for the driver and a passenger,
and you wouldn’t have been able to fit
anything else in the car, no matter how
small the item is.
And when the traffic does clear, you
realise that this is a place that probably
has never heard of the High-way Code
(or blatantly ignores it). The use of the
car horn becomes a central and essen-
tial driving skill and, in many cases, re-
placing the job that the rear view mir-
ror of other drivers should be doing.
We got to experience the full frenzy
of the local driving twice in the space
of the week, with two accidents in the
same car. Both times the driver of our
car was not at fault; both times the
driver who crashed into us jumped
out of their car and started shouting
“Ki lo de (What’s up)? Are you blind?
Why are you driving like that?” On the
second occasion, the other driver, with
a clear road ahead of him suddenly
changed lane and blind-sided us. It re-
sulted in a physical fight at the side of
the road.
After about 20 minutes of yelling,
during which time a crowd of bystand-
ers who had nothing to do with the ac-
cident had gathered and commentated
on who was at fault, the other driver
simply admitted their guilt and paid
for the damage on the spot, since in-
surance is an iffy thing in Nigeria.
So the question, I hear, is with all this
madness, why bother with Nigeria?
It sounds like a hideously unpleasant
country to visit.
But then, the best thing about Lagos
is the people and, beyond all the crazi-
ness, they provide the best moments.
As preparations for my dad’s 60th
birthday were underway, people kept
popping up to help out with one thing
or another, so we got to reconnect with
people we hadn’t seen for years – I was
reminded just why the New Scientist
has named Nigerians the happiest peo-
ple in the world.
Nigerians seem to have a way of en-
joying life whatever the situation is and
regardless of how beleaguered they are,
and are born with a delightful ability to
laugh at themselves. And we do love a
good party.
And speaking of parties, for his birth-
day my dad went to the market and
haggled for a live ram for the occasion.
This ram was then brought home and
kept away from our dogs, which would
probably have ripped it to shreds.
(A brief word on dogs: in England
the average dog is called something
like Fido, Rover or Lassie. Cute dogs
have no place in Lagos. You would find
names like Killer, Hitler & Satan; the
dog has to be mean, hulking and pref-
erably of German origin. Its primary
purpose is not to look adorable or keep
you company, but to bite anyone in
your compound it doesn’t recognise.
Our two rottweilers are called, mis-
leadingly enough, Casper and Daisy –
they would eat that ram alive.)
On the day of the party, some guy
(who I shall refer to as ‘Ram Man’)
shows up with a couple of sharp knives
and a half-barrel barbecue and trans-
formed that smelly animal roped up in
our yard (RSPCA would never fly in
Nigeria) into succulent bits of barbe-
cued goodness called Suya, otherwise
known as the reason why you don’t re-
ally find Nigerian vegetarians.
Then the band showed up, asked my
brother for the names of family mem-
bers and proceeded to insert praises for
each family member into all the songs
they sing, and by doing so, usher in
another very Nigerian custom – spray-
ing. This is where you dance and those
older than you attach currency notes to
your forehead: the more you do so, the
more the band praises you and when
you spray them, they shut up.
My brother’s fiancée got in on the
act, getting praises by the band, spray-
ing them and having a bevy of aunties
adopt her as their own child and lead
her through the potentially scary world
of Nigerian families. The way they took
someone in and treated her as one of
their own reminded me that regard-
less of all the nonsense we are known
for around the world – the lack of or-
ganisation, the fraudulent emails you
receive asking for your bank details,
extreme tardiness – Nigeria has some
really good things to offer.
With a revolving door of relatives,
friends, former teachers and ex-col-
“That’s Lagos for
you”, explained
a friend involved
in the fight, “you
have to attack
first before the
crazy person
attacks you”
“I was reminded
just why the
New Scientist
has named
Nigerians the
happiest people
in the world…we
seem to have a
way of enjoying
life whatever the
situation is”
leagues, it was a great six hours of fun,
and one of those places and times that
makes everything else seem worth-
while. The traffic, the crazies who crash
into you, the airport queue – they mat-
ter no more. You get together with the
people, eat the meat, dance the dance,
feel the love and you get a slice of Nige-
rian goodness. My protégée, who had a
taste of it all, left Lagos wanting to go
back. Lagos possesses a kind of crazy
magic: it has everything to make you
make you hate it, but somehow leaves
you thinking ‘that was fun’.
However, I believe Lagos is chang-
ing: the recently-elected Governor of
Lagos has shown that he cares about
the state (a novelty in recent Nigerian
history), and is committed in cleaning
up the streets, building better, bigger
roads and introduce some order to
proceedings. So within a few years, my
accounts might not be the picture the
average visitor is greeted with – I need
to publish these before they stop being
true.
“I want to go to Lagos before it gets
tamed,” said a friend of mine. I can un-
derstand the sentiment.
So for those of you who have a La-
gosian friend, make them take you to
Nigeria with them before it does get
tamed. One thing Lagos can guarantee
is a lot of crazy stories to tell and, really,
how is life complete without them?
A crafts vendor
Umm...Suya...Veggies, beware
Teenage vendors selling goods by an immobile traffic
A Lagosian market, catering for your Nigerian needs
The notorious Traffic
T
his would have been my
confession: I am running
out of material. So exactly
what did this mean? Well,
I was afraid I was going to
have to pack in the travel section, after
just three weeks of service to felix.
Really? I hear you ask. Of course not
– no shit, Sherlock.
So, in order to seek inspiration (keep
myjob),Idelvedintothemysticalworld
that is the felix archives. In that dodgy
backroom of the basement, I excavated
the volumes of past issues that bore the
names of my predecessors. Now I can
draw upon their wisdom and salvage
my many unfinished manuscripts of
horrid writing.
That’s when it struck me hard.
The eagerness to learn soured into
jealousy. I mean, how can one travel
writer write so well? It was certainly no
Paul Theorux but, hey, this is a student
newspaper after all. If this isn’t discour-
aging enough, I found articles on every
single place I have been to, or would
want to visit. The series of memoirs
written by Ammar Waraich, 4th year
medic (2007-08) and travel editor of
four months, essentially had the whole
of Africa covered.
Truth to be told, I may as well as pack
my bag and go home. Put my scripts
in a box and burn it will you? In fact,
I shall call it my funeral pyre and toss
myself into the flames whilst I still have
a shred of dignity left.
My revelation came in the form of
Alex Marsden’s article from last week’s
issue of felix. Literature and travel, I
must admit, is indeed a divine mar-
during the six-hour flight time. Also,
even though it has become a more
regular occurrence in the last couple
of years, the sight of a pale face on one
of these flights still brings a few double
takes from those sat close by, the un-
spoken question traditionally being: “I
have to go back, Junior needs to meet
his grandparents…but what are you
looking for in Nigeria?”
I had once imagined that being an
air hostess on a flight to Lagos was a
job for the person who had drawn the
short straw, or one who had really pis-
sed Sir Richard Branson off. Why? Let’s
just say that ‘order’ is another word
that Nigerians are still grasping the
meaning of. I remember one occasion
where the pilot had to halt the plane on
the runway and refused to move until
everyone had sat down, as almost the
entire plane had shot out of their seats
the second the plane touched down,
with the ‘fasten your seat belts’ sign
still on. To serve a Lagosian mob? Talk
about career suicides.
This time round, I had a weird mix of
glowing pride and simmering annoy-
ance because, although I had promised
riage – there is no doubt that the two
combine to emanate the essence of
true adventure. One’s anticipation
for adventure, most certainly “entic-
ing”, can only be magnified through
travel literature, while the thirst itself
is quenched by the actual experience.
It is how you get the constant doses of
adrenaline before, during, and after the
trip.
But now I am musing on a reversed
debate: while we have established that
travel literature and its reader do share
an intimate relationship, what is the
stance of literature with its authors?
How on Earth could travel writers
cope with composing literature about
localities that have been depicted, of-
ten repetitively, by hundreds in the
past?
And that is when I understood what
travel writing is about – personal ex-
perience and discovery. OK, I won’t
go on about the effects of travelling on
personality development (I definitely
didn’t ‘find’ anything travelling) but
there is no denial that every visit to the
same place is unique itself as, even if
the place hardly changes, your encoun-
ters and interaction with people would
be different. This can’t be better dem-
onstrated than by Tosin Ajayi, who has
kindly written this week’s article about
Nigeria. Don’t expect to be bombarded
with facts – just enjoy the many hidden
gems he is willing to spill in order to
grab your attention.
I guess I shouldn’t be so discouraged
– I shall remain, after a promising East-
er break, at your readership’s humbled
service. In the meantime – chocolate.

