news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 21 November 2008 felix
News
4 felix Friday 20 March 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
The British government is set to seize control of the Turks and Caicos
Islands after a damning report into allegations of corruption.
An investigation into the administration of the Turks and Caicos Islands
found a “high probability of systemic corruption or serious dishonesty,” es-
pecially around the islands’ Premier Micheal Misick, who is a British-trained
lawyer. Consequently the Foreign Office is expected to propose before the
UK Parliament, a plan to suspend the islands’ constitution, transferring
all power from the elected assembly and cabinet to the governor Gordon
Wetherell. But Mr Misick has hit back, calling the UK’s “draconian” plans to
oust him “modern day colonialism.”
The two Caribbean islands, which attract visitors both as a tourist destina-
tion and offshore financial hub, are one of 14 British Overseas Territories
meaning they are autonomous parts of the United Kingdom.
Britain
Library Cafe to extend
opening hours during the
upcoming revision period
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Imperial College Commercial Services
department are to extend the opening
hours of the library cafe during the re-
vision period. This is the first time that
the new, fully refurbished library will
be open during the exam period since
it opened last summer.
Thousands of students descend upon
the library in the months building up
to their exams in the summer term,
with a large number of students often
moving into the various floors.
At the moment, the library is open 24
hours a day, seven days a week, apart
from a small period between 21:00 on
Friday and 10:00 on Saturday when
there is a thorough clean of the library.
The newly refurbished Library Cafe will be open for longer during the Easter holidays
Service hours in the Library Cafe,
which is located on the ground floor,
are from 08:00 until 23:00 Monday to
Friday and at the weekend it closes at
18:00. The space is available through-
out the library’s 24 hour opening pe-
riod with a vending facility. Since there
will undoubtedly be a high number of
students in the library over the next
few weeks, Commercial Service are
considering pushing back the closing
time at weekends from 18:00 to 23:00
to match the times during the rest of
the week. During the revision period,
the Library Cafe will also become a self
clearing area in order to minimise the
amount of litter accumulated.
The Library will also be open during
the College Easter holidays but will be
closed during the Easter Bank Holiday
weekend.
The cafe now has a new exciting
menu of hot and cold snacks, including
Hot Wrapid Wraps, soups, salads and
sandwiches, as well as a range of muf-
fins with a barista coffee.
The combination of caffeine and food
is considered, by some students, to be a
vital ingredient to surviving the stren-
uous revision period, with one student
telling felix that “It’s a no-brainer for
them. The benefits of having the cafe
open for longer would be huge!”
Steven Salter, from the College Ca-
tering Department, told felix that “We
are looking forward to welcoming Im-
perial Students over the Spring Break,
and hope our later closing time of 23:00
at the weekend will make the revision
period a less stressful one.”
And finally: Medical student
loses out on ITV show
Dina Ismail
News Correspondent
Imperial College medical student,
Sumera Shahaney, lost out on £75, 000
when she appeared as a contestant on
ITV game show ‘The Colour of Mon-
ey’ over the weekend. The show, which
is hosted by Chris Tarrant, has been
billed as “the most stressful game on
television” in which contestants can ei-
ther win a life changing sum of money,
or nothing at all.
Incase you have never watched the
show before, its format is effectively a
blend of Deal Or No Deal and bomb
defusal involving cash machines. Play-
ers pick a machine (each differentiated
by a different “colour”, hence the title)
and stand staring at the screen while a
cash figure steadily rises. The trick is to
shout “stop!” before the machine hits
its total and “locks you out”. Since how
much cash the machine contains is
unknown, this means balancing greed
against nerve. Contestants must hold
out for as long as possible to withdraw
the greatest amount of money. To in-
crease the tension, and indeed confu-
sion, each contestant has to do this 10
times, without getting locked down, to
reach a set target.
The IC medic unfortunately did not
manage to take home any cash which
she had told Mr Tarrant would fund her
medical studies and pay for her wed-
ding. However, Sumera hadn’t actually
been proposed to by her boyfriend of
seven years, who was also in the audi-
ence on the day: “I think it came as a
bit of a surprise to my boyfriend, but
thankfully, we had spoken about mar-
riage before!”
Although Sumera returned home
empty handed, she said she was de-
lighted with the experience neverthe-
less. “I had a great time and I met some
lovely people on the show- Chris Tar-
rant was adorable. It just wasn’t meant
to be.” The host Chris Tarrant
Summer Ball 2009
Imperial College London
Saturday 20 June
Prices rise by £5
Friday 27 March
at midday.
Buy online now!
imperialcollegeunion.org/ball
Entertainments
£30
from
27 March
£35
from
15 May
£40
Dinner & Entertainments
£65
from
27 March
£70
from
15 May
£75
Pakistan’s government has given in to opposition demands and an-
nounced the reinstatement of sacked top judge Iftikhar Chaudhry as
well as ten others.
The Pakistan People’s Party led by President Zardari, faced a major po-
litical crisis over the issue. But the decision has defused tensions, and led
to the main opposition party Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz to call off a
major rally in the capital Islamabad. When ex-President Pervez Musharraf
resigned in August 2008 the two par-
ties worked together, but since then
their relationship has deteriorated.
However the Taleban’s militant
activity on the border with Afghani-
stan, including a suicide bomb which
killed 12 Pakistanis at a bus station
on Monday 16th March, continue to
destabilise regional politics.
Pakistan
Over the past week, a coup has unfolded in the island nation of
Madagascar.
During February there was a massacre of over a hundred people when ten-
sions flared between supporters of the opposition party, led by Andry Rajoe-
lina, and those loyal to the democratically elected President Ravalomanana.
Things have developed considerably since then. Indeed, Rajoelina, a 34-year-
old former DJ, has used his supporters and mutineers from the army to in-
vade the presidential palace, and declare himself as the new President.
The citizens of Madagascar are relieved
the power struggle has ended without
further bloodshed, but pro-democracy
observers have condemned Mr. Rajoe-
lina’s resort to the use of force to evict
the current government, instead of wait-
ing until the next elections in two years
time. He has promised elections within
two years, but needs time to ‘rewrite the
constitution’.
Madagascar
Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has announced plans to rearm his
nation.
In response to the perceived threats from the eastward expansion of NATO
and from international terrorism Russia plans to modernize its armed forces,
according to the President, who was speaking to military leaders in Moscow.
Mr Medvedev admitted that the war in Georgia last August had exposed
shortcomings in the military, including its lack of modern equipment, but
insisted Russia had the financial muscle to carry out the renovation.
The announcement comes just two weeks after Moscow and Washington
seemingly pledged to reset relations. Meanwhile, the Czech Republic has
withdrawn from parliament treaties committing the country to the United
States’ missile defence shield. The Czech Prime Minister said this was only a
temporary measure, and the ratification process could be revived at any time.
Nevertheless, this is sure to put a smile on faces back in the Kremlin.
Russia

