find one and latch on to them. Once
you have an idea, you’re going to need
know-how. Luckily for you, in times of
recession companies slash Research
and Development budgets, and as a
result they’re hemorrhaging top qual-
ity researchers and inventors and if you
can get hold of these folks you’ll be in
great shape. Doubly lucky for you is the
fact that a lot of these people will have
contacts with your lecturers, so you
are positioned within a brilliant place
to start building firms.
The next thing you’ll need is money,
and despite what the mass media will
tell you - it’s there. Investors that have
recently pulled out of hedge funds
need to put their cash somewhere and
start-ups are often a favourite for rich
investors in bear markets. Banks have
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
7
Friday 20 March 2009 felix
What goes down
must come up?
Sina Ataherian
The global recession - or in the case
of China, slightly slower growth – has
been about the biggest thing to happen
recently. It has affected us financially;
many students now pay less interest on
their loans. It has prompted changes in
career directions. It has even renewed
the raison d’être of 24 hour news chan-
nels. Its level of coverage has been
like a new Iraq, but relevant to home
audiences. According to Rob Arnott,
former editor of Financial Analysts
Journal, in real terms the fall has only
been exceeded by the Railway bubble
bursting in the 1850s and the great
depression.
Now that the sub-prime problem has
been successfully post-predicted by
network news analysts and some les-
sons have perhaps been at least tempo-
rarily learned, should we see opportu-
nity in our current woes? Downturns
are remarkably consistent in immedi-
ately following great booms and then
slowly recovering over a few years,
albeit not to previous peaks. The sen-
timent that equities should have been
punished, but not so much, is now
widespread. As is the feeling that many
stock prices, particularly financials, are
now ‘cheap’. The odds seem to be lean-
ing towards buying stocks in many of
the worst hit sectors.
With most stock markets now worth
around half their peak values it is
tempting to think valuations should
revert to their mean. Relatively well
managed banks such as HSBC and
Deutsche seem unfairly damned to col-
lective punishment of the sector. Con-
cern has largely gone back to returns
on capital rather than return of capital.
T
here are lots of ways that
the recession is hurting
business, but the calami-
tous grey clouds hanging
ominously over the coun-
try do have a silver lining. Right now is
probably the best time to be starting up
a business and since you (Imperialites)
are exactly the sort of people who have
the intellectual assets required to do
so, this recession could prove to be the
best thing that ever happened to you.
If you look through history, the glo-
bal economy has almost always been
pulled out of recessions by innovations
and new technologies. The most re-
cent example is how the recession of
the late 80’s and early 90’s was ended
by the gains from the development of
internet and communication technol-
ogies where the radical innovation and
spread of microelectronics was key to
global growth. But if you look at the
firms that pioneered this new era, they
were often rookie firms and start-ups
guided by young new innovators - and
if history is any judge, we may be about
to see the same thing happen again.
The current economy has almost per-
fect conditions for new start ups and
the business section of felix would be
doing you disservice if we didn’t do our
part to encourage you to go and start
up a new firm.
The first thing that a new firm would
need is an idea, and since you’re a
bright, young thing you may have one
of your own, but if you don’t – don’t
worry. You’re at a university brim-
ming with all kinds of creative people,
The recession just might
be the best thing to ever
happen to you
Business Editor Luke Dhanoa makes the case to forget about
finding a graduate job and start your own firm instead
This week in
pictures
Sir Fred Goodwin, ex CEO of RBS
made off with this exorbitant
pension last week. MP’s vowed
to sue him and recover the funds.
In a similar gesture President
Obama pledged to do everything
he could to block $165m of
bonuses being paid out at AIG
US courts press to imprison
Bernard Madoff for 150 years
after he pleaded guilty to fraud
Value investors must be watching this
space very closely. Book values now
dwarf the market capitalisation of all
major banks and financial institutions.
Some speculators are even beginning
to see general avoidance of financials
as irrational herding behaviour just
like that leading up to most big booms
and subsequently inevitable busts.
Last week Goldman Sachs estimated
the fair value of the American equity
market at 47% above current prices. It
reckoned the equilibrium level, which
assumes long-term return to a normal
appetite for risk, was 72% above the
current value. Many traders have been
predicting for some time that the worst
is over and that the market is waiting
for a trigger for recovery. The Dow ap-
proaching 6500, a level below which
many thought it would not sink, was
widely predicted as one such potential
trigger.
This happened around March 9th
and the chart for the last few months
can now be seen literally kicking back.
The opportunity to buy low and hope-
fully sell high in maybe as little as a year
is now irresistible to many. Whilst they
may well be right, they must remem-
ber that the growth between 2003 and
2007 resulted from the coincidence of
a unique combination of factors. Tech-
nological factors, rapid growth in the
widening club of emerging markets
and unsustainable lending and bor-
rowing, predominantly in Anglo-Sax-
on economies, amongst other causes
of growth, collided together. These are
unlikely to simultaneously reoccur in
the near future.
Nonetheless before all this, the
growth of equity markets seemed a
long term trend. Even the worst of the
many global financial incidents of re-
cent decades represented road bumps
in the road to higher prices. Even prior
to the boom before this latest bust, the
Dow seemed stable at around 10000
despite relatively recent recovery from
the .com boom. But could something
about this one be unique?
Niall Ferguson, the financial version
of Simon Schama, views this as an evo-
lutionary process. History, he argues,
is rife with examples of weaker finan-
cial systems and companies giving way
to the strong. This process may even
be hastened by Brown and Mandel-
son campaigning for tougher global
regulation.
The industry may be on the life sup-
port of government bailout, as many
of us are frequently reminded by dis-
gruntled engineering lecturers, but
it cannot stay that way for ever. The
stronger firms and better practices
have emerged dominant. Some, nota-
bly HSBC, are even cautiously talking
of the potential possibility of maybe
expanding perhaps, taking advantage
of the low share prices of their compet-
itors. Warren Buffet, the most success-
ful value investor of all time, is noted
for preferring “an outstanding compa-
ny at a sensible price” rather than weak
ones at rock-bottom.
So it may just about be the right time
to expect a slow return to long-term
growth in equity markets. Stocks may
not quite be as low as they can go, but
their current values do provide a cush-
ion, at least for those willing to stick
around for a few years. It may be time
to go long on the companies that have
suffered from the recent troubles, but
probably not yet those that caused
them.
already started investing in the prop-
erty market and REITs (hedge funds
for property) are expected to have
an exceptional five years. The credit
crunch hasn’t just destroyed credit –
it has forced it to be re-allocated, and
start-ups with strong ideas are poised
to take those investments.
On top of private funding there are
dozens of ways in which the state is
set to help you out. The government
is currently trying to make the UK
more competitive and innovative and
there is a strong case for them to sup-
port the next Microsoft in the UK. As a
business owner you may be eligible for
government grants, tax relief and pub-
lic contracts. Provided you’re helping
the economy, there is a case for them
to help you.
And once you have funding, in the
current climate it goes further than it
used to. People are cheaper than they
used to be. Government backed mort-
gages are cheaper. Commodities are
cheaper. Land is cheaper. Office space
is cheaper. Services (except for bank-
ing) are cheaper. And what’s more you
can buy all kinds of assets in auctions
from firms that have gone into receiv-
ership. There is rarely as good a time
as now to be buying with the long term
in mind.
And once you’ve got your idea, your
funding and your assets you need to
face the market, which although tough,
won’t be all doom and gloom. For one,
there’s a global market like never before
to sell your product - and even though
it poorer than it used to be a year ago,
demand for basic, simple goods has
never been higher. So if you have a
cheap method of capturing sunlight
and using to turn water into steam,
then the world’s your oyster. Have you
found out a way to make refrigerators
run off ambient heat? Then you’ve got
a six billion-person market. Can you
make a cheap reusable water filter? Be-
cause if you can, you got it made.
So there you have it - you have an
amazing opportunity in your hands
right now. With some vision, hard
work and luck you could become a
captain of industry and your odds have
never looked better. And considering
that you’re having trouble getting a
job anyway, what have you got to lose?
Nothing.
The firms that
pioneered this
new era were
often rookie
firms guided by
young innovators
6 felix Friday 20 March 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
The Rogue is less than happy with you ladies
“Culpability lies
with the desperate
chaps whose
lapdog attention
first encouraged
your bloated egos”
I
s anyone else somewhat ab-
horred by the egotistical behav-
iour of Imperial’s womenfolk?
Rather than casting this article
aside, concluding it to be yet
another sexual frustration induced ha-
rangue, consider my inference; simply
not possessing a train wreck for a vis-
age or the body of an overweight pre-
teen does not justify conducting your-
self in a manner of nauseating disdain.
This is not some inflated oversimpli-
fied gender assessment; instead a com-
mentary stimulated by the increasingly
regular superciliousness one witnesses
every day.
The quintessence of Imperial, ex-
cellence in science etc, seems to have
been substituted inadvertently for
some form of depressing competition
for the notice of the better looking fe-
males studying here, who behave with
a deplorable sense of self-importance.
This is particularly true for those girls
who are unacquainted with being per-
ceived in this manner, who were per-
haps bullied in high school and utterly
overshadowed by prettier, more confi-
dent girls. Now finding themselves in
an establishment packed with the for-
merly tormented; they can flaunt their
new authority to an infuriating degree:
Practical experiment: Assume you
are the epitome of mediocrity. Saunter
down the walkway and subtly catch the
eye of the next obviously female stu-
dent. One of two outcomes;
1. She will walk straight past, nose
in the air. This category of girl has
been at Imperial far too long, and
the unremitting attention has ren-
dered her with a delusional quantity
of self-worth.
2. She will glance at you for just
a little too long, and then embar-
rassedly accelerate away. Slightly
less conceited than our subject in re-
sult 1, but as a result self-disapprov-
ing and annoyed that she isn’t more
of a bitch.
Despite the fun you can have with
wild generalisations, clearly this net of
criticism cannot be laid on every girl.
And predictably, the root of culpabil-
ity lies with the desperate chaps whose
lapdog attention first encouraged these
bloated egos.
Which reminds me; last week I ob-
served a fairly appalling attempt to
pick up a girl, even by the standards we
are accustomed to at the Union. Perch-
ing atop the large subwoofer in dB’s,
with my partner in sneering voyeur-
ism, we observed a collection of fool-
ish miscreants making recurring and
uncoordinated attempts to dance with
this moderately attractive/inebriated
young woman, who appeared over-
whelmingly aware of her contextual
power. At last all but one remained,
evidently the most hopeless of the lot.
As another person knocked into the
girl in question, our wretched remain-
ing fool caught her and with a look of
nauseatingly insincere concern on his
uncivilized face, inquired ‘Are you al-
right?’, before proceeding to shove the
other unaware individual with point-
less aggression. You could almost hear
his mind computing; ‘Perhaps I’ll try a
different tact and go for the friend role,
insinuating others to be the perverts. If
I appear comparatively less disgusting,
she may accidentally sleep with me!’.
Extraordinarily, this clever methodol-
ogy was unsuccessful.
This story has no relevance to the
original premise save to illustrate a
perennial problem in the way men and
women react to one another; which
unfortunately is degenerated a shock-
ing amount in this godforsaken estab-
lishment. In other words, the general
stereotypes of desperate adolescent
males and vaguely appealing, power
tripping females is exaggerated beyond
belief – and spectating certain scenes
of guy-girl interactions at Imperial is
like watching a tragic comedy, except
no one has learnt their lines, and the
makeup artists are mentally defective.
The upshot is the inevitable nine times
out of ten ; the girl subconsciously con-
gratulates herself on the hollow fact
that someone wanted to copulate with
her, while the abortive imbecile resigns
himself to a drinking game with his fel-
low disgruntled chums. My deduction
is that students like our hopeless case
in dB’s only serve to make this divide
between men and women at Imperial
shoddier, by putting their immediate
superficial desires before the poten-
tial of a meaningful platonic relation-
ship. And as a result those females who
aren’t follically challenged and have
somewhat symmetrical faces can justi-
fy the air of superiority they carry with
them. Bleak, but candid.
Until next time.
I
t is ironic being speechless and
going on to write 800 words for
a Comment piece this week.
However, I feel I need to write
this Comment piece. Not be-
cause I won the election for Felix Edi-
tor, but because I owe this to so many
people at Imperial.
Over the last two weeks of soul-de-
stroying campaigning for this position,
I have learnt to appreciate the people
around me and more so than I have
ever in my life.
I’m not going to start listing names,
even though I feel like I should do, but
there is one person to whom I am en-
tirely grateful through all of this. As
we walk off into the sunset of these
elections, and the credits start roll-
ing, it is Kadhim who I owe most to.
Despite the rivalry harboured through
our contesting campaigns over the last
two weeks, it has always been through
competition I am proud to have bat-
tled. Kadhim, who had a mere 65 votes
less than me, would be an Editor Felix
Dan Wan discovers real friendships in victory
“As we walk off
into the sunset,
and the credits
start rolling, it is
Kadhim to whom I
owe most.”
would be proud to have at its helm.
Kadhim ran his campaign with the
utmost integrity, and I can only thank
himforthat.Intheever-occurring‘heat
of the moment’ situations, we could
have very easily fallen out as friends
during the last two weeks. It would
have been the last thing I would have
wanted, and scuppering my friendship
with him would truly not have been
worth the editorial role in Felix.
A new rule was announced this year
that allowed us to ‘negative campaign’
against each other. It didn’t need to
be spoken of that I trusted him not to
attack me within his campaign, and
vice versa. Anyway, his campaign was
strong enough alone without the need
to negatively campaign against me. As
the last day of voting ticked over its
midnight deadline, I only felt a sense
of massive relief that I didn’t have to
compete against Kadhim’s seemingly
omnipresent campaign ever again.
Throughout the two weeks, my
perspective of him never wavered.
Though rivals, it was never bitter. We
spoke regularly about our campaigns,
both laughing as we explored the joys
and stresses that walking around Col-
lege with your own face on your chest
came with.
Becoming next year’s Felix Editor how-
ever, is not only my own reward. It is also
for everyone that helped me during the
campaign fortnight. Not winning the elec-
tions would have been a massive shame
to not only myself, but especially to those
who put so much effort into my cause. I
amjustgladtheynowgettocelebratetheir
own success, and not just mine.
My friends proved themselves to be
the best friends I have ever known,
and though I may be caught up in the
emotion of winning the election, I truly
mean it. I have reasoned with myself in
the event that I didn’t win and I came
to the following conclusion. I realised
that my friends helping me with my
campaign; the ones wearing my T-
shirts, the ones giving up their spare
time to hand out flyers and sugary
bribes, and the ones supporting me at
hustings, really pulled out all the stops
for me. There were times started to
question why I was actually running
for the position and times when I felt I
was one step behind other campaigns,
but they created a haven away from
elections and College, where I could
relax and reassess. At times, their hon-
esty seemed harsh, but I always knew it
was for my best interests. I’m glad one
of them had the balls to tell me, albeit
quite tactfully, that my pre-lecture an-
nouncements were, compared to Ka-
dhim’s like watching a calves enter an
abattoir.
To the people that approached me
with such enthusiasm about the elec-
tion race highlighted a bigger issue that
is only a benefit to Felix. The fact that
Kadhim, Zoe and I managed to rack up
a record total of 2,900 votes for the Fe-
lix Editor election alone, is testament
to the excitement of the race. The im-
portant thing is that we managed to
get so many more people interested in
Felix and its outcome. That can only
benefit Felix and College life.
Beyond people I know, I was hon-
estly overwhelmed by people’s willing-
ness to listen to me as I interrupted
their quiet pint at the Union to shove
a leaflet and sweet in their face. This
Comment piece seems the only way of
reaching out to everyone that spoke
to me, whether I knew you or not. I
have met so many people along the last
two weeks that I am grateful for their
time. Though I initially hated talk-
ing to strangers, I came to enjoy the
experience. Campaigning gave me a
great reason to approach anyone and
everyone.
I hope, as Felix Editor throughout
next year, I will be able to speak and lis-
ten to your opinions and ideas for Felix
just as much I did during the last two
weeks. I hope you will be just as recep-
tive too, because as cliché as it may
sound, I want to bring the newspaper
back to you, as the readers, the writers
and the editors.

