Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 20 March 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 20 March 2009 felix
The big debate: Flying for science
felix was privy to a debate on Wednes-
day afternoon entitled “Flying for
Science”. Held at Imperial College’s
Silwood Park campus in the bucolic
Berkshire surroundings, three sci-
entists from different backgrounds
discussed the issue of whether using
air travel to get to conferences or to
perform fieldwork was justifiable or
hypocritical, given the significant (and
growing) contribution of air travel
emissions towards climate change.
The IPCC calculate that global emis-
sions from flying make up 3.5% of total
greenhouse gases; this is predicted to
rise to 15% by 2050.
Arguing the case for and against were
Sir Malcolm Green, founder of the
British Lung Foundation, and former
head of the National Heart and Lung
Institute (NHLI), who has lately taken
an interest in climate change with an
article published in the BMJ entitled,
“Are international medical confer-
ences an outdated luxury the planet
can’t afford?”; Professor EJ Milner-
Gulland, head of the Imperial College
Conservation Science research group
and founder of the Saiga Conservation
Alliance; and Tim Coulson, Profes-
sor of Population Biology at Imperial
and winner of the 2007 ZSL Scientific
Medal.
To kick off the debate, Professor
Green outlined his belief that confer-
ences, particularly large-scale medical
conferences (some of which, for ex-
ample the American Cardiology Soci-
ety’s annual shindig, host up to 45,000
people) are a separate matter to field-
work. One “small” (in medical terms)
conference, of say 15,000 people, emits
over 10,000 tonnes of carbon from re-
searchers and doctors flying in from as
many as 50 different countries. To put
this in context, this is the equivalent of
the yearly emissions of 2000 UK citi-
zens, 11,000 Indians, or 110,000 Chad-
ians. As he put it, this is “a significant
amount of CO2”.
He then went on to estimate the to-
tal emissions from one year’s worth
of medical conferences – a rather
conservative assumption of 60 in his
thought experiment, split evenly be-
tween America, Europe and Asia/Aus-
tralia – at around half a million Indian
people-years (i.e. per person yearly
emissions); this equates to the CO2
consumption of well over 100 million
hectares of rainforest.
So, how many conferences do Pro-
Felix Whitton
Science Correspondent
I
n early 1900s Nikola Tesla revo-
lutionized the way we use elec-
tricity and paved the way for the
life-style of the 20th century.
Now an electric car named af-
ter this great physicist is set to change
the way we drive in the 21st century.
Tesla Roadster is one of the first elec-
tric sports cars. It is stylish, fast and
has been making headlines all over
the world. Most recently, Boris John-
son wrote about the car in his column
in the Telegraph. He says: “...having
driven the Tesla I have something like
the same sense of revelation. Of course
this is not new technology, but electric
cars have evidently reached a point of
development where they are now in
serious competition with conventional
machines.” He enjoyed the ride in the
first Tesla Roadster in Britain and obvi-
ously impressed asked: “But shouldn’t
we be making similar batteries and
cars in this country?”
Tesla returns to electrify Europe
The car is produced in California by
the Tesla Motors company, but the first
shipment of 250 cars for the European
market is now available from their web-
site. You can also join the waiting list
for the 2010 standard European edition.
The price is 99,000 euros. Being 100%
electric, with top speed of 200km/h and
acceleration from 0-100 km/h in just
3.9s, this car is designed to impress. So,
now you can save the environment and
avoid the congestion charge while driv-
ing an enviously cool car.
Boris Johnson, London’s mayor, re-
cently announced plans to introduce
the electric car hire scheme in attempt
to make London the “electric capital of
Europe”. “I think this [electric vehicle
technology] is something we should be
really leading on.”
“I think we should be making London
the electric capital of Europe, and that’s
why we are going to be greatly expand-
ing our support for charging points
around London.” he told the Guardian.
The New York Times recently re-
ported on another advance for the
electric car revolution. Shai Agassi
from company called Better Place has
got several countries including Israel,
Netherlands, Canada and Japan, signed
up for the electric-car charging stations
scheme. This scheme involves building
infrastructure that would allow electric
car drivers to exchange their batteries
when they get low on energy. Instead
of having to charge your battery every
time it gets low, you could just drive to
the closest station and get them to fit
you with a fully charged battery in just
a couple of minutes. Payment could be
made per battery exchange: pay-as-
you-go, or by subscription, so you pay
certain amount monthly and you can
exchange your batteries as often as you
need them. With these charging sta-
tions in place, there would be nothing
stopping the electric car revolution. T
he technology is already here, and it is
good enough to replace the convetional
combustion engine cars. The main
problem so far were consumers afraid
they would run out of power in their
electric cars and be stuck; with new
charging stations in place one would
not have to worry about this. “The bat-
tery is a consumable part of the car, just
like gasoline,” Mr. Agassi told the NYT.
“Cars in the 1950s only went about 100
miles on a tank of gas, and that problem
was solved by installing an infrastruc-
ture of gas stations.”
There are also several European-
produced electric cars, French Venu-
tri Fetish comes in limited edition and
costs 297,000 euros, and still in concept
phase are the Hungarian Antro Solo
and Venturi Voltage.
Mico Tatalovic maps out the arrival of cool electric cars to Europe.
French Venturi Voltage
Is flying really bad for the environment and should we even be talking about it when they are bigger
questions still to be adressed?
fessors Coulson and Milner-Gulland
attend each year, the chair asked? Re-
markably few, as it happens; Prof Coul-
son prefers smaller-scale workshops
(large conferences, he said, are a “waste
of time”), and Prof Milner-Gulland
only flies to one a year (the Society for
Conservation Biology Annual Meet-
ing, which is carbon neutral).
Are there any points in favour of
large conferences, asked Sir Green?
The usual arguments can be dismissed
easily; meeting colleagues? only ones
from your own country; sightseeing?
most conferences are held in “godawful
places”. So what draws such large num-
bers of people? Partly vested interests
on the part of organisers, conferences
centres, host cities, and big pharma
(but there is a move towards video-
conferences from some companies, for
example GlaxoSmithKline).
There is also, according to Sir Green,
an unwillingness on the part of scien-
tists to use new technologies – after all,
businesses, financial institutions, oil
companies, even teenagers have seen
the light of virtual get-togethers.
Professor Milner-Gulland was next
to argue her case. Playing the devil’s
advocate she professed to “not care”
about her carbon footprint. The train,
ferry, bus... whatever alternative form
of transport was available simply took
too long, and she would rather spend
time with her family. To qualify her
statement, she said that flying was the
least of her “eco sins” – with only six or
seven flights a year, she said “I don’t fly
enough”, and thinks the daily drive to
work and having a child are far more
worthy of environmental damnation.
Although we may beg to differ, she
does have a point – long-haul flights
are a necessary evil if your work relies
upon you meeting people face to face
in order to train them or gain their
trust.
Milner-Gulland also questioned the
value of offsetting one’s flights – there
is too much room for ambiguity, many
schemes are open to abuse and un-
trustworthy, and you can’t even be sure
of what you are doing is helping. In her
opinion, you are better off giving your
money to FFI (Flora and Fauna Inter-
national) or Oxfam.
Finally, Professor Coulson argued
that by even having this debate, we
were missing the point. Calling for
fewer flights is akin to “shuffling deck-
chairs as the Titanic goes down”; there
are far greater problems requiring our
focus. The IPCC projections are stark.
In the near future vast tracts of agri-
Science Museum launches online source for medical students
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
Brought to Life: Exploring the History of
Medicine is a new multimedia website.
At the heart of the first phase of the
project are 2,500 significant objects
covering centuries of medical history
from around the world. While Brought
to Life is aimed at GCSE History stu-
dents studying the ‘Medicine Through
Time’ module, and undergraduates
studying the history of medicine, the
website also includes material sup-
porting other GCSE subjects and con-
tent for anyone with an interest in the
topic.
Supported by the Wellcome Trust,
the website will provide access to
items from the Wellcome Trust col-
lection held by the Science Museum.
Many of these fascinating objects will
N
ikola Tesla invented
electricity as we know
it today. Without his
inventions we could
kiss goodbye to com-
puters, TVs and radios, trains and
neon lights. Tesla’s invention of the
induction motor allowed alternat-
ing current to be produced and used
worldwide, something unimaginable
with the way electricity was pro-
duced prior to his ideas.
Born in 1856, Tesla’s teacher in
Graz, Austria later told him it was
impossible to produce alternating
current; it would be “perpetuum
mobile”, he said. Nevertheless, the
Croatian-born genius, while walk-
ing one day in a park in Budapest
and quoting his favourite passage
from Goethe’s Faust, suddenly had an
idea that would change the world. He
sketched a diagram on the sand in the
park and later copied it to paper.
After being ignored by European in-
vestors, he travelled to New York with
four pennies, a sketch and a recom-
mendation in his pocket. The recom-
mendation was from the director of a
power plant in Germany addressed to
Thomas Edison saying: “I know two
great men. One is yourself, the other
is the young man in front of you”.
However, after doing some work
for Edison, who was reluctant to hear
about alternating current since he was
investing in his ideas of direct cur-
rent, Tesla was refused his salary and
made fun of. This was a beginning of
a life-long dislike of Edison, who was
previously his role-model, which cul-
minated in Tesla’s refusal to share a
Nobel prize for physics with him in
1915, according to some.
Tesla was a pacifist and a humanist,
a man who wanted electricity to be
available to everyone for free. His wish
to bring this free energy by a renewa-
ble source and by wireless transfer led
him to invest all he earned into new
research and inventions. Sadly, this led
to him dying penniless – even though
most of the world’s economy was pow-
ered by his idea for electricity.
Yet, before his death he managed
not only to make possible wide scale
use and transfer of electricity but he
also invented the radio – not Mar-
coni as is widely thought. He also
took the first ever X-ray photos, in-
vented neon lighting and designed
the first ever remote control.
He also had some more bizarre
ideas; he attempted to design elec-
tric death rays that would lead to
cessation of all wars, and came up
with a power plant that could reap
cosmic energy and transmit elec-
tricity through the atmosphere or
the soil – so people would get the
electricity for free using simple re-
ceiving in-ground devices. His in-
vestors were (perhaps unsurprising-
ly) reluctant to fund this research!
Tesla’s vibrant life and strokes of
genius were often exploited by oth-
ers due to his own high regard and
trust of others. Nowadays he is re-
membered by science and his legacy
continues today.
Last year marked the 150th an-
niversary of Tesla’s birth in a small
Croatian village of Smiljan to a re-
ligious Serbian family. Croatia and
Serbia both proclaimed 2006 to be
the year of Nikola Tesla; postage
stamps were dedicated to him and
Belgrade airport was even renamed
Nikola Tesla Airport – praise indeed
for the Serbian genius.
Who was Nikola Tesla?
Hungarian Antro Solo
French Venturi Fetish
American Tesla Roadster
cultural land will be lost, towns and
cities will be at risk from rising sea
levels, and a significant amount of bio-
diversity will be at risk of extinction.
To cope, he argued, we should move
away from petty debates on flying and
double-glazing our homes, and instead
address broader questions on our “will
and capability to re-engineer society”.
It has quickly become apparent, he
argued, that initial predictions for cli-
mate change were too conservative.
Time is running out fast, and we need
quick approaches such as geo-engi-
neering (for example ocean seeding)
and reducing population growth (as a
demographer, albeit of animals, Prof
Coulson is certainly knowledgeable on
this subject). Perhaps most important-
ly, as a society we “must think in more
abstract ways” in order to adapt and
survive. If this involves getting brilliant
minds together in large numbers, then
this is a necessary evil.
The debate was opened to the floor
next. Various people pointed out that
small-scale individual action often felt
like it achieved nothing, which tends
to foster apathy, especially in younger
generations. On top of this, knowledge
itself is not enough; to make a deci-
sion not to fly but to travel by train is
a luxury (albeit a less convenient one),
and to have the luxury of such a choice
one needs resources. Thus, to gain re-
sources requires flying to conferences
to hobnob with superiors and (hope-
fully) get a better job.
Prof Coulson agreed, saying that the
“big ideas” and technologies to deal
with climate change will only come
from discussion between people from
different cultures and with different
experiences. Sir Green, on the other
hand, argued that the responsibility
for making a difference lies with our
generation, and that not flying costs no
money and is something everyone can
address (as opposed to planting a for-
est). He said we in the developed West,
by not taking a lead on the matter, are
not only responsible but “complacent”.
Coulson replied that even stopping
all flights tomorrow would only buy us
a couple of years; to which Sir Green
quoted the Chinese proverb: “A jour-
ney of a thousand miles begins with
one step”. Choosing not to fly is sim-
ply the most practical step available to
most of us.
Prof Milner-Gulland was asked if
it was not possible to incorporate a
phase-out of air travel with more local
training of people in countries where
conservationists, and other scientists,
work. Yes, she said, getting local peo-
ple working is a crucial component of
her work. However, conservation is an
international discipline, and it remains
important to have real, as well as vir-
tual, contact with people.
Finally, Sir Green drew an analogy
with the campaign against smoking,
which began in the 1950s with a few
scientists pitting their evidence against
the might of the tobacco companies,
and ended with an EU-wide ban on
tobacco advertising in 1991 (and of
course, most recently with the ban on
smoking in public places in 2007). He
said that it was important to focus on
something “difficult but achievable”,
which with luck can result in a sea-
change of opinion and behaviour.
Whether or not in this crisis we have
the luxury of time afforded to the anti-
tobacco brigade is doubtful, and this
observer isn’t convinced that flying is
the right cause to focus on. There are
other threats, some with a far greater
contribution towards carbon emis-
sions; as NASA’s top climate expert
James Hansen recently made clear,
“You have to keep the eye on the ball
and not waste your efforts. The number
one enemy is coal and we should never
forget that.”
Felix Whitton is editor of
www.conservationtoday.org
be on view for the first time, while oth-
ers are also on display in the Science
Museum galleries ‘Science and Art of
Medicine’, ‘Glimpses of Medical Histo-
ry’ and ‘Health Matters’. These include
Renaissance treasures such as rare
anatomical wax models and books;
early surgical instruments; leech jars;
artificial limbs and iron lungs.
The site initially covers ten themes,
rising to sixteen in later phases,
stretching back to the earliest forms
of surgery and forward to the present
day. They cover diseases and epidem-
ics, medicine and belief, and the pio-
neers of medical science. Each subject
is explored with detailed analysis and
commentary by expert historians and
curators.
The site’s themes are explored using
text and multimedia, with each sec-
tion’s featured object linking in turn
to a further 200-250 related exhibits.
Following the launch on 2nd of March
2009, Brought to Life will be further
developed, with 4,000 objects becom-
ing available for close examination on
the site by 2011.
Project Director Robert Bud, the
Science Museum’s Principal Curator
for Medicine, said: “We are proud to
be introducing a resource that is des-
tined to become an acknowledged key
tool for students and their teachers.
..But as well as providing a vital serv-
ice, it is also a new source of thousands
of fascinating stories and facts which
will enthral anybody with an interest
in medical history.”
Clare Matterson, Director of Medi-
cine, Society and History at the Well-
come Trust, commented: “Henry Well-
come was an avid collector of anything
and everything to do with medicine
and culture, up until his death in 1936.
Brought to Life is a wonderful comple-
ment to the galleries at Wellcome Col-
lection, the Science Museum and else-
where, which can only ever display the
tip of the iceberg in terms of what he
left for future generations to explore.
“While the website is primarily
aimed at students, the vast range of
objects that can be viewed, along
with the accompanying detail, means
Brought to Life is fascinating for eve-
ryone with an interest in the history of
medicine.”
The new Tesla Roadster, as seen on Top Gear, you know you love it!

