10 felix Friday 20 March 2009
Wildlife exhibition at the Humanities
There are two galleries in the Sherfield
Building on the main Imperial Cam-
pus: Blyth Gallery on the fifth floor
specialising in fine arts and Depart-
ment of Humanities’ exhibition space
on the third floor specialising in sci-art
exhibitions.
Blyth Gallery also occasionally shows
science-related exhibits, such as recent
art produced by scientist through the
Leonardo Society and the upcoming
Medical Engineering students’ exhi-
bition. At the Humanities’ exhibition
space there is currently an exhibition
of wildlife drawings aimed at raising
awarness about wildlife and biodiver-
sity issues.
Nicolas Philippakis, featured artist,
has spent most of his life in England,
but was also educated in Greece and
South Africa. He went to secondary
school in Oxford (England) and then
studied law at the University of Not-
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
tingham. Nicolas has been doing art-
work as a fun hobby in various forms
since his early childhood.
Finding the legal profession far too
constricting, he decided to make a life
change and get back to art, his first love.
While in South Africa he had been on
safari with his family, he became inter-
ested in wild animals and came to ap-
preciate their diversity, living freely in
a natural environment.
Nowadays many species are threat-
ened with extinction. The drawings on
display in the Humanities department
at Imperial College are offered as a
reminder of the beauty of our wildlife
heritage.
Climate change and green issues are
now at the forefront of many young
students’ consciousness and Nicolas
believes that more attention to the
natural environment is essential as so
much of it is being destroyed before
our very eyes.
The original drawings were created
in pencil and, in the case of the chee-
tah and gazelle picture, in charcoal.
Nicolas used shades of black and grey
to make the images stand out clearly in
the art space provided. The works on
display at Imperial are gicle prints of
the original and are a limited edition of
twenty each. Prices are available at the
Humanities Department Reception in
the Sherfield Building.
Watch this space for the colourful
upcoming science comics exhibition
that will go up simultaneously at the
Humanities and virtually in Second
Life at the House of Science: http://
slurl.com/secondlife/Haddath/79/99/
69/?title=Zoonomian.
Just how creative can a scientist be? If
you look at any scientific innovation
you will find it already has its roots in
nature. It seems scientists and engi-
neers are merely inspired by what they
see every day in plants and creatures.
The Technology, Entertainment,
Design conference (TED) is held an-
nually and invites some of the world’s
most inspired thinkers to share their
views on science, business and the arts.
The event had previously been hosted
by the likes of Bill Gates, Al Gore and
Jane Goodall. This year’s conference is
taking place in Oxford in July.
The subject of learning from evolu-
tion was touched on in one of these
lectures by UC Berkeley biologist
Robert Full. Full believes that exam-
ples from nature are sometimes over-
Nature’s design: are engineers ever creative?
engineered for the purpose that we re-
quire. The challenge for the engineers
is that they should only consider the
necessary details, and the example
he gives is of building an automobile
which has, inside it, a factory in which
you can make another automobile.
Full’s research concerns locomotion
in robots and studying techniques in
nature that allow creatures to go, ba-
sically, anywhere. He found that two,
four, six and eight legged creatures
all exert similar forces on the ground;
they all bounce and can be modelled
as spring-mass systems or, in simpler
terms, a pogo stick.
He went on to work together with
mathematicians to create a model
which imitates this movement and
found that the model was able to self-
stabilise without being directly aware
of its surroundings, allowing it to
overcome many obstacles in its path.
This shows that it is the structural
form of the animals which allow them
to move so freely, without them having
to even comprehend these obstacles.
Full collaborated with other scien-
tists and engineers from Berkeley and
Stanford to write a paper; ‘Biomimetic
Design and Fabrication of a Hexapedal
Running Robot’ which includes his re-
search and also the results of imple-
menting this model in a robot named
Sprawl.
Another nature-inspired design is
Velcro. The idea for it came to Swiss
engineer George de Mestral after re-
turning from a hunting trip with his
dog when he took a close look at the
burrs of burdock that kept getting
stuck in his dog’s fur.
When he examined them under a
microscope, he discovered that there
One of the drawings at the exhibition
A gecko’s foot: it could inspire technology that would allow
Spiderman-like abilities of climbing the walls
Legendary Spiderman: inspired by nature
Science science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Omar Mustufvi were many tiny hooks that caught on
anything with a loop; such as animal
fur or clothing.
But most of the secrets within na-
ture are hidden in a region which can-
not even be explored by a microscope;
the nano-realm. And it is only recent
advancements in microscope technol-
ogy which have allowed this region to
be explored.
It was in this nano-realm that the
mystery of how geckos are able to
climb even the most slippery of sur-
faces was revealed.
When examined, the foot of a gecko
appears to be covered with many mil-
lions of hairs, and each of these hairs
branch off into smaller hairs (like split-
ends).
This huge rug of hairs on the feet
creates a huge surface area contact,
and it is the sum of the tiny Van-der-
Waals forces from each of these hairs
with a surface that allows the gecko to
literally stick onto any surface.
This technology has already been
patented for use as adhesives in micro-
surgery and microelectronics; soon we
can even expect to see people walking
up walls with gecko inspired boots!
Going back to the original question
of whether scientists and engineers
can be creative and innovative at all
since nature usually gets there first,
even though many of the ideas are in-
spired by nature, there are still huge
diversities in the applications of the
technologies. Hence innovation and
creativity is always required in a scien-
tist to design for the specific function.
Many more secrets are being held by
nature, and the prospects for scientists
and engineers depend on how deep
they explore.
“Nicolas has
been doing
artwork since his
early childhood”
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
Minimum alcohol pricing proposal
On Monday the Chief Medical Officer
for England, Sir Liam Donaldson, un-
veiled a proposal for a minimum price
for alcohol of 50p per unit in an effort
to reduce the burden upon society as a
result of excessive drinking.
Sir Donaldson has stated that ‘we
need to think, rather like we did with
smoking, that it isn’t just the effect on
the individual that drinks, and smokes,
it’s the effect also, on other people, the
collateral damage’. Currently the annu-
al cost to the NHS due to alcohol abuse
is £2.7bn, while the total expense to the
taxpayer due to the misuse of alcohol is
thought to be in the region of £25bn.
Research carried out by the Universi-
ty of Sheffield last year concluded that
increasing the price of alcohol would
be one of the most effective measures
of combating alcohol abuse, as the ef-
fect would be greatest on the most
heavy drinkers, while according to Sir
Donaldson at least, the price increase
for a moderate drinker would be in the
region of £1 per month.
Under his proposals a typical bottle
of wine could not be sold for less than
£4.70, the price of a 2 litre bottle of
Strongbow would almost double, a 10
pack of Stella would increase by almost
a quarter, and a bottle of Smirnoff vod-
ka would increase by almost 20%. Of
course, if you were to enjoy the home-
less lifestyle of supermarket own brand
drinks, then the price increase would
be crippling.
Supermarket prices are often cited
as a cause of binge drinking, with su-
permarkets actually losing money on
some promotions which are designed
to bring in customers. By imposing a
minimum price on alcohol the prices
at supermarkets would of course in-
crease, and with no suggestion of this
increase being returned to the gov-
ernment through tax, the increase in
price would result in little more than
an increase in profits for supermar-
kets. Also the price of all alcohol, not
just that at or under the 50p per unit
would have to increase, as if a bottle
of ‘wine’ previously costing £2.50 is to
increase in price to £4.70, then a bot-
tle of wine that was originally £4.70
would have to increase in price for it to
be distinguished from the ‘wine’. So it
would seem that one of the main ben-
eficiaries of imposing a minimum price
for alcohol would be the supermarkets
who are often blamed as being one of
the causes.
The prime minster, Gordon Brown,
is not currently backing the plan, say-
ing ‘We don’t want the responsible,
sensible majority of moderate drinkers
to have to pay more or suffer as a result
of the excesses of a minority’. The con-
servative party have said that it is more
importanttofocusonpeople’sattitudes
James Lees
If Sir Donaldson’s proposal is accepted, cut-price alcohol may no longer be available from supermarkets
Sir Liam Donaldson proposes a stop to cheap sale of alcohol to curb the damaging effects of binge drinking
Ex-guerrilla victory for El Salvador
Raz Jabary
This week saw the leftist FMLN party
take power in El Salvador for the first
time since the party’s legalisation in
1992. Mauricio Funes, a former CNN
Correspondent, won the Salvadoran
national elections on Sunday 15th
March with a majority of 51% of the
votes. Although the results proved the
race was a tight one, analysts in fact
already speculated a leftist victory that
would oust the republican ARENA
party from power for the first time in
20 years.
‘It is the happiest night of my life’, Fu-
nes told a crowd shortly after 90% of
the votes had been counted.
The FMLN is a former guerrilla
movement that fought a 12-year long
battle against the U.S.-backed Sal-
vadoran military dictatorship from
1980 to 1992, which left nearly 80,000
people killed. The conflict came to an
end after the signing of several peace
accords, which furthermore saw a
general amnesty being granted to the
members of the group and allowed the
party to enter the political stage on a
formal and recognised basis.
Former Salvadoran president Anto-
nio Saca was a staunch ally of the Bush
administration and considered by the
latter to be one of America’s three key
allies in Bolivarian Latin America, next
to Peru and Colombia, the latter which
continues its own fight against the
FARC rebel movement.
With a row of leftist presidents re-
cently being elected in Latin American
countries, amongst which is Argen-
tina, the political processes in Guate-
mala and Honduras as neighbours to
El Salvador are considered to have had
an effect on the perception of Salva-
doran public opinion with regards to
their political preferences. Before that,
a majority of the Salvadoran popula-
tion have had concerns about the lack
of ruling experience of FMLN. Larry
Birns, director of the Council on Hem-
ispheric Affairs, claims that for a long
to drink, instead of merely dealing with
supply and cost. The Lib Dems, on the
other hand support putting an end to
‘pocket-money priced’ alcohol. Clearly
if you enjoy a cheap drink there is 1
party to not vote for.
In Scotland however SNP ministers
have already officially put forward the
idea of minimum pricing for alcohol. If
the measures were to be implemented
then Scotland would be the first coun-
try in Europe to take such a measure
to deal with excessive drinking. Wales
and Northern Ireland have also both
declared an interest in the idea. Cur-
rently the heaviest drinkers in Europe,
the Luxembourgers, have no plans to
end the party.
time ‘Salvadorans had been afraid to
vote for the FMLN in fear of reprisals
from Washington’. He told CNN In-
ternational that the election of Barack
Obama as U.S. president as opposed to
the former administration could lead
Salvadorans to expect a different view
held by American foreign policy.
After his victory was announced,
president Funes said to ‘seek a path of
reconciliation’ with the ARENA party
in trying to book political progress and
to have a common approach to tack-
ling the financial difficulties imposed
by the economic downturn which has
also affected this small Central Ameri-
can country.
Despite the results, making the
FMLN the ruling party, political ana-
lysts do not consider a radical change
to be brought about between Salva-
doran-US relations. Although having
received a majority of votes, the FMLN
in fact lacks the number of parlia-
mentary seats needed for an absolute
majority in the country’s National As-
sembly, which means future decisions
have to be consulted and agreed upon
with the opposition first, before being
implemented.
Under the banner “Un Cambio Seguro”, A Sure Change, Mauricio Funes from the FMLN party won the Salvadoran national elections on Sunday
11
Friday 20 March 2009 felix

