Email Hannah on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 20 March 2009
Welfare
Welfare Editor – Hannah Theodorou
dpew@imperial.ac.uk/ advice@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 20 March 2009 felix
Welfare
Chlamydia affects 1 in 10 people under 25. Testing for it is quick, easy, free and painless. So why haven’t you
got round to doing it yet?
Are you carrying it?
Chlamydia is the most prevalent sexu-
ally transmitted infection (STI) in the
UK. One in ten people aged under 25
who are tested for it, have it . Despite
high infection rates, a recent survey of
under 25s in Westminster, Kensington
and Chelsea and Hammersmith and
Fulham showed that 79% have never
been tested for chlamydia.
WHAT IS CHLAMYDIA
Chlamydia is passed on through pen-
etrative vaginal or anal sex, oral sex, or
through sharing sex toys with someone
who has it.
Chlamydia often does not have any
symptoms, which means that you or
your partner could have it and not
know about it. In fact, around 75% of
women and 50% of men with chlamy-
dia have no symptoms at all .
Although you may have no symp-
toms, the signs to watch out for are
unusual discharge or more frequent or
painful urination. Women may notice
pain or bleeding during sex, bleeding
between periods, irregular periods or
lower abdominal pain. Men might suf-
fer from irritation at the tip of the pe-
nis or painful swelling of the testicles.
WHY SHOULD I GET TESTED?
If you have chlamydia and leave it un-
treated it can cause serious, lasting
damagetoyouroryourpartner’shealth.
The infection can cause pelvic inflam-
matory disease and ectopic pregnancy
and result in both men and women not
being able to have children.
However, chlamydia is both easily
tested for and treated. For both men
and women, the test is just a urine
sample and treatment will usually just
be one dose of antibiotics.
HOW CAN YOU GET TESTED?
Testing is free and confidential. You
can get tested by:
•Visiting your GP and asking to be
tested- this is now available at Imperial
College Health Centre
•Calling Westside Contraceptive
Services on 020 8962 4454 to book an
appointment to get tested
•Visiting www.check-kit.org.uk to
order a free test kit
• Visiting one of the outreach stalls
organised by Brook London or the Ter-
rence Higgins Trust on campus.
For more information see below.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
Once you have been tested, you can
then choose whether to get your re-
sults by phone, text or post. If positive
you will then be advised on where to
collect your antibiotics which will clear
the infection.
How can you get
checked at Imperial?
He probably won’t be wearing these pants...
Dealing with exam stress
EXAM STRESS
Exam stress affects us all at some time
or another. There are few people who
go into the exams at the end of the year
without being nervous. It’s a normal
physiological reaction to being in a
stressful situation. Flight or fight. Ex-
ams are designed to stretch us, to dif-
ferentiate between the good and the
less good students (or at Imperial the
extremely good and the very good) and
are inherently stressful, no matter what
the examiners say.
For some people, the reaction to ex-
ams is extreme. The prospect of be-
ing assessed, being compared to other
students and being judged provokes
such an intense emotional and physi-
cal response that they simply cannot
perform at all, let alone to the best of
their ability. Worries might start early
in the year, revision be impossible, or
physical symptoms prevent the student
from entering the exam hall.
LEARN TO LEARN
Some people, some lucky people, can
use their nervous energy in a positive
way. They find the butterflies in their
stomach exciting and motivating. They
can revise more effectively, seem calm
and still have time to go the gym. Of
course, they are much more likely to do
themselves justice in an exam, and yes,
they usually get better results. They are
not superhuman, but they have learnt
skills and adopted attitudes which help
them. We can all do the same. We aca-
demics might all benefit from develop-
ing our learning and assessment skills
as much as we do our knowledge.
And we all already have, to some
extent. Whatever you feel, Imperial
College students are good at being as-
sessed, otherwise they wouldn’t have
made it this far. But the transfer to
university is a difficult one, and the big
fish in a suddenly-very-much-bigger-
pond phenomenon is a very real chal-
lenge for the majority students at Im-
perial. It is so easy to loose sight of the
fact that even those students who get
thirds have earned their place in what
my headmistress used to call “the up-
per echelons of intelligencia”.
IN TRAINING
You would expect an athlete to train
hard, but you would expect them to
have dinner every night. You would
imagine that a pianist would put the
hours in to perfect Rach III for their
finals, but you would also expect them
to sleep. This isn’t Shine. So why, oh
why do students try to concentrate on
their work for 18hours a day?
Work life balance is incredibly im-
portant. No matter how strong the
temptation, don’t ditch your society
for the library. You need time to relax
and forget work, so extracurricular
activities are even more important in
the exam term. Revising can be bor-
ing and tiring, so dedicate time to
activities which given you a sense of
achievement.
Look after yourself. To perform well
you have to be well, so do not neglect
your physical health. Make sure you eat
three balanced meals a day. Time spent
on eating regularly and healthily is far
more valuable than the extra 30mins
you save by not going shopping.
Moodalteringdrugsonlymakethings
worse. Alcohol can help you relax but
be careful it doesn’t progress into an
easy but counterproductive solution
to that sleeping problem. Caffeine can
help you wake up, but can keep you
awake for 12 hours. Both disrupt the
body’s natural day/night pattern and
sleep quality, energy levels and ulti-
mately productivity, are all impaired.
Performance enhancing drugs are be-
coming increasingly more common in
the UK, but there is plenty of evidence
against their use in the general popula-
tion and the guidance is clear: do not
use them unless they are prescribed to
you by your doctor.
SLEEP HYGIENE
Not sleeping well can be a really big
problem. Insomnia is often the first
symptom of stress and worry. Most
people suffer with it at some point, and
most students notice a change in their
energy levels at College, particularly in
exam term.
Unfortunately most students are
also inadvertently making the situa-
tion worse. In particular there is the
temptation to try to work into the late
evening. Although you might feel more
awake then, work at this time is barely
productive. Importantly, you cannot
expect to go straight from hard con-
centration to good sleep, so make sure
you put time aside to relax before go-
ing to bed.
Be firm with yourself about working
in the day and at least be trying to sleep
at night. You are in training, so remem-
ber that even one late night can leave
you jet-lagged for days.
You can find our more about sleep
problems and sleep hygiene at http://
www.patient.co.uk/pdf/pilsL835.pdf
WHERE TO FIND OUT MORE
There is plenty of information out
there about how exam stress can af-
fect you, how to help avoid it being a
problem and even how to use it to your
advantage. There are many different
psychological models, and a variety
of techniques and tricks which can be
helpful. You can find out more at www.
imperialcollegehealthcentre.co.uk
If you think you have a disabling
problem with exam stress it is usually
worth investing the time, sooner rather
than later, in dealing with this rather
than bury yourself in more and more
work. It would do far more for your re-
sult. The doctors at the Health Centre
would be happy to see any student who
feels he/she has a problem, as would
your personal tutor. Alternatively the
Student Counselling Service (http://
www3.imperial.ac.uk/counselling) of-
fer free confidential counselling to any
registered student of Imperial College.
The Health Centre also runs work-
shops on exam stress. These are free
and open to all. You do not need to have
seen a doctor first. Spaces are limited
and need to be booked in advance, and
there is some preparatory work to be
done. The workshops are about some
of the cognitive theories on stress and
how to deal with it; please be clear that
they are not about the tools and tech-
niques of how to study, revise and take
exams. Find out more at www.imperi-
alcollegehealthcentre.co.uk
Dr David Hayton
Salaried GP
Top Tip I
There is plenty of research that
shows our concentration can
last 40-50minutes at most. Have
breaks (7-10mins) every 50mins
of studying. Use this to relax
don’t spend it on the phone or
planning your revision.
Top Tip II
The secondary education
system knows how to help stu-
dents learn. Run your day like
a school day. Get up early at a
regular time. Have breakfast.
Work for short periods with reg-
ular breaks and proper meals.
Do something relaxing in the
evening, and go to bed on time.
Top Tip III
Think about having a regular
arrangement with your friends
to spend an hour together at the
end of each day. And don’t talk
about work. Friends on different
courses are useful.



STI Information
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including
HIV, remain one of the most impor tant causes of
illness due to infectious disease among young
people (aged between 16 and 24 years old).
If left untreated, many STIs can lead to long-
term fertility problems (e.g. with chlamydia or
gonorrhoea). Infection with HIV or the strains of
human papillomavirus (HPV) that cause cervical
cancer can lead to long-term illness and possible
death.
TOP TIPS FOR STAYING SAFE:
- 
have fewer sexual partners and avoid overlap-
ping sexual relationships
- 
use a condom when having sex with a new
partner and continue to do so until both have
been screened
- 
get screened for Chlamydia every year and
whenever you have a new partner
- 
If you are a man who has sex with men, then
always use a condom and have an annual
sexual health screen, including an HIV test
Are you an international student?
When does your visa expire?
Check your passport!
If your current visa expires before
the end of your course please
consider extending it now.
The Home Office will be introducing the
Points-Based system for students at the end
of March 2009 which might result in a new
application form and fee. If you wish to
extend your visa now using the existing
form it costs £295. The International Office
can support you with this application.
For more information contact the Imperial International Office,
tel 020 7594 8040, Room 164, Sherfield Building, South Kensington campus.
www.imperial.ac.uk/international
3. Brook London and the Terrence
Higgins
Brook London and the Terrence Higgins
Trust are doing outreach sessions for
Imperial students, based in the Union or
the JCR. Details for next term’s oureach
dates will be uploaded onto the Union
website during the Easter holidays.
1. Imperial College Health Centre
The Health Centre is now participating in the National Chlamydia Screening Programme which is
open to all men and women of 24 years and under who have been sexually active in the past and do
not have any symptoms currently.
You do not have to be seen by a doctor or nurse. All you
need to do is provide a urine sample (you must not have
passed urine for one hour prior to producing the sample)
and complete a form. Further information is available at the
Health Centre.
Imperial College Health Centre, 02075846301, healthcen-
tre@imperial.ac.uk



2. Check Kit
The new website www.check-kit.org has lots of in-
formation about chlamydia screening and lets you
order a kit online which is delivered to your home
address. For every sample returned, you get a £10
HMV e-voucher. Results will be returned to you via
letter, email or phone and will take between 5-10
days. Terms and conditions apply, so check the web-
site for more details.

