14 felix Friday 20 March 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 20 March 2009 felix
Arts
I
feel as though I have neglected
culture and the arts these last 6
weeks. The majority of second
year and the first term of my
final year flew by as my weeks
were spent attending at least two cul-
tural ‘happenings’ a week, writing
comment pieces for felix and attend-
ing lectures, lab and what have you in
between.
I have my time management skills
and seemingly unending energy to
thank for that. Today I tell an antitheti-
cal story. This term my nun avatar has
barely made it into the introductory
pages of the comment section and my
reviews grow sparser with each pass-
ing week.
Final year sucks. Not only do I fear
an impending nervous breakdown dai-
ly on account of just how much needs
to be achieved before the last week of
April when my finals commence, but I
fear for the psychological welfare of my
boyfriend, closest friends and family as
they double as emotional punch-bags.
Before I continue further and turn you
devoted Arts readers into one too, I
will just say that my pitiful lack of con-
tribution is due to a temporary accept-
ance that I need to put things on hold
until my exams are over. Come May 1st
and I am all felix’s once more.
Not only has the work load stopped
my opportunity to write but it has also
meant I was not able to attend a play
I have been looking forward to since
early October. Madame de Sade fea-
tures Dame Judi Dench and bond girl
Rosamund Pike and is next up in the
Donwar West End’s superb line up
(Hamlet with Jude Law follows next).
In my stead ….. has stepped in and re-
viewed it. I am extremely grateful and
only a little bit bitter.
Even worse than missing out on
plays, the work load has prevented me
from reading all those novels on my
To Read list. As a wee girl of 12 or so I
used to consume novels at an alarming
rate. Alex Garlands grizzly Thailand as
conjured up in his book The Beach was
read, digested and accepted with its
themes of an adult nature never elic-
iting even a bat eyelid. Come puberty
and my reading seemed to go down as
my acne soared, but since my summer
(and coincidental visit to the land of
Garland’s novel) I have made an effort
to up my fitness, as it were, and start
reading regularly again. Since New
Year’s I have read six novels which I
consider no small feat.
So, in a last effort to exercise my
powers as critique before I go under I
will whiz through a select few trying to
capture them in a nutshell.
Mr Nice should really be a student
staple for its easy going narrative from
charismatic author, Howard Marks
(Oxford graduated physicist no less),
who writes his autobiography follow-
ing 6 years spent in prison after finally
being caught 20 years after beginning
his career as one of the world’s largest
hashish dealers. Adventure awaits.
OnTheRoadbybeatnikJackKerouac
doesn’t need much of an introduction
only to say that it will whisk you across
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
America and back four times on mo-
torbikes, buses, open top trucks and in
beat up Cadillacs. Might be an appro-
priate antidote to feelings of claustro-
phobia brought on by revision.
Dune by Frank Herbert converted
me from sci-fi cynic to lover thereof in
the time it took me to read this hefty
novel (1 week: how’s that for an en-
dorsement. In fact, the transition may
have taken within the first fifty pages.)
This novel will excite anyone with an
interest in physics, biology, politics,
religion, poetry, action, travel, science-
fiction (duh) and even throws in some
soppy romantic shizzle. Please, please
do read.
The Life of Ivan Denisovich by Ale-
ksandr Solzhenitsyn takes you through
one grueling day in one of Stalin’ gu-
lags (labour camps) through the eyes
of Shcha-845 (Ivan) as we live through
every bite of frost, sharp wind and
sanction enforced by the warders. An
outstanding, easy 150-page read.
Arts this week is also a short, easy one
with some more architecture reviewed
by David Paw, as well as the previously
mentioned Madame de Sade review.
However, for now I must desist with
culture and persist with fact! Enjoy
your Easter ‘holidays’.
Books, bondage
and buildings
What to do if your
daughter marries the
king of Sadism
W
e all know that
Monet’s ‘Water Lily
Pond’ is pretty. It’s
a great piece of art
and we all like to
look at it, but I implore anyone to look
at it for 1 hour 45 minutes without an
interval and not begin to tire a little of
those sweet pastel hues. This is rather
how I considered the latest instal-
ment of Michael Grandage’s ‘Donmar
West End’ residency at the Wyndham’s
Theatre.
Madame de Sade is about the wife of
the Marquis de Sade (Rosamond Pike)
her mother (Judi Dench) and several
other women who know the infamous
French aristocrat from whom the word
‘sadism’ originated.
Whilst the set looks almost edible and
the costumes are stunning, annoyingly
they only serve to enhance the over-
whelming sense that the audience is
peaking into a dolls’ house. The prox-
emics are static and the actors literally
Rosie Milton prepares to be impressed by an all star cast and
director but is left disappointed.
fade into the set like wooden dolls until
they are as much a part of the furniture
as the wooden chairs delicately placed
around the stage.
Frances Barber’s wickedly carnal
Comtesse De Saint-Fond steels the pro-
duction from the moment the curtain
rises. Her impressive use of the riding
crop cracks some much needed energy
into the production and this is only Act
I. While Rosamond Pike is well cast as
De Sade’s devotedly masochistic wife
her rabbit-caught-in-headlights char-
acterisation in the first Act makes it a
hard to believe the reports in the sec-
ond Act that during an orgy with her
husband and a group of yokels she had
quite literally been swinging from the
rafters while a peasant boy licked her
naked body.
Judi Dench makes a fine Madame de
Montreuil obsessed with keeping her
family name in honour while Fiona
Button’s Anne provides some wel-
come light relief as Dench’s frivolous
younger daughter, the personification
of feminine guilelessness. However,
all the actors seem swamped by the
shear wordiness of the 40 year-old
translation.
As an incurably nosy gossip, I am sur-
prised that the play fails to solicit near-
ly the amount of interest and intrigue
that such fruity subject matter war-
rants and this is perhaps because the
direction lacks momentum. If you’re
happy to zone out for 110 minutes and
watch a group of very pretty woman
in gorgeous dresses sashay around the
stage like bon bon’s in an ornate rococo
box then Madame de Sade is worth a
watch, however, with credentials like
Grandage’s I don’t think an audience
can be blamed for expecting a little
more.
Madame de Sade is on at the
Wyndham’s theatre until May 23
2009
He is to architecture what Hendrix
is to the guitar: Andrea Palladio
The don of architecture is very much hard done by as the Royal Academy’s attempt to pay homage to the
great Palladio. David Paw tells us more.
W
hen I started out
learning to play gui-
tar, I hacked it up
like any other be-
ginner. I would buy
guitar magazines (Guitar Techniques
and Guitar for the Practicing Musician
- was there any point buying anything
else?) and wallow in the rich soup of
musical knowledge in their pages, try-
ing to soak as much of it up as I could.
I absorbed mainly anything and every-
thing about my favourite players - Ed-
die Van Halen, Satriani, Jason Becker
- while maintaining a neutral outlook
on the other genres. Outside of my
limited area of knowledge, the world
of guitar and music was an incredibly
daunting place, and basic priorities
like memorising the chord chart were
difficult enough, much less navigating
insane jazz progressions.
I always reached a sticking point
when it came to the greats, though.
My 10-year old self genuinely could
not understand for years why Hen-
drix and Clapton were so revered. In
my eyes back then, I equated being
able to “play” with technical ability,
and naively this was how I gauged a
musician’s merit, much less paying at-
tention to things like tone, personal
style, innovation etc. Jimi couldn’t play
a million miles an hour. What was the
point? I just didn’t buy it. Later I would
watch interviews of my favourite play-
ers speaking about Hendrix et al. with
incredible reverence and though I still
didn’t believe the hype, I began to ac-
cept the inevitable. Without the reas-
surance of my heroes, it would have
taken me a lot longer to see the light.
It is 3.50 on a glorious Saturday af-
ternoon and instead of being outside
in the sunshine, I am packed inside the
Royal Academy in the space the size of
a Hobbit’s broom cupboard along with
a collection of bored partners, their
enthusiastic yet confused girlfriends
(at least Topshop provides sofas), tour-
ists and pushy middle class pension-
ers who probably look at Stephen Fry
the same way Mrs Robinson looked at
Dustin Hoffman. In the words of a very
underrated liquor clerk in Superbad,
fuck my life. I have been trying to make
my way through the crowd while doing
justice to the subject of the exhibition
- reputedly the greatest architect of
all time - while also trying to compre-
hend why this title had been bestowed
upon him. His name is Palladio, and he
wouldn’t be happy if he were here.
The problem with Andrea Palladio :
His Life and Legacy has nothing to do
with undeserved reputations and hype.
I fully trust that the curators know
what they’re talking about. The prob-
lem with this particular arrangement
of architectural models, plan drawings,
contextual tidbits and memoirs is that
though the parts may be there, they feel
less than their potential sum, largely in
part to a dramatic in failure of commu-
nication from the organisers to their
audience. I am somewhat sceptical in
believing that the majority of people
who were present with me that after-
noon were there specifically to tickle
their fancy for 16th century Northern
Italian architecture. The room is split
up into several rooms, with the gross
trend being that as a whole, each is bet-
ter than the last. This is also valid when
pondering the choice between staying
in the well-lit and spacious lobby and
descending into the first room.
The first room attempts to set the
context of our subject’s achievements.
May I take this opportunity to stress
the word “attempt”. The first room is a
bedlam of spatial and physical incoher-
ence that fails to excite. If this were the
Divine Comedy, the first room would
be the dullness of Purgatorio and Para-
diso condensed into 400 square metres
of plan drawings and minor details that
onlythededicatedfollowerofthearchi-
tect would have any genuine interest in.
There is one breathtaking scale model
of the Basilica in Vicenza, and staring
into its massive hallways and corridors
it is easy to get a sense of scale of what
he achieved upon its completion. But
other than that, as important as con-
text may be, a good proportion of it felt
tedious and relatively indulgent given
the limited amount of space the exhi-
bition had. Paintings from the area try
to set the tone of the figures involved,
the world of the architect and the con-
struction site during that era, but it still
feels tenuous. Ornaments and artifacts
from the era are dotted around the
room to try to give the viewer a flavour
of the time period. It feels like a GCSE
Art and Design student trying to argue
that the painting they plucked arbitrar-
ily from Google images has plenty to
do with their final piece.
Oh, we do get a sense of his begin-
nings as a collaborator with more
well-known architects of the era. For
example, a segment focuses on a joint
project with the great architect Giulio
Romano on the Palazzo Thiene in Vi-
cenza. The details of the project are
intriguing and the progression reward-
ing when followed to the end, and as
a bonus we are even rewarded with
a portrait of Romano by none other
than Titian. But it is difficult to feel any
genuine excitement without physical
illustration, and by physical illustra-
tion I mean models. Architecture is a
physical, visual language that requires
the viewer to not only see and imagine
the finished project and its interaction
with its surroundings, but to obtain a
palpable feel of its scale and physicali-
ty. The plan drawings and photographs
never allow you to really get involved
with the building and space itself, and
parts of the exhibition suffer notice-
ably for that.
The second room is better. Larger,
quieter and with less packed into the
space, it offers a greater quality of
depth and contemplation as far as get-
ting under the skin of the buildings is
concerned. It is difficult not to notice
the large scale models of the Villa Emo
and Barbaro with their imposing tri-
partate facades, and with the greater
freedom allowed to the gallerygoer, it is
certainly more of a pleasure to peruse.
Rooms three and four focuse on the
emergence of the then newly-coined
“Neo Palladianism” and its influence
on subsequent generations, and the
publishing of perhaps Palladio’s great-
est work in any sense, his influential
compendium of reflections on the
professional and idealistic aspects of
architecture, the Quattro Libri. One
could consider them a giant tome of
sorts spread over four volumes, with
the thoroughness of Grey’s Anatomy,
the vision of Delirious New York and
the epic scale of The Bible.
This is where we reach the crux of
the exhibition. We are meant to be
witnessing a tribute and exploration
of one of the greatest creators and
design influencers of all time, but we
never reach a point of awe or complete
understanding of his greatness until
the very end. At the outset we are told
his designs for the country house out
in Italy were greatly influential from
the European mainland to Britain to
a point at which the British country
house can trace direct lineage to Pal-
ladio’s initial work. A little later on we
learn of the influence of the Quattro
Libri in subsequent generations over
centuries of architectural history. But
we’re heathens. We’re too used to gi-
ant skyscrapers born of oil riches and
difficult concept buildings, too used to
brash visual statements and the new
standard of physical grandeur. We need
just a little more convincing. Some
reassurance, perhaps. So his achieve-
ments never really hit home until we
watch videos and interviews of today’s
architects speaking in reverential tones
about the great man himself.
He was a starchitect before they even
existed. The Palladian influence is so
great that it has become subsumed
into modern architecture not just in
a practical and technical sense but in
a philosophical sense that the ethos
of the modern architect owes no lit-
tle debt to his ideas. A teenager sitting
in his room playing his guitar would
take the feedback and distortion and
screaming lead tones for granted, but
he would owe it to Hendrix who had
brought all of these ideas to the fore
and made them art forms. Just as
much, the vocabulary and ideology
of modern architecture owes a debt
to Palladio’s ideas, a man who, in the
words of the Japanese architect Arata
Isosaki, “could reach the real essence of
architecture”.
Until 13th April at the Royal
Academy, Piccadilly
San Giorgio Church in Venice. (1560-1580)
La Rotonda has inspired countless architects
Rosamund Pike (left) with hair that would have made the 80s jealous, and Judi Dench (right)

