arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
16 felix Friday 20 March 2008
The Rival 1
lacrosse
Rival
Issue 1 - 2009
The
G
alileo proved that the
earth revolves around
the sun. He was called a
heretic by the Catholic
Church despite his un-
wavering faith and spent much of his
later life under house arrest. He had
a daughter out of wedlock called Vir-
ginia. He did move to Florence and
he did go blind.
The story that Brecht weaves
around these facts in The Life of
Galileo is wonderful. It gives Galileo,
Virginia and even the Pope complex
and believable characters. Watching
their story unfold made for a very
enjoyable evening.
It employs the playwright’s famous
alienation effect: making the audi-
ence stand back and analyse the im-
plications of Galileo’s scientific dis-
covery for society and for religion.
This is Brecht at his best, using great
characters to make a wider social
commentary.
DramSoc chose well. And not just
because Brecht is an accomplished
writer. The social and political issues
highlighted by the play are echoed
in those faced by science, and some-
times science students, today. Gali-
leo’s murmurings about how much
more science he could do if he didn’t
have to teach are uncomfortably
reminiscent of the complaints often
overheard in the SCR.
He performs a careful balancing
act between investigative, pure sci-
ence and providing useful tools like
the telescope to keep his sponsors
happy. And it only takes a little im-
agination to remodel the sponsors
as the funding bodies which provide
the financial lifeblood to science to-
day; the struggle to explain the eco-
nomic benefits of theoretical physics
or biological modelling is the bane of
many a PhD proposal.
The opening performance in the
Union Concert Hall was disciplined
and energetic. The cast worked well
as an ensemble, never tiring or los-
ing focus. But it was Gilead Amit’s
skillful portrayal of Galileo that
held the production together. Play-
ing a lead with so much stagetime
and personality is a challenge he
met with aplomb. Aaron Singh’s in-
terpretation of Sagredo & the Little
Monk was thoughtful and engaging.
The dialogue between these two ac-
tors exhibited an impressive level of
dramatic sophistication.
Adam Khamis was convincingly
evil as the Cardinal Inquisitor, com-
manding the stage on every appear-
ance. Shamini Bundell and Ziggi
Szafranski were equally arresting as
Galileo’s daughter and the pope re-
spectively: giving energetic perform-
ances throughout.
The set for this production was
ambitious and perhaps, like many
student productions, could have
benefitted from a ‘less is more’ phi-
losophy. The sometimes excruciat-
ingly long scene changes interrupted
the play’s narrative for too long. But
the intelligent design did work well
to orientate the audience as the play
moves between Rome and Venice, as
well as providing a pleasing frame
for the more static scenes. The pe-
riod costumes were wonderful and
useful for distinguishing the several
characters played by several of the
actors.
The Life of Galileo discusses the
politics of science. And as students
of science it makes for welcome food
for thought. Despite the disruptions,
DramSoc do a great job of bring-
ing it to the Imperial student stage.
Something that Brecht – who saw
the stage as a social forum – would
have no doubt approved of.
CONTACT: OBI on05@ic.ac.uk / 07852989687 OR LIZ eo05@ic.ac.uk
The Drewe Theatre
Reynolds Building,
Imperial Medical Campus,
St. Dunstans Road,
Hammersmith, London,
W6 8RP
Nearest Tube Station: Barons Court or Hammersmith
(Piccadilly & District Lines)
In aid of ‘RAINBOW TRUST CHILDREN’S CHARITY’...providing practical and emotional support to families with terminally ill children. Reg No.: 1070532
"...therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier…” 2 Tim 2: 3-4
Review of DramSoc’s spring term show
Jessica Bland reviews the opening night of The Life of Galileo ­
– running in the UCH until Saturday 21st
Ziggi Szafranski and members of the company from Life of Galileo
Complete coverage of this year’s Varsity
Exciting action shots from the day
Get your copy now!
Available in the Library, Reynolds Bar and the Union
Out Now!
Go on a Easter bunny hunt with these films
At the touch of horror...
... everyone becomes a human being.
While this is not fundamentally
true of the whole genre, I would not
be lying if I said that throughout the
last few decades or so, the mood
and atmosphere of such works of
cinema have gone from unsettling
to disturbing, nowadays bordering
on disgusting. Horror movies have
definitely undergone a bit of plastic
surgery, and it’s the manner in which
this has shaped horror productions
which causes my dismay. The fact of
the matter is that with the immense
visual power of the 21st century, many
filmmakers have thought that inducing
unease through violent images and
brutal editing, amounts to a fair work
of horror. While such a belief holds
some truth in itself, this empowerment
has lead to abuse: once you focus
on the imagery and not the content,
the only way to become original and
innovative(i.e.interesting)isbystriving
to new extremes of the disgusting.
However, this isn’t necessarily bad. A
film may be of debatable taste, but still
terrifying. What has killed the modern
horror movie is the baseness of the
stories it tells, the innate stupidity of its
characters, the incredibly predictable
plots and plot twists and, even worse,
the fact that some of these elements
are portrayed in such a manner that
they should impress the viewer. I won’t
even mention remakes more than once
in this article, although they’re a crying
shame and deserve a dissertation sized
spanking. What saddens me is that
while production values have gone
up and can finally inspire the fear one
lusts for when happiness wants to
kick one out of his/her house, there
seems to be no horror movie left worth
seeing for the lingering effect of “I’m
not opening the fridge, you do it”.
Some of the more gifted filmmakers
have realized that the direction horror
movies have taken is almost insulting
and they’ve chosen to embrace their
cheesiness and B-movie nature by
turningthemintoparodies,oratleastby
tryingtoblendinsomeself-deprecating
parody amongst the horror. This isn’t a
bad move – or at least it wasn’t until
everyone started taking horror with a
pinch of clownishness. Given that this
has had a wide effect on American and
British films in particular, almost all
satisfactory horror movies of late have
been in a language other than English.
The current state of affairs is so
depressing that I don’t even go to see
horror movies any more. As soon as
the trailer’s finished, it’s clear what The
Unborn, The Uninvited, The Haunting
and all their relatives will be like. And
when a month ago I made the mistake
of watching My Bloody Valentine 3D,
all I got was a mindless borefest, a
ridiculous pile of “let’s play around
with this technology so as to scare
some people out of their money”. I
mean really, as has been argued many
times before, there is a difference
between scaring someone and startling
someone. That’s how bad it’s gotten.
I don’t particularly mind when you
can enjoy a film without putting your
brain to any use, but when having
a brain proves an impediment to
enjoying a film, well, then I have
a problem. The truth is that not
everything has to change, and this can
be seen by contemplating the irony
that a revolution has already taken
place in modern horror, but we’re no
better off than we were before it. I
can understand that it will take more
than a Judd Apatow figure to put
out a great work of horror, because
patterns work way better in comedies
than they do in horror movies. But
it’s not fair that the marketplace
dictates what kind of horror is being
One of, if not the, most famous
shower scene ever (from Psycho)
The cute face hugging thingy was the icing on the cake in Alien.
Don’t know what to watch over the
forthcoming break? Well even I was
shocked to discover that there is noth-
ing out at the cinema at the moment
that I wanted to see (that I haven’t al-
ready). For example, this week for the
film section I could choose between
reviewing movies such as Marley & Me
or The International, both of which
do not appeal to me in the slightest.
So if you are like me, and are stuck for
ideas of things to watch, then it is time
to dust off the DVD’s from your shelf,
set your TV to record random films, or
sign up to a film mailing site, and start
to broaden the horizons of your film
taste. And because Easter is beginning
to loom around the corner, I decided
to reminisce about films with Easter
themes in. So why not venture into
the unknown and join me by watching
films you might not otherwise choose
to see?
Easter Parade
I think that this is the only film ever
made with ‘Easter’ in the title, and a
film that focuses on the actual holi-
day itself. Starring Fred Astaire and
Judy Garland, this is a musical about a
man who decides that the next woman
he meets he will turn into a dancing
sensation, and so he luckily bumps
into Judy Garland. Her dream is to be
a famous dancer and to one day walk
down 5th Avenue in New York in the
Easter Parade wearing a big hat. There
is lots of singing and dancing, and to be
honest I don’t really remember the film
very well, just that her life ambition is
to wear a big hat in an annual parade.
When thinking about it, this film isn’t
really about Easter at all, except for the
fact that everyone seems to want to One more! But this bunny looks slightly less friendly don’t you think?
Stefan Carpanu
made (or what kind of movies in
general), because the marketplace
will never come up with ideas - it will
only consume the next best thing.
The genre needs a story to revive it, an
actual story as opposed to a series of
scares and massacres strung together.
It needs a Wicker Man, a Psycho,
an Alien, an Exorcist, some Birds, a
Shining – hell, even a Nosferatu. Or
maybe, just maybe, all it really needs
is something completely different.
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
One bunny down. Any more?
walk down a street on Easter Sunday
wearing big hats…
Chocolat
Now this is a film about Easter! The
film opens on the first day of Lent, and
the main villain of the film gives up
chocolate just as Vianne (Juliette Bino-
che) opens a chocolate shop. The small
French town is cold and unwelcoming
to her, but she quickly wins over the
hearts of everyone through the magic
of chocolate (I tell you, if someone
wanted to give me chocolate for free, I
would be their friend too). This film is
a heart-warming tale of love and loss,
and Johnny Depp makes a brief ap-
pearance as a gypsy that Vianne falls
in love with. Ending on Easter Sunday,
everyone learns valuable lessons about
themselves, life and love. How sweet…
(what a terrible pun).
The Passion Of the Christ
I had to put something religious
here, as after all, Jesus’ crucifiction and
resurrection is what Easter is all about.
Following the last few days of Jesus’
life, the film tells us about his disciples,
his family and his teachings through
various flashbacks, interspliced with
some truly shocking torture scenes
that demonstrate what Christ suffered
before being crucified. When this film
came out it caused a media storm and
had a lot of controversy surrounding it,
but if you are a Christian or a lapsed
Christian, this film gives a good idea
of what the message of Easter is. And
even if you aren’t religious, this film is
still very powerful and interesting to
watch, even though it is brutally gory.
The Prince of Egypt
I haven’t forgotten my Jewish cous-
ins- don’t worry! They had their claim
on this time of the year for a holiday
first (I am referring to Passover). And
although this film appeals to both Jew-
ish people and Christians, it does fea-
ture Moses, God, Ramesses II, freed
slaves and Passover, so I feel the Jew-
ish community have more stake in the
film. An animated classic, this movie
follows Moses as he tries to free his He-
brew brethren from being slaves to an
Egyptian Pharaoh. Cue the Ten Plagues
(scary!) and the moment Passover hap-
pens- the angel of death is coming and
if you don’t put lamb blood on your
door he will kill your first-born child!
Featuring an all-star cast (including
Sandra Bullock, who I am secretly in
love with), this film is a good watch,
and includes a catchy song by Whitney
Houston and Mariah Carey.
Who Framed Roger Rabbit
Okay, so this has absolutely nothing
to do with Easter. But it does feature
a bunny rabbit as the main character,
so I am kind of inclined to give this
film a mention. If you haven’t seen it,
you must, as it is brilliant. Set in San
Francisco in the 40’s a detective is
hired to solve the murder of a Cartoon
Studio owner, the main suspect being
an A-List Toon, Roger Rabbit. Now
this might sound strange, but this film
mixes live action with cartoons, and
has cameos from Mickey Mouse, Bugs
Bunny and Daffy Duck. Yes it is weird,
but it is extremely clever and well plot-
ted, and also features every man’s fa-
vourite cartoon character, Jessica Rab-
bit (if only she were real…). Although
it seems like it is for children, it is very
adult, with gruesome murders and one
of the scariest villains ever (if you could
make swords pop out of your eye balls
then I would be scared of you too). So
don’t be fooled into thinking it is for
children, as it has universal appeal.
Bill and Ted’s Bogus Journey
So now I am really getting further
away from Easter. But actually, this film
does feature an evil Easter Bunny that
lives in Hell and tries to torture one of
the main characters. Odd, yes. Maybe
you have to have seen this as a child to
appreciate it. A sequel to Bill and Ted’s
Excellent Adventure, this one is about
two evil robots sent back in time to kill
Bill and Ted (so they end up going to
Hell) so that their music doesn’t save
the world from becoming a utopian so-
ciety (because in the late 80’s/early 90’s
people believed that rock music was so
powerful that is could save the world).
Hmm… an evil pink Easter Bunny, the
Grim Reaper and some weird creatures
that God creates all add up to a very
strange, drug induced movie. Well, it
still sounds better than Marley & Me.
Other films with Easter themes
include:
The Miracle Maker
Claymation film that chronicles Je-
sus’ life through the eyes of a young
girl.
Donnie Darko-
Psychological drama featuring a
slightly disturbing bunny rabbit that
predicts the end of the world.
Octopussy
A James Bond film all about a Fab-
erge Egg. James travels to India, Cuba
and Germany to investigate.
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
17
Friday 20 March 2009 felix

