6 F E L I X
EDITORIAL
MORPHY PAST
Traditionally a boat race, but more recently an excitable uncon-
trollable rabble causing inconvenience and often distress . . . two old
ladies in a car terrorized, another knocked down . . . a small boy's
balloons deliberately burst, barriers smashed, traffic delayed, cars
tunned round; these are pages in the history of Morphy Day. In an
interview with a prominent member of the Guilds Union the terms
mob rule and sadism appeared before a more satisfactory explanation
was put forward. What is the motive force behind Morphy Day?
Ostensibly it is to watch the boat race; it starts off as an innocent brawl
on the tow path, the boats pass, but interest is remote; few even
recognize their own crew. Then comes the dangerous process of
releasing the tension that has been fanned and inflamed for weeks in
advance; it is here that the principles of " safety in numbers" and
" mob rule " emerge. Taking refuge in the unruly horde, students set
about causing as much damage and inconvenience as they can safely
get away with. On the way back from Putney the game of cop and
public baiting is used to pass the hours till tea.
MORPHY .PRESENT
It is difficult to see what the real purpose'behind all this so called
sport can be. After much discussion with the Guild's Vice President
the reason was finally put forward as " an occasion to induce and
maintain a strong cohesive College spirit." More recently the two
Presidents (RCS and Guilds) had clearer ideas. While strongly deplor-
ing the irresponsible nature of this misdirected nuisance value to the
public, Bob Schroter opined that the boat race and support thereof
should be the motive; " Guilds will be easily recognizable this year "
he said; a step in the right,direction. Chris Tye, no oarsman, more
realistically decided that the race has for a long time been little more
than an excuse, but that the energies of the students must be more
strictly controlled.
MORPHY FUTURE
It seems that the era of beer drinking college executives is passing,
and that rather deeper thought is going into the planning of such
occasions. Unlike the Carnival Rags where publicity is the aim,
Morphy Day has no such end in view; any publicity it has obtained in
the past two years can only have been for the College, and unfavour-
able at that. It is time that this uninhibited unpleasantness was taken
in hand—it seems that this year's executives have recognized the
problem; it remains to be seen where they will tead^ and whether the
students will follow.
F E L I X
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
Editor: J. M . Combes
Nick Walker—Production Manager
Chris Bagnall—Assistant Editor
Howard Moore—-Sales Manager
Ian Jones—Advertising Manager
Jo Smith—-Sports Editor
Peter Riding—-Social Editor
Ian Williams—-Stop Press Editor
Edward Babb—Stop Press
Printer
Roger Henson—Publicity
" O B S E R V E R M I S Q U O T E S R E G I S T R A R "
A statement in the " Observer" attributed to the Registrar of
the College might have given a misleading impression about numbers
of candidates. In fact, the Registrar informs me that total number
of applications for admission to this College was little different from
last year and the number of places which finally remained vacant
was, as usual, a very small fraction. What was surprising was the
shortage of candidates during the clearing-up process which takes
place during September, when this year it has been more difficult to
fill last-minute vacancies.
A N T H O N Y C A M P L I N G
Southside Seeker
HALLS,
LIKE FELIX,
SWINDLED
" I've got a bird keeping me
supplied with drinks"—was it you
who said that? Remember where
you said it? Yes, that's it. At
that party in Tizard Hall. The
only place in College that was
offering free beer to those ingeni-
ous enough to dodge the security
system. At least, that's how your
thoughts were running. O.K., so
there were others there too, up to
the same racket as you. Like that
fresher who sourly set about
stealing 3^ pints, and the 2nd
year type who breezed in—and
straight out again with a bird and
a flagon. Just remember that there
were some—about 200 in fact—
who thought it worthwhile to pay
10 / - to go to that party. What's
that? Little did they know that
they were paying for you as well?
Oh yes, very humourous.
Felix lost nearly FOUR
POUNDS in the sales of the last
issue which sold out. This repre-
sents a 20 per cent. loss in sales
revenue.
T R O U B L E S
, South Side's iron cow is having
labouring difficulties.
Certain curtains in the new
Halls of Residence have been
found to be incompatible with
their rails.
' Beards should flourish it South
Side with the absence of menacing
electric-shaver points.
South Side should increase the
popularity of the College doctor,
with particular respect to broken
legs: one's sense of balance is
sorely tested on the slip-mats in
residents' rooms.
" WHICH W A Y T O SOUTH-
SIDE?" . . . asked a gentleman
last week at the Weeks Hall
entrance. Assuming the enquirer
to be on foot the answer was
given " first left and straight
through." The Southside seeker
climbed into his Consul and did
just that . . . through a wall.
Short Takes
" F E L I X ENTERS T H E
SPACE R A C E (from the Guar-
dian, 18th Oct.). A French cat
named Felix was sent into space
today and returned intact. (Natur-
ally).
C H E M E N G SOC DINNER
This year's guest speaker at the
Chem. Eng. Dinner will be Tom
Margerison, scientific correspond-
ent to the Sunday Times and tree-
lance T.V. personality.
NO WORD FROM THE
RESIDENCE
When a Felix reporter attemp-
ted to interview Mr. Mooney re-
cently, he was refused audience
on the grounds that Mr. Mooney
was too busy during the week,
and at weekends the great man
liked to get away to his house in
the country.
SQUASH COURTS
It seems likely that I.C. will
obtain the use of one and eventu-
ally two courts in Judd Street,
near U L U .
GESTETNER DUPLICATING
This will be done by the Felix
staff provided that the skin and
paper is prepared. A small charge
of 2s. 6d. per 500 copies will be
instituted. A l l enquiries to Late
News Manager Edward Babb.

