8 F E L I X
'BY TYE
MY HOLIDAY JAUNT
by Chris Tye, President of R.C.S.
Although I am a native of
Devon it was with little enthusi-
asm that I recently paid an in-
voluntary return visit.
By luring me into the room of
the vice-president of Guilds,
under the pretext of discussing
Morphy Day, ten brawny and ill-
mannered Guildsmen captured
me.
I was kept in Falmouth Hall for
seven hours, during which R.C.S.
decided that whilst I could look
after myself " Theta" needed
looking after with the tender and
loving care to which he/she/it is
accustomed.
I was tied up and having been
clothed and fed they carried me
to a waiting car and wedged in
the back seat. I had no idea of
the intended destination of the
vehicle, but as the distance from
London increased I became more
annoyed " surely they can't be
stupid enough to take me further
than Salisbury Plain," I thought,
but being engineers they were and
they did. On the way I was fed
again and at about 11 o'clock I
was released about twenty miles
from Exeter in the middle of
Dartmoor.
A car soon came along, and
stopped. A torch shone in my
face—it was the cops. They asked
what I was doing. " I'm going to
London," I replied, and explained
the circumstances. They took
pity on me and gave me a lift,
mentioning that they were out
looking for two escaped convicts
from Princeton Jail, who were on
the run.
All too soon our ways parted,
and I found myself alone again.
Another lift for four miles or so,
and then on by foot. Whilst I
trudged on, I thought of all those
old jokes about stranded com-
mercial travellers knocking at
lonely farmhouses and bedding
the farmer's daughter. How I
longed for the farmhouse and the
daughter.
A few more lifts and by four
o'clock I was 9 miles from Ilmin-
ster. I used to have a girl friend
there and I was inspired to walk
on. By 7 o'clock I was two miles
from Ilminster and completely
shattered. But soon I got a lift
to Camberly on a truck, and from
there three trips got me to Queens
Gate by 1.35 p.m. on Wednesday.
And so to bed, but not for long,
there was a Fresher's Dinner in
the evening. Schroter had the
courage to be a guest at the din-
ner but, for some reason didn't
appear in the bar afterwards..
Well, what was the result of the
affair? For me, it was a loss of
two days work and a night's
sleep and the gain of many blis-
ters. For R.C.S. it was a spoilt
Union meeting. For Guilds—I
wonder. Presumably they con-
sidered this to be a great success.
Was it? It needed little skill and
it involved them in an expense
which they will find it hard to
justify. The idea was not original;
four years ago the R.C.S. Presi-
dent was captured and deposited
at Stonehenge. I think the whole
affair was futile and ridiculous,
I feel that inter-college rivalry
should be generated in ways
which don't involve personal in-
convenience.
CHRIS T Y E
A M E S S A G E F R O M T H E E D I T O R O F P H O E N I X
As many of you are doubtless aware, this College maintains two
publications. One is this newspaper. It paints a daily portrait of
life and activity, giving news, information, and comment. As may
be seen from its first two issues this year, it is at present virile,
amusing and intelligent.
The other is Phoenix, the Journal of Imperial College. It aims
to reflect the College; its attitude, its problems, its interests, its
recreations. The content should be a kaleidoscope of thought and
opinion ; the broader the spectrum of subjects it presents, the more
faithful the image it creates.
Unfortunately, on occasion Phoenix has tended to lose touch
with those it represents, something for which the editors cannot
entirely be blamed. No handful of people, however talented, can
sustain the interest of the majority. To maintain its existence, the
Union journal must be nurtured by the Union. More than any other
magazine it is communal property, and a communal product. I hope
you will help to continue in this tradition.
MEN OF OUR HALLS.
Sir Henry Tizard (1885-1959) after gaining a 1st in Chemistry,
took to flying. Before the War he was appointed chairman of the
Aeronautical Research Commission and he supervised the develop-
ment of improved fuel, radar, the eight-gun fighter and the jet engine.
During the years (1929—43) that he was rector, the college became
more closely knit, and expanded academically. On his retirement he
became the government chief adviser on scientific policy, so that he
was responsible for the country's technical development into the
fifties.
Four-fifths" of
fop civil servants
take T H E T I M E S
Thought for the day
So only this: these particular Top People must keep them-
selves fully and widely informed. They must be aware
not only of happenings in their particular field, but of dis-
cussion and comment on questions of the day, international
news, politics and the arts. For all this, they turn to THE TIMES.
You may not want to be a top civil servant: lots of people
don't. But the same is true of top dons, top businessmen, top
politicians. Whatever kind of top person you hope to be, it's
not too early to get in training now by taking THE TIMES
regularly. Especially since, as a student, you're entitled to it
at half price: ask your newsagent or write to THE TIMES
Subscription Manager.
The exactfigureis 85%. We are aware that this is a little more than
four-fifths: please do not write to point this out. Do write, however, if
you would be interested in an account of the research which produced
these and many other revealingfigures.Who are Top People? What do
they think on the important issues of the day? Write to The Times
(Department SP), Printing House Square, London EC4.

