F E L I X 7
Ski Club
Hampstead Heath vs. Switzerland
You can say what you like, but
we still consider ski-ing in Swit-
zerland better than on Harnp-
stead Heath. It may be more ex-
pensive, but the snow is more
ski-able, the weather more
amenable, the variety of ski runs
practically endless, and the night
life is gorgeous.
Several years ago in Wengen,
Switzerland, somebody founded a
club nick-named "D.H.O." i.e.,
the "Down Hill Only" Club.
We may not be members, but we
do ski the same way, ski-ing
downhill and using the efficient
lifts back to the top again. This is
where Hampstead Heath fails
miserably. There is little plea-
sure in ski-ing, if after two min-
utes gently shussing, you have to
spend twenty minutes trudging
back to the top of the slope.
Apart from anything else, it's
hausting.
The IC Winter Ski-ing party to
Leysin in Switzerland returned
from there on January 7th, hav-
ing departed from London just
after Christmas. Although the
weather was dull for mos£ of the
time, the snow conditions were
good for the duration of our
stay. Our experts had a good se-
lection of lifts and runs to choose
from, and our novices progressed
steadily on the nursery slopes.
One of them even managed to
break a ski while standing still!
Just as well, perhaps, that he
didn't graduate to class 2, where
they teach you to move.
At one of the club meetings
this term, we shall be showing
our photos and colour slides of
this trip to Switzerland.
The Club is at present organ-
ising a second party, to Zurs in
the Austrian Arlberg at Easter.
More details are available on the
notice boards outside the Con-
cert Hall. Anyone interested is
strongly urged to contact our
Secretary immediately.
NIGHT CLUBBING
T H E ESTABLISHMENT
On Saturday night, your correspondents, equipped with comely
wenches and fat wallets ventured forth in the direction of Soho.
Having briefed themselves on modern satire with a few Saturday
sessions in front of the Union Telly, they felt fully prepared for an
onslaught on the " Establishment."
This, Londons first satirical laughing with them, as he and his
night club was opened over a
year ago by the team that, led by
Peter Cook, brought "Beyond
the Fringe" from Cambridge to
the London stage.
The cabaret is ideal for some-
one who is a little weary of the
BBC's overrated attempt to emu-
late Swift. Satire at the Estab-
lishment is not designed primarily
to poke fun at public figures, but
rather tp dissect present-day
society, and to ask " why," when
the foundations of this are found
to be non-existent. To any stu-
dent who is not afraid of joining
an audience of about sixty and
companions are parodied before
him, the Establishment is recom-
mended. A n excellent three-
course dinner can be had for
about 20/- and drinks are at rea-
sonable prices. A l l this, and a
chance to see what TWTWTW
could be, as demonstrated by a
professional team of polished
wits.
Membership costs only two
guineas a year for students, and
5/-, or to indulge in a frenzied
entitles one to see the cabaret for
rave in the jazz cellar. Alterna-
tively, it is possible to drink se-
dately in the elegant, tastefully
furnished lounge bar curri modern
art gallery. Free shows of
modern Continental films of In-
ternational Film Theatre calibre
are provided on Sunday after-
noons.
The main attraction for stu-
dents is the. jazz cellar. In stark
but comfortable surroundings
there is food, drink, dancing, to
first class modern jazz, flowing,
clear, well-nigh unequalled in
London.
Dress at the Establishment is
as varied as its membership. One
of its many attractions is the op-
portunity to observe the sort of
people that we lack at IC, univer-
sity students, young executives,
tired businessmen, all merging
into the one Establishment type-
cynical, yes, but at the same
time, warm and friendly. The
Establishment is, all in all, a sort
of Ibsen's " melting pot of life."
M.G.H.
D.R.O'N.
If you are graduating in electrical or mechanical engineering, physics,
mathematics, metallurgy or chemistry, the newly reorganised G.E.C.
Group, with its many subsidiary companies and diversity of production,
offers exciting career opportunities in Research and Development,
Design, Sales, Production and Commissioning.
You can join us either on a direct appointment leading quickly to a
responsible position (starting salary £750 to £950 a year, more for
exceptional men), or by a training programme of a genera] or special
nature (starting salary £640 to £765 a year). This programme can
include project work, lectures and individual assignments tailored to
fit your particular needs.
Other advantages of a career with G.E.C. are many, including annual
salary reviews, rapid promotion for outstanding men and the oppor-
tunity of appointments overseas.
Senior representatives of the Company will be visiting for interviews
at :—
Imperial College, London—30th January and 14th February.
Ask your Appointments Boardfor further details or write direct to:—
Personel Department
T H E G E N E R A L E L E C T R I C C O . , L T D .
Greycoat House, Greycoat Place, Victoria, S.W.I.

