Reviews 13
Tracks Through The Veldt
Appropriate listening for the week in which the
final nail went into the coffin of apartheid:
Kevin Volans is a white South African
composer who blends native African influences
into Western musical forms. His second and
third string quartets are newly released on Argo,
played by the Balanescu Quartet. His music is
hauntingly evocative; the title of the second
quartet, Hunting : Gathering, is all you need to
know for its dry, padding ostinati and spectral
snatches of melody to begin to work on your
imagination. The third quartet is titled The
Songlines after Bruce Chatwin's novel of the
same name, and its 18 minute central movement
is perhaps an overindulgence. But the finale,
with its carefree 'whistling' violin tune, is a
Michael Nyman (Photo: Decca/Nigel Parry)
good place to sample a different
and exciting disc.
A long way from Volans' ascetic
Veldtschmerz is the plush
upholstery of Michael Nyman's
The Piano Concerto, also on Argo.
Made up of four tableaux culled
from the soundtrack of Jane
Campion's The Piano, this is
unashamed aural debauchery.
Studio-tweaked balance in the
opening scene, 'The Beach', has the
strings lighting up the horizon like a
tropical sunset while a gurgling
bass clarinet washes round your
ankles. You could also try the lush
tune at the beginning of
track two, or the irresistibly
foot-tapping first section of
the coupling, Musique a
Grande Vitesse (the rest
isn't as good, but it's untroubled by the
slightly murky bass that affects The
Piano Concerto).
The Philip Glass Violin Concerto,
recently released by Deutsche
Grammophon, is more explicitly
minimalist. Glass does his own thang
with a conventional orchestra (insofar
as the Vienna Philharmonic is such):
oscillating accompaniments, hyp-
notically repetitive cadences, and soloist
Gidon Kremer prestidigitating his way
seamlessly up and down the keyboard.
Best is the rich central passacaglia -
chaconne a son gout, you might say.
The coupling, Schnittke's Concerto
Grosso No. 5, is much spikier.
Robin Holloway's Second Concerto
for Orchestra, new on a half-price, half-
Alexander Balanescu: his quartet play Volans on Argo (Photo:
Tansi Spinks)
length disc from N M C , requires much more
concentration than Nyman or Glass, but the
effort is worth it - try the 20 seconds following
4'52" in track one. There are touches of pastiche
(the opening strongly suggests Debussy) and at
least one quote: hints dropped at various points
turn into 'Morning has broken' at the end. The
booklet implies there are others, and the risk
Holloway runs here is that people will suspect
that the bits they like best are not by him at all.
More music-theatre than opera, Mark-
Anthony Turnage's Greek is a third new Argo
release. The text is Steven Berkoff s version of
Oedipus Rex, set in a plague-ridden, riot-torn
modern London. The music is variable but
occasionally brilliant, culminating in an
extraordinary funeral march for Cockney
patricide Eddy (track 28).
Patrick Wood
Berio: Renderings
Of the three concerts in the first week of the
South Bank Centre's Berio festival, the intimate
Homage a Cathy in the Purcell Room was by far
the most enjoyable.
Born in 1925, Berio's output ranges from
experimental (read 'unpleasant') electronic
music, through to arrangements of Lennon and
McCartney. Both these extremes were
represented in last week's tribute to his first
wife, the late virtuoso singer Cathy Berberian.
She featured on the tape piece Visage which
closed the first half of the concert: the musicians
took cover and the hall was filled with what
sounded like a woman dying horribly in a snake
pit. Snuff audio meets Pierrot Lunaire without
the vowels.
Previously we had heard the early, lyrical
setting of El Mar la Mar for two altos and a
small but colourful ensemble, and there was
more of the same at the end in Folk Songs. In
between, mezzo Luisa Castellani draped herself
over the baby grand and began to sing John
Cage's The Wonderful Widow of 18 Springs. It
seems a bit normal for Cage, until the pianist
begins to play - a muffled percussive
accompaniment on the lid that remains down
over the keyboard.
Less rewarding than Berio's chamber music
were the large-scale works, such as the
gimmicky Formazioni which the London
Philharmonic Orchestra played to open the
festival. Incidentally, it's a long time since I've
seen an LPO programme booklet, and they seem
to have succumbed to the Hello! tendency. A
column headed 'Philharmonic News' informs us
that lead violinist Joakim Svenheden has a taste
for good wine and food and enjoys windsurfing.
It can only be a matter of time before Franz
Welser-Most invites us into his Jacuzzi.
Patrick Wood
The Berio festival continues at the South Bank
(box office 071 928 8800) on the 7th, 10th May
(Requies, followed by Mahler's Second
Symphony), 12th and 14th May (the opera La
Vera Storia).
Coming soon: a review of ENO's new Cos)

