14 Reviews
Picasso -
Life and Art
by Pierre Daix
Pablo Picasso spanned the Twentieth Century,
the most important painter and sculptor of our
time and maybe of all time. He made and tired
of styles: Cubism, Surrealism, Papier Colles,
Primitivism; he was a player throughout. His
circle of friends also included some of the most
notable names of the European artistic ruling
class: Matisse, Pignon, Breton, Stein and
Toklas. In both life and art he excelled and
walked tall.
Pierre Daix knew Picasso as a friend and
critic for the last 25 years of his life and he
produces what may become a standard, i f
flawed, book. Translated from the original
French, Picasso - Life and Art is stuffed,
overstuffed, with details, especially titles of
some of the 2,000 paintings and 1,300 sculptures
which he accomplished. On occasion, whole
pages are wreathed in meaningless italics which
choke the flow of living. But with judicious
skipping, it is not too tricky for the casual
reader.
Biographical details are treated with obvious
:
i s
by Orson Scott Card
Orson Scott Card is an incredibly talented
writer, with a knack of creating brilliantly
realised alien worlds as backdrops for very
human dramas. He's won just about every sci-fi
award going and, no matter how strange the
situations he writes about, the ideas Card
explores are particularly relevant today.
Which is why I was so disappointed with The
Call to Earth. It's the second volume of the
Homecoming series, set on a world that was
colonised from Earth millennia ago. On arriving
at their new home, the colonists destroy all
technology which could be used for large scale
warfare, creating a supercomputer with the
power to influence human minds to ensure the
arts of war are never rediscovered.
For thousands of years, the world lives up to
its name of Harmony. But then the computer,
which is now worshiped as a goddess called the
Oversoul, starts to break down and the only
place it can be repaired is Earth. A family in the
peaceful city of Basilica are chosen as the
computer's agents on Harmony, with the
youngest son, Nafia, becoming a prophet for the
computer. But many powerful enemies are
ranged against Nafia and his family. And do
respect, both in the sense that Daix was a friend
and also because much has been said already.
Picasso was certainly never in need of a muse,
he picked and chose as he wanted. Yet as
Fernande, Eva, Olga, Marie-Ther&se, Dora,
Francoise and Jacqueline, amongst others, came
to realise, Picasso's speed of work did somewhat
limit his season of affection. When it was time to
be on with the new, the obsolete was quickly
dropped. Such is the respect of Daix for Picasso,
though, that the most critical he gets over this
state of affairs is a deferent tug of the forelock to
Picasso's statement that sexual contacts should
not "complicate his existence". This is one of
Daix's problems as he occasionally verges on
they want to follow the alien and unfathomable
commands of the Oversoul anyway?
The premise of the series simply doesn't hold
water, either on a scientific or a human level.
The characterisation - usually one of Card's
strong points - is lacklustre and one-
dimensional, perhaps because there are too
many characters to do any of them justice. The
plot is confused and messy; the computer's
mind-altering ability is used as an easy
justification for any and every contrived action
or plot point. Card is clearly stretching a limited
idea to fit an ongoing series, but then I guess
that's what pays these days.
There are some important questions raised
about the nature of religion and personal
responsibility, but nothing is really done with
these themes. Maybe Card will develop them in
the next book in the series, but I for one won't
be bothering to read it.
Well below par for a usually excellent author.
A better idea of Card's talents can be had from
Ender's Game or The Tales ofAlvin Maker.
Joe Pineapples
Published by: Legend
Price: £5.99
the sycophantic when discussing Picasso's
momentous output, which can't be all good,
however much you like him.
Theodore Reff, Professor of Art History,
Columbia University calls this book "the finest
one volume discussion of his life" and who
would disagree? Anyone interested in Modern
Art has to broach Picasso sooner before later
and, if this book has its faults, it remains a good
starting point.
Jon
Published by: Thames and Hudson
Price: £13
Picasso Exhibition continues at the Tate Gallery
until 8th May.
Fools
by Pat Cadigan
What kind of world would it be if you could buy
a new personality as easily as a new set of
clothes? Answer: the world of Fools, a hi-octane
tale of double-cross and deceit in a future where
no-one is who they seem - not even yourself.
The ambitious and complex plot revolves
around Marva, a 'method' actress who's about
to hit the big time. No Hollywood blockbusters
for Marva though, she becomes 'famous' by
selling the rights to her face and her very
identity. It's then that Marva discovers she isn't
the person she thought she was...and the truth
may be more than she can handle.
The world Cadigan creates is convincing in
its seedy, unpleasant detail; a decaying urban
nightmare with no heroes or villains, just people
trying to stay alive. The stark realism of the
setting is the book's greatest strength.
Cadigan's writing style suffers from
cyber-jargon and shifting perspectives; make no
mistake, this book requires your full attention.
But it's definitely worth the effort to enjoy this
intriguing sci-fi murder mystery.
Joe Pineapples
Published by: Harper Collins
Price: £4.99
The Call to Earth
See the Easter Escapades of the Boat Club on page 7

