Reviews 15
The Paper
Starring: Michael Keaton, Glenn Close,
Robert Duval, Marisa Tome
Director: Ron Howard
Ron Howard had something to prove with this
film. Namely that Far and Away was not a good
representation of his ability and that Backdraft
was. The result is a disastrously directed frenzy
of activity.
Henry Hackett (Michael Keaton) is a reporter
for the New York Sun, a tabloid newspaper and,
likewise, his wife who is presently on maternity
leave. The film is a day-in-the-life of Hackett
who, on this particular day, has a job interview at
a rival newspaper while having to contend with
his daily job as a sub-editor.
At his job interview, Hackett poaches some
information from the rival newspaper which
might vindicate two youths who are under
suspicion of murder. However, as every Felix
reporter knows, a story cannot be printed without
hard evidence and nobody seems to want to
squeal. Come the deadline, Hackett still has not
got his scoop and the Sun is forced to go to press
with a story condemning the two youths. It's
over....or is it?
The film also dabbles into the private and
working lives of some of the other reporters at
Henry (Michael Keaton) tries to pacify his wife Martha (Marisa Tomei)
the Sun played most notably by Robert Duval
and Glenn Close.
Keaton's worst mistake was having anything
to do with this film, but his performance did
keep me awake and both of his expressions (the
double eyebrow take-down and the single
eyebrow slant) are put to good effect at regular
intervals.
The directing is in Ron Howard's shaky-
camera style which I assume is to emphasise the
chaotic atmosphere of a newsroom, but it made
me feel queezy. Dilemma after dilemma pile up
as the day progresses until I just couldn't buy
them any more and I started chuckling in the
wrong places. This film belongs on video.
Sphinx
Opens nationwide today. MGM Trocadero, Mon
£4, Tue-Fri before 6pm £4.
Tom & Viv Romeo Is Bleeding
Starring: Miranda Richardson, Willem Dafoe
Director: Brian Gilbert
Tom & Viv spans the tempestuous 33 year
relationship between Nobel Laureate poet TS
Eliot and wife Vivienne Haigh-Wood, from their
meeting in Oxford to her death in an asylum.
The marriage gradually breaks down as the
medication Viv is taking makes her increasingly
unstable, this leads to her eventual committal.
She dies ten years later, having had no contact
with Tom since entering the asylum.
Despite occasional problems with the script,
the film has a fine central performance from
Miranda Richardson as Viv. What lets it down
is the casting of Dafoe as Tom. He lantern-jaws
about in his thick glasses, looks at things and
pretends to write. Strangely, this works perfectly
in the film's moments of wry comedy.
I'd recommend this film because it does have
some genuinely moving moments. And even if
you don't like it, it's perfect to bitch about.
Taho West
MGM Kings Road, £3.50 before 6pm, Mon-Fri
Starring: Gary Oldman, Annabella Sciorra,
Lena Olin, Juliette Lewis
Director: Peter Medak
Leather fetishism. Great, isn't it? That's just one
of the things this excellent movie contains.
Gary Oldman plays Jack Grimaldi, a cop
who's not above working part-time for Mafia
Don Roy Scheider. Although he is married to
the smart (and rather attractive) Annabella
Sciorra, Jack is having an affair with the
submissive and waif-like bimbo, Juliette Lewis.
The personal and professional strands of
Jack's life entwine themselves when he's
assigned to the task, by both of his bosses, of
nabbing Russian hit-woman Mona Demarkov.
Mona is played by sex-personified Lena Olin, to
whom Jack has a fatal attraction.
As the story twists and turns, Jack becomes
increasingly desperate while the other characters
become increasingly ruthless.
The movie's plot is really rather perfunctory
and it is little more than the window-dressing
for an unusual concoction of noir-throwback and
black comedy.
The noir references are certainly there (the
manipulative, scheming woman, a rendezvous at
an office, the innocent cop in the corrupt city),
but rather like Chinatown, updated for the 90s
(he's not so innocent). The black comedy
meanwhile is certainly black, but not that
comedic (rather like toning Prizzis Honor down
a bit).
The film's primary strength is its sheer style;
it's blocked, shot, edited and scored very well
indeed, while the performances (in particular
Olin's and Oldman's) are rivetting.
Romeo Is Bleeding is the most original blend
of old ideas since The Piano and nearly as good
too. See it for Olin, the best thing to come out of
Sweden since Abba, if nothing else.
jk
Odeon Kensington, £6-£6.50. Students before
5pm £3.50.
MGM Haymarket, £6.50, Mon half-price, Tue-
Fri before 6pm £3.50.
Next Week: Four Weddings And A Funeral

