Reviews 17
f p l l l i l
1I III
Hole
Live Through This
So it's fallen to me to be one of the first. The
first post-Nirvana review, the first not to jest at
Cobain's Love affair and the drooling Francis
Bean but instead to wield the awe reserved for
dead men become legends. I'm all for the word
legend but against the little 'get a grip, you
didn't know him' Hitler's. So do I write despite
the death of the secret hero of these pages? Or
do I do as Ginsberg did and cut my hair?
The first spin through the album reveals a
tight selection of slow-fast grunge mini-anthems
and inspires a (6) out of ten. Later I tell a friend
that it all sounds like Nirvana anyway, she
ripped them off, it's all dead. I don't realise I'm
like the baby-boomers endlessly trapped in a
Hendrix whirl. I persist, because 'Violet' is so
good and 'Rock Star' sees the best left to last
and the in-between constantly bucks between them.
Second spin onwards and the aforesaid are
classics. Love's voice bares down on a multitude
of 'women's' woes and tears them apart with its
animal howl. Why is it that those women who
rail against the segregation of concerns have to
shout so loud? PJ Harvey, Thalia Zedeck and
Love make no concessions to their femininity
and seem twice the women for it (i.e. they seem
like Mankind). 'Miss World' is an acidic tirade
against empty-ended perfection, 'Jennifer's
Body' a sing-along to Laura Palmers the world
over (and the cult of the victim they promote).
'Asking For It' questions hardest by lowering
the decibels whilst 'Plump' takes its runaway
train rhythm to the rednecks who inspired both
its sound and its message and sorely trounces
them.
The influences are varied. The cowboys
mentioned above and yes, they wear their
favourite band on their sleeves but everything is
after, now. More subtle are the ears bent to the
Muses, various punk anthems and the
psychedelic cartoon pop that inspires 'Credit In
The Straight World'. The lyrics are by turns
startling and unnoticed but all are lent gusto by
Courtney's southern-sounding vocal onslaught.
This album is probably the last of the Cobain's
attempts to foist the triptych milk/baby/burn
before beer/babes/burn in the annuls of rock-
cliche, which is a shame because it was a look
beyond the bedsit where so much else looks
behind. I was enjoying these message from the
front. Take note kids, your parents can be
seriously damaged by you and health. Life hurts,
but don't say no.
So long Kurt: yet this lives. Gives life to thee.
For various reasons (10). Owain
Senser
Stacked Up
Senser have never had it easy. They were
initially ignored and then quickly labelled as
Rage Against The Machine copyists despite the
fact that they were around well before R A T M
hit these shores. The additional stigma of being
a U K rap band was also documented, but just as
the music press moved in for the k i l l , a
growing public support and increasingly
devastated live shows forced a rethink. Suddenly
Senser were embraced as the Next Big Thing.
The ingredients to this band are Heitham's
rapping, Kerstin's poppy vocals and the music
itself, which shows far more variety than their
recent singles would suggest. As well as the
expected crunch of 'Eject', you get a fair dose of
techno, dub and sampling styles, and a few
tracks that seem to have all of this at once. There
are really no weak tracks out of the thirteen on
offer. Ultimately it's a rap album but tracks such
as 'The K e y ' betray their crusty origins,
supporting the likes of Ozric Tentacles and Back
To The Planet. BTTP blew it at the album stage,
just as everything was going their way but
Senser have delivered an album every bit as
good as expected. (*) Ridley Dash
Cranium H F - 'Summer Rain
ep': Work out what HF stands
for and you'll understand what
this is about. Hard electronic
beats with rhythmical
chanting in the background.
Sheep On Drugs for sick minds. Mr Happy
Soundgarden - 'The Day I Tried To Live': The
lead track is one gentler songs of new album
'Like Suicide' is an acoustic that sounds
remarkably like a Mark Lanagan song. Mr Happy
Sheryl Crow - 'Run Baby Run': A song
supposedly about the suicide of Aldous Huxley
manages to be better than its factual basis. Tintin
Whiteout - 'Starr Club': I was waiting to rip this
up but it is really fun. Anyone who can use
Teenage Fanclub as a yardstick are not all
serious. Cliqued, happy and proud of it. Tintin
Yo La Tengo - 'From A Motel 6': The demigods
of the music page return. A single from their
awesome 'Painful' album would be enough but
the additional tracks complete the slow burning
dynamite right in your rock face. Tintin.
Salad - 'On A Leash ep': A promising display of
sound reminiscent of fellow Island signee
P.J.Harvey only less rasping due to a mellowing
baseline. The Pear
Sheep On Drugs -
'Let The Good Times Roll':
Inventiveness goes walkies on
this. Sounds like N I N on a
banality trip. Flock fodder
only. The Pear
Skyscraper - 'Man From Hell': New 12" from
one of the best British live bands but
unfortunately their records never match those
performances. The B-sides on the other hand are
amazing cover versions. Mr Happy
The Shams - 'Sedusia': Girl sounds from a
single gender band, this had an icy beauty but
the angelic trist only get to live on 'Love Me
With Your Mind', which uses the line "Can you
truly conjugate?". But the rest is sterile. Tintin
Mutha's Day Out - 'Locked': Don't believe the
press when they try to convince you that this is a
brand-new weld of rock and rap; Mutha's Day
Out's alleged hip-hop influences have melted
clean away leaving some fairly decent
grunge/metal stuff with a bit of shouting in the
background. Quite good but a bit on the limp
side. Freddy Cheeseworth
Outside - 'Kaleidoscope Summer': A brassy
breeze of warmth, Outside lay down a steady
groove but the longer it goes on the feeling
grows that it's short of ending sparkle. Tintin.
Sulphur - '2CV: Not to be confused with the
Lloyd Cole song, this is in the current wave of
cockney vocation and whisperings and a bit
derivative. Tintin
Kaliphz - 'Vibe Da Joint ep': Going to a place
where grammar never ruled, Kaliphz sound like
any other hip-hop jokers. Packed with funny
voices, the usual streetwise 'lyrics' and skool
songs, this is a one-shot affair. Take a decent
track and photocopy to order. Funny in the same
way Ed Stewart was in Crackerjack. Tintin
guess what mark Ridley gave? Answers between eight and ten

