4 Clubs and Societies
Next, The Oscars?
The Student Television Of Imperial College has
won national awards for the third year in a row.
STOIC won awards for drama and a special
animated programme on money at this year's
National Student Television Association
Conference in Birmingham. The videos were
judged by a panel of industry experts who
examined both technical and artistic content.
Other awards were given to Glasgow for their
music videos, Bath for news and graphics and
Exeter for light entertainment.
The winning drama entry called 'As Seen On
T V , is a warning about the perils of watching
too much television. This was just one of the
drama entries from Imperial College this year. It
was written and directed by Ronjoy Choudhury,
a third year physics student who intends to enter
the film industry.
The special programme on money was a
comic animation based on the not-so-democratic
lives of some old STOIC amplifiers. This was
made by Andy Clark from Electrical
Engineering using just a simple camera and
recorder. He plans to build a more sophisticated
controller to speed the animation process.
Imperial's music video, made by the Dance
Club, was based on a gangster movie set to
music. This was beaten to the award by the
Glasgow student television who produced some
excellent pop videos of a local band called 'The
Stanleys'.
These programmes will be shown later this
term on Imperial College's own internal
television network, along with films produced at
Kings College and UCL.
Sabbaticals
Fed up with exams/work already? Then, never
fear - Rag is here and we have organised the
perfect stress relieving activity. On Wednesday
11th May we will be holding our annual Rag
Fete on the Queens Lawn from midday onwards.
There will be lots of silly games and events
going on and Rag will be selling ice-cream and
soft drinks throughout the day. As if that wasn't
enough IC Radio and Jazz & Rock Society will
be providing entertainment in the form of a
roadshow and various bands.
Some of the events going on include a
juggling display, inflatables, a lucky dip and a
wildlife roadshow (from WWF), Also, this day
will be your chance to attack the Sabbaticals
while they are in the stocks. In the evening Rag
is holding its annual dinner in the Union Dining
Hall. Anyone is welcome to come and it only
costs £7.50 (including wine), so it is a bargain
not to be missed. If you would like to go to the
dinner then see us in the Rag Office or at next
week's Rag meeting.
Another event that is happening is a Rag
Raid to Oxford on Saturday 21st May. There we
will be collecting for Oxfam. So if you fancy a
The National Student Television Association
is run collectively by student television stations
around the country and allows ideas and
programmes to be distributed around the
campuses. Each year a conference is held to
discuss the year's work and to get help from
professionals in the industry.
Skive '95!
free trip out of London then sign up in the Rag
Office as soon as possible.
On the more serious side of things, we have
to elect our nominated charities for next year
soon. The elections will be taking place at the
Rag meeting in two weeks time, which will be
Friday 13th May. If you have a favourite charity
you would like to be nominated then come and
speak to us in the office at any time. Otherwise,
come along and vote at the meeting.
Finally, do you have any suggestions for the
Rag slogan for next year? Slogans must rhyme
with '95 and preferably have an animal theme
but this is not compulsory! All bright ideas or
brainwaves should be passed on to us in the Rag
Office/Bar/street or anywhere else you happen
to blimp into us! Here are some past slogans to
help you along: Off Your Tree '93, Bug-A-Ewe
'92, Elephants Come '91 and Dragons Divine
'89-1 think you get the idea.
As a final note, thank you to all those who
collected for Turning Point at the Deacon Blue
concert at the Royal Albert Hall on Thursday of
last week. Your totals should be available soon
and I hope you had a good time.
Watery
Fun In
Penzance
On Wednesday 30th March, five souls (who'd
much rather be in their beds at this time of the
morning, thank you very much) set off for a
week of watery fun in Penzance, Cornwall. I
wouldn't say that the trip was long but when we
got out of the minibus the sound of clicking
backs could be heard for several miles.
We knew it was going to be a windy week
but when we got down to Marazion beach, the
first thought was: "What's the smallest sail
we've got?" This was closely followed by: "Can
we make it any smaller?" Some of us eventually
managed to get out on the water, but for the less
accomplished sailors, the day was the first of
many sitting in the front of the van laughing at
all the wipe- outs and trying to add up the total
cost of all the broken kit.
Our trip coincided with a BFA event on the
same beach and it made us feel good when we
saw that professional sailors can't stop their
sails from flying down the beach, usually hitting
several people on the head as they went. Along
with the very strong winds throughout the week,
the waves were massive, sometimes reaching
the same height as the sails, which is about five
metres. Several people got caught in the shore
break, resulting in more broken kit to the sound
of huge cheers from the others on the beach.
In the evenings we returned to our flat that
we were sharing with the seven ex-IC sailors
who had met us down there. After a quick meal,
we somehow managed to spend the rest of the
evening in the bar below the flat (less staggering
distance) and by the end of the week we had
become quite adept at the table football, that is,
when we weren't distracted by the local points
of interest!
On Monday, our last day spent there, we
decided to try a bit of surfing and drove to a
local beach that was a bit less crowded. For
some reason, though, two of our group didn't
get changed. I am sure it had nothing to do with
the size of the waves (huge) or the changing
area (in a car park in the rain). Three of us did
brave the elements and, after a nice easy walk
down to the beach, we hit the waves, or rather,
they hit us. But, enough about that. We stayed
out until we had enough of a taste of the sea
water and then spent the next few minutes trying
to climb up a wet, slippery cliff while carrying
surf boards. Following a quick change au
naturel, we went back.
On Tuesday morning we packed up the bus
for the last time and set off for home and, after
another short, comfortable journey, we were
back in lovely London and Penzance could
relax, until next year...
The 3D 15x15x15 crossword winners are on pages 8 and 9

