Puzzles
Felix 3D Crossword Competition II
The following winners of the Crossword Competition
receive a new Chambers Dictionary:
Matthieu Pinel - Biology HI
Myles W A Davison - DoC
Thomas Kirkman - Chem Eng I
Simon Turner - Chemistry
Mark Stedman - Physics II
The runner-up prizes of a Chambers Thesaurus go
to:
Sarah Too - Maths III
Prof Tom Kibble - Physics
Suzanne Lewin - Physics III
Vincent White - Chem Eng PG
Emma Holmes - Chemistry II
Crossword Competition
Firstly, we would like to thank all of you that
entered the competition and congratulate the
winners. It is, of course, lamentable that not all
the entrants could win a prize. We have tried to
spread the prizes more thinly this time.
In the event, there were over thirty entrants
all of whom made valiant attempts at even the
most obscure of clues. Happily, the vast majority
were 'new recruits' who had not entered the
Christmas 3D Crossword Competition. We also
seem to have reached a wider audience this time.
There were entrants from St. Mary's as well as
prestigious members of staff from Imperial's
Physics Department. A straw poll suggested that
it took an average of two weeks to solve; one
Level 4
solver commented that his crossword had
travelled on aeroplanes and all around the Paris
metro.
The winners can pick up their prizes from the
Felix Office (the North-West corner of Beit
Quad) any day between 12pm and 2pm before
Friday 20th May, bringing College identification
with them. Unclaimed prizes will soon find
alternative homes (like mine - Catfish, Sub Ed).
Clue Writing Competition
Judging the Clue Writing Competition was
difficult. It revealed a number of potential
crossword compilers, all of whom we encourage
to submit whole crosswords for publication.
What the judges were looking for was well-
Level 5
constructed clues: correctly ordered but cleverly
misleading. Our congratulations go out to the
winner 'TIKKA' and the runner-up 'PHOBOS'.
A certain Patrick Odwo from nothingtodowith-
felixhonest also showed potential.
Come And Get It
Please could all of you who want your
crossword booklets back come to the Felix
Office in the next week to collect them. If not
collected, we will throw them out.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank Chambers for their
continued generous support.
Vive la 3D Difference!
Level 6
Level 10 Level 11 Level 12

