unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
NUS Referendum
Voting takes place this week
As all of you who have visited the Union this year will realise,
there is an extensive program of works taking place in the Union
Building. The work started on the 1st August and initially work
was focused on da Vinciʼs. This work included new doors to the
Quad, new paving approaches for disabled access to all doors,
and the removal of the raised area within the bar.
This work was ﬁnished in time for Freshersʼ Week and further
improvements will be made to da Vinciʼs over the Christmas
break, when new bespoke furniture will be installed thus
completing all planned work for this phase.
The central core work will provide:
• a new 13 person lift to comply with Disability Discrimination
Act (DDA) requirements.
• new doors on all ﬂoors that conform with the DDA.
• an extension of the mezzanine on the 2nd ﬂoor to support
the shaft for the new lift and provide changing rooms for a
new gymnasium to be constructed on the 3rd ﬂoor in a future
phase.
• sympathetic refurbishment to retain, as far as possible the
character of the early twentieth century parts of the building in
its unique tudor revival style.
Unfortunately due to unanticipated construction issues, including
the discovery of small areas of asbestos, the work has been
delayed. However, the contractors are conﬁdent that current
progress, including Saturday working when possible will get the
programme back on track. All work is expected to be completed
by early March 2007, when the lift car will be installed. Access to
the central core will be available from next term.
0000 hrs Tuesday 14th November
Online voting opens.
2359 hrs Thursday 16th November
Online voting closes.
1900 hrs Friday 17th November
Referendum result announced.
This week sees one of the most important votes on the future of the Union for many years. It is important that you
do vote and also make an informed decision. For those of you who missed the hustings last week, please take time
to look at both sides of the argument.
If there is not enough discussion in this issue of Felix, then why not look at the excellent NUS Referendum mini-site
from Live!. You can access this by going to http://live.cgcu.net/nus.
Voting takes place, as always, online at imperialcollegeunion.org/vote.
Union Building Redevelopment
Update on the work schedule
Want Some Extra Cash?
Casual Jobs Available
If you live in Halls, we are looking for some outgoing and sociable party people.
We need a team of Hall runners to help us promote our ents and venue.
Interested? Contact Yun at bigmouth@imperial.ac.uk
There are four positions vacant on the Union Council that we will
be electing at the next Council Meeting this Monday.
Welfare Campaigns Officer (1 position)
Postgraduate Engineering Faculty Councillor (1 position)
Undergraduate Natural Sciences Faculty Councillor (2 positions)
Elections will be held on Monday 13th November at 18:30 in 220
Mechanical Engineering. If you wish to stand for any of these
positions then please contact John Collins at
president@imperial.ac.uk.
Vacant Council Positions

