femm
femm
Friday 13th October
Matty Hoban Music Editor in-
Chief Jenny Gibson & Thomas
Whitson Public Relations Music
Editors
reviews editorial
H
ello and welcome to another
Femm. This one proves to be
bigger than the last with a tasty
amount of musically-related
goodness for you to munch
down on. Not only do we have more content
to give you we also have some Diesel Music
Awards 2006 canvas bags to give to you. We
have a lot of them and I can’t remember why,
someone may have been drunk and logged
onto Ebay. Anyway, all you need to do to get
a bag is e-mail music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
with the title, “I would like a Diesel bag so
don’t make me bleed you!” It’s that easy, so
e-mail us to get a nice hard-wearing bag to
carry your overly burdensome books in.
According to some of my friends, my photo
makes me look fatter than in real life. I can
assure you that in reality I am hunky, 7’6”
Portuguese body-boarder. But this is ir-
relevant. I also said in Felix last week that
I was going to put in a feature of the inde-
pendent music media in this issue of Femm.
I’m sorry to inform you that said article will
not feature until December since I ran out
of space in this issue. I hope you can wait
until then.
I have noticed lately that this new genre
called ‘New-Rave’ seems to be on every-
body’s lips (or just NME’s). It does make
me guffaw that having a guitar band use
acid house sirens (The Klaxons) is the ba-
sis for an amalgamation of shit indie and
even shitter rave. Hard electro is the only
way to go, and that rhymes so it must be
true. But in fitting with the mention of this
new genre I decided to unearth the part of
London where a lot of this hyperbole came
from ie, Shoreditch and Hoxton. Sure
enough, Trash is on New Oxford St but a
lot of the scenesters have emerged from
the east. I actually like a lot of what is hap-
pening in East London at the minute with
various alternative and avant garde shows
happening. I know the idea of Imperial sci-
entists embracing those good-for-nothing
arty types is repugnant, and truth be told
a lot of those artists are tedius (just watch
Nathan Barley), but only good can come
out of it. Otherwise they’ll keep inventing
genres and drive us all insane.
There is another Kids Will Be Skeletons
gig night on Thursday 16th November
with Yuchi from Brighton headlining and
two brilliant London bands (Silent Front
and The Sailplanes) supporting. £2 to get
in and a lot of fun and giggles to be had.
Come on down and pester me, or hug me,
I like hugs. Have a good read.
bitrate
S
o, you’re hoping to get that shiny
new 15,000 GB mp3 player that fits
into your wallet for Christmas, but
alas, all your music is still stuck on
the archaic format of a CD, or even
worse the prehistoric vinyl record. What’s
more you don’t want to use the crappy rip-
ping software that comes with either itunes
or God forbid, Windows Media Player to
convert your favourite tunes to computer
format.
First things first, this beautiful article will
not only teach all you crazy kids how to rip
a nice mp3 and what all those weird options
mean (using some decent free encoders) but
we’ll also show a few clever ways of getting
rid of that pesky DRM protection you get on
iTunes mp3s that you’ve bought from their
online store so you don’t have to use one of
those stinking iPods to listen to it, and you
can even send them to your mates if you feel
like running some sort of charity.
Hooray, let’s start with the illegalness. Re-
member kids, downloading music is illegal
and it destroys everyone involved in the mu-
sic industry especially the directors of the
big record companies who might only earn a
£34m salary this year because of it, so if you
try any of this, you are going straight to hell
for eternity. Sweet.
MP3 encoding can be confusing for the
newcomer, although since we’re at Imperial
College, I’m sure most of you know every-
thing there is to know and could probably
program your own encoder with your eyes
shut, but I’m writing this article for the
benefit of those who can’t do that (yep, ge-
ologists and the dudes at Wye). Who would
like to be a bit more adventurous than use
the built in ripping software in their media
player, and enjoy the host of new options
available to you when using a good compres-
sion software. So before you start, go down-
load EAC (Exact Audio Copier) and LAME
encoder (all links at the end of the article),
I assume you all know how to install some
software so we won’t go through that part,
just install EAC and unzip the LAME encod-
er into its directory (or anywhere else you
won’t delete it). Now open up EAC and go to
EAC then Compression Options and select
the External Compression tab. Now select
‘use external program for compression’ box,
select LAME from the dropdown menu then
below that, find where you’ve unzipped the
LAME encoder .exe file to. For the bitrate
select 192 or above (unless you want horren-
dous quality tracks), you can also select var-
iable bit rate which basically increases the
bit rate in certain, more complex parts of a
song, and reduces it in simpler parts making
for a smaller file size.
If the instructions for installation were too
brief I apologise, but there is a configuration
wizard and help files you can use if you need
more info, so onto the actual stuff in the pro-
gram. If you look in the compression options
there’s a host of useful things, most of them
pretty self-explanatory so just check them
out, one nice option is you can select your
own format for file naming of the mp3’s and
you can even save the uncompressed .wav
files if you want to fill your hardrive up with
maximum quality music. Once you’ve de-
cided all your options, just put your CD in
the drive and rip away. You can even use the
FreeDB option to automatically detect your
album and name all the songs correctly.
Another handy function of the program is
being able to compress stored .wav files into
mp3 so if you’ve decided to record some vi-
nyl onto your pc using an audio cable or are
stealing music from MySpace by recording
it, you can make it into a nice, small mp3 and
not some hideous 60Mb .wav file. Once it’s
ripped and compressed, bask in the sound of
superior, un-Apple/Microsoft tainted mp3s.
For those of you who prefer to buy your
mp3s directly from iTunes Music Store and
bypass those stupid CDs, you may have no-
ticed that some of their files have that an-
noying Digital Rights Management protec-
tion on them, meaning you can’t play your
mp3s on anything other than an iPod, or a
couple of computers with iTunes installed.
That’s a bit annoying so our next section is
how to remove it, resulting in lovely playable
mp3s (although instead of doing this I’d sug-
gest you just buy your mp3s from e-Music or
some other store that does not claim own-
ership of the items you’ve paid for). We’re
going to ignore the ultra-time-consuming
method of real-time recording of the mp3
as a .wav then re-encoding it, that’s just silly
unless you only want to do a single song.
The first method is the simplest, but also
results in a small (although sometimes in-
audible) loss in sound quality. Just burn your
album of mp3s as an Audio CD then simply
rip it back to mp3. This will remove any DRM
from the files leaving you with proper mp3s,
but is unfortunately somewhat wasteful of
CDs (unless you use a re-writable CD), time
consuming, and as mentioned, re-encoding
an mp3 results in a loss of quality (imagine
making a photocopy of a photocopy and re-
Gregory Mead
femm 2
Friday 10th November 2006
Matty Hoban
peating that thousands of times, the final
image would be totally horrendous).
Of course, if you want to go all out and
unlock your mp3s completely without any
loss in sound quality then you can, by using
some clever script that does it all automat-
ically for you! There are two lossless DRM
removal programs available, the first (and
best) is JHymn which is a free protection
removal program, that even keeps the
metadata of the tracks (song name, track
number, album etc.) in the resulting mp3.
Unfortunately this only works with iTunes
3, 4 and 5 so if you’re using iTunes 6 you
need to use the second removal tool avail-
able, QTFairUse 6. The only drawback
with this one is that it’s a Python script,
so you need to know some stuff about that
to actually use it, also it doesn’t keep the
metadata from the tracks, so you’d need to
go through all the mp3’s re-naming them,
but then, who cares? That’ll only take 30
minutes or so for your whole collection.
Using these tools is the best and quick-
est way to unprotect your mp3s. It takes
much less time than ripping a CD, and
does not lose any sound quality. So, what
are you waiting for? Throw away that
crappy iPod with its retarded battery and
go buy a decent mp3 player. And one more
thing, remember kids, don’t aid music pi-
racy, sharing 15,000 audio tracks online is
silly, plus you might get in trouble as Apple
have more money than you poor students
for lawyers. There are consequences to
going around and being careless with ar-
tistic works.
Raconteurs at Brixton Academy:
“As they play it's clear to see that
they are true musicians toying
with their songs throughout the
set, deconstructing them and
adding new depths to the album
tracks.”
features
4
6
Casey Cohen, founder of the Yel-
low Bird Project: “I’m not trying
to change the world, I’m just try-
ing to make a difference in peo-
ple’s lives in the same kind of
way that these artists do.”
“It is full of art students, bad
haircuts and tight-fitting gar-
ments. So naturally it is a hive for
numerous musos and brilliant,
small gigs, Femm takes you on
a magical journey through Lon-
don’s East End.” PAGE 10
Also in this month’s issue we
interview The Cooper Tem-
ple Clause and Battle at a
recent gig at Camden Koko.
We have a page devoted to
listings of gigs that you may
not have known about. The
listings is a new feature so
any apologies for inaccura-
cies and limit to the cover-
age. If you can help then
come and join the team!
It’s a flattened iPod and still looks nice

