Hugh Mansfield
columns
femm
3 Friday 10th November 2006
M
odern music is dreadful.
They don't make it like they
used to. This is just noise.
You can't even make out the
words. Bring back rationing
and/or hanging. And so on, ad nauseam.
Accusations of dumbing down or such-
like in music have been around every bit as
long as music itself has been - no sooner did
Pope Gregory come up with plainsong than
congregations started muttering that it was
a poor successor to monotone chanting and
could'st thou turn it down, some of us are
trying to fast here. Not that this afflicts only
the one medium - for one thing, apparently
television has been going downhill ever
since its inception, which would suggest
that such classics as The Black and White
Minstrel Show or It's That Man Again stand
head and shoulders above the dross peddled
out decades down the line such as Cracker
or The West Wing rather than being a sheer
embarassment even to contemplate.
It's only natural for people to calim that
things were better in their youth because,
often, that's true for the individual. But in-
creasingly common is a trend for youngsters
(such as our esteemed music editor himself)
to come out with the same old sorely-mis-
guided nonsense.
The simple truth is that the music that
lasts is that which is most popular at the
time and, unsurprisingly, is most likely to
remain popular in the present day. Conse-
quently, all that is remembered of any by-
gone era is that which was popular, which is
why Citizen Kane is still watched to this day,
whereas How Green Was My Valley isn't.
As a result, we end up comparing the en-
tirety of modern music, which is fresh in the
memory (for better or for worse), with the
enduring classics of any given era, rather
than comparing like with like and consider-
ing the dregs of each every bit as much as
the cream.
Conversely, those who dislike the popu-
lar works of the present every bit as much
as those of the past (such as, say, me) find
the enduring works to be unbearable
suggesting that, in fact, modern music is
far better than that of any previous era.
This, too, misses the point - the weird
and unconventional works of an era are,
by and large, forgotten or worse still, un-
recognised even at the time. This makes
tracking them down very difficult indeed
and stumbling across them is essentially
impossible.
In an age where getting hold of certain
releases is a lost cause even within the
week of their release, even despite the
ease of modern distribution and the won-
ders of internet piracy, what hope is there
of finding an obscure work of genius re-
leased decades before? Or even of know-
ing about it, given the lack of the modern
paper-trail that comes with all-but the
most low-key of self-released works?
The tragedy is that while the works of
Buddy Holly or Abba are likely to endure
fair longer than those of the Tornados
or Leiutenant Pigeon, even those are
amongst the lucky ones still to be remem-
bered. Those who claim there is in some
way a deterioration in popular culture
miss out the crucial factor - that there is
a range of choice to modern media that is
increasingly no longer available to older
works as time goes by, so no matter how
good it may seem to some, it is nonethe-
less dreadfully limited and those who lose
out in such situations are most certainly
not them. How terribly selfish.
James Millen
I
f there is one thing that strikes the
fear of God into me it is the hyphen-
ated word ‘singer-songwriter’. I would
rather fill my brain cavity with whole
pickled monkey testicles via my nose
than have to listen to Damian Rice, Katie
Melua, Jack Johnson, K T Tunstall, James
Blunt, Joss Stone, Jamie Cullum etc. I’m
not even sure if all of them write their own
songs. When these people decide they want
to go solo they seem to lose all imagination,
all vision and a big chunk of the enthusiasm
that was necessary for them to get where
they are.
However, a band can also be a very stifling
place creatively. Often there is an individual
who has the real talent, which is diluted by
his or her band mates wanting their share of
the action. Like any team there have to be
compromises, and in many cases this leads
to the total implosion of the group. Another
consequence of this is that it tends to lead to
a band having a ‘sound’. In the vast major-
ity of cases you can tell the band solely by
their music (vocals are often distinctive, so
ignore them for now), which is not always a
bad thing. By album six however it’s pretty
trying, and boring! Bands are in a market,
they are providing a service, they have a re-
sponsibility to be interesting to listen to.
So the thrust of this article is that all
singer-songwriters are crap, and all bands
are crap. Give up now, and take embroidery
classes.
Actually the thrust of this article is that
there are many one-man bands out there
who have kept the torch of innovation burn-
ing, and with a bit of effort maybe you could
be one of them. I was prompted to write this
idea down (which has been rattling around
in my head for a while) after seeing the Alt
Music Soc’s first Kids Will Be Skeletons club
night at the union. The first band on was in
fact one man (Black Static Transmission,
www.myspace.com/blackstatictransmis-
sion), but you would never have guessed it
if you were blindfolded. He built up an excit-
ing wall of post-rock noise with just a guitar
(um, and a universe of effects pedals) and a
looping device.
A current favourite of mine is Jeremy
Warmsley (www.myspace.com/jeremy-
warmsley) who has just released his saintly
album The Art of Friction. He writes using
a guitar and a laptop, to create wonderfully
fractured, inventive indie music. Often it’s
bursting with energy, and I love the way he
mashes instruments to bits with his com-
puting machine. Another bedroom genius is
everyone’s favourite diminutive inde-disco
mop head Tom Vek (www.tomvek.tv for a
change). Similarly to Mr Warmsley he com-
poses using a bass guitar and a computer,
but cuts a funkier sound. In some places his
debut We Have Sound is scratchily retro, in
others dirtily modern.
There are a host of laptop wizards, but
that’s not really the point I’m trying to make,
I’m talking about the people who strictly are
singer-songwriters (touring with session
musicians doesn’t count) but not shit. One
of the most unique voices in music belongs
to Martin Grech (www.myspace.com/mar-
tingrechofficial), who on his MySpace
page is described as “Alternative/Indus-
trial/Progressive”. On his first album
Open Heart Zoo he showcased his amaz-
ing screaming falsetto amid itchy alterna-
tive rock, and, ahem, epic soundscapes.
His live shows were getting progressively
more frantic and heavy, so by his second
album Unholy he was producing dark in-
dustrial metal, with so much space that
it was truly a special and unique album.
Doesn’t sound your cup of tea? Well he also
frequently peppers his fans with haunting
one-man-and-a-guitar EPs.
So there is some listening fodder for you.
Do you play the guitar but are not skilled
enough to get your ideas out of your head?
Try using a computer to help you, think
outside the box. A technophobe? Then
there are actually a few good traditional
singer-songwriters out there (Liam Frost,
Devendra Banhart, David Ford, Tom
McRae). Maybe in a few years people will
be getting excited about your music, and
you wont have to split your earning five
ways!
opinion
Devendra Banhart looking whimsical, prizes for guessing what he is entranced by

