live
The Raconteurs have done a lot
to impress the music world in
the year they've been together.
Their debut album Broken Boy
Soldiers hit the top ten, reaching
number two in the UK and gath-
ering plenty of critical acclaim
along the way. They've played a
string of massive gigs and festi-
vals including a mind blowing set
at The Leeds Festival. Tonight's
show was to be no exception,
continuing their fantastic year.
After a great warm up from
Norwegian folk/retro-rock sup-
port act Bigbang, The Racon-
teurs hit the pitch black stage
with their Wild West entrance
song. With only one album be-
hind them I wonder how they will
possibly be able to fill an entire
hour and a half set, they'd have
to play Broken Boy Soldiers in its
entirety - not that that would be a
bad thing, it's a fantastic album.
Raconteurs
The Brixton Academy
femm 4
Friday 10th November 2006
After their prolonged feedback laden en-
trance, they begin with Intimate Secretary
a brilliant song that gets a huge and well de-
served response from the sold out Brixton
Academy. The show continues in much the
same way, with the crowd clearly loving the
sheer showmanship that the band displays.
Playing through the majority of the tracks
on their debut album flawlessly, even the
complex vocal harmonies are perfect, they
seem to mesmerize the entire crowd for the
next hour.
As they play it's clear to see that they
are true musicians toying with their songs
throughout the set, deconstructing them
and adding new depths to the album tracks.
They even take on a cover of Sonny Bono's
Bang Bang to great effect. Again they toy
with the track breaking it down and adding
to it, almost doubling its length. For a finale
Blue Veins was a fantastic choice; it's slow
twisting intro builds to a fantastic crescendo
that is even more magical live than on CD.
As the crowd slowly filed out of the building
you could tell they were more than satisfied
by tonight's performance, and who wouldn't
be? A fantastic band of talented musicians
playing what can only be described as a
magical set.
Thomas Whitson
The Raconteurs thrill in Brixton
Femm enjoys indie super-groups, grating and some disco panicking
The Grates
King’s College London SU
The Grates, a three-piece band
from Brisbane, Australia, are
known for their simple, catchy
and energetic songs. Pop, cer-
tainly, but good pop, and positive
comparisons have been made to
both be your own PET and Yeah
Yeah Yeahs. With that in mind,
this gig was no disappointment.
It wasn’t sold out, and despite
being at the barrier there was
plenty of space. Fans (many of
them from Australia) were re-
ally only to be found in the first
row or two of people; this gave
the gig a wonderfully relaxed at-
mosphere – “I’m so relaxed out
here I’m actually meditating”
Patience, lead singer – although
I think it would have been more
fun had the room been filled with
fans, which would have had more
the atmosphere of a party, that I
think would have better suited
The Grates.
That said, they soon won peo-
ple over. I felt that their choice
of first song, Trampoline, was a
good one. It set the tone for the
rest of the set – Pae, relaxed may-
be, but still doing her trademark
dancing and jumping around
the stage (while singing – with
breathlessness thankfully, and
perhaps surprisingly, absent).
Alana, the drummer, seemingly
enjoying every minute of the
song’s catchy drumming.
Even The Grates do have some
songs in which dancing as Pae
does would be clearly inappropri-
ate. However, she obviously still
wanted to do something. In the
case of Rock Boys, she twirled
this baton thing with a ribbon on
the end (anyone in Juggling Soc
care to tell me what it is?), to good effect, I
thought. For much of I Am Siam she knelt
down at the front of the stage and sang to the
people in the first row. For Howl, she passed
the mic to the crowd and let them take over
the howling at the end. For me, it is this is
what makes The Grates really special live.
They have a real connection with the crowd,
even with one that doesn’t particularly know
them, and make people enjoy themselves.
Finishing on InsideOutside, it was obvi-
ous that they weren’t going to leave without
playing first and most famous single, 19 20
20 (although they have been known to skip
an encore in favour of a drink with fans) – so
the wait for the encore was brief. Playing
Panic! At The Disco
The Brixton Academy
Panic! At the Disco entered my musical
world sometime this summer, and after hav-
ing listened to their album countless times
without the initial excitement wearing off,
I was happy to find tickets at a reasonable
price on Ebay. The main hall was completely
full as soon as we got in, which was surpris-
ing as most people generally snob the sup-
port band. It turned out that there was a
good reason for this not being the case this
time, as The Sounds, a female fronted eight-
ies-style pop-rock outfit, were definitely wor-
thy of a support slot for Panic! and provided
entertainment beyond their catchy, dance-
oriented brand of rcok. The lead singer, who
seemed to have had a good few drinks be-
fore the show, put in a great deal of energy
into the set, which led to her standing on top
of the drum set licking her hand and hitting
her arse with it during the last song!
After their 25 minute set, the general ex-
citement grew amongst the groups of 12-15
year old girls (which I must admit seemed to
make up most of the crowd) resulting in loud
screeching throughout the hall. The lights
went off before Panic! came on to start the
set with a double opener consisting of It’s
Time to Dance and London Beckoned Songs
About Money by Machines. Both tracks
were clearly crowd favourites which got eve-
ryone jumping about. This was followed by
The Only Difference Between Martyrdom
and Suicide is Press Coverage, another
one of their ridiculously long-titled tracks
which followed the previous two in terms
of intensity. The effort the band put into
the show and the energy they transmitted
were fantastic and there is nothing to crit-
icise about in that respect. The burlesque
set design and dancers they had arranged
seemed to go down very well with the au-
dience, with the highlight being two very
good looking dancers coming on stage to
start an in-promptu dance routine with
the lead singer.
The tracks came at a very quick pace,
with introductions and spoken moments
being very rare throughout the whole gig.
However Lying is the Most Fun a Girl
Can Have Without Taking Her Clothes
Off was described as a song about ‘angry
sex’, which got an already excited crowd
going crazy.
Most of their best tracks seemed to
come at the beginning of the show, and I
was quite surprised at the lack of greater
enthusiasm when their no.1 single I Write
Wins Not Tragedies was played. This was
probably because of the excessive ra-
dio airing that it has received in the last
months. In any case it was played back to
back with But It’s Better When We Do, due
to the matching chello intro and outro re-
spectively, which worked nicely.
Having just released one album so far,
Panic! quickly started running out of
songs, and resorted to playing two covers
to add length to their set. These were Kar-
ma Police (Radiohead) and a Smashing
Pumpkins track. The crowd seemed rea-
sonably pleased with the choice of tracks,
but they did not bring out the same reac-
tion in them as panic’s own songs.
The set finished with There’s a good rea-
son… which was not the best of songs to
end a show with, and it was obvious that
an encore was to follow. This worked well
due to the inclusion of a new track, which
only the most hardcore of fans knew but
went down well with everyone else too.
The final track Thank God for Esteban
was another dance song which meant
their one-hour set finished on a high note.
Overall the evening was fun and the ef-
fort and energy the band put into it made
it worth the money spent on the tickets. I
would definitely see them again next time
round!
Luca Laraia
just two songs in the encore (Seems enough
to me - Ed), the crowd (even the majority
who weren’t fans) became excited with it’s
distinctive guitar introduction was played,
along with Pae’s distinctive 19, –20, 20 bunny
hops.
Notlongaftertheywentoff-stage,theysoon
appeared, mingling amongst the remaining
crowd. What was great was that it really was
mingling – a few autographs and photos, ob-
viously, but mostly just chatting with fans.
This is something that really couldn’t have
happened at, well, most gigs, actually, and I
think it really added something to an already
grate, sorry, great evening.
Dominic Conquest
Ah the famous problem of who is going to solo first, solution: no solos
The Grates (top); The Bishops (bottom)
TOM WHITSON
ROBIN ANDREWS

