reviews
releases
Octopus Project/Black Moth Super
Rainbow
The House of Apples and Eyeballs
HHHHI
femm
5 Friday 10th November 2006
Two names separated by a slash tend to in-
dicate that the record is a split; for the less
savvy among you, this is when broke bands
get together and do a record together, cos
it costs half as much. Like, duh. Anyway,
this isn’t one of those. This is monster of a
collaboration.
Our heroes; Texas-born many-piece The
Octopus Project have been pitting man (gui-
tar and live drums) against machine (fucked
up synths and samples) since 2002’s slightly
mechanical Identity Parade, with the fol-
low-up, 2004’s One Ten Hundred Thousand
Million, seeing them finally get to grips on
the whole digital/analog thing. Black Moth
Super Rainbow are a somewhat elusive
collective from Pennsylvania, who’ve been
knocking out Boards Of Canada-inspired
weirdness with their own unique psych-
edelic twist for a couple of years. This fan-
tastically titled record is the baby of both
bands, and (thankfully) takes each band’s
strengths and combines them into some
kind of ninety-foot-high nuclear-powered su-
perband. No, I’m not high. From Black Moth
Super Rainbow, we get crackling synths and
pretty melodies; The Octopus Project pro-
vide the perfect foil in the form of gorgeous
live drums and swathes of alternately beau-
tiful and destructive guitar work.
The opener is signature Octopus styl-
ing, all big chromatic synths and ferocious
drumming. What’s new is the sense of re-
straint; left to their own devices, TOP would
probably have mangled the thing beyond all
recognition under a metric ton of guitars (cf.
Music Is Happiness from One Ten Thou-
sand..), BMSR bring an assload of synths to
the party to keep some melody in there.
Marshmellow Window sounds like the
BoC we all miss; wistful, tape-decayed an-
alog burbles and snappy, distorted drum
thumps. El Milq throws four seconds of
grinding noise at you, before morphing into
jazzy, cymbal-heavy drumming and delicate
guitar work that could have come right off
Do Make Say Think’s excellent & Yet & Yet.
Linking these tracks together are short yet
fully-formed little experiments, bringing to
mind the link pieces on BoC’s seminal Mu-
sic Has The Right To Children. Sometimes,
however, these are deeply tedious, like the
pointless warble of Helium Tea, or the non-
sensical noise of Copying Soup Onto Sexy
Birdy (although that’s an excellent song
title).
My favourite track on here, if simply for
the sunshine-filled joyfulness of it, is Psy-
chic Swelling. Coming on like The Go! Team
in dayglo, the track rides the drummer’s
thumping, 60s soul-aping breakbeat and a
dirty, unfiltered bassline, which the BMSR
dudes throw a cheekily cute little melody
over the top that ends up being thunder-
ously backed up by a shedload of classic Oc-
topus guitar noise.
It’s rare that you get collaborations that
play upon the strengths of both sets of art-
ists involved, and even rarer that the result-
ing collaboration sounds better than the
records each individual group has put out,
the usual result being that the record sounds
like it was written by committee. With this
work, though, it’s hard to tell where one
band starts and the other begins, and cer-
tainly going to back to each individual band’s
work it becomes clear how close they were
aesthetically to begin with. That’s probably
why this record succeeds, and does so in ex-
cess of anything I was expecting. Along with
the Clark record I’ve been spinning for the
last month, this is going on my “keeps from
2006” list.
Andy Sykes
Isis
In The Absence of Truth
(Ipecac Recordings)
HHHHH
Emerging from the Boston scene in the late
nineties, Isis took a slightly different path
from most of their contempories, infusing
doom-metal influences into hardcore punk
to make a new brand of music, widely re-
ferred to as ‘post-metal’, although I like to
think of them simply as representing a more
aggressive offshoot of post-punk. Whatever
you want to call them, I’m afraid this album
hasn’t made it any easier, but what can be
agreed on is that this is Isis’ first serious
stab at making an impact on the main-
stream, erm, alternative scene.
Ah, a sell-out album you say! Well no, actu-
ally. For sure, ‘true’ metal fans may feel that
this album is a bit of a let-down, and there’s
no denying that the crushing distortion and
growled lyrics experienced on their past
releases has given way to more reverb and
sullen crooning. Not the greatest voice in the
world, (and I wish they had used more of the
female singing that gave Oceanic such an
epic feel) but it fits the rhythm-heavy mixing
and the effectively deliberate drowned-out
feel. The keyboard usage has gone up, but
that industrial sound on their early mate-
rial has morphed into oft spaced-out, mod-
ern progressive rock; complete with more
pretentious sounding song titles and jazzy
interludes. The gravitas is still there; this is
by no means a happy record, but still a more
accessible one. Much in the same way with
the last Opeth record, this may be Isis-light,
but it’s still Isis nonetheless.
So then, this is unashamedly an alt-rock
album, with catchy riffs galore, and the long
shoe-gazing instrumentals given their own
tracks on the CD. The concept album idea
used in earlier albums seems to have gone
more or less out the window. But like eve-
rything else they’ve released, this is still a
beautiful record (and in an acceptable form
to more casual rock fans). Of course, it’s also
a brazen grab for Tool’s fan base, whom inci-
dentally they are opening for in the good old
US of A. And somehow, they have managed
to beat Tool’s 10,000 Days with an album
that mixes angst and maturity in perfect
measure.
Alex McKitrick
If Cassie is guilty of one thing it is making ir-
resistibly catchy urban pop. Me&U seduced
us with its minimal yet dangerous produc-
tion and now the repetitive horn loop on
Long Way 2 Go was sent from pop heaven
to drive us out of our already overloaded
minds.
Long Way 2 Go doesn’t hint at further vo-
cal ability or deep and meaningful lyrics
but careers have been made on less. Janet
Jackson, for instance, isn’t considered an
amazing chanteuse and gets away with
speak-singing/moaning on her records, but
she indisputably deserves every hit she’s
had.
Similarly, Cassie’s music isn’t about to
change anyone’s life anytime soon but then
again we really shouldn’t expect that from a
female model who has just turned 20.
One person who also deserves a mention
is her talented collaborator/beat-maker,
Ryan Leslie, who is responsible for inspired
production on both singles and most of the
material on her self-titled debut album. We
need to appreciate the producers that still
Cassie
Long Way 2 Go
(Bad Boy)
HHHHI
single review
album reviews
During my time at Imperial I have met
some people with exceptional music
tastes. I’ve had the pleasure of being sub-
jected to the old Alt Music Soc’s scorn in
my first year (the Alt Music Soc is now
very accepting and friendly, thank god
that’s changed), I’ve experienced Mat-
ty’s hairy music editor love, as well as
that of his predecessors. I’ve got naked
at Panic! @ the Roxy, and tried my best
to look cool at Trash, I’ve seen Bloc Party
in fancy dress on Halloween and I’ve been
disturbed by Liars wearing nightdresses,
bear gloves and lycra. But something I
am always picked up on is my brutal igno-
rance of ‘old’ music.
Now to me ‘old’ pretty much means be-
fore 1995, the oldest band I listen to are
Radiohead. People have almost killed me
in the past for not listening to Nirvana,
Hendrix, Dylan, anything from the 80s,
Motown, The Beatles, Classic Rock, Prog
(the first time round), Glam, Led Zepplin,
The Who, Ska etc. It’s just one of my many
charming idiosyncracies.
But now that it’s been six years since
I first obsessively followed a band, and
three whole years since I started uni, I
feel that I actually can look back on some
bands with nostalgia and inspire some of
you who are more open minded than me
to look them up.
I am going to start with my favourite
indie-pop band of all time, with their best
album. I am talking about Easyworld, and
their debut This is where I stand. Two boys
and a girl, one giant ego, one high pitched
voice, one EP and two albums, a trail of
fairy-wing wearing teenage girls crying
at the split, this is their legacy. Granted,
songwriter and front man Dav Ford now
has a solo career, but Easyworld are defi-
nitely dead.
The band stuck to their winning formula
of guitar/keyboard, bass and drums for
their debut. The album begins with Dav
growling and sighing, before breaking
into one of the goddamn happiest songs
I’ve ever heard Try not to think. We’re
talking upper register three part harmo-
nies of loud, cheerful power chords, and
lyrics like “I don’t know why, but I just,
loooooove everything about you”. It was
being 16 for me.
But Easyworld’s music was decidedly
bittersweet. Who can forget the almighty
cry of “You make me want to drink bleeee-
aaaaaccchh!” at the beginning of Bleach,
which also contains one of my all time fa-
vourite phrases, “Choke on happy, drown
in joy”. In fact the whole album is less
about love, more about women making
Dav feel so depressed and belittled he just
wants to lay down and give up.
The whole album is brilliant. It’s loud,
upbeat, lyrically vicious and just so young!
I love it, you’ll love it. It has so many clas-
sics, Junkies and Whores brings me to the
verge of tears every time I hear it, and You
& Me oozes fuck-you cool. It’s a shame the
band self destructed under not wanting to
play Bleach (so damn selfish - Ed) every
night. Oh well, such is life. Check it out,
and if you know me I definitely won’t make
you a copy.
James Millen
bring the heat at a time when even Phar-
rell is shooting blanks.
Maybe Cassie does get a bit more credit
than she should for the doing not very
much at all but if the music is this good
she must be doing something right.
Jemil Salami
Easyworld
This Is Where I Stand
(BMG/Jive)
classic album

