H
aving been dropped
by their label and
losing bassist Didz
Hammond to Dirty
Pretty Things,
The Cooper Tem-
ple Clause have
had a difficult time
throughout the last couple of years. Prior
to their gig at London’s KOKO, we inter-
viewed Kieran Mahon of the ‘Clause and
found out about their new album, touring,
and what they think about being a ‘trendy’
band.
Are you looking forward to this gig and
the tour?
Yeah well the London shows are normally
the pinnacle of the tour and this has come
quite early. We’ve only been on tour for
a week, so its going to be quite scary, we
haven’t done as many shows as we’d like
in preparation. The last three shows have
been really good so we’re looking forward
to hopefully taking that sort of energy to
a bigger crowd that we haven’t played
to like this for ages. We’re officially from
Reading, but we’ve always had a good rap-
port with London. We basically got spot-
ted playing at the Bull and Gate at Kent-
femm 6
Friday 10th November 2006
Two schools of Brit-rock collide
The stalwarts of the ‘Brit-rock’
scene, The Cooper Temple Clause
are back with new material. They
recently played at KOKO with
support from Battle, an up-and-
coming band from the new school
of indie-rock. Jenny Gibson
andTom Whitson catches up with
the former and Sam Lombard has
a word with Battle.
ish town so we’ve always appreciated what
London’s done for us and the scene that it’s
always had.
Are you playing some of you the new stuff
from your forthcoming album?
It’s about fifty-fifty. Obviously people have
heard Damage that we released as a free
download a few weeks ago and Homo Sapi-
ens which is on YouTube and our MySpace
page, so hopefully they’re be aware of those
ones. And the rest of them they don’t know,
but they still go down well. People don’t really
have a clue what’s going on but we play new
old new old so people don’t get alienated
The new video from Homo Sapiens is
great-was that your concept?
No it was a treatment that was sent in. We
liked this one and it was quite fitting with
the theme of the lyrics, which is about us-
ing power and looking into how man has
corrupted various positions with the power
that he has been in, so we wanted to show
in the video us killing corrupt dictators and
politicians. That’s the side that didn’t come
out too clearly and the producers were more
into the random killings. We were looking at
films like Sin City as a reference point with a
comic book style with the white blood splat-
tering. Looking back at our videos they’re
quite eclectic and a bit weird, which is exact-
ly the way we’d want it. If there’s anything
that we don’t want it’s to be predictable and
formulaic. There’s talk of the next video of
maybe continuing on from Homo Sapiens.
At the end we get dragged away and we may
get dragged into the new one, but I can’t re-
veal any more on that I’m afraid.
The lyrics are very ambiguous and not
very definitive do you want to keep it so peo-
ple can make up their own conclusions.
I am not the main lyricist, but I think
what’s great is that we’ve always wanted it
to be open to interpretation, and Make This
Your Own is all about that. It’s about read-
ing into the lyrics and applying them to your
own life and seeing how you can take solace
in them. That’s the great power and com-
fort of music. When you’re feeling down or
happy you might get something out of it. It’s
all a bit clichéd, but from the experience of
our fan-base being so supportive we’ve seen
how important it is really that our fan-base
are the ones that we give it to and we’re
handing it back to them. When you’ve been
in a position where you’ve been abandoned
by your record label and been to places that
are quite dark and depressing, the one thing
that gets you through it is the support.
Battle are supporting you tonight? Did you
choose them yourselves?
Yeah we had a few options. We wanted some-
one that we thought would attract people
but also that our fan-base would like. I’m not
sure if we have the right balance, I need to
see them a couple more times to make up
my mind. They’re really nice guys and we’re
getting on well which is the most impor-
tant thing. And they’re a support band that
doesn’t take up too much time sound check-
ing, or have too much stuff on stage like we
have. Its working out well, so hopefully to-
night will be good.
What sort of things to do you get up to on
the tour bus?
Well it’s a very claustrophobic, coffin-like at-
mosphere. There’re 5 of us in the band and 5
of the crew. We usually just drink lots of red
wine and beer, and watch some DVDs. We’ve
been watching Brass Eye lately, which is
brilliant, and Jam. I also like Arrested De-
velopment, so we watch a lot of that; Family
Guy, South Park. Essentially it is like a big
dormitory environment I suppose. If possi-
ble we don’t stay on the bus, we go out, but
on long journeys you have to keep yourself
busy. You have to bagsy the best bunk so
the first person there gets the best bunk.
On one bus we did have a double room at
the back and our tour manager just took
it straight away, so selfish. It did have an
office so he could do his work in.
People are always under the illusion
that the Cooper Temple Clause is quite
a trendy image band, how do you view
that?
Well I think we’ve always felt a bit alien-
ated from the trends that go on and we’ve
always remained outside them because
we don’t live in London and obviously
we’ve always had our own sound that isn’t
based on any bands that are around at
the moment. We’ve probably got most ap-
preciation for bands that less people have
heard of like dEUS, Mogwai, Sigur Ros,
more instrumental a lot of the time, post
rock experimental bands. But that’s not to
say we just listen to that. There’s a lot of
mainstream stuff we listen to.
What do you think of Dirty Pretty
Things? Did you approve of bassist
Didz’s move?
I think they’re very musical. Of course it
was hard to approve of it at the time, be-
cause you feel a little bit hurt, but we’ve
certainly kept up communication. He’s
coming tonight and it’s all amicable. He
felt that he had to move on and he was
living in a different place, with different
friends. Quite gradually you just realise
you can’t be in the same group any more,
but I don’t hold anything against them. I
like Dirty Pretty Things, I still need to see
them live. I’ve seen them on TV and in vid-
eos but I still want to see them live. They
remind me of some good parts of Elvis
Costello and the Clash and that’s a really
good thing.
The Cooper Temple Clause’s new album
Make This Your Own is out in January.
Having listened to their new material
during their headlining set at KOKO’s, it
is bound to be a well received follow on to
2003’s fantastic Kick Up the Fire and Let
the Flames Break Loose.
Ben of The Cooper Temple Clause (top right); The many, moody faces of TCTC (above)
ALL PHOTOS TOM WHITSON

