feature
femm
7 Friday 10th November 2006
artists
in
focus
B
attle, KOKO, and an all ac-
cess pass - a good setup,
for a very good night. For
those of you who aren’t in
the know, Battle are a four-
piece band from London,
and KOKO is a reasonably
sized venue in Camden.
Battle opened with Beautiful Dynasty, a
b-side from one of their four single releas-
es. They appeared onstage in a lazy man-
ner and gradually added their input to the
drummer’s (Oliver Davies) enthusiastic
beat. Looking around, only half of the crowd
looked as if they had heard anything of Bat-
tle before. Not that it mattered; since by
the second song I was fairly convinced that
every single person in the venue was almost
addicted to the sound.
Although the vocals could have been more
audible they sounded sharp, and the band
looked as if they were enjoying the set just
as much as everyone else. After the set we
wandered backstage to find the band.
Sitting in the green room casually talking
to the Cooper Temple Clause (the next per-
formers and, indeed, the headlining act), and
the lead singer from Bloc Party (just there
to see the gig), was nowhere near as surreal
as I felt it should have been. Half of Battle
wander in and collapse on the couch. Hav-
ing had to cancel the previous night’s gig in
Nottingham due to illness, they stay only for
a brief chat then head off to get some rest,
leaving us with guarantees that the band’s
other half will reappear at some point.
After drinking a fairly substantial amount
of Cooper Temple Clause’s vodka, we find
James and Tim (lead guitar and bass gui-
tar). After congratulating them on a fantas-
tic set we got down to an interview.
So about 8 months ago now I picked up
your single Tendency out of our papers’ re-
view box and thought it was pretty damn
good. But I haven’t been able to find much
more of your stuff. What’s out there? Is
there anything on the way we can look
forward to?
Really? That’ll be ‘cause most of them are
limited releases, but there’s a mini album
coming out on Monday (23rd) - 7 tracks for
you.
What about a full album?
It’ll be out next year, were not quite sure
when yet. Basically what happened was we
had an album all ready to go but we’ve been
writing quite a lot of new songs and some of
the songs we’d recorded were getting quite
old.
I mean you’ve got your whole life to make
your first album, that’s what they say. It’s a
bit scary so we said we’d build up a fan base
and write some wicked songs. So we took
some of the tracks off the album to make
this mini album and we’ve got some new
songs on there as well.
The actual LP is now down and ready
for finishing touches to about 7 tracks, but
we’ve been writing a load of new stuff that
we're really happy with.
Yeah, that new track you played tonight
was immense; I think I was the third one?
We were a bit nervous about that one ‘cause
we’d literally just finished it.
Well if it helps we thought it was up there
with Tendency (second released single).
You’ve done a fair bit of touring over the
last few months, best gig of the summer?
Erm… It was the little shows, the funny lit-
tle ones. We did one in Aberdeen in a trendy
pub it was really small and there were a load
of sofas at the back with people just drink-
ing wine. But there was just something
about the sound and the way we played and
connected.
I mean tonight’s gig was good but, well I
only get nervous now when we play London
cause all your friends and family are there
and everyone’s expecting so much of you.
I count about 9/10 months now you’ve
been Battle, is that right?
Nah, I think it’s been longer than that. I
mean we released our 1st single in Septem-
ber last year (Demons). I guess we changed
our name just before we were signed.
What were you called to begin with?
Well we were called Killing Moon, but ba-
sically it was a shit name so we were like,
“We’ve got to change it!” So we did and I’m
glad we did. We moved forward away from
that one.
So does the name Battle mean anything in
particular for the four of you?
Yeah it does actually, it does. Its sort of the
idea of struggling against the odds, I don’t
just mean in terms of your career as the
band, that'd be self indulgent. But you know
all good art is born out of some sense of
dissatisfaction. I mean if you’re happy and
you’re sorted and you’re already rich, that’s
when bands get shit and when your art gets
shit. So it’s sort of the idea of struggling and
battling against the odds to achieve your
dreams. We all think we're in a good band,
but we’ll never be the band we want to be.
So, a year’s time maybe your own head-
line tour, what venue in London would you
like to be playing at?
In a year’s time? That’s a hard question. I
mean, I don’t want to be one of these bands
that shoots to the top, and so far we haven’t,
it’s been a steady build. All we've got is our
songs and in our heads we’ve done so much.
But really we only have two singles released,
I think when we get the album out it’ll put
everything in context and we’ll build from
there. But to answer the question, I’d love to
play the Astoria. We don’t want to shoot off
and do huge venues yet and the Astoria still
has that intimacy. We’ve played a few bigger
gigs and it’s like, “What’s going on?”
So the next few months what’s in store for
battle?
Well, we’ve got the rest of this tour which is
quitelong,thenafewdaysinIrelandandthen
we’re doing the Warehouse Project in the old
Boddington’s Brewery (Manchester)
To complete our commentary I thought it
suitable to review Battle’s latest release to
encourage you to go check them out. This
EP features 7 tracks, their longest release
to date, the majority of which are taken
from previously released 7-inches and
singles. Not that there's anything wrong
with that, as the tracks form a great mini
album serving its purpose of introducing
Battle to the world.
Speaking of it's length, NME described
the EP like premature ejaculation, over
frustratingly quickly. It's hard to disagree
with this statement due to the sheer qual-
ity of the tracks on the EP - it's clear right
from track one that Battle write great
songs.
Hard as it is to choose from the 7 tracks
my personal favourite is Tendency.
There's something about the way Jason
Bavanandan sings the clearly heartfelt
lyrics. Something that frequently shines
through on the EP is this raw emotion
that inspires Battle's music - a rarity in the
modern world of manufactured bands.
Tom Whitson
Do you have a timescale for getting back
into the studio and getting some of the
newer songs recorded?
I think we’re planning to finish the album
in January, so this month and next month
we’re going to do a fair few demos then
take a bit of a break over December and
knock it out fairly fast in January.
So how did Battle come about, how did
you all meet?
Well Jamie (guitar) and Jason (vocals)
were at school together. We went to uni
together specifically to form a band. It
sounds very fanciful, and it was very fan-
ciful, but after a bit we met Tim (bass) and
more recently, about a year and a half ago,
we met Oliver (drums). I don’t know why
but it’s always the drummer that’s hard to
find.
One final question and then I’ll let you
get to the aftershow. What’s your fa-
vourite drink?
Favourite drink? Orange juice! Or water,
I love water.
That’s not particularly rock-’n’-roll, no
alcohol?
Jason and I are basically tee-total you see.
Got drunk too much at uni, embarrassed
myself one to many times.
I wish these guys the best of luck, because
I really would like to see them a year from
now with their own headline spot some-
where like the Astoria.
Battle
Back to Earth
(Transgressive)
HHHHI
EP review
ALL
PHOTOS
TOM
WHITSON
The lead singer from Battle before slamming his guitar into his bits (left) and then screaming from said collision (right)

