femm 8
Friday 10th November 2006
Guitars, giving and some chari-Ts
Ignore the poor pun in the title, The Yellow Bird Project is a project that
has inspirational artists and bands designing T-shirts. The profits from
the selling of the shirts goes to various charities. Matty Hoban speaks
to one of the founders and sheds some light how such an interesting
premise came about and what the future of the project will entail.
T
his may sound petty
and cheap but I know
I’m not the only person
who gets annoyed by
the charity representa-
tives who harass you
on the street. I am a
charitable person, and
I have done quite a bit of volunteering for
various causes including Amnesty Inter-
national. It actually depresses me that I
have to say no to a charity due to having
barely any money, and they make me feel
bad for it. It is exploitation. So any time I
see an inventive and genuine charitable
cause I get enthusiastic about it. One such
cause that has come to my attention re-
cently is called the Yellow Bird Project, a
Montreal-based community.
The premise is simple; bands and the
project design T-shirts together, sell them
and give the proceeds to charities of the
artists’ choice. It is a brilliant way of pro-
moting a great musical community and
contributing to something good whilst
giving the fans a cool-looking T-shirt. The
artists involved are predominantly from
across the Atlantic (not as many from
Montreal’s impressive scene as yet) and
include: Hayden (a Canadian singer-song-
writer); Stars (gorgeous Canadian indie-
pop); Clap Your Hands Say Yeah (ubiqui-
tous indie-rockers); Devendra Banhart
(folk king who was the first to get involved
in the project); Wolfmother (Australian
psychedelic-rock); King Creosote (mak-
ers of Scottish folk-inspired bliss); Joseph
Arthur (singer-songwriter from Ohio);
My Brightest Diamond (Michigan-based
sometime Sufjan Stevens collaborator);
and Rilo Kiley is soon to collaborate. With
a wide array of artists, there should be a
lot of appeal.
Femm managed to get in touch with one
of the founders, Casey Cohen, and learn
a bit more about the project. With such a
unique project, I was interested in what in-
spired him to do it. “Music is what inspired
me initially. I have always been profoundly
influenced by music. It motivates me to get
in touch with myself. When we identify with
something that we are passionate about, it
helps us lead a more authentic life. Then we
start thinking about how important it is to
help others. So in some way I believe that
music can be a catalyst for helping others.
So many people are inspired by music, and I
wanted to find a way to harness that inspira-
tion, and push it in a charitable direction.”
I’m sure many of you who are reading are
genuinely interested in music and share his
vision and feel the need to do something but
might find it difficult to get in touch with
artists or organize something but Casey as-
sured us that, “Sometimes these bands are
busy on tour or recording, and it can be diffi-
cult to correspond with them. But invariably
we get through to them, and they’re always
really encouraging and supportive.” Start-
ing the project like this means finding art-
ists who would share the vision and Casey
says, “I approached a group of my favourite
artists, who I thought would be willing to do
this in the first place. They tend to be the
more introspective poet types, who have the
capacity to reach out to people on a more
humane level.”
Whether you like the music or don’t, as you
are entitled, I’m sure you can agree with the
causes, which vary from The Teenage Can-
cer Trust – Wolfmother’s charity of choice –
to Art for Change, a charity promoting social
progression and justice through art, a cause
to which Clap Your Hands Say Yeah want
to donate. Casey informs me that, “Most of
these bands have chosen charities which
are really personal to them, and I think that
that is something else that gives this project
special meaning.” With this message of
charity, it becomes obvious that they aren’t
working through the big, brash
and ultimately su-
perficial statement
that Live8, amongst
others, does. Sure, they
were promoting the very
good cause – the end to pov-
erty – but seeing huge Nokia
ads and big, corporate rock
stars who make far too much
money stumble onstage after a
coke binge and talk about dying
children, this didn’t sit well with
me. With this project, a mes-
sage of community gets carried
through and as Casey says, “It
is not just about fundraising, it’s
also about facilitating a communi-
ty of artists, and spreading the word
about their music.” It is a cohesive and
progressive vision.
This vision starts small and he [Casey] is
the first to acknowledge this, “I’m not trying
to change the world, I’m just trying to make
a difference in people’s lives in the same
kind of way that these artists do. When I
spoke to the director of Le Chainon, the lo-
cal Montreal women’s shelter, she told me
that they were short on food reserves,
and that with 1000 dollars they will
be able to help serve nutritious
meals to their guests. So I know that’s we’re
making a difference in people’s lives, and
music is the catalyst which enables us to do
that.” The huge actions of ending poverty
should start small, without the bureaucracy,
and gain momentum by giving people some-
thing to believe in as opposed to hearing
Razorlight’s latest single and going home
unaffected.
I asked Casey about the future of the
project and I was informed of the short-
term plans like, “Rilo Kiley’s T-shirt will
be ready in a week or so. Other artists who
have confirmed are Jose Gonzalez, Raine
Maida (from Our Lady Peace) and Chantal
Kreviasuk, and Holly Throsby. We’re also
going after another group of bands, so peo-
ple should continue to visit our site for up-
dates.” The website is www.littlebirdproject.
com and you can find out about the charities
to which the bands have selected and you
can purchase the T-shirts for £15 including
shipping. When asked about longer term
plans such as shows to promote the project,
he said, “This is something that we have
been thinking about and maybe at some
point down the line we will try to put on
a benefit concert. At the moment we have
our hands full, but we’ll see what happens.
I guess it would seem like the next logical
step though.” I look forward to when they
can group all the artists together and put
on a great show.
On a more personal level, I asked what
his favourite artist was, out of all of those
on the project. He replied that, “I love all
of them, and I go through so many phas-
es,” but he conceded that, “I would prob-
ably say my favourite has to be Stars. At
least they rank highest in my iTunes top
25, I know that much.” I think I’d agree
with him, they make wonderful and addic-
tive music and the T-shirt they designed
has a cool design of someone sleeping
with their headphones on with stars radi-
ating from the headphones. Let’s hope the
Yellow Bird Project makes as much of an
impact on people as the music, because
that’s what it all comes down to, passion
about music.
Clockwise from top-left; Stars, King Creosote, Wolfmother and Clap Your Hands

