In pursuit of the perfect boiled egg
Cooking + science + bald, domed foreheaded, self-confessed culinary alchemist = molecular gastronomy
I have to begin this review with a
warning – watching In Pursuit Of
Perfection could seriously titillate
your taste buds. This new eight-
part cookery series features the
‘flavour-of-the-month’ chef Heston
Blumenthal demonstrating how to
‘perfect’ everyday dishes, such as
pizza, spag bol, and fish and chips.
The secret – believe it or not – is
science. Blumenthal is a self-styled
‘culinary alchemist’ who practises
the art of ‘molecular gastronomy’.
This hi-tech approach to cooking is
all about understanding how to pre-
Edward Wawrzynczak pare and combine ingredients to
optimise the way food looks, smells
and tastes. Hold on, I can hear you
ask, isn’t this what cooking has al-
ways been about? Well, yes – even
Blumenthal admits that what he
does is old-fashioned cooking with
a bit of science thrown in.
As the proprietor of The Fat
Duck, which has been awarded
three Michelin stars and was voted
‘best restaurant in the world’ in
2005, Blumenthal is famous for in-
novative dishes that bring together
unexpected combinations such as
snail porridge and bacon-and-egg
ice cream. So you can figure out
that he is a seriously smart cook
and not a man to trifle with.
And, as you might expect, this
professor of kitchen science has
his own laboratory with all kinds
of experimental apparatus that
would not be amiss in the typical
university chemistry department.
Indeed, he looks comfortingly bof-
fin-like with his domed forehead,
safety goggles and thermal gloves.
The white uniform he wears is, of
course, common to both kitchen
and lab.
In pursuit of the perfect banger,
Blumenthal and his team experi-
mented to find the right combina-
tion of meat, casings, filler, spices,
seasonings, flavourings, and prepa-
ration conditions. If I simply men-
tion that you need to use pork thigh
to retain moisture, oak-smoked
back fat for the authentic barbe-
cued taste, and water flavoured
with oven-toasted bread, you will
gather that this is no ordinary cook-
ery programme.
In fact, this programme is so ex-
traordinary that it is difficult to
figure out who it is aimed at. The
lab-concocted recipes are quite
impractical – if not impossible – for
the average cook. And the details
do not appear on the BBC website
so that you will fail to reach sausage
heaven, even if you are a dedicated
chef, unless you buy the inevitable
recipe book.
Seeing Blumenthal standing by
a gas chromatograph and sniffing
aromas – “I’m getting candyfloss,
molasses, even a slight ‘figgy’ note,
also a note of overripe banana”
– reminded me of those pompous,
so-called expert pundits of the wine
world. The posturing was made
even more amusing by the fact that
much earnest investigation failed
to displace Golden Syrup as the es-
sential ingredient of treacle tart.
On balance, the first programme
of the series was well made and
was suitably light and entertain-
ing fare. But, despite the novelty of
the science angle, it failed to avoid
the clichéd and outworn format of
the genre. So if the cooking is a lit-
tle tedious to watch, the recipes a
stretch to execute, and the science
a bit of a gimmick, why should you
watch the series?
The answer is straightforward.
Anything that takes the trial-and-
error out of cooking, and makes you
better at it, is worth knowing about.
And Blumenthal knows his stuff.
In Pursuit Of Perfection offers up
enough useful tips to make it worth
following. Believe me, I’ve tried
some of the recipes in my labora-
tory – er, kitchen – and the results
were excellent.
Eddie Wawrzynczak as Blumenthal’s sous-chef back in the day when
they worked together in London’s The Whopping Sausage
A Michelin star cross’d food lover. Heston Blumenthal recites his
soliloquy before downing the poisoned espresso Heston Blumenthal practises his next award winng recipe at home in his luxury kitchen
PhD Comics
SYNDICATED
FROM
WWW.PHDCOMICS.COM
31
felix
Friday 10 November 2006
TV tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk

