Shooting tiny little balls at people
IC’s Airsoft club take to the fair fields of England with replica firearms; amazingly, they make it back alive
Nathan Roberts
Last Sunday was just another glo-
rious day in the corps. for the bat-
tle-hardened members of ICAirsoft,
as they made the arduous journey
to the mecca of military simulation
that is Tunbridge Wells. In this most
unlikely of settings a day-long skir-
mish was taking place, one of sev-
eral trips organised for members of
ICAirsoft on a termly basis.
For those unfamiliar with the in-
tense world of Airsoft, it can be best
thought of as paintballing’s more
serious sibling, with the paintballs
replaced by plastic ball bearings
fired from replica firearms. A wood-
land skirmish basically consists of
two teams in full camouflage gear
running about a field/forest shoot-
ing at each other. In order to lend
a more tactical edge to the conflict,
ojectives are set for each team, forc-
ing them to work together to crush
the opposition.
A total of 6 of IC’s finest were
brave enough to take on the world
(and the 6a.m. wake up call in order
to get there on time!). Even non-
stop rain wasn’t enough to put a
stop to the proceedings, and by the
end of the day everyone had enjoyed
a thorough soaking, along with sev-
eral interesting mission scenarios.
These included an assault on a vehi-
cle convoy and a mission to retrieve
the ingredients to make Snakebite,
an activity more usually associated
with drunken Sports Nights at the
Union, which took on a whole new
dimension whilst under enemy fire!
Everyone performed well on the
day, including several new mem-
bers of the club, with this intrepid
reporter (erstwhile ICAirsoft Treas-
urer) getting the chance to indulge
in some lone-wolf Rambo-style
shenanigans!
Despite a slightly chaotic feel to
the proceedings, and the decid-
edly inclement weather, everyone
involved had an enjoyable Sunday
in the combat zone, and already the
Committee are working on plans
for the next excursion for ICAirsoft,
which should be at the end of the
Christmas term.
For more information, contact IC
Airsoft at icairsoft@gmail.com
Kind of like pool, but with fingers
PakSoc organise a carrom tournament; the game itself is likely to have begun in India, and is centuries old
Past experience has shown that
Asian societies at Imperial have a
strange tendency to largely host
events that are lacking a cultural fo-
cus. IC Pakistan Society has there-
fore begun its series of events this
year with a determination to move
away from this and become a Soci-
ety that is removed from the usual
tried and tested events.
Inline with this, the 25th of Octo-
ber saw IC “PakSoc” taking a trip
to a restaurant in West London, but
travelling in a traditional Tiara bus,
educating students on the most
prominent form of public transport
in Pakistan, with a 3 course meal
thrown in! More recently though,
on Wednesday the 1st of November,
PakSoc hosted a Carrom Board
tournament,. Best described as
pool with fingers, it is essentially
a board game where players must
pocket their carrommen pieces
before their opponent by flicking
a white striker piece against their
own pieces, with the final shots
needing the red queen piece to be
potted. On the surface it may seem
simple but as Emerson, Felix’s pho-
tographer, will tell you, there is a
lot more skill and mental rigour in-
volved, as was also witnessed in the
final matches of the tournament.
The winner of the tournament won
30 pounds in cash with the second
and third positions getting boxes of
chocolates and a PakSoc pat on the
back! The important fact though is
that it was a huge success and eve-
ryone had a great time socialising
over a few light hearted games.
To round up this term’s activities
and before next term’s massive
inter-uni art & culture exhibition;
debate on the future of Pakistan;
political lecture series; quiz night
and the girls-only dholki raat, we
are having our annual charity din-
ner event. This is going to be on the
29th of November and will include a
sumptuous 3 course meal and com-
edy from some big names! Tickets
will be on sale soon (email me on
aaw204@ic.ac.uk for info) and I
hope to see you guys there!
Ammar Waraich
The aim of the game is to use
your “striker” piece to hit your
pieces, or carromen, into pock-
ets at the corner of the board.
You must do this without any
part of your body except your
hand crossing over the board,
or the diagonal line extending
from the board. You can pocket
the red ‘queen’ piece at any
time, but you must pocket one
of your carromen in your next
shot, or the queen is returned to
the board.
The rules of carrom
PHOTOS BY EMERSON VIGOUREUX
Top: the carrom board, showing the “striker” piece. Below: PakSoc members take the game seriously
38 felix Friday 10 November 2006
lubs& ocieties
S
C
They may well look like real guns, but they’re just replicas. At least, that’s what they told the policemen

