IPOs: when companies go public
If a company needs to raise cash,
it does so by either borrowing (in
the form of loans or bonds) or sell-
ing portions of the company to in-
vestors. These portions, known as
shares (or equity), give the bearer
ownership of a part of the compa-
ny’s assets and profits.
A company wishing to issue
shares for the first time must do
so in an Initial Public Offering or
IPO. This is the act of floating, and
makes privately owned companies
(for example, a company owned by
one individual) into publicly owned
companies (companies owned by
their shareholders). Shares in pri-
vate companies cannot be obtained
without the consent of the owners,
whereas shares in public compa-
nies can be bought by any member
of the public and are traded openly
on a stock exchange.
There are several different ways
in which an IPO may be carried
out. In a placing, the most common
method of flotation, the bank advis-
ing the company, will contact insti-
tutional investors (for example, the
managers of pension funds who
have a significant amount of cash
they wish to invest for the good of
their clients). The bank will offer
to sell a portion of the company’s
shares to such an investor for a
price determined by the bank.
An offer for sale is a more expen-
sive method, due to the publicity
required, and is generally used for
very large companies. However,
under recent rules, this method
may be combined with a flotation
by placing. Firstly, a company sets
out its operations, including an of-
fer price per share, in a detailed
prospectus. In a conventional offer,
investors wishing to buy shares at
the offer price then apply to do so
before the deadline. After the dead-
line, the shares are allocated and
the company receives its cash. If
the offer is oversubscribed, each
investor may be given fewer shares
than applied for or shares may be
allocated by ballot. In a tender offer,
no price is given; rather, the inves-
tors will give a price themselves.
After the deadline, the investor
with the highest price will be given
shares first, and so on until all the
shares have been allocated.
The price offered per share in a
placing or conventional offer for
sale is set by the advising bank.
Usually, this is marginally lower
than the price it believes it can ob-
tain. This causes a rise in the price
of the shares when they begin trad-
ing, reflecting well upon the com-
pany. If every penny were squeezed
from the shares in the IPO, the
share price may fall when trading
begins, making the company look
bad and possibly being worse in the
long run.
The amount of capital raised by a
company depends on two factors:
the prospects of the company and
the state of the market. The latter
is difficult to control; for example,
the Bank of England may increase
interest rates, making the market
nervous and less willing to buy
shares in the company, harming
its flotation. To protect against this
uncertainty, companies will have
their shares underwritten. Under-
writing is the process by which
an investment bank (acting as the
underwriter) will, for a fee, agree
to carry the risk of any shares that
are not sold (i.e. if the offer is un-
dersubscribed). In the event of this,
the bank will buy back any unsold
shares so that the company can
be sure that all their shares are
sold and the floatation is a success.
When issues are successful and
there are sufficient investors to buy
the stock, the underwriters stand
to make a substantial fee; however,
a poorly received offer can cost un-
derwriters millions of pounds.
Clever tactics may also be used
to help flotations. Greenshoes help
keep share prices up after trading
begins. Known as an over-allotment
4 felix Friday 10 November 2006
BUSINESS business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The trading floor, where billions of pounds switch hands instantly
option, this is best described with
an example.
The underwriters for company
A sell 1 million shares in an IPO,
plus an additional amount, say
100,000, that the underwriter short
sells (selling shares that you don’t
own). When shares begin trading, if
the price falls, the underwriter will
buy 100,000 shares from the market
to cover the short selling. The act
of buying shares pushes the price
back up, and leaves the underwrit-
er with a profit (as they bought back
from the market at less than the
price they sold at). If however the
price rises, the underwriter is left
with 100,000 short sold shares that
they must cover. Instead of mak-
ing a loss by buying these from the
market, the underwriter exercises
the greenshoe, which allows them
to buy 100,000 shares from compa-
ny A at issue price (the price they
were shorted for). Greenshoes are
so named because such an option
was first granted to underwriters
by the Green Shoe Company.
Some of the most publicised
IPOs include Google, who floated
in August 2004, with an offering of
$1.7 billion, ICBC (Industrial and
Commercial Bank of China), who
successfully completed the world’s
largest ever float of $21.8 billion in
October this year, and the 1987 is-
sue of British Petroleum, that was
so poorly received by the market
it cost its underwriters millions of
pounds to buy back its undersub-
scribed shares.
Last Thursday Imperial Entrepre-
neurs (IE) followed their hugely
successful launch event with an
even hotter one to mark the start
of their Spark A Company (SAC)
program.
James Murray Wells, founder and
managing director of Glassesdirect.
co.uk, was the featured speaker, an
outstanding choice to launch SAC
as this program hopes to inspire
students to do exactly what he did –
getting his venture going and mak-
ing a success of it. At 23, James has
grown Glassesdirect from starting
with £1000 to a business expected
to turnover over £3m this year in
just two years. Undercutting his
high street rivals by up to ten times,
Glassesdirect has sent shockwaves
through the optical industry, a mar-
ket worth over £2.4 billion a year in
the UK. In 2005 he won the UK Shell
LiveWIRE Young Entrepreneur of
the Year award, Credit Suisse En-
trepreneur of the Year award, and
Enterprising Young Brit 2005 and
attracted press coverage in publica-
tions including the FT, The Sunday
Times, and The Daily Telegraph.
In addition, of the top 50 entrepre-
neurs of 2005 as rated by startups.
co.uk, he beat Sir Richard Branson,
Sir Alan Sugar, and Stelios Haji-Io-
annou, to come 1st place.
James told students how he re-
members having had a few brilliant
business ideas before, which he let
pass him by. However when he had
his latest eureka moment he decid-
ed to finally do something about it
and take that idea all the way to cre-
ate a concrete business. He started
researching the glasses sales mod-
el, questioning it, wondering why a
pair of glasses should cost around
£150 when they contain “less metal
than a spoon”. Soon he realized that
the high cost did not come from the
raw materials or suppliers but from
the high street shops who inflated
distributor prices to make big prof-
its. After researching the feasibil-
ity of his idea he recruited 8 other
university students and turned his
parent’s home into his office dur-
ing the early stages of the start up.
He nostalgically remembers cables
running from bedroom to bedroom,
up and down the stairs, and his
mum making “bacon sandwiches in
the kitchen” for his new employees.
Sales began to come in almost im-
mediately, and the business began
to grow. He is now planning an in-
ternational expansion to take place
sometime next year. He also told of
how in addition to all the well known
obstacles of setting up your own
business straight out of university,
he has been experiencing mount-
ing pressure from big high street
retailers who try to push him out
of business. His exhibits included
legal notices from lawyers, letters
and faxes from suppliers unwilling
to deal with him, and even disturb-
ing (yet quite funny) recorded tel-
ephone conversations with insider
‘double agents’.
The event was followed by a
sumptuous reception at the trendy
Med Kitchen on Gloucester Road.
It provided a fun and flamboyant
networking opportunity where ide-
as and business cards were fiercely
exchanged. Members from all main
entrepreneurship societies were
there: Cambridge Entrepreneurs,
Oxford entrepreneurs, LSE entre-
preneurs, and Imperial Entrepre-
neurs came together and discussed
entrepreneurial interests while
enjoying chilled white wine and
Mediterranean-food starters. John
Wilson from Folio Partners said, “It
was great to see so many students
bursting with ideas and enthusiasm
to run businesses.”
Spark A Company lights up
James Wells (glassesdirect) and Alex Backshall, IE creative officer
Craig Lukins & Emily Tam
Business Correspondents
It’s unlikely that in your entrepre-
neurial lectures at Tanaka you’ve
ever heard starting a company lik-
ened to firing a Bazooka, but Charlie
Osmond’s opening salvo of “Ready,
Fire, Aim?” will long go down in
the memories of those that were
present at the spectacular launch
of the Imperial Entrepreneurs soci-
ety on the 19th of October.
Together with Alex Tew, founder
of Milliondollarhomepage.com, and
Michael Smith of Firebox.com, the
trio set the scene for an engaging
night of anecdotes and fly-on-the-
wall accounts of starting up. Smith
entertained the audience with how
a drunken night of chess inspired
Firebox’s first ever product, the
shot-glass chess set, and how the
site embarrassingly almost went
out of business when their origi-
nal name, Hotbox, was found to be
the domain of a popular adult site!
Alex Tew, creator of milliondol-
larhomepage, surprised many of
the audience by playing down he
was a one-hit wonder and explain-
ing that before setting up the mil-
liondollarhomepage, his entrepre-
neurial drive started at the age of
12 selling comics and at 17 setting
up the largest community of beat-
boxers in the world on humanbeat-
box.com. Alex also dropped hints of
his next venture, which plays on his
original theme of the pixelated phe-
nomenon but enables the user to
share money generated by the site.
All three speakers were keen to
stress that while luck had played a
part, had they not taken the plunge
while still being a student they
would have undoubtedly ended up
being stuck on the career hamster-
wheel and many times worse off
financially.
The buzz and energy of the
evening spilled over into the lav-
ish afterparty in the Tanaka bar,
allowing many Imperial Entrepre-
neurs members to network and
bounce ideas with invited entrepre-
neurs and investors over copious
amounts of Cobra beer and snacks.
The guestlist spanned many well
known companies, including the
BBC, MTV networks, Vodafone,
and the Sunday Times. The night
provided a genuine opportunity for
Imperial students to look beyond
the gloss and hype that surrounds
how entrepreneurship is presented
and get inside the personalities
of the entrepreneurs at the event.
The event was described by Simon
Stockley, head of the MBA pro-
gramme at the Tanaka Business
School, as “the best student event
I’ve ever been to”, and by IE mem-
ber Frank Mayne as “the epitome
of cool!”
Entrepreneurs’ launch party
Michael Smith from firebox.com
Sumon Sadhu
Business Correspondent

