First it was Nature, then New Sci-
entist, and Scientific American, but
so far so normal for a Science news
story. But when The Guardian, The
New York Times, and The Econo-
mist start running features on the
same subject, it’s time to sit up and
take notice. But what is this big
news? What is iGEM? Felix delves
into the new field of synthetic biol-
ogy to bring you perhaps the most
exciting news this century.
iGEM (international Genetically
Engineered Machine) is an annual
competition for undergraduate sci-
entists originally set up in order to
address a simple question. Can sim-
ple biological systems can be built
from standard interchangeable
parts and operated in living cells,
or is biology is too complicated to
be engineered in this way?
Research of this kind falls under
the new ‘synthetic biology’ banner.
Waclaw Szybalski of the University
of Wisconsin believes this work rep-
resents the beginning of a new era
in engineering and biology: “The
work on restriction nucleases not
only permits us to easily construct
recombinant DNA molecules and
to analyse individual genes but also
has led us to a new era of synthetic
biology where not only existing
genes are described and analysed
but also new genes arrangements
can be constructed and evaluated.”
This cutting edge area of research
is a combination of engineering and
biology. Scientists unite to break
down biological systems into their
constituent parts and then engineer
new systems from them, much like
the components of a circuit are con-
structed within electronics. This al-
lows the power of the cell to be har-
nessed and engineered to produce
wide ranging results.
Dr. Kesling at the University of
California is devising a way to syn-
thesise artemisinin (an antimalarial
drug) cheaply. Currently this drug
is extracted from a type of worm-
wood mainly found in china and
producing the chemical by standard
chemistry is highly impractical due
to the number of complicated steps
involved, making the chemical ex-
pensive. Armed with a $42.6 million
grant from the Bill and Melinda
Gates foundation, a partnership
between Amyris Biotechnologies,
the Institute for OneWorld Health,
and the University of California;
Keasling is developing a method to
use cells as a ‘factory’ to produce
artemisinic acid, which can then be
converted to artemisinin. The goals
of synthetic biology are far reach-
ing, including building biological
systems that process information,
manipulate chemicals, fabricate
materials, produce energy, provide
food, maintain and enhance human
health and the environment.
One such project is making cellu-
Honey, I shrunk the technology
losic ethanol, used to produce car-
bon neutral fuels. At present this
is produced by fermenting sugar
and starch, but the process is ineffi-
cient due to yeast not being unable
to digest the 100 per cent of mate-
rial. However some species of fungi
and bacteria can do this job and it is
hoped by identifying the genes that
enable them to do this job and reas-
sembling them into a new pathway
it will be possible to produce sys-
tems able to digest the whole plant.
For some synthetic biologists the
proof of their field is not an artifi-
cial metabolic pathway but an ar-
tificial organism. This is precisely
what the man who first sequenced
a whole organism’s genome is plan-
ning to do. He believes he will be
able to “synthesise a working bac-
terial genome from scratch in two
years.” Dr. Venter and Hamilton
Smith are first creating a stripped
down bacterial genome at the Ven-
ter institute in Rockville. He has
been scouring the oceans for bac-
terial genes, his current collection
clocking in at 6 million.
Of course this kind of science
doesn’t come without it’s risks. Cur-
rently the highest risk is a biohack-
er or political terrorist using the
metabolic pathways to their own
ends. Another would be accidental
escape of the organisms. “New or-
ganisms can’t pass the exam of evo-
lution any way. If they were released
they wouldn’t survive in the natural
world,” Vincent Rouilly reports. As
one of the seniors working on the
iGEM project he naturally defends
the developing and exciting field.
There is no risk-free technology, but
synthetic biology has an extra twist
– the risks can breed. Currently the
risks are very low due to the lack of
survivability of the pathways and
organisms created in the lab. Natu-
rally, as understanding grows, then
so will the danger.
Scientists are
aware of
the risks
involved and are promoting public
debate over the issues to prevent
early legislation.
As the field grows synthetic biol-
ogy becomes more able to produce
chemicals and organisms which
were previously hard to create or
find. With its wide ranging applica-
tion and initial exciting success who
knows what the future holds for syn-
thetic biology?
The future of synthetic biology? IC iGEM team’s BioOscillator
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED!
Why not get active in the community whilst you’re at
Imperial College London? It doesn’t matter if you work or
study in Imperial - volunteering will have always something
to offer you! We have over 250 volunteering opportunities
in our database, so there should be a project for you.
The easiest way to get regular updates about volunteering
is by signing up to our mailing list. You will receive all the
latest opportunities on a weekly basis, directly to your
email inbox. Simply send us an email, clearly stating that
you want to receive the weekly news bulletin and we will
do the rest!
volunteering@imperial.ac.uk
020 7594 8141
www.imperial.ac.uk/volunteering
IMPERIAL VOLUNTEER CENTRE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Imperial Volunteer Centre
Linking Opportunities
Hannah Dufty
6 felix Friday 10 November 2006
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
฀
฀ ฀
฀ ฀
฀ ฀
฀ ฀ ฀ ฀ ฀ ฀ ฀
฀ ฀ ฀ ฀ ฀ ฀

