Our third annual Volunteering Fair took place on Tuesday 13 October and it was
a great success! Over 500 students attended our fair in the Great Hall to talk to
meet 40 charities, community groups and student projects offering volunteering
opportunities at the College and in the local community. This fair has gone
from strength to strength each year, and is an important element of our work in
enhancing the student experience through volunteering.
Feedback about the fair from our stallholders was very positive; many said that
the fair was a great opportunity to engage with students who were interested
in volunteering - one organisation managed to register the interest of 100
students alone!
You can visit the Volunteering section of our website to find out more about the opportunities these organisations offer, and search our listings for others also.
Volunteering can be accredited by Imperial Plus, which helps you to identify and articulate the skills and experiences gained through volunteering that graduate
recruiters’ value and set you apart from your peers, whilst acknowledging the time you dedicate as a volunteer.
imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Great turnout at our Volunteering Fair
21 students become Mental Health First Aiders
Want to help shape your Union? Become a Student Trustee
Over twenty students from a wide range of Clubs, Societies, Projects,
Campaigns and Departments have become Mental Health First Aiders.
As part of Imperial College Union’s focus on improving and supporting student
mental health, free Mental Health First Aid Lite training was offered to student
volunteers who are in positions where they may be approached by students in
crisis.
Volunteers from groups such as IQ, Islamic Society, Mentality, Liberation Zones,
the Academic Representation Network, Royal School of Mines Union, DoCSoc
and more attended the session, which trained them to:
A Identify the discrimination surrounding mental health issues A Define mental health and common mental health issues
A Relate to people’s experiences A Look after their own mental health
As part of our campaign to increase understanding of mental health across Imperial staff and students, we will offer MHFA training again later in the academic
year.
If you are interested in attending, please let Sky Yarlett, Representation and Campaigns Coordinator, know at s.yarlett@imperial.ac.uk.
For more information go to: imperialcollegeunion.org/news
We are a vibrant and dynamic charity with a bright future – but we are never
complacent and are always looking for ways to improve and to better serve our
members: the students of Imperial College London. A strong and active Board
of Trustees is essential for us as we endeavour to build on recent successes
and continue to move forward.
Find out more about becoming a Student Trustee and download our
Recruitment Pack on our website.
imperialcollegeunion.org/trustees

