Aboriginal rights
A demonstration by Australian aborigines outside the Natural History Museum last Wednesday passed peacefully. They
were demonstrating for the return of Australian artefacts now being held in the museum. The demonstrators held a placard
saying ' Hunted and Murdered for Scientific Experiment'.
A spokeswoman from the museum said that the artefacts were bones and were undergoing useful scientific analysis. She
added that under present law it would be illegal to return objects belonging to the British Museum.
*» wf
ir
Senior Assistant Finance Officer miscalculates rent rises. 'Sometimes you wonder whether
financial people's salaries should be better spent on college accommodation'—Hamlet
Warden, Matthew Bridgwater.
Nice one Malcolm!
A recommended rent rise of 20% in
Hamlet Gardens has been strongly
contested by Mr Matthew Bridgwater,
warden of Hamlet Gardens. The increase
was suggested by M r Malcolm Aldridge,
Senior Assistant Finance Officer at IC,
who claimed that it was 'to balance the
books' as last year's rent was set before
the recent rise in inflation. It was pointed
out that Mr Aldridge failed to renegotiate
rents in December as he was continually
asked to.
According to Mr Aldridge the rise was
suggested at 16%, and was based on an
average of the housing component of the
retail price index (i.e. inflation values) and
housing costs in the country. The college
now have to recoup the losses of last year's
failure to increase rents as much as
inflation as well as increasing next year's
rent according to inflation forecasts. M r
Aldridge stressed that the rise had yet to
be ratified by himself or Mr Tom Stevens,
Business Manager of Residences, Mr John
Smith, formerly College Secretary, or the
Rector.
Mr Bridgwater said that he had been
called to see Mr Aldridge last Friday when
he had been informed of the proposed rent
increases for 1991, which he said were at
20%. Mr Bridgwater said that he was
'rather shocked at how big they were' and
had taken the figures to Neil McCluskey,
IC Union President, who was 'equally
dismayed'.
Mr Bridgwater said that on working
though M r Aldridge's figures he
discovered some forecasting errors that
amounted to several thousand pounds.
These invalidated the estimate of a 20%
rise. Mr Bridgwater said that the college
was charging, on average, £52 per bed per
week, while the landlords who rent out the
property to the college were charging the
college an average of £39 per bed per
week. This amounted to the students in
Hamlet Gardens paying the college
£80,000 per academic year.
The warden estimates that of this
money, half will go towards covering the
losses of the summer letting scheme, a
quarter will subsidise unoccupied rooms
during the year and a quarter will go
towards the 'dilapidations account' which
is a contingency against the landlords
charging the college for damage done to
the building during its head tenancy. In
effect this means each student would be
paying £2.50 per week into this.account.
This follows the Lexham Gardens affair
when the college had to pay £8000 to the
landlords on returning the property to
them. Hamlet Gardens will be returned in
the next few years. M r Bridgwater
expressed surprise that the college
'suddenly thought to charge students' and
said that he stongly doubted whether the
landlords would charge the college as no
damage had been done.
In the Student Residence Committee
(SRC) last Wednesday both M r
Bridgwater and Mr McCluskey challenged
Mr Aldridge, who was 'shot to bits' over
his figures.
The warden admits that Hamlet Gardens
must cut costs, by reducing the number
of subwardens by one and running a more
efficient summer letting scheme. He said
that the increase should not to be above
10%. He added that in his view the rents
were 'not unreasonable, but uncompetitive
with no housing benefit and the poll tax
coming in.'
He ended by saying that 'sometimes you
wonder whether financial people's salaries
should be better spent on college
accommodation'.

