Centrepoint sleepout
If you walk past Electrical Engineering next
Wednesday morning and wonder why there is a
cardboard city there rather than the usual mass of
bicycles here's the reason why:
The problem of youth homelessness is apparent to
anyone walking around central London. Many young
people experience serious difficulties in finding a home
of their own. These difficulties are accentuated in
London where housing costs are high and where there
has been a decline in availability of both public and
privately owned rented property. In the capital it is
estimated that there are now over 50,000 people
aged 16 to 19 in temporary accommodation such as
squats, hostels and bed and breakfast hotels.
The ma'Pnty of homeless young people in London
have come from areas of high unemployment in
search of work. Many have been compelled to leave
their previous accommodation or parental home and
since then have slept rough at some stage. Few are
able to return to their last settled base. Young
homeless people come at the bottom of allocations
of housing to homeless people by local authorities.
With no address it is difficult to obtain either a job or
benefit.
So what's to be done? Government action to deal
with the situation has been limited. Many voluntary
organisations and charities exist to try to alleviate the
problems faced by homeless young people. The
sleepout-that will occur in College is in aid of one such
organisation-Centrepoint Soho. Centrepoint provides
Vino!
Those of you who attended Tuesday's tasting will
have, like me, tasted some of their favourite Spanish
wines to date during the evening.
Penny Drinkwater presented us with a personal
selection of the best wines from the Spanish Wine
importers: Moreno which are easy to find in local
supermarkets and wine merchants. The wines were
all modestly priced but the general quality was very
high.
The cheapest wine on tasting was also my personal
favourite: the red Vega de Torro '84 costing £3.35.
The favourite wines of the evening were both red and
came from Rioja: the rich claret-like Marques de
Caceres '85 (£4.39) and the more burgundy-style
Fanstino V '85 (£4.99). We tasted an astonishing
'love it or hate it' old-style white Rioja: The Marques
de Murneta '85 for £6.65 which reeked of oak and
blackcurrent leaves and was more powerful than
many reds I've tried. The tasting ended (sadly) with
a fifteen year-old red Rioja: the 1975 Gran Reserva
(meaning oak aged for two years followed by at least
three years in the bottle before being sold) from
Bodegas Berbevaua.
Throughout the tasting Penny relentlessly regaled
us with interesting facts on the wines, favourite
accompanying dishes and even a recipe or two!
The next tastings on the agenda is an Australian
wine tasting by Orlando (a company to watch out
fori), the Sherry Tasting on March 6 and the tasting
given by our new Honorary President Dave Rowe, an
ex-IC 'FELIX' Editor and presently editor of Decanter,
on white wines from Bordeaux. Events mostly take
place in the Senior Common Room (SCR) on Tuesdays
at 6pm, entrance fee for members is £2 (£1 extra for
non-members) and everyone including students, staff
and guests are welcome.
Salut!
an emergency shelter for young homeless people who
have nowhere else to go. It also provides help and
advice for people to re-establish themselves.
Centrepoint provides long term supportive hostels for
young homeless people who need a supportive
environment.
Centrepoint also manages flats and bedsits which
Wellsoc
'Then a spout of yellow flame licked up its length from
the stern engine, and swift, swifter, swifter, and
flaring like a rocket, it rushed down upon the solid
mass of masonery which was formerly the Royal
College of Science...'
HG Wells, Argonauts of the Air
The student's club is crushed and turned into an
inferno by the flaming parafin that explodes from the
aeroplane engines. This is how HG Wells portrays the
conclusion of man's first attempt at motorised flight,
a disaster that destroys his old college!
How does the history of Imeprial College help us to
understand the present education debate? Why did
Wells feel so strongly about the Normal School of
Science, as it was called when he was a student?
Our College was at the forefront of the great
education debates of the past, especially during the
implementation of teacher training and compulsory
schooling. This history involved such great men as
Professor T H Huxley, Lord Haldane, Professor
Blackett and Sir Linstead.
There will be an exhibition in the Haldane Library,
a book display in the bookshop, a talk, and a debate.
So keep your eyes open for the forthcoming Great
Imperial Debate.
'Why did HG Wells blow-up Imperial College?' A talk
by Alumnus, Michael Newman to the HG Wells
Society Monday March 5.
'This House believes that Imperial College is a threat
to 'liberal education', as fought for by Prof T H Huxley,
and should therefore be razed to the ground.'
Humanities and Debsoc debate on Tuesday March 20.
provide temporary accommodation in which young
people can live whilst searching for a permanent
home.
The sleepout will be a sponsored event which will
raise money for Centrepoint. It will increase
awareness in Imperial College of the problem of
London's youth homelessness.
Trainspotter
Last week saw the annual general meeting of the
Imperial College Union Trainspotters Society. Miss
Michelle Bigun was unanimously elected once more
as Chairman of the society. Simon Bradshaw's post
of Honorary Secretary fell to Emmanuel Saridakis,
who now hopes to see a new form of regalia in the
society. Anyone with designs and ideas for our anorak
emblem should contact Miss Bigun on extension 3500
as soon as possible. There is a £ 3 0 prize for the
winning design. Entry forms are available from Jen
Hardy-Smith in the Union Office.
Shooting
Following last week's horrifying result the ICR&PC
team stormed to victory against both Cambridge and
Leeds Universities. The match was shot at Cambridge,
who again refrigerated their range, so in an attempt
to stay warm we humoured them by indulging in their
strange ritual of standing in a 3ft deep hole whilst
shooting.
The match was won convincingly (IC 1,988,
Cambridge 1,925, Leeds 1,826, all out of 2,400)
despite the captain (Tony Menzies) shooting an
abysmal 482/600 (our worst score, lower even than
Rob who only made the team a couple of days before
the match) which is odd as he can shoot 525/600
quite happily when not in competition (some people
just can't take the pressure you know). When
questioned about this later he was heard to exclaim
'Bollox, I think I'll take up rifle!'. (Note: this is a pretty
desperate thing for a pistol shooter to say.)
P.S. for anyone who is interested there are actually
women in Cambridge, though Tim seems to have a
monopoly on these (as well as the top scores).
Page 10

