Athletics
Well, some order is beginning to emerge after the
surprise hold- up in the development of the Harlington
astroturf. It is clear that the astroturf should not be
laid down at excessive cost, and therefore the
reappraisal of the proposal because of the high tenders
returned from contractors has proved to be wise.
However, we should never have reached this situation
in the first place. It emerged after a meeting of the
Governing Body last week that none of the relevant
personnel within College administration had actually
seen the tender before it was submitted to the
potential contractors. The tender was drawn up by
a consultant, who will no doubt expect a hefty
consultancy fee, and was hopelessly over-specified.
Other companies have described this consultant's
speciality as being the production of Olympic standard
pitches. I hope that someone in College administration
will be made accountable for such poor work,
especially as students in the hockey club were able
to produce cheaper quotes for astro pitches simply by
ringing around contacts in companies (including
companies which had tendered for the contract as
specified by College). A copy of the tender has now
been obtained through other sources and is being
examined by Neil McCluskey and hockey club
representatives. Next week, a meeting will take place
of the Trustees to determine exactly how much say
they will have in deciding the expenditure of monies
from the Trust. It is obvious that various people within
College are unhappy with the power that has been
entrusted in the three Trustees, and with their decision
to expend solely on capital ventures which will benefit
the sporting activities of IC Union. It is in the students'
interests to maintain the Trustees' present position
as one is the present Union President and one an ex-
President. There are plans in the pipeline for a Sports
Hall (not the rather over-ambitious Sports Centre
proposed a couple of years ago) on the hard tennis
courts next to Linstead Hall, and a Health Suite to go
into Southside Gym. It is therefore also essential that
the Trust funds be set aside for use on sporting
facilities only and are not diverted to other projects.
The building of a Sports Hall next to Linstead will be
of advantage to many students who at present are
forced to use the unsatisfactory Volleyball Court in
the Chemistry building. Planning details for the
astroturf must be submitted to the local council in mid-
March, so I hope that all these issues will be resolved
soon.
Ben Turner, ACC Chairman.
Vijay Thakur, SCAB Treasurer, is also standing for
the sabbatical post of IC Union Deputy President.
ALL
Sabbatical Candidates
YOU MUST PAY FOR
YOUR PUBLICITY BY
5.00pm TODAY OR
YOU WILL NOT
RECEIVE IT AT 5.30pm
International
The party's over, the mess cleaned up and so now
comes the time to thank all those people who
participated in the International Night. (Not appearing
in any particular order.)
In College...
Rob Northey, Terry Briley for security advice and
checks; Jeff Reeves; the Conference Office and
Careers Office for equipment; Lesley Mayers for
bookings; and the College security guards for our
safety.
In the Union...
Ian Richards for the microwave; Dave Peacock for
the last minute contract; Gwyn, Dominic, Graham and
BJ from Ents for a brilliant disco and band downstairs;
Mike Smith for drinks; Mylan, Zoe, Dave, Richard and
Vijay from Dramsoc for lighting, sound and
everything."
OSC and all the volunteers...
Anjali Saini for the Cultural Show; Sitham Periasamy
for keeping track of the wonga; Naeem Siddiqui for
the food stalls and waffle on the radio; Shamil Uwais
for the timetables; Rudy Ng; Han-Bing; Ming; 'Lee' T
K Lee; David Ho; George Kalisperides; Adnan Butt;
Rumit Shah for the publicity; Umesh Parekh; Mafaz
Mohideen; 'KK'; Bruno Muratori; Roberto Silletti;
Saghir Khan; Chad for getting a load of volunteers to
appear; Agatha; Amin El Kholy for helping out at the
last minute; and special thanks to Roberto and Saghir
for helping till the real end.
Last but difinitely not least, let me thank all
Overseas Students Societies members, your names
I do not have a clue of, yet International Night would
not have happened without you! In alphabetical
order...
Afro-Caribbean-especially Karima and Bernadette
(for the band)—all you guys proved your point;
Chinese; CSSA; Cypriot (great dance); Friends of
Palestine; Hellenic; Indian (no, sorry Heena but you
can't change the timetable!); Indonesian; Italian;
Japanese; Korean; Latin-American; Malaysian;
Mauritian; Middle-East; Nigerian; Pakistan; Singapore;
Sri-Lankan; and Turkish Society.
Thanks and apologies to all the people I have
forgotten to mention. I hope everyone enjoyed
themselves.
Next year again, but better!
Wouter van Hulten,
Overseas Students Officer.
Ha^ Ha^ H
a
®
«
#
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha, it's a larff, ho ho ho ho.
It's comedy night tonight, your ribs will be tickled
and your sides will be split. We have four 'alternative'
comedy acts, with a fine compere. Punt and Dennis
are top of the bill, the stars of Radio One's comedy
show, The Mary Whitehouse Experience. If you've
ever seen and enjoyed the obnoxious Jerry Sadowitz,
you'll enjoy Jenny Bowen. Before her we have the
impressionist Alistar McGowan, and street-wise
comedian Geoff Green.
Entry to the comedy night gives you free entry to
the disco which runs until 2am, and the bar is open
until 1. Tickets are £2.50 in advance, £2 for ents
cardholders, available from the Union Office NOW!
Rufus Isaacs, Ents Publicity.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Postgraduate women: Lunch 12.30pm Friday
23 Feb. Club Committee Room, 3rd Floor Union
Building.
• Did you miss Ben Elton last Thursday in the
new series of 'The Man from Auntie'? Never fear,
as you will be able to watch the show at next
week's Jewish Society meeting (Tuesday 27 Feb).
It will start at 1.30pm in the UDH (1st Floor
Union). Contact Andrew Preston (Maths 1) for
more details.
• Munch & Merriment-the annual event for the
Materials Department is on March 14 at 6.00pm
in RSM G19. Tickets are £3 including all food and
drink and entertainment, available at B522 or via
pigeonholes from Janet Lung (Materials 2).
• Some C&G Dinner & Dance photos are
displayed in the Guilds Office. If anyone would like
copies made please sign your name on the list
under them.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• Wanted: English to Russian translator. Please
contact M Juned, Physics.
• Wanted: Teams of chronically depressed
students to hurl themselves off Queen's Tower,
traverse the Cloud of Despair and be trampled
underfoot below. Prize for the person most
determined not to enjoy himself. Applications to
reach Elec Eng before Armageddon.
• For sale: Audi 80 GLS. Good condition, new
gear box, MOT until Sept 1990, urgent sale. Price
£750 ono. Contact Yazi on ext 5224.
ACCOMMODATION
• Large room in shared flat off High Street Ken,
10 min cycle, 9/10/33/49 buses (walkable). For
one or two people. £ 6 0 pw excl. Contact Rob
Field, ext 4856 (Civ Eng).
PERSONAL
• Calling all 'talented materialists'! If you can
produce an act on 14.3.90 after 6.00pm, a free
bottle of champagne could be yours. Contact
Janet Bond or Emma Claxton (Mat 2) via
piegonholes a.s.a.p.
• Lost-One left eyebrow. If found please return
to B pigeonhole in Elec Eng.
M A N I F E S T O S
Candidates must hand in their
manifestos by 9.30am Monday 26th
Feb. There is a maximum of 300
words. Any manifesto longer than this
will be cut at the 300th word.
Candidates should also submit a
photograph of themself (any size).
Manifestos will be printed as submitted
including any spelling mistakes etc.
Any material submitted after this
deadline will be burnt in front of the
candidate in question.

