F e l i X
The Ambulance Posters
I don't care what political views the Conservative
Society hold, they were wrong to put up posters with
the slogan 'Support the ambulance men let the
patients die.' People have died during the ambulance
dispute; to attempt to make political gain from their
deaths is not only sick it is immoral. Fiona Nicholas
was right to ban the posters and remove them.
Freedom of speech is one thing, sick-headed drivel like
this is another.
Elections
Those irritating sabbatical candidates will be pestering
you for your vote from 5.30pm today. Many of them
will present you with schemes for the Union, few of
which will be feasible. The best advice I can give is
to vote on the basis of who you feel you can trust to
stick with the job and do their best at it. Make sure
the candidate at least knows what they are taking on.
All four posts demand a great deal of their occupant;
few people realise just how much work is done by the
sabbaticals. I feel a number of this year's candidates
are likely to just collapse under the pressure of a
commitment whose extent they did not realise.
On another note, I have heard a great deal about
dirty dealings concerning the elections. I fully intend
to reveal all the filth which has surrounded the
elections after the results are announced. Much of it
makes pretty grim reading for certain individuals.
Those candidates who pay for their posters and
handouts by 5.00pm today will be able to collect them
from the FELIX Office at 5.30pm today. Manifestos
must reach the FELIX Office by 9.30am Monday 26th
February. They should be no more than 300 words
long and will be cut at the 300th word if necessary.
Spelling mistakes etc. will be reproduced exactly from
the candidate's manifesto. Candidates should also
submit a photograph of themself. I am looking forward
to a small bonfire at 9.35am if necessary. Manifestos
may be slipped under the FELIX Office door over the
weekend, although FELIX accepts no liability for their
safety on this basis.
Accommodation
The proposed 16% rent increases for Hamlet Gardens
are frightening. With a possible 7% increase in the
student grant for next year, this surely spells the doom
of Imperial College. Students will not be able to afford
to live in IC accommodation or any of the private
sector housing without housing benefit next year. The
last meeting of Imperial College Union's Council
decided to take action over rent increases and inform
future students of the costs they will have to face.
The final decision was, however, very woolly. Council
left it up to Neil McCluskey to decide on a course of
action.
After these rent increases I feel the Union is obliged
as a potential welfare sevice to inform future students
of housing costs. Information should be posted to
schools and sixth form colleges. Students have to be
told NOW, while they still have a chance to delete
Imperial from their UCCA choices. Imperial College
Union would be weakened by a reduction in the
College's undergraduate intake, but it should seriously
consider its moral obligation to potential students. If
future students at IC are forced to live a life of poverty,
Page 12
a large part of the blame will rest upon the Union's
head for not warning them.
Awards
I am afraid I have to apologise to Sir Eric. I have not
had time to purchase the conniving git award this
week, it will be arriving soon. Meanwhile, a book for
Managing Surveyor of Residences, Peter Hallworth.
I have thought a great deal about this week's title.
Suggestions have ranged from Bleak House to
Withering heights. I have finally decided upon Great
Expectations. The theme and era of the titles goes
well with the College's housing, I feel.
Next Issue
Litho permitting, next week's issue will be a travel
special. Could anyone who has promised an article
please hand it in on Monday please. There will be a
staff meeting at 12.45pm on Tuesday lunchtime to
discuss the issue.
Credits
Many thanks to last week's collators Ian Hodge,
Adrian Butt, Wouter Van Hulten, Sitham Periasamy,
Sunny Ghaie, Richard Eyers, Ben Turner (Vijay Thakur
is also running for the post of ICU Deputy President,
and did not help collate), Anjali Saini, Chris Stapleton
(Thomas Wyatt is also standing for the post of FELIX
Editor and did not help collate), Sydney Harbour-
Bridge and Jackie Scott (Doug King, Mark Orrow-
Whiting, Athos Ritsperis and Paul Shanley are also
standing for the post president and did not help
collate.). (This is bloody stupid isn't it, but that's
election rules for you). Lots and lots of thanks to
PIPPA SALMON who I have missed out of the
credits on far too many occasions. Thanks for pics to
Chris Stapleton (Thomas Wyatt is also standing for
the post of FELIX editor etc.), Richard Eyers, Roland
Flowerdew, Jeremy Burnell and Doug King (Mark
Orrow-Whiting, Athos Ritsperis, Jackie Scott and Paul
Shanley are also standing for the post of ICU President
etc). Thanks to Adam Harrington and Liz Warren for
news; Sydney Harbour-Bridge for the Harlington
feature; Adam Tinworth, Ian Hodge, Toby Jones,
Adam Harrington, JLW, Liz Rickwood, MAC, and
Adrian Pagan for reviews; Del, Sarah and Stone for
Music; Dr Mark Saunders and Science editor Simon
Haslam for science and Rose Atkins for Typesetting.
Finally, a massive thanks to Andy Thompson who
stayed up all night on Wednesday night to print the
sabbatical publicity.I am forever grateful for his
patience and commitment to his job. Thanks again
Andy. All the candidates owe you a lot of drinks.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
M A K E A
S T A R T T O T H E
N I N E T I E S
Flying
from
o/w rtn
PARIS £40 £65
BERLIN £60 £89
MADRID £65 £108
NEW YORK £106 £198
LOS ANGELES £150 £300
T E L AVIV £89 £149
HONG KONG £264 £528
SINGAPORE £240 £480
SKI - ONE W E E K from only £79
W E E K E N D BREAKS from £65
Don't MISS OUT THIS SUMMER -
Seats TO ASIA AND AUSTRALASIA SELLING FAST
Book NOW TO SECURE YOUR SEAT
ULU TRAVEL
S H E R F I E L D BUILDING
IMPERIAL C O L L E G E
m
| @ E 3 S ULU TRAVEL

