Blatant Obscure Saving II
Dear Dave,
I was distressed to read in last week's FELIX that
the Union's Postgraduate Affairs Officer (PGAO)
Martin Gans has resigned. I am sure Martin cannot be
blamed for the lack of interest in the Union by
postgraduates, but I do not think the Academic
interests of 40% of the College should be left
unrepresented. Until a new PGAO is elected I am
willing to make myself available to any postgraduate
wishing to see me on academic matters. Admittedly
the problems faced by postgraduates are different to
the mainly undergraduate issues dealt with at
Academic Affairs Committee (AAC), but nevertheless
there is some overlap (and indeed the PGAO sits on
the AAC). I can be contacted through the pigeonholes
in the Union Office or, from March 5th, in my office
(Huxley room 654, ext 5780).
Athos Ritsperis, Academic Affairs Officer.
P.S. On the subject of the 'forged' Rachel Stone
letter mentioned in last week's editorial —I'm afraid
it's happened again. With reference to the letter
entitled 'Mr Zeebub replies' in last week's letters
section, if you check in Physics 1 you will find no
listing of a B L Zeebub.
Other candidates standing for the sabbatical post of
ICU President at the time of going to press are:
Mr Doug King, Publications Board Chairman
Mark Orrow-Whiting, Physics 2.
Ms Jackie Scott, Welfare Officer
Mr Paul Shanley, UGM Chairman
Not fair!
Dear Dave,
It is a sad fact that free speech is most definitely
NOT alive and well at Imperial College.
At Monday lunchtimes, I put up several
Conservative Society posters along the walkway. The
posters expressed an opinion on the ambulance
dispute and advertised a forthcoming ConSoc meeting
at which the topic is due to be discussed.
Within an hour, all but one of the posters had either
been removed or had been ripped in two so that the
complete message could not be read. Imagine my
surprise when I discovered that one of the posters had
found its way to Fiona Nicholas's desk in the Union
Office.
Whilst the ConSoc posters were removed with
remarkable speed, there have recently been many
posters around College supporting the ambulance
workers which have not been taken down, although
they openly break ICU publicity rules because they are
produced externally and do not feature the name of
an ICU society. Perhaps someone realised that the
ConSoc posters displayed a message which was too
close to the truth for comfort, so they were taken
down to prevent other people reading them.
Now I don't object to other students producing
legitimate posters opposing Government policy—
indeed, I welcome the expression of an alternative
point of view. But I am against the blatant disobeying
of Union rules-after all, what is the point of having
rules if they are not enforced equitably?
Yours,
M J Hoskin, ICU Conservative Society Publicity
Officer.
Dear Dave,
With election time now upon us, and promises of
world-shattering changes to come, how does one find
the truth amongst the vain statements? It's a shame
that some people don't seem to remember what they
say in 'the heat of the moment', or even in the
reasoned 'light of day'.
Early last term, a current ICU sabbatical made
certain statements about a person's behaviour at a
CCU event. This comment was made, not in the heat
of the moment, but approximately one week later, and
surely after reasoned thought. It would now seem that
this sabbatical would rather not be associated with
this statement, but would prefer to see it forgotten
about.
No one really expects candidates to keep all their
campaign promises, but a total change of heart does
seem a little strange, especially as the comment was
not a rash one, at the time.
Let's hope that this year's candidates and winners
don't suffer such turn arounds, or perhaps give more
thought to statements they make.
Name withheld on request
Saving I
Dear Dave,
First may I congratulate you on printing Yve
Posner's article last week on the Community Charge.
I hope all this publicity and information will encourage
students to register.
It is interesting to note that as the facts come out
our opponents' accusations are proved false. Students
will actually gain from the Poll Tax.
The Welfare Office tells us that a typical student
pays £5.25 in rates on £50 rent per week, for a 38
week yearly bill of £199.50. But under the Poll Tax,
students in London will only pay about £100 (or £39
as the recently released figure for Westminster). How
can anyone complain that students are losing out?
Instead of wasting time fighting the Poll Tax, ICU
should be informing students of how the laws enable
them to deduct the amount they pay in rates from
their rent to their landlords. It's a disgrace that instead
ICU is telling students how to break the law and not
pay.
Let's all thank Mrs T for saving us money!
Yours sincerely,
Dylan James, Maths 2.
Dylan James is proposing Thomas Wyatt for the
sabbatical post of FELIX Editor.
Jackie Scott is proposing Chris Stapleton for the
sabbatical post of FELIX Editor.
Dear Dave,
I am writing in response to Ian McGovern's letter
which appeared in last week's FELIX on the subject
of students' fees.
The letter raises two very important issues:
1. On what basis does the Imperial College Registry
decide the rate of fees payable by each student?
2. Is Imperial College giving its students value for
money?
I was particularly concerend about lan's experience
in relation to the first question as it seems very
possible that the College has made a mistake
regarding the amount of fees he has been charged.
I therefore feel that it is important to point out how
the decisions regarding fees are made and how they
can be challenged.
In deciding whether to charge a student the 'home'
or 'overseas' rate of fees the College has to follow
the provisions of the Education (Fees and Awards)
Regulations 1983. These provide that an educational
institution must look at what a student has been doing
during the three years prior to the start of their course
and decide whether they have a 'relevant connection'
with Britain. In order to have a 'relevant connection'
a person must have been 'ordinarily resident' in the
UK for a full three years prior to the start of their
course and secondly must show that at no time during
the three years they were here wholly or mainly for
the purpose of full-time education. It therefore follows
for example that if a student came to the UK primarily
to study for ' A ' Levels they would have to pay the
overseas rate of fees.
These conditions seem very rigid but the
Regulations do provide some important exceptions to
the three year rule and therefore it is well worth
checking out whether there is one that applies to you.
If so you would be in the position to request Registry
to review the decision regarding the amount of fees
you have to pay.
In many cases Registry is not aware of the true
facts regarding a particular student and consequently
charge them incorrectly. I have advised several
students on the question of fees and as a result they
were able to request a review of the amont of fees
charged. So if you think you have been charged the
higher rate of fees in error then please come and see
me. The Welfare Office is open Monday-Thursday
12.30pm-5.30pm.
The second issue is far less easily dealt with as it
involves a very large number of complex factors upon
which I do not feel it is appropriate for me to
comment. I do however hope that this will be the
subject of a future FELIX feature article.
Yve Posner, Welfare Adviser.
More Ash P o s e u r
Dear Dave,
A brand new topic for discussion in your paper can
now be opened: smoking. I would just like to ask why
there are no 'No smoking' signs in the refreshment
areas of College—especially the JCR and Main Dining
Hall. I know there are many smokers in the above
places since I, like many others, prefer not to eat my
meals in a cloud of smoke.
Yours,
Simon Reid, Mat Sci 1 (on behalf of the silent
majority).
The Editor,
Contrary to your article 16.2.90, last page, Vote
Vote Vote, the only candidate for the RCSU Academic
Affairs Officer has the name Kevin Tilbrook, LSD 1,
otherwise known as 'Shades'.
I am the candidate in question and was ratified for
the post at the hustings on Thursday 18 Feb.
I would appreciate some rectification of this
mistake, as this may lead to the misdirection of
internal mail.
Thanking you in anticipation,
Shades.
Page 13

