Out of context
Dear Dave,
I am a great believer in freedom of choice, and so
I feel compelled to comment on the article 'The RSMU
are the Pits' and its accompanying letter 'Miners are
Chauvinists' in last week's FELIX.
Both features centred around criticism of the last
issue of the RSMU newsletter. Both authors
principally complained about the photo of the woman
on page 3. Although only one was correct in stating
that she was topless rather than fully naked, both took
the caption 'She's waiting for it' out of context. This
was not an isolated picture but was an integral part
of an article, a feature previewing the Bottle Match
at Camborne. As such the caption was a mere pun,
admittedly of a sexual nature, but most readers (men
and women) treated it as it was meant-a bit of
harmless fun. If this makes Peter want to 'head off
to Brighton right now and rape a few women' then
he's got a problem.
The level of so called pornography in the Pit is no
worse than that found in the Sun br Sunday Sport-
hugely popular publications freely available outside
'the male chauvinist atmosphere within the RSM'. The
Pit is a newsletter read only by adults who want to
read it. Neither Anna nor Peter have to pick it up next
time, no more than they are forced to buy those
newspapers.
In his letter Peter has the audacity to accuse most
of the women in the RSM of being ignorant. He even
admits that the vast majority of them are not bothered
by what he finds offensive. Who is he to tell them
what they should think.
This issue is wider than the Pit, wider than RSM or
even the College. It's about a tiny bunch of puritans
telling the rest of us what's good for us. Small minded
Mary Whitehouse types like these two should stop
trying to force their prudish values on other people.
I suspect that they just feel too inhibited to have fun
themselves and therefore don't see why anyone else
should have any.
If the Pit makes you feel sick then don't read it-
but while you're about it let the rest of us decide for
ourselves, instead of telling us what we should or
shouldn't want.
Steffan Fay, Geology 3.
Common as
muck
Dear Felix Editor,
As a reader of your magazine for many years I wish
to complain about the Calumny Column and its
abrasive comments. I believe that magazines are
written for all people to read, not just a selected few.
Why has Ms Toynbee felt the need to use slang words
referring to genitalia and anus when she is talking
about people?
Why do you use a word associated with bowel
motions when you are writing to the general
population of the College?
Normal conversation is not punctuated with such
words and if your aspirations are to move into middle-
class society then you will have to stop using them.
Why not start practising in this paper you edit and give
an example to others.
Yours sincerely,
May Symers.
Sick, perverted
Dear Dave,
My God! I'm sorry! It appears that I have offended
two very 'sensitive members' of the RSM (re 'RSMU
are the Pits' by A Teeman and 'Miners are
Chauvinists' by P Sharp).
I'm afraid that I am responsible for the pornographic
DLB posters displayed in the RSM. Since reading the
letters I have had many sleepless nights worrying
about the insensitive way I have portrayed the femate
form (amongst other things!).
I must be a sick, perverted, potential rapist (or at
least guilty of driving others into frenzied attacks
because, let's face it, we're all rapists at the RSM!).
I am disgusted with myself and have already
consulted a specialist about having a frontal lobotomy,
in order to curb my rampant libido.
The only thing I have in my defence is that I'm a
publicity officer and I seem to have accomplished my
task. I just hope the two saintly forms, who were
obviously given my share of morals, will be able to
stand living the rest of their days at RSM with the rest
of us and accept my most sincere apologies.
Yours,
Ms Matthew Jupe (Feminist).
P.S. I resign.
P.P.S. I hope one of you will take up my 'post'. It's
'hard' but 'full-filling'.
More
blatant
Dear Dave,
I have noticed that over the past few weeks a
certain Presidential candidate has managed to get his
name in FELIX every week by dint of writing lots of
letters. I thought that it was about time I got myself
some of this free publicity.
Yours sincerely,
Name withheld due to election publicity rules.
The ugly side of London
Dear Sir,
As an American College student studying in London
for five months, I have been trying to adapt and fit
into this culture. At the same time i have been making
every attempt to visit all the sights. Unfortunately, I
have recently encountered something that I will never
be able to adjust to or accept: anti-semitism.
I was browsing through Portobello Market a few
days ago when suddenly, without warning, I was
dealt a severe blow to the head and an overwhelming
punch to the stomach. My initial reaction was one of
shock and horror; however, as tears glazed over my
eyes, those feelings quickly dissipated and I was left
standing on the street corner in sheer pain. Perhaps
my agony could have been appeased had witnesses
to this terrible act helped capture the perpetrator of
the crime. Unfortunately, this case did not allow for
such a perfect ending.
The crime to which I am making reference was not
one of physical battery; it was far more hurtful than
that. The cause of my pain came directly from the
proud display of swastika arm bands hanging in the
fourth stall from the corner of Portobello Road and
Longlands Court (next to the Earl of Lonsdale pub).
It would seem that this insensitive act could only be
caused by ignorance, since I simply do not understand
Page 14
how anyone in good consciousness would be able to
sell, or buy for that matter, the infamous symbol of
Nazi Germany. The swastika was a symbol associated
with the barbaric slaughter of over six million Jewish,
as well as non-Jewish, men, women and children
during World War Two.
The holocaust must never be forgotten or allowed
to recur; therefore, it is imperative to understand the'
history and madness that led up to it. When Adolf
Hitler made himself dictator of Germany in March
1933, his narrowly nationalistic slogans, such as the
injustices of the Versailles Treaty of World War One,
the need for strong leadership, the ineffectiveness of
democracy, and most of all the 'inequity' of the Jews,
appealed to the vast majorty of the population living
in the midst of widespread economic discontent.
Hitler's notion of a superior race, a perfect, highly
intellectual, blond haired, blued eyed, Aryan race, was
quickly absorbed and accepted without much debate.
Hitler rebuilt pride and nationalism throughout the
country, and mended the egos of his German
comrads. Next he went to work on national
reunification as well as the destruction of the
scapegoats that he had effectively developed-the
Jewish race. As German troops marched through
Europe, Jews were rounded up and transported to
ghettos and concentration camps by the Nazis.
It was in these camps, of which adjectives to
describe the horrors encountered do not exist, that
Jews were tortured and eventually killed. People were
dissected while still alive. Lives were sacrificed during
'scientific' experiments. Human skin was peeled off
and manufactured into lampshades. Human beings
were forced to dig their own graves. Some were
buried alive. Lucky ones simply died of hunger,
overwork or overexposure. Families were separated,
most were destroyed. Those that miraculously
survived suffer from their memories of the past to this
day.
Can it be possible that such unjustified hatred is still
being perpetuated? The very notion that there is a
market for swastikas is a painfully sharp indication
that prejudices are somehow being kept alive. The
children of the world must not be exposed to this
criminal disregard for humanity. This era of change
has brought about a deep rooted desire for
democracy. The campaign for freedom has become
a world wide effort. It is in this spirit that we must
unite and put an end to prejudices once and for all.
Yours,
Aharyn M Ftootenberg.

