Sports win Callous stunt Excruciating
Students who incur travelling costs whilst representing
Imperial College Union are likely to receive larger
refunds following a motion passed at the
Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) held on
Thursday 22nd at lunchtime in the JCR.
The refunds will only be made if the extra expense
can be met by an increase in the funding the Union
receives from College. The increase has not been
confirmed but is believed to be likely, following
discussions between the Union and M r Peter Mee,
the College Registrar, Students will receive 100%
refunds for travel within the London area and 60%
refunds for U K travel outside London.
The motion was passed without opposition after it
was amended to confirm that the refunds would not
be available if the Union's funding was not increased.
Elections were held for several posts. Ian Hodge
defeated Dave Bevan for the post of ICU Handbook
Editor. The following were all elected unopposed:
Chris Tamdjidi as Phoenix Editor, Cathy Squires as
ICU Women's Officer, Jeremy Burnell as FELIX
Business Manager and Suzanne Ahmet as ICU
External Affairs Officer.
The next Union General Meeting will be the
Sabbatical Election Hustings on March 1st in the JCR
at IC.
Pea-brained
An article in the Times Higher Education Supplement
(THES) has highlighted Britain's braindrain by citing
the case of Professor Peter Bradshaw who left
Imperial College claiming that his department,
Aeronautics, was being run entirely for the benefit
of other countries.
Professor Bradshaw is now working at Stanford,
University of California. He said that apart from the
increase in salary, his reasons for leaving the country
were the falling standards of PhD students and that
the government was gaining no economic benefit from
the department at all.
Professor Bradshaw is one of the 1600 signatories
of a petition to the British Government from British
scientists living abroad complaining of the
government's dismissal of the problem.
The Rector, Sir Eric Ash, said that in his view the
article was as critical of the college as of the
government. He said, in response to the article's claim
that the department was entirely made up of overseas
students, that 'no Britons—absolute nonsense'. He
said that the tripling in salary that co-incides with
working in the United States probably played a part
in academics' decisions.
On the subject of falling PhD standards Sir Eric
said 'rubbish in my view....my PhD students were
every bit as good at the end of my time as the
beginning. Academics get the PhD students they
deserve.'
Professor P. Bearman, the present head of the
Aeronautics department, said that he considered the
article contained 'the personal views of Professor
Bradshaw ... I agree with the Rector—if you don't
get interesting topics or rush ahead in your field you
won't get interested students'.
In a letter to the THES, Professor Bearman
expressed surprise at Professor Bradshaw's belief that
virtually all PhD students were foreigners. He added
that the general tone of xenophobia in the article was
unhelpful.
Imperial College Conservative society have
complained to IC Union concerning the removal of
their posters from around the college.
The A3 size posters sported the maxim 'Support
the ambulance workers let the patients die'. Four
separate groups of people registered their offence at
the posters to Ms Fiona Nicholas of ICU, who then
allowed the posters to be removed. She said that the
society should have checked with her beforehand, as
she would have expected that they would cause
offence. 'If I had checked them, they wouldn't have
gone up,' she said.
ConSoc have written a letter to Felix this week
explaining their position.
Union picket
The Imperial College Manufacturing, Science and
Finance (MSF) Trade Union are to step up action in
their protest over the potential redundancies of seven
College staff.
Next Thursday, they will be picketing outside a
meeting of the College Management and Planning
Group, the highest policy making body in the college
administration which is chaired by the Rector, Sir Eric
Ash. The IC MSF are calling on support from other
London branches of the MSF for the picket and may
also be picketing outside the Sherfield building.
Mr Chris Stringer, chairman of IC MSF, said that
the decisions taken by emergency meetings of the
MSF had been unanimously endorsed by an ordinary
branch meeting of the union on Wednesday. He added
that job offers had been made to some of the staff,
but that none of them had yet been accepted. He said
that the MSF 'cannot accept that any member should
be pressurised into an unsuitable job or into taking
early retirement on unacceptable terms.'
Broken trust?
The position of the Harlington Gravel Fund trustees
is in doubt, following last Friday's meeting of the
Finance and Executive Committee (F&E), College's
highest financial decision making body.
The trustees, who are responsible for administering
the fund, were appointed prior to the terms of the trust
being finalised and it is now unclear whether the brief
for the trust's expenditure is to be decided by the
trustees or by F&E.
The difficulties in the trustees' position were
highlighted when the Rector, Sir Eric Ash, suggested
that the trust should contribute £% million to a
residences appeal. This contradicts the terms of the
trust agreed by the trustees in December which have
not yet been approved by F&E.
The trust is also in difficulties over the money to
be spent on an Astroturf pitch at Harlington, The
scheme is being delayed because senior College
officials and the trustees feel that the quotes for the
pitch are unacceptable. Mr Neil McCluskey, IC Union
President, is trying to obtain a specification for the
pitch so that new quotes can be sought.
Mr McCluskey said that he was 'committed to
trying to get it (the pitch) through this year' and that
he wanted to have it 'guaranteed that the pitch would
be ready by next October'. If the pitch is not available
next season, the ICU Hockey Club will be left without
a home ground. They are already unable to obtain
external pitches for next season.
The papers for the sabbatical elections were stolen
from the noticeboard on the staircase to the Union
Office last weekend. It is believed they were removed
by students taking part in either the Hyde Park Relay
or the Rag Monopoly event. The candidates who were
standing at the time have agreed that the theft does
not invalidate the elections.
All the sabbatical elections are now contested. At
5.30pm yesterday, there were five candidates for the
post of Union President: Doug King, proposed by Hal
Calamvokis; Mark Orrow- Whiting, proposed by
Edgar Denny; Athos Ritsperis, proposed by Alistair
Goodall; Jackie Scott, proposed by Wendy Kite; and
Paul Shanley, proposed by Andy Bannister.
There are two candidates for each of the other three
posts. The candidates for Deputy President are Vijay
Thakur, proposed by Doug King, and Ben Turner,
proposed by Dave Osborne. Ian Thomas, proposed
by Paul McNaught, and Murray Williamson,
proposed by Ralph Greenwell are standing for
Honorary Secretary. The candidates for FELIX Editor
are Chris Stapleton, proposed by Jackie Scott and
Thomas Wyatt, proposed by Dylan James.
Papers will remain up until 5.30pm today. The IC
Hustings U G M will be held on Thursday 1st March
at 6pm in the JCR; the St Mary's Hustings will be
on Monday 26th February at 6.30pm in the St Mary's
Union Bar. Voting will be on Monday 5th and
Tuesday 6th March between 10am and 5pm in all
departments. Students wishing to vote must produce
their union card at the ballot box.
Crackers!
Over the weekend two students broke into the Union
building. Though no damage was done and nothing
was stolen, the burglers left a message stating that
'You have been visited by the 'Pink Panther Soc' and
highlighting the lack of security in areas of supposedly
high security.
Mr Terry Briley, security officer at I.C., said that
he considered the intentions of the two students
involved, who are known and have been reprimanded,
were good but added that their actions were
'thoughtless and irresponsible' considering the recent
break-ins at the Union office. He said that their
behaviour had highlighted security faults and had
frightened Union staff.
Mr Briley said that steps will be taken to improve
security in the Union office but he was unable to
disclose details for security reasons.
Green party
Mr Neil McCluskey, IC Union President, was
kidnapped by the Corleone faction of the Mafia last
Friday. They cruelly tortured Mr McCluskey
mistaking him for Alfonso Ambrosio, Brother-in-law
of the last Pope, John Paul I.
Mr McCluskey pleaded that he was not Italian, and
hadn't even read 'The Godfather'. The sadists
contented themselves by covering Mr McCluskey in
medieval creme-de-menthe after stealing his clothes.
They were stopped from stringing up Mr McCluskey
from the Queen's Tower by the selfless action of the
Union Office staff who gave all their life savings to
the balaclavered bandits.
The Metropolitan police dismissed the episode as
'utter stupidity'.

