Film
Leningrad Cowboys go America
A frozen body lies on barren tundra. The body has a
quiff that stands out of foot from his head and pointed
boots at least two foot long. In his hand he still
clutches a bass guitar. He is a member of The
Leningrad Cowboys. When their manager is informed
that the band should 'go America' where they will
'swallow any kind of shit', the band set out at once,
clutching only their instruments and a very little
money. Once there they buy a huge old Cadillac and
set off for Mexico (the only gig they can get), with
two members in the boot and the bass player strapped
on the roof.
Leningrad Cowboys Go America is the new film
from Finnish filmmaker Aki Kaurismaki, starring real-
life Finnish band The Leningrad Cowboys. Initially the
dialouge is in Finnish, but as the Cowboys fly to
America they learn English allowing us to dispense
with the subtitles. Somewhat contrived perhaps, but
amusingly integrated into the film.
The plot itself is rather minimal. After the band
arrive in America, the film becomes a road movie as
they travel down America playing the occasional gig
at various clubs and bars along the way. The action
is interspersed with captions effectivly dividing the
films into separate sections with titles like Beer
Question and All You Need Is Love.
The humour is very deadpan and extremely off-
beat, reminiscent of the films of Jim Jarmusch (who
actually appears in a cameo role as a car salesman).
Visual humour is used nicely throughout the film, from
the appearance of the cowboys themselves to scenes
of them 'sunbathing' to make themselves more
acceptable to the Americarl Public. Running gags also
feature, especially concerning tractors.
Music, not surprisingly, features heavily throughout
the film starting off with what is presumably fairly
traditional finnish music and then moving through a
whole variety of styles, including heavy(ish) metal and
country and western (The Ballad of Leningrad
Cowboys). I can't really comment on the musical
quality of the film, but I don't see a Blues Brothers type
soundtrack emerging somehow.
This is certainly an unusual film, but probably one
that will only appeal to people with a certain (weird)
sense of humour. Those who have it will find the film
very funny. Probably destined to become a cult film.
Leningrad Cowboys go America is showing at The
Renoir, Brunswick Sqr., nearest tube Russell Sqr. As
ever with The Renoir if you go to the first (2.35)
showing and show your Union card you will get in for
£1.70 instead of £4.00.
Adam T.
The Price
Theatre
It is impossible to know what is important. But if you
do not decide what is important, or if your choice is
wrong, time will not permit you another chance to
choose-you will have paid The Price-you will have
paid or perhaps you will have been robbed.
On the verge of retirement from a stultifying job
with the city police, Victor is forced to confront his
past in an uneasy auction, bidding to place a vlaue on
his stunted life. An easy-going procrastinator Victor
is forced to return to the apartment where he lived
in the shadow of a father impoverished and
psychologically wrecked by the 1929 Stock Market
crash. The apartment block is being torn down. Victor
has invited a furniture dealer to quote him a price for
the contents, hoping to dispose of the lot before
taking a disatisfied wife to the movies for a rare treat.
The dealer Solomon has a wit and wisdom that
entertains but his wiles begin to grate as he waffles
his way to a price that is more of a steal. The deal
proves troublesome to close and the tension grows.
As finally the price seems set the past resurfaces
again as Victor's brother Walter arrives.
Walter is not a man who undervalues himself.
Although he insists that he doesn't want to interfere
with his brother's deal he soon asserts his own
opinions on the worth of the goods. The differences
in valuation soon uncover the the difference in values
which underlie the brothers' estranging conflicts. The
past is haemorrhaging out, its price is soon to be
discovered.
Miller's intention in The Price is to offer us a self-
sacrificing idealist in Victor to contrast with the
cynical but vital self-interest of his successful brother
Walter. The play is of such mature construction
though that such simple judgements of character
should never be prompted by a faithful and skillful
realisation. Under David Thacker's direction just such
a skillful production is delivered.
Driving Miss Daisy
72 year-old Daisy crashes her new 1948 Packhard
into her neighbour's garden. Her son Boolie (Dan
Akroydi, naturally concerned, imposes Hoke, a black
chauffeur on her whom she bitterly resents. But as
time wears on, unsurprisingly Daisy falls into a need-
driven acceptance of Hoke and slowly an unusual
friendship develops between them. If you're waiting
for something momentous to happen then you may
just as well be waiting for Godot; Daisy crashing her
car (and emerging unscathed) is about as action
packed as it gets. But who needs Sylvester Stalone
to make a good movie?
Driving Miss Daisy is a gentle and delightfully funny
amble through 25 years of social change in the
Southern United States. This encompasses the period
of the emerging Black Civil Rights Movement; Daisy's
and Hoke's relatianship developing in parallel with that
of the southern white and Mack cultures. We hear the
David Calder captures the nobility of the 'weaker'
man in a great performance as Victor that gives him
both sympathy and strength. Playing to this strong
lead Bob Peck's Walter manages a degree of symetery
sufficient to smooth the stereotypical edge of the all-
American brother. Alan MacNaughton finds a nice key
for Solomon, letting the dry Jewish humour tickle
away in the first act and Marjorie Yates inhabits her
role as Victor's wife with professional measure.
Thanks to Joan Washington's coaching the Stateside
accents seem to have stuck convincingly. (Just as
well when playing to a house of more than half
Americans.)
A measured production of a mature play destined
for growing stature. Best suited to the humanly rash
and the seriously sentimental.
MAC.
Film
voice of Martin Luther King but never run into any
nigger-lynching prejudice as shown in such films as
Mississippi Burning. But it's also a visual study of that
era with clever period touches ranging from wide
lapels (very forties) through a rich selection of vintage
cars to a token jogger at the end of the film in 1873.
Jessica Tandy gives a sterling performance as Miss
Daisy, ably supported by Morgan Freeman as Hoke.
And it makes a change to see Dan Akroyd (of
Ghostbusters notoriety) looking like Helmut Kohl.
A pleasing if emotionally stagnant film which didn't
quite drive me to my wodge of kleenex. Driving Miss
Daisy opens tonight at the Warner West End.
Adrian Pagan.
Page 3

