A Clockwork Orange 2004
Theatre
The novelist Anthony Burgess published his book A
Clockwork Orange in 1962 and it caused quite a stir.
Critics claimed then, as they do now, that violence
in art causes violence in society especially amongst
the impressionable and less well educated-
conveniently forgetting that the two orgies of violence
in the first part of this century were not started by
books, but by well educated politicians.
Stanley Kubrick made a film of the book, and the
self-same critics slammed this on the same grounds.
As Kubrick was threatened with violence if he dared
to show the film this shows an amusing degree of self-
fulfilling prophecy.
Well now we have the play of the old story of moral
choice versus the amoral white-coated scientist who
doesn't understand Beethoven.
The protagonist is 'little Alex', a fifteen year-old
who leads his 'droogs' on expeditions of rape and
extreme violence. The teenagers speak an almost
totally incomprehensible dialect called 'nadsat' (from
the Russian 'teen' as in teenager) set in a framework
of archaic and unsyntactical English. They dress
strangely and are quite the separate little tribe. The
violence is arbitrary and purely for its own enjoyment.
Indeed Alex gets churlish when one of his droogs
suggests they steal some money. The choreography
of the violence is excellent, although it avoids danger
as the violence is more suggestive than graphic.
The most important part of the plot is the mental
violence inflicted on Alex by the authorities in their
attempts to cure him. They succeed, so that the mere
thought of violence makes Alex want to vomit. They
also make Alex unable to hear Beethoven without
screaming in agony as the treatment (a sort of
Pavlovian association technique) used Beethoven's
9th Symphony as backing. This leads Alex to attempt
suicide, with severe political repercussions for the
government who was responsible for implementing
the technique in the prisons.
The part of the play that had me transfixed by terror
was an exceptionally noisy part in which riot police
bang plastic shields, dressed in nylon combat gear
with visors and crash helmets, invade the stage and
beat up a couple of revolutionaries preaching against
the government's increasingly authoritarian attempts
to control violence with violence.
The sheer style of the production is overwhelmingly
twentieth century. The set looks like the inside of a
gasometer painted bright red with sliding panels out
of which props emerge and disappear.
Exept for the occasional pieces of Beethoven and
Bach, the music is based on the low, regular throb
overlaid with intertwining synthesized chords [U2,
The Edge and Bono). This gives a very modern and
doom-laden atmosphere. There are also some rather
Monkey Shines
Alan Mann (Jason Beque), a student, gets up each
morning, leaving his beautiful leggy girlfriend in bed,
puts several bricks in his rucksack and goes for a run,
as one does. Unfortunately one morning he's knocked
over by a lorry and finds himself in a wheelchair unable
to move any part of his body below his neck and this
is just the beginning of his problems. Next his girlfriend
runs off with the surgeon who operates on him and
then his mollycoddling mother moves in to look after
him together with a slovenly irritating nurse and her
ferocious budgie. No wonder he tries to end it all.
However things seem to improve when Allan's mad
scientist friend, Geoffrey (John Pankow) donates one
of his laboratory monkeys, Ella, to be schooled by
monkey trainer, Melanie, to care for Allan's every
need. This is no ordinary laboratory monkey, however,
this is one which Geof has been injecting with serum
from human brain tissue to try and improve its
intelligence, without much apparent success. Soon a
close relationship forms between Allan and Ella so
close in fact that Ella seems to be able to read his mind
and control his emotions and of course all kinds of
sinister things ensue.
Although billed as a horror movie, Monkey Shines
is really more of a thriller, relying more on suspense
Page 4
Film
curious modern variants on Beethoven themes. Most
effectively a version of the Da-da-da-dum bit that
everyone knows from the beginning of Beethoven's
5th Symphony accompanying little Alex's dramatic
entry in a lift surrounded by swirling mist and flashing
lights.
Phil Daniels played little Alex as malevolence with
a smirk, self-conscious, witty and intelligent evil
personified. Complete with mock sincerity. At no time
does one ever feel sorry for Alex-he even complains
he is 'being used' a number of times-even after his
treatment in the prison. This probably reflects the
human nature of the audience as much as the style
of acting.
There are many themes and sub-themes. The main
discussion is one that asks if it is correct to deny a
human individual the right to choose violence. I think
this is a bankrupt theme as I don't believe people have
as much free choice as they convince themselves they
do. This is a personal philosophy and as most people
wouldn't agree with me it shouldn't conflict with their
enjoyment of the play.
Prophetic themes are always sinister. It is set in the
near future and as I pointed out, the ambience of the
production futuristic. It is a truly cerebral play with
many pertinent points-many of which I disagree
with-it may be better to be just bowled over by the
performance.
The effect is highly disturbing, especially when you
see news that night of riot police in combat gear firing
plastic bullets at rioting young thugs on football
terraces. You might start to get a little worried when
art like this ceases to be a discussion and becomes
a news item.
Stand-by tickets cost £5 (take your Union card) and
are sold immediately before the performance on level
3 of the Barbican Centre. It would be better to phone
the box office on 638 8891 first to see if any seats
are left. The nearest tube is the Barbican (allow an
extra half an hour as the building is difficult to find).
Adam Harrington.
than on gorey bits. Certainly it is very unlike The Night
of the Living Dead for which Director George Romero
is best known. The film holds the attention throughout
and the acting is generally good, although some of
Beque's monkey indused mood changes are a little
unconvincing. The best performance, without a
doubt, is that of the monkey who totally convinces
you that it is a highly intelligent but evil little beast
rather than a cuddly and harmless animal. It's enough
to put you off monkies for life.
Although the subject dealt with in the film is original
and there is enough suspense to keep you interested
the ultimate conclusion is fairly predictable.
Worthwhile seeing all the same.
Liz Rickwood.
Theatre
Quickies
'Kill Netta Longden, kill Netta Longden' sounds in a
bedsit. Through an opening in the dark a man makes
his way to her sleeping form -he steals a knife from
his pocket and...Although the subject of Hangover
Square is depressing, the play itself is not. Well
written and produced it is well worth a visit. See it
at the Lyric Theatre, King Street, W6. Box Office 741
2311
Contemporary Noh is a collection of three plays
which are either real Japanese Noh or English
imitations. Ranging in subject from Buddhist
philosophy to Samuel Beckett, they are largely
inaccessible to European audiences. The Theatre
Museum, Russell St., WC2. Box Office 836 2330
Based on a book by John Kennedy Toole, A
Conspiracy Of Dunces deals with liberals, policemen,
bowling alleys, muscadet, hot dogs, homosexuals,
strippers, budgies, brass rings, sex and politics, an
orphanage and a supply of pornographic photos! All
played by one actor, it is perhaps overlong. The Gate
Theatre Club. Box Office 229 0706
All close this week.
JLW, Adam T. and Cynic

