Balaam & The Angel
W
Nitzer Ebb
-Showtime LP
Astoria 15.2.90
First support rock group, Jezebel, had hair, leather
studs, metal noise and spite, but no bollocks. Just
learn how to tune your guitars girls.
Things got heavier with Horse (London!, Sweat,
grease and distortion flew. 'We won't take no shit',
they screeched, but they gave us enough. There'll be
a lot of people with whiplash in the morning.
At last Balaam entered to a moody Intro of lights
and mist. '0' ya wanna party? Yeah!', restoring sanity
with pure, unashamed, traditional rock from the long
haired lads. They never flagged, playing from all three
albums and some covers in a set which ended at
11.20 and still wasn't enough.
I am still amazed at the six-second guitar change
by Ian McKean during the latest single, Little Bit of
Love, and the two foot blond dreds of guitarist Jim
Morris were equally agile. They also included frenzied
Two Days of Madness and the favourite / Love the
Things you do to Me and a lot of 'oo-yeahs'.
So what if they sound like The Cult (Electric) or Bon
Jovi, but who cares? They don't, and it was great.
SJH.
The Mission
—Kilburn National 20.2.90
This was a show for video, with Wayne Hussey
(frontman) resplendent in red and shades (yuk). The
introtape into Amelia was beautifully planned (double
yuk) and the song links perfect, too perfect. Wayne
survived as far as the first line of the third song,
Butterfly on a Wheel before throwing down his guitar
and shouting; 'this is fuckin' crap. What do you
want?'.
This was a show for the fans. We got all the greats:
Like a Hurricane, Tower of Strength, Wasteland and
Mr Pleasant. They may have changed their image on
vinyl, but live they're still mega. They play along with
the audience, not to it.
The only danger came from the mounted camera
playing nine-pins with moshing missionaries. Freak-
out or die immortalised on film as a drop-out.
They ended an hour later with the ultimate chant,
Deliverance and left as suddenly as they had arrived.
Keep the refund, just give me Deliverance.
SJH.
House of Love
—Shine On 7"
Finally, after three years of developing from a mixed
up five-piece from South London who were musically
limited and naive, The House of Love have finally
mastered the art of producing a subtle but catchy
guitar pop song.
Shine On has already charted at 18 in the
mainstream charts, but still The House of Love have
kept their indie integrity and have not strayed from
their original and consistent electric guitar based
sound.
Shine On is a lyrically simplistic song carried over
by Guy Chadwick's enchanting vocals, which sit on
a wavering sea of electric guitars.
The flip-side track Allergy is a self-indulgent, almost
instrumental track; where the minimal vocals are
almost drowned by repetitious guitar riffs and a basic
cymbal beat, though they deserve to be.
Surprisingly unavoidably, uncomprimisingly,
infectiously excellent.
DEL.
Showtime is the third album from Nitzer Ebb,
following the groundbreaking That Total Age LP and
the critically acclaimed Belief.
Showtime, as the title suggests and the current
single Lightning Man indicated, is partial reworkings
of classic themes. For the first time the Ebb use a
strong melodic element over their own characteristic
electronic juggernaut. Much of the album appears to
be based around traditional music-hall patterns.
Nobody Knows is the duo's own idiosyncratic effort
at soft-shoe shuffle, My Heart is a violent ballad and
Lightning Man is a bluesy wail. Most of the other
tracks can be forced into this pattern with the stand-
out exception of Fun to be Had, the final track, which
is pure Nitzer Ebb of old.
Showtime is as energetic as ever and possesses a
momentum which builds up from the accelerating
opening strains of Getting Closer to crash to a halt two
sides later with Fun to be Had. In this it more
resembles the early New Beat thunderings of That
Total Age than its more sophisticated sibling Belief.
While Hold On and One Man's Burden would fit easily
on the first LP, tracks such as Lightening Man are a
logical and welcome progression of the foil's work.
Once again Nitzer Ebb steamroller the opposition
and mine the seam they were the first to open.
Showtime, an album of blood and cabaret, is released
on March 5.
Stone.
ESSENTIAL GUIDE TO
GOOD GIGGING
Friday 23rd February
The Meteors +
The Rattlers Opera on the Green
Tanita Tikaram Hammersmith Odeon
Saturday 24th February
The Stranglers Brixton Academy
Monday 26th February
Blow-Up Camden Dingwalls
Tuesday 27th February
The Cramps Brixton Academy
Wednesday 28th February
The Cramps Brixton Academy
The Men They Couldn't Hang..Subterrannia
Thursday 1st March
The Creatures Town & Country Club
Icicle Works Marquee
Energy Orchard Mean Fiddler
Friday 2nd March
The Creatures Twon & Country Club
Essential Gig of the Week
Senseless Things + Carter the
Unstoppable Sex Machine + Nutmeg...ULU
SRI LANKAN
SOCIETY
There will be a meeting of the
Society on February 28 at
12.30pm in room 311, Huxley
Building. All those who are
interested are welcome.

