Harlington's history
Over the past five or six years there has been a lot
said about the ownership of Harlington. The argument
started as a result of a proposed gravel extraction from
the sports ground. This extraction is presently in
operation and is worth in the region of £ 3 million, but
the argument goes deeper than this. Very recently it
has become apparent that the College will do almost
anything to make money or put existing money to their
desired purpose. Many London colleges have seen
sections of their sports grounds sold off, St Mary's
is the most recent but many have lost theirs
altogether. Surely this puts the future of their sporting
activities in doubt; IC sports clubs are expanding we
do not want to see a reduction in the facilities. The
College has shown no incentive for the improvement
of the generally limited quality of sports facilities
available to students at IC whilst the student have
been fruitlessly battling for facilities for years.
So who does own Harlington and have rights to the
new gravel fund? Up until now the whole argument
has revolved around statements made at the time of
purchase of Harlington in September 1936. There is
no doubt that the College bought the ground and
acted as the legal purchaser, but whose money were
they spending and on what authority and advice did
they act? The answer to this lies further back in
history in 1919 when the ground was very young.
In 1919 the College had four student organisations;
the three Constituent College Unions (CCUs) which
ran in a similar but more active manner to today's
CCUs and the Imperial College Union. The Union of
the day was very different to our current one. It had
a President who was one of the three CCU Presidents,
each CCU taking rotating turns at the post, a treasurer
who was a College Governor and an ex-student of the
RCS, and a Secretary who was a Professor and also
a Governor. Whether the Treasurer and Secretary
were Governors as a result of their posts in the Union
or vice versa is not clear. The Imperial College Union
had one committee, the Management Committee,
which took responsibility for all of the Unions'
activities, ie the running of the bar and catering outlets
along with laying on entertainment. The Imperial
College Union was often called the Imperial College
Club (ICC).
The ICC had been running for around eight years,
of which four had been during the Great War, it was
funded in very much the same way as the CCUs in
that each student paid a yearly membership fee of £2
10s which was split between the respective CCU and
ICC by 3/5 to 2/5.
There is little doubt that the money that bought
Harlington was originally derived from the purchase
and development of the War Memorial Ground in
1920. Funded by the War Memorial Executive
Committee (WMEC) and student annual subscriptions,
the ground cost £8000. It was this committee of
Union officers that asked in Feb 1920 'in the event
of a suitable ground being ultimately acquired whether
the Governing Body would consent to the property
being vested in their name as trustees?'. They did not
give the ground to the College but had no one else
to place their trust in as IC Union was simply not well
enough established.
The establishment of the Imperial College Students'
Committee almost immediately after the purchase of
the ground produced the nearest equivalent to the
present day UGM, which ultimately grew into such
a body whilst also developing a series of clubs and
societies available to all IC students. This was the birth
of the respresentational, social and athletic side of IC
Union today and it was precipitated by the purchase
of the Ground in Wembley.
Page 6
Clearly realising that the ground did not belong to
them, the Governing Body opted not to show the
WMG sports field on the College accounts. In 1922
when discussing its disclosure on the accounts, Mr
Hobert Wright, Governor, explained 'that the ground
was vested in the College as trustees, the Committee
agreed that it ought not to be included in the accounts
of the College in any way.'
The development and running of the WMG was paid
for through student union subscriptions, until 1922,
when the College agreed to collect a considerably
larger subscription to cover this and other new
activities that had developed as a result. The
collection of these fees by the College was merely an
administrative convenience; throughout the life of the
Memorial Ground, expenditure and liability for its
Considering the solicitor's predicament, the choice
of the title 'The Students' was a fair one. The Union
was fragmented and undergoing a transformation of
its own as it took full responsibility for its own and
the CCU funds in a vastly expanded organsiation. To
expect it to take control of a rapidly expanding and
developing group of athletics facilities was simply
unreasonable. Hence the College set up what would
now be known as an Athletics Union to run the
facilities.
As the Athletic Union dissolved, the sports clubs
were placed in the hands of IC Union and the grounds
fell to the College's Athletic Committee.
The sports facilities precipitated the formation of IC
Union as we know it and their purchase, development
and administration was performed by students up until
The relaid hockey pitches have not improved since this picture was taken last y
running were accounted for under the title Union
Accounts.
The turning point for the Ground came in 1937,
when the sports facilities were transferred to a College
account, held in trust to the students, a body with no
legal identity separate from the College.
The College had seen a chance to generate
considerable revenue by selling the ground. By placing
the money in such a trust they could account for it
legally; the College's solicitor quite rightly noted that
it could not be placed under any College account, even
the Union account could not be used as there was no
independent legal identity to separate it from College.
His only option was to show it as a bare trust,
meaning a trust upon which they held no rights of
ownership.
the College took control of them. Starting with an
outright majority of students, College Athletic
Committee, which watched over the funds for sports
activities has seen its student membership fall by two.
Harlington and the boathouse are the Union's
birthright held in trust for over seventy years. IC Union
has now grown up and should be given back control
of its property for it to run as in the 1920s with the
students having the right of decision and the College
claiming no rights to interfere. The first thing to be
done is to rename Harlington the War Memorial
Ground and erect plaques to the dead of the Great
War.
by Sydney Harbour-Bridge

