Fencing
Although we haven't appeared in the pages of FELIX
for quite some time, IC Fencing Club have been busy
with the UAU team competition and we have now
reached the semi-final stage.
Our opponents in the challenge round were
Southampton, who travelled to IC on January 31.
Despite missing the services of Jorg Pollok, the sabre
team started the match in promising style with an 8-1
victory over Southampton's sabreurs. The foilists then
had an uphill struggle against a stony Southampton
team-notable exceptions being a 5-0 victory each for
Peter and Simon. Two narrow 5-4 victories in the foil
meant that IC were 13-5 going into the epee, needing
just one more fight to secure an overall win.
Unfortunately, the Epeeists were rather lacking in the
spirit and style which made them so successful last
year, and a 2-7 defeat in the epee meant that IC won
the match overall by 15-12.
Team
Sabre: Marucie Ricou, Nick Hills, Dave Matthews
(Capt).
Foil: Gully Burns, Nick Hills, Simon Laight (Res. Peter
Cripwell).
Epee: Simon Evans, Adam Sadler, Peter Cripwell.
Wednesday 14th saw IC Fencing Team spending a
romantic Valentine's Day on the M1 as we travelled
to Bradford for the quarter-finals.The strain of a four
and half hour journey was all too evident; even the
formidable sabre team could only manage a closely
fought 6-3 victory. The foilists were also under
pressure, with Bradford performing to their highest
standard, and again IC narrowly won 5-4. After
I P *
winning the first two epee fights, IC were 13-7 and
the result semed certain; however, severe equipment
problems meant that Peter and Nick faced the virtually
impossible task of fencing left-handed with right-
handed orthopaedic grip weapons. Gully Burns was
unlucky to be narrowly defeated in two fights, and the
nightmare slowly unfolded as Bradford, gaining in
confidence all the time crept back to draw level at
13-13. In the last fight, Bradford very sportingly lent
us a left-handed epee and a comfortable victory from
Peter put us into the semi-finals by the narrowest of
margins.
Team
Sabre: Maurice Ricou, Jorg Pollock, Nick Hills.
Foil: Peter Cripwell, Nick Hills, Simon Laight.
Epee: Peter Cripwell, Gully Burns, Nick Hills.
Football Dribblers j u ^ 0
IC 6th —
1 Mary's 2nd-1
After a victory in their previous game the IC 6ths lined
up for the kick-off determined to extend their superb
unbeaten run of one match. The lads dominated the
first half, and when one of Mary's defenders decided
that they needed two goalkeepers (nicely punching
the ball away), we expected to take the deserved lead
from the following penalty. But, up stepped twinkle
toes Sanga to limply paddle the ball towards the goal,
ensuring a spectacular save from the keeper (although
no motion was necessary on his part).
Not deterred by this, the 6ths kept up the pressure
and, after a good run down the right, Nick managed
to hit the far post with one of his 'better' crosses. The
second half began tamely but after ten minutes the
opposition broke through to score a scrappy goal. The
6ths responded well with some good play up front,
although this was not reflected in the defence who,
after mis-controlling the ball several times conceded
a second goal.
IC struck back almost immediately as super sub
Smith scored superbly after a good run from a
midfielder. Phil, anxious to restart, decided to pretend
that he was one of the opposition and take the kick-
off himself, without success. This diffused the
situation as the game ended without further incident,
although a mass of opposition supporters invaded the
pitch at full-time whilst ours were already in the ale
house drowning their miseries.
Goldsmiths 2 IC Dribblers 2
Last week saw our valiant heroines battling in wet and
windy Chingford where we held London Hospitals to
a 3-0 defeat. It was so cold, miserable and unexciting,
I didn't bother writing about it.
It was quite a relief this week when we saw the sun
shining over Albany Park. Somehow we'd managed
to arrive over an hour early for the match and whilst
deciding how best to occupy our time, one bright-eyed
Dribbler spotted a nearby hostelry. The debate over,
we descened on the Sunday lunchtime drinkers at Ye
Olde White Crosse Inne for a wee dram or two of the
amber nectar (purely for medicinal reasons-the hair
of the dog I think it's called!).
The first half of the game saw a rather shocked pack
of Dribblers concede two goals after spending far
more time than usual in the opposition's half. We
managed to draw even in the second half thanks to
two stunning goals (modesty forbids me from saying
who scored) and were unlucky not to win with several
other shots either being saved or going wide. The real
heroine of the day though, must be Lucy who flung
her right breast and throat in the way of a last ditch
attempt by Goldies. Suffice to say, the game over,
the Dribblers then got down to the serious business
of the day and had a few drinks and sang a few
songs-oh! and annoyed a few BR passengers as well!
The British University Sports Federation (BUSF) Judo
Championships were held in Glasgow on February 10
and 11. IC Judo Club contributed three fighters to the
London University squad. 1st Dan Peter Swettenham
gained the silver medal in the Under 78kg individual
competition, losing in a well fought match against an
ex-London fighter. Relative newcomers to the Club
Simon Lloyd and Ray Cook both fought admirably
considering their lack of experience in first-class
competition but were both unplaced.
Peter then fought as part of the London five man
team on the Sunday. The team, defending the title
from last year and the year before were knocked out
in the semi-final by the eventual winners, Glasgow.
IC and London coach Paul Warren described Peter's
performance as outstanding. Bronze place was thus
awarded.
Peter, Simon and Ray then fought in the ten man
competition, gaining another bronze.
Club news. A grading for this year's beginners was
held at Imperial this weekend. All the competitors
gave good performances considering their extreme
lack of contest experience and all were promoted.
Special mentions to Ultan McArthy, promoted to
green belt and Katrina Newman, who fought with
spirit against far heavier opponents.
Page 7

