This
Week
• Optical fibres have transmitted signals over a
new record distance. The Japanese
telecommunication company Nippon Telegraph and
Telephone (NTT) sent digital data a distance of
2,223km without using electrical repeaters.
The attenuation of optic fibre means that amplifiers
are required periodically along the length of the cable
to boost the signal. Previously these have been
electrical, that is, the light pulses are converted to an
electrical signal, amplified then transformed back to
light. Such repeaters are prone to failure and costly,
particularly for lines in awkward environments, for
instance, on the sea bed.
Different means of building repeaters are being
investigated. One method uses the rare earth element,
erbium, and keeps the signal in the optical domain
throughout. The NTT record was set using 25 of these
repeaters which each form a section of the line 160km
long being separated by 80km.
• Orthopaedic surgeons may soon be able to install
better fitting replacement knee and hip joints with the
hope that they will function for many years longer
than present renewals. A new computer system will
enable the surgeon to view the joint from all angles
allowing rehearsal of the operation and joints to be
tailor-made. Today's replacement hips for example,
rarely last for more than a decade due to joint
loosening or the implant breaking as loads on the body
alter; bone can gradually grow and adjust. The present
fitting system involves choosing a standard size
replacement joint after comparing the X-rays of the
bones with different sized templates.
• Genetically engineered mice that have a human
immune system are now being used to test new AIDS
drugs. HIV, the virus responsible for the disease, does
not effect many species and chimpanzees have had
to be used for experiments which are rare and
expensive. The virus only affects those parts of the
mice which are of human origin but it is hoped to
provide new insight into the disease, if only for
ensuring that a new drug has no anti-viral effects
before further tests are carried out.
• Mute swans in Britain have been dying more than
ever in recent years after having been poisoned by
lead. This is due to the swan swallowing shotgun lead
pellets or lead weights discarded by anglers, which
are now banned. The lead accumulates in the body
and causes weight loss, muscular paralysis and a
reduced resistance to disease leading to the inevitable
death of the swan.
A recent report suggests that results from 'chalation
therapy' are encouraging with 49% of poisoned
swans being apparently successfully treated although
only 22% survived for more than two years. The
treatment involves injecting the swan two or three
times a day with sodium calcium edetate for at least
a week, this combines with the lead rendering it
harmless. Side effects such as mineral deficiencies
though are not well quantified yet, however.
• Plug 'Food Irradiation'. An Envirosoc lecture to be
given by Dr Tim Lang from the London Food
Commission, 12.45pm on Thursday March 1 in Mech
Eng 542.
Small steps and
giant leaps
Fig. 1. Artist's impression of the Ulysses launch from
Of all human exploits space exploration must surely
rank in the forefront for firing our imagination and
sense of adventure. Now as we enter the '90s a new
era of solar system exploration is dawning where,
compared with the lean times of the '80s in which
missions were few, the future once again looks bright
with a flotilla of sophisticated space probes set to
embark upon exciting voyages to different reaches of
the solar system. Indeed there is every prospect that,
to paraphrase Neil Armstrong's famous words when
setting foot on the moon, these 'small steps' will lead
to 'giant leaps' in knowledge and human achievement.
In this article I describe the solar system space
missions already approved for the '90s, highlighting
the important role which Imperial College scientists
are set to play. Imperial involvement centres on
investigating the behaviour of plasmas and magnetic
fields in solar system space, especially those
processes which are relevant to the universe.
First, though, it is right to question the.reasons for
conducting expensive space exploration when there
are so many pressing human problems here on Earth.
To my mind, such highly technological scientific
pursuits are vital for intellectual and national vigour;
if worthwhile intellectual challenges are absent
stagnation soon sets in. What greater intellectual
challenge can exist than to understand the region of
space in which we live and which we may eventually
colonise? The analogy with Columbus is allied to this
argument for if he had not sailed, progress would
certainly have been delayed. There is every reason to
believe that practical benefits for humankind will also
come from exploring the solar system. Last but
certainly not least, solar system exploration offers
perhaps the best opportunity for forwarding
international collaboration and detente.
During the '90s new exploratory missions are
confirmed or planned to every planet in the solar
system and to several asteroids and comets. This
exciting programme includes fly-bys, orbiters,
atmosphere probes, balloons, landers, rovers and
the Space Shuttle later this year. Courtesy ofESA
sample return missions. The table lists those missions
already approved.
The new era of solar system exploration began last
year with the successful launches of the Magellan and
Galileo spacecraft (the first NASA planetary missions
in over a decade). Magellan is targeted to Venus,
Earth's hostile sister planet, which it will reach on
August 10, 1990. It will perform detailed scanning at
various wavelengths of the Venusian atmosphere and
surface, looking for deep cloud patterns, lightning,
volcanoes and evidence of plate tectonics. Later this
month Venus will also be visited by the Galileo
spacecraft, probably the most sophisticated robotic
probe yet flown. This encounter will be followed by
two Earth flybys to speed Galileo's passage to Jupiter
which it will reach in December 1995. There it will
release an atmosphere probe, undertake detailed
measurements of the swirling atmosphere, giant
magnetosphere (ten times the Sun's diameter) and
energetic radiation belts, and perform a complex tour
lasting twenty months, of the numerous moons of
Jupiter. Many will recall the stunning Voyager
photographs of the Jupiter system; but these could
pale into insignificance when compared with the
definition achievable on Galileo which will rival that
of Landsat pictures of cloud cover over the Earth's
surface. Without question many significant
discoveries will follow. Of special interest to Imperial
workers is Jupiter's volcanic moon, lo. Intense electric
currents flow between lo and Jupiter's outer
atmosphere which cause fluctuation in the intensity
of radio waves emitted from Jupiter's vicinity. Imperial
has been in the forefront for proposing models for the
origin and structure of these currents and radio
emissions, and Galileo will provide unique data for
testing these theories when it flybys lo at about 1000
km.
In October this year the pioneering Ulysses mission
will be launched (figure 1) to fly over the poles of the
Sun in a unique journey lasting over four years.
Ulysses will be the first probe to explore our solar
Page 8

