system in the third dimension, all previous missions
having been confined to the ecliptic plane. This feat
is possible through the clever use of Jupiter's
immense gravitational pull which will catapult Ulysses
out of the ecliptic and arc it back and over the Sun.
Imperial College is contributing two of the nine
instruments flying on Ulysses. These instruments will
provide the first ever measurements of the three
dimensional structure of the solar wind, the steam of
charged particles leaving the Sun, and its embedded
interplanetary magnetic field. These measurements
which are vital for our understanding of how the solar
wind originates. They will also give rich data on the
propagation and acceleration of solar energetic
particles which are important for the prediction of
'space weather' at Earth.
Galileo will flyby two asteriods on its long
interplanetary voyage to Jupiter. These encounters
signal a growing interest in primitive bodies (comets
and asteroids) during the coming decade; an interest
which arises because these bodies are believed to
contain pristine material from the origin of the solar
system. Three missions have already been approved
dedicated solely to primitive body studies: GEM, CRAF
and Rosetta (see table). Imperial has experimental and
theoretical expertise in this area having flown the first
instrument ever to detect a comet in space (the
energetic particle experiment on the International
Cometary Explorer encounter with comet Giacobini-
Zinner in September 1985) and provided much of the
subsequent theoretical development on how the solar
wind interacts with comets. GEM stands for 'Giotto
extended mission' and involves the reactivation of the
Giotto spacecraft (which brought us such spectacular
pictures of the nucleus of Halley's comet in 1986) and
its targetting to comet Grigg-Skjellerup which it will
reach in July 1992. NASA's comet rendezvous and
asterioid flyby mission (CRAF) will send the first
Mariner Mark II spacecraft to rendezvous with comet
Kopff near the orbit of Jupiter and then track it at
distances between 20 and 5000 km during its
passage around the Sun. Imperial are contributing to
the CRAF magentic field experiment; an instrument
crucial for studying the comet/solar wind interaction.
While en route to comet Kopff, CRAF will also flyby
asteroid 449 (Hamburga). CRAF will be followed by
the ESA/NASA Rosetta mission whose purpose is to
return a refrigerated comet nucleus sample to Earth.
Of all the planets, Mars must surely evoke the
Mission Objective Space Agency Launch Date Imperial Involvement
Magellan Venus orbiter NASA May 1989
Galileo Asteroid flyby, Jupiter
orbiter and atmosphere
probe
NASA October Contributing to the
magnetic field
investigations
Ulysses Solar wind exploration ESA/NASA October 1990 Leadership of the
magnetic field
investigation and
contributing to the
energetic particles
investigation
Mars Observer Mars orbiter NASA 1992
GEM Comet flyby ESA 1992
MARS 94 Mars orbiter and
surface stations
Soviet 1994 Contributing to the
magnetic field and
particle investigation
SOHO Sun's interior and
atmosphere
ESA/NASA 1995
Cluster 4-satellite Earth
magnetosphere mission
ESA/NASA 1995 Leadership of the
magnetic field
investigation
CRAF Comet rendezvous
and asteroid flyby
NASA 1995/96 Contributing to the
magnetic field
investigation
Cassini Saturn orbiter and
Titan probe
ESA/NASA 1996 Proposal submitted
for leadership of
the magnetic field
investigation
Rosetta Comet nucleus
sample return
ESA/NASA 7
greatest sense of mystery and fascination. Excitement
was high last year when the Soviet Phobos 2
spacecraft became the first probe since NASA's twin
Viking landers in 1976 to reach the red planet. Despite
its premature failure, Phobos did return new and
important scientific data especially concerning the
solar wind interaction (see Science feature by
Professor Southwood in FELIX issue 855). Now
several further Mars missions are under development,
two of which are approved: NASA's Mars Observer
and the Soviet MARS 94 missions (see table). Of
these, MARS 94 is the more ambitious consisting of
two spacecraft which will deploy surface stations and
launch balloons, with TV cameras and surface-
contacting 'snakes' (Figure 2). The search for possible
life is a primary objective and these missions, if
successful, will be followed by a Rover Sample Return
Mission around 2001.
Fig. 2. Dual balloon concept for probing the Martian surface. Courtesy of Michael Carroll.
The first cornerstone missions of ESA's long term
space plan, the so-called 'Horizon 2000' project, are
the solar terrestrial science missions SOHO and
Cluster. Their objective is to attack the key
outstanding problems in solar and Earth space plasma
physics. SOHO (Solar and Heliospheric Observatory)
will be stationed about 1.5 million kilometres sunward
of the Earth and will study the Sun, both its interior
and outer corona where intense heating occurs
through an unknown process, to generate the solar
wind. The Cluster mission, which complements
SOHO, consists of four identical space probes orbiting
at various separations through the magnetic field
surrounding the Earth (magnetosphere). Cluster will
study how the magnetospheric plasmas react to
varying solar conditions and permit the first ever three
dimensional point measurements of magnetised space
plasmas, thereby allowing important quantities such
as electric currents and the swirling of these plasmas
to be measured directly for the first time. Imperial is
providing leadership on the four magnetometers flying
on Cluster.
The detailed exploration of Saturn and its planet-
sized moon Titan form a recent additional planetary
objective for the '90s. This advanced joint ESA/NASA
mission, called Cassini, comprises an orbiter to
investigate Saturn's elaborate and interacting system
of rings, icy satellites and complex magnetosphere,
and an atmosphere probe which will slowly descend
through Titan's organically rich atmosphere to land,
possibly, in its hydrocarbon ocean. The chemistry
taking place in Titan's atmosphere may resemble
reactions which occurred on the primitive Earth.
Cassini's scientific return will be enhanced by flybys
of Jupiter and at least one asteroid. Experimental
proposals for Cassini are under review and Imperial
is bidding to provide leadership on the magnetic field
investigation.
In conclusion, I hope this short article has provided
a flavour for the exciting future facing solar system
exploration in the '90s. A fleet of sophisticated robotic
probes will undertake ambitious missions to several
of the planets, moons, asterioids and comets, thereby
paving the way for human exploration and possible
settlement early in the 21 st century. Imperial College
scientists are set to play leading roles in this
endeavour where small steps may well lead to giant
leaps for humankind.
Dr Mark Saunders, Blackett Laboratory.
Page 9

