THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 11
05.06.2015
FELIX
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
E. Coli engineering: the next innovation in
antibiotics?
Breakthroughscanoftencome
fromtheleastexpectedplaces.
Todayintheconstantstruggle
betweenbacteriaandantibioticsinthe
fighttoinfect,bacteriamayhavebeen
dealtablowfromwithintheirown
ranks.ResearchersattheUniversity
ofBuffalo’sSchoolofEngineeringand
AppliedScienceshavefoundaway
tosuccessfullyturnE.coli,abacterial
strainmostcommonlyassociated
withcausinginfection,intoantibiotic
generators.
Perhapsevenmoresignificantly,the
antibioticsynthesizedbythebacteria
isErythromycin,adruginwideuse
andonethatanincreasingnumber
ofharmfulbacteriaarebecoming
resistantto. Inwhatsomeoutlets
arecallingthe“holygrail”ofthe
field,threeoftheE.coli-synthesized
Erythromycinanalogswereableto
killbacteriathatareresistanttothe
antibioticscurrentlyinclinicaluse.
Alteringtheassemblyofthedrugin
thecell,ratherthanthecomponents
themselves,createdthesenew
formsoftheantibiotic,apartof
theprocessthathasreceivedlittle
focusfromresearcherspreviously.
Encouragingbacterialenzymesto
accept16alternatesugarsubstrates
intheprocess,theE.coliwereable
tosynthesize42newversionsof
Erythromycin.
AlthoughbacteriasuchasS.
erythraeaareabletonaturally
synthesizeErythromycin,ithasproven
difficulttocultivateinlabconditions.
E.coliontheotherhandhasproven
invaluableinarangeofresearch,asit
isfastgrowingandverysusceptibleto
takingupnewgenes.Thismeansthat
it’splausiblethatDr.BlainePfeifer’s
teammayhavefoundapracticalway
toeasilycombatthespreadoffast-
adaptingsuperbugslikeMRSAusing
E.coliasantibioticpowerhouses.
Dr.Pfeifer,headofthelabatBuffalo,
statedthattheresearchcarriedoutby
post-docG.Zhangwas“animportant
stepforward”inthefightagainst
infection. Theresearchersaresurethe
implicationsofthestudyaremuch
broaderthanoneantibiotic,arguing
“theresearchopensthedoorfor
additionalengineeringpossibilitiesin
thefuture”.Indeed,althoughfurther
tweakingwillberequiredinorder
beforeanyE.coli-producedantibiotics
endupingeneraluse,thismethod
couldhelpansweroneofmedicine’s
mostpressingproblems.TheUSCentre
forDiseaseControlandPrevention
estimatesthat23,000deathsin
Americain2013weretheresultof
antibiotic-resistantinfection.There
arecurrently15bacteriaresistant
toantibioticsthattheCDCPhave
classedasurgentorseriousthreats
andtheWorldHealthOrganization
hasdescribedthetrendas “globally
threateningourabilitytotreat
infectiousdisease”.
Itisalsoclearthatthescientistsatthe
UniversityofBuffaloseethisasmore
thanjustabreakthroughinthefieldof
antibiotics.TheErythromycinpathway
isbeingviewedasatemplatesystem
forthecreationoffurther“unnatural
naturalproducts”and,withmore
modification,couldbeusedagainstall
kindsofillnessesincludingcancer. We
arestillyearsofresearchawayfrom
theuseofanycompoundsmadefrom
bacteriabeingavailablewidelyfor
medicaltreatment,butE.colimayturn
outtobeourunlikelyallyinthebattle
againstdisease.
Scientists have manipulated E. Coli to produce antibiotics that could
combat superbugs Photo: Wikimedia Commons
Gut bacteria could be key to effective drugs
Over the past few years, there
has been increasing interest in
the bacteria that live in our gut
– the microbiome. From activating
essential vitamins, metabolising
drugs to the very way in which we
respond to various infections, our
microbiome has been known to be
involved in a vast variety of biological
processes. The idea that microbes can
activate or inactivate drugs, generate
toxic by-products of drug metabolism
and alter drug metabolism by human
cells in both direct and indirect ways
has been known for decades. Recently,
this idea has become more popular.
Ramy Aziz, a microbiologist from
the Faculty of Pharmacy at Cairo
University explains how the current
research into pharmacogenomics (the
study of how variations in human
genes contribute to individual
differences in drug metabolism
and effectiveness) may change the
way drugs will be developed in the
future: “You can give two people the
same drug and they will respond
differently. And it’s not because
of their genes but the genes of the
microbes they carry”.
This concept is illustrated
beautifully by the gut bacterium E.
lenta, which can inactivate digoxin,
a drug commonly used for patients
with cardiac abnormalities.
Scientists have identified a pair
of genes, within the bacteria called
the cgr operon, that are responsible
for metabolising digoxin. People in
whom a high proportion of the E.
lenta in their gut carry the cgr operon
are able to largely inactivate the
drug, whilst digoxin keeps working
in patients whose E. lenta strains lack
the gene.
Peter Turnbaugh, a microbiologist
from the University of California, and
colleagues are currently investigating
how to augment to response of cgr-
operon positive E. lenta on digoxin.
It seems that the operon activity is
reduced in the presence of the amino
acid arginine. This was discovered
by the researchers in mice colonised
with E. lenta that were fed a high-
protein diet and were found to have
higher blood digoxin levels compared
to those put on a protein-free diet.
Further trials involving arginine
supplementation alone are awaited.
Irinotecan is another popular
drug, used in chemotherapy for
UTSAV RADIA
SCIENCE WRITER
patients with colon cancer. However,
it has many serious side effects
including diarrhoea and severe
immunosuppression.
Once Irinotecan, has been processed
in the liver, the drug is deactivated
and excreted via bile. It then follows
back into the gastrointestinal tract,
where a vast majority of the microbes
in the gut can re-activate the drug.
This is due to an enzyme called
beta-glucoronidase produced by the
microbes.
A team of researchers in the
University of North Carolina have
been investigating the use of beta-
glucoronidase inhibitors in managing
irinotecan-induced diarrhoea.
Surprisingly, they have also found
that blocking beta-glucoronidase in
the microbiome not only helps to
reduce the inactivation-reactivation
of irinotecan (in a process known as
enterohepatic cycling), but this also
applies to commonly used drugs such
as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs (commonly used painkillers
such as aspirin and ibuprofen)
that can otherwise produce serious
gastrointestinal tract ulceration.
Targeting the beta-glucoronidase
pathway seems an exciting new
cornerstone in drug designing and
development as we can now control
the effects of drugs by altering how
out gut flora responds to them.
Hopefully, it won’t be long before
we can widely implement the use
of beta-glucoronidase inhibitors in
alleviating the side effects of many
drugs by reducing their persistence in
the body.
New research has uncovered how gut bacteria can cause some drugs to become ineffective Photo: Wikimedia
Commons
MADDIE WEBB
SCIENCE WRITER

