SEX ON CAMPUS
0% to 5% 5% to 10% 10% to 15% 15% +
UNION OFFICES:
28.0%
PRINCES GARDENS:
8.0%
SAF:
14.7%
RSM:
14.7%
CENTRAL LIBRARY:
6.7%
SHERFIELD:
6.7%
CITY AND GUILDS:
5.3%
BLACKETT LAB:
5.3%
MINIBUSES:
2.7%
BIOCHEMISTRY:
1.3%
FACULTY BUILDING:
1.3%
EEE:
1.3%
CHEMISTRY:
1.3%
BUSINESS SCHOOL:
1.3%
QUEENS LAWN:
1.3%
ETHOS:
4%
13% OF TOTAL RESPONDENTS
SAID THEY HAVE HAD SEX ON
CAMPUS
There were nearly 600 responses to the Felix sex survey
this year.We had to de-troll a number of submissions
and remove them from the final dataset,due to absurd
answers–although this was all based on our judgement.
Those we missed we hope will not change the overall
findings too much due to the large sample size.
Like any other survey,the responses we collected as
a whole may have been skewed by a number of factors.
Firstly,the topic will only appeal to the people who would
be interested in answering questions.Although we can
only speculate,it seems fair to suggest that those who are
reluctant to do so may be because of their perceived“lack”
of experience or enjoyment of their own sex life.
With a large subset of students telling us how happy
they are and how much sex they are having,we can only
guess whether this is a fair representation of the sex lives
of Imperial students on the whole.
Secondly,the methodology of the survey may skew it
towards those who are interested in taking the time to
fill it out,too.Although the survey was advertised across
all social media and in the print edition of the paper too,
people are more likely to fill in the survey when presented
with the link directly online.It is more likely that those
who have social media contact with members of the Felix
editorial team filled out the survey than other students.
Sadly,the data set was not as large as in previous years,
despite the survey being open for most of the Spring term.
This is the fifth year the survey has been run,and it may be
that the novelty has worn off for some of the older years:
32% of responses were by students who started Imperial
this year,whilst only 17% of those who responded were in
their fourth year here.
We also had far less postgraduate engagement than we
hoped for,meaning our stats are more representative of
the undergraduate body than the entirety of the student
body–normally a roughly half and half mix.
With this in mind,take our findings that are split by
department with a pinch of salt; for some departments,
we only had a small number of respondents so this may
again mean the findings are not very accurate reflections
of these groups of students on the whole.
In the end,the survey is run as a bit of fun; it is great to
have a snapshot of the sex lives of Imperial students,and
we enjoy analysing the stats and sharing our findings
just as much as you all enjoy filling it in and reading the
results.
PHILIPPA SKETT
Survey hindrances: skewing, de-trolling and over-excited freshers

