THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 3
20.03.2015
FELIX
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Cecily Johnson & Kunal Wagle
No dash for gas: Activist group protests at Royal
School of Mines
The Royal School of Mines was not the only group to face protests. There were protests outside the Department
of Energy and Climate Change, as well as at the headquarters of Npower. Photo: No Dash for Gas
Ben Howitt writes as ‘Reclaim the Power’ occupy front entrance
The Royal School of Mines
(RSM) entrance was occupied
on Monday 1st
June by a group
of students and members of the
public representing the activist group
‘Reclaim the Power’.
The protest consisted of the
presentation of a degree in Petroleum
Geophysics to “brainwashed student
#5102”, which claimed to enable
“students to contribute to global
warming and social injustice”,
followed by a sit in by the group of 10
protesters. Some Imperial students
joined the protesters.
Security officers restricted access
to the entrance lobby, and appeared
to phone the police. The protest
vacated the lobby peacefully before
any police officers arrived, and the
call was retracted. One protester we
talked to said “one of the security
officers showed solidarity with us. It’s
clearly an issue that’s on the mind at
Imperial”. Reclaim the Power did not
contact the security office prior to the
protest taking place.
The RSM sit-in was protesting
the level of investment from the
fossil fuel industry received by
universities, and Imperial College in
particular. The complaint runs that
since university departments are so
dependent on this investment, the
direction of research (and therefore
public money) is directed by the fossil
fuel industry.
A press release by Reclaim the
Power states that “they [Imperial
College] invite oil executives onto
university committees and present
themselves publicly as “a fossil fuel
university””. The College’s President,
Alice Gast, also sits on the board
of directors at Chevron, which in
2010 sold 3.1 million barrels per
day of refined oil products such
as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. The
company received the 2015 Lifetime
Award of the Public Eye, a platform
for substantial criticism of “purely
profit-oriented globalisation”.
This action reflects recent
campaigns by Fossil Free campaigns
at UK universities. Oxford University
recently agreed not to take coal
and tar sands investments, while
Edinburgh University more
controversially refused to divest,
following a three year campaign by
the students. Within the past year,
Galhow University, the University of
Bedfordshire, and SOAS, University
of London have agreed to divest from
fossil fuels entirely.
Reclaim The Power ran a total of
18 actions during the day, and 11
protesters were arrested across the
country. Other actions have included
a blockade on the steps outside the
Department of Energy and Climate
Change, office occupations of PR
firms Mediazoo and Camargue, and a
rooftop occupation of RWE Npower’s
Swindon headquarters. The last of
these resulted in the arrest of the two
protesters involved.
Reclaim the Power also ran a “Mass
Action Camp” at Didcot power
station from 29th
May to 2nd
June,
which aimed to offer “actions with
more of an arrest risk” in conjunction
with “actions that are suitable for
families with children (and face
paint!)”.
Fossil Free Imperial said of the
protest “Reclaim the Power’s action
shows that the pressure on fossil fuel
companies and their associates is
growing and has wide ranging vocal
support. Their campaign highlights
the inconvenient truth about the
strong ties between Imperial and the
fossil fuel industry that go far beyond
its endowment fund. It is clear that
Imperial needs to take a strong stance
on its position in a low carbon future,
and not allow this to become its
Kodak moment.”
Imperial signs research deal in Qatar
On Tuesday 2nd
June, Imperial
College London signed
an agreement with Qatar
University (QU) and the Qatar Shell
Research and Technology Centre
(QSTRC) that covered corrosion
prevention in wet sour gas pipelines.
The signing took place at Qatar
University. The deal was signed by
representatives from QU and QSTRC,
as well as Mary Ryan, Professor of
Materials Science and Technology at
Imperial College London.
Imperial’s research on the subject
will hope to increase the lifetime
of pipelines in Qatar. Qatar has
recently faced the technical challenge
of dealing with the corrosion of
pipelines that transport sour oil and
gas. The research will make use of
state of the art analytical techniques.
As part of the agreement, Qatar
University will use its Centre for
Advanced Materials to develop the
capability to study pipeline corrosion.
The university already provides
assistance to the local industries in
oil, gas and processing.
Speaking about the signing, Dr
Hassan Al-Derham, who is the
Vice President for Research at
QU, said “At Qatar University,
apart from providing education,
we enhance social change and
continuous economic development
of the country and the world at large
through research and partnership
with industrial operators.
“This agreement with Qatar Shell
which is focused on understanding
scaling and corrosion in sour gas
pipelines, aligns with QU’s research
priorities and is integral to Qatar’s
vision of becoming a knowledge-
based society where research plays
a vital role in resolving emerging
issues, especially concerning the oil
and gas industry, the country’s main
source of revenue for development.”
Youssif Saleh, the General Manager
of QSRTC, said, “In line with the
Qatar National Vision 2030, Qatar
Shell is committed to identifying
research collaborations that
address real challenges impacting
our business, that bring together
coalitions involving key local
research institutions, and which
offer the opportunity for direct
applicability for the benefit of the
State of Qatar.
“Shell is proud of the investments
that we make in innovation and
research, but we’re also delighted
that we can support Qatar’s ambition
to develop research capacity in the
country.”
Prof Ryan said “We are excited
about this new research program to
develop fundamental understanding
of complex multi-scale systems in
order to address real world technical
challenges. We look forward to
working with QU and QSRTC to
develop a new approach towards
delivering robust, innovative
solutions to pipeline integrity issues
facing the oil and gas industry in
Qatar.”
KUNAL WAGLE
SECTION EDITOR
Corrosion of pipelines has been a technical challenge for Qatari industries. Photo: knovel.com

