imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Energia Fitness Fun Day, 17 June
The Active Lifestyles team would like to
invite all Imperial staff and students to
a fun day of FREE classes and outdoor
fitness training, free t-shirts and prizes
for gym and swim challenges. The
event will be held at various venues
across the South Kensington Campus on
Wednesday 17 June.
Here’s a quick summary of what’s
available on the day:
A A range of free fitness classes held in
Energia Studio and Energia Gym
A Try Kangol jumping shoes - a unique
and fun class
A A fun Jumping Fitness class on
patented trampoline
A Two outdoor classes held on the
Queen’s Lawn and Prince’s Gardens
A A mega gym challenge with prizes
included
To see what will be on offer and view the
timetable go to
imperialcollegeunion.org/fitnessfunday.
Club, Society & Project Officer Induction Sessions
Have you been elected as a Club, Society or Project officer for 2015/16? You are one
of the thousands of volunteers who run Imperial College Union’s many activities for
our members. Thank you in advance for your and your committee’s hard work and
commitment over the coming 12 months; it’ll be an exciting year ahead!
The Induction Sessions are delivered by an Imperial College Union staff member who
will become your first point of contact for help and advice throughout your time as a
volunteer in 2015/16.
Learning outcomes are:
A Understand what the Union is, who we are, what we do and how we will support
you
A Review and discuss your responsibilities in relation to equality & diversity, financial
procedures and the health & safety of your members
A Review the training available to volunteers and identify gaps in your skills/knowledge
A How the Union can help you to translate your volunteer experiences into skills
employers will value
A Meet your dedicated staff member who will become your primary contact for
advice/support in the year ahead
For more information go to our What’s On calendar at imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-
on to see when these sessions are on.
Desk to Difference: “Desk-based volunteering to make a difference.”
Too busy to commit to a volunteering? Is your schedule too unpredictable to sign up to
activities? Or are you yet to find something worth trying? If you can answer yes to any
of these questions, then Desk to Difference is for you!
Desk to Difference is an initiative which allows students to make positive social
change by using their skills and expertise to carry out tasks for charitable organisations
whenever they want and wherever they are.
You could be an undergraduate biomedical student writing a fundraising plan to
support a disabilities charity in Ghana, a Masters Business School student marking
business plans from all over the world, or a PhD candidate trying to develop
professional skills and aiming to get a taste of different careers before graduation.
We know how busy Imperial students are, but we are also certain that your
contribution can have a significant impact on the work of organisations striving for
social change.
For more information and to register go to www.imperialhub.org/desk-to-difference.

