34 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.03.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
This week’s All-Staff Briefing has sadly been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) to allow staff time to process
and digest the results of the Collaboration
Survey.
Please do all take this valuable opportunity
to read through the results of the
survey, and use them to learn how we
can continue to improve the wonderful
work we do here through the power of
collaboration!
If you’re looking for a good space to peruse
the results, may I recommend the Break
Room on the Second Floor? I’m reliably
informed we have a delightful new coffee
machine, and I’d hate to see the new
facilities those lovely boys in Finance have
bought for us go to waste!
What Is: Felix?
After the events of last week, we realised
that we’d never run a session detailing just
who Felix actually are.
We often find ourselves having to deal
with those stupid idiots journalists-in-
training (their words), and we realised that
forewarned is forearmed.
To that end, we’re running this ‘What Is’
session on Felix, and we’ll be giving you all
the chance to ask questions over just who’s
involved, and how we can best deal with
them.
All staff are invited to the meeting
(although not the Felix Editor-in-Chief, as
she’s not actually staff!), and a register of
attendance will be taken on the door.
Those who fail to attend will be sent
complimentary copies of the latest issue
(their words) of Felix.
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, and green tea will (of course) be
provided.
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
Due to this week’s worrying discovery
that students have been engaging in
disturbing bouts of copulation in locations
across campus, the ban on staff leaving
the Faculty Building without written
permission has been extended.
Do not make eye contact with students.
They’re dirty. All of them.
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“After the publication in Felix this week of
their annual ‘sex survey’, I’d like to take the
chance to remind everyone at Imperial of the
importance of safe sexual practices. As an
American in Britain, I know how the British are
often reluctant to discuss how important it is to
use the various forms of protection available, to
prevent the spread of a wide range of Sexually
Transmited Diseases - especially children.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome back Al Pologies,
Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses)!
Sadly, Al was too busy filling
out surveys to send in his post
this week, so we must now
turn to Clem Entines, the Vice
Provost (Healthy Living)!
We’ve asked Clem to deliver
this week’s post in response to
the publication in the student
toilet paper “newspaper” (their
words) Felix of their annual
“sex survey”, an unintelligent
attempt to discern how much
copulation is going on amongst
the student population.
So, without further ado: take it
away, Clem!
Hi everyone!
I’m delighted to be
contributing to this week’s
Blue News, which as you’re all
aware is a hugely esteemed
organ within the Faculty
Building (and beyond!). I just
wish it was under less worrying
circumstances.
We’ve learned to our horror
that many of the students who
have given up their time and
their parent’s money to study
at this world-leading institution
have been spending their time
engaged in less educational
pursuits.
That’s right, they’ve been less
focused on educating and more
focused on procreating.
The Felix “sex survey” has
exposed the unacceptable
levels of sexual congress
going on amongst the student
population.
We here in the Faculty
Building firmly believe that such
wanton promiscuity cannot
be allowed to continue while
students are attending this
globally-recognised font of
academia.
To this end, we will be
instituting a new policy of
enforced abstinence. Students
will be separated in classes
based on gender, and any
hints of physical contact will be
punished with hefty fines.
I look forward to all your
support on this matter.
Hello all,
Welcome back once more to Blue News, the hard-hitting, investigative
broadsheet bringing you all the latest in big, earth-shattering news!
Just kidding - welcome back to Blue News, the weekly newsletter that
keeps you all informed of the goings-on in the Faculty Building. We don’t
have to do any investigative journalism here! Working in such an open,
collaborative environment means the stories just come to us!
This week’s issue is dedicated to the recent survey sent round by the
wonderful boys in Comms, our annual Collaboration Survey!
That’s right, the results are already in (with thanks to the wonderful girls
in Accounting for ‘a-counting’ the responses so quickly!), and it turns
out that this year has seen the highest amount of collaboration ever at
Imperial!
We’ve also found some interesting data, which will be published in
full very shortly - I can tell you now that the highest percentage of
collaboration took place in the Board Room, so no surprises there!
In other news, I’m told that some jobless losers protestors spent some
time outside the Royal School of Mines this week, complaining about
‘something to do with oil’. Thanks must go to the Vice Provost (Kettling)
for dispersing the protestors before their message could spread too far.
The lovely boys in the Finance department’s Investment team have
asked me all to remind you that oil is a perfectly safe investment to
make.
I do encourage you all to buy up stocks in the big oil and gas companies
- in this day and age, it’s essential to make sure you’re financially secure,
and there’s nothing better than a healthy dividend from some ethically-
sourced shares in an oil company for helping to keep you safe above the
bread line.
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

