THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
16.01.2015
FELIX
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Titans triumphant in Telford
IC Spartans and Tempest with the group stunt trophies. Photo: Henry
Hesten
Ben Howitt reports on IC Cheerleading’s best competition season yet
Imperial College Cheerleading
returned triumphant from
Telford on Sunday 5th
April,
with one first and two third places
at the British Cheer Association’s
University National Competition.
Spartans, the team’s all-girl small
group stunt, come third in the Level
3 division. They’ve been training
together since November of last year,
choreographing the routine among
themselves. Tempest, the co-ed group
stunt, competed a few weeks ago at
Crystal Palace, taking second place
despite two injuries.
This time around, they were
crowned National Champions in
Level 3 Co-ed, beating off challenges
from 14 other squads. They also
settled the score with Winchester
Spirits, who pipped them to the post
last time, winning the category by a
margin of 14 points (out of 150).
On University day Titans, the main
team, placed 12th
out of 18 teams, with
a few falls and bobbles knocking a
massive difficulty score away from
its rightful place. Given that the
routine was the first competition
performance for many members of
the team, it was decided to put at least
some of it down to nerves. The squad
had the highest stunt and pyramid
score of the day, with the points loss
all being down to a few mistakes.
That evening and the following
morning, Jasmine Deemester (Head
Coach), gave the team last minute
instructions to help us obtain the best
result possible. The aim was to hit a
clean routine and leave the mat proud
and able to say “we did the best we
could”.
With the stress and anxiety of
the first performance done, the
team was able to enjoy their second
outing much more. The Saturday
competition was also open to non-
university teams (what’s called
the ‘All Star’ division), making the
competition that much harder.
On the second day (and, for some
members of the team, their last
ever cheer performance) Titans hit
a nearly perfect routine and landed
3rd
place in Nationals. Considering
no one expected to place at this
competition, the result came as a huge
surprise to all the squad. This is the
best result the club has obtained in its
entire history. Every single member
of the team gave their personal best
and the team managed to bring
home a trophy as well as a paid bid
to compete on the European Cheer
Summit this July.
After last year’s less impressive
competition outing (on which, in
addition to less clean routines, the
team suffered from a bout of food
poisoning), Imperial’s cheerleading
program was little known and less
respected. But the committee this
year, assisted hugely by Jasmine as
the new head coach and the sheer
energy and grit of the new members,
have turned a gaggle of newbies into
motivated and committed athletes.
Sanja, this year’s Vice Chair, said
“It’s not only about hitting a clean
routine, we’ve all become really good
friends. Cheer’s as much about really
close friends you wouldn’t have even
met otherwise as it is about tricks and
flips.”
The trophies from the second
competition day and the group stunt
trophies will be displayed by Sport
Imperial. The result has set a new
bar for the squad, and next year’s
committee are aiming to attend more
than one competition over the year
to get the squad more comfortable on
a competition mat before the main
outing in Spring Term.
IC Titans train on Monday nights
as a squad, with a number of athletes
also training with London Allstar
squads. They won’t compete again
this year as some of the squad are
heading home at the end of term, but
training is continuing through the
Summer Term.
With this being the last year for many of the team, and the first for many others, expectations were high at competition this year. Photo: Henry Hesten

