40 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
08.05.2015
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Issue 1608
SPORT
Imperial Athletics takes LCAS by storm
For those that don’t know,
LCAS is the London Colleges
Athletics Series. It is a league
consisting of three athletics meets
staged at venues across the capital,
with all 23 London universities
invited to take part. The competition
is in its inaugural year which made it
crucially important that the Imperial
team made its mark.
A full team of Imperial athletes has
been present at all three meets and
coming into the final on Saturday
30th
May we were sitting in second
place, just behind King’s College
London. Everything was riding on the
final at Battersea Park and the team
did not disappoint. A day of fantastic
performances confirmed our position
as runners-up in the first ever LCAS!
Gold medals came thick and fast
throughout the day starting with the
400m Hurdles, where star fresher
Liana Spyropoulou took the women’s
title and Athletics Captain Gareth
Holden the men’s. Chris Thomas
and Gil Machado were the next stars
to shine with victories in the Men’s
400m, 800m and 1500m between
them. Adding those to Golds from
Gareth Holden in the 100m and
200m and Erik Tropp in the 110m
Hurdles gave the Imperial Men’s
team a clean sweep in every race up
to 3000m which is an incredible
achievement. Not to be outdone,
however, some of the best moments
of the whole day came from our
resident Irish lad Rob O’Keeffe.
Congratulations must go to him for
taking on nine (difficult!) events
and bringing in over 30 points for
the team. I’m sure he will wear his
ridiculous sunburn and the battle
scars from his aborted steeple chase
water jump with pride! Hat’s off to
Lawrence Tse also who picked up two
silver medals in the hurdles.
In the field events we saw similar
success. For the women Jenny Carus
was unbeatable, walking away with
two Golds, winning both the Shot
Put and the Javelin. Emma Watkins
followed up her victories in the first
two meets with second place in the
final securing her the overall Gold
medal. The undisputed king of the
field Erik Tropp managed to add
medals in the High Jump and Javelin
to his 110m Hurdles gold. Erik racked
up an impressive 82 points for the
team over the course of the series!
Craig Wheadon and Harry Allen also
entered an obscene number of events
and picked up points left, right and
centre. Congrats to Craig in particular
for winning the 400m overall title.
The climax of the day was definitely
the relays which were truly epic.
First, the Imperial men took on
the field in the 4x400m relay. Even
though an un-named male athlete
suffered defeat on the first leg to
the ladies’ team from King’s, we
managed claw our way back into 1st
place. I guess I should mention that
his female opponent was in fact GB
International Laviai Neilson. In the
4x100m relay both the Imperial men
and women only managed silver
but thrashed out a dominant win
in the final event of the series, the
Medley relay! This last sprint may
have reduced captain Gareth Holden
to a heap on the floor but it was
completely worth it to have the last
laugh over King’s and UCL!
A mention must also go to Shivam,
Edrea, Sidney, Marta, Sarah, Laura,
Amarpal and of course our club
captain Matt Douthwaite for coming
along and scoring some much needed
points for the team!
The LCAS final will go down as
one of my favourite competitions
in two years as Athletics captain for
Imperial.
On the day I could not believe
the level of enthusiasm; it was just
fantastic to see everyone giving their
all for the team in what, normally, is
such an individual sport.
If Athletics and Cross Country is
something you think you’d like to be a
part of it’s not too late to join us for the
last few sessions of the year. Of course,
we will be back at Fresher’s Fair next
year (complete with mascot) to welcome
in the new season!
Gareth Holden reports as Imperial secure second place in the inaugural competition
Imperial came second at the meet. Photo: ICXC
Sepp Blatter resigned as Fifa
President this Tuesday, amid one
of the most serious corruption
scandals to ever hit the sporting
world. This comes after a week of
revelations and arrests as part of an
investigation by US authorities into
corruption at the highest levels of
world football.
Blatter has led the governing body
of world football since 1998, and
under his leadership, Fifa, ostensibly
a non-profit organization, has
amassed billions in cash reserves, with
top executives enjoying the kinds of
opulent lifestyle one would normally
associate with heads of state.
Last week Swiss police, acting
on the request of US authorities,
arrested seven top Fifa executives
in a dawn raid on a five-star Zurich
hotel. Seven more men implicated
in the scandal were also indicted
by a federal court in New York on
charges of racketeering, bribery,
money laundering and fraud. The
arrests shocked (but certainly did not
surprise) the footballing world.
Two days after the raid, Blatter won
his fifth consecutive election despite
widespread speculation that he was
also under investigation. Due to Fifa’s
electoral structure, in which every
member association’s vote has equal
weight regardless of the population
they represent or their success in
international football, Blatter has
been able to effectively ignore his
European and North American
critics by courting numerous small
football associations such as those of
the Cayman Islands, Montserrat and
Burkina Faso.
Blatter has often been referred to
as a man without shame, brazenly
riding out scandal after scandal, but
by Tuesday allegations from the US
Justice Department that Fifa officals
had accepted bribes and kickbacks
in excess of $150m since the 1990s
proved too much for even him to
handle. He told a press conference
that he would “lay down his mandate”
and call an extraordinary election
to find a replacement, claiming that
he would then be able to “focus on
driving far-reaching, fundamental
reforms that transcend [our] previous
efforts.”
Blatter strenuously denies
knowledge of or participation in any
corruption. If this is true then he is
an idiot, and if it is not he is corrupt.
Either way, the end of Joseph S.
Blatter as a force in world football is
news that should be welcome to fans
across the world. Corruption has long
blighted the beautiful game, and the
results of this are far from abstract
and materially harm real people.
Fifa’s corruption legitimises the
regimes of torturers and murderers;
Fifa’s corruption sweeps the deaths
of hundreds of exploited migrant
labourers under the carpet; Fifa’s
corruption pays for third homes,
yachts and private jets with the
money that should be enabling
young people from disadvantaged
backgrounds and developing
countries to access the opportunities
that sport can bring.
Football might just be a game,
but the politics and the people that
surround it are not. Now that many of
the key players in the Fifa circus are
behind bars and the ringmaster has
left in disgrace, world football has a
chance to really be a force for good.
Sepp Blatter gets the red card
Is it too late to save his reputation? Was there really a reputation left for
him to save? Will he fall over again? Photo: AFP/Getty Images
NICK FARMER
SPORTS WRITER

