6 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
20.03.2015
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Cecily Johnson & Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lots Road redevelopment to go ahead
The project has an estimated completion date of 2019, but the first set of houses will go on sale in the next few weeks Photo: The Spaces
Stephen Ball investigates as work starts on the Chelsea waterfront
Lots Road power station, on
the Chelsea waterfront, is
to join the likes of Battersea
and Bankside as it undergoes
redevelopment. The project will add
706 homes and two tower blocks to
the site close to the Thames.
The project had recently been put
on hold due to the General Election
and fears of a property tax promised
by Labour. However, with the
Conservatives in power, the project is
now underway with a completion date
in 2019 – although the first homes
are due to go on sale in the next few
weeks.
The power station itself will
be home to a mix of apartments,
shops and restaurants with its two
remaining chimneys remaining in
place. The towers are 25 and 37 floors
and the site will also feature a further
seven buildings with three new
pedestrian bridges, a water garden
and 600m of Thames-side footpath.
The redevelopment was designed
by Sir Terry Farrell, responsible
for designing the iconic MI5
headquarters, and he has said that the
projection is not just about providing
property to the very rich or for young
people who are renting: nearly 40 per
cent of homes are to be sold below
their current market value of which
nearly half being four bedroom flats
going for up to £400 a week.
The redevelopment will be making
use of the eight acres of land at
the Lots Road site including the
previously inaccessible Thames
towpath. The area previously suffered
from a lack of transport links, but
the opening of Imperial Wharf Tube
in 2009 has caused a number of
development projects to started in the
vicinity.
The Mayor of London, Boris
Johnson, said at the ground-breaking
ceremony that: “The towering Lots
Road power station is a magnificent
reminder of our Victorian heritage.
Originally built to help power
London’s Underground over 100
years ago, it is now helping to provide
the new homes and jobs necessary to
secure this city’s future prosperity.”
The Power Station has had a long
history. It was the longest serving
power station in the world when it
closed in 2002. The original four
chimneys each 275ft (84m) tall were
the tallest in Europe when they were
built in 1904. However only two
currently remain standing.
Driving Lessons
For Imperial Students
5
Lessons
only
£95
A special offer for Imperial Students from Denis Smyth
• Driving Standards Agency (DSA) Accredited Instructor
• Mock Test Examiner
“Having always been apprehensive about learning to drive, especially in
London - learning with Denis gave me the confidence and skill to pass my
driving test first time round.”
Llywellyn Edwards, Royal College of Music Student.
To make inquiries or book lessons, call 07808 610 898
“Dennis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from
completely inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to
pass their test. He is always calm and his comments are constructive; his
knowledge of London and his knack of engineering driving routes that test
the learner make the lessons more than worth it. Since I have met him he
has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to Imperial students and
with backing of other students I am more than happy to support him.”
Alex Kendall, Imperial College Union President 2010/11.

