M
EDICINE
Jaimie Henry
Having seen tumultuous changes to
the Union in recent years, from the
Beit redevelopment to Governance
changes, or leaving the NUS to creat-
ing new sabbaticals, I am concerned
that as medics we are rarely involved
in or even ignorant of the big deci-
sions that affect us. With three seats
on Council we have the power to
make serious changes, but only if we
are proactive and strive for the rec-
ognition we deserve. I don’t pretend I
could make huge changes overnight or
revolutionise the Union, but what I can
give is fair, honest and dedicated rep-
resentation coupled with the necessary
experience. Having sat on the Trustee
board and been extensively involved
with Clubs and societies I see where
the opportunities and problems lie. If
elected, I will tirelessly seek out and
voice your problems and concerns, and
decent medic representation won’t be
a pipe dream. Vote Jaimie Henry.
The Central Council and Imperial
Politics are a bit of a mystery to most
students. I’ll make sure that you are all
informed of the important decisions
that are made by the Council, espe-
cially those affecting Union policy and
budgets, on a monthly basis.
Having been part of several commit-
tees during my time so far at Imperial,
I have worked with a large number
of people, and heard a lot of what we
would like more of, and less of, to make
Imperial and it’s clubs even better.
Being a second year medic, I am best
positioned not only to represent the
voices of the younger two years on the
Council, but also the older years, many
of whom I have met whilst on com-
mittees. Please vote for me, and I will
represent the medical school, giving
not just my opinion, but one that rep-
resents all of ours!
Richard Hewitt
As Deputy President of ICSM Students’
Union this year, it would be a privilege
to represent the Medical School as an
Ordinary Council Member.
Throughout my time at ICSM I have
been involved with all aspects of medi-
cal school life. Importantly, I have
spent two years on ICSMSU which
has provided a valuable understanding
of all that goes on within our medical
school and an appreciation of the is-
sues faced by our student body.
My role on the SU this year is multi-
faceted and requires continuous in-
teraction with ICSM students from all
years. As a result I feel in a strong posi-
tion to ensure your views are heard at
Union Council. I will do my absolute
utmost to represent the values and tra-
ditions of the medical school, whilst
being pro-active in taking the medical
school forward when important deci-
sions are being made. I’d very much ap-
preciate your vote. Thank you!
You might not even know what the
ICU Council is, and yet they’re con-
stantly making decisions on YOUR be-
half! Because of this it’s vitally impor-
tant that we as medics use our voice
on council - especially in these times
where Imperial is chipping away at our
independence and taking away the tra-
ditions that make ICSM the medical-
school we love and are proud of! I want
to help ICSM use its voice! I would
ensure that the views and concerns of
medics are heard, respected and taken
into consideration in all decisions the
council makes. I wouldn’t allow IC to
overlook us just because we represent
a supposedly “troublesome” minority
at this university! I’m very passionate
about ICSM – as I’m sure you are too
– let’s use this passion to increase our
influence and improve our position on
the ICU Council, let’s fight for deci-
sions that will benefit us medics!
VOTE NORA!
Agneish Dutta
Nora
Schorscher
Alexander
Walls
As Deputy President of ICSM Students’
Union this year, it would be a privilege
to represent the Medical School as an
Ordinary Council Member.
Throughout my time at ICSM I have
been involved with all aspects of medi-
cal school life. Importantly, I have
spent two years on ICSMSU which
has provided a valuable understanding
of all that goes on within our medical
school and an appreciation of the is-
sues faced by our student body.
My role on the SU this year is multi-
faceted and requires continuous in-
teraction with ICSM students from all
years. As a result I feel in a strong posi-
tion to ensure your views are heard at
Union Council. I will do my absolute
utmost to represent the values and tra-
ditions of the medical school, whilst
being pro-active in taking the medical
school forward when important deci-
sions are being made. I’d very much ap-
preciate your vote. Thank you!
As students certain issues are close to
our hearts, such as keeping the cost of
living low, receiving first class teaching,
passing exams and having a great stu-
dent life. I intend to represent you and
push for issues that will benefit you, for
example lowering the cost of campus
food, having more access to past exam
papers and making social events at our
Union bigger and better. Vote for me
and you will vote for more student dis-
counts, better degrees, and a fantastic
student life that all other universities
will be jealous of! If elected, I will:
- Listen to you and speak up to reflect
your opinions.
- Make decisions in your best interests.
- Provide relevant feedback to you.
- Promote efficient and effective use of
the Union’s budget and resources.
If you have any questions or sugges-
tions for me, feel free to email me at
justine.zhang07@imperial.ac.uk
Justine Zhang
Undergraduate
Councillors
Asanka Wijendra is also standing but no manifesto or photos were submitted.
N
ON
-
F
ACULTY
NO NOMINATIONS
Non-Faculty Councillors:

