16
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
Gingerism and
the BNP
T
his week has been an ‘in-
teresting’ one for me. Due
to an unfortunate hair dye-
ing accident at the week-
end, I now look like I am
being sponsored by easyJet. You might
have seen me walking around campus
– I am quite hard to miss. Yes, I am
suffering from the terrible Gingervitus!
Now I have temporarily joined their
ranks, I did some research into ‘Gin-
gerism’, the discrimination against red-
heads, and found out that last Novem-
ber, a Facebook group with over 5,000
members caused outrage by organising
a ‘National Kick a Ginger Day’. This
kind of unwarranted prejudice should
have no place in our modern society,
so why oh why does the BNP exist (see
what I did there!)?
This week must have also been an ‘in-
teresting’ one for 16,000 BNP members
whose names, addresses, email address-
es and phone numbers were leaked on-
line last week. This is the second time
in a year this has happened, and this
time round it seems membership has
dropped compared to the last list. Also
revealed was the claim that the BNP had
over 100,000 members, made by party
leader Nick Griffin, whose details were
amongst those released, was a blatant
lie, achieved by adding a ‘1’ to the front
of the sequential membership number.
Griffin has had a very ‘interesting’
week. Last Thursday, was the news
that the BNP’s constitution was deemed
racist by the UK’s equality watchdog.
No-shit-Sherlock moment there! What
made me laugh was that because of
this, it has to be revised to allow non-
white members to enter the party.
Laugh-out-loud!
Then this Tuesday, he pissed off the
Army. Not the best idea really is it…
Four former Generals put their name to
a letter saying racist right-wing groups
were tarnishing the forces’ reputation.
What they were referring to, amongst
other things, was the use images of
a Spitfire, a red Poppy, and Winston
Churchill in BNP propaganda, includ-
ing their website. Griffin is also com-
monly seen in photos using the ‘V for
Victory’ sign (personally, I like to think
that he is just telling himself to fuck
off). It is sadly ironic that Griffin mod-
els himself on our great wartime leader,
when he spent his time in office fighting
against these sorts of racist, suprema-
cist ideas.
Worst of all is the fact that Griffin said
in 1998 that he was “well aware that the
orthodoxopinionisthatsixmillionJews
were gassed and cremated and turned
into lampshades; orthodox opinion
also once held that the Earth was flat”.
He had reached the conclusion that the
“extermination” tale is a mixture of “Al-
lied wartime propaganda, extremely
profitable lie, and latter witch-hysteria”
.
I would pay good money to see the ass-
whooping Churchill would dish out on
him if he were still around today.
By the time you read this, Griffin will
have appeared on the BBC’s Question
Time program. In the run up to this,
there have been many calls for this to be
pulled, but I hope it has not been. This
will only be a further opportunity for
him to embarrass himself and his party,
something he has proved to be very
good at. Go on, watch it, I dare you!
Even if you know nothing about Politics
(God knows I don’t!) you will not fail to
realise how wrong his ideals are. That’s
not an opinion - that’s just fact!
Think of the BNP as an embarrassing,
annoying in-joke. Please try and keep it
that way. In May there will be a general
election. We all know there is a lot of
shit flying around in Westminster at the
moment, but we must not let this be a
cause for votes to be given to the BNP,
not in jest, not as a statement of being
pissed of at the current system. Please
help keep them as nothing more than a
joke.
Phil Murray
Phil Murray Politics Editor
Dutch MP Geert Wilders enjoys pushing his right to free speech to the limit
Wilders Arrives In UK
Last Friday the Dutch MP Geert
Wilders came to London after suc-
cessfully overturning a Home Office
decision to deny him entry into the UK
in February this year. Mr Wilders has
been the focus of much controversy
over his radical views on Islam, which
inolves his comparing the Koran to
Mein Kampf.
In February Wilders was invited to
screen his film Fitna in the House of
Lords by a UKIP peer, Lord Pearson,
which was to be followed by a discus-
sion. This started a protest from Lord
Ahmed, the first Muslim life peer and a
member of the Labour party, who was
reported to say he would “bring a force
of 10,000 Muslims to lay siege to the
Lords if the campaigning anti-Islamist
Dutch MP Geert Wilders was allowed
to speak”.
Lord Ahmed was successful in stop-
ping Mr Wilders from speaking to the
House, as upon arrival he was prompt-
ly taken to a secure room then flown
straight back to the Netherlands under
orders from then Home Secretary Jac-
qui Smith. Smith had declared Wilders
to be an “undesirable person” and re-
fused him entry to the UK under Regu-
lation 19 of the Immigration (Europe-
an Economic Area) Regulations 2006,
an EU law allowing refusal of entry to
individuals if they are regarded as con-
stituting a threat to public policy, secu-
rity or health.
At the time refusing Wilders entry
was condemned by much of the me-
dia as it was seen to be appeasing the
militant Islamists who are criticised in
Fitna. It also called into question free
speech, as Wilders’ right to put forth
his views had been blocked due to the
fear of the violence it might provoke
from a tiny minority. In Britain the
laws of the land decree dictates that a
person has the right to free speech so
long as they do not incite racial or re-
ligious hatred. This is certainly some-
thing that Fitna attempts to do by ef-
fectively tarring all Muslims with the
same brush as those who had taken it
upon themselves to destroy the World
Trade Centre. Incidentally Fitna was
still screened in the House and viewed
by roughly 30 peers without Wilders
being present to explain his film.
Still, just over 8 months later, the
ban on Wilders being allowed into the
UK has been overturned by the Asy-
lum and Immigration Tribunal to the
disapproval of the Home Office and
Lord Ahmed has been to jail for kill-
ing a man. Wilders was again invited to
Britain by Lord Pearson to discuss his
views on Sharia Law.
The original plan had been for him to
give an open air news conference but
protestors promoting Sharia law ar-
rived holding signs including “Wilders
go to hell” “Islam will be superior” and
“Freedom go to hell”.
As a result of the protestors, Wilders
was moved inside whilst protestors
were kept at bay by the police.
So on this occasion Geert Wilders
was allowed to express his views, his
freedom of speech was not suppressed
and nor were the protestors, who
Wilders was more than keen to point
out would not be allowed to express
their views so openly under Sharia law.
Following all the fuss that was kicked
up around the banning in February
in comparison to the events of this
month, it seems that the government
would have played the situation far
better had they just let the man speak
and be ignored by everyone who
knows that the Koran is not a “fascist
book” as Wilders puts it.
This would have left hardly anyone
who would care what he has to say, as
Tom Smothers once put it: “the only
valid censorship of ideas is the right of
people not to listen.”
James Lees
James Lees Politics Editor
The Channel Tunnel is amongst assets to be sold under UK Government plans
Government sells your loan and the Channel Tunnel
In a speech made by Prime Minister
Gordon Brown on Monday 12th Octo-
ber, it was announced that the Govern-
ment is to sell £16bn worth of assets, in
order to bolster Public Finances. This
is to shore-up the public purse after
Gordon Brown’s terrible handling of
the economy, which is driving us deep-
er into debt and recession.
Sales could include Tote Bookmak-
ers, The Dartford Crossing Toll Bridge,
The Channel Tunnel, The Student
Loan Book, Urenco, & surplus state
owned property. This is to avoid pub-
lic spending cuts.
Phil Murray
Phil Murray Politics Editor Urenco, jointly owned between the
Dutch, German & UK Governments,
is a supplier of material and equipment
to the UK’s nuclear industry, supplying
enriched uranium to nuclear power
plants & isotopes for medical purpos-
es. The Government plans to sell its
33% stake.
As the Prime Minister said, “we need
a deficit reduction plan that supports
growth and jobs not one that snuffs out
recovery before it has started.
“Restoring public finance sustain-
ability must be done in a way that
supports growth, not destroys it. The
failure to do so is the real risk of a lost
decade of austerity.”
These announcements have drawn
criticism from both the Conservatives
and the Liberal Democrats.
Liberal Democrat Treasury spokes-
man, Vince Cable, said the policy was
“fundamentally flawed”. In his own
words: “what worries me about the
government proposal is that they’re
proposing to sell off in very depressed
markets, under very depressed mar-
kets for land and for shares…this is not
a good time to sell assets.”
A Conservative Party spokesman
said: “as any family knows selling off
things helps in the short-term and, giv-
en the state the country is in, is prob-
ably necessary but it is no substitute
for a long-term plan to get the country
to live within its means.”

