unionpage
With the economy in the state that it is,
we’re told it’s now the case that where there
were 5 people vying for one job there’s
now 10, or something to that effect. The
great thing about going to Imperial and
working for a good degree is that you’ve
already improved your chances in those
10. However, the Imperial stereotype (you
know the one I mean) that many amongst us
admittedly adhere to can sometimes counter
that advantage leaving us back where we
started.
With the impending Olympics you can’t
help but feel that it has breathed some new
life into London, with a renewed sense of
purpose being given to many aspects; not
just sport. So it’s lucky for us that we not
only happen to be pretty clever but also in
London enveloped in this atmosphere, to
take advantage of this.
In recognition of this, a new initiative has
been launched called CV2012; a joint effort
from Imperial College Union, the Careers
Service, the Volunteer Centre and Sport
Imperial. ‘What’s this about?’ I hear you
ask. It’s a way of getting recognition, nay,
an award for all the extra that you do with
your time here at Imperial, that gives you
a noticeable and exciting edge on the
competition. The other cool thing about it
is that it is yours to make of what ever you
want to gain from it.
It’s made up of a points based system,
working towards getting 50 points. To
help you get started, just turning up to the
induction gets you well on your way with
5 points- after all, its worth knowing what
you are getting yourself in for. The biggest
component is the activity that you do which
is 30 points for 30 hours of your time. This
should have an element of outreach or
volunteering to it, but this is also where
the Volunteer Centre is able to help you
out. With over 40 different categories of
volunteering there is definitely something
for everyone; whether you’re a die-heart
gardener and want to help spruce up some
of the city’s green spaces, or want to help
rehabilitate prisoners you’re able to give back
to the community, which is something that a
lot of potential employers love to see.
Alternatively, if you are more inclined towards
sport, Sport Imperial have created a unique
opportunity to work towards the Sport
Leader’s award. This is something that you
would normally have to shell out a fair few
quid for, but being nice as they are have
decided to cover the cost of your award. This
award, while called ‘Sport Leaders’ really
aims to develop a host of transferable skills
through the medium of sport, for example:
being resourceful and thinking on your toes,
or performing in high pressure situations.
You’re able to do your outreach element as
it involves going into schools and working
with secondary school children. To do this
award you don’t have to be outstanding at
sport yourself, in fact being able to throw and
catch isn’t even a prerequisite. All you need
is enthusiasm!
On top of this, there are 5 points for going to
a session with the Careers service, and this
is probably the bit which helps you the most
to transfer those skills that you inadvertently
learn by doing your activity, into attributes
that you can really sell effectively come
application and interview time. The Careers
Service have a whole range of sessions to
help you from a 20 minute mock interview
to a 2 day insight into management. You
can do this session at any point during the
programme though, again being totally
flexible to fit around everything else that you
have to do.
To finish up there is a verification and
an assessment, but these are short and
painless! After all, since you’ve done the
work this is your time to shine and report
back on all the good work you’ve done to
pick up a further 5 points for each. And there
you have it; five easy steps to enhancing
your CV to help make you the first choice
when you’re competing against 9 others for
your dream job.
Now all there is left to say is when the next
induction is so that you can get started with
the award. This is being held at 4.30pm on
Monday 26th October in SALC 5 (on the 5th
floor of Sherfield). If you can’t make these or
want any more info check out
www.ic.ac.uk/2012
or email cv2012@ic.ac.uk.
CV2012
imperialcollegeunion.org
JennyWilson
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) dpcs@imperial.ac.uk
Trials to be part of the team for University
Challenge 2010 are taking place early in
November.
In light of the recent success of Imperial
on the show BBC TV quiz show University
Challenge we are now selecting the team to
take part in the show in 2010. We are looking
for a team of four with an additional reserve
member, who have not competed on the
show before.
Applicants must be current students (either
undergraduate or postgraduate) and expect
to be still a student in April 2010.
Trials will take place in the Read lecture
theatre on Level 5 of the Sherfield Building at
1800 on the 2nd and the 5th of November.
No need to book, just turn up!
University Challenge 2010

