19
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The hilarious but brief Nagg and Nell played by Tom Hickley and Miriam Margolyes look on as Mark Rylance takes a nap
I thought Endgame was a chess move...
W
ind back the clock to
the first half of the sev-
enteenth century, back
to the (so aptly-named)
Thirty Years War. Much of Europe
is embroiled in a conflict whose ef-
fects will be felt most by the powerless
peasants, voiceless pawns living their
seemingly insignificant lives. There is,
of course, much death and much pain
and much suffering – and somewhere
in the midst of all this hardship, there
is an opportunity, so it would seem, to
make a quick buck.
Enter Mutter Courage, the ever-hag-
gling, ever-resilient ‘hyena of war’, who
Caz Knight enters the bleak world of Becket and finds , well, a load of old rubbish and some very good actors
is the central character in the German
play, by the Bertolt Brecht. The Tony
Kushner translation currently showing
at the Olivier Theatre features Fiona
Shaw in the lead role. However, her
new persona is totally different from
that of Aunt Petunia’s, who she plays in
Harry Potter. Mother Courage is the
ultimate contradiction: she is a shrewd
businesswoman who depends on war
to make a living, while war slowly takes
its toll on her life.
The stage crew are bustling about
on stage while the audience takes their
seats, and this energy will be main-
tainedthroughouttheproduction. Out
bursts a vivacious Shaw perched on
Mother Courage’s wagon, the symbol
of her livelihood. She sings and dances
and dashes about the stage, pausing
only to bargain for the goods she buys
and sells in order to feed herself and
her children. Through her adventur-
ous exploits in bed, she is the mother
of the brave but hot-blooded Eilif, the
stupid but honest Swiss Cheese, and
the kind-hearted but mute Kattrin. All
three of her children will be lost to the
effects of the war. At the moment each
one is taken away from her, she is else-
where, haggling over some business
Mother Courage: Fiona Shaw ditches Aunt Petunia
N
othing is funnier than un-
happiness”. Regarded as one
of Samuel Beckett’s most
important works, End-
game, written in 1957, had its first pro-
duction staged at Imperial’s “local”, the
Royal Court that same year. The play
was performed as a French language
production, the tongue in which it was
first written and named Fin de Partie;
that moment in chess when there are
very few pieces left on the board: the
end. Complicite’s production at the
Duchess theatre is the English version
of the work which Beckett translated
after writing the original script in his
second language.
Notorious for his nihilistic and bleak
outlook which became ever more so
as the artist progressed through life,
Endgame is no exception as the cur-
tain opens on a fetid, featureless room
apparently devoid of any natural light,
intelligent life or furniture. Enter Clov
and moments later the tarpaulins are
thrown off the only objects on stage
to reveal the wheelchair-bound Hamm
and two dustbins, after much meticu-
lously folding of said tarpaulins.
Everything is at “zero”: the time, the
temperature and the state of the world
outside the windows for Hamm, his
servant Clov and Hamm’s legless, dust-
bin-residing parents Nagg and Nell (all
with appropriately dismal names) have
existed in a room in a world where
even nature has abandoned them. The
air of stagnation is potent creating an
uncomfortable, eerie sensation height-
ened by the swirling of dust about the
stage. Beckett has created a situation
from which they cannot escape; he
has created a metaphor for the way in
which we get stuck in our own lives,
trapped in cycles.
For a man who once professed to
hating words, only using them because
“one has nothing else”, Beckett certain-
ly manipulates words effectively to add
to the plot’s peculiarity. Meanings are
contorted, as the ladder becomes “the
steps”; “bottle him” a term used to put
his father back in his dustbin.
The importance of physical theatre is
pivotal in all Beckett’s plays including
this one where what the audience sees
is just as important to the meaning as
what they hear. (Hence why perhaps
the French - les spectateurs – suppos-
edly have a better visual imagination
than us Brits, the audience.)
Actions reflect the rut in which these
characters are stuck. The repetition of
Clov folding the tarpaulin and Hamm
folding his bloody handkerchief into
smaller and smaller halves bring to mind
astuckrecord,notbeingunabletoescape.
Where the production’s vitality lies
is in the discordant rapport between
opposites Clov and his master, Hamm.
One cannot walk whilst the other can-
not sit recalling the Grey Sisters in
Greek mythology who have only one
eye and one tooth between them. Di-
rector Simon McBurney as the unen-
thusiastic Clov is duly monotonous,
save for momentary outbursts of rage
and oddly resembles David Thewlis,
who starred as Clov in Conor McPher-
son’s film version. But the play stands
out spectacularly thanks to the glori-
ous Mark Rylance playing the sed-
entary Hamm. His confinement to
the wheelchair is no hindrance to the
range of movement he is able to mus-
ter, nor to the energy with which his
bizarre gesticulations are mustered:
one has absolutely no difficulty imag-
ining Johnny Depp in the role.
The company and cast, which in-
clude Tom Hickley and Miriam Mar-
goyles who make a hilarious but all too
transaction. Nevertheless, she goes
into mourning during a brief period
of peace – without war, how will she
make her living? Along the way, she
becomes the object of attraction for
an earnest pastor and a general’s cook,
both of whom she eventually rejects.
Refusing to reflect upon the tragedy of
her situation, she is ultimately focused
solely on survival, never lowering her
stoic exterior; despite the pastor’s pleas
to free the ‘woman’ within her. The
play’s irony is perhaps best captured in
a scene when she must tearfully pre-
tend to not recognise her dead son’s
mutilated body in order to guarantee
her escape – here, then, is someone
caught between her duties as a mother
and what she must do to live on.
In this sense, the frenetic pace of this
particular adaptation works to some
extent in amplifying the contradiction:
the jaunty, almost raucous nature that
Shaw gives to Mother Courage clashes
successfully with the harsh realities of
war in the backdrop, and makes some
perverse moments – such as when
Courage kicks her daughter’s corpse to
see if she has really died – even more
jarring. Nevertheless, all the running
around and brash shouting occasion-
ally feels a little overdone, and, in
the huge two-hour-long first act, the
acting can become slightly monoto-
nous. This, in addition to the per-
cussive music of Duke Special’s band,
which sometimes drowns out the lyr-
ics of the interspersed songs, means
that some of the more sensitive mo-
ments in the play are not fully real-
ised. For example, the final scene, in
which Shaw is left pulling her wagon
on her own, toiling away despite her
losses, feels as if it has been glossed
over, even though Brecht is using it
as an important symbol of the com-
mon man’s resigned attitude to war
as something inevitable. The shorter
second act does work better, with the
bare usage of text in the set design
creating more space for some moving
scenes. Overall, however, while not
uninteresting, the production is a lit-
tle underwhelming.
brief appearance, as the decomposing
parents Nagg and Nell make a noble
effort to inject much humour and life
into what is a very somber and intense
play. Especially when lasting over nine-
ty minutes with no interval.
Currently at the National Theatre, we present Brecht via Tony Kushner via lots of running around and singing
Mother Courage is on at the National
Theatre until 8th December which
gives you plenty of time to get down
there.
As part of the Travelex Season, many
tickets are available for £10!
Fiona Shaw as Mother Courage, or should that be MC Mamma Courizzle?

