22
FILM
Film Editors
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
Dust off your childhood dreams and let them soar high in the air with Pixar’s UP.
Pixar has a portfolio of acclaimed and
beloved animated films, which many
attribute to the fine balance of adult
and child appeal in their work. Up
achieves this feat perhaps more com-
pletely than any other Pixar film. It’s
almost as if it contains two different
films woven together. I think this film
will remind any honest student viewer
of something we’ve somehow lost since
childhood, and regretfully so.
Up riskily delays the start of the main
story, its introduction instead forming
a biography of the elderly protagonist,
Carl Fredricksen. In just a few min-
utes, we witness him meet and marry
his wife, make plans for adventure
with her, and eventually lose her at the
brink of living their dream. This largely
dialogue-free sequence is utterly en-
thralling, filled with emotional ups and
downs yet punctuated with humour,
and not the kind that only appeals to
kids. I confess a tear came to my eye
several times. It’s surprising how well
the filmmakers handle such a rapid
progression through the character’s
history, guiding the audience’s feel-
ings from laughter at slapstick clumsi-
ness to sombre silence after the loss of
a baby. Personally, the film’s opening
twenty minutes or so were probably
my favourite, but the passage didn’t
overstay its welcome. By the time we
are shown old Carl’s ancient house
swarmed by urban development, we
have a close understanding of his per-
sonality – whether we are adults dwell-
ing on his regret over that great missed
adventure, or kids sympathising with
his longing for his lost wife.
The bulk of the film is decidedly
more mirthful, but it doesn’t lose its
emotional poignancy. Indeed, this
poignancy is needed to keep mature
viewers interested – even I baulked a
little at the sudden plunge in realism
when ten thousand balloons exploded
from the little house and it surged into
the air. Carl’s journey to Paradise Falls
with his over-eager assistant, Russell,
is the central object of the story, and
it’s a surreal one to say the least. Fortu-
nately, the animation and environmen-
tal stylisation is stunning, providing
relief for those who might be bored by
the sometimes immature plot. Inter-
estingly, the primary setting is rooted
in reality: Venezuela’s “tepui” or table-
top mountains and the famous Angel
Falls. References to The Lost World
abound. The pair trek over a dream-
like landscape of windworn rock and
wild jungle while pulling the floating
house behind, until getting embroiled
in all kinds of peripheral trouble and,
of course, action scenes.
The supporting characters are en-
gaging if not particularly empathetic.
Certainly, their parts in the story serve
to entertain younger viewers more
than us grown-ups. The iridescent
bird, Kevin, provides mainly physical
humour, serving for a fair few laughs,
and the legions of semi-talking dogs
Eliot Barford
Eliot Barford garnered considerable giggles. The
foremost canine character, Doug, ben-
efits from an adorably hilarious vocal
performance. In particular his line, “I
have just met you and I love you,” is
absolutely life-affirming. The animals’
stories provide the basis for the rest of
the film’s events and some quite thrill-
ing chases and dogfights (both mean-
ings intended).
However, at the end of the day, it’s the
growing relationship between the two
leads that keeps older viewers hooked
and that leaves you with a warm feel-
ing after the credits. As Russell’s en-
thusiasm for exploration reminds Carl
of his childhood ambitions, so direc-
tor Pete Docter makes us recall the
fantasies that were our own comforts
when we were young. Rarely do films
marketed towards children have this
kind of emotional depth, and I haven’t
even mentioned the subtle allusions to
Russell’s relationship with his father. I
highly recommend this movie, even to
those who typically regard such main-
stream, childish fare with scepticism;
you’ll be pleasantly surprised.
Changing the nature
of investment
Innovative, thoughtful, successful.
Grow your career with a global leader
in alternative investments.
Graduate opportunities in London and Switzerland
We use our market expertise to create innovative, successful products – which lead to returns for our investors
and growth for our business. In the past 20 years, we’ve become the world’s largest listed alternative
investments company, known for our diversity of funds, original product design and excellent investor service.
We’re a company of high achievement – combining in-depth business knowledge with global reach.
All of which means we can offer a select few exceptional graduates and postgraduates a collaborative and
thoughtful environment with the opportunity to grow, develop and succeed. At the cutting edge of ﬁnancial
and quantitative research, we are committed to combining intellectual rigour with commercial ﬂ air to sustain
an innovative edge. We actively welcome new approaches and new ideas.
As well as our graduate programmes, which will start in Autumn 2010, we have immediate opportunities
for those with PhD or exceptional Masters qualiﬁcations in quantitative ﬁnance, statistics, engineering,
mathematics, physics or econometrics or a data/modelling intensive science who are interested
in pursuing a career in Finance.
To ﬁnd out ﬁrst hand about a career with
Man Group, please join us at our presentation:
When: Tuesday 3rd November, 6.30pm
Where: Pippard Lecture Theatre, Sherﬁeld Building
Places are limited so please register your attendance via our website:
www.mancareers.com

