23
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
The old-school puppets are startlingly full of vitality on screen thanks to a cast that is as varied as the animal characters that appear in the film
BFI film festival off to a surprising start
If George Clooney only ever lends
his voice to one animated family film,
he’s chosen well. Perfectly cast as the
super-suave Mr. Fox in this retelling of
Roald Dahl’s Fantastic Mr Fox, the film
sees him face off against a trio of farm-
ers seeking revenge for his thievery
(for those unfamiliar with the story:
think Ocean’s Eleven, if Danny Ocean
was a fox living in rural England).
Wednesday 14th October marked
the opening of the BFI’s 53rd annual
London Film Festival, which runs until
the 29th, and kicked off spectacularly
with the world premiere of Fantas-
tic Mr. Fox, as transposed in the style
of Wes Anderson and his usual band
of collaborators. Jason Schwartzman
voices Fox’s frustrated son, Ash, de-
termined to prove himself after the
arrival of his overachieving cousin and
Bill Murray takes his turn as Badger,
Mr. Fox’s woodland lawyer, obviously.
Led by Meryl Streep as Mrs. Fox, and
Clooney as walkman-wearing, trade-
mark-whistling Mr. Fox, Anderson
makes his mark.
Still, even with Wes Anderson’s fin-
gerprints all over the film, it retains
the heart of a Roald Dahl story – the
wry humour, the darker twists, the ir-
repressible Britishness of it all. This
latter quality was all the more impres-
sive, considering the largely American
cast (look out for Willem Dafoe’s unex-
pected Deep South take on the cider-
guarding Rat) but Anderson wisely
casts a few key British actors, such as
Brian Cox and Michael Gambon as the
farmers terrorising the local animal
community, and Jarvis Cocker appears
every so often in puppet-form to strum
a few songs on the banjo. Gambon’s
character in particular is excellent,
though this may be also partly due to
the impeccable animation.
Originally set to be animated by Hen-
ry Selick (of Nightmare Before Christ-
mas fame), Selick was forced to drop
out in favour of directing Coraline. De-
spite this loss of a great talent, the end
product is probably better off. Animat-
ed under the capable direction of Mark
Gustafson, the film is less burdened
by the three distinctive voices of ani-
mator, director and story; instead the
incredibly well-crafted stop-motion
animation provides the perfect vehicle
for Anderson and Dahl’s story-telling.
The attention paid to the smallest de-
tails – individual hairs that move ac-
cordingly, animated tears which swell
and subside in moments – are some of
the things that really set this film high-
er than so many other animated films.
The contrast between detail and the
jerky animation gives a wonderful cozy
feel to the film. Wes Anderson had
said that he’d jumped on the project
out of deep respect for Roald Dahl,
and the nod towards this great author
clearly shows through – especially in
one touching – and unmistakably Wes
does not entirely blow you away like
the former, this long-awaited screen
version of Roald Dahl’s classic is highly
entertaining, visually beautiful and
captivating. Fantastic Mr. Fox, like
Up and like what Spike Jonze’s Where
The Wild Things Are promises to be
when it comes out this December, fur-
ther raises the bar for all future family
films. It maintains a strong standard of
humour, action and poignancy, making
it an excellent animation debut from
auteurist Wes Anderson and a tremen-
dous way to begin BFI’s new season of
bringing great cinema to London.
Jade Hoffman
Jade Hoffman
Yes, this is definitely an indie movie - just look at those spectacles
A new ‘indie’ must-see
Anderson-created – scene towards the
end (“I’m asking him if he thinks we’re
in for a hard winter”). It’s not for noth-
ing that Dahl’s widow joined the cast
on stage to open this film – of all the
Roald Dahl adaptations, this may well
be the one that comes closest to pre-
serving his essence.
This film has come out right in the
middle of a flurry of truly brilliant
“family films”, all transcending a genre
that has become a staple of cinema
these days. Following Pixar’s breath-
taking Up, it’s difficult to give a full five
stars to Fantastic Mr. Fox, but whilst it
This is not a fairytale. If anything, this
film is refreshingly real. Every year the
BFI London Film Festival showcases
the best in new movies worldwide,
and Paper Heart, a quirky exploration
slash faux documentary of that much-
attested emotion (love, what else?), is
both funny and heart-warming. Not
heart-warming in the crappy chick-
flick ugly-girl-turns-supermodel-lives-
happily-ever-after sense, but in a more
genuine, relatable, ‘Hey! This could
actually happen’ way (quickly followed
by the ‘Damn! Why am I single?’ less
heart-warming, more depressing way).
And despite the fact the word ‘love’
is mentioned 78,389 times in the film
(or thereabouts) it succeeds in never
reaching that sickening stage where
you just want to stab the actors’ eyes
out. I think even the more masculine
of felix’s readers would be able to sur-
vive to the end of the film. A great deal
of the charm of this movie is due to its
humour. It isn’t what you would expect
from a standard American comedy, it’s
very visual, often very subtle, almost –
dare I say it – British; think the geeki-
ness of The IT Crowd crossed with the
awkwardness of The Inbetweeners (or
the other way around).
The film follows Charlyne Yi, who
plays a fictional version of herself and
leads the documentary on her quest
to find out about love, the one subject
she just can’t get her head around and
can’t bring herself to believe in. Her
character is surprisingly normal and
unclichéd, albeit slightly irritating. For
once, the star of a movie isn’t someone
who is beautiful in that tired, artificial,
Hollywood kind of way – not even in a
hot Asian way.
Michael Cera also stars, playing his
usual pants-too-high-and-too-short
self. He comes into the film as the
documentary takes a turn – instead of
focusing on external stories, it follows
the two characters’ blossoming ro-
mance (which mirrors their rumoured
off-screen relationship).
Through the second half of the film,
we watch the two main characters
trying to make a go of things whilst
struggling with the strain of being con-
stantly in front of the camera and the
difficulties that arise when one person
just refuses to fall in love.
If there’s a criticism to be made it’s
that this film screams indie-flick; in-
die music, indie actors, indie look-at-
how-unusual-I-am. Come on, love,
it’s a film, you could at least put some
make-up on. Sure enough, a budget of
$1 million and a 9 week shooting time
is impressive for any film these days
but there’s no need to make quite so
much of a point of it. Would it have
killed them to hold the camera still?
That said, inter-cut with stick-puppet
theatre scenes and an amalgamation
of cameos from famous names (Seth
Rogen and David Krumholtz to name
but two), the fictional love story sits
beautifully between the genuine inter-
views of real people about their – of-
ten unconventional – views on love, be
they redneck bikers, bar sluts, Las Ve-
gas wedding chapel chaplains (dressed
as Elvis), or even children. From the
scientific to the spiritual, all manner
of real-life views are explored, held
together by this scripted story of two
awkward, gangly people finding awk-
ward, gangly lo- well. Something like
love.
It’s well worth giving this film a
chance; it’s not quite a documentary,
it’s not quite a rom-com, but it’s en-
tertaining to the end. Paper Heart
showcases stories from many people
of varied backgrounds, and if this col-
lection of oddballs can find some form
of love, hell, there’s even hope for us at
Imperial.
Sabrina Castiglione
Sabrina Castiglione

