24
FASHION
Fashion Editor
Fashion Editor Kawai Wong
Kawai Wong
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
New face of Rimmel announced
The friendliest face in fashion
Pretty
Woman
Kawai Wong
Kawai Wong Fashion Editor
News Strip
GabbyGentilcore
GabbyGentilcore
Fashion Reporter
Agent Provocateur’s tasty new menu
Agent Provocateur, founder, Serena
Ree’s, has her mind set on something
exciting - cakes. She has co-founded
Cocomaya, the newest (and hippest)
confectionary shop of the moment.
Women of London have a new place
to go and indulge. Cocomaya can be
found at 12 Connaught Street, W2.
F
or a person who holds such
high office, she is amazingly
down to earth. Coming out
from the turnstile, she gave
us a little wave and apolo-
gised that she was a little late. She is
not wearing the bronze spiky tribal
necklace you almost always see on her,
but she’s still very much the Etro girl
you’d expect her to be. The love she
gets from fashionistas all around the
world is down to this simple ethos, “I
love my job. I love meeting people. I
just feel… really lucky to be in the po-
sition that I’m in.”
That position is the fashion top
job at the Daily Telegraph. The two-
time British Fashion Journalist of the
year has her own fashion TV show
– Hilary&Co, and also a quintessen-
tial space in the blogosphere. All this
wouldn’t have happened if she had
gone and picked up a fossil brush first.
“I wanted to be an archaeologist but
my father wasn’t going to support me
through another 4 years of university.
One day he rang a local newspaper
in New Zealand and got me a job. I’d
been there less than a week – and I
knew journalism was absolutely some-
thing I wanted to do.”
She wasn’t a fashion journalist until
she was half way across the globe. Af-
ter working in New Zealand and brief-
ly in Australia, it was in Hong Kong
that fashion kicked in. “I did Fashion
and Features in Hong Kong for 4 years.
I would go out to local factories and
I’d see these labels – Christian Dior,
Calvin Klein, Yohji Yamamoto. Eve-
rybody. They make everything there
from lingerie, ready-to-wear to knit
wear collections.” A bit like treasure
finding indeed. And the fun fuelled
Hilary’s interest in reporting fashion.
Factory visits may be a thing of the
past as hundreds of invites flood her
desk every year. New talent as well
as the magazine regulars all want her
presence. Hilary admits that choosing
between many young designers’ shows
is a tough decision, “I keep my ear to
the ground. People say ‘check this so
and so out’. And I try to check them
out if they’ve got a website. I also go
to all sorts of student graduate fashion
weeks, CSM or the RCA. I also go to
the NewGen shows during London
Fashion Week.”
Out of all the well established young
talent in the previous season, Hilary
enjoyed Mark Fast, Mary Katrantzou
and William Tempest’s debut shows
the most. Catching Hilary’s eye is all
about having a new perspective, “Mary
was particularly talented. I first saw
her dresses at the LFW exhibition
about a year ago. Her designs were
dresses printed with huge necklaces. It
was fantastic.” When Hilary sees some-
thing she likes, she tries to help the
designers out - putting them in touch
with people or referring them to a PR
company. “Whatever I can do really.
I’ll write about them in a blog or in the
newspaper.”
Higher up the ladder, established
fashion houses are incredibly extrava-
gant. In a BBC documentary, The Se-
cret World of Haute Couture, Margy
Kinmonth visited Lagerfeld during a
fitting for his upcoming Chanel show.
When she returned to her hotel after
the interview, bags of Chanel gifts were
waiting for her at the check-in desk, as
a “thank you” for her visit to Chanel.
Does this generosity extend to other
high-fashion events? “I usually get a
few bunches of flowers. I always get
flowers from Galliano and Lagerfeld.
Occasionally I get some perfume or
skin care products from Chanel.”
Fashion recycles; the trend from the
‘80s gets a little facelift – the fur gets
a dye and the hemline gets a snip –
et voila, the 2010 hip look. “Going to
fashion shows are a bit like going to the
theatre. Even if I’m not particularly ex-
cited by the clothes there will be some-
thing. The shoes, the accessories...”
Three years ago in 2006, the Balmain
girls’ silhouette was almost exactly the
same as the following years. It has al-
ways been about the rock, the studs
and the sequined mini dress. In 2009,
Balmain has become a phenomenon
- Madonna wore their mini dress in
her video, Rihanna, Beyonce, Victo-
ria Beckham, Kate Moss and Jennifer
Connelly were all spotted in Balmain’s
sequinned dresses or strong shoulder
jackets. “What Christophe Decarnin
(the Head of House) did was like an
earthquake. An added shoulder pad
here, more braid, more crystals there,
and the dresses become more elabo-
rate. Carine Roitfeld and her daughter
started wearing Balmain’s pieces. All
models liked Balmain’s clothes as well.
Christophe became a catalyst for ex-
citement. And this is Paris, people are
always looking for something new. All
these little differences that have made
the impact the fashion house needed.”
The only big difference between
2006 and now is the price of a Balmain
style jacket. While you might have had
to fork out £3000 to exhibit the runway
style in 2006, these days Topshop or
Primark are not afraid to supply a rep-
lica from just £18. About this, Hilary
simply said, “I will never spend £3000
on a jacket, never.” Fashion is ephemer-
al and style is timeless, and Hilary has
style in abundance, “I’m trend aware,
but I don’t slavishly follow the catwalk.
I try to interpret [the current trend]
and, say, if a suit makes me happy, I try
to communicate that to my readers – I
want people to like and enjoy fashion.”
Making people enjoy fashion and feel
happy in themselves seems to be Hi-
lary’s mission. She created Ask Hilary,
a section in the newspaper where she
sorts out all kinds of fashion dilemmas
for her readers. “It’s also definitely not
about the need to be a size zero or to fit
into these jeans or the need to get into
these shoes.”
In June, Vogue’s Editor-in-Chief, Al-
exandra Shulman issued a letter to de-
signers, including Versace and Prada,
Kawai Wong talks to Hilary Alexander, the award winning fashion director of the Daily
Telegraph about archaeology, travel and being a “friendly” fashionista
Georgia Jagger - one of Mick Jagger’s
daughters - will join Kate Moss
and Lily Cole as Rimmel’s new
spokeswoman.
Ely Kishimoto to design for high
street giant Anthropologie
Ely Kishimoto is set to design his
capsule collection in line with the
new Anthropologies store opening
in London, in order to attract the
eclectic London shopper. Already one
of the most popular shops in its home
country of America, Anthropologie,
PPQ to design stylish swimcaps
Schweppes and PPQ have set up the
“Get Britain Schwimming” campaign.
Clothing line PPQ have designed a
collection of four swimming caps
based on four British traditions- Punk,
Fifties, Royal and Rockabilly. These
designs are available only on eBay. All
proceeds go to the swimming trust.
“Fashion needs to
cause controversy
from time to time”
Clockwise from top: Hilary Alexander clutching a Chanel goody bag in Paris;
Anna Wintour, Desiree Rogers and Hilary Alexander at Thakoon in New York;
Hilary clutching her Doobydoll; Rihanna, Carine Roitfeld and Beyonce all
donning Balmain
amongst others, urging them to stop
sending “miniscule garments” for their
photoshoots. Whilst sample sizes con-
tinue to linger around the 2-4 region,
designers like Christopher Kane and
Lagerfeld have since created looks for
Beth Ditto. Is there a contradiction
somewhere?
“I think fashion needs to cause con-
troversy from time to time. It’s about
creating something different to get
everybody talking. ‘Oh gosh, she’s a
size 22’. But if you go back through the
paintings at the turn of the twentieth
century, like the art nouveau move-
ment – many paintings or sketches
were of women who were quite volup-
tuous. It just hasn’t been done recently.
To be honest, it’s all about rising to the
challenge. I think it was very brave for
Karl to dress Beth Ditto.”
Time was up for us. Hilary’s assist-
ant Olivia strolled past and cheerfully
reminded us of the time. The ‘Devil
Wears Prada’ myth of the demanding
boss and the poor assistant is not true
here. Hilary is not that kind of boss.
She is someone who genuinely loves
fashion for all the right reasons and she
is someone who rises above the surreal
hype of fashion. For these reasons she
never loses her place in the fashion
ranks.
I
saw a black mini dress in French
Elle – full central front zip,
thin straps, clingy and low cut.
French sexiness at the price of
€9.99? Yes, please.
Last night I wore it to a bar on the
Old Brompton Road, adjacent to
the Chanel boutique. Oh boy. Call-
ing it a fashion faux pas would be an
understatement.
The reality was closer to a fashion ca-
tastrophe. I am busty. Instead of wear-
ing a pair of Converse to tone down
the look, like French Elle, I wore a pair
of block-heel sandals. I was the Pretty
Woman of the night...
Don’t believe everything the maga-
zine says. The “It” look is arbitrary un-
til you try it on (simple solution: look
in the mirror - twice!).
As you can see, there is not much
in this issue – except for Hilary. I re-
member my first encounter with her.
It was the Giles Deacon show at the
V&A earlier in the summer. I had a
rucksack on my back, holding a camera
and a stand, and on my forehead were
drops of sweat. I spotted Hilary chat-
ting to a few people. I dashed over and
didn’t hesitate to reach out my hand
to shake hers. If you had seen me- an
eager, sweaty Bridget Jones running
towards you, you would have pushed
your friends towards me and run off to
call security.
Anyway, Hilary shook my hand with
a smile. I told her “I’m a huge fan…”
and she gave me her card. She told me
that she’d been off sick for a week but
asked me to phone her assistant none-
theless. I’ve framed Hilary’s card on my
fridge door. She is a legend!
Next week we talk country style –
the bigger and better trend that can
no longer be ignored; Anshie Patel
takes us on a trip to the country where
she will tell you the prerequisites of
country-style chic. Also there will be a
shopping feature for people of all dif-
ferent shapes and sizes.
Thank you for reading about my pa-
thetic life, until next time.
the big sister of the ever popular
Urban Outfitters, will soon arrive on
London’s Regent Street.

