26
TRAVEL
Travel Editor
Travel Editor Dylan Lowe
Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
WANTED: One tribe, one people,
one dream, one eco-paradise
This is not a how-to-survive-on-a-desert-island-eco-sustainability-project guide. Dylan Lowe re-
ports on his one-week stay on Tribewanted, and how he learnt to live life to its fullest. And greenest.
S
ickle as it was, the moon
still dazzled the waters
with a good dose of lustre.
The crackle of firewood
harmonised with its scent
– at least when I wasn’t prodding the
bonfire to revive the flames, only to
be retorted with blasts of smoke. My
eyes were welling, and droplets roll-
ing down the cheeks fast. I shielded
my face from view.
It wasn’t that I was eager to salvage
my dignity, or prove not to be a wimp.
It was because I genuinely felt like
shedding a tear or two.
That moment conveniently ampli-
fied my disliking for leaving.
I sought solace in my fellow tribe
members – only a week ago we were
scattered beings, linked no more than
some six-degree of separation. Their
names are now scrawled all over this
book I purchased earlier from the
tribal market. This book, written by
the co-founder of Tribewanted, Ben
Keene, depicts the author’s personal
journey in establishing the desert is-
land community.
Final requests for songs were spent,
the kava in the tanoa running thin.
With electricity running scarce – we
had very little sunlight for the entire
weekend – we abandoned the Grand
Bure and scattered for our drift-
wood-made beds. I never quite made
it to mine – staggering towards the
beach I found my spot, overlooking
the third largest reef in the world, on
the hammock.
They say a session on the hammock
can cure anything; it was my ideal
remedy for all kava-related discom-
forts after all. But then, can it heal a
heartbreak?
I didn’t, at the time, spare a thought
on that. Under the sweet, gentle sway,
dawn seemed like a gazillion years
away.
*
If the name Tribewanted rings a
bell, chances are that you have seen
the block letters smeared across the
pages of the Metro, or numerous
other newspapers, back in 2006. This
tourism experiment-cum-paradise
is the brainchild of two young en-
trepreneurs and avid travellers, Ben
Keene and Mark James Bowness, who
dreamt of linking an online social
network with a real-life island com-
munity – people would meet online,
participate with decision-making
processes such as electing a monthly
on-island chief, before paying to visit
the island, named Vorovoro, in person
and help build a sustainable village
with the local indigenous community
as well as having the adventure of a
lifetime.
Better summed up in Ben’s own
words: “MySpace with a real space,
Facebook with a real face”.
Three years have passed by since
negotiating a land lease deal with lo-
cal chief and landowner, the revered
Tui Mali. Has Tribewanted lived up
to its expectations? When a devastat-
ing fire, super-cyclone, military coup
and online scandals have all ravaged
the island but failed to deter it from
being the success story it is today,
perhaps it has.
And so, as the conch sounded to
mark Tribewanted’s third anniver-
sary on Vorovoro, Tui Mali graciously
bestowed his approval on a five-year
extension to the original lease. What
was designed as a three-year social
experiment project has now a much-
longer future to look forward to.
Vorovoro Island itself is located off
the coast of Vanua Levu, the second
largest island of Fiji and northeast of
Viti Levu, the political centre of the
Pacific nation. This 200-acre island is
home to the indigenous Fijians, many
of whom now live, work and play
alongside visiting members and the
management team.
And, not so coincidentally, the is-
land I had opted to spend a week on.
*
One could not claim to have strug-
gled to fit in. Even though, upon ar-
rival, my fellow island residents and
tribe members seemed to be an inner
circle to infiltrate – they do know
each other a lot more than I do – not
knowing anyone was not a valid ex-
cuse for feeling alienated on Vorovo-
ro. I was swiftly reminded that, from
the individuals who unloaded my
rucksacks, the unfamiliar smiling fac-
es quizzing me for names and origins,
to our monthly chief Charlotte who
gave us a tour around the island, and
even Ben Keene himself who I had the
pleasure to meet, absolutely everyone
had been in my position once, daunt-
ed as I was, and gawked blankly into
the great unknown.
Then interactions would spark,
either by the roaring flames or with
kava in your gut – or both – and your
status as a complete stranger shame-
lessly stripped away.
This sense of community isn’t just
something Tribewanted advocates:
more importantly, it was the founda-
tion stones the island ‘tribe’ was built
upon.
Don’t let the President of the Hammock Society catch you exercising... Map of Vorovoro, made entirely out of island resources
The Grand Bure, centre of all things social and kava

