27
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk TRAVEL
But this community doesn’t end at
the fine line in the sand, as Tui Mali
put it, that separates us foreigners
from the Fijians. When I could say
bula (hello) and yadra sia (good
morning) to every single person saun-
tering down the streets of Labasa
– town and transit point between
Vorovoro and the rest of Fiji – I had
no doubt that Fijians are amongst the
friendliest people on our increasingly
frigid planet. But to actually belong
to a family that cast aside their dif-
ferences of language, skin colour, eti-
quettes and habits, was a privilege I
hadn’t found anywhere else.
And though my patchy Fijian could
use some polishing – I could always
attend a culture class on-island and
learn useful phrases and songs – I
gradually incorporated my lifestyle
with the Fijian ways of life. My sense
of urgency vanished overnight, I
worked as I saw fit even though I
would never refuse a request for
help; the line sega na lega (no wor-
ries) became my catchphrase, and I
would never accept a bilo with less
than a ‘high tide’ of kava brimming in
the coconut shell. And I couldn’t see
another way to end an evening than
sensing the drum on the touch of my
fingertips, rocking to the beat, and
feeling belittled by the natural musi-
cal talents of those surrounding me.
It was as though Vorovoro breathed
and lived in a separate existence to
the rest of the world. It was twisted
logic. It was a collective bunch of peo-
ple coming together, all bearing in
mind that a little bit of fun is what we
need to introduce to our lives, harsh
and unforgiving as they are. Think
Lord of the Flies, or The Beach, mi-
nus island politics, armed marijuana
farmers and sexual complications.
When Chez, a fellow tribe mem-
ber, had found a frog lounging in her
bed, an ‘investigation’ was swiftly
launched and a ‘trial’ scheduled – ap-
parently the activity of ‘frog-bomb-
ing’ was such a rife prank-related
phenomenon that Tui Mali himself
outlawed it. Whatever the outcome of
the trial turned out to be – unfortu-
nately I missed the occasion as it took
place on my day of departure – there
wouldn’t be any serious punishment.
On Vorovoro, deliverance of bureauc-
racy and justice could only be served
with a light-hearted attitude.
Madness, did you say? You have yet
to hear about the ‘string-man chal-
lenge’, where Pete the string-man had
opted to spend 24-hours in a ham-
mock; the 50-odd school children
who ransacked our island with mis-
chief and laughter; the two hours and
twelve minutes record time for Amy
the Iron Maiden to swim around
the island and sprint across the four
peaks of Vorovoro. It was this very
madness that brought out the best of
our personalities, our perceptions to
challenges.
Meet Oliver, the five-year-old
youngest of the Cahill family hail-
ing from Indiana. He would wield a
machete with more proficiency than
I do, or any of my peers. He would
tread, barefoot, on ground so jagged
that I could only replicate such a feat
with a girly squeal.
Or meet Epeli – more affectionately
known as Pupu – who recently cel-
ebrated his seventieth but continued
to shame thirty-year-olds with his
strength and chainsaw skills. He was
the man who coined the phrase that
achieved legendary status on the is-
land: “nothing [is] hard in this world”.
He certainly didn’t find it hard to
conceal his pain, as I discovered when
the Fijian told me vividly over grog
how he managed to accidentally drive
several nails through the flesh of his
palm.
But it wasn’t all insanity on the is-
land – there were pressing issues that
the community was attempting to ad-
dress and deal with. Like the rising of
sea level, or alterations in climate pat-
terns – we had an extraordinarily wet
dry season this summer – or shortag-
es in food supplies if we persisted in
our consumerist ways. All reflected
vibrantly by the deterioration of the
sceneries we had grown to adore, and
would pain us to see destroyed and
devoured by our greed.
Not only had Vorovoro converted
my lifestyle, it was where my love
affair for the environment had truly
begun. Not the radical kind, but that
of admiration for the power of nature
and awareness of what we are doing
to our planet.
With blades of the wind turbine
swishing above our heads, solar pan-
els basking and harvesting under the
sun, biodiesel engines grinding and
reeking, it wasn’t difficult to envision
a community of total self-sustainabil-
ity. And with the village – including
the Grand Bure, dormitories, kitchen,
compost toilets – entirely built by
the hands of tribe members past and
present, piglets and chickens raised
and ready for slaughter, veg patches
adorned with produce, the ‘dream’
didn’t seem the least unrealistic to
me.
What about the luxury and con-
veniences I should have experienced
when I embark on this ‘holiday pack-
age’? Well, creating convenience
and moving away from traditional
lifestyles aren’t necessarily advance-
ment, or evolution; rather, we are for-
getting the smidgens of wisdom that
had allowed our ancestors to coexist
with their environment. It is this real-
isation that set apart my other travel
experiences from the week spent on
Vorovoro.
But the dream doesn’t necessarily
end on Vorovoro.
As the children descended upon the
shores, they were instructed to help
pick up rubbish on sections of beach
where much junk had been washed
up. Though it wasn’t so much about
the costless manual labour – I did
however suspect it was a motivation –
gearing their curiosity towards recy-
cling and waste management was the
one thing we tried to achieve on the
day. The future generation of Fijians
were now gathered on Vorovoro, and
it was our duty to inspire and educate
those who would spread Tribewant-
ed’s legacy throughout the country, if
not the South Pacific or the rest of the
world.
And with Vorovoro treated by many
as test ground for fusing sustainabil-
ity technology with the old ways of
living, who knows where this legacy
would take us?
*
Isa Lei expresses one’s remorse on
the subject of departure. I had been
struck by the sentimentality of the
song when lined up on the beach,
saying my goodbyes to the depart-
ing members. Stepping back from the
scene as the final moce (goodbye) was
cried out, I attempted to comprehend
the poignant metaphor it represented
– I had just gazed into the bridge be-
tween life and death. The tribe had
been blissfully oblivious of the un-
known that lie beyond those shores
– but what would happen when it was
time to leave?
The thought reflected bluntly on
my perception of the matter: should
I shun death with utmost fright,
or should I treat it as yet another
adventure?
And now, arousing cradled in the
comforts of the hammock and morn-
ing breeze, it was time to pack and
ready myself for my share of Isa Lei.
Confession: I failed. I disembarked
some seven days ago with the deter-
mination to not get too involved with
the island’s affairs, to save myself the
heartbreak. I distanced myself from
ongoing projects, sought not to en-
gage with people or develop any inti-
mate relationships, and concealed my
true personality in order to achieve
isolation. How wrong was I. Not sole-
ly for the reason that it denied all of
my laws and ethics of travelling, but
for so naïvely believing that my re-
moteness can win against the capti-
vation that was Vorovoro Island and
its inhabitants.
They say Vorovoro is one of the
hardest places on Earth for goodbyes.
Final words aside, all I could do was
fighting back the tears. As the en-
gines fired up, motorboat scoring a
trail of foam against the waters, I took
a glimpse behind my shoulder. The is-
land had diminished into the horizon
– inevitably I began to feel ‘homesick’.
Vorovoro had now become the place
where I had left behind a shard of my
heart and – I cursed under my breath
as realisation kicked in – my only pair
of board shorts.
Ben uttered something about the
island being my home, and that I am
always welcome to return. One day
perhaps?
A week’s stay on Tribewanted: Vorovoro costs £200, which includes food,
accommodation and transfers to and from the island. Visit Tribewanted’s
website (http://www.tribewanted.com) for more details on Vorovoro
and the project, or sign up for free to become an online tribe member.
Presenting a sevusevu – a bunch of kava roots – to local chief Tui Mali Me and the fellow tribe members

