3
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Doom and gloom on Graduation Day
Kadhim Shubber finds the class of 2009 facing the prospect of unemployment after graduation
I
n the summer of 2009, the UK’s
Higher Education Institutions will
produce 400,000 new graduates.
They will be entering the labour
market at perhaps the worst time in a
generation”.
This damning verdict from the Con-
federation of British Industry perhaps
most bluntly sums up the employment
crisis that Imperial graduates find
themselves in.
They are by no means short of com-
pany, it is estimated that graduate un-
employment will rise by 22,000 with 1
in 10 graduates destined to remain out
of employment six months after re-
ceiving their degree.
The cause will come as no surprise,
large companies, traditionally the larg-
est recruiters of graduates, are reeling
from the effects of the recession and
have as result cut graduate vacan-
cies on average by 25%, increasing to
56% for City-based investment banks.
There are simply less graduate level
jobs and this year’s students are feeling
the pinch.
But the environment is not as clear
cut as one might initially believe. The
recession has hit traditional graduate
recruiters like the City hard, resulting
in heavy cuts in recruitment. This has
heavily skewed surveys by, for example,
The Association of Graduate Recruit-
ers which provided the above figure of
25% and “whose members tend to be
large companies that are more affected
by the recession” says Katherine Jensen
of the HECSU.
Elspeth Farrar, Director of the Im-
perial’s Careers Service believes that
sensationalist stories in the press have
worsened the position of many gradu-
ates by putting many off from applying
for jobs. A view that a HECSU survey
showed is shared by many university
careers services around the country.
While, of course cutting costs, compa-
nies are still keen to recruit wherever
possible, keen to avoid a repeat of the
2001 recession where a sharp cutback
in recruitment resulted in an “employ-
ment gap” several years later.
In addition, many small- and me-
dium- sized businesses are continuing
to recruit, offering new, less traditional
opportunities for graduates. “Most
students recite the same half dozen
companies when they consider job
opportunities, it’s key that graduates
looking for jobs think outside the box
a little” says Ms Farrar.
Ms Farrar is well aware that Imperial
will be affected by the fewer vacan-
cies available but insists that Imperial
graduates are still “well-regarded in the
job market” and as a result are likely to
feel the impact of the job drought less
severely than the majority of other
graduates this year.
Many students have chosen to con-
tinue in higher education in order to
put off the inevitable plunge into the
job market until the economic situa-
tion improves. According to Highfliers
UK Graduates Careers Survey 2009
26% of current final year students are
planning to continue in education.
However with only 20% of employers
planning to increase recruitment levels
in 2010 and a further 10% making fur-
ther cuts, it is likely that students who
put off entering the job market now are
simply delaying the problem.
It seems there’s little else 2009’s grad-
uates can do but play the difficult hand
that the recent crisis has dealt them.
26%
Percentage of 2009 graduates
planning to continue in Higher
Education
10%
Percentage of 2009 graduates
who are likely to still be
unemployed after 6 months
25%
Cut in the number of graduate
vacancies compared with
2008
2
.47 million people are currently
unemployed in the UK, of which
I am one. Claiming benefits is
not something I saw myself do-
ing when I started at one of the world’s
supposed top 10 universities four years
ago. Sadly, it has been a necessity.
A mix of complacency, lack of fore-
sight and my own determination to
strive for the best grade possible ulti-
mately led to this depressing situation.
I was fixated on achieving a first. I’d
done a summer placement in the city,
got the necessary experience beyond
my degree – or so I thought – and I
was solely focussed on getting the top
grade. Experience, grades, job. Simple.
Except the third part didn’t go quite
so smoothly. After three months of
having numerous applications ignored
or being told: “you’re talented, but
we’re not taking anyone on at the mo-
ment”, I am at my wits’ end. And I’m
not the only one. Sitting in the Royal
Albert Hall this week listening to Dear
Roy tell all the proud mums and dads
how sought after we all were was like
listening to the pitch of a dodgy dealer
flogging his counterfeit wares. “What
are you up to at the moment?” I asked
the graduand beside me. “Well…” The
single word lingers between us, “not
much really.” His reticence all too fa-
miliar. One down from him, the next
graduand is just as apathetic. The two
people on my other side are also job-
less. Whether they’re claiming benefits
too is not up for discussion.
So, here we are: today’s world-class
graduates, tomorrow’s waiters and
waitresses – if we’re lucky – all being
congratulated on how lucky we are. But
this is gross deception spouted to stim-
ulate our false egos. Bragging about
league tables, slapping the backs of the
academics who teach us so splendidly,
telling us how we’ll change the world:
it’s all bullshit when the only change
we’ll be making is collecting our tables’
tips for the next God knows how long.
On the dole
with a 1st
Advice for graduates Useful websites
imperial.ac.uk/careers
The home of Imperial’s Careers Advisory
Service with lots of information on
upcoming events, talks and careers fairs.
london.gov.uk/graduates
Set up by Major Boris Johnson, ignore
the front page which is patronisingly
direct “what can I do with my ___
degree?” “Balls all it seems,” you might
answer. However it contains a detailed
schedule of upcoming careers events in
London
graduatetalentpool.direct.gov.uk
Useful website for internships, at the
time of writing there were 2, 524 paid
internships, so get moving!
prospects.ac.uk
All the information that you could ever
need to prepare, find and apply for
graduate jobs.
Up in the air: 2009’s graduates face an uncertain future as graduate opportunites shrink
1. Don’t panic
This piece of clichéd advice is never-
theless quite useful. Don’t run around
like a headless chicken; one well writ-
ten application is worth 100 rushed
ones
2. Network
Lord knows that Imperial students are
good at networking. Getting a job is se-
rious business so don’t be embarrassed
to use every contact that you may have
made in the last four years to try and
find vacancies that you may not have
previously spotted.
3. Get on the ladder
The world hasn’t turned out as we ex-
pected it would, so adjust your expec-
tations. If there’s a job that interests
you, don’t worry that you’re “overquali-
fied”. With some hard work, promo-
tions will follow. Dead-end jobs are
scary but quite unusual. Worst case
scenario: find a new job later.
4. Find out what went wrong
Follow up unsuccessful applications to
find out what held you back from the
position. Maybe your interview tech-
nique needs improving. Use any criti-
cism you get to improve your “game”.
5. Keep building
The job market is tough at the mo-
ment. Don’t let a year pass where the
most constructive activity you’ve done
is receive rejection letters. Develop
your knowledge and skills and take
unpaid positions if you can to increase
your experience.
6. Don’t let travelling deceive you
Truthfully, travelling is the graduate
equivalent of an ostrich burying its
head in the sand (beach pun anyone?).
When you get back you’ll be compet-
ing with a fresh set of graduates and
unless you go away for 5 years, the
job market won’t have improved very
dramatically.
Additional reporting: Brigette Atkins

