33
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
WELFARE FEATURE
What does your backside deserve?
SAINSBURY’S 100% Recycled Paper.
(In 6/12/Rainforest size packs)
This paper is for those passionate about green issues,
but not so much that they wipe with dock leaves. May
contain splinters. Not recommended when in extremis.
ANDREX, LUXURY QUILTED TOILET TISSUE (6 pack)
While not as soft as wiping yourself on the brown-furred puppy with which it is advertised, its
softness quotient is still high. A very nice paper.
JOHNSON & JOHNSON, BABY WIPES (Tubs of 200 sheets)
A trip down memory lane and particularly useful for the more messy encounters. Have some
of these on hand should you require help, if still drunk the next day -- your friends will thank
you for it.
PLENTY, KITCHEN ROLL
Often a last resort when nothing else is available. As the advert says, this is extremely
absorbent, and so useful for those days where little food has been ingested. Be careful of
seepage. We do not recommend that you wring these out for reuse.
READING MATERIAL
See point 3. (left), I recommend anything by Dan Brown.
KITCHEN SCRAPS
Typically consisting of orange rind, potato peelings, mouldy celery, yoghurt pots, etc. These
are the economical choice. If using, try to select large fruit and vegetable matter to avoid
getting your hands dirty. Rims of yoghurt pots can be particularly helpful.
LIDL, BUDGET LOO ROLL
Frankly, you may as well just use a handful of road grit.
I
t is that time of year that a lot of
drinking takes place. When you
factor in the vindaloo on top of
the pints, cocktails and/or glue-
sniffing, you will need to take care of
your body the day after your bender, as
it will be delicate.
Your first priority must be sanitation.
To that end (ahem), I have prepared
the following points to help you with
the weeks ahead.
1. When nature calls, you will of-
ten have very little warning, and time
will be of the essence. Make sure you
know in advance where the nearest toi-
lets are to your room and any lecture
theatres. Give priority to those facili-
ties where the impact of your activities
will be less on others. Loos which have
fewer cubicles or that are less popular
are preferable.
2. Try to estimate when you are go-
ing to need to expel the excesses of
the previous night. Make sure friends
are warned so they can be elsewhere.
Be discreet: if you are leaving behind a
hazardous environment and someone
appears to be about to enter it, stop
them and say ‘Brünhilde wants you
on line two.’ They will know what it
means.
3. Take reading material. This will
keep you occupied in the event that
you must spend longer than you in-
tended. Also, given that you may have
gone to bed only a few hours before,
you do not want to fall asleep and wake
up with Maintenance breaking into the
cubicle to find you splayed out on the
floor with your underwear round your
legs, dribbling.
4. Toilet paper. It is very important
that you invest in decent material.
Since you will probably need to make
several unpleasant visits a day, using
the freely provided material can eas-
ily render your backside raw, possibly
even bleeding. Naturally this is exacer-
bated if you had a plate of Madras or
a kebab with too much chilli sauce the
previous night. Below I have reviewed
a few options which you may like to
consider.
Lastly, you must check supplies, and
make sure not to get caught out by
finding that you have been left with
nothing but cardboard. If this situation
does arise, here are your options:
a) call for help;
b) soak the cardboard from the roll
in the cistern of the toilet until it splits
into sheets: if you’re frugal with it, you
may be able to get by with just this;
c) Sit on the floor and pull yourself
forwards along the floor with the balls
of your feet like a dog with an itchy
anus. Turn back every few seconds to
see when the brown streak has run out.
(N.B. The last of these is really very
disgusting. Don’t actually do it.)
Paper trails:
that morning
after feeling
David Stewart woke up and everything felt fairly normal, then came that impending feeling of doom down below
It looks nice there, but I bet your burning bumhole tells a different story

