34
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
x
Freshers leave London for the outdoors
H
aving had random in-
troductions to people
and ‘roll call’ outside
Beit, 33 people (1 mini-
bus, 2 cars and one ul-
timate disco bus) set off on the long
drive to “The Hut”, roughly 230 miles
away in Snowdonia, Wales (IF you take
the shortest route – which we didn’t) –
ETA 1am Saturday.
As a third year biologist my time is
almost up at Imperial. But as a fresher
to the club, and with the only thing to
go on being a very busy 40-minute in-
tro meeting (there was free pizza and
wine), I didn’t know what to expect
from the Fellwanderers. My £30 in,
bag packed, and phone signal rapidly
declining, I decided to expect the least;
that way things could only get better!
The usual motorway fun was ac-
companied by an impromptu trip to a
random family’s toilet in their Trave-
lodge room. After having bought huge
amounts of chips in the vain hope that
these would fuel us over the next 48
hours, we arrived about 1:30am to a
cold, beautiful, starry night.
33 people made easy work of unpack-
ing, and before long people had sorted
their beds (including a long line of all
girls – nice work for Imperial!). By 3 or
4am the talk had died down and heavy
breathing filled the hut’s two floors and
the 5 tents outside (free pizza obvious-
ly has a certain pull).
On a weekend full of firsts, Thea Powell climbs Snowdon as her first mountain, with 32 others... and a frog
By 8am on Saturday we were up and
ready to go, consuming the thickest
concrete-porridge for breakfast (a la
Jim) to drive our ascent up Snowdon, a
huge (in-my-lack-of-experience) 1085
meters! The sun was shinning (big
grins) and, with what felt like the per-
fect outdoor-loving atmosphere, the
group split into two and we were off!
As conversation covered travel, mu-
sic, food and photos (all those things
that we basically don’t have money
for), our feet began to make headway.
After only a few hours we had already
reached a beautiful ridge, with old
mining sites, mountains and few hu-
mans as a rewarding view. Below the
shinning blue sky (again – yay!) and far
above the sea, I and the other ‘freshers’
looked up – and up – to the summit,
which we were told was only another
hour away.
As a true lover of travel and nature,
and as a third year, I have a few things
to admit. This was only my second
trip with any Imperial club. This was
my first full mountain climb. This was
my first trip to Wales (hangs head in
shame).
The combination of sun and al-
titude produced a very confusing
hot-cold mash and the steep incline
left me panting and regretting a pre-
gym-training-trip. This said, this was
fast becoming a fantastic experience
for me. I hope everyone there felt the
same!
Some pushes up steep bits
left me panting and feeling a little
daunted, but every biscuit, mint cake
and photo stop made it all worth it.
Most stops for me consisted of taking
photos, taking far more time than I
usually do in London. All us newbies
were sweat drenched and smiling.
First (and only) lunch was placed
just below the summit, which was sur-
prisingly busy (silly train), and com-
plete with Pimms for a lucky few. The
1085m summit and banner photo was
ceremoniously recorded, and people
who had known each other less than 12
hours found they already had so much
in common.
Back at the hut, the cutting of huge
amounts of onions (Rachel and I got
quite emotional) and the exposure of
Jim’s huge stiff sausage (seriously –
ask Alex for details) meant the dinner
vat was steadily filling. Expecting the
least? No need. Hot showers, tea, a fire,
pub opportunities and all the cheesy
pasta (with the largest amount of pep-
per I’ve ever tasted) you could eat, the
evening was in full swing. With all this,
and a dessert of margarine-biscuit-
caramel-condensed-milk-banoffee pie
(complete with mystery), the standards
for future trips had defiantly been set.
After two (early but sleepy) games of
Werewolf (complete with accents), we
all finally climbed into various things
we summarised as beds.
Sunday – and the ‘dawn chorus’ of
cutlery alarm clocks harshly woke us
to a cloudy day. With aching muscles,
we packed and gorged on much bet-
ter porridge. The washing up (myself
particularly enjoying the burnt layer of
porridge) and roof packing were stead-
ily finished, and the last of those chips
(with old vinegar and new cheese)
made a dubious second breakfast.
Within three hours we were nearing
Cnicht and the clouds on a much wet-
ter, muddier, greener climb.
New views of beautiful lakes kept
us happy, as well as bogs (particularly
keen on Rachel), and our new addi-
tion Snowdon the frog, who I propose
as official fresher trip mascot. Having
had first lunch earlier we were now
amongst the clouds, mountains and
valleys and members in the group
quickly became Lord of the Rings char-
acters – complete with white Shadow-
fax parked patiently. The summit was
the exact opposite of Saturday with vis-
ibility low, wet trousers, soggy feet and
drenched fringes. It’s true that in the
UK you get wet, but it won’t kill you
(and you might even get walking-boot-
heated swimming pools).
After a rocky, steep, weight-distrib-
uting descent, the rain stopped and we
began to see what we had just climbed
up looming behind us. Back with
disco bus and Shadowfax, the warm
clothes, different shoes (poor Peter!)
and booming Jolene, the satisfaction of
the walking was made even better. In
the two days we had walked over 31km
and ascended over 1700m.
Before we know it, we’re speeding
home and I’m writing this on the M-
whatever in the dark, looking forward
to a pub dinner. I’ll leave the awesome
street and roof dancing outside Beit at
11.30pm to ‘Wonderwall’ and ‘Jolene’
to be re-enacted one day. There are no
words.
In my last year I am obviously go-
ing to be in the library a depressing
amount. A new silver lining to this is
that with dozens of new friends and
LOTS of lactate in legs, the Fellwan-
derers are exactly what you would ex-
pect from the first impression.
I would encourage anyone and eve-
ryone to get involved in this society.
For these reasons (and the amazing
UK countryside), I am hooked. I hope
the other freshers are too - roll on Lake
District!
Your Club or Society Here.
Description of your awesome trip or event here.
There are 346 clubs and societies at Imperial. Want your club to be in felix?
Send us a description of a trip, event, tour or social
with some good pictures and everyone will know about it.
Email clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
What happens when CivEng and Physics students try to defy gravity.
It turns out bears will eat anything except extremely spicy cheesy pasta. Freshers are far less picky.

