35
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
x
W
alking through the
doors of the Sir
Alexander Flem-
ing Building for
the first time three
years ago seemed to be as nerve-rack-
ing as my university medical interview.
Thankfully, both turned out to be OK.
However, actually helping to organise
this year’s PotMed was one hell of an
experience; sweating from head to toe
on the night prior to the event doesn’t
really do justice to how I was actual-
ly feeling. Luckily it turned out to be
nothing short of fantastic!
So I guess it seems that the more I
worry, the better an event is likely to
be. (Maybe I should cash in on my abil-
ity to become nervous...). But, on Sun-
day 27th September 2009 at 7:15am, I
entered SAF for the umpteenth time as
a 3rd year medic. Seeing two potential
medics already seated (having arrived
a good two hours before the show was
about to start), it really did put things
into perspective. (Wait, have I already
mentioned how successful the event
actually was?) Track back 48 hours
when committee members were up
until 6am finalising the details to be
sent out to all the ‘PotMed-ers’. Or
go back a further week when Muslim
Medics’ pens were being bought and
two thousand sheets were being print-
ed. Or even a further 4 months when
the room bookings were being made.
On the day, everything just seemed to
flow.
So, PotMed 2009 was the fourth of
its kind. Just like its predecessors, it
is an annual event hosted by ICSMU
Muslim Medics society aimed at giving
potential medical students a taste of
the gruelling application process and
university life in general.
The motto is simple: an event by
medical students for potential medi-
cal students. The one difference this
time round was the sheer number of
applicants - almost 150 more than the
previous year! An amazing 250 pre-
medical students turned up on the day,
each looking to learn different things
about the application process.
Having been registered and shoved
into the lecture theatre by 9am, they
were told to spend the next 4 hours
in there, just to get a flavour of actual
university life. Opening speeches by
the president and the adjudicator were
followed by talks about life at vari-
ous medical schools such as Leicester
University, King’s College and Queen
Mary’s.
These were followed by brief talks
about personal statements, communi-
cation skills, ethics and how to shine
in interviews. It was great to see so
many of the students eagerly taking
notes throughout the morning, some-
thing that will no doubt be replaced by
sleeping when they are finally medical
students! The highlight of the morn-
ing session was definitely the keynote
speech delivered by none other than
Professor Karim Meeran. He described
his path to success and the basic ‘do’s
and ‘don’t’s of applying to medicine.
Jana:
You may be wondering what the com-
mittee was doing whilst the students
were in the lecture theatre. Truth
be told, not very much. However we
all hung around nervously, shuffling
sheets here, adjusting badges there, as
we prepared ourselves for the stam-
pede of hungry 17 and 18-year-olds
that were to engulf the SAF foyer. And
so at 1pm it began; volunteers were
being organised and interview rooms
were set up. Lunches were served, doc-
tors (for interviews) were dressed in
gowns and questions by students were
being cheerfully answered.
These same students needed to
know where to go in the maze that is
the SAF building, but all was not lost
as they had a handy floor plan to fol-
low. Somehow at 2pm everything was
ready. Ethics seminars had case reports
prepared and were raring to go. The
Personal Statement Clinic had suffi-
cient volunteers to match the demand
of over-eager students. Tours left on
time and... I guess that’s all I’m going to
say about the tours.
The fourth rotation, the mock in-
terviews, was the one everyone was
really anxious about. We were work-
ing to a very tight schedule and if eve-
rything didn’t run like clockwork we
would have had an almighty disaster.
Sadly, no fireworks ensued. Everyone
was where they were meant to be at
the correct time and if any problems
were encountered, the SAF maps and
timetables were again at hand to solve
whatever it was that needed solving.
This was the case for the best part of
3 hours, and by 5pm everyone had had
enough.
Being heaved into the lecture theatre
for the last time, prizes were awarded
for the best mock interview perform-
ances and closing remarks were of-
fered. The day finally came to a close.
At this point, I would very much like
to thank all the volunteers that turned
up on the day. Your commitment and
desire to help those entering the world
of medicine cannot be appreciated
enough. We would also like to thank
the Union for their contribution and
guidance throughout the organisation
of the event.
Super-organized as we were, feed-
back forms were provided for the at-
tendees to fill in. Here are some of the
comments we received:
Year 13 students:
“Just a short note to say thank you to
the whole team - PotMed was awe-
some! There were a lot of things I
would never have picked up on or lines
that I wouldn’t have thought of unless
I went to something like this... Also
the students running it made it all the
more interesting and gave a more real
view of what med life might be like...
Yes it was intense but never boring
and I left with so much to work on and
One more PotMed leads to thousands more Medical Students
Umar Chaudhry and Jana Kossaibati show us how a logistical nightmare becomes an application saviour
improve. I found PotMed fantastic for
interview preparation especially.
“Thank you to all the Muslim Med-
ics, you are all inspirational! PotMed
2009 was great, not only enjoyable
but also very educational. Also got to
meet some ace people! So I am sure I
am speaking for everyone when I say a
huge thank you to MM.”
Gap year student:
“Thank you very much for allowing me
to take part in this year’s PotMed. It
was eye opening, and I have learnt a lot
about the course of medicine.
I thank you and your friends, for
putting this on. It was truly a great
experience; I witnessed a community
amongst you.”
Umar and Jana:
Reflecting on the event as a whole, ul-
timately the most important thing was
whether or not the students benefited
from the event. A vast majority of
students did seem to think so. Hope-
fully, they can use the guidance they
received that day to secure a place in
medical school, which was our ulti-
mate goal.
Proceeds will be going to charity and
we hope that the Muslim Medics so-
ciety can continue and build upon this
event to help even more medical stu-
dents reach their potential in years to
come.
You too could be getting this situation horribly wrong sooner than you think
Medical students always enjoy leaving the SAF

