38
COFFEE
BREAK
Coffee Break Editor
Coffee Break Editor Charlie Murdoch
Charlie Murdoch
coffee.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
Bloody Union
Fun Police
CharlieMurdoch Coffee Break Editor
Char
Char
I
can’t believe how suddenly I
have turned into an old bastard.
This is my final year at Imperial
College, and looking back I have
to say I’ve had a lot of fun. From
being found handcuffed, smashed off
my nut at 4am in Tesco trying to buy
an iceberg lettuce, to befriending some
of the best people possible, I’ve prob-
ably done it all. Yet seeing this year’s
intake of solely 90s births makes me
feel a bit over the hill- and I’m only 21.
However at the same time it is amaz-
ing to see so many freshers getting in-
volved this year. Observing the hockey
club, the group of boys and girls is the
best since I was a fresher!
I’m sure that all you freshers have
been told this so many times before,
but I shall re-iterate. At Imperial you
have to work your balls off, or vaginal
passage if you are of the female variety.
As a result you are going to have to let
off some steam, i.e. distract yourself
to forget about that project deadline
or the shite mark in last week’s test.
Without this distraction, I can assure
you that in no time you will burn out,
turn in to a nervous wreck and people
will avoid you. I certainly will. Impe-
rial knows this; why else is there such
a huge (over 300) range of clubs and
societies? In fact, Imperial has the big-
gest number of clubs and societies of
any university. Why else is there a free
gym? Why else is the Union continu-
ally improving its facilities?
I balance my time between working
on my degree (which always comes
first), dealing with the ACC, playing
hockey and then extreme laddish be-
haviour- something that DPFS Jenny
Wilson is not impressed with. I think
that private study and my social life
sees a 50:50 split in time. Over the
summer I work for a race team, if you
have 2 hours to change a steering rack,
you take 2 hours. If you’ve only 30 min-
utes, you bolt the fucker on in 30 and
don’t bother to shine the spanner. It’s
the same with work. If you have a day
to write your essay, you procrastinate
for half of it, if you only have half the
time, you knuckle down and bash it
out. The end result is the same.
Basically freshers, what I am trying
to say is don’t let work get in the way of
having a great time, but don’t neglect
work. Balance your time. Remember
you are only a student once.
Stuff Imperial students like:
4. felix:
Lets not beat about the bush, we all
love this humble newspaper. Not
only does it offer great journalism
(award winning at that), it is also
free. It’s known throughout most
of the scientific world as the best
material for soaking up beer which
has been spilt on the table on a Fri-
day evening. You do not know this,
but we actually print 15, 000 cop-
ies each week, of which 5000 are
solely used for the purpose of beer
removal. They say that it’s the news
sections that provide the best beer
soakage to area ratio.
Moving away from beer, and into
a more factual world, this paper has
produced multiple student jour-
nalists of the year, and we do all of
this for you- and what do we get in
return? Zero. Not even a small hug
and a kiss. I am very sad.
You gotta bloody love it!
“There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand
tongues. They are messengers of overwhelming grief...and unspeakable love.”
Quote of the Week
Sing
Triple jump
Footballer
A high performance car
Prime Minister
Tracy Chapman: this is your life
2
2
Graphic Dingbats
These are the best. Even if I may say so myself. Last week’s winner was
Jane O’Rook, who correctly identified Iggy Pop- The Passenger and Bruce
Springsteen- Dancing in the Dark. Well done.
Washington Irving:
WE STILL NEED A
PUZZLES GURU!!
COME TO FELIX, BEIT WEST WING
FUCWIT
League Table
The Felix University/College-Wide Invitational Tournament League is new and improved. There are now
prizes for both the winning team and the winning individual.
Basically, you get points for doing all the various puzzles and challenges, and at the end of the year, the
winning team and the winning individual will win an iPod nano! The scoring is as follows:
5 points for the first correct answers for Slitherlink, Wordoku, London Underground, Mentalist Maze,
Dingats and Quickie. 4 points for second, 3 points for third, 2 points for fourth and 1 point for fifth. Dou-
ble points will be awarded for correct cryptic crossword answers, because it’s über hard.
Simple! Now then FUCWITs, send in your answers to sudoku.felix@imperial.ac.uk. Go!
I Hate Medic scum 5 Points
Harry Potter Trio 19 Points
Herens Tibaut 12 Points
The Tough Brets 9 Points
Bethan Matthews 24 Points
Matthew Colvin 13 Points
Individuals:
Individuals:
Teams:
Teams:
Places which Ben E King wishes one to rest
By me
Not by me
1
1

