4 felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
Nigerian officials have an-
nounced a government plan
to give 10% of oil revenues
to people living in the Ni-
ger Delta, where the oil is
drilled.
The area is plagued by fre-
quent insurgencies. The plan
is part of the government’s
efforts to stop militants from
attacking oil installations in
the Delta, which has had some
recent successes after an amnesty was reached with leading militants. If the
local community benefits from increased oil output, it reckons, pressure will
grow on the militants to forgo violence. The rebels say they are fighting for a
fairer share of oil revenues.
Presidential adviser Emmanuel Egbogah told the UK’s Financial Times that
the money would go directly to communities, bypassing powerful state gov-
ernors. The plan could see more than 50bn naira (£207m) diverted to local
communities in its first year.
The world beyond
College walls
By Raphael Houdmont, International Editor
Last Friday, Pakistan sent 30,000 troops into the lawless regions of
Waziristan in a long-awaited offensive against the Taliban based
in the region. The Pakistani troops, who are well supported by heli-
copters and fighter jets, face an estimated 10,000 Taliban fighters,
and another 1,000 foreign militants, mostly Afghans and Uzbeks,
who are operating in the region. Over 80 Taliban have already been
reported killed in combat, whilst the Pakistan Army has suffered a
dozen casualties.
The ground offensive follows two weeks of brazen attacks by the
Taliban on key locations, including military headquarters and police
stations in major cities. Western diplomats say that a Pakistani vic-
tory against the Taliban on its side of the border with Afghanistan
would significantly help the NATO coalition fighting the Taliban in
Afghanistan. The Pakistani army will being drawing on its experience
in the Swat valley, where it successfully ousted the Taliban earlier this
year.
Pakistan
Last Saturday, a gunman in
Rio de Janeiro shot down
a police helicopter, killing
three policemen and spur-
ring violence which has left
a further 21 people dead.
The helicopter crashed to
the ground, erupting into
flames, after the pilot was
shot in the leg. Military police
in Rio have begun a manhunt
to find the assailant, but gang
violence in the city, which has left thousands of people dead in the past dec-
ade, continues to be a problem. The violence has renewed concern amongst
international observers about Rio’s preparedness to host the 2016 Olympic
Games. Brazil’s President Lula pledged to do everything to combat the out-
of-control gang warfare in the city. The President also promised an additional
$58m (£35m) to deal with the violence and provide the police with bullet-
proof helicopters.
Brazil
Nigeria
Biomedical Engineering the best
Imperial’s Institute of Biomedical En-
gineering (IBE), announced on Mon-
day that it is this year’s overall winner
of the Times Higher Education (THE)
Awards in the category of “Outstand-
ing Contribution to Innovation and
Technology.” These were the fifth an-
nual THE Awards, considered the
most important awards ceremony for
the UK’s higher education sector. For
2009 there were over 600 entries from
more than 130 institutions.
The panel of judges said that the IBE
was being recognised for the “breadth
of its innovation” in the areas of medi-
cal diagnosis and treatment, personal-
ised healthcare, regenerative medicine
and biomedical imaging. The panel
was also impressed by the transferabil-
ity into other fields of the Institute’s
research.
Commenting on the award win, Pro-
fessor Christofer Toumazou, Director
and Chief Scientist of the IBE said:
“We are extremely proud to receive
this special honour from the preemi-
nent awards in the higher education
sector. Our ambition at the Institute
is to deliver breakthrough advances in
technology that enable people to lead
independent lives despite illness, age-
ing and disability, and we are thrilled
that the innovation and leadership
demonstrated by the entire IBE team
has been recognised in this way.”
The IBE opened its new state-of-the-
art, purpose-built facilities in 2006.
It aims to combine the strengths of
Imperial’s research in engineering
and medicine, particularly to achieve
faster commercial realisation of re-
search outcomes. It focuses on the
intersections between the platform
technologies in science and engineer-
Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian News Reporter
ing, including systems biology, materi-
als, imaging and nanotechnology, and
medical applications, such as bionics,
biomechanics and tissue engineering.
Ann Mroz, editor of Times Higher
Education, said of the winning entry:
“Imperial’s contribution to innovation
and technology is simply too large to
be ignored. The projects from the In-
stitute of Biomedical Engineering are
transforming lives in an enormous
range of pioneering ways.”
Biomedical Engineers get up to their winning antics in the Bessemer Building
Imperial’s school meals for Africa
The Partnership for Child Develop-
ment at Imperial College London has
announced a new project to help Af-
rican farmers provide healthy school
meals. The project is supported partly
by a £7.2 million grant from the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation.
The Partnership for Child Develop-
ment (PCD) is part of the Division of
Epidemiology, Public Health and Pri-
mary Care at Imperial College London.
PCD is a global consortium of civil so-
ciety organisations, academic institu-
tions and technical experts who aim
to improve the education, health and
nutrition of school-age children and
youth in low and middle income coun-
tries. The plan is to help governments
manage school meals programmes
more effectively. Many of these are al-
ready in place in Sub-Saharan Africa,
but suffer from a range of problems.
Most are run by international aid agen-
cies, mainly using imported food. The
hope is to replace this with local pro-
duce, thus providing a regular and reli-
able income source to farmers.
The new initiative will work in con-
junction with education, health and
agricultural sectors, social workers
and international development part-
ners, such as the World Bank and the
World Food Programme. The idea is
that replacing a one or two ineffec-
tive organizations with a partnership
involving many, will improve the child
hunger situation.
Project leader Dr Lesley Drake be-
lieves this will provide a double-blow
to poverty by helping both schoolchil-
dren and farmers, “By putting school
feeding programmes using locally-
sourced food in place, we can ensure
that the smallholder farmers who sup-
ply the food get a reliable income that
helps them look after their families and
improve their businesses. We want to
give them the skills and know-how
to shape their own futures and beat
Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian News Reporter poverty.”
Dr Drake argues further, “millions of
school children are facing poverty and
hunger every day. For many of them,
a school meal is the only reliable, nu-
tritious meal they get each day and it
is often the reason they go to school.
Getting an education is really impor-
tant for these kids, as it helps them to
get jobs and break out of the poverty
cycle. We hope our new project will
help governments make sure these
children are fed and educated.”
The first trials will be in Mali, Ni-
geria, Ghana, Malawi and Kenya. The
project will be conducting a series of
studies to analyse the cost and impact
of its own, as well as similar, initiatives.
It has been made possible through
funding as part of the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation Agricultural Devel-
opment initiative, which is working
with a wide range of partners to pro-
vide millions of small farmers in the
developing world with tools to boost
their yields.

