5
felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
NEWS FEATURE
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
STUDENTS SOLVING A RWANDAN
CRISIS E.E.E. STUDENT M. MANSOOR HAMAYUN’S E.QUINOX TEAM ATTEMPT TO SOLVE
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION PROBLEMS IN RWANDA; THEY SOMEWHAT SUCCEEDED
R
wanda Energy is an inte-
gral part to ensure an ac-
ceptable quality of life.
Affordable electric power
has several benefits for
the developing world in areas such as
education, health care and finance.
The energy needed for most people in
the developing world is met through
use of primary fossil fuels such as fire
wood and kerosene. The poor supply
infrastructure using multiple middle-
men results in that the poorest in the
world often pay the highest to fulfill
their energy requirements. However,
much of the developing world is locat-
ed in regions of the world where more
effective use of renewable sources of
energy such as solar and wind can be
obtained than many parts of the devel-
oped world.
e.quinox, a student society of around
15 people, founded some 15 months
ago at Imperial College London, rec-
ognized the problem of rural electrifi-
cation and set out to create a solution
to give the poorest in the world access
to electric power in a economically
sustainable manner. We at e.quinox
chose Rwanda as the country to tailor
our initial designs: due to its exotic lo-
cation of being the ‘heart of Africa’, its
proven track record of recent national
economic growth and only 6% of the
population being connected to the
electric grid.
So what could be the technical so-
lution towards rural electrification?
The cost analysis of a western type
grid network or micro-grid system
proved to be very expensive with mas-
sive overhead and logistic costs associ-
ated with it. One of the most popular
topologies to rural electrification is a
decentralized energy production and
consumption system by which each
household is given a solar panel, bat-
tery and light. However, this type of
system does not take advantage of the
economies of scale that centralized
production offered. Furthermore, we
were interested in modeling the way
people buy kerosene. Currently, people
in rural settings normally buy kerosene
in small quantities to fulfill some days
of consumption. This electrification of
the kerosene buying model we named
as the ‘Energy Kiosk’ system. The idea
was that each household is given a
battery to use for lighting, mobile tel-
ephone charging and radio. When the
batteries are depleted they can go to
the energy kiosk and replace the de-
pleted battery for a charged one in ex-
change for a small fee. Then came all
the hard questions, in which we needed
real quantifiable data: How much does
a typical household spend on kerosene
per month? How many hours of light
do most people want? Are people even
willing to change to a LED based light-
ing solution, or does kerosene lighting
have a traditional value? Who would
run any system we set up in Rwanda?
The most important question: Where
would a student society, with no ex-
perience or credibility find the money
to implement any proposed solution?
We understood that the only way an
inexperienced group of students could
establish credibility was by partnering
up with well recognized partners. In
the early stages of the project, we were
able to confirm the Light Up the World
Foundation (they have electrified over
100.000 homes in over 40 countries)
and the Institute of Engineering and
Technology (IET) as one of our of-
ficial partners. These partners were
only able to offer us advice on differ-
ent issues when we requested it; they
were more excited to see if a group of
students could live up their claim and
commitment. At this stage we started
to contact anyone that had any as-
sociation with ‘Energy’ and ‘Rwanda’.
It may seem daunting in the begin-
ning to contact organizations such as
the Ministry of Infrastructure and the
United Nation Development Program.
However, after some time you start
understanding that each fancy organi-
zation is just a guy behind a desk with
a telephone, computer, secretary and
a budget somewhat bigger than your
own.
Two days before the end of autumn
term we secured funds from EnVision,
the OC trust and the Department of
Electrical and Electronic Engineering
for four of us to go to Rwanda. This
lead to four of us (Tom Luth, Laurent
Van Hocke, Chris Hopper and myself)
landing at Kigali International Airport
on 4th January 2009 12.05 PM local
time. We had a few meetings organ-
ized with the Kigali Institute of Sci-
ence and Technology (KIST) and with
the development arm of the Belgian
Government i.e. the Belgian Techni-
cal Cooperation. Furthermore, we had
a meeting organized with a local solar
panel supplier and an information staff
member of the Ministry of Infrastruc-
ture. So we started off at KIST and
gave our pitch to the Rector of KIST
and 15 minutes into the meeting he
seemed very impressed and picked up
his phone and started to call someone.
We initially thought that this was a bit
of a rude thing to do, but the Rector
explained afterwards that he just called
the Minister of Energy of Rwanda and
that he had agreed to meet us the fol-
lowing day. So this was the end of our
day: a few hours after we landed, we
were secured to give a pitch to the
Minister of Energy himself in one of
his fancy board rooms.
The following day we were picked up
from our one star hotel by a SUV with
diplomatic plates to our first meeting
with the advisors to the Minister of
Energy. Four inexperienced students
in their early twenties were asked to
give a pitch to some 25 top advisors to
the Minister regarding the concept of
the Energy Kiosk, and how it may be
placed in their national energy strat-
egy. We answered each question they
had in a careful manner (we had done
a lot of background research and knew
what we were talking about). Two
hours later, we came out with smiling
faces, as the chief advisor agreed that
our Energy Kiosk concept is a possible
solution towards rural electrification
in Rwanda and could be included in the
national energy policy if we prove that
the system is economically sustainable.
Later in the afternoon we met the Min-
ister of Energy (Dr. Albert Butare) and
received the official support from the
Government of Rwanda, through the
Ministry of Infrastructure. So we went
home that day having obtained the of-
ficial support from the Government of
Rwanda, having got our project VAT
exempted and promises for partial
funding for implementation.
This story repeated itself a few times
and by the end of our January survey
trip to Rwanda we added to our list
partners such as KIST, the Belgian
Technical Cooperation and the United
Nation Development Program. We
then visited 8 villages and surveyed
people’s energy habits and enquired
the local governments the possibility
for us to implement the pilot project
in their village. When we returned to
London on 16th January 2009, we had
achieved all of our objectives including
a location for a pilot project and ob-
taining all the required local support.
After the January trip, the Depart-
ment of Electrical and Electronic En-
gineering committed £10.000 towards
the electrical equipment cost in Rwan-
da and the Government of Rwanda
generously committed 11.000 Euros
for infrastructure. By end of May we
had all of our funding confirmed. Now
came the real hard work: to turn all
of our words, written documents and
promises, into reality i.e. a tangible
product. Obvious questions popped
up: Do we have enough money? How
do we get equipment to Rwanda? How
long will it take to install the Energy
Kiosk? We started to revise for exams
and in-between squeeze in negotia-
tions with suppliers and with our local
partners in Rwanda. Although reces-
sion was hitting hard and unemploy-
ment was at an all time high, most of
the e.quinox members had internships
to do. This resulted in one of the most
intense summers in our lives. 8 AM -11
PM working, in which we worked for
our respective companies in the morn-
ing and on e.quinox in the evening.
The supply chain was quite compli-
cated especially as we needed our main
technology, ‘The SparkBox’, to be man-
ufactured in-house for 60 households.
There was an official contract be-
tween e.quinox and the Government of
Rwanda to implement the Energy Ki-
osk. One of our contractual obligations
was to train and employ two shopkeep-
ers to handle the day-to-day running of
our system. This was probably one of
the hardest tasks during our Energy
Kiosk implementation. Firstly, we had
no means of communicating with our
potential candidates directly. We had
to use our local team from Kigali In-
stitute of Science and Technology to
help us in the translation process. We
organized an assessment centre type
style selection process which involved
interviews, a practical exam and a
written exam. Finally, two people were
selected and were given confirmed
employment till the end of December.
The employees were very enthusiastic
to have been given the opportunity to
work with the new technology in the
village.
A few weeks later we had a fully run-
ning Energy Kiosk. During our last
meeting with the Minister of Energy
and his advisors there were sugges-
tions that the Government of Rwanda
will sponsor up to 10 new implemen-
tations of our Energy Kiosk concept in
Rwanda (valued in excess of 100 000
Euros) .
Each member of e.quinox contrib-
uted to a critical element of the project
and together we worked to achieve
something many said would impossi-
Do people in Rwanda need electric power?
None of the members of e.quinox were from Rwanda or had a firm idea of conditions people lived
under there. The first fundamental question was: do people in the developing world, in particular
Rwanda, need electric power? Rather than looking at the source of energy, such as firewood or solar
panels, they started to investigate the uses of energy. From obtaining reports on energy consumption
in East African Countries and by talking to one of our initial partners, the Light up the World
Foundation, the team found that people in the developing world spend a considerable amount of their
income on kerosene based lighting applications in their homes. Using this information the team set the
design criteria. They needed to make a system for home lighting application in a renewable manner
which is of higher quality and cheaper than kerosene.
The e.quinox team Laurent Van Houcke, Christopher Hopper, Tom Luth, Alexander Rybka, M. Mansoor Hamayun.
(missing in picture: Christopher Baker-Brian, Nd Kejeh, Alexander Mclaren and Mathew Dayton)

