6 felix FRIDAY 23 OCTOBER 2009
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Angry Geek: you are all jobless twats
“Surprised?
You essentially
bullshitted your
way through several
years of education”
H
ooray! You’ve gradu-
ated! Well, you haven’t,
obviously, otherwise
you wouldn’t be read-
ing this, but well done
indeed to all those who did put on a
dress and a stupid face on Wednesday
and paraded up and down merry South
Kensington looking like you’d just been
nominated for a fucking Nobel prize.
Well done you. You managed to main-
tain a level of work slightly below that
which you showed at A-Level for four
years, without dropping face-first into
a bowl of Red Bull and Chinese food,
falling unconscious and waking up on
a plinth in Trafalgar Square. Three
cheers for you and your unstoppable
academic momentum.
Does it really require the Royal Al-
bert Hall to be emptied and filled
with thousands of simpering, besuited
cocks? Does it? It lasted for almost
half as long as your time at second-
ary school did, you worked probably
half as hard as you did at secondary
school, and yet for some reason you’ve
obtained a License for Fuckwittery and
plan to practise it with extreme preju-
dice. The bastards stroll back and forth
along the walkway, their rented robes
fluttering in the wind like a coat made
of dreams. A dream coat. A dream
coat that says yes, I am a graduate. I
have graduated. Forget the fact I know
sweet Fanny Adams about my subject
and am going to spend my life ek-
ing out a living working for a fucking
project management team or pretend-
ing to do a PhD, let’s all just focus on
the fact that I’m a graduate.
And they’ve all got the same look on
their face, right? It looks like they’re
about to start high-fiving everyone in
the room. Literally everyone - a Profes-
sor will walk up to one of them and it
looks like a scene from a musical about
to take place. Which I guess makes
sense when you realise that more than
half of these people are probably sur-
prised they managed to get this far -
you would be too, if you’d essentially
bullshitted your way through several
years of education.
Oh, but I’m being mean. This is a big
moment, right? It’s the time in eve-
ryone’s life where they enter the real
world, where they become an adult, an
educated member of society. Let them
have this time, this moment of reflec-
tion, you old bastard.
No. Fuck off. They’re the exact same
cockbags that were prowling around
the canteen, the laboratories, the lec-
ture halls last year, sneering and smug,
it’s just that this year they’re allowed
to do it. Why the hell would I let them
off just because they’ve got an excuse.
If the Rector’s going to stand there and
individually kiss the arse of every one
of them, from the first class Aeronauti-
cal Engineers through to the third class
Materials graduates, then I think we’re
well within our rights to set fire to the
occasional ceremonial robe.
So it’s Friday for you. It’s too late for
you to make a difference to the year
just gone. But we can still act now. So
let’s make today Kick A Fourth Year
In The Abdomen day, as a sort of pre-
emptive strike.
Want to tell me how your final year
project was a lot of work, actually?
Email me:
anangrygeek@googlemail.com
Aditya Narayanan: the nature of friendship
“Students here have
never lived away
from home before.
The workload is
intense and many
get homesick”
W
hat is the nature of
a friendship? Think
about that for a
second. Seeing all
the freshers around
the place, faces bright with enthusi-
asm at the thought of university life I
wonder, as someone on the verge of
departure, is there any advice I could
pass on. What have I learnt that is of
use during my time here?
Look in any lecture theatre and there
seems to be an unwitting segregation
taking place between students on the
same course. It is a definite elephant in
the room; the sort of issue that people
mutter about under their breath but
rarely discuss seriously. In most cases
it is unconscious and not intended to
alienate anyone but in a few cases it
results in the type of attitude where
a group of people (including myself)
were prevented from joining one of the
overseas societies in our second year.
Why? Because we weren’t from the
country in question.
An international student I know
once confessed she thought local stu-
dents would not accept her if she so-
cialised with them. This same person
then boasts of her pride at the fact her
fellow nationals all look out for each
other. Maybe if she treated everyone
equally instead of singling out those
with the same passport as her she
would not have such a problem. These
things work both ways, and if your atti-
tude towards people is already insular
then what right do you have to com-
plain? Someone else complains that
those in their current social group do
not understand them. However, they
refuse to make friends outside of the
group because they “wouldn’t be last-
ing friends” due to the fact that after
graduation they will return home.
Friends of mine tell me I must be ‘one
of theirs’ because I hang out with them,
a perverse form of acceptance consid-
ering it is not based on who I am as a
person. Last time I checked, I chose my
friends based on whether I caouldtrust
them, not whether we shared some
superficial link. In my experience,
closed-mindedness is an attribute of
individuals rather than any particular
group – all it takes is one rotten apple
for the entire bunch to be tainted.
Put yourself in another person’s
shoes. A large proportion of students
here have never lived away from home
before. The workload is intense and
many get homesick – I know I did.
Most of us are in the same boat, no
matter where we’re from or what we’re
studying, and unless we actually at-
tempt to get to know someone, how
can we judge whether they are similar
to us or not? In my first year I spent
excessive amounts of time with people
I had nothing in common with purely
because it was convenient to do so. It
was not until that February I actually
met a person I could talk to on a deep-
er level, and that too in the unlikeliest
of circumstances. My closest friend is
someone I only became friends with
by accident, as we were revising in the
same location during exam season. On
the surface we are all from vastly dif-
ferent backgrounds, yet a lot of our at-
titudes are similar.
Imperial with the same clichés: not
enough girls, the union sucks, people
are boring/antisocial. These people
never show any intention to go out and
meet people anyway, and treat alterna-
tive viewpoints to theirs with disdain.
In a similar vein, there are societies
whose openness towards others is al-
most non-existent. One only needs to
look at the level of backstabbing that
occurs within the committees of most
societies (not to mention the union it-
self) to begin to feel apathetic towards
its proceedings.
For me, a friend is someone who will
bend their back to help you when you
need it, yet over the last three years I
have seen numerous people happy to
sit in a comfort zone because it is easy
to do so. Removed from the conven-
ience of the situation, these people
would probably never be friends in the
first place.
Ask yourselves, be you new or soon-
to-graduate, what makes you as a per-
son? Is it measured by the company you
keep? Or is it defined by the choices
you make in life. Get out of your com-
fort zone and meet people you would
not normally socialise with; it will be
worth it. They could be the friends you
have for life. Opening yourself up a lit-
tle will make you appreciate your ex-
isting friends as well as potential new
ones. Don’t feel intimidated, most peo-
ple are just as self-conscious as you are.
If the roles were reversed, wouldn’t you
appreciate a friendly hello?

