simon baker
And that concludes the
votes of the Cyprus Jury.
Good night, Oslo.' Ah, 'tis
music to the ears, which is
more than can be said for
the cacophonous drivel
that spewed out of
Norway for the preceding
two hours. For much the
same way that people watch ballroom dancing, I
sat through the whole of the Eurovision Song
Contest last Saturday, purely for the sake of this
column, you understand. It is difficult to select
the high/lowlight of the evening, but the funni-
est comment came from Morten Harket, who
said that some people refer to the said contest as
a 'European championship of culture through
music' Now I can't speak for the rest of Europe,
but I think you're overselling it ever so slightly.
'Shoopy doo', the Icelandic entry was not exact-
ly the zenith of twentieth century culture, and
the Belgium and Dutch entries, pop pickers, pre-
sumably written in 1976, had the same first line
(Nah-Nah-Nah etc.) I hate to sound superior,
but to group the UK with such cultural pygmies
is like comparing the Batde of the Somme with
six year girls playing British Bulldog. Thinking
about it, the highlight of the evening was the
incomparable Terry Wogan, whose wit and
downright sarcasm was priceless. Keep this up
Tel and you can chum any old rubbish the rest of
the year. Good work fella! As for the chances of
the beef ban being lifted after Mr Wogan's com-
ments: don't hold your breath.
Computers are undoubtedly a marvel of the
modem age. This is being written on one for a
start, and the list of possible uses is endless; who
hasn't used a spreadsheet to fiddle experimental
data, for example? The Internet is also useful,
containing all manner of resources. I am even
considering selling my pigeons and using e-mail.
But I have noticed a worrying side effect of this
new-fangled technology of late. We seem to be
breeding a class of people who are so absorbed in
The Net that seem unable to interact normally
with the rest of society. Enough of this beating
about the bush. I am sick and tired of desperate-
ly sad, socially dysfunctional morons clogging up
computer rooms for the sole purpose of e-mail-
ing people on the odaer side of the same room
and playing MUGs (multi-user games, and prob-
ably the most apt acronym I've seen in a long
while.) What is wrong with you? Some of these
characters sit glued to the screen for hours on
end, occasionally uttering the odd neurotic
laugh, typing out complete jibberish to their
'friends'. Worse still is live e-mailing, where peo-
ple sit and have 'conversations' via the internet.
For God's sake, get a life. Many mountaineers
legitimately say their reason for climbing a peak
is hecause it's there.' This seems to be the justi-
fication for their activities. As well as tying up
machines needed by people who need them for
more useful pursuits, they are depriving them-
selves of a normal upbringing. I have absolutely
nothing against the use of
computers, but simply play-
ing on them in such antiso-
cial manner for no real rea-
son is pathetic. If that's your
idea of time well spent, you
should become a traffic
warden.
I daresay that most
of you will have seen the
plans for the new gallery at the V & A that
resemble a pile of discarded biscuit tins.
Designed by a Polish architect, who clearly had a
troubled childhood, it will have the delightful
name of 'the Boilerhouse'. The only possible jus-
tification for such an outrageously ridiculous
design is to make the front Mech Eng look palat-
able by comparison. The irony is that this plan
comes at a time when the College is formulating
plans to smarten up this shabby facade, and as
my good friend will Ian Caldwell will tell you,
the V & A face a hell of a job getting planning
permission for it; the BMS has diving beauty by
comparison and it took ages to get approval. I
have little time for the work of modem archi-
tects in general, save for a few notable excep-
tions, such as Stansted Airport, after witnessing
the mess that was left after the sixties. By all
means produce radical new designs, but not for
the sake of promoting either a man, material or
philosophy. The constant desire for change for its
own sake inevitably results in stupid monstrosi-
ties such as this planned extension, and to pro-
vide public money for it would be scandalous. I
suppose I could sign this 'disgusted of Tunbridge
Wells', but as they say in Yorkshire, I don't know
much about architecture, but I know what I like.
Speaking of IC Estates (that makes a change
for me, doesn't it children?), I have to apologise
for constantly calling in to question the ability of
this esteemed department. Yes, you take a sim-
ple job and stretch it to ten times longer than it
should take, and yes, you have a passionforsigns
that borders on fetishism, but by comparison
with the clowns in charge of the British Library
project, you are brilliant and without peer. Not
only does it look like an out of town branch of
Tesco's, and contain only seventeen more seats
than the old building, but it is several years late,
hundreds of millions over budget and so riddled
with errors, problems and cockups that it may
never open. That won't happen with the BMS,
will it now?
Regular readers will know that I have a thing
about Anthea Turner. Not that sort of thing, dear
me, no. She used to generate unsafe levels of
hate with my calm and angelic mind. And then,
as if by magic, she left the Lottery to be replaced
by the brilliant Bob Monkhouse, who should
have been doing it from the start. I thought I
would wait a week or two to see if her absence,
as I predicted, would lead to me winning the odd
tenner. Did it? What do you think?

