Carlo Massarella reports on the colourful condition
receiving scientific attention. >in
THE COLOUR OF M O N D A Y
W
hat makes artists interpret moods, feelings, emotions and
opinions in the way that they do? What enables them to
convert ideas born of their minds into works of art, whether
painted on canvas, sculpted from stone or written as a musical score? The
business of art criticism would have an untrained consumer believe that
there is a right and wrong way in which to go about creating a work of
art. But interpretation is a genuinely personal affair. Grounds for both art
creation and art criticism rest upon the same thin layer of concrete tes-
timony. But artists, musicians and writers who have synaesthesia can call
to hand scientific evidence to support their personal renditions. For a
'crossing of senses' adds an extra dimension to their lives.
Synaesthesia (from the Greek syn (union) aistheses (sensation)) is a
condition affecting 1 in every 2,000 people. It does not impair their daily
lives, if anything, it makes them more colourful - literally. For synaes-
thetics have the ability to make colour assimilations in anything from
months of the year to types of pain. Some effectively hear words, num-
bers and letters in colour. Other synaesthetics on hearing a particular
tone or smelling a certain aroma experience it as a specific colour. People
with the condition have talked explicitly of how they even dream in
colour.
Synaesthesia has been known to exist for over 300 years, but until
recently, little scientific research could offer a worthy insight into the
condition and its effects. Simon Baron-Cohen of Cambridge
University's Psychological department has led the British arm of research
into Synaesthesia since 1986. One of his earlier case studies was that of
76 year-old Elizabeth Stewart-Jones, a professional painter who trained
at the Chelsea School of Art in London. Describing herself as 'an artist
who has experienced a life-long condition of hearing words and sounds
in colour', she wanted to discover more about her bizarre talent, allow-
ing Baron-Cohen to investigate the phenomenon.
The authenticity of a patient's Synaesthesia is tested in relation to a
control group of non-synaesthetics. In tests, they are asked to describe
the colour evoked by a set of words. Their ability to recite the matching
colours and words months later is then assessed. 100% of Stewart-Jones'
responses were accurate compared to 17% for the control group.
On hearing words, Elizabeth experienced a colourforminginstanta-
neously inside her head. Each word evoked its own unique colour and
texture, independent of the letters and sounds contained within the
word. For instance, she envisaged 'Moscow' as being darkish grey, with
spinach-green and pale blue in places; 'Fear' was mottled light grey, with
a touch of soft green and purple; and the name 'Daniel' was depicted as
being deep purple, blue and red and was shiny. Stewart-Jones talked of
the letters 'H', ' U and 'R' being dark red, yellow and dark green respec-
tively, with the letters of the alphabet conforming to a distinct layout
inside her head. She pictured the colours associated with the days of the
week ordered in a clockwise sense, with the months ofthe year arranged
in an anti-clockwise pattern. Numbers had their own distinct colours,
and were arranged in a sequence similar to that ofthe letters ofthe alpha-
bet. The numbers 0 to 10 had an individual association with specific
colours, with numbers greater than ten evoking a combination of the
colours of the individual digits. Elizabeth also related colours to different
pitches of voice; female voices were anchored in a blue spectrum with
high pitch at the light blue end of the scale and low pitch residing in the
dark blue region.
Simon Baron-Cohen currently has over 600 Synaesthetics on
record, who approached him after hearing of his work through the
media. "Wiat struck us was how similar the accounts •
were", he claims. "Synaesthetics recounted that they "^j^
Picture: A painting by Elizabeth Stewart-Jones of the colours she experiences on
hearing the name Alan Ayckbourne'
became aware they had the condition from at least the age of four, and
all recall a day when they discovered that it was not a sensation experi-
enced by everyone. Following this discovery, most do not dare mention
it again for fear of being laughed at."
Baron-Cohen conducted a larger study of the phenomenon in 1993
whilst at the Institute of Psychiatry in London to investigate if synaes-
thetics matched colours with words and letters differently, and what
determined the word-colour affiliation. Colours for individual words and
letters varied quite substantially amongst the nine patients. However,
here it appeared that the first letter of each word heavily influenced the
overall colour the word aroused, with colours for single letters echoing
the colours attached to words beginning with that letter. Eight out of the
nine involved in the study interpreted the vowel T as being white to pale
grey, 'u' as being yellow to light brown and 'o' as white - the latter exam-
ple being consistent with historical interpretations.
Of the 600 cases Baron-Cohen has on file, the majority are female.
In the 1993 study, researchers found that all relations to synaesthetics
who also experienced the phenomenon were either mothers or sisters.
Current research is centred around these findings, with the blood of
synaesthetics being tested to determine whether or not Synaesthesia is a
sex-linked genetic condition. Evidence suggests an explanation for the
condition has its roots firmly entrenched in the human brain. Opinion is
currently divided however over which specific regions of the brain may
hold the key to unravelling the mystery surrounding the condition.
The current model of the brain is one composed of a number of dif-
ferent processing regions - different regions process different forms of
information. So information regarding each of the senses (vision, hearing,
touch, smell and taste) is processed in its own distinct domain, with
neural pathways in the cortex (the outer layer of the brain) carrying the
information to the relevant department. Some researchers believe stray
pathways between such regions may account for people experiencing a
colour when they hear a sound, claiming we may all be bom with some
such connections, but that they disintegrate as we grow older. Research
carried out in Toronto shows that kittens are prone to having such 'sense
cross-wiring' which recedes as the animal develops. A recent study by
Baron-Cohen monitoring the brain activity of synaesthetics concluded
that the apparent crossing of senses could indeed be the result of some
sort of 'integration' occurring between the two regions of sensory pro-
cessing involved. Others claim a radically new model of the human brain
is required, highlighting the processes of the limbic system (a network of
communication pathways situated beneath the cortex concerned with
basic information regarding emotions, hunger and sex), and an altogeth-
er more 'integrated' model of the brains functioning.

