C S l A A l A i J >AA* <
A A A
t . A A A A A L;
.T e!
, A. y
,
;
A A A A - • :.:>|30;1
A \ : ; :
';
yA.A;; .' ' .
• /v si: lA-nt.-A:. -
vA-:,. '
- A , ' , :•: :
.Iff
•film: primal fearspooky
With such a meaningless title it is hard to know
what to expect from Primal Fear, although the
film does its best to give the game away. Richard
Gere plays Martin Vail, a hotshot defence lawyer
who cares more about winning than the tmth.
His beliefs are tested when he elects himself
to defend Aaron Stampler (Edward Norton), a
young man accused of the brutal murder of the
local Bishop. Despite the fact that Aaron is an
altar boy who lived with the Bishop and was
caught running from the scene covered in blood,
Vail believes him to be innocent. But deeper
investigation into the Bishop's life reveals both a
high-profile property deal gone bad and a ten-
dency toward sexual perversion.
The director is better known
for his work on various Steven
Bochco T V shows, a fact which is
clearly evident. The film comes
over more like an extended episode
of NYPD Blue (with a healthy dose
of L A Law) than a major motion
picture. Consequently, there are a
lot of fairly irrelevant minor charac-
ters, several obvious plot give-aways,
unoriginal characterisations and
minimal camerawork. There is also
a journalist who keeps popping up,
apparently only to try to add some
depth to Richard Gere's character,
but these scenes always seem artifi-
cial and prove to be more a source
of irritation.
The plot is something of a
mess: it is too scattered, with too
many angles which it fails to com-
bine adequately. What is especially
hard to comprehend is why Vail
should suddenly undergo such a
major character change, to care so
much about Aaron's innocence.
The split personalities plot device
has been used to better effect before, notably in
Hitchcock's Psycho, although it does have an
original final twist.
Richard Gere is basically playing his usual
role and is never really called upon to act.
However, the best thing about this film is new-
comer Norton's performances as a troubled sim-
ple youth. Laura linney also makes a step up
from the travesty that was Congo, as Vail's ex-
partner and ex-lover who also happens to be the
prosecuting attorney.
Primal Fear is not the 'compelling blend of
courtroom drama, suspense thriller and psycho-
logical study' that it claims to be, but rather a baf-
fling combination of ill-scripting, poor character-
isation and T V direction.
film: mr holland's opus
jenny ho
Mr. Holland's Opus covers thirty years in the life
of Glenn Holland (Richard Dreyfuss), whose
dream is to become a famous composer. The
film begins in 1965 when Glenn becomes a high
school music appreciation teacher in order to pay
the bills, and in the hope that the job will give
him time to work on the opus he is composing.
Glenn gains popularity with his pupils by teach-
ing them through rock V roll, but disapproval
from uptight Vice-Principal Wolters (an amusing
turn from W H. Macy).
Glenn's initial intention is eventually to give
up the teaching job so that he can concentrate on
his composition but this becomes impossible
when his wife Iris (Glenne Headley, an actress
with a very irritating voice) announces that she is
pregnant. Glenn attempts to induce an innate
love for music in his unborn son by playing it to
him through headphones pressed against his
wife's swollen belly, but his efforts are in vain
because their son is bom deaf. Glenn's sadness
and dissappointment are made all too clear
when, during a lesson about Beethoven, he is
asked: If Beethoven was deaf, how did he know
what the notes were? Glenn's eyes start to water
and his voice cracks as he replies: "Because
Beethoven was not bom deaf".
Mr. Holland's Opus deservedly earned a
best actor Oscar nomination for Richard
Dreyfuss, who manages to inject humour into
his role and convey an infectious enjoyment in
his teaching and conduction. He also ages quite
convincingly over the thirty year period.
Mr. Holland's Opus is an engaging film from
the man who also directed Bill and Ted's
ExcellentAdventure and Critters and has an en
ing that is rousing enough to leave the audience
smiling or fighting back the tears, or both.

