The Qur'an and Modern Science
Introduction
RELIGION and SCIENCE have always been considered to be twin sisters by
Islam and today at a time when science has taken great strides, they still continue
to be associated. Furthermore, certain scientific data are used for a better
understanding of the Quranic text. In a century where, for many, scientific truth
has dealt a deathblow to religious belief, it is precisely the discoveries of science
that, in an objective examination of the Islamic Revelation, have highlighted the
supernatural character of various aspects of the Revelation.
Does the Qur'an contradict established scientific facts ?
After a study which lasted ten years, the famous French physician Maurice
Bucaille addressed the French Academy of Medicine in 1976 and expressed the
complete agreement of the Qur'an and established findings of modern science. He
presented his study on the existence in the Qur'an of certain statements concerning
physiology and reproduction. His reason for doing that was that "our knowledge of
these disciplines is such, that it is impossible to explain how a text produce
time of the Qur'an could have contained ideas that have only been dis
modern times".
Decades later a noted embryologist Keith L. Moore and expert in his field, upon
being presented with the statements made in the Qur'an regarding the stages of the
formation of the embryo from the mixing of the male and female gametes up to the
embryo's full development remarked "It has been a pleasure for me to help clari
statements in the Qur'an about Human Development. It is clear to me tha
statements must have come to Muhammad from God or Allah because alm
of this knowledge was not discovered until many centuries later." P
Moore presented his findings to scientists at several conferences. Several
Canadian periodicals published many of Moore's statements and in addition he
presented three television programmes in which he highlighted the compatibility
of modern science with what has been revealed in the Qur'an 1400 years ago.
Consequently, he was asked: "Does this mean that you believe that the Qur'
the word ofGodT to which he replied "Ifind no difficulty in accepting this."
In fact Professor Moore was so amazed at the accuracy of the descriptions and the
terminology used for the various stages of the development of the embryo that he

