These are just a number of quotes from the "Scientific Community" regarding the
nature and the origins of the Qur'an. In fact the Qur'an and Hadeeth do not just talk
about embryology but hundreds of other phenomenon including the earth and sun
being round, spinning around their own axis and following their own orbits, the
origin and formation of the universe, the two types of seas between which is a
barrier, the role of mountains in stabilising the earth's crust, the formation of milk
in cows, the cause of sexual diseases, the location of pain receptors within the
body, the expansion of the universe, the precise nature of the water cycle, the
change in atmospheric pressure at high altitudes, the gender of the bee responsible
for producing honey (female), the stars consuming themselves via combustion of
their gases and this being the source of their light, and many more.
Can this all be by chance ?
Explaining all these statements by chance alone is something which has been
resorted to, surprisingly by those deemed to be possessors of intellect and
erudition. However this is not tenable as the following demonstration will show.
When you make a guess regarding the true nature of something (in an accurate and
precise manner that is) there are only two possibilities. Either you are right or
wrong. If you make another guess then you only have one chance in four of being
correct both times. If you make a third guess then you have one chance in eight of
being correct all three times and so on. The chances of correctly describing, lets
say, ten phenomena are 1 in 1024. Another point to bear in mind is that the greater
the number of things you describe, the chance of being wrong is greater and thus
the risk you are taking of being discredited gets bigger and bigger. The Qur'an and
the Sunnah (Authentic sayings of the Prophet (peace be upon Him)) make
statements on literally hundreds of phenomenon and at the same time openly calls
the scientific community to verify them. If one from the scientific community was
to make hundreds of new claims regarding his particular field and was then to call

