This is clear proof of the lack of dependence upon dogma, superstition and
personal experience. Rather, it is an indication of the obligation to research,
ascertain and to verify in a scientific manner the credibility of religious (Islamic)
belief. Fortunately there are those who have done exactly that like Keith Moore
and his scientific colleagues but there are others who have invented lies and
slanders in order to discredit the Qur'an and the Prophet. However when these lies
and slanders are put to the test scientifically they fail miserably and their
irrationality and bias becomes evident. Some of the common claims are that
Muhammad (peace be upon him) was possessed or was an eloquent poet, or a
magician, or brainwashed, or even a soothsayer. In fact all of these have been
denied and rebutted in the Qur'an itself in numerous places and numerous times. It
is even more strange that these were the very same claims made by the people who
belied the Prophet during his lifetime, and they are the only ones that are resorted
to today. What a great advancement!
Nay! We hurl the Truth against falsehood and it does smash it's brains and
thus it perishes. And woe be to you for what you describe (with your tongues)
[Surah 21:18]
Science has come across many historic controversies with religions where the
clergy had put their views and related it to God.
All physicians in the world agree that each cell in the human body has a specific
role or purpose for which it is there. This purpose ties it with the purpose of
tissues, organs, systems and the whole body. Thus, there is infinite wisdom in
each part which makes up the whole. It follows, therefore, that man was created
for a purpose and wisdom not realised by those who think that they exist aimlessly.
What is the Qur'an
The Qur'an is the sacred book of the Muslims. It is the last book of guidance from
Allah, sent down to Muhammad (peace be upon him) through the angel Jibraeel
(Gabriel). Every word of it is the word of Allah. It was revealed over a period of
23 years in the Arabic language. Muslims usually learn to read it and many

