FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 24TH MAY 1 9 9 6 . FIVE
stf/?/jg //'me u o a ^ns^v
Nooman Haque explores the cultural significance of Science Fiction films.
Roswell will be assured its place in history after an
inebriated cameraman ran amok in a tailor's
dummy factory. The hoax will also be remem-
bered for creating the first mass interest 'public'
conspiracy theory.
Exactly thirty years later, two educated propo-
nents of the cinegraphic art, with bigger budgets,
steadier cameras and colour film, created two of
the most influential films to bear the classification
'science fiction' ever seen. Beyond mere entertain-
ment, both serve very different purposes, with the
legacy of Spielberg's film, Close Encounters ol the
Third Kind, manifesting itself more deeply than we
perhaps acknowledge. One would have expected
George Lucas's first film, THX 7 7 38, to have had
a greater influence on his career than simply end-
ing up as number plate in American Graffiti. The
old fashioned tale of adventure that is Star Wars,
with a Princess, a rogue and a bad
man in black, would appear at first
to contain no message deeper than
the inane mutterings of Alec
Guinness. Its fairy-tale credentials
were further strengthened by the
famous opening words, "A long time
ago in a galaxy far far away..."
which are nothing more than a mod-
ern proxy for, "Once upon a time in
a far off land..." Even starting with
episode IV was seen by cynics as cin-
ematic fertility treatment - paving the
way for commercial spawn in the
event of the first films' success
Despite the assertion that the film
is a modern fairy tale, the good-evil
battle at the heart of the trilogy is
quite complex. The evil is represented by a mas-
sive (official) Empire, whilst the good guys are
rebel guerrillas. Even a rogue smuggler is turned
by rebel forces. Resistance to the Dark Lord's coer-
cive attempts can only be overcome through use
of the mysterious 'Force'. The religious and psy-
chological overtones may have gone over the
head of the target audience, but they are part of
the Star Wars films' alluring appeal.
Close Encounters is more sinister but develops
the good-evil battle and rebel-as-a-hero idea fur-
ther. It deserves the label 'science fiction' or per-
haps 'science faction' more than the Lucas film
mainly because of its claim to 'reality'. Of course
neither film was the first of their genre. UFO sto-
ries in particular had seen huge growth in the
immediate post-war era, when they were
metaphors for the real Communist threat. Invasion
of the Body Snatchers and its kin were Hollywood's
attempt to drive the fear of the 'Red under the bed'
home to a loyal and morally upright public. The
Alien was the perfect symbol: unseen, living
amongst us perhaps and threatening to destroy a
valued way of life.
Encounters differed significantly from these
early classics however. In many ways it followed
Spielberg's earlier smash, Jaws, a film released in
the fallout of the Watergate scandal and the fail-
ure of the Vietnam campaign, and recognised as
a metaphorical snapshot of that period in US his-
tory. The hostility towards government of the gen-
eration that Spielberg and Lucas came from was a
catalyst that eventually redefined the relationship
of ruler and ruled. Jaws recast the hero as a mav-
erick police official battling against the commer-
cial concerns of a corrupt mayor. Encounters took
this one step further and overtly cast the govern-
ment and military as evil forces and aliens as
good guys. The role reversal from the McCarthyist
era was complete. Governments could no longer
rely on the unquestioning obedience of its citizens,
and a painful separation process was beginning
as people found the power to question and doubt
their government. It was a wholly significant mes-
sage, as thousands of veterans were returning
home to find that their people and Government
had deserted them after they had committed their
lives to the Government's overseas campaigns.
The presupposition that the morals of the state
were synchronous with the individual were blown
apart. Heroes could make judgments of right and
wrong on their own, especially now that the
morals of individual and state were divorced. The
truth, as Richard Dreyfuss sensed, was out there. It
wasn't anthrax that killed the cattle and sheep in
Wyoming, and his compulsive shaving foam
sculptures drove him to seek out the truth. He suc-
ceeded where his cultural spawn - Fox Mulder -
failed (if, indeed, he has failed).
We all want to believe; sometimes out of gen-
uine scientific curiosity but mostly, I suspect,
through a deeper desire, almost as if the 'Do they
exist?' question will shed light on the 'Why?' of
human existence. These are the very questions that
Kubrick attempted to answer in 2007: A Space
Odyssey. In fact, Western governments today are
perceived as the malfunctioning computer HAL,
whose distortion of information threatened the
lives it was designed to protect.
Mulder's personal conflict of serving the gov-
ernment, and his desire to uncover the truth, from
which the same government 'protects' its people is
very similar to that of Chief Brody on
Amity Island - and representative of
the psychological conflict of America
at large. With the Reds defeated, the
only battle left is within the American
people
The 'truth', symbolising the role
America is desperately searching for
in the post-Cold War era, will be
born screaming and bleeding as the
Mother State is dragged inexorably
towards the next millennium. That
the truth is 'out there' merely con-
firms the perception that the govern-
ment has run out of answers. It is up
to individual heroes to find the secu-
rity that is obviously needed.
Mulder's poster, 'I WANT T O
BELIEVE' (in aliens) is directed at ourselves, but it
is merely the flipside of the alternative, implied
suffix, 'I WANT TO BELIEVE' (in my government).
The desire for truth is thus nothing more than a
wish to wrap ourselves once again, in the warmth
of that giant security blanket we call government.
Sadly it is unlikely. A roll-call of tags which sym-
bolise modern politics trip off the tongue with
monotonous repetition: Watergate, Whitewater,
Irangate, BMARC.
Paradoxically, it is to insurgent politicians that
we may have to look; to older, wiser statesmen,
sidelined by the media as whingers, sceptics and
seditious bastards. But they are without the selfish
goals and personal ambitions which occupy most
of today's headlines
Help us, Obi Wan Kenobi - you're our only
hope.

