imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Community Connections links Imperial students with the local community
through volunteering.
Whatever you study or the year you are in, whether you’re an undergraduate or
postgraduate, if you have a couple of days to spare each month or just a few
hours, if you want to volunteer by yourself or participate in a mass volunteer
event, there’s a volunteering opportunity to suit everyone’s interests and
timetables.
All you need to do is register to find out more about the volunteering
opportunities available and receive our bi-weekly Community Connections
e-bulletin.
You can search for your ideal volunteer opportunity on our website and join
a group of other students by participating in our fun and rewarding Mass
Volunteering events.
Remember, whatever volunteering opportunities you take up either with or
via the Union, make sure you are recognised for your efforts by registering for
Imperial Plus. Log your volunteer hours and reflect on the skills you gain though
volunteering that boost your employability to gain the Volunteer Certificate for
25, 25 or 75 hours, or the Volunteer Accreditation for 100 hours plus attendance
at four skills based workshops.
imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering
Your chance to win an iPad mini
We want to know
what you think
about
The Union Survey is your chance to let us know what you think about the many
services that we run and provide. The survey doesn’t take long to complete
and helps us understand how to make your Union better for you. Changes we
have made over the last few years have helped us become one of the most
improved Students’ Unions in the UK. In the recent Times Higher Education
Student Experience Survey we became the fourth most improved Union over
the last two years.
FOR JUST A FEW MINUTES OF YOUR TIME, YOU COULD WIN ONE OF THE
FOLLOWING PRIZES:
• 2 x iPad Minis with Retina Display
• 2 x £20 Union Shop vouchers
• 2 pairs of Summer Ball 2014 tickets
• 10 x Nando’s Combo Meal vouchers
This is the fourth Union Survey we have run and already we have made
big changes as a result of your feedback. Our ‘You said, we did’ campaign
highlights the changes we have made.
This really does help us to improve everything we do, so help us keep
improving for you. We will be selecting winners at random for the prize draw
and announcing them online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/unionsurvey
The Big Elections results are in!
A massive thank you to the 6,500+ of you that voted in The Big Elections 2014
helping us towards our second highest ever number of voters. We smashed
our record of 100,000 votes cast with a total of 151,802 - a UK record! Overall
turnout was 39.31% narrowly behind last year’s turnout, but still a huge
achievement. The results were announced at our Results Party in Metric on
Friday 14 March. For those of you who didn’t join us, we would like to introduce
you to your Sabbatical Team 2014/15.
• President: Tom Wheeler
• Deputy President Clubs & Societies: Abigail de Bruin
• Deputy President Education: Pascal Loose
• Deputy President Finance & Services: Alex Savell
• Deputy President Welfare: Christopher Kaye
You can find all The Big Elections results online at
imperialcollegeunion.org/results
Find volunteering opportunities

