13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 21 MAR
COMMENT
Hating headlines that tell you how to feel
Writer
James Bezer
O
ld people have always
had it in for BBC3.
Unlike the sleepy
old BBC4, home of
gentle documentaries
presented by the lovely Lucy Worsley,
BBC3 is an overactive puppy, full of
rebellion and naïve excitement that
spends most of its spare time engaged
in an act of passion with the living
room furniture. The elderly mention
it with disgust as a classic example of
the shocking behaviours of the ‘youth
of today’. To many observers, then,
it has come as no surprise that BBC
big-wigs, most of them old and bald
enough to benefit from a big wig, have
decided that this little puppy should
be put down.
In its 10 years on our screens, BBC3
has brought us some groundbreaking
comedy, with praise and awards
heaped upon some of the best known
shows of the past decade. But for
every Gavin and Stacey or Little
Britain, there’s been a bewildering
variety of appalling reality TV and
bizarre documentaries whose mere
names I couldn’t possibly mention
in case someone with taste might be
reading this.
Despite its hit-and-miss (mainly
miss) ‘factual’ output, the channel
has been praised as an ideal training
ground for new comics, providing
opportunities to take risks that other
higher profile outlets would be less
willing to accept. Yet last week, 8 of
its 10 most watched shows were either
films or old Family Guy episodes –
hardly the radical new programming
paraded as the channel’s raison d’être.
Alright, I’ll admit it. As you may
have noticed from my use of the phrase
“raison d’être”, I’m not a regular viewer
of BBC3. Despite still, just, being a
teenager, I have a mental age of about
50, and so have failed to find much on
the channel particularly appealing.
But, despite my personal feelings, as a
publicly funded broadcaster, the BBC
is still obliged to provide something
for everyone, whatever their age,
background and preferences, which is
why this decision has been attacked by
many in the popular press.
Critics have portrayed the channel’s
demise as a bunch of old middle-class
men forcing young people to take
the brunt of the financial hardship.
But is this decision really down to
a war between the generations? Or
is it simply the most efficient way
of cutting expenditures? The man
wielding the axe, Director-General
Tony Hall, now a venerable 63, insists
its move to an afterlife on the iPlayer is
preferable to the ‘salami-slicing’ of key
services that has become a familiar
symptom of budget cuts in many
major organisations.
I agree with this. I don’t see this
decision as a “war on the young” (as a
recentHuffingtonPostpiecedescribed
it), but as a war on bad programming.
BBC3 is a channel aimed not at young
people, but at a patronising caricature
of a young person sat on a desk in a big
office at the top of broadcasting house.
I’d like to inform the BBC that most of
us are, for instance, perfectly capable
of taking in news without it first having
to be condensed into 60-second
‘bitesize’ chunks, with news about the
economy being balanced out with a
healthy dose of Justin Bieber.
Themoveonline,alongwithabudget
cut, will hopefully focus the channel’s
content onto a smaller number of
higher quality programmes. This
can only be a good thing. The iPlayer,
one of the biggest brands in digital
media, will be a fitting home for the
channel and the digital generation it’s
aimed at. This, I hope, will provide an
engaging, high-quality, maybe even
intelligent service targeted at young
people, alongside the multitude of
popular programmes on the BBC’s
other channels.
So, for once, I’m happy with this
particular round of cuts.
Just so long as they don’t get rid of
BBC4.
EDITORIAL TEAM: Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Nida Mahmud, Aamna Mohdin, Aemun Reza, Maciej Matuszewski Features Editor Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor Marissa Lewis Business Editor
James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts
Editor Arianna Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile Borkhataria Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film
Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs & Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charity Editor Ben Fernando Travel Editor
Chris Richardson Sports Editor Kunal Wagle Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copycats Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor Copykittens Tom
Rivlin, Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi, Xiao Zhang. Special thanks to: Kunal Wagle, Tessa Davey, Annina Sartor, Chris Witham, Max Eggl and Ellen Mathieson for helping with the “Felix Big Move 2014”.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2014.
the newspaper of Imperial College London

