Evil Oligarchy
Maintained
The journalism of over 200 news
sources, including several news
channels, has gone missing mere
hours after Malaysian Airline flight
MH370. The world is now searching
frantically for any real news through
the sea of conspiracy theories being
spat into our collective eyes.
Any sign of journalistic integrity
dropped off the radar as more and
more terrorist groups were suspected
of stealing a plane and flying it away
without claiming any credit for the
attack. Every terrorist and his mum
has been accused of a hijacking,
including Kim- Jong Il, and his mum,
Kim-Jong Never-Seen-In-Public and
his, Kim-Bone Il.
Compounding this global catastrophe
of fake news are the millions of people
who feel the need to tweet the phrase:
“How can you lose a plane? They’re so
big!”. Authorities in Malaysia, China,
Australia and Japan encourage this
behaviour, saying, “Everybody who
tweets that should look up at the sky
and let us know immediately if they
see the plane. We have no idea where
this thing is, and since there are so
many fucking experts out there, we
thought it would be really great if
they could lend us a hand, since all
of our militaries are getting nowhere
with their state of the art detection
equipment.”
This Hangman writer agreed to throw
his hat into the ring, since he’ll get a
book deal if he’s right, and nobody will
care if he’s wrong. Timothy’s official
theory is that the plane was stolen by
Colonel Mustard, using the fictional
porcelain guns from Die Hard 2, and
he’s landed it in Atlantis.
Infamous magicians, Siegfried
and Roy could not be reached for
comment, but their publicist assured
us that they will not reappear the
aircraft at a show in Vegas and that
we definitely shouldn’t book tickets
for The Colosseum at Caesers Palace
for March 28th because that “would
not be the night of the most amazing
magic trick ever, wink”.
World Searches for
Signs of Missing
Journalism
Timothy McSweeney
Real News Editor
Despite the joyous news that Felix
has fallen, it must be remembered
that we live forever in the shadow of
the evil oligarchy of the Union and
by extension Grand Master Sir Keith
Onions aka The Onion Knight. There
is no more pertinent reminder of the
current situation than the results of
the recent sabbatical elections.
The outcome clearly shows that there
is long way to go before the Imperial
student body can be truly free of this
evil oligarchy.
The oligarchy renewed itself once
more in a series of shame elections for
a number of positions that serve little
purpose but to fill the pockets and
further than sordid ambitions of the
few ‘winners’.
Whilst you’re slaving away trying to
getadecentdegreethesepuppetsissue
essentially arbitrary and meaningless
decrees and pocket all the cash they
can get their grubby hands on.
Indeed this is barely even a secret
anymore, with many a sabb openly
disparaging ordinary students. In the
worst cases, Sabbs have been known
to steal money from those attempting
to leave the 568 late at night and one
student even reports having a Sabb
repeatedly pour the student’s drink on
the floor every time they tried to buy
one.
In many ways, however, it is perhaps
unfair to criticise these pathetic
sabbaticals as they are in many ways
also victims of the dystopic student
life of Imperial as the rest of us. It is
well known that the real power lies
solely in the hands of the Rector, the
Onion Knight himself.
It is difficult to see how such a many
can be overthrown, however we must
all take hope from the removal of Joe
Letts as Editor-in-Chief
Grisly Remains Of Divine
Being Recorded By Telescope
In a discovery whose full implications
for the fields of astronomy and physics
have yet to be truly understood, the
gruesome remains of a divine being or
beings appeared to have been found
by the team manning the Bicep2
telescope at the South Pole.
In a statement to the press, the team
of astrophysicists attempted to
explain their findings. “whilst rigorous
retesting is still required, it would
appear that we have discovered the
grisly remains of some former divine
being or perhaps even multiple beings
involved in the very beginnings of the
Universe itself”.
“We are, of course, loathe to speculate,
but it is entirely possible that this
might be the remains of Zeus or
any number of the Greek or Roman
Pantheon of Gods”.
“Perhaps it could go even further back
than that; these may well be the final
parts of the mysterious Titans”.
Timothy McSweeney
Real News Editor
Hangman
Editor-in-Chief
It’s still not to late to get involved in the
Revolution...
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
REAL NEWS
Editor:
Timothy McSweeney
Missing - All The Journalism
HAVE YOU SEEN THIS MAN?
LAST SPOTTED FLEEING THE
WEST BASEMENT OF BEIT
REWARD £1,000,000
DEAD OR ALIVE
ADVERTISEMENT:
White, Male? Consider Running for Union
President!
Do you think you could make a difference? Do you have a
friend who can write an article for the Tab? Are you white
and male? If yes to the last two of these, then you too could
run for Union President! The last 4 Union Presidents have
been white and male, the perfect combination for this post.
After all, you’re statistically more likely to become a CEO, so
why not apply for a paid internship as one? Do you think the
word ‘delegate’ means ‘have the other sabbs do your work at
the expense of their social lives because you just don’t feel
like it’?
Can you ruin a graduation by being a terrible public speaker?
If the answer is still yes, then run! You’re more then like-
ly to win! If you’re not white but still male, run anyway! It
makes us look good to have you coming second. Female?
Ha! It would be cruel for us to let you be CEO for a year only
to drop you into a world where an entire system is geared
against that happening.
“The presence of these relics of former
deity will help us shed light on the
early Universe and quite possibly on
the events of the War of the Titans
between the Titans and the Olympian
Gods”.
“Alternatively, it could well help unify
the two great theories of physics –
General Relativity and Quantum
Mechanics as it might well be possible
to find in amongst the remains some
long lost note by the deity explaining
it all to us”.
Whilst Hangman is hopeful this
discovery will help explain the
deepest mysteries of the Universe,
we urge caution to all investigators
and remind them that we cannot rule
out the possibility that this is merely a
sleeping deity whose wrath we might
incur should we awaken it.
Gravitional waves (right) could well be the last remnants
of beloved Olympian, Zeus (left).

