28 FRIDAY 21 MAR
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Jesse feels the need for meth speed
Need for Speed
Director: Scott Waugh
Writers: George Gatins, John Gatins
Starring: Aaron Paul, Dominic
Cooper, Imogen Poots, Dakota
Johnson, Michael Keaton, Scott
Mescudi, Remi Malek, Ramon
Rodriguez, Harrison Gilbertson
Runtime: 132 minutes
Certification: 12A
John Park
Film Editor
Surely the overwhelming critical suc-
cess of Breaking Bad could have set up
Aaron Paul for a better cinematic role
than this one. He has won two Prime-
time Emmys, and yet one of the first
roles he manages to land is in a video
game adaptation, a category of films
that historically have the tradition of
sucking. Need for Speed is no excep-
tion to this rule, and no matter how
low you set your expectations, chanc-
es are, you are likely to walk away from
having witnessed one of the early con-
tenders to be the worst film of 2014.
Trying to cash in on the mega-suc-
cess of the Fast & Furious franchise,
which already has a seventh film in
production, we are introduced to a
group of characters cut from the ex-
act same cloth (a wronged, clean-cut
hero, a surprisingly masculine female
who knows a lot about cars, a greasy
villain who has the hero’s potential
love interest, a naive young guy etc).
What the Fast & Furious series lacked
in decent story and characters, it
made up for in sensational racing se-
quences. Need for Speed fails to even
get that part right.
A wrongly imprisoned Tobey Mar-
shall (Aaron Paul) is back with noth-
ing but vengeance running on his
mind. The circumstances surrounding
his unlawful imprisonment is ridicu-
lous enough, but what follows is even
more preposterous than before.
So there is a death, although it’s nev-
er sad, because the victim can’t shut up
about his “vision” relating to Tobey’s
“destiny” (really), and the responsi-
ble bad guy, Dino Brewster (Dominic
Cooper), dressed in black, strutting
his stuff, manages to get away with it,
putting the blame solely on Tobey. Af-
ter his release from prison, Tobey de-
cides to take part in an underground
supercar race competition hosted by
DJ Monarch (Michael Keaton) in or-
der to...clear his name and get back at
Dino? How the exact logistics work
never quite make sense.
The film prides itself in having put
together action sequences that did not
use any CGI. There is a way of making
things work without the help of com-
puter graphics. Bullitt and The French
Connection managed this in the 1960s
and 70s, and yet Scott Waugh, a stunt
coordinator-turned-director whose
debut was the corny Act of Valour
that dealt with an elite team of Navy
SEALs. The chases themselves are ir-
ritatingly noisy rather than pulse-rac-
ing, having the loud, screeching Imo-
gen Poots trying to be funny doesn’t
help things one bit, as not even Aaron
Paul’s intensity and focus on his mis-
sion are enough to barely carry this
film through.
Tobey is blessed with having a cou-
ple of sidekicks - Finn (Rami Malek)
gets properly naked in the film’s most
pointless, bizarre scene, whereas
Benny (Scott Mescudi) has a knack
for stealing all sorts of helicopters and
provide air support for Tobey. Benny
is also capable of giving 100% accurate
information regarding surrounding
traffic and come up with methods of
outrunning the police. He basically
acts like ARIA that tormented Shia
LaBeouf in Eagle Eye. Yes, Benny is so
incredible that he possesses the skills
of a super-computer.
The obligatory love line that needs
to be struck up is abysmal to say the
least. Tobey has two potential candi-
dates. Anita (Dakota Johnson), the girl
who is now with Dino, or Julia (Imo-
gen Poots), an English girl who tags
along for the ride. Johnson, playing
a dumb, dim-witted female, proves
she must be well-suited for the very
similar role in 50 Shades of Grey, and
Poots’ Hollywood breakout role is go-
ing ot have to come from something
else. She reportedly has five films to be
released in 2014. That Awkward Mo-
ment didn’t do much for her, neither
will Need for Speed. Let’s hope any one
of the future releases sticks.
Worst however, is Michael Keaton’s
participation in the film. He is DJ
Monarch, the host of the races, who
often provides pointless, tiresome
narration throughout the film even
though no one asked for it. He is in-
sistent on talking through every single
plot point, just in case the audience
cannot follow the mind-numbingly
simple plot developments on offer
here.
And the ending? It all comes back to
that “vision”. Such an ill-advised final
note that people started sniggering.
Other video adaptations that didn’t work out
DOA: Dead or Alive
More like Dead on Arrival this one:
although boasting a relatively impres-
sive cast for a film of this standard,
and although boasting some good
action, audiences were clearly not in-
terested in seeing a badly acted rehash
of a fighting game adaptation. It only
stuck around in the North American
theatres for three weeks, through-
out which it managed to gross under
500,000 dollars.
Max Payne
A low-point even for Mark Wahlberg
who participated in M. Night Shyama-
lan’s The Happening, this is an overly-
serious, highly illogical piece in which
the leading character who should be
a competent killing machine has next
to no intelligence to solve a mystery
that has an answer that’s staring him
in the face. Mila Kunis doesn’t come
close to pulling off the badass nature
surrounding his Russian assassin role.
Prince of Persia
Looked pretty terrible on paper, start-
ing with the casting of Jake Gyllen-
haal, and the desire to turn this into
a money-making Pirates of the Carib-
bean-type franchise completely back-
fired, as its hefty budget of 200 million
dollars was only barely reached and
failed to turn into a blockbuster prof-
it-making machine. There is plenty of
wooden dialogue, and not even some
decent slow-mo action saves this.
Doom
Not even the presence of The Rock
can inject some excitement or fun in
this disaster. It’s a repetitive collec-
tion of first-person shooter scenes
that drearily strings along. There is a
lot of screaming, a lot of running from
mysterious alien creatures that pick
off humans one by one. It’s a lame sur-
vival drama, where you can figure out
who does and doesn’t make it in the
end within the first five minutes.
Hitman
They’re giving this a reboot with Eng-
lish actor Rupert Friend in the title
role, although it’s not clear how much
of a difference that will have given the
long line of failed films based on video
games. It’s a missed opportunity, given
how much you see Timothy Olyphant
tries in the lead role. Once again it’s
the lack of a coherent plot that’s the
main problem, with very little focus
on the character himself.

