29
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 21 MAR
FILM
Under the Skin
Director: Jonathan Glazer
Writers: Jonathan Glazer, Walter
Campbell, Michel Faber (novel)
Starring: Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy
McWilliams, Michael Moreland
Runtime: 108 minutes
Certification: 15
Jack Steadman
Treasured Writer
Grating noise over a blackout. A pin-
prick of light. The noise intensifies,
the light grows. More. More. The
light spills out, begin to refract. Col-
ours seep through. The noise becomes
deeply, deeply unsettling. And sud-
denly: title cards. And Scotland.
Under the Skin’s opening few min-
utes are almost the film in miniature.
The visuals move from a mixture of
darkness and blinding light via the
gloomy, ominous Scottish country-
side to weird spaces that aren’t spaces*
where Scarlett Johansson’s alien inti-
mately interacts with members of the
human race. There’s disconcertingly
nonsexual nudity, and an inescap-
able feeling of something being ‘off’.
There’s a mysterious Biker figure who
is almost terrifying in how ruthless
yet unexplained he appears, aiding the
alien without ever directly engaging
with her (beyond a lengthy stare).
And the score. Oh, the score. Jo-
hansson may be the star on the poster,
but it’s the sound that truly steals the
show here. Levi’s score never gives
you a moment to recover, continually
subjecting you to discomfort, always
adding to what’s on screen.
To all intents and purposes, the film
continues with those points. But as it
progresses, as the alien explores our
world, it becomes something more.
The early scenes of Johansson mov-
ing unnoticed among crowds are both
troubling and brilliant, forcing a re-ex-
amination of everyday life. The sound
editing skews everything, the cin-
ematography leaves everything feeling
off-kilter, and it works. It works so, so
well. A shopping centre is almost ter-
rifying in its unrelenting aural assault.
The motorways fade into blurs of
moving lights. Vast, sprawling estates
become claustrophobic, threatening.
And all this comes together in one
stand-out scene, as the alien stands
and impassively watches a mother and
father drown at the beach, leaving be-
hind a tiny child. A fellow bystander
dives in to try and save the father, and
still the alien watches, unfeeling, as he
is thrown ashore gasping and weak-
ened. And only then does she inter-
vene. It’s a horrifyingly, masterfully
shot scene, with a full awareness of
the cinematic language that leaves us
watching the action at a remove with
the alien, all long shots and muted
sound. Only the waves truly crash
through to us.
I’m getting shudders just thinking
about it.
I’m not convinced I have enough
words in my vocabulary to accurately
– fully – express how Under the Skin
will make you feel. I’m throwing as
many synonyms for ‘unsettling’ as I
can find at it, and I’m still short. This
is an experience of a film, and it’s one
that demands to be seen in the cinema
to fully appreciate it for what it is. In
the dark, with Levi’s score blasting
into your ears, it’s incredible.
Alien in Scotland
The Grand Budapest Hotel is a tricky
film to review. Put quite simply: it’s a
Wes Anderson film. In every conceiv-
able way, as with all of his films before
it, it is the essence of its predecessors
mixed up, distilled, and delivered to
the silver screen in a blast of pure, sur-
real, bittersweet joy. Each film learns
from what came before, each film
adds to one of the greatest directorial
catalogues around today. And Grand
Budapest is no different. It has all the
charming elements that could be ex-
pected, all the off-beat visuals and the
delightfully exaggerated backdrops,
and now it introduces a healthy dose
of black humour. A more than healthy
dose, truth be told. Grand Budapest
seems to positively revel in the stuff.
And so what was meant to be a
simple statement – that this truly is a
Wes Anderson film, with all that that
statement entails – becomes mildly
complicated and severely over-long.
But it is the truth. Fans of Anderson’s
previous works – any of them, from
the early days of Rushmore to the ani-
mation of Fantastic Mr Fox – will find
plenty to adore here. Fans of cinema,
of films, will find plenty to engage
with (and then adore). With a cast
this star-studded, a cast so star-stud-
ded it is quite possible the most star-
studded cast to ever grace the screen,
there’s no room, no chance, for bad
acting. The writing is magnificent and
as deliriously oddball as ever, and the
mixture of (the ever-growing roster
of) Anderson regulars (from Brody to
Wilson, and back again via Murray)
and Anderson debutants proves noth-
ing short of incredible.
Foremost among the debutants, and
the cast in general, is Ralph Fiennes,
as the eponymous hotel’s concierge,
Monsieur Gustave H. Displaying deft
comic timing which he is (all to un-
fortunately) rarely allowed to unleash
outside the arena of this film, he is the
centrepiece around which the entirety
of Grand Budapest – much like the
hotel – revolves, and he more than
rises to the occasion. Complete new-
comer Tony Revolori proves himself
one to watch, completely nailing the
tone, while Saoirse Ronan completes
the central trio as Agatha, proving
immensely watchable with minimal
screen time.
Minimal screen time for excellent
actors is perhaps the only criticism
that could really be levelled at Grand
Budapest, but it’s more of a complaint
than a criticism, and indulging it
would only spoil the film.
Worthy of mention is the multi-
ple framing narratives employed by
the film; this is, for want of a more
concise explanation, a story within
a story, within a story within a story.
The layers work in symmetry, each
layer book-ending the one that fol-
lows (with a few cuts between the in-
nermost two). Spreading the reach of
the story beyond the inter-war years,
lending it an even greater scope, they
can almost feel a little superfluous,
until realisation strikes. This is first
and foremost the story of Monsieur
Gustave H, and that – that is the
point. It’s a story. Both blissfully in-
nocent and bitingly self-aware. This is
self-examination as film-making, and
it’s simultaneously blindingly obvious
and exceedingly subtle.
The Author and Mr Moustafa (the
two narrators) at the film’s close, dis-
cuss M. Gustave. The age to which he
belonged was gone before he could
enter it, they say, but he “sustained
the illusion with a marvellous grace.”
And it’s so very difficult to be sure
they don’t mean Anderson himself.
Sustaining the illusion of these worlds
he creates with a marvellous grace. It’s
almost a perfect description.
The Grand Budapest
Hotel
Director: Wes Anderson
Writers: Wes Anderson, Hugo
Guinness, Stefan Zweig (inspired by
the works of)
Starring: Ralph Fiennes, F. Murray
Abraham, Mathieu Amalric, Adrien
Brody, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum,
Harvey Keitel, Jude Law, Bill Murray,
Edward Norton, Saoirse Ronan,
Jason Schwartzman, Lea Seydoux,
Tilda Swinton, Tom Wilkinson
Runtime: 100 minutes
Certification: 15
Jack Steadman
Treasured Writer
A 5-star hotel experience

