30 FRIDAY 21 MAR
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sun, Sex and Slavery
It’s amazing how things happen and
time passes without you realising it.
For some of you reading this, the up-
coming Spring All-Nighter could very
well be your last. This could be your
final chance to sit in a crowded room
and spend an evening, a night and
part of a morning watching some of
the best films that the last few months
have had to offer. To those I say, what
are you waiting for? This is something
that you will not be able to experience
for the rest of your life while you slog
away in a lab (or in an office if you
sell out). Make sure you buy a ticket,
grab some friends and make your way
to the second floor of the Union. To
those who aren’t in their final year, I
say pretty much the same thing. If
you’ve been before, then make it a tra-
dition. If you haven’t, then you might
as well come and give it a try.
As an innocent Fresher I attended
my first All-Nighter as a punter. Over
excited as always, I spend the preced-
ing days trying to convince my friends
in halls to come with me. And I can
say without slanting the truth or hy-
perbole that that was the best and
most bizarre evening in the entirety of
my first term of Imperial. Sleep dep-
rivation makes for both strange con-
versations and strange actions. Seven
sugars in a cup of tea? Easy. Quadru-
ple layered brown sauce sandwich?
No problem. A failure to understand
the plot of some films leading to con-
voluted conversations on the subject
with complete strangers? Of course.
A massive grin on my face for the rest
of the next day? Even 9am lectures
couldn’t get rid of it.
Now, I’m about to go to my fourth
All-Nighter, this time as a cynical sec-
ond year and somehow the incoming
chair of Imperial Cinema, and I am
more excited than ever before. We’ve
got five fantastic films that boast a
ridiculous thirty Oscar nominations
between them, more tins of hot dogs
than you can shake a stick at and
enough hot beverages to fill a fairly
small ocean.
1) Our first film of the evening, boast-
ing only a pitiful three Oscars to its
name, is Dallas Buyers Club. Set in
the earliest days of the HIV epidemic,
the film follows the true story of Ron
Woodroof, a man diagnosed with
AIDS and given 30 days to live. After
being ostracized by family and friends,
Ron takes medicinal matters into his
own hands, smuggling in unapproved
drugs from all across the world and
distributing them to other sufferers
through the eponymous buyers club.
Featuring remarkable acting, with
Oscar wins for both Matthew McCo-
naughey and Jared Leto, this film truly
is the start of what critics have dubbed
‘The McConaissance’.
2) Next up we’ve got another true
story and another Oscar-bait favour-
ite topic, this time slavery. As intense
as it is harrowing, at times 12 Years A
Slave can be hard to watch. You’ll be
glad you did though; this certainly is
not a film to be missed. When Solo-
mon Northup is tricked into slavery
he must endure years of beatings
and betrayal as he learns to rely only
in himself in his bid to once again be
free. This is the Schindler’s List of slav-
ery films, bold, brutal, and fully de-
serving of its best picture win.
Ellen Mathieson
Imperial Cinema

