33
FRIDAY 21 MAR
FOOD
Editor: Carol Ann Cheah,
Michael Yat Kit Chung
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Bored of your meals?
Felix Food is here with tips to avoid being in a food rut
As students, our food budgets might be limited, but this does not mean our diets are boring! Eating out or ordering takeaway is neither cheap nor healthy most of
the time, but not only can you control the cost and what goes into your food when you cook yourself, we guarantee you will find it enjoyable and an easy (and
tasteful) way to de-stress! Both of us, your food editors at Felix, cook regularly; here is how we avoid being in a food rut – i.e. eating the same food every day.
MICHAEL YAT KIT CHUNG
The risotto with chicken, leek and mushrooms,
with added bacon and frozen vegetables!
Personally I did not start cooking until coming
to university a few years back and as a passionate
‘foodie’ who can be described as skint, I thought
itwouldbeagreatpointtostartlearningtocook.
For me, the number one step to avoid being in
a food rut is keep your cupboard stocked. From
tinned tomatoes to stock cubes, from dry herbs
to pasta – if you have it ready to hand, you
can be a lot more creative about what you eat.
From a young age, we were taught that
nutritious meals have three main parts:
carbohydrates, protein, vegetables. This is what
I base my evening meals on. Carbohydrates,
such as rice and pasta, can easily be stored in
the cupboard, while vegetables and protein I get
during my weekly food shop. This might be the
first time to say this, but frozen vegetables are
veryversatilewhenitcomestobeingpartofyour
five a day – no chopping or washing required!
So for example: at the moment I have
some boneless chicken thighs, leek and
mushrooms in the fridge from my weekend
shop since they are on offer. And here are
a few example dishes you can make with
these ingredients as the ‘core elements’.
Soup
Cut the chicken thighs into chunks, season
and pan fry them with a little oil until browned.
Leave them to rest to aside, we will add it at the
end. Now with all the flavours from the chicken
in the pan, melt a bit of butter, add an onion and
two cloves of garlic and cook for a few minutes
until softened. Then add a chopped potato, a
chopped leek and the chopped mushrooms
into the pan and fry for around three minutes.
Add enough chicken stock to cover all the
ingredients and bring the mixture to the boil.
Then reduce the heat and simmer for ten
minutes, or until the vegetables are tender. At
this point, it is optional whether you want to
mash the ingredients so you get a smoother
texture. Add the chicken back into the pan at low
heat for a minute or so then stir in double cream
to your liking and remove the pan from the heat.
If you are not a fan of soup, you can make
this into a sauce quite easily, just reduce the
amount of liquid you put into the pan! The
sauce will go well with spaghetti, fusilli or
indeed any kind of pasta, and if you are feeling
having a bit of an Asian twist, serve it with rice!
Risotto
Time for the Italian spin. Heat a bit of butter
and a tablespoon of oil in a saucepan over a
medium heat. Add an onion, a clove of garlic,
a leek and the mushroom, all chopped, and fry
for a minute, or until soft, then add seasoned
chicken thighs chunk and cook until browned.
Turn to low heat, then add 100g of risotto
rice and pour 300ml of chicken stock bit by
bit, and keep stirring. Keep it simmering
until the stock is absorbed and the rice is
completely cooked through when add the
stock has been added. Season, to taste,
with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Stir Fry
In my opinion, this is where Chinese cooking
shows its best – the number of options you get
in a stir fry is just phenomenal! In this recipe,
I am going to use rice noodles as my carbs,
but equally you can use rice, other noodles,
or even spaghetti for a more chewy texture!
First of all, follow the instructions on the
packetandsoftenthericenoodles.Heatupapan
and add the oil and the so called ‘Holy Trinity’,
chopped spring onions, garlic and ginger. Then
add the chopped leek and fry them until half
softened,whenyouputthechoppedmushrooms
and chicken thigh chunks into the mix.
When all ingredients are mostly cooked,
add the rice noodles in and mix everything
up so the rice noodles taste flavoursome
with all the juices from the meat and
leeks. Then served it up! It’s that easy!
Michael Yat Kit Chung
I’m a moderately clinically depressed bunny.
There, I said it. Some of you may be able to
sympathise; others will roll your eyes and
wonder what this fact has to do with a food
column – you might accuse me of turning this
into a sympathy fest. Rest assured there’s a
reason for this!
Thelongandshortofitisthis:EVERYTHING.
Diet’s a major player in making or breaking your
mood and energy, which affects productivity.
I could go on about the science of different
neurotransmitters et al. (which control your
mood and energy) that are linked to diet; but
that’s really not the point of this column.
In any case, I totally understand that some
days it’s all so overwhelming – coursework, that
annoying dude on the fourth floor of Central
Library who can’t keep his shoes on – and
prepping a good meal is the last thing on your
mind (more so when you have OC and Wasabi
within sniffing distance). Do I have days where
I don’t eat as well as I should? You betcha; we’re
only human. But in a high-stress environment
like Imperial, it’s important to take care of
yourself even when you’re tooling hard. When
I’ve eaten properly, I definitely find that I’m less
achy and my concentration’s better. Not perfect,
but it’s a start. No warehouse of energy drinks
can substitute for a proper diet.
“BUT IT’S SO HARD,” you cry. Well if you
can derive equations till you’re blue in the face,
you’ll be happy to hear that preventing a food
rut is way simpler – the hard part is the doing,
but plenty of tips exist to make it easier!
Carol Ann Cheah
Failure to prepare...
Forethought is your best friend when it
comes to breaking out of the food rut. You’ll
have heard MANY student guidebooks and
money-saving columns harp on how important
a shopping list/paper meal planning is; somehow
by writing it out, you’re more likely to stick to /
carry out your plans then you would if they only
existed in your head. You’ll also start realising
if you’re repeatedly buying/cooking the same
things and know where to make tweaks.
Now I’m a sucker for Japanese bento-style
meals, and I use those as a bit of a springboard
for meal planning and portion control. When I
can, I think about what meals I want to have for
the week and what ingredients will go into those
meals – those go in my shopping list. Where
possible I’ll ‘double up’ meals so that leftover
dinner one night can get incorporated into lunch
the next day, albeit with extra add-ons so that it
won’t be exactly the same meal (which keeps
it interesting). Say I’ll have a stir-fry meat dish
with rice one night – I’ll have it with couscous
the next day and different fruit for dessert.
After a period of time working with plans/
lists-on-paper, you find you’ll get better at it.
My mum has a magical ability to buy the right
amount during the weekly shop – even sans list.
Try Something New Today
Lest I sound like I’m ripping off the Sainsbo’s
tagline, it’s one way I inject a bit of fun into
my food and it makes me expand my culinary
horizons. I’ll spare a weekend to have a quick
look at the aisles and do a bit of ‘New Ingredient
Roulette’ – I’ll pick a vegetable /seasoning that
I have minimal experience/knowledge of, then
try and incorporate that ingredient into my
cooking, whether it’s by Googling a new recipe,
or just going freestyle. (Eek!)
Through this I’ve discovered I quite dig cooked
beetroot (especially in a salad). In a milder
version of Ingredient Roulette, my housemate
has discovered that he actually doesn’t mind
anchovies after all... but only if they’re broken
down in pasta puttanesca sauce, not if they’re
whole. Bit too adventurous? Start small by
making a single ingredient tweak in one of your
favourite recipes (say swap peas in your fried rice
for chopped French beans), rather than basing a
whole recipe around your single new ingredient.
Keep It Simple, Silly
One of the ways to absolutely hate cooking
is to make it more complex than it really is.
You don’t need to sous-vide the hell out of your
grub to have a decent meal; neither do you need
42 courses for interest. The key is in picking
stuff that is either so quick it only needs minutes
on the hob, or stuff that needs a bit more time
but is ‘set and forget’ – like say, something that
needs a slow roast (let the oven do all the work),
or a simmer for at least 30 minutes. Oftentimes
I’ll just bung a pork belly joint (with a bit of
seasoning) into the oven to let roast, set the timer,
and have my revision to hand while I wait for it
to be ready. On the other end of the spectrum,
I tap back into my Asian roots and let a quick
stir-fry take care of my vegetables. Because the
veggies are cooked quickly over high heat, you
save as many of the good nutrients as possible.

