34 FRIDAY 21 MAR
CATNIP catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ask Annie, your friendly Agony Aunt
Help! I’m not very good friends with
the people in my kitchen in halls, but
I got dragged along to the union with
them last week. I drank too much, and
made a fool of myself, but they thought
it was hilarious, and now they want
me to go out with them all the time. I
did have fun with them, and it’s great
that we’re now friends, but I don’t want
to have to get drunk to have them like
me. Are they taking advantage of me?
Used in Upper Holloway
It’s great that you don’t want to just
play up to your friends – a lot of people
aren’t that brave. While you shouldn’t
change yourself to make friends, if
you want to fit in with this particular
group of people, you might find that
you have to adjust to their banter
level. That might mean doing some
embarrassing stuff, but as long as you
don’t go further than anyone else,
they’re not taking advantage of you,
and you don’t need to worry about
it. As long as you’re not being singled
out, and you’re not uncomfortable
with anything you’re doing, don’t
worry too much about it.
Help! I made out with my best friend
at a party last week, and although
we said it didn’t mean anything, now
that I’m sober, I’m not sure whether
it would have happened if she didn’t
have some sort of feelings for me. It’s
not awkward, and we’re still very good
friends, but I’m worried that I’ll be
hurting her feelings whenever I get with
someone else. How can I clear this up
with her?
Overcautious in Old Street
There are two ways that you can deal
with this. You can you can take her
at her word, if you think that she’s
already had the opportunity to reveal
any feelings, then you have to trust her.
You can’t go through life, taking into
account any emotions that you’re not
being told about. If she does get upset,
you have nothing to feel guilty about,
so don’t worry too much about it. Or
you can explicitly bring it up with her,
which might make it awkward if she’s
a bit embarrassed about it. As long as
she has, at some point, said that she’s
not interested, then you’re free to
believe that.
Help! My friend set me up with one of
her friends, and we’ve been on three
dates, sleeping together after the third.
As we were about to have sex, she told
me that she wasn’t the sort of girl to do
this, and asked me if I was seeing other
people,towhichIhonestlyrepliedthatI
wasn’t. I’m now worried that she might
think that we’re exclusive, and I’m not
ready for that sort of commitment with
her. What should I do?
Polyamorous in Peckham
After three dates with someone that
you didn’t know previously, you can’t
be fully exclusive. While she may have
got that impression from your answer,
it doesn’t mean that you’re not free
to pursue other people. However, as
soon as you decide that you want a
relationship with her, you should stop
seeing any other people, as she may
not bring it up again. She’s clearly the
type of girl who prizes exclusivity, so
make sure that you’re aware of that,
and treat her accordingly.
Help! I’ve been sleeping with someone
for a couple of months, with neither of
us seeing other people, despite never
having discussed our relationship.
Last week, I got very drunk, and
kissed someone else. I don’t think it
would happen again, and they don’t
remember, so I don’t think it’s a big
deal. Should I confess?
Intoxicated in Imperial Wharf
If you’ve never discussed the status
of your relationship, then you’re
technically free to do whatever you
want. However, if neither of you have
been seeing other people, and you’ve
been seeing each other for a while,
you might have to face the fact that
the other may be upset if you get with
someone else. If you think that they’re
likely to find out, I think that you
should tell them, because it’ll sound a
lot better coming from you. If there’s
no way that they’ll find out, and you
don’t think that it’s likely to repeat
itself, then there’s really no point in
mentioning it.
Help! I really like this girl, and I’m
really keen to start dating her, but
she’s very similar to my ex-girlfriend
in every possible way, and my friends
keep making fun of me. How can I
convince them that this real, and I’m
not trying to substitute my ex?
Wooing in Woolwich
Your friends are probably just joking
because they know that you won’t
be particularly offended by it. If they
were seriously concerned that you
weren’t over your ex, then they would
talk to you about it, instead of taking
the piss. You shouldn’t have to justify
anything to your friends, they should
accept whoever you want to see
(though they should offer advice if you
think it’s needed). Be aware that you
might be worrying about this because
you think that you might actually be
trying to replace her.
Annie has a very colourful sexual history, and has tried
just about everything at least once, in order to be able to
offer advice on just about any topic. Here are some things
that Annie has discovered about the world of sex from her
(relatively small and unrepresentative) sample.
People of nine different nationalities are represented in this
mini-survey. Although Annie has been known to swing the
other way, sex with 14% of the male sexual partners took
place within the confines of a relationship, 30% as a one
night stand, and the rest somewhere in between. Annie is
friends with just over half of these guys on Facebook.
Around 6% of the men that Annie’s slept with have been
virgins, or at least claimed to be.
Exactly the same number of people were older and younger
than Annie (41% either way), with 18% being the same age.
43% of men have asked Annie to put something in their
arse, and 20% demonstrated a fetish at some point.
50% of sexual partners gave Annie an orgasm at some point
in their first encounter.
50% of partners had brown hair, 14% ginger hair, 13% black
hair, and 23% were blonde. Within this, one person was
arguably bald.
The largest penis that Annie admits to having seen hits a
bell-curve thrashing nine inches, with the smallest being a
relatively shy four and a half inches. Annie reports a non-
traditional relation between ethnicity and endowment.
Annie has had sex with 18% of these partners at some
point in a public place, which is coincidentally the same
number of people who were “otherwise attached” at the
time (although not always to Annie’s knowledge).
At Imperial, Annie’s sampled scientists, engineers, and
medics. Annie thinks that the scientists do it best ;)
If you have any questions about Annie’s sex
life, send an email to catnip.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
Annie’s Editorial: A look
at Annie’s sexual past
Send Annie your problems and suggestions at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
gony Aunt Annie
Whiteley is the
woman who
fought for women’s
cloakroom facilities
at Imperial, and thus is qualified
to solve all your problems.
What
important
advice
should
Annie
dish out
next
week?
Email
any ideas
to the
address
below!
Annie’s Lonely Hearts
Feeling lonely? We all know that it’s hard to meet people at Imperial, so Aunt Annie wants to make it a bit easier for you. If you’re looking for a special
someone, missed a connection, or want to let someone know how you feel, send a message to catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk and maybe you’ll find a
match here.
See something you like? Send us an email and we’ll pass it on. Let Annie help you get lucky in love.
S
weaty 4chan addict seeks
absolutely anything for
nocturnal romp. Find me
and message me on bitchat.
Am willing to trade private
keys for a more intimate encounter.
A
thletic girl wants to find
a sporty guy to share
Sports Nights with,
who’ll be worth the
fines from her social
sec for talking to boys. Must be willing
to give massages and hold an ice pack.
S
urprisingly social guy
who’d still rather spend
his Wednesday nights
playing CoD than at ACC,
is hoping to find a girl
who won’t sneer at computer games.
You don’t have to be a gamer too, just
understand that sometimes my real
life comes second to my virtual one.
T
ender tautological tenor
looking for musical mate
for an interesting interlude
during the interval. Must
have a great pair of lungs
and willing to play in alternative
tunings ;)
D
usty media migrator
WLTM similarly dusty
company for exploration
of the tunnels. And that’s
not even an intentional
innuendo. Come and find me in the
West Basement… before it’s too late.

