37
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 21 MAR
SPORT
Hitotsubashi University
Meeting
Jake Humphrey
IC Kendo Club
The Kendo Club went international
recently as it played host to a score of
students from Hitosubashi University,
Tokyo. As the only University in Ja-
pan specialising entirely in the Social
Sciences, and one of the top-ranking
Japanese Universities, it may be help-
ful to think of it as the Japanese LSE.
This visit constituted the third in a se-
ries of annual exchanges from one of
our clubs to the other, with some of
our members and theirs recognising
each other from the trip to Japan our
club held last Summer.
On Wednesday 26th February, the
Japanese students joined us for one
of our regular practice sessions. Our
members were eager to practice with
kendoka who on average start training
in secondary school, and they were
not disappointed, with yours truly
unable to even touch their strongest
players.
On our Thursday practice the fol-
lowing day, our guests took a teach-
ing role as they showed us a series of
movements known as kata. Kata are
fairly common in kendo as a method
of practicing movements that, whilst
not necessarily being useful directly
in a match, can help train the mind to
move one’s body efficiently or notice
openings in the opponents stance, as
well as being required to pass kendo
gradings.
However, the kata shown to us by our
visitors was different. Called Hojyo, it
was a series of four movements, each
symbolising a different season, de-
veloped by Hitotsubashi and passed
down from senpai to kouhai over the
years. Obviously, our members were
very excited to see this rare display,
and were deeply honoured when they
took the time to teach us the first
movement, based on Spring.
Our next meeting was on Saturday in
Ethos, where we faced off in a friendly
10-person team match. Even with
Team Britain augmented by top ken-
doka from nearby clubs, they slaugh-
tered us 6–3, and we went in earnest
into a practice session, followed by
lunch at Eastside.
The following day saw us take the train
to Cambridge, where, at the request
of our new friends, we spent the day
sightseeing. After arriving just in time
(read: 10 minutes late) for our booked
punt, we had lunch and visited the col-
leges, before catching a train back to
London, with both sides eagerly mak-
ing plans for our next meeting, when
our club will once again fly over to Ja-
pan to hone our skills in the country of
kendo’s creation.
IC 4s gain
promotion
in style
Olivia Szepietowski
IC Polo Captain
Saturday 15th March. A date all mem-
bers of the 4th team had pencilled in
their diary for a long time. The season
decider awaited. A win would guar-
antee promotion. Anything else was
unimaginable. Fogo had consumed
his handful of blueberries and bowl
of porridge in order to increase his
concentration levels by 15%. A pack of
twisters had been gleefully destroyed
by the team to obtain optimal glucose
levels for the match. Before beginning
our journey to #FortressHarlington,
we had to wait for the arrival of the
tardy Guy Frankel and Alex Craving-
dale, who decided they would be even
tardier and take about half an hour to
grab some food from the library Café.
Apparently an ABC (Avocado Bacon
Chicken) was key to his recovery from
a seemingly traumatic and exhausting
two nights out, which included drink-
ing one whole beer on Friday. Such is
Cravingdale’s 90210-esque lifestyle.
Nevertheless we arrived in good time
and had the pleasure of changing in
main Harlington as well as playing
on the show pitch in the glorious sun,
hoping for a glorious outcome. Africa
by Toto played on Dylan’s ‘£3 Ebay
speakers, £2 for delivery’ gave us plen-
ty of inspiration if not audio quality.
Many bananas were consumed as well
as an excellent balance of water and
Lucozade sport, a level of pre-match
preparation unheard of at university
level.
The match started a bit cagily. IC were
dominant in possession but not quite
so much in territory. They looked
quite dangerous on the break with
two BBUs up front. A well-positioned
Inigo Torres made a vital clearance
off the line. However, once the 4s got
a foothold in the game, there was no
looking back. Fogo’s blueberry and
porridge breakfast really looked to be
doing the trick, having already looked
dangerous in the opening stages, he
latched onto a Cravingdale lofted
through ball and took the shot ridicu-
lously early in Thierry Henry-esque
fashion, bamboozling the goalkeeper
as the ball trickled past him into the
back of the net. 1-0.
And it wasn’t long before it was 2-0.
Every second ball was won by IC, and
after a UCL free kick was launched
into the IC half, this time was no dif-
ferent. Eventually Edin Dzeko scram-
bling the ball towards Cravingdale
who skinned his left back for not the
last time of the match and slotted
firmly into the bottom left corner.
IC continued to press and played
some mesmerising football. Unafraid
to play out from the back and wait for
the right moment to break forward,
the 4s really began to show their class.
Henry Rowett was finding all sorts
of space between the lines and Matt
Knights played it into his feet, where
Henry turned and played a sumptuous
through ball between the opposition
full back and centre-half, Cravingdale
nonchalantly latched onto it, playing
an inch-perfect low ‘triple tap x’ cross
to Fogo, who slotted once more. 3-0.
And before half time it was 5-0 to IC
4s. Another fast attack down the right
won a throw in by the corner flag. The
ball went loose but Henry managed to
latch onto it and harmlessly prodded
it back towards Cravingdale who was
30 yards out in the inside right chan-
nel. Of course the obvious thing to do
was to ‘Yaya Touré’ it into the top left
corner with the instep, and he duly
obliged. An outrageous effort.
The fifth was bizarrely similar to the
third, a fast break down the right and
a low cross, ending in a first half hat
trick for Fogo Adelowo. The enigma
strikes once more.
Three assists and two goals wasn’t
quite enough for Cravingdale to earn
the right to play the second half, and
he has since gracefully apologized for
letting the team down. On came Josh
Parsi. We were eager to prove that the
first half was no fluke, and wanted to
carry on playing confident football
with a few more goals. After all, fan-
tasy points were at stake.
We all wanted a bit of the action, and
captain/tactical mastermind extraor-
dinaire Chris Schon managed to get
his spot on the limelight, latching
onto a goalkeeping error from a Dan
Gregory corner and bundling the ball
into the back of the net. Fogo added
two more to his tally with a couple of
trademark lobs, one from an exquisite
Josh Parsi lobbed through ball.
The game was rounded off by a mod-
ern-day miracle. A goal from Guy
Frankel. Henry found acres of space
in the midfield once more. He turned
and received a thunderous shout from
Frankel to play one more, which he
did. The pass was weighted perfectly,
and upon cries of ‘BANG IT’ primar-
ily from Edin Dzeko, Frankel did as he
was told and BANGED IT first time
from twenty yards into the bottom
left corner. 9-0 and the cherry on top
of the icing on the cake. Promotion
secured in the most emphatic style.
Changing room champagne shower
and midnight KFC well earned.
ICUAFC is sponsored by:
Imperial’s 11 players were prepared
take on the table-topping Chiches-
ter, who had yet to drop a point this
season. The opponents kicked off the
first half and chased well to settled
into Imperial’s 22. They retained pos-
session through numerous phases and
combined well between forwards and
backs. Good support in defense saw
Imperial turn the ball on several oc-
casions but were unable to clear their
lines having to kick against the blister-
ing wind. Chichester even managed to
make their way over the 5 m line, but
Imperial held firm despite playing the
first 10 minutes in their own half.
After winning possession, Imperial fi-
nally carried the ball over the half way
line. Edging towards the 22 yard line,
Pip Heggie crashed through the oppo-
sition’s forward pack and drew in de-
fenders. Support followed swiftly and
fly half Kath Fok stepped around her
opposite number 10 and took on three
of the opposition offloading from the
ground to Charlotte Stephens. She
passed on to the outside centre and
back of the match Carolanne Vour-
iot who came running at speed. She
crashed and weaved her way through
several tackles to go over the line. Im-
perial drew first blood and scrum half
Lana Lee converted the try for the 7-0
lead.
Again Chichester came back strong.
They finally saw sense to go wide and
take advantage of their extra player in
their backline and coupled this with
strong runs from their fullback. Even
with organised defensive play, Imperi-
al were a player down and Chichester
were able to run around the outside
to score on the wing. Imperial held
on until just before half time where
again the backs were outnumbered
and Chichester found space to run
through and score a second try. At
the half time whistle, the score stood
at 7-10.
Imperial returned the favour from the
kick off in the second half to camp in
Chichester’s half. A clearing kick was
charged down by Kath Fok and Im-
perial reacted well to win possession.
Within their 5 m line, Chichester’s
players were scrambling in defense
and conceeded penalty for not roll-
ing away at the tackle. The resulting
penalty saw Captain Pip Heggie run
a short dummy line with the ball in-
stead going long to Charlie Stephens
who powered through for a the fourth
try of the match. Taking the conver-
sion again, Imperial were in the lead
at 14-10.
With plenty of time still on the clock,
Chichester kept running at Imperial
and their backs had many set plays to
show off. In a moment of creativity,
their outside centre chased her own
kick into space behind Imperial’s line.
Full back Sammy Gottardi worked
hard to chase her back and the result-
ing pressure prevented Chichester
from grounding the ball successfully.
There was an impressive effort from
Imperial’s defense with forward of
the match Alice Liberman putting in
countless tackles around the break-
down and supporting quickly over
the rucks to turn over Chichester ball.
Likewise, the midfield pair of Char-
lie and Carolanne were impenetrable
and making Chichester to go wide
and forcing their backline into mak-
ing mistakes. Still Chichester had not
choice but keep trying to go to their
extra player on the outside where they
were met by Sammy and winger Ra-
bia Lakhani who combined to prevent
them breaking down the far side.
Chichester were always threatening
and eventually changed tack. Their
outside centre to cut back against
the traffic and broke through behind
the breakdown from the 22, running
through to score. Unable to take the
conversion, Imperial were still only
one point behind at 14-15, with 15
minutes of play left.
However, the intensity of the game
proved to be too much and Chichester
were able to bring on their fresh legs
whilst continuing to pile pressure onto
Imperial. Despite the heroic effort
from across the team to retain recycle
the ball in attack and fend off Chiches-
ter’s onslaught, they eventually scored
twice more with the game finishing at
14-27.
With the last game of BUCS complet-
ed, the team turn to their remaining
two games in LUSL, needing wins in
both games to retain the title!
Imperial lose at Chichester
Katherine Fok gives her account
Won? Lost?
Tied? Send
your match
report to us!
FELIX SPORT

