6 FRIDAY 21 MAR
FEATURES
Editor: Shiladitya
Ghosh
felix@imperial.ac.uk
How has your life changed as a
result of writing House of Cards?
It totally… I wrote it as an accident.
I wrote it as a result of a bet. Actually,
I didn’t even write it as a bet, I was
challenged on a holiday to see if I
could write a book and I was really
bored and had nothing else to do
on holiday. I’m very bad on holiday
so I sat down beside the swimming
pool that afternoon with a pad and a
pencil and a bottle of wine and I said
“I wonder if I could write a book?”.
Not in a serious way, but in a way
that many people climb Ben Nevis.
You climb Ben Nevis – it’s been done
a million times before. You climb it,
you get there at the top and there’s a
sense of fulfilment and achievement in
getting there, but nobody in the entire
world pays the slightest bit of notice
as it’s all been done a million times
before. That’s what I thought that it
would be like.
So, I started writing this book. I
found myself really enjoying the
whole process. It sort of took off and
transformed my life. It totally changed
my life for all the right reasons. And it
was a complete accident!
As well as your boredom, was there
anything else that inspired you?
I had just finished helping Margaret
Thatcher fight in the 1987 general
election campaign, which was a very
bruising experience. Mrs. Thatcher
was desperately unkind to me at
the time, and I was feeling a bit sore
and I was sulking a bit. I had been
working incredibly hard for several
years leading up to that election. I
was feeling battered and bruised and
I think that must have had some sort
of influence on me because as I said
I went by the pool with my pad and
my pencil and a bottle of wine. By the
time the bottle of wine was finished all
I had on my pad were two initials, two
letters: ‘FU’. I guess that was a sort of
therapy. And the F.U. became Francis
Urquhart, Frank Underwood, and as I
say it changed the rest of my life.
Where did the name Urquhart come
from as it is a rather unusual name?
It’s U. If you go to the telephone
directory for U, there are actually a
very small number of names that begin
with U. Unwin, Underwood, Upright
– there isn’t really a huge selection.
I thought that the name Urquhart
had a rather nice Scottish flavour to
it, a slightly mysterious flavour to
it, a slightly noble flavour to it and I
wanted him to have a background. It
was really picked at random.
To what extent was the Final Cut
(Season three of the BBC House
of Cards) inspired by Margaret
Thatcher’s downfall?
Well... You raise a slightly difficult
point… I fell out with the BBC and
you will not find my name on the Final
Cut, the television series. That was
because I don’t think that they had
taken any notice of the book. So it
wasn’t at all inspired by Mrs Thatcher,
it was inspired by other people.
The BBC did a wonderful version of
the House of Cards, and in all honesty,
the television series was much better
than my amateurish attempt at writing
a book. By the time it got to the third
one, the ‘Final Cut’, the book was much
better that the TV series. The writing
improved and the television series,
sadly, almost disappeared during the
final series.
What do you like about the British
and the American adaptations? Do
you have any preferences? They are
so different having been adapted to
different cultures…
Different cultures, different times.
We’re actually talking a whole
generation later. House of Cards was
written when mobile phones were
scarcely featured. Now, of course,
there are all sorts of technologies that
completely dominate our lives.
Which one do I prefer? It would be
like asking Mo Farah which one of his
Olympic titles he prefers, the 5000m
or the 10,000m. They are different,
but I really do feel as if I’ve won two
Olympic gold medals. Ian Richardson
[BBC] delivered superbly, Kevin
Spacey [Netflix] is just magnificent
and I relish the difference. I would
hate for one to be a copy of the other!
And let’s face it, we are at the early
stages of the American version. So, it
will go on for a third series now and
it might go on even further than that.
We’ll wait and see. But I will say this,
the American version and dealing
with Kevin Spacey and all the people
involved in it has been and continues
to be the happiest professional
experience of my life. They are
brilliant, they are wonderful people,
they are incredibly professional and
they are very warm and supportive.
And I have a huge buzz working with
them and being with them.
To what extent are you involved in
the Netflix production of House of
Cards?
I’m an executive producer and I
provided the original concept of the
characters and what they will do and
what motivates them. I’m in touch
with them [the team] pretty much
every week, but because I’m in here
and they’re there. While I go over to
the States quite a lot, there’s a real
limit onto actually how much I can put
into it. I don’t do any of the writing,
that is done by a team of writers
under a wonderful man called Beau
Willimon and that’s taking place in
New York right now. I can’t be both in
New York and here; I have obligations
here. I am there to help them along, to
give them any advice that they want,
to cheer them along, and to help sell
it – absolutely! And to enjoy every
moment of it! In all honesty, if I fell
under a bus tomorrow, it would still
go on – and so it should! It’s a real
team effort. I think that there are very
few irreplaceable people in the entire
work; Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright
being the two very obvious ones. They
are brilliant. I have watched them
do their scenes and they are very
funny offstage. Spacey is a real comic!
While they are waiting for the sets to
be rigged they are laughing, joshing
around, playing games, and all of a
sudden they change! They go onto the
set and what you see on the screen
is this extraordinary, extraordinary
couple. I think they are dynamite,
and I can see many of those scenes
being acted out on stage because they
are really theatrical and crackle with
electricity.
After your first book, House of
Cards, you went on to have a very
successful writing career. What
made you continue and what tips
would you have for budding writers?
I enjoyed the freedom of it because
you indulge yourself, you decide what
is you want to write, where it is you
want to go, who is it you want to meet
– so it’s incredibly indulgent! It is also
terrifying. It is desperately competitive
and you never really know from one
book to the next what’s going to
happen to your world. And when you
have family responsibilities, it is a real
challenge. It’s that terror that gets you
out of bed in the morning and pushes
you that step further. So, never take
it for granted. I so much prefer it to a
corporate life, being, I guess, my own
boss. So many people come to me
saying “I want to write a book. How
do I do it?” And I say it’s very simple
– you sit down at a desk, and get out
your pen or keyboard and start. There
are so many reasons for putting it off,
and there is only one way to do it and
that’s to get on with it! Until I started
I hadn’t the slightest idea whether I
could write or not. It was a voyage of
discovery. I still don’t regard myself as
being a great writer, I regard myself
as being a competent writer and I’m
learning all the time. There are very
few great writers, but you can make
yourself a much, much better writer
by working very hard at it – which is
what I’ve been doing for almost … 27
years now!
Do you have any favourite writers?
Oh loads, yes. Being a writer opens
your imagination to all sorts of things,
and I found, at least in my case, that it
opened my eyes, my mind to all sorts
of different writers. Many people are
comfortable with one style of writing,
one style of book, one genre, and
I suppose that I was a bit like that.
Nowadays I read almost anything, and
as long as it is well written I can get
something out of it. The problem is one
is so busy writing and doing everything
else that the chance to sit down and
read for joy are a bit restricted. I have
a bookcase at home which I have built
for my retirement and I’ve stuffed
it, and I am still stuffing it, full of all
the great novels that I have wanted
to spend my time reading. Many, for
instance, are American novels. I love
the freshness of American novels.
The Old English novels sort of go to
my cultural roots, which is wonderful.
What’s the most recent book that I
have read? A book by Simenon, one
of his Maigret novels, which was
delightful. Stirred up all sort of things.
It’s of its time, it’s of its place – which
is France in the 1930s. It reminds me
of my childhood when I watched the
old Maigret films on television. It’s a
very slim little volume; it only takes a
few hours to read, but it is full of joy.
I think that books are like doors into
different worlds – you walk through
that door and you find yourself in a
totally different world. It’s wonderfully
exciting and it’s so cheap – much
better than getting on an airplane. It
takes you back in time. It takes you
forward in time. It introduces you
to so many new characters. It is a
wonderful, wonderful thing. Whoever
invited writing and books ought to be
very proud of themselves.
It was suggested that having the
adaptation of House of Cards on
Netflix made the series more similar
to a book…
Yes, I can understand what they
meant, because it is conceived and
written in a different way. We have 13
hours of television and it is possible
to conceive of that like a book with
a beginning, middle and an end. In
traditional television you have to write
an hour and then come to some sort of
climax of sort because the viewer then
has to go away. You have to engage
the viewer to such extent that he or
she is going to remember to switch on
next week and hopefully remember
something from before. And then
you have to have a reprise for two
minutes at the beginning. It’s a very
artificial way of entertaining. Whereas
being able to push a button and get
as much as you want, when you want
it, is absolutely like a book. You stop
it when you just want to rest and you
pick it up at your own time where you
left it off. And in terms of writing,
creating a series, it is very liberating.
When it is conceived as one work,
as opposed to ten or 13 connected
pieces of work, it allow for much more
creative writing.
You had fictional characters
portrayed on screen as well as your
colleagues, such as Lady Thatcher.
How accurately do you think that
she’s been portrayed?
The last time I looked she has
been portrayed over thirty times by
different actresses on the screen -–
many of them didn’t even get close.
The one who did it brilliantly in the
recent film was Meryl Streep, who was
stunning. I mean she was so accurate!
I looked at her, I completely forgot
that she was Meryl Streep, and I just
saw Margaret Thatcher.
How truthful was that portrayal?
Well it wasn’t truthful, it was a
piece of drama and people don’t
understand these things. They think
that a film about Margaret Thatcher
must be a documentary. It can’t be
a documentary, it’s not going to be a
documentary. This was a dramatic
portrayal of somebody, an elderly
House of Cards from the House of Lords
Diana Lucaci and Alexander Morton talk to Lord Dobbs, creator of the House of Cards series
NETFLIX

