7
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 21 MAR
FEATURES
lady who was suffering greatly from
Alzheimer’s, and it was a story about
how ‘nothing lasts forever’, how glory
always fades. If you look at it as a piece
of drama, rather than as an attempt
to be a documentary on Margaret
Thatcher, suddenly it comes to life
and you see it for what it is. But if you
think that this is the story of Margaret
Thatcher then you are wasting your
time. Go and read Charles Moore’s
brilliant book – don’t watch a movie.
From the movie you might be able to,
and you should, find many insights
into Margaret Thatcher, but it’s not
going to be the ‘truth’. What is the
‘truth’? I read a history book and I say,
“Is this the truth?” And it’s never the
whole truth, sometimes it’s not even
close to the truth and that’s history
books.
How was joining the House of Lords
with the spectre of revolutionary
reform looming over it?
Oh, rather exciting. Rather
engaging. I got here just over three
years ago and worked very hard to
understand it [House of Lords] and to
get to know its ways. You can’t come
into an institution like this and think
you know everything – it’s silly. Most
that do so make fools of themselves.
What I had done is come to hugely
respect the core of the institution and
a huge chunk of my colleagues here.
It needs reform. Yeah, we are trying
to reform it – desperately! The one
man who has been trying to stand in
the way of the reform that we want
is Nick Clegg. But to elect it would
make us like that place down the other
end *fingers pointing*, the House of
Commons. I can see no real advantage
in that and I can see lots of huge
disadvantages in that: it would make
it more expensive, more professional.
I think that we would rush ahead with
that sort of reform very unwisely.
The place works surprisingly well. It
can be made better and we want it to
be made better. But the proposal for
reform was shambolic, dreamed up on
the back of an envelope; they hadn’t
thought it through and it quite rightly
got thrown on the dustbin of history. I
hope that as and when and if they do
come back with further measures for
reform they would be better thought
through than that.
Who do you think was responsible
for killing off the Private Member’s
Bill [EU Referendum Bill] you were
steering through the Lords?
Oh, the Labour Party and the
Liberal Democrats. You just had Mr
Miliband announce that he’s not
going to guarantee an EU referendum
at the next election. I believe George
Osborne at Cabinet suggested that
in the next Queen’s speech we have
the EU Referendum Bill and the Lib
Dems said “over our dead bodies!”
And it was always going to be that
way. I mean part of the exercise was
to smoke them out and see where
they stood. I remember on the final
vote it was really rather bizarre, there
were people saying “we must discuss
and analyse and debate this bill very
thoroughly, but we are not going to
allow you the time to do it…’” so they
voted to end the sitting at three o’clock
on a Friday and one of their members
was standing up in the chamber, in the
confusion of the chamber, pointing
at the division lobby saying “this way
to kill the bill!” Umm, thank you very
much! I mean, we have now clearly
established where all the parties stand
on the EU Referendum Bill. From
my point of view, the only way that
anybody is going to be guaranteed
a referendum on the EU is to have a
Conservative government after the
next election. Incidentally, an EU
referendum is not pro or anti. It is
simply about stopping all this political
nonsense that the parties have been
up to over the decades. It is about
saying that the people, you guys, it’s
your future, you decide! And a lot of
people who are desperately in favour
of a referendum are very pro-EU.
Lord Dobbs, thank you for your
time.
My pleasure!
Can you tell us a bit about
your current business in the
sustainability sector?
Yes I can! Our name is Whotter;
our team consists of myself, Carlo,
a PHD from Physics and Arthur
a Masters student from Paris. We
are trying to harness green energy
from waste as never done before. It’s
an innovative idea, we have some
funding in the bag and a coach, Nicola
(a successful entrepreneur) to help us
with it. Our aim is to provide a more
environmentally friendly technology
in comparison to incineration,
Anaerobic digestion etc, to harness
energy while sustainably treating
waste on a large scale. We have been
working on the idea for about three
months now and have faced a number
of hurdles. In fact the initial idea
actually failed when we put it to test
hypothetically in the market, but we
did learn a lot from the failure and
now have kind of refined it! Fingers
crossed, if all goes well we might have
a start-up very soon inshallah [God
willing]!
I understand that you were
selected for the scheme as part of a
competition that you entered. Other
than backing the business idea,
what else does the prize include?
Yes,ourideawasselectedinascheme
called Green House run by Climate-
KIC, we got our funding and coach as
part of this scheme. It all started last
summer, all three of us were selected
by Climate-KIC. We were taken
on a fully sponsored five week trip
around Europe, we were taught and
coached by top CEO’s and business
gurus from Europe about climate
related entrepreneurship, which
basically involved creating innovative
businesses that not only make profit,
but are also environmentally friendly.
Being a Climate-KIC student allows
us to apply to go to certain green tech
conferences around the world, as well
as learn and network with the crème
de la crème in the sustainability/
environment innovation field.
Ok that is really cool that you have
been given business lectures and
travelled around Europe. What has
been your favourite part so far?
Nothing beats the journey or, in
other words, the exotic holiday,
haha! It consisted of 40 people with
a similar interest (working against
climate change); it lasted five weeks
and three exotic countries were
visited (Hungary, Netherlands and
Spain). We got treated like VIPs,
made some amazing friends, had one
hell of a time and learnt all there is
to know about green innovation and
entrepreneurship. I don’t think any
summer school can beat that! It was
a life changing experience, I would
really recommend it! Check it out on
the climate-KIC website. climate-kic.
org/for-students/summer-school/
What was the motivation for
entering this programme?
My motivation to enter this
programme was the summer journey.
I have always been interested in
entrepreneurship, innovation and
sustainability; the moment I saw
the opportunity, I knew it was THE
perfectly crafted summer tailored to
my interests!
What inspired you to start a
business?
I prefer working for myself than for
somebody else! Business requires hard
work and responsibility, but you also
have the opportunity to learn loads.
For example with an engineering
job, I would probably only learn the
technical stuff. But with my business,
I do the technical side as well as
handle all of the business elements.
More importantly, I think it is much
easier to contribute to society with
a start-up, as you are in the thick of
innovating something that solves a
community issue and makes things
better for others. Imperial has great
talent, I would highly recommend
people here to consider creating a
start-up. You have to give a lot into it
but you definitely get loads out of it!
I understand you are also organising
TedX at Imperial. Tell me more
about it.
Yes, we have a committee of about
ten people. We have been working
for about three months now to make
TEDxIC awesome! I have personally
been involved more on the speaker
and sponsorship side. We have
handpicked some amazing speakers,
ranging from inspiring youth leaders
to big time entrepreneurs. Our theme
is “one step ahead” so most of them
will be talking about amazing stuff
they have been pioneering. The event
is on the 29th of March, tickets are
limited and the event is gonna be
brilliant. Be there or be square! http://
www.tedximperialcollege.co.uk/
What other major projects have you
been involved with in the past?
Well I was the ex-International
Student’s Officer at Cardiff uni. I
have also worked extensively with
Islamic societies; they do some
amazing work, you have probably
heard about Charity Week. [Imperial
ISoc raised almost £70,000 last year!]
Like WHAAA, I know! I have been
doing lots of debating and recently
participated in LIMUN (London
International Model United Nations).
I have recently started blogging and
done my first blog and a series of mini
blogs on Love.
How did you find being the
Interational Students Officer (ISO)?
I had two massive achievements! I
lobbied the university to have a fixed
fee policy for international students,
so fees don’t unfairly increase year on
year. Cardiff was the first university
in England and Wales to accept this
policy, so yeah it was quite big! It will
be implemented this year onwards and
will save international students about
a million pounds over the next five
years! The second was campaigning
to provide quiet rooms in every new
building that is built, so students can
practise their faith without being
worried about walking a kilometre or
missing lectures.
With MUN will you be taking part
in any conferences or events?
Yes, I have managed to acquire some
funding to participate and represent
Imperial in the National Model
United Nations (NMUN) conference
in New York this month. I’m really
excited about that! Don’t worry, I’ll die
before letting Imperial down!
And what is the ‘Love is in the air’
campaign about?
Love is the only infinite element
on earth and it’s just sad to see how
little of it we use. So I wrote a blog
talking about how love is not only for
Valentine’s day or Mother’s day, but
for every day. As Prophet Muhammad
(Pbuh) said “love for your brother
what you love for yourself”, we have
to eliminate envy, hate, jealousy from
our lives. One way to do this is by
incorporating small actions of love
towards our neighbours, animals,
plants, strangers, parents and so
on! To demonstrate this I did a mini
campaign for ten days of random
acts of kindness. One example was
where I accompanied Emma, an 85
year old who was walking alone to her
home; on the way she shared some
amusing stories from her past. More
importantly, talking to someone made
her really happy! Such people deserve
much better! I hope others actually get
inspired enough from these acts and
spread some love. Actually, you should
check it out, you might like it: http://
sheikhabdullarashid.wordpress.com/
That was a very impressive list of
accomplishments, what do you
hope to do in the future?
My aim in life is to do something
that benefits the community,
particularly the needy. As I mentioned
earlier, this can be done via innovation
and entrepreneurship and that is my
immediate plan. However, I think
the amount of work that can be done
by being a politician is significant,
for example what I achieved as
International Officer couldn’t have
been possible by being just a student.
So I do envision getting into Indian
politics and working very hard to help
the people! Wish me luck.
Any last comments or
recommendations for Imperial
students?
Be ambitious, aim and work very
hard for the wider good, spread love
all around and don’t worry too much
about happiness. Let Newton’s third
law work itself up: Every action has an
equal and opposite reaction!
This week I interviewed Abdulla Sheikh. He is a MSc student at
Imperial who has recently started a business and is currently organising
TedX Imperial as well as working on a number of other exciting projects.
Face to Face with Abdulla Sheikh
Nida Mahmud
News Editor

