IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION, 19th NOVEMBER, 1970 No. 295
ENTS EVENTS
DONOVAN
The Great Hall was packed to near capacity a week last
Tuesday for the Donovan concert. Despite good advertising
around the college, many Imperial College people did not
know this concert was on and so, as usual, there were more
people from outside the college than in. As a result, when
Donovan asked the audience what was done here he got no
reply but a small amount of laughter.
Donovan appeared on his own for two one hour stretches,
with a short break between them. At first he seemed very
indecisive about which songs to sing trying at first some
quiet numbers and then a few louder numbers.
After the interval, Donovan's attitude to the concert
seemed to have changed completely. He seemed only to want
to enjoy himsolf (which 1 suppose is only fair). He started
with four really good songs, the first was about what he said
is one of his favourite spots in the Isle of Skye.
This was followed by two songs on pollution, one being
on the effects it was having on the world and one concerning
the earth being a space ship hurtling through space slowly
being polluted and no one knowing where it was going.
After that a song on politicians all being the same, he
seemed to lapse into songs which seemed to me quite mean-
ingless, the only memorable one was where he got all the
boys in the audience to sing "pom, pom, pom" all the girls
to sing "happiness runs" while he sang a backing.
1 came away from this concert rather disillusioned with
Donovan, somewhat put off by his insincerity throughout
most of the concert and by the speed at which he finished it.
I love you, Nick.
RCS
Startling, incredible, hil-
arious, depraved, edible,
magnificent stunning—R.C.S.
Smoking Concert was none
of these things. On the other
hand it was a considerable
improvement on last year's
happening. After a speedy
"cast introduction", the con-
cert settled into the regular
run of sketches and limer-
ericks. The organisers suc-
cessfully dropped last year's
competitive sketch scheme
—instead, dishy Denise held
everyone's attention erect
while Nick Wilkinson raffled
a plank.
Howard Mathews, who
must own an unlimited re-
turn ticket to the Smoking
Concert, once more tunnel-
led through his under-
ground station sketch, to
general weeping from the
audience.
The most original sketch
of the night was the five
transvestite dancers spelling
out obscenities, though it
would have been funnier if
they'd been spelt wrong.
Colin Fletcher, a living leg-
end in the Union Bar,
helped by hirsute Nick Wil-
kinson and others, managed
to produce plenty of smutty
humour to satisfy the
masses.
The scheme of giving a
free pint with each ticket
soon had the concert hall
swimming in beer. But de-
corum was maintained. Due
to the fact that the audience
eventually made more noise
than the cast—the final
sketch was difficult to hear
and unfortunately failed.
Special thanks go to that
versatile pianist and Dennis
Taylor who threw flat beer
over FELIX's photographer.
News in Brief
Endsileigh Insurance (Brokers) Ltd is to set up an office
in the College, to offer advice to students on all aspects of
insurance. A representative of Endsleigh, which is a totally
owned subsidiary of N.U.S., will be in the College Block
J.C.R. from 12.30 to 14.30 every fortnight, starting next
Monday, 23rd November.
* * * *
The first round of the N U S "Observer Mace" will take
place in College Block at 6.30 p.m. on December lst. A
team from IC will be battling against Thames Poly, Univer-
sity of East Anglia, and Gray's Inn, over the motion that
"This house considers the classless society to be an illusion".
The judges are expected to include the President of U L U , the
Master of Birkbeck College, and an unamed Tory M.P.
* * * #
So Broadsheet's threats to investigate that legendary mecca
of satirical magazines, Neasden, were not founded on lies
alone. Hidden members of the F B I (Felix Bureau of Inves-
tigations) spotted Andy Hinchcliffe's white van rolling north-
wards at 10.34 last Saturday morning. Signs decorating the
van clearly indicated the direction taken. In the next issue
F E L I X reviews the Twilight Zone, the Lost Continent, and
the planet Krypton.
The day nursery has now opened in temporary premises
on the first floor of 8, Princes Gardens, and it is hoped that
conversion of the permanent quarters in the basement will
be completed in the second half of November. There are
still places available for a few children (up to 5 years old).
Enquiries should be made to Miss Harris, at 8 Princes Gar-
dens, and information may also be obtained from the Assis-
tant Domestic Bursar (College Block), Dr. Anne Thorne
(Physics), or G.A.C. Assimakis (Union Office).
* * * *
Points from the recent Refectory Committee meeting in-
cluded a rise for the barmen, the possibility of stopping
breakfasts in the Union (average attendance 17) and the news
that Southside new refec is now open!!!
* * * *
Students and workers of I.C.!!
Take a weekend off from work! Don't waste your time in
unproductive activities! Ease your social conscience! Do
something practical for our Community. Come decorating
on Saturday and Sunday, 5th and 6th December. Absolutely
no experience necessary. Lefties and/or minesmen accepted.
Go now to the O.S.S. notice board, outside the old lower
Mooney in Southside, and sign up.
P.S.—If you don't know what O.S.S. stands for, then it's
time you did.
* * * *
After considerable discussion, I C U Council agreed at its
last meeting not to completely hand over the Snack Bar to
Botany & Zoology. Instead, the room will be kept as a Union
lounge, but during the day it will be available for the exclu-
sive use of Zoology and Botany staff, students, and techni-
cians, who hope to use the coffee equipment in the lounge
to avoid the heinous 9d per cup in the lower Refec. In the
evening, it will be bookable for club activities, meetings,
etc. Conversion of the room should be completed for early
next session.
* * * *
Any applications for grants for proposed expeditions next
summer must be submitted to the Exploration Board on or
before 2nd December for consideration by the Board's meet-
ing on 9th Dec. Applications, with full details, to the Secre-
tary of the Exploration Board, Civil Eng. Dept.
* * * *
Deputy President Special (2/8) K . wants to get in touch
with anyone who has ideas on how to brighten up the Union
building, preferably as cheaply as possible.
Ideas floating round at present include redecoration of the
Upper Refec, putting some of the lower lounge's "waiting
room" chairs in the Upper Refec and buying new, comfort-
able lounge furniture for downstairs, improving the decor in
the lower lounge, installing a Juke Box, coffee machine, etc.,
persuading members of ICWA to re-open the extension bar,
and so on. I.C. Union is very lucky to have a large Union
building, and it is a great pity it is underused. Any ideas to
58 New Beit, or the Union Office.

