Page 10 F E L I X Thursday, November 19, 1970
J U D I T H ' S
PI
Accommodation
The urgency given to the problem by the beginning of
term crisis has produced several ideas — I.C.U. establishing
a Housing Association (help from N.U.S. here); renting flats
and houses to sublet; building a hall or buying further stu-
dent houses. Hence the scheme to increase hall rents to
finance new accommodation. A report will go to the college
Student Residents Committee. There is also a real chance of
U.S.K. co-operation over the lodgings bureau.
Postgrads
Big problem here — isolation in labs, lack of com-
munication, uninterest (?) — pg's have their own troubles.
Meetings are being arranged to discuss department organiza-
tion, M.Sc courses, grants etc., so that postgrads can come
to play a greater part in the college. I C U has been to the
forefront of moves in N U S to put the post-graduates case.
Union fee (increased)
Union finances will be tight till 1972 — when the fee
should be increased to £10 from £6 (not £7), due to recent
negotiations. Increased revenue from the bookshop (both
ICU and constituent colleges) — thanks to Dr. Weale —
means there should be £500 to £1,000 slack for next years
expansion. Not adequate but not poverty. The constituent
colleges, due to their Bookshop money, even show an in-
creased income, despite earlier cuts.
Discipline
Attempts to formulate a discipline code have dragged
on for years. The original college proposals have been modi-
fied by council (May) and further, in light of new informa-
tion (including a model code from the N.C.C.L.) by a recent
meeting. Report this week.
Refectories
The long term plan for refectory development, drawn
up in conjunction with the technicians, is to be presented to
the Rector next week. Very urgent, as food prices increase
at a rate of 15%, wages at 9% — the source must be stream-
lined if prices are to be reasonable.
Rents, food costs etc. may go up — but grants don't.
National grants campaign in the spring. Both college admin
and the Young Socialists (S.L.C.) are agreed that the Tories
will cut back further on higher education — beware no ex-
pansion, and selective loans. I.C.U. cannot fight 'the govern-
ment alone; students need N.U.S., which in turn must co-
Citp anb #uilte Colltgt €nts!
A N A L L - N I G H T T H I N G F R O M
9 pm TO 6 am O N F R I D A Y
4th D E C E M B E R , C O L L E G E
B L O C K , I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E
FLEETWOOD
MAC
JEREMY TAYLOR
SAM APPLE PIE AND STACK
films — "Candy" & "The Plank"
food — as itself
DISCO & BARS TILL 3 am
tickets 30/- single, 50/- double from
Ents, C & G Union, Exhibition Road,
(589 5943) or IC Union Cloakroom.
operate with other educational groups and the trade unions.
Academic (Work)
Ideas are developing of new courses, and projects (see
(Elec. Eng.) are seen as the primary means for introducing
interdisciplinary, and social responsibility studies. As Fore-
seen the departments and therefore the reps, are assuming
an important role in the union. Student dissatisfaction with
their courses was the impetus behind diversification.
Representation
Meanwhile we are likely to be denied opportunity to
participate in the election of Deans — because the governing
body is unwilling to make a stand for democracy. The Privy
Privy Council edict. It may be that with the intransingence
of the G.O.B., national action is the only answer. Other
universities have 'been thwarted and N.U.S. is negotiating,
having already rejedted the Privy Councils terms. So there
it is — decide further policies at the union meeting today.
Council has loudly hinted that it will not accept student
participation in staff appointments. We should not be put
off by this ploy, — the attack needs to be two pronged,
keeping up the pressure here for "no reserved areas" and
working with the Other university unions to change the
A Cultural (!) Union
Not wishing to spoil anyone's small ego trip—the reply shall be
brief.
Henry proclaimed itself the IC cultural revolution—cloudy images
of a peace pipe council meeting, incense and poppy hazes—is this
the correct interpretation? If a "conservative union" is meant, as
the original draft indicates—sure, the administraton and industry
are pleased (because nothing happens), but what about the stud-
ents? After all the union is by and for the students! The presiden-
tial election was fought on just this issue and a majority of students
wanted an active union, politically aware as the administration.
Where o' where are the cultural revolutions of yesteryear?
Occasionally at Derby day a few such heroes roll around (the bar.
These rave from the grave, echoed above, along with other students,
we at IC have become concerned about representation, diversifica-
tion, each other, our courses; over (the past few years. By taking
action as a union enormous gains have been made—GO'S, BOST
and department participation, associated studies—are these to be
denied?
Technology
There is a national trend away from science—students at school
and collegs became sick of facts, and overspecialisation. What use
is a research reputation if the teaching standard is poor, the
pressures unnecessarily harsh, and the gradautes ill-fitted for real
life? Techs train, universities educate.
Facts
Now we have a democratic procedure in which the majority rules,
however much this is apparently regretted! (The biggest meeting
this term debated South Africa and gave money to a community
project, by a unanimous vote.)
It is up to everyone to use these processes to develop coherent
meaningful policy out lof constructive argument. Unsubstantiated
statements and half-truths don't help. It belittles the intelligence
of us all to claim that any clique can control the Union. Intsead of
- stereotyped images, slanging matches, why net work out ideas as
a Union? Strength lies in unity.:
Letters
Sir,
Re article titled "Dirt",
Felix, Nov. 5th.
The increasingly dirty state
of the Union building is not
the fault of the cleaning staff
or of the college works study.
The Union building belongs
from
m
p a g e 3
to the students, so they
should take more pride and
care, and help to keep the
building in a clean and tidy
condition. The extra food,
dirt, broken glass and vomit,
that is always left after
fresher's dinners and many
KARNIYAL
With the belated arrival of 500 "house—to—house" collecting
licences, anyone who wants to organise a collection, can now do
so illegally, with the followng important proviso (extract taken
from "Metropolitan Police Regulations" E2/63A MP-69-82121/500
W86).
(8) No collector shall use a table for the purpose of any collection
or sale so as to cause, or be likc»ly to cause obstruction. No table
used shall exceed 30 in. x 20 in.
(10) No collector shall ibe accompanied by any animal (gorilla
or otherwise).
Future Events
Nov. 20th
Miss World Contest at Albert Hall. (Lucrative pickings here!)
Nov. 27th
Carnival WALK — 11 p.m. onwards from unicn arch. 26 miles and
free breakfast.
Pre-waik dance at Institut Francais plus USK Carnival Queen
Contest.
Dec. 3rd
3-legged pub-crawl with Maria Assumpta and Institut Francais.
Dec. 9th
RCA Concert for Carnival.
Dec. 15th
Carnival film — "Ulysses". 3 performances.
KARNIVAL
^COORDINATOR
KOLLARRED
'Bet our XI can beat yours . .
other functions should be
cleaned up by the persons
responsible for them and not
expect the cleaning staff to
do it for them. The bes:
solution to the problem
would be to withdraw all
cleaning staff from I.C.U.
and make the students res-
ponsible for the cleanliness
of their own building. Only
then will they begin to ap-
preciate the hard work and
effort done by the cleaners
to make I.C.U. a fit place for
students. May they be less
critical and more thankful.
Mrs. V . West, (College
cleaner for 17 years), Mrs.
C. Craig, (11 years), E. Hall
(13 years), S. Greenridge (6
months), M . Leaky (6
months), P. Kirk urn (7
years), H . Ditch (17 years),
E. Rawlings (2\ years).
Sir,
After a certain case of dis-
cipline in a student house,
where someone was punished
for not informing the War-
den that his room-mate had
an overnight guest, I sent the
following proposal to the
Rector, with the full backing
of the Welfare Committee.
No resident should ever
be punished for not inform-
ing the Warden of his hall/
house of an offence that an-
other resident has com-
mitted, if the offence does
not affect the welfare of the
community.
I.C.U. Council refused to
endorse this at their last
meeting and effectively voted
in favour of forcing people to
inform the Wardens of any-
one breaking the hall rules
and then possibly having
their friends kicked out for
something that will not en-
danger nor inconvenience
any other resident or the
general public.
This is a deplorable state
of affairs and 1 hope that the
next Union Meeting will put
things right, and see that
justice 'is done in the future.
Yours sincerely
G. A . C. ASSIMAKIS.
I.C.U. Welfare Officer
Royal College of Art
CHARITY DANCE
Mungo Jerry, If,
National Head Band, Coomis,
Help Yourself, Wishbone Ashe.
10/- in advance, 14/- at door.
ESSENTIAL READING FOR STUDENTS. Politics,
world events, social & economic affairs, new books,
all the arts. EDITED BY RICHARD CROSSMAN. N E W S T A T E S M A N
From your college bookstall or newsagent every
Friday, 2s. For student concession details write: NEW
STATESMAN, Great Turnstile, London WC1V 7HJ.

