F E L I C I T Y T W O
WHERE'S ME CONTACT LENSES?
On Friday 13th (is that unluoky?) Dave Colbert was brutally attached by a red
(Goranuaist) London Transport Bus whilst grovelling about in the road outside the Albert
Hall looking for his contact lenses (what lenses?)
A number of passing commuters disguised as Guildsmen, being shocked by this ignoble
act quickly retailed by smothering the bus with mindpoisoniag Fleetwood Mac Carnival
posters. This prompted many cockney profanities to be uttered by the irate bus-driver
(fascist!). Kven after Colbert's dilemma had been explained to him, hi3 only comment was:
"Get out of the ****ing way!" Meanwhile another Guildsman was attempting to explain the
situation in Polish to the bewildered bus-conductor (a foreign gentleman).
The passengers, however, remained calm and ignored a l l that took place around them
continuing to make derogatory remarks about the poor service on the Hammersmith route
(hear, hear!)
By this time, Kensington Gore was beginning to f i l l up with cheering (we coulcm't
quite make out the words) owners of now stationary vehicles.
A taxi oab driver was seen to approach the aforesaid Colbert (who had now disappeared
under the bus) i n a menacing manner and was suitably immobilised by a sudden blockage
of vision due to (you guessed it) Fleetwood Kac posters.
"Wot* s a i l this 'ere then?" caused the previously brave Coj-bert to emerge from
under the bus with much haste and depart in the direction of the Union Office (having,
we presiime, found his contact lenses?????) He was followed by an exuberant horde of
Guildsmen, and a gentleman in blue was seen to disappear in the direction of Kensington
High Street, pursued by outraged motorists.
Tad Filipowioz & Iain Brown
Explorations Board
Any application for grants for pro-
posed expeditions must be submitted to
the Explorations Board on or before
2nd December for consideration by the
Board meeting on Dec. 9th. Applications
with f u l l details to the Secretary of
the Explorations Board, C i v . Bng. Dept.
Mop Soc
KopSoc Lecture, Tuesday 2^th Hov.
Prof. S i r N. Mott (Cambridge)
on
''Amorphous Semiconductors"
6.30pm Jrhysics Theatre 3
Folk Song Club
FOLK SONG CLUB: Barry Skinner.
19.30 Wednesday 25th November
Upper Union Refectory
Members 3/-» non-members 5/-. Bar.
CI •<;
W O M E N IN SELKIRK HALL
Yes, legally! at a students* Residence Committee meeting on Tuesday i t was
decided that from next eeacion one staircase in Selkirk- Hall should be allocated to
women. The proportion of women i n Hall at present i s less than for men, but this new
arrangement willredreas the balance.
The question of Hall/House rents was discussed but no deoision was made as i t was
decided that i t was necessary to make a detailed costing of Halls/Houses. It seems that
one or two principles w i l l have to be laid down concerning rents. Should Hall rents be
higher than House rents as they offer better facilties? Should a f a i r rent be charged
or should accomodation be made as cheap as possible? Any profit from Halls/Houses
(over and above necessary reserves) could go to financing new accomodation. Do we want
Halls, Houses, or seme other scheme?
Selection procedures. How should seleetion for Halls and Houses be made? Should
i t be left in the hands of the Liaii/l louse Committees? Should everybody who would like
a place in aHouae or Hall be guaranteed one? What about random selection, and what is
Hall l i f e anyway? Do you want so many people to have a second or third year in a Hall
or House?

