Page 2 F E L I X Thursday, November 19, 1970
I C S U R F I N G C L U B
A new departure by mem-
bers of the Underwater Club
has resulted in application to
form a new recreational
club in I.C.
Nine of us set out in the
van for Cornwall on the first
expedition by the club with-
out aqualungs—not a very
sunny day but good weather
for surfing with about four
foot of swell at Newquay.
As if getting up at eight
o'clock on a Saturday morn-
ing wasn't strenuous enough
we averaged about five hours
in the water each on both
Saturday and Sunday. We
were warm enough thanks
to adequate wet suits but it
wasn't really the weather for
looking "trendy" on the
beach. You've doubtless seen
pictures of people riding i n -
well the big catch is paddling
out through the white water,
very hard on the shoulder
muscles and very demoralis-
ing when that extra big wave
takes you all the way in
again.
Riding a board is far more
exciting than any descrip-
tion I could give, and con-
trary to the popular belief it
is not a substitute for sex
(it's better!—J.A.). Beginners
found that they could stand
up on the white-water waves
towards the end of the first
day and by Sunday they
didn't fall off quite so much
and got some great rides.
At this stage the bug gets
hold of you and you keep on
going out to get a better
wave than the one before. On
Sunday the swell got up to
six feet and with more con-
trol of the board, longer,
faster rides were possible.
However, if the surf catches
you a heavy wipe-out can
mean a pounding and a long
swim to collect your board on
the shore.
A note about our boards:
four of them were hired from
"Tig Surfboards", Treyarnon
Bay—they're the best boards
available—and three belong-
ed to Jon Austin our surfing
instructor.
The whole weekend cost
£4 per person. If you're in-
terested in surfing at weeknds
or on longer trips at Christ-
mas and Easter, whether
you're a beginner or an ex-
pert, contact Jon in 273
Keogh or myself in 634 Lin-
stead.
M I K E P E A R S O N
WINKS . . . A good and entertaining 'race' from Marble Arch to Piccadilly Circus be-
gan with an exhibitionistie crew from Mines taking up the middle of Oxford Street, with
Guilds and RCS on either flank.
After many entertaining and necessary detours from the assigned route, especially a
short-cut across Oxford Circus (diagonailly), the winkers arrived in Piccadilly Circus (minus
a few fingers) and assembled outside the Cockney Pride for lunch. They were not accom-
panied by D. Taylor Esq., who insisted on going to West End Central Police Station for
his (see photograph). It later cost him five shillings.
Longest Wink — took place in Woolworths up an escalator.
Fastest Wink — somebody from Civil I.
IRC
From this
newsletter —
week's I R C
"The Commonwealth Im-
migrants Act 1968 is one of
the most racialistic and dis-
criminatory acts perper-
trated by the British govern-
ment in recent years. As an
Afrikaner Principal of Cape-
town University had it, "the
three things which human
beings desire most are
security, happiness and res-
pect. Most of all, respect.
Respect for their persons,
their possessions, their feel-
ings, their beliefs, their
dignity." The act is meant
to strip them of all this and
subject them to degrading
humilation. The Encyclopae-
dia Britannica defines "Pass-
port" as "a formal docu-
ment . . . identifying a travel-
ler as a citizen or a national
with a right to return to that
nation. The thousands of
Kenyan Asians holding Bri-
tish passports are now denied
this right beoause of the
A HUMANIST
POINT OF VIEW
The Humanist Approach is that man must face his
problems with his own moral and intellectual resources, with-
out looking for supernatural aid. Our concern should be with
this life — to try and make it worthwhile and sufficient in
itself. Humanism makes no claim to special knowledge or
final truth, although truth is the goal ait which the Humanist
always aims. In other words Humanism is based on the
scientific method, but with a full-blooded acceptance and
appreciation of music, the arts, and beauty.
The Open Society. People with adult minds should be
as free as possible to choose what to make of their lives,
but there is no right to injure other individuals or the com-
munity in the process. Groups of individuals also have this
right to be as free as possible and to convert each other to
their respective points of view. But neither a few individuals,
nor groups of individuals, can be allowed to take over the
community as some religious and political bodies have done,
and in some places still do. Society must be organised for
the good of all: a group is free to persuade but not to impose.
This is why Humanists so strongly oppose laws based on the
unwarranted assumption that "Britain is a Christian Coun-
try."
Private and Sexual Morality. The over-riding aim of the
Humanist's actions is human happiness and fulfillment: his
own and that of others. Man can behave in an honorable
and considerate way towards his fellow men without re-
ference to divine commandment.
There is no generally agreed Humanist code of sexual
morality, although most Humanists would agree with the
personal approach below. Morality is to serve human beings
by making life as pleasant as possible for everybody. Sexual
morality is just an exterition of general morality, not an
awesome special field. The purpose of love making is physical
enjoyment. People can do it for other purposes, such as
to get pregnant, to make money, to express a relationship
or just to prove they can. Great harm is caused by people
who kid themselves that one of these subsidiary purposes is
the main, sole, or "proper" purpose of lovemaking. It is
right for people to have Children when they want them —
otherwiise it is wrong. To force people to produce children
who don't want to is an atrocity.
And finally the Christian view is well-stated in Imperial
College . . . there are alternatives. Very soon there should be
an active Humanist Society in college. Humanism has excit-
ing implications for society, politics, technology, and morality:
it should be represented in Imperial College.
Geoff Needham
colour of their skin.
Speaking of these Asians,
one learns that they were
urged at ithe time of inde-
pendence to take up British
Nationality by the British
Government and because of
this they are being treated in
a most dehumanizing man-
ner both in Kenya and here
in Britain.
In Kenya, the British
Asians are not allowed jobs,
education or housing and
many of them are almost
destitute. They cannot be re-
garded as refugees and so
U N C T A D cannot step in to
help them. In Britain they
are either "shuttlecocks" or
allowed to languish in pri-
son. Even babies and infants
are not exempt from this in-
humane treatment."
A petition is being or-
ganised calling for the repeal
of Clause 1. of ithe Common-
wealth Immigrants Act 1968.
Look in at Falmouth 335
any lunchtime and sign.
K n r n i v n l W a l k —
This year's incredible short stroll of just over 'twenty six
miles starts from IC U N I O N A R C H (old snack bar) from 11
p.m. onwards, on Friday 27th November. For the uninitiated,
the walk last year made close on a thousand pounds, and
the idea is for each walker to be sponsored by as many
people as possible. Marshals in a more modern form of trans-
port will be circumnavigating the route, picking up any
drop-outs/drunks, etc. who feel they can't walk any further.
As an appetizer to this trial of human(e) endurance,
there will be a pre-walk party, dance or whatever at the
Institut Francais, just to tire everybody out, wilth a U S K
Carnival Queen competition thrown in for good measure.
Explanation of Map (for those without microscopes).
Briefly the route meanders from Prince Consort Road
— High St. Ken., Kensington Church Street, Bayswater
Road, Ladbroke Grove, Harrow Road, Wembley Central,
Sudbury Hill, Uxbridge Road, Acton Town, Shepherds
Bush, Holland Road and hopefully back to IC Union Arch
and the lower refectory where a free breakfast will be pro-
vided, courtesy of Maria Assumpta and French Institute.
There's a just reward of £10 for the best sponsored walker.
CARNIVAL
WALK 70
Total Distance = 26.1 Miles
* - Propoised refreshment
Point
• = Tube stations
= Direction of walk
(26) = Page no in "A to Z"
London

