Page 4 FELIX Thursday, November 19, 1970
T
h
e S
o
u
t
h K
e
n
s
i
n
g
t
o
n
I. The Fuzzzz
To start on an odd topic like this is probably a sign of madness. It is. We found our-
selves in the Town Clerk's office on the Tuesday morning (having missed a practical of
course) demanding a list of the Police stations in this area.
" W H A T ? " (astonished reply).
"Police stations, list thereof."
"Oh yes, certainly, don't get much demand for it these days."
List of useful addresses:
Chelsea Police Station (recommended)
LllCcLfl l^lclCC
London S.W.' 7. Phone No. 589 1113.
Earls Court Police Station (stay clear)
72 Earls Court Road,
London W.8.
We got some pretty interesting facts from them. Members of Wog-soc will be glad to
hear that there have been no race riots in this area. N O I am not encouraging members of
any society to stay out late at night. I have probably read too many Godfrey Winn novels.
Apparently this is an affluent area, there are no 'ghettoes' (their words not mine) here so
there is no race trouble.
Inspector Lewis had a lot to say about race riots. We left wondering how much he
really felt about them and how much he was putting on. "They are a great tragedy and I
don't know what can be done about them. Pro bably the next generation might find it easier
to live in this land. A s a police officer I simply cannot afford to be prejudiced. M y wife's best
friend is . . . ."
Unfortunately Inspector Lewis didn't say much about demonstrations. He had had about
13 students brought in one time. They were demonstrating against or for the Jordanian
Embassy, I don't remember the exact details. Apparently crowd hysteria in a demonstra-
tion is infectious (o.k. smart scientist, so you knew) so a mob of this sort tends to be rather
reckless, though when questioned individually he tends to be docile and suffers not from a
slight degree of trepidation. "Criminals are brought in through the back door, not through
the front door; that's where the respectable public like Lord Muck enter from." Cells are
not comfortable places but they are functional. A n odd thing is that some pri-
soners try to commit suicide but the police can't do much about this. Although the cells
are bare and there are not many places to hang from, one could always find some way
or other if one was desperate enough (like my mother always said the only good Britisher
is a dead one).
One might say that the policeman's lot in this Borough was an easy one. After all,
people who buy £5,000 houses at about five to six times the price just to live in this area
are not going to run around stealing their neighbour's cats or indulge in a night's frivolous
entertainment in the form of Paki-bashing, (not so very fashionable a sport these days).
This however does not mean that the Kensington cop's job is an easy one. I mean, he even
has to say 'Sir' to Lord Crumble-thorne.
Being otherwise largely a bed-sit area, the main troubles are people fighting with their
landlords, or beating up their neighbour's dog for barking too loudly at night. King's
Road is a source of constant worry even where drugs are concerned.
The drug raid scene is not as most people believe it to be. Policemen do not sit around
a desk rubbing their palms gleefully and discussing whom to raid that night (except in
Scotland Yard). The better known pushers are dealt with by the Narcotic Squad at Scot-
land Yard (whose Press Bureau is un-helpful). Usually, a drug raid may not start off as such,
for instance a shop keeper telephoned one evening to complain about four people who
had locked themselves in his lavatory. On reaching there and kicking the door in the police
found the four members of an American pop group completely stoned out of their minds.
Another instance was that of the irate husband whose wife was in bed with another man
and had locked him out (wise girl). Upon answering the follow's indignant phone call to
the police they found that the unfaithful couple had been smoking hash (better known as
shit) all night. So one sees that drug raids are usually spontaneous and even then one may
not recognise them as such. Sometimes though the police do get specific calls indicating
that drugs are being (mis?) used at a certain place.
Inspector Haste, is at the Chelsea Police Station, and has studied history at Oxford. He
was very helpful and tried to answer most of the inane questions that we hurled at him
He offered to take us round on patrol duty and even his guvnor agreed but the Public Re-
lations Officer (from Scotland Yard of course) refused to give him the go ahead. We were
therefore subject to a polite refusal and apology and given a lift back in a police car. A
police message from Scotland Yard at this time asked them to rush over to King's Cross
Station where a man was selling five pound notes for two pounds ten . . .
The policeman's lot is a boring one with loads of routine patrols and masses of paper-
work. Not only that, they are just about the only people who have to put in a half hour's
'voluntary' overtime every day with a piddling salary of about £15 a week. They are not
even paid for that 'voluntary overtime' and if they do not turn up for it they get a kick up
their ass.
The poor policeman cannot demonstrate or do anything which would not be setting a
good example to the public. But who will listen if they demand more wages? You? Y o u
would probably laugh in their faces; after all a policeman isn't expected to complain, is
he? I mean he's just part of the furniture isn't he? The poor guy is an under-paid and
overworked scapegoat.
"It's the bloody policemen with their big boots and small brains."
They are supposed to be Solomons whose judgements are beyond question. Human
fallibility is disregarded as the 'general public' views them with disfavour. The aristocracy
look upon them as social inferiors; the students' attitude tend to favour them as wet-
blankets who ruin a wonderful hash-in or a demonstration; the coloureds regard them as
banner-wavers of racialism and others think they only ruin an evening's drunken fun. A s
Inspector Lewis put it "This is not a police state, we are not the judge, jury and the exe-
cutioner, we merely hand over criminals to the court. That's our job. After all this is a
civilised society isn't it?"
Well folks, what do you think of Western Civilisation? I think it would be a good idea.
The only contact most I.C. students may have had with the police is to ask them the
way (unless they were searched as. they wended their way homeward one evening in
merry fashion or got stopped for collecting without a licence—this was probably a good
thing), but the police can be a gold mine of useful(?) information. For instance, they can
tell you how you may complain against a publican who has been particularly rude to
you, just before his permit comes up for renewal, and thus make it rather uncomfortable
for him; sometimes even resulting in the Brewery having to ask him to leave.
Another source of information they tell me, is the Public Relations Officer at Scotland
Yard (who is a civvy). Our efforts"to elicit information from him, though, resulted in total
failure. Several phone calls and a letter succeeded in bringing about no response at all.
Well, that's the way red tape tangles; but to say 'damn Scotland Yard' at this point would
be petty vindictiveness on our part.
HAS IC
GOT A
PROBLEM
LIKE THIS?
POLICE IN ACTION
SPEND NEXT SUMMER
IN AMERICA
ALL EXPENSES PAID!
CAMP AMERICA offers
teachers and sliudents over
18, summer jobs as Camp
Counsellors t e a c h i n g
American children sports,
Arts and Gratis, etc. Relturn
flight, visa, full board and
lodging, $75 pocket money
and two week's free time
for itxavel, all provided.
Apply now as vacancies are
limited. Write to Camp
America, Dep. UA, 10 Kend-
rick Place, London S.W.7.

