Thursday, November 19th, 1970 F E L I X Page 5
The Chicago policemen are all out in cars, and it is an American boast that they can get
a car to any spot in less than two minutes. This may be all right for the firemen, but the
police here believe in prevention rather than finding the guilty party. It is not possible to
observe too much from a car and the man on the beat is indispensable.
We know that policemen usually patrol in pairs for personal safety but two policemen
walking hand-in-hand down Harrington M ews . . . .?
RIFY ABDULLA and SHEKHAR
MORE USK
After last week's consideration of the background to U.S.K. and its social aspects, let
me go on to toss around some ideas on social, academic and political matters.
As far as 'services' are concerned, this is where a lot can be done, some of it by bureau-
crats. Accommodation by far the most pressing problem, needs tackling from all angles,
and U.S.K. must do its bit. The West London Student Accommodation Bureau was laun-
ched last year as an attempt to provide a bureau which cuts across the binary system. It
was only partly successful due to a shortage of helpers, uncertainty over the future and
general difficulty in communication. A new effort is being made now, with the added
impetus of the troubles over the University of London all-student bureau (no space to
go into all that here.
Save money ! ! ! . . . . Concessions; a well-loved and well-used service, which we haven't
exploited at all here. One of the reasons is that this is an affluent area, and if one college
in isolation goes to a retailer and asks for co ncessions the retailer says 'Why should I give
you a concession, when I can get the other 90 per cent of the students around here to
pay full price.' If U.S.K., representing all the students, organises this it ought to be a lot
easier. Again, people must get on their tootsies and trot around the shops (in an organised
way of course).
Student travel. Wouldn't it be an obvious idea to have one U.S.K. travel bureau? A t
the moment there is much duplication of action. Maybe such a travel set-up could even
negotiate schemes of its own (coaches especially).
There are heaps of other things, like legal aw, a general student advisory service and so
on, which are all ideal fields for U.S.K. to work in, and as in all other potential areas of
work there should be a development of communication about, and inter-use of, existing
college-based services (the nurseries for instance).
On to academic matters. Clearly this is inextricably linked with political considerations,
when taken as meaning college authority co- operation. In many cases these political prob-
lems are irrelevant, but in these cases there is little real advance. I do not think that any
large scale academic integration is possible within the present framework of educational
structure. The limited amount which is possible could include (as has already happened)
using lecturers from other colleges as 'guest lecturers', to facilitate diversification (not just
at I.C., what about some scientists at R.C. A . for example?).
POLITICS
If one includes intellectual benefits as academic ones then there are naturally great
advantages to be gained just by talking and e xchanging ideas with people of different aca-
demic backgrounds. This could be extended to political societies, union activity, dissemin-
ation of ideas and so on, and that brings me neatly to politics. .
I have left the political potentialities of U.S.K. till last because I think that, ultimately,
they should be the most important. Exciting and far-reaching possibilities are presented.
First, the very existence of U.S.K. is a political act in itself. A t a time when the spectre of
a class-war, thought by many to be dead, is stirring (not least in the field of higher educa-
tion) there must be no doubt of the significance of any strong student movement. By
showing that the U.S.K. can work in the more mundane and prosaic aspects of student
activity we are demonstrating surely, the contradiction behind the divisions of higher edu-
cation. These divisions are based on the argument that it is necessary to have an elitist,
hierarchical and authoritarian structure of higher education, and by demonstrating the
viability of links in so many spheres we help to demonstrate the fallacy of this argument.
Incidentally we also go some of the way towards demonstrating the fallacy of the similar
argument applied to society as a whole.
In the practical sense the possible political activties of U.S.K. are: communication, using
U.S.K. as a channel for organising political a etiivtity, promoting and publicising N.U.S.
causes, and national and international causes, which we all agree about as a matter of
policy; N.U.S., organising joint action on N.U.S. motions and at conferences (although the
question of college autonomy is important here and must be sorted out) in order to develop
U.S.K. as an identifiable group within N.U.S.; Union organisations. Experience can be ex-
changed between the larger colleges, and help can be given to the smaller ones, with the
aim of improving the union organisation; College negotiations and confrontations. Im-
portant. Sharing of expertise, information, ex perience, duplicating and printing facilities
and a bit of sabbatical time, are all ways of helping each other, especially the larger col-
leges helping the smaller ones. Again, this is an example of an area doing what the
N.U.S. is trying to do at the moment, but doing it at a more detailed, local and immediate
level. In all these things N.U.S. centrally still has an immensely important place, in the
national arena, and in supplying more expertise and wider information, but the point is
that U.S.K. should channel this help.
HELP NEEDED
For most of these activities two magic ingredients are needed—money and involvement
(i.e. people). A t the moment an U.S.K. Fund administered by the U.S.K. Committee, re-
ceives from each college £10 per thousand full-time students in that college (minimum
£10), which provides about £130. This may have to be increased a little, but surely the best
way of financing projects is to request money from the colleges for specific tasks when re-
quired. There is also an N.U.S. Area Development Fund, but the terms of reference are
rather restrictive, and unless there is a^stunning reversal in N.U.S. finances the Fund will
remain at its present insignificant level (£250) for a long time.
Helpers are necessary for nearly all projects, and since student time is not as valuable a
commodity as student money we must see labour-intensive projects as the most realistic.
If you want to help in any way go along to the union office, or get in touch with Dave
Kay at Q.E.C., or come along to an U.S.K. Committee meeting some time.
Summing up, I hope I have shown that U.S. K. is an organisation with a potentially
unique and valuable function, an organisation which is to the advantage of all students in it;
that nothing will be achieved without both enthusiasm of those at the moment respon-
sible and equally the spreading of involveme nt wider and deeper; and lastly that the politi-
cal implications of U.S.K., if seen clearly in all their subtleties, are ultimately the most
important of all. J O H N G O O D M A N
Barmaid Emma
O u r f i r s t m e e t i n g -
t h e l a s t t i m e w e ' l l h o l d y o u r h a n d
Good graduates,
arts or science,
are important in ICL.
W e won't let you waste a
couple of years, just getting
the feel of things.
W e want you to start productiv<
work, taking decisions, shoulderir
responsibility—in the shortest poss
time. W e have to push on with the bu
}f extending our computer-market leadership
in Britain, and our increasingly successful attack on
markets in the rest of the world.
Of course we'll train you. W e run something very like a'
university ourselves, but our training is in compact, concen-
trated courses, directly related to the job in hand.
Our activities are so diverse, spread through 60 countries, that we
can't even begin to describe .particular jobs in any detail here.
Suffice it to say that if you're a thinker, if you have imagination and
initiative, if you're resilient and ambitious: we should like to meet you
FEBRUARY 4 and 5
IICLI I n t e r n a t i o n a l A s k y o u r a r c „ s m d A p p _ s ,
W O m p U t C f S Service for the I C L careers book and the
details of our visit.
4

