Page 6 F E L I X Thursday, November 19, 1970
THE CONFESSION
FILM R E V I E W S B y J o h n A c k e r s
L'AVEU
"By the team that brought you Z " ,
the posters proclaim. Direction is by
Costa-Gavras, photography by Raoul
Coutard, and several familiar faces re-
appear in L ' A V E U ( T H E CONFES-
SION). Yves Montand, in Z the left-
wing deputy, whose assassination has
the connivance of army and police, in
L ' A V E U plays Artur London, the
victim of a Stalinist purge in Czecho-
solvakia.
The time is 1951, and Artur Lon-
don is Deputy Foreign Minister. Black
Russian limousines are parked nearby
when he leaves his office, and follow
him home. Not long previously were
the trials of Rajk in Budapest and of
Kostov in Sofia, causing suspicion and
arrests in the communist satellites.
London is fearful, but finds his bosses
inaccessible. His car is chased and
intercepted, and he is kidnapped by the
secret service.
London's wife meets with bland re-
assurances, about his helping with im-
portant secret business, but he is hid-
den away for months, frequently
moved about, denied access to party
Suffering for the
Afflicted
MISERY MODULATIONS
What is this new phenomenen, that, from Dolhs Hill to Parson's Green,
is rivalling Concorde's boom problems as countless thousands stumble to switch
off their radio sets? What is this hell on earth, that causes intense suffering to
untold millions of afflicted OAP's, housewives and motorists?
HORROR
This incredible situation erupted over itwo months ago when V H F set
owners were horrified to find someone relaying B B C programmes, interlaced
with twice-hourly garbage strike reports. But worse was to come ! !
W H A M ! !*
On 5th Oct. R A D I O L O N D O N , your very own (and you can keep it — ed.)
local misery-station, began producing its own programmes! But mercifully not
too many, and some of them too early in the morning to switch on by mistake.
* Believed to be a reference to young dynamic with-it Christopher Chait-
terway (sic), super-minister of posts &c.
officials, continually woken after being
told to sleep, and forced to keep walk-
ing the rest of the time, worn out
mentally and physically. Soon he
realises that his arrest is no mistake,
that he is the victim of powerful forces.
He is subjected to violent "interroga-
tion" and gradually his resistance
breaks down and health deteriorates.
London has worked in the Resis-
tance in France, been imprisoned by
the Nazis, and fought for the Interna-
tional Brigade in Spain. A "confession"
of alleged contacts and actions is
eventually concocted out of partial ad-
missions quoted out of context and
supplemented with conjecture, and
London is pressured into signing it. His
wife loses her job, house and car, the
children are moved to another school,
and she is sent to work in a factory —
the family has its bourgeoise privileges
associated with his former office re-
moved.
He is tried, together with many
others, nearly all of Jewish extraction,
variously accused of Nazi-collusion and
Trotskyism, in a trial whose script
has been rehearsed to perfection for
live national broadcast. When one de-
fendant's braces snap, plunging the
court into hysterics, the microphones
are switched off, lest justice be made
a mockery of! London is imprisoned, a
further purge taking care of his pro-
secutors, and is released in 1956, later
writing a book about his experiences.
And in 1968 the story goes full-circle
as Artur London watches the Russian
tanks roll into Prague.
Costa-Gavras has again demonstr-
ated his mastery of the political thriller.
The skilful glossy melodrama of Z
inescapably manipulates the viewer to
indignation about the corruption in
Greece which faoiliated the junta's
takeover. The photography and editing
of L ' A V E U is certainly less glossy, but
no less involving. Apart from the
opening scenes and the newsreel foot-
age in the epilogue, the action is mainly
in the drab chilling interiors and cells
of the seoret service.
As a propoganda film it may not
work as well as Z , which builds up
the audience's satisfaction as they sup-
port the examining magistrate reveal-
ing the facts of corruption and com-
plicity, and then, in the final few
minutes, enrages them by the facts of
the subsequent army coup. The drama
of L ' A V E U centres around the sub-
jugation of human spirit in the face of
impossible odds. The films share plots
. involving implied external controlling
powers — powers that cannot be
eradicated — the K.G.B. in Czechoslo-
vakia, and the C I A . in Greece.
At 139 mins, an inconvenient length
for double-bills, it seems likely to re-
ceive more restricted release than Z ,
which is regrettable. L ' A V E U is cur-
rently showing at the Curzon in a sub-
titled version — if you're going to see
it, please do so before the dubbing
hacks get at it !
ELVIRA MADIGAN has made a
welcome return, and is now showing
at Academy Two. Bo Widerberg's film
tells of ithe doomed love of an army
officer and the beautiful tightrope
walker — an exquisite and lyrical
pastoral romance set in turn-of-the-
century Denmark.
K E S is still showing at Academy
One — evidently still doing well on
the rebound after distribution difficul-
ties, and well worth a look.
COLCUTT
'What are they doing? '
I looked around and saw the old man standing some
distance behind me on the sand.
'They're trying to climb the cliff,' I yelled through the
whip of the gale that blew off the sea in erratic gusts, and
watched him come up to the rock I was leaning against.
'Isn't it dangerous? ' he asked in the comparative shelter
of the rock. 'The weather's pretty wild and it's a high cliff.'
I shrugged and looked back to the kids clinging to the
cliff face. 'Yes, but most of them don't realise it. A lot get
permanently bruised and battered but there's a low fatality
rate. Y o u can see that a great number find a ledge low down
and just cling to it till their time's up.' He was a little guy,
well muffled against the elements, and he had no right to be
on my beach. He smiled paternally.
'Crazy college kids. I suppose you have to make the
most of it; you're only young once.'
'Thank Christ for that', I said, but a gust of salt breeze
blew my words away. The main body was clustered on the
bottom half of the cliff and petered out toward the summit
where you could see individuals striving to haul themselves
higher and higher.
M y companion's eyes stopped scanning the scene and
settled on a point on the beach away to our left. His face
lost its condescending glow and he turned to me sharply.
'What about that, then? I thought you said they only
got bruised and battered.' I knew what he was looking at.
'That was a long time ago', I replied vaguely. He was still
quite agitated; 'but that shows how dangerous it all is, that's
extremely serious.'
I laughed. 'Of course it is, the poor dumb bastards aren't
up there for fun you know.' Then thought about it; 'God
knows, perhaps they are, at that. Still, as I said, the fatality
rates low, and most of them aren't so dramatic as that.'
His face was paler above his spray-spattered scarf, and
I felt sorry for him. 'Look,' I said, taking him by the arm
and pointing, 'that's one of the funnier things about the
whole thing.' In a cluster near the centre of the cliff, just
above the main mass of people, there were twenty or thirty
youngsters lying on a ledge which was wider than most. They
were lying face down with their heads over the edge so that
they could call down to the throng clinging beneath them. I
grinned at the old man, who looked puzzled.
'They think they're on the top. They never look up, only
down. If you watch them long enough you'll see them en-
courage some of those beneath them to come up to their
ledge, then knock them down again when they get close.'
He looked horrified. No, they don't hurt anyone very badly,
at least not intentionally.'
'Do they stay there all the time? ' he asked. 'Most don't,
I said. 'In general everyone goes to the top in time once
they get above a certain point, and almost all the ones on
that ledge move on up after they've stayed there some time.
That fuzzy-haired idiot with the beard's been there for years
now, but someone'll kick him up or off soon, I hope. He
means well.'
It was getting colder as dusk moved in, and it was
already difficult to distinguish the horizon between sea and
sky. I pulled my coat tighter and put up the collar to fend
off the night wind which blew around us. You could see the
men on the cliff top now in black relief against a greying sky.
'Those your friends? ' I asked him. He glanced up, his
face expressionless. 'I used to know them,' he said.
'That's where you should be, you know. There's no
place for the older generation on the beach; now you'll have
to climb the cliff to get back up there.'
'I just thought I'd come and see what it's like. It isn't
so good is it? ', he said. I laughed again. You have to laugh,
it's so crazy. 'They forget when they get to the top. The
easier the climb the quicker they forget.'
I had to yell the last sentence for he was already stumb-
ling over the sand and pebbles to get to the foot of the cliff.
It was turning darker by the minute now, and soon I could
barely see him as he dwindled in the distance. I half-hoped
one of those above would kick down a boulder that would
squash him like a bug.
Welcome back.
Where are you
going for Christmas?
Jet London to Dublin 16
to Paris £5.25 to Basel £9
10 dnys skiiny in Switzerland from £35
Get FREE details today.
At these prices,
you can't afford not
to go somewhere.
I S P 1
BRITISH STUDENT TRAVEL CENTRE
231 Tottenham Court Road, London W1 E 4ZZ
Telephone: 01-637 1241
" Look Warden, they must have
escaped through this hole."

