16 felixonline.co.uk/culture cultfeli@ic.ac.uk Friday 28 October 2016 Friday 28 October 2016 17
cultfeli@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/culture
felix C U L T U R E
felix
C U L T U R E
just an important scene in a
movie, but a real event occur-
ring right in front of us.
Loach has found himself a
muse for these kinds of scenes
in Hayley Squires. She per-
fectly captures the character
of Katie; she’s calm on the sur-
face, but the second it even
becomes a possibility that
she might be under attack,
she is ready to fight back,
and it’s clear that this warrior
mentality that she has had to
adopt to keep her family alive
is taking a hard toll on her.
But Squires and Loach also
master the intimate moments,
and perhaps the most credit
is deserved by Johns for
his beautifully restrained,
down-to-earth portrayal of
Daniel, bringing a light stroke
of comedy and tenderness
in perfect balance to every
scene. Daniel Blake may be a
little old, but he’s sure as hell
still determined to make his
mark, and succeeds in doing
so; with this film, it’s clear that
exactly the same can be said
of Ken Loach himself.
A
lot of jimmies
were rustled in
the film critic
world when I,
Daniel Blake,
the latest
feature from director and
outspoken Labour supporter
Ken Loach, took home the
Palme D’Or (the Cannes Film
Festival’s highest honour)
this year. I was, then, a little
worried when going to watch
it; did the Cannes jury just get
a little overexcited about its
anti-state, anti-Tory message?
Having watched the film
now, I feel stupid for ever
having such worries. This
is late-period Loach at his
absolute finest. He is never a
director to make a film about
a subject he doesn’t care
about, but you can sense the
relevancy and urgency in I,
Daniel Blake more than in any
other film he’s produced for
years. A far cry from his last
feature, the rose-tinted rural
Northern Ireland tale Jimmy’s
Hall, it tells the story of an old
man (Daniel Blake himself,
played by Dave Johns) with a
failing heart being shafted by
the state and being told he is
fit for work, against medical
advice. When he meets Katie
(Hayley Squires), a single
mother of two from London
with her own story of betrayal
by the man upstairs (being
made homeless because of a
complaint about a leak that
was making her daughter ill,
and finally being allocated
a flat all the way up in New-
castle where the film is set),
the pair help each other try
to make ends meet with what
little time they might have left.
Loach reinstates himself
with this film as the master of
capturing the escalation of a
small scene into a catastro-
phe; the scene in which a
character has a breakdown in
a food bank is Loach’s equiva-
lent of an immense cinematic
set-piece. However, his kitch-
en-sink style of realism and
use of naturalistic speech by
screenwriter Paul Laverty ele-
vate scenes like this until what
we are watching becomes not
Tom Stephens
I, Daniel
Blake
A heart-rending cry for justice \\ Wild Bunch
Doctor
Strange
Jenny Shelley
character feels only partial-
ly-formed at best.
The Asian adventure is okay,
as long as you accept that ‘Asia’
is one place with one mishmash
culture. Despite travelling to
Kathmandu for training, the
nearest capital for the sorcerers
is listed as Shanghai and the
style of training feels like that of
Shaolin monks – meanwhile the
three lead gurus have English,
Nigerian and Chinese heritage.
From this confusion, however,
does come a wonderful score by
Michael Giacchino. The sitar mel-
odies weaving through the film
are elegant and enjoyable, even
if it feels a little odd in a poten-
tially kung-fu-esque film. There
was also a great risk of making
the recovery of Strange from
crippled car accident survivor
to sorcerer a bit insensitive, but
the struggle of rehabilitation was
portrayed relatively well, albeit
somewhat montage-ish.
Overall, the film was an enter-
taining two hours. There are few
studios who could provide a
sarcastic sidekick in the form of a
cloak, constant explosions and a
ghost fight (yes, really) in a film
that is worth watching – Marvel
has managed it.
W
hen
Cumberbatch
was
announced
as the newest
Marvel
superhero, everyone had their
doubts. His usual often rather
sociopathic characters didn’t quite
seem like they would fit with the
ever-growing Marvel universe.
However, with a turned up collar
reminiscent of Sherlock (he clearly
knows which looks work for him)
and a slightly dodgy American
accent, the newest avenger was
born to surprisingly enjoyable
effect.
Doctor Steven Strange (Benedict
Cumberbatch) is a neurosur-
geon who gets into a nasty car
accident resulting in his hands
being irreparably mangled. In a
bid to by-pass the limits of modern
medicine, he leaves on-again,
off-again flame Christine (Rachel
McAdams) and turns to ‘The East’
for mystic powers of healing from
‘The Ancient One’ (Tilda Swinton),
Mordo (Chiwetel Ejiofor) and
Wong (Benedict Wong). While
Strange is perfecting his magical
and martial art skill, villain Kae-
cilius (Mads Mikkelsen) aims to
unleash the dark realm upon the
world. The character arc consists
of an arrogant genius suddenly
becoming selfless when neces-
sary, leading Iron Man, sorry,
Dr Strange, to save the day.
The most notable part of this
film, naturally, is the visual
effects. If you didn’t like the
folding buildings from Incep-
tion, you will hate this film. It
bends and twists in fantastic
ways, pausing only for a self-
aware reference to LSD – look
out for the book in Stan Lee’s
cameo. But thankfully, the
studio didn’t allow this to over-
take everything else; the trap
of using visual effects to com-
pensate for a boring plot-line is
one that they have keenly side-
stepped. The jokes are funny,
even if the many explosions
are over-loud and overused.
The supporting cast are also
mostly interesting. Once you
get past ‘The Ancient One’
being an actual name, Swinton
offers a noteworthy guru,
providing deadpan tongue-in-
cheek lines with great effect.
Conflictingly, the love interest is
horribly two-dimensional, with
even less character develop-
ment than Spiderman’s Mary
Jane or Superman’s Lois Lane.
Although she manages the
occasional joke, McAdams’
Visually stunning yet rather baffling - like Cum-
berbatch himself \\ Marvel Studios
G
L
E
N
D
O
W
E
R
P
L
.
B
U
T
E
S
T
R
E
E
T
SOUTH KENSINGTON
HARRINGTON ROAD
OLDBROMPTONROAD
5 minutes walk from Imperial at 39 Old Brompton Rd, SW7 3HZ
just past Starbucks, the Lamborghini showroom and next door
to the post office
MEN £24 SHAMPOO, CUT AND STYLE
WOMEN £30 SHAMPOO CUT AND ROUGH DRY
WOMEN £40 SHAMPOO CUT AND SALON FINISHED BLOWDRY
or book online at
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk/student-discount
Call 0207 823 8968 or 07881 991 705
BY APPOINTMENT ONLY, CASH ONLY
OFFERS A FANTASTIC
DISCOUNT
FOR ALL STUDENTS
OFFERS A FANTASTIC
DISCOUNT
FOR ALL STUDENTS
Stock up on chocolate, bob some apples and
cut eye-holes in the sheets, because a pumpkin
spice latte won’t save you from those meddling
kids battering down your door for a candy bar
- Halloween is upon us. Costume parties will be
everywhere this weekend, but if you’re anything
like me, when you’re at one of these parties
surrounded by people dressed as characters
from your favourite movies you’ll wish you had
just organised a Halloween movie night instead.
But what’s stopping you from doing just that? As
a wise man once said, “Don’t let your dreams be
dreams” If you’re looking for the kind of film that
will not just creep you out but deeply unsettle
you, here are five (not necesarily horror) films
that are perfect for a spooky night in.
Five alternative
Halloween
classics
The closest to traditional horror that you’ll
find on this list, Silence of the Lambs is one
of the handful of films to take home the Big
Five awards at the Oscars: Best Picture, Best
Director, Best Screenplay, Best Actress (Jodie
Foster), and Best Actor (Anthony Hopkins),
and deserves each and every one of them. It
plays out as a psychological thriller in which
FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Foster) is tasked
with tracking down a serial killer who refers to
himself as Buffalo Bill. Her first investigative act
is to question ex-psychiatrist and incarcerated
serial killer Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins) – a char-
acter far more terrifying than any character has
any right to be. With about twenty minutes of
screen-time in a two-hour movie, Hopkins steals
the entire show in one of the most compelling
and unnerving portrayals of a psychopath ever
put to the screen – but that’s not to say that the
rest of the movie isn’t packed wall-to-wall with
hair-raising sequences delivering psychological
thrill after psychological thrill, with a terrific
central performance from Foster.
Silence of the Lambs (1991)
Alien (1979)
The original definitive sci-fi horror, not to mention the film that first introduced the world to
the definitive sci-fi heroine in the form of Ellen Ripley, Alien is an essential for geeks and movie
buffs everywhere. Awoken from stasis by a mysterious signal from a nearby planetoid, the
crew of the spaceship Nostromo stumble upon what appears to be the remains of a mysterious
alien spacecraft, and a chamber containing a huge number of eggs. Through a series of twists
and turns the crew end up with a monster on their ship, and not just any monster; the Xenom-
orph alien is one of the most iconically gut-wrenching sci-fi aliens to have ever been created,
and is bound to have you screaming in terror during the final spine-chillingly tense sequences.
Coraline (2009)
What? A children’s film on a Halloween movie list - an animated one, no less?! That’s
what I would have thought if I hadn’t already seen Coraline. Restless 11-year-old Coraline
Jones moves into the Pink Palace Mansions apartment complex with her parents, and soon
discovers a portal to the Other World, the inhabitants of which all mysteriously have buttons
for eyes. At first this new world seems awfully cosy, but as time passes and the true nature
of Coraline’s Other Family is revealed, the film becomes more and more chillingly unsettling.
Have you ever been afraid of spiders? Thanks to the stunning stop-motion work by the film’s
animators, you will be now.
It’s a rare occurrence for me that I ever see a film that makes me as consistently uncom-
fortable and as constantly on-edge as Prisoners makes me. The subject matter itself should
indicate enough; the worlds of the Dover family (Hugh Jackman and Maria Bello) and the
Birch family (Terrence Howard and Viola Davis) are overturned when their children are
abducted on Thanksgiving, and one of the affected parents decide, against the advice of
the investigating detective Loki (Jake Gyllenhaal), to take matters into their own hands, with
kidnap, interrogation and torture. Who says you need a monster to make a movie scary?
Prisoners shows that sometimes human beings are terrifying enough.
When Melanie Daniels (Tippi Hedren) and Mitch Brenner (Rod Taylor) meet, sparks fly
and their attraction to each other grows more and more with each time they bump into each
other. Then one night, when Melanie is staying over at a new friend’s house, they’re awak-
ened by a loud thud; a gull has flown straight into the house’s front door and killed itself. The
next day, Mitch’s sister’s birthday party is derailed as the guests are attacked by seagulls.
Sparrows plummet down the chimney of Mitch’s home the following evening. These seemingly
unrelated incidents slowly escalate further and further in this all-time old-school horror classic
by the master of suspense himself, Alfred Hitchcock. Expect a perfectly constructed rising
sense of dread, a fear of birds that you seriously didn’t need, and one of the most ominous
endings in film history.
Tom Stephens
The Birds (1963)
Prisoners (2013)
Tell me, do you like fava beans? \\ Steven
Lam

