imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Do you have the potential to become a social entrepreneur? ACT Now! is
our flagship development programme for student social entrepreneurs.
Social enterprise is doing good through business and innovation, and
we know all Imperial students have the potential to become great
entrepreneurs! You don’t need any previous experience, just the drive to
do something great in the world!
Join us for the second Hack-it, Crack-it workshop in our ACT Now!
programme on Wednesday 2 November. From 14:00 – 17:30 we’ll be
looking at the environmental and societal problems that matter to you,
and how you can use social enterprise initiatives to make an impact.
Find out more about the ACT Now! programme and to register for
Wednesday’s Hack-it, Crack-it session at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/socialaction
Join the second Hack-it, Crack-it
workshop - Wednesday 2 November
Give it a Go is an exciting way to try something
new, meet new people at College and explore
some of the wonderful things that our 350+
different clubs and societies have to offer
before committing to membership.
TRY SOMETHING NEW
take a look at what’s on offer
imperialcollegeunion.org/giveitago
The Conversation Project is an initiative between the Centre for Academic
English (CfAE) and Imperial College Union.
Volunteers who speak English as their first language, or the bilingual
equivalent, are needed to provide informal English conversation sessions
for overseas students and researchers who are looking to improve their
spoken English. You will play an essential role in helping them to improve
their conversational English and feel part of the Imperial community. This
is an excellent opportunity for anyone who has a busy schedule and is
interested in different cultures.
You only have to spend 1 hour a week for 5 weeks at a time decided
between you and your partner on campus.
For more information and to sign up go to:
imperialcollegeunion.org/socialaction
Applications open for The
Conversation Project

