Feature
Th
R
e
c
t
o
r
'
s View
Sir Ronald Oxburgh talks to Owain Bennallack about some of this year's pressing issues
I'd only met the Rector once before and I
can't remember saying anything, except to
acknowledge that yes, he could have
another piece of my spicy beef pizza. So
what was he like? He was thoroughly
pleasant and attentive, incredibly alert and
confident. In terms of breaking his cool
veneer I was completely useless - Brian
Walden, your job is secure. But in terms of
approaching the head of Imperial on behalf
of my humble readership: for my sins I was
impressed. As much as anything else, he
seems much more mindful of student
interests than most other senior figures.
Anyway, below is an abridged and fairly
faithful version. See what you think.
Would you agree with the sentiment that
whilst present students must be consulted
and i n f o r m e d a b o u t a n y s i g n i f i c a n t
changes to the campus environment, long-
term decisions, such as the possible move
of Imperial College Union to the Sherfield
Building, are best left to those qualified
and appointed to make them?
[laughs] "And when did you start beating
your wife?"
It isn't at all hedged...
As far as I'm concerned we have to present
ICU with an opportunity which is so good that
everyone wants to come to Sherfield. Ultimately
- yes, I am the person who is responsible for the
way that money is spent in college but I think
everyone around here likes as far as possible to
work by consensus. I shall be very disappointed
if we cannot come up with a scheme so
attractive that the Union says 'this is what we
want'.
Would you overrule ICU if it said 'this isn't
what we want'?
I can't visualise a situation in which that
could happen. If people come up with over-
riding reasons we've overlooked, then okay, we
have to think again.
Do you think that moving to Sherfield could
lead to a curbing of student activities just
through close proximity to the heart of
bureaucracy?
I wish I thought it could! No, I don'f think
there's the remotest chance.
So there isn't a chance of less late-night
licenses being granted et cetera.
I don't think it has any bearing on it really.
The fact is that although I tend to work here late
- and would undoubtedly be disturbed by
revelries on the Queen's Lawn - by and large
this place functions at the same time that most
students are in classes. It's like a morgue most
evenings.
I just remember Angus Fraser switching off
the b a n d s at the Rag Fete last y e a r
because he had an important businessman
to see.
Well, we had them this year. They wrote in
advance very properly and my attitude was that
I can bare loud music for one afternoon!
ijth© utod]ita[| ffli(BL7g®L7
The influx of medical students and research
to the South K e n s i n g t o n c a m p u s m a y
represent one of the greatest opportunities
for rejuvenation and growth that Imperial
h a s s e e n in living m e m o r y . But is.the
m e r g e r too ambitious, considering the
mixture of new buildings and changes to
the estate, the new course structure and
previously antagonistic student bodies?
No. Next question? [laughs]
Not at all?
No.
Has anywhere else tried the
' m e d i c a l scientist' course
structure?
Yes... a variety of places. But
our aim is to develop a
curriculum which actually leap-
frogs over the other medical schools. The
doctors produced by our medical school will be
let loose on the population in the later part of
the first decade of the next century and the one
thing you can say for sure is that medical
practice is going to be phenomenally different
then.
A modern doctor has got to face a quite
bewildering range of problems. He's got to be
an enormous generalist, highly dependant on
fechnology in a whole range of ways.
[For example] diagnostically in the form of
imaging, in respect to chemical testing and in
the use of information technology in diagnostic
decision making. [Diagnosis and safe drug
prescription] is a heaven sent opportunity for an
expert system.
You could argue that it would be better for
doctors to be more socially aware rather
than scientifically a w a r e , because the
expert system will remove some of the
necessity for technical knowledge.
Now that's dangerous! Anyone who works
with technology has got to know its practical
limitations and that involves having some
understanding of the system. They must work
with an attitude that I can best describe as
'informed scepticism'.
Is the gradual phasing in of students to the
Basic Medical Sciences building an attempt
to p r e v e n t them b e c o m i n g St. M a r y ' s
students or Charring Cross' students?
Not particularly. If we are to achieve the
benefits we are looking for with having an
intake of 250 students rather than the 100 we
have with Mary's, then we have to have them in
one place.
"I would be entirely
happy if a way could
be found to start
taxing all
graduates..."
P © 0 3 (Hood] P9LD(IIDQ(3©3
You h a v e s a i d that you do not h a v e a
problem 'in principle' with top-up fees. But
would you concede that fees may lead to
w o u l d - b e s t u d e n t s f r o m less well off
families avoiding Imperial a n d , if so, how
will you overcome this?
It would be very undesirable if that were to
happen and so the only way I could conceive of
us introducing top-up fees would be to
introduce a scheme of scholarships and
bursaries in parallel.
But presumably the fees are introduced
because there is a problem with money - if
the money doesn't come from fees then it
would have to come from somewhere else?
Basically, the top-up
fees would have to be
applied differentially -
okay, it's not as efficient as
if you charge everyone the
maximum top-up fee but I
think that would be both
socially and academically
unjustifiable.
So in that case you would still be forced to
look elsewhere for funds?
I'm not sure what we would do but anything
which actually discouraged people from coming
to Imperial on the grounds of cost would not be
acceptable.
Would a g r a d u a t e tax be acceptable to
you?
Entirely.
Would you be happy to pay a graduate tax
yourself?
I would be entirely happy if a way could be
found to start taxing all graduates - certainly
everyone who is in the 40% tax bracket.
Is that likely to happen?
I can't judge. I have no idea whether it
would be practicable. Any tax, if it is to be
effective and fair, has to be collectable and I
don't know how collectible such a tax would be.
Your first problem is you have to identify
everyone who is a graduate. You can start with
people who are going through the system but
ideally I'd like to catch people of my own
generation and earlier.
Presumably people would start arguing
that they didn't really benefit from their
time at university.
Ah, no you don't allow that. You say that if
you are earning a rather low salary then you
are either choosing not to benefit financially, by
working in some lowly paid but important
activity - for example teaching - or you are
earning well and you are what you are because,
whether you believe it or not, you are a
university graduate and we're going to judge
you as having benefited so you can jolly well
pay.
IlTTT F E L I X 2
I
J
U
n
9
5

