Feature
F E L I X has run a n u m b e r of stories
concerning crimes such as computer theft
and student drug use this year. Do you feel
crime is getting out of control?
I don't think it is out of control, but I think
it's a serious problem. We have such a
concentration of high value equipment that we
are forced to take a series of measures which
will, I'm afraid, to some extent inhibit our
freedom in the use of the campus and also cost
us quite a lot of money.
So you do appreciate that security may
become over-tight?
Absolutely. It is one of the challenges of
modern society; the more prevalent individuals
within that society who are not prepared to
abide by the rules, the more you have to inhibit
the freedom of the majority in order to stop the
minority doing undue damage to the system. It
is very sad.
I've h e a r d that m e a s u r e s such as spot
checks are being discussed.
Well I've not heard that discussed.
Ah. [laughs]
No, I'm mostly talking about keeping things
locked up.
To what extent s h o u l d the d e f e n c e of
t r a d i t i o n b e put b e f o r e s e n s e a n d
practicality when dealing with the minimal
student interest in the CCU's and increasing
apathy towards the politics of ICU?
[laughs] Answers on two sides of paper
please...
When I was wording this question I was
attempting to angle it so that you would
feel qualified to speak.
[long pause]
I think there is not a single answer and you
really have to play each bit of it by ear. I have
seen many situations where bureaucrats have
come in and made trivial savings at the expense
of a great deal of goodwill, simply through
being insensitive to things which people -
perhaps irrationally - valued very highly.
Equally there are some things which, given the
financial pressures we may be under - [you
have to put to people] whether it is a depart-
ment head or a Constituent College Union or
what have you - "I know you've been doing this
for fifty years but this is what it's costing us and
this is what it's costing you".
O n a n o t h e r p o i n t , s h o u l d the d e g r e e
always come before everything else at
university.
[Thinks a moment] I think that's a decision
what every student has to make for himself.
O k a y . Do you t h i n k that m o r e w o r k
always p r o d u c e s a better a l l - r o u n d
graduate?
It depends what sort of work.
[After hammering out a consensus as to
what question we are talking about]
The reputation that this college has - and I
think it must maintain - is for producing first
class graduates in their specialist fields. But it is
becoming progressively less satisfactory to think
that is all that matters. The justification for the
sort of full-time residential degree course that
we and the other older universities offer [has to
be] to provide an
environment where people
can get an exceptional
degree of technical
expertise and have the
opportunity to develop the
other sides of their
character as well.
S h o u l d these o p p o r -
tunities come from within
the curriculum or outside
of it?
Both really. There are a
lot of opportunities for
people who want them:
running F E L I X , doing one
of the jobs for ICU,
organising a club or display
or a meeting. This is the
kind of experience that
employers are interested in
and it is probably better
gained outside the curri-
culum. Self-expression and
technical communication
can in part be gained from
outside but it is actually
something that you can
address within the curri-
culum. I have an initiative in
its early stages at the
moment to do just that - it
happens to be something
about which I feel very
strongly indeed.
Do you hope to see increasing awareness
of the communication of scientific ideas
from scientists at Imperial?
Yes I do. Without qualification. Yes.
Do you have an all-encompassing vision of
I m p e r i a l C o l l e g e ' s p l a c e in the next
millennium and for how long do you hope
to be part of it?
Oh, my contract expires in 1999, so I think I
won't make it into the next millennium. On the
other hand, what the college does will inevitably
be affected by what we do now.
"Ultimately - yes, I am the
person who is
responsible for the way
that money is spent"
I can see a number ot major scientific
challenges over the next decade. One is the
whole health and biochemical area - we talked
of some of them - those are unbelievably
difficult areas which are going to become
accessible for the very very first time. I think that
the opportunities are both tremendous and
terrifying and I think the college will be
inevitably deeply involved.
Another will be the interaction of human
beings with the environment. The number of
people alive today is exactly twice that when I
was a student, and that is pretty terrifying. If the
planet is to remain habitable and we are not to
perturb it unwittingly by our own activities then
we have to understand how the planet works. I
can see some of the effort of almost every
department feeding into a major college effort
in that area too.
These themes - which are inter-disciplinary
interdepartmental themes - will achieve a much
greater prominence than in the past. I imagine
that we will go into the next century with
broadly the same structure of undergraduate
departments that we have today but probably
with continually changing and more mobile
inter-disciplinary graduate centres. Individual
staff members may well do their teaching in an
undergraduate department but actually do their
research in an inter-disciplinary department
some way away.
A set of umbrella centres or 'missions' on
top of the current departments?
That's right. That's one way in which we will
develop. And I'd like us to have a greater
degree of financial stability then we have now.
Imperial College is rather like a Rolls-Royce with
a mini-sized gas tank. What comes in is what
goes out and we have no reserves. We basically
have to live on our wits.
Presumably that takes up more of your
time then you'd like?
Well there are only so many hours in the day
and one does have to think about that.
W o u l d you like to see m o r e w o m e n at
Imperial and do you think it's possible?
Sure. The medical school will change the
proportion to some extent. It is part of the
college plan that we will continue to increase
the number of women in the college. A
progressively greater proportion of those who
get higher grades at 'A' level are women and it
may be that they filter through anyway. But we
must maintain our efforts of trying to
communicate some of the excitement and
challenge of science to kids at school. 5
FELIX

