Standbye
0
THE LAST m
e
n
u
It started with a clash of cymbals and the hoot of the saxs.
tintin tapped his feet and bent his ears to the sound of
dramasoc's production of a midsummer night's dream -
the rock and roll version.
Once it had credibility but as we all know the quickest way to
lose that is to sell your script, play or cartoon character to
Hollywood and listen to the marketing meeting saying
'whatdamean she hasn't got a name, why don't you call her
Rebecca?' Magpie weeps an elegy for tank girl.
Stylus hits the road, back and won't come back no more, no
more, no more. Errr so that's that then - the last of our
l o n d o n columns.
When pavement took Brixton Academy by storm, tintin was
^ ^ - ^ there. Later on he went home and caught up on the new
I 2 I albums from therapy? and the beastie boys. Vile chimed in
with soul asylum and paradise lost.
rotation regular he/en-/ouise (first year chem) links up with
the curiously named spudnik (first year elect eng but for how
much longer?), and together they give those discs a spin.
^ | losing tracks, firing blanks
past top of the bottoms
Quite what Shakespeare would
think of some of his current
incarnations is open to question.
Personally I like to think that what
would worry him far more is the
ridiculous reverence that we still
seem to universally afford him.
Maybe the case for 'unadulterated
bard-dom' can be sustained for
such serious plays as Macbeth and
Hamlet, but his comedies were
surely designed to be funny, not
bound up in conservatism.
It's a fact that, thankfully,
hasn't escaped the notice of
dramsoc. After their production of
Hamlet earlier in the year, last
week saw their latest Shake-
spearian offering, a customised
and original rock and roll version
of a midsummer night's dream.
Instead of the usual thespian
pronouncements concerning the
mixed up emotions of the mortals;
how Helena loves Demetrius loves
Hermia loves Lysander loves
Hermia but can't marry her etc,
we get the usual thespian
pronouncements shot through
with the odd burst of Roy
Orbison's 'only the lonely' or Patsy
Cline's 'crazy'. It makes for quite
an interesting combination which
in most cases adds to the
underlying humour. Watching
Titania, queen of the fairies,
singing 'you must have been a
beautiful baby' to Bottom, who by
this stage has acquired a donkey's
FELIX
head, certainly adds to the
atmosphere.
Of course using music in this
way does create some difficulties
too. On occasions the stage was
rather crowded as 'the Fairies'
retreated to their instruments but
generally the stage direction was
handled quite well. Perhaps of
more importance was the relative
weakness of the male vocal leads,
particularly during the rather
calamitous version of 'good
vibrations'. This was quickly
forgotten however, as the play-
within-a-play brought 'a mid-
summer night's dream' to a heady
conclusion.
The antics of the mechanicals
and their romantic yet tragic 'pro-
duction' contained the pick of
play's comic acting. Matt Williams
played a hyperactive Bottom with
aplomb, John Savery's Snug was
remarkably straight-faced and Joe
McFadden's legs and feminine
charms were worth the ticket price
alone. In particular their manic
version of '"right" said fred' was a
fitting endpiece to a well acted
shambles.
Equally the overall finale, an
aptly weary 'a hard day's night',
rounded off a pleasing perfor-
mance with an impressive
demonstration of the thought that
had obviously gone into its
direction and orchestration. O
There are two views about tank girl. There are those die hard comic fans
who'll leave the film early with a sour grimace and those who have just
picked up a more general note of interest and fascination for the
character. And for those people, the ones who hadn't heard of Tank Girl
before May, this film is entertaining, despite its similarly to a futuristic
female Rambo.
Tank Girl is set in the future when planet earth has become a desert.
Water has become the most valuable resource. There lives Tank Girl,
referred throughout the film as Rebecca Buck. She's a bad smart ass and
of course the heroine. Due to the deaths of several of her friends in a
latter day commune, she is out to get Kesfilee, the head of Water and
Power Company, played by regular English bad guy Malcom McDowell.
Which is about as structured as the plot gets. In a similar way McDowell's
character is extremely boring; this type of megalomanic is as old and
tiresome as Hollywood's attempts to film graphic novel heroes.
And it's easy to see why comic book fans have found Tank Girl
unacceptable. Changes have been made to make the film accessible to
the general public. Tank Girl's name for starters Apparently this was
thought up at the last minute by co-creator Jamie Hewlett to satisfy the
script writers inability to grasp the concept that Tank Girl is just 'tank girl'.
And then there is Lori Petty's extremely annoying high pitched American
drool which just makes people suicidal.
Still the original comic book heroine is a 40th century Barbarella and
Tank Girl is very much on similar lines. Visually the whole film appears
faithful to the artists and the excellent animated sequences breaks the
film up, creating a little of the outrageous Tank Girl atmosphere. And
finally there are the mutant kangaroos; surely the best thing in the film.
So, Tank Girl is enjoyable and fun to watch but only if you don't
expect the real comic to pop out of the film. The artistic license will
disagree with some people and it's important to remember that the
interpretation of a theme is different for everyone. For those of us who
know it well though, this is Tank Girl without her tank. 0

