ELECTION INTERVIEWS
Sabbatical
^ '(It rviews
<
^ Interviews by Mark Baker
Felix Editor
Alok Jha
Ed Sexton
Picking up on point from your man-
ifestos - Alok, you've said repeatedly
that you want to make Felix into a mag-
azine. How will this be different when
you read it on Friday morning?
AJ: The way a magazine is laid out is
perhaps different from a newspaper. The
way 1 want to make it a magazine is to
give it a front cover, simple, possibly a full
colour front cover depending on how
much we can get in terms of money, etc.
and I also want to make it look really
good so that people will be happy to pick
it up, would like picking it up. But of
course style isn't the only thing as far as
Felix is concerned. I want to make it
much more diverse in its layout and stuff
which a newspaper I don't think allows.
ES: My experience of IC students is
that they pick up Felix on a Friday morn-
ing regardless of how glossy, how much
colour or how it looks. They pick it up
regardless, and what keeps them reading
is a simple, consistent layout more than
anything, so that the articles are there,
they can see what they're about and they
can read them. I think it's very important
that Felix has a very simple layout and
keeps its newspaper format, because the
most important thing is news and sports,
which are best presented in newspaper
style.
Ed, bearing in mind that we are in
a science and technology college with
no humanity at all, how do you plan to
improve the quality of writing in Felix?
ES: It's not a case of getting the peo-
ple in the office at the moment and say-
ing "write better". I think it's a simple
case of having more articles, because
then you can choose which ones are bet-
ter and which ones maybe aren't so
good. The more people we get involved
with Felix, the more choice you've got
and the better quality it can be.
We all know that the Felix editor
doesn't write it all himself, there's a
large amount of organisation and also
a large amount of administration,
especially in the running of the finance.
How can we trust you to run the news-
paper?
A): I must admit that I really don't
have much experience in the finance side
of Felix, so I hope to learn over the next
few months, or the hand-over section.
But I feel I am a trustworthy person, I
have the best interests of Felix at heart,
and the Union for that matter.
ES: I'm going to come straight out
now and admit, when it comes to
finances, I'm really spoddy in that I keep
a strict record of all my personal finances,
and probably know better than Barclays
what my bank balance is, so I can't real-
ly see the finances issue being a problem.
I'm quite careful when it comes to
money.
Briefly, is advertising a good or a
bad thing?
A): Advertising, as far as I'm con-
cerned, is a good thing. It provides us
with more money to do more interesting
things with the Felix next year. I dispute
the fact that advertising makes Felix a
worse newspaper, because as far as I'm
concerned, if we get more advertising we
can produce more colour, more interest-
ing layout and design. This is not to say
that advertising produces better articles
because that comes from more people
contributing to us, but the fact is that
advertising brings in more money and
brings a better quality looking Felix to us
- style as well as content is important.
ES: I see advertising as a necessary
evil. We have to have advertising because
the Union can't provide all the money
that's needed to produce Felix on a year-
ly basis. However, I'd like to keep the
advertising to a minimum because, at the
end of the day, the IC student on a Friday
morning would rather pick up a newspa-
per with the minimum amount of adver-
tising but full of content than pick up a
paper that's glossy but that's got lots of
ads in it.
If companies want to give us lots of
money to advertise, I'm welcome to take
it, but I want to keep the amount of
advertising in the newspaper to an
absolute minimum.
Can you both name three of your
favourite magazines or newspapers
that you think will influence you in the
Job?
ES: This is a tough one. Private Eye,
definitely. Viz, maybe. And the Daily
Telegraph, because its crosswords are
great - not that I agree with its political
stance.
A]: Well, it's well documented that I
want to make Felix into a magazine, so
I'd like to mention three magazines,
maybe. The first on is The Edge, because
I think it has the best styling in the world
and I like to take a lot of influence from
that. The content from magazines like
New Scientist, which has a really great
news section as well as having a front
cover which is maybe dedicated to its
features but has a really interesting and
diverse news section as well as every-
thing else. And also the student maga-
zines like the Graduate, which is a mag-
azine aimed at students which has
recently come out. Its articles are aimed
at students, who have recently graduat-
ed admittedly. They're interesting and
relevant to students.
President
Dave Hellard
Jon Lambert
Why we should vote for you?
DH: For years now, the position of
president has purely been something to
boost people's egos, CV and power and
I want to change this. I'm coming from an
outside position actually want to make
the change, unlike previous candidates
who have stood purely for their own ben-
efit. As we've seen from C&.G, candidates
who stand just for themselves rather than
wanting to do the job and really wanting
to go through with it, there's problems.
So that's why you should vote for me.
JL: Throughout my time here, I've
taken part in all aspects of the union, I've
been involved in clubs, used the bar and
catering extensively and been employed
by the union as well, both as a minibus
steward and to work in the resource cen-
tre. I'm on council at the moment, and
IVe seen how to do the job, how people
have done it well and badly, and I think I
can do a good job and I've got a lot to
contribute.
Dave, obviously you're perceived as
the non hack' candidate. Now, what
have you actually done in Imperial
College Union, and how do you think
you can compensate for your lack of
experience?
DH: I've spent a lot of time in the
union. I feel I can compensate for this
lack of experience of college politics by
the fact that I've got a vast experience of
general politics, including Politics A-level,
World United Nations discussing world
events in Holland, Dublin with over three
and a half thousand students, discussions
with such people as John Prescott, Sir
Edward Heath and Bruce Kemp, who's
the CND founder.
OK, Jon, in your manifesto, you
mentioned the dep rep system, and
how it might be failing. What would you
do to change and improve it?
JL: I think you'd have to start again
with fairly basic steps, just to make the
people who stand for the posts aware of
the sort of thing they need to do. Simple
things such as putting a job description
next to the papers when they're put up
would be a good start and from there we
can only build.
Moving onto the wider political
arena, obviously tuition fees are likely
to be introduced soon. What will you
do to prevent them adversely affecting
students?
20 February 1998
Don't forget that if you don't like any of
the candidates for a post you can always
vote New Election - if 'he' wins there
will be another election in which differ-
ent candidates may stand.
DH: Well, obviously everyone who
stands is going to be for, er against,
tuition fees, and it's a terrible they've
done, the Labour Government, not that I
want to talk about them, but as a
President the main things I can is to try
to do is to work in conjunction with the
CFE, although they're seen as radical,
they're what we've got, and also to a less-
er extent the NUS, and just try and tell
people in Imperial to go to marches, and
for example to attend the walkout on 4
March.
|L: Well, I'm obviously against tuition
fees as I'm sure most students are. I
attended the march last term, where my
voice may not have been heard, but it
certainly joined the masses. I think that
the CFE should be encouraged in their
aims, but not the way they're achieving
them. I think realistically the group with
the biggest chance must be the Aldwych
group, made up of the biggest and most
respected student unions in the country
and I think they're the sort of people that
might be listened to.
What do you see as being more
important as Union President: cam-
paigning on national political issues or
looking at the day to day running of ICU?
JL: I think certainly the day to day
running of the union, that's what affects
people that elect me, if they were to elect
me, and I think that you can achieve a lot
more for Imperial College than you can
for the country or the world.
DH: It's quite similar to the case of
Bill Clinton, where he spends most of his
time in Israel and Palestine and trying to
campaign for world peace, when at
home his domestic affairs are in a terri-
ble state. I think that the time is obvious-
ly spent majorly on Imperial College,
which is what people want generally
because the influence we have to change
domestic affairs is, even though quite
strong, is limited compared to the
changes we can make to Imperial.
And lastly, a slightly fatuous ques-
tion. Do you think that fatness and
chunky knit blue jumpers are vital qual-
ities for a Union President?
JL: I don't think it necessarily has to
be a blue chunky knit jumper, I think any
dark colour will do.
DH: The waistline is a very big thing,
general chunkiness is probably alright, but
the waistline is the most important part.
F i n d t h e f u l l t r a n s c r i p t o n t h e F e l i x
w e b p a g e s a t w w w . s u . i c . a c . u k / F e l i x /

