ELECTION INTERVIEWS 11
20 February 1998
Deputy President
(Clubs Societies)
Adam Cherrington
Simon Cooper
Student Development is one part
of the job of DP(C&S) and perhaps one
that was neglected slightly in the ques-
tions earlier [at the hustings]. Can you
give us your thoughts on the student
development aspect of the job?
SC: Obviously the clubs and societies
are an important outlet for people to
concentrate on their non academic
aspects of their life and character and
everything. So hopefully we'll be offering
them the opportunity to allow that devel-
opment as far as possible.
AC: Student development, in partic-
ular the H&S aspect of Student develop-
ment, is something that is being revised
by Charlie at the moment. And I've been
reliably informed that there is a lot of
work that will be needed to be done next
year, including sorting out risk factors for
certain sports clubs. It's a lot of bureau-
cracy but its something that has to be
done for the whole health & safety
aspect of the clubs and societies as well.
I wonder what you think of the cur-
rent activities card system and perhaps
how we might do better?
AC: The current system is very
cheap. Although the cover you get for
some of the injuries isn't that great.
However, it does provide insurance for
activities which otherwise wouldn't real-
ly be insured, and no matter how mun-
dane and risk-free your club and society
is, everybody should have some insur-
ance. So I feel they are necessary, but
they could be improved in some aspects,
such as the amount of cover.
SC: I feel that they were introduced
- only last year - as a very sort of panic
measure. And I think there is no real need
for them. A proper insurance system
should sort it all out anyway. There's no
need to charge the students directly for
them.
Moving on to the CCU clubs, which
is obviously going to be a big issue, we
have a lot of CCU clubs, especially with
the ICSM. How do you think CCU clubs
should be funded, and what do you
think is the best way that we can
enable them to run on all the different
campuses?
SC: There's obviously a fair degree of
diversity of CCU clubs and spanning the
rugby clubs to things like the RCS run an
astronomy society. The funding for these
is not quite the same as a standard union
society, perhaps to run as a CCU society
they ought to essentially use the same
financial guidelines. Other than that,
there's no reason to transfer them to
become a straight ICU society.
AC: There is a lot of duplication. With
the CCUs on the South Ken campus there
is very little duplication with the large
amount of time there is in the ICU and
CCU structures. However with the emer-
gence of the new medical school there is
a lot of duplication, in fact there is around
91 CCU clubs - most of which belong to
the School of Medicine at St Mary's. A lot
of these clubs could, if they wanted to,
merge with their counterpart on another
campus. However this is not something
that I would actively force people to do.
If people within a society decide "oh,
there's no point in having two - let's form
one club." Then I'll be supporting them all
the way.
There is the mooted possibility of
a fifth sabbatical. What do you think
their role should be and when would
you like to see them introduced?
AC: I think that some sort of welfare
officer would be the best option to go
for. It should come in once the whole
ICU CCU structure has settled down, that
is to say once the full integration of the
medics has happened, which is going to
be at least three years time. Once the
clubs and socs have come together -
those that will be coming together, such
as the BUSA ones - and the whole
ICU/medic situation has totally settled
down, welfare is definitely the way to go.
SC: I'd like to see perhaps a student
bar manager, perhaps a student enter-
tainment's, or alternatively perhaps a stu-
dent sports sabbatical. With the signifi-
cant increase in the number of students
on the campus, it would be nice to see a
further student representative on the
union.
AC: I don't really feel that a specific
sports officer would be fair on the entire
student campus, because we are there to
represent all students and to have a spe-
cific sports officer that would surely ben-
efit the sports clubs more than it would
any other society, of which there are
more societies that are non-sports, than
there are those that do competitive and
non competitive sports.
SC: However the current position of
clubs and societies accounts for both the
sports and non sports societies and to
divide it into two - for sports and non-
sport would be a very easy step to take.
We'll finish up with some simple
questions. Adam, if I wanted to set up
a club, what would I need to do?
AC: well the best person to talk to
would be either be the current DP(C&i>)
or alternatively Mr O'Shaunessey behind
the resource centre. They would give you
all the relevant information you need. You
then need to apply to the CSC - the clubs
society committee - which would best
represent your club. For example, if you
were setting up a Bangladeshi society
then you'd be joining the Overseas
Students Committee.
Simon, some possibly very simple
ones. What does BUSA stand for?
SC: Oh, British University Sports
Association [correct]
CSC?
SC: Err... Clubs Sub Committee?
[wrong, Clubs and Societies Committee]
Who is the CASA?
SC: [long pause] Clubs And Societies
Administrator? [correct]
Deputy President
(Finance CK Services)
James Carter
Dave Warton
Do you think that ULU is value for
money and can you see a time we
might disassociate from it?
DW: I'm not up to date on the entire
ULU situation. I don't think that we're
fully using ULU, as in the actual building
itself, the union building. We shouldn't be
paying for it if people aren't using it. But
then again, it does have its advantages
with affiliations for sports and clubs
there.
JC: The college actually give this
money almost directly straight to ULU for
this. The union - aren't getting value for
money out of ULU. And the question to
ask is really is college going to - if it does-
n't give this money to ULU will it going to
give it to the union? If it wants to give it
to the union, the that's what we want.
Talking briefly about the multi-campus
nature of imperial today, we obviously
have bars at the different campuses.
Who do you think should run them?
JC: The bars are very much an inde-
pendent entity in such that the line man-
agers of those bars actually take a big role
in running the general finances of them.
Its a question of is where the accounts
are going through and who's seeing to
them. Next year I would hope that all
bars at Imperial are financially managed,
not in the end of line sense, but the actu-
al accounts are run through the South
Kensington campus. This is just a matter
of simplicity, really and efficiency. But
they'll run very much the same as usual.
DW: The union's job is to make sure
that the medics do have their bars run by
someone, it doesn't necessarily have to
be the union itself, it's their job to make
sure that someone's doing it. It's very
important for the medics to have their
bars, to keep their bars - its a big social
gathering, but they also use it to meet
clinical students and speaking to medics
they all want to use it for - to keep first
and second years interested in the
course, because some of the stuff they're
doing, and they want to know its all
worth their while so the bar is an impor-
tant place and with the medics coming
over here next year, they're going to be
wanting to use their one over at Mary's
and Charring Cross one, they'll all be
there anyway. If the union decides to run
it we'll have to have a - we'd have to
employ a full time line manager over
there which is going to cost money and
then we'll have to have full time staff.
Mary's bar is run - the assistant bar man-
agers are students, who aren't paid -
they're paid in beer tokens or something
and then you've got staff who are paid
normally. And that's not the way we want
to run it because the accounts, I don't
think, will be that accurate. And that is
one of the things which is causing prob-
lems with the union taking over. But 1
think its up to us as a union to
make sure that they are - the ^^LB
bar is kept there and the service ISHM
provided by someone, not nec-
essarily us.
A few test questions now to see
how well you understand your financial
mumbo-jumbo.
What sort of people, who are
members of a club, can we actually
subsidise the activity for, legally?
DW: You can't subsidise political or
religious activities.
[incorrect; we can subsidise political
clubs, but can't subsidise non-members
of ICU]
Can you spend money on food and
drink, as a club?
JC: You can if you want but you're
not necessarily going to get subsidy for it.
there's legal regulations governing sub-
sidy on this matter. You can subsidise
food and drink for entertainment pur-
poses - for example an external speaker,
what have you, up to 100% in terms of
entertainment for the students that is
limited, there are currently regulations to
control that but I mean clubs and soci-
eties can spend whatever they like on
entertaining people, they just can't nec-
essarily get ICU subsidy for it.
[partially correct - you can pay
speaker's expenses, and normally you
can't get any subsidy for food and drink]
What event are you actually
allowed to spend money on food and
drink for?
DW: You can spend money enter-
taining a guest lecturer - you're allowed
to spend up to £25. Apart from that...
annual dinners?
[incorrect; you can spend money
only on freshers' events, at a maximum
subsidy of £ 1 a head]
If you have to get £200 in mem-
bership and you expect to have 100
members, how much membership do
you charge?
JC: That's quite a complicated equa-
tion, because its very much dependant
on the various proportions of funding -
funding for general equipment or non-
general equipment and it vary much
varies - the income a club generates from
membership is brought by - made up of
their total, is a proportion of their total
budget.
Ignoring fractions of budgets, if
you know that you definitely need £200
how much do you charge?
JC: You get £200 in membership?
No, you have a £200 budget, you have
100 people. It depends what that £200
is for, honestly.
DW: What kind of clubs was it? a
sporting club?
No, ignore all the other calculations.
You need £200 membership from 100
people.
DW: [long pause] if you charge them
£2 you'd be sorted. You'd take, erm... 1
can't remember it.
[oh dear, both getting confused! -
the answer is £2 each plus VAT, although
VAT is more complicated where sports
teams are involved]

