PHOTO FEATURE 20 February 1998 20 February 1998 PHOTO FEATURE
photo anti-clockwise from top left:
Tea picking? The Thai Society performed four
different folk dances.
The Japanese Society's opening number was
origami from what looked like a huge table
cloth. A fold here and there and suddenly it was
a bird.
The Sikh Society with their amazing acrobatic
skills are put to the test in this pyramid.
Cooking macaroni and cheese Italian style.
The flags are flying high and moving fast, Can
you spot your ambassador?
So what do French men and women do on a
Friday night?
I like the food....and the hats
It's all to do with cats this year, the Malaysian
Society perform lion dance in the year of the
tiger.
International Night 1998
T H E W O R L D HAS C O M E TOGETHER
F
or those w h o have never been to
International Night it gives those interna-
tional students a chance to show off their
countries to everyone else and perhaps to show
a little more than a corner shop or take away.
Some of this year's shows ebbed on the side of
satire and light c o m e d y while others were just
plain entertaining.
After a whole evening of spoiling the senses
with food and entertainment the thing that
sticks in my m i n d is the delightful smells from
the main dinning hall. For an absolute food lover
like myself, it's nice k n o w that once a year the
refractory w o n ' t smell of burgers, chips and
below average school dinners replaced by a
multitude of authentic meals from around the
world.
And so to the
saviours of my
empty stomach, the
Italian Society
The only catch was that, with only two food
coupons, the decision of which food to try from
a d o z e n different nationalities was not going to
be easy. However 1 was guaranteed something
different as my taste buds cried out for some-
thing other than Union's £ 1 . 1 0 curries and
SCR's salad and soup. The first choice was a
simple one, as there is something endearing
about Japanese f o o d . M y introduction to
Japanese food last year by a g o o d friend had
me making a b-line to the Japanese Society
stall. After handing over my c o u p o n 1 was close
to heaven experiencing the exquisite taste and
texture of the rice and seaweed, a prawn and
slice of meat.
Japanese food is beautiful but seriously
lacks that filling factor. A n d so to the saviours of
my empty stomach, the Italian Society. They
gave the best deal of the night, those w h o stuck
around were repaid with generous helpings of
free pizza and alas Basics will never taste the
same again. The only problem with having a
small number of coupons is that it limits the
number stalls y o u can visit. 1 would personally
prefer smaller portions with the chance of try-
ing out a larger ranger of foreign delights.
The food fair, rather more diverse than the
local take away, seemed a little quiet this year.
There were some fears that not enough tickets
were sold, but price reductions towards the end
of the evening soon eliviated s o m e that prob-
lem. At least, my fear of a huge m a d rush for
the best food never materialised and it was still
possible to find a snack well after the first hour
- chance to savour rather than scoff.
Experiencing a different culture is one thing but
being at odds with your o w n traditions was
flavour from the Indian Society with their mari-
tal problems sketch, while the Bangladeshi
Society really hit home the highs and lows of
experiencing a different culture with their story
about two brothers. The best act has to go to
Singapore Society w h o s e Rasa Sayang song and
kindergarten look (even with students dressed
up as flowers) still sticks in m y head.
I was not disappointed with any of the acts
this year, I saw a bewildering amount of raw tal-
ent, live origami folding on a huge scale, folk
stories, folk dances, belly dancing, and even a
song about a cactus plant care of the newly
formed German Society. The night generally ran
without incident, except for one no show,
though the hosts Elaine, Ben and Rathna kept
up the comic relief.
London is a truly international city, and from
the 100 different nationalities at IC we have the
best of the whole world.
Writing by Wei Lee, Pictures by Ivan Chan and
Thomas Deltombes.
IBSiB
M y thanks go to all at the
O S C for satisfying the gen-
eral public and my stom-
ach (for free). Especially to
all the societies, their tal-
ent is unbelievable, to
Tanya Siraa - Vice Chair,
for all the her funny c o m -
ments that unfortunately
can't be printed.

