NEWS 20 February 1998
King's Court for London Student
ANDY OFORI
An enraged King's College Union
are on the warpath over a front
page article in last weeks ' L o n d o n
Student' paper. The controversial
article, written by editor John
Handelaar, informed of the Union's
"unplanned loss which might be as
high as £ 2 0 , 0 0 0 " , relating it to the
highly sensitive suspension of the
King's U n i o n M a n a g e r , James
Chirgwin, w h o has apparently been
granted sick leave since December
pending investigation (Felix 1 102).
The item incited i m m e d i a t e
libel claims from King's Union lead-
ing to threats of legal action. Facts
and figures quoted were censured
as "unfounded" by an Union repre-
sentative in the aftermath of the
article's release, and it w a s further
claimed the piece would "affect
disciplinary proceedings" surround-
ing the General Manager's case.
Felix were the first to inform
John Handelaar of the legal hostili-
ty he could. The self-assured edi-
tor, although surprised, was unruf-
fled in his response, commenting in
reference to his article, he was
"extremely careful to make sure it
was not libellous". The article was
carefully constructed around
leaked information from the King's
Union and Handelaar defended his
sources as people w h o "would
know one way or the other".
The article signifies the first
major outburst in an atmosphere of
escalating tension over the issue;
various interested parties, including
Felix, have been compelled to fall
into line with King's 'self imposed
gagging order' until a conclusion
they view as satisfactory has been
reached. John Handelaar spoke of
the numerous phone calls he had
regularly received on the matter
since news of the suspension circu-
lated seven weeks ago, stating
"Something involving large a
amount of student's money is very
wrong and students d o w n at King's
have a right to know", he went on
to describe the Union's actions as
"fundamentally an attempt to
smoke out what really is". London
Student is o w n e d by U L U , leaving a
query over King's seemingly para-
doxical intention to sue a body of
which they are an integral part. The
London Student editor has adopted
the "wait and see" approach on the
legal front and was amenable to
c o m p r o m i s e , explaining he was
prepared to print corrections along
with an apology if King's could pre-
sent proof contrary to his article
M a t t Davies, president of King's
Union president viewed the article
in Britain's largest student paper as
an affront to the union, objecting to
the "total factual inaccuracies of the
whole thing." In answer to the crit-
icisms depicted in the article, Matt
Davies counter claimed the issue
had been dealt with openly and
estimates for any unaccountable
amounts were wildly exuberant.
He saw the piece as "pretty much
d e f o r m a t i o n " of the union and
explained the report has lead to
their "seeking top legal advice".
John Handelaar was officially
informed of King's Union intentions
at last Tuesday's U L U council
meeting where he suffered a tor-
rent of aggressive questioning as
well as threats of a ruinous legal
action that could seriously jeopar-
dise U L U ' s financial situation.
Look at the Size of My Policies!
continued from front page
already available at IC, and suggest-
ed that "Positive steps should be
taken toward value for money". M r
Wharton echoed these sentiments,
adding that if the Union were in a
position where disaffiliation would
increase their funding, then ICU
should quit U L U . Both James and
Dave pledged to keep the M e d
school bars open, with M r Carter
promising no price rises if ICU were
to take over their running as "It
would make no difference if the bars
were run from South Kensington".
The third pairing of hopefuls
were those for Deputy President
(Clubs &. Societies), A d a m
Cherrington and S i m o n C o o p e r .
Questioned on the future of the
C C U structure, S i m o n s a w the
Constituent Unions as "Providing
atmosphere and spirit" in the Union,
whilst A d a m c o m m e n t e d that there
is huge potential for the C C U s - giv-
ing 1CSM Students' Union as his
example. O n the issue of BUSA,
when asked whether single entry
w o u l d ever be viable A d a m
answered that "It needs to be viable
if the teams are to be competitive,
even if they are all-medic sides"
adding that he would encourage the
extension of the inter-CCU Sparks
Cup to cover the medical teams and
thus aid interaction. Simon replied
that "Two years on campus togeth-
er will make them play together".
However, both candidates denied
that they would force mergers for
non-sporting clubs within ICSM,
A d a m feeling " N o need to force a
join", and Simon suggesting that all
societies should be allowed "Self-
determination" over their future.
who knows how the Union works,
and could be taken seriously, whilst
Dave saw his lack of experience at
ICU as a positive trait, giving him an
insight into "the feelings of average
students". W h e n questioned, both
Clockwise from top-right: (on Lambert; Dave Hellard; Alok |ha; Ed Sex-
ton; and Simon Cooper and Adam Cherrington go the full monty.
Photos: Mark Smith, David Roberts and Matt Kempton
Finally, the two Presidential can-
didates, Jon Lambert and Dave
Hellard presented the strongest
contrast. Jon portrayed himself of
the voice of experience, someone
candidates advocated free educa-
tion, with Dave supporting the work
of the Campaign for Free Education
and the proposed national student
strike. Ion however, felt that "Sit-ins
don't achieve anything, and whilst
agreeing with the aims of the CFE,
he did not advocate their methods.
O n the subject of accommodation,
Dave proposed an "ICU standard for
approved landlords". Jon saw the
problem as "A fundamental lack of
Hall space", and agreed that all first
years, across the College, need to
continue to be housed in Halls.
Wednesday saw the candidates
playing to a packed bar at St Mary's,
with medical issues being the hot
topic. Both Presidential candidates
denied there was no time scale on
the existence of the I C S M S U
President as a sabbatical role, and
promising to keep the medical bars
open. They also promised extra
events for the new medical students
during freshers' week, to ensure the
sense of unity between the medics
will continue.
However, most other answers
were d r o w n e d out, and instead
replaced by a torrent of flanning,
pint-downing, singing and arse-
waving. As a result, the most fre-
quently asked question of the night
revolved around how far any of the
candidates would go to win the
mystical 'medics block vote'.
Answers varied, with both of the DP
(C8JS) candidates denying they
would sell their soul to Satan, but
Dave Hellard admitting that he
would willingly sleep with the 1CSM-
SU President to win the election.

