Felix Felix 934 15 May 1992
men
i*?4%&
mm
mm
nee u/wra a f/we there
was a sad empire which
does not belong to the
real world. It was an
ancient land, a land that
had had battles both civil
and national. It had enjoyed good
times and suffered bad, but where
this story begins it was the general
consensus that it was having a bad
time.
Being the cmnpletelg ftcttttmta atartj of an empire in tlje
3slea nf Huperbtfrea. Snacribefl, in part, b£ ilarge
It was ruled over by a mighty Emperor, who was ruled over by his beautiful wife. He was not long for this world and was
determined to leave a concrete folly by which future generations would know him. His vast and wealthy Empire was divisioned
into a number of ministries and departments housed in the imposing Surefire Fortress. For instance, the Ministry of Food, run
by Sir Easteregg, was responsible for the rations of the citizens; the Ministry of Truth, run by Sir Stefan de Brash, covered
foreign affairs; the Treasury was run by Baron von Nichtstadt; the Civil Service was under Lady Renard; the Department of
Collectivisation and Fabrication was run by Lieutenant Tristan Khartoum and the Ministry of Statistics was under Baron von
Mich.
Things had got rather bad of late - many of the ministries had been reorganised to cope, indeed the Department of
Collectivisation and Fabrication had to resort to martial law to work at all. This was because the Department has squandered
all its money on building a city way out to the west which nobody wanted to live in, and which could not be sold. The poor
citizens who had tied cottages in the Empire had to pay more taxes to cover up this mistake. In addition to this misery, the
previous years had seen swarms of bandits and brigands plaguing the Empire and a new militia had been brought in to thwart
them. In their bright schutzstaffel uniforms they fearlessly patrolled the cities of Surefire, Blight and the Royal Gardens, but
they never dared reach the wild southern province of Eiblin.
As ever, the poverty and wretchedness of the citizen's lives led to stories of wild extravagance in Surefire - for instance that
they had grace-and-favour mansions in the Royal Gardens and the Royal Gate, when all about them citizens slaved to scrape
together the taxes exacted by the Department of Collectivisation and Fabrication. Other stories took the form of ignoble
allegations about some high placed military man - surely untrue! The tale related that this man lived with a cook, one of the
best in the land. Her wares were sold for miles and many a feast was celebrated with a toast to her infinite prowess. The
story ran that even though his wife was so talented, the man was deeply in love with the fair Madame Isolde de Spasm. And
what heightened the tragedy was that Madame de Spasm only wanted the baby her own husband denied her.
The oppressed people in the land did not like any of their overlords, and they got utterly fed up with their mistakes,
indiscretions and extravagance, but there seemed to be very little they could do about it. Many had forgotten the gallant
knight who had fought their cause so many times before. Sir Otto d'Oignon, and his fearless-though-unpredictable-and-rather-
eccentric cat, had a mission to bring the overlords to justice, to defend the citizens, to fight for a decent place to live and a
reduction in taxes. The citizens demanded some action from the Empire, but as usual nothing was done and so the story
continues...
—18—

