FRIDAY 24 JAN
1
“Keep the
Cat Free”
THIS ISSUE...
HANGMAN
Brrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr.
Frozen, it’s ice cold!
24
FILM
The Epigenetic
revolution 		 6
SCIENCE
24/01/14
Issue 1565
felixonline.co.uk
Hangman refuses to
say sorry. 30
The Reappraisal of the
British State
Eoghan Totten on the Coalition Govt. 10
Download our
new iOS App
Out Today:
The mobile experience
T
his week the Science Museum announced
that they have come to a mutual agreement
with College to relocate the Science Museum
Library as part of a scheme that will create a
new Science Museum research centre at it’s
South Kensington site.
The move, which will take place over approximately six
weeks, will commence on Feburary 3rd, and will see the
entire 3rd floor collection move to the Science Musuem’s
library and holding facility in Wroughton.
The primary undergraduate student use of the Science
Museum library has been as a study space, while the
library often caters to the literary needs of the museum
staff. While the move will see the removal of the entire
collection, many books in the collection are also available
at other museums like the British Library and the Senate
House library, both in London. Students will also be able
to visit the Wroughton library via appointment if they
require books that are unique to the Science Museum.
The College Library staff have the concern of students
as their top priority and will be working to ensure that
disruption is minimal while the books are in transit.
They will also provide alternate locations for the 36 study
spaces available in the Sci. Museum library and will try to
keep noise to a minimum. They will also be compiling a
list of Frequently Asked Questions for students to consult
about the move and how they can access books that they
may need from the collection in the future.
Simon Harding-Roots, Imperial’s Chief Operations
Officer, said: “I’m very pleased that, by working closely
with the Science Museum, we have a plan for the future
that works for both partners. On our South Kensington
Campus space is at a premium, so freeing some up
through the new arrangement will be incredibly helpful
for our teaching and research activities. We look forward
to working closely with the Science Museum, and its new
research centre, in the years to come.”
After the departure of the Science Museum library, the
space will remain empty while a commitee convenes in
College to discuss the best way in which to use spaces
around campus, lead by Professor Stephen Richardson
Associate Provost (Institutional Affairs). Student
feedback will be welcomed in considerations of future
uses of the space.
In the meanwhile if students and staff have any queries
regarding the changes taking place the library is available
for communcation via library@imperial.ac.uk.
For more information about the Science Museum
Library at Wroughton visit: http://bit.ly/1dZsx0d
Joe Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Farewell Science Museum Library
The Science Musuem Library is moving, and change is coming to the 3rd Floor.

