10 FRIDAY 24 JAN
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Reappraisal of the British State
O
n January 20th
European tensions,
sparked by Prime
Minister Cameron’s
utilisation of migration
as a political chess piece, came to a
head. The tone of UK-Europe relations
were reflected in the words of
German Foreign Minister (and Social
Democrat), Walter Steinmeier.
“Many young people from southern
Europe are coming to us, to learn and
study. That benefits us and also helps
the states from which they come...
Whoever questions that damages
Europe and damages Germany.”
The UK Prime Minister continues
to uphold this political stance; it could
be construed as an attempt to pander
to popular (and sadly,uninformed)
British opinion and pressure from
Tory lobbying. This is dangerous in
context of the rhetoric coming from
other European nations who appear
prepared to compromise on EU
political matters. One fears, therefore,
that the patience of Europe is but a
thin membrane, ready to split.
Parallels can be drawn with
discussion within The Conservative
Party in relation to redaction of
the British state: the language is
(unintentionally) damaging. Austerity
and fiscal rectitude have been
pursued aggressively over a three year
period. British Chancellor, George
Osborne, has actively championed
their necessity. In the wake of
positive global economic trends some
advocate the idea that cutting the state
might be ‘good in itself’. As surmised
by Jeremy Paxman on a recent BBC
Newsnight broadcast (January 13th),
many politicians are now considering
a complete “reappraisal of what the
state is for”.
The debate is nothing new. Many
argue that Governmental interference
with society is draconian, stifling and
the embodiment of an Orwellian
nanny state. One would concede that
there are legitimate grounds for this:
Smoking bans, seatbelt legislation
and an infinity of ‘red tape’ have been
introduced over the past half century.
Many would argue that there is a
critical threshold for State interference
(and size) and that to exceed it violates
a citizen’s inalienable right to define
how they live. Public spending has
peaked within the last decade at 47%
of GDP. These sentiments paved the
way for the flagship Tory policy of ‘Big
Society’ in 2010.
To my mind this is where the line
of thought crumbles. A decoupling
of society and state is ultimately
destabilising for a nation. Society
originally gave consent (albeit
inferred) to the state to uphold order
and integrity. State is for society, not
despite it. Reduction of state size may
not provide a feasible solution for a
nation with population 63.2 million
(2012).
The debate could be ploughed ad
infinitum. In light of this I will raise
but a few key flags. What form would
a wholesale retreat of public services
take? To what would multilateral
privatisation give license? These
considerations prove unsettling and
even appear to sit uncomfortably
with members of Government. This is
typified by ring-fencing of the health
service and overseas aid budget.
One might argue that the rhetoric is
nothing but political grandstanding.
Nonetheless the rhetoric could be
irreversibly damaging. It shares a
common thread with the stance by
some politicians that to be ‘on the
Eoghan Totten
Comment Editor
@eoghantotten
dole’ is morally questionable. This in
turn links with anti-economic migrant
rhetoric. If one simultaneously
considers the UK’s ongoing conflict
with the European Court of Human
Rights over repeal of the ‘life sentence’
for murder, their threats to withdraw
from the Human Rights Act and their
criticism of the Lisbon Treaty it is clear
to see that the British Government is
recurrently intent on defining ‘us’ and
‘them’. This is undeniably dangerous
on the European front, as the words
of ECHR President Dean Spielmann
reflected when he advised the UK PM
to be careful “not to risk credibility.”
In the national context it could
prove disastrous. My intention is
not to invoke a Domesday scenario.
I simply believe that a decoupling
of society and state is nonsensical.
Each citizen has a duty to uphold
the rule of law, revere civic space and
‘contribute’ to the general order of
things. One worries that there would
be no incentive to do so if the state
were deduced. Society could become
irrevocably unpleasant, with money
plugging the void left by obligation.
Look no further than the Salem Fire
Department, Arkansas: If things fall
apart and you haven’t paid, no one will
douse the flames.
Why the Coalition Government should tread carefully
T
hose who complain that
British politicians lack
principles should look
to Northern Ireland.
There is surely no other
part of the UK where
so many political leaders have such
stupid, boring and ultimately harmful
principles. Take Edwin Poots,
Northern Ireland’s Health Minister,
who has spent £37,000 of taxpayer
money on his legal efforts to ban gay
men from donating blood and £57,000
trying to prevent civil partners from
adopting, citing homosexuality as “an
illness”. This is the Health Minister.
I spent the Christmas holidays
at home in Belfast where I was
surrounded by reminders of some
of the province’s peculiarly pointless
principles. Just at the end of my street,
3menkeptaweeklyvigildrapedinred,
white, blue and drizzle, huddled in the
middle of the road. A year ago there
were enough of them to block that
road but now they watch haplessly as
cars pass them by. They are “flaggers”;
Loyalists determined not to stop
protesting until the Union Flag flies
above Belfast City Hall 365 days of the
year, as it did until December 2012
when the council voted to fly it only
on royal occasions. This movement to
a more inclusive, shared public space
has been labelled “cultural genocide”
by many of these flaggers.
If only our politicians would
pay these lonely warriors as little
attention as the passing motorists
do. Depressingly, these flag flying
fanatics have been holding Unionist
politicians to ransom, preventing any
hint at agreement with Nationalists.
The past few months in Northern
Ireland encompassed talks between
the 5 main parties, facilitated by
American diplomat Richard Haass.
The purpose of the talks was to tackle
the issues of flags, parades and the
past. “Flags” means not just the Union
Flag on Belfast City Hall but the flags
that appear on street lights across the
country as crude markers of tribal
The New Year in Northern Ireland
than pro-choice London. While
Unionism is loyal to the Crown, this
loyalty comes not via England but
Scotland, where much of Northern
Irish Protestantism originates. To be
Ulster- Scot is to be British and yet
Scotland is this year to vote on leaving
the Union altogether.
Theresponsesofarhasbeentorevert
to the old battle cry of “no surrender”
and paint more things red, white
and blue. This is hardly sustainable.
A mature Unionism that is relaxed
in its own skin is desperately needed
but none is offered by the parties in
power. Northern Irish Nationalists
have successfully demilitarised their
identity; now it’s the other side’s turn.
Rory Fenton
Columnist
Internationally chaired talks fail to deliver reform
territory. “Parades” meant the Loyalist
Orange parades that take place every
July and are banned from marching
through many Catholic areas. “The
past” meant addressing the civil
war the country has just left behind,
including the issue of more than 1,500
unsolved murders from the time. Both
the Democratic Unionist and Ulster
Unionist parties refused to accept the
proposals put forward by Haass, which
were accepted by the Nationalist
parties. Put simply, the proposals
would have meant accepting that a
shared Northern Ireland means not
enforcing one identity over any other.
What is remarkable about the talks
was the willingness of Nationalists
to accept compromise. In proposing
that Belfast Council fly the Union Flag
only on royal occasions, Sinn Fein,
once the political wing of the IRA, was
accepting that the British flag would
be flown on land they consider Irish.
Rather than take this as an important
victory, Unionists saw no such thing,
digging in their heels and clutching
blindly to their flag. It’s often said
that the Nationalists are too clever to
admit they’ve lost while the Unionists
are too stupid to realise they’ve won.
The unnecessary flag controversy is a
case in point.
Perhaps it’s foolish to expect a
politics based historically on identity
and fear of difference to be rational
or reasonable. Politic-as-identity
goes someway to explain our present
madness: Northern Irish Unionism is
undergoing an identity crisis. Many
Unionists find themselves left behind
by a United Kingdom that increasingly
values diversity and individual rights.
The stance of mainstream Unionism
on LGBT rights would see them
shunned even by UKIP and their
insistent opposition to legal abortion
is more in tune with pro-life Dublin
“Nationalists have successfully
demilitarised their identity; now it’s
the other side’s turn.
”

