11
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 24 JAN
COMMENT
NHS Data Sale: Ramifications?
A
ll members of the
broadly defined ‘left’
occasionally fall into
the trap Yeats left us
when he said ‘the best
lack all conviction whilst the worst
are filled with passionate intensity’.
Thankfully, my spell amongst the
‘best’, demonstrated in the sickening
sentimentality of last week’s piece, has
been rudely cut short by the Tories
frankly mind-boggling new ‘bright
idea’ – selling NHS data to insurance
companies!
The experts are full of their usual
panglossian justifications, that this
‘new’ idea will bring about the best
of all possible worlds and lead to new
scientific advances. Certainly, it may
well lead to insurance companies ‘re-
identifying’ certain patients, but this
is a ‘small, theoretical risk’; says Mark
Davies the new Health and Social
Care Information Centre’s ‘public
assurance director’. The title isn’t even
Orwellian: the Tories know that the
public is going to have to be ‘assured’,
because they sure as hell aren’t going
to be ‘insured’ any longer.
Forgive me, I move too fast; some
of the public isn’t going to be insured
any longer. The economic ‘liabilities’
who are at risk of ‘illness’ and ‘disease’
and ‘death’ and other such ‘theoretical
risks’. And insurance companies have
an exemplary ethical record: take
Friends Life’ who are refusing to pay
Nic Hughes’ family the expected 100
thousand pounds life insurance. Nic
Hughes died of cancer at the age of
44 leaving behind wife Susannah
and their twin 8 year-olds behind.
But there is good reason for Friend’s
Life’s decision: Nic Hughes lied on
his application. He failed to disclose
‘pins and needles’. For those of you
who don’t know, this devastating
disease is responsible for the deaths
of zero people worldwide in a given
year. Symptoms are a brief, slightly
annoying itch. Causes are not well
known but often linked with sitting
down for extended periods of time.
So, who can fail to understand
when this company which manages
111 billion pounds ‘on behalf of its
customers’ makes the tough decision
to punish Nic Hughes for his sin by
not granting his remaining family the
support they had expected and relied
on. What fine and unmoving moral
fibre in the face of such a pathological
case. Pathological meant, of course, in
a strictly Kantian sense.
If you are not already persuaded,
then rest assured (though for certain
technical reasons not insured…)
there is sound precedent. Private
practices like Bupa already have access
to sensitive patient data, and the
comparison is relevant because Bupa,
being a private practice, is clearly keen
to take money away from patients’
families. And anyway, Mike Davies is
unsure how ‘helpful’ the distinction
between ‘private’ and ‘public’ is ‘these
days’. Try asking at your local NHS
and then some ‘helpful’ people might
enlighten you. To the order of several
thousand pounds.
This will improve scientific medical
research and that is no bad thing.
Forget, that the health industry now
has multiple times the funding from
the American government as the
famous ‘military-industrial complex’.
Forget that this same medical industry
managed to get naturally occurring
chemical synthesis routes patented.
This has had two effects, strangling
the pharmaceutical industry in the
‘developing world’ and effectively
preventing scientists from releasing
cures to diseases unpatented even if
they would like. It would seem that to
Jonas Salk’s question ‘Can you patent
the sun?’ the law has answered yes.
So, as you can see, the
pharmaceutical industry will benefit,
the insurance companies will benefit,
and other people will automatically
benefit as a result. Who exactly these
other people are, I do not know. There
is a curious practice often noticed
whereby policy makers often become
consultants for companies which have
benefited from their policies, but this
being a purely contingent event does
not amount to corruption. This would
be the post hoc ergo propter hoc
fallacy, as the logicians like to say.
We should perhaps thank the
Tories for understanding a basic
inconsistency that has long gone
without resolution but first articulated
in Samuel Butler’s Erewhon. It is of
courseasridiculoustopunishcriminals
for their crimes if these crimes are as
a result of social conditions as it is
to punish the diseased. And since, of
course, criminals must be punished,
and since, of course, criminals are
almost wholly the working and lower-
middle classes, and thus criminals
are criminals as a result of their
social conditions, it follows that any
reasonable government must punish
the sick and unhealthy. If these sick
and unhealthy should be so indecent
as to die, then this fleeing from just
punishment must of course lead to
the transference of said punishment
to those that were the lately deceased’s
nearest and dearest. It is this that the
Tory government has proposed and
for this David Cameron, I solute ye.
Christy Kelly
Writer
The Role of Role Models
Christy Kelly Tells It All
I
will confess now that I have never really
understood the appeal of role models. It
has always seemed slightly ridiculous to
treat someone as if they were an exemplary
figure, and with a little maturity I also came
to recognise the symbolic violence in raising
that someone above their idiotic existence into
something more… And leaving some Lacanian
objections aside (‘il n’y a pas de rapport sexuel’), I
generally find the idea that a person needs some
exemplar psychological support slightly belittling.
This may of course be a sign of my own comfort
thus far, and there is little I can or intend to do to
deny this, but if this be the case then there should
be a little discernment about the choice of role-
model.
Take, for instance, the recently ‘pardoned’ Alan
Turing, to be subject of a big new blockbuster
starring the new darling of the Guardian left,
Benedict Cumberbatch. Everyone should know
the Turing story by now, but I must admit I find
it baffling that he has become an LGBT icon.
Certainly, what was done to Alan Turing was
disgraceful by any standards, but it is hard not to
sense a certain rather repulsive undercurrent of
‘how dare they do that to a genius or a war hero’
when his story is told. At the very least, the tales of
Turing’s conviction rarely have anything positive
to say about Arnold Murray, Turing’s then lover.
Perhaps because his story wasn’t ‘tragic’ enough –
he was given a conditional discharge and nobody
knows anything further – perhaps because he
‘betrayed’ Turing by stealing a tenner and letting
his friend rob the house.
Forgive me if I don’t believe that everyone is
shocked by the fact that British law prosecuted
homosexuality; people still seem to maintain that
somehow they are not being homophobic when
they object to gay marriage. Similarly, I wonder
how far these writers would approve if Alan
Turing had been an unexceptional middle-aged
academic taking in a homeless 19 year old girl.
At best, the act becomes a slightly patronising
act of charity inspired out of love or pity, at worst
it is a frank abuse of an imbalance in power and
the academic gets what he deserves if his new
girlfriend helps herself to the family silver. Why
this is different in Turing’s case, I don’t know
(‘boys aren’t helpless like girls…’).
Finally, does a man who complains that his
boyfriend has stolen his stuff – police entrapment
or not – really understand the difficulties your
average homosexual faced in Britain from the
thirties to the fifties? Cambridge was a very
tolerant place as far as male sexuality was
concerned, but not exactly a place open to the
general public or that many women for that
matter, and it is hard to see in its tolerance
anything but a leftover of the implicitly accepted
homosexuality in the monastic orders of which
Cambridge is an outgrowth.
It seems to me that Alan Turing satisfies a
rather different function as icon than, say, a figure
like Harvey Milk. There have of course been
attempts to romanticise Milk as well, including
the relatively recent film with Sean Penn. I don’t
trust Republicans, and I do not consider the
claim that Milk was assassinated a settled matter
(assassination requires some political intent,
not just personal or ideological hatred. I admit
these are subtle distinctions, but I consider most
cases are adequately covered by a different word:
murder).
I am against this idealisation generally, but
at least Milk did struggle for and bring about
concrete reforms. The iconography around Alan
Turing, on the other hand, seems to satisfy a
more puerile function, the identification with
a ‘victim’. There is a long tendency to idealise
suffering and justify it through its ‘virtue’ by
creating ‘victims’. Think of the numerous female
victims in literature: Imogen, Justine, Ottilie, little
Nell. The one’s too pure and too unworldly to stay
alive: For the world’s more full of weeping than
they can understand – at least, in their poor, dear,
little heads. Similarly, think of ‘anti-racist’ books
like To Kill a Mockingbird, or Uncle Tom’s Cabin,
beloved of white liberals who can’t even stand
(or have never heard of) moderates like WEB du
Bois, or the genuinely powerful (early) Langston
Hughes.
However, this discussion isn’t just my usual
armchair socialist complaint about the state of
the world. The growing consensus about how
to ‘deal with women in science’ is to promote
scientific role models.
This is more general than just in science, a
couple of years ago I heard Michele Bachelet, ex
(and likely next) President of Chile and then head
of the newly created body UN women, speak of
the need for greater visibility of women in leading
roles.
This may quite possibly be effective in business
and politics, though Rwanda, the country which
has consistently topped female representation
poles since the genocide, and the only country to
have had a proportion of female representatives
somewhat reflective of the actual demographic
situation for more than five years, has not had a
female president and one female Prime Minister.
This might be taken as a sign that Rwanda still has
a long way to go, but really, if we compare with
the United Kingdom languishing at 58 on the list,
I would interpret the data to suggest that having
women taking a leading role in politics is not
necessarily incompatible with massively sexist
systems.
However that doesn’t change the fact that
perception is important, and certainly the
immediate identification scientist = male is
something that needs changing. But this is very
different from saying ‘Look! Women can be
scientists too!’ There is a slight of hand pulled
here when, for instance on Ada Lovelace Day,
we all gather round at look at the wonderful
achievements that a Marie Curie or a Emmy
Noether or whoever made. It isn’t that people
shouldn’t recognise that these women were
incredible scientists, rather people are too aware.
I am not saying that we should stop recognising
that these women were fantastic scientists,
and nor should we ignore the ‘handicap’ of an
essentially sexist academic world. Neither do I
mean find other brilliant female scientists who
also deserve to be role models – Lynn Margulis,
Jocelyn Bell Burnell or indeed Ada Lovelace. The
bar is set too high.
Because let’s face it: we’re not all Nobel Prize
material. And telling me that I am capable of
studying my subject because, look at all these
people far cleverer than you who also studied it,
is not really the way to attract me to that subject.
And actually the message is worse: ‘Look at all
these clever women. This is what you must be
to prove you are worthy to study science’. Mercy,
please.

