13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 24 JAN
COMMENT
On adaptations and dragons
A
s you are all
undoubtedly aware,
the Peter-Jackson-
directed Tolkien-
related orc-genociding
movie trilogy for this decade is The
Hobbit, which was for many cause
of puzzlement and bewilderment, as
the novel it is based upon is much
shorter than The Lord of the Rings,
and hence does not seem to be the
kind of story that needs nine hours to
fully tell. The way it was stretched in
a trilogy became readily apparent as
soon as the first movie was shown and
subsequently reinforced by second
one, and that is by way of adding a lot
of made up stuff that was not present
in the book. This move has had a lot
of fans and purists up in arms, who
have regarded all these additions with
the suspicion reserved for a filthy
hyperactive child who excitedly asks
to hold some valuable item. The fear in
both cases is that our precious’ pristine
original beauty will be dirtied and
destroyed by this immature peasant
and RUINED FOREVER because it is
not handled with the reverence and
respect due to holy relics. Rivers of ink
and fields of pixels (if pixels are indeed
measured by the fieldful) have been
written in nerdrage about this subject,
and I cannot understand why some
people are so upset by the additions.
Alright, I’m lying. I understand
perfectly why people are upset, and,
when scrutinised closely, it comes
down to one of the tritest and oldest
clichés in the book: the fear of the
unknown. I get it: when you know
in advance how every scene is going
to play out because you’ve read the
source material and suddenly there’s
somethingdifferent,oracharacterthat
wasn’t present in the original, or, god
forbid, an interpretation of a certain
plot point that doesn’t match, there
is the potential for a sense of loss and
dismay. Additionally, a departure from
the established canon can be a risky
mistake in terms of the overarching
narrative, as a change of even a small
element can have a domino effect on
the rest of the story, and be ultimately
detrimental if it ends up invalidating
a plot point that would’ve made sense
had the scene been kept as in the
original. As proof of this, there have
been plenty of adaptations of books
which have ended being subpar on the
silver screen because of half-baked
backstories and extraneous details
that were not present in the novel.
Just go on any forum to discuss any
adaptation ever and you’ll find lots of
people who complain how changing
even one iota of the original betrays
its spirit and intention. While in many
cases they can be correct, in that there
have been adaptations that are inferior
to the source material, the problem is
that the changes and additions have
not be done well rather than that they
have been done at all.
The question, at this point, is what
should an adaptation be, and while
the prevailing opinion might be “a
recreation that is as faithful as possible
to the original in a different medium”,
I don’t think that that is the best way
to approach the subject. Treating the
source as the ultimate and perfect
authority, essentially making it some
sort of dogmatic canon, is rendering it
a disservice and needlessly confining
it to one interpretation. For starters,
different media have different ways
of telling a story, and expecting a
scene that works in a book to work
in the same way in a movie might be
outright impossible. Even assuming
that it translates perfectly, anything
that is not outright stated (and even
then, in many cases it still can) lends
itself to massive speculation and hole-
filling from the viewer or reader: the
motive of a certain character, the
reason of a certain unlikely friendship,
the cause of something unexplained,
this and much more can be discussed
and analysed. It is as old as time itself:
people were trying to figure out which
interpretation of minute lines in the
Iliad was the correct one for centuries,
and have done the same with pretty
much anything worth discussing.
But the thing is, even if Homer rose
from the dead and explained what was
going through his head when he wrote
that particular bit, it still wouldn’t
be a bad thing to offer an alternative
interpretation. The only piece of
literary theory that ever stuck with me
is the Death of the Author, which states
that we must separate the author’s life
and circumstances from the story he
or she has written, and that the text
does not, therefore, have a single
“true” explanation. The conception
that every work has one theme, one
set of symbols, one possible way of
being read, that a scene or character
or plot point means one thing and
one thing only, is perhaps a remnant
of school-age literary analysis, where
students are made to learn only one
interpretation as that is easier to
assess and test.
Regardless of origin, this idea can
be seen in any backlash against any
adaptation that departs from the
original; but I feel that an adaptation
that adds and changes elements is
perhaps the best thing that could
happen. I already know that I’ll like
the story, because I liked the original;
but instead of just being the same
thing again, it has new pieces, different
ideas, alternate takes that perhaps I
hadn’t considered. The original will
always be there, and it cannot be
sullied or ruined, no matter how much
the geeks complain; an adaptation can
expand on it, complement it, give it a
different look, all in a familiar frame
that means I’m going to get more of
what I love. Sure, sometimes this is not
done in the right way, and the story can
be messed up by the additions; but is
parroting the original just so we can
keep the same traditional scheme and
not be frightened by the difference
really something we need to enforce
for every adaptation?
Ultimately, every change should be
judged on its own merit rather than in
terms of the distance from the source
material. To take the example I’ve
begun with, I’ve enjoyed many of the
additions in The Hobbit. I like how
all the dwarves have a more distinct
personality and appearance that was
definitely absent in the novel, I like
Evangeline Lilly as an action heroine
and I like how they gave a proper
reason for Gandalf leaving the party so
often other than “if he stays with them
he’ll just solve all of their problems
with magic”. The romantic plot was a
bit clumsy and awkward (though I feel
it can be satisfactorily concluded in
the third chapter), but generally I felt
the additions helped the movie. You
can disagree and claim every change
was detrimental, and you are entitled
to your opinion, but you should be
asking yourself a question: did you
not like them because they made for a
worse story, or just because they were
changes?
Spoiler Alert: If you haven’t seem The Hobbit yet, stop reading
L
ecturers as a profession are
very hard to say no to. In
general they control your life
from the moment you enter
college. They set coursework
and will demand you spend time
on it, even when it is worth 0.1% of
your grade. They will set field trips
or labs at times that completely don’t
work for you, and will expect you be
enjoying ever second.
As a PhD I did not expect much to
be different, just that it would be only
two people controlling my entire life
instead of the teaching staff in general.
This turns out to be completely
wrong. Yes the power does shift. Most
of the teaching staff no longer have
any say though they will occasional
come up to you in corridors and ask
if you failed your final year. But your
department lecturers will ask you
favours and quite nicely too: ‘Would it
be too much trouble’ or ‘would you be
interested in’. Besides, more often than
not you are interested, as not only do
they now love you, (and almost as
importantly) they will pay you a lot of
money for the honour. You become
quite closely guarded by lecturers that
depend on you and they will give you
the good jobs such as field trips and
one-to-one invigilations.
Confessions of a GTA: Part 8
Sometimes saying no doesn’t get you out of demonstrating
But a time in every GTAs life creeps
up on them when they have to say
no. This is surprisingly horrible.
Frequently during my undergraduate
degree, I daydreamed about giving the
lecturers a few “home truths” about
why their coursework was completely
pointless, their course unhelpful and
their exam downright impossible
(and I must admit saying no to a few
of these people was quite satisfying)…
However when you second favourite
lecturer (pipped to the mark by your
supervisor) askes you a “favour”, or
when a really nice Professor hits you
with the curveball of a fieldtrip worth
£300, what do you say?
Now there is always the supervisor
sandwich response: “That sounds
Pietro Aronica
Writer
really interesting, but unfortunately
my supervisor does not want me to
take on anything more, although I
know a few other people that would
be interested!” This normally works
fairly well, but the lecturers have
come up with a counter: surprise and
thankfulness. They will appear just
when you are halfway through reading
a paper that could change your whole
thesis plan and a befuzzled ‘let me
check my calendar’ is greeted with
cries of elation. And a simple ‘I will
check with my supervisor’, is not a safe
standby as they will check with them.
Thus, if your GTA is a bit grumpy
this week give them a bit of slack,
because I will confess we are not
always there of our own accord.
The GTA
Anonymous

