18 FRIDAY 24 JAN
BOOKS
Editor: Maciej
Matuszewski, Eva
Rosenthal
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Welcome to Night Vale
How to write a review of something
whose own creator describes as
“weird and impossible to describe”?
At its simplest, Welcome to Night Vale,
produced by Commonplace Books, is a
fortnightly audio podcast in the format
of a radio news broadcast from the
fictional American desert town of Night
Vale. However, Night Vale is not what we
would recognise as an ordinary town, it
is a weird and shadowy place where the
laws of physics don’t always work and
where behind every corner lurk eldritch
abominations, ancient conspiracies
and “vague yet menacing” government
agencies.
This is a premise pregnant with
possibilities and Welcome to Night Vale
makes full use of them. While such
themes are usually used in horror fiction
this podcast takes the bolder step of
turning them into a comedy. In a manner
somewhat similar to Joss Whedon’s
highly enjoyable The Cabin in the Woods
the podcast takes an almost perverse
pleasure in smashing together as many
different horror and dark fantasy tropes
as possible – deconstructing them and
seeing how they interact.
Sometimes this is taken to the levels
of absurdity – such as how candidates
in Night Vale’s mayoral elections
include “The Faceless Old Woman
Who Secretly Lives in Your Home” and
Hiram McDaniels, who is “literally a
five headed dragon”. Other times it is
done far more subtly. Yet Welcome to
Night Vale never descends into outright
farce. It always manages to maintain a
wonderfully unsettling and otherworldly
atmosphere.
This is due, in no small part, to the
podcast’s main character – wonderfully
smooth voiced radio presenter Cecil
Palmer. This is not because Cecil himself
is in any way particularly unusual –
indeed he often seems close to the
perfect everyman. Yet it is precisely his
normality in the face of the weirdness
around him, and his instinctive
acceptance that this weirdness is normal,
that ultimately shows the listener how
different the world of Night Vale is from
our own comfortable experiences.
Initially Cecil starts out as a simple
commentator on the goings on in
the town. However, his personality is
gradually and effectively developed.
We get to see him as a complex and
highly likeable character and, through
his interactions with, and descriptions
of, other townsfolk, we get to see them
in the same way. Welcome to Night Vale
manages to insert some real moments
of character drama among the humour
– making us really care for all these
people, and entities, despite their
‘eccentricities’. It might sound that
trying to do so many different things
at once may end up a mess, yet this
podcast somehow manages it – creating
a wonderful celebration of the weird
and esoteric – showing us that even that
which is frightening can be beautiful.
Despite having gone on for over a year
and a half now Welcome to Night Vale
continues to feel fresh and innovative.
The show’s creative team is not afraid
to explore new format ideas and there
are regular guest contributors – both
to the writing and music. The podcast
reminds me of other similar comedy
shows of a similar format – such as
Radio 4’s Bigipedia – however I have
never listened to anything that was quite
so imaginative and daring, both in terms
of style as well as content, as Welcome
to Night Vale. All of the episodes are
available free online so there is no
excuse for you not to check them out.
With thirty nine episodes having already
been released, and a companion novel
on the way, there is a lot to catch up –
but I can promise you that you won’t be
disappointed by this unique podcast.
See commonplacebooks.com/welcome-
to-night-vale for more information
and to purchase Welcome to Night
Vale merchandise. The show can be
streamed, for free, from http://podbay.fm/
show/536258179.
Send your submissions for
our newest regular fea-
tures!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maciej Matuszewski invites you to visit
America’s most unusual town
Student Picks
The Journal of Eugene Delacroix has dominated my
thoughts for the past two months. Delacroix, a French
artist of the mid-nineteenth century, started keeping a
journal as a young man. He wanted to improve his al-
ready lively and original writing style; he thought he had
a forgetful, careless personality and, writing an account
of his days, might remember them the better. He also
needed to understand himself as a man and as an artist
and began a journal solely for his own use. As such, his
musings have a quality of self-effacement, doubt and
honesty that makes them all the more interesting.
He looked at art with the qualifying eye of an artist and
his interests extended to literature, music and philoso-
phy. He writes about his favourite paintings, painters
and the inspiration he takes from them; about his musi-
cal evenings in Paris; about his literary friends...
The description of a nineteenth century Parisian life,
including meetings with other figures of the age – Cho-
pin or George Sand – are another curiosity of the jour-
nal. The artist’s life, as Delacroix takes it, is filled with
beauty at even the most melancholy moments.
The journal is published in an abridged version by
Phaidon.
The Journal of Eugene Delacroix by Eugene Delacroix
Eva Rosenthal picks:
“It always manages
to maintain a wonder-
fully unsettling and
otherworldly atmos-
phere”
“...the podcast takes
an almost perverse
pleasure in smashing
together as many
different horror and
dark fantasy tropes as
possible...”
“...a wonderful cel-
ebration of the weird
and esoteric – show-
ing us that even that
which is frightening
can be beautiful.”

