20 FRIDAY 24 JAN
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
W
hen I asked
Stuart if he
wanted to come
to Crywank
with me, he
was understandably confused.
Thankfully, I was able to quickly able
to correct any misunderstandings
and on Monday night we headed
to see Crywank, performing with
Caïna, Old Skin, and Ithaca at Power
Lunches.
Crywank is an acoustic anti-folk
duo from Manchester who have been
told “they are the worst named band
in the country”. Started in 2009,
they’ve released three albums (their
most recent this past November) and
I was pleasantly surprised that they
continue to perform songs from all of
Black Metal and a Crywank
AMS album of the week
Black metal has undoubtedly
seen regeneration in recent years.
Releases such as Deafheaven’s
Sunbather or Altar of Plagues’
Teethed Glory and Injury in 2013
were well received, provided you
were looking for challenging music
with power behind it. However,
you’d be mistaken if it was purely
“good black metal” that is suddenly
hitting home with the hipsters,
rather than just metalheads – really,
it’s what these bands do on these
albums that isn’t metal at all that grabbed people’s attention. Enter Alcest,
who have been playing this game for years, merging the typical blast beats,
high screams, tremolo guitars and proggy structures of black metal with
a mystical dreamy atmosphere. And just as black metal had become cool,
fans are left scratching their heads as Alcest abandon the very ship they
left port on.
Shelter strips out the metal from Alcest’s original sound. This isn’t at
all sudden, as the screams have been dying off consistently since Ecailles
De Lune in 2010. On Shelter, clean guitars weave dream pop songs with
walls of effects. The space left by the metal is now filled with a wider sound
palette –pianos, guest vocals, choirs and heavily layered guitars, fitting well
with frontman Neige’s ethereal voice. Many of these are present on the title
track, probably the most representative song on the album, where choruses
are a merge of vocal hooks, simple drumming and droning guitar.
Don’t assume that Shelter never feels heavy because of this style shift.
Voix Sereines, begins with familiar vocal and clean guitar passages, and
has a fantastic gradual build to its euphoric ending, where we do hear
distortion guitars with the new post-rock sound. Délivrance does much
the same, with even bolder choirs, strings and a final crescendo which ends
with almost Godspeed-guitar drone.
It’s not all memorable, as some of the poppier songs are easily Alcest’s
weakest efforts (such as Away, or Opale – unfortunately the single). The
key in enjoying Shelter is in realising what really makes Alcest good. Behind
all the noise, be it waves of reverb or bone splitting distortion, it’s the
songwriting and atmosphere that has always been present making them
worth listening to. It’s still the same gift on Shelter, it just not in the same
wrapping paper as before. Disappointed it’s not black metal? Hush now,
don’t worry – Agalloch and Wolves In The Throne Room will be saving
the day this 2014.
Alcest – Shelter
them.
They opened with a cheery song off
their newest album singing “everyone
I love is going to die, and I will die
as well”, immediately followed by
an emotionally charged rendition of
Pope Alexander off their first album.
What followed was 30 minutes of sad
songs interspersed with witty self
deprecating humor and a ditty about
paperclips.
The live show was everything that
I could have hoped for and more,
putting all the emotion heard in
the recordings into the live show.
From the more depressing songs
such as Hikikomori, to a surprisingly
lighthearted I Am Shit, not once was
I disappointed by the song choice or
performance. Mixed in with it all was
a humorous commentary, poking fun
at themselves for writing such over
the top sad music.
Crywank put on a great live show,
and if you ever have the chance to see
them perform live I’d recommend
doing so; you won’t regret it. After
Crywank, the bands all got a bit
noisier, so it’s best if Stuart takes over
the review.
First of the heavier acts were Ithaca.
They seemed to be aiming for a sound
somewhere in the gulf between
Meshuggah and The Fall of Troy,
but without living up to the level of
either of those acts, they ended up
coming across as Lamb of God trying
too hard. It wasn’t exactly unpleasant,
but after all that Crywank’s set had
offered, I definitely felt like we were
heading on a downward trajectory.
Luckily for me, I was proved wrong
by Old Skin. They may feature
Crywank’s percussionist on drums,
but they could not be a more different
act. Their sound is easily described by
the chaotic hardcore tag, so basically,
think Converge. That’s definitely not
a bad thing though. For those of you
who haven’t been, Power Lunches
is a basement in Dalston with room
for about 80 people. It turned what
was already a really intense and
heavy set into a mind melting mix of
furious screams, cataclysmic riffs and
pounding drums. It was really quite
something.
The intensity level didn’t slow down
there though. I’ve put my ears through
a lot over the years, and so I generally
consider really loud gigs as about the
correct volume. Caïna hurt. Like
physically hurt. In a good way. The
man behind Caïna is Andrew Curtis-
Brignell, and he has crafted himself
quite a reputation in the UK ambient
black metal scene. Apparently the
name comes from Dante’s Inferno,
where Caïna is a bottomless fissure
of eternally frozen blackened ice. It’s
suprising how well that describes the
sound. A whirl of reverb drenched
screams, shouts and chants creates
an unbelievably intense soundscape
that chills you to the bone while the
volume liquifies your mind.
Sadly, his set was somewhat ruined
by technical problems. His guitar
never started working, so around
fifteen minutes after the scheduled
start, we were informed he was just
going to play vocal stuff. We got two
tracks of that before the rest of his
equipment also stopped working. He
gave a fairly grumpy apology and had
to call it a night. It was an extremely
frustrating end to the night, especially
given how incredible the two tracks
he did manage to play were. I will
definitely be keeping an eye out for
more London dates, because I can
only imagine how good the full live
experience would be.
Forrest Seiwald and Stuart Masson report back on a very mixed bill
S
wedish act I Break
Horses released their
debut album, Hearts,
back in 2011. Full of fuzzy
shoegaze, processed beats
and dreamy vocals I remember being
fairly impressed when I first listened
to it, but by no means blown away. I
then caught them at a festival in the
summer of 2012 and was completely
blown away. Everything got drenched
in loads of noise, and it really changed
my mind about the band. It’s a shame
that with their sophomore album,
Chiaroscuro, they seem intent on
changing my mind back.
Opening track You Burn sets the
tone for the rest of the album. It’s fine.
It just doesn’t do anything exciting.
There’s no noise, the processed beats
are far quieter than they were on the
debut and there’s synths all over the
shop. It does have a nice ethereal
atmosphere, it’s quite pretty, and you
know, it doesn’t offend me at all. The
thing is, I want the music I listen to be
a few rungs above inoffensive.
Sadly, there are even a few moments
where it drops a bit below inoffensive.
The seven minutes of Heart To Know
are just really tedious. Dreary dream
pop that goes absolutely nowhere is
bad enough when it is a normal length
track, but seven minutes? Fuck that.
Berceuse is also really mundane, whilst
Faith left me pretty numb.
There are a few better tracks here.
Disclosure is a really great slice of
dreamy electro-pop, whilst Weigh
True Worlds is an exciting upbeat
pop number that really works (even
if it sounds more like Robyn than My
Bloody Valentine). The highlight is
definitely Denial. A sleek sexy electro-
pop number drenched in reverb, this
one is simultaneously really beautiful
texturally, and also really danceable.
It’s the sort of track that works just as
well on the playlist for a quiet night as
it would a house party (assuming you
host fairly hipster house parties).
The album is perhaps best summed
up with my opinions on the other
seven minute track, Medicine Brush.
The beats sound great, the synth
lines are interesting and the dreamy
textures are great. However, the beats
are hidden away when they should be
given the lead, the synths dominate
everything, even when they’re not
I Break Horses Break No New Ground
Stuart Masson
Music Editor
the most interesting part, and the
texture gets a bit numbing after seven
minutes.
This album has a lot of potential,
and it would take a few minor changes
in mixing to make it really good.
With louder beats, a bit of noise here
and there and trimming down the
seven minute tracks this would be an
absolutely fantastic album. Sadly, I
Break Horses clearly don’t agree with
my stylistic wishes for the record and
so I’ll have to make do with it being
all right. Maybe I need to catch them
live again for this one to click, but
certainly for now, I’m back to thinking
I Break Horses are just another run of
the mill dream pop band, which is a
real shame.
Robin Thomas
Had to image search for Crywank...
The man behind black metal project Caïna

