FRIDAY 24 JAN
2
EDITOR’S PICKS
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2014.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
This week Games reviews GTA,
and that’s Grand Theft Auto,
not
GTA - Games style
GAMES
The Editor responds to E.’s pleas
foreasypuzzleswithafewbrain
teasers.
Letters
COMMENT
Peter Brook on the works of
Martin Scorsese.
Director Masterclass
FILM
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Nida Mahmud, Aamna Mohdin, Aemun Reza, Maciej Matuszewski Features Editor Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor Marissa Lewis Business Editor James Tsim Science
Editors Philippa Skett, Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna
Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile Borkhataria Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film
Editor John Park Games Editors Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs & Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charity Editor Ben Fernando
Travel Editor Chris Richardson Sports Editor Kunal Wagle Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copycats Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor
Copykittens Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi
T
here has been an increase
in cycle theft in the South
Kensington area and the
concentration of cycles on
campus make the college a
prime target.
Over 95% of cycles stolen on campus
in 2013 have been because cycles
owners are buying locks that can be
removed in seconds , particularly
cable locks, chains and padlocks.
The Security Department have been
buying “ABUS Granite X plus” locks
in bulk and discounting them to staff
and students at a price of £30.
These locks normally retail
between £70 and £80 and in the
three years that we have been selling
these locks we have had no reports
of locks being cut through. If you
wish to purchase one please go to
Room 155 in the Sherfield Building.
You can also have your cycle
security marked in Room 155 free of
charge.
The Security Team is also working
with the local Police Team to look
at what other measures can be
implemented to reduce cycle theft on
Campus.
If you see anyone acting suspiciously
around cycles on campus please call
Security immediately on 4444 or
02075891000 from a mobile
Cycle Security Annoucement
#SWAG
Tribute Nite (spelling intentional, honest!)
J
azz and Rock soc are hosting
a Tribute Nite on Tuesday
28th February.
You can either play up to
three songs from any band,
or come and watch people play while
laughing and holding up the bar.
The event starts at 7PM on Tuesday
and finishes at 11PM and is hosted in
Metric!
Go Metric!
Felix Sex Survey
T
hat’s right ladies and
gentlemen, boys and girls,
our sex survey will be
opening again this year!
The survewy starts on
Monday so make sure to load the link
in your browsers and fill out some
survey.
With new questions and moar
analysis, this year’s survey is bound to
be a corker!
Whether you’re a saint or sinner,
cluber or reviser, come and tell us
about yourself!
bit.ly/1l2exIo
Exploring Cinema
I
t was once said that one of
the most sexist things about
Imperial is the line-up chosen
by Imperial Cinema. Perhaps
in its eclectic mix of discerning
blockbusters, films aimed solely at
females aren’t picked that often, but
that doesn’t make the statement true.
Looking at the showings for this term,
two films stick out. Firstly, there is
Frozen, one of only a few Disney films
that manages to not make the viewer
angry when they put any thought
into its premise. For instance, the
Little Mermaid, whose entire plot
revolves around the main character
changing everything about herself in
an attempt to impress the man she
saw one time on a boat. Frozen, on
the other hand, not only makes fun of
the old Disney tropes, but passes the
Bechdal test with flying colours. The
other noticeable entry is Don Jon. In
this case, it is a film that could, in the
loosest sense of the term, be called a
romantic comedy. But this isn’t your
stereotypical ‘our problems could all
be solved if we actually just learned to
communicate’, it’s actually a good film.
The rest of the line-up manages
to continue this them – nothing
there is intended just for the male
demographic.
And if that isn’t good enough for
you, then it’s probably time to talk to
Hollywood.

