24 FRIDAY 24 JAN
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Brrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
John Park
Film Editor
Frozen
Directors: Chris Buck, Jennifer Lee
Writers: Jennifer Lee, Chris Buck,
Hans Christian Andersen (story),
Shane Morris
Starring: (voices) Kristen Bell, Idina
Menzel, Jonathan Groff, Josh Gad
Runtime: 102 minutes
Certification: PG
As its title suggests, Walt Disney’s
brand new animation film is all about
the cold, which is just as well, given
the appropriate period of its release
date. There is so much snow, a lot
of wind, and plenty of ice to get you
into the winter mood if you weren’t
already. Loosely based on Hans Chris-
ten Andersen’s story The Snow Queen,
we have Elsa (Idina Menzel), a young
princess who can conjure up all things
related to winter. A potentially fatal
accident has her parents worrying for
the safety of her younger sister, Anna
(Kristen Bell). From that point on, Elsa
is forever separated from Anna and
the two start living different lives.
After a tragic shipwreck leaves their
parents dead, it’s Elsa’s turn to take the
crown and rule over her kingdom. An
accident of epic proportions occurs as
her powers are no longer a secret to
the people, and her once-warm, sunny
hometown is thrown into the miser-
able, blistering cold. Casting herself
into exile, Elsa builds herself a fancy
new ice castle whilst singing the film’s
highlight song ‘Let it Go’ that empha-
sises how strong and independent a
woman she is and how she can make it
on her own without having to change
or be ashamed of who she is. It’s pow-
erfully sung by the original green
Wicked Witch Elphaba, Menzel, who
blasts through the tough notes and
leaves a memorable impression of her
moment.
Whilst Elsa is living her feminist
dream in the winter mountains, Anna
too, is on a feminist quest of her own
to bravely venture out into the wilder-
ness to find her sister and to bring
back the sun to the lands. Anna is the
one with the most patience in the film,
as she is constantly kept in the dark
about everything, and yet taking such
treatment so well. She is accompanied
by a male traveller, although for the
most part he takes the back seat. Yes,
this is possibly the first ever Disney
animated film that is so upfront and
driven about its female protagonists.
Feminists are right to rejoice about
this one, as neither Elsa nor Anna are
after the fulfilment of finding the one
man who will automatically solve all
their problems. In fact if anything, it’s
the men who complicate things.
It’s a refreshing turn in a well-
worked formula of the past, and al-
though the opening scenes do hint at a
cringe-inducing love subplot, that’s all
cleared up towards the end in a slight-
ly more sinister twist than one might
originally expect.
That the two ladies are voiced by
such high-spirited voice actors works
to the film’s advantage. And this be-
ing a Disney film, there are plenty of
songs taked with a lot of the story-
telling. Menzel and Bell share some
well-harmonised, pleasant duets, al-
though they’re not exactly the types of
songs that immediately stick to your
head. There have only been sporadic
periods of brilliance when it comes
to Disney’s original film soundtrack
of late, and with Frozen, apart from
the aforementioned ‘Let It Go’ (even
though that song itself doesn’t capture
the former grandeur of other Disney
greats) its musical offerings are con-
siderably weak.
Where the film excels however, is
with its infinitely beautiful and crea-
tive animated visuals. Winter has nev-
er looked more sparkly and whenever
Elsa plays around with her incredible
powers, the film generates images and
sequences that are truly a marvellous
spectacle. Their kingdom of Aren-
delle serves as a majestic set-up for
the scenes set within the palace walls
along its beautiful corridors and inte-
riors, and even out in the wilderness,
the harsh nature presents an eerie
dose of beauty.
Of course there is the obligatory
need for a loyal, trusted animal com-
panion, plus some reliable comic re-
lief. These roles are filled by Olaf (Josh
Gad), a snowman whose warmth and
naivete are a time-worthy addition to
the film (although his ill-advised ob-
session for the heat and summer does
translate into an entirely forgettable
sequence of his only song), as well as
Sven the reindeer who acts as a trusty
riding companion of Kristoff (Jona-
than Groff), the man who becomes
the reluctant travelling companion of
Anna.
What the film lacks is a strong,
memorable antagonist to sustain the
plot’s momentum. The final climax
and showdown is unimpressive to say
the least, and to say that the resolution
to all the previously set-up problems
is rushed would be a massive under-
statement. Everything is sorted in a
single, anticlimactic flash, and with
such a well-structured build-up the
pay-off should have been a bigger
spectacle.
But in the end Frozen certainly dem-
onstrates that Disney still has plenty
of magic up its sleeves, and that their
next few offerings will be worth wait-
ing around for.
John Park
Film Editor
Last Vegas
Director: Jon Turteltaub
Writer: Dan Fogelman
Starring: Michael Douglas, Robert
De Niro, Morgan Freeman, Kevin
Kline, Mary Steenburgen
Runtime: 105 minutes
Certification: 12A
Make it last
When an old friend finally announces
that he is ready to settle down with a
woman young enough to his grand-
daughter, his friends are nothing short
of excitement as they get ready for the
bachelor party of their lives. Now that
they’re all over the age of 70, even in
Vegas they need to play it safe. There
are pills to be taken, blood pressure
to watch and bed times to adhere to.
Are they getting too old for this shit?
Michael Douglas, Morgan Freeman,
Robert De Niro and Kevin Kline cer-
tainly don’t think so.
Billy (Douglas) is the one getting
married, Archie (Freeman) and Sam
(Kline) are the best friends looking
forward to a fun weekend away hoping
to recapture their youth, and Paddy
(De Niro) has some personal beef with
Douglas and the two haven’t been on
speaking terms for a long time. What
happened between the two? Well the
drama that exists between the two of
them end up becoming the best aspect
of the film, as a touching background
story is revealed.
The trouble with Last Vegas is when
it’s trying too hard to be funny. Self-
deprecating jokes all related to how
eveyrone has aged are as old as the ac-
tors themselves, and whatever banter
that wants to take place between the
acting veterans never fully material-
ises. Archie has haemorrhoids, Sam
has been given a free weekend pass
by his wife who says what happens
in Vegas stays in Vegas whilst hand-
ing him a condom and Viagra, Paddy
is a miserable, grumpy old man who
doesn’t want to have fun especially af-
ter the death of his beloved wife, and
Billy is deluding himself into thinking
that the girl he’s about to marry is do-
ing so out of love for him and not his
bank balance.
All typical storylines, but things
take a turn for the preposterous when
Mary Steenburgen appears. Diana is
an aged lounge singer who’s following
her dreams to...well...sing. She does a
great job, and catches the eyes of both
Billy and Paddy, something that will
put an even bigger strain between the
two men.
In fact, it’s Steenburgen’s contri-
bution to the film that elevates the
quality of the film. As absurd as her
sub-plot may be, her intelligent, witty
conversations with the two men pro-
vide a lot of the laughs and her wise,
kind words some poignancy.
The four actors can for sure act
there is no doubt about it, and it’s not
difficult to picture the four of them as
best of friends going all the way back
to their childhood. But in a script that
chooses to dump them in Vegas with
very little to actually do, not even the
exntensive star quality on display here
can distract from that. What a missed,
wasted opportunity.

