25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 24 JAN
FILM
It’s time to dish the dirt
John Park
Film Editor
August: Osage
County
Director: John Wells
Writer: Tracy Letts
Starring: Meryl Streep, Julia Roberts,
Ewan McGregor, Chris Cooper,
Margo Martindale, Abigail Breslin,
Juliette Lewis, Julianne Nicholson,
Benedict Cumberbatch, Dermot
Mulroney, Sam Shepard, Mitsy
Upham
Runtime: 121 minutes
Certification: 15
Here is a film of so many mixed emo-
tions that it will make your head spin.
With larger-than-life characters hav-
ing a proper go at each other at a
family gathering (where else?). Those
of you familiar with the Walkers of
ABC’s hit TV show Brothers and Sis-
ters will know of their infamous dining
scenes where no lunch/dinner party
is a smooth ride. The Weston family,
hailing from Osage County, Oklaho-
ma, take things to a whole new level.
There’s wine involved of course, but
also pills, cursing is almost a require-
ment, and hurling verbal abuse is the
norm.
At the head of the table sits the ma-
triarch, cancer-ridden, pill-popping
Violet Weston (Meryl Streep) who is
reeling from her husband Beverly’s
(Sam Shepard) suicide. The entire
family has gathered to support her,
although with this lot they create
more problems and tension. Violet’s
sister Mattie Fae (Margo Martindale)
and Mattie’s husband Charlie (Chris
Cooper) turn up, as does their son Lit-
tle Charlie (Benedict Cumberbatch),
with events taking a more juicy turn
with Violet’s three daughters Barbara
(Julia Roberts), Karen (Juliette Lewis)
and Ivy (Julianne Nicholson). Bar-
bara’s family is falling apart, but in the
face of such tragedy her daughter Jean
(Abigail Breslin) and estranged hus-
band (Ewan McGregor) put on a unit-
ed front, Karen turns up with the man
of the year Steve (Dermot Mulroney)
whose strongest quality is certainly
not subtlety (driving a crazy loud Fer-
rari to a funeral, taking a phone call
during prayer), and Ivy isn’t as single
as her mother assumes her to be. As
the dramatic showdown occurs, the
new live-in carer Johnna (Mitsy Up-
ham) looks on from a relative distance
as she serves up the meal.
It’s one hell of a cast, with everyone
pitching in strong performances to
create one smooth ensemble piece.
There is a mixture of loud voices who
aren’t afraid to lay out their opinions,
and to contrast that some more re-
strained performances also have place
at the dinner table. Streep and Roberts
are clearly the loudest of the bunch,
with Violet, hopped up on all sorts
of pain meds, is an unstoppable train
when it involves insulting her guests.
Roberts is the only one brave enough
to square off directly against her
mother, and between the two of them
there is plenty of scenery chewed and
devoured as they outright steal the
show.
There is a reason why these two are
hogging all the awards attention; they
are both phenomenal. Roberts hasn’t
had a role this mature and seasoned in
recent years and it’s nice to see her let
loose and tackle her supporting role
fearlessly. When Barbara isn’t butting
heads with her mom, it’s her husband
and daughter she has trouble with,
which brings out great moments for
both McGregor and Breslin.
Streep, as usual, is the dramatic
dominant force the film depends on,
and her wild, hysteric antics remain
faultless throughout, and there really
appears to be no role that she cannot
convincingly handle.
But the script is clever enough to
give everyone at the table a chance
to shine. It’s a packed crowd for sure,
with so many big names it becomes
hard to resist.
Rounding off the Weston family are
Karen, a clueless, wandering, happy-
go-lucky who is willing to embrace
any man who will have her, even if that
means she will be wife no. 4 to her , Ivy
is finally learning to find happiness,
her own place in the world and get on
with her life, as the only daughter who
stuck around in Oklahoma near the
insanity of her childhood home.
There is a particularly effective scene
where the three sisters gather around
for a late-night catch-up, a short but
dense segment that reveals more than
expected from the characters. Nichol-
son is most engaging, finally revealing
a part of her that wasn’t previously
seen as she was being largely side-
lined and ignored thanks to the fu-
neral dinner ending in absolute chaos.
Martindale’s Mattie Fae is as bub-
bly (“give me some sugar” she says as
she embracingly greets all the family
members) as she can be downright
nasty, most noticeably to her own
son, Little Charles, played lovingly
and sweetly by Cumberbatch, who is
a little slow, clumsy and unemployed,
which makes him a screw-up in her
eyes.
Cooper, although generally quiet
and perhaps the most sane, normal
one of the group has his highlight
scene that comes when he sticks up
for his son who he couldn’t be more
proud of.
Beverly’s suicide is only the tip of the
iceberg when it comes to what the We-
stons have in store for the rest of the
film. No secret can stay buried for too
long in this family, and as one dark,
twisted fact comes to light after an-
other, it’s only a matter of time before
everything falls crumbling apart. And
it’s this slow but sure disintegration of
various relationships as an audience
member that proves to be enormously
entertaining to watch.
In the end however, no one comes
out a clear winner, as under all that
black humour there is a profound
sense of tragic underlying sadness.
Every single character has messed
up issues that need dealing with but
in this kind of environment answers
aren’t easy to find. The final scenes
don’t provide any satisfying closure,
although a re-edited version of the
ending, courtesy of Harvey Weinstein
trying to put a more positive spin on
the narrative tries to give some hope.
Surprisingly this doesn’t feel too out
of place, and after so many unpleas-
antries, it could be a welcome change
of atmosphere, even if that moment
passes by in a fleetingly brief shot.
A true acting masterclass of how it’s
done on the screen, do not miss this.

