27
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 24 JAN
GAMES
Best Friends for ever?
Maximilian Eggl, on the joys of knifing his foe
If you read my christmas list, you prob-
ably know that I wanted to play BF4
for a while now. I play a lot of FPS, and
the battlefield series always interested
me from the off. It was the one game
I had always missed out on. Especially
this iteration, which has just built on
the success of its predecessors, up-
dating the graphics, gameplay and
most notable introducing big “levolu-
tion”. Well it seems someone read my
christmas list, and got me the game!
I had significant problems running
the game at first. Not only would I get
kicked from the servers at random in-
tervals, I would have random freezing
as well high incredibly high ping. At
first I was worried that this was due
to my machine not being top of the
line, but after trawling the internet,
I found that other users, some with
the best gaming gear, were having the
same problem. After some search-
ing, I found solutions and got what
seemed like an entirely new game.
Previously I could only run the graph-
ics at low setting, now I was getting
a good 60fps with medium settings.
The fact that DICE seemed to rush
out BF4 before it was ready probably
lead to several problems, that you
may encounter if you get the game.
Nobody really buys FPS games to
play the single player, so I will gloss
over that campaign. The multiplayer
however is paramount, and where BF4
needed to impress. With several dif-
ferent game modes, enough variations
have been thrown in to keep things in-
teresting and cater to different moods.
The gameplay of the game itself is
exceptional, and I feel all the different
classes and guns are mostly well bal-
anced. Furthermore the mechanic of
unlocking new weapons and attache-
ments for your guns (meaning you can
make your own individual configura-
tions according to your style), intro-
duces a bit more longevity into the
game as it gives the player more of a
reasontokeepplaying.Howeversome-
times the game does feel a bit grindy
to get certain guns and accessories.
The last thing I would love to mention
is the implementation of counterknif-
ing, how sick are those animations?
The graphics of the game are out-
standing, and while I could not per-
sonally run them on the ultra set-
ting, even on medium I get some
very beautiful and detailed maps.
Keep in mind though that you will
need a beast of a machine to get any-
where near the top graphics levels.
Now to levolution, the games big-
gest selling point. Basically the prem-
ise is that the maps would change
radically completely redesigning the
playing field, and you as a player could
initiate most of the alterations. Imag-
ine skyscrapers falling down, tropical
storms blowing in or dams breaking.
It sounds epic, and to be honest it
usually is. I mean the tropical storm in
Paracel storm completely changes the
feel of the map, making you feel like
you are really fighting a war on some
island resort. However, I don’t really
believe that the levolution is really as
much as DICE made it out to be. Yes
it is cool, but really necessary? Does it
really change much about FPS in gen-
eral? No, and therefore I would have
wished that BF4 would have intro-
duced some awesome new feature that
would have really changed things up.
IwasgiventhispresentforChristmas,
which is great because it was all gain, no
pain. However if I had spent the £40+,
then I would have felt a bit frustrated.
Sure its a good shooter, but not for the
price they are asking. If you are still un-
sure if you want to go for BF4, wait a
bit for the price to come down, DICE to
iron out any last wrinkles and then you
will get one heck of an awesome game.
Confessions of GTA: Gamer Style
After months of anticipation, Felix releases its review
Calum Skene
Games Editor
As a massive player of Grand Theft
Auto 4 I was surprisingly not that
excited for the new Grand Theft
game. I felt that 4 would forever be
my Grand Theft Auto game of choice
and that 5 would just be more of the
same in a disappointing way. The
adverts showcasing the three new
characters for this game and the way
you could switch between them just
seemed like a gimmick to me, and
the city it takes place in, really a copy
of Los Angeles, seemed samey. On
Christmas day of 2013 Santa showed
me just how wrong I was by giving
me a copy of this game. Here follows
everything about Grand Theft Auto
5 that managed to change my mind!
GTA 5 is only available on XBOX
360 and PS3, and as much as I
wanted it on the Wii U I was quite
glad to revisit my XBOX for per-
haps the last time. The game looks
beautiful, Los Santos is beautiful,
and the game itself handles beauti-
fully. The first time I drove a car in
the game I crashed it straight into
oncoming traffic on a motorway
because I wasn’t used to cars han-
dling in games as well as this one.
Perhaps the biggest element of this
game is the story. The story mode is
long! Really long! The missions don’t
get boring though, they are fun and
varied and quite often hilarious. You
start as Franklin, a Ghetto kinda guy
with a vision, tired of being in Gangs
Franklin wants to start making big
money. You then seamlessly unlock
Michael, a retired professional crim-
inal who lives in a beautiful house
in the hills. The last addition is Tre-
vor who enters in a memorable way
which I won’t ruin here. The range
of characters which I had originally
thought would get annoying is ac-
tually one of the best things about
this game. They keep the story mode
fresh as you do missions with each
character and also keep the long
heist missions varied as you com-
plete different tasks with different
characters. Each character has their
own personality and plays different-
ly. Franklin swears like a beast and
can drive cars in slow motion, Mi-
chael is a good all round character,
and Trevor is a crazy maniac who
can take a beating and also dish it
out. The heist missions are like the
bank robbery mission in GTA4 but
longer and there are many of them.
Each heist requires you to complete
preparation missions and training
such as learning to fly a plane. There
is so much customisation such as
choosing how to complete the heists
and who to hire to do various jobs.
You can go for pros but they will
take more of a cut or you can go for
quirky amateurs who will maybe
mess up but you can pay them less,
and the more heists you do with
them the better they get. This level
of changing things provides replay
value, not that you’ll need it as I have
left the best feature of GTA5 for last.
GTA5 includes GTA onlne. Here
you create your own character with
tonnes of customisation options that
enable you to create your perfect
crime lord. My online character is a
sleek Heisenberg inspired character
(not original I know) who cruises
around in his purple 4x4 truck em-
blazoned with my gang logo. The
gang I am in I created myself, to-
gether with the hierarchy of the
gang members (based on Top Gun
call signs with the top members of
the crew earning the rank of Mav-
erick) and is called Danger Chick-
en. In my gang we race together,
do missions together and basically
just enjoy the magic of the world.
GTA5 offers a tonne of stuff I
haven’t even mentioned from strip
clubs to getting some fried chicken
at Cluckin’ Bell. This game can be
played seriously for hours or just
picked up to do a mission from
time to time. It combines the re-
alism of GTA4 and the fun of the
earlier games in the series. Weth-
er you are new to GTA or an old
fan this game will not disappoint.

