6 FRIDAY 24 JAN
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
The epigenetic revolution
Science image of the
week: a space selfie
Keir Little on research that redefines our knowledge of inheritance
T
he completion of the
Human Genome Project in
April 2003 was a milestone
in science. Ten years on,
however, Bill Clinton’s
prediction that it would “revolutionise
the diagnosis, prevention and
treatment of most, if not all, human
diseases” is far from the truth. For
all the project’s contributions to
biology, little of this has translated
into promised “personal medicine”
treatments.
The relatively new field of
epigenetics is beginning to fill in the
gaps in understanding left by genome
sequencing. Epigenetics – the study of
factors which control gene expression,
other than the genetic code itself –
accounts for why cells in different
parts of the body develop differently,
despite sharing the same DNA.
Epigenetic markers switch off
individual genes, causing them not to
be expressed in a cell. More recently,
epigenetic markers have been shown
to be passed on to children and
grandchildren, shaking the belief that
disease caused by lifestyle can have no
effect on offspring.
Both sperm and egg are specialised
cells with their own epigenetic
makeup. Until recently, it was believed
that when these fused, the epigenetic
markers were completely removed
in a process called ‘Reprogramming’,
allowing the embryo to develop
completely from scratch.
New evidence suggests that this may
not be the case. Last year, researchers
at the Los Angeles Biomedical
Research Institute found that injecting
pregnant rats with nicotine caused
asthma to occur not only in the next
generation, but the one following
that: the epigenetic changes caused by
nicotine, it seems, are inheritable.
In the 1980s, a Swedish scientist
called Dr. Lars Olov Bygren
studied the lifespans of people
living in Norrbotten, the country’s
northernmost and least populated
county. In the late 19th and early 20th
centuries, poor harvests here often led
to starvation, though some years were
unusually abundant with food.
Dr. Bygren found that grandchildren
of people who had plenty of food as
a child had much shorter lives than
those who did not. Controlling for
other factors such as disease and
socioeconomic status, the difference
in longevity between grandchildren
of well-fed and starved Norbotten
residents was 32 years. Epigenetic
markers passed down through
generations seem to be the most
probable cause.
The idea of inheritable epigenetic
markers has made its way into
evolutionarybiology,givingaclueasto
how invasive species can thrive in new
environments. For a species to do well
and adapt to its environment, say the
laws of natural selection, it must have
a lot of variation. However, invasive
species often have limited gene
pools and some, such as the Japanese
knotweed, reproduce asexually, so are
genetically identical. This has long
been a puzzle for biologists: how do
these species manage to survive?
Christina Richards, an evolutionary
ecologist at the University of South
Florida in Tampa, studied Japanese
knotweed and found that individual
plants have high variation in their leaf
shape and height ­
– characteristics
controlled by epigenetic factors.
Epigenetic variation, Richards
believes, is one of the things which
gives invasive species their ability to
do well in novel environments.
Some scientists are not so
convinced. Though the role of
epigenetics is largely accepted within
medical science, many evolutionary
biologists are sceptical about its effect
on invasive species, believing their
success can be fully explained by
current evolutionary theory.
Epigenetic inheritance need not
oppose Darwinian evolution, but
can integrate with it. The study of
epigenetics could lead to new disease
treatmentsandpreventativemeasures,
as well as ecological insights. Where
the Human Genome Project has failed
to keep its promises, epigenetics may
deliver.
Although it was taken back in 2007, it is the shadowy subject
of the photo, rather than Mars looming in the background, that
makes this our science image of the week.
This cosmic selfie was taken by comet-chasing spacecraft
Rosetta, which successfully transmitted its first signal in two and
a half years on Monday.
Rosetta was launched into space back in 2004 but went
hibernation in 2011 to conserve energy for the long journey
towards Comet 67P.
The craft successfully re-awakened at and now is currently
500 million miles from Earth, close to the orbit of Jupiter, and
plans to rendezvous with the Comet 67P in August, to deploy a
Lander vehicle onto the comet’s surface.
Such a manoeuvre has never been done before, but hopefully
it will allow us to understand a lot more about these shooting
stars.
PEARSON EDUCATION

