If there is something controversialtosay about evolution, Richard
Dawkins is usually the one to say it. Ben Wilfdns reportsfromthe
launch of his new book 'Climbing Mount Improbable/
>in
C l i m b E v e r y M o u n t a i n
"What are flowers for?" asked Juliet's
father as they were driving through the
country, passing fields hill of poppies.
Juliet pondered the question for some
time then replied, "To make the world
pretty and to help the bees make honey."
It was with a tinge of regret that Juliet's
father, who happens to be Richard
Dawkins, had to tell her that her answer
was completely wrong.
Richard Dawkins, the prominent Darwinist and
author of 'The Selfish Gene', recendy gave a talk
at the Institute of Education in London where
he discussed some of the ideas in his new book,
'Climbing Mount Improbable'. Dawkins' books
are often controversial, and they are par-
ticularly unpopular with creationists. His
latest book has been described as a "mas-
terpiece of clarity and economy". It is a
testimony to his continuing interest in
questions like "How did we get here?"
and "What is going to happen in the
future?"
Dawkins comes on stage pushing a
large model of a mountain. The side of
the mountain that the audience can see
is a near vertical, unassailable rock face.
"Climbing mount improbable is
metaphor for the difficulty in evolving
complicated biological design", explains
Dawkins. He discusses the eye, which is
often used by creationists as an argu-
ment against evolution. "How could
such a complicated organ have evolved
by chance?" they say. Pause for scene
shifting... Dawkins turns the model
round to reveal a much gentler slope,
with paths and foothills along the way.
He explains that in evolution, the ascent
is only as formidable as the next step.
The eye could have evolved by a series of acci-
dents - small steps, starting with the develop-
ment of a collection of photosensitive cells in a
multicellular organism and eventually leading to
the multitude of complicated eye designs we see
today. "Evolution is not just chance", says
Dawkins. The astronomical improbability of our
evolution is the problem that all theories of life
must solve. Darwinian theory 'smears out' this
luck into small steps. Through successive gener-
ations, luck gets accumulated, culminating in the
species we observe today.
Dawkins then shows a series of
slides: the potter wasp which builds -g
a pot to incubate its eggs in, cater- M
pillars which turn into butterflies, symbiotic bac-
teria which live inside plant cells. Occasionally,
Dawkins cannot remember the name of the
species he is showing and asks if anybody in the
audience knows. Invariably someone does. "All
these organisms have evolved for the good of
something.", says Dawkins. The question is who
or what? What are flowers for? Some of the
19th-century answers to questions like this are
hilarious. He mentions a few: the louse - an
incentive for personal cleanliness; garden weeds
- good for our fitness, cows - to keep our meat
fresh!
Dawkins' solution is more profound. Things
evolve for the good of one thing and one thing
T h e B a n a n a . A n A t h e i s t ' s N i g h t m a r e
Shape. Curves
towards the mouth
Convenient tab
for easy opening
Colour, gives visual indication
of what's inside:
Green -not ready to cat
Yellow-ripe and ready to cat
Brown-over ripe
Biodegradable wrapper
Non slip surface
for easy grip
Perforated wrapper
for easy peeling
Not everyone agrees with Dawkin's ideas about evolution. This
was sent to him by a creationist.
only - DNA. He uses the example of viruses.
What are viruses for? Population control?
Punishment? No, says Dawkins, viruses are
coded programs which say "copy me and spread
me around". This, he believes, is the closest we
can get to an answer. Biological viruses are very
much like computer viruses or indeed chain let-
ters. If chain letters manage to spread them-
selves around using discriminating humans, the
same trick will certainly work for a biological
virus which is set up to obey instmctions.
But what about the elephants and hippos of
this world? What are their instmctions saying? To
Dawkins this is a central question. "The ele-
phant's DNA is also saying 'duplicate me', but in
a very roundabout way. The instmctions contain
a fantastically large digression - the elephant!"
This is also true for individual parts of an animal.
For example the purpose of a peacock's beak is
to make more beaks. The beak feeds the pea-
cock so it can survive to reproduce and make
more beaks. Similarly, a peacock fan is for pick-
ing up peahens and making more nice fans. A
flower, as Dawkins will no doubt tell his daugh-
ter one day, is like a peacock's fan. Furthermore,
the wings of a bee are really the 'wings' of a plant.
From the bee's point of view, it doesn't know
whether it is acting under its own instructions or
the flower's instructions.
But how does all this machinery for spread-
ing genes around get there? "It's like a
computer vims which has to make its
own computer first" says Dawkins. For
something to be truly self-spreading, it
needs to be able to make the parts, to
make the machinery to make a copy of
itself. This is the principle of what
Dawkins calls a TRIP (total replication
of instructions program] robot. A n
example would be an industrial robot
which could get the raw materials to
make another industrial robot. Dawkins
believes that we are all TRIP robots. We
originally occurred 4000 million years
ago with the spontaneous arising of a
hereditary entity. Next came mutation,
then a variant population capable of
exponential growth. These entities then
prevailed and the best ones began to
exercise control over other entities (phe-
notype begins). Gradually there was an
increase in complexity until we became
the TRIP robots we are today.
Dawkins is often accused of having a
bleak, cold view of life. One wonders
why he bothers to get out of bed in the morning.
His response to this comment is unusual. "We
are all going to die. This makes us the lucky ones
- millions more are never even going to be bom.
The potential people who could be here instead
of me outnumber the number of atoms in the
universe." So in the teeth of these stupefying
odds we are lucky, because it is you and I that are
here. Incidentally, Dawkins also believes that sci-
ence is just about the only supportable occupa-
tion there is. "The universe is 60 million cen-
turies in the past and perhaps another 60 million
years in the future... Isn't it a noble way to spend
our time in the spotlight to try to understand
why we are here?"

