six . FELIX FRIDAY JUNE 1 4TH 1 9 9 6 FEATURE
BE YOU...
"Why?" I implored the did lady, Why
do you do it?" I waited for the truth
but this old lady was yet another
dead end:
"Well... it could be me, couldn't it?" and she
ambled out of the post office clutching her lot-
tery ticket.
She was righrjjjt could indeed be her. Both she
and I kre;.' ii procab y wouldn't be, but it could.
Repealing thilexperiment in a
variety of locations around
London, across different age
ranges, one gets the same
reply: "It could be me, it could
be me."
A statement Of statistical prob-
ability has been;bought by mil-
lions and is repeated across the
land fke^a: prayer (which of
course it is! It provides ample
justification to thousands who
waste awayvthelr cash on this
pursuit, yet it* could be you
doesn't offer a reasonaPle
explanation tope.
What I wanted/to know was,
"Why do you piay the lottery
when you know the chances
are i/iai you, won't win? Why
indulge i n this "waste of time
when there is more chance of
you dying from a radiation leak
from a nearby nuclear power station? How the
hell are you interpreting the odds here?''
And this is the real crux of tec matter, which lies
at the heart of the lottery's success, but also at
the rootof the 2SF a:
nd baoy m:
,
< cr ses. fear
of
flying and so on. Considering the lottery first, I
do not play because if I played the lottery, I
would play in the expectation of winning. There
would oe no logic to my .playing otherwise,:
unless I gained fromphe miid psychological kiekr
which millions of others receive at 8.00pm every.
Saturday; but less us assume that I play only in?
the hope of winning the jackpot. That probabili-
ty is famously small. Given that I have brought a
ticket in the belief that the small expectation
may be realised (yes, it could), then tile only con-
sistent and log cai response wbufd beto apply
the same perception of odds to other situations.
Thus, as l emerged fr
om the post office clutcn-
ing my lottery ticket, I would naveto be encased
in titanium, should a falling piahoJapd on my
head. And of course I could never cross the road
again, Pecause I would surely die; both these
events having a greater ke'ihood of occur
r:ng to
me than winning the jackpot.
Risky business: a pedestrian tries her luck and crosses the road
Lottery players would scoff at my a'gumeni and
argue that I have ignored the oalance between
downside risk and possible payoff;.Thus with the
lottery, the worst that can happen is that you
lose a pound, but you could ga:
« a massive for-
tune. The worst outcome initnls case is relatively
painless, and so the game e is justif'oc.
Unfortunately, the same ogc would mean that I
wouid have to assess the variable;iisks of cross-
ing the road as follows: best outcome - success-
ful crossing; worst outcome- death. Hardly an
appealing choice, yet people apparently defy the
'odds and survive this reckless activity every day.
Do they know that their chance of dying in any
type of road accident is one ,n eigrt thousand7
FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY JUNE 1 4TH 1 9 9 6 . SEVEN
OR msm T?
Given the current sporting climate, arc footoaHers
aware that thel chances of dying on the pitsh in any
one year are one n twenty five thousan|| I think
they should beitold.
The inconsistent behaviour of the public with the
odds can be explained Py their incorrect assessment
of the risk. Thus with road crossing, we know (imper-
sonally) of millions who have presumably crossed the
road safely y^auiielves, but we actually know very
few oeooe who have died from this act. With too
large a sample size, we are destined to downplay the
real risk of crcss.ng ;no road.
The current: furpretpver BSE contrasts strongly witff
the aPove case, Pecause millions of people have
played up the infinitesimaliy small chances of con-
tracting CJD from eating beef. Faced with this, we
would exoect those with knowledge of these mat-
ters to provide some security. We generally do not
expect Peef to kill, so when evidence shows that it
may, the actual probability is exaggerated.
Whilst the public cry out for a statement
of certainty, the scientist can only reply
with a statement of probability based on
assessment of the available data. Thus
the real truth' changes over time. That
is how science progresses. Scientists
don't offer certainty - indeed they are
careful in their wording never to use
words like certainty' or impossibility'.
Scientific truth' is merely an assessment
of probability. There are no absolutes.
This is the public misunderstanding of
science.
Fortunately for the public, politicians are only too
pleased to offer the certitude which the scientist
refuses to, and in so doing set themselves up for
fiascos like the beef crisis. All it takes is one solated
case to contradict the official line, "there is
absolutely NO risk," and the result is blind panic. Risk
is perceived out of all proportion to the actual
threat. Our perception seems to depend on whether
we require somebody else to do the analysis for us
(beef) or if we think we have all the information
needed to form a correct assessment of risk for our-
selves (road crossing). Given the natural tendency
for the public to misunderstand science, and the
bias for 'me' to believe 'myself more than I believe
'you' it's hargly surprising.that the public's behav-
iour appears mau |
f
The word of a scientist is even more suspect?
f he or
she not only says! "X is probable in 1000 trials," but
then continues, "But it still might not happen, even
in 1000 trials." In the face of this apparent paradox,
the public feel even more comfortaPle with their
own assessment of danger. That is why they contin-
ue to play football. Of course they are right to do so,
precisely because a statement of proPability relating
to death in a football match is not a statement of
certainty.
Attempting to understand behaviour is futher com-
sounded by the human tendency to form patterns,:
to be ether extremely, cautious or optimistic, and
to attach importance to events which are nothing
more than coincidence. (Did you know that the
probability of you sharing a birthday with somebody
else in your lecture is very close to one?) In fact,
humans are anything but rational.
Coincidences are spooky, and spooky things scare
peoo e. In order to explain something spooky we
turn to religion, tarot cards, tea leaves, astrology,
palm readers, or any one of a massive a-rnv of peo-
ple in whom we place our trust (andmoneyl, in
return for a prediction or assessment of the future.
The popularity of such activities is a reflection of the
scientist in all of us - what are the men in white
coats, if not agents attempting to explain causality
and predict the future course of events7
.
Meanwhile the pensioner walked out of
the post office and crossed the road in
front of an oncoming bus. She speeded
up and was clearly exerting her frail
heart, it occurred to me then, that my
search for the truth concerning the lot-
tery was over. As a statement of proba-
bility, no matter how unlikely, It could
be you' was the truth.
by Nooman Haque

