simon baker
It would seem that times
are hard. Imperial needs our
support. Or rather Imperial
needs it support back,
namely its supply of" crutch-
es. It appears that students
at IC have not only broken
bones but also the nth com-
mandment by pinching
these apparati, resulting in a very cross Director
of Clinical Services. Dr Irene Weinreb (the little-
known sixth Python?) is clearly keen to retrieve
said equipment by using the ultimate threat of
Regulation 2. It strikes me that you should not
have let this situation get so ridiculously out of
control, because if you withhold degrees pending
return of crutches, you will not only be the
laughing stock of the British University system,
but also give the tabloid press a field day. As any
doctor should know, playing with fire invariably
results in nasty burns.
I had hoped that I would not need to drone
on about the activities of the goodfolkin College
Estates this week, but when such blatantly stu-
pid and thoughtless work as the Weeks path is
carried out, I am left with no option. My initial
reaction was puzzlement as to why the path was
essential to provide students with access to the
gardens. The north face of the Eiger it is not, and
while a path is necessary to prevent the lawn
from being worn down in tire long term, the tim-
ing of the work leaves much to be desired. Why
on earth could it not have been carried out over
Easter or during the summer, thus avoiding the
disruption to students' revision? I was discussing
this very point with one of my envoys in
Sherfield a few days ago and was immediately
put in the picture. "Can't be done any later," he
said, "because there is a big event taking place in
the garden on Wednesday, some very important
people present." Ala, dear reader, everything is
clear. All that flannel about being 'sensitive to
exam pressures' is starting to ring a little hollow.
What we have here is yet another cock-up by
Estates, a department where use of the word
'planning' is a disciplinary offence. Obviously the
path is needed if 400 people are to be at the
Rector's Town and Gown summer reception,
but yet again a total absence of foresight has
resulted in work being carried out at the last
minute, rather than choosing a time earlier in the
year, safely before the exams. And yes, Mr
Caldwell, "some students may not believe" that
you are sensitive to exam pressures. Such under-
statement deserves a medal.
The Private Finance Initiative got the
Nooman Haque treatment last week, and very
good it was too. I agree that the scheme is not tai-
lor-made for Universities, but then this was not
the intention, as a result of the greater freedom
that higher education institutions enjoy.
Nevertheless, it is a useful option in certain cases.
Quite why the notion that "the PFI is largely to
reduce the government's public, deficit" is cyni-
cal is a mystery to me. Of course the PFI is
designed to cut government spending, and if this
were not a primary aim,
the policy would be mere
political posturing. I fail to
see why public spending
should be lavished on huge
capital projects when an
alternative exits. Obviously
the main target of the PFI
is transport infrastructure,
which lends itself well to
private sector involvement. As the article stated,
there have been teetliing troubles, such as the
expensive and woefully slow tendering process,
but when this is resolved, companies will be
much more eager to get involved. I also don't
believe that the ultimate ownership ofthese con-
structions is a problem, be it a road, a hospital or,
as the article suggested, a lab in College. Quite
frankly, the Moonies can take over ownership of
the third year lab which I was working in until
recently if it results in an improvement of the
facilities.
College services are probably most suitable
for PFI-type deals. Car parking has already been
done but the prime target, the ultimate goal, the
piece de resistance must be College Catering.
British Leyland in the 1970s was a model of
management practice in comparison with the
fiasco responsible for feeding hungry mouths at
Imperial, and also lost less money. However, any
such deals must be handled very carefully.
Wholesale transfer of Catering to an outside firm
would disastrous. What, I hear you cry, is he say-
ing? Is he going soft in his old age, letting his cap-
italist ideals slip? Rest assured, I'm not cracking
up. My concerns can be summarised in two
words. Southside Bar. The jewel in the crown of
Catering and Imperial as a whole, any attempt to
interfere with its operation would inevitably
harm it for the simple reason that it can't get
much better. In such examples, like local author-
ity tendering, the PFI is intended to kick-start
sloppy, unprofitable organisations, descriptions
which apply to Southside with the validity of
favourable comparisons between Southside
Shop and Kwik Save on price grounds. In gener-
al, Mike Hansen does seem to talk a lot of sense,
which is not something you can say about many
senior Sherfieldites. Mind you, let me make a
small point on that score. I wouldn't trumpet our
common heating system as triumph of coopera-
tion in the Chemistry department. This is the
system which has all the fine control of a sledge
hammer in neurosurgery, ensuring that the build-
ing is about 95°C every day of the year, except
for a week or two in early November, when the
frost forms on the inside of the windows.
Finally, I can confirm that it's safe to con-
sume. Not beef, but the material on 'Saturday
Live', ITV's new comedy extravaganza. I know
that funny comedy on ITV is as bountiful as free
thinking in the Shadow Cabinet, but this time
they've managed to pull it off. Harry Hill was
brilliant, Alistair McGowan was perfect, that
mad Dutch bloke was hilarious and Lee Hurst
was so-so. They're onto a winner, folks.

