continued from page 9
Unfortunately, while Tolkein's work was one
of unparalleled imagination which will probably
endure for ever, this story lacks the utterly
convincing depth of the other. Obviously
aimed at children, would even they feel
cheated by the paucity of the script? There's
no real challenge for Jen, the Gelfling charged
with reuniting the crystal and shard. A few
blundering attempts by the Garthim and a
rather unlikely ally in one of the Skeksis who
plays a Gollum type role, but for no apparent
reason, don't seem to have their heart in
it at all.
That apart, it is a visually sumptuous film,
the Skeksis and Mystics are very well done,
apparently by a combination of man-in-asuit,
radio control and control lines. This is a
mystical bewitched land; the undergrowth is
literally alive, and strange creatures lurk
everywhere. Fortunately, before anything
really nasty befalls our hero, he bumps into the
only other surviving Gelflin who has learnt the
ways of the creatures and plants. Thus we can
relax and enjoy the splendid special effects.
You can see where all that time and money
went to; the undergrowth scenes are
gratuitously full of animated goodies.
One is left with the feeling that Henson and
Oz are masters of their craft. All they need is a
good scriptwriter to harness their undoubted
talents and they'd have a blockbuster to knock
^ • R E V I E W S !
ET into the proverbial cocked hat It seems
strange that a man as shrewd as 1 cw (."nade
should allow a film ot such unrealised potential
to be released. Perhaps he was content to let
Henson have his head as reward tot the
Muppet movies.
/ cc Paddon
Aughra -another lookalike contest?
Theatre
Le Cirque Imaginaire created and
performed by Victoria Chaplin and Jean-
Baptiste Thierree, Whitehall Theatre.
Near the outset of Le Cirque Imaginaire,
Jean-Baptiste Thierree blows bubbles and with
a hammer proceeds to burst each one. A
sonorous 'ping' of a bell accompanies the burst
of each bubble. The effect appears magical
until M. Thierree gradually reveals a small bell
attached to his belt. These bubbles of illusion
humourously burst by a gentle tap of reality
are typical of the style of M Thierree's
delightful and charming entertainment.
Originally designed for the Avignon Festival
in 1971 by M Thierree and his wife Victoria
Chaplin (one of Charlie Chaplin's daughters),
Le Cirque Imaginaire has gone from strength
to strength. The show's triumph in Paris in
1978 led to its first appearnce in London at the
Riverside Studios in 1979, and after a very
[ " J F
Victoria Chaplin flying high in Le Cirque
Imaginaire
successful run at the Bloomsbury Theatre
over Christmas it has now transferred to the
Whitehall Theatre.
Le Cirque Imaginaire is indeed an 'imaginary
circus' or a circus of the imagination. It is
imaginative rather than clever and the evening
witnesses a kaleidoscopic array of quick tricks,
magical illusions and physical feats. The
Avignon show originally had no less than thirty
performers, but since then the act has
undergone quite a process of slimming, the
show now consists of four, the Thierees and
their two children, but with an enormous
number of props, chiefly suitcases and
umbrellas, the number of which one has never
seen. The suitcases, worn but brightly
coloured, contain M Thierree tricks, some of
them familiar and some not: vanishing-
handkerchiefs, disappearing drinks in glasses
and telephones. His wife is 'cut in two', doves
and rabbits appear from nowhere. Most of his
secrets are humourously given away. The
umbrellas, and the costumes attached to
them, form a strange people and exotic
animals: clowns, magicians, dancers, Chinese
devils, courtesans, crabs, giraffes, eagles and
spiders. Most of these are assumed very
cleverly by Victoria Chaplin who dances and
moves with the grace of a ballerina. Ms
Chaplin also provides a grave and graceful
contrast with a series of breathtaking
acrobatic tricks. She walks on a high wire and
does pretty impressive feats with a rope swing.
Le Cirque Imaginaire is reminiscent of the
old travelling players (the Thierrees still travel
around in caravans) and the Whitehall
proudction is full of spirit. But some of the acts
are also surprisingly impressive: Ms Chaplin
accompanies a piece of sacred choral music
with an ordinary carpenter's saw (it's so good
that one wonders towards the end if this is an
illusion) and with the aid of stilts an extremely
long and slender legged animal strides across
the stage like something out of Salvador Dali.
Some of the animals the Thierrees create are
in the realm of science fiction. The production
also features a singing duck and a toucan, all
very good and very original.
Nick Bedding
Page101 February 18,1983
Sexy Secrets
Secret Gardens, directed and designed by
Tim Albery, Antony McDonald, Geraldine
Pilgrim and Ian Spink, ICA Theatre, The
Mall.
The I C A ' s Secret Gardens is being
presented in cooperation with the Mickery
theatre, Amsterdam. It was shown in
Amsterdam before coming here as represen-
tative of new tendencies in the British Theatre.
It is a very bizarre thing indeed and bears as
much resemblance to 'orthodox' contempor-
ary drama (such as that by Pinter, Schaffer,
Bond etc) as chalk to cheese or Shostakovich
to Mo/art.
Secret Gardens is a multi-media piece,
drawing upon the four elements of theatre,
design, dance and music. It is primarily visual
(as are most of ICA's productions) with bodily
expression and movement largely taking the
place of dialogue. There are seven performers
(a mixutre of professional dancers and actors)
and the resulting mixture of dance and
movement with the odd bit of poetry, is stylish,
sleek and sexy. Losf Jockey players and
composers Andrew Poppy and Orlando
Gough. provide good modern music.
The production draws its inspiration from
Frances Hodgson Burnett's Edwardian
children's classic. The Secret Garden.
Away from the paradise of the secret garden,
along the gloomy corridors of the house on the
moors echo darker secrets, cries of despair,
rage and loneliness. And it is in the darkest
room at the end of the largest corridor that a
forlorn, unwanted, disagreeable woman finds a
crippled, seifish and tyrannical man. There
begins a tale of what women and men do to
each other in the name of love and in pursuit of
their own secret gardens..." Burnett's novel is
an Edwardian children's story but with
'dangerously adult overtones'. The ICA
production moves beyond the childhood of the
novel and explores fantasy and obsession in
the adult world and what people do to each
other when in pursuit of their own 'secret
gardens'.
The adults in the production are chic and
sophisticated artistic types after money, sex
and drugs hut unhsc
one is versant with the
book, this piece of "isnal theatre is rather
baffling. It is certainly never boring or dull to
look at but it doesn't exactly accost one's
heart and mind. It ends up looking like a
bizarre work by London Contemporary Dance
or even Pina Bausch, but with little of their
emotional or intellectual panache.
Nick Bedding
Records
Back in the heady days of punk, Howard
Devoto and Pete Shelley scampered back to
Manchester, having just seen the Sex Pistols in
London, to form the Buzzcocks. They
released the Spiral Scratch EP on their own
New Hormones label in 1977, the first of the
so called 'independents'that were to be born
in the front rooms up and down the country
during the following yea. . The dual catalysts
of Anarchy in the UK and SpiralScratch would
soon result in Manchester turning out the Fall,
the Passage, A Certain Ratio and Joy Division.
Devoto split, to form the excellent Magazine.
continued on page 11
m m m m m m m ^ m m m m m m FELIX

