The 1983 model is a lot more confident, with a
lour coming up and a new album on RCA
called Sweet Dreams (Are Made Of This). As
with most duos at the moment, it's basically
eleclropop, but with an above-average mix of
ideas and contrasts, from the down-beat
Jennifer through the new single Love Is A
Stranger to the excellent Wrap It up, an
abrasive funk-up that lyrically explores the
same avenue of sexual innuendo that Grace
Jones cruised along when she invited
lister to "pull up to the bumper".
His new band never achieved the hits they
deserved; a pity, as they were always leagues
ahead of woodentops like Ultravox. Shelley
fronted the Buzzcocks until he quit in 1981,
swopping his starway guitar for a synth, and
working with Human League producer Martin
Rushent. The new single Telephone Operator
(Genetic) is a cracker, a typically androgynous
love song, this time along the lines of
"telephonor, why can't I see you later?"
How do you follow an energetic hit like
Living on the Ceiling? If you're Blancmange,
you re-record one of the weakest tracks on an
otherwise fine album, tarting it up with a
gospel-ish chorus and cloying string arrange-
ments, like so much rococo icing on a wedding
cake. Consequently Waves (London) is a
beached whale, bloated and smelling rotten.
Back at sea, Pigbag urge us to Hit the O Deck
(Y Records). Even the addition of a girl vocalist
can't pep up this decidedly flat cocktail of the
usual rattling percussion and wailing horns.
And on to albums. Who admits to
remembering the Tourists? Famous for a
reasonable cover of Dusty Springfield's / Only
Want To Be With You, their awful albums are
currently celebrating two or three years in the
bargain bins of Boots or Woolies record
departments around the country. When they
split up, the creative core of Annie Lennox and
Dave Stewart retired to the studio with
Kraftwerk, Ultravox and Eno & Cluster
producer Conny Plank, producing In The
Garden LP and calling themselves Eurythmics.
Music for films: Ralph Dorper re-releases
Eraserhead (Operation Twilight) on a four-
track 12"—a curious mix of noises, electronics
and music hall. For fans of films only, the most
disturbing horror film of the last few years; a
regular nightmare. Diva was a snappy voyage
around Parisian twilight zones, a rich pot-
pourri of opera, sex, razor-toting punks, and
style in excess. The music was an added
bonus; the soundtrack is on Palace.
On a different note, two events in town that
couldn't contrast more. On Sunday, Laurie
Anderson plays an extra show at the
Dominion, Tottenham Court Road, so if
you've got the money and the stamina, her
eight hour show could be right up your
street. And on Monday, the Southern Death
Cult play Heaven (Under the Arches, Villiers
St, near Charing Cross station), supported by
Brilliant, a noisy dub-and-thunder outfit
fronted by ex-killing Joker Youth. Heaven is
possibly the best disco in town, exclusively gay
from Wednesday to Saturday, but open to
straight audiences on Tuesday nights.
Admission is £3, and for that you get three
bars, videos, pool tables, and superb music,
the bastard offspring of Mighty Real and 7 Feel
Love blasting out of the speakers whilst banks
of lights spin and gyrate just above your heads
like something out of Close Encounters. The
DJing is fluid, effortless mixing and stretching
the music, the accompanying laser displays
stunning. Current floor fillers are In Deep's
Last Night A DJ Saved My Life, Prince's 1999,
and Forest's reworking of the old Limmie &
Family Cooking hit Rock The Boat. All in all, a
pretty fine way to spend a Tuesday evening;
it's open from 10:00pm until 3:00am.
Nigel Brand
IREVIEWSI
Loving Care
Care by Roy Mitchell, directed by Antonia
Bird, Royal Court Theatre Upstairs,
Sloane Square.
This is the author's first full-length stage play
and is concerned with parental responsibility,
marrying young and so on. The main
characters Terry and Cheryl (Peter Hugo-Daly
and Gwyneth Strong) met at school, married
at seventeen and live in their native
Birmingham. Terry works in a car factory and
Cheryl in a shoe shop. They have a council
house, car, colour TV, three piece suite, a cat
and...a problem that won't go away.
That is really all I want to say about the
content of the play. However, the synopsis |
does little to tempt you to venture down to the
Royal Court Theatre. In fact you probably
think as I did, that the play sounds as if it has
all the characteristics of a trendy (but boring)
TV play in which very little happens. In this
continued on page 12
Making babies? Peter Hugo-Daly and Gwyneth Strong.
WALKA80UT-
LOOKSEE I
by Mobile Optics t»e.
Those of you who read this column last week
may remember me describing a world with
fuzzy edges. Since breaking my spectacles, I
have tripped my way downstairs, most rudely
ignored the, to me invisible, smiles of friends
and acquaintances and discovered that life
beyond the top of my desk is not designed for
the conveience of myopic citizens!
Hunting the Peppercorn
But I can see small things clearly, so went
Walkabout in search of peppercorns!
Waitrose, and like-minded supermarkets,
attempt to fob off the shopper with small
packages of ground pepper. These are sold at
high prices: the pale grey substance they
contain produces a sensation of prickly dust
on the tongue which has little to do with the
clean, spicy heat obtained by biting an intact
peppercorn. I did not find peppercorns at
Waitrose, so went hunting further afield. The
brief? To find black peppercorns at a
reasonable price and in sufficient quantity, ie
more than 2oz, and not camouflaged in an
elaborate glass bottle whose price suggests
that the cost of the packaging is at least equal
to that of the contents. I eventually ran a
supply to earth at 'Food for Thought', an
attractive health food shop with one branch in
the Apple Market in Kingston, and another on
North Street in Guildford. They sell black
peppercorns in 250g packets (76p), which
should keep me going for a couple of years.
On the way home I meditated upon the
availability, or rather non-availability of high
quality interesting foodstuffs at affordably
interesting prices. Baked beans are a universal
constant and, piled on toast, with a sprinkling
of salt and pepper, are equally delicious for
breakfast, lunch, tea or supper. But every now
and then the Heinz variety palls—what to do?
Beans Means Heinz?
It's not necessary to trek off to Kingston to find
delicious alternatives to the humble haricot
bean. Branches of Holland Barrett have popped
up like mushrooms, in Gloucester Road
(on the same side as the tube station but
nearer to Kensington Gardens), at the
Shepherd's Bush Centre, in Kensington
Church Street, Putney High Street, etc.
The shops' main aim appears to be
spreading the word about herbal medicine and
stoneground wholemeal flour. But in-between
the boxes of Ginseng capsules and the bags of
millet flakes, neatly labelled cellophane
(biodegradable) packets of brightly-coloured
beans, peas and lentils can be found. They're
not as quick as the tinned sort to prepare, but
can taste infinitely more exciting—cover them
in warm water (loz dried beans makes about
2oz cooked) and leave to soak during lectures;
six or more hours later, bring them to the boil
and bubble for ten minutes, then turn the heat
down and simmer till the beans are tender,
which will take thirty minutes to one hour
depending on their size. The little brown lentils
and green mung beans are quick; red kidney
beans and chickpeas take longer; split peas
take less than half an hour, but as their skins
were removed when they were split they don't
keep their shape and cook to a 'mushy peas'
consistency.
You can also improve on the Heinz sauce:
ketchup for traditionalists; butter and then
spiced with vinegar, mustard, soft brown
sugar (just a little)—Western style; smoky
bacon, Worcestershire sauce and tomato
puree—Barbecued beans.
The most flavoursome pulses are delicious
served simply. Chick peas (or 'garbanzos')
look like small golden hazelnuts and are used
to make hummus throughout the Middle East.
They are also excellent on their own with a
dressing of olive oil, lemon juice, a pinch each
of salt and paprika and a generous sprinkling
of freshly ground pepper ..didn't I say
something about pepper a few paragraphs
ago.''
I February 18, 19831 I Page II

