PINCCCMIC
Cocktails for Six
I bet you all thought I'd forgotten about Mary,
Mandy, Mungo and Midge. Well, it was
Mandy's birthday last week, and we all went to
the 'Cavalier' cocktail bar. Tim went with us,
and we remember the list of cocktails well:
Batman's Batstoue-keeps your fire
extinguishers ready—this one's hot.
Chairman's Decision-otherwise known as
6-Up—the difference is clear.
Rehearsal Requirement-an unknown
quantity this—anything could happen.
Procedural Motion-i don't understand the
effect this has, either.
Cuddles Barnett-W doesn't take much of
this to send you to sleep, but it could be
dangerous.
The four girls were discussing the price of
the cocktails.
1 Mary spoke up first: "I do like the drink
which costs an amount in between the cost of
Batman's Batstove and Procedural Motion."
Having worked this out, Mungo said
"Procedural Motion is more expensive than
Cuddles Barnett." Mandy replied "Cuddles
Barnett is more .expensive than Chairman's
Decision." "Rehearsal Requirement is cheaper
than Cuddles Barnett," said Midge. "There's
a drink whose price is midway between the
prices of Rehearsal Requirement and Batman's
Batstove" said Mary enigmatically as usual.
"Chairman's Decision is more expensive than
Batman's Batstove," said Mungo. "Batman's
Batstove is more expensive than Cuddles
Barnett" countered Mandy. while Midge made
the last statement of the evening "Chairman's
Decision is more expensive than Rehearsal
Requirement."
"I can see it coming." Tim whispered to me,
"One of them is going to get drunk." "One of
them already is." I replied. "The eight
statements that they made are not eonsistent;
one of them made one lie. I'm quite sure she's
the one we'll be carrying home tonight." As it
turned out, I was, as I usually am in pu.vles.
right. Who told a lie. and what was the
fallacious statement?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me ut r/if
FELIX Office by Wednesday. 1:00pm. t'5 irom
Mend-a-Bike for a randomly selected entry.
Last Week's Solution
Sex, Scandal, Intrigue
Ho ho! Fooled you! There is no solution to
last week's puzzle. This is fairly easy to shdw:
Consider the first set of statements made, and
in particular the first two: "'"he next statement
is false. The last statemer t was true."
Suppose "The next statement is false" is
true. This implies that "the last statement was
true" is false, which is a contradiction.
Suppose, then, that it is false. This implies that
it is true, from the next statement, again a
contradiction. Even Stephen Goldameir
making this set of statements does not help!
Sorry to have disappointed you!
Nobody realised this, and I'm not running
the puzzle again. Try this week's, folks—I
promise there's a solution to this one!
The Undergraduate and the Porters
This puzzle was told to me by Martin S Taylor,
and is remarkable not so much for the problem
itself as for its answer.
An undergraduate has climbed out of a tree
in the middle of a large round lawn. He spies a
number of porters around the edge of the
lawn, all of whom wish to catch him. He is
prepared to run around on the grass, but none
of the porters will; everyone can run at the
same speed. What is the minimum number of
porters required to stop him escaping?
Even if you cannot do this puzzle, please
write in and tell me if you are interested in
seeing more of this type. If I get no reaction,
then I shall terminate this series henceforth.
Last week's puzzle was an interesting bit of
logic: several logicians do not allow such
statements as "This statement is false," on the
grounds that it is self-referential. However, in
"What Is The Name Of This Book" by
Raymond Smullyan, which I hope to review in
the next couple of weeks, he points out that a
better reason for disallowing statements is this:
"Our guiding principle is that to understand
what it means for a sentence to be true, we
must first understand the meaning of the
sentence itself." Thus, 'two plus two equals
four' is not allowed because we must know
whether it is true before we can ascertain its
veracity.
Radio 4
presents
A C U E
Willy R u s h t o n
G r a e m e G a r d e n
Barry C r y e r
T i m B r o o k e - T a y l o r
A double recording of this show wil
take place in
The Concert Hall
Union Building
on
Monday February 28
Doors open 6:15pm recording starts 6:30pm
available from Union Office.
Free tickets a i
SIT
ONIT
You don't need us to
[tell you how much
a cycle makes.
But you do need
us to help
choose your
next bike
We'll service
it, guarantee
and
should
anything go wrong, repair it
beautifully. And we
also offer a 10%
discount.
So even though
you'll be
getting around)
town faster,
our grant
will go
slower.
13-15 Park Walk,
London SW10, 01-352 3999
FULHAM CYCLE STORE
917-921 Fulham Road,
London SW6,01-736 8655
WL STUDENTDISCOUNT
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road. London SWJ 2BB
Tel. 0I-S89 5III Ext 1048 or Internal 2881 Editor: Martin S Taylor: Business Manager: Peter A Rodgers: Advertising Manager: Nick Thexton Copyright FELIX 1983

