f J 1 C L U B S & S O C f c Y I E S !
Consoc
Our next speaker will be ex-Prime Minister
Ted Heath who will be speaking on the Brandt
2 report otherwise known as the East West
North South Report which deals with the
distribution of the world's welath—look out for
the posters for more details.
Chris Patton M P will also be speaking
soon—March 17. Again watch the notice-
boards for details.
After the excellent response to our recent
display in the Bookshop window, we still have
available some free copies of Free Nation and
several posters. Anyone interested should
contact: Nigel Fisher, DoCl.
Finally, the London Conservative Students
A G M is to be held at 7:30pm on February 23 (a
Wednesday!) at Conservative Central Office.
Could any members interested in attending
please contact the Consoc Chairman John
Patterson, Maths 3 letter-racks.
RCS
Rag Week starts at 6:00pm this evening with
the 106
& 1 down darts—if you haven't yet
sponsored a player money will be collected in
the Southside Lower Lounge over the
weekend. Volunteers are also needed to play
so if you have a spare hour
I'm sure you'll need no reminding to attend
the Beer Festival on Wednesday afternoon
during this mega event a record breaking tea
stirring event will finish and again sponsors are
needed.
Sketches a:e still needed for the Smoking
Concert on Thursday evening—all budding
satire writers see Eric, the Ents Chairman.
Have a great week after all the money is
going to the deaf children!
Fiona
C & G
Well then, what have we got lined up for you
for the week ahead?
Tonight sees the start of the 1983 Rag
Week. If you think that things have not been
lively enough yet this term then this is the
week for you. Alternatively if you have been
working like a Trojan all term then this is the
week to let your hair down a bit—go on,
convince yourself that you need a break for at
least one week in the year!
Tomorrow morning at 11:00am we are
meeting outside Southside for a 'bed race'.
This is a Rag collection and was tried a few
years ago with great success. If you have a
sturdy bed or you know where to get one then
bring it along. We also need people to collect,
obviously, so why not turn up and help the Rag
appeal for this year.
Tomorrow evening we have a 'Moun-
taineering Pub Crawl' around Hammersmith.
Meet either in the Union Bar at 6:30pm or at
the 'Oxford and Cambridge' Pub near
Hammersmith River Bridge at 7:00pm. This is
also a Rag collection, the general idea being
that people will donate for the sight of seeing a
lot of students dressed in mountaineering gear
and all tied together by one massive climbing
rope. Why not give it a go?
Also during the week thtuv an' many iiHWt'
events, a lot of them being organised by tlx*
other CCUs or IC Ents. Keep an eve entl tot
these. They include the 'Beer Festival'.
'Smoking Concert' and 'Rag Cluneal'. All well
known events.
Happy collecting everybody.
Rolf (the man with ;;
ie (vus'i)
RSM
The bottle match is tomorrow so we need as
much support as possible to help us win it
back. Camborne actually arrive tonite with the
table tennis, badminton and squash being
played this evening and I'm sure the players
would appreciate as much support as possible.
This really is a very important weekend; as
anyone who has been here for more than a
year will tell you. Coaches will be leaving from
Prince Consort Road at times that will be
advertised.
On Sunday (day after Camborne—help!) 1
think we've got the inter-CCU raft race. Come
and cheer your exec dropping their brass balls
in the Serpentine.
Tuesday at 8:30 is the IF/Mines Dirty Disco.
It's always a great event and is in aid of Rag.
You've got to be dressed very dirtilly (?) (that's
what Mark told me) or the good looking (Nige)
or the fat little (Mark) one on the Exec have
threatened to do something about it.
The 50 man/woman boat race is also next
week in Beit Quad (they haven't told us
exactly when) and as we always win it we need
9 some thirsty people out to help.
Hope to see you all out at Harlington
tomorrow.
Cheers
Nige
Mountaineering
In print at last maybe. Well let's hit you with
the forthcoming events.
The meet to the Park is on this weekend,
Feb 18-20, meeting as usual at 6:00pm outside
the Union Arch on Friday. Well worth going—
just to see J perform his now once meetly
tricks.
The Event of the Year, the Dinner Meet is
being held in North Wales on the weekend of
March 11-13. The cost of the meal is £6.50
your money to Andy Mac as soon as possible.
However if required bring your own GREENY.
That's about it.
Nei/ H
TOSoc
There is growing evidence for the creationist's
own brand of religion. We all know (don't we)
that God created the Universe in all its glory.
But the Universe is infinitely complex and its
course governed by chance. Thus God decides
our fate with dice. As the whole of creation
contains so many random variables the dice
would have to be of an infinite number of sides
— but with an infinite number of sides all of
finite area the dice must be of infinite volume.
So large that it could contain the Universe,
perhaps. Thus it is with a feeling of horror that I
report that six stars, in two rows of three, have
been observed at the edge of visibilty in Aries.
Nature, V o l 302
Bookshop
News
1 would like your comments on the new 200-
sheets pads, I have tried a different supplier
who seems quicker on deliveries. The only
difference from the old style is that they open
up and over, so whether you like or dislike
them, I would like to know.
New Titles
Engineers Notebook 11 - Forrest M Mims III,
Tandy Corporation £2.70
Stalking Point - Duncan Kyle, Fontana £1.75
Women's Room - Marilyn French, Sphere
£2.50
Letters from Afrika - Isak Dineson, Picador
£3.95
Milestones - Peter Stott, Pan £1.75
The Tropical Traveller - John Hatt, Pan £2.50
Strathgaliant - Laura Black, Pan £1.75
Dictionarv of Famous Quotations - Robin
Hyman, Pan £2.95
Victoria Rl - Elizabeth Longford, Pan £4.95
The Dream Traders - E V Thompson, Pan
£1.95
Heat - Ed McBain, Pan £1.75
Master of the Moor - Ruth Rendell, Arrow
£1.50
Every Secret Thing - Patricia Hearst, Arrow
£2.50
The Slst - Michael Stewart, Arrow, £1.60
The Marriage Machine - Gillian Freeman,
Pavanne £1.75
Tanamera - Novel Barber, Coronet £2.50
Snooker Champion - Steve Davis, Pan £1.75
Oranges for the Son of Alexander - Levy
Nella Bielski - Writers & Readers £5.95
Common Crisis - The Brandt Commission
1983, Pan £1.95
Three years ago, the first report of the
Commission was published 'North South', a
programme for survival , worsening economic
conditions have impelled the commission to
prepare a new memorandum on the 'common
IC Liberals
Our recent trip to Bermondsey certainly gave
room for optimism and the few intrepid liberals
who fought through wind and rain for a better
world were indeed rewarded, by the homely
welcome at Liberal HQ, by the odd pint of
bitter, by the hopeful canvas returns; but not
by the barman who tried to change 24p for a
packet of crisps, or the numerous households
with dogs.
To horse! On Feb 20 (a Saturday) IC
Liberals will be joining with the massed ranks
of London Union of Liberal students to go to
Bermondsey again! Hoorah! We met at 9:30am
in the lounge above Harry's Bar or at 10:15am
at London Bridge tube station.
Tuesday February 20 sees a joint meeting
between City of London and Westminster
South Liberal Association and IC Libs on the
subject of higher education. This will start at
7:30pm and takes place in the Brown
Committee Room.
If you haven't yet joined Liberal Club or
aren't yet on the mailing list, contact us via the
Union Office or at our book/pamphlet stall on
Friday lunchtimes in the JCR.
Page 81 February 18,1983 IFELIX

