Song of Death
The Executioner's Song, Cert 15, directed
by Lawrence Schiller, now playing at the
Warner West End and Gate, Notting Hill.
Onto rather heavier fare for the other film
this week. This film focusses on the notorious,
but short, career of Gary Gilmore.
Gilmore is a traqic, pathetic figure. In and
out of prison since his juvenile delinquent days,
he has never been able to settle into society.
Released on parole once more, we see his brief
downward spiral. He is unable to hold down a
job, he has a tempestuous but fraught
relationship with a young divorcee mother who
is almost as mentally unstable as he is, but who
has managed to work within society, and
(ventuaily he is on the slippery slope once
pgain of petty crime. He steals some guns to
try to get money. Being unable to sell them, he
decides to vent his rage at his impotence by
1 tiling a garage attendant; it is a brutal, callous,
senseless murder. Next night he kills again,
but this time the game is up; his cousin decides
she must run him in before he kills again.
Mr Schiller must be admired for making a
flm which does not seek to glorify or justify the
man, a sin so often committed by film makers
when they open this particular can of worms. I
think you feel pity for the man, but then you
leel more pity for the corpses he leaves behind.
The camera refuses to dwell on the violence of
the shooting, not allowing the audience to
revel in the power of taking another man's life.
Gilmore appears barely sane; he talks mystic
inumbo jumbo about 'karma', past lives, and
devil worshop, but instead of an in-depth study
of motivation and mentality, this film is much
more. It is a study of attitudes to homicide,
personal and judicial. It leaves a statement with
a lot of unanswered questions in your mind.
Jtah is a bad choice of state to go around
Mowing people away; contrary to the national
:
aw which is anti-capital punishment, the state
The Dark Crystal, Cert PG, directed by
Jim Henson and Frank Oz, now playing at
the Plaza, Lower Regent Street.
From the team that brought you the
Muppets with the enormously successful TV
series and movie, $30m and five years in the
making, The Dark Crystal has been a long
"^waited event among fantasy devotees. The
prerelease publicity tried to point out that ET
had not stolen the show's thunder, despite the
use of similar animation technique, by pointing
out the fact that this film has no human actors
at all, and it was started long before ET was
even thought of. There is a hint of remorse
that Lew Grade wanted Oz and Henson to get
on with the Muppet films and put this in cold
storage.
So can the team that produced the most
unlikely,screen love affair in cinema history,
between a frog and a prima donna pig, show
Spielberg how it ought to be done? Will we see
that our infatuation with ET was merely the
twinges of first love, and in The Dark Crystal
we will find the true satisfaction of a mature
relationship?
The land of the The Dark Crystal is dark
Ft u x m u m m m g m a m m m m m
• R E V I E W S L H
legislature has left that ultimate solution to
prison overcrowding on its statute books.
There is no doubt, Gilmore was a danger to
society; his murders were purposeless.
Neither victim resisted or threatened Gilmore;
he was a psychopath in the grand tradition.
But just because a man deserves to die, can we
kill' him in the name of protecting the rest of
society?
Normally this argument is not taken to the
ultimate conclusion. There are hundreds of
men in the States today awaiting the outcome
of interminable appeals in solitary confinement
on 'death row'. But Gilmore Stopped his
appeals. The sentence of his peers was death
and he was prepared to accept it. He
and barren after the world's three suns were in
conjunction, and cracked the crystal, the
broken shard being lost. At that time two races
arose (look I know about genetics, you know
about genetics but...) the Skeksis and the
Mystics. The Skeksis got on with the messy
business of politics and tyranny while the
Mystics preserved knowledge, wisdom, beauty
and singing out of tune. The mystics are
guardians of the prophecy that one day the
crystal will be made whole when the shard (or
'sherd' as Jim Henson would say) is reunited
with the crystal at the next conjunction. The
prophecy states that it must be done at the
next conjunction or the rule of the Skeksis will
dismissed his lawyer and hired one more
compliant to his wishes. In a life when he had
been herded from one institution to another,
told what to do and where to do it, it is a
decision he can make for himself, the ultimate
expression of the freedom of the individual.
Tommy Lee Jones plays Gimore brilliantly
in one of the best performances I've seen on
the screen for some time, in a scene during
parole he walks along with a shuffling, skipping
walk. Later you see his feet manacled and
you realise that his odd gait is a result of years
of conditioning. Everything about him, from his
wounded mental outlook, his inadequacy with
women to the way he eats is a product of the
institution. It is an immensely strong and
brooding performance. Without doubt
Gilmore is a frightening, almost diabolic figure.
The film was originally made for television
and shown over five episodes. This has two
results; despite editing it is still long, at 135
minutes and the pace seems to undulate as we
reach a dramatic climax at the end of each
episode. The film is unafraid to raise questions
about its own morality. Schiller is shown (as a
somewhat leaner, younger man) hustling with
Gilmore's father over the film rights as his son
sits on death row, and waiting, vulture like, as
Gilmour faces the firing squad. A powerful and
thoughtful work which will leave a lot of
questions in your mind.
I shall refrain from mentioning how much I'm
looking forward to the Thursday film from Ents
History of the World Part 1 as apparently
praise goes to their heads. The last time I
mentioned an Ents film a fortnight ago The Tin
Drum, Ents responded by showing it in an
unusual sequence. It was a shade discon
certing. We saw reel 3 which shows Ja>n
Bronski getting blown away in the Polish Post
Office, and it is made clear that Mrs Mazerath
has suddenly died for no readily apparent
reason, and then back to reel 2 and they ate
back in the picture of health.
endure for ever, and the task must be
performed by the diminutive Gelfling race
Tricky that, since, mindful of the prophecy artd
with an obvious taste for power the Skeksis
have systematically slaughtered any Gelflings
they came across. However, the Mystics,
obviously none too enamoured with the
present government's record of unrestrained
death and destruction, not to mention the
unemployment figures, protect a Gelfling so
that the prophecy may be fulfilled.
The story, apparently, was invented by
Henson's daughter, with, I would, surmise, a
little help from J R R Tolkein.
continued on page 10

