It's AllDad's Fault -page 7
INVITED
RUSSIA
The Home Office are considering grounds for the deportation
of a foreign gentleman apprehended last term for stealing money in
Southside from the collecting tins of the U L U newspaper, Sennet.
On his first observed visit the gentleman gave a fictitious name,
to the Southside union porter and claimed he was a second year
electrical engineering student at Imperial College and a member of the
Sennet staff. These statements, were later proved to be untrue.
A second visit, two weeks
later, brought the two in contact
again—in the Southside lower
lounge. The porter telephoned
security chief Jock Henry and
brought the offender across to the
Union for interrogation by Deputy
President Barry Mair.
By now it seemed that the cul-
prit had moved to University
College as a first-year Mathe-
matician, and he claimed that he
had not been caught taking any
money. A phone call to U C
discredited at least the first state-
ment.
The Chelsea Police were called
in, charged the offender and held
him in custody for a week.
Since, while the Home Office con-
siders his fate, the intruder has
visited IC as a guest and been
warned that he is trespassing and
that he will be returned to police
hands if he appears here again. . .
LECTURING METHODS
CONFERENCE NEXT WEEK
The lecturing methods conference, forecast last term, is due to
take place in the Main Physics Leeture Theatre on Wednesday,
19th May, from 2.00 to 5.00 p.m. In the chair will be Professor
B. G. Neale, Dean of City and Guilds; Professor E . C. Cherry of
Electrical Engineering will also be present.
The conference will be open with contributions from staff and
students to be followed by open discussion on the matter. The organ-
ising Committee will present the
Union with the proposals made at
the conference, and the Union will
recommend which be put to the
Board of Studies.
The Board of Studies are meet-
ing in the near future to discuss
lecturing methods, so this meeting
should be of real value to them.
The Registrar and Rector, at
least, are taking an interest in the
conference.
Keith Cavanagh, who proposed
holding the conference at the
Union meeting, is Chairman of
the Organising Committee. Its
other members are Bob Saxton
(Guilds representative on Coun-
cil), Chris Molam (Vice-Presi-
dent of Guilds) Frank Allen
(Chemistry Department rep.) and
John Taylor (Mines rep. on
Eleven students and staff of the Moscow Energy Institute were
entertained at Imperial College on Tuesday, 4th May. This 'delega-
tion had been invited to spend a fortnight in Britain as guests of the
University of Strathclyde.
From the only half-emptied glasses in the Bar, before Hall Dinner,
the Russian visitors did not appear to have a taste for English beer,
but they seemed to enjoy the experience of Hall Dinner.
The visitors and host Mike Barraclough, President of Strathclyde,
(surviving well from the previous night's Felix party) had earlier been
shown around the Tate and National Galleries by leading Union
Officials under the leadership of Uppinder Anand, Chairman of S.C.C.
L A R G E CONGLOMERATION
The Moscow Energy Institute is a large conglomeration of 18,000
full-time students, 6,000 evening students and 2,000 members of staff.
Of these, 6,000 students live in residence, but they have no students'
Union as we know it. They apparently study for 5 or 6 years to gain
the equivalent of our doctorates.
I.C. will be entertaining the Russians again on 16/17th May, when
they stay in London on their way back from Glasgow to Moscow.
The British Council has provided £700 towards their visit and the
University of Strathclyde, a further £150.
Such exchanges provide for an interesting interchange of opinions
and it is to be hoped that they will continue. The Russian visitors
extended a number of invitations to visit the U.S.S.R.
N.U.S. We're out
The last Union meeting of the
Spring term on 25th Maroh, re-
versed the decision at the previous
one of 18th February, that I.C.
Union should join the National
Union of Students. The voting
recorded 226 against joining to
180 for, with 5 abstentions.
Council). D.I.W.
LC. men collecting
for the Carnival in
Oxford Street on
Saturday morning
(See also page 6)

