F E L I X 3
LIBERALS
SUCCEED
Last month the Union of
Liberal Students held their an-
nual conference in Manchester.
Imperial College Liberal Society
was well represented by six dele-
gates who proposed three
motions, all of which were passed
by overwhelming majorities.
Support for future British par-
ticipation in a European Commu-
nity was advocated in a motion
proposed by Dave Pearson, to-
gether with improved cultural and
trading relations between Eastern
and Western Europe.
The war in Vietnam was the
subject of another res6lution pro-
posed by Edward Fortune, presi-
den of I.C. Liberal Society:
Britain should grasp the initiative
for peace talks, he urged, and
bring the brutal war to an end.
Reconvention of the 1964 Geneva
conference with North Vietnam
and China being represented was
suggested and it was emphasised
that any solution must involve the
whole of Indo-China.
46-LINE MOTION
The agricultural policy of an
Oxford delegate provided I.C.L.S.
with their third motion! Since
that particular delegate was un-
able to attend Dave Pearson
stepped into the breach at short
notice. The comprehensive 46
line motion called for the instiga-
tion of co-operatives in the buying
and distributive sides of agricul-
ture.
Edward Fortune was elected
representative for the London
Area Group on the U.L.S. execu-
tive. Special responsibilities were
conferred on him by this body to
represent the Union of the World
Federation of Liberal and Radical
Yputh, also the New Orbits group
of the Liberal Party.
M I K E MANSFIELD
Anglicans
On The Move
After two terms in which the
emphasis has been on expansion
and growth of our community,
the Anglican Chaplaincy is, dur-
ing this summer term, concentra-
ting on achieving a deepening of
the community.
The main instrument of our
work in this direction will be a
series of evening meetings, when
small groups will meet for meals
in Southside and spend the rest
of the evening in informal dis-
course, ending with a celebration
of the Holy Communion.
We hope that from our im-
proved fellowship may spring a
more interested group of people,
who, together with other Chris-
tians in the College, may bring
more and more people to discover
the joy of Christ.
A . J. G A D D
Expansion linked to all four major areas
of economic growth
Turner & Newall is one of the strongest, most important
groups in British industry. With a large and growing stake
in asbestos-cement, in insulation, in brake linings and in
plastics T & N is closely linked to all four major areas of
economic growth. To the building industry; the motor
industry; the newer plastics; and to activity in the developing
territories of the Commonwealth ... all adding up to a strong-
ly-expanding £100,000,000 business with 39,000 employees.
Overseas, with 17 companies in 10 countries, T & N has
doubled its interests in ten years.
A Career with T & N
T & N offers outstanding graduates in science, engineering or the arts, a
career of great scope, keyed from the first to areas in which expansion is
at its fastest . . . opportunity at its best. Moreover, under our broad and
flexible training scheme, the graduate assumes managerial responsibility
more confidently, and certainly earlier, than is often the case in industry
today. T & N also recruits scientists and engineers direct into its research
and development branches, whose projects are particularly closely linked
to the needs of the expanding industries. Opportunities for supervising
work with a practical application, as well as for fundamental study, are thus
outstandingly good.
If you are interested, ask your Appointments Board for further details, or
write direct to: Management Appointments Adviser, Turner & Newall Ltd.,
15 Curzon Street, London, W1 (Telephone GROsvenor 8163)
TURNER A NEWALL LIMITED asbestos, plastics and insulation
• I H Turners Asbestos Cement Co. Ltd • Turner Brothers Asbestos Co. Ltd • Ferodo Ltd - Newalls Insulation
2^V" 4
Chemical Co. Ltd • J. W. Roberts Ltd - Glass Fabrics Ltd . British Industrial Plastics Ltd • Stillite
m m m ^ Products Ltd • Turners Asbestos Fibres Ltd • and 17 Overseas Mining & Manufacturing Companies
TNl/l2C

