5 FELI X
felix
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDITOR
I>. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dave Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Sales Anttrew Mayo,
Jocelvn Mackintosh
Pete Ash
Photos Brian Ray
N. J. WALKER
Business
Subeditor
Production Asst
Secretaries:
Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barrie Pichler
Melvyn Owen
Mike Leppard
Graham Botch
Gill Steele
S.Vogler
CARNIVAL
Carnival, despite all the efforts of the Committee, once again
seems to be failing through lack of popular support from the majority
of I.C. Students. Unlike Universities, such as Bristol, and Manchester,
where nearly all students partake in their Carnival week to some extent,
I.C. relies on the faithful few. The same faces appear, time after time,
organising and participating in the various I.C. functions. For the
Carnival to make a real impact, it needs every student at I.C. (all
3,100) to spend at least one afternoon or evening collecting money in
the West End, helping to build stalls for the Carnival fete, floats for
the procession, etc.
In recent years, the procession and fete have been the biggest flops
of the week. These functions—where the money can really come
rolling in—are almost totally ignored by the General Student. It must
be most disheartening for the Committee and their few helpers, to
spend a very great deal of time arranging events, etc.; only failing to
get sufficient support from the rest of I.C. to carry them out.
It is not too late to help with this year's fete and procession. For
all you who have done nothing this year, now is your chance to come
out of your brown bag and prove that I.C. can collect more than
£5,000.
It is high time that a Union Meeting had a full discussion about
our Carnival. It is surely ludicrous to expect students to spend much
time when exams are imminent. The Spring Term would seem the
most suitable; when people could better afford to contribute to the
Carnival.
EXAMS
Well, the great day is rapidly approaching! For some (e.g. 3rd
year Electricals) it has already passed. Examinations are with us again,
so student " life " is slowing down; parties are becoming harder and
harder to find. New faces emerge in lectures and notes exchange hands
with increasing rapidity, as those of us who somehow managed to miss
a lecture or two endeavour to make up for too much sleep. Coffee
parties night after night are non-existent; the bar is deserted until
10.45 p.m. when the better late than nevers " come in for a quick
% pint and then disappear back to their rooms.
Conversation has changed. Instead of " who was that blonde
. . . ?" one hears, " if it's multiplied by the square root and then
divided by . . . "
Most students, make fine resolutions at the beginning of October,
break them by the middle of October and never come down to earth
until April or May. Those of us who manage to work throughout the
year, for all their noble efforts, miss the point of a University Life.
However, those of us who do not work until May have again missed
the point. Only a few of us strike the happy balance. Good luck in
those exams!
G r a d u a t e and qualified volunteers
wanted overseas for
• T e a c h i n g
• M e d i c i n e
• A g r i c u l t u r e
• V e t e r i n a r y W o r k
• A d m i n i s t r a t i o n
• S o c i a l W o r k
CONSULT YOUR UAB 0B WRITE DIRECT TO
VOLUNTARY SERVICE OVERSEAS, 3 HANOVER ST., W1
c
o
L
C
u
T
T
FURTHER SAGAS OF STUPIDITY
Two further stories of bureaucratic excesses
have emerged—this time from the Halls of Resi-
dence office. The Hockey Club were told that
they had to supply the names of all players of a
visiting Dutch team (who were to stay in hall)
some time prior to the visit—a somewhat impos-
sible task. Unabashed, the club promptly replied
with the names of a visiting Dutch international
team and have heard nothing since. Touche\
Postgraduate students who wish to stay in Hall
during the Summer Vacation have, reasonably, to
fill in forms requesting a place. What seems quite
unnecesary is that these forms have to be accom-
panied by passport photographs—especially as no
form of selection committee is involved, and the
office already has photos of all residents.
However, these unhappy examples of petty
officialdom pall into insignificance when one con-
siders the fantastic machinery for " electing " the
I.C. Carnival Queen. The R.C.S. Union takes
about twenty minutes to elect a Queen of Jez for a
year. I.C. needs ten official selectors, two formal
balls, and four complimentary May Ball tickets,
to select a Carnival Queen whose sole official func-
tion appears to be an underpublicized and over-
dressed appearance at the head of the Carnival
procession. It is not as if this procedure gives
the procession a much needed publicity boost—
patrons of formal dos are a minority group, and
to date no one has even bothered to inform Felix
who the semi-finalists are. If the selection has to
be carried out in semi-secret, let the organisers do
it at a normal committee meeting. Better still,
however, use the R.C.S. system, and let the lucky
lady play a more prominent role in the week's
activities.
ADVERTISING ABUSES
I am wondering how much was paid by that
club round the corner for the recent advertisers'
announcements purporting to be news items which
have appeared in this paper and Sennet. If, as I
suspect, the answer is nothing, then they ought to
be charged quick. I.C. Groups play there on a
professional basis, and it is ludicrous for the Union
to pay for any of their advertising. There has been
considerable discussions recently about whether
College groups and bands should pay themselves
for appearing at College functions which they
organize, as the Jazz Club does already. Sympathy
with their case will not be increased by abuses like
this.
A MATTER OF OPINION
Another hostelry in the area recently achieved
dubious fame by mention in a colour supplement
as a place where the girls were beautiful and the
prices rock bottom. A friend of mine was inclined
to think that the typesetter had got the adjectives
the wrong way round.
The Mountaineering Club climbing Oxford Street
on Saturday Morning

