FELI X 7
H. G. WELLS SOCIETY
Professor H . J. Eysenck
The Biological Basis of Personality
or Stop Worrying—
In an expertly delivered lecture, Prof. Eysenck explained to what
extent personalities are a result of the biological structure of human
beings. The illuminated audience relieved to find they were not mere
conditioned automatons replied with resounding applause and
numerous questions.
The ancient classification of personality as Sanguine, Phlegmatic,
Melancholic; Choleric; remains basically the same in modern thought,
though now it is considered that a personality may display these
IT'S ALL DAD'S FAULT
various traits in varying degrees,
belong to one of the four types.
Character may be classified as a
point on a chart, where the abscis
sae vary from extreme introversion
to extreme extroversion and the
ordinates from extreme stability
to extreme instability. The normal
person is at the zero and the nu-
merical incidence in an average
sample follows a normal gaussian
distribution about the zero along
each of the axes.
IDENTICAL TWINS
Using such a classification,
Shields, in an experiment with
identical and fraternal human
twins, established that the identi-
cal twins (born of one ovary), even
when brought up separately,
showed more similarity of per-
sonality than fraternal twins, from
simultaneous fertilisation of two
ova brought up together. Though
accurate estimations of the quanti-
ties involved in such studies are
difficult, the cumulative positive
evidence is beyond doubt. Hence
the heriditary character normally
dominates environmental condi-
where previously one could only
boning.
N O R M A L PUNISHMENT
MEANINGLESS
The subjects reaction to con-
ditioning is however dependent
on his personality, and it is found
that in some cases (e.g. of pschy-
haviour is controlled i.e. introvert
reserved. Alcohol for instance
deadens cortical activity and pro-
duces extrovert behaviour.
Cortical excitation is controlled
by the output of a structure deep
in the brain known as the Reticu-
lar Formation. The output of this
jnember to the cortex normally
controls the level of excitation or
inhibition in the cortex and hence
indirectly overt behaviour. (Pav-
lov has shown that inhibition is
not merely absence of excitation).
Unfortunately, because of its
situation deep in the brain little is
yet known about the structure of
Neurotic
(ICWA)
Melancholic
Introvert «<fc-
Unstable
Phlegmatic
Criminal
(22, Links)
Choleric
>- Extrovert
Stable
Sanguine
the Reticular Formation.
SOME QUESTIONS
How far can. results of experi-
ments with animals be used to
predict Human behaviour!
Experiments in conditioning can
be usefully extrapolated, but so
called neurotic behaviour induced
in animals is not a satisfactory
parallel to human condition.
Are women more neurotic than
men?
Women tend to be more intro-
vert, and henc* to be neurotic
rather than criminal. They also!
have more time to go to a psychia-
trist or a clinic. Such considera-
tions have to be taken into ac-
count when making such a social
observation.
Is there evidence to show that
the more extrovert criminals are
caught because they brag about
their exploits.
We do not have a controlled
sample of those who do not get
caught.
D. S. VHtK
copathic murderers) that no
amount of conditioning will re-
move a particular trait. It is
physically impossible for the per-
son to form the necessary mental
link. The normal modes of pun-
ishment are to such people com-
pletely meaningless. From studies
of the activity of the brain in rela-
tion to behaviour, it is seen that
the cortex exerts controlling influ-
ence on the autonomic nervous
system, and hence behaviour. If
cortical activity is high, overt be-
Scientists and engineers: research workers in new fields of human
knowledge: and practical men to direct huge engineering enter-
prises; the Civil Service needs themfell.More, it can provide them
all with work exacdy suited to individual qualifications and talents.
The Government is today the largest employer of scientists and
engineers in the country, and has staff working in almost every
field of pure and applied science and engineering. Plant pathology
and naval architecture, thermodynamics and physiology, celestial
mechanics and highway engineering: these are just a few diverse
examples.
Prospects in the Civil Service compare favourably with those
existing in industry: every able scientist or engineer should achieve
a salary of £2,500 within a reasonable period; and an outstanding
man or woman (they receive equal pay) will do so in the early thirties.
The top posts, which carry salaries of up to £8,000, are open to all.
At each level, there is full scope for the exercise of personal initiative
and responsibility. Laboratory equipment and engineering facilities
are of the highest order. Conditions of service are good and pensions
are non-contributory. Recruitment to the Scientific and Engineering
Civil Service is by interview—there are no written examinations.
There are openings at various levels and for almost every type of
scientific and engineering qualification. To obtain detailed informa-
tion, send a postcard mentioning age and qualifications, to:
The Secretary, CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
23 Savile Row, London, W.l
This Man is going
to East Germany for
his next vacation
Why? well, for a start, because he's never been there—
nor have any of bis friends. And he's curious. Then there's
money. He doesn't know anywhere else in Europe where
he can live—and live comfortably—on 17/6 a day all in.
Do you?
He's looking forward to visiting Dresden's Zwinger Art
Gallery; the ancient town of Wittenberg; medieval
Meissen; and the Weimar of Goethe, Schiller and Liszt.
To hearing Leipzig's Thomanerchor sing Bach, and the
Berlin State Opera sing anything from Verdi to Wagner.
To watching the Berliner Ensemble perform the works of
Brecht and Weil. He'll explore the bizarre landscape of
Saxon Switzerland, and sunbathe by the tideless Baltic.
And a great deal else besides.
He's busy persuading a party of his friends to go along
with him—then his holiday will cost him nothing at all!
Details from:
JUGENDTOURISTIK,
R E I S E B U E R O DDR,
BERLIN 104, FRIEDRICHSTRASSE 110/112, GERMAN DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC.

