8 FELIX
SHEDDING THE LOAD
Carnival week is here, but how many people realise the hard
work that is done to make it possible ? Planning started way back
in November and the events since then have been numerous. Events
of this nature can only occur when tkoy involve a large number of
students. This year, instead of one Chairman there has been a com-
mittee with specific responsibilities and this " shedding the load "
not only involves more people but makes progress and the carrying
out of new ideas possible.
One man's free time is limited, 20 men's free time is limited but
the effort of 3000 students could topple the government. The spreading
of responsibility within Imperial College Union has been practised
this year and it is hoped that this will continue. At one time the
Union Executive performed more or less every duty except for those
connected with the Clubs, constituent colleges, or Entertainments, but
recently new posts have been created. Last year a Halls representative
was elected to look after the interests of those people who were or
hoped to be in residence. This year for the first time we have had a
Deputy President and the size of his job has definitely justified his
existence.
Postgraduate problems have
come to the fore and there may
be a need for some form of cen-
tralised representation.
The travel plans of students
are becoming more ambitious—
maybe the Union should help in
this field.
These are all jobs which could
and should be performed by your
representatives with help from
many other students. The ob-
vious people to fill these posts
must surely be the ordinary mem-
bers of Council selected from the
I.C. Union Annual General Meet-
ing. See to it that your represen-
tatives are willing and able to
perform these services for you.
NORMAN E. PRICE
This year we have appointed
one man to be responsible for ex-
ternal affairs and as a result have
successfully entertained Russian
and German students, and ar-
ranged an exchange scheme with
the latter country involving study,
visits and vacation work.
A Union yearbook is being in-
troduced for next year—another
student contribution.
A lecturing methods conference
is being organised in a week's
time not by the Executive but by
interested people inside and out-
side the Council. The post of
U.L.U. Agent (i.e. the man re-
sponsible for liason between I.C.
and the University Union) has be-
come important in recent years.
Phornphan Stholusta, a first-year Botanist from Thailand, crowned
this year's Carnival Queen at the May Ball last Friday night. Her
train is carried by the Presidents of IC and UC.
AN
OPEN
NVITATION M
The idea mat having an account with a nation-wide bank like the
Midland is something reserved for people of substantial means is a
fallacy. So also is the belief that banks are interested only in those
who are older and already established. The Midland Bank is inter-
ested in YOU — and all young people like you. You would find a
bank account extremely useful for, besides the convenience of pay-
ing bills by cheque, you will find that it helps you to keep track of
your expenditure.
M i d l a n d B a n k
THE GO-AHEAD BANK FOR GO-AHEAD PEOPLE

