FELIX
"What in This Thing Called 3wi»g?»
Of a l l the types of music, good and
bad, which are appreciated throughout
t U b College and outside, Swing Is
ecsiparatively neglected. When one takes
the trouble to consider the popularity
of olaasioal and popular dance music,
the mst«he*iof swing is apt to be i g -
nored. The popular misconception is
that music falls into one of two categ-
ories, either olaasioal music or
modern music. Swing, however, must not
be confused with jazz or danoe music,
from which i t i s quite different. the
qaestion, "How and when did Swing
develop from the other forms of music?"
Bas often arisen and the answer is quite
simple. We have a l l heard how black
Sambo took his music of Africa with him
to slavery in America, how through the
years he managed to adapt his native
raytamm to-various instruments such as
the clarinet, trumpet, trombone and
piano, and how his ansio ttaally burst
into the world in the 1920*a. Swing
and danoe music later awolved from J a n
but a l l three are a l l quite distinct.
After a breif popularity of about ten
years, the masters of jazz were swept
from the scene by the new group on*
musicians, the Swingsters. These
gentlemen played a more dignified type
of jazs, which had been specially
arranged for their large bands which
usually consisted of about fifteen
players. Whereas the jass bands were
made up of about six men who each gave
a solo performance in front oS the sand,
during the course of the number, the
Swingstera relied on only one or two
solo instrumentalists.
One of the chief reasons for the
waning popularity of jass, waa that i t
galled f o r a tremendous amount of ..stamina
fin the part of the muaiaians and a great
deal, of energy from the dancers. Thus
Swing when i t f i r s t appeared in 1930 waa
the result of experiments in jass made
by the dancers and musicians who did not
wish to exert themselves quite so much,
but who s t i l l wanted to extract the Ut-
most pleasure from their music. The
old carefree spirit of jaai s t i l l
continued in i t s young son Swing and
jass slowly began to disappear from tha
dance hall of Britain and the, U.S.A.
aajtmc the original Swing orchestra* were
those of T
o
m
m
y Dorsey, Artie Shaw, uone
Krupa, Charlie Barnett, Lionel Hampton
and the greatest of them all, Benny
Goodman. Slowly but surely the
vocalists of these bands began to drift
away and as a result, Swing developed
into an instrumental type of music.
The vocalists, however, managed to join
up with bands which were willing to play
the type of music which these vocalists
suited. Thus was formed the type of
music which is extremely popular.to-day,
none other than oheap commercial rubbish,
Sihoe 1936, when this break took
place Swing has been presented at
concerts and many records made, although
Swing i s no longer heard in danoe halls,
many of the old masters of Swing are
s t i l l with us and several new band* have
appeared, who try and on the whole
succeed in playing in the style '-of their
forerunners. Whilst listening to
concerts and records of Swing the tan-
demo* t » Bom to ait back and enjoy each
note played, but our forerunners of the
early 30'a obtained just as much
pleasure from Swing from dancing to i t .
Little Swing, however, ia^ composed to-
day, the bands relying on'new arrang-
ment of early favourites. Woody
Barman and Charlie Barnett have attained
great popularity in this way by their
s k i l l f u l renderings of "Oldies" as they
are oallod.
Among the new Swing musicians of
the day who have their own bands, we '
have Ray Antony, a splendid trumpet
player who graduated from Columbia
University in 1947 and who is enjoying
a great deal of popularity on both sides
on the Atlantic, chiefly as a reault of
his f i r s t record,*"Mr. Antony's Boogie".
Billy May plays in the style of the late
Glenn Miller (tragically killed in .
active service) and he almost succeeds
in capturing the charm of his famous
predecessor, although his saxophones-
effect in the background are very poor-
Buddy Morrow, yet another American, has
his own natural style and his most fam-
ous recording, "Night Train", is a basic
record for any fan who is thinking of
starting a Swing collection. Early
records pf English trumpeter" Kenny
Baker provide good examples of this
kind of music.
Finally, I would like to mention my
own favourite instrumentalist, Benny
Goodman, who, next to Frederick Thurston,
the serious musician, is the best
clarinet player in the world. Not a
great deal i s heard of Benny Goodman
these days, but he has recently made a
number of good records and has proved,
that he i s as good as he ever was.
Also in circulation at the moment is a
long playing record of an a l l star band,
led by Benny Goodman when Swing was in
its heyday in 1937. I refer of course
to the Carnegie Hall oonoert. I would
say that this.is the finest collection
of numbers ever to be recorded on one
disc.
L.A.K. .
At this time i t is usual to look
back over the old year, and to recall
the past events. For jazs, 1959, was .
a very f u l l and exciting year.
The British Jazz fan has "rawer had
i t so good." The traffio of musicians,
across the pond seemed almost continuous,
For the majority, the trip was well jus-
tified, but for some the results were
disappointing. It i s worth noting
(at least I hope that promoters w i l l
oonaider i t worth noting) that the
least satisfactory were the package
shows, where a variety of groups were
thrown together, each told strictly *
that they could have twenty minutes on
the stand, and were expected to produce
good jazz.
But first l e t us think of the
better things of 1959. The perennial
Count Basic (he seem* to be popping up
hare with annual regularity) treated us
to many fine displays of solid, wringing
jazz. Duke Ellington proved that he has
the greatest band i n the world.
Louis Armstrong was truly magnificent,
tat I find i t hard to rave over his
fellow A l l Stars. The MJQ left me
(and thousands of others) almost speaon-
lasa with excitement. .It was heart-
warming to see two of our own music-
ians fitting in so perfectly; Joe
Harriot's "Awvoan -is Bew.,York" waa
almost the high spot of the Conoert,
though Ronnie Ross s t i l l cannot get my
vote for the best baritone Saxophonist
in the world (a position he holds i n
many minds including those of John
Lewis and Richard Ruahton).
Then there was Kid Ory. The best
summing up of this show that I heard was
- "I felt this was the real thing".
It did some inexplicable thing to me
inside - i t was so colourful, so deep,
so swinging, and yet so simple and so
easy. Yes, i t was the real thing.
Of the package shows "Jazz from
Carnegie Hall" probably looked the best
on paper. But J and K seemed a l i t t l e
out of touch with each other, and Lee
Konitz was disastrous. On tha other
hand Phineaa Newborn was great and Zoot
Sims showed why he i s rated so highly.
But the time - one hardly had time to
decide the colour of their suits before
they were gone. "Jazz test the Phil"
brought the controversy concerning the
MU and Stan Getz; the MU won. We did
not see Stan Getz. "Jazz from Newport1
"
sparked o f f considerable publicity on tha
subject of package shows. Everyone
eagerly awaited returns of Dizzy and
Brubeok, and even more eagerly awaited
the debut of Buck Clayton. So they
throw a l l three together, add a
British Group, and consequently we
hear none of them.
Let us also think of the British
groups who so ably f i l l e d out so many
shows. But i f they are only going to
play a couple of numbers i s i t really
worth i t ?
Vocalists too were here i n farce.
Lena Home, Carmen Mafias, Sarah Vaughan,
Champion Jack Dopree, Sonny Terry and
Brownie MoGh.ee immediately spring to mind.
But there are sadder tnings connected
with 1959. The year will probably be
remembered as having a large death t o l l ,
not only on the roads, but also in jazz.
We lost drummers Shadow Wilson and the
great 'Baby' Dodds, clarinettist Omer
Simeon, and the "Grand Old Man of Jazz"
Sidney Beohet. We read with great pity
of the death of B i l j i e Holliday, and were
shocked when we read "The Pros i s Dead".
Lester Young had gone. Many memorial
albums have come on to the market; do
not miss those of Lester Young,
especially the f i r s t with Count Basis.
And so we go into 1960. We know
we can look forward to Sarah Vaughan,
Count Basie, and Shelly Manne and His
Men. There is talk of Ella, Kenton
and the Dutch Swing College, whilst
almost every jazz man in the States
"would love to play England". Let us
hope that we might hear more than talh
of Miles Davis, Henry" Allen's band,
Sonny Rollins and Errol Gamer - and
not a l l in the same show either.
Rimshot.

