•
At 12.V5 on the afternoon of
Tuesday 8th December sixteen members of
the Club being desirous of some farm of
physical exercise, did participate in a
handicap rase, on foot, by means of
running, over a course of approximate-
ly one league, in that well known resort
of out-door recreation, namely Hyde Park.
Handicaps were claimed, by those whoa
i t may have concerned, according to
their own estimates of their own ability
and according to their own estimates of
their own dishonesty. It was thus that
a oertain notorious individual, ta
whit, one D.J.T. Bymer E.N. (Retired)
B.Sc.(Banding) on the word "go" not
being uttered by a certain sheokless
person, that is to say, Da vid J.
Briggs Esq., B.Sc., did take i t upon
himselfj in. spite of the presence of a
well knoan and unscrupulous person,
namely Mr. J.H. Collins (Wandsworth and
Brixton), to win the said race, and,
notwithatandingly, did make a complete
circle of the said iesort, in a time not
exceeding 15 minutes and 20 seconds.
Let i t be known that the most i l l u s t r i -
ous captain of this Club, and his most
honoured officials, and those other
ordinary upright, and not so upright,
member who participated in this histori-
cal event are totally irresponsible,
indeed, are quite oblivious, for the
whole, or any part, of this account,
whioh was written by one —ongat them,
who, let i t also be known, i s , ss i t were
somewhat eooentric.
IC WIN UL X-COUNTHI CHAMPS
On the 9th of December a training
run was held over the University of
London Championships course on Wimbledon
Cession in order that the runners should
be familiar with the course in readiness
for the "big race" on the following
Saturday.
On the "great day" Imperial Collage
entered six teams, the first team f i n -
ished first with a record low score of
28 points to be followed by University
College with a score of 125 points.
The IC,second team finished third with
137 points. John Collins was second
U.S. Barber was fourth, while J. Cleator
and A.W. 1-arkum were sixth and seventh
respectively. The annual rase S.C.S.
vs R.S.M. vs. C 4 G. was run in
conjunction with tlin maawjillaiililiis and
resulted in a victory for R.C.S. with
C & G. second.
The last fixture of last term was ,
the offloial Club handioap race f o r the
Captain's Prise (namely a oertain
indispensable article). This ems won
by Clan Cale who started 15 second behind
scratch. John Collins, with a handi-
cap of 7 minutes 25 seconds completed the
oourse in a corrected time of 27 minutes
10 seoonds - a new College record.
S O C C E R
Promise of trials fulfilled .
1st XI after a poor start are now
playing well and have moved to above '
half-way up the league after being
bottom. They have also been very
successful in the UL cup and have reached
the semi-final where they play UC.
2nd XI have been doing consistently
well and are top of their division in
spite of suffering their annual defeat
at the hands of the 3rd XI who are fight-
ing hard to avoid relegation.
Vth XI after a marathon series of
league games have moved rapidly up their
division and are lying second. They
have already soundly beaten the present
leaders one*.
5th XI after beginning the season
successfully by winning their early
friendly games were disappointing i r
their league and made a disastrous start.
However they have improved since.
6th XI are finding their league
pretty tough going and have only
sustained heavy defeats against teams
whioh are obviously too strong for that
league.
7th XI. The spirit of this team,
we are oertain i t was not the s k i l l ,
have eventually enabled them to wir their
second game of the season. It i s hoped
that the effects of the Cbristass spirit
w i l l be sufficiently Sustained to enable
them to win another,
German Tour.
Sixteen members of the club will be
touring Germany when this is published
and playing football against Mannheim,
Heidelberg, and Karlsruhe Universities.
An enjoyable tour i s assured and i t i s
hoped that some games w i l l be won i f
only to give an excuse for the
celebrations.
B O A T I N G
Although no more fixtures have
been rowed since the last report, the
olub has held a very successful dinner.
After the usual good meal, the speeches
war* of a very high standard. Propos-
ing the club, -the Sector said that he
considered the Boat Club as being, the
premier athletic club in the Collage,
integrating over a namtber of years
(loud sheers). He expressed the nope
that oantaot between the olub and the
Reator be oontinued. In reply, the
captain, Jerry Camay said he hope the
alub would have a successful and en-
joyable season. In a rhetorical
speech Mr. Leeper toasted the new
members who would form the future back-
bone of the olub. The reply by Mr.
Goldie was said to be on. behalf of
those "retired freshers and old
lags".
"The guests* wars suaaessfully
dealt with by Vlad Feltaaan (and sur-
vived) and wittily replied to by Las
Allan. The replete oarsman thus
edified than retired to the bar.
B O X I N G
R E C T O R ' S C U P
This year the annual inter-college boxing
competition will be held on Friday,26th.
February,in the evening.
Any intending participants are ad-
vised to make use of the I.C. club
training sessions, on Fridays from 5 O 0 -
7.30 p.m.,when a professional trainer is
in attendance i n the I.C. gymnasium.This
w i l l also give you an opportunity to meet
likely opponents and fellow members of
your constituent college teams.
S W I M M I N G
The swimming olub finished last
term in a flurry at the ULU pool, by
staging the Inter Collegiate Gala.
RCS turned up in force to encourage their
team and was suitably rewardas When
their swimmers easily won the Linstead
Cup. Mines also had their supporters
out, but unfortunately they had to
return home empty handed, although
considerably loaded down by the amount
of beer they had consumed. In the pole
matches, Guilds won the Forster Cup,
by thrashing the other two Colleges to
the tune of 7-2, and 6-3. However
they were poorly supported.
RCS started the evening well by
easily winning the first faux individual
swimming events, althouah Hitchcock was
made to fight a l l the way i n the back
stroke by Lampard. Loveman comfortably
won his two events, and Wilson cruised
home in the free style. In the one-
length dash, an upset of form occurred
when Key (C & G) just pipped Wilson to
bring the RCS monopoly to an end.
The free style relay went to Guilds, and
the medley to RCS.
In the first polo matoh Guilds beat
RCS 7-2. At half-time RCS, much to their
surprise were only losing 3-2. But
class will t e l l , and Guilds ran out easy
winners. In the second match, Guilds
although tiring, were s t i l l too good fee-
Mines and won 6-3. This meant that the
third matoh was of no consequence, as
Guilds had already won the Cup.
However a good sport matoh ensued, Mines
winning by the odd goal in five.
The fortunes of the swimming olub
last term have been varied.
Although a fine team oh paper, the first
polo team has yet to settle down, and so
far results and displays have been
disappointing. However, the second
team wen the ULU handicap KO competition,
thus emphasising the general strength of
the club. . The first team started
favourites for this event, "gave one of .
their worst displays so far, and were
knocked out in the second, round.
We hope that they are saving their
best displays for the league this term,
whioh is theif main objective, and
that they will overcome the handicap of
starting favourites. They may yet bring
another trophy to IC.
Published by FELIX BOARD, Imperial College Union, S.W.7
Printed by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO.. 107a Telephone Place, W.14 Tel F U L 7969

