10 Travel Feature Felix • 15 December 1999
1 W UH
The Great Wall - Photos Gareth
t
hina's another world. It's not
just the distance or the differ-
ent culture. There's something
inrnguingly other about the whole
experience of a trip there. The simi-
larities are there, but in a way they
add to the sense of being far from
home. Not that I'm overly sentimen-
tal about England y'understand, but
everything you see is viewed through
the filters that are part of the point of
reference we call our own. I can't
even hope to do justice to a country
of a billion people in this article, only
to describe the glimpses of the coun-
try and culture that I've seen.
When my old school asked if I'd
be interested in joining their expedi-
tion to China, I jumped at the
chance. Three weeks in one of the
world's most diverse and compelling
destinations was too good an
opportunity to miss, even if it left me
too broke to do a great deal else
that summer.
•"^o, along with seven Year 12
(lower sixth in old money) stu-
I dents and two teachers, I
found myself sat in an Air China
747, with only a vague idea of what
to expect. Economy flights are much
of a muchness; if you've been on
one, you've seen most of what they
offer. No views ('cept cloud) and not
a great deal in the way of entertain-
ment, especially as most of your
friends have taken the opportunity to
catch up on sleep, diaries or what-
ever. This one was alright. Ten hours
later we bounced down in Beijing.
Our first contact with Chinese
officialdom was fairly painless - just
the briefest of glances at our group
visa and passports and we were
through. Shame we didn't get
stamped, but you can't have every-
thing. It was lucky for us that it was
brief, because the heat and humidi-
ty in Beijing had come as quite a
shock. It was overcast, but must
have been over 35°C. The air here
seemed to have been marinated in
The first British school expedition to China took place last July.
Gareth Morgan helped to lead it, and this is what he thought...
diesel for a few hours before being
slowly pressure-cooked, so none of
the moisture was lost. It was heavy,
muggy and distinctly worrying,
although it never really got any
worse.
Beijing is China's political and
cultural heart. Substantially rebuilt
when the Communists took over in
1949, it is a combination of ugly
apartment blocks, glittering sky-
scrapers and building sites. Reminds
me of somewhere not a million miles
away, actually. And even/where there
are adverts. Hoardings sprout in
every available space, and neon
signs decorate many buildings. Bei-
jing's twelve million people seem to
throng the streets - everywhere
seems busy, bustling with frenetic
energy. The impression is of splash-
es of colour in a sea of grey,
although this was probably due in
part to the unbroken cloud cover.
We took a minibus to our hotel,
picking up a few basic words in
Mandarin from our guide on the
way. A combination of fatigue and
wonder at our new surroundings
kept us fairly quiet. We found
enough energy to go out for a meal
and a drink, and were impressed to
find a Starbucks Coffee shop across
the road. Nice. Chinese food is
among the most diverse and inter-
esting in the world, and although we
only tried a small selection it was
certainly an experience. More
importantly, beer is cheaper than
bottled water, and really rather
good. It's generally a pleasant, eas-
ily drinkable lager that, for an aver-
age of 30 pence a bottle, is a damn
fine idea. This is more than can be
said for their spirits, which resemble
cheap and nasty paint stripper.
Laughably cheap, though.
The Forbidden City is one of Bei-
jing's most famous landmarks, and
it's certainly impressive. The Emper-
ors' home and court from the fif-
teenth century until the end of the
Empire in 1912 is a huge complex
of halls and courtyards, intricately
decorated and thick with tradition. It
was our first encounter with China's
rich history and with the tourist pres-
ence that envelopes most of China's
attractions. But more of that later.
Next stop was Tian'anmen
Square, which is as potent a symbol
of modern China as anything I've
come across. It's huge - a vast
paved area flanked by the massive
parliament building and Museum of
People's History, which sports a big
neon countdown to the handover of
Maccau in a couple of weeks.
Tian'anmen Gate, at the northern
end, would look massive anywhere
else, but looks slightly odd with a
huge portrait of Mao Zedong on it.
Mao's Mausoleum sits on the
square, looking out of place and
reducing the impact of the square's
size. We didn't take the chance to go
in and see his body, which is taken
out of a freezer every day for the
thousands of tourists who visit the
square. It was impossible to forget
the massacre there ten years ago,
despite the families of tourists and
recent renovation. It was decidedly
bleak and unfriendly on this dull
Tuesday morning, but it would have
been impossible to miss it out and
I'm glad we saw it.
It was nice to get out of Beijing
to see the Great Wall. It's impossible
to describe it effectively, but it is
unimaginably long, stretching off
across steep hills over both horizons.
The effort and expenditure required
to build, maintain and man it are
awesome. It's by far the biggest and
most impressive waste of resources
in human history - millions of men,
hundreds of years, and it achieved
precisely nothing. Invading armies
merely avoided it, bribed the
guards, or came in from the other
direction. It makes the Millennium
Dome seem almost worthwhile in
comparison.
We saw two sections: one
reconstructed stretch near Beijing,
which was stunning but a little
tourist-ridden. Later we stayed at a
small village a bit further afield and
walked on some original, 2500 year
old wall. This was lovely: deserted,
we ran over spectacular scenery in
mute testament to its builders skills.
The thick mist obscured the sur-
rounding hills but added to the
atmosphere and sense of isolation.
After being soundly thrashed at
basketball by a local village school,
we returned to Beijing. Another day
of sightseeing, including the Temple
of Heaven and the Summer Palace,
then we took a sleeper train to
Shanghai.
The Terracotta Army, Xi'an

