15 December 1999 • Felix Travel Feature 11
••life
The Temple Of Heaven, Beijing
M
y first impression of Shang-
hai was that it's like Beijing,
but more so. Bigger, shinier,
rasher, louder. The colonial
history has left it even more Western-
ised than the rest of China, and after
forty years of Communist neglect, it's
come back to life with a vengeance.
It's great. Across the river from the
old waterfront, the Bund, there used
to be fields. Ten years ago the area
was designated a Special Economic
Zone and there's now one of the
most attractive and impressive
cityscapes I've ever seen. Shanghai is
heading towards being one of the
world's biggest economic centres,
and the recent Asian economic prob-
lems don't seem to have slowed it
down. There's a sense of urgent
ambition about the city - they're in
the process of building a new under-
ground network from scratch, for
instance, and the one line that's open
is really rather nice. Definitely a city to
check out as the nightlife scene
expands.
Shanghai - and indeed most big
cities - seems at first glance to be
marginally less Communist than, say,
Washington DC, which is somewhat
surprising. We weren't expecting
China to be more capitalist than
Britain. There are aspects of life which
are classically Communist, but I'm
still not sure what Chinese Commu-
nism is. There's a different collective
philosophy on life, but whether this is
due to the people's politics or not I
don't know.
There is some evidence of Gov-
ernmental control: there is no free
press for instance, and the newspa-
pers and TV news have a distinct ring
of propaganda. There are also police
and military personnel around every-
where, but this isn't necessarily a bad
thing.
(•rafter a few days in Shanghai and
•Jm some nearby cities, we flew to
• I Xi'an for one of the trip's high
points: the Terracotta Army. This
archeological site shows some of the
best and worst aspects of tourist sites
in China. In the late 70's, farmers
discovered a buried army of pottery
warriors, dating back to around
500BCE, when the first Qin Emperor
ordered them to be interred with him
to guard his tomb. There are several
thousand, arrayed in battle formation
in a series of huge pits. The Army is
an incredible sight - each warrior is
individually crafted to resemble a
member of the army, from ordinary
soldiers to generals.
The site itself, however, is a bit
disappointing. There are huge air-
craft hanger-type buildings over the
pits, which detract from the spectacle
of the Warriors, and the whole area
seems a little sterile. Even a few
archaeologists working on the figures
would have made a big difference,
but although work is clearly ongoing,
we didn't see any of it. Worse though
are the hordes of souvenir vendors
who surround the site, making it an
effort to even get in without inadver-
tently buying a small heap of tacky
merchandise. They're fairly minor
gripes, but because it was a similar
story at so many places that it started
to get very annoying.
Although we'd specifically asked
for a low cost trip where we could get
as much of a feel for real life in
China, we didn't really get it. What
we did get was the whole tourist treat-
ment: nice hotels, pre-arranged
meals, comfortable transport (except
for minibuses; I've never had an
enjoyable minibus journey in my life,
and don't expect to) and a general
showcasing of China's media-friend-
ly face. We did manage to see a lit-
tle of what life is like for the hundreds
of millions of ordinary Chinese peo-
ple, though. A trip down the Grand
Canal gave us some impressive views
of Soviet-style heavy industry, and out
in the countryside people farmed as
they have done for millennia. I even
saw people leading water buffaloes
by pieces of string.
• eaving Xi'an we headed to
I Sichuan Province to climb
l^rfmountains and see pandas. It's
a beautiful area, and it was great to
get out and do some real walking,
even if the locals were occasionally
somewhat depressing. Seeing girls in
platform shoes walking the other way
doesn't do a great deal for your self-
esteem when you're kitted out in
Goretex and boots. We climbed Emei
Shan, one of China's holy Buddhist
mountains. Unfortunately it rained
the whole time we were on it,
although it cleared up after we came
down. There was an incredibly, eerie
chorus of insects on the lower slopes:
a coherent, undulating wail, rather
than the cacophony usually associat-
ed with cicadas and suchlike.
We also did the only charitable
deed we managed to arrange in
Sichuan. China is notoriously unre-
ceptive to foreign charities, and
although we tried to link up with
groups like WaterAid, we had consid-
erable difficulties. We did manage to
visit a fairly remote school, where we
met some of their more disadvan-
taged students and sponsored them
for a year, as well as donating sever-
al kilos of assorted stationary. It was a
fairly minor gesture, but we wanted to
at least put something back into the
country
The Wolong Panda Reserve is a
National Park among Sichuan's
mountains, and there's a breeding
centre an hour or so's drive up a
spectacular valley. Giant pandas are
not the world's greatest evolutionary
success stories, and as there are only
about a thousand of them left, due to
the destruction of their habitat,
they're going to need all the help
they can get. They're lovely creatures:
big, docile, expressive, and easy to
fall for. Although run by the WWF, the
centre seems a bit of a forgotten proj-
ect. It's a bit basic in places, but
they're building a series of semi-nat-
ural enclosures where the pandas
can enjoy much more freedom and
space than their current, somewhat
cramped, cages. They're having
more success breeding pandas there
than anywhere else, though.
Our final destination was Guilin,
where the limestone scenery is world-
renowned. There are literally thou-
sands of small hills sticking up from a
huge flat plain, and seen together
they're breathtakingly attractive.
Rows of hills fade into the distance,
giving the area an ethereal quality
that matches the pace of life in the
fields and villages nearby. We took a
cruise up the river to Yangshuo, a vil-
lage that's just in the nice, backpack-
er-friendly phase of a tourist revolu-
tion. The view of a night-time thun-
derstorm silhouetting the hills is one
that I hope to keep with me all my
life.
5
0 that's about if. China's a fas-
cinating place, and I only
scratched the surface of what it
D offer. Travelling independently
would cost a lot more than we paid
(I'd budget around £2-3000, includ-
ing travel, mid-range accommoda-
tion and all the places we visited) but
would be a worthwhile and fascinat-
ing experience. There are opportuni-
ties to teach over there, which could
be great, but I'd take care about who
you arrange it through. And for any-
one whose career involves a lot of
travel, I'd definitely recommend Bei-
jing and Shanghai as being worth-
while destinations. I can't think of
another country with such a range of
experiences and contrasts as China,
and if you're thinking of going travel-
ling there are few more intriguing
destinations. Go for it: you only live
once.
A giant panda at the Wolong Reserve, Sichuan Province

