12 Interview Felix • 15 December 1999
The Billion
So you've got your killer internet idea - how do you go about turning that into cash?
company into a billion dollar business in under twenty years. In a world exclusive,
What is your vision for Psion?
The core answer to your question is this: if you
were an artist in the 1870s then I would say
you better get yourself to Paris, and get
involved with what was going on in the
Impressionist School. There is a time and
place where human activity in certain areas
takes off. In Theoretical Physics, the era
between 1 899 and 1 939 was incredibly fertile
in Europe (in Germany, Britain and Denmark
particularly). In my time, this area of micro-
computers is changing the world. Its perhaps
one of the most profound revolutions in
human history. Like the Iron Age or the Indus-
trial Revolution - perhaps more so even. I
wanted to be involved in that because it's fun
creating the world, changing the world, being
at the forefront'
One of things that you've managed to do suc-
cessfully is to run a public company. This is
something that is harder that it sounds, partic-
ularly for people who found and run their own
companies. For instance, Richard Branson
famously withdrew his Virgin Group from the
stockmarket. It is even more difficult for tech-
nology stocks, where development and market
forces can change so rapidly. How have you
managed to do this with a company where
software development has been at the core of
your business?
I wouldn't say that's true anymore. It has been
a core theme, but the company is much
broader now. It's got a whole range of activi-
ties. I would say that the core behind the com-
pany now is innovation. We are an innovation
company, where we combine our understand-
ing of this technology in the future with market
needs as they are going to be in the future
and bring thing this together. We are market-
ing technology and we use software, design
and engineering. And we outsource many of
these things as well. So the core competency
is technology marketing.
You mentioned that there is a time and a
place for certain things in history. Do you
think that the fortunes of Psion would have
been greater if you had re-located Psion to the
Western United States. Because of the other
Companies that are there, which you would
be feeding off, and also because of the mas-
sive amount of capital that you would be able
to attract, wouldn't it be a better place to be?
I don't think that's true today. I don't think that
capital is an impediment. There is a pool of
availability of capital. That could have been a
factor twenty years ago - certainly in the early
80s the availability of capital was very limited.
I think that the answer to your question is yes,
and I did contemplate relocating to Silicon
Valley or the San Francisco area. Actually, I
spend a lot of time there - that was were it
kind of came from, because I was living and
working in Los Angeles, and I was up in San
Francisco a lot of the time, so there is an
involvement there, too. But it is true that if
Psion had been located there I think that it
would have been an easier journey for us to
travel.
On the other hand, there are very Euro-
pean aspects to consider. There is no reason
today why these things can't be done in
Europe. There is the infrastructure that's here,
there's the capital, there's a lot of very educat-
ed, creative people capable of delivering
what's required - but they don't. I think part of
the reason why they don't is because in Europe
we are less excited and interested in the
future. There is too much looking back over
our shoulders. There is too much interest in
heritage. There are people like Simon Jenkins,
for example, who write all over the place and
live in an Old Men's Club somewhere and
look back at some kind of golden, historic era
of Victorian England. So there is a lot of that.
I mean, I myself like to look forward I suppose
that is why came into this business. And Amer-
icans are terribly excited by the future and cre-
ating the future. So yes why aren't there more
European companies. One of the things I like
to talk about is trying to encourage the young
entrepreneurs, young business people, stu-
dents, whatever. The opportunities are terrific
- you just have to go out there and believe
that you can do it.
Now it's an interesting question, this ques-
tion about Silicon Valley and about location.
One of the things that our industry is
about is facilitating. Computers, communica-
tion, the internet and so on is the death of dis-
tance, so I throw it back to you, does it matter
whether you're in San Jose or London or
Taipei, now that the world's kind of collapsed
into the global village? I think it does to an
extent - I only wished that we galvanised our-
selves in Europe to participate in the industries
of the future. I spend a lot of time persuading
government - for example, I'm on various gov-
ernment committees trying to encourage this,
and I sit on the council of Science and Tech-
nology, which reports to the Cabinet. I guess
one of the things that I particular care about is
what are the policies and actions - things that
government can do to facilitate this interest in
Science and Technology, and the creation of
new enterprises rather than the retention of
old ones.
For instance, this summer the Cabinet pub-
lished it's e-commerce report. E-commerce is
an exciting area, where a lot of people can
see the potential of the numbers and a lot of
people haven't figured out how to make a
profit out of it. The current strategy seems to
be playing the numbers game. For instance,
the company everyone knows is Freeserve. It
started off and after 9 months they had about
a million people registered on their website.
But when you sit down and look at the num-
bers, you see that something doesn't quite
add up: it had a turnover of 2 million and a
loss of 1 million. Yet it was valued at nearly 2
billion pounds? Now, your new company Sym-
bian is in this industry, in the sense that is in
the communications arena. What are your
views on the opportunities?
I think that Symbian is potentially in one of the
most important spaces, by which I mean eco-
nomic market spaces that are going to evolve.
And that's why there is a lot of interest in it.
What Symbian will facilitate is wireless mobile
access to the internet. And it looks like it could
end up with some of the core software tech-
nology that is going to facilitate it. So yes, we
are always moving and we have to keep mov-
ing on. If we stop moving the terms of our per-
ception and thinking and so on then that's bad
news.
Psion has also got very high values and a
lot of that can be associated with Symbian.
We're valued at something over a billion
pounds - but we are a very different animal
from the likes of Freeserve. We've actually got
a long track record of creating products - sue-
15 December 1999 * Felix interview fly
Dollar Doc
You wouldn't go far wrong listening to David Potter, the man who has turned his
Felix managed to get an interview with him just before the recent COMDEX show
cessful, profitable and cashflow generating
products. Almost all of our capital, assets and
cashflow come from retained profits, not from
flotations raising vast quantities of money.
Now, I have to express serious doubt about
the valuations being put on some of these very
young start-up ventures, often where the busi-
ness model is unknown. In the case of Sym-
bian, there is core technology which has enor-
mous potential value. Even if it's successful,
there are still questions about who will win in
that space. Some people think it will be
Microsoft. I don't think so, but the game's not
played yet. What it does have is good core
technology to go with a huge customer base
to deliver that, because of all the cellular
mobile phone companies. So that's kind of
real.
Everybody is doing a dot com company.
Actually, what I would point out to you is the
following - this demonstrates that the eco-
nomic system is very healthy. And I'll tell you
why - it's only fairly recently (over the past few
years) that the investing institutions, fund man-
agers, pension companies, and insurance
companies (who have to think in the long-term
in terms of financial assets) suddenly began to
wake up and realise that the internet, not to
mention technology as a whole, was going to
play a very important role in the future econ-
omy of the world.
So, the trustees and fund managers and
institutions developed policy saying that this is
going to become huge. We have to invest in
it. It has to be part of our portfolio. And we
therefore need our portfolio to have x percent
involved in high technology and internet
stocks. So they then said to their fund man-
agers 'go out and make that happen'. The
fund managers went out, looked for the stuff
and they couldn't find enough of it. Now some
of the first laws of economics tell you that if
there is very high demand for something and
not enough supply the price goes up. So what
you have is absurdly high pricing of all man-
ner of potential companies in that area.
Which of course is totally unfounded. It's daft,
and a lot of money is going to be lost there.
However, think about it from an economic
point of view. By putting the price of these
potential investments so high, it's attracting
resources - people, money, capital, develop-
ment staff, management, etc - into those very
areas to develop that industry. And so the eco-
nomic system is just doing it's job. Unfortu-
nately, a lot of investors are going to lose a lot
of money in about two years time (or whenev-
er), when the supply of new e-commerce com-
panies and investments swamps demand. And
then I leave it to you to figure out what is
going to happen, the price is going to fall and
you can then begin to get a balance over a
period of time. This is actually what is going
on. The valuations of some of these invest-
ments is absurd. With these new one and two
year start-ups, there is no knowledge as to
whether they have a business model or not.
And so a lot of money is going to be lost - but
some of those companies will succeed.
What are your views on the transfer between
universities and start-up companies? It seems
much better now than it was at the time you
were at Imperial. So in fact there are no real
barriers anymore - the infrastructure,
resources, capital, and people are available.
So, do people just need to have the drive, if
they actually believe that there business idea
has the potential?
I think that is correct and I think that these are
cultural attitudes. More and more people are
kind of interested and they do want to partici-
pate in this new world. Of course, it's not just
information technology - if you take biotech-
nology there are huge opportunities there,
and the same is true in many other areas. So
yes, I think that the universities are striving for
better practice, and some of them are suc-
ceeding well - and others are fuddy-duddy
and slow.
Now there are three areas that I would
criticise in the university environment. One is
that universities can be very slow to respond to
employment needs and to new disciplines. So
we don't have anything like the number of
departments and resources and staff required
to train people in software, for example. It's a
huge area, and it's very exciting. There are
new ideas about information and artificial
intelligence and the brain, both human and
artificial, and it's psychology. There's a whole
bunch of areas that are coming together and
we are very backward - our universities
respond very slowly to external demands and I
think that's a fundamental problem.
The second problem with our universities
is that we have got an increasingly unitary sys-
tem. By unitary I mean a single type of institu-
tion that has been created. That's very bad.
We need diversity among our institutions,
instead of all of them copying each other.
The third element which I would say is
there as well is that there can be, there has
been historically, a division in British culture
between what I'll call 'pure science' and appli-
cation. There is a prejudice against the ideas
and applications of men and women in sci-
ence. As opposed to God's ideas...
Such as the basic laws of physics?
There is an attitude there which says that the
pursuit of science for it's own sake is good. Yet
the pursuit of the application of science and
technology is somehow bad. We don't value it
in the same way as Americans do. Engineering
disciplines, applications of whatever kind,
software...these are considered lesser kind of
subjects. And I illustrate that by saying that the
science lobby in Britain is enormously strong
and has great influence. But we don't have
proper institutions, or any kind of lobby, in
applications and technology, and we are very
weak. And that's what differs between us and
the America.
Do you have an example of that kind of lobby
in America?
Well it's everywhere. You've got to kind of look
at the infrastructure. The influence of the
semiconductor manufacturers on the universi-
ties and on government is substantial.
Indeed, when faced with a crisis from the
Japanese 1 0 or 1 2 years ago, there was great
support from the government. Look at MIT
and it's Media Lab and all that's going on.
That is another example where people are
really interested... I mean MIT is one of the
great universities of the world, so is Stanford.
And they are massively involved in these new
disciplines. It's difficult to find many British
universities who are... There's nothing equiva-
lent to the likes of MIT or, for that matter,
Austen, Texas. So it's just not networked
through the universities and government and
business in the same kind of way. It's a cultur-
al issue.

