14 Science Felix • 15 December 1999
Seeing the light
As the 20th Century draws to a close, we are one step closer to the elusive quantum computer.
An international collaboration of scientists from !
_
America and Japan have made another crucial
breakthrough in the development of a quantum
computer.
The idea behind a quantum computer is that,
instead of using electrons to carry out computation,
it would use photons, allowing it to take advantage
of quantum effects. For example, the "many worlds"
interpretation means that when a particle is made to
decide between two possible routes, the universe
splits into two parallel universes. The quantum com-
puter might even be able to use superposition in
order to carry out calculations in several universes
simultaneously.
Teams of researchers worldwide are working on
all the elements required to build a complete quan-
tum computer, but until now they had been held
back by the fact that there was no way to manipu-
late photons precisely. However, the international
team have now developed a device which allows
only one particle through at a time, using an effect
similar to a turnstile and the fact that when a high
energy electron drops to a lower energy, it releases
this energy difference as a single photon.
J Kim and his colleagues at Stanford University
utilised a phenomenon unique to the quantum
world. First described by Robert Oppenheimer in the
1920s, the so-called Tunnel Effect states that due to
quantum uncertainty, an electron can and will pass
through a physical barrier and appear on the other
side. Therefore, if an electron "tunnelling" from a
higher energy state to a lower energy state could be
held somewhere in the middle, in a sort of quantum
well, the subsequent arrival of another electron
would be prevented, as the occupying electron
would repel the oncoming electron due to its nega-
tive charge. The original electron could then be
Could this be the computer of the future?
allowed to carry on its path and the resultant jump
in energy states would release a single photon,
which could be detected using sensitive equipment.
The scientists were able to do this by placing
two semi-conducting silicon wafers close together,
doped with different elements. On one side the
doping elements bond with the silicon to leave an
excess of electrons, and hence a negative charge.
On the other side, the silicon bonds to elements with
too few electrons, creating a positive "hole" for the
spare electrons to jump into.
Electric currents are used to control the passage
of the electrons into the quantum well by adjusting
the voltage and hence the amount of energy given
to the tunnelling electron. The whole apparatus has
to be kept just above absolute zero (-273a
C) to stop
thermal vibrations contaminating the system.
The results from this experiment proved that the
number of photons emitted can indeed be regulat-
ed. This in itself shows the validity of quantum theo-
ry and could also be used to miniaturise computer
components to the nano scale, offering a new way
of processing information.
SU-YEN THORNHILL
"Public perception of science
has never been lower"
Opinion." Lindsay Gilmour attended Bernard Dixon's lecture at the Institute of Biology
Former New Scientist editor Bernard Dixon gave
the Charter Lecture for the Institute of Biology at the
Royal Society on 24 November. Stating that scien-
tists are ultimately dependent on public support for
funding, he tried to explain how science journal-
ism, and the way that scientists themselves talk to
journalists, could help to change things.
However, Dixon hi-jacked himself by spending
nearly an hour in opposition to campaigning jour-
nalism. The 'GM food furore1
has clearly been
bothering him, but his blanket accusations that
journalists had no idea what they were talking
about rather fell apart under his own summary.
Dixon concluded that there are ten reasons why the
British public don't want G M food on the shelves
until more testing has been done, and not in the
middle of the countryside - controlled conditions
only please. I won't list all ten, but trust me, only
one actually has anything to do with the science.
It really is time that the image makers of sci-
ence, people like Bernard Dixon, realised that 'GM'
is not really a scientific debate, and that if they ally
themselves with it unconditionally then they can
only further tarnish the already creaky trust that the
public has in scientists. Come on folks, for once
let's exert a bit of that reasoned, rational approach
that science is meant to be so good at and admit
that the G M debate is about distrust of corporate
America, dislike of agribusiness, recent food
scares, environmental worries and general resent-
ment of something which we are told is no danger
but aren't offered any choice about.
And by the time all those issues have been sort-
ed out, the scientists doing the work might have
some more conclusive results about possible aller-
gic reactions, dangers to Monarch butterflies and
the rest of it. Then we can have the science debate
- but not until then.
IfrV.of
H I
Intel have announced that a bug exists on their
bug. is".e:
xpecfec5 to ai» ent of
PCs, Dell suspended all orders and manufactur-
ing of their systems in order to further evaluate
important than the environment or public health.
cates
food
3,000
JC

