15 December 1999 • Felix Feedback 17
Wondering where I'd gone last
week? Well, I had only just begun to
enjoy my new-found celebrity status,
when the death-knell was abruptly
sounded. I'm talking about the one
thing which is sure sign that a well-
known person is about to be con-
signed to obscurity for ever - I was
asked to switch on the Oxford Street
Christmas lights. My career is obvi-
ously over, before it even got going.
Whilst I was on Oxford Street, I
took the opportunity to do a little
Christmas shopping. Whilst it
would, of course, be wrong of me to
divulge what Santa may be bringing
to all you good little girls and boys
(and medics), I thought I'd guide
you through some thoughts I had
concerning the more prominent
members of our happy College
family.
Having been given a peerage
for his birthday and Wye College
out of the blue, the Rector must
have thought that Christmas was
over early. However, Breakpoint can
exclusively reveal that Santa is still
planning to fill Ron's sack this year.
The intended gift? Why, just what
he's always wanted - a small brown-
field site on Gower Street. Ripe for
redevelopment, this site is currently
occupied by some sort of new-age
traveller commune, who call them-
selves the Unilateralist Communist
Luvvies (UCL for short).
Closer to home, and having
made some serious errors in costing
out his new model village (particu-
larly the model hospital and sports
hall), wee Ian Caldwell is apparent-
ly in need of a calculator. Break-
point is only too happy to oblige,
and has bought him one which
(luckily) is not capable of dealing
with negative numbers.
It is always being said that we
should look after the elderly during
this festive season, and so Break-
point has managed to purchase life
membership of the Garrick Club for
Simon Baker. As well as providing
somewhere warm for him to go dur-
ing these cold winter months, he will
find the company just to his liking :
plenty of cantankerous old farts
bitching about how good it all used
to be.
Taking a break from Central
London, I went to GenTech Labs
(just outside Cambridge), where
they are offering various bits of
genetically-engineered human tis-
sue at very reasonable prices. I was
able to get quite a bargain on a sin-
gle brain cell, which will make the
perfect gift for the members of ICU
Council -they can put it with their
existing one (and therefore have two
to rub together). Perhaps this can
serve as the beginning of a collec-
tion - don't hold your breath.
Finally, Dave Roberts, my kind
and understanding boss, deserves
his magnum of champagne to help
him celebrate the turn of the Millen-
nium. Breakpoint understands that
Mr Roberts was teetotal until I start-
ed contributing to Felix. I would like
to wish him all the best in his new-
found drunken state.
Feeling self-satisfied with a
good day's shopping, I clambered
awkwardly into the back of my lim-
ousine (why don't they make them
easier to get into?), and told James
to head for home. However, I still
couldn't shake the niggling feeling
from my head that I'd forgotten a
most important gift. It was only
when greeted by my guard-dog that
it hit me - and so it will give me
great delight to send a signed pic-
ture of myself to Miss Natasha New-
ton. Merry Christmas all.
BMS CRACKS - UP
Kevin has noticed that it has been quite chilly in
the BMS recently. He expected that such an intel-
ligent building would have realised that winter
was coming and it would be getting cold. How-
ever, like everything else in the building, the
heating system is ridiculously complex and cost
far more to install than a simpler system that
would have done the job better. The recent prob-
lems could have been solved by simply turning
on the under-floor heating system, but it appears
that either the building or its masters are reluc-
tant to do this. Their fears are due to the fact
that, as the heating was not turned on last year,
turning it on now may crack the floors...
TEQUILA
Recently, at one of ICU's bars, Kevin's attention
was drawn to a student who had just purchased
a large number of shots of tequila asked if the
bar had any salt and lemon. The simple "No"
she received from the barman contained a hint
of: "We're the largest student venue in London -
not another Firkin clone." Whilst Kevin agrees
with this sentiment, it did show him that some
students want more from their union's bars. Here
in the centre of London you don't have to go far
to get some ideas of how we could inject more
fun into ICU's bars. Just imagine what a differ-
ence an ice blender, cream and chocolate could
make to the cocktails.
DARKNESS
Like many people reading this column, Kevin is
suffering from a severe lack of daylight. Emerg-
ing from the lab or a lecture at five to find out
that it is already an hour after sunset can't be
psychologically good for anyone. Kevin realises
that putting the clocks back appears to be a
brilliant idea at the time you actually do it -
especially if like most people you happen to be
Mish
Mash
A Mostly Harmless Column by
Kevin, a random entity who
knows nothing about nothing
in the situation where this permits an extra hour
drinking or an extra hour in bed. Kevin has
been trying to find out why the nation insists on
having this moment of short-term pleasure,
knowing it is going to result in a whole winter
of darkness. He believes it has something to do
with either Scottish farmers or reducing the
selection pressure on the young of our species.
Kevin finds neither of these explanations for the
loss of his evenings acceptable. Perhaps the
devolution of Scotland has been the first step in
solving the problem - to be followed of course
by the creation of the Scot's own time-zone.
LIE IN
Kevin was amazed to learn that, in some uni-
versities, nine o'clock lectures were rare occur-
rences. At one institution, student's attendance
at morning lectures had got so low that the uni-
versity started to reschedule them for later in
the day. As a consequence the university ran
out of time in the week. Instead of forcing its
students to get up in the morning, the decision
was made to hold lectures on Wednesday after-
noons. This move infringed on time previously
set aside for sports and other clubs and soci-
eties activities. Warwick's largely apathetic stu-
dent body did little to attempt to counter the
university's move.
CARELESS COFFEE
It has come to Kevin's attention that one of
ICU's Deputy Presidents has carelessly mislaid
his coffee table. Anyone who has recently
acquired a black circular piece of furniture
should contact Kevin.
To comment or contribute:
http://come.to/mishmash
or email kevin@ic.ac.uk

