Music Felix • 15 December 1999
frequency
1999 - that was the year that
was. And what a year it was.
Music has never b 'en better
(we won't mention that num-
ber one) and as we look for-
ward to next year we all know
there's an upward trend. As
for the Christmas number
one, hopefully the re-release
of Imagine will take the man-
tle. It may be an old tune, but
I'll be surprised if there's a
better tune in the running.
Please though God, do not
let Cliff win the race...
.. frequency...
have a good one
As well as wishing everyone a
Merry Christmas and a
Happy New Year, the fre-
quency editorial team of
James, Thorn and Boycey
would also like to say a big
thank you to all our readers.
We've had a great time writ-
ing reviews and compiling
these pages and we hope
that you've had just as much
fun reading them. We also
hope that you don't disagree
too much with our music of
the year choices, and we
hope you can find one or two
delights in our stocking filler
selection. There's also a few
reviews of new music, but
December releases are rarely
the best. There's also the
small matter of the new Oasis
album due for release in Feb-
ruary. If ever there was an
opportunity for an album to
define the music of a new
decade this is it. So good luck
Noel, I hope you can do it.
''"'^'i
'-%;-'.:,Ti;
Album of the Year
Travis - The Man Who
Only one album released this year comes anywhere near to the timeless qual-
ity that the accolade of "Album of the Year" requires, and Travis' The Man
Who is it.
As the current Radio One trail proclaims, 1 999 was the year of Travis. Step-
ping out of nowhere, they have been rewarded with massive album sales, a
string of top twenty singles and across the board critical acclaim. More
importantly, they're hard to pin down - one review summed them up as
Radiohead meets Oasis (depressed sigh meets anthemic chant, I guess) hard-
ly does anyone any favours. Certainly they have Radiohead (circa The Bends)
inspired moments, but then they're a lot more indie and, frankly, a lot more
mainstream - you only have to look at the singles charts for proof, where
you'll find that Turn, Driftwood, Writing to Reach You and Why Does it Always
Rain On Me have notched up incredibly impressive figures for a band that
practically no-one had heard of twelve months ago.
Ultimately, The Man Who stands out simply as an outstanding collection of
songs. The feel of the album as a whole might not be perfect - it jumps
around rather than flowing through moods and styles as a classic album
should - but the tracks themselves are simply superb, and it's worth spending
your eleven quid just for the singles alone.
All music has it's own place and time (I'm a confirmed believer in the concept
of owning music for every mood), and this album sits happily next to my stereo,
awaiting stressed out nights or panic striken days, when I can throw it on, melt
into my bed, and simply calm the fuck down. Idyllic.
Dave
H i
Single of The Year
TLC - No Scrubs
With a lyrical delivery worthy of their
beautifully scribed words, it is no
wonder that TLC win the prize of
Felix Single of the Year.
1 999 was a great year for TLC. They
recaptured the popularity of their
CrazySexyCool era and then sur-
passed it with massive amounts of
radio and MTV play. No Scrubs and
the later-released Unpretty were
songs from the top draw and both
had girls and boys across the world
singing along. Not only were the
tunes excellent, but the lyrics were
catchy and had more meaning than
those found in most other popular
tunes.
No Scrubs takes the prize though as
the best of the two. It's original, styl-
ish, beautifully executed and almost
perfect in every way. It universal
appeal stamps the mark harder, and
I'm taking no arguments about this
being Single of the Year.
James
stocking filler recommendations
Basement Jaxx - Remedy
House music for the masses, the Jaxx splashed a style of
their own across the UK this year. The singles from the
album also improved as the year went on, with the Jump
and Shout conclusion breaking more than a few ear drums
Beck - Midnite Vultures
Beck does it again with this latecomer. It's a cocktail of influ-
ences and a delight on the ear.
Blur - Thirteen
Not quite album number thirteen, but Blur are getting close
The quality still shines after all this time and if you get this I
promise you'll still be listening to it in ten years time.
Death in Vegas - The Contino Sessions
A slow burner in the sales charts, but another excellent col-
lection of songs that work extremely well together
John Digweed - Bedrock Mix
Shortly edging out Sasha's Global Underground Ibiza mix,
this Bedrock Mix takes dance music mix of the year. The
Bedrock clubnight at Heaven also wins a prize as Felix's
Best Club. Nice going John.
Eminem - The Slim Shady LP
He's ruse, he's bad and your mum hates him. So buy this
for your little brother and watch World War Three com-
mence. It's what family gatherings are all about.

