15 December 1999 • Felix Music 23
frequency
Fun Lovin' Criminals
Mimosa
(EMI)
Lounge music. Lounge music... hmmmmmm. It's along the same lines as elevator music, airport
music and musak in the kitsch stakes, although there's a certain quiet cool about it. I mean, it's a
pretty uptight cat (work with me on this one, okay) that can listen to lounge music for any long
stretch and not fall asleep. You've got to be a real square not to relax to it, man. (Come on, give
me a break, I'm trying to be cool and with it. I'll just stop it, shall I?)
Cool lounge grooviness is all well and good but when it's presented by one of the most laid-back
bands ever as an alternative to their more pop-cool orientated sounds then you have to wonder.
I'm always a bit suspicious when a band release an album of b-sides or unreleased numbers
unless (a) they've split up or (b) one of them has died, as Queen do regularly. Oasis did The Mas-
terplan last year and I felt that it was an excuse to make more money from their fans even though
they couldn't be arsed to write a new album, and I have that same feeling about Mimosa.
To kick off, we've got five (count 'em) tracks taken from the album Come Find Yourself, and even
one of those is a cover. All five are different versions, mainly titled Schmoove, but out of eleven
tracks it's a hell of a large number. The rest are covers of a variety of musicians but all have a
distinctly Vic and Bob club-style about them. I am perhaps being a tad harsh on what is, in all a
fair album. There's an Ozzy track, Crazy Train that's pure piss-take, and a cover of the Sinatra
song The Summer Wind with a guest appearance from Echo and The Bunnymen's Ian McCul-
loch. All the FLC alternative versions are rather fun to listen to, with Huey on Scooby Snacks
sounding as though he's one step away from a coma and a general feel throughout the whole
album of them not actually giving a shit. Mimosa will certainly appeal to FLC fanatics but there's
more than just that. The album is sufficiently different for it to be a worthwhile move for even a
part-time fan to give it a listen. I still think that it's another cheap way of making money though.
South Park
Mr Hanky's Christmas Classics
(Columbia)
Poo. What a great word. Try saying it out loud, especial-
ly if you're reading this during a lecture. See how many
people look at you and laugh. This album is mostly
about shit and coincidentally most of it is shit. Okay, so
it's funny the first time you hear it, but the second listen
becomes tiresome very quickly. First song, a primary
school snigger-along. Second, an over-offensive
racist/blasphemous ditty. Then the tuneless singing of a
Christmas carol by South Park characters. Repeat these
themes for fifty minutes. Nice. Don't get me wrong, I love
South Park, but this thing is more reminiscent of the
ICSM publication, Prince Albert - smutty whilst being
completely devoid of humour. Perhaps it's meant to
offend and shock, but I just found it plain dull.
The high point of the album is an absurd Meatloaf send
up, Swiss colony beef log, sung by Cartman, but the rest
of the music can be generously described as being TV-
advert quality. This CD deserves to be reduced to ashes
along with all the rest of the cheap cash-ins released in
time for Christmas. Even the mandatory Chef song is dire.
Verdict: 5 stars for the first listen, 0 thereafter. So Felix
gives it one, and recommends that you steer well clear.
Christian Hardy
more stocking filler recommendations
Gomez - Liquid Skin
Gomez set themselves among musics major play-
ers with this release. Liquid Skin is an excellent fol-
low up to Bring It On and every self respecting stu-
dent should own both.
Groove Armada - Vertigo
As they'd say themselves, 'if you're fond of sand
dunes...' you'll adore this chilled offering from
these London boys. It also includes the new ICU
anthem / See You Baby, but unfortunately you'll
have to buy the single to get the thumping Fat Boy
Slim remix.
Moby - Play
Moby's Why Does My Heart Feel So Sad? ran No
Scrubs close for Felix's Single of the Year. Play is a
fabulous record with all the usual Moby twists.
Mogwai - Come on Die Young
Lyricless and slow, this album is not one for the
depressed or easily upset. Its release was also
ignored by many but this is a work of art.
Beth Orton - Central Reservations
This probably deserved to win the Mercury Music
Prize (the winner of which passes without a men-
tion here).
Stereophonies - Performance and Cocktails
They may sound a bit too much like Radiohead
did five years ago, but all is forgiven considering
the catchiness of the songs.
Mercury Rev - Deserter's Songs
Not from this year, but as this my favourite from
1 998, this superb album manges to squeeze into
this box. It's a beautiful album both musically and
lyrically, and the composition is at times simply
breathtaking. It's also better than anything to
come out this year, and that's saying quite a lot
considering the quality on these pages

