Music Felix • 15 December 1999
frequency >/x
Led Zeppelin
The Best Of - Volume 1
(Atlantic)
Okay, I've got my hands in the air and I'm more than willing to admit
that I'm a huge fan of the Zep. I'm going to be slightly swayed by near-
ly anything that has the best rock band ever playing on it, but I'll be fair.
Have you ever been asked, "But WHY do you need that super-rare
import version of that album? All that's different is the colour of the
title"? I have, and the only response I can muster is the old beauty that
being a fan of such sad proportions is like being addicted to crack. You
always tell yourself that you'll stop but you NEED more and each time
you get it, the buzz is that little bit weaker. This is pure speculation on
my part since I have never been and am not addicted to crack cocaine.
Anyway, Early Days is a compilation of what Jimmy Page (producer of
the album and guitar legend) thinks are the best bits from Zeppelin's
first four albums. It contains such classics as Rock And Roll, Dazed And
Confused, Whole Lotto Love (the original version of the Top Of The Pops
theme) and the inevitable Stairway. In fact the entire album could be
titled The Beginner's Guide To The Mighty Zep because there's not a
bum track on it. All the ingredients that first had me hooked are there:
Robert Plant's screeching vocals, Pages killer hammering of the Les Paul
(among others) and the incredible coupling of John Paul Jones' key-
board and bass wizardry with John Bonham's psycho drumming. As a
feat of production and musicianship the sound can't be faulted, there's
even a movie of Communication Breakdown on the ECD. I'm in Led
Zep heaven...
And then I think a little. Why, in light of past releases of the boxed set
of four CDs in 1990 and a Remasters double album in 1993, do we
need another greatest hits selection? Are the coffers of Led Zeppelin Inc.
empty? I think not. Do those wonderful people at Warner Music wish to
do the public a favour? Don't make me laugh. All it boils down to is
money, and people wanting more of it, and in that respect, Early Days
is a stinker. In all the other ways though, this is a superb album of thir-
teen classic songs from the world's greatest rock band.
Christian
Music Meeting Time Change
Due to James having too much work to do music meetings will be mov-
ing back to the much more friendly time of Friday lunchtimes at
12.30pm. To join up just come along to a meeting in the portacabins
or contact James on music.felix@ic.ac.uk
Talking All That Jazz!
And there goes the
London Jazz Festival
Well, as planed, I made my way to two of the concerts at the London Jazz
Festival I'd written about a few weeks ago. My selection took me to see
Taj Mahal, and Dianne Reeves at the last gig of this year's UF.
The first concert was very good, with the blues legend in the perfect mood,
doing his thing brilliantly, accompanied by six African musicians on very
strange instruments (Malian koras anyone?). But the second concert cer-
tainly went beyond my very high expectations. Dianne Reeves sure is the
girl of a preacher man! Amen to that! She preached the righteous path to
a mesmerised crowd who kept asking for more. Full of tracks from her new
Blue Note album, Bridges (recommended to anyone whose hearing is still
working), the long concert was very diverse in style. She was able to switch
from the bluest of moods playing Duke's Mood Indigo in duet with her
bassist, to some heavy-beat scat numbers when the bassist opted for his
electric bass guitar instead of the traditional double-bass, and the per-
cussionist was on fire.
She has a great interaction with the audience too, and the atmosphere
was fabulous. It reached its peak in my opinion when, on a slow blue
number, people spontaneously started snapping their fingers in rhythm. At
that moment you could really grasp the passion of the crowd: they need-
ed to express their emotion but where exactly in the timid, quiet but catchy
mood of the melodies sketched.
Arguably, the best two jazz singers in the world right now are Dianne
Reeves and Diana Krall. And if you've missed Dianne, go and listen to
Diana! Her previous UK concert in November last year sold out at an
amazing pace, so get a move on! By the way, I'm just mentioning this
because I've been asked the question, it is possible to dance to jazz music
in London? Catch the 'messin' around' soiree at the Jazz cafe (near Cam-
den tube station) every Saturday. It's £8 and goes on from 10.30pm to
2am. You'll have great fun.
And let me add a little bit of advice here. If you want to buy a few albums
(I'll hopefully have a few reviews soon) here are the cheapest stores in
central London: Steve's Sound at Newport Court (close to the sex-shops!)
in Leicester Square, and Honest Jon's at 276 Portobello Road. Don't buy
anywhere else, you'll pay more.
Finally I'd like to wish you all a happy holiday and if can't be good be
careful, and remember that above all else you must keep it jazzy
Etienne

