Music Felix • 15 December 1999
frequency y/^
Fun Loving Criminols
@ Brixton Academy
The Fun Lovin' Criminals are cool. By that I mean that it is they themselves
that are cool and not just their music. They love playing their music and it
shows. They love performing in front of a crowd and it shows. Not only do
they love it but they also know how to bring the best out of themselves and
put huge smiles on the faces of the crowd, ones which were probably still
there two days later. Saturday night at Brixton academy was an experience
that started not so much with a bang, but more of a 'uh-huh' as The King
played support. He wasn't particularly bad, but neither did he sound as if
he should have escaped the top end of the pub circuit. The crowd were
good-natured enough to give a small amount of applause but they really
just wanted The Criminals to come on stage.
However, after the King had finished his set we had to wait a while longer
as we were treated to a screening of Maui homicide 2000 - FLC's new 20
minute short film. Imagine if you will a bunch of guys deciding they want-
ed a bit of a laugh and had the money to film a few amusing notions they
had floating around their head. Imagine a seventies cop show shot on a
dodgy handheld camera with the actors taking the piss. That was this film.
Every single moment of the film Huey and Fast were carrying, and drink-
ing from, a bottle of Corona. Even when they were jumping over bushes
with a pistol firing from one hand, in the other would be a bottle of beer.
Nice. By all rights the film should have been as boring to watch as one
your mate had made while pissed on a Saturday afternoon but somehow
it turned out to be something of a cult classic...
When the Criminals finally came on they did so with a roar and started as
they meant to go on - loudly. Listening to their albums beforehand I won-
dered if some of the songs would transfer well to a live gig but after hear-
ing them play I found out how wrong I was. FLC had - for want of a bet-
ter phrase - "toughened up" some of their songs so that they played better
in front of a live audience, and it worked amazingly well. Their mellow
songs were still mellow but the songs that had lain somewhere in between
mellow and jumping were elevated to that higher level needed for a live
gig. There were no bad points in the whole set but of course the classics
such as Scooby Snacks, King of New York and Big Night Out got the crowd
shouting more than the rest. The final song of the set was the best ever ver-
sion of We Have All the Time in the World (1 0 times better than that found
on Come find Yourself) and it left us begging for more, but unfortunately
our two hours was up and we had to make our way back to the tube.
This was the best concert I've been to for a long while and it just confirms
my view of Brixton as the best London live venue - I can't wait for both my
return and that of the Criminals.
Tim
Chemical Brothers
@ Brixton Academy
Hey boy, hey girl, hey you what you doing here? Hey freak left over from the
days gone by of grunge and psychotic episodes. Hey teenie bopper in the
corner WHAT ARE YOU WEARING? Hey want some pills? Or Es? Or some-
thing to last the night (Charly anybody)? Oh yes it's all under one groovy
roof. It's laser supreme with dodgy burgers and fries to go... here we go!
Two years after the hype over 'electronica' and its subsequent failure to meet
the music industry's desire for the 'next big thing', electronic music is, nev-
ertheless, more a part of our musical consciousness than ever before. That
is, if your consciousness can cope in an environment such as this. You
bought Block Rockin' Beats because your friends had it, but can the move
from the relatively safe realm of the warehouse party to that of the ticketed
rock concert do the electronic culture any good?
This is no ordinary venue. The Academy has a lingering sense of darkness
about it, that and the lack of a queue makes you think something isn't quite
right. Oh why oh why didn't you tell me they were on at 1 am? James Hol-
royd doesn't do the venue any justice, but has a few nice moments, and
finally lets Sasha tease the crowd. You know that tune, no you don't, and it's
cunning, a seamless montage of body shaking beats and bass lines with no
direction. But you have to leave it to a couple of unassuming-looking Man-
cunians to blow the roof off the Academy (complete with castle and
lanterns). But, mind you, with all of the flashes of assaultive bright light that
were directed at the audience from the front of the stage, you might think
that the group didn't want anyone looking in that direction to begin with.
Buried beneath a veritable elektrobank of synths, sequencers and drum
machines, Tim Rowlands and Ed Simons took the sound system to the limit,
twisting and bending their tracks almost to breaking point. The lights came
to life at 1 am with a bottom-heavy take on Hey Boy Hey Girl, leaving the
audience barely time to recover before launching into a seamless flow of
Block Rockin' Beats, Under The Influence, Out Of Control. You have to admit
the clash of cultures in the music (and in the venue) - a warm sound stem-
ming from a love of rock and roll perhaps, 60's psychedelia, remnants of
big beat lost in the transition from Dig Your Own Hole to the undoubtedly
excellent Surrender.
The best thing about the Chemicals live is they look like they are having a
great time, but the party isn't just on the stage. It's on the dance floor. Its all
around us. Anyone who wants to argue that 'this sort of music' doesn't work
in a live environment - give it up. There wasn't a flat foot in the place. Go
direct your personal psychosis at the latest Spice Girl gone solo and her ilk.
Who needs a choreographed dance routine and scantily clad men waving
their arses on the stage? Not me. So here I go...
Marie

