15 December 1999 • Felix Music 27
Nas
Nostradamus
(Columbia)
Nas drops this latest cata-
logue of street rhymes in the
wake of / am... his recent
masterpiece, which blew-up
Stateside as well over here.
He faces the future on this
latest joint and if it was easy
listening you were looking for
you best keep searching.
Ghetto star he may be but it's
the project-life that fills his
lyrics.
Nastradamus, the track
released off this album, is not
the greatest advert, with its
weak hook and slack vocals.
The rest does get better, but
not a whole lot, the laid-back
flow kills the hardcore rage
that had heads nodding to
Hate Me Now. Tracks like
Family featuring Mobb Deep
and the dope Some Of Us
Have Angels give the album
some appeal, but it's tough
to get excited about some of
the blatant fillers that break-
up feature tunes.
Nas does no damage to his
reputation consistently laying
down rough rhymes with a
true gangsta edge, but this
latest offering couldn't live up
to the mastery of / am..., the
lyrics are just as tight, but the
production, the collabora-
tions, and the beats just don't
do it.
frequency v A
Karl T goes on the Rampage
break out with frequency's new hip-hop column
Yeah! That's right a true playa has arrived to tell you what's the deal with
the slickest industry around. It's time for the new generation. The Bomb has
exploded and faded away. Are you ready for the RAMPAGE
Since hip hop blew up and rocked the foundations of the music industry,
enough people have been dissing it for the supposed underworld connec-
tions. Every month we see yet another of the hip hop industry's playaz up in
court, what's with that? Earlier this month it was the turn of the Don Jay-Z to
hit the pen, he's accused of stabbing the head of Untertainment, Lance
Rivera, at Q-Tip's release party and then punching Untertainment's head of
promotions in the face. Apparently Jay-Z held Rivera and his outfit respon-
sible for bootlegging his new album Vol 3...Life and Times of S Carter, which
is set to drop in a few weeks. They saying he looking at 25 years - he bet-
ter fucking not be, the industry has suffered enough
Wu Tang's Ol' Dirty Bastard's recent arrest shows that when the big names
come out talking about how the police live on their ass, they ain't lying. Last
month he was sentenced to a year of rehabilitation, fined and given a year's
probation, firstly for threatening a bouncer, and secondly for wearing a bul-
let-proof vest - what the fuck? That's right wearing a damn vest, not only that
he's the first person to be convicted of this new state law forbidding felons
to wear body armour. Apparently he's an example for me he's a damn good
example of the shit major MCs have to face.
During the millennium madness we can expect to see some hot albums
appearing at our stores, from beyond the grave The Notorious B.IG releas-
es Born Again featuring a killa collection of collaborators including Nas,
Lauryn Hill, Jay-Z and of course Puff Daddy. Lil' Kim gets in on the action
with Notorious K.I.M. DMX and Easy Mo Bee are also set to release their
new albums and the Madd Rapper will bring us Tell 'Em Why U Mad.
Ice Cube has completed the sequel to the cult movie Friday, Craig and
Debo return, but this time they're out of the hood and ripping it up in the
suburbs. They spent all of five minutes naming, calling it Next Friday, but the
soundtrack is meant to be bangin' featuring some huge names.
Karl
Massive Loud Giveaway
AWOL
This week frequency has a batch of twenty-five Loud Record samplers to give
away. Featuring WuTang stars Raekwon and Inspecta Deck as well as rap gods
Mobb Deep this compilation provides quite a treat for your walkman. The best
thing is that there is no question to answer, so to get a copy for yourself just
pop into the Felix office and pick up your free copy now. Nice.
Inspectah Deck
Uncontrolled Substance
(Loud)
From the depths of shaolin comes the
highly anticipated Inspectah Deck with
his solo LP Uncontrolled Substance. The
necessary ingredients for a head lacera-
tion album are provided in this well pro-
duced compilation of ear splitting tracks.
The beats, which are sweetly provided by
the RZA, Allah Mathematics, Tru Master,
and the Rebel INS himself, complement
the intricate verbal assaults provided by
this highly multi-talented individual. An
honour role student, a football and bas-
ketball player shows the diversity of this
lyrical MC.
It is with great relief to see that the album
is finally in the shores after problems that
his label LOUD Records had with its dis-
tribution. And all that I can say is that the
wait was definitely worth it. With H.O.T.T
tracks like the trumpet-laced Movas &
Shakers, the head bumping Uncontrolled
Substance, to the smooth and chilled out
Trouble Man, Inspectah's skill as a rhyme
spitter with serious repercussions is re-
established.
For the true Hip-Hop, Wu-Tang fans this
album is definitely a must buy as Inspec-
tah shows that the conglomerate is noth-
ing but alive and still representing bring-
ing that original flavour from the streets
live and direct to your headphones.
The album features the likes of Street life
and U-God, keeping the Wu-Tang feel
through he album. The official release
date is the 27 December, acquire if you
dare and feel the wrath of Uncontrolled
Substance.
ID D M G

