Music 15 December 1999 • Felix
frequency
Highrise
@home
Everybody's heard about it. The biggest and most raved
about (OK, so Fabric's big too) club in London opens its
doors every Thursday night to a horde of beat-seeking, style-
loving students, and creates what is arguably London's
biggest student night. Admired from afar, home really does
make it. With the recent arrival of one of, if not the biggest
external video screens in the capital, and the incredible
amount of style whipped up in having escalators to take you
into this demon of a superclub, home really does comple-
ment its sleek 1, Leicester Square address, and it just seems
that little bit more special.
Despite only opening three of its eight floors on student night,
the dancefloors on levels two and three, accompanied by the
balcony up on four provide enough space to accommodate
a significant sector of the London student population. The
chill -out rooms, bathed in their veils of pastel light, are like
something from a sci-fi movie, whilst the cloakroom is a
sequence of elliptical holes in the wall, shrouded in low tone
colours, its function only apparent when you see the guy's
head appear through one of them. Weird science, but it
works well. Not a normal inclusion in a club review, but the
toilets were as art deco and stylish as the rest of the place,
and with a giant slanting glass pane functioning as all the uri-
nals, and top name sprays and cosmetics by the astounding-
ly clean washbasins (I'm assured the ladies is just as chic), it
deserves a mention.
As for the tunes; the second floor slammed out some grilling
drum 'n' bass early on, but most of my time was spent up on
three, full on house and hard house, with residents Tayo,
Junior Cartier, and Stuart Lovell, alongside Paul Arnold and
Justin Robertson, sharing the floors with beats a plenty, the
crew capably satisfying the hardiest clubber.
Perhaps the night's only flaw is that in amongst the regimen-
tal efficiency of the whole layout, and the awe-inspiring per-
fection that defines home, there's a bit of a lack of soul, and
it's treated more as an experience than a good night out. But,
if you've got a 10-3 slot free on your Thursday night, a fiver
to get in (£2 all drinks inc. Red Bull and Smirnoff!), and you
want a serious clubbing spectacle, then get down to Highrise,
it's highly recommended and you'll have a top time. Blinding!
Pete
Fabric
@ Fabric
Fabric and home are both London "supper-cubs" which attempt to bring back the title
of best club in the UK to London. They opened within two months of each other and
their Saturday nights offer similar music, home is open till 3 and at 3 the music shuts
off the lights go on and everyone is told to go Home. Fabric on the other hand has
a 24 hour licence and finishes at 7ish on a Saturday and until home is late licensed
there is literally no comparison between the clubs.
Fabric is a dark moody underground space with brick lined walls and three differing
dance floors. It used to be a cold store for Smithfield market and the tradition of
keeping things cold has been continued with the largest and most effective air con-
ditioning I have ever seen in a club. Fabric also has the longest queue I have ever
seen at a club, even the guest list queue was 20 minutes long and as the club was
rammed inside it couldn't have been long before they were counting "one in one out"
if they weren't already doing so at 1 1 :1 5.
Sasha has a monthly residency with Fabric and performs on the first Saturday of every
month in room 1, along with Craig Richards and Muzik magazine's 'up and coming
DJ of the year' Lee Burgess. Hybrid were the main draw in room two, were best
described as bit like faithless, and truly excellent. Music then varied from drum 'n' bass
though mashed up break beats to James Brown across rooms 2 and 3. Unfortunately
when Hybrid came off stage at 1 :20 the already busy main dance floor became
unbearably crowded. For a club of this size the main room should be at least 50%
bigger than it is. Having said this the much vaunted body sonic or vibrating dance
floor was not just a gimmick but added another dimension to the mixing, one excel-
lent moment when the floor began vibrating more as the kick drum faded in was
enough to prove this.
Sasha was due to play 2-4 and when he put down the headphones at 4:20 it was
still debatable that home might be better. Lee Burgess followed on and proved he was
better than any home resident save Danny Rampling and Oakenfold (the former bet-
ter watch out). However, Sasha came back on unexpectedly at 5:30 to a nicely busy
but no longer crowded dance floor. He found another gear and proceeded to have
a 'who can make the crowd go off most?' contest with Burgess till 7:20. The ques-
tion was not 'is this the best club in London?' but 'is this best club in the world?'
One of the best things about Fabric is the value. There may be somewhere else you
can get a bottle of beer for £2.50 at 4:30 on a Sunday morning in London but Harts
food and wine isn't exactly my idea of a good night out. The unisex toilets and chill
out beds with 8 people on are unfortunately not as pervy as you would think, but the
over crowding means that the IC geeks will have a rare opportunity to come into
close bodily contact with a woman. Fabric is crowded and arriving 20 minutes before
opening and queuing for an hour is inevitable, but for £12 and a 7am tube ride
home (same price as Equinox and cheaper beer) you can't argue.
A/ex

