15 December 1999 • Felix Music 29
freque
Rutin'
©Ministry of Sound
Ministry is probably the most well known club in London (well known for the music, well known
for the sound system, well known because it's well known). The question is whether it lives up
to its reputation. Once you're passed security you enter a red-lit corridor with the music pump-
ing at the other end of the tunnel. As soon as you're in you follow your ears to the main dance
floor on the left, which is the heart of the Ministry. You can't help but give in to the stunning
sound quality of the American House tunes mixed to perfection by resident DJs Jazzy M and
Erick Morillo or the other top guest DJs. All tastes are catered for depending on the night you
go and with six massive speakers strategically placed in the main, it doesn't matter where you
happen to find yourself dancing.
Last Saturday was no exception. Jules Papp kicked off with a 3 hour set with an increasingly
high tempo throughout, although there could have been more variation. Towards 3am the
crowd was getting really big, the venue really packed. Clubbers could be spotted everywhere
with shirts undone and water bottles in their hands, absorbing the music. Then Tim Deluxe came
on and continued in the right direction by increasing the beats and the volume. The next three
hours consisted of the definition of deep house with his special effects flying all over the place.
Finally Jazzy M finished the night off with yet another three hour set consisting of more relaxed
tunes.
When you needed to chill out, you could either go into the main bar where the music is softer
and slower, or into the small bar and have a drink (having said that drinks are predictably
expensive, water is £1.90). Then again, if you're lucky enough to get yourself into the VIP bar
then that's definitely the best option. Not only does it have its own cloakroom and toilets for its
VIPs, but best of all it has an entrance to a small section way above the dance floor. From there
you can enjoy the music even more while having the privilege to see your favourite DJ master-
ing the decks.
Deep House was not the only thing available. In the Main Bar softer more commercial house
was being played, but this did not stop people from dancing on the bar. Right at the end you
had the Smartie Party where another mixer and the live percussionist merged the tunes into wild
frenzy of body shaking beats. The lighting effects on all three dance floors were average to say
the least. But the stage dancers definitely made up for it (especially if you had the chance to
see them warming up from the VIP bar).
I recommend getting there before half past eleven and waiting for % of an hour (to avoid the
massive queues), so by the time you get in you will be able to have a good look at what you
like. The dress code is a lot less strict than I thought - loads of people had black trainers on
but if you want to be on the safe side then wear something smart and casual.
Not even the £15 entrance fee is a good excuse not to have visited MoS at least once on Rutin'
Saturday. If you fall in love with the place, a membership is £40 and that includes an album,
free entry to five select club nights, reduced entry on all nights, the chance to skip the queue
and some other random offers.
Henry
Millennium
Clubbing
The 31 st of December 1 999 sees the clubs of Eng-
land charging what might at first seem ridiculous
amounts of cash. However, if you've got a spare
hundred quid lying around you could do a lot
worse. Remember to account for consumables
when wallet stuffing though!
Friday 31st December 1999
Ministry of Sound; £130
The most well known and expensive of the lot the
Ministry has its usual line up of top DJs. Your tick-
et gets you free champagne on entry and a gift
pack when you leave with an opportunity to win a
trip to Ibiza in the summer.
Fabric; £99
Basement Jaxx, the Scratch Perverts and the
Freestylers play at this top venue. With doors open
from 8pm until 8am and some 'special surprises'
you cannot go far wrong with this.
Home; £99
With Home shortly to become a household name
this night has to be good. Paul Oakenfold plays
live on Radio 1 and Carl Cox plays live from Syd-
ney. The ticket does not include any free drinks but
they promise that prices will not be raised for the
occasion.
Gatecrasher; £107.50
An extravaganza unlike any other with 25,000
people in the largest ever portable structure and
the likes of the Chemical Brothers, Sasha and
Judge Jules doing their stuff.
Slinky; £65
Bournemouth's finest hosts 16 hours of overpaid
DJs on ISDN links getting paid several times over
for doing the same as usual.
Renaissance; £110
Held in 18th century Italian gardens, this night at
least has some originality with some exclusive DJs
in the form of Dave Seaman and John Digweed.
Cream; £99
Held in London at the Brixton Academy and in
Cardiff at the Wales National Ice Rink as well as
the original Liverpool venue this features Fatboy
Slim, Pete Tong and Sasha - again.

