30 Films Felix • 22 November 1999
screen
Odeon Kensington Millennium Give-Away
To celebrate the end of a millennium and the start of a new one, the
Odeon Kensington have kindly donated a three-month movie pass to
Screen's Christmas stocking. As it's the season of good will, Screen will
give this amazing present away to one lucky reader. Just think - three
whole months of movies and no studying. Forget those tutorials and
passing your degree, you could just become the film buff of the year.
Eat your heart out Jonathan Ross.
Ok, so now you need a question. Hmmm, what question would be
worthy of such a prize? Here goes
Name the actor playing Scrooge in The Muppet Christmas Carol
being shown on Christmas Eve
So now it's the usual procedure, just e-mail your answer to
film.felix@ic.ac.uk
before 12pm on Friday and you could be seeing every film when you
want, how you want, for the next three months.
Odeon Kensington decided enough is enough and introduced:
£4.50 STUDENT CINEMA TICKETS
Proving ODEON Cinemas are no VIRGINs when it
comes to propositioning students!
THE OFFER!
1 .Bring valid student card
2.Visit Monday - Friday and/or Saturday Late Shows
3. Show student card
4.Pay £4.50
5.See film
6. Enjoy
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
Offer valid at ODEON Kensington only. Offer may be withdrawn
without prior notice. Admission is subject to Odeon Cinemas' Stan-
dard Conditions
Dogma Competition
To celebrate the release of Dogma and the Christmas holidays, Screen
have five Smirnoff 'Buddy Mary' kits to give away. These kits contain a
miniature of Smirnoff, a miniature of tomato juice, and a sachet of
pepper, all in a special Dogma bowl.
Dogma opens nationwide on 26th December, so at least there's one
good film to go and see over the festive period. You can also check
out Dogma on-line at
www.dogma-movie.co.uk
To win a Buddy Mary kit, all you have to do is the usual - answer the
following two questions and e-mail both the answers to
film.felix @ ic.ac.uk
before 12pm on Friday 17th December, or you won't have a chance
of winning anything. Without further ado here are the two questions to
be answered:
1) Name the Oscar winning film that Matt Damon and Ben Affleck
previously starred in together
2) Name the movie that first brought Kevin Smith to everyone's
attention
Don't despair if you don't win a Buddy Mary kit as we also have some
Dogma posters to give away for the lucky runner-ups.
For those of you who didn't know or couldn't find out the answer to
last weeks question, here it is
Q's real name is Major Bothroyd
The five lucky winners of a pair of tickets to see the new James Bond
flick The World Is Not Enough are
Caroline Law
Emmanuelle Evain
Umerah Akram
Gregory Mann
Lionel Ramone
Please call by the Felix office before the end of the week to collect your
prize.

