15 December 1999 • Felix Films 31
screen
Mystery Men Alice et Martin
Mystery Men stars Ben Stiller (There's Something About Mary), William
H Macy (Pleasantville, Fargo) and Hank Azaria (of The Simpson's
fame) as superhero wannabes trying to prevent crime in Champion
City. The problem is that superhero wannabes are exactly what they
are. They have no extraordinary powers of their own. The team
includes Ben Stiller as Mr Furious, who gets bad when he gets mad;
William H Macy as The Shoveler, whose power is, you guessed it,
using his shovel to batter people senseless; and Hank Azaria as The
Blue Raja, who throws silverware with deadly accuracy. Therefore,
when supervillain Casanova Frankenstein (Geoffrey Rush), kidnaps
Captain Amazing (Greg Kinnear), the only real superhero in Champi-
on City, the Mystery Men have to come forth and produce the goods.
Along the way, they are able to enlist the services of 4 more 'super-
heroes' (played by Janeane Garofolo, Kel Mitchell, Paul Reubens, and
Wes Studi) of which Paul Reubens, as The Spleen, is most impressive,
utilising his powers of lethal flatulence.
Mystery Men seems to be a movie that looks better on paper than on
the screen. There must have been some mishap that occurred when
the script was passed from the screenwriter to the director. The first
time director of this movie is Kinka Usher, who has previously helmed
music videos and TV advertisements, and it shows in his hyper-kinetic
style of directing and attention to visuals rather than to the story.
That's not to say that there isn't anything to like in the movie. On the
contrary, the script provides many laugh-out-loud moments, which are
delivered well by all the actors involved. Ben Stiller, William H Macy
and Janeane Garofolo are standouts, as is Paul Reubens (of Pee Wee
Herman fame). William H Macy is fast becoming one of the best char-
acter actors in Hollywood and Janeane Garofalo is always a joy to
watch. Unfortunately, however, Eddie Izzard is woefully underused in
an evil henchman role, as is Claire Forlani (who was last seen, in
Meet Joe Black) as the love interest.
At 120 minutes, Mystery Men seems a bit too long to hold everyone's
interest and the 20-minute finale is typical of a $70 million studio
film, where every penny has to be shown on the screen. Which is a
shame. A more down-to-earth ending would probably have been
more befitting to the movie, but who's going to argue with a big Hol-
lywood producer? All in all, an enjoyable enough movie to watch
where the minimum number of brain cells need to be used.
This is one of those bizarre French films that meander from scene to
scene until they eventually (and unpredictably) end. The acting is most-
ly extremely good but it is let down by the directorial style of Andre
Techine.
Juliet Binoche (The English Patient) plays Alice, with such conviction
that her ability to interpret difficult roles shines through. Unfortunate-
ly, Alexis Loret's screen debut as Martin is not so impressive. His con-
fusion and anguish comes across as merely moody. Many of the small-
er roles offer more than the main ones in way of believability. One
such role is Benjamin's. Played by Mathieu Amalric, Benjamin is a
struggling, homosexual actor who is more or less disowned by his fam-
ily.
Ten year old Martin, the son of an extramarital affair, is persuaded by
his mother to live with his father's family. After his father's death ten
years later, Martin is distraught and disappears for months. He even-
tually reappears in Paris at the apartment of his half-brother Benjamin.
Here he meets Alice, his brother's flatmate, and immediately becomes
fascinated with her. Martin begins a career in modelling and after
some success moves out of the apartment into a nearby hotel. Soon
Alice overcomes her initial hesitancy and falls in love with Martin. She
moves out of the apartment and into Martin's hotel. However, when
Alice becomes pregnant Martin falls into a coma with shock (who
wouldn't?). Alice has to fight for his sanity as the truth about his father's
death comes out. The end is generally very depressing as Alice ends
up alone and pregnant, and Martin moves between a mental institu-
tion and jail.
The detached style of the film makes it hard to empathise with the
characters, and the rapid personality changes seem random. There
are also too many short sequences that add nothing to the general
story. On the up side, this film has been released in French with Eng-
lish subtitles, rather than dubbed into English. I can only imagine how
much worse it would have been with uncoordinated, monotonous
voices as well.
If you are an avid French film fan it might be worth you popping down
to Cine Lumiere to see this film as overall it is technically a good film
that just lacks soul.
Imran Katherine

