32 Films Felix • 15 December 1999
screen \Z3
Dogma
To fans of Mallrats, Clerks and Chasing Amy, Dogma's Boxing Day release
will come as a fantastic Christmas present. However, whilst the similarities
between those first three movies were utterly apparent, and thus the creative
mastery of writer/director/actor Kevin Smith was plain for all to see, his lat-
est movie marks a major change. Instead of the usual twin threads of unrequited
love and comic books, this time the movie is utterly given over to taking the
mickey out of organised religion in general, and Catholicism in particular.
However, whilst the movie has garnered a massive amount of criticism and
abuse from Catholic groups in the US, it's actually an incredibly religious movie,
infused from head-to-toe with some old fashioned "wouldn't the world be a
better place if we were all nice to each other" morality. Life of Brian this cer-
tainly ain't.
Weird, however, it certainly is. Far and away the most off-the-wall movie I've
seen this year, Dogma's biggest downfall is actually the fact that it tries far
too hard to be off-beat - Alan Rickman's visible demonstration of his asexu-
ality (don't ask) or the sewage monster (very bad effects) or the appearance
of Alanis Morrissette as god (most odd) or any one of a thousand other exam-
ples grate horribly (so much so that you'll want to close your eyes for an instant
and pretend that you're somewhere eyes), and simply don't work. On the other
hand, the originality of the piece is also it's triumph. Yes, it's a old-style road
movie (complete with regulation all star cast), and yes, there's a certain feel-
ing of deja vu attached to some of the characters (Kevin Smith fans will be
cheering the return of Jay and Silent Bob), but nonetheless, it's so damn weird
that you'll have your eyes glued to the screen from start to finish.
The one true flaw is Kevin Smith himself. As his previous movies have shown,
he writes tightly woven, introspective dialogue - not action chat. So, when
the pace of the movie is cranked up a notch, and the characters find them-
selves in imminent peril, they'll still be found offering immensely complex
diatribes on random bits of backstory - which just feels wrong. He needs to
learn the art of the punchy one-liner (and get some better special effects) if
he's ever going to make it to the real A-list.
The real reason to see Dogma, however, remains the comedy: Jay and Silent
Bob are, of course, classic comedy characters; Chris Rock (as the thirteenth
apostle, sent back to earth to put some ethnic diversity into the Bible) can
wisecrack with the best of them; and Alan Rickman (as the voice of god) is
sublimely sarcastic. Even Ben Affleck and Matt Damon (reunited on screen
for the first time since Good Will Hunting) manage to tweak their usual ami-
able "guy next door" personas into a pair of psychotically comic forms. So,
whilst some of the religious gags aren't necessarily all that funny (with one
or two spectacular exceptions), Jay and Silent Bob alone make for an incred-
ibly entertaining ride.
Cotton Mary
What do you expect of a Merchant Ivory production? The answer is prob-
ably either a period masterpiece or an overlong bore. Cotton Mary,
though it has a lot of interesting aspects, is unfortunately a prime example
of the latter. Endless repetition and plot-lines that take ages to reach their
obvious and predictable resolutions, turn what could have been an inter-
esting eighty minute movie into a two hour boring stinker.
The film is set in India in 1954 and begins with Lily Macintosh (Greta
Scacchi), a British madam, giving premature birth. The psychological
shock leaves her unable to breast feed, and the child is about to die (a
rather anachronistic starting point for a story in our days of high-tech food).
Cotton Mary (Madhur Jaffrey), an Anglo-Indian nurse at the hospital, takes
the baby to her crippled sister, whose breast saves the baby's life. Lily invites
Mary to move to her grand country house and become her nanny. She says
"yes, nothing can stop me", and that can be taken as the basic program
for the rest of the movie. She manages to convince the madam to throw
out her right-hand man, and basically takes over his job, gets her friends
employed in the house and starts to wear her madam's clothes, shoes and
jewellry. But in the end everything turns against her...
The greatest weakness of the movie is the screenplay. The dialogue
becomes pretty monotonous towards the end, the plot moves around in cir-
cles and some scenes are dragged out and repeated again and again, (with
only slight variations) until the audience wants to cry out: "Get on with it!
We've seen that already!" In particular, Mary's plot to overcome the ser-
vant Abraham comes to mind, which is initially quite clever, but is shown
in such never-ending detail that someone really ought to shoot the direc-
tor. And the end, which (according to production notes) "exposes each of
the main characters' conflicting English and Indian identities" (as if waving
the Union Jack were enough to do so), doesn't seem to belong to the rest
of the film. Apparently it tries to give a twist to the plot and bring the prob-
lems of Anglo-Indians in the fifties (which are depicted earlier in the movie)
to a stunning climax. Unfortunately, the reality isn't stunning and, even more
unfortunately, the problems of Anglo-Indians weren't really depicted ear-
lier in the film, more or less appearing out of the blue at the end.
So why does this film get two stars? Some of the acting is excellent, espe-
cially by Greta Scacchi as the psychologically torn and beaten Lily Macintosh
and by Laura Lumley as her amazingly un-annoying 1 0-year-old daughter
Theresa. The cinematography is beautiful and original (what else would you
expect)and the greatest saving grace is definitely the music, a stunning mix-
ture of familiar and exotic sounds with a couple of well-placed God Save
The Queens. Listening to the soundtrack for two hours would definitely be
a more pleasing experience...
Dave Mark

