15 December 1999 • Felix Games 33
In association with
gamesutire. com
A WHOLE NEW WORLD
Half Life: Opposing Force (PC)
Yep, the expansion pack to the best game of last year is finally here. But was
it worth the wait? Does it live up to expectations?
The answer has to be a resounding YES. Gearbox, the developers, have
kept everything that was good about the original, and added so much new
stuff that the mind boggles.
This time round you're on the side of the soldiers from Half Life, battling
the aliens that are pouring through the dimensional rift opened in the first
game. The storyline and scripted sequences are well up to the exceptional
standards set by Valve. The best part by far, however, has to be the new ene-
mies. From the dart spitting aliens with metre long claws, to the infuriatingly
intelligent Black Ops soldiers, every creature looks just right and is a real bas-
tard to kill.
This expansion pack is nearly as big and complex as some complete
games, and the attention to detail is incredible - just watch the intro sequence
and you'll see what I mean. If you own Half Life then go out and buy Oppos-
ing Force now. If not, well, then buy Half Life at the same time.
Ben
MS Flight Simulator 2000 (PC)
FS2000 is civil aviation flight sim of epic proportions, with maps of pretty
much anywhere in the world and aircraft from the ancient Sopwith Camel to
Concorde. The 2000 edition is bigger and more detailed than the 98 ver-
sion, and if you are a serious flight fanatic or looking to practice for a private
pilot's license then this is an excellent product.
The graphics are greatly improved over the 98 edition, as long as you have
a ninja PC to play it on. There are loads of graphical glitches and loading
pauses however - but then this is a Microsoft product.
The important thing about this game is that it does give a sense of actual-
ly flying, unlike some flight sims on the market. With the huge amount of con-
tent in the game you can do whatever you want, from aerobatics to instru-
ment landings. There really is no better civil flight simulator on the market.
react©
Turok: Rage Wars (N64)
Rage Wars is essentially a multi-player game only. There isn't really the com-
prehensive one-player 'Quest' mode that we are so accustomed to in 3D
shooters. Gone are the maze-like levels, single-life monsters, and non-
replenishable ammo dumps. Say heilo to custom-built combat arenas,
instant resurrection and reappearing ammo.
Rage Wars premiers the use of computer bots in a console 1st person
shooter, and it works a treat. Lets be honest, playing 2-player Go/deneye
ain't that much fun, since there's no chance of you creeping up unawares on
your opponent. Rage Wars adds that essential tenseness by creating up to
three bots to come and play. Its clever Al, with the bots actively seeking out
the power-ups as well as their opponents.
Rage Wars is the finest console multi-player shooter I've played, with many
different game styles to choose from. Graphics and sound are good; instead
the game falters on the lack of a true single player-game. Consoles just
can't compete with PCs when it comes to 3D blasters, and you'll find that
even the likes of the ageing Quake 2 are still streets ahead of this.
Viv
Armageddon's Blade (PC)
This is the expansion pack for the brilliant Heroes of Might & Magic 3 (one of
the best strategy games around). For the ignorant out there, Heroes of Might
and Magic is a strategic turn based game in a fantasy world (cue Goblins,
Dragons, Elves and all things magical). You control a hero who has to raise
an army to defeat the opposition castle or vanquish some terrible monster.
The game is highly addictive and easy to pick up. The interface is simplic-
ity itself and the graphics and music are pretty good too. There are six new
campaigns, which are pretty challenging (or at least I find them quite hard)
and will have you playing for hours on end. If you like Heroes of Might and
Magic 3 then this expansion pack is well worth the money, especially the chal-
lenging campaigns. Like Heroes of Might and Magic 3, love Armageddon's
Blade.
Ben Mark

