34 Games Felix • 15 December 1999
Age Of Empires II: The Age of Kings (PC)
For strategy gamers, Age of Empires //.The Age of Kings is one of the
longest awaited releases this year. I will now reveal if this sequel is wor-
thy of its illustrious predecessor, one of the best real time strategies
around. Those of you familiar with the first edition, The Age of Kings, will
find this quite similar on the surface (why mess with perfection?). In fact,
it is the same as the first version with improvements. It is a larger game,
has additional strategic features and the graphics are pretty spanking too.
In The Age of Kings you guide your people through the Middle Ages in
1000 years. This time you expand your kingdom and increase your level
of technology, controlling one of 1 3 mighty civilisations such as the Celts,
Vikings, English and Japanese. You have to conquer the world, usually
through a mixture of shrewd tactics, military strength, diplomacy and
commerce. There is no one way to win this game - you can have the
biggest army, the best economy or you can build a wonder of the world.
Along with a technological tree of more than 100 nodes, this game has
endless options.
One of the great improvements over the first version is the expanded
combat system. There are different military formations so that you can
hide your archers behind tough swordsmen - this was an annoying fea-
ture of the first game where you had to change formation every second,
because the archers got ahead of themselves and thought they could take
on heavy cavalry and go home to tell their kids.
As an alternative to beating the living daylights out of your opponent, you
now have the choice of trading at your own market or setting up trade
routes with your allies (much more civilised I'm sure).
There are many extras to this game that add to its gameplay. Production
queues, improved navigation points and customisable hot-key systems
have been added. In addition, more audio cues make empire manage-
ment easier. Map shortcuts like gathering points make it easier for play-
ers to organise their forces and plan their battles. The campaigns are
story based and focused on historical figures, such as Joan of Arc,
William Wallace and Ghengis Khan (although the Scottish accent used in
the William Wallace campaign is dubious to say the least...but kicking
the English is always fun)
I thought this game was brilliant. It has a user friendly interface with many
neat functions. The gameplay is addictive and challenging. In my opin-
ion, this is simply a complete game. If you liked AoE I then you will love
this. If you like strategy games then you will love this. If you just like
decent PC games then you will love this.
Mark
Freespace II (PC)
There's something about the idea of space combat that captures the
imagination. Ever since the original Star Wars movies, kids all over the
world have dreamed of being Luke Skywalker, of actually flying a tiny lit-
tle X-Wing against the mighty Star Destroyers. Freespace 2 lets you
recapture that excitement.
The storyline is pretty basic, but that isn't the point. This game is about
massive deep-space dogfights between swarms of fighters, bombers and
gigantic capital ships. Imagine your most hectic Quake 2 deathmatch,
substitute space superiority fighters for the characters and you're some
way to imagining the excitement of a big Freespace 2 brawl.
OK, so it's not set in the Star Wars universe, but then most Star Wars
games are crap anyway. What Freespace 2 gives you is action, action
and then more action. Playing the original Freespace I got so carried
away in a dogfight once I snapped my joystick and fell off my chair, and
the sequel is even better.
While the original Freespace was an excellent game, there were a few
problems with it. It had capital ships, but they were a bit wimpy for their
size. In Freespace 2, armed with beam lasers and flak cannons as fight-
er defense, and studded with assorted missile launchers and turrets, cap-
ital ships are big trouble. The graphics have also been improved great-
ly since the original with some really funky-looking new ships to fly. Turn
the sound up loud, switch all the lights off and you could almost be in
Alpha Centurai. Get a decent surround sound system for your PC and
the explosions come from all around you - better than a movie any day.
To play properly does require a decent joystick (preferably one that
doesn't snap too easily) with lots of buttons, as trying to press keys on
the keyboard while avoiding being blown to bits is way too difficult. The
game is very 3D card dependent, but with graphics this good it is worth
the investment. Played over a LAN or on the internet it is even more fun
- there is a huge following of the original Freespace on the web which I
am sure will spread to the sequel.
In some ways, this is a little too similar to the original to be a truly great
game. Some of the new features in the sequel should have been includ-
ed in the original, and FS2 still lacks any sort of experience system for
your wingmen (who remain completely anonymous throughout the cam-
paign). But FS2 is still so much fun it is definitely a game not to be
missed. Fans of the first game will love it for giving them more of what
they love, and, after a few missions, new players will soon see what all
the excitement is about .
• Ben

