15 December 1999 • Felix Games 35
In association with
gameswire.com
A WHOLE NEW WORLD © react
Worms Armageddon (PC, PSX, N64, GBC, DC)
These little critters have been around in various computer game incarnations since the early days of
1995, and this latest manifestation is Team 1 7's final worm offering to the world. The game has been
released on every machine and coincides nicely with the Xmas rush.
The idea behind the Worms series is to take a squad of the creatures into action against other player
and computer controlled teams, and to be the one left standing at the end. The action is played out
within a 2D landscape and players take it in turn to unleash their arsenal of weapons amongst their
rivals. Only one worm is controlled at any instant and there is a limited time to move it into a tactical
position and then fire. Much judgement will be required on your part if you want your bazooka shot to
land on the enemy's head (taking account of the wind), or your grenade to explode at the critical
moment as it drops down that tunnel your foe is hiding in.
The landscape itself is both a potential soldiers goldmine and a tightrope walk over hell. While weapon
crates and first aid drops will improve your health and array of barmy weapons, one false move and
you'll be taking a high dive into water - and the little fellas certainly can't swim. One mustn't forget the
mines or oil barrels either. The fantastic thing about Worms is that every game you play is different.
There are some cool pre-defined landscapes to play on, or alternately you can randomly generate a
level from the billions of possibilities available. Each time you start your team will be haphazardly scat-
tered across the terrain, sometimes situated in decent vantage points, sometimes on dangerous cliff
edges where all it takes is an embarrassing prod to send the little chap to his doom. Explosions eat
away at the environment too, so the gameplay will actually change during each contest. All of this
means that getting from one side of the land to the other is rather tricky. Unless you are good with a
ninja rope or bunjee cord (or else have a jetpack) you'll have to rely on skillful aiming to get at the pesky
blighters hiding from you in the distance.
The whole feel behind Worms Armageddon is cartoony and cute, a smart move that makes the game
appealing to everyone. Colourful and simple, the graphics are effective (by the way, the screenshot to
the left is from the Gameboy version), and you'd be ruining the atmosphere if you had the sound low.
The weapons are even wackier, with over 50 available, including super sheep, banana bombs, pneu-
matic drills, miniguns, mad cows, and holy hand grenades to name but a few.
In contrast with the cuteness, players are likely to get fraught during play. The fact that you name your
own worms - personalising them - makes you feel more responsible for your team and means that you
will do anything to win. When playing other humans, this calls for the making and breaking of alliances
and basically hammering everyone you can at any opportunity. Luckily, the light-hearted relief uttered
by dying worms may contribute towards alleviating the stress that builds up in multi-player binges!
The development team have certainly stretched the 2D concept of Worms to the limit and it's refreshing
to see that such a simple idea puts to shame much of the graphically orientated 3D material on the
market. As a single player game you may tire of the gameplay rather quickly, and it would have been
nice to be able to zoom out and see the whole of the landscape at ai glance. The controls on the N64
version are also questionable. Rest-assured, however, that the juice you can squeeze from Worms
Armageddon as a multi-player fest will quench your gaming thirst for ages.

