Arts Felix • 15 December 1999
method A
Festive recomendations Moonraker, Strangelove and other celluloid dreams: the visionary art of Ken Adam
Christmas is a time to release the child with-
in, and here is just a taste of the festive fan-
tasies this season:
Dick Whittington
There are no talentless big personalities
playing the title roles, just traditional panto.
So strap a spotted handkerchief to your
stick and make the trek out to Greenwich.
Greenwich Theatre
The Night Before Christmas
and all through the house, not a crea-
ture was stirring, not even a mouse. It's
often like that at Fringe venues, but I'm sure
it will be different, as Santa's visit ensures
free toys for kids.
Riverside Studio (age 2 + , Nur)
Cinderella
This is on at three different venues -but
which does the slipper fit and which are the
ugly sisters?
Hackney Empire / Blue Elephant / Tricycle
The Nativity
The world's most famous story?
Young Vic
The Snowman
Walking in the air of Holborn. The beautiful
(silent) story of Raymond Briggs' classic.
Peacock Theatre
I would like to say a big thank you to all
those who have contributed to the arts
pages this year. If you would like to help
next term, then make a resolution to see
theatre and galleries for free in the new year
- all you have to do is write what you
thought of it. We meet every Friday at
1 .00pm in the Felix office. Alternatively,
email benjamin.fisher@ic.ac.uk.
Careful, 007! All this blinding Bondery seems
just a little out of place in such a small and
sedate gallery as The Serpentine. This is a fine
art gallery, yet it is difficult to see 007, M, Q,
SPECTRE and chums as fine art! This exhibition
would surely be more at home in the Museum of
the Moving Image (MOMI) on the South Bank.
While techno-sets are his first love (he was an
RAF fighter pilot in WW2 and is a self-confessed
aeroplane fanatic), he is also a master of lower
octane thrills. He did the East European prison
cum West London warehouse in The Ipcress File
and the sets in Sleuth (1972) and, more recent-
ly, The Madness of King George (1995). His lat-
est design project is for the Millennium Celebra-
tions in the city of his birth, Berlin.
Happy Christmas!
Ben
Serpentine Gallery
Until 9 January 2000
Free admission
The name's Adam. Ken Adam. Ken Adam, the
latest artist exhibiting at The Serpentine was the
real-life Q. He was the production designer
behind the Bond films and all those other self-
consciously hip flicks of the 1960s. From his
original sketches of the sets through to photo-
graphs through to excerpts of the films them-
selves, we see his work for Dr Sfrange/ove
(1963), The-Ipcress File (1965) and numerous
Bonds (Dr No, Goldfinger, Thunderbolt). Without
doubt, Adam helped capture that entirely mythi-
cal 1960s Zeitgeist of style over substance on
celluloid. In the cinema, Q took all the credit for
the Aston Martin DB5 with ejector seats, but in
reality we must thank the imagination of Ken
Adam.
Ken Adam invented the concept of the Bond
baddie's giant HQ, and then took it to new
heights of silliness, eventually going into orbit
with Moonraker (1979). All this makes you
realise just how much the success of the 007
films depended on the unsung Ken. Without him,
they would all have ended up as rather dreary
stories of a prehistorically sexist contract killer.
As the new century dawns, we have a lot of great
cinematic moments to thank Ken Adams for. Just
think of that endless round of Bond movies no
doubt due to be pumped out this Christmas! But
the question is: can an exhibition of still pictures
ever do justice to his moving pictures? The
answer is simple: no.
William Burns

