15 December 1999 • Felix Arts
method A,
Faces of the 20th Century
National Portrait Gallery
Until 30 January
£3.00
At the beginning of the 20th Century the world
had the potential to become many things. Its
destiny could not have been predicted by the
inhabitants of 1900, and the route to 1999 has
been influenced by so many millions of individu-
als. The National Portrait Gallery is all about
bringing us literally face-to-face with the people
of our time. Its pictures are immensely revealing
of the individuals behind the names, both
famous and obscure.
No portrait medium is more candid than pho-
tography. It is a medium which has brought us
ordinary people enlightenment and empower-
ment. It has brought the whole world into our
view. Here, ten people have been asked to select
their ten faces of the century. Like all "top 1 00s",
this selection is a little esoteric. It reflects the
world-view of the selectors, who range from
David Bowie to Lord Putnam via Anna Ford and
Professor Steven Hawking.
The quality of the photos is unsurprisingly
superb. Always intimate and personal, these pic-
tures humanise their subjects, who include
names like Henry Moore and Noel Coward.
Lord Sainsbury has selected pictures of Britain's
enduring artists and writers - Thomas Hardy,
Benjamin Britten, TS Elliot and Henry Moore -
while Vivienne Westwood mainly chose people
who wear her clothes. These include Helena
Bonham Carter, and rather self indulgently, a
model wearing Westwood's fake Crown and
Ermine next to the Queen wearing the real thing.
Whether or not one agrees with the choices,
each selector makes a convincing and thought
provoking case for their group of ten. Steven
Hawking chooses British scientists as significant
contributors to our century: Rutherford, Turing,
Bertrand Russell, Flemming and Dirac.
All of these photos reflect the rich heritage of
20th Ccentury Britain - her artists, scientists,
statesmen entertainers, and thinkers have exert-
ed tremendous influence over our world, and our
cultural tapestry is vibrant and strong. My per-
sonal faviourite photos were those of Samuel
Becket, Noel Coward and Vivienne Lee - you can
choose your own.
Tom
The Merchant of Venice
National Theatre
20th Dec - Mid January
£7.50 Student Standby.
Not having a clue what this play was about and
knowing only that it was to last three and a half
hours, I did wonder if I would actually be able to
follow the story and stay interested for the dura-
tion. As someone who finds Shakespeare difficult
to read without those helpful little publisher's
notes on the side, it was pleasantly surprising.
Seeing it acted out is different. It helps a great
deal in understanding the dialogue, and even if
you can't keep up with every single line that is
spoken, you soon begin to sit back, relax and
watch the action.
The play does start a little slowly, as we are intro-
duced to a multitude of different characters.
Although the play centres on several serious
themes (principally love, money and prejudice) it
is quite lightheaded and humourous throughout.
Through Trevor Nunn's direction, the humour of
the dialogue is enhanced by the actions, facial
expressions and even accents of the actors on
stage. Antonio, the Merchant of Venice himself,
actually has a thick Northern accent, and others
include African, Polish and Spanish.
A well chosen cast, all dressed in 1950s style
clothing also contribute to giving this play the suc-
cess it has achieved, reflected in its recent move
to the much larger Olivier Theatre. It was sold out
when I went to watch. The star of the show for me
had to be the character of Portia, played by
Derbhle Crotty. Her acting was excellent, stealing
the majority of laughs during the performance,
and one scene in particular, centred around a
Spanish Prince visiting as a suitor, ended with the
audience erupting simultaneously into laughter
and applause. Although at times you wonder how
much of the three and a half hours is left to go,
by the time you leave you might just want to get a
copy of this play and read it for yourself (if you
haven't already) - I know I might.
Hina

