Arts Felix • 15 December 1999
method A
Dirk Mds
ICU Dramsoc
£4
Union Concert Hall (Finished)
Dirk, based on Douglas Adams1
Dirk
Gently's Holistic Detective Agency, is
a somewhat bizarre, occasionally
random, but fundamentally inter-
connected play.
The plot is... interesting, with sever-
al plotlines coming together with
some force at the finale, but is basi-
cally a murder mystery with more
twists than might be expected. There
are a few departures from the book,
but, with the exception of the near-
unforgivable omission of the Electric
Monk, they're fairly cosmetic.
The acting is excellent, with Andrew
Prowse playing Dirk with all the self-
assured eccentricity he deserves.
Paul Smith's Michael is an impres-
sive villain, quoting Coleridge and
brandishing a crossbow like a man
possessed. The fragmented nature
of the plot does tend to leave the
audience a little perplexed, but then
Richard, the other main character,
spends most of the play in a state of
some confusion. Joe Wakeling
lends him an air of upper class
bewilderment - think Hugh Grant in
a Hunter S Thompson novel.
The effective staging and confident
production make this an impressive
performance of a potentially chal-
lenging play. Extra marks are
deserved for the cheesy American-
ised recap of the first act and the
inspired (if mad) Schrodinger's Cat
scene. Nice one.
Garefh
Etcetera Theatre
£5 cone.
Nearest Tube: Camden Town
The Etcetera Theatre is a tiny little affair above a pub in the middle of Cam-
den. I estimate that a "full house" would comprise maybe 20 people, if
they were all good friends and didn't mind being jammed up against each
other. But don't let this put you off - despite the fact that the actors perform
about two metres away from you, they have perfected that middle-distance
stare, as if they were performing to an audience spread through some
cathedral-like auditorium. In other words, it is intimate but not too intimate.
The play involves four main characters, all Londoners, immersed in their
own particular daydreams. There are only four actors, and as they play the
main characters as well as the various supporting roles, it can be a bit con-
fusing as to what's actually going on at times. This is compounded by a
minimal multi-purpose set, but it just means you have to pay a little more
attention. The short scenes take us through one day and one night of the
character's lives and the worlds they inhabit when their minds start to wan-
der. There is Nathan, who feels terribly lonely and is obsessed with the story
of a man who was trapped in an Antarctic weather station for many months
and successfully managed to overcome his loneliness. There is "Jason", a
checkout girl at Iceland. She seems to be in a world of her own anyway,
but when she does start to fantasise she dreams of meeting Eskimos, dress-
ing snugly, closeness and feeling loved. The third character is Annie, a girl
who wants to fly away from it all. She wants to be single and dreams of fly-
ing away to the North Pole in a balloon. The final character is Nicholas, a
poor man with romantic dreams of being a Russian revolutionary. All of the
character's paths cross only briefly throughout the piece, but their dreams
are united by the theme of snow.
Even though it is nothing groundbreaking, the play is charming, thought-
provoking, and funny, and should be judged in the context of the whole
experience. The pub above which the theatre is located, the Oxford Arms,
is a very authentic and agreeable little venue. It has all the attributes that
a good pub should have: atmosphere, grimy toilets, English-speaking bar
staff and pissed locals plying you with cigarettes whilst telling you about
their brother Colin who was the middle-weight boxing champion in 1 962.
Additionally, the cast of the play hang around the bar afterwards, so you
can ask them to clarify any bits of the plot that you were unsure about.
All in all, a recommendable little evening. Especially if you want a bit of
variety in your life.
Caspar
Bloomsbury Theatre
£3.00
December every Year. (Finished)
This is what a student review ought
to be like - it was funny and fun.
The UCL medics drama society -
known as MDs (Manic Depres-
sives) - get up on stage and
dance, sing, generally piss about,
and shamelessly plagiarise. With a
much better script than is general-
ly expected at reviews - mostly
written by one Mark Lewis - the
cast rose to the challenge (yep,
there are loads of jokes like that).
There was a huge number of
ridiculous characters including
Robin Hood, Maid Marion, Friar
Schmuck (you dirty boy you), loads
of very evil / mad people and the
King himself - in his many guises.
MDs produces the same kind of
Christmas fun and frolics every
year to raise money for Middlesex
Hospital. If you are expecting
some high drama or something
that is suitable for the kids then
you're bound to feel that you
made a mistake. But the acting
was good enough to carry the
jokes to those in the audience not
mates with half the cast, and there
were hardly any "in" jokes only
fathomable to medics. It was a
good Stephi (rhyming slang)-
always high spirited and at times
flashes or real quality (and
breasts).
You've missed it this year but Mds
are back every year and they're
well supported and well worth it.
Ben

