15 December 1999 • Felix Books 39
Things Can Only Get Better,
John O'Farrell
Sub-tiled Eighteen Miserable Years in The Life of A Labour Supporter,'
O'Farrell looks back at his time as a Labour Party member and activist
during the years of Margaret Thatcher and John Major.
We follow him from his days as the only Labour boy at his middle class
school in Maidenhead, to trying to prove his left-wing credentials in
University - and failing miserably:
'it was so outrageously sexist,' said the girl from the Labour Club after-
wards. And I agreed with everything she said because I was hoping to
get off with her at some point later in the evening.
The book is very funny in parts and written with a definite English wit.
For someone who is not very familiar with the British political scene in
the late 70's and through to the 1 990's this books does serve as an
interesting, if obviously biased, introduction. O'Farrell sees the Labour
Party as a group so intent on the issues and making things better for
the English populous that they are totally out of touch with what is
required to win an election. Tony Blair can attest to the fact that this is
certainty no longer the case.
The book is also made doubly interesting by the current predicament
that the Conservative party finds itself in - mirroring the Labour party
of the 80's who could do no right.
« SHFRf ie's Imperial Coil I. The
i
TO ALL THAT Queen Elizabeth Moil, Souih Bank
. |v ihe brink of a new millennium, seven wonderfully
lents t o , 01 / I 960
an insider's view of some of the greatest in. ders of
O'Farrell's seemingly unjustified love of the party is only overshadowed
by his apparent loathing of his nemesis Margaret Thatcher - the Falk-
land's are seen as a tragedy not because of the ravages of war but
rather because they got her elected again. O'Farrell characteristically
discusses his impression of the war:
The news informed us that Argentinian prisoners of war were assisting
the British army in locating land mines. Which I presume meant some
sergeant major shouted at them Right, you dago bastards - you go,
play football, that field over there.'
Overall a very funny read expressing a very English approach to party
politics, growing up, and devotion to a losing cause.
• Russell
of'his b
< • • ; experiences. £2, 01/1 85!
Tube: Piccadilly Circus
h
iv; •
I : i

