40 Feature Felix • 15 December 1999
One night
in heaven
(almost)
L
ast night (1 7th November 1 999) I had the
pleasure of spending an evening in
Stringfellows and, as a result, I think that
my life has been subtly changed. I would like
to share this experience with you, the reader,
because I think you will be quite amused and,
be you male or female, I refuse to believe that
you don't harbour at least some curiosity for
what goes on in London's must well-known
and high-class strip-club.
I have made the decision to write this
anonymously because I do not want to be
accused of bragging, which I will inevitably do
shamelessly throughout this article. I also know
that I will fail to present the facts with any pro-
fessional journalistic objectiveness, so right
from the outset I will sate that it shall not be my
intention to do so.
First of all, I will begin by saying that the
entire evening was made possible by a person
whose identity will, of course, remain anony-
mous, and secondly that the amount of money
I spent (despite heavy subsidy from afore-men-
tioned benefactor) will remain undisclosed.
We entered Stringfellows at around 8pm
and were shown to a table which had been
booked for us. On first impression we could
have been at a normal restaurant. Everything
was slightly cramped due to the number of extra
tables that had been put in for the football, and
the decor was a little kitsch - mirrors, drapes,
soft lighting and that kind of thing - but apart
form that it wasn't out of the ordinary. Unless,
that is, you count the girls wrapped expertly
around several strategically placed poles in var-
ious states of nudity.
At this point I need to interrupt the narra-
tive and say something about these girls, who
will inevitably crop up quite regularly through-
out this article. I fear that I might exhaust my
supply of superlatives when describing them,
and as a result you will become blunted to
them, which is why I will describe them only
once, right here: these women were absolutely
fabulous - they were creatures who populate
only your most daring and unspoken dreams;
the kind of females who cause car crashes when
they walk down the street. I think you get the
general idea of what calibre of woman I'm talk-
ing about.
So there I was, trying heroically to con-
centrate on my steak (which, incidentally, was
superb) whilst beside me some breath-taking
expanse of naked flesh was twisting lasciviously
to the rhythm of the music. It was deeply sur-
real, and to actually eat my whole plate took
me a long time. As we finished our meal and
the wine and beer began to smooth over our
nervousness, women who had been hovering
discretely behind began to close in on us. The
first to approach was a Russian beauty named
Tania, who sat down at our table (and I will
openly admit right now that I am deeply in love
with her). The way she made contact was typ-
ical of most of the women that night. They
would approach you unabashed whilst locking
their eyes into yours, a welcoming yet sugges-
tive smile curling their lips. Then a long arm
would drop over your shoulder and she'd casu-
ally introduce herself:
"Hi, my name's Claudia, what's yours?
Are you having a good evening? Would you like
it to get any better?" After a bit of self-conscious
mumbling, I quickly got the hang of chatting
about some inanity (without too much ogling)
and successfully kept up the pretence that this
was some sort of "normal" conversation. The
girls were extremely quick at identifying our
benefactor as the most well-off in our group,
and thus he initially got all the attention, espe-
cially from Tania. But, since it was so early in
the evening, there was a large surplus of
females, so there were always...erm...enough
to go around.
After I finished my meal and had gotten over
the disappointment of Tania's initial lack of
interest, I decided - as there was a large screen
on the wall behind me - that I would watch the
football for a bit. So there I sat, cigarette in one
hand, Belgian larger in the other, trying to see
some of the game, whilst out of the corner of
my eye a half-naked Mediterranean stunner was
doing very innovative things with her pole - and
I was asking myself, does it get any better? The
answer turned out to be yes.
I noticed that our benefactor had slipped
Tania a ten pound note, and she was asking us
all to move our chairs back. She positioned her-
self in front of one of our group and proceeded
to slowly dance and strip, whilst a profound
silence descended over our table. I will not
attempt to put her actions into words, as I
would not do them justice; I will merely say that

