Big Issue Felix • 15 December 1999
Constituent College Unions
The history of Imperial is inextricably linked to the existence
of the Constituent Colleges from which it was created.
According to Richard Taylor, they represent our greatest
asset - but an asset we're in danger of losing very soon...
\J)IRIGEJ
O
ne of Imperial College's greatest
assets could be lost within the next
few years unless students act now to
save them. Constituent colleges are something
that no other university has, and they have
played a vital role in making Imperial College
the fantastic modern centre of academic excel-
lence that it is today. It is not without solid
foundations that, in the ninety years since it
was formed, Imperial has risen to become a
name recognised and respected throughout
the world in the fields of science and technolo-
gy. It is through the constituent colleges and
the traditions that are kept alive
by the students of their
respective unions that Imper-
ial maintains its links with the
formidable history of science
in the Capital. It is these
unions which I believe are in
danger of disappearing.
You do not have to look
very far to find a plethora of
examples of how the CCUs
enhance the lives of their stu-
dents. City & Guilds and the
Royal School Mines do a brilliant job of main-
taining connections with both their graduates
and relevant industries. The fact that the RSM
Association is the acknowledged benchmark
for excellence around the world in the mining
and petroleum industries shows the level of
prestige that at least one constituent college
holds. Students have a group with which they
can identify themselves - just by looking at the
sales of 'Imperial Medics' and 'RSM' branded
clothing it can be seen that the identity aspect
of the CCUs is alive - at least in some quarters
of the College.
Not all students in Imperial are the same. A
quick comparison between Guildsheet, Prince
Albert and Broadsheet - all of which are
lapped up by their target audiences and
shunned by the others - highlights this. It is not
just different publications; the tastes and
requirements of the students vary in many other
aspects too. In order to deal with this, the peo-
ple running the CCUs have recently decided
that they need to attempt to provide every
aspect of a Union, slightly tailored to their own
students - but the idea that this approach is
fundamentally flawed has been understood in
the past. Very soon after the three older con-
stituent colleges were brought together, their
point of view.''
"...CCUs
are trying
desperately to
emulate every
aspect of a
union
students realised that certain aspects of their
unions would benefit from centralisation and
working together. Imperial College Union was
created. However, even though this event took
place the best part of century ago, the CCUs
are still refusing to realise that this should have
resulted in a drastic change in their primary
role and raison d'etre.
CCUs have their own presidents, offices,
events, traditions and sports teams. Presently,
they all state their primary role as "representing
their students from an academic and welfare
You don't have to study this sit-
uation very hard to come to the
conclusion that ICU is in a
much better position to pro-
vide this core function. How-
ever, the CCUs insist on play-
ing at providing some sort of
academic and welfare provi-
sion, which is inevitably com-
prehensively out-classed by
that provided by ICU. Even
people who were at Imperial
ten or fifteen years ago, at a
time when the CCUs were much
more successful than they are now, are amazed
at the fact that today's CCUs are trying to
emulate all aspects of a union.
One of the areas in which it is very easy to
see the need for reform is the 'official chan-
nels' through which students, via their unions,
communicate with the College on the quality of
the education they are receiving. Under the
present system, every year three CCU hacks
stand for a position within their Constituent
College Union called the Academic Affairs
Officer (the medics have yet to adopt this sys-
tem). It is highly likely that this person is some-
one who does not have the support of their
peers required to be voted in as a Department
Rep, and recent history suggests that they will
then be elected on the basis of a handful of
votes cast in a badly publicised and uncontest-
ed election. These people then go on to repre-
sent students on important College commit-
tees. Yet with a deputy president at ICU now
responsible for education and welfare, the
opportunities for change are now even more
apparent - perhaps student representatives on
College committees should be elected at ICU's
Academic Affairs Committee or something sim-
ilar?
If you are not a medical student there is a

