15 December 1999 • Felix Feature 41
it was a full ten minutes before I realised that
my mouth was still open. Whilst a younger
version of Jerry Hall had the rapt attention of
my colleagues across the table, I struck up a
conversation with a red-headed girl who had
wandered over. I asked her about her job
(cliched, I know) and she answered with sur-
prising frankness.
She said that she earned around £600 a
night and that she worked three nights a week.
She also explained that whenever she worked
she never failed to get utterly smashed from all
the drinks that the punters bought her.
Furthermore, she said that she absolutely loved
her job. I have to confess that I felt sorry for her
- she was only eighteen (the youngest in the
club, she proudly informed me) and when she
said that she really liked her job, I sincerely think
that she meant it. It struck me that most of the
other girls were very professional in their atti-
tudes and in the way that they saw the jobs as
a "necessary" evil. I'm sure that most of them
do enjoy it to some extent, but they also realise
that there's more to life than being ogled by
sweaty, overweight, inebriated, middle-aged
businessmen. This girl, however, really didn't
appear to see the bigger picture, and seemed
to have reached the pinnacle of her aspirations.
However, it sounds very cynical and judgmen-
tal of me to say that (probably because it is very
cynical and judgmental), so I think I'll leave it
at that.
After the meal was over, we were escorted
by a throng of beauties from the "restaurant"
area into the "club" area downstairs, and made
ourselves comfortable in the executive chairs.
A £1 1 0 bottle of whiskey was ordered, and we
foolishly set about quaffing even more alcohol.
I was tremendously pleased to notice Tania
appearing again, and with sweaty palms I
delved into my wallet for a ten pound note. She
accepted it with a gracious smile that made my
heart melt, and took me by the hand to lead
me to an empty sofa. There I sprawled with a
drunken grin on my face, as she proceeded to
engrave herself (in Dolby Digital and ultra-high
resolution) straight into the most private and
guarded areas of my mind.
When you have your first dance, you feel
extremely awkward about what you should be
doing with your arms, face etc. Do you smile
constantly and risk aching cheeks the next day,
or do you watch with a cool detachedness, peri-
odically raising one eyebrow to signify your
appreciation. To be honest, by my second or
third dance, considerations like these had been
cast into utter insignificance by the sheer
amount of alcohol I'd guzzled during the
evening.
The clientele was almost exclusively male,
and I was astonished to see a "normal" woman
sit down at the table next to ours with some
male companions. At an advanced hour of the
morning I casually leant across, tapped her on
the shoulder, and stated that I had compiled
three theories as to why she was in this place.
Tell me, she said, raising her eyebrows. And so
I did - I had concluded that she must either:
1) have an exceptional amount of self-confi-
dence; 2) be of the lesbian persuasion; or 3)
be mad. She laughed, indicating that 1) she was
not offended and 2) she must have been as
pissed as me. Then she proceeded to explain
that she was in fact none of the above, but was
in fact Scottish. I told her that one of her male
companions looked very much like David
Gilmour (of Pink Floyd fame), but she assured
me that he was not, because he was in fact the
Managing Director of the Bank of Scotland.
Having received this particular piece of intelli-
gence, and feeling that I was possibly a little
out of my depth, I gracefully thanked her for her
time and turned back to talk to my slightly less
illustrious friends.
The rest of the evening blurred together into
one blissfu! and hedonistic haze, but I will
spare you any further details. I seem to remem-
ber that I fell in love all over again, this time
with a sublime creature from Sweden, but I can-
not remember fully, and do not want to present
you with falsehoods. The last thing I do remem-
ber is confessing to Tania that I was not a
management consultant from New York, but
was in fact a slightly overwhelmed and very
drunk student from Imperial College. As I recall,
she forgave me.
At 3 o'clock in the morning we finally stag-
gered onto the street, and I began to think
about lectures at 9.30, the hole in my bank
account, and the fact that my world would
ever be the same again.
Comments and feedback should be directed
to anon.author@hangover.co.uk (and yes, that
is a real address).
The man,
the myth,
the truth

