42 Christmas TV Guide Felix • 15 December 1999
The Felix Essential
David Roberts examines the highlights (and the turkeys)
W
ell, where do I start? It's two weeks to Christmas, I've got stack of
research material in front of mf
answer to what is always the mo
of year - is there any decent TV on over C
A rapid perusal of my primary source
(the perfect combo of Radio Times, V
Times and What's on TV) shows that, some
what unsurprisingly, the schedules an
almost identical to last year, complete witl
Christmas special's from every high-ratec
show, wall-to-wall movies (of wildly varyin;
quality) and not a hint of religious broad
casting. The one big change from tht
norm is on New Year's Eve, when the
seem to be making a concerted effort to
blow the entirety of next year's licence fee
in one fell swoop, whilst ITV wheel out
the celebrities in an attempt to hang onto
some credibility after their eclipse fiasco.
But back to the beginning. Christmas
TV is primarily about one thing - movies.
This year offers up a massive selection,
but sadly the usual strongpoint (big
name premiers) is worryingly absent.
BBC1 offers up underrated Tom Cruise
actioner Mission Impossible [9pm, Box-
ing Day], lame Denzel Washington vehicle
Courage Under Fire [9pm, Tuesday 27th] and the
amazing Heat [9pm, Tuesday 21st], and BBC2
throws in the (dangerously arty) Italian awards-fest
II Postino [8.30pm, Christmas Day], ITV, as far as I
can see, doesn't have anything to offer at all on the
premier front.
However, with Sky's movie channels now show-
ing every film on the planet years before they hit
terrestrial TV (I can't even be bothered to run
through the list of amazing flicks that are available
via satellite over the festive period), the standard of
movies is far more important than their vintage -
and as a result BBC2 hammer BBC1, ITV and
Channel Four squarely into touch. On Christmas
Eve, they line up Some Like It Hot
[6.10pm], Clueless [10.15pm] and the
original Cape Fear [11.50pm]. Of these,
the first is undoubtedly the best - Marilyn
Monroe's entire reputation and iconic sta-
tus for the rest of the century has been bui
on her appearance here, and it's also Tony
Curtis and Jack Lemmon's finest hour - but
all three knock spots off anything on either
of the main channels over the festive sea-
son.
Not content with one evening of fine
movies, however, they follow it up with a
simply outstanding schedule of classic
movies on Christmas Day itself. Indeed, the daytime schedule looks like it
has been put together by my mum, with Gene Kelly's ground breaking
musical An American In Paris [8.05am], the extraordinarily cheesy Bing
Crosby vehicle White Christmas [3.15pm]
and one of the greatest movies of all time,
Singin' in the Rain [5.10pm], all slotting
themselves in nicely around presents and
food. Then, as if that wasn't enough, the film
geeks paradise continues with II Postino
[8.30pm] - arguably one of the best foreign
language films of the nineties - and Citizen
Kane [11.45pm] rounding off the day. And
whilst, admittedly, much of this can hardly
e viewing (with the obvious exception of White
ien any of these movies before, they're definite-
ly worth watching whilst you try to
work off the inevitable feeling of
bloatedness.
If, however, you don't share my
passion for classic forties and fifties
cinema, there is another option. The
true point of Christmas is catching up
on childhood, and fortunately there
are plenty of opportunities to do so
this year. Amongst the most obvious
films that spring to eye are Disney's
i [5.30pm, New Year's Eve, BBC2], the impec-
ly lame-but-enjoyable The Goonies [3.20pm,
ik Holiday Monday, ITV] and, one of my child-
hood faves, Willy Wonker and the Chocolate Fac-
tory. And whilst it's not entirely in the same cate-
gory, Muppet Treasure Island [1.50, December
28th, BBC1] also embodies the same degree of
childish stupidity, and is definitely worth a watch.
Alternatively, there are some great kitsch sea-
sons on Channel 4 (as ever), first amongst which
is the chance to see every original
Godzilla movie ever made, and come
to terms with the amazingly sharp con-
trast between these man-in-a-suit clas-
sics and the travesty that was the ultra-
budget Hollywood version. Godzilla
[1.05am] and Godzilla Rides Again
[3.05am] kick the set off on Christmas
Eve, and the series continues for the
next week, peaking out with Godzilla vs
Mothra [1 .55am] on Bank Holiday
Monday. The cult value of this piece can
be instantly recognised from its Radio
Times listing alone - "Horror adventure.
After surviving a battle with King Kong,
_ Mothra the giant moth goes to the aid of
• the Peanut Sisters. Japanese with English
subtitles." Class.
There is, however, more to Christmas
than movies. No, I'm not talking about
religion, I'm talking about Christmas Spe-
cials. The relative worth of a variety of
competing series can always be gauged
by the placing and length of their Crimble
one-offs - if your special is on December
15 December 1999 • Felix Christmas TV Guide 43
Christmas TV Guide
of this year's Christmas and New Year television output
20th, you know that you're definitely B List.
Horses finally a thing of the past, the Ch
again up for grabs. Realising their obviou:
have chosen to give the prime slots over to
The Vicar of Dibley, which airs four times
over the holidays (on Christmas Eve,
Christmas Day, Bank Holiday Monday and
New Years Day) - which may or may not
turn out to be a good idea... The Royle
Family [10.30pm] and They Think It's All
Over [1 1,10pm] are the other winners in
the scrap for the Christmas Evening slots,
whilst Christmas Eve offers the much more
terrifying prospect of Dale Winton and that
annoying camp bloke from Airport on the
same schedule, with Winton's Wonder-
land (10.35pm) and the Airport Christ-
mas Special [8.30pm] topping the bill.
Gulp. Oh, and (as ever) the seasonal
Casualty special [8pm, Boxing Day,
BBC1] promises a mix of Santa's with
broken legs, miraculous recoveries and
dubious doctor-nurse relationships.
So how does ITV intend on counter-
ing this challenge? Well, they too have
gone for their strengths - in this case the
ability to throw truck-loads of cash
around. So, prepare yourself for the infuriatingly gripping must-see TV that
is Chris Tarrant setting new records for annoyance three times in one night
with Who Wants To Be A Christmas Millionaire [6pm, 8.30pm, 10.30pm]
splattered across the Christmas Day schedule. If
someone doesn't win the million this time around,
I'll be very, very surprised... On a (slightly) more
highbrow note, there's also the regulation ITV
drama's, with A Touch Of Frost [9pm, Christmas
Day] winning the prime slot ahead of Heartbeat
[8pm, Boxing Day] and The Bill [8pm, Christmas
Eve].
However, looking five inches to the left in my
Radio Times (I have, by this stage, abandoned the
other two listings magazines as utterly infe-
rior publications) suggests that ITV are
going to be blown out of the water across
the board in this year's ratings battle. The
main problem is that, no matter how much
cash ITV wheel out, they're never going to
be able to match up to the financial might
of the BBC Costume Drama department -
and consequently, the BBC's two part adap-
tation of David Copperfield [7pm, Christ-
mas Day & 6.25pm, Boxing Day] will blow
the puny opposition out of the water. As
ever, ITV might win the ratings war for 90%
of the year, but when it comes to holidays
and special occasions, the BBC always
comes up smelling of roses...
There are, of course, five freely available terrestrial chi
it's only fair to briefly assess what the rest are up to. Well
er, every channel is (sensibly) playing
to its strengths. Thus, BBC2 goes for
classic movies, classical music (Cecil
and Bryn at Glyndebourne [6.50pm,
Christmas Day] ), opera (Falstaff
[7.30pm, December 22] ), and docu-
mentaries (Arena [9pm Christmas
Eve, Boxing Day and Bank Holiday
Monday]). Channel 4, similarly, know
their place, and thus focus their ener-
gies on being off-beat. In the lead, as
ever, comes their alternative Christ-
mas Message, which, this time
around, is to be issued by Ali G - so
expect a few more reference to
punani then you'd usually find in the
Queen's Christmas Message.. .Aside
from that, they can offer shed loads
of quality documentaries and cult TV,
and a few decent films. Finally, there's
, who, to be honest, seem to have
given up already. Their usual repertoire of bad
movies, soft porn, bad quiz shows, and, of course,
Night Fever [7pm, Christmas Day] is in place, and
indeed they seem to be hanging much of their
Crimble schedule around Suggs. Quality.
Finally, we come to the Millennium itself.
Despite the endless stream of parties, massive all-
nighters, burning rivers, etc, etc that we're all
being plagued with at the moment, the big TV
companies seem to have taken the decision that
what we're actually going to want to do for the big
night is stay in and watch it all on television.
Whilst this is probably the case for many of our
parents, I hope it won't hold true for very
many of us, so I won't dwell on this sec-
tion for too long.
As ever, the BBC seem to hold all
the trump cards. Although the concept
of sitting through twenty-seven hours of
non-stopping programming, watching
the new millennium dawn around the
world, hardly sounds appetising, the
simple fact that they seem to have hired
their entire star roster and have live link-ups
to every spot on the planet will probably
make for moderately entertaining viewing
well, apart from the links to the Archbishop
of Canterbury and the Pope). Meanwhile,
ITV have brought in their "serious" faces in
an effort to lend the proceedings some grav-
itas - that's right, they've hired Trevor
McDonald. No contest - there's not even the
usual choice of Angus Deyton, Clive James
and Jools Holland....oh, but there is Suggs
again, this time with three hours of Night
Fever. I'm outta here - merry Christmas, and
a happy new year.

