15 December 1999 • Felix Big Issue
good chance the first and last time you had
any contact with your C C U was at your fresh-
ers welcome. The fact that a large proportion
of what they attempt to do is duplicated by
other groups (who do it better), gives rise to the
popular opinion that the CCUs are ultimately
pointless, and have no role to fulfil in the mod-
ern College structure. The argument that they
have become outdated self-serving remnants
of their former selves that eat up resources and
do no-one any good is one which is all too
easy to make. The next line of the argument
usually suggests scrapping them, but this is not
the solution. A fresh look desperately needs to
be taken at the role, image and function of the
CCUs - today's students have a very different
attitude to those of ten years ago. For starters,
they no longer come to university prepared to
fail their degrees in order to put three years of
dedicated effort into protecting their college's
mascot.
The present situation and
potential future of the CCUs
is something that is of inter-
est to the medics. They are
even more proud and
'defensive' of their individual
identity than other groups of
Imperial students - indeed in
many respects they far more
to hold onto than the rest. At
the moment I suspect the
majority of the medics don't
really see ICSMSU as a CCU,
but rather as an entirely independent and sep-
arate entity. There are many reasons why the
Med School SU is bigger and better than the
others, and though these are mainly connected
to its recent emergence from a handful of inde-
pendent organisations, it is also because
ICSMU fulfils the role played by Departmental
Societies in most other departments. Although
the Med School SU is by far the closest to run-
ning a 'proper' student union, they too have
realms of their role which are duplicated and
bettered by ICU. They too ought to be focusing
on their core function - maintaining their own
identity, culture and customs - and it would be
a huge loss if these were in any way diluted by
their proximity to IC. Ten or so years ago it
would have been impossible to think that the
traditions of the CCU's would have been
reduced so much in significance as they have
been in Mines, Guilds and the Royal College
of Science. The way I see it, the medics have a
lot more to lose than the scientists and engi-
neers ever had. And although they are not yet
in the same situation as the other CCUs,
ICSMSU ought to be watching and learning
from their mistakes.
Where are the solutions going to come
from? How are we going to ensure that future
"...elected
on the basis of
a handful of
votes cast in
an uncontested
election
students can benefit from effective, lively
CCUs? There is a need to streamline, ratio-
nalise, focus resources, and concentrate on
key roles; if just some of this management
speak was put into practice it is just possible
that we could end up with some viable institu-
tions that could survive well into the new mil-
lennium. We need to increase awareness of the
CCUs massively - people should be aware that
they are applying to, for example, 'The City
and Guilds College at Imperial', yet at present
the CCUs do not have a significant presence in
either the College or Alternative Prospectus.
Similarly, Medical School documents rarely
refer to Charing Cross and Mary's as the great
institutions which they are. Presently, people
come to IC and then find out that they are also
part of something bigger; an organisation with
some substantial history and background. If
the CCUs were more intimately associated with
Imperial, then perhaps attitudes would be dif-
ferent - sports clubs are an
important part of maintaining
and promoting the separate
identity, as are any other
endeavours where students
can represent their con-
stituent college.
At present, the CCUs run
some very important aspects
of the union - for example,
hosting the freshers wel-
comes allows them to provide
the first impression incoming
students get of the student body at Imperial.
Dep Socs also fall under their jurisdiction, and
these should be a key provider of ents and
events tailored to their departments. While
ICU's ents does what it does very well (namely
Wednesdays, Fridays, Balls and Carnivals),
quite what role C&G, Mines and the RCS
should be playing - as the third tier in this sys-
tem - needs to be clarified.
There are some brilliant facilities and
opportunities provided by the Union in all its
guises at Imperial. Too many students don't
realise how fantastic ICU really is, and are too
quick to criticise. Running the largest student
venue in London and providing a haven of
affordable fun in the capital is an excellent suc-
cess that many other unions would love to be
able to even come close to. The CCUs should
be looking at how they can make a significant
contribution to student life.
Which will be the first CCU to step back,
look at the big picture and realise that -
although drastic changes are required if they
want to survive - they do have a lot to offer
Imperial College?
Do you have an opinion? Any thoughts or
comments? Then email felix@ic.ac.uk
ii
' 4 "

