15 December 1999 • Felix Interview
questions about his childhood are hand-waved
away: "I had a much worse time than I would
like to admit when I was younger. Python and
magic kept me happy." Leaving school aged
15, he began to work in a Glasgow market,
but stopped when he developed the illness St
Vitus dance. "You start to go mental. You can't
sit down, you can't eat. I used to go outside
and cry. I took Valium and it disappeared. I
thought 'thank God, you know, thank God for
pills.'" I asked him to
elaborate, but grab-
bing a pack of playing
cards and shuffling
them, Sadowitz
replied: "It's all crap
and unnecessary."
For a change of
scene, Sadowitz
moved to London,
where he worked in
Selfridges and later for
BT. However, cutbacks
lead to his dismissal,
and, jobless and home-
less, he returned to Glasgow, where he went to
college and began doing stand-up.
Influenced by the anti-censorship style of Alex-
ei Sayle, Sadowitz embraced the freedom of
stand up - the freedom to say anything. "One
day, I was standing up in my bedsit like the
devil cursing the world. I remember saying:
'This is it. I'm going to go out in this blaze of
hurt. I'm going to take every nasty thought in
my head, every feeling and I am going to say
as much of this as possible into a micro-
phone.' It was almost like a fanatical
revenge."
His break came in 1985 when he was
asked to headline London's Comedy Store.
This he did, travelling down from Glasgow
every fortnight for two years. Audiences liked
him, but the media and comedy promoters
remained disinterested. "What I was doing was
going down really well and I was a headline
act, but no agent would approach me. In ret-
rospect it was probably because the material
was not of the politically correct variety
enjoyed so immensely by the likes of Ben
Elton.
"I actually thought I was doing something
to move comedy one step forward in a new
direction...putting comedy into a very open
field - women, left-wingers and ethnic minori-
ties. I'm a big coward offstage, but onstage, to
the point of stupidity, I have no fear whatsoev-
er. I went as far as I could go. I was dared to
go out on stage and say 'Nelson Mandela,
what a cunt.' I'll say it, but I need a joke to go
with it."
Relocating to London, the promoter Mal-
colm Hardy became Sadowitz's manager.
Bookings increased and things were looking
up. But this didn't last. Sadowitz had created a
comedy character called Bing Hitler, and the
potential of the creation was spotted by anoth-
"...Tin a big
coward offstage,
but onstage, to the
point of stupidity, I
have no fear..."
er comedian, Craig Ferguson, who produced
an album of the same title, with similar mate-
rial. According to Sadowitz, Ferguson admitted
plagiarism and agreed to meet him with com-
pensation money - but he didn't turn up. "I
think it is quite a thing that I am still here and
still sane. If I had to choose the saddest thing
in the whole time I've ever been doing this - it
was this time."
New frustrations arose. BBC2 had accept-
ed Sadowitz's series,
The Pall Bearer's
Review, "I was proud
of that. I scripted it,
practically directed it.
Alan Yentob was put-
ting his arse on the
line. Against all the
silly stories he may
have heard about me,
he still said: 'Give him
a series'". But again,
Sadowitz's success
was scuppered. Yentob
moved to BBC1 and The
Pall Bearer's Revue was not re-commissioned.
A James Bond parody with Channel Four met
a similar fate. "It's not really Jerry being Jerry,
is it? We want Jerry Sadowitz to be Jerry Sad-
owitz."
These disappointments and an acrimo-
nious parting with Hardy, amid accusations of
stolen earnings, culminated in Sadowitz quit-
ting the comedy circuit: "I couldn't bear it."
Even now Sadowitz rarely watches television: "I
daren't because I'll see material which is mine.
I happened to switch on the TV and Hale and
Pace had started. The first fucking gag was
one of mine!"
Disillusioned, Sadowitz worked in a magic
shop for four years and continued to invent
magic tricks. "I ended up
staying at my mum's. It
was like a sad Euro-
pean film. I had one
year of sort of being
happy when I was 22
and in the last couple
of years because I've
been working and I'm
being treated with a bit
more acknowledge-
ment".
"I have this philos-
ophy in life which is
'anything you want you
can get, but if you want it
too much, you can't get it'. The two things I
really wanted were, firstly, enough success with
comedy that I could get my own place. The
other thing was women. I have been deeply
unsuccessful with women. I regret not chatting
them up, not talking to them and not playing
the games that girls and boys play."
Sadowitz shuffles the pack of playing cards
again, fans them out and asks me to remove
"...rd have a
huge tombstone.
It'll say 'fuck you
and your fucking
flowers'../'
one. "You know, I might have studied physics
or something. I would love to have found a
cure for something." Suddenly a school boy
grin: "You know...I've got this manifesto of
sexual communism which I would love to see
implemented, I really would. There isn't
enough in it for women though. I definitely
think the world would be a much happier
place if men were being serviced more. " He
laughs: "I'm convinced!" I place the card in
the pack in a different location; he shuffles the
cards again and produces my card from the
top and smiles.
But what else does Sadowitz enjoy? "I like
all kinds of comedy. I adore Steve Martin's live
stand up - he's fucking wonderful. Eddie
Izzard, the Alan Partridge character - I think
that's brilliant." And Sadowitz loves classical
music: Mahler, Chopin, Debussy and Delius
are favourites. "John Barry: he's my idol."
Jumping off his chair, Sadowitz disappears:
"I've a photograph," he shouts. I'm shown
Sadowitz with his arm around Barry. "I'm not
homosexual but I'd give him a blow job," he
said, gazing at the picture. "Genius. It's from
God," he murmured.
Hang on a minute, something doesn't
quite fit - you believe in God? "Oh yeah
absolutely. All religious texts are crap - they
should be put in the bin. Religion is a man-
made thing, God isn't." Isn't genius a result of
'increased' brain cell connections, I suggest-
ed. "No, it's God," Sadowitz replied.
From God to his funeral - how will Jerry
Sadowitz say goodbye? Oddly, this question
unleashes a surprising level of vitriol. "I
wouldn't want anyone to find out until a year
later - fuck 'em! There's no point in being
passed over for everything you fucking do and
then suddenly everyone goes, 'Oh, Sadowitz is
dead - really?' That would be a very typical
thing that would happen to
me. I'd have a huge
tombstone. It'll say
'fuck you and your
fucking flowers. Go
fuck yourself!'"
"Can I get you
another coffee?" Sad-
owitz shuffles the play-
ing cards again and
shows me another
card trick. I catch a
gleam in his eyes and
maybe, just maybe, I
can see the six year old
Sadowitz watching his
first magic trick: "It's escapism even today. I've
been homeless, but I've always had cards on
me. With them I am very happy and I can for-
get everything. It gives me great control.
Maybe magic's the future for some sort of
happiness."
Jerry Sadowitz remains the only comedian to
be punched whilst onstage at the Montreal
Comedy Festival.

