8 Travel Felix • 15 December 1999
Lying in a rain soaked tent on the verdant slopes
of the Lake District, Tom, Alex and I inevitably
knew that we were to return to the dense smog
of the metropolis. If only we could have stayed
in the salubrious surroundings of the windswept
mountains... The conversation steadily rounded
onto the subject of what-the-hell-we-were-going-
to-do-in-the-summer-for-three-months - the idea
of linking the two came quickly despite the numb-
ness of our minds. On returning to London, the
expeditionary machine rumbled into action. We
discovered that one of our colleagues, Koen, had
already done some research into the possibility
of wandering around the Andes for a few days,
and another fellow student, Andrew (a former rock
climber) lent his input to the team effort. Having
pulled together our ideas, along with an ambi-
tious mountain climbing schedule, we set off to
the IC Expeditions Board with our proposal. After
half an hour of nerve-wracking negotiations, it
became clear that our plans were as watertight
as a sponge....
As a group of inexperienced climbers, look-
ing to scale the tallest tropical mountain in the
world, the members of the Board had rejected
us and told us to come back with some better
proposals. Our appeals for sponsorship subse-
quently failed (though we did manage £10 worth
of Burger King vouchers spent on a drunken night
in Central London). Unfortunately, both Koen and
Andrew joined expeditions that had been spon-
sored by the Expeditions Board, and our final
team was reduced to four members: Tom, Alex,
Paul and Tom's friend, Murray. To our great aston-
ishment, one of our hopeful sponsorship letters
was returned positively. One particularly gener-
ous little shop in St Albans had decided to let us
look round their shop to see if anything might
interest us. After a round of crafty dealing we
walked away with almost £2000 of equipment
at an astonishing 40% discount - such are the
mathematical powers of IC students over mere
mortals.... Almost overnight the distant dream
had grown into fruition.
[ preparation ]
Acclimatisation to the extreme altitudes in the
Peruvian Andes was paramount, and a trek
in the stunning Cordillera Huayhuash with some
American friends was deemed to be the ideal
solution to this problem. The trek itself is
another story, not without its own incidents, but
there is little space for it here....
In order to augment our safety, it was decided
that a guide would be required to provide his
knowledge on Andean weather, mountain routes
and the glaciers. The top mountain guide in the
country recommended Maximo, and his enthu-
siasm for the task was second to none. Murray,
however, had been ill since his arrival in Peru and
had lost a lot of his strength. On our return from
Huayhuash he had a pain in his lungs which
turned out to be an infection, requiring him to
stay in bed for four days taking antibiotics. As a
result, our first peak, Pisco, was summitted with-
out Murray, and, although it was a relatively easy
ON TOP
OF THE
WORLD
peak, we did experience problems along the way,
before battling our way to the top, to experience
one of the best views in all of the Andes. The four
of us arrived back in Huaraz the following day
with a little more experience and acclimatisation
behind us, before scaling Peru's tallest peak,
Huascaran Sur.
Paul is an incredibly able bloke and he very
soon earned my respect for his judgement. He's
also a fussy bastard when it comes to food, so I
was very glad when he took a keen interest in
organising that aspect of our planned six days
on Huascaran. He did a very meticulous job and
turned out some fantastic meals in some extraor-
dinary places.
The other issue of discussion was porters. I
was personally of the opinion that we should not
take them as it was (in a way) cheating - I wanted
to climb this mountain myself. I could, however,
see the very obvious reasons why it was sensible
and was consequently passive when the others
elected to take them. For Murray, however, there
was no choice, as his weight had tumbled to 58kg
and he simply had no strength left to carry his
pack. The other danger was if one of us got ill,
which would seriously jeopardise the chances of
the others. Maximo came back with 3 unlikely
looking porters: one a cook, one an experienced
climber and one a pin ball machine!
[ days 1 and 2 ]
The first day consisted of a 1 200m ascent to
base camp at 4200m. I had the squits, but
through my experience trekking in Nepal (where
the Delhi belly was a feature of everyday life) I've
found the ideal cure: Dire Straits at high volume
on the walkman! It was a very pleasant afternoon
stroll with magnificent views, but rather distress-
ing as we heard tale after tale from people
descending who had failed to reach the summit
because of high winds, altitude problems, cre-
vasses and looming seracs.
The view that evening looking as we looked
across the Rio Santa valley towards the Cordillera
Negra (a range of snow-free mountains up to
5500m) was quite stupendous and did wonders
for the already high morale of the group. We set
off early the next morning for camp 1 (5200m).
I was concerned that this step of 1 000m was too
much, especially for Murray who had been at
3100m for 5 days since the Huayhuash, and I
still consider it nothing short of a miracle that
none of us had any problems whatsoever that
night. It was exceptionally cold and again we
heard tales from teams sponsored by big name
manufacturers of difficulties in the icefall just
above camp 2 on the co!. We were psyched, and
our moods were buoyed by our lack of accli-
matisation problems.
[ day 3 ]
We set off very early, on our third consecu-
tive day of clear blue skies, in order to make
camp 2 before the snow had a chance to soften.

