15 December 1999 • Felix Travel 9
The wind was minimal but the air temperature was
-20°C, and my feet quickly became numb. This
was an incredibly exciting day - ascending very
steep snow slopes, jumping crevasses and cross-
ing avalanche-strewn slopes at 20 000 feet. We
arrived at camp in winds of 30 knots and had
some serious trouble pitching tent on a ledge
above the icefall.
My feet had failed to thaw out since 6am and
now, at 2pm, I was getting slightly concerned
about frostbite. The star porters boiled some
water, which I put in my water bottle in the bot-
tom of my sleeping bag. My concern grew, as I
could not feel this bottle - which was too hot to
hold by hand. It took 45 minutes before I was
able to feel anything. This was an agonising wait
and once again the dangers of mountaineering
(which I'd only previously read about) became
reality
Miraculously, none of us were experiencing
any altitude sickness at all. Murray and I were
chatting with nervous excitement as we were
perched 850m below the summit of a mountain
we'd been training to climb for four months, at
the crux of an expedition we'd been planning for
six more. Another bowl of mash, a few tunes from
Dire Straits and we drifted into a light sleep.
[ day 4 ]
At 1.30am the gale force wind was threaten-
ing to blow in one side of the tent. The air
temperature was -25°C and we were wearing
every layer of clothing possible, just trying to stay
warm. The five minutes it took to stick on cram-
pons and attach the ropes nearly proved
disastrous, as every part of the body froze if it was-
n't moved about violently. We were quickly off up
the mountain, spurred on by adrenaline, the cold
and an overwhelming drive to get to the summit.
We met two Americans sitting in the snow as we
ascended by the light of a full moon - they were
extremely bright and chirpy despite the conditions.
We continued past them, up 45° snow slopes
towards the icefall at 6200m, but as we got closer
the magnitude of the seracs towering above us
(which had looked so small from camp 1) became
apparent. Route finding immediately became
extremely difficult, and we continually ran up
dead-ends between seracs which threatened to
topple at any moment. We figured the only way
up was to climb about 7m vertically up the side
of a serac. We waited while Maximo lead the
climb and the cold bit through our clothes. I had
not felt my feet since 2am. Of more concern was
Murray's condition - he was starting to show signs
of his lack of acclimatisation and was weaken-
ing rapidly. With great difficulty and effort we
arrived on top of the serac, and within ten meters
we were confronted by a crevasse three meters
across, at the base of the vertical face of another
serac. We debated this with Maximo, shouting
against the wind whilst snow was driven into our
faces, freezing our cheeks and making it difficult
to speak at all. We held a firm belay on Max and
he jumped across this crevasse, throwing the
points of his crampons and ice axes into the face
IPs' WMffM
GIANT
CLIMBS
IN PERU
of this serac, then traversing the face before col-
lapsing in the snow, exhausted by his effort. With
the safety of Max's belay the danger was taken
out of our leap - but the effort to traverse the serac
wasn't. We still had 400m to ascend, and the ice-
fall showed no signs of relenting.
A few more crevasses, however, and we were
through, with nothing but steep snow slopes
between us and the summit. As we belayed each
other up the final stages the sun rose. Warmth
started flooding into our toes, fingers and faces
and with just a couple of hundred meters to go
nothing was going to stop us. The shadow of the
twin peaks of Huascaran Sur and Norte was cast
out like a pair of enormous breasts across the
Cordillera Negra. The scenery was breathtaking.
By this point Murray was moving incredibly slowly,
stopping every ten paces and crouching over his
ice axe. Shortly after 9am we reached the sum-
mit, a moment of absolute exhilaration. I threw
my arms involuntarily around Murray, then Paul,
Alex and Max as we came together on the domed
peak of Huascaran Sur. The wind hadn't relented,
our cheeks and feet were still frozen and Murray
was in a terrible state. After a few photographs
we started our descent. The wind made com-
munication impossible and as we descended in
solitude we could each try to digest our achieve-
ment. It was a quite wonderful feeling of elation
and fulfilment.
As we descended, we passed a lone climber
about 300m below the summit taking a peculiar
line and going very slowly. It was still early in the
day however and to get through the icefall alone
would have taken some skill. He was clearly an
experienced mountaineer and Max waved at him
in acknowledgement so any concerns I had were
immediately relinquished. He was never seen
again. The circumstances were extremely pecu-
liar. His Irish friends in the tent next to ours greeted
us on our return to camp 2, and never put out
an alarm call - so as we spent the rest of the day
relaxing in our tents we assumed he'd come down
safely and there was no cause for concern. On
reflection this does seem an incredibly avoidable
tragedy and it'll always be in the back of my mind
- should we have said something to him to per-
suade him to come down?
[ day 5 ]
This was probably the most difficult morning as
the adrenaline had passed, the dangers were
now minimal, it was bitterly cold, the wind was
stronger than the previous morning and we had
to pack up camp. We all accepted it, got on with
the task in hand, and then got out of there as
quickly as possible. As we took our crampons off
at the snowline it occurred to me how extraor-
dinarily lucky we had been, not only on
Huascaran but also with the treks, the people
we'd met, the weather and absolutely everything.
We descended 3km that day into Musho, where
we bought the porters a few well earned beers
before heading back to celebrate in style in
Huaraz. Roll on next summer for more of the
same!

