Advertisement Felix 922 17 January 1992
IN THE LIGHT OF TRUTH
THE GRAIL MESSAGE
by ABD-RU-SHIN
The Grail Message "In the Light of Truth" which was
proclaimed by Abd-ru-shin mediates the knowledge of the
upbuilding of Creation; it explains the connections with-
out a gap, and gives a survey of all events in Creation. It
is addressed solely to the individual human being, because
he alone has to bear the responsibility for everything he
thinks and does. If he turns to what is good, all else will
likewise turn out well. It has immediate effect upon
marriage, the family and finally the entire nation!
An important statement in the
Grail Message is the explana-
tion of the Laws of Creation.
They work unitqdly, in the
whole of Creation, in the
earthly sphere as well as in the
non-visible parts of Creation.
A few of them shall be dealt
with here.
The Law of Reciprocal
Action
or the Law of Cause and
Effect, which is aptly men-
tioned in the Bible (Gal. 6,7)
as follows: "Be not deceived,
God is not mocked: for what-
soever a man soweth, that he
shall also reap." This Law
applies not only to the earthly
but also to the spiritual seed
and barvest! Therefore, if a
man holds good thoughts,
intuitive perceptions and deeds
he will, according to this Law,
reap a multiple or good in due
course" on the other hand, if
his volition is evil, dark retroactions will come to
him to a greater extent. The choice between good
and evil volition lies in his free will, in which the
responsibility of the human being is also founded.
In this Law is fulfilled the fate or karma of man. Hence
if at some time he encounters a harsh fate for which he
would even blame God, then he, through his own fault,
has given cause for it, which may often have been long
ago in former earth-lives. However, it lies again with man
to turn everything to the good if he earnestly strives to
observe the Laws and Commandments of God.
In the Law of Sowing and Reaping, the Law of Reciprocal
Action, lies also the solution to the frightful fates of the
masses and of individuals among earthly mankind which
we witness today, and which arouse compassion within
us!
Through the World Judgement there comes in addition
into Creation an increased Spiritual Power, pressing all
the good and bad deeds which have grown up over
thousands of years to a quicker final release, and acceler-
ating also the natural catastrophes! It is the time of the
"end of this world", which Jesus foretold, in Chapter 24
of Matthew's Gospel. But only the end of this old, bad
world, which after the World Judgement is to be followed
by a new., good world, with the Kingdom of Peace of a
Thousand Years on Earth! Also in the Revelation of John
the old world and the new are described in spiritually
portrayed pictures.
The Law of Gravity
can be observed when, for example, a piece of iron sinks
to the bottom in a glass of water, whereas a piece of cork
will not go down but remains at the top. The effect in the
life of human beings is exactly the same. According to
either its good or its evil volition, the human soul had
made itself lighter or heavier. As a result, either it rises
up to lighter regions, or it sinks down to lower, dark
regions after its physical death.
The Law of Attraction of Homogeneous Species
is apdy expressed by the popular sayings "Birds of a
feather flock together" and Like attracts like". Even the
whole social life of mankind on earth is influenced by it.
Whether it concerns a union of peoples, races, or one
from religious, social, professional, economic and politi-
cal motives, human beings who in some way are suited
to each other will always come together. The ancient
peoples had some idea of the effect of this important Law,
and followed it unconsciously, in that they separ-
ated into occupational and educational classes. In
these each hadthe opportunity to live and develop
on homogeneous sou.The gradually emerging
division into upper, middle and lower classes,
however, was wrong! On the one hand it pro-
duced envy and hatred, and on the other conceit,
arrogance, as well as sloth, and
finally, as a result, class-conflict.
In reality, however, only the
standing side by side and working
together of all classes can hence-
forth produce a harmonious devel-
opment. For then every class is of
full value in its own way; it has
abilities and merits which the
others do not have; it is a necessary
link of the whole. All social prob-
lems can be solved later, once this
Law has been recognised aright.
Lasting social peace and ascent
will then be guaranteed.
The Law of the Necessary
Balance between Giving and
Receiving
When Jesus said "It is more
blessed to give than to receive"
(Acts 20,35), He had in mind this
Law. All processes in Creation are subject to this Law,
whether it oe the interplay of forces between the celestial
bodies, or the sense ol-bal ance of the physical body. Day
in, day out we observe it, though for the most part
unconsciously, be it in breathing in and out, or when we
endeavour to ' redress the balance" in something. On the
other hand, we may come to harm when something
"throws us out of balance", in great things and in small,
for non-observance of this Law causes stagnation and
disturbance, even decline and decay if the disregard
continues.
Thus this Law of Balance between Giving and Receiving
will one day playa fundamental part in a true international
understanding. The time has come for the peoples and
races to stand side by side, mutually respecting, helping
and furthering one another, in the recognition mat every
people, every race possesses earthly and spiritual values
which are indispensable to complete the whole, and which
in turn other peoples and races do not have. That then
stipulates a vital exchange of these values, an exchange
that must hold the rightT>alance in accordance with the
Law of Balance between Giving and Receiving!
On 6th December 1991, it was 50 years since the death
of Abd-ru-shin (Oskar Ernst Bernhardt). The author
chose the name "Abd-ru-shin" in fulfilment of a former
earth-life, which was the preparation for his present
working. May these few references to the content of the
Grail Message be enough to bring to mind the Work of
Abd-ru-shin, who 50 years ago followed the Call of the
Eternal One. With that was fulfilled his high task of
bringing inner peace to the human beings and showing
them the way to the luminous heights.
The Grail Message "Inthe Light of Truth" by Abd-ru-shin
is available in the Imperial College Union Bookshop or
through your local bookshop.
Grail Acres Publishing Co., 23 Hamilton Road, Sidcup, Kent DA15 7HB. Telephone: 0372 362792

