17
felix
Friday 27 April 2007
SPORT sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Continued from back page
Three days, two islands and one
drunken night later, the time had
come for the nuts and bolts of the
tour; The RBSC International 6s
Tournament,featuring20teamsfrom
across the globe, including two from
Imperial. Imperial A were placed
in by far the toughest group of the
tournament including 2 international
team, an Aussie side with an ex-Indi-
an Test cricketer and several strong
professional club sides. Despite this
the boys did Imperial proud, showing
guts and determination throughout.
They scored at 2 runs a ball through-
out the tournament and fought not
only against some of the toughest op-
position they would ever encounter
but also against 40 degrees Celsius.
After Maldives made light work of
dismissing Imperial A, Bahrain were
rather surprised by the strength of
“the college side from England” but
managed to steal a very narrow vic-
tory. Special mention should be made
to Leon Loveridge the pick of the
batsmen, who was well supported by
Thilina Ambepitiya, Jibran Ahmed
and Ali Ahmed. Nick Adams and Ali
Ahmed were our most economical
bowlers, though Ved Vyas was un-
lucky in his efforts.
Unfortunate not to qualify into the
knock-out section, Imperial A contin-
ued on in the Wooden Spoon section
of the competition, a series of two
shortened matches in which the win-
ner would be determined not by the
number of runs they scored but on
the number of boundaries. We had a
close match with Bangkok Univer-
sity, but their local knowledge saw
them clinch it in the last over. Our fi-
nal game was against a junior Indian
Cricket Academy, who were unable
to handle the guile of Ved, Leon and
Jibran as they failed to hit a single
boundary in their innings.
In the meantime, Imperial B were
enjoying more success as they got
off to a flying start despite the shaky
start courtesy of Abeetha Perera.
Upon seeing a spinner take the ball
for the opening over, Abeetha glee-
fully insisted on taking strike, only to
be dismissed first ball! Al and Shiraz
led the batting recovery while some
excellent fielding work led Imperial
B to a convincing victory. Imperial B
continued to show great fighting spir-
it as they battled the Indian Indoor,
Bahrain B and Sri Lankan Air Force
teams to win a well earned spot in the
next round.
Over the course of the tournament
Abeetha showed great skill behind
the wickets and made up for his early
misdemeanour with an unbeaten 31
amongst other good performances
with the bat. Shiraz Sabah showed
the greatest resilience as he had the
testing task of bowling the last over
in every game. As usual Almaher
was proficient with the bat and his
tidy bowling was well supported with
superb performances from Omair
Taraq and Anand Subramanian.
A loss to Maldives led to Imperial
B missing out on a spot in the cup
competition, however, they did make
it to the quarter finals of the plate
competition where they would face
Chittagong – a team of former Bang-
ladesh players managed by Al’s dad!
The match was fiercely contested
however Chittagong came out on top
as their wealth of experience proved
a little too much to handle for a very
exhausted Imperial B. This was the
end of the tournament for Imperial
who were unfortunate to leave with-
out any silverware; the lads deserved
better.
IC student Christian Morsbach, a member of IC Gliding club, takes his first solo flight after having been sent solo by Shaun Murdoch.
He took up Gliding because he always wanted to fly and the Gliding Club offered an affordable way to learn! Christian is probably the
only German glider pilot who had to go to the UK to find out that gliding in Germany is huge. Christian took three excellent solo flights,
including one where he soared with the birds. ICGC is active all year round, including the Summer, and can provide continuous flying
training every weekend (with the same instructors), there’s no cheaper or faster way to learn to fly on your own. For more info, or to
join, contact shaun.murdoch02@imperial.ac.uk. Here’s to more first solos soon!
Riding club gallop to, er, second and fourth
Trisna Tungadi
Last month busy for IC horse rid-
ers with two teams, A and B, com-
peting in the BUSA Equestrian
League. BUSA opperate somewhat
different rules compared to normal
show jumping and dressage com-
petitions. The main difference be-
ing that; at each competition, we
have to ride a completely strange
horse that we have never ridden be-
fore, with only around 5-7 minutes
warm up in which to get to know
our horse before a dressage test
or show jumping course. The aim
being to see who can get the best
out of their horse in a short period
of time. Each horse has their own
personality, it is the rider’s job to
quickly recognise how a particular
horse likes to be ridden.
This year, we had a good start of
the competition season; the A team
were placed 2nd in our home com-
petition in Trent Park, with Naomi
acheiving 5th in individual rank-
ings. Sadly we were not so lucky
in the next few away competitions
though we did get some good in-
dividual placings from Trisna and
Naomi.
The championship league was
won by UCL with our A team finish-
ing 4th. Our B team was more suc-
cessful this year, with Olivia as team
captain, finishing 2nd in the trophy
league. In their home competition,
our chair and B team member,
Kat Grey, was fifth and Sam eighth
individually.
Generally this year’s competing
season had been an enjoyable time
for all of us. With a few unexpected
events, such as snow in one of our
away competitions, resulting in the
postponement of the competition
and a shortage of qualified horses
in another competition, where the
solution was to use a huge, black,
yet lovely cob, who had just started
to learn how to jump. Both of our
Oh my god it’s Black Beauty! - I’m sorry, I don’t know anything else about horses
home competitions, hosted at Trent
Park Equestrian Centre, went rath-
er smoothly this year. Though there
were some exciting moments when
our usually placid jumping horses
decided to be play up during the
warm up, scaring our rival teams.
Thanks to all the riding club
members and committee this year
who have been a huge help in run-
ning the competitions, also thanks
to both of our team captains, Olivia
and Trisna.
Cricket continued

