I’ve got you under my skin
If you were paying attention to the
science news over the holidays, you
may have noticed Human Genet-
ics recently published a report of a
new type of human twin, mid-way
between fraternal and identical
twins.
Rather unexpectedly, these twins
resulted not from IVF treatment,
but from a natural conception – the
only reason this case came to light
was because although one of the
twins was an apparently normal
male, the other had ambiguous gen-
italia. When the latter twin was ex-
amined further, it turned out it was
what’s known as a true hermaphro-
dite – it had ovotestes, gonads con-
taining both testicular and ovarian
tissue. This is unusual enough that
the researchers also performed
DNA analysis on both twins, and
discovered they are both chimæras
– they contain more than two sets
of genetic material. In layman’s
terms, each twin contains a bit of
Double trouble - twins in the news
Felix brings you a brief overview of recent research involving human, marmoset and antelope twins
the other twin, making the question
of who’s who rather tricky.
Usually, humans contain two sets
of genetic material (or alleles), a
set from the mother in the egg, and
a set from the father in the sperm.
Fraternal twins are the result of
two eggs being fertilised by two
sperm cells. As the set of alleles in
one egg or sperm differs from that
in the other (only half the alleles are
expected to be shared), the two sets
in each twin are different, meaning
fraternal twins are as genetically
alike as normal siblings; the only
difference being they just happen
to be born at the same time.
Identical twins, by contrast, are
genetically identical, as they result
from one egg and one sperm, which
has split into two later, so both twins
are composed of the same two sets.
These twins are chimæric because
though they share alleles from the
mother’s side (indicating they came
from one egg, like identical twins),
they each contain cells originating
from two different sperm, and so
have only half their alleles from the
father in common (like fraternal
twins). Meaning each twin is made
up of three sets of genetic material
in total, making them chimæras.
It’s unclear whether these twins
are the result of an egg splitting be-
fore each half was fertilised by two
sperm; or, less likely, because the
egg was fertilised simultaneously
by two sperm, but in either case the
subsequent pair of fertilised eggs
intermixed before becoming two
distinct individuals. Resulting in
this previously undiscovered type
of human twin, who are more simi-
lar than fraternal twins, but less so
than identical twins, and presum-
ably extremely rare.
My brother’s keeper
In marmosets however, chimæric
twins are very common; indeed a
report published in PNAS a cou-
ple of weeks ago, looking at Wied’s
black tufted-ear marmosets (which
typically produce twins), discov-
ered 72% of the twin litters con-
tained chimæras. To be precise,
this means at least one twin con-
tained chimæric tissue. The reason
this is so common in marmosets is
because of the way the twins de-
velop in the uterus – from an early
stage their placentas fuse, allowing
stem cells (and hence alleles) from
one twin to enter into the other
(and vice-versa, in just under half
the cases observed). One important
consequence of this is that the stem
cells which then go on to create one
twin’s reproductive system could
come from the other twin. So a fe-
male marmoset, when breeding,
could be providing not her own ge-
neticmaterialbuthertwinbrother’s
for example – and so might be able
to pass on a Y chromosone, a role
usually restricted to males. Where
this study got even more intriguing
was in its examination of the behav-
ioural effect of this “horizontal” dis-
semination of genes, from one twin
to the other’s offspring. It turns
out that marmosets are highly so-
cial, with many group members
providing care for the infants. The
researchers monitored the behav-
iour of small groups within a colony
of marmosets at the University of
Nebraska; groups comprising only
parents and offspring, where only
one twin was chimæric, and had
chimæric skin tissue – the type of
tissue most likely to show some in-
dication of lineage to the parents.
By counting how often each parent
picked up the chimæric and non-
chimæric twin during their first two
weeks of life, the researchers were
able to determine that the males
carried chimæric offspring signifi-
cantly more than non-chimæric,
the trend being reversed for the
mother.
One possibility the authors ad-
vance to explain the father’s pref-
erence is that the chimæric off-
spring might be more recognizable
as his offspring (as it might match
more of his genes involved in cre-
ating individual traits), thus reduc-
ing the risk he’s been cuckolded
and is looking after another mar-
moset’s offspring. They also note
the horizontal sharing might also
explain the greater investment in
the young by apparently unrelated
group members (when the groups
are of a normal size) – if one twin
might be the genetic father of the
other’s offspring, it creates an evo-
lutionary imperative to support his
twin’s offspring, to propagate those
genes. This would naturally create
a more cohesive group.
Sibling rivalry
But though marmosets seem to
find having a twin rather useful, it’s
not necessarily advantageous for
all species. Last month also saw
the publication of a study into saiga
antelope, a critically endangered
species which lives on the Eurasian
steppe, and which frequently gives
birth to twins. A team headed by
Imperial scientist Aline Kühl has
cooperated with Kazakh rangers to
monitor saiga herds each May over
three years, weighing calves born
in the week-long birth season. They
discovered that when the mother
is pregnant with mixed-sex twins,
the male fœtus undergoes much
less growth than he would if he had
a twin brother instead, and so is
significantly underweight at birth.
It’s not clear why the male twins in
saiga are disadvantaged – in cows
for example, it’s usually the female
twins in mixed-sex litters who suf-
fer. However, the researchers ex-
pect that underweight male twins
will be at a distinct reproductive
disadvantage – at breeding time
there is stiff competition with other
males, and so being lighter is likely
to be highly detrimental to repro-
ductive fitness. Future studies will
verify this, looking at the long-term
effect of sibling sex on reproductive
success.
[Many thanks to Barbara Portel-
la, for structure and content ideas]
Top: Marmoset – can sire their twin’s children, as they’re chimæras
Bottom: Saiga – an endangered antelope found in Kazakhstan
Classics. Top: hermaphrodite, with rather unambiguous genitalia
Bottom: Bellerophon slaying the (classical) chimæra
4 felix Friday 27 April 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Edmund Henley
Science Editor

