“Baa / ribbit – what a scorcher!”
The incredible case of the dying frogs and the shrinking sheep. Whodunnit – climate change you say?
As many of you are no doubt aware,
the climate is changing, the world
is getting hotter, and our cheap
holiday flights are just as much to
blame as all those polluting indus-
tries. The most recent IPCC re-
port tells us these climate changes
could lead to the extinction of up to
30% of all plants and animals. An
appalling projection, no doubt, but
even if the world is not stripped of
one third of its biodiversity, several
less dramatic changes are certain-
ly in store. Even if they’re gradual
enough that we don’t notice them,
over time they will probably have a
serious influence on the lives of the
remaining species.
Dr Tim Coulson, from Imperial’s
Division of Biology, says that global
warming is leaving an evolution-
ary signature in the planet’s spe-
cies: “We are probably changing
patterns of selection and this could
well result in small-scale evolu-
tionary change”. Some of these
changes are described in a paper
he published in the journal Science,
together with researchers from the
Universities of Cambridge, Edin-
burgh and Stanford. They studied
a population of Soay sheep in the
Outer Hebrides, and found evi-
dence that temperature influences
the size of the animals.
In a warmer environment, it
seems there is less of an advantage
to being a large sheep – it doesn’t
matter so much if the animal is
smaller. After several generations,
the result is a general reduction
in body size. With this paper, sci-
entists were able to prove that
climate change can alter genetic
characteristics.
Some animals’ behaviour is also
modified, explains Dr Coulson. “On
the island of Rum, we have seen red
deer giving birth to their calves ear-
lier in the year. There are probably
many other such changes, but in
order to pick them up you need de-
tailed individual-based data – and
such data are rare.” While all living
beings do their best to adapt to the
new conditions, in some cases they
don’t have anywhere to run. Quite
literally. “While animals and plants
have adapted to past climate shifts
by moving to more suitable habitats,
their options are now much more
limited because of the conversion
of so many ecosystems to uses such
as cities and intensive agriculture”
says Ahmed Djoghlaf, head of the
Convention on Biological Diversity,
in a column on the BBC website.
But shrinking mammals and al-
tered mating schedules won’t be
the only consequence of climate
change. There’s also a fungal dis-
ease, deadly to amphibians, which
will thrive in the hot weather. Ac-
cording to Dr Matthew Fisher, from
Imperial’s department of Epidemi-
A Soay sheep. Baa. Warmer climates mean larger sheep don’t enjoy
an especial evolutionary advantage, so average sheep size dimishes.
ology, contamination by the fungus
Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis
(Bd) is nothing less than one of the
most potent threats to biodiversity
yet discovered: .
Last year, researchers from Im-
perial College and two Madrid In-
stitutions proved that the increase
in temperatures is responsible for
the virtual extinction of the mid-
wife toad in a mountain region of
Spain. They showed that 26 years of
increasing temperatures led to the
emergence of the chytrid fungus Bd
in the area. The disease affects the
ability of amphibian skin to absorb
water and is causing a huge number
of deaths among frogs, toads, sala-
manders and newts worldwide.
“This is a wake-up call that we are
losing biodiversity fast,” said Dr.
Fisher. “Climate change appears to
be changing patterns of disease and
previously resistant species are be-
coming highly infected – even, in
a number of cases, becoming ex-
tinct.” The Global Amphibian As-
sessment has warned that a third
of the world’s amphibian species
are in danger of extinction, many
because of the chytrid fungus.
We are already changing dis-
eases and evolutionary patterns,
and nobody knows exactly what the
results will be, but it’s likely the ef-
fects will be more widespread then
we can imagine. “As the Millennium
Ecosystem Assessment pointed
out in 2005, reduction of biodiver-
sity implies a threat to services
as basic as the provision of food,
fibre, medicines and fresh water,
the pollination of crops and protec-
tion from flooding,” warns Ahmed
Djoghlaf. It will be a very different
world – here’s hoping we’re one of
the species which are able to adapt,
to witness what we’ve unleashed..
Amphibians are at risk from the Chytrid fungus, which affects their skin’s ability to absorb water. As
climate change raises temperatures, the fungus’ spread may threaten many species with extinction
5
felix
Friday 27 April 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Barbara Axt Portella
Want to see your work published here?
Email science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

