unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
I hope you all enjoyed a relaxing Easter break. Those of us who
stayed in London were treated to almost unbroken sunshine
in a month that is famous for its showers; there seems little
doubt that summer has arrived early this year.
Lawns and Libraries
The early return of summer weather is good news for those
who love sipping cold drinks in the quadrangle on those long
summer evenings, and this is an experience that will be even
more pleasant this year thanks to the brand new lawn we
lovingly prepared for you over the break.
However, for many of you the heat will be a nuisance that gets
in the way of productive revision. Those who prefer to revise
in the Central Library will know this more than most, which
is why we are working with the college estates team to try
and persuade our grumpy neighbours that solar shading is
desperately needed to bring room temperatures down in the
main South Kensington library.
Whilst we will applying pressure from our angle, if you are a
Westminster City resident then you can help as well. We are
encouraging all students who care about the temperature of
the Central Library to write to their local councillor in support
of the Collegeʼs plans to bring the temperatures down. For
more details on how to do this and to download a model letter
to send to your councillor, please visit our website.
Centenary Ball: tickets are selling fast!
Just because we are entering the traditionally more relaxed
academic term doesnʼt mean the student union completely
closes down until next autumn. This term we are holding our
traditional summer carnival, a new trading forum (see bottom
right) and, of course, our Centenary Ball.
There is an unprecedented level of interest in this event and
several hundred tickets have already been sold. We have nearly
sold twice as many dinner tickets than we managed to sell
last year and the remaining tickets are selling fast. Our line up
includes many great acts including Radio 1 and TVʼs Vernon
Kay, plus some of the biggest DJ names in the industry. The
number of entertainments venues will be double the number
provided last year.
The price is just £30 for an entertainments ticket, and £55 for
a dinner ticket, and £75 for a VIP
ticket. Details and payment can
all be accessed from
imperialcollegeunion.org/ball.
Make sure you buy your tickets
before May 15th as the prices
will go up, so buy now to avoid
disappointment. By deﬁnition,
centenaryballsonlyhappenevery
100 years, so make sure you
donʼt miss out on what promises
tobethemostspectaculareventImperialCollegehaseverseen!
Congratulations Ben!
Finally, I would like to lend my voice in support of Ben Ryallʼs
great eﬀorts in last weekʼs London Marathon. Thanks to Ben,
our student opportunities fund is £22,000 better oﬀ. Look out
for future fund raising events later on this term.
Why are you still reading this? Go and buy your ball ticket
before we sell out!
Welcome Back!
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
After weeks of rigorous training, Sunday 22 April saw
our ʻMarathon Manʼ, Ben Ryall, pounding pavements
from Blackheath to Buckingham Palace as he conquered
the world famous Flora London Marathon in just 2
hours 53 minutes.
Ben took his position at 09.45 in Greenwich Park,
joined by an eclectic mix of 36,396 charity fun-runners,
professional athletes and celebrities. The gruelling 26.2
mile course stretched from Greenwich to The Mall, taking
in some of Londonʼs most famous sights and landmarks
along the way. Thousands of lively spectators ﬁlled
the streets to support the competitors and cheer them
along to the ﬁnish line. Amongst them were members
of Imperial staﬀ and students along with some of Benʼs
family and friends.
The ﬁnal few miles of the course took Ben past the Tower
of London, along the River Thames and past Nelsonʼs
Column. The end was well and truly in sight as our runner
passed under the shadow of his namesake ʻBig Benʼ, into
Birdcage Walk and ﬁnally, along The Mall.
Sweltering heat made this yearʼs London Marathon an even
greater test of endurance. Temperatures had soared to
around 21 degrees by midday, making it the hottest event
since 1996. Despite the punishing conditions however,
Ben managed to clock an extraordinary ﬁnishing time of 2
hours 53 minutes. Speaking at the ﬁnisherʼs enclosure in
St Jamesʼ Park he said: “This has been both a challenging
and rewarding exercise for me. Itʼs a tough 26 miles, but
the crowd really helps you along and encourages you to
get to the ﬁnish line. Iʼm so pleased that I have had the
opportunity to run the Marathon for Imperial College and
I only hope that by doing so, I have provided opportunity
for many more future students.”
Ben was chosen from a line-up of hopefuls to represent
the College after penning a compelling personal statement
and taking part in a ﬁtness challenge event at Ethos back
in January. His progress has been closely tracked through
a training diary on the Collegeʼs website where visitors
have also been able to sponsor Ben online.
Representation in this illustrious event has added even
more signiﬁcance to Imperialʼs Centenary celebrations.
Staﬀ, students, alumni and friends have given generously
to support Benʼs eﬀorts which will beneﬁt the Collegeʼs
StudentOpportunitiesFund.TheCollege-widescholarship
fund provides entry scholarships for undergraduate and
postgraduate students who might otherwise be unable
to study at Imperial College because of ﬁnancial need.
Since it was established in 2003, the fund has awarded
60 scholarships to talented and deserving students, with
a further 37 due to enrol in September. Ben comments:
“The Student Opportunities Fund does some truly fantastic
work. Those who have sponsored me have really made a
donation to the Collegeʼs future and invested in the lives
of tomorrowʼs students.”
It’s not too late to pledge your support for Ben.
Sponsor his efforts online by visiting
www.imperial.ac.uk/alumni/marathon2007
Mission accomplished for College’s ‘Marathon Man’ By Sophie Corcoran
Office ofAlumni and Development
Nominate your Friends for a UnionAward Trading Forum
meet the people who
make the decisions
Do you have an opinion on how we run
our trading outlets? Well we are holding a
forum to gauge your thoughts on a wide
range of trading issues. All students are
welcome to attend.
Thursday 3rd May, 15:00 in dBʼs
Union Colours are awarded to members of the
Union in recognition of their service, contribution
and dedication to the Union.
There are 5 types of awards in ascending order
of recognition: Half Colours, Full Colours,
Outstanding Service Awards, Imperial College
Union Fellowships and the Imperial College Union
Distinguished Fellowship. Half and Full Colours
are awarded to individuals who have made a
positive contribution to the general life of the
Union in an extraordinary fashion over the course
of the year.
Recipients of the Outstanding Service Award
will have displayed continuous outstanding
achievement across a broad spectrum of Union
activities. Fellowships are only awarded to those
Full Members who have served the Union in a
selﬂess and dedicated manner which is both
exceptional and beyond reproach over the time
they are at Imperial.
If you think someone in the Union deserves
recognition for their service then nominate them
for the above awards. More information can be
found at imperialcollegeunion.org/colours.

