FELIX
10
In brief
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 27 may 2011
Top banana fights fungal infection
For the past 30 years, the humble banana has been
under attack from a fungal invader. Black sigatoga
disease, caused by the fungus Mycosphaerella fi-
jiensis, decimates fruit yields and reduces profit
yields for some of the poorest farmers in East Africa.
Help is at hand, however, from a new genetically
modified strain of banana resistant to the disease.
The team from Uganda’s National Agricultural Re-
search Laboratories Institute added genes for chi-
tinase – a protein that breaks down the cell walls of
the fungus – which prevents the fungus from enter-
ing the plants. The fungus, which can spread by air-
borne spores and when goods are exported, causes
dark leaf spots which eventually kill the plant. In
field trials, the bananas showed almost full immu-
nity to the disease.
Currently, farmers have had to control the pest us-
ing aerial pesticide spraying – a technique that is re-
portedly harmful to both the environment and to the
health of the local residents. The pesticide is often
too expensive for many farmers. Resistence to the
pesticide is also becoming evident in much of East
Africa, making spraying even less economically vi-
able. Genetically modified bananas may prove to be
a cost effective method of maintaining crop yields,
although further research is needed to calculate ex-
actly how much of an advantage it will bring.
Settumba Mukasa, a crop scientist at Uganda’s
Makerere University, points out the future implica-
tions of this research. “[The project] is a stepping
stone for subsequent breeding programs and ge-
netic engineering programmes. As a consequence
of this project we can now do transformations of
other varieties of bananas and other crop species.”
Charlie Harvey
An under-used class of prescription drug for
treating asthma is just as effective as conven-
tional methods according to new research.
Scientists, from the University of East Anglia,
say pills containing leukotriene receptor an-
tagonists (LTRAs) can provide an alternative
to steroid-based inhaler treatments for mild
forms of the disease.
Team leader, Prof David Price says “We
hope these findings will increase the options
for healthcare professionals when prescrib-
ing for this common but disruptive disease.”
Increasing the methods available to sufferers
is important for improving their quality of life
and reducing the risk of fatalities.
Whilst some patients respond well to ster-
oids, many find them unsuitable as they can in-
duce side effects such as weight gain and fun-
gal infections. LTRAs have fewer side effects
and could be helpful for up to 80% of patients
who cannot use inhalers. Despite these benefits,
they are only third or fourth in order of preferred
treatment methods under current UK guidelines.
The study also found that administering
LTRAs orally was easier than using steroid
inhalers, allowing sufferers to control their
disease more effectively. Managing symp-
toms more astutely can reduce distressing and
expensive hospital visits by 75% says Neil
Churchill, chief executive of Asthma UK. This
could amount to huge savings for the NHS,
which currently deals with 74,000 asthma re-
lated admissions every year. Asthma affects
8% of the UK population and, has a social and
economic impact with an annual cost to the
economy of £2 billion. The disease is caused
when the immune system overreacts to par-
ticles in the air, narrowing the windpipe and
increasing phlegm production. LTRAs inhibit
the molecules that cause inflammation and
restriction of the airway to alleviate common
asthma symptoms.
A breath of fresh air for asthma sufferers
Jan Piotrowski
Electrons are almost perfect spheres, new re-
search published in Nature this week has re-
ported. Scientists here at Imperial have made
the most accurate measurement yet of the size
of an electron, and discovered that it is only
0.000000000000000000000000001 cm away
from being perfectly round.
Physicists made precise measurements of
the motions of electrons inside molecules of
Ytterbium Fluoride. If the electrons were not
perfectly round, they would wobble and slight-
ly change the shape of the molecule under
study. But the researchers saw no such wobble,
meaning that the electron must be spherical at
this new level of precision.
Research co-author, Dr Jony Hudson, from
the Department of Physics at Imperial Col-
lege London, said, “We’re really pleased that
we’ve been able to improve our knowledge of
one of the basic building blocks of matter. It’s
been a very difficult measurement to make, but
this knowledge will let us improve our theo-
ries of fundamental physics. People are often
surprised to hear that our theories of physics
aren’t ‘finished’, but in truth they get constant-
ly refined and improved by making ever more
accurate measurements like this one.”
This result is the culmination of more than
a decade’s work by physicists from Imperial’s
Centre for Cold Matter. It is important for the
study of anti-matter – an elusive substance that
acts in exactly the same way as normal matter,
but has the opposite electrical charge. When
matter and anti-matter come into contact, they
annihilate one another.
Currently the laws of physics predict that
exactly the same amounts of matter and anti-
matter were created at the beginning of the uni-
verse. We know that this cannot be true, how-
ever, because if it were true all of the matter
and anti-matter would have been annihilated
and there would be none of either left in the
universe today.
This means there must be a fundamental dif-
ference between matter and anti-matter. Had
the researchers found that electrons are not
round it would have provided proof that matter
and antimatter differ more than physicists had
previously thought. This may have then ex-
plained how all of the anti-matter disappeared
from the early universe.
The Standard Model of particle physics pre-
dicts that the deviation of the shape of an elec-
tron from a perfect sphere would be too small
to measure. Several proposed extensions to the
Standard Model do predict a measurable dis-
tortion, so this result may turn out to be useful
in exploring new physics beyond the Standard
Model.
Professor Edward Hinds, research co-author
and head of the Centre for Cold Matter at Im-
perial College London, said: “The whole world
is made almost entirely of normal matter, with
only tiny traces of anti-matter. Astronomers
have looked right to the edge of the visible
universe and even then they see just matter, no
great stashes of anti-matter. Physicists just do
not know what happened to all the antimatter,
but this research can help us to confirm or rule
out some of the possible explanations.”
To help improve their measurements of the
electron’s shape, the researchers are now devel-
oping new methods to cool their molecules to
extremely low temperatures, and to control the
exact motion of the molecules. This will allow
them to study the behaviour of the embedded
electrons in far greater detail than ever before.
Kelly Oakes
Electron sends scientists round in circles
Foot-loose and fungal free, that’s me!
24 March - 31 August 2011
at the Wellcome Collection
A new exhibition from the Wellcome Collection,
‘Dirt’ discovers the grimy truth behind the stuff we
are surrounded by but normally try and sweep under
the rug. The exhibition explores the past, present
and future of dirt in an increasingly clean world.
Dirt: The filthy reality of everyday life Phwoarrrrrh!!! She leaves me breathless
“Some scientist stole my electron!” “Are you sure?” “Yes, I’m positive!”

