FELIX
12
Tips & Hacks
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 27 may 2011
Orange Quick Tap
If you’re tired of Chip and PIN-ing it everywhere you
go because you never have any cash on you, you may
want to take a look at Orange’s latest offering in part-
nership with Barclaycard, the Samsung Tocco Quick
Tap. The Quick Tap service offers customers the abil-
ity to pay bills of £15 or less using their phones at
certain high street chains. Simply tap your phone on
the special reader and the money is debited from
your account virtually instantly. Quick Tap is currently
offered at around 5,000 retailers across the country,
and is the first volley in a barrage of such services to
be launched this summer by major mobile operators.
It’s almost definitely worth waiting a few weeks to
see what O2, Vodafone and 3 have up their sleeves,
but if you can’t be bothered with using a Chip and
PIN device, patience probably isn’t your strong suit.
Staring blankly at the outside of your house on
StreetView might have begun to get a bit old, but
Google has started to spice things up by moving
their StreetView cameras right into shops and res-
taurants. The service has launched in Japan and
America, and British shopowners can also apply to
have their shops photographed by Google. It slots
seamlessly into Google Maps, allowing you to move
down a street and simply ‘walk’ into high street
stores with the click of a button. While it’s arguable
how useful this feature is by itself, there are many
features that could be added to the service to make
it more interactive. For example, dropping into a res-
taurant could allow you to order takeaway or reserve
a particular table. Knowing Google, they probably
have all of this planned – watch this space for more
in the near future.
StreetView goes indoors
Ever since Spotify Open limited users to 10
hours of free music and 5 plays per track, I’ve
been on the hunt for alternative streaming ser-
vices that offer something similar to its huge
library and smooth browsing experience. If
you’re searching too, here are my experiences.
Of all the streaming sites, Last.fm and I
have had the longest relationship. We first met
back in 2007 and I was immediately smitten by
the Artist Radio feature that plays you songs
similar to those of your favourite artists. It’s
good new music on tap, tailored to your tastes,
and there’s nothing not to like about that. Yet
Last.fm has never had all it would take to hold
my heart. 4 years on, they still don’t offer
proper playlists and have been steadily cutting
down on the amount of free music you can lis-
ten to. Give it a glance if you are tired of your
library, but don’t expect it to become your new
favourite.
I spent most of 2009 two-timing, split-
ting my listening between Grooveshark and
Spotify. Grooveshark was exactly what I was
looking for to complement Spotify: web-based
streaming that doesn’t require a user account.
It’s an excellent service which has added fea-
tures over the years to the point where it’s now
very similar to Spotify, minus a few features
and the restrictions. Unlike the others, Groove-
shark is driven by user uploads, meaning it’s
a great place to hear albums as soon as they
release. If you’re willing to put up with rela-
tively mediocre sound quality, there’s a huge
library of free music at your fingertips.
While I long thought Grooveshark would be
my only thing on the side, discovering mflow
was a pleasant surprise. Its feature set is basic
- a library of 5 million songs and no playlists.
Focussed heavily on social networks, posting
a song to your Facebook or Twitter profile will
offer you discounts on purchasing music if
someone buys it using your link. All of this is
done with the blessing of major record labels,
meaning the songs available are of a consis-
tently high quality.
Yet despite my promiscuity, the truth is that
I haven’t really been able to replace Spotify
in my heart. I am even about to return to it,
despite the small dent it’ll put in my wallet. £5/
month for unlimited, ad-free music on a huge
number of different devices isn’t too much to
ask. Spotify’s real victory is not in selling a
new service but in combining most other ser-
vices into one slick, attractive package that’s
won me over from the day I set my eyes on it.
After Spotify, what next?
One stop shop for help with your laptop!
The ICT Service Desk over on Level 4 Sher-
field is a busy place. In fact it’s where all of
Imperial’s students and staff get assistance
with IT and the small but efficient team that
is the Service Desk handle over 6000 requests
per month to keep everyone working.
For students in particular, if your laptop is
running slow, virus-infected or just not work-
ing as it should be, bring it along for us to have
a look at and book it in to our Laptop Surgery
Service.
Likewise, if you have any other questions
regarding your email, home directory (aka
H:drive), wireless network or one of the many
online services, you can pop up and have a
Feroz Salam
Adam Mills chat to get you back up and working.
Here at the Service Desk we believe IT
should be helpful rather than a hindrance and
without wanting to sound like the world-dom-
inating supermarket, we’re here to help. Oh
and it’s also a free service – now, you can’t
argue with that!
Did you know?
ICT are currently running a survey and all
responses will be entered into a prize draw
to win one of 3 Amazon Kindles and 3 iPod
Shuffles – let ICT know what you think of
their services here now: http://bit.ly/ICT-
Survey2011 - deadline is Friday June 3rd
2011.

