FELIX
14
POLITICS
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
Joseph Letts
Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 27 May 2011
The losers of international aid
M
uch like the fashion houses
of Milan and Paris, each
season seems to bring with
it a new or reinvented world
crisis, whether it be natural
or man-made. Iraq hasn’t yet reached the status
of a likely holiday destination and yet trouble
in other countries close by has overcast the
problems left by decades of international and
civil war, largely inflicted upon its population
by Saddam Hussein’s regime. In a trend that
seems to be becoming the norm, the western
world stepped in to alleviate what it believes to
be the bee in its bonnet, without realising there
was a whole hive overhead.
My sister has recently returned from a trip to
Kurdistan: an independently governed region
in the north of Iraq, broadly equitable to the
status of Wales here in the UK. Over a period
of 10 weeks she worked with a local Non-Gov-
ernmental Organisation (NGO) called KURDS
(the Kurdish Reconstruction and Development
Society), who were established in 1991. Their
original remit was that of providing clean
drinking water and sanitation to returnees
following more than a decade of conflict and
displacement: the Iran-Iraq war (1980-1988),
the Anfal Campaign in 1988 when Saddam’s
forces destroyed 4,000 villages, and the Kurd-
ish uprisings in 1991 against the Regime. I
hope that you would agree that provision of
water and sanitation seems to be a noble cause.
Around that time, the international scene was
largely concerned with the Gulf war, which
saw Iraq invade Kuwait. Thus, the internation-
al media focus shifted towards concerns of in-
ternational politics and oil greed. In a western
culture where it’s not unusual to give money to
causes and charities, individual donors would
find it hard to sympathise with the country
starting wars. If anything, I perceive that we’ve
started to learn that lesson from history: it’s the
governments who start international wars, not
the people of the country.
In Tunisia, Egypt, Yemen and Libya,
through the movements now known as ‘the
Arab Spring’ populations have been demon-
strating their dissatisfaction with their rulers.
In many cases, the world initially stood on
the sidelines peering in, praising this call for
democracy and trying to do what they could
to help. These call for regime changes and
democratically selected leaders chimes in with
the overriding tones of the season including
legal aid, abolition of corruption and focus
on international human rights which, again I
hope we can agree, are also noble causes. So,
if this is what’s in fashion how do NGOs like
KURDS survive? The answer is that they have
to broaden their remit. Instead of focussing on
just water and sanitation, grant applications
now extend to legal aid courses and voter
awareness campaigns and agricultural train-
ing courses, whilst the NGO is left choosing
which two out of three schools will receive
the funding available for a functioning toilet
block. And they play the game, so that they
can stay on the international aid radar which
will hopefully one day service their initial re-
mit, and so that they can stay employed them-
selves: two further struggles for local NGOs
in developing regions.
So what can we discern from this? Probably
that we tend to have a very short attention span
when it comes to the real scale of these prob-
lems. Not to undermine their efforts, but chari-
ties like DEC (Disasters Emergency Commit-
tee) thrive on this, as people are largely willing
to give in response to specific natural disasters.
The countries that require the assistance of
global charities like DEC will eventually need
the assistance of their local NGO’s too, who
have the local knowledge of how to restore
life to what it was in a culturally relevant way,
school toilets and all.
Overall, what could we hope to achieve in
a world that is constantly ‘moving on’ with
regard to international aid? Is the recent re-
naissance of the elbow patch (seen this season
surreptitiously, but fashionably, placed on a
lady’s cardigan) a sign that we are capable of
nostalgia and reviewing faux pas or innovation
from the past? I worry that we’ll continue in
this cycle of trendy development topics or cri-
ses and giving to each in turn instead of estab-
lishing a sustained commitment to ensure the
survival of the efforts of those actually imple-
menting the action for long-term restoration
or development. International aid agencies do
stick around, in some places for decades, but
they aren’t as immune to fluctuating political
climates and agendas as many would perhaps
hope. It would seem that if targets like the Mil-
lennium Development Goals actually have any
chance of being met, everyone, not just the
governments of developed countries, should
keep them in mind constantly. That way, if
you do choose to support an international cri-
sis, think about what we should support: those
people, organisations and charities who are in
the position spatially and for the long haul to
provide the assistance on the ground directly
to where it’s needed.
The world beyond
College walls
Egypt
At least one person has been killed and twenty
injured in a blast at an Iranian refinery as the Ira-
nian President was visiting. The refinery in Abadan
was opened by President Ahmadinejad and con-
sisted of two stages which will ultimately supply 6
million litres of petrol for domestic uses. A top Ira-
nian official has said that the blast was not an act
of sabotage and Iranian media reported that it was
due to a technical problem. President Ahmadinejad
is currently locked in a power struggle with Iran’s
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei, after he rein-
stated the intelligence minister the president tried
to sack.
Iran
Egypt’s ousted Presi-
dent Hosni Mubarak and
his two sons are to be
tried for his alleged role
in the killings of anti-
government protestors
during Egypt’s uprising.
Mr Mubarak also faces
an additional charge of il-
legally acquiring wealth during his 30 year rule. The
Mubaraks, whose bank accounts in Switzerland
and Cairo are frozen, deny this accusation. Several
former ministers in Mubarak’s administration have
been detained including the former Interior Minister
who was jailed for 12 years for money laundering
and profiteering.
Russia
A Russian appeals court has upheld the sentence
of Mikhail Khodorkovsky but reduced his sentence
by one year to 13 years. Mr Khodorkovsky was the
former head of Yukos who was found guilty of fraud
and tax evasion in 2005 together with his business
partner, Platon Lebedev, after seeking to support a
liberal opposition in Russian politics. Mr Khodor-
kovsky poured scorn on the judges and called his
conviction absurd; however, his claims were rub-
bished by Russian authorities.
Jenny Wilson urges awareness about long-term aid
Girls at Herish School in Keleckchi Collective Town where the new toilet block was
completed in partnership with IOM in April 2011
Sarah Wilson

