Queenie hates playing wife-swap...
FELIX Friday 27 may 2011 15
BUSINESS
T
hese days it is quite dif-
ficult to find something in
common with everyone
in the world, apart from
being human, but there
is one thing that comes close: Internet
users. There are about 2 billion of them
according to internetworldstats.com.
From a business point of view, this is
the biggest market sitting in one place,
but what product or service can you pro-
vide for all of them?
Google got it right: every Internet user
needs to search. Facebook has a hefty
slice of the Internet pie with over 500
million users by their own stats. How-
ever, there are not many others to talk
about since Internet users are not all the
same.
Let us get a bit more realistic now.
Suppose you come up with a product,
say dog food, and market and sell it on
the internet. You have narrowed your
customers to only dog owners but that
is still a massive audience who are will-
ing to pay to feed their dog. The prob-
lem you face here is that the market
is still too big and there are so many
corporate dog food manufacturers that
gobble up all the small fish and leave
you broke.
What next? Narrow your market fur-
ther. Market your dog food purely for
Labradors. You might manage to make a
couple of bucks but probably not much
more.
So you narrow your market further, to
dog food for racing Labradors. Sudden-
ly you have customers paying for your
product because it is exactly what they
are looking for. You add more products
to your line up, dog collars for racing
Labradors, dog soap and shampoo for
racing Labradors, etc. You get the point.
The more you specialise, the smaller
your market, but the more loyal your
customers.
This is the essence of niche market-
ing; identifying a small portion of the
market with a specific problem and of-
fering products and services marketed
directly at solving that problem. You
are in effect monopolising a particular
market.
This was extremely difficult before
the internet; how many owners of rac-
ing Labradors could you find in your
neighbourhood, or even city?
Chances are that there are not enough
to be profitable. However, you now
have a medium to access all those rac-
ing Labrador owners, and indeed any
niche market, throughout the world - the
internet.
This is what has made starting a busi-
ness so attractive in recent times. You
find something you are good at, need,
or have a problem with. Then creating
a business around that becomes easy
because you are both the expert and the
end user.
There are, however, some pitfalls. If
your market is too broad, you will have
too much competition, as already ex-
plained. If you find a niche market but
you define your market too generally,
you could end up with a lot of compe-
tition very soon after you start. If you
are not good, it will be easy for someone
to copy you, improve on it and steal all
your thunder.
There is also the problem of recognis-
ing a market that is too small to ever be
profitable. At that point you either have
to give up the idea or do some charity
to get it out.
That is why it is always important to
test the market and start off with low
costs and capital, because you could end
up losing very quickly. Here again, the
internet saves the day.
Since the target is small, your aim
also needs to be good. If you do not pre-
sent your product in the correct light, it
could get lost in the internet because it
is not attracting the right people. Direct,
straightforward and pin-point market-
ing strategies need to be employed, no
more of this wishy-washy subliminal
nonsense.
If you get everything right, however,
you could end up making a substantial
amount of pocket money. It is the ideal
business for a student; niche marketing
means you do not need to be a jack of
all trades, but putting all of your eggs
into one beautifully woven basket could
prove profitable.
Niche marketing on the net
Nitin Nihalani from Imperial Entrepreneurs’ Society on the power of specialising
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Rex doesn’t look impressed by the sales pitches he’s heard for PooTrap
UK grows 0.5 per cent; Obama visits; and more
UK economy growth 0.5 per cent
The UK economy was able to grow de-
spite a 0.6 per cent drop in consumer
spending and 4.4 per cent drop in in-
vestments. These figures were offset by
a 3.7 per cent rise in export earnings,
which increased the economy by 0.5 per
cent over the quarter and 1.8 per cent
since last year.
The strong export-led growth, which
contributed a record 1.7 per cent to
overall GDP growth over the last quar-
ter (meaning that GDP would have
contracted by 1.2 per cent had exports
earnings remained constant), is largely
due to the weakness of the Pound Ster-
ling. Yet this same currency weakness
is contributing to soaring inflation. This
has the Bank of England divided over
whether to raise interest rates. Advo-
cates of this argue that it will dampen
inflation growth, whilst others worry
that it will leave the fledgling recovery
still-born. The Bank remains cautious,
saying that, “some pickup in underly-
ing growth is likely during 2011, albeit
less than was judged probable in Febru-
ary, driven by a continuing recovery in
business investment and a positive con-
tribution from net exports.” The Bank’s
Governor Mervyn King added that the
recovery will take “not just one year, but
several years.”
Obama arrives for State Visit
After the official state dinner that wel-
comed Obama to the UK on Tuesday
evening, the President and his delega-
tion of senior advisors spent Wednesday
in talks with their British counterparts to
discuss global fiscal policy, budget defi-
cits and international bailouts.
The Queen had toasted the Obama’s
visit, which was only the second official
full state visit by a US President in his-
tory, by saying that the visit was meant
to “celebrate the tried, tested, and yes,
special relationship between our two
countries.”
But the visit, which is part of a tour of
Europe by Obama, is widely seen as be-
ing focused primarily on realining fiscal
policy between Europe and the US as
part of an ongoing effort to bring about
a more internationalist response to the
global recession.
Christine Lagarde bids for IMF
The French Finance minister Christine
Lagarde decided this week to capitalise
on the impeccable reputation of French
politicians at the IMF to announce her
candidacy to be the next head of the
organisation. Despite objections from
many developing nations that the job
always goes to a European, they have
failed to unite around an alternative and
Intrade.com gives Lagarde an 88 per
cent chance of winning the position.

