FELIX
16
COM M ENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 27 may 2011
L
ast week’s Felix headline
announced that I accused
Professor Dallman, the
Principle of Natural Sci-
ences, of lying to the Col-
lege Council. Those are not the exact
words that I used (I said she lied to
the Union President and misled Col-
lege Council), but the implications are
large and it is worth explaining what
happened.
The restructure of Life Sciences be-
gan in July 2010 when College Coun-
cil approved a document initiating the
restructure; this document gives the
overall objectives of the restructure and
why they are necessary. The July meet-
ing of College Council is in a period
of handover for the Union, so both my
predecessor and I were present. Ash-
ley asked Professor Dallman what the
effect of this restructure would be on
teaching and on the current structure
of the courses. She replied by saying
very clearly that there was no intention
to change academic programmes in the
Department or reduce their content and
that students in the Department should
not be unduly affected.
When the names of the staff being
made redundant were released it was
clear that these promises were not go-
ing to be kept. The meeting in SAF
where over 400 people came to see the
explanation of the restructure showed
that this was true, with the majority of
questions relating to the loss of favou-
rite teachers affecting courses. Prof.
Dallman and Prof. Owens brushed
these questions aside and said that
courses would not be affected. It was
even said that teaching would be made
better after the restructure was com-
plete.
What then happened in December left
most people extremely frustrated. With
the knowledge of the redundancies and
the projected impact on courses, the let-
ters from other Universities and Institu-
tions and the comments from Imperial’s
own staff members made public, we
asked Senate to suspend the restructure.
This, as we know, was not successful.
What did happen though, was another
promise by Professor Owens. He said
that he did not “anticipate a reduction
in module choice for students” and that
“the quality of student teaching and ex-
perience will only be enhanced by the
planned changes to its courses”. Con-
sidering that this statement was issued
when the redundancies were known
and many academics were saying that
courses would suffer, it can only be
called clueless.
What it did in the meeting however
was to stop there being any real debate
on whether the effect of the restructure
on teaching was justified and what it
would be. By repeatedly denying that
there will be any change at all Profes-
sors Dallman and Owens neutered a
proper discourse with students and staff
alike until the real changes were known,
and by then it was too late to reverse the
changes.
We are now nearly at the end of the
Teaching Review, a separate process
which does not involve Professors Dall-
man or Owens, and which has looked
at the overall teaching in Life Sciences,
but has also had to apply academic First
Aid to a suite of modules and course
choices which were suddenly rendered
impossible with the losses encountered
in the restructure. There were a lot of
other suggestions that came out in the
Teaching Review, many of which are
to be welcomed and the panel accepted
and changed some of the plans after stu-
dents and staff gave feedback. This was
Broken promises
an encouraging sign, as no such system
of taking account of feedback occurred
in the restructure. What was obvious
from the Teaching Review document
was the effect of the restructure on final
year Life Sciences modules, and that
by the time the new intake of students
reach their final years, approximately
17 modules currently available will not
exist.
There is a clear difference here be-
tween what Professor Dallman said
when she initiated the restructure and
what has actually happened; and what
has happened was nearly entirely un-
der the control of the restructure panel,
and Dallman and Owens in particular.
To have spent several months consid-
ering the outcome of the redundancies
and to come to the apparent conclusion
that nothing will be affected either sug-
gests that they weren’t thinking very
hard or that they deliberately misled.
Either way, it does not say much about
the accountability of College Council if
a process they started can be concluded
under such different circumstances to
those promised.
College Council haven’t delivered on the teaching review
Alex Kendall
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
“
n
n
t
”
What happened in December
left most people extremely
frustrated
The search for a solution to the College’s
timetabling troubles continues. It is heart-
ening to hear that the College are making
efforts to make cross-departmental room
bookings easier, but it is fair to say that al-
tering the makeup of the day will be a part
of the solution. The latest proposals from
the College Day Working Group are a step in
the right direction and are worth examining
in a little detail.
The most important change is the eradica-
tion of the formal two-hour lunchbreak that
we currently enjoy. Instead of this univer-
sally sectioned-off time of day, we will see
different departments scheduling classes
from 12–1, or from 1–2. The question to be
asked is not whether this will alter College
life to a lesser or greater degree, and the
burden of proof is not to show that this will
not have any negative impact; the question
is whether this reduces the pressure on al-
locating teaching space enough to justify
the downsides.
What are the downsides? Students from
different departments and faculties may
have timetables that do not allow them con-
tact at lunchtime. Of course the more seri-
ous impact of this is that it will be more dif-
ficult for clubs and societies, and students
generally, to organise meetings during the
lunchbreak. Additionally some of those stu-
dents taking Humanities courses will be
forced to take their classes in the evening
from 5-7.
On the other hand, offering more time-
slots to departments will give them more
options when scheduling classes. Which in
turn will allow them to give students more
options when choosing courses. This is un-
doubtedly a good thing and furthermore, if
we accept the need to offer departments
more flexibility, then we must recognise
that this solution is far preferable to oth-
ers; thankfully the idea of starting the day
at 8am and ending at 7pm was abandoned.
At face value then, we believe that this
proposal is not a bad idea. The others are
so sensible or minor that they hardly war-
rant debate – allowing exams to be held
on Saturday in exceptional circumstances
is obviously better than having the end
of your exams pushed back because the
exam-period ‘weekend’ is off-limits. There
is some way to go before we see any real
changes (though it is getting frustrating
to be constantly reminded that these are
‘only proposals’; a phrase that ignores
that ‘proposals’ have a way of becoming
concrete when you’re not looking). What
is essential is that the detail is not over-
looked. Students and staff rightly want to
be assured that the proposals cover all
the bases and that they will have a proper
opportunity to voice their opinions. If this
proves to be the case, then Felix will sup-
port the changes.
FELIX
Lunchtime’s over
In December, hundreds of students turned out to protest against the Life Sciences restructure

