FELIX Friday 27 may 2011 17
COMMENT
Yes – Gareth Rosser No – Angry Geek
With the identities of those with superinjunctions
all over Twitter, mentioned in Parliament, and
published in the Scottish papers, Felix asks...
T
he simple answer? Yes. Freedom of
speech is one of the hallmarks of a
civilised society, and injunctions cur-
tail that freedom in a very real way.
I mean, let’s be honest I’m a reason-
able-ish person and in extreme and rare situations,
I could be persuaded that injunctions might have
a place. But these days, celebrities are using them
to hide extramarital affairs or other activities of
an embarrassing nature. Quite frankly, this is not
enough of a reason.
One premiership footballer got an injunction
granted because he might be ‘booed during games’.
As a professional footballer you can expect to be
heckled about something. ‘Cruel chants’ are appar-
ently enough to warrant an injunction.
In taking out an injunction, these celebrities are
trying to ignore one of the most important lessons
we learn as children. Every action has a conse-
quence. The celebrities hiding their identities are
simply trying to avoid facing the consequences of
their actions. What gives them that right? I mean,
if you’re a famous public figure, then you’ll have
known that the media would publish a story about
your affair if they found out. And yet you still
decided to have an affair. You knew the risks of
discovery in our media age, don’t throw your toys
out of the pram if you get caught out. Nobody was
forcing you to play.
Meanwhile, injunctions open the door to hypoc-
risy, as Andrew Marr, former political correspon-
dent for the BBC has demonstrated. A man whose
career requires him to quiz politicians on their
personal lives used the legal system to stop people
prying into his personal life. How can anybody be
a journalist and also have a gagging order placed
upon the press? It doesn’t make any sense. At least
Andrew Marr did the right thing, and confessed
to having had a gagging order placed. He himself
admitted to being embarrassed at having taken out
such a thing. As well he should.
Injunctions themselves have become outdated
since the evolution of social media websites.
Facebook and Twitter allow rumours to spread
at a ridiculous speed. So whilst official English
news sources like the BBC, the Times and even
Felix were not able to name Ryan Giggs, more
than 75,000 Twitter users already had. This not
only makes flaunting injunctions easy, but leads
to wild rumours being accepted as fact. Innocent
celebrities will be accused of having taken out
gagging orders without any proof, and this can be
taken as fact by the world at large. The best way
to stop false accusations is to not give the public
figures who have done something stupid a legal
smokescreen.
The extent of these injunctions is mind–bog-
gling. Until a peer announced that Sir Fred Good-
win had taken out an injunction to protect the in-
formation about his alleged affair, almost nobody
knew about it. Not even the Members of Parlia-
ment who were investigating his management of
the RBS bank during its nationalisation knew?
Information directly relevant to the investigation
might never have been known, thanks to the gag-
ging order. This only serves to show what can hap-
pen when freedom of speech and freedom of the
press is lost. The media is one of the ways we keep
our leaders in check. Celebrities know they have
to answer to the media, and through the media, to
the public. Our leaders and public figures should
be held accountable for their actions, and how do
we do that if they can legally gag the media?
I’ll admit, maybe there is a place for injunctions
in certain special cases. But in the way they’re
currently being used undermines their purpose.
They’re being used for selfish reasons, to escape
consequences. And ironically, many of the injunc-
tions taken out have led to more publicity for the
celebrities, not less. I can’t say I don’t take some
small satisfaction from this. I appreciate that ce-
lebrities are human. They make mistakes. We all
do. But some celebrities seem to think they de-
serve to hide from their mistakes. With the dawn-
ing of the internet, celebrities may end up having
to eat their just desserts.
I
realise you may be slightly concerned to see
my name here, on the other side of the page,
the one where the crazies live and people
think that celebrities should be able to have
affairs in secret. Well, yes and no. I’m here
fighting for the side of superinjunctions not be-
cause I think it’s right to keep the naughty actions
of others a secret, but because, seriously, fuck you
guys.
I know. I know that is my excuse for just about
everything. But something quite lovely almost
happened to the newspaper headlines this week.
They very nearly shut up. I have next to me yes-
terday’s copy of the Times, and only 50% of their
front page is dedicated to this bullshit about some-
one’s penis gaining unauthorised access to another
person’s vagina. Imagine that, only 50%. If only
Mr. Giggs had managed to avoid being revealed by
that stupid MP, we might’ve had something useful
on our newspaper front pages this week, instead of
utterly shit puns on his name and dire interviews
with people who bumped into Imogen Thomas’sis-
ter one day on the bus to Haskins.
You see, superinjunctions only serve the rich and
the stupid. But those are exactly the kind of people
I don’t want clogging up my media outlets. Far
from being a slippery slope towards state censor-
ship, the superinjunction laws are an amazing way
for the celebrity world to shoot themselves in the
foot. Less publicity means more real news. More
real news means less need for me to write and tell
you why I think you don’t need to hear about who
is shagging who. You’re reading this now precisely
because superinjunctions aren’t properly enforced
yet. Imagine if they were. You wouldn’t be here!
You’d be done by now, you’d be thumbing through
the Music section or something. But no. You’ve got
to finish reading this whole page. Look at all those
words. You made this happen.
“But what if the bad men come,” I hear you cry,
“What if we wake up in 1984.” and then you do
that thing with your nose where you sneer at me
for never having read it. Firstly, like you’d fuck-
ing notice. You feckless arseholes can’t even
summon up the interest to detach yourself from
Reddit and Facebook, god knows why you’re all
concerned about the government taking over the
freedoms you barely bother exercising. In a year
that’s contained nuclear scares, huge earthquakes
and continent-shaking revolutions, if the most you
can get worried about is someone censoring your
hilarious twitter hashtag jokes, then you deserve
state oppression.
But secondly, and perhaps more importantly, this
slope isn’t slippery. It’s barely inclined, look. Ev-
ery five seconds someone was mentioning Ryan
Giggs on Twitter. The internet is sufficiently pow-
erful that, should anything really malevolent hap-
pen and be covered up, that the truth would even-
tually out. This isn’t oiling up the slope and sitting
on it arse-first. This is a case of telling the differ-
ence between things that are important (like NHS
reform, and net neutrality – you remember, those
things that were your flavour of the month earlier
in the year) and things that are so utterly unimport-
ant that important things actually bend slightly as
they pass near them (like two empty vessels dick-
ing furiously in some motel up north). If there’s
one thing this horrific Conservative government
could be useful for, and looking at the track record
so far, I’d be surprised if it got above ‘one thing’,
it’s shutting up the hordes of screaming Closer!
readers and Loose Women viewers for good.
Yes, the people trying to stop information getting
out freely are bad and evil and self–motivating.
However, that doesn’t mean you can’t manipulate
them for your own gain. In this case, if people with
lots of money think that stopping newspaper head-
lines from using their name will solve all of their
problems, then so be it. I encourage them to do
so. We’ll continue being libellous on Twitter, and I
can start buying newspapers again without feeling
like I’m picking up a copy of Heat.
Leave my fucking newspapers alone, celebri-
ties. You want your privacy, and I sure as shit want
mine.
Should we abolish
superinjunctions?
“Celebrities hiding their
identities are simply
trying to avoid facing the
consequences of their
actions”
“If there’s one thing this
Conservative government
could be useful for it’s
shutting up the hordes of
Closer! readers”

