FELIX
18
COM M ENT
Friday 27 MAY 2011
The media’s grief is
hypocritical
Last week, a young Belgian cyclist died
while competing in the Giro d’Italia (the cy-
cling tour of Italy). In a downhill section he
lost control of his bike and was thrown off,
tumbling down into a ravine. His death was
met with dismay and sadness within the cy-
cling community and the following stage of
the race was not taken into account as part
of the overall ranking and was transformed
into a procession in his honour. Sports pa-
pers and websites took it upon themselves
to write emotional and gripping accounts of
his life and death.
Mostly this process of grieving was done
with respect and was certainly genuine.
However, isn’t it exaggerated for the mass
media to publicise such an event, for jour-
nalists to write epitaphs as if they were per-
sonally involved? Compassion is one thing,
genuine sadness and loss another.
While the mass media turn the story of a de-
ceased biker or a murdered policeman into
a front-page article, thousands of people
die anonymously everyday. And when one
orgy of empathy and sadness is over, the
next dish is served, wiping away all memory
of the previous event. The fact that human
beings are prey to strong emotions is not
in any way criticisable, on the contrary it
is what makes us who we are. Emotions
are the basis for any form of achievement;
emotions are what make us human. What
is wrong is the constant need to feed on
what we feel, to extricate all meaning and
turn emotions into a means for pleasure.
The media is partly responsible for this
state of things, but they are an industry and
an industry lives on what people buy. The
ultimate stupidity lies with all of us who hap-
pily give time and money to feel sad, happy,
intrigued, etc. about something that has
nothing to do with us. Empathy is human,
but it should be directed at the people who
surround us.
We stand hand on heart and grieve, silent
for a minute, when we are told to and we
smile and party when others think that we
should (an obvious example of the latter be-
ing the Royal Wedding) but at the same time
we run the risk of squeezing all meaning out
of our emotions. In the same way we say
“thank you” or “sorry” without taking stock
of the meaning of what we say, simply be-
cause we have been taught to, because it
is the correct thing to do and in the process
we annihilate the meaning of the words we
are saying.
We are all so clean and clinical, so politically
correct that we forget the profound meaning
of things.
I
’m sure you’ve suffered the same experi-
ence. You’re at a restaurant, the food you’ve
ordered has arrived and you tuck in. Thirty
seconds later, a waiter will come across and
obsequiously ask if everything is alright.
Since there hasn’t been the time for anything to
go wrong, you nod politely and thank them. They
then disappear and leave you to eat the rest of your
meal in peace. But they remain absent even once
you’ve finished and are, in a moment of weakness,
contemplating dessert. They will have been gone so
long by the time you ask for the bill, you wonder if
they ever existed in the first place. When you are
still waiting at the end of the evening when they are
wiping down the tables, you convince yourself that
everyone, not only the waiter, has completely for-
gotten about you.
As I begin the long walk home (I may have been
waiting so long the Tube stopped running) the ques-
tion plagues me. Why, wherever I go, do the waiters
ask if I’m alright at the start and abandon me for the
rest of the meal? I believe I may now have the answer
– restaurant waiters exist in the fifth dimension.
Mortal folk like you and me exist in three dimen-
sions of space, in which we move freely, and one
dimension of time, in which we’re limited in a lin-
ear fashion. I’m not quite sure why I’m explaining
dimensional physics to Imperial students. I’m go-
ing to get so much hate-mail for this – or worse,
corrections. Waiters have another dimension to call
their own, meaning they are no longer limited to one
second per second time-travel as we are – they can
move as freely as we move through the first dimen-
sion of space.
Restaurants’ management mandate that wait-
ers check on their customers in case something is
wrong. Training for what to do in such an unlikely
situation is only provided for senior staff but the im-
portant thing is that they check. Unfortunately, the
waiters don’t think of us, those handicapped to four
dimensions. Since they move freely in time, one mo-
ment is as good as the next to them. So they check
with us at the start, to make sure they do it, and then
consider their duty discharged. Since they can come
to the table at any moment and we respond that ev-
erything’s fine, they assume that everything is fine
in every moment. With such blissful ignorance, they
don’t think to check again and I am left waiting at
the end of the night with a dust-sheet over my head.
Though I’ve solved this conundrum, more ques-
tions still remain. Are waiters naturally five-dimen-
sional, or do they grow into it? Is there an aptitude
test? Conversely, do five-dimensional people natu-
rally orientate towards waiting tables? What do they
do when they’re not checking on my table? Does it
involve wrangling dinosaurs? I’ll get back to you
on this one.
…or maybe I already did.
Sam Horti
L
ast week I offered my thoughts on why
I believe Nick Clegg’s stance on the tu-
ition fee policy was requisite, citing the
essential maintenance of government
stability. This week, we have seen the
Lib Dem leader chance his arm on the other side,
and I think he will find out that the grass is decid-
edly less green. I am of course referring to his open
chastising of the NHS reform plans set out by the
coalition.
Don’t get me wrong, the plans are clearly fraught
with problems, and need to be sent back to the
drawing board. I find it very troubling that our
Prime Minister has the audacity to say, in the face
of enormous opposition from experts in the field,
that the strategy is sound. It shows a tremendous
lack of deference to bodies such as the Royal Col-
lege of GPs, who have decried almost every aspect
of the plans.
My own observation is that the proposed reform
is simply change for change’s sake. Every time he
has been confronted on the matter, Mr Cameron
spends more time emphasising the need to modify
the NHS than he does addressing the specifics of the
proposal. His reluctance to comment on the details
of the reform plans leads me to believe that he him-
self knows that there are huge problems that need
addressing. He simply cannot muster up the courage
to admit it.
With all that in mind you may quite reasonably
question how I can possibly criticise Nick Clegg. I
am not taking exception towards his assertion that
the plans must be altered, but towards his timing.
It’s been a bad week for the coalition, with calls
for Ken Clarke to resign, economic warnings from
Vince Cable and questions about Chris Huhne’s in-
tegrity. Taking this into account, Clegg’s remarks,
which suggest further divides in the Government,
are at best remarkably untimely.
Secondly, I must query his motives. It is conve-
nient, is it not, that he stands up to Cameron so soon
after his promises of “muscular Liberalism.” Why
so capricious? Why did he not object to these plans
at a much earlier stage? I’m sure he cares greatly
about the NHS, and doesn’t want to see it go to ruin.
However, his objections emit a pungent scent of
self-interest, fuelled by his sudden desire to put the
Lib Dems back on the political map.
Some may consider this a feasible tactic. He is,
after all the leader of a party under heavy fire. Be
that as it may, he must concentrate his efforts on
encouraging a stable government for the good of
the country. I applauded the fact that his stance on
tuition fees achieved that aim. On the issue at hand,
I cannot pay the same compliment. As an isolated
incident, it may amount to no harm. It may in fact
benefit us all if it helps steer the Tories into a U–
turn over the NHS reformation plans. Nevertheless,
if Mr Clegg starts to make a habit of these public
displays of objection, he may find himself on an in-
creasingly slippery slope which leads to a Govern-
ment that cannot even agree with itself.
This coalition has to hold itself together for a fur-
ther four years. If Nick Clegg doesn’t want to see
it crumble, he needs to think seriously about where
his loyalties lie.
Rhys Davies
Make your mind up, Clegg
“Since they move
freely in time, one
moment is as good
as the next to
them”
Extra dimensions of service
“Why did he not
object to these
plans at a much
earlier stage?”
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

