So many caffeine-desperate zombies students
entered last week’s competition that we thought we
would give you all another opportunity to win some
energy drink-shaped goodness.
To enter the competition, email the answer to the
following question to felix@imperial.ac.uk
What word is missing from the
following sentence: ‘The student
_____ of Imperial College London
since 1949’
(a) voice
(b) vomit mopper
(c) contraceptive
Entries by Wednesday 1st 00:00. Editor’s decision is final.
FELIX
2
HIGHLIGHTS
Friday 27 may 2011
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
On campus
Your body and Newton
Current Deputy Head
of Bioengineering
Professor Anthony Bull
delivers an open lecture
about the significant
connection between
Newton’s laws of motion
and the function and
health of our own
bones and joints.
Advanced registration
required – contact
k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk
Random Walks and
Rocket Engines
The physics of dispersion, mixing and reaction will
be at the centre of this talk as Professor Ioannis
Hardalupas investigates the engineering problems
that drive his resarch through diverse applications.
Open to all with advanced registration required –
contact k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk
LT 220, Mechanical Engineering
02 June 17:30–18:30
LT 164, Skempton
01 June 17:30–18:30
Raising Startup Capital
The Imperial Private Equity Club has invited three
leading angel investors to a dicussion about raising
startup capital for businesses and the current state
of entrepreneurship in Britain. Speakers include the
Founder Director of private investor club Envestors,
Oliver Woolley, who holds an MBA from Imperial.
Open to all. Seating is limited – register interest at
http://bit.ly/kSMzqt
Lower Ground LT, Business School
31 May 18:00–20:00
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine Bettany Charles Betts
Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Umair Aasem Genevieve Pugh Haralambos Dayantis Madhura Ghosh Victoria Druce Catherine Lu Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova
Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Thea Cunningham Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors
Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editors Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher
Walmsley Luke Turner Stephen Smith Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock TV Editors Matt Allinson Veronika McQuadeova Food Editors Dana Li Vicky Jeyaprakash Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games
Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Books Editor
Guo Heng Chin Photo Editors Miles Robertson Thomas Welch Travel Editor Chris Richardson Lifestyle Editor Richard Keller Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta
Zainab Ali Shruti Mishra Sophia Man Tim Arbabzadah Jamie Fraser Veli Akiner Samuel Furse Charlotte Ivison Illustrators Luca de Benedetti Hamish Muir Benjamin Kennedy Amanda Diez Joshua Yerrell
Win a free crate of
Relentless – again!!!
Notice
Felix would like to apologise to Professor Maggie Dall-
man, and other affected parties, for any distress caused
by the front-page story entitled ‘Union President: Mag-
gie Dallman lied to College Council’ published in Issue
1489 on 20 May 2011. We regret the provocative na-
ture of the headline and in hindsight should have cho-
sen more moderate words – we have since altered the
headline and the sub-headline online.
In the Union President’s report to Union Council he
wrote, after detailing two separate comments that Pro-
fessor Dallman made to College Council, “we have to
conclude that College Council were misinformed at their
July meeting and the Union President directly lied to by
Professor Dallman.”
Felix chose to interpret this to mean that Alex Kendall
was accusing Professor Dallman of lying to the Union
President at College Council, and thus by extension,
College Council itself. While we stand by our interpreta-
tion of the President’s report, we accept, as mentioned
before, that the use of such a provocative headline was
not appropriate in this case; we were reporting an ac-
cusation and we have neither the direct evidence to
substantiate the accusation nor the unambiguous con-
firmation, prior to publication, from the President that
this was his intention. Editor
An apology to Maggie Dallman
Well there’s your first mistake; Fanta isn’t going to do anything except
go flat really quickly and make you wish you had some Relentless
Lolcat of teh week
This week’s
winner is
Patrick Chen
Kadhim Shubber

