FELIX
22
Poems for the week
A R T S
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 27 MAY 2011
Some Shakepearean sonnets to
get you in the mood
Shakespeare is known for his prolific output of son-
nets, written for print while the plague kept people
out of the theatres. There are 154 poems attributed
to Shakespeare which take the rigid sonnet form of
rhythm and rhyme. Usually a declaration of roman-
tic love, some range onto broader topics as well and
are still easy to read and understand.
Sonnet 29
Maybe you’ve had your fair share of
proper Shakespeare, maybe you’ve
already seen more than you want to,
maybe you just like the idea of efficiency
in getting through all of Shakespeare’s
work in two hours. Well, you might just
find this show appealing. A fun romp
through famous plays and their deriva-
tives, it achieves well what it sets out
to do and certainly makes for a pleasant
evening out.
The action follows three actors fresh
out of the same drama school as they try
to make their names as Shakespearean
actors by giving the audience a taste of
every play during the course of one eve-
ning. The air is low budget and the the-
atre comfortingly publike (it actually is
a pub) despite its enthusiastic makeover
as ye Olde Tudor backdrop. Hey, they’ve
even got a fun spoof programme to get
you in the mood. The show is also varied
and inventive, being split into separate
sketches on individual plays, and some
combinations (for instance all the com-
edies in one animated film). Although
not all side-splittingly funny, they’re
original and good fun, interspersed with
a couple of gems. Who’d have thought
an ‘off-the-cuff’ rap of Othello could sit
so snugly with a Jurassic Park themed
interpretive dance? A particular favourite
of mine was the healthy energetic race
through Romeo and Juliet complete with
pantomime nurse.
The real plot of the show revolves
around the contrasting personalities and
ambitions of the three actors, all excel-
lently portrayed by the three real actors.
These characters are caricaturish but in
the tradition of the low-budget village-
hall genre the production seems intent
on occupying, they are very much de
rigueur. The performances given by all
three actors are energetic, professional
and impressive throughout. The fool of
the funny trio, Lucy Wooliscroft, man-
ages to charm even in the unpromising
part of a woman who shrieks frequently
and loudly enough to set the audience’s
teeth on edge. Whether the play is a par-
ody of this sort of amateur drama or an
epitome of it, it works to have the audi-
ence chuckling into their pints.
This play-cum-sketch-show is a warm-
ing example of Shakespearean humour,
not to mention an excellent appraisal of
the great playwright and his work. It’s
might not be genius but you can certainly
get a great feel for the scope of the fa-
mous plays and have a relaxed evening
out at the same time.
Playing at The New Red Lion, Isling-
ton until August. From £16
A bumper Bard evening
The entirety of Shakespeare’s works in two hours in a
low budget pub setting? Count us in!
Medics take over the Blyth Gallery
Oooh, you sexy Bard you
Rox Middleton
Iris
Until 5th June
‘Iris' is an exhibition by medical and
biomedical science students who are
studying Medical Humanities as part
of their degree. Students have tackled
a wide range of topics in their artwork,
from prejudice in medical practice to the
role of the hospital environment in heal-
ing. Equally wide ranging is the choice
of media. The works include sculpture,
photography, painting, modelling, col-
lage and a film.
When in disgrace with fortune and men’s eyes
I all alone beweep my outcast state,
And trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
And look upon myself, and curse my fate,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man’s art, and that man’s scope,
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts my self almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth, sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth
brings
That then I scorn to change my state with kings.
A famous, and highly popular sonnet declaring the
solace to be found in the love of another despite
feeling otherwise miserable. Nice to remember if
you have got someone to think about, less helpful
otherwise…
Sonnet 130
My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun;
Coral is far more red, than her lips red:
If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun;
If hairs be wires, black wires grow on her head.
I have seen roses damasked, red and white,
But no such roses see I in her cheeks;
And in some perfumes is there more delight
Than in the breath that from my mistress reeks.
I love to hear her speak, yet well I know
That music hath a far more pleasing sound:
I grant I never saw a goddess go,
My mistress, when she walks, treads on the ground:
And yet by heaven, I think my love as rare,
As any she belied with false compare.
Another popular choice, Shakespeare explains hon-
estly his feelings for his lover, commenting on the
traditional use of ridiculously overinflated hyperbole
to describe beauty. Whether you think it’s a cheeky
poem highlighting a sweetheart’s flaws, or the high-
est declaration of true love probably depends on
your romantic tendencies.

