FELIX Friday 27 MAY 2011 23
ARTS
The British summer has officially be-
gun. Shakespeare’s Globe theatre has
set its band of players onto the road for
three months of comedy – As You Like
It. And what a riotous three months it
promises to be. James Dacre directs a
cast of eight who take on double that
number of parts in this Victorian adapta-
tion of one of Shakespeare’s most loved
and revived comedies.
As You Like It contrasts court and
country living, explores gender roles,
revels in romantic love and would have
offered audiences of the time space for
a good few hours of escapism and rude
jokes.
The staging and text of this adaptation
teem with energy and there is rarely a
moment when the actors are not bound-
ing about the stage in the slickest and
most controlled fashion – dispelling any
preconceptions people may have had
that the Bard is staid and heavy. The
nimble, slapstick element of the drama
mixed with the audience’s shouting,
laughing and cheering gives the show
all the ebullience of pantomime, sans
cringe factor. Indeed, Jacobean com-
edies such as As You Like It were the
precursor to panto.
Gunner Cauthery is well cast as the
youth Orlando, banished by his older
brother Oliver from their home, lover
and pursuer of Rosalind (Jo Herbert),
who is required to assume the appear-
ance of a man, change her name to Gan-
nymede, and flee the court of her evil,
usurping Uncle – the Duke Frederick.
The part of Rosalind has often made
stars of those who assume it (Vanessa
Redgrave, Helen Mirren) and it would
not be surprising if the same thing hap-
pened to Jo Herbert. “Uncommonly
tall”, Herbert has a powerful stage pres-
ence and an equally powerful voice.
The Globe: just as you like it
Throughout the summer, masses of Shakespeare will be performed at the open air
theatre on the Southbank. Just one of those plays will be the touring As You Like It
Caz Knight
John Tramper
“With all the free
love, liberation and
fluidity of sexuality
in the Forest of
Arden... it seems
Shakespeare was a
true avant-garde”
She is accompanied to the Forest ofAr-
den by her cousin Celia (Beth Park) and
the motley fool, Touchstone (Gregory
Gudgeon). Both Herbert and Park, as the
comically exasperated Celia, bring a fan-
tastic dynamism to the double act.
Gudgeon as Touchstone is hilarious
and one of the many highlights of the
production, with his crude gestures and
horn honking. At 300 lines, it is one of
the largest parts for a fool among Shake-
speare’s plays.
Counterpart to the fool is the melan-
cholic Jaques. This production has incor-
porated a Madame Jaques, as opposed to
a Monsieur Jaques, and Emma Pallant is
stupenduous as the philosophising de-
pressive. Clothed in an over-sized coat
and slighty mannish in mannerism (but
slight in stature), Pallant’s dark hair and
large dark eyes conjure all the gloom re-
quired of Jaques and are also highly ap-
propriate when she switches to playing
“black silk haired” Phebe – the country
girl, loved by bumpkin Silvius (Ben
Lamb), who falls for Gannymede.
Ben Lamb shifts with ease back and
forth between his three roles: flamboy-
ant Le Beau of usurping Duke Freder-
ick’s court; brawny wrestler Charles and
faithful servant to Oliver; the love sick
and spurned Silvius.
Fight director Terry King has helped
Cauthery and Lamb enact a realistic
and brutal bare-knuckle boxing match
between Orlando and Charles the Wres-
tler, carried off with precision and incit-
ing many “ooh”s and “ah”s from the
crowd as heads are slammed into walls
and elbows collide with faces.
Not only does each actor stand out
individually but the cast together has a
fantastic chemistry which makes each
and every portion of dialogue seamless,
heartfelt and engaging. They have made
all jokes and puns accessible, especially
the dirty ones, without any dumbing
“There is rarely
a moment when
the actors are not
bounding about the
stage in the slickest
and most controlled
fashion”
down, – showing us just how little sense
of humour and appetite for the salacious
has changed! Neither, it seems, has
Shakespeare’s fascination with cross-
dressing and the examination of gender
roles. With all the free love, liberation
and fluidity of sexuality apparent in the
forest of Arden – issues and ideals still
very much at the fore of contemporary
discourse – it seems Shakespeare was a
true avant-garde.
Everything about Dacre’s production
from the first to last scene is a joy. Geor-
gina Lamb’s choreography; composer
Olly Fox’s beautiful score; designer
Hannah Clark’s booth stage and stun-
ning pastoral mural, which earned itself
gasps from the crowd as it was revealed.
There are far, far too many outstand-
ing points about this production to men-
tion. And, anyway, it would be far, far
better to experience them first hand. As
You Like It will meander its way up and
down the country and even hop over to
the German Globe theatre near Dussel-
dorf, as well as making a few returns to
South Bank’s Globe Theatre between
now and September.
Check for a location near you: www.
shakespearesglobe.com/theatre/
on-tour/as-you-like-it
Think Shakespeare’s just people prancing about in tights and capes? Think again. Although admittedly that is what they’re actually doing in this photo. I guess you were right all along

