FELIX
24
MUSIC
Friday 27 may 2011
I
t would probably be the first, and last time
that the sheltered residents of Eastbourne
would see the word ‘Supreme’ with the
word ‘chicken’ preceding it. Yes, a sizeable
crowd of hipsters had made the perilous jour-
ney out of London and Brighton to the mun-
dane streets of my elderly hometown – also
known as God’s waiting room.
The Winter Gardens is just moments from
the pebbled beaches of the Channel. These usu-
ally play host to the likes of Lonnie Donegan
Jr (who was a bit of a player in the ‘skiffle’
phenomena of the 50s apparently) and the ever
popular ‘Eastbourne’s Tea Dances’ – where
you can ‘trip the light fantastic’with ‘light mu-
sical accompaniment from Chris Mannion’.
Last Monday, however, it opened its doors to
the avant-garde, experimental, and sometimes-
unlistenable rock group Animal Collective.
Despite it seeming rather diminutive from
the outside, the Winter Gardens gives a Tardis-
like sense of being much larger on the inside.
The roof is deceptively tall and its grand dé-
cor puts it in a similar league to KOKO. The
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Let’s Wrestle
Nursing Home
Merge
2011
Let’s Wrestle probably aren’t going to get you a new
boyfriend/girlfriend. Their lyrics aren’t going to take
you a new sublime level of spiritual understanding.
Their music isn’t going to move your body in new or
unexpected ways. They might, however, get you to
lean over to your friend at a gig and say, “hey this
support band are actually pretty damn good, let’s
jump about and dance.” They’re a great, fun little
British rock trio who have lyrics about Pokemon and
tell science jokes at gigs. Admittedly this is the kind
of album that an NME writer would enjoy (oh god, I
like the same music as NME writers…) But the com-
bination of unashamedly scuzzy guitars and melo-
dies that have been recycled so many times that they
could probably navigate the bottle bank blindfolded
somehow create an album that is charming and thor-
oughly enjoyable. File under ‘If I was 15 I’d be making
out to this music…’ Kadhim Shubber
Most
listened to
this week by
Felix Music
members
on last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Fleet Foxes
Hammersmith Apollo
1st & 2nd June 2011
Yay! Everyone’s favourite band from 2008 are back
with a new album and are touring. The Seattle band
who managed to take bearded harmonies into the
mainstream will grace the Apollo and assumedly, try
to hum it to the ground. Admittedly I’m being really
sarcastic and unnecessarily mean, but that’s noth-
ing to do with the fact that I can’t go to either of their
gigs because I’ve got work… Kadhim Shubber
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Daft Punk
2. Radiohead
3. Bon Iver
4. Arcade Fire
5. Muse
6. The Beatles
7. RHCP
8. The Strokes
9. Crystal Castles
10. Foo Fighters
www.fleetfoxes.com
C
reamfields UK is a two day
dance festival held by the Cream
clubbing brand from Liverpool.
It is held on the August bank
holiday weekend in England just
outside of Liverpool and hosts a large number
of DJs from a variety of different genres. The
festival has really evolved – from its beginning
as a small one day event in the year 2000 – to a
global sensation bringing together the world’s
best DJs. In previous years artists such as The
Prodigy and Tiesto have appeared in the line-
up. However, live acts, such as Friendly Fires
and Gnarls Barkley also play at this festival.
This allows for a relaxing atmosphere if you
feel like you need a break from the rave. Tick-
ets vary from £135 for a three day camping
ticket to £60 to just go on the Sunday. There
are also VIP tickets for those that enjoy being
close to the action but do not enjoy the grime
involved with camping. This gives access to
hot showers, posh toilets and the Hed Kandi
Hospitality Arena along with free parking.
There are 10 stages across the whole festival
meaning that there is a plethora of choice when
it comes to deciding what to listen to.
The line-up this year is incredible and makes
for an epic show on the 11th birthday of the
festival. It is an amazing display of modern
dance music with drum and bass DJs such as
Danny Byrd, Andy C and the Scratch Per-
verts to electro/house DJs such as Tiesto, Da-
vid Guetta, Calvin Harris and Fake Blood.
This is just a taster of the acts available to see.
Rinse, rave, and repeat
The UK’s premier dance festival, Creamfields, is a true
clubber’s paradise says Sean Harbison
Dates: 26th - 28th August 2011
Location: Daresbury, Cheshire
Price: £60-£135
Website: www.creamfields.com
van Dyk. There would be no other opportunity
to see this many great DJs all for such a decent
price. This is certainly a clubber’s paradise.
There is no doubt that if you love dance music
then this is the festival for you; Creamfields
UK has gone out of their way to find the DJs
at the frontier of their genres meaning that this
will honestly be a collection of the most out-
standing DJs around the world. This festival
will not disappoint.
The Chemistry Siblings... No that’s not right. The Biology Sisters? Oh never mind...
door staff are nothing like the bald-headed
geezers you find in London. They’re disarm-
ingly friendly and seem rather bemused by all
the undercuts, skinny jeans and frankly awful
moustaches tramping through the door.
The evening starts with Brooklyn-based
musician Deradoorian, who while inoffen-
sive, does little more than warm up our ears;
the crowd politely claps her through her set.
Group Doueh, on the other hand, put on the
most fun live performance that I have seen in
a long time. They’re a family outfit from the
Western Sahara and come on stage dressed in
white polka dot sheets. They play rhythmic
drum and keyboard music, and before long the
whole crowd are dancing. Ok, I lie, before long
myself and a group of guys who I can only de-
scribe as hippies are dancing; the rest of the
crowd is frankly confused by what appears to
be the North African equivalent of the Jack-
son 5. Their set crescendos with a sublime
five-minute guitar solo from father Salmou
Baamar, played behind his head. They were
the word entertainment personified.
Finally it was time for Animal Collective
to take the stage. Friends had warned me that
they would play an unapologetically experi-
mental set, with no or little regard for which
songs their fans wanted to hear. They were
right. Playing against a backdrop of psychadel-
ic visuals, they played some seriously strange
but-still-just-about-melodic music. Thumping
drums bounced up through your chest as pecu-
liar noises screwballed through the air straight
into your head. It was thoroughly hypnotising
and before long I started to wonder why I was
so sweaty; the annoyed looks that the guy to
my right was throwing me told me that I may
have been dancing a bit too energetically.
When they started to play ‘Brother Sport’ I
must confess that a little ecstatic voice in my
head shouted ‘oh shit, I know this song!’
Unfortunately my little one man psyche-out
wasn’t to last very long. London was calling and
the last train back to civilization was a good 20
minutes before the gig ended. Who knows what
happened at the end of the gig? Maybe they
played ‘My Girls’... Kadhim Shubber
There are also a number of UK/Dance festival
exclusives: The Chemical Brothers, Armin
van Buuren, Swedish House Mafia and Paul
Animal Collective in Eastbourne. Wait, what?

