I
t’s the 1st of May and Star Sling-
er is playing Camden Rock at the
Camden Crawl. The room is rather
sparsely populated and despite the
best efforts of this “one man beat
machine”, as he was described by
Pitchfork, the sound system just
isn’t playing nice this evening. At the end of
his set a crowd approach the DJ booth, my
friend is the first to reach him and proclaims
obnoxiously, “Can I have a hug?!?” Star
Slinger peers at him through his long brown
hair with a slightly confused face and has
evidently misheard him, “Thanks but I don’t
need a hug.” When my friend clarifies, Star
Slinger reconsiders for a moment, and then
gives him a full-bodied embrace.
I’m reminded of this exchange when inter-
viewing Star Slinger a week or so later. He has
a very personal online presence, talking to fans
on his Facebook page and his Twitter, and post-
ing his personal email account on his website
to allow fans to contact him directly. I ask him
what he thinks of getting fan emails and first he
jokes that sometimes they’re “really ‘fan-ish’
and you imagine them being a dork or some-
thing.” But then thinks about it for a moment
and goes on to say, “But I guess I’m a dork re-
ally. I remember being that kid who was really
fan-ish and I usually give people a little reply”.
Such is the duality of the artist Star Slinger,
who is easily the hottest act of the year, and
the man behind the music, Darren Williams,
who describes himself as “the kid with decks
at school” who wanted to be in with every
crowd and open his ears to the full spectrum
of musical genres.
“I wanted to be a bit of a wide boy and be
into everything”, he says, explaining that
he DJ-ed with the “chavvy kids” while also
playing guitar with the “geeky rock kids.”
His desire to be diverse is a thread that runs
through his music today. His debut album Vol-
ume 1 is an eclectic mix of danceable tunes
that demonstrate his ability to tease, stretch,
and chop samples into exciting new sounds.
Artists often stick to one sound, and when
they try to change direction it’s often badly
received because people aren’t used to it, he
argues. “With electronic music it’s easier to be
eclectic. Especially if you sample, it’s easy to
show that your music taste is vast rather than
narrow.” But his love of sampling goes deeper
than simply showing off his musical knowl-
edge: “I like making the most of something,
a six-second clip […] those parts of a record
that want to be heard more.”
In that sense Star Slinger is as much a music
lover as he is a musician. His Facebook page
is full of other artist’s songs that he wants
to share with his fans. “I try to fill my ears
as much as possible. I think you’re lacking
something if you’re not listening to music,”
he says confidently, before taking himself
down again, “but maybe if you read books
you’ve got one up on me because maybe
you’ve learnt more.”
T
he speed at which he has made a name
for himself is quite astounding. He
only started putting his music online
and sending it to music blogs last June. (The
first blog to really big him up, a Swedish site
called No Modest Bear, called Volume 1 ‘a
stunning instrumental album’). Come 2011
the Guardian were calling him the ‘best new
act of the year by miles’. To put it bluntly, if
FELIX Friday 27 MAY 2011 25
MUSIC
you play someone a Star Slinger track, 9 times
out of 10 they’re going to love it. He counts
Diplo and Donald Glover among his celeb-
rity fans and the queue of artists asking for
remixes stretches out the door and around the
block – he’s applied his deft touch to tracks
by musicians as disparate as Broken Social
Scene, Gold Panda, and Nicki Minaj.
He says that he does his producing when it’s
dark. “I like to save the night for it. I’ll think
about it in the back of my mind all day. I’ll
already know what vibe I want.” When I point
out that his music sounds summery rather than
Burial-esque he simply shrugs and says “I’m
not so conscious about time really. I think ev-
eryone’s got their own fucked up sleeping pat-
tern”, adding that having a job without a strict
morning timetable helps.
Recently Star Slinger posted a somewhat
cryptic message on his Facebook: ‘It’s dope
to be humble.’ When I ask him about it he ex-
plains that he realised that he was biggin’him-
self up a bit too much. But it’s understandable
given his meteoric rise. “To me it’s still crazy
that I’m getting so many plays,” he says. “I
never thought I would get the success that I
have had. Everyone self-deprecates after uni-
versity, there are so many opportunities but so
much competition.”
It’s interesting to see how grateful for his
success he is. He’s not blasé about his life at
all. I ask him about giving music away for free
on the internet and he points out that most of
the music he puts out isn’t free. He’s been paid
by a record label to do the remix. “People just
think that you’re a hobbyist putting out free
music, but I’m not a hobbyist, this is my job.”
I ask him if he still works and he looks at me
seriously before pointing out, “This is work.”
A
few weeks later he’s playing at Stag
& Dagger festival, headlining at the
Queen of Hoxton. It’s as far from
the gig at Camden Crawl as imaginable. The
place is packed and the crowd is dancing like
they’re in an R. Kelly video. When I talked to
him he described the music that he loves as
“lush, full and wholesome” and the music that
he makes as danceable music “for conscious
people, not just for mindless fist punching”.
With the crowd’s energy driving him on, his
set is a perfect synthesis of those two ideas.
His set isn’t completely perfect, there are a
few hiccups along the way as he experiments
with new tunes, but to use the words that he
used to explain his respect for Diplo: “A DJ’s
set doesn’t have to be smooth and perfect,
it’s more about the buzz that they create.”
The buzz at the Queen of Hoxton is huge.
The crowd start shouting out remixes from
his extensive catalogue. One title stands out
amongst the noise, his remix of ‘Marriage’ by
Gold Panda. There’s that customary pause
for thought, the initial step back when he says
“I don’t usually play it live.” But as the calls
grow louder and refuse to desist, he probably
remembers being a kid obnoxiously shouting
out song names at a gig and relents.And as the
bells at the start of the remix give way to the
bassy fuzz underwriting the track, the crowd
practically explodes.
STAR SLINGER
“If you play someone
one of his tracks, 9
times out of 10 they’re
going to love it”
Kadhim Shubber
profiles this year’s
hottest artist

