FELIX Friday 27 may 2011 27
GAMES
probably use source control? You know,
all these kind of things, which I think
computer science departments are now
sort of adding to their arsenal of skills
to know about when you go into the in-
dustry. But certainly when I was here,
in computing there was a lot more em-
phasis on the theoretical aspects, which
actually come up very little in most pro-
gramming jobs.
You said you worked in the financial
services industry. A lot of people at
Imperial are quite focused on finance;
they’re trying to get the big money
and the big status. Now that you’re
not in that industry, do you wish that
you were, or do you think that you’ve
moved to a better place?
I wouldn’t go back unless I felt that
what I was doing was changing stuff for
the better. I’m in some sense privileged
to have seen the precursor to the 2008
credit crunch, and I actually worked
on a project to help a bank trade more
mortgage-backed securities and de-
rivative products thereof, in America in
summer 2007. At the time people were
saying: “you don’t know how it works,
but trust us, it works”. So having been
there and realising that no-one really
knows how it all works, I would have
to feel like I was improving the lives
of people rather than treating quality of
life as an externality for other people to
worry about.
Obviously LittleBigPlanet is now a
huge phenomenon. What does it feel
like to look at that and say: “yeah, I
helped that become what it is”?
I’m really proud of what we’ve
achieved. I think none of us really knew
how successful it was going to be when
we launched. I think it’s just amazing
what people have done with LittleBig-
Planet. It just gives me great sense of
pride, really. It also scares me a bit that
when we go on to do something else
everything’s going to be compared to
LittleBig Planet, obviously. The old sec-
ond-album syndrome! But it’s just great
to have been there at that time and to
have gone through that whole process;
really, it was an honour.
Is there anything that you feel hap-
pened at Imperial, or anything about
Imperial specifically, that helped you
in your career?
I would say academically, not so much
– that’s not Imperial’s fault, it’s more
mine for not paying attention. But I
would say that being surrounded by
brilliant people and the resources to
play with stuff really helped to build
an inquiring mind. And I felt that when
there’s so many people around you, do-
ing such great things, you start to realise
that anything’s possible, or what you
thought was impossible may not actu-
ally be impossible. I don’t know how
you’d write that down succinctly, but
it’s sort of the sense of opportunity and
of things being achievable – problems
are tractable.
If you had one tip for someone at Im-
perial wanting to get into the games
industry, what would it be?
Make games, or make things to do with
games, or talk to people in games, or
play games, or – sorry, one tip? Do what
you love, and get it in front of people –
that’s still two tips!
So what did you study at Imperial?
I did Computing, graduating in 2006. I
then started doing a PhD and then got
lured away by the games industry after
1 year of that – I never completed it. I
joined Frontier in 2007 and I’ve been
working there ever since, so yeah, that’s
about three and a half years now.
What did you start your PhD in?
It was actually in city generation for
games. The first year I did research into
that sort of stuff and just had little dem-
os of things. The main idea was to use
genetic algorithms to try and generate
cities that were aesthetically pleasing
and fulfilled requirements. But, I never
finished that so I probably shouldn’t talk
too much about it!
So you started your PhD and then got
lured away - what was it that lured
you away?
I guess I always intended to go into the
games industry at some point. I suppose
I had this impression that it was very
difficult to get into – I tried to actually
get an industrial placement as part of
my course with a few different games
companies, and they all basically said
‘no’ without even considering me. They
didn’t look at my CV or anything. It was
just, “no, we don’t do placements”, so
that gave me the impression that it was
going to be pretty tough. When I was
doing my PhD I attended one of these
[GaME] events back in 2006, and David
Braben, who’s the founder of Frontier,
was giving a talk and I talked to him
afterwards about it and he said, “well,
you know, come and do a placement at
Frontier”. Initially it started as a place-
ment and I just continued working there
afterwards, much to the disappointment
of my supervisor.
You said you always intended to go
into the games industry, but when did
you first feel that that was what you
wanted to do?
Probably from six or seven years old!
I used to play tonnes of games, I still
do play a lot of games. It was always
something I was interested in – I learnt
to program in BASIC and Pascal fairly
early on. I was a bit disappointed that
at school there weren’t many opportuni-
ties to do that sort of thing, but it was
great to then come to Imperial and learn
how to program properly, with good de-
signs. So, it’s just something I’ve pretty
much always wanted to get into.
You also said that as a student you
had this impression that the games
industry was hard to get in to. Do you
still think that, or has that changed?
Mainly I thought it was difficult because
when I tried to get an internship during
my undergraduate I found it so difficult.
I think a lot depends on catching devel-
opment teams at the right time, because
if they’re right near the end of the proj-
ect and they’re just trying to get this
game out, they’re probably not going to
want to take on a new person and train
them up. I think it’s just understanding
when companies are realising games
and making sure that you’ve asked them
early enough. Obviously you need to
be a good programmer – when I joined
Frontier there was a programming test
I had to pass. I don’t think it’s all that
difficult and if it’s something that you
really want to do then it’s just a case of
applying to lots of different companies
and hoping that one of them takes an in-
terest and takes you on.
What’s your role at Frontier?
I mainly work on two things. We have
this tool which allows our animators to
put their animations in the game and set
blend weights and stuff like that. I do a
bit of work on that, and I help anima-
tors set up all that stuff, and I make sure
that our back end animation system is
doing whatever it needs to. The other
main thing I work on at the moment is
‘avateering’ [full body tracking] related
stuff, which is basically mapping what
you’re doing in front of Kinect onto a
virtual character in the game and mak-
ing sure it matches your actions very
closely. Most of this requires obviously
doing quite a lot of programming in
C++. We do a fair amount of scripting
in Lua as well, but also a lot of the job is
talking to animators and designers and
artists, and making sure that what they
wanted to see in the game actually ends
up in there, and just supporting them to
make the game hopefully look as good
as it possibly can.
Is there anything you did at Imperial
that you feel was advantageous or dis-
advantageous?
I guess Imperial [computer science]
teaches you a broad range of subjects,
and most of them do end up being use-
ful in different ways. Just learning how
to do good code design and different
design patterns and stuff like that was
really helpful. One thing at the time was
that Imperial didn’t teach C++. I think
the computing department now does
have C++ course in the second year, but
I might be wrong about that [he’s not].
That’s something that always surprised
me – that a lot of universities don’t
teach C++ despite it being one of the
most popular languages out there.
So you feel that it’s mainly your
course that got you where you are?
Yeah, before I came to Imperial I knew
some programming but my design was
terrible, and it really got me to appreciate
how if you’re working in a large team of
people you do have to put care into your
design and make sure you code is reus-
able and stuff like that. That’s probably
the main thing that the university course
teaches you – getting you out of all the
bad habits that you pick up if you teach
yourself how to do things.
What sort of things would you say to
people at Imperial who might have
done a bit of programming and might
be interested in getting into the games
industry but aren’t computer scien-
tists?
I would probably say that they shouldn’t
be put off by the fact that they’re not
computer scientists. Frontier does actu-
ally hire a lot of people from other disci-
plines. Normally when we hire someone
who isn’t a computer scientist, we will
show them exactly how we set the code
up and make sure they don’t feel uncom-
fortable or like they’re being asked to do
more than they can do, but at the same
time they probably should make every
effort to try and learn C++. It’s an incred-
ibly complex language, probably too
complex for it’s own good sometimes.
When I got there, I just read through the
code base and saw how people were do-
ing stuff and copied that, and just built
up from there. It didn’t take long to do
that. Obviously it helps to know other
languages beforehand, so try to learn a
language in your spare time and go from
there. But don’t be put off by it!
A lot of Imperial students seem to be
focused on finance, and big money.
You obviously didn’t take that route
– are you glad you didn’t?
Yeah, definitely. I know quite a lot of
people who work in consultancy and
financial roles, and they tell me about
the stuff that they’re working on and it’s
definitely not something that would in-
terest me very much. I like to work on
things which are graphical, and where I
can see this product on shop shelves and
see people enjoying playing it. I think
games is a really creative thing to be part
of, and even if you’re doing a really sci-
entific part of it the creativity still spills
over into what you’re doing. Working
with artists and designers is really en-
joyable, and I don’t think you get that
sort of experience working for a bank or
a purely software company. That’s why I
really like the games industry!
For any student wanting to get into
the industry, have you got any other
top tips?
It’s definitely beneficial I think to have
a demo of your work. I didn’t(!) when
I applied, which is maybe why I found
it difficult to get internships beforehand.
Certainly if you can show them stuff
that you’re working on, just to show
that you have this interest and you can
do this stuff, then that’s always good!
Marc Hull
from Frontier Developments
“Working with artists
and designers is
really enjoyable,
and I don’t think
you get that sort of
experience working
for a bank or a purely
software company”

