TELEVISION
FELIX
28
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
Veronika McQuadeova
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 27 may 2011
acters. While Misato and Asuka may
initially come off as, shallow and sim-
ply annoying respectively, we really
get to care for them as we learn more
about them and see them develop over
the course of the series. Some critics’
biggest problem with Evangelion is
the constant whining and self-doubt
of our protagonist and while it some-
times does get on my nerves I think
that it is, for the most part, justified by
what he has been through, both before
and during the series. Indeed almost
everybody in the series is mentally
tortured in some way but the se-
ries really manages to show how
deal with their problems in a
way that is both sensitive and
interesting.
The most divisive element of
Evangelion is probably its plot. I
have to admit that it is quite over
the top, including a heavy use Christian
mythology, government conspiracies
and a secret plan, called the Human
Instrumentality Project, to join together
all consciousness. It is probably down
to personal opinion if you like this sort
of thing but I really urge you to try. If
you can suspend your disbelief Evan-
gelion can actually make you take it
seriously so you realise how deep and
satisfying the story is.
Any discussion of Evangelion would
be remiss if it did not mention the in-
famous ending, which I feel strongly
about. The last two of the original 26
episode run were so badly received that
I originally skipped right over them and
went straight to the remade ending in
the 1997 film ‘The End of Evangelion’.
I decided to finally watch the original
and was shocked by how good it was.
I can see why it was so poorly re-
ceived, being fairly understated, using
mainly stock footage and taking place
entirely in the minds of our protago-
nists: a massive departure from the rest
of the series. It even lead to the coin-
ing of the term ‘Gainax Ending’ after
the company which created Evangelion
to describe shows which finished with
a similar tonal shift. While it is clear
that Gainax was having trouble funding
This week I am going to review some-
thing a bit different: the landmark 90s
anime Neon Genesis Evangelion. This
is the first real anime that I have ever
seen so I do not really know how well it
stands up to other works of this format
and am just going to have to review it as
work of science fiction.
Evangelion is set in 2015, 15 years
after half of the world’s population was
killed by the mysterious Second Impact,
which the general populace believes to
have been a giant meteorite hitting Ant-
arctica. In fact it had something to do
with the Angels, giant creatures of un-
known origin which have now returned
to threaten humanity. They are pro-
tected from all conventional and even
nuclear weapons by their so-called AT
fields and so can only be stopped by the
Evangelions, mecha based on the An-
gels themselves and created by the UN
paramilitary organisation NERV. Our
protagonist is Shinji Ikari, abandoned
by his father, NERV commander Gen-
do, over ten years ago but now called
back as the only person able to pilot
Evangelion Unit 1.
Reading the last paragraph back I
realise that Evangelion sounds like an
amalgamation of the worst anime ste-
reotypes or some cheap Power Rang-
ers knock-off. Believe me, this is not
the case. You can tell that this show is
something special from the beginning
of the first episode with a long atmo-
spheric shot of a flooded city with a
line of UN tanks on a high mountain
road above it, guns aimed
at a large shape mov-
ing under the water.
The tone of each
scene is per-
fectly judged,
helped by a
good choice of
music and ani-
mation which,
though admit-
tedly looks a bit
dated, is still
stunning.
The greatest
strength of the
series, however,
must be its
c h a r -
A never ending story
Felix takes a look at Neon Genesis Evangelion, the
internet-forum-posting geek’s favourite anime series
Maciej Matuszewski
“I realise this sounds
like an amalgamation
of the worst anime
stereotypes...believe
me, it is not”
In the future, the hustings for union elections turn out to be a lot more enjoyable
Remakes and re-edits
There are almost as many versions of Neon G as
Blade Runner and Apocalypse Now, combined.
The Original Series
First aired in Japan in 1995, the
TV series is the logical place to
start. Twenty-Six 30-minutes
episodes back-to-back make for
an excellently geeky all-nighter
which we at Felix Television thor-
oughly recommend.
The Director’s Cuts
Pretty much the same as above
but with added material. Some
helps make the overall plot make
more sense, some of it helps it
make less sense. Before you can
get into a neckbeard internet ar-
gument, I am afraid you will have
to watch both so you can compare them in minute
stylistic details.
As refered to in the article (right), the final two ep-
siodes of the original television series were a tad
controversial. By which I mean the studio entrance
got covered in graffiti calling them rapists and pro-
duction members received death threats. So, os-
tensibly to satisfy the fans, an entirely different
style of ending was released which effectively told
the same story but with substantially more 20 sto-
rey robots, flying monsters and naked teenage girls,
which is pretty much all they ever wanted in the first
place. What quickly becomes apparent is that this
new ending is far from satisfactory, and many Eva
conspiracy theoriest believe the film to be a bit of a
“fuck-you” from director Hikedai Anno.
End of Evangelion
The Rebuild of Evangelion
Another decade, another remake.
The story of the TV series is in the
process of being retold in a tetral-
ogy of films, part 2 of which is out
on DVD with an English dub later
this year. Fantastically enhanced
animation is complimented (or
ruined, depending on your preference) by the addi-
tion of CGI. The first film was fantastic, for revisiting
fans it was like Facebook stalking a hot girl from
school and finding out she has now got a badass
tattoo on her thigh. But then the second film hit
torrent sites and suddenly ergonomic keyboards
were ablaze with furious tapping and water cooled
gaming PCs were struggling to keep up with frantic
blog posting because, low and behold: they have
completely and utterly changed the plot. What this
no doubt means is that there is yet another ending
in the works. Furthermore if the trend of increasing
the levels of balls-to-the-wall apocalyptic madness
with each remake continues (and with a teaser sug-
gesting SEELE now have a base on the moon, we
can assume that it does) then Evangelion 4.0 will
have a finale to make the Book of Revelation look
tame. Matt Allinson

