FELIX Friday 27 may 2011 29
these episodes I am inclined to believe
statements by the show’s creator Anno
Hideaki that this was the ending that he
really wanted. The experimental style
allowed the viewer to literally see what
was going on inside Shinji’s head and
made the resolution of the problem of
his growing self-doubt, arguably the
central theme of the show by that time,
all the more believable.
‘End of Evangelion’, on the other
hand, was certainly more in keeping
with the rest of episodes, and indeed
succeeded in being even more over the
top. It is saying something when one
of the least outlandish scenes was of a
German teenager ploughing her way
through the Japanese army in a giant
mecha while laughing manically and
shouting, “Mama, I’ve finally found
you”. While it was arguably created to
make the ending clearer there I do not
think that it really does tell the viewer
much more. While we do see Human
instrumentality being initiated, in what
is certainly one of the most impressive
scenes in all of Evangelion, we still
do not understand any more about it
than when Gendo simply said “Today
is the day” in the original penultimate
episode. Indeed ‘End’has its own, much
shorter, sequence taking place inside
the minds of the protagonists which is
even weirder than in the original. The
main new element that I think ‘End of
Evangelion’ brings to the table are the
frankly short but touching conclusions
to the character arcs of some of the more
minor characters, including my favou-
rites: Lieutenant Ibuki and Professor
Fuyutsuki.
Do not take my assertion that ‘End’
is no better than the original to mean
that I think it is any worse. Several fans
have expressed the opinion that the two
endings are really just different versions
of the same thing: the original just be-
ing a part of the ‘dream’ sequence in
‘End’. I think that there is a lot to sup-
port this conclusion but even if you do
not subscribe to this viewpoint it is still
worth seeing the two together as prob-
ably the best endings Evangelion could
have had. Sure there will always be
people who are annoyed at the unan-
swered questions: what exactly was the
mysterious organisation SEELE which
was controlling NERV, where did the
Angels come from, what exactly was
Instrumentality? Would, however, the
show have been better if these questions
had been answered? I am reminded of
the ending of ‘Ashes to Ashes’ which
pretty much fully explained how the
‘Life on Mars’/’Ashes to Ashes’ uni-
verse worked. The ending was rightly
praised and if its creators wanted to give
a definitive answer to the questions the
shows posed this was probably the best
one they could give. Since the finale,
however, I have always had a nagging
feeling that something was lost, that the
shows were better when the mystery
was still alive.
Since then, probably due to the nega-
tive response towards these two endings,
Hideki has decided to remake the entire
show from scratch as a series of four
films, the ‘Rebuild of Evangelion’, the
first of which was released in 2007. This
first film is basically a straight remake
of the first few episodes of the anime
with improved animation, though CGI
was used a bit too often for my taste.
It fixes a few of the anime’s problems,
the English language dubbing of some
of the minor character is far improved,
but a lot of unnecessary cuts have been
made: the opening scenes in particular
feel a bit rushed. In conclusion, I cannot
guarantee that you will like Evangelion
but I certainly think it is worth a try: if
you are anything like me you are in for
a treat.
“End of Evangelion
was certainly more in
keeping with the rest
of episodes, and suc-
ceeded in being even
more over the top”
The most willfully uncaring bastard in television history. Lousy father too
book a room
in halls
this
summer
Summer vacation runs from Saturday 2 July to Monday 26 September 2011. You can stay for the entire summer period, for a couple of weeks or even
a night or two - the longer you stay, the better the rates! See the website for more details.
This summer, Imperial students can book rooms in Wilson House in Paddington and Fisher Hall in South
Kensington. Both are ideal for getting to College and for getting around London.
From £95.76
per week!*
*Price above is for a small single room in
Fisher Hall for 8+ weeks.
Apply online at
www.imperial.ac.uk/accommodation

