The colonel has a lot to answer for,
except for his style look at those geek-
chic glasses! Bang on trend...
FELIX
30
FOOD
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 27 may 2011
Gastronomical Musings
I was going to dazzle you all with a review of a res-
taurant this week but seeing the almost prolific re-
sponse we received to our coffee article last week
I thought I would join in with the conversation. It
seems when it comes to our caffeinated suste-
nance we all have rather exacting standards and I
would not expect anything less than that from any
true coffee aficionado.
One of our readers mentioned the wonderfully
phallic handheld espresso maker for those of us
who refuse to drink anything that is not up to our
calibre. At £100 it is not cheap but definitely en-
sures long term satisfaction. Given that the major
problem with coffee on campus seemed to be con-
nected to technique, do it yourself may be the only
way for those who have certain needs.
Now that all the clearly unintentional punning is
over, we can return to the issues. The only consen-
sus seems to be a fair amount of contention over
whether the coffee on campus is quite as terrible as
Thomas McFadden thinks it is. Sorry Tom, the cheap-
ness seems to make more than a few people feel
some leeway is allowed with the end product; and
that a little bitterness now and again is good for the
soul. The key, it seems, is get yourself a good base
product in an Americano or Espresso (SCR, EEE, SAF
or Chemistry Café) and then add your own milk. If
you are drinking Lattés then you are on your own
but I suspect the majority of you are not the ones
that care anyway. There was also some chat around
the Felix office that College is not responsible for
roasting its own beans (shocker!); it is whoever they
source it from who is screwing up.
On another note, we generally give College cater-
ing a lot of flack here but last week’s article has had
many come out of the woodwork in praise of café
staff and their coffee making prowess. It seems
individuals have their own favourite baristas and
though they do not know their names they are in-
credibly grateful.
Someone mentioned the dreaded coffee machine
in the back of the SAF as a cheap alternative and
I could not disagree more, I spent a whole day of
lectures staring at that dire concoction of water and
sludge realising that there really was a limit to my
caffeine problem. However as far as I am concerned
I would much rather drink a mediocre cup of joe in
College than milky, frothy, bland tasting, and arro-
gantly priced branding that is Starbucks Coffee. Ex-
cept if I want an Iced Caramel Macchicato because
everyone knows that is a dessert.
Vicky Jeyaprakash
Cheap chicken
Coffee on campus; not everyone is
that fussed it would seem
Samuel Furse ponders fast food
C
heap Chicken will never die. If
anything it is on the increase,
despite McDonald’s and the
ubiquitous beef burger having
been around longer even than
most of us. The trouble is that it is looking
as though its days may well be numbered, not
least because various things have now clipped
its wings.
Beef is traditionally a staple meat for much
of the western world—much as it should be
on nutrition grounds alone, it is an excellent
source of protein as well as energy-giving
fats that are particularly ideal for those in
high-calorie-burning manual work. Beef is
also a flavoursome meat, and is not hard to
pick out in a blind tasting either on flavour or
texture, even when cooked badly. Currently
however it is significantly more expensive
than poultry and despite its prominence, is
only slightly cheaper than game meats such
as duck and venison in middle-class super-
markets. You can also see this variation
in the prices of dishes in restaurants, sand-
wiches in Sainsbury’s or menu items from the
Union kitchen.
Not only is beef more expensive, but pro-
vides an environmental problem. Part of the
McLibel trial in the 90s focussed on the felling
of ecologically valuable vegetation, including
rainforests, in order to produce fertile land on
which to rear cattle. This fertile land lasted
only a few years before it was washed away.
This lead to more forest being cut down and
so on. Not only did this reflect badly on the
beef producing industry in America but pre-
cipitated how beef is reared and sourced, being
followed up in more recent years by analyses
from various quarters about how animals are
reared and slaughtered in the UK. Currently
we have laws relating to animal husbandry that
are more stringent than those in Europe. That
is why, incidentally, Danish bacon is cheaper
than British bacon, despite that additional cost
of transporting it from northern Europe to the
UK.
Supply is of course not the only thing that
dictates price in any industry. Demand is also
part of the equation. This demand has lead to
the spread and flourishing of a variety of chick-
en-based fast food shops. KFC is of course
the oldest, but Chicken Cottage and other pale
imitations are now widespread. These shops
also have their own dedicated suppliers: large
scale catering supply companies that special-
ise in supplying fast food chicken shops of all
kinds, who now market themselves indepen-
dently. Or on the side of their lorries at least.
There is money to be made in budget fast food,
evidently.
And so we have a food industry which fails
to excite the passion of the environmental
lobby, and is cheap enough such that drunk
students can and will eat it without the con-
cern that it will destroy the planet or break
the bank. Seems pretty reasonable. It is also
fair to say that cheap chicken is probably suc-
ceeding where others may have had their day,
but is this a good thing? It would be easy
for a commentator to tell everyone to eat in
Michelin-starred restaurants and hang the
cost, though there is Mr Scarface himself to
put even the most tenacious off doing that,
despite the cost. And of course you should,
but none of us do. What is there left? We are
in a downturn and after a few drinks, crispy
chicken wings are tempting, available and
manifestly cheaper than venison tatare with
pear sauce. And anything has got to be better
than another packet of crisps, surely?
T
he only Michelin-starred pub
gastropub in London has a sur-
prising signature dish – the hum-
ble Scotch egg. Of course, it is
something very special. The egg,
hidden within plenty of flavourful venison
sausagemeat, has a firm white but impossibly
runny yolk and is coated in the most crunchy,
golden brown breadcrumbs. This sums up my
impression of the Harwood Arms. It is some-
thing simple and comforting that has been ob-
sessively refined to the point of being ethereal.
The menu consists of pure, seasonal beauti-
ful British fare. It is free from any gimmicks
or mind-games that many Michelin restaurants
are guilty of. There is not a smudge of foam
or a speck of overly rich sauce with a point-
less French name in sight. The home-baked
bread that arrived straight away stunned with
its artisanal qualities and the two-week wait
for the table was already justified. The start-
ers of an extremely well-executed Eel tart and
the perfect Scotch egg made me start planning
my next visit even before my main course of
succulent wood pigeon fillets and homemade
Douglas fir sausages arrived. There is lot of
game featured, especially venison, and the
restaurant website tells us that some of the
ingredients are proudly hunted by the owners
themselves. By the time I was onto dessert and
coffee, I was convinced I was dreaming. The
light and fluffy homemade doughnuts with fra-
grant lemon cream and sweet eggy bread with
sharp rhubarb were both easily the best speci-
mens of these classics that I have ever tried.
Located on a quiet corner of a residential
street between Fulham Broadway and West
Brompton, the exterior of the pub is deceitfully
unassuming. It is not obvious whether the pub
is even in business or not. But once you are
inside, there is a Heavenly atmosphere. The
room is light and roomy but is still cosy with
its rustic interior. The clientele is predomi-
nantly affluent, but not ostentatious, locals
who have come to let their hair down just to
enjoy quality food and drink. Everything about
the institution is tasteful and everyone present
relaxed and mild-mannered.
You would be happy to marry your daugh-
ter to the charming, intelligent Harwood Arms
waiters wearing smart-casual really well. Good
service is more about character and style,
rather than crumb-sweeping and extensive
knowledge about vineyards. You will not hear
me saying this very often, but just over thirty
pounds for three courses excluding drinks here
is an absolute steal.
Harwood Arms, 27 Walham Grove, London
SW6 1QR, 020 7386 1847 Nearest Tube:
West Brompton or Fulham Broadway.
Fast food “is cheap
enough such that drunk
students can and will eat
it without the concern
that it will destroy the
planet”
Review:
Harwood Arms
by Aki Matsushima
Last resort?

