FELIX Friday 27 MAY 2011 31
BOOKS
FELIX
Books Editor: Guo Heng Chin
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The small, dusty and cramped environs of the Impe-
rial College Science Fiction Library may serve as a
true reflection of how the genre is valued and viewed
by many... and this is the science fiction library of
the country’s leading science university. The tiny
library houses over 7000 books and 1000 films: ex-
trapolate those figures to get a more realistic size of
the realm of science fiction on a global scale.
Despite its geeky connotations, science fiction
pervades all manner of media around us, and has
done so for millennia. From Thor and Inception
to Lucian of Samosata’s True History dating back
to the second century AD, which tells of a group
of explorers visiting strange lands and then being
lifted to the Moon via a waterspout.
Anyone who claims not to enjoy science fic-
tion is probably lying... or at least unaware of the
myriad of themes, premises, styles and storylines
it encompasses. If you search hard enough through
the back catalogue of books and films you have en-
joyed, you may be surprised at how many could be
classified as such.
Upon uttering the words “sci fi”, it is easy to im-
mediately conjure images of aliens or scenes from
Star Trek. And, undoubtedly, these fall very much
under the category of sci-fi. As humankind devel-
ops, time moves forward and technology progresses
so too does the types of science fiction we create.
It helps us confront ethical issues associated
with the exponential expansion in our scientific
knowledge and the added responsibility to planet
and people it entails. It lets us come to terms with
uncomfortable truths and uncomfortable potential
truths; it gives us free rein to philosophise about
the nature of reality and our place in the world; it
allows denizens living under authoritarian govern-
ments to satirise and question the status quo; and,
in a very Freudian way, it gives us an arena in
which to escape and act out “illicit” fantasies.
Utopia is still a thoroughly contemporary con-
cept. Both it and its opposite, Dystopia, have
been a subject of investigation in fiction such as
Aldous Huxley’s outstanding Brave New World
and George Orwell’s 1984. However, the word
was coined around the time of King Henry VIII
by Thomas More, one of his loyal advisors, in a
book he wrote describing the political system of an
imagined world.
Cyrano de Bergerac also dabbled in the world of
the fantastical. His 1657 book, Le Autre Monde: ou
les États et Empires de la Lune (The Other World:
The States and Empires of the Moon), Cyrano trav-
els to the moon on a rocket powered by firecrackers
to meet its inhabitants. One hundred odd years later
and vehement supporter of civil liberties, Voltaire,
published Micromégas – recounting the tale of a
being who visits earth from another planet.
More modern sci-fi offerings include the epic
Dune by Frank Herbert in which he creates in in-
finitesimal detail another world: replete with all the
details of its own political, cultural, religious and so-
cial practices. Whether your interests lie in the sci-
entific, the romantic or the aesthetic, Dune is guar-
anteed to enrapture you on at least one dimension.
What the world will be like in the future is anoth-
er fascination of science fiction. Before the flurry
in technological development of the 1700s, life did
not alter greatly from generation to generation. The
Science fiction, but not as you know it
Caroline Knight
London Literature Festival
30 June – 14 July
Southbank’s annual summer literary festival brings
together some of the best homegrown talent, a
large repertoire of worldwide literature, fresh piec-
es from young and emerging authors, and a dash of
alternative literature; so whatever your tastes are,
you are bound to find something there. This year’s
festival features Philip Pullman, Hanif Kureishi,
Alan Hollinghurst, Elif Shafak, Michael Morpurgo
and many more. Book early for popular events.
World Literature Weekend
17 June – 19 June
A relatively new festival that celebrates foreign
literature. Only in its third year, luminaries speak-
ing at the weekend include A.S. Byatt and Ramsey
Nasr, Poet Laureate of the Netherlands. This year’s
theme is ‘history and its traces in the present’.
There will be some spotlight on crime fiction as
well. Literary translation plays a big role in this
festival and if you dare, try on the tranlation mas-
terclasses.
Waterstones & Foyle’s
Weekly
Waterstones on Piccadilly and Foyle’s on Charing
Cross Road both run weekly talks and discussions
with authors. Certainly worth checking out.
The British Library’s intrepid new exhibition
Bookfests galore
this summer
apparent absence of change would have also meant
an absence of realisation that life over the com-
ing decades and centuries would be different. The
complete opposite is true now. Cormac McCarthy’s
highly acclaimed book, The Road (also made into
an intensely moving film by John Hillcoat starring
Viggo Mortensen), gives us a harrowing vision of
a post-apocalyptic earth.
A copy of the Daily Mail from the early twenti-
eth century, but dated Saturday 1st January 2000,
gives a snapshot of how people (or at least Daily
Mail editors) thought Britain might be at the turn
of the millennium. Yet more interesting is William
Heath’s illustration March of Intellect, depicting
the Grand Vacuum Tube Company’s (grand vacu-
um tube) running from London to Bengal and an
apparently steam powered carriage – London to
Bath in 6 hours – among many other new fangled,
futuristic inventions of Heath’s imagination.
The above are but a few small rays of light that
the British Library’s Out of This World exhibi-
tion shines on the super genre. The high-ceilinged,
dark, cool interior of the PACCAR gallery creates
a calm and reflective setting for its collection of
literature, film, illustration and sound. Mixed with
copies of original manuscript from the sixteenth
century are interactive exhibits including a design
your own alien station (your creation will be put on
display after a mandatory trip through quarantine)
and a chance to have an instant messaging conver-
sation with a computer to test whether Artificial
Intelligence can truly replace Human Intelligence.
I got a wonderful smug sense of satisfaction when
I succeeded in outwitting “Elizabeth” after my sec-
ond question put to her.
The guest curator, Andy Sawyer, director of Sci-
ence Fiction Studies MA at the University of Liv-
erpool, has organised the collection into sections
– Alien Worlds; Future Worlds; Parallel Worlds;
Virtual Worlds; the End of the World and the Per-
fect World. These give us a framework with which
to consider sci-fi as well as demonstrating the ex-
tent of its scope.
Lose yourself – for free! – in the countless con-
cepts, presented succinctly and beautifully, at the
British Library’s Out of This World. Give yourself
a different perspective so that you may, perhaps,
gain a more enlightened perspective on what you
perceive to be reality.
Out of This World runs from 20 May – 25 Sep-
tember 2011. www.bl.uk/sciencefiction
In London
Hay Festival of Literature and Arts
26 May – 5 June
Held annually at Hay-On-Wye, a small Welsh
town famed for second-hand and antique book
stores, the festival was hailed as the “Woodstock
of the mind” by Bill Clinton. The Hay Festival
is not just a literary festival: it is a celebration of
ideas. Featuring a diverse range of speakers from
authors (duh!), playwrights, philosphers, and jour-
nalists to scientists, economists, musicians and co-
medians. Many prominent figures have graced the
Hay Festival’s stage, and this year is no exception.
Woodstock Literary Festival
15 September – 18 September
Another young festival, it has grown at an aston-
ishing rate as it’s organized by The Independent.
Last year’s speakers included Richard Dawkins,
Philip Pullman, Matt Ridley and many more. Held
at Blenheim Palace, the location itself warrants a
visit. With 2100 acres of parkland, lush gardens, a
large lake and baroque architechture, it’s the per-
fect summer getaway. Not to mention it’s also the
birthplace of Winston Churchill and a World Heri-
tage Site.
Edinburgh International Book Festival
13 August – 29 August
With over 700 events and 220,000 visitors, this
must be one of the biggest literary festivals around.
It features a series of high profile debates and dis-
cussions, and plenty of meet the authors sessions.
Established and new authors roam the festival in
large numbers. Two independent bookstores are set
up for the festival as well. Guo Heng Chin
Outside London

