FELIX
32
TRAVEL
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 27 MAY 2011
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from ex-
perienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share
with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
Recently Nazareth (no, not the Jesus one), a
small town in the Amazon region of Colombia
announced that tourists are no longer allowed to
visit: the tens of thousands that visit each year
are providing little for the economy and their
presence is having detrimental effects on both
local scenery and the livelihood of people.
And there is no doubt that the people have a
reason for concern: the town, with a population
of 800, are seeing much of the income gener-
ated by the tourism industry being pocketed
by travel agencies from larger towns and cities
who are providing little more than a bus service
for the tourists. In addition local ways of life are
being eradicated as the next generations of the
village gather an increasing appetite for western
fashion and music.
The situation is a microcosm for tensions and
angst being seen all over the globe, but it is re-
ceiving more media attention based on the per-
sistence of residents to eradicate this problem.
And with their inevitable success it is no doubt
that the residents of other popular tourist desti-
nations will soon follow suit.
Whilst it is easy to envision a solution to this
problem it is almost impossible to put into prac-
tice – unfortunately we cannot easily control the
movements or mentalities of every individual
visitor. But there are certain things to bear in
mind when visiting a poverty-stricken destina-
tion: a £1 tip goes a surprisingly long way, and
good manners cost nothing.
Adhering to such standards might not alter the
long-term outcome, but it will certainly make
you seem a lot less obnoxious, and you will be
doing other people a service. With this in mind,
the only thing left to do is grab your bag and
go travelling: as your investment banking ca-
reer beckons and locals become increasingly
agitated, this would be better sooner rather than
later – get out and see it all while you still can.
Bolivia: calamity and comfort
Get out and see it while you still can
Chris Richardson
We descended via a smog-filled cliff overhung
by green leaves, to a city clustered within a
valley, full of tiny red houses. We passed by
unfinished brick buildings, tumbling me-
chanics, crumbling newsagents, two children
stroking a graffiti-covered wall and an elderly
woman with a baby swung across her back, as
the ringing of bicycle bells and beeping of car
horns continued.
All of a sudden our senses were unveiled to
street markets stuffed with fresh fruit, pastries
and llama foetuses (to be buried beneath busi-
nesses and commercial buildings for future
market’. This strange street was crammed with
gringo delight; leather, llama jumpers, friend-
ship bracelets – anything you could want bear-
ing some form of South American animal. As
night descended in La Paz, the streets glowed
with the buzz of thousands of lights across
the hills, and the enigmatic sounds of revelry
echoed across the city.
Leaving La Paz in the early morning for
Copacabana we boarded a boat, and arrived
a few hours later at an Incan paradise, a tiny
island set within Lake Titicaca’s vast scenic
waters. Little did we know, but our hostel was
a good twenty minute walk uphill on tiny un-
even Inca stairs weaving around the island. We
soldiered forwards, trekking past donkeys and
local children, andour backpacks felt heavier
and heavier.
Watching the sun set that night, the Isla Del
Sol fell to a deathly hush, a stark contrast to
the noisy partying of La Paz. It was a surreal,
beautiful moment. Then, the braying of don-
keys and the loud call of a cockerel broke our
peaceful sleep at an unwelcome hour of the
morning and we left the Isla del Sol and its
mossy Inca staircase to cross the border to our
final destination, Cusco.
It was strange to say goodbye to Bolivia and
her wild dogs, industrial trucks, hilly streets,
top-hats, stupendous scenery, flamingos, salt-
flats, night stars, folklore and tiny islands. But
great to say hello to Peru: home of the Incas,
crop circles, and, most importantly for us, Ma-
chu Picchu.
Priya Garg
Well at least it is better than that ‘migraine skank’ shit that’s dominating London clubs...
‘Athens Diving World Series’ by Aris Messinis
Get there: A tube that takes you to E1
See: Galleries, museums, ‘dickheads’
Eat: The Albion, Shoreditch
Cost: £5 for some top-notch grub
Next Thursday marks the first Thursday of June: on
the first Thursday of each month countless East
London galleries and museums are open late, and
also give out free booze! Check out the art on show
and stick around for some evening entertainment.
Visit FirstThursdays.co.uk to find out more!
Wish you were here
Travel on your doorstep
First Thursdays in East London
Priya Garg
FirstThursdays.co.uk
success). The centre of La Paz was celebrating
local folklore: groups of men and women came
dancing down the street, lifting top-hats, blow-
ing panpipes and beating leather drums whilst
tiny children dressed as demons chased after
baby lambs.
After watching this madness for a good half
an hour, Becky decided to show me her proud-
est discovery – what she called a “cathedral
on coke complete with a Dumbledore-esque
priest!” Sadly we kept catching this place
when it was on its erratic South American “si-
esta time” but I was finally graced to see its
gaudy decoration and plastic figurines, absurd-
ly incongruous to the beauty and serenity of its
carved stone exterior. Bumping into several
more children dressed as pumpkins, we re-
membered that it was Halloween and the next
day would be the holy dia de las muertos (‘day
of the dead’) but tonight was an excuse for a
nation-wide party in Bolivia.
The next day, as Bolivians laid out grave-
side food lovingly for their deceased relatives,
we stocked up on trinkets from the ‘witches
“The streets glowed with
the buzz of thousands of
lights across the hills”
“A £1 tip goes a
surprisingly long way”

