33
FELIX Friday 27 MAY 2011
LIFESTYLE
The Ferrari FF: phwoar wheel drive
F
orgive me. I understand that
the overuse of compliments
can appear naïve at the best
of times, and deceitful at the
worst. My gut tells me that
it’s a terrible, terrible mistake to not be
able to spot the flaw in something, that
I’m being tricked. I cringe at my credu-
lousness. But, you see, the thing is I’m
in love and, as Plato put it, I’ve become
a poet. I met her for the first time last
week. The most cursory glance lets you
know that she’s curvaceous, strong,
with plenty of character, her style ef-
fortless. And boy can she suck, squeeze,
bang, blow.
They say that the first time one sees a
new Ferrari in the flesh, it’s like meeting
a beautiful woman. You lose your mind,
your heart accelerates.And so it was last
Thursday, at the Parisian launch of the
Ferrari F.F. The first ever Ferrari to have
four comfortable seats and four-wheel
drive. There’s something about the su-
pernatural elegance of the machine, the
lushness of the leather interior, the tow-
ering brilliance of the technology, the
terrifying depth of engineering know-
how that makes me feel quite giddy.
Enzo Ferrari once said that the best
Ferrari is the one that is yet to come.
The F.F. is the closest thing to that. It
is a thoroughbred designed to gallop
whatever the weather or surface – be
it snow, ice, or sand. It is the first ever
four-wheel drive V12 that comprises of
a rear-mounted electronic differential. It
is the first V12 in the world to sport a
seven-speed dual-clutch F1 gearbox. It
does 0-100km/h in 3.7 seconds. It has a
top speed of 335km/h, and 660 prancing
horsepower. Its engine doesn’t growl or
howl – it’s music to the ear, it’s some-
where between a purr and a roar.
Sure, Jeremy-power-Clarkson will
probably write some pontificating, cli-
mate hating, boorish review of the F.F.
in a few weeks’ time. He’ll complain
that there are warts. That its little Italian
ways will drive you a bit mad. That the
engine is in the wrong place. That rac-
ing shouldn’t be done in the snow. That
it’s like a horse with James May up its
bottom. But then he’s not in love. And
according to Twitter, he’s never been.
And that really is the crux. I’ll be hon-
est: I don’t know how well a Ferrari
handles compared to an Aston Martin
– which features work and which don’t
– but I’m damned if I would ever buy
Lifestyle Editor: Richard Keller
lifestyle.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Charles Betts and his love for the new do-it-all Ferrari
a DB9 over a 458 Italia. But then, a
Ferrari is meant to be loved, not under-
stood. Ferrari is like opera, ballet, fine
wine – to some, a seemingly over-the-
top, exaggerated distraction where The
X Factor, Strictly Come Dancing, and
Coke would do just fine. But to others,
it transcends the logical. To some, sort
of pointless. To others, sort of amaz-
ing. I’ve never really appreciated Do-
mingo’s arias, or Pavlova’s pirouettes,
but my religious-like zeal for what is ef-
fectively just a red piece of carbon and
aluminium on four wheels means I un-
derstand the mysterious emotion some
folk get from a 1787 Chateau d’Yquem.
Ferrari is the epitome of the Made in
Italy brand. It’s as classically Italian as a
Tuscan hilltop or Lavazza coffee. Each
car a rather dizzying conflation of old
and new. To see one and drive one is
to simultaneously be right back in the
days of Fangio, to be part of the greatest
motor racing company in history, and
to be at the cutting-edge of technologi-
cal development. The company doesn’t
just represent itself, but rather an entire
country. It’s why their F1 cars have the
Italian flag painted on the rear wings.
It’s why it’s the only F1 team that has
a major fan base, the famous tifosi. It’s
why every red-blooded Italian male
cries Forza! and Prestissimo! in their
pokey Fiat Panda with so much gusto,
believing he’s Michael Schumacher. It’s
why the entire Italian road network is
one big racetrack. Football may be the
heart of Italy, but Ferrari is very much
its soul.
Ferrari sold 6573 cars in 2010 – its
best ever year. A result primarily attrib-
uted to the extraordinary growth seen in
Asia, and the return of the United States
market to record levels. China grew by
43.6 per cent, with the US registering a
12.7 per cent growth. Mr Clarkson may
not be one, but it seems plenty of oth-
ers are starstruck. They are, and will al-
ways be, ferraristas. In good times and
in bad, in sickness and in health. Until
death do us part.
Eat your heart out, James Bond!
Who said you needed paved roads in a dessert?
Top Speed 335 km/h
0-100 km/h 3.7 sec
0-200 km/h 11 sec
100-0 km/h 35 m
Performance
Type 65° V12
Total displ. 6262 cc
Bore/stroke 94 x 75.2 mm
Max power 660 CV
Max torque 683 Nm
Max revs 8000 rpm
Comp. ratio 12.3:1
Engine
Tech Specs

