FELIX
34
HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 27 may 2011
Where the fuck
is twatter?
So this was the first thing you flicked to wasn’t it? Well
exams are still hanging around, unwanted, like Josef
Fritzl at a family reunion.
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Darwin’s face in Jacket Potato
An unnamed biology student got more than
she bargained for when she tucked into
lunch last Monday when the face of the bane
of creationists and the creator of the theory of
evolution – Charles Darwin – appeared in the
sorry excuse for cheese that they top jacket po-
tatoes with at the Library Café.
“Before, I wasn’t too sold on the non-exis-
tence of God, but ever since seeing our Mes-
siah in my lunch my belief in atheism is un-
shakeable. It’s definitely a sign,” she said.
The student was reported to have finished
eating the tuber after photographing it because
she was hungry and with a long day of labs
ahead of her, she needed all the carbohydrate
she could get.
This divine sighting has provided a much-
needed publicity boost for the Library Café,
as students are increasingly put off by the
establishment’s overpriced muffins that
taste like samosas after about 3pm. It is not
all good news, though: it would appear that
the café has become a site of pilgrimage
for militant atheists throughout the College,
with mathematicians, medics and engineers
alike kneeling side-by-side in prayer on Fri-
day afternoons just outside the entrance and
obstructing those who just want to get some
goddamned food. Attempts to move them
have thus far failed, with one of the faithful
citing that they “had the right to practice their
non-beliefs”. Being a College that specialises
in degrees that are actually going to get their
students jobs, it lacks a theology department
that could have prevented this occurrence by
ensnaring the atheists in never-ending debates
between creationism and evolution, preclud-
ing them from partaking in any worship of
non-gods.
Reports that an imprint of Ryan Giggs have
been found in the curry are yet to be confirmed.
Soon some of you will be moving on to the
world of work. Diversifying the cost effective
solutions, or something. Some will be helping
out the world, consulting. Where you tell other
companies what to do. As you, having been
there for a day, know better than they do. Here
is the Hangman summary of corporate slogans:
Courier Express
“Today’s delivery problems solved tomorrow.”
So you are just putting off solving the prob-
lems then. You lazy bastards, why not solve
them today? Huh?
Citibank
“The Citi Never Sleeps.”
I personally would much prefer you to be the
Citi that gets the correct amount of sleep per
night. I guess you are also the Citi that is in-
credibly irritable and has poor dexterity.
Dell
“Easy as Dell.”
All I know is that you are easy as you. Using
yourself as a reference point is not in any way
helpful.
United Technologies Corporation
“This Is Momentum.”
I guess it wouldn’t have been cool to say: “p =
mv, this is momentum”, though it would have
been a fuckload more accurate, and consider-
ing that they make helicopters you would hope
they know basic physics.
DHL
“We move the world.”
That is one Hell of a claim to make. I believe
that various different forces move the world.
Stop taking credit for nature’s good work you
bastards.
Goodyear
“The best tyres in the world have Goodyear
written all over them.”
Does not mean they are Goodyear though does
it? Could just mean someone has spray painted
Goodyear all over an amazing set of tyres.
UPS
“Moving at the speed of business.”
Hey UPS, just a quick word about physics:
business is not a measurement of speed. Fuck-
ing biologists...
Lockheed Martin:
“We Never Forget Who We’re Working For.”
Well I would fucking hope not. I sort of
thought it goes unsaid that you remember who
is paying you. In all honesty it’s a little discon-
certing to imagine a weapons developer say-
ing: “Fuck, where do we deliver these fighter
jets to? Libya? Fine whatever...”
Hangman: Integrity, professionalism, passion
and out-of-the-box thinking in all we do
See above for the answer to the
question: Why would I want to be rich?
Unintentionally
Homoerotic Rap Lyrics
So what are you into now then Nate?
“Back in the day I used to like
bitches. But I’ll tell you right now,
bitches ain’t shit”
Nate Dogg – Because I got a girl
Okay take control of the situation, as
you clearly have more experience in
this than the rest of us.
“Let me show you how to move in a
room full of dudes who don’t got a
fucking clue how to do this.“
Why on earth is this line in a song
called Temptation? This is made
1000 times gayer by the fact that his
sac, and its relative attractiveness,
was the first thing that sprang to
your mind. On that note, how do you
have a scale of sac-niceness? That
implies you have seen enough sacs
to take a critical standpoint.
“I knew this guy right, he had a nice
sac.”
Young Maylay – Temptation
J. Cole – Return of Simba
I’m not ashamed to say that I am not
as well versed in eating ass as you.
“But you ain’t got the skills to eat a
nigga’s ass like me”
Canibus – Second Round K.O
I don’t care how easily you blow
guys; this is a demonstration that I
do not want to see. Oh and if you
can blow them so easily, doesn’t that
imply that you are well practiced at it,
and it’s now second nature?
“I’mma have to show niggas how
easily we blow niggas.”
DMX – Ruff Ryders Anthem
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Send your photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
It’s like sex, asking for permission is key.
This isn’t a student who has realised that there’s no way he’ll pass his exam, he’s
actually protesting. He won’t move until someone comes and takes his virginity...

