Page 2 FELIX 22nd May, 1969
COMMENT
Universities are not the only established British institutions
to have felt the pressures of the country's economic situation.
But it could well be that these pressures will have the most
profound effect on our Universities. These pressures have
forced people to discuss once again what is meant by the
phrase "academic freedom". At the LSE the furore over the
sackings of two lecturers, for their political beliefs and
sayings, has brought this discussion to the fore. Those
present at the Select Committee's hearings at IC last week
will also have been reminded of this issue.
Challenges to Academic Freedom
Basically the challenges to academic freedom can be traced
to two different pressure groups. The first, the combined
economic power of the government and industry, is concerned
with the cost-effectiveness of the University. As a country
with its back against the wall in economic terms we must, as
Edward Short put it last January, "become increasingly aware
of the demands of the economy . . . .". Universities should
go into production, they must become more efficient degree
producers, more relevant researchers and they will only
attract Government investment to the extent that they do
just that. Naturally this means a great loss in freedom;
academic studies and lines of research which are merely
interesting will be threatened by lack of money and probably
dropped, outside of Oxbridge with its great inherited wealth.
The second pressure group consists of dissatisfied students
and junior staff, because, as our Rector put it in his evidence
to the Select Committee, the administration of a University
or College is based on "consent". However, as pressures on
the university become stronger and the acquiescence of
students to antiquated and often unjust systems becomes
weaker, the rule of consent is breaking down since some
people don't consent. The tragedy is that when the rule of
"consent" does break down the authoritarian nature of Uni-
versity is revealed. For people who for one reason or another
do not "consent" there is precious Uttle freedom. Lord
Penney suggested that the alternative would be an immense
bureaucratic structure.
Separation of Powers
Let us consider this second pressure first, because this
threat to academic freedom can be solved by the University
itself. Are the Rector's two alternatives of benevolent dic-
tatorship or a Civil Service pyramid the only ones? The
American constitution enshrines another principle of govern-
ment— the separation of powers. The executive, repre-
sentatives and judiciary were in theory set apart as independ-
ent counter balancing forces. Why not set up the students,
staff and administration as independent, equal yet self-reliant
powers? Thus if the rule of consent does break down there
would be a definite but not authoritarian structure to resolve
differences. But more important still, such differences would
be solved justly.
Research DeFormed
The problems of deformation of research by the profit
motive have previously been described in FELIX 275, where-
by lines of research are followed up irrespective of theii
academic value, or value to mankind. In some places in
this college research is even carried out for the armed forces
and weapons establishments; for instance Chemistry and
Chemical Engineering departments carry out apparently in-
nocuous projects for such organisations. However, some of
this research is still classified; some work for the US Army,
completed in 1962, on thermals was carried out in the
Meteorology department. Colonel R. K. Sasce was the U.S.
representative and the project is still known under the secret
Combaret number DA—91—591—EUC—1707. It is difficult
to see how Universities can retain their traditional freedom
while accepting money from such sources.
The affects of these economic pressures are now being
realised by undergrads too. By all means we can have non-
technical studies, provided they are management studies;
but genuine course-broadening is rejected. Thus courses
become more and more narrowly vocational; the government
has no money to spend on real education, training "the whole
man for the whole life" is replaced by training the technologist
the country "needs". If that is so let students serve notice
on the government that the parsimonious grant we get now
is because we are allegedly being educated; if we are merely
being trained then we will demand a wage suitable to such
an apprenticeship. Now is the time to stand up to Treasury
and say "You can't have your cake and eat it."
CARNIVAL FETED HELP NEEDED
The I.C. Carnival Fete
was greeted by heavy rain
throughout the morning, as
Jez left to tour the area, but
nevertheless a profit of at
least £100 was made, with
reported takings of £180. Il
is still to be revealed whether
the rainfall was beyond the
limit required to cause the
insurance to be paid, but the
weather certainly spoilt the
event, causing the clock-golf
to be called off along with
the ten-pin bowling. Of an
expected 40 stalls, only 26
were set up, twelve of these
being run by the Anglican
Chaplaincy, who raised £100.
Rita Tushingham opened
the fete, despite the weather,
and the group Smile enter-
tained, apparently a little too
noisily, causing the local
police to intervene.
Among the individual
stunts, the soak - Martin-
Bland (etc.) trick brought in
£2 10s., much to their dis-
comfort, and Mr. Seaford
collected £9 with Find the
Lady. Thus, in spite of main-
tenance charging £30 for put-
ting up the stage, and the
fact that the bandstand was
not to be used, the fete did
succeed financially.
i i l p l l l i l i l B p * is"
I S %i
Dermott Corr, about to give everyone a soaking
at the Carnival Fete.
"IDIOTIC" CHALLENGE
Sir,
I am sick and tired of hav-
ing my time wasted by idiot-
ic quorum challenges at
Union meetings.
A quorum is intended as
the last defence against un-
representative opinion acting
in the name of the Union.
It is surely more ethical, es-
pecially when one has indi-
cated one's concern for rep-
resentative debate by sug-
gesting a deferment of the
main business to allow more
people to arrive, not to chal-
lenge unless clearly minority
views are being implement-
ed and all other courses of
action are exhausted. The
quorum is not meant to give
the power of veto over a
measure that one is opposed
to, as it appeared to be
used (once again) on Tues-
day, when not only were the
proposals in question already
approved once by a quorate
meeting, but also a further
deferment was available by
moving the adjournment.
Further interesting specu-
lation is available on the
reasons why this great be-
liever in representative par-
ticipation should have acted
to prevent election of next
year's president which would
have been possible had the
constitutional changes re-
ceived a second reading. He
cannot soberly (sic) claim
this time even to presume
to have acted for the major-
ity. The most charitable con-
clusion is that, alone in 265,
he was unaware of the im-
plications of his action, a
general conclusion that ap-
plies also to certain other
regular quorum-challengers.
Yours,
P. Lee.
Physics 2.
This year sees a change
in the organisation of the
Carnival Charity with the
election of the Co-ordina-
tor and charity in the sum-
mer term. The idea behind
this is so that Carnival may
be in full swing by the be-
ginning of next session. As
a result of this it is essential
that the Carnival committee
has been formed before the
end of this term.
In past years, Carnival
has suffered from the fact
that no enough people from
the previous year have been
interested enough to con-
tinue; however it is hoped
that a nucleus from this
year's committee will want
to help Carnival again next
session. Of course there is
still plenty of room for new-
comers and applications for
the following positions are
invited : Secretary, Treasur-
er, Raffle Organiser, Carni-
val Queen competition or-
ganiser, Fete organiser, Arts
Week organiser and Public-
ity officer. In particular, it
is essential that we have an
experienced Publicity Offi-
cer.
This is in fact not a fully
comprehensive list of the
people required, as each in-
dividual event organiser will
need a great deal of help.
In past years Carnival
has relied upon Vice Presi-
dents and Year Reps to pro-
mote interest in Carnival
but the next session will see
the introduction of a Carni-
val Rep system where each
year will have a rep who will
be solely responsible for his
year's collection efforts.
Any persons interested in
working for Carnival in any
capacity should contact me
through the Union office.
Carnival Co-ordinator elect.
Dave Hobman,
Carnival Co-ordinated Elections
The election for next year's
Carnival co-ordinator was
held on May 12th. Dave
Hobman, proposed by Sue
Lowin, defeated Frank Ball,
proposed by retiring co-
ordinator Ian Jarvis, in a
friendly tussle. Dave Hobman
was active in organising the
fete (reported on this page)
with the president's wife.
pilllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllimilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllM
I President's Pie
The next visit of the University Grants Committee to the
College, in about a year's time, is now providing a focus
for the work of the committee looking into the growth of
Imperial College. The lack of further sites in South Ken-
sington prevents any wholesale expansion of the College,
and present estimates suggest a total student population
of about 5,000 by 1980, including 400 members of the
Architectural Association. Major candidates for growth are
the interdepartmental studies, with the possibility of an
undergraduate course in Materials Science, a post-graduate
course in Materials Technology, and more work on Bio-
Engineering at a postgraduate level. Other suggestions in-
clude the growth of the Management Studies group, and a
new International Institute of Theoretical Physics.
Ideas are being developed for broadening present courses
by allowing the interchange of departments in undergraduate
courses and by the introduction of non-technical subjects.
This coincides with the report of a survey carried out by
the student members of the Sociological Studies Committee,
which shows a very large demand for non-technical courses
at IC. Almost all of the thousand students who replied
wanted some broader courses and over three-quarters wanted
those courses to form part of the degree. Although the
biggest demand was for the more directly relevant subjects
such as economics and logic, many people asked for these
courses in order to provide a broader education.
A start has already been made in giving these courses,
particularly in the Engineering departments, but the demand
has grown much stronger over the last few years. The prob-
lems of space in the College make it difficult to provide all of
these courses on a large scale, but the present system of
importing lecturers from other colleges could be used, at
least as a temporary measure. If the system is to be intro-
duced on a college-wide basis, then the best solution might
be to set aside two or three hours a week, and allow students
to choose their option irrespective of department or year.

