Page 4 FELIX 22nd May, 1969
LITTLE B
O
X
E
S b
y Piers G
o
r
b
Bureaucracy is a big thing these days and is simultaneously
used and derided by people all over the world. Most people
have a contradictory attitude towards it which probably stems
from ill-definition. Bureaucracy is, approximately, "a body
of officials (bureaucrats) who, according to some set of rules
or 'norms', carry out their tasks of communicating, usually
in a non-critical and non-decisive way, often involving paper-
work, between various parts of a bureaucracy."
Most of us have come face to face with bureaucracy, be
it the obstinate, mindless, delaying, slow, unfeeling motions
of officialdom as practised by many local governments, or the
crazy convulsions of a delirious, mad, soft-sell(?) ad machine
like the Reader's Digest. Such experiences must make us
wonder how the mind of a 'perfect' bureacrat works, so let us
examine some pictures.
Wires or Dustbins?
Bureaucrats (Bs) have, or are indoctrinated to have, a
certain way of thinking. They see the world as built up by a
large number of independent entities—a series of isolated
cardboard boxes—not overlapping, perhaps enclosing each
other but nevertheless separate. Each box is some organis-
ation or thing or problem, e.g. a government department, a
person, 'the starving millions', etc. Some boxes may be joined
up by a communication wire which is operated by a faithful
bureaucrat who conveys messages. Whether or not the
bureaucrat sees any boxes joined up really depends on
whether or not he sees any 'channels' of communication
between them. Ratiocinative (often scientific) people tend
to categorize things so that categories—i.e. boxes depends
on words and is thus language dependent. So we see the
bureaucratization of a person is language dependent.
Using a similar picture idea we see that unbureaucrats
(UBs) tend to think, from the point of view of Bs, in a
confused way. Everything is a kind of big mess (dustbin
mind'?!) of blobs and lumps which are all joined on to each
other. The name of a lump describes some approximate
region which is fused onto another region (each region being
something to do with an organisation or thing, etc.) Every-
thing is part of some big thing—everything.
It would be a good idea to say that Bs and UBs are not
absolute pictures but merely ends of a scale—rather like tidi-
ness and order (see FELIX, Spring 1968) are very different
ends of a scale.
Having drawn pictures of Bs and UBs, let us see what
tendencies they might be prone to. A poet (?) once said:
" . . . . Language limits thought, destroys totality,
Word-thoughts fragment concepts . . . .".
We can see from the above discussion that the Bs word-
description and categorization of the world does indeed cause
the totality of the world to become broken—a name makes
a box which is separate from other boxes, concepts which also
involve a certain wholeness become similarly fragmented.
This poses a question, not to be discussed here.
Language fragments concepts, but can concepts exist with-
out language?
Since Bs think of everything as being basically uncon-
nected it may be easy for a B to hold contradictory views
when failing to see the interconnectedness of things—which
brings us to 'double-think'. Orwell defines: "Double-think
means the power of holding two contradictory beliefs in one's
mind simultaneously and accepting both of them." We are
saying that Bs are prone to Double-think—and of course
Double-think was in fact upheld and continued by virtue of
a rigidly bureaucratic state—which made people think of
worlds of cardboard boxes.
We might expect that UBs are less prone to Double-think
than Bs because their thoughts (according to the picture) are
more part of a whole even if they do not have so many
thoughts as Bs.
PB or NBs?
If we agree that Bs are prone to Double-think does it
mean that all Bs are bad? The word 'Bureaucrat' has been
limiting our thoughts! There are all sorts of bureaucrats,
e.g. Positive bureaucrats (PBs) and negative ones (NBs).
NBs are those whose activities deliberately prevent things
happening or cover up for incompetence or suppress know-
ledge and information, e.g. passport officials, censors, 'front
clerks' who have a string of ready answers—'Being looked
into', 'under consideration', against the regulations', not feas-
ible, etc. etc....
PBs are those Bs who make use of bureaucratic systems in
a creative and constructive way and are fundamentally dif-
ferent in outlook from NBs. As examples of PBs we have
groups of activists, ad-hoc committees, organisers (usually).
Clubs in IC are obviously operated by, essentially, PBs—they
are trying to make things happen, have meetings, etc. PBs of
course are liable to resort to the methods of NBs to hide their
mistakes, appear in 'full control' and stop things happening.
Quite often PBs think a bit more like UBs than NBs.
Are you a PB, UB or NB? Does IC teach people to be
any one type?
D
O
U
B
L
E P
U
N
I
S
H
M
E
N
T
Following Brian Hains' article on College Discipline, Spike Bantin writes on how he feels justice
should be administered by State and University.
I would like to point out that Brian Hains' article in
FELIX last term arose out of discussion held by Council,
after receiving several documents from JURGO concerning
discipline in Universities. On considering them, it was found
that the only points over which there was likely to be dis-
agreement were double punishment, the internal College
disciplinary procedure and the ill-defined crime of bringing
the name of the College into disrepute.
I should like to take this opportunity to elaborate on these
points as they could be vitally important to any one of us
at sometime in the future.
Double punishment is defined in this case as the exercis-
ing of justice through two bodies for the same offence, and
as such often occurs throughout society. However, this does
not infer that this is either necessary or satisfactory. To
analyse further, we might refer to the texts on English law,
from which one may conclude that the State is bound to
intervene when a crime is committed relating to the uphold-
ing of public order. In this case, therefore, any action taken
by the College would amount to double punishment. Any
such crime is considered by the state because, as well as any
injured party, it finds it abhorrent, the trial resulting in
criminal rather than civil justice. If convicted, the purpose
of punishment is fourfold and relates to demonstrating to
the community that law is being maintained.
Punishment
To the individual the effect of punishment itself cannot
be estimated but is thought by many to be detrimental;
one presumes the only worthwhile feature is the attempt at
reformation during the sentence..
Having served the sentence, the criminal imagines that
he has atoned for his crime but it is an unfortunate fact
that society as a whole cannot yet accept this. This does not
infer that we, as a College, should either emulate this or
condone it. It is my opinion that no further action should
be taken since it can only result in further suffering, prob-
ably much greater than that caused by the original sentence.
The classic argument against this may be generalised by
proposing that a crime may be more significant to one
branch of society than another. It is obvious, but not often
considered, that criminal misdemeanours are always more
offensive to that part of society in which they occur, and
this is exactly the reason that the legal system was instituted.
If this were not so then the punishment of any crime would
relate to the power of the injured party rather than the
significance of the crime. Moreover, statistics have shown
that only some twenty per cent of first offenders were ever
reconvicted. It may be argued further that this twenty per
cent are generated by the hostile attitude of society when
finding employment for these people after their first imprison-
ment. Thus in repunishing an individual a second time we
are ignoring statistics and succumbing to the old attitudes
and prejudices. I would contend that if a student is tried for
a crime by the State it should be impertinent and inhumane
for the College to subject him to further punishment.
However, in the case where an offence is a crime against
the College or Union By-Laws the College has a right and
duty to uphold these By-Laws for the benefit of all. Since
the By-Laws already exist, it remains only to have a system
available to deal fairly with any offences. At the moment
there is no real system, hence Council attempted to rational-
ise those proceedings that do exist to form a general proce-
dure applicable to all crimes. They decided to put responsi-
bility for petty offences, that is those requiring a punish-
ment not interfering in any significant way with a student's
studies, in the hands of the organisation concerned. How-
ever, in the case where this body felt a serious punishment
was required, it would be left to them to ask for trial by a
well-defined (but flexible in composition) and independent
disciplinary committee of staff and students. By this means
to obtain a fair trial in the first instance without personal
embarrassment or bias; the body requesting the hearing
would act as prosecution providing such information and
witnesses that are required. This would be coupled to a
higher appeal system.
The importance of holding disciplinary proceedings in the
open cannot be overstressed since it acts as a deterrent, as
protection for the individual and against rumour. This is
the failing of the present system since investigations are held
in camera and verdicts are propogated by hearsay.
Hall Discipline
Hall discipline procedures are better defined, but I have
found them through my own personal experience to be
unconvincing in operation. Therefore for continuity and im-
provement I would propose that the general disciplinary
committee be used for serious Hall matters as well. With a
system such as this in existence there could be no doubt that
justice was being done. Moreover, such a committee would
be able to record its verdicts and therefore future crimes
could be assessed with a good idea of past actions. The
setting up of this committee would be a great step forward
and must be instigated forthwith.
Finally to the third point, the more nebulous concept of
bringing the name of the College into disrepute. To me
this seems impossible to define, but, one presumes, arises from
actions by some individual or group resulting in bad pub-
licity for the College. Surely the only reasonable action
would be to make certain that any punishment meted out
in respect of the action that caused adverse publicity is also
made known.
To sum up, the application of Justice to society has been
a problem facing those concerned since the dawn of civilisa-
tion and has resulted in a well-proven system in this country.
It would therefore appear sensible for us to treat this system
with respect, where necessary to emulate it and not set our-
selves up as a detached autonomy.

