22nd May, 1969 FELIX Page 5
A R
E
A
S
O
N F
O
R L
I
V
I
N
G
"Is God dead in Imperial College?" In the article
on the right, Simon Cotton and Elizabeth Adams
try to explain why they believe the answer to be
no. They are members of the Anglican Chaplaincy,
one of several religious organisations operating
among I.C. students. If you believe (or sincerely
hope) that the answer is yes, at the foot of the
page Simon Cotton answers criticism of the Angli-
can Chaplaincy and religious organisation.
COMPLACENCY
The chalice pictured above is a religious emblem,
a symbol appealing to Christian emotions. In
answering the questions below, Simon Cotton
compares the validity of beliefs based on intellect
and on emotions. Questions by Ian Carr, who is
sick of having John Donne quoted at him.
Photographs by Simon Cotton and Malcolm Cresser
Possibly the most remark-
able thing about the Angli-
can Chaplaincy in I.C. is its
very size. In an age when, so
we are told, science disproves
religion, nearly 10 per cent
of the students are regular
communicants. The purpose
of this article is to describe
the activities of the Anglican
movement within the college
in both the spiritual and
" secular " contexts.
Just as the Chaplaincy
within I.C. is composed of a
number of groups within
Halls and Departments, so is
it part of a bigger body, the
West London Chaplaincy,
which includes other colleges
in the area; moreover it em-
braces both students and
non-students such as Lady
Penney, whom we are happy
to welcome in our midst.
Many members of the vari-
ous colleges meet up at the
Sunday services, at present
held in St. Augustine's,
Queen's Gate, but they also
meet in other ways, such as
in prayer groups, study
groups, discussion groups,
and in the great act of Euch-
aristic worship in Hall or
Department.
Poverty, Hunger, Alcohol-
ism, Mental Health, Personal
Relationships, Marriage—
these matters of importance
to Christian and non-Christ-
ian alike are discussed with
people working in these
fields. Worship does not end
at the "church door" but
should extend to secular
activities (faith without works
is dead). Members of the
Chaplaincy are active in a
wide range of college societ-
ies and usually take a large
part in running the Carnival
Fete. It is a tribute to the
small group of people direct-
ly concerned with raising the
money that over £900 will go
to a Mission Hospital in Tan-
zania. Cathy Limming, an
occupational therapist work-
ing at a leprosy centre near
Madras; Jeremy Sammes, re-
cently returned from Guyana,
Richard Smith, who works
with down-and-outs in the
East End (see FELIX 276)
these are but three members
who give voluntary service.
The greatest contribution
that the Chaplaincy made to
college life in the past year
was perhaps the visit of the
Archbishop of Canterbury in
early February. For many
years the Chaplaincy has run
the "Teaching Week" in
February; the structure of the
week is based on several
evening talks by an eminent
Christian, formal discussions,
prayer groups, Eucharists and
coffee parties. The events of
the week have already been
reported in such widely dif-
fering organs as FELIX and
the Church of England News-
paper. Probably the greatest
impression received by the
Archbishop's audiences (run-
ning into hundreds) was of
his warm humanity and his
awareness of current prob-
lems.
The interested non-Christ-
ian must be able to see the
Holiness and Glory of God
reflected in the members of
his Church; no one can be
expected to become commit-
ted to Christ after a first in-
troduction to the Church and
we welcome in our midst
those who are vaguely inter-
ested, those who do not wish
to become " involved ", the
irregular attenders, etc. It is
up to the leaders of the
Church to set those people
an example by their per-
sonal qualities. The Church
is not a closed shop—a fact
it can be easy for us all to
miss—and the time to worry
will be When the interested
non-Christians feels his inter-
est is longer welcomed.
The spiritual needs of the
Chaplaincy are administered
by two Chaplains, Ron Diss
and Ivor Smith-Cameron,
who both inhabit aged vicar-
ages in West London; the
amount of work they perform
is truly phenomenal. With
such a large body, communi-
cation is largely maintained
through the frequent leaders
meetings and the weekly
newsletters CHI-RHO which
takes its name from the
monogram of the first two
letters of the Greek for
Christ—the labarum, the old-
est Christian emblem.
The most recent attempt
to integrate the Chaplaincy
into the society it serves has
been the "Secular Masses"
as they might be termed,
which have been held in
Mech. Eng. foyer; last Nov-
ember 10 people were con-
firmed by the Bishop of Ken-
sington at one of these ser-
vices. And so, day by day,
the Church in Imperial Col-
lege moves onwards, a living
example of what Christianity
can mean to students in the
20th Century.
Father Ivor at a Tizard Hall Breakfast
(a) The vision I have of the Anglican Chaplaincy is as a
self-satisfied complacent organisation, content in its " good-
ness " and " belief " without coming within a mile's distance
of understanding what people are. How do you see it?
(b) The Chaplaincy seems to me to be one of the worst
examples of how church dogma in university takes over from
religious mumbo-jumbo in schools, ensnaring freshers as they
arrive and not letting them have a chance to live with a
religion but without a religious organisation.
(c) Do you not think there is a case for leaving people alone
in their disbeliefs, even if they are unhappy, on the grounds
that they may have no wish to live in a community? Why
the great urge to convert lapsed Christians, some of whom
may be happier since giving up Christian organisations ?
Leave people alone—are they not the most important thing
of all, more important than any God ?
(d) Chi-Rho appeals to the most saccharin aspects of man's
nature, living in an everythings-great-in-God's-garden imag-
inary world of its own. Why not something more realistic ?
(e) Finally, on general Christian ideals, just what has Christ-
ianity got to offer to people who are no good to anyone,
have nothing to offer and don't want to offer it, people who
don't want to be interfered with in any way and above all
hate being pitied by clockwork Christians ?
Your two main criticisms of the Chaplaincy seem to be
(a) that it has no respect for the sanctity of the individual
and (b) that it appeals to the emotions and not to the
intellect.
A Christian must always have respect of the individual
as that individual is made in the image of God (whether
that individual realises it or not). Christians, not only in I.C.,
often fail in this by treating the individual not as a person
but as a subject ripe for conversion ! Yet, as John Donne
put it, " No man is an Island, entire of itself! every man is
a piece of the continent, a part of the main ". We all live in
this world and must respond to the challenge it provides;
it is the duty of Christians to speak out on matters of
national importance, just as much as it is their duty to respect
the being of the individual.
Does the Chaplaincy appeal wholly to the emotional ?
It is not wrong to appeal to the emotions which are, after
all, part of ourselves, provided that the emotions are not
treated as the whole of man. The profusion of discussion
groups surely gives the lie to the point that there is not
enough rational discussion—I would say however that there
are times when one must look closely at one's own beliefs
and see how clearly one is sticking to them. The Christian
seeks to follow the ideal of Christ but he must see himself
as falling a long way short of that ideal.
God preserve the Chaplaincy from being the self-satisfied,
complacent organisation as you term it! The Church does
not exist for its own edification but for the benefit of those
outside. If we lose sight of this we cease to be true Christ-
ians. As for the Chaplaincy ensnaring freshers etc., it is no
more guilty of this than any other college society on
Freshers' day !
You give the impression that CHI-RHO is pushed under
your door (if not down your throat) every week! Have you
read it seriously—in this week's issue, there are thoughts on
colour discrimination, and appeals for people to collect for
Christian Aid Week and to help Richard Smith in his East
End mission during the summer vac.—this is hardly taking
an unrealistic view of the world. However, let us not lose
sight of the fact that altruistic giving is not what it should
be—if giving does not represent a sacrifice then it is not
giving.
What has Christianity to offer anyone? It gives them a
reason for living.
(I should like to make it clear that the answers to the
above questions represent my personal opinions—Simon
Cotton.)

