Color trouble at I.G. -p. J
THIEVING
STUDENTS CAUGHT
LOFTUS PULLS OUT
Union Secretary, Dave Loftus,
is off to Greece for three months,
but not, he told a Felix Reporter,
to laze on the sun-drenched
Aegean Coast.
Loftus, when he is not being
Union Secretary, is reading for a
Ph.D. in Geology, and this well
timed visit is part of his study.
He and New Zealander Ian Wil-
lis, his collaborator, had hoped to
go during the Summer Vacation.
Unfortunately, the required maps
and aerial photographs were not
available from the Greek Govern-
ment at that time. Dave, who
announced his engagement last
May, said he would be back in
early February—for a special
reason, but he hastily added that
a Spring wedding was not part of
his plans.
Should Loftus Resign ?
Whether Loftus resigns or not,
his departure leaves a large gap in
the Union administration. When
asked who would nil it, President
Watson said, " No comment."
Last year's Secretary, John
Preece,; has the necessary experi-
ence, but it has been suggested
that Preece will not take office
again, after his stormy passage
last year. He is also Business
Manager of Phoenix.
Felix's tip for the position is
" would-be " Union reformer Les
Massey.
PARKING
STUDENTS PRIVILEGED
Mr. A . Stevenson, the head warden, speaking at a meeting of
South Side car-owners last week, said that the residents were privi-
leged in having any parking space provided at all. Mr. C. C. Seaford,
the domestic bursar, added he thought it was preposterous that
students living on government grants should be running large cars,
and should expect to have parking facilities provided for them, when
he personally could hardly afford a moped.
The first proposition put to Mr. Stevenson was that the walled-
off quagmire at the back of South Side might be used to park several
cars. Mr. Stevenson replied that this was reserved for scooters and
cycles. When told the surfaee was so slippery that no scooter could
possible stand up on it, he remarked that " no one had ever told him
this." It was further suggested that the energies of the workmen at
present engaged in knocking holes in the concrete walls by hand, be
diverted towards surfacing this plot, as presumably there was some
machine that could carry out the former activity. Mr. Stevenson
retorted " You can't expect to have experts in everything all the
time."
Continued Page 2, col. 3.
(From a Felix reporter)
After two Executive meetings held last week under a veil of
secrecy the following news was released : that two students have been
suspended from " Membership of the Union and all associated privi-
leges " for stealing. One has been suspended for 3 months for "remov-
ing " money from a collection box in the Union. The other, for " re-
moving " a cushion, received two weeks suspension. A notice of this
and the dates involved have been posted in the Union.
No further details have been given and the Executive have pre-
sented a united front in refusing to disclose the names of the indi-
viduals concerned. Their reasons for doing so are sound, and even if
" mitigating circumstances " does ring a little hollow (especially where
money is involved), who can doubt their sincerity.
For further comment, see Editorial.
if
GO BO r
Harry Watson and Pete Moss start 'BO' off on the long road
to Brighton Story—page 7.

