F E L I X
EDITORIAL
WHEN THE THIEVING HAD TO STOP
A trail of petty dishonesty and some major thieving over the
last two years has at last been brought to a head. Two students of
this Union have been caught stealing and sentenced by the executive.
This action is long overdue, and the fact that it has been hidden by
a cloak of secrecy is most unsatisfactory. Accepting that the situa-
tion is " delicate " one must still act positively, and indicate that the
matter is not one to be taken lightly. "Borrowing" articles from the
Union Is in itself disgraceful, but stealing money is shocking. This
is a Students' Union, and the .whole structure depends upon the
honesty and integrity of the student who makes it. If standards are
so low that persons will unashamedly steal from their own union then
that union must collapse.
Last year two coats were stolen; this year several small items
have been reported missing, and Felix itself reports a constant dis-
appearance of revenue. The paper costs fourpence; if you pay only
threepence you are in principle as guilty as the man who takes a
couple, without paying and explains that the Union can afford it.
Abroad one hears tremendous admiration for the British integrity and
honesty. South Americans will tell you proudly that in England you
can leave a bicycle outside while you shop ; it will still be there when
you come back. In their country this is extremely unlikely. But is
this attitude disappearing ?
It is extraordinary perhaps that a theft as blatant as taking
money from a collection box should have been caught. Countless
thefts must have gone unnoticed, for after all, the Union does hot
hire detectives to watch "hard up" students. It is perhaps regret-
table that the guilty parries are being shielded from the full glare of
publicity, for there is little more effective a deterrent than public
humiliation.
WILL UNION MEETING SET THE, TREND
To-morrow sees the first I.C. Union meeting of this academic
year. At the time of going to press neither the President or the Secre-
tary had any idea what the final agenda would be. This first meeting
is traditionally the one where the previous year's accounts are pre-
sented—a laborious process which has been much reduced in recent
years. Inevitably the motion about where our carnival proceeds
should go will come up, and doubtless mental health, narrowly passed
over last year, will receive considerable support. There is talk of a
motion concerning the I.C. mascot " Phoenix," and where it should
be shown ; this topic has received much publicity of late, but is un-
likely to provide exciting debate. Perhaps it will be left to Mr.
Berry and his projected enquiry into the " state of the Union " to set
alight the stream of passion reserved by a few for this hardy topic.
Mr. Berry was instrumental in nearly filling the R.G.S. Hall last year
over N.U.S.; perhaps he can fill the concert hall over I.C.
T H E EDITOR WOULD LIKE T O THANK T H E
EVENING NEWS FOR THEIR GIFT OF
T W E L V E SALES TINS—THESE. WILL APPEAR
SHORTLY IN FELIX COLOURS.
Why
International?
Yes, why international? Why
the posters, meetings, festivals,
conferences? Can't we be left in
peace? World peace? Well, that's
another issue. Leave it all to them.
You know, the United Nations
and all that. And another thing,
all this Freedom From Hunger
Campaign talk leaves me cold.
Everyone knows that millions are
starving, but what do you expect
me to do about it? Let's face it,
I can hardly afford a good meal
for myself and you expect me to
feed half the world. Population
explosion? Well, it's not my
fault, is it? Anyway, none of this
will affect me, so why should I
bother about it? Do something,
did you say? Support the United
Nations? Take an interest in
world affairs? Now wait a minute,
lets be realistic. What can I do?
Start supporting the I.C. Inter-
national Relations Club? Well, I
must admit that the idea had never
occurred to*me.
P. A . RIDING
C
E
N
T
R
E
4
2
The speaker at the next meet-
ing of the Literary Society, to be
held on Wednesday, November
13th, at 7.30 p.m. in Falmouth
Hall, will be Clive Barker, the
Director of Drama at Arnold
Weskers " Centre 42." The fol-
lowing week, on November 20th,
the society will have as its guest
John Chapman, author of some
of the famous " Whitehall
Farces" (" Dry Rot," for ex-
ample) and many television plays
including the recent series "Hugh
and I." Mr. Chapman has an-
nounced his intention of " kill-
ing literature stone dead," so this
should prove a most interesting
evening. All members of I.C. are
welcome at these meetings, which
are quite informal and provide
ample opportunity for discussion
(and coffee) with the speaker.
D
e
p
a
r
t
m
e
n
t
a
l
It would possibly be an exag-
geration to state that all innova-
tions in this College were con-
ceived in the Electrical Engineer-
ing Department; it would be
true, however, to say that this is
outstanding in its progressiveness.
Under the ambitious leadership
of Sir Willis Jackson it has been
the first to attempt to civilise its
undergraduate philotechnic
morons by providing a course in
humanities. Second year electri-
cal students in addition have lec-
tures weekly in Social Anthro-
pology and in Political Science.
A third lecture course is soon to
be added to these in Industrial
Psychology.
The Electrical Department was
also first in instituting the third
year economics course held at
L.S.E., and is alone in requiring
all its students to take it.
INTERDEPARTMENTAL
COURSE
Th6 first interdepartmental
course ever at I.C. was proposed
by the Electrical Engineers, this
being in the Science of Materials.
This subject is considered to be
of fundamental importance to
most branches of science and en-
gineering, and the course is open
to postgraduates in the depart-
ments of Chemical, Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering, and of
Chemistry, Mathematics, Metal-
lurgy and Physics.
Another idea of this depart-
ment has been to have as lec-
turers two engineers also em-
ployed in Industry at the present
time; the close contact thus
achieved between Industry and
the Department being of benefit
to both.
CHEAPER T.V.
Professor C. Cherry's work on
the compression of bandwidth of
television signals is showing signs
of success. At present, television
is very inefficient in that a very
large amount of superfluous de-
tail is transmitted along with the
essential signal. Professor Cherry
and his research group have been
able to remove about two-thirds
of this excess detail from a tele-
vision picture without causing
any apparent deterioration of the
picture. The remainder can be
accommodated in a narrower
band-width. The quantity of in-
formation that can be trans-
mitted along a line is limited by
the bandwidth of the individual
signals. Thus, the B.B.C. who
pay £10,000 per mile of line per
year to the G.P.O., would have
their costs appreciably reduced if
signal bandwidths were reduced
by two-thirds.
H. T. DAVIS.
THE EDITOR REGRETS . . .
that some articles submitted of
a less topical nature or perhaps
repetitive have been omitted.
Some of these are being held over
for the next issue. Advertising
revenue does not permit us to
print a larger issue economically.

