music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 12 December 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair, Susan Yu & James Houghton
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
Friday 12 December 2008 felix
Music
Hot Chip
Made In The Dark
EMI
If you’ve not moved your arms and legs rhythmically up and down
to the sound of Ready for the Floor at least once in some skanky
indie club then what the fuck have you been doing for the last year?
While arguably not their best album, Made in The Dark has been a
pretty massive success for Hot Chip, getting top marks from hun-
dreds of critics and even a respectable 7.012/10 from Pitchfork.
Who would have known that mixing synthy electropop with nerdy
virginal vocals would have made such a well received album.
Foals
Antidotes
Sub Pop
“Thats one step one step two step, thats two steps two steps speed
bikes, thats one step one step two step, thats two step dance step
speed bikes, thats one side one side one side, thats one side two
steps speed bikes, lets swim lets swim lets swim this song, lets
swim lets swim lets swim this song”. Nice.
Is this math-rock? Math-pop? Indie-dance-math-punk? Whatev-
er, its ace and you knows it. I once sat next to them in Durrr - does
that make me cool? Damn right it does.
Flying Lotus
Los Angeles
Warp Records
This album is the definition of the underground L.A. sound, em-
bodying the best of a new emerging scene that has come out of The
Angels in the last few years - eclectic electro (eclectro) synth, bass
heavy and floral.
Relatively new to the music scene with only a couple of odd
samplers and EP’s to this name, this release is Flying Lotus’ first
to achieve any amount of mainstream success, and hopefully not
the last.
Los Campesinos!
Hold On Now, Youngster...
Wichita
I still can’t say it right, what kind of a stupid name is this anyway?
Luckily for them our reviewers say that they’ve got the tunes to
pull it off (that means, the music sounds good, not it is nice to
masturbate to). Personally, I’m more of Jofo fan, not that the two
are mutually exclusive, but for kind of similar sounding bands
there has to be a bit of favouritism.
Don’t get me wrong, it’s a great album and anyone who don’t like
‘You Me Dancing’ or ‘My Year in Lists’ don’t got no brains.
M83
Saturdays=Youth
EMI
An album looking back at teenage troubles in the 80’s doesn’t
sound too appealing does it? Well you’re wrong there, it’s a great
idea. A loving homage to the past, Saturdays=Youth manages to
sounds fresh and exciting without ending up cheesy or clichéd as
could have happened if the album hadn’t been masterminded by
electronic-shoe-party god Anthony Gonzalez.
There’s no filler here – each song fits perfectly, meaning this
album well deserves it’s place in any end of year list.
MGMT
Oracular Spectacular
SonyBMG
MGMT are pretty big up in the game right about now, but do you
really like them? Really? Don’t you think they are a bit ‘flavour of
the month’? Will you be listening to this band in a year’s time?
When your kids search through your CD collection in 20 years and
find your copy of Oracular Spectacular, will you be able to say with
pride “That’s what we used to listen to, not like that shit you and
your idiot mates listen to now” or will you feel a pang of shame that
you spent your life listening to this emotionless vacuous drivel?
Portishead
Third
Universal
“If I gotsta bring it to you cowards then its gonna be quick /All your
mens up in the jail before, suck my dick / And all them other cats
you run with - get done with, dumb quick / How the fuck you gon-
na cross the dog with some bum shit?” It’s Beth Gibbobs distinctive
voice and vocal style which makes this album recognisable as Port-
ishead. Musically it’s more experimental than their previous work
with a darker, more gritty atmosphere. With the support of nearly
all our reviewers, Portishead must be doing something right.
TV On The Radio
Dear Science
4ad
TV or ‘television’ is a popular entertainment medium involving
both visual stimuli and audio ones. Radio as a medium only en-
compasses the latter of these. For TV to be on the radio, one would
miss the visual part of the broadcast all together, only experiencing
the audio part. Thus, the band ‘TV On The Radio’ either have little
conception of these two media platforms, or else are indulging in
some kind of ironic funny-business. Careful, boys! Irony can be a
slippery adversary, but if you master her you will be rewarded.
Vampire Weekend
Vampire Weekend
XL Recordings
‘K’ is an important letter to pronounce correctly when addressing
a Russian bartender. “Voda” is water, while “Vodka” is a beverage.
The ‘k’ is equally important for Vampire Weekend, being the elev-
enth letter and beginning of the fourth syllable of their name.
Their s/t album was one of those records filled with summery
pop songs that can be heard everywhere constantly for the three
months we have away from this godawful place. Something about
Paul Simon having done it all before….
Youthmovies
Good Nature
Drowned in Sound
With a dramatic change in sound to go with their new shortened
name, Youthmovies’ experimental pop album Good Nature made
a large impact on the blogging scene but didn’t receive the main-
stream success that it well deserves.
Mixing loads of genres up in one album normally leads to a dis-
jointed, haphazard feel but Youthmovies manage to pull it all to-
gether crafting an excellent album of musical song rhythm/tune
combos.
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
A retrospective: Top ten of 2008
Two plus eight equals ten. Top ten! 2008 has been a memorable year in music, and it is with a heavy heart
and several crates of Lambrini Bucks Fizz that we will soon see it draw to a close. So what does 2009 have to
contend with? Here’s felix’s top ten albums of 2008 as voted for by the music.felix reviewing team.
The third single from The Shortwave
Set’s Danger Mouse-produced so-
phomore album sees these “Victorian
Funksters” continue in their quirky,
psychedelic-pop ways. ‘Glitches ‘n’
Bugs’ is a bouncy whirl of sunshine-y
fluff with the kind of crunchy lo-fi pro-
duction that’s straight out of The Flam-
ing Lips’ school of not-quite-from-this-
plane-of-existence whimsy. Pettitt and
Bjorsne take turns on singing verses
before duet-ing on the euphoric cho-
rus. I couldn’t tell you what they’re go-
ing on about and they very much stick
to pop’s “everything must rhyme!” style
of song writing, but I guess that only
makes the tune even more insanely
catchy. The single includes a club-
ready mix, but it’s Marshmallow Mike’s
remix that’s worth noting as he piles up
the psychedelia, slathers on the synths
and splatters chirping electronica all
over the track. It’s the kind of song that
makes you open your window in the
morning hoping to see people bounc-
ing to work on space-hoppers while
your house functions with the aid of
clunky Wallace and Gromit-esque con-
traptions. Or something.
Jorge Costa
The music world’s most impressively
moustached man (yeah, keep trying
Eugene Hütz!) is currently touring
the U.K. in a welcome return to work-
ing with his band of 25 years, the Bad
Seeds, who (in my opinion) boast the
best band name of all time.
Having turned his hand to writing
soundtracks, screenplays, and acting,
Nick is back doing what he does best:
bellowing out his own poetic lyrics in
his distinctive deep, sexy growl.
Constantly referred to as something
of a goth-rock-postpunk-country-
experimental-ballad-songwriter, I feel
Nick Cave has skated around such
genre labels with ease, and with a back
catalogue several pages long, carved
his own distinct and incomparable
sound.
Their recent album: “Dig!!! Lazarus
Dig!!!” is one of their best, raw and
beautiful from the first track to the
last, a sweeping landscape of deep
basslines, twangy scratchy guitars and
gospel-like organs. It is good enough
that you will forgive them for the su-
perfluous punctuation in the title.
Nick Cave has shed the tragic tor-
tured soul crooning that reverberates
through previous albums but retained
the dark humour, strong imagery and
raw sexuality which have always been
strong themes in his music.
Nick Cave certainly seems to find
himself in a much better place these
days than his years addicted to heroin
and frequently dropping acid could
The Hours, Antony Genn and Martin
Slattery, already have a pretty impres-
sive CV between them boasting work-
ing with the Joe Strummer, Pulp, and
Elastica. I guess I shouldn’t have been
quite so surprised when Ronnie Wood
bustles past me to try and get a bit
nearer the front. Also in attendance
was Serj from Kasabian.
The venue, Proud Galleries, tucked
away inside the stables market in
Camden is an amazing conversion
of a stable block retaining most of its
original features creating quite a sur-
real atmosphere. This continued when
the band took to the stage in front of
Tape Song is the latest offering from
Allison Mosshart and James Hince
as the Kills. Mossharts voice, ini-
tially quite understated, seduces you
through the song to a more urgent
chorus with simple repeated lyrics,
‘You’ve got to go steal ahead’. The band
has always shown a tendency for mini-
malist lyrics, this being no exception.
Production seems to have stepped up a
few notches for the single version, and
makes it certainly one of their more
radio friendly songs but at the expense
of something very fundamental. The
band’s lofi charm and raw energy are
diffused by extra layers such as added
guitars, and it makes the song sound
bit too polished for its own good. The
B Side ‘London Hates You’ on the
other hand feels like the band are back
in their natural environment. It’s raw
with fuzzy edges and hints at influ-
ences such as The Velvet Underground
and PJ Harvey. Despite perhaps being
overdressed, Tape Song has a good
skeleton underneath and if your in-
trigued I would definitely recommend
checking out the single’s parent album
‘Midnight Boom’.
If you haven't already heard about Gas-
light Anthem, chances are you will be
hearing a lot about them in the next
year to come. Hailing from the home-
state of Bruce Springsteen and the
more punkier likes of Bouncing Souls
and Thursday, this young New Jersey
quartet have managed to reference all
these diverse influences in a soul-stir-
ring brew of soulful punk and bluesy
tinges with their latest effort the ‘59
sound’. Having recently finished a gi-
ant US tour with Alkaline Trio, Thrice
and Rise Against, Gaslight Anthem are
in UK for a mere three dates as warm-
up to their full European tour next
year, which is going to include a head-
line slot for the NME Awards Show at
Shepherds Bush Empire. The Astoria
II show tonight is completely sold out,
most likely driven by the flurry of re-
cent media activity surrounding the
band, including rave reviews for the
album and their previous gigs in the
capital and a coveted slot at Reading
Festival from the likes of Rolling Stone,
Pitchfork and Kerrang to name but a
few magazines.
The two support bands for tonight's
show are the King Blues and Former
Cell Mates, both London-based hy-
brid-punk bands that are part of a
Single Review
The Shortwave Set
Glitches ‘n’ Bugs
Wall of Sound
HHHHI
It is time that we wrapped up this year
for good. I’m sure that Christmas is on
your mind. Mince pies, mulled wine,
Santa and his little helpers dishing
out presents, carol singing, Christ-
mas music helping to get your feet and
toes moving and even hopefully being
granted with a white Christmas and
some mischief under the mistletoe. It’s
open-ended for sure. Talking of Christ-
mas tunes, Christmas hasn’t officially
arrived until I hear my favourite which
is the classic ‘Last Christmas.’ How can
one resist a bit of Wham? You might,
but I admit defeat on this one. ‘Last
Christmas, I gave you my heart/But the
very next day, You gave it away/This
year, to save me from tears/ I’ll give it
to someone special.’
For me, like any reasonable being,
Christmas is a time of reflection where
I think, honestly, what has happened
to me this year, if anything at all. Cli-
chéd and all, but you cannot forget
the good, the bad and the miscellane-
ous that touched our lives this year. In
terms of music, this last issue of the
term, we have a diverse array of the
‘Top 10 albums of the 2008,’ compiled
by our lovely and faithful reviewers.
2008 has brought us a mixed bag of
musical talents, from Duffy to Cage
the Elephant to Katy Perry. Personally,
I have fallen for Bon Iver, not the usual,
conventional type of mainstream pop/
rock band that have catapulted onto
the scene this year. What captured
me and many other listeners is prob-
ably their effortless beautiful, laidback
indie rock/folk acoustic style of ambi-
ence and emotive soundscapes, devoid
of complication, of artificialness and
overuse of fancy technology, with only
the aching poignancy of the music dic-
tating it all. Diverging from my roots
in the so-called mainstream music, I
haven’t regretted picking up this album
and adding it to my Itunes library. Be
brave and try new things. That is one
of my inherent mottos that I have ad-
hered to as a kid and I shall continue
to stick to it, regardless of outside in-
terference. So, let’s see if any of the fin-
est records of the year has winded up
in your collections or not, if not, some
useful hinting to Santa could well do
the job. Don’t be afraid of listening to
new music/bands/artists, because if
you don’t give it a chance, how can you
even honestly put your hand on your
My Top 10 albums of 2008
1. The Killers -Day and Age
2. Bon Iver -For Emma,
Forever Ago
3. Goldfrapp -Seventh Tree
4. Keane- Perfect Symmetry
5. Hot Chip- Made in the Dark
6. Pendulum- In Silico
7. Coldplay- Viva la Vida
8. Jamie Lidell- Jim
9. The Verve- Forth
10. MGMT- Oracular
Spectacular
Single Review
The Kills
Tape Song/ London Hates You
Domino
HHHHI
Gig Review
The Hours
Proud Galleries, Camden
HHIII
The Hours bathed in green & magenta, feeling the festive cheer for sure
Gig Review
Gaslight Anthem
Astoria II
HHHHH
Latest singles & live gig reviews for your pleasure
Musical highlights of 2008
Susan Yu
Music Editor
heart and say damn you, it sucks like
hell and I’m gonna bin it now. There
you go. Lecture over. Let’s hope 2009
will bring us with more stunning mu-
sic, seeing the return of Franz Ferdi-
nand, U2, Michael Jackson and many
more. See you all next year! Bon Iver aka Justin Vernon
Christopher Walmsley
Christopher Walmsley
a large Damien Hirst designed psyca-
delic skull whom is another one of the
group’s ‘Famous Friends’.
Taking to the stage, the band played
through a set of piano and guitar based
Britpop starting with fan favourite,
the anthemic single from their previ-
ous album ‘Ali in the Jungle’ which sets
the room pulsating with energy. As
the evening progresses its clear some
songs are stronger than others. For ex-
ample their new single, piano led ‘See
the Light’ contrastingly was far less up-
beat and felt rather bloated. It seemed
to meander around the point, trickling
rather than flowing with the more am-
bient landscape of the song becoming
gradually disinteresting.
Unfortunately there are countless
other bands with this sort of sound and
tonight The Hours didn’t really exhibit
anything to distinguish them from the
pack. There was energy and the per-
formance very technically very good,
but there wasn’t really a spark in their
music to entice me.
Ushnish Banerjee
now-burgeoning underground scene
that is on the brink of breaking out into
the mainstream. Former Cell Mates
put on a decent show with their brand
of good-time rock and just like a good
appetiser when you're dining out, it
makes you itch for the main meal and
the crowd's anticipation for the head-
line act is already getting feverish. That
the gig is on a Friday night means that
getting slightly tanked is entirely justi-
fiable, so the bars at the former Mean
Fiddler venue are being kept busy, as
the punters all join in for a few drinks
to lubricate themselves for the night
ahead.
Next up are the King Blues, a band
that have the makings of UK's very own
Bedouin Soundclash, they really get
the crowd going with their feel-good
anthemic choruses and fusion of reg-
gae, urban and punk in one passionate
mix. The highlight of their set comes
when they dedicate a song to the Brit-
ish Nationalist Party in one visceral
and bileful reggae track which sees the
singer really coming into his own with
biting aggression and a palpable con-
tempt towards the rascist ideals of the
notorious political party.
With the support bands out of the
way, all that's left is for Gaslight An-
them to show if they're worth as much
live as they are on record. Opening
their set with the Dickens-influenced
‘Great Expectations’, the band are ab-
solutely on fire tonight and that the
crowd is singing back every word of
every song shows just how much im-
pact this quartet is having on our capi-
tal. Ploughing through a passionate set
that includes such gems as their latest
single 'Old White Lincoln' and the title
track of the album '59 sound', singer
Brian Fallon shows just how much
heart and soul a guy can put into his
songs as he has every member of the
1000-strong crowd in the palm of his
hand. At the bar, I even talked to a
few guys who trekked all the way from
Cornwall to come see 'their favourite
band' just for the single show.
I have been to a lot of gigs in my time
and I must say that I have never expe-
rienced an atmosphere so friendly and
passionate from a crowd as tonight,
this gig had the magical workings of
one which sees a band being propelled
to the ranks of legends simply through
their ability to just mesmerise audi-
ences with an arsenal of intricate and
soul-stirring tunes. Just before the set
closer, Brian Fallon takes a humble op-
portunity to thank the crowd for show-
ing them the intense love and support
they are receiving in the UK before
closing the set with the anthemic 'Say
I Won’t Recognise' from their first re-
lease from 2007. For those fortunate
enough to have attended this gig, it is
truly a memory to embrace as this will
probably be one of the last opportuni-
ties to witness Gaslight Anthem at a
venue the size of Astoria, they are defi-
nitely destined for bigger things in the
very near future.
Gig Review
Nick Cave
HHHHI
Alexandra Ashford
have led to (Shane McGowan has not
been so lucky…).
His enthusiasm and love of perform-
ing shines through as he giddily darts
around the stage in ways a skinny-
jeaned indie front man half his age
wouldn’t keep up with.
The Bad Seeds consist of men with
various degrees of facial hair rang-
ing from clean shaven to full on hobo
beard, with a plethora of keyboards,
drum kits and musical instruments
which they play with the incredible
skill and relaxed ease that must only
come from decades of playing.
The Troxy is an interesting choice
of venue, a pastel-coloured, art deco
listed building out on the DLR line in
Limehouse, usually used for weddings
and conferences.
The sound quality however, was
closer to perfection than most regular
gig venues can achieve. Being slightly
late due to vague directions (3 minutes
walk from Limehouse, but which di-
rection?) the band were finishing their
opening song when I walked in, before
launching into the title track of “Dig!!!
Lazarus Dig!!!” which stirred up the at-
mosphere with it’s punchy chanting.
“Black Betty” is an old American folk
song made famous by Leadbelly in the
1940s, given fresh drive by tribal drum-
ming and Nick Cave’s deep roar. The
high point of the set was “The Mercy
Seat”, a haunting rapturous anthem,
telling the tale of a man about to be
electrocuted by electric chair. (Which,
by the way, is a song written by Nick
Cave that was covered by Johnny Cash,
as many supposed Cash aficionados
ought to learn.)
The band finished by taking requests
from the audience which included “We
Call Upon the Author” as well as “I Let
Love In” and what Nick Cave sardoni-
cally called his most spiritual song,
“Hard on for Love”.
Gaslight Anthem just chillin’, relaxin and all that stuff

