6 felix Friday 12 December 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
Happy Birthday felix!
Alice Rowlands
News Correspondent
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW7 3ES
(1 Minute walk from
South Kensington Tube)
CASH ONLY
‘Still the best student
offer in South
Kensington!’
ONLY BY EXPERIENCED STYLISTS
£26* ..... LADIES
£20 ..... MEN
*£36 with Blowdry
Telephone 0 2 0 7 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
w w w. f r e s h h a i r d r e s s e r s . c o . u k
NOW 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL
COLOURING SERVICES
The world beyond
college walls
Riots have hit Greece for several consecutive days as police clashed with pro-
testers in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras and other major cities. Shops were
set alight and groups of students threw rocks and petrol bombs as the po-
lice responded with tear gas in what is the country’s worst street fighting in
decades.
The riots were triggered by the shooting of 15 year old Alexandros Grigo-
ropoulos by a police officer. In addition, a one-day general strike –which was
planned before the shooting by trade unions - added to the current strain
between the Greek state and society.
Greece has seen several one-day strikes during the year in protest against
the government’s economic reforms in the midst of a worsening economy,
and the striking workers have demand Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis’
government be replaced. The government’s call for calm has largely been
ignored and many fear the violence could last for days.
Greece: Riots after shooting of 15 year
old continue in major cities
Pakistan: Believed masterminds
behind Mumbai attacks captured
Pakistani police are questioning two militants captured in a raid, who are
suspected of being the masterminds behind the recent attacks in Mumbai.
Witnesses reported seeing Pakistani military helicopters and troops ap-
proach a camp in Pakistani-controlled Kashmir, before explosions were
heard. Pakistan has been under intense pressure from India to act against
militants on its side of the border after the Mumbai attacks which left at least
170 people dead.
About a dozen people are being held after several similar raids in the past
week, and Pakistani
Prime Minister Yousuf
Raza Gilani said the
arrests showed that Pa-
kistan was doing all it
could to track down the
attackers. Indian police
are also investigating
links to home-grown
terrorism in their hunt
to find those responsi-
ble for the attack.
Edited by Hassan Joudi
Yes that’s right, felix is one year older
and has reached the ripe old age of 59.
The very first issue of felix was printed
on the 9th December 1949. Back in the
olden days, felix was produced on a
typewriter; unconfirmed reports sug-
gest that even without the help of a
word processor and spell-checker, the
number of spelling and grammar mis-
takes were lower than in felix of recent
years.
Ten years later, felix was edited by R.F
Kerrod, who had three typists (Sheila,
Liz and Carol) at his disposal! In their
Christmas issue felix reported on a
dance held in celebration of the ninth
birthday of felix himself as well as res-
cuing the RCSU mascot ‘Theta’ from
some pesky Guildsmen. Said Guilds-
men submerged Theta in the Round
Pond in Kensington Gardens as part
of one of their ‘experiments’ leaving
a ‘gallant’ postgrad scientist to rescue
his beloved Theta, while chest deep
in an icy cesspool, sorry, pond. Also
in the paper, is a copy of correspond-
ence between the Rector and Donald
Campbell, congratulating him on his
successful water-speed record. Mr
Campbell responded, thanking college
for their support for his project.
By 1978 (no, we don’t know what
happened to the sixties either!) fe-
lix was a weekly newspaper, in their
Christmas issue, front-page news was
the ‘vandalism’ of the two lions at the
foot of the Queen’s Tower. Both were
painted bright red in the early hours of
the morning! It was thought the perpe-
trators were members of another col-
lege, acting in retaliation for a mascot
raid by IC students.
In 1988, felix reported on plans by
Imperial College Union to lobby par-
liament over plans to introduce ‘top
up loans’ for students while reducing
grants. The lobby was widely support-
ed by college, with most departments
cancelling lectures for the day, and we
thought Imperial students had always
been apathetic!
In 1998 felix was edited by Ed Sex-
ton, who reported on a spate of thefts
from campus as well as health centre
cut-backs. While the inside pages dis-
cussed a police raid of a Club and “no-
torious drug den” on Denmark Place.
Police abseiled in from the roof and ac-
cording to on King’s student, the police
told them to “get down on the f*cking
floor”! While he described how “many
of us just
The original felix enjoying the company of the more recent editions

