8 felix Friday 12 December 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 12 December 2008 felix
Comment
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Y
es, yes, yes, it’s Christmas.
That time of year when, for
some reason, people seem
to act like complete buf-
foons and fail to remember
the proper reason for the holiday. Don’t
worry, this isn’t a rant on religion. Well,
it is to some extent, but it’s more of a
rant on the way people behave.
A long time ago, some 2009 years ago
to be precise, a miracle happened in a
manger. For several hundreds of years,
this time of year was a celebration
of that miracle, despite the fact that
it more than likely happened in the
spring sometime, but again, let’s not
deviate. So Christmas, for centuries
and even still today is a celebration and
a time for friends and family to get to-
gether. How this time is spent together
however, has changed dramatically.
Take this little family we have right
here on these two pages. Without a
doubt, these three columnists are, in a
very strange and slightly obscure way,
my family. You have the two children
who just won’t stop bickering at each
other, yet at the same time you don’t
want to stop them bickering because
you find them highly entertaining.
Then you’ve got the more mature, yet
still younger than myself, brother who
keeps to himself and comments every
now and then on how badly the kids
are behaving. You agree, but again, you
just can’t help it as it’s just too fun.
So this little Christmas dinner we
have on these two pages is as dys-
functional as many other ‘Christmas
Dinners’. Maybe it’s just me and my
upbringing (in case you haven’t fig-
ured this out yet, I’m Serbian!) where
Christmas dinner meant sitting with
the family and enjoying a nice meal.
Then again maybe it is just all the hype
that these holidays seem to get over
the television and in films, although
for some reason, it aggravates me that
so many people simply call any dinner
they have at this time of year a Christ-
mas dinner, and then proceed to get
a little bit too merry, with the whole
evening descending into chaos.
Some of you out there might think
that I am being a bit of a hypocrite as
I have organised several dinners at this
time of year where the evening has de-
scended into a bit of a mess. But that’s
not the point I want you take away
here. Let’s try and not use this time
as an extra reason to get that little bit
more drunk than we normally do, or
if you are, let’s not call it a Christmas
Dinner, maybe just call it a Winter Din-
ner so that we can keep those PC peo-
ple very happy.
But what do I care, my Christmas
isn’t until January so this is just an-
other month for me enjoying endless
films and TV shows. So for now, Merry
Christmas everyone, and I’ll see you all
in the new year as felix enters its 60th
year. Wow, that cat looks good for its
age.
So this is
Christmas?
Imperial Girl: Don’t send the
wrong message with perfume
And I’ll look down and whisper, “No”
T
he Christmas season is
here and with it comes the
sometimes pointless buy-
ing of gifts. Among these
gifts is bound be choco-
lates, jewellery and almost certainly
perfume. These are arguably the easi-
est of gifts to buy for a girl. Likewise
guys might expect to receive a scarf,
cuff-links and aftershave.
I like to steer away from chocolates,
as this is not a Christmas gift but an
extra 2-3 hours in the gym. Jewellery
is nice but I honestly tend to find even
the people that know me the best get
my jewellery taste wrong. It seems that
people tend to buy the jewellery they
find attractive for someone else, rather
than the jewellery the recipient would
actually find attractive. Finally there is
the perfume which is more than likely
to be brought for a girl by a guy.
Now this is something of intrigue.
Scientific tests show that we are at-
tracted to our mates via their natural
scent. A perfume is often used as an
artificial scent to impersonate what
the user deems as more attractive. My
attraction to a guy has been increased
ten-fold if he smells good. And it’s not
just that it smells good, it’s that this
particular perfume attracts me. I know
it, every time I smell it. And every
time I smell it, I know that however
I felt about the guy before I smelt it, I
feel closer to him afterwards – even
though I still don’t know the name of
it.
Ithinkit’sthesameforguyswithgirls.
A girl often becomes more attractive
when she’s not just wearing a nice per-
fume but the “right” perfume. So this
brings me back to the original point.
When a guy buys a girl a perfume is
he trying to say this is what I want my
girlfriend to smell like, or is it he just
picking anything up that he thinks is
popular? If a girl buys a girl perfume
as a friend, is it recommended that she
uses that scent because it has been
picked by someone who isn’t trying to
attract the girl as partner?
One can often find small versions of
perfumes in a selection pack. Is that re-
ally helpful? Or have they blended the
selection such that all the perfumes in
the selection carry at least a few of the
same base notes as each other. Or it
is just a set of the most popular ones
together hence throwing the end user
into a frenzy of confusing scents?
I guess we should take heed this
Christmas when receiving or buying
perfume as a gift. We should under-
stand what message we are literally
giving off when we use the power of
the perfume. I urge you to watch the
film Perfume if you haven’t already, it
will surely inspire you to learn more
about its importance in modern his-
tory to supplement the knowledge we
already have on ancient history; such
as perfumes and the Egyptians.
More importantly, if you get in
right you might be more successful in
your relationships!
Merry Christmas everyone... and see
you in the New Year. Keep me posted
– imperialgirl@imperial.ac.uk – over
and out! x
“We should
take heed this
Christmas
when buying
perfume as a
gift”
T
he definitive spoken ver-
sion of the quote I’ve
mangled above is spoken
by Leonard Nimoy, and
comes from the acclaimed
videogame Civilisation IV. It’s origi-
nally one of those lost-in-translation
French pieces, spoken by Louis The
Somethingorother, explaining that he
WAS the nation of France. It’s spoken
with such arrogance and simplicity that
you get a feeling for what’s being said.
Am I an arrogant twat to use this title?
Of course I am. What did you expect.
You know, I was offered the chance
to face-off IG this week in a one-page
showdown, fancy layout and all. I de-
clined. I declined because there was
nothing I found noteworthy in her arti-
cle last week – adoption is pretty okay,
all said – and the drivel that preceded it
made so little sense that fanning a tiny
ember into a fire of argument seemed
too much effort. But I did consider the
drivel itself. Because the strange thing
about it was, she hardly ever men-
tioned me.
Remember the criticisms she had
of my violent tone? I never said those
things. It was the women I spoke to,
the women who emailed me who had
read her columns previously and were
disgusted and angry. Remember her
dislike of my Wikipedia piece? I have
no Wikipedia piece. Instead it was
the inventive and hardworking felix
contributor Gilead who had written
that; though I have to say that I’m as
offended by her insulting of his work
as I would have been had she actually
gotten her facts right. I found it amus-
ing that she had confused me with so
many groups of people. But, on reflec-
tion, maybe she was right.
Maybe she was right, because there
are a lot of downtrodden and ignored
groups of people at Imperial. A lot of
people who have to put up with being
swept under a rug, buried beneath lay-
er upon layer of festering, fermented
bullshit, dried in the heat of a thousand
burning egos. A lot of people who were
promised freedom from stereotypes
and social standards at university, only
to find that the standards had followed
them along, this time gilded with a thin
veneer of intellectual superiority. A lot
of people who are tired of being used as
easy targets – easy targets for mindless
arseholes in need of a quick ego boost,
easy targets for passive-aggressive so-
cialites looking for more worshippers,
easy targets for pseudo-rebels who
want to claim they speak for all wom-
en, when most women want to be seen
as individuals rather than comrades-
in-arms in some grand nouveau sexual
revolution.
And I thought about these people a
bit more. I thought about how most of
them probably feel quite disconnected.
They might have a few friends they can
rely on, but most of them are broken
up, kept apart from others out of the
simple fact that they are all so individ-
ual. Foreign students who are maligned
because people make assumptions
about their accents. People with per-
sonal principles who are shunned be-
cause they won’t spend weekends look-
ing for a quick fuck and a cheap high.
The enthusiastic people who slave long
into the nights to produce this paper,
only to hear it being shat on by every
“I-could-do-better” dickhead showing
Angry Geek dit, “Je suis Imperial”
“I’m happy
to represent
Imperial’s other
side: I will be
angry for them”
off to his friends in the JCR.
Fact is, it’s time these people started
making some noise. It’s time these
people decided that University doesn’t
have to be another four years of quiet
endurance. It’s time these people start-
ed to get Angry. Because you’re right,
Emo Girl. There isn’t enough diver-
sity in this paper. There are too many
voices chirruping the tired ideas of the
student stereotype. Too many “aren’t I
right, girls?” and “know what I mean,
fellas?” But until these people get An-
gry, I will be Angry for them. If Impe-
rial Girl wants to make me the stand-
ard bearer of the ignored, the tired, the
lonely and the underappreciated, then
that’s fine. I’m more than happy to rep-
resent Imperial’s other side.
You know, because Imperial Girl
barely mentioned anything I had done
in last week’s comment, I found myself
taking offence at the illustration and
caption, showing a boxer beaten to the
floor. In reality, she’d danced around
me, spitting and swearing at the crowd
but never making a move on me. But
if a fighter is needed, and no-one else
will step forward, then believe me - I’ll
knock my fists together, take a swig
from the water bottle, and take any
blows coming. But I won’t be floored.
Compliments of the season. I’ll see
you all in a few weeks for Round Two.
Gilead Amit offers a vignette from daily life. Why not?
W
e should have a
boardgameofsome
kind in the flat”, my
flatmate said to me
the other day.
“Mmm.” I seem to remember
replying.
“I mean, something to play when we
have guests. You know, a quiet evening
in.”			
“Uh-huh”, said I, extemporizing; “I
saw a game of Anti-Monopoly in a
shop window round the corner – ‘the
game for the 21st Century’, it said.”
“Shouldn’t that be Financial Risk?”
“Yeuch” I smiled appreciative-
ly. I turned to the next page in my
textbook.
“How about a good game of Rum-
mikub?” he suggested.
“Why the hell not,” I said. “You’re
only young once.”
Later on in the week, I walked
through the door of our apartment to
see a large white bag marked ‘Ham-
ley’s’ hanging off the back of a chair.
“What’s in the bag?” I asked, the fa-
miliar sounds of Mario getting his den-
im overalls handed to him on a platter
floated through from the Wii station.
“Bag. What is?” I raise my voice as I
hang up my coat.
“This,” it was revealed to me with a
dramatic flourish, “is the finest game
of Rummikub available at Hamley’s.”
The comforting blue box was pulled
out on to the table, the multicoloured
numbers grinning at us from the sides
of the container.
“Awesome,” I think I said. It may have
been “brilliant”. I somehow doubt I
went for either ‘cool’ or ‘nifty’ but the
excitement of the moment may have
gotten to me.
“We should play a game at some
point,” the beep-beep-beep-bip-bip-
beep resumed from down the hall.
“Well”, said I, producing my girlfriend
from beneath the mountain of clothes
December saw fit to lay on our shoul-
ders. “We could play a game now”.
A range of distinct sounds of approv-
al came from both prospective Rum-
mikubists. Mario excused himself and
retired with dignity.
“Have you played Rummikub be-
fore?” asked my flatmate.
“I love it. I used to play it all the time
with my family.” My flatmate and I
exchange a barely perceptible nod of
approval.
We sit down at the table and within
the half hour have managed to remove
the cellophane wrapping.
“You know,” I remark, putting the
Stanley knife away, “not since the Tar-
dis has a blue box proved that difficult
to open.”
“Are you comparing a multiplayer,
tile-based board game to intergalactic
travel by the side of the Doctor?” asked
my flatmate.
“Yes.”
He snorts involuntarily. “I like your
style.” Our third wheel was start-
ing to look bemused and not a little
embarrassed.
“Right,” said the f.m, opening the
box. “Let’s get started.” He threw him-
self among the small brown flaps that
are somehow meant to support the
number stands. “You try,” he says petu-
lantly after a while, throwing a tangled
skein of brown plastic in my direction.
Snap.
No, I didn’t say it. No-one said it. It
falls in the same classification as the
Mario theme tune above (yes, that’s
what it was supposed to be). You see
the absence of quotation marks? That’s
a stage direction. Important ambient
noise intended to lend artistic verisi-
militude to an otherwise bald and un-
convincing narrative. All right?
Snap. Snap. “There you go.” Snap.
Snap. Snap.
“We’re only three”, remarks my sig-
nificant other.
“I got a little carried away.”
My flatmate had by this point sunk
his teeth into the bag containing the
numbered pieces and sprayed them
across the table in a random act of sav-
agery. “Sorry”, he chuckled, his mouth
still full of erstwhile airtight plastic.
The three of us turn the pieces over
on the tabletop and move them round
in broad, sweeping movements so
as to shuffle them properly. In case
you haven’t tried it before, it’s diffi-
cult to have three people make broad,
sweeping movements over one small
tabletop.
“Sorry” I say again, after having
fetched the antiseptic cream and the
elastaplast.
“It’s all right,” she assures me with her
remaining good eye. “Let’s start play-
ing already”.
As I ease back into the twenty centi-
metres of space left for me between the
table and the wall, my flatmate is fin-
ishing what seems to me to be a mini-
ature replica of the Taj Mahal made out
of tiles.
“Very attractive, I’m sure, but is this
really the time for scale modelling?”
He raises his eye from the plane of
the table and gets up off one knee. “It
is time.” He pauses to let the theme
music swell in his imagination: “Time
you learned how my family plays Rum-
mikub.” My girlfriend and I exchange
glances.
“In the tile bank”, he says, pointing
at his diminutive model of the White
House, “are 105 of the 106 tiles, divid-
ed into fifteen piles of seven. We each
take fourteen tiles, which is to say two
piles of seven, and leave the one tile
left over on top as the joker. This tile
cannot be used in normal play but can
be added to your hand if you need it
in order to complete your final move.
A move consists either of tiles of dif-
ferent colours with the same face value
or three or more same-coloured tiles
arranged sequentially from one to thir-
teen. Your first move must total more
than thirty, in whatever combination
or set of combinations you have on
your stand. You may interfere with the
tiles on the field of play only after hav-
ing made the first move. A blank tile,
once played, is locked in place and can
only be substituted for the numbered
tile it corresponds to. The other joker...
Gili, where’s the other joker?”
I hand him the two halves of the
tile in question, having unintention-
ally snapped it halfway through the
monologue.
“It fell.”
“All right, well, never mind. We’ll just
have to do without it.”
“Who goes first?” As the baby in the
room, I and my two piles of seven have
the honour of beginning the game. I
fiddle around for a few minutes on my
highly unstable tile-stand. “Well?”
“Hold on, hold on,” I say with my
tongue sticking out in concentra-
tion. On closer reflection, it probably
sounded more like “Harnghd arghth”.
I triumphantly seize a handful of tiles
and decisively lay them out on the glass
surface. “There. 11, 12, 13, 1 and 2. All
blue.” I raise my head for the praise
and adulation I feel I deserve. The two
look at me disgustedly, as though I was
something that had just climbed out of
the primordial ooze and onto the soles
of their shoes. “What?” I ask. A hand
descends and firmly hands me back the
1 and the 2.
“No. That’s not how it works” says
my flatmate, who looks pityingly at my
girlfriend. She edges her seat a few cen-
timetres further away. I bite through a
green eight in frustration.
“Take three more tiles,” she says to
me, prompting me to reach for the
pristine model village.
“What do you think you’re doing?”
my flatmate loudly enquires as he slaps
my hand.
“I was just filling up my stand.”
“Oh no. No reloading. This isn’t
Scrabble. You play, you get through
your tiles, you win. Simple.” My girl-
friend breaks a nail squeezing the arm-
rest of her chair as white smoke starts
rising from my ears.
“Sure” she says through clenched
teeth. “Makes more sense. You get a
more interesting game that way.” She
flashes a smile in my direction that sets
my hair on fire.
“That’s the way we always play it”
says my flatmate. “But if you want, I
could look through the rulebook...” He
makes a polite lunge in the direction
of the rulebook that almost sends him
flying out of his chair.
“Oh no, it’s no bother,” we mumble in
unison. “That sounds good.”
Three silent rounds later, my girl-
friend performs a brilliant tactical ma-
noeuvre, getting rid of most of her tiles
and using the remaining blank tile in
the process.
“Ahem” My flatmate pulls his family
doctor eyes. “I’m so sorry.” He regret-
fully informs her of the illegality of
moving a blank tile without perform-
ing an appropriate substitution first.
Three unprintable lines later, he too
has learned to compromise.
The game continues in silence, each
of us filled with resentment over play-
ing a game none of us recognizes any-
more. The overly formal ‘your turn’s
and ‘I’m done, thanks’s cut the silence
like icicles.
A temptation to send the whole game
flying onto the carpet overwhelms me,
but is diminished when I suddenly re-
alize I can clear my entire board in one
move.
As congratulations fly in my direc-
tion, my flatmate asks:
“So? Isn’t this a better way to play
Rummikub?”
I adjust my position on the newly-
won laurels.
“Yeah,” I say. “It’s not that bad.”
“Welcome to the family.” For some
reason, I feel dirty.
“The game continues in silence,
each of us filled with resentment
over playing a game none of us
recognise anymore. The formal
‘your turn’s and ‘I’m done, thanks’s
cut the silence like icicles”
One Rummikub player clearly couldn’t take the pressure (or the pain). Just for the record, violently ending board games when you’re losing is acceptable and to be applauded

