Part of 5
Live’s ex-
cellent ‘up
all night’
pro-
gramme
(which
also in-
cludes Dr.
Karl and
the Naked Scientist, reviewed in pre-
vious Podviews), Pods and Blogs is no
ordinary techie love-in. In just 25 min-
utes they manage to squeeze in guests
from Global Voices – a blog that cov-
ers issues as diverse as the elections in
Venezuela, the boozing king of Saudi
Arabia and China’s corrupt Google –
the Blip Festival, a music festival with
a twist – the music is all made using
video game noises – and Amplified
’08, which aims to bring together crea-
tive meedja-types from all over the
UK. Good presenting, if a little a little
fuddy-duddy (one feature on the hab-
its of “young people” on the net made
me cringe), but if the overall message
is anything to go by, the geek shall in-
herit the earth.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio/podcasts/pods/
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 12 December 2008
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 12 December 2008 felix
Science
Podview
Catherine Luckin
Science Reporter
You can
always tell
an Ameri-
can pod-
cast, right
from the
naff in-
tro music
and corny
advertising slogans. And everyone
sounds like they’re trying to get a job
as the next Hollywood-blockbuster-
trailer-guy. Sadly, This Week in Tech-
nology doesn’t live up to its arch title.
Instead it’s more TWiT by name, twit
by nature. I could only hack one (hour-
plus) episode, a seemingly never-end-
ing discussion about Wi-Fi on planes
together with plugs for Virgin Atlan-
tic (ok, we get it; you’re DESPERATE
for money) and discussions on the
merits of mile-high porn downloads.
Hmm, when your mother said ‘get out
more’...
http://thisweekintech.com/twit
Felix Whitton reviews technology ‘casts
Scientists in Japan have discovered
that a chemical found in garlic could
offer a new, injection free treatment
for diabetics. Research to be published
in January found that the compound
lowered blood sugar levels in diabetic
mice when given as a tablet.
One in twenty five people in the UK
suffer from diabetes and incidence is
increasing worldwide. Patients with
type 1 diabetes, which usually begins
during childhood, can currently only
be treated by regular injections. Those
with type 2, or adult-onset, diabetes
control the condition by altering their
diet or with drugs. This new research
opens the door to the possibility of an
oral treatment for both types, leading
to an injection free therapy for type 1
patients, a welcome prospect.
The study used a vanadium com-
pound isolated from garlic and is to
be published in the Royal Society of
Chemistry journal, Metallomics. It
builds on previous findings where in-
jection of the chemical into mice with
type 1 or 2 diabetes lowered blood
sugar levels and this was maintained
Garlic breath for good health
Duncan Casey
Science Correspondent
Cleanliness is connected to the sever-
ity of moral judgements, according to
research published in the journal Psy-
chological Science.
The study, carried out on univer-
sity students, exposed half of a group
to clean-related words, like ‘pure’ and
‘immaculate’, and the other half to neu-
tral words. Another group watched
a ‘disgusting’ film clip, half of whom
then washed their hands. All partici-
pants then rated the severity of moral
dilemmas, such as killing a termi-
nally ill plane crash survivor to avoid
starvation.
In both experiments, those subjected
to the idea of cleanliness exercised less
severe moral judgement than those
who were not.
Lead researcher Simone Schnall
explains, ‘When we exercise moral
judgement we believe we are making
a conscious, rational decision, but we
are subconsciously influenced by how
clean or ‘pure’ we feel’.
She believes a jury’s decision, or a po-
litical election, would be influenced by
jurors and voters washing their hands.
‘ummm….my battery ran out’ might be
an excuse of the past thanks to scien-
tists from the Texas A&M University,
who think they’ve found a way for mo-
bile phones to charge themselves.
Sound waves created by the owner
could be harnessed and converted to
energy to run the device, using ‘piezo-
electrics’ which are materials that gen-
erate voltage when stress is applied.
Sound waves might cause enough
stress to create voltage in a very small
piece of piezoelectric material.
Piezoelectrics are already commonly
used: car cigarette lighters push down
on a piezoelectric crystal that creates
enough voltage to spark and ignite gas.
Some nightclubs have dancefloors con-
structed with piezoelectric materials,
which absorb energy from footsteps.
A plague of cane toads has swept Aus-
tralia since they were introduced in
1935 to control native cane beetles.
Now one Australian scientist has seen
light at the end of the toad-spattered
tunnel as he believes interbreeding
amongst the biggest toads is causing
serious health defects.
Rick Shine from Sydney University
has observed that the toads are be-
coming bigger and faster, so produc-
ing babies with longer backs and legs.
Consequently they have developed
arthritis and bad backs, slowing their
destructive march.
Cane toads have been causing a
problem for Australia’s wildlife as their
skin is poisonous and they deplete food
supplies for other animals. They have
caused a dramatic decline in numbers
of native snakes, lizards and some
small mammals.
SciNews in brief
Wash hands of moral dilemmas Self-charging cell phone
Bad back stops cane toads’ hop
Science-worthy
Superheroes
Chemedian is a new super-girl on the
block. This funny superhero is here to
teach primary school kids chemistry
through various mischievous deeds of
changing the chemical properties of
materials. She comes from another di-
mension and has magical powers that
allow her to “control and modify scien-
tific properties at will”. She uses these
powers to make readers think about
science and how it affects our daily
lives. Only recently developed by re-
searchers at the University of the West
of England the Chemedian is set to
become the next generation’s favourite
science superhero.
Like Popeye the sailor man, Banana-
man is otherwise an ordinary chap who
gets his super power after consuming a
healthy food item. Spinach works for
Popeye, but bananas do it for Banana-
man. In this way, he embodies every
mum’s advice to their kids: “eat your
fruit, it will make you grow bigger”. He
is also in line with the modern “five a
day” policy, promoting fruit eating as
a scientifically proven good habit that
will make your body stronger, although
we rarely actually see him eat more
than one banana.
Captain Planet is a superhero that
breaks out of the Planet itself when
combined powers of wind, water, fire,
earth and love call upon him, he is
every bit as green and ecological as the
21st century needs him to be. Instead
of burning fossil fuels for his transport,
the way Batman does in his Bat-Mobil,
for example, Captain Planet works on
solar power: the circular planet sign
on his chest receives sun rays and gives
him energy to save the planet from
a variety of potential, man-induced
catastrophes.
Felix presents you the health-aware and
environment-friendly superheroes
in type 2 mice when it was given
orally. This new research confirms
that this is also the case for mice with
type 1 diabetes and reveals that the
chemical works by increasing glucose
absorption.
The hope of injection-free treatment
for type 1 diabetes is becoming more
realistic. Other research has suggest-
Us sciencey types get a bad press.
Open a national newspaper (try the
Daily Mail, if you’re feeling particu-
larly masochistic) on any given day
and you can expect a host of head-
lines: “Are your trousers giving you
cancer?”; “WiFi radiation to destroy
the Earth” – you know the story. I nor-
mally assume nowadays that anything
in inverted commas in a newspaper is
flagrant bull****. Still, the fight-back is
underway: Sense About Science is an
organisation that was set up to pro-
mote ‘good’ science and respect for
evidence in public discussions in the
aftermath of the MMR, BSE and GM
controversies, thus giving journalists a
lot fewer excuses to fall for the pseu-
doscientific stuff in a lot of marketing
press releases.
Their latest offering, Making Sense
of Radiation, seeks to demystify the
bogeyman that radiation’s became
since the invention of the atom bomb
60-odd years ago. Ranging from ra-
diotherapy to the recent and utterly
ed the possibility of using pigs to grow
the pancreas cells that no longer work
in the condition, and then transferring
them into humans to replace the dam-
aged cells.
Although these treatments are some
way off, diabetes research is heading
closer to liberating patients from the
daily injections they currently face.
Yes, the
people that
brought you
Stuff maga-
zine have
branched out
... into an
equally awful
podcast. Ex-
cept without
the nice pictures of semi-naked women
to wank over. I’m still befuddled as to
why the kind of person that buys Stuff
won’t just bite the bullet and go for a
proper lads’ mag. Perhaps it’s because
they’re just like the sad types that
present the Stuff podcast; never quite
This Week in Technology
BBC 5 Live Pods and Blogs
Stuff.tv podcast
laddish enough for the football team
(oi-oi!), but a strange air of wistfulness
comes over them whenever they walk
past a Currys. Do it, son, it is your
Destiny ... go towards the LG Prada
phone and talk about its sexy curves;
have an argument about what consti-
tutes a ‘tablet’ (I still don’t know); try
too hard in front of the female pre-
senters. Whatever you do, don’t make
your podcast in any way funny or in-
teresting. Job done.
http://stuff.tv/Videos/Podcasts/
Funny Science
“How about that seedless watermel-
on. What an invention. Scientists are
working on this. I mean, other scien-
tists are devoting their lives to fighting
cancer, AIDS, heart disease, these guys
are going: “No! I’m focusing on mel-
on…Oh sure, thousands of people are
dying needlessly, but this, ’ptoo!’ [spit-
ting noise], that’s got to stop. You ever
“I used to think we evolved. From
apes. Darwin’s theory of evolution
through natural selection seemed pret-
ty watertight, but in doing research for
this show, I came across a theory that
deviates from Darwin’s. I found it in a
dusty old book in a library; it’s called…
the Bible. And, uh, Darwin was, wrong.
Um, we didn’t evolve, God made us.”
Ricky Gervais, Animals, website: http://
www.rickygervais.com
“I always thought it would be fasci-
nating to see my sperm under a micro-
scope…But now that I told them, none
of my scientist friends will let me bor-
row their microscopes.”
“Did you know that shaking hands
transmits more bacteria then kissing?
Yeah, that’s an interesting fact. I know,
I don’t think it’s as much fun. Um, it’s
not how you want to end up a first
date.”
“One of my mum’s favourite little
sayings when I was a kid was: “Stand
up straight!” You ever get that from
your mum? “Stand up straight.” That’s
such a mum thing to say. I think mums
have been telling their children that for
longer than we realize. Perhaps even to
pre-humans days. What if that was the
driving force behind the evolutionary
trait of erect stance. Mothers nagging
their children up the evolutionary lad-
der... “Stand up straight. Don’t drag
your knuckles when you walk. What
are you, born in a tree?” ”
Brian mallow, website: http://www.
sciencecomedian.com/
No patience for the doubters
manufacturedcontroversiessurround-
ing WiFi and mobile phone masts, it
explains the basic concepts in simple
terms and debunks a lot of the myths
about ionising and non-ionising radia-
tion. They even find the time to com-
ment on the latest ill-judged European
regulations regarding exposure to
MRI machines – which were original-
ly called Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
Imaging machines, (as in NMR), but
had to be renamed because no-one
would get in a machine with nuclear
in the title. Sigh.
The authors also take the opportu-
nity to take pot-shots at a some of the
more dubious ‘protective’ devices sold
tothecredulous,fromstickyplastersto
absorb the RF waves from your phone
(thus, I assume, rendering it useless)
to the ‘Sympathetic Resonance Tech-
nology’ of the Q-Link pendant, which
apparently re-tunes your ‘quantum
biofield’ to exclude harmful EM fields
while promoting healthy ones. See the
note earlier about phrases in inverted
commas…
The booklet isn’t perfect and in
some regards highlights the difficul-
ties encountered when trying to break
complex science down into bite-size
chunks that people will actually take
on board, especially when taking on a
vocal and media-savvy lobby that al-
ready exists on the topic.
It’s a very fine line between being too
cautious and technical – meaning you
get ignored – and oversimplifying to
the point where those with, for exam-
ple, a stake in the sale of bull**** jump
all over you to point out any ambigui-
ties or inaccuracies. The sections on
the use and risks of radiotherapy in
cancer treatment may leave some of
you grinding your teeth a bit; still, it’s
a whole lot better than not producing
this kind of booklet and just hoping
that those writing the stories are suf-
ficiently experienced and/or conscien-
tious to check up on the facts before
they go to print.
Sense About Science also organise
a number of workshops and seminars
throughout the year to show how you
can effectively communicate your re-
search to the public, without finding
yourself staring down the barrel of an-
other MMR scare.
Pass me that sponge, darling...
Some bottlenose dolphins (Tursiops)
use sea sponges to uncover prey hid-
den under the sand.
This is the first study to describe tool
use in dolphins, says Janet Mann, a bi-
ologist from Georgetown University
in Washington D.C. and the lead au-
thor of a paper published in the 10th
December issue of PLoS One. She says
that young female calves acquire the
behaviour by copying their mothers:
it appears as if “they know this is what
they are supposed to do” and think “let
me go out and do it!”
Only a small number of animal spe-
cies use tools: 30 bird and 10 primate
species and only 0.01% of all other
mammals. Some scientists believe that
this is because most animals lack the
cognitive abilities to use tools. Oth-
ers say it is because tool use simply
is not advantageous to most animals.
Although dolphins have been known
to sometimes carry conical sponges
(10-25 cm long) over their jaws, there
was no data to explain why they do this
and whether it provides any advan-
tage to the individuals that do it – the
spongers.
Mann and her colleagues observed
a population of wild bottlenose dol-
phins at Shark Bay in Australia. They
described in detail the sponge carrying
behaviour. They found that spongers
“swam slowly along sand-bottom habi-
tats with a sponge on, lightly and inter-
mittently disturbing the seafloor”. They
were clearly “using the sponge to ferret
prey from the sea floor” says Mann.
The prey they were after seemed to be
a small burrowing spothead grubfish
(Parapercips clathrata).
Only 11% of the adult female dol-
phins used sponges to hunt. Non-
spongers employed a variety of other
tactics for hunting, but none of them
included tool use. To investigate if
spongers were at an advantage, Mann’s
team compared the calving success of
spongers and non-spongers.
Surprisingly, they found no signifi-
cant differences in calving success,
an indication of biological fitness, be-
tween spongers and non-spongers. So
they could not say that hunting with
tools is definitely more beneficial to
dolphins. “We don’t know anything
about what the benefits are although
we presume that, since the behaviour
persists, there must be some”, says Alex
Thornton, behavioural ecologist from
the University of Cambridge, who was
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
not involved in the present study.
Alex Kacelnik, behavioural ecolo-
gist from the University of Oxford,
who has extensively studied tool use
in Caledonian crows, predicts that
larger and longer-term investigations
will reveal some benefits to the spong-
ers. “It would be a mistake to assume
that because this study fails to find a
reliable difference in fitness between
two groups, then the fitness of the two
groups must be equal”, he says, adding
that “this fascinating study is on the
right track but the fundamental ques-
tion of whether tool use is particularly
advantageous is as yet unanswered”.
Photo by Ewa Krzyszczyk
Photo
by
Ewa
Krzyszczyk
What Happens to Science Graduates in the Times of Credit Crunch...
Garlic, also good for passing the Breathalysers test, apparently
try to pick a wet-one up off the floor?
It’s almost impossible. I’m devoting my
life to that.’ ”
Jerry Seinfeld, Season 5 (1994), episode
1: The Mango, website: http://www.
sonypictures.com/tv/shows/seinfeld/
Olivia Sharp goes through this weeks science headlines
So long and thanks for all the fish...
...so sad that it should come to this
When their powers combine they summon Captain Planet
Bananaman

