12 felix Friday 12 December 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 12 December 2008 felix
Arts
Historical delights from Babylon
Emilie Beauchamp delves into all that Babylon has to offer in the British Museum
gardens, the tower of Babel, the Bels-
hazzar’s Feast and others.
These stories come from the Bible’s
Genesis or from accounts of Greek
philosophers such as Herodotus, and
often contradict the historical evidence
found by archaeologists. Indeed, there
has been up to now no artefact proving
the existence of the hanging gardens...
However, the famous tower of Babel
is known to portray the Etemenanki
ziggurat, the main temple of Babylon,
which was used to worship the warrior
god Marduk. Many historians believe
that it was Babylon’s desire to conquer
too much territory, and its subsequent
overstretch, that led to its fall. The
myth of the tower of Babel parallels
that story. In biblical accounts, Babel
was a city that tried to unite human-
ity and which was punished by God to
have been foolish and greedy. Babylon
was too much of an expansionary city-
state and one of its greatest battles was
the capture of Jerusalem, after which
thousands of Jews were forced to mi-
grate to Babylon to serve as forced
labour. So goes the famous song “By
the Rivers of Babylon”, signing the la-
ment of Jews missing their native Zion.
Many other legends such as these are
depicted in the exhibition, some of
which still have significance today. The
British Museum pictures the rationale
behind the legendary accounts of Ba-
bylon, disentangling the truth from the
tales, and offers pieces of art that have
been inspired by these to complement
its explanations. Most of the pieces
displayed are interesting, but some are
weaker in their stance and one won-
ders if some of the interest stems from
their intrinsic value or rather because
the topic of Babylon itself never fails to
captivate.
Further on, the exhibition does a
good job at portraying the real Baby-
lon. Here, rare artefacts from the Brit-
ish Museum, the Pergamon Museum
in Berlin and the Musée du Louvre in
Paris are rallied. From the architectural
details of the most famous buildings in
Babylon, to the presentation of a piece
of the monumental Ishtar Gate, which
triumphed at the end of the royal pro-
cession path, the exhibition puts for-
ward evidence which makes it almost
possible to imagine the city standing
I
’d wish you all a Merry Christ-
mas, but I’m feeling a little bah
humbug right now. I’ve got a
spectacular cold, complete with
fever, shivering, hacking cough,
phlegm… all this and a sore red nose
Rudolph would be envious of. I’m des-
perately hoping it’ll have cleared up by
the time you read this.
In the meantime I’m armed with
enough cold and flu remedies to open
up my own branch of Boots. I spent a
bewildered twenty minutes in a phar-
macy trying to evaluate whether my
cough was “tickly”, “dry” or “chesty”. I
opted for chesty on the basis that the
active drug had a more chemically-
sounding name.
For the record, Boots brand “sore
throat relief dual action lozenges” are
half the price of Strepsils Extra, but
also taste half as tolerable. In addition,
I’d like to offer a special shout-out to
whoever manufactures pocket packs
of tissues infused with Olbas oil, be-
cause they are now my best friends.
They make your entire face tingle with
menthol-y goodness.
This is generally not the state one
wants to be in at a job interview, which
is where I found myself this morning.
You’ll be glad to hear I survived with-
out exploding with snot all over any
executives. It did make the numeri-
cal test extra painful though. I won’t
comment on how I think the interview
went, given that when this gets printed
I’ll have heard back (and, let’s face it,
probably have been brutally rejected).
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
Everybody knows that the main thing
about job interviews is that you must
consume as much free stuff as possible.
Today’s won bonus points by provid-
ing free coffee and biscuits. The best I
ever had involved a three-course lunch
at Strada for all candidates – woohoo!
That definitely softened the blow of
rejection.
Aside from this, I’m getting a little
pissed off with employment opportu-
nities, or lack thereof. Goddamn eco-
nomic crisis! I need a job so I won’t
have to live in a cardboard box next
year!
No longer does going to a fine insti-
tute of learning like Imperial College
guarantee you a cushy job in the city.
Now you have to bow before the cor-
porations and beg. The general com-
petitiveness is soul-destroying. One
interview I went to recently, featured
me and a bunch of bright young things
who’d all had graduate positions at Le-
hman Brothers, and post-collapse had
been bulking out their already-impres-
sive CVs with charity work. Bastards.
In case you’re wondering how this is
related to arts and culture… it isn’t. I
could talk about what’s happening in
the arty farty world at the moment, but
I don’t actually know. I would hazard
a guess that Damien Hirst is making
more money in some way, but don’t
quote me on that.
As always, you can get free tickets
from us for pretty much anything artsy
that you feel like seeing. Send us an
email and we’ll see what we can do.
Just call me
Scrooge
today.
The British Museum also does not
fail to provide a follow-up of the city
today. All that remains from the grand
Babylon, located approximately 55 kil-
ometres from Bagdad in Iraq, is a pile
of mud bricks scattered here and there
around its old perimeter. Victim of its
own success, the debris of the city have
been stolen by neighbouring colonies
over centuries as the enduring high
quality of the bricks and materials used
make them valuable for looters.
The fall of babylon seems to continue
over the age and carries on even today.
To the world’s dismay, Saddam Hus-
sein constructed in 1985 new build-
ings on top of the old ruins, destroying
archaeological evidence. In this enter-
prise, he even declared himself the son
of Nebuchadnezzar II! Moreover, since
the invasion of Iraq by the Americans,
the situation... has only got worse! The
US military actually built an army
camp on Babylon’s site and even built
a helipad on some of its ruins. In short,
most of the remaining archaeologi-
cal artefacts of Babylon have probably
been destroyed by now...
The British Museum therefore offers
a great chance to discover that famed
city and learn about its stories, even if
the exhibition is rather short and very
busy at any time of the day (you have to
book in advance if you do not want to
wait an hour to get in)! But in any ways,
Babylon will always be fascinating.
Babylon: Myth and Reality
At the British Museum until 15th
March 2009
It’s all sex and drugs, as usual...
Caz Knight goes to the Institute of Contemporary Arts and has the rare opportunity to write a bad review
I
reaped much from my trip to
ICA’s Dispersion. It led me to a
few conclusions regarding how
art is presented and the sub-
sequent way in which the con-
sumer digests it. It also gave me the op-
portunity to write my first bad review
thus living up to my role as a critic, a
criticiser of art. Never having been to
the Institute for Contemporary Arts
before, I was delighted by, as its name
would suggest, its interior modernity
set in a neo-classical building, nestled
just off Pall Mall in all its old money
grandeur. ICA combines gallery spaces
with a cinema, a theatre, a bar and a
general artsy yet down to earth vibe,
quenching any and every sort of cul-
tural thirst that might assail you.
Given that Dispersion is featured as
a must-see in more than just a few arts
sectionsin-the-know,Iwasamazedand
slightly appalled that it received such
acclaim. Perhaps the fact that Mark
Leckey, recent winner of the Turner
Prize, is a contributor prompted such
praise. (Leckey gives his ‘lecture’, a live
performance if his art, at ICA’s theatre
in January.)
The exhibition is spread across
three loci within ICA, making view-
ing a bit disjointed especially when the
last third must be reached following a
trawl through the bar (maybe not a bad
thing?). Indeed, it lives up to its name.
Maria Eichhorn, one of the seven art-
ists which make up Dispersion, has
constructed a Film Lexicon of Sexual
Practices, which is made interactive
with viewers at liberty to ask the pro-
jectionist to show any of the sixteen 3
minute films: Ear-licking or Cunnilin-
gus? Sex food play or Carezza? (That is
prolonged sex minus the orgasm). The
novelty of getting to chose the film you
want is outweighed by them not hav-
ing any of the good ones, and by the
fact that the film was but a tiny square
on the white wall. Of course, 3 min-
utes of ear-licking, achieved the artist’s
desired affect of making clinical and
abstract these sexual practices, but at
the price of an anti-climax…. instilling
some quasi-carezza in us, maybe.
A slap dash collage of various gay
and lesbian artists of the early last
century, with an equally half hearted
name, some gay and lesbian artist and/
or artists relevant to homo-social cul-
ture, would have disappointed a low
achieving GCSE art student. However,
the work did introduce some post card
examples of the beautiful work of fea-
tured artists such as Jean-Frederic Ba-
zille.Nevertheless,likeEichhorn’swork
before him, Olesen’s piece is in keep-
ing with the theme of the exhibition.
As far as I could make out from the
wordy and indecipherable leaflet that
came with the exhibition, the artists
are exploring the notion that identities
are not given, but made by how they
are represented. If this is true then it
should be possible to achieve what the
curator referred to as a ‘critical’ image.
Using found images - that is anything
available on the web and beyond - as
their raw materials, they de-construct
and then re-construct these images to
produce works that will comment on
the way in which they are presented
to us in this age of relentless media.
Each artist makes clear and interesting
points, but at the expense of aesthetic
experience.
All is not lost, the photograph of a
folded movie still featuring Jack Ni-
cholson as McMurphy in One Flew
Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, reminds us of
his youthful good looks. But best of all
was Hito Steyerl’s documentary about
her quest to find a young “protégé”, a
contemporary version of herself as she
was in her bondage model heyday of
1987. The accompanying New Wave
soundtrack and retro Spider-women
excerpts made me stay and watch for
the whole length: possibly Dispersion’s
saving grace.
A lot of effort was expended reading
the supposed explanation and trying to
relate it to the subject matter. Try as I
might I could not find any of the alleged
meaning in a lot of the pieces, perhaps
there was none to be found. Not that
art needs to even to serve a purpose or
expound a truth or message, although
the contrived bull shit in the booklet
would suggest otherwise.
Despite what might be considered a
harsh review, a quick walk round this
(free!) exhibition will introduce you to
another very beautiful and different
venue and, who knows, what might be
one of your favourite artists. If worst
comes to worst there are always cock-
tails. I will definitely be going back for
the Heroin and Cocaine salt and pep-
per shakers in the gift shop.
Dispersion is on at the Institute
of Contemporary Arts until 1st
February 2009
T
he British Museum al-
ready offers an incredible
amount of history to dis-
cover in its regular halls,
but also presents special
exhibitions upon singular topics ral-
lying artefacts from museums from all
over the world. Until the March 15th, a
unique presentation is showing on the
legendary Babylon, exploring the con-
trasts between the ancient metropolis
full of myths, and its modern represen-
tation discovered through archaeologi-
cal evidence.
Babylon started as a small town lo-
cated in the fertile Mesopotamian
plains near the third millennium B.C.
and evolved through centuries as a
famed city-stated ruling over ancient
Syria and more. It was the king Neb-
uchadnezzar II who brought Babylon
to the peak of its glory, from 605 to
562 B.C., mostly by further expanding
its influence in Jerusalem and Egypt,
but also by reconstructing the city and
making it one of the wonders of the an-
cient world. The exhibition therefore
focuses on the Babylon of Nebuchad-
nezzar II and its stories: the hanging
This apparently is a map of the world. On a rock. Impressive, huh? Felix Arts is so full of sex we’re getting a little sick of it. It was this nipple or ear-licking or cunnilingus...
This image is entitled “Felix gets broadcasted” - so how could I not print the little guy?
This is a picture of Nebuchadnezzar by William Blake. Once I figured out to spell Nebuchadnezzar I
Wikipedia’d him, and apparently he was a Babylonian king. Or a ship in The Matrix. So there you go

