arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
14 felix Friday 12 December 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 12 December 2008 felix
Arts
Emily Wilson returns to favourite haunt the Wellcome Collection to check out their latest exhibition
I
’m back at the Wellcome Col-
lection again for their latest ex-
hibition: ‘War and Medicine’. As
always, both the Wellcome Col-
lection and the exhibition are
completely free to get into. While I am
an enthusiastic supporter of the Well-
come Collection, I go in suspecting I
am not going to like this exhibition. It’s
going to be depressing and gory. I can
feel amputations and post traumatic
stress disorder coming on. I’m going to
come out of it miserable.
The atmosphere once you step
through the big glass doors is quiet
and sinister, with distant clunking and
whirring sounds. I’m drawn to the hum
of a darkened room to my left where a
film is being shown. This is ‘Theatre’
by David Cotterrel, whose films also
appear later in the exhibition. It’s a
continuous 60 minutes of panoramic
footage aboard a hollow military air-
craft, where army medics tend to an
unconscious wounded soldier strapped
to a stretcher. I watch for 10 minutes
or so, during which time nothing hap-
pens, aside from a medic standing up
and sitting down. I keep waiting for
something unexpected and dramatic
to happen, but it never does. It’s oddly
chilling, setting the mood for the rest
of the exhibit.
An early criticism I have is that
‘War and Medicine’ is a little jumbly.
It bounces from triage to nutrition to
transport to disease prevention... all
while also jumping between wars. You
have to pay some attention to whether
you’re looking at an artefact from the
First World War or the Gulf Wars. It
encompasses the history of war from
the Crimea to modern conflicts in
Iraq and Afghanistan, with the world
wars in between, though with little
in between these major focuses. The
content is an interesting, attention-
holding mix of objects, painting, pho-
tographs and posters. A neat label
explains each item – major brownie
points here. While the order can feel
irratic, the individual narrative of each
piece is clear. Everyday medical equip-
ment demands attention, and you can’t
help but admire the aesthetics of such
things as artificial limbs, first aid kits
and syringes. One of the greatest ac-
complishments of the Wellcome Col-
lection is the transformation of hum-
ble objects into art.
Contrary to my expectations, there is
no blatant blood and gore. It’s all very
civilised and tidy. However, the sec-
tion on facial reconstruction is fairly
horrendous, with photographs and
paintings of men barely recognisable
as human. Holes in their faces, noses
missing, warped eyes, burning and
blistering... and all of them after their
reconstruction. But they’re not here to
shock us – the way they’re respectfully
portrayed means it’s more saddening
than anything else.
One idea the exhibition puts forward
is that a positive impact of war is the
medical advancement it brings. We
have war to thank for blood transfu-
sions, penicillin, X-rays and so many
other life saving technologies. This is
a thought-provoking realisation. But
the flipside to this is the use of war to
Doesn’t it look lovely and shiny, children? Don’t step under the lights or you’ll get beamed up
justify the horrific, notably the experi-
ments carried out by scientists of the
Nazi regime on human beings in con-
centration camps during the Second
World War. A hall of shame of Nazis
convicted of such atrocities displays
their personal defences and justifi-
cations, which are chilling. I have to
skim over much of the section on shell
shock, with videos from military hos-
pitals of men shaking and rocking back
and forth as cold-hearted doctors look
on.
I’d advise anybody interested in go-
ing to check out Wellcome’s calendar
of events, which includes tours round
the exhibition. When I was half way
through, a perspectives tour by an ex-
pert on the history of medicine kicked
off. Had I known about this I would
definitely have signed up. It sounded
fascinating. Such a tour would prob-
ably succeed in revealing running
themes difficult to pick out on your
own. All are, of course, free.
As expected, Wellcome portray
war in a satisfyingly neutral way.
They don’t glorify it, but don’t openly
criticise it. They offer wounded and
scarred soldiers respectful recogni-
tion, while also portraying conflict as
a catalyst for medical progress. At no
point is the short and concise exhibi-
tion preachy or out to shock. I very
much like how factual information is
presented in an art gallery style and
setting. The Wellcome Collection do
something not done anywhere else,
which is always admirable. Don’t go to
‘War and Medicine’ if you’re looking
for something fun and uplifting. This it
certainly is not. Go to ‘War and Medi-
cine’ if you want to see a brilliantly put-
together exhibition that will challenge
your pre-conceptions, and leave you
better informed and with a head full of
thoughts.
War and Medicine
At the Wellcome Collection until
15th February 2009. Entry is free!
Lucy Harrold previewed Imagine This a few weeks ago, but does the real deal match up to expectations?
War is bad, but medicine is good...?
Preview done, here’s the review
A
fter having my sneak
peak of Imagine This a
few weeks ago I was ea-
ger to see what the rest of
the show had in store and
so off I trekked to the New London, de-
spite feeling like death warmed up, to
find out. The New London theatre it-
self isn’t pretty; it was built in seventies
when concrete was the architect’s best
friend and escalators were state of the
art. They’ve tried to make the best of
the interior with displays and posters
dotted around the vast lobby and bar
area. Unfortunately the toilets couldn’t
be improved. I was slightly dismayed to
find so many empty seats on only the
second night with at least eight just in
our row. The main demographic ap-
peared to be elder theatregoers who
have had enough of showy yet shallow
musicals and wanted to try something
new.
The show started with a plunge into
darkness; luckily we were ready for it as
my companion and I were saying how
the show should be starting just about...
shit why is dark?! We were transported
back to pre-war Poland where every-
one wears their Sunday best and rides
on Merry-Go-Rounds only to be cru-
elly pulled out of this dream by a bunch
of Nazis thus signalling the creation of
the Warsaw Ghetto. Thus the writers
manage to cram four years of history
and most of the exposition in one song
without making it feel rushed or on
purpose. The rest of the action takes
place in Eugene Lee’s vast set: a dis-
used train depot and the space outside
it. The space has such depth - it really
does feel like a cold damp building that
could easily fall down with realistic
snow falling outside (my friend loves
snow so she was rather excited by this).
Even if I didn’t love theatre I would go
just to see that set.
I gave the basic plot to Imagine This
in the preview article that I hope you
all read and took note of (please say
yes). I wouldn’t want to spoil what
turned out to be a rather gripping and
tense plot that I wasn’t expecting. In a
nutshell Imagine This tells the story of
Daniel Warshowsky, his family and his
acting company putting on a produc-
tion of Masada for those trapped in the
Warsaw Ghetto. The tale of Masada
reflects and ultimately influences the
family’s own story and is entwined with
secret love affairs. From what I’d heard,
I imagined the plot would be juvenile
and embarrassing but, on the whole, I
was happily mistaken. It had sufficient
plot twists to keep you guessing but
didn’t require too much thought on
the audience’s behalf, which I believe
would have detracted from the visual
spectacle and the music. I was also
concerned that the Jewish mythology
would go over my head but, although
it could have been a little clearer, most
of the story of Masada was given in the
exposition.
One review, although not entirely
positive, decided that the Imagine
This cast is one of the most hard-
working casts on the West End and I
must agree. To go through the trial of
being ripped out of normal life and
ultimately deciding whether you live
but allow hundreds of others to per-
ish or sacrifice yourself to save those
others must be exhausting. Yet the
cast pull it off with ease and still have
time to have a song and dance about
it. Peter Polycarpou was awesome as
always, his voice is so crisp and clear
yet booming and his acting command-
ing yet loving. Leila Benn-Harris is
surely a name to watch out for in the
future. Her portrayal of Rebecca (and
Tamar, the character she plays in Ma-
sada) was heartbreaking both through
her acting and her amazing, distinctive
voice. I was also impressed by Simon
Gleeson as resistance fighter Adam
(General Silva in Masada). He and
Benn-Harris had a genuine connec-
tion that could be seen in their duets
and romantic moments. The produc-
tion team have really got together an
amazing bunch of performers - there’s
no real weak link. I wasn’t too taken by
Nathan Attard, who played Leon (the
small child), but I think this is because
I’m not a huge fan of child performers
in theatre generally.
I guess I should mention the mu-
sic. Imagine This really takes musical
theatre back to the ‘good old days’ of
full chorus and large orchestral scores.
Almost everything the chorus sings is
in harmony thus creating a lush, rich
sound and making this writer very hap-
py - she’s a sucker for a good harmony!
There were many moments where I
sat mouth wide open thinking “how
did that sound just come out of that
small cast?”. My particular favourites
were the title song Imagine This and
Masada, the battle song I had seen the
cast rehearsing previously. Both could
easily have been amazing finale pieces
so it seemed strange that act one ended
with a soaring love song rudely cut off
by the Nazis. I liked this break from the
norm. It really made the audience feel
vulnerable and part of the action. It is
little additions like the breaking of the
fourth wall that make Imagine This an
intelligent piece aimed at people who
don’t just want fun and frolics at the
theatre but want to search for some-
thing deeper.
Timothy Sheader’s direction has left
me in two minds; some of his work was
absolute genius. The way he took ad-
vantage of the revolve really impressed
me on a visual level as did much of
his staging and on an emotional level
I left the theatre almost in tears. I re-
ally felt for those characters. But some
other parts of the staging just looked
messy and all over the place in par-
ticular dance numbers tended to have
different people doing different moves.
Normally this would look ‘cool and
edgy’ but it just looked like the actors
hadn’t quite learnt the dance yet. It ap-
peared that Sheader felt he had to have
someone on each part of the stage at
all times making it difficult to focus on
a particular character, often I couldn’t
see who was singing what.
To me the first act paled in compari-
son to the second act, for the last half
hour of the show I didn’t move from
my seat, transfixed by the tale unfold-
ing in front of me. But the first act
took a while to get going. There was an
uncomfortably long scene of dialogue
between the company and the Nazis
where they attempted to joke with the
Nazis. I felt uneasy as to whether this
would really have occurred or whether
the Nazi officer would have just shot
them all. Comedy is the main failing of
the show, especially with the character
of Izzy/Pompey, a clown from Berlin.
Pompey was given an unusually long
comedy song in act one which just
wasn’t funny and took the audience out
of the chilling atmosphere the actors
had worked so hard to create. I also felt
that the characters’ backgrounds could
have been developed further. I was glad
to have read the online synopsis just so
I knew who was who.
Overall I think Imagine This is some-
thing different that we haven’t seen in
the West End for a while; a serious mu-
sical that’s not trying to be pretentious
or high and mighty. Everything seems
genuine and has a big heart. I laughed
(although some of the jokes just didn’t
land with me), I (nearly) cried and I felt
for that group of characters - some-
thing that hasn’t happened to me in a
theatre for a while. I sent a friend to see
it last week and he spent the next after-
noon frantically trying to phone me to
tell me how amazing the show was!
In the current economic climate I’m
not sure if Imagine This will last that
long, I really hope it does but just to
be sure go see it now! Luckily for us
students not only is the theatre so vast
that the cheap seats further back give a
better sightline but if you go on the day
your shiny student card will get you an
awesome seat for £17.50.
Imagine This
At the New London Theatre, tick-
ets available now!
Hopefully nobody will notice that I stole the images from the preview to use in the review... whoops, spilled
the beans! But you noticed, right? You’re a bright bunch, and who could forget this chap and his sexy hat?
Here we have a lovey dovey couple looking all happy. Too bad the
Nazis are on their way to ruin things by, y’know, killing everybody
Yes yes, you should have got the message by now. Imagine This.
Musical. Bittersweet tragedy. Very good. Go see it now
You’ll be glad to know that if you go to war and get a chunk of your
face blasted off, you can get a chunk of tin to cover it up
Moral of the exhibition: if you go to war, you will need medicine. Got that? Here is an image from one of
David Cotterrel’s films, which you can see at the Wellcome Collection exhibition ‘War and Medicine’
Advice all of us should live by: keep straight, keep sober, guard against
VD. And they didn’t even have SHAG week back in the 1940s...

