Sabbaticals!
The publicity for the candidates standing in the
sabbatical elections will soon be filling every
available space in College. The Hustings U G M
next Thursday (1:00pm Great Hall) is usually
the best U G M of the year. Take this
opportunity to investigate the candidates, ask
them questions and sort out the time wasters
from the good candidates (if there are any!).
A special FELIX insert will be published next
Friday containing election manifestos. These
are usually good for a laugh, but be careful that
What's On
Friday, February 26
• A n t i - A p a r t h e i d picket of R T Z . See Careers
noticeboard. Also on Monday, March 1.
•Socialist Society bookstall, 12:30 2:30pm, Junior
Common Room. Books and Campaign Coffee for sale.
•IC Angling club meeting, 12:30pm, Southside Bar
Lounge.
• B U N A C meeting, 12:30pm, Green Comm Rm.
•Supplies to Poland, 12:45pm. Meeting for people
wanting to travel to Poland.
•Mopsoc Annual Dinner, speaker Prof New, 7:00 for
7:30pm. Tickets £5.50 from Mopsoc officials.
•Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchen.
Saturday, February 27
•Cross Country Club: Hyde Park Relay, start 2:30,
Rotten Row. Spectators and helpers welcome.
Sunday, February 28
•West London Chaplaincy communion service
Preacher: Alan de Grys, Chaplain to Westfield and
Bedford Colleges, 10:00am, Consort Gallery. Followed
by meditation workshop.
•Cross Country Club: Handicap race, Richmond
Park. Competing for the Petersham Cup. AH members
are invited to attend.
•Wargames club meeting, 1:00pm, Union SCR.
Monday, March 1
• Hang-gliding c l u b meeting, 12:30pm, above
Southside Bar.
•Badgesoc meeting, 12:40pm, Southside Bar Lounge.
•Free lunchtime consort, 1:00pm, Consort Gallery.
Programme includes: Stravinsky: Symphonies of wind
instruments; Weber: Andante and Hungarian Rondo.
Soloist Cheh-ngee Goh.
•Socialist society general meeting, 6:30pm, Green
Comm Rm.
•Dancing club advanced class, 7:30pm, JCR.
•Rag Meeting, 5:45pm, Union Upper Lounge.
Tuesday, March 2
•Boardsailing club meeting, 12:30 and 6:15pm,
Southside Upper Lounge.
•Catholic mass and lunch, 12:30pm, Chem 231.
Nominal charge for lunch.
•Riding club meeting, 1:00pm, Rm 1009, Elec Eng.
• S T O I C programme: Live debate between ICU
Presidential candidates, 1:00pm, JCR, Southside T V
Lounge, Southside, Beit, Weeks and Linstead Halls.
you aren't fooled by overolown claims or
stupid points.
RCS Elections
Confusion seems to have arisen following
yesterday's R C S Hustings U G M . Several
people have told me that Miss Moira Yarston,
who is standing for RCS President, claimed to
have been Aberdeen SU President. However,
she has since approached me to reassure
people that she did no such thing. I can only
assume it was a slip of the tongue or bad
inferrence which gave people this impression,
so don't let it influence your decision in any
way (voting Monday).
Erratum: Due to blind panic by the SF Soc
Secretary the date of The Big Bus given in the
SF Soc article should be a week on Tuesday
Credits
Many thanks to Peter, Soheel, Martin S.,
Lesley, Dave J., Steve, Ralph, Jill, Dave R., all
the collators (especially Jez, Mo, Soheel, Jon
and the Guilds mob who helped me late last
week).
A special thank-you to Frances, who
normally helps Paul deliver and who managed
by herself last week.
• A Lecture by Dr C. Wright, Head of Taxonomic
Research on "Numerical Taxonomy', 1:00pm, Botany
Basement.
•Mopsoc lecture 'What is Science?', 1:10pm, Physics
LT2.
•Dept of Humanities presents:
1. Films: The Private Life of the Starling; The Private Life
of the Great Crested Grebe, 1:15pm, Read Theatre.
2. The Origins of Astronomy
Pt 3. Copernicus and the Downfall of Ptolemaic
Astronomy, Emeritus Professor G.J. Whitrow, Senior
Research Fellow, Imperial College, 1:30pm, Pippard
Theatre.
•IC Amnesty group meeting, 5:30pm, Green Comm
Rm.
•Met & Mat Sci society lecture 'Fire and Explosives'
by Dr K. Gugan, 6:00pm, RSM G20.
•3F*s French restaurant trip to New Maple Grill,
Victoria, meet 7:00pm, Southside Bar.
•Dancing club beginners' class, 7:30pm, JCR.
• I C C A G Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchens.
Wednesday, March 3
•Wargames club meeting, 1:00pm, Union SCR.
•Anti-Apartheid meeting, 1:00pm, Union Upper
Lounge.
•Astrosoc meeting, 3:30pm, 'Waveguide', Physics
Building (Level 1). Free to members.
•IC Trampoline society meeting, 5:30pm, Courtauld
Hall, Q E C , Campden Hill Rd.
•Dancing club intermediate class, 7:30pm, JCR.
Thursday, March 4
• S c o u t and Guide club meeting, with Richard
Turnbull of Alpine Sports talking about his expedition,
12:30pm, Mines 303. All welcome.
• S T O I C presents News-Break, 1:00 and 6:00pm,
usual places (see Tuesday).
•Overseas students lunch, 12:30pm, Rm 703, Mech
Eng. Free. Informal lunch and entertainment provided by
Mech Eng Christian Union bible study group. Everyone
welcome.
•Christian Science group meeting, 1:00pm, Seminar
Rm, Level 2S, Botany.
•Industrial Society presents Sir Walter Goldsmith
speaking on Industrial Democracy, 1:00pm, Mech Eng
220.
•Gliding club meeting, 5:30pm, Aero 254.
•IC Latin American Society presents a film: The
Mexican Frozen Revolution, 6:00pm, Union Upper
Lounge.
•Ents film Being There, 6:30pm, ME220, 50p.
•Sherry Party, 6:0pm, Union SCR. Sherry party for all
third year mathematicians and physicists to meet old
students and learn about the Royal College of Science
Association. Free.
•Dept of Humanities presents
Lunchhour concert with Penelope Roskell (piano),
1:30pm, Music Room, 53 Princes Gate. Sponsored by.
the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust.
After Captain Birdseye, the Domesticated
Secretary of Primelia College, had stood and
counted all the people visiting 'Meet P C he
decided to get a more detailed breakdown of
their number. Amble, Bumble, Crumble and
Drudge were each in charge of a stall, and the
good Captain asked Amble how many visitors
each of the four stalls had had.
"Well," replied Amble, "the product of the
four numbers is 270. No stall had fewer visitors
than mine, and each of the people visiting the
exhibition came to just one of our four stalls."
"I'm afraid you haven't given me enough
information," retorted the Captain after a little
reflection, "I can't even deduce the four
numbers, let alone which number belongs to
which stall."
"You're quite right, I haven't given you
enough information; let me also say that the
difference between the numbers of Bumble's
visitors and Crumble's visitors is at least as
large as the number of people who did not visit
Bumble's stall."
But this was all too much for Captain
Birdseye, whose stomach was recalling a
particularly choppy night on the Isle of Wight
ferry. But that was his own fault, as Amble had
now given him enough information to deduce
the numbers of visitors to each of the four stalls.
How many?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office please. A prize of £5 (donated by
Mend-a-Bike) for the correct solution
randomly selected at 1:00pm on Wednesday.
Last Week's Competition
About a dozen entries, only one correct
despite the warning that it was an engineering
problem. Scores of people gloatingly told me
that the problem is done as a worked example
for physics first years; none of them seemed to
appreciate that the physicists' method is a
general method which extends to an arbitrary
number of dominoes. When you are restricted
to a fixed number (four, in this case) a little
ingenuity carries you a long way — a quarter of
an inch, to be exact.
The physicists' method as shown in the first
diagram gives an overhang of 21
/12". The better
method (second diagram) gives you 2V3".
Paddy Andrews, Mech Eng 3 can collect his
cheque on Monday afternoon, since his
diagram was the best submitted. Amazingly,
for an engineer, his calculated overhang was
correct, although the calculation itself was
wrong.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (589-5111 ext 1048 int 2881) Copyright FELIX 1982. Editor: M A Smith, Advertising Manager: S M Giblin.

