CLUBS AND SOCIETIES'
PhotoSoc
Due to the early deadline we can't
tell you who won the B & W
competition on Tuesday. But we
can tell you that the colour
competition on March 16 has been
cancelled, because the Judge
can't come, and we couldn't find
another one. Also the lecture on
March 9 on Photographic Chemis-
try has been postponed. The
lecturer, Mr Michael Maunder,
has transport difficulties and will
probably be able to come some
time next term.
Finally, one thing which hasn't
been cancelled or postponed is
next Tuesday's lecture on "the
rise and fall of the plate camera"
by Martin Russell. You should
have read about this in our last
article, but just in case you didn't,
the lecture will be illustrated with a
large collection of historical plate
cameras. Mr Russell will also give
expert opinions on old cameras
which members of the audience
may wish to bring along.
This will be a much better
lecture than any we had last year,
so come early to be sure of getting
in. It's in Mines 3-03 at 7:30pm (not
6:30 as stated in the newsletter)
and it's on Tuesday, March 2.
ICU Handbook
The deadline for articles for the
ICU Handbook is Friday, April
30. All contributions to be placed
in the Handbook Box on the
noticeboard in the FELIX Office.
Ents
Hope you all enjoyed the multitude
of recent Entertainments. A s you
may have noticed we're already
past the mid-point of this term, so
if you haven't been to an Ents
event yet time's running out. A
few more bands are planned this
term, so look out for posters and
also our ads in FELIX.
M e a n w h i l e , don't forget the
weekly films, next Thursday we're
showing Being There ( M E 2 2 0 ,
6:30pm) starring Peter Sellers. As
usual the cost is only 50p so make
it a date.
Next week's Ents film is Being There, a highly amusing comedy in which
Peter Sellers gives one of the finest performances of his career as
Chancey Gardner, a simple man who rises to a position of power
through no fault of his own. The story was written by Jerzy Kosinski,
who coincidentally stars in REDS (see reviews) which opens this week.
Wargames
For the benefit of those of you
who missed it the first time round
in 1812, Imperial College War
Games Club will be holding a
replay of the Battle of Bardodino
on Wednesday.
W i l l t h e R u s s i a n s defeat
Napoleon? Will it be a bloodbath?
Will Napoleon work it out with
Josephine? Or will the end of
1812 be Napoleon's Winter of
Discontent?
Confused? You won't be after
this W e d n e s d a y ' s meeting of
Imperial College Wargames Club.
S p e c t a t o r s and additional
players welcome.
Snookered
Not much happened last week.
The A and B teams couldn't find
any opponents, and the C team
h a d a disaster only beating
Bedford 3-2. Once again it was left
to Holt to win the deciding frame,
which he only just managed.
A n d y Hurford brought Stu
Calvert's fine run in the handicap
to an end when he beat him last
week. Calvert has a chance for
revenge though, as the two meet
in the open very shortly.
Y o u may have noticed that
we've had the A and B tables re-
clothed. Please take great care
when playing Simpkin-type swerve
shots, as one hole per year is quite
sufficient, thanks.
Boredom
ive, four, three, two, one, run VT. One thing that's been puzzling me
for at least two months now is why does L W T always miss the " F " off the
Thunderbirds opening sequence? Since they have stopped screening it
and there is no longer any need to get up early on Saturday, I suppose I'll
never know.
Apathy
Back to reality now and I thought I would spend a little time telling you
about a typical STOIC week
Why Bother
Monday: Wander into T V Studio and clean the Chairman's boots.
Tuesday: Do a little bit of editing.
Wednesday: This is the biggie. The day 'Newsbreak' itself is made. All
your hard work becomes reality as items are successively placed onto a
master tape. Get pissed afterwards.
Thursday: Broadcast day. At 1:00 and 6:00pm Newsbreak is broadcast to
the Halls and the JCR.
Friday: Time to decide what you are going to do next week and who's
going to produce it.
Le Weekend: Practise your investigative journalism by taking an outside
'broadcast crew to cover an event of your choice. (Generally make a
nuisance of yourself.)
Repeat the above many times.
With IC Radio
That's all I have time for, for now, but remember you can watch us,
watching you, watching us, watching you, every Thursday at 1:00 and
6:00pm.
Bookshop News
List of Titles from Babani Publishing Ltd
Beginners' Guide to Microprocessors & Computing - E.F. Scott,
£1.75
Elements of Electronics, 1, 2, & 3 - F A . Wilson, £2.25
Build Your Own Electronic Experiments Laboratory using ICs -
B.B. Babani, 85p
Radio Stations Guide - Babani & Jay, £1.75
Engineers & Machinists Reference Tables - B.B. Babani, 75p
A Microprocessor Primer - E.A. Parr, £1.75
Mobile Discotheque Handbook - C. Carson, £1.35
Electronic Calculators Users Handbook - Babani, £1.50
Second Book of Transistor Equivalents & Substitutes - Babani,
£1.75
Quote of the Week
From a large bookshop not a million miles from Charing Cross
Road, a member of their staff was asked by a customer where he
could find Oscar Wilde and he was told that he wasn't working
there today!
There are a number of laboratory books now in stock at £1.15
for those of you in need. I am sure these will do until our stock
comes in from E.S.A.
A selection of tankards both plain and with IC crest on are on
show in the showcase in the counter. Additional letters cost 20p
each; for special engraving please allow a full week.
New in Paperback
Pesticide Application Methods - G . A . Matthews, Longman £7.95
Graham Matthews is Reader in Pest Management at Imperial
College. The reviewers said at the time of publication "the book
we have all been waiting for...Those with professional interest in
all aspects of pesticide application, whether in field, orchard,
forest, rubbish dump, warehouse or mud hut. This book may be
seen as the first truly comprehensive and critical guide to both
theory and practice on the subject."
Page 6 FELIX, February 26, 1982

