CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
Industrial
Society
SF Soc
This mascotry business is certainly
on the increase. What fun it is to
run about acting like five year
olds. I hope that you enjoyed the
pancakes served by Guilds at our
request, and that you will be
attending the Results Barnight on
Tuesday to see them in action
again. The reason for the Results
Barnight is the Elections, strangely
enough, so please remember to
bring your Unioncards and vote
on Monday.
Annual Dinner dates have been
finalised at last. It will be at the
Kensington Close Hotel on
Friday, March 19 at 7:30pm for
8:00pm. The menu features veal,
black forest gateau and other
exotic foods and cost about £10.
Tickets go on sale soon.
See you at the Rugby 7s on
Sunday.
Radio On
To all those interested in taking
part in a discussion on 'Students
in the Nuclear and Defence
Industries'.
The discussion, for the Radio
London 'Student Voice' pro-
gramme, will be recorded on
City & Guilds
After the tragic loss of Mr Spanner
and Mr Bolt a treasure hunt has
now started. The trials of all those
involved was held yesterday. If
you did not think that the punish-
ments were sufficient then you
can appeal for the cases to be
reheard with stronger punish-
ments.
Itinerary for next week
Sun Feb 27 Ice Skating Trip.
Tues, March 2 Civ Eng Soc talk by
the Royal Engineers.
Thurs March 4 Trip to Pass the
Butler (Buy tickets from the Union
Office, £3 each.)
If you wish to stand for any of
the posts in Guilds you ought to
be thinking about your campaign
now. The election papers go up at
9:30 next Friday.
Friday, March 5 for transmission
on Sunday, March 7. Those who
are likely to be working in either
the nuclear or defence industries,
as well as anyone who plans to join
the armed forces, or anyone else
who feels they can contribute, are
invited to take part in a studio
discussion at Radio London with
about thirty other people. Inter-
ested parties please contact Nick
Bleech, c/o IC Radio (int 3440).
"Psst! Want to see a shipyard,
little boy?" said the man in the flat
hat and old raincoat. He was none
other than Mark Skeates (DoC2),
Industrial Soc Visits Manager,
inviting me to join the trip to
Cammell Laird on Wednesday,
March 3. "We leave early in the
morning because it's in Birken-
head, Merseyside on the North-
western Riviera, and we want to
arrive in time to see the whole
yard and talk to unions and
management. There are still some
places left, so tell all your friends
to write to me if they want to go.
What he did not mention is that
on Thursday, March 4 at 1:00pm,
Sir Walter Goldsmith is coming to
Mech Eng 220 to talk about
Industrial Democracy. Since he is
Director-General of the Institute
of Directors, I don't suppose he's
a keen advocate of the idea! So do
come along with any questions
you can think of, for a lively
debate.
A very important figure to
devotees of City and Guilds
College is Sir Kenneth Corfield,
Chairman of the Engineering
Council, whose decisions and
policies directly affect you. That's
besides being Chairman of S T C ,
major contractor to British
Telecom, so dr<. p in on Chem Eng
Theatre 1 at 6:00pm, Tuesday,
March 9, to find out about Engin-
eers in Industry.
One of the great comedy films of
the past ten years comes to
College on Tuesday. The Big Bus
(THE BIG BUS) is the story of a
technological marvel. The world's
first transcontinental nuclear
powered bus sets out across
North America, but the passen-
gers are unaware as they lounge in
the swimming pool, relax in the
cocktail bar, or have a game of
ten-pin bowling that there is a
saboteur aboard with a bomb.
When I saw this film at the cinema
I laughed myself silly. Turn up at
Mech Eng 220 on Tuesday at
6:30pm and witness a film that
knocks Airplane in to a cocked
hat.
Literary noted: Roderick by
John Sladek, the book that
inspired the informal lecture on
robots that he gave at College
some while ago is out in paper-
back, and it's the best thing he's
ever done folks.
For the nth week running SF
Soc Bulletin contains no laughs.
I'm sorry for this, and can only say
that the last film we showed was
hilarious, the next one is very
funny indeed, and the one coming
up in a month's time is also
extremely amusing. So if you want
to be entertained go and see them
or read Roderick. Yours drained
of inspiration.
Francesco Ragoczy and the
Collector
Design for
Social Need
It can be argued that all design for industry is (or should be) design for
social need, but in practice there are many real social needs which are
not adequately met by private industry or state agencies. These needs
include many aspects of design for the disabled, the elderly and infirm,
and design for Third World needs. Able-bodied people in 'affluent'
western society (such as the unemployed) also have needs which can
sometimes be met by design action.
Design for social need is no longer as fashionable as it once was, but"
has now entered a more realistic professional stage. The speechmakers
and the trendy audiences have moved on and the starry-eyed idealists
have found that it is by no means an easy option. All the designer's
technical, professional, analytical and promotional skills are required and
staying power is likely to be needed in full measure if designs are to be
manufactured in any quantity at a cost society can afford.
At the Royal College of Art there have been a number of products
made up whereby disadvantaged people have had their lifestyles
substantially enhanced. One example is the spina bifida children's play-
car. Another is a set of stretcher/trolleys for epilectic boys which are
operated by the patient's own class-mates. A cheap and simple speech
training aid suitable for Third World manufacture and use has been
favourably reported by The New Scientist. An innoculation kit with its
supporting icemaker unit which could save the lives of millions of Third
World rural children won two major international awards.
Another outstanding project was the egg-packing scheme originally for
Zambia, but subsequently taken up by fourteen Third World nations.
This resulted in substantially improved nutrition for perhaps millions of
people. This project was initiated by the Intermediate Technology
Development Group, with product analysis, design and prototype
development at the Royal College of Art, and machinery design by
Reading University. The machinery was developed and manufactured by
a British firm.
A 'Design for Social Need' week with lectures by practical experts in
the various subject areas is held annually at the Royal College of Art, and
this year commences on Monday, March 8. Most of these lectures are
open to professional practitioners and serious students from other
Colleges. There is no charge, but please remember that we are working a
very limited budget and very limited time allocations. If you wish to attend
plese send a stamped addressed envelope to Len Wingfield, Royal
College of Art, Kensington Gore, London SW7.
Those with special needs e.g. wheelchair access, hearing problems,
etc., should contact the R C A Student Union (584-5020) who will do their
best to help.
Design for Social Need 1982 Lecture Module
Monday, March 8, 11:00am, Main Lecture Theatre
"The realities of designing for social needs" (Introductory) Len Wingfield,
RCA Industrial Design Engineering Tutor.
Monday, March 8, 2:30pm, Main Lecture Theatre
"Appropriate Technology—experience and developments" Professor
Warren Adams of the Intermediate Technology Development Group.
Tuesday, March 9, 11:00am
Visit to Disabled Living Foundation, 346 Kensington High Street, London
W14 (RCA ID & IC Eng students only). Others arrange visits direct with
the Foundation (tel 602-2491). Cost £2.50 per person.
Tuesday, March 9, 2:30pm, Main Lecture Theatre
"Projectwork for Queen Mary's Carshalton Unit" Bill Bond, Chartered
Engineer, Director of Unit.
Wednesday, March 10, 11:00am ID Lecture Room
"Design and ergonomics for the disabled" Russell Manoy, Consultant
Designer and Ergonomist.
Wednesday, March 10, 2:30pm
"Children's traction devices" (or similar topic), Russell Manoy
(ICST/RCA ID Eng Courses Case History).
Friday, March 12
Department of Cultural History Events, Mike Cooley, etc. (RCA
students only).
The Main Lecture Theatre is in Common Room Block, Jay Mews.
The ID Lecture Room is in Darwin Building. Wheelchair access via back
entrance (Jay Mews) goods lift.
FELIX, February 26, 1982 Page 7

