Peter Egan and Richard Briers in a scene from Shaw's A r m s and the Man
Arms and the Man by Bernard Shaw.
Directed by Jonathan Lynn. The Lyric
Theatre, Shaftesbury Avenue.
Shaw's comedy takes place in a certain Major
Petkoffs house in Bulgaria in the 1880s It is a
time of war and the Bulgarians have just won a
victory over the Serbians, thanks to the daring
of a dashing young officer, Sergius Saranoff,
most captivatingly played by Peter Egan. But
the real hero turns out in the play to be a
Captain Bluntschli, a Swiss mercenary played
by Richard Briers who carries chocolate
creams in his pockets instead of bullets and is
more keen on saving his own skin than seeking
heroism. The two characers get tied up in an
amorous tangle with the Major's daughter,
played by Alice Krige who stars in the recent
film Ghost Story. The result is a delicious
comedy that exposes the illusions of warfare,
love and romantic idealism. Arms and the
Man, full of Shaw's inimitable mischievousness,
deservedly remains one of his popular plays.
The play's earliest days make interesting
reading. The opening night in 1894 was a huge
success, but to Shaw's uneasiness the
audience laughed hysterically throughout the
play. He took a curtain call, one of the rare
times he did, and amid the rapturous applause
he was greeted bya solitary loud "Boo" from a
malcontent in the gallery. Shaw turned in his
direction and said, "My Dear fellow, I quite
agree with you, but what are we two against so
many?" Shaw had the bizarre experience of
witnessing an apparently absurd success, his
wit so diverting his audience's thoughts away
from the play's more serious content that it
had been misunderstood as a mere farce. (One
is reminded of Oscar Wilde where there is
usually something in each of his plays that
might have sent the audience out thinking if he
hadn't seemed to prefer to send them out
laughing). However, not everyone was
amused. T o many upright Britishers the play
was a 'damning sneer at military courage'. It is
reported that the play offended the Prince of
Wales, later to become King Edward VII, who
was alleged to have muttered during the
performance that the author "must be mad".
The present production at The Lyric is
supported by a strong and very amusing cast.
However, I have to admit that like the play's
first performances, the element of farce in this
production, and much of it is of a visual nature,
is a little too dominating. The director of the
play, Jonathan Lynn (co-author of the B B C
comedy series Yes Minister and director of
Pass the Butler at the Globe Theatre) has
perhaps not quite applied all the discretion that
is necessary. Unless a play is a farce per se as
in the excruciatingly funny Can't Pay? Won't
Pay!, it should be subjected to a sparing
amount of farce, as a meal is to a herb or
spice. The Lyric production is neither
outstandingly funny nor particularly thought-
provoking, but having said that, the play still
provides a very entertaining evening!
Nick Bedding
Skirmishes by Catherine Hayes. Directed
by Tim Fywell. Hampstead Theatre.
My first trip to Hampstead Theatre, one of
L o n d o n ' s most enterprising theatres,
produced a few suprises. First of all the theatre
is not in Hampstead but next to Swiss Cottage
tube station. If you emerge from the depths of
Hampstead underground station (as I did)
there is a very long walk down the hill to Swiss
Cottage. In addition, this renowned theatre
turned out to be no more than a small 'prefab',
bereft of a dignified frontage. But what are
mere appearances? A theatre to keep your eye
on, it was the home of the immensely
successful Translations, which is now in
repertoire at the National's Lyttelton Theatre,
and was voted Best New Play of 1981 by the
London Theatre Critics.
Skirmishes is by Catherine Hayes, a young
teacher in Liverpool who started writing only
in 1975. It studies the relationship between a
dying mother and her two daughters in a
humorous and harrowing way. A n amazing
amount can be pieced together in the mere
eighty minutes' duration of the play. Jean
(played by Frances de la Tour who here takes
on her first stage role since her award-winning
performance in Duet for One) is the sister who
has been left to look after the dying mother
(played by Anna Wing). She is isolated,
infertile, morosely funny and just about
manages to survive on a withering marriage.
Rita (played by Gwen Taylor) is the sister who
got away. She uses her family and her general
business to maintain an arms-length com-
passion.
The play does not indulge in moral gloom
but rather is full of humour and dignity. The
dialogue does lack subtlety in one or two
places but is nevertheless expressive about the
unfairness of life and pokes a guilty finger at
those who arrive just in time for the last rites.
A lot of the play's strength comes from its
recognisable realism, as such scenes are
continuously being enacted all over the
country.
The play ends mid-March and seats and
standbys are modestly priced.
The Penguin Book of Political Comics,
compiled by Steef Davidson, £5.95.
This is a disappointing book for several
reasons. First, the cartoons are so badly
printed that it's often difficult to read them.
This isn't all Penguin's fault, the original comics
probably weren't very well produced, but it is
Penguin's fault that a lot of them are printed
much too small. Second, roughly half of the
cartoons are foreign (Steef Davidson is Dutch)
with footnotes providing a translation, but
they're tiresome to read. Third, too much
space is taken up by Steef Davidson's
generally boring and pretentious commentaries
He takes the cartoons far too seriously and
attaches too much significance to them,
presumably to gratify his self-importance.
Some of the statements he makes are silly and
pompous for example: "....the political comic
strip has come into its own as a mature
genre the political press follows the general
pattern of visually oriented culture, which in
turn reflects the social conditions under which
we live." Davidson has unfortunately assumed
that people will be as interested in the history
and ideology of the cartoons as they will be in
the cartoons themselves. So there are pages
and pages telling you what the Federation des
Etudiants Revolutionnaires was doing in 1968
and so on, all boring. The only interesting
piece is an account of the birth of the Comics
C o d e Authority, set up in 1959 by the
American comics industry to appease the
McCarthyites.
The cartoons themselves are a very varied
collection, going from 1913 (anti-strike
breaking) to 1975 (fall of Portuguese
dictatorship).
According to Davidson...."comic strips are
an ideal medium for the spreading of ideas "
but it depends what you mean by 'ideas'.
Nearly all the cartoons are crude propaganda,
the only idea they try to spread is merely 'we
are absolutely right and our enemies are
wrong'. (Most of the 'baddies' are shown as
looking ugly and sinister, while the 'goodies'
always look handsome and intelligent.)
Very few of the cartoons are designed to make
you think. The title of one cartoon sums up the
atmosphere of the book: "Donald Duck: The
truth the bourgeois comics have repressed'.
It's a sort of Death-to-Imperialists ideology
lightened with some self-parody. On the whole
the book is poor, with too few good cartoons
(like one by R o n C o b b ) to break the
monotony. N. Willson
Page 8 FELIX, February 26, 1982

