CLUBS AND SOCIETIES
Bookshop News
As you may have already noticed, we have had to increase the
deposit on all items ordered through the Bookshop to £5.00 per
item. The reason for this increase is that people have been
ordering books and then not collecting, even after numerous
cards and phone calls; and often we are left with them as they are
not returnable. So, please only order books you want. The
deposit is deducted from the overall price anyway.
Laboratory notebooks. W e now have the official notebooks, both
soft and hardback. It has taken E S A ten months to produce them
and that was an urgent order!
International Writers Day, which is organised by the English
Centre of International P . E . N . , was held at the Purcell Room,
Queen Elizabeth Hall on Saturday, March 13. Once again, IC
Bookshop ran a very successful book sale. The principal speakers
were Margaret Drabble, Mario Soldati, Francis King, Norman
Collins. The Silver Pen Award went to D . M . Thomas for his novel
The White Hotel (Penguin £2.25). The J.R. Ackerley Prize for
1981 to Edward Blishen for his autobiography Shaky Relations
(Hamish Hamilton £8.95).
March 31 is to be a very special This is Your Life on ITV. The
autobiography of the subject is on sale in the Bookshop. (Signed
by author and subject.)
Anna Coote will be coming to College to talk about her latest
book this Friday and copies of Sweet Freedom will be on sale in
the Bookshop.
PLEASE if any group in the College is inviting any author to talk,
tell us so we can arrange a display of their books.
As everyone knows if you rest a piece of paper on a book and
write. The imprint goes through to the book which defaces the
book jacket. I have noticed the last few weeks, quite a large
number of people have acquired this habit. Some students, but
the majority seems to be tutor/lecturers, so I would be most
grateful if all the guilty parties would stop doing this.
New Titles
The White Hotel — D . M . Thomas, Penguin £2.25
M y Sister and Myself — ed Francis King, Hutchinson £8.95
Shaky Relations — Edward Plishen, Hamish Hamilton £8.95
The Octopus and the Pirates — Mario Soldati, Deutsch £2.95
The Forgotten Colony — A . Graham-Yooll, Hutchinson £12.95
New Stories 3 — Harwood & King, Hutchinson £3.25
Little Nelson — Norman Collins, Collins £5.95
Middle Ground—Margaret Drabble, Penguin £1.50
Summer Bird Cage — Margaret Drabble, Penguin £1.50
The Ice Age — Margaret Drabble, Penguin £1.75
The Millstone—Margaret Drabble, Penguin £1.25
Realms of Gold—Margaret Drabble, Penguin £1.95
The Needles Eye — Margaret Drabble, Penguin £1.75
The Novel Today — Malcolm Bradbury, Fontana £2.50
The Craft of Novel Writing — Dianne Doubtfire. Allison & Busby
£2.50
The Successful Authors Handbook — G o r d o n Wells, PaperMac
£3.95
Street Freedom — A n n a Coote & Beatrix Campbell, Picador
£1.95
H . G . Wells Society
Following the College's decision to axe the lunchtime Humanities
programme the H . G . Wells Society proposed to fill in the Tuesday and
Thursday lunchtime slot with our own lectures. A programme has yet to be
decided but will be in a similar vein to this year's Humanities lectures and,
in fact, will be worked out in collaboration with the Department of
Humanities.
The work entailed in running the society next year will be too much for
students on a degree course and two sabbatical posts have therefore
been created. In the light of this new information I have no alternative but
to declare Monday's results of Chairman and External Secretary void.
Re-elections shall be held next term by College-wide ballot.
Papers will be put up in all departments and nominations for the posts
must be made by next Thursday at the latest when papers come down.
College will be funding the greater part of the project although the
Union has been asked to match the cost by 30%. Preliminary discussions
seem to indicate two main alternatives either: reduce major sub-
committee budgets substantially; or, abolish one of the current sabbatical
posts, probably that of Honorary Secretary.
Further information may be obtained from either myself or Marco
Ledwold, the current Honorary Secretary, from the Union Office.
Astrosoc
Industrial
ICIS needs a logo! If you're a
member, you'll know how boring
our membership cards are. What
we intend to do next year is have
decent ones, coloured of course,
and with a d i s t i n c t i v e I n d s o c
e m b l e m . So c o m e o n , all you
artists and designers, we don't
think you're prat(t)s, work out a
nice design for us (or we'll do it
ourselves!). All results to Alistair
Kirk, Physics 2.
Another reminder that Norman
Tebbit, the Employment Minister,
is coming to College on the first
Thursday of next term (29 April)
to talk about his controversial
E m p l o y m e n t Bill a n d a n s w e r
questions.
I shan't do a resume of the
term's events, as last term's one
was edited completely out!
Gay
It has been decided by the N U S
Gay Liberation Committee that a
"Gay Student Alliance" should be
formed to give s o m e national
representation for Ga y students.
IC have been asked to send a
delegate to the launching confer-
e n c e , but s i n c e w e h a v e n o
Gaysoc it has landed on my desk.
Is there anyone out there, gay or
not, who would be interested in
attending? It is Union policy to
"where possible support measures
a i m e d at f r e e d o m f r o m a l l
discrimination " so it's impor-
tant that someone goes, and I
have no great wish to go myself. If
you would like to go drop me a
note (in confidence) at the Union
Office and I'll let you have more
details. It's set for May 7-9.
Nick Pyne
1CU Welfare Officer
Astrosoc is proud to announce that we have been offered three,
expenses-paid scholarship by the European Space Agency at the N A S A
Space Centre in Cape Kennedy, Florida. The lucky applicants will be
expected to spend their three month summer vacation under the employ
of N A S A . The work will involve spending three weeks in each of four
departments under the supervision of a well-known space-scientist. T o
gain an understanding of the workings of the Space Shuttle, while at the
same time undergoing the initial training given to prospective astronauts.
Given sufficient progress, the students can expect to be flying the Space
Shuttle simulator by the end of the summer and may even be allowed a
co-pilot's seat in the Enterprise during her test-flights, from the back of a
Jumbo over the Arizona desert.
This promises to be a very intensive course with little opportunity for a
social life, however it is clearly the chance of a lifetime. The aim behind
the scheme is, to quote the E S A letter "to give European science
students an insight into the workings of N A S A , with particular view to
encouraging them to join the Space Lab team, once they graduate from
university." W e would like to emphasize that the successful applicants
should expect to work hard and be able to get on well with the other
students from Germany, France and Italy who will also be on the same
scheme. Physical fitness is obviously a must. For further information
contact A n n Dziwior through the Physics 2 letter-racks or any Astrosoc
committee members before 12:00pm next Thursday.
FELIX, March 26, 1982 Page 5

