RIP DP
The premature departure of ICU Deputy
President Barney McCabe was not a complete
surprise and it has aroused mixed reactions in
most people, not least myself, Nick and
Marco.
Putting aside any personal feelings about
Barney, we must look at the reasons for his
resignation. The fact is that as Deputy
President he was responsible for the games
machines in the Union Lower Lounge and
should therefore have known that they were
losing money. It was wrong that he did not
discover this earlier and take appropriate
action to ensure a reasonable profit at the end
of the year. As a consequence of his error the
Union will suffer not only a loss of money but a
shortfall of income which will (in the long run)
affect many clubs and societies.
For these reasons it was right that Council
passed a motion of no-confidence. The fact
that Barney chose to resign at this point rather
than await a U G M decision was purely his
choice. It is by no means certain that he would
have been kicked out by a U G M , so I must
give him credit for resigning on principle rather
than risking further humiliation just to hang on
to his job.
It is also sad to see someone who is widely
liked having to resign. But overall it was the best
thing to do.
Scaramouche
There were a couple of omissions in this
"week's preamble.
Last week's winner is Linda Burry of Maths
2 who can collect her cheque on the first
Tuesday of next term.
The closing date for entries to the Easter
puzzles page is 1:00pm, Wednesday, April 28.
Photo Competition
The winner of last week's competition is
Andrew Barron of Chemistry who can collect
his haircut voucher from the office. The still
was of Jamie Lee Curtis, daughter of Tony
Curtis, in Halloween. Nobody managed to get
the director though: John Carpenter.
Things yet to come!
Another term has raced by and we have
reached the time of year when everybody
seems to think they can do nothing else but
work for exams.
FELIX will continue as ever next term,
although it may dwindle in size as the amount
of help slackens off. However, I hope you're
not all too busy with exams and will keep
sending in letters, articles and adverts.
There are several things planned for next
term, including a look at the fermentation pilot
plant which hit the news last week and some
profiles of College personalities. If you have
any ideas, it's still not too late to pop your
suggestions in to me at the office.
Calendar
Any dates for possible inclusion on next term's
calendar should reach me by Monday, April 19
at the latest.
Credits
After many hard weeks of work I would like to
thank the following people for their help
throughout this and other issues this term.
News: Peter Rodgers (editor), Pallab
Ghosh, Tim Lord, Alistair Kirk, Chris Webb,
Steve Marshall.
Sport: Lesley Horrocks (editor), Mary
Harrington, F. Bogey-Rolla et al.
Reviews: Nick Bedding, Nick Willson, David
Gill, Steve Marshall, Pallab Ghosh, Shezi
Abedi, Andy Best.
. Photographs: Ramzi Shammas, Jane
Williams, Nick Thexton, Martin S. Taylor,
Andy Best.
Puzzles: Scaramouche.
Paste-Up and General: Soheel, Peter
Rodgers, Martin S. Taylor, David Rowe,
Simon Rodan, Steve Marshall, Dave Jago,
Steve Tyson, Caroline Godin.
Collators: Steve Goulder, Jez, Mo, Dave
Jago, Nick Willson, Martin S. Taylor, Izy,
Pallab Ghosh, Peter Rodgers, David Rowe and
all the others who are (just about) too
numerous to mention.
And of course Maz and Ian.
What's On
Friday, March 26
•Anna Coote, Deputy Editor of New Statesman,
speaks about Feminism. Organised by IC Labour Club.
All welcome. 1:00pm, Union Upper Lounge.
Thursday, April 1
•Demonstration followed by rally, 12:00 noon,
Speaker's Corner, Hyde Park. The demonstration will
protest against imported C u b a n Jaffa cakes Billy
Bremner (ex-Captain, Leeds United) will address the
rally.
Thursday, April 29
•Conservative and Industrial Society present
Norman Tebbit M P , Employment Secretary talking on
the Employment Bill, 1:00pm, Mech Eng 220.
Hughes Parry Hall
Contrary to popular belief, not all the
intercollegiate halls of residence close to
students over the vacations. Hughes Parry |
Hall, for example, not only takes students at
Christmas and Easter, but is open throughout
the summer vacation.. The hall is mixed with
seven floors of women and seven of men
students Fees include all meals except
weekday lunches. There are squash and tennis
courts and parking for eighteen cars. Over the
summer preference is given to MSc students
and undergraduates who wish to spend the
whole of the vacation in hall. Shorter stays can
be arranged and are best booked well in
advance Study bedrooms are relatively large
and well furnished. The hall is situated within
walking distance of Russell Square, King's
Cross and Euston underground stations and
takes 25 to 30 minutes from College. For
further information and application form write
to the Warden, Hughes Parry Hall, Cartwright
Gardens, W C I H 9EF, or contact the hall
president, G r d h t i m C o p l e y , C h e m i c a l
Engineering 2.
Fidel Castro
A legend in his own lunchtime
by W. Nillson
One of the more active and apparently well-
funded dictatorships in the world is Cuba.
Cuba, home of the Havana cigar, the Fidel
Castro, and Jaffa cakes. Penguins used to be
good value, despite a mouthful of feathers.
But, ever since it became uneconomical for the
eskimo to manufacture them, Castro's Jaffa
cakes have become Britain's number one
imported biscuit, threatening the genuine
article.
The Ulterior Motive
Quite simply, old Fungus Chops is out to
undermine British industry by undercutting its
prices. Moreover, by flooding the market with
cheap imitations, Castro is hoping to curry
favour with, if not carry flavour to, the British
public. He is undoubtedly applying Lenny
Brezhnev's dictum "No opportunity must be
lost in the struggle to overthrow the lackeys of
capitalism, to establish the dictatorship of the
proletariat and to buy me another Western
sports car" (Lenny always was shit-hot on
paradox.)
The Manufacturing Process
To appreciate the nature of this sinister threat
to our biscuits, one need only run to ground
Castro Cakes' distributor in Britian. I caught
him furtively fixing a thermostat to a tub of bile
secretion (sic). Only when his voice murmured
that these were the mixing ingredients being
kept at a steady temperature did 1 realise the
unpalatable truth: C a s t r o ' s cakes are
processed from shit. So watch out! (Sick.)
Detecting the Pseud
Increasingly, it's difficult to distinguish Castro
cakes from Jaffa cakes. For one thing, Fidel no
longer includes that tell-tale "hero of the Soviet
Union" medal in each pack. However, if the
cakes cause severe stomach pains, followed by
nausea, diarrhoea and acute depression;
you've definitely eaten the McVitie's variety.
What You Can Do
Write to your MP (IC Union has printed letters
calling on Parliament to ban Cuban cakes, and
will pay the postage.)*
Better still, join the demonstration we've
organised. Marchers from across the nation,
united under the banner 'Pseudosnacks Out"
will be assembling at noon next Thursday at
Speaker's C o r n e r in H y d e P a r k . T h e
proceecings will climax in a rally at 3:00pm in
Trafalgar Square. Mr Michael Foot (Leader of
the Opposition) and M r Dennis Howell
(Minister for Droughts, Snow, and Orange-
Centred Biscuits) will not be there. But, Bily
Bremner, former Captain of Leeds Utd, will
address the meeting through an interpreter.
T h i s is not entirely accurate.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (589-5111 ext 1048 int 2881) Copyright FELIX 1982. Editor: M A Smith, Advertising Manager: S M Giblin.

