Annual Reports
President
Introduction
It is impossible to cover everything that has
happened this year—unexpected and routine—
without writing a telephone directory! In this report
I shall attempt to cover the outstanding issues along
with the main routine business which has occupied
my time.
The year has in many ways been extremely
successful; but the Union has had its shortcomings.
A criticism which has been levelled yet again is that
the Union is too introverted and that its officers have
not spent enough time amongst the students finding
out what they want, or, on the other hand,
publicising national student issues to its members.
This is not how I would have wished things to be,
but unfortunately the Union has, in recent years,
grown in its activities so that the current
staff/sabbatical structure is no longer able to cope
with all the administration plus all the outgoing,
forward-thinking things sabbaticals are supposed
to do. Inevitably the latter functions suffer;
hopefully the imminent reorganisation will reduce
this problem and will give the sabbaticals much
more time to develop a higher social/public profile.
This year has seen further attacks on the funding
of the universities system: students have become
even worse off with the reduction in state benefits
available to them; and universities across the
country have suffered drastic cuts in income from
the University Grants Committee. In spite of
Imperial's continued high academic ratings the
College has lost its privileged highly funded
position and now faces a £3m deficit. This fact has
hung over all talks of merging, increasing student
members, increasing research commitments and
cutting 100 jobs in College. Given this bleak
context—in which improvements to student welfare
would seem unlikely—there have been a surprising
number of positive steps forward this year; although
the future continues to look fairly grim—much
depends on the result of the forthcoming general
election and it is not difficult to see which way that
is likely to lead.
My summary of this year, then: the beginning
of an essential period of change of organisation and
outlook both for the students' Union and for the
College as a whole. I wish all concerned the best
of luck for carrying on with these changes over the
coming years.
Major Issues and
Developments
/. St Mary's Merger
One of the most radical proposals to hit IC in many
years was that of merging with St Mary's Hospital
Medical School. It now looks likely that the merge
will go ahead despite vociferous opposition from
the more conservative academics who feel that it
will irredeemably alter the nature of Imperial
College—personally I would see this as a change
for the better. Much research has been done by the
College into the financial effects of the merge and
given that these are likely to be advantageous the
whole idea appears to be a good one, both
academically (especially in the long term) and
socially. St Mary's would be taken in as a fourth
constituent college; its effects would probably not
be felt by most students at IC, or indeed at
Paddington, except in so far as new, broader
courses with medical content—and more medical-
based research—are developed.
Jackie and I have been involved in many talks
regarding Student Unions and facilities after a
merpe. Any conclusions we have reached this year
are recommendations only, and it will be up to next
year's Exec to sort out the nitty-gritty. There will
be problems, mainly those offinancinga previously
autonomous Union through an established central
sytem and of achieving effective integration of the
second site into Union affairs—but it is felt that,
in the event of the merge, these will be
surmountable and possibly outweighed by the
benefits of increased facilities and social mixing.
The St Mary's Union reps have been extremely
positive and helpful even though faced by the
daunting proposition of being 'swallowed' by the
much larger Imperial College.
2. The Junior Common Room
This has been the major bone of contention this year
as College backed out on their original plan to swap
round the dining room and JCR in Sherfield—
leaving us with a College-run burger bar in the
corner of 'our' room. After the highly successful
week-long boycott of 'QT' the Union's points about
control of Union space and conference income were
taken seriously, and there now ? . -ars to be a
solution in sight. The College has agreed to give
us money to compensate for loss of income from
conferences—apart from any other increase to the
subvention—and is committed to finding a new
space where the Union can have complete control
of management and bar/catering facilities, suitable
for large functions. This commitment is
incorporated in the reviewed College plan and
seems a good idea as the current JCR is obviously
destined to become purely refectory space in the
long term.
3. Office Reorganisation
The Union has been struggling this year under
the huge workload caused by catering and bar
finances—on top of all the other functions which
our staff were originally employed to carry out.
This problem will be alleviated with the
appointment of a finance officer—approved by the
College on top of our normal expenditure. At the
same time the Union Office will probably need to
expand into the Upper Lounge. (See section 5).
The Union Office computers are now running
with Pat being trained in word-processing. An
accounts system and data-handling packages will
be developed over the summer in conjunction with
the new officer and current staff.
My thanks to the planning sub-group on Union
organisation, led by Hugh Southey. for the
recommendations on reorganisation; and to Chris
Martin for sorting out the mess of computer bits
which I inherited when 1 took office.
4. Bar and Catering
At the start of the year a lot of work had to be
done on getting the Union Bar and 'Norman's' into
shape. The Bar now has its own licence, held by
Jen Hardy-Smith and Bob Schroter on our behalf.
'Norman's' was completely refurbished on a very
limited budget; and Kevin Buckley was appointed
bar manager, assisted by Sean Davis. For the first
time the Lounge Bar was opened regularly and
meals were served in the evenings from the
Snackbar, which was also open over Easter.
Although both bar and Snackbar have had their
quiet periods, on average they have traded very well
and provided a good, cheap service. Thanks are
due to all the staff and Bob Schroter (Bar senior
treasurer) for amking our expanded services a
success.
5. Union Building
The Union Building is in quite a mess, a fact
which is widely recognised. By the end of this year
a comprehensive plan for refurbishment will have
been agreed with the College; Mr Smith has agreed
to increase the Union's budget by a specified
amount for refurbishment and maintenance. This
would include such work as altering the office and
upgrading/redecorating and finishing rooms and
stairways. A substantial expenditure is necessary
to stop the building deteriorating further and this
will probably be matie available; it will be up to
future sabbaticals to ensure that it is wisely spent.
My thanks to Pete Higgs and his working group
for their ideas on the Union Building refurbishment.
6. Residence Developments
Over the year many new hall and house wardens,
subwardens and managers have been appointed. I
have been involved in all the interviews for these
posts and on the whole the choices seemed to be
wise ones.
The projected increase in student numbers has
placed a huge strain on residence places resulting
in the unfortunate cut in places for re-applicants.
Negotiations for 200 new places in Evelyn Gardens
have given new hope; if acquired these may have
to be financed partially through across-the-board
rent increase. This is an unfortunate but necessary
measure if the money cannot be found elsewhere,
as a chance to acquire such good accommodation
may never happen again.
Finances for student accommodation will always
be a problem as long as the UGC regulations—
preventing the College spending public funds on
accommodation—apply. It is one area where I do
feel every effort is being made by the College as
the accommodation problem (and its effect on
recruitment) is widely appreciated. Several new
schemes such as self-funding acquisition of houses
further away from College have been suggested and
the long-term objective (as stated in the reviewed
College plan) is to increase the residence places by
1000. Planning application has been made for a new
hall of residence to be built over the Sports Centre
in Prince's Gardens but it is very difficult to see
where the money could be found.
7. Sports Hall
When the old Chemistry Building is demolished
Annual Reports 1

