the only provision for indoor ballgames will go too.
The Governing Body of IC has accepted that the
provision of indoor sports facilities at South
Kensington is a priority. Research is under way into
the feasibility of building a new sports hall on site,
probably financed by the income from the gravel
being dug out of the sports ground at Harlington
(this money being specifically reserved for student
facilities at South Kensington).
8. Welfare Senice Developments
The Welfare Advice Service has been in limbo
for most of this year, after the disbanding of the
Student Services Office. The sen ice now appears
to be taking shape, based on the first floor of 15
Prince's Gardens: the Accommodation Office at the
front. Welfare Centre in the middle, and Student
Councellor at the back forming a comprehensive
advice service on a range of topics. I have been
involved in discussions at all stages in the re-
organisation and in selecting the new Welfare
Advisor: and I am confident that the re-vamped
service will be a successful and useful one
9. Overseas Students Welcome Day
This year for the first time ICU. with Lesley
Gillingham. organised a 'welcome day' for new
overseas students the day before Autumn term
started. This was based in the Union Building and
involved introductions to welfare staff, free lunch
and a guided tour. Although reminiscent of (only
slightly) organised chaos, it seemed successful and
enjoyable. So much so that the College have
abandoned their usual reception for overseas
students, and are instead prepared to collaborate
on, and underwrite costs of, this event every year.
I felt it was a major success and hope it will continue
to be so.
10. Lesbian and Gay Welfare
The issue of prejudice against lesbians and gay
men at IC has always concerned me and I was
pleased to bring it out into the open. Although it
has led to much abuse both of me and others who
have supported the rights of gay people to be open
about their sexuality, it seems to have been a
positive move. Robert Daniel was co-opted to
Council and publicised issues and events
effectively. There is now the backbone of an active
Gay Society which should continue its work next
year. Fear and prejudice at Imperial College seem
to be on the decrease—perhaps we're moving out
of the dark ages at last.
Thanks to Robert and to Andy Bannister for all
your work on this issue—and no thanks at all to
all those who spread childish rumours when it was
really nothing to do with you!!
11. AIDS Campaign
With the backing of a UGM I managed to get
many people around College involved in a major
AIDS information campaign which is currently
under way. I have also secured College's financial
backing for the project. Unfortunately this
campaign will need to be carried on as the AIDS
problem won't go away, but at least I feel we've
made a start. I have also received a firm assurance
from the Rector that there will be no discrimination
against any student or staff member who contracts
the AIDS virus.
12. Developments at Silwood Park
Major problems and grievances at Silwood Park
have been brought to light in the course of events
there. The development of the new Technology
Transfer Centre or 'Science Park' on site there has
highlighted the shaky hold students have on their
facilities; and the selling of Sandyride—residence
for several overseas families—has brought attention
to the accommodation problem there.
The small number of students based at Silwood
may have beautiful surroundings and a close-knit
community, but they lack the accommodation and
welfare resources and many of the facilities that
we at South Kensington take for granted.
One of my regrets about this year is the failure
of plans to form closer social links with Silwood.
However we have tried to put forward the views
of Silwood students on the issues of facilities and
accommodation at the highest levels in College:
with some success.
College Committees
1. Introduction
For brevity's sake I shall not go into detail on
all those I have attended. I shall list them, with brief
notes where appropriate.
The major issues of the year have been, without
doubt, the St Mary's merger, the student
accommodation problem and refectory
refurbishment'JCR problem. These have cropped
up again and again on administrative, academic and
welfare committees. The inefficiency of the
committee sytem is demonstrated only too well as
the same arguments are regurgitated yet again in
different settings—of course this is one of the perils
of sitting on such a wide range of committees!
Certainly my view that committee meetings contain
1 hour of waffle for 10 minutes of useful business
has proved correct.
One the whole the Union representatives on
College committees have used their positions well;
the student viewpoint has been put forcibly and.
generally, effectively.
2. Governing Body and Finance and Executive
Committees
The main decision makers of the College; Union
representatives are technically only observers but
have spoken out whenever appropriate. Although
these bodies have representatives from many
extenal organisations there is no real representation
of non-academic staff which leads to unbalanced
views of, for instance, job cuts proposals.
3. House Committee and its Sub-Groups
(i) House: reports to the Governors on
space/building/maintenance aspects of College and
co-ordinates and approves work of the following.
(ii) Catering and Conference Services Management:
has been obsessed with refectory
refurbishment/JCR. Otherwise is often hampered
by clashes between refectories and conference
office.
Refectory Users: similarly obsessed, a frequent
and often trivial committee.
(iii) Student Residence: has yet to discuss next
year's rents; has been most concerned with need
for new places and refurbishment of existing stock.
Wardens sub-committee: deals with finer details
of residences; often tends towards pettiness and
trivial bickering.
Security Working Groups: has achieved some
real results with Southside and Linstead—and
hopefully soon with Beit Hall.
4. Academic Committees
(i) Board of Studies: a huge gathering of all
professors and other academics to discuss all
academic and related matters and to co-ordinate and
approve work of following:
(ii) Graduate Studies: deals with all aspects of
post-graduate teaching and supervision. Spends
much time reviewing courses in detail—a very
useful input into new and evolving course
structures.
(iii) Undergraduate Studies: without doubt one
of the best and most effective College Committees.
This tackles the problems of teaching, student
workload and course design on all undergraduate
courses. I believe this group will bring about major
changes for the better although they will be slow.
As well as those below, major areas of work have
been: staff training for teaching, teaching of study
skills, assessment and control of student workloads.
(iv) Teaching Evaluations Working Group: has
developed a College-wide student questionnaire
concentrating on teaching rather than course
content—this is currently on a trial run. Other
assessment methods are to be introduced, aiming
for a College-wide evaluation/credit scheme for
good teaching.
(v) Course Review Working Group: has
developed a system for assessing new and existing
courses including scrutiny of workload/assessment/
teaching methods as well as academic content.
(vi) Engineering Course Units Working Group:
Course Units have been suggested as a means of
reducing the engineering department's high failure
rates. It seems unlikely that any progress towards
course units will be achieved due to intransigent
attitude of many engineering academics. Other
benefits of CUs could be broadening of courses and
scope for study options in other colleges of the
university.
5. Athletics Committees
(i) Athletics and Athletics Grounds: have been
greatly concerned with Harlington gravel extraction
and the spending of the resulting money on a sports
hall. I have regularly expressed concern that the
Union should be able to keep track of the income,
which goes into trust to be spent on student facilities
with Governors' approval. This will need to be
closely watched next year. Also discussed was the
possibility of an 'Astroturf pitch at Harlington—a
very useful and potentially lucrative idea well-
received by College but still in its infancy.
(ii) Sports Hall Working Group: to be of useful
competition size the Hall must be huge and hence
both costly and difficult to site. However this group
appears to have made real progress and a feasibility
study is now being undertaken on a Prince's
Gardens site.
6. Welfare and Related Committees
(i) Student Welfare: meets infrequently—rather
a 'talking-shop' as welfare issues are generally dealt
with directly. Main concern has, again, been
student accommdation needs.
(ii) Overseas Students: this also meets
infrequently and covers two areas: both recruitment
and welfare of overseas students; unsurprisingly
accommodation has again featured highly as an
issue for concern. Whilst College is so desperate
to gain extra fee income recruitment is bound to
be of highest priority; although it is recognised that
lack of welfare back-up will be detrimental to
recruitment in the long run, it is often up to the
Union representatives on this committee to ensure
that welfare issues are thoroughly considered.
The Union and its
Committees
1. UGMs
These have, as ever, been badly attended. I take
partial responsibility for this, for failing to ensure
a well-coordinated publicity campaign in advance
of each one. Two UGMs—the 'Tie Club Motion'
in November and the emergency meeting in the JCR
showed that it is possible to have serious,
constructive debate at quorate general meetings.
Unfortunately the 'Big Issues' aren't always there
for discussion and the Exec can't invent them all
the time. However, good advance publicity is
possible, time-consuming as it is; this is an area
where we have failed on several occasions, largely
due toi unfortunate circumstances and overwork of
the people concerned.
2. Council
These meetings have generally been short and
fruitful. I have been worried sometimes by the lack
of debate on serious issues and the lack of reports
Annual Reports 2

