from some officers, but meetings have generally
run smoothly give or take a few petty bickerings.
3. Union Finance Committee
This seems to have been immensely sensible in
its outlook. All credit to Jackie for hours of
groundwork before meetings (even if paperwork
was haphazard). There will always be divisions at
UFC between CCUs and clubs committees but final
decisions this year have been amazingly reasonable
and even-handed.
4. Major Sub-Committees
The MSCs, too, have been remarkable for their
smooth and sensible running for which all credit
goes to their respective chairs and committess.
Points of particular note:
It is good to see the formation of a thriving (and
badly-needed) film society, also good to see the
considerable successes of many sports and
recreational teams. Thanks are due to Frank Potter,
retiring after many years' service as RCC senior
treasurer.
The Overseas Student Committee held an
immensely successful and enjoyable 'International
Nite' at the start of the year. They have also
mourned the tragic death of long-standing junior
treasurer, Jose Molina—a lovely and much missed
person.
Publications Board's interminable meetings have
given rise to some highly useful developments—
notably those for alleviating FELIX equipment
replacement costs.
5. Internal Services
Bar, Catering, Bookshop and Sportshop have all
flourished this year. Day-to-day running has been
handled efficiently by managers Kev Buckley,
Norman Jardine and Ray Hicks respectively, whilst
the respective Union committees have monitored
performance and handled policy questions.
The Internal Services Committee, whilst tending
to repeat events of its sub-committees, has also
produced the skeleton of an integrated services
publicity scheme and healthy long-term plans for
each of the services.
6. House Commitee
Although it has often tended to concentrate on
details the House Committee has eventually come
up with some major ideas for Union Building
refurbishment—some of which should be carried
out before next session, notably refurbishment of
the Union gym and Dining Hall. It is amazing how
little interest there is in this committee, in the Union
as a whole—it controls a very substantial budget
and has the potential for initiating large projects.
7. ENTS
There has been a great deal of criticism of ENTS
this year for failing to be financially accountable,
failure to provide good events, and as always, for
being a 'clique'. Some of this criticism is deserved
although most people who bothered to attend the
first term's ENTS events might have found them
enjoyable. I have also been criticised for my defence
of Dan Phillips and ENTS but I still feel there is
some case for my stance. A lot of hard work was
done and the ENTS budget was not overspent.
ENTS at Imperial is also a frustrating exercise due
to the lack of space and resources compared to
many other colleges. However there is no excuse
for failure to be accountable and it is not surprising
that this led to claims of embezzlement!
ENTS next year is to receive a considerable
injection both of resources and of morale; I am
confident that this year's problems will not occur
again.
8. Executive Committee and CCUs
Guilds and Mines appear to have had a very good
year; RCS has had internal squabblings which I
have attempted to keep well away from. One thing
is certain though; that is that Duncan, Rob and
Simon have succeeded in maintaining a good
balance between CCU interests and their position
as vice-presidents of Imperial College Union. Exec
meetings have ranged from totally zombie-like to
slightly hysterical, but have reached sensible
decisions whenever the need arose. Big thanks to
Duncan, Rob and Simon for all their work.
9. Academic Affairs
Academic Affairs meetings have attempted to
share experiences, tactics and ideas between
departments. This is a good idea but is open to
monopolising by the more voluble Dep-Reps. My
feeling is that they should rely as little as possible
on bureaucracy and trivia and aim more for broad
discussion.
As usual the contact between Dep Reps and IC
Union has varied enormously; I have tried to
improve this by informal meetings but it seems that
many Dep Reps are surprised by the amount of
departmental work they've taken on and are
unwilling to take on more.
The ability of a sabbatical to apply pressure on
academic matters without fears of academic
'reprisal' should not be underestimated. This has
been proved repeatedly this year with several
successful cases from full scale academic appeals
to minor departmental disputes.
10. Rag
Despite the lack of a Rag Mag (due, it seems,
to fear of censorship) and various internal problems
in the Rag Committee there have been a number
of highly successful Rag events this year. There
have also been a few flops; some in spite of
excellent prior organisation and publicity. It seems
to be essential to reconsider the nature of these
events in the future. Meanwhile, many people have
worked extremely hard on Rag this year; and the
committee has come up with some excellent new
ideas for next year (including a 'clean' Rag Mag!)
//. Welfare
The Union Welfare Committee suffered from
lack of a welfare officer for much of the year but
still managed to hold a couple of successful
campaigns—on security and the welfare
questionnaire. I have attempted to keep welfare
matters going with the AIDS campaign. I hope that
next year's welfare committee will get off the
ground more successfully and attempt to work with
the new College Welfare Advisor in building a
realistic and worthwhile service.
12. External Affairs
The Union has seen two External Affairs Officers
and substantial periods without. My own
involvement in external affairs has been
restricted—much to my annoyance—by time
problems. As a result the External Affairs
Committee has been largely inactive. See section
D for more on external affairs.
13. Transport
As a non-driver my involvement in transport
business has been minimal. However I have taken
part in transport committees, which must be the
most tedious meetings ever. A move away from
minute detail towards broad transport policy and
appeals from van users would be a good thing. The
transport system as a whole however, is flourishing.
14. Postgraduate Group
There has been very little sign of life this year
(although Gareth Fish will probably disagree with
me). I hope this is due to the failure of news to reach
the Union Office rather than due to total inactivity.
The involvement of postgraduate students in main
Union affairs is still very small although plenty of
PGs are involved in clubs and societies.
15. FELIX
I have left FELIX to last as it really needs a
section of its own.
The relationship between ICU 'central' and
FELIX has been excellent this year for which I am
extremely grateful—as I am for being allowed a free
hand with my weekly column! There have been
many criticisms of FELIX this year (as, I am sure,
there always will be). I am not in a position to
comment on its content, however to have got the
paper out every week—albeit with some close
shaves—is a feat it itself, considering all the teething
problems associated with a complete change of
premises, equipment and staff. It has amazed me
to see how much time is spent on producing,
collating and distributing the paper; and how
dedicated FELIX 'regulars' are. I no longer think
(as I did for 3 years) that FELIX appears from
nowhere every Friday. For all this, Dave Jones,
the FELIX staff and volunteers deserve a medal,
let alone my thanks.
External & Miscellaneous
University of London Union
ULU was threatened with closure at the start of
the year with the prospects of a 50% cut in funding
from the University Grants Committee to the
Central University of London. However the
situation now appears to be safe for the next few
years with ULU in fact receiving a small increase
in funds. Much of ULU's activity this year has been
campaigning against the possibility of the cuts.
Imperial has supported the action with petitions,
postcard signing, demonstrations—most of the
External Affairs Committee's limited activity has
been on this issue.
General Union Council (the ' U G M ' of ULU!)
meetings have been of limited value and involved
a lot of time-wasting. As usual (I'm told) IC was
one of the most consistent Colleges, managing to
turn out all 9 delegates for most meetings. GUC
is hampered by individuals' speeches in response
to the simplest of questions when the point could
be made in five words.
I believe ICU's relationship with ULU has, this
year, been excellent; our delegates' contributions
to GUC debate has surprised many who still
considered Imperial to be a bunch of right-wing
psychopaths.
Other London Colleges
The value of contact with other colleges of the
University cannot be underestimated. Although
attempts to improve social contact with the Royal
Colleges of Art and Music proved to be abortive,
relationships with other students' Unions have been
very helpful. For instance, many unions gave advice
on our plans for office reorganisation; University
College Union gave a lot of advice on the St Mary's
merger stemming from their similar experiences;
and Kings College Union have been very helpful
in sorting out the aftermath of the 'raid' on the ICU
office by some Kings Rag representatives.
As ICU is outside the NUS it is sometimes
difficult—but all the more crucial—to build up close
relationships with other unions to the point where
they are happy to pass on information and advice.
ULU training school and GUC meetings were
invaluable for forming the initial contacts.
NUS
Although Imperial is reputed to be next on the
list of potential affiliations, there has been
surprisingly little approach from the National Union
of Students this year. At the start of the year, whilst
making is plain that opinion at Imperial is fairly
hostile to the idea of re-affiliation, I offered NUS
representatives the chance to put their case here;
that offer was not taken up. This is hardly surprising
Annual Reports 3

