as NUS have had their hands full this year
campaigning against the further barbaric cuts to the
education system and to student support.
Furthermore, it seems from the dissatisfaction
within affiliated colleges that this has been a poor
year for the NUS in terms of its own administration
and personalities.
I believe that an affiliation campaign this year
would have failed. However 1 for one end the year
as I began—committed to the principle of a National
Union of Students and aw are of the fact that ICU
misses a lot by not being affiliated, and above all
aware that we will never change the NUS from the
outside.
Campus Trade Unions
1 have tried to build up a good relationship this
vear with the IC trades unions (the main ones being
ASTMS. ALT. NALGO and NUPE) and have
attended the Joint Trades Unions Committee
meetings. This relationship is a valuable one as our
interests generally coincide and mutual support can
be extremeh useful—for instance this year on the
"QT" boycotts and the AIDS campaign. I hope that
next year's sabbaticals will strive to keep up this
good relationship.
World University Service
This is a charity in which ICU is affiliated, it aims
to sponsor students from disadvantaged parts of the
world through degree courses. Backed by a UGM
decision I am investigating the different types of
scholarship schemes operated and hope to set one
in motion before I leave. The Rector has agreed
in principle to waiving fees for a student, whose
maintenance costs would be paid for by staff/student
fundraising. If fundraising starts next year the first
such student could come to IC in October 1988.
Iraqi Students
I have become involved this year in the struggle
by Iraqi students at IC—and throughout Britain—
for their right to study peacefully without
intervention from their government. I have been
amazed by the pressures put upon these students
b\ their embassy, other Iraqis and other
organisations—aimed at monitoring their behaviour
here and eventually at forcing them back to Iraq
to join the Iraq/Iran war. Iranian students are
subjected to very similar pressures.
This issue has received considerable media
attention this year; I hope this will continue and
that ICU will carry on supporting its Iraqi and
Iranian students in any way possible.
Conclusion
This has been an enjoyable, rewarding but also
frustrating year. In many senses the Union has been
a success—its activities and services have
prospered, it has moved forward in attitude and
policy and it has improved its standing with the
students and staff of IC as well as with other
students' unions. I feel I have achieved several
objectives although by no means as many as I had
hoped for!
It has been marvellous to know that when
something needed doing, there was a small reliable
group of people always ready to help out. To those
people, and to all those students and staff who have
co-operated, got involved and generally been
helpful, many thanks.
Very Special Thanks
To Jen. Pat and Kathy. who have worked
unbelievably hard and have been wonderful to share
an office with. It's impossible to thank them enough
for guiding their wayward sabbaticals through the
pitfalls of the year.
And to Jackie and Dave, who started the year
as virtual strangers to me and ended up as great
friends. I think they've done brilliant jobs and as
a team we've really got on.
All in all, this year has sometimes been
frustrating—but wherever I work in the future, I
can't imagine ever getting as much fun out of a job
as I have from this one. I wish Alan, Chas and my
mysterious successor the best of luck and hope that
they will be able to say the same in a year's time.
Christine Taig
Deputy
President
Thank you for at least reading the introduction to
my report. I'm sorry it's so long but it's too late
for me to cut it now. If nothing else, read the
sections that interest you, but I would advise you
to try and read it all as I'm probably rude to you
at least once.
Union Premises
One of the most depressing aspects of this job,
has been to come into work in the Union Building
knowing that, 10 months after starting work, it is,
apart from a few bright spots, in the same awful
state as when I started. This stems partly from a
lack of time to commit to the task in hand, but
mostly it seems caused by a hardened intent, by
a large number of students, to turn it into a pig sty.
A heartfelt thanks to all those who've vomited on
the stairs, nicked all the chairs, carved in the tables,
written on the walls and splashed Guinness on the
ceiling!
Some of the things that, rightly or wrongly, been
achieved are the refurbishment of the snack bar and
the moving of FELIX and Ents offices. We also
put deodorisers in the gents toilets, and had some
of the lighting rewired. College maintenance
section, has, for the most part, been very helpful,
although occasionally painfully slow. The majority
of defects reported have been broken windows or
faulty plumbing. The latter is likely to become more
and more of a problem given the age of most of it.
The cleaners have, as always, shown tremendous
resilience and patience. Responsibility for them,
together with financial remuneration, was devolved
to the departments, including the Union, last
August. The arrangement has worked well so far,
although it is an extra responsibility that I felt I
could have managed without.
Elsewhere around the College there have been
a few problems with the gyms. At the start of the
year the volleyball court, very old and definitely
not purpose built, was so run down that its use was
becoming dangerous. Eventually leaking roofs, pot-
holed floors and broken lights were patched up, but
from this point of view alone, promises of a new
sports hall came not a moment too soon. And in
Southside the mews residents complained that
Karate Club was shouting too loudly.
Bright spots on the horizon are the re-equiping
of the Union Dining Hall kitchen, and the almost
complete refurbishment of the Union gym. Also,
subject to agreement with the College Secretary,
the Union should be getting its own budget for re-
decoration of the building, rather than relying on
the whim of College maintenance section.
Room Bookings
The bane of my life. The problem of noise from
the Union Building aggravating neighbours has
been particularly bad this year, especially as, now
we have taken on the bar licence, the police have
been paying us quite close attention. Following the
threat of a noise abatement injunction from the
Environmental Health Inspector, we (or I), clamped
down on loud late events and after-hours drinking.
Some people, however, remain convinced that I'm
only doing this to spite them and be a party pooper
(my dear friends, the male only tie clubs, have
refined this to an art).
Revenue from external bookings has increased
this >ear, by the use of rooms by local American
Colleges during week-day mornings and
afternoons.
Annual Reports 4

