Finance
The Union Finance Committee is the committee
I have found most difficult to organise this year.
The large number of claims dealt with, some
submitted very late, plus the need to have, but
difficulty in obtaining, up-to-date information on
our financial position, has led to a lot of time being
wasted during meetings handing out and reading
papers. Apologies for the many times that has been
my fault. I'm very pleased to say that most members
of UFC have nevertheless managed to take a very
positive part in its running.
A number of problems have arisen during the
year. The Union accounts were not finalised and
returned from the College finance section until
January of this year, which left us for some months
with no clear picture of our financial position. The
main cause can probably be tracked down to a lack
of continuity in the College staff preparing the
accounts over the years. Hopefully this should be
sorted out by the imminent appointment of a Union
book keeper. At the time of writing the final details
of this new post have not been decided, but it is
inevitable that they will have to be responsible for
the presentation of a coherent set of all the Union's
books (ie the Union, MSC and CCU accounts will
have to be rationalised into the same format and
at least partially prepared by the book keeper).
Another major problem was Dave Kingston's
apparent lack of ability to understand what was
going on, particularly over the grant to Nightline
and the prospects for a College loan to buy a glider.
The part of the Union that has caused me the
greatest number of headaches is Boat Club. Whilst
wishing to detract nothing from their considerable
successes, their representatives consistently do
believe that the Union has limitless amounts of
money to spend on them, and that an altogether
separate mechanism for applying for such funds
should exist to facilitate this process.
Our subvention for the coming year has not
received final approval yet, but I do not believe
there will be any cause for further cuts within the
budget as it now stands. The submission of our
claim was conducted in a slightly different manner
this year, particularly in the extent to which claims
were cut before initial submission to College. This
had not been my initial intention, but when I
received estimates from the various parts of the
Union it was evident that certain groups were
behaving less responsibly than they ought. I believe
that, for the most part, the claims now submitted
to the College contain far fewer anomalies and are
fairer than would have been achieved by any other
likely method.
In the long term the Union's financial situation
is likely to remain tight, with little room for
expansion except through external revenue sources.
I do not believe however, that the Union is likely
to face any major cutbacks, unless the College's
position becomes very much worse than can
presently be envisaged. Given that so much of the
Union's resources are channelled straight into
student activities, such as sports and recreation, any
drastic cut here whilst producing only marginal
benefits to the College financially, would devastate
its already thin appeal to students.
Thanks to Ken Weale for taking on an eleventh
three-year term as Union Treasurer, and to all the
other Treasurers who keep the system running. Also
to Charles Eagle for the many(!) hours put in as
Auditor to the Union's accounts.
Trading Services
The Bookshop continues to perform well, limited
only by lack of space and cut-backs in University
and therefore library spending. The Sportshop made
a profit for the first time last year. Both continue
to be run with great professionalism by Ray Hicks.
I will admit to paying very little attention to the
Bookshop this year, but this is entirely Ray's fault
as he runs it all too smoothly.
The catering outlet is also doing well. Norman
goes relentlessly from strength to strength with
added attractions of opening during week-day
evenings, and also catering for private dinners in
the UDH. Sadly the problem of recruiting and
keeping catering staff has again risen its head this
year, and once again the saving grace has been ex-
or dormant students. The provision, or not, of
Halaal meals has been, and remains, a strongly
debated issue.
Meanwhile back at the bar not all in the garden
have been roses, but things have settled down quite
quickly. At the start of the year the bar manager
Moore Lyttle resigned, and Kevin Buckley was
appointed, first temporarily, then permanently once
the post had been unsuccessfully advertised
externally. Sean Davis and Dominic Darbyshire
were appointed as barmen. At the start of the
autumn term the Lounge Bar began opening on a
regular basis, and whilst it is not always packed,
it does do well particularly when the Snack Bar is
open.
Kevin has proved to be especially good at dealing
with brewery reps and has to date arranged for two
items of bar improvements to be paid for by
different breweries. Full marks for enthusiasm,
Kev.
One issue I have received particular criticism
over has been the allocation of late licenses. The
Deputy President is responsible for recommending
to both the Union and College licencees, which
student events should be allowed to apply for late
licences. The criteria that I have used to decide this
are whether the late bar would be catering to a
special occasion (rather than effectively being the
special occasion), how many, and how widely
based, were the people attending, and whether other
events, particularly of a similar nature, were likely
to be taking place around the same time. I will admit
to having made some mistakes over the allocation
of late licences. I believe I was right not to apply
for a licence, where somebody has said "the event
failed because there was no extension", only where
"it detracted from the success".
On the question of trading ventures as revenue
sources: the Bookshop appears to have reached a
stage where, barring periods of major
refurbishment, the main Union and CCUs can
expect to receive a small but regular income as at
present. The Snack Bar will almost certainly never
contribute to the Union's income, and nor should
it. It is at present returning sufficient profit to cover
future refurbishment, whilst providing a good and
cheap service to students. The bar is making a good
profit, whilst still providing cheap (but not
irresponsibly so) drinks to students. It should be
capable of becoming a source of revenue in a few
years, but not just yet.
Union Council
Occasionally a little fraught, but usually useful
and informative. A lot of criticism has revolved
around late distribution, or lack of papers. In
answer to those whilst it is obviously preferable to
have papers a long time in advance, that has not
proved practical for much of this year when
meetings to be discussed (particularly mine) have
often taken place just the week before. My reports
have tended to be a little thin. Apologies to those
who like reading reports but, rightly or wrongly
(probably wrongly), report writing has invariably
taken a back seat to doing things.
Thankfully throughout the year most members
have attempted to make the best of a bad job, a
much more constructive attitude than some of the
histrionics displayed.
I'd just like to add that I believe we've had an
excellent Council chairperson this year, very
professional and fair, and such lovely legs!
UGMs
Not many people turn up to these. Have you
noticed? No, of course not, 'cos you don't go either,
do you? I offer no theories as to why no one goes.
There have, yet again, been the quorum callers
intent on stopping policy they disagree with, but
mercifully they have been more restrained and
responsible than in previous years, and we've had
some good debate and even a few new policies. The
"tie-club motion" was a stormer and ought to
become a regular event. As for those who reckon
student politics do no good, witness how quickly
Barclay's withdrew from South Africa when we
only talked about boycotting them.
Major Sub-Committees
I have tried to attend as many MSC meetings as
possible this year. I am confident that all the MSC
chairpersons run very tight ships and should all be
congratulated. One particular meeting I would not
miss for the world is Publications Board. A truly
delightful bun-fight. Long may it run.
Governing Body, etc
The Governor's committees (Governing Body,
Finance and Exec and House committees) have been
quite fun this year. I've heard some truly
outstanding rubbish from some, sheer pearls of
wisdom from others and been gripped with fear
everytime Dave Colley says anything, in case its
another story from " M y Dad's Garage" (he's
actually been very well behaved and made more
pertinent points than I have).
I always get the impression that decisions have
already been taken by the time they get here and
most of the business is just rubber-stamping. House
committee is something of an exception and so is
much more interesting. The rest are mainly good
sources of information.
It has struck me that every time a financial crisis
is mentioned, the solution always arrived upon is
to recruit more overseas students. No one seems
too concerned that maybe they don't want to come
here.
Catering and Conference Services etc
This is a wonderful opportunity to watch the
internal politics of Imperial College played out, with
the main protagonists (including ourselves) within
easy spitting distance of each other! And yet
surprisingly they actually got things decided here.
The main battle for the JCR took place here (the
vitriol flowed thick and fast), Southside refectory
was done up, money exchanges hands, great stuff.
Its subsidiary committees, on the other hand,
have been something of a damp squib by
comparison. Both of the ones I attend, Refectory
users and College Bar committees, have been newly
set up with the deliberate intention of being toothless
talking shops, OK for passing on suggestions and
complaints but, if anything major happens, the
world falls apart.
Bar committee has been by far the worst which,
considering that I'm chairperson for it, is probably
a shocking indictment of myself. I have in fact
called only one meeting of it this year which was
such a farce I haven't bothered since. I expect we
shall have one more meeting to discuss bar prices
for the coming year, which will probably be the
only positive thing that could emerge from such a
set up.
Freshers' Week
A truly horrible experience! Not eased any by
the antics of several burks, particuarly the ones who
decided to "flan" the people on stage at the
Rector's reception.
The weeks' Ent's event were very well attended
and well received, but an incredible amount of work
for the three office sabbaticals. On both the Monday
and Friday we were all working non-stop until
several hours after the events finished. The jobs
involved were everything from checking Union
cards, to pacifying the police, to chasing people
Annual Reports 5

